Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
1 
Project: Nursing America's Veterans 
Name of person interviewed: Andrew Penn [AP] 
Facts about this person: 
Sex: Male 
Occupation: Psychiatric Nurse Practitioner 
Residence: San Francisco, CA 
Interviewer: Alana Glaser [AG], B Paxton [B] 
Transcriber: Sara Cohen [SC] 
Interview location: Remote  
Date of interview: 5/15/21 
KEY WORDS 
nursing, nurse practitioner (NP), advanced nursing practice, patients, Veterans Administration (VA), 
San Francisco, harm reduction, veterans, motivational interviewing, healthcare, University of 
California San Francisco, photography, apprenticeship model, clinical rotations, applied science, 
didactic, community college, psychology, mental health, HIV, per diem nurse, pharmacology, 
humanistic approach, buprenorphine, Suboxone, opioid epidemic, PTSD, race-based PTSD, military 
sexual trauma, psychedelic-assisted therapy, telehealth 
Abstract 
In this interview, Andrew Penn describes how he became a nurse practitioner and his experience as a 
white male psychiatric nurse practitioner. He discusses the sometimes antagonistic relationship between 
nurses and doctors, his role in patient care, and ways to stem the high attrition rate among nurses. He 
mentions the extraordinary resilience of veterans but highlights the inefficiencies of the VA’s referral 
system. Andy gives some examples of the impact COVID-19 has had on the VA system and also shares 
how he balances his clinical rotations with his clinical instruction and his research. Andy closes with a 
discussion on the role nurses can play in improving health equity. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
2 
Index 
[0:00] Andrew talks about his background and where he grew up, shares a brief overview of the work 
his parents did, his parents’ education, and the role that their education had on Andrew’s interests as a 
student, Andrew mentions the subjects he was drawn to in high school and the extracurricular activities 
he participated in, Andrew describes his path from high school to college 
[5:19] Andy shares his ambitions as an undergraduate, the paraprofessional mental health jobs Andy 
held, how Andy learned about nursing as a profession, Andy’s first interaction with a nurse practitioner, 
Andy’s first mentors, how Andy first learned about the MEPN program. 
[12:55] Andy discusses nursing education, an overview of the MEPN program Andy participated in, 
Andy’s part-time work during his Master’s program, balancing graduate school and a full-time RN role. 
[18:24] Andy initially feeling like he did not fit into nursing, men in the nursing profession, how nurses 
view the world, the relational approach to patients demonstrated by Andy’s mentors, the depersonalizing 
nature of medicine, how nurses protect themselves from the suffering they see every day, antagonistic 
relationship between nursing and hospital management. 
[22:52]  Andy identifies structural factors around nursing that might help ease burnout and allow people 
to feel more valued on the job, attrition rate of nurses, Andy discusses HIV and the history of San 
Francisco General Hospital in HIV awareness and advocacy, Andy talks about the culture of San 
Francisco General Hospital and how he was first exposed to the concept of harm reduction, another one 
of Andy’s mentors is introduced, Andy mentions how he first learned about motivational interviewing 
and discusses the opioid epidemic and attitudes towards drug users, harm reduction resistance. 
[35:39] Andy talks about his role in patient care, Andy’s work with his residents and in 
psychopharmacology, the incremental nature of harm reduction and the non-linear nature of substance 
abuse recovery. 
[45:00] Andy mentions what made working at the VA appealing to him, the resilience of veterans and 
the VA’s referral system. 
[50:30] How Andy ended up in his current role at the VA, the clinical work Andy currently does 
alongside teaching, Andy’s interest in PTSD, common diagnoses among the patient population at the 
San Francisco VA, Andy discusses race-based PTSD and military sexual trauma. 
[55:40] Andy discusses gender dynamics at the VA and white privilege, Andy’s acculturation as a while 
male, Andy’s experience as a distinct minority in his field, Andy discusses his quest to use his power for 
good. 
[1:01:17] Andy mentions that the VA could improve its efficiency in getting people connected to the 
care they need, Andy’s involvement in studies of psychedelic-assisted therapy. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
3 
[1:05:36] Andy gives an overview of how the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted the VA, Andy 
discusses telehealth services and his worry that they might reinforce avoidant behavior, the other 
disadvantages of telehealth. 
[1:14:12] Andy shares the courses he teaches and how he balances his clinical rotations with his clinical 
instruction and his research, the changes Andy has seen in the nursing profession over the last 15 years, 
the tension between the medical and nursing professions. 
[1:23:08] Andy discusses the role of nurse practitioners in creating more health equity and the social 
determinants of health. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
4 
[0:00] AG: Hi, Andrew. Thank you so much for participating in the Library of Congress oral histories. 
Can I ask you to introduce yourself, please? 
AP: Yeah, thanks for having me. I'm Andrew Penn. I'm a psychiatric nurse practitioner by training and 
an associate clinical professor in the School of Nursing at the University of California, San Francisco. 
AG: Terrific. Andrew, can we begin by talking a little bit about your background? For example, where 
did you grow up? 
AP: I grew up in San Jose, California, in the heart of Silicon Valley [laughs] before it was called Silicon 
Valley.  
AG: Right, exactly [laughs]. And what kind of work did your parents do? 
AP: My mother is a clinical social worker by training and a psychotherapist, and my father is a 
mechanical engineer. And he worked before he retired in the-- in healthcare device industry. 
AG: And so for those roles, they presumably had to get advanced degrees, is that right? They had some 
sort of Secondary Education. 
AP: Yeah, my-- both my-- my parents emigrated here from England before I was born, and so they did-- 
my father did his training in the UK and my mother did her Master's Degree in the UK but did a PhD 
while here in the US in clinical social work. 
AG: Wow, that's so fascinating. And do you remember your early experiences, the schooling? Did their 
sort of educational focus shape some of your interests as a young student? 
AP: You know, it's-- I think the British school system and the American school system were fairly 
different for them. So I-- do I remember my early school experiences? I mean, sure, I remember them. 
You know, my mother went back to get her PhD when I was in junior high, so I remember her being 
surrounded by books and yellow pads of notes when she was going through grad school, as, you know, 
as PhD is wont to make you do [chuckles]. 
AG: Yeah, [chuckles] that must have been something to be raised by someone simultaneously earning 
their PhD [chuckles].  
AP: Yeah. It's a lot to juggle I would-- I would think. 
AG:  Certainly. And did you-- did you have any subjects that you were drawn to in school? 
AP:  Um, well, I-- I really-- in-- in high school, I really found a love of photography, actually. That was 
something I came into about midway through high school. I had a fantastic photography teacher named 
Jim Mays who, once you took his photography class, he kind of let you have free run of the darkroom 
and then the-- the supplies and that and I-- he also was the yearbook advisor and so that gave me access 
to a old school, you know, wet darkroom that I would work in for, you know, a lot of time and worked 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
5 
 
on the yearbook and did a lot of photography. So that was really-- I knew I wanted to study psychology 
when I went to college, but that wasn't really a-- that wasn't really offered in high school, so I had to 
wait to get to college to study that. But yeah, in high school, I was really very interested in photography. 
 
AG: That's really neat that they had a darkroom in your high school. That's very cool. 
 
AP: Yeah. I still remember how it smelled. Wet dark rooms have a very distinctive chemically smell that 
is [chuckles]-- that I would recognize anywhere. 
 
AG: Were there other, like, extracurricular or social activities that you were involved in when you were 
growing up? 
 
AP: I was a boy scout. So I was-- I worked at a scout summer camp for many years, starting in high 
school and going through the middle part of college, which was definitely a place where I had kind of a 
community, you know, a-- that was definitely something I looked forward to every year. And really-- 
you know, I lived up in the Sierra Nevada Mountains for two months out of the year working at the 
summer camp, living in a big tent. So that was that-- that was a very enjoyable part of my-- my young 
life. 
 
AG: Oh, yeah, I can only imagine. And did you go directly from your high school to college? 
 
AP: I did via community college 'cause I was-- I was not the greatest student in high school, let's say. I 
got a lot of those kinda remarks on my report card that I wasn't applying myself well enough, which was 
probably true. So thank goodness, California has a robust community college system and so I was able 
to redeem my less than stellar GPA from high school [laughs] by going to De Anza Community College 
in Cupertino, California for a couple of years and doing my lower division work and, you know, getting 
a pretty darn good GPA. So I realized when I was actually studying things that I liked, I was engaged 
with it and did well. And then I transferred from there to the University of California, Santa Cruz and 
did the last two years of my education, my undergraduate education, there. I was a psychology major 
throughout undergraduate. 
 
[05:19] AG: Oh, yes. I was gonna ask, so you majored in psychology? And at that point did you have 
any inclination that you might go on to nursing? 
 
AP: I had no idea about nursing when I was an undergraduate. Honestly, it was-- it was probably the 
furthest thing from my mind. Yeah, so when I was an undergraduate, I-- my ambition was to take a 
couple of years off, work a little bit, travel some, and go and get a PhD in psychology. Two years turned 
into eight years [laughs]. I did a lot of fun things in between those years, you know. I did a bunch of 
traveling, different parts of the world. I-- I did work in what you would probably call paraprofessional 
mental health jobs. So, you know, these are jobs that you can get without a professional degree, that you 
can get with a psychology undergraduate degree, which is to say, kind of difficult, low paid work 
[laughs] in all honesty. I worked with very emotionally disturbed children in a residential care kind of 
setting for about three years, and then I worked for about four years after that in a-- in a-- San Francisco 
General Hospital has a long term psychiatric care facility at that time, and I did rehabilitation as, like, a 
recreational therapist essentially. I would take people out on outings and-- and organize events and do 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
6 
 
things with the-- the patients that were there. And it was actually in that job that I really learned about 
nursing. There were sort of two things that happened around that time. One was that I went to go see-- I-
- you know, when you're in your late 20s, fortunately, you don't have many medical needs if you're 
lucky, and yeah-- I had-- I had managed to accrue a couple of things that made it worth going to see a 
clinic and I was new-- I was new to my job. I didn't have, you know-- I grew up seeing a pediatrician, 
you know, that kind of thing, and then, you know, in your mid 20s, you rarely need any medical care so 
I didn't really have anybody following me and I just gotten this job at the General and I had insurance 
and, I don't know, I had bronchitis or something, and something else that was-- [chuckles] figured I 
should-- you know-- "I should get this checked out," kind of thing. And so, I-- I opened up my insurance 
booklet and thought, "Well, you know, I'll find an urgent care somewhere," you know, 'cause I didn't 
have a doctor. And I saw there was this place called the Tom Waddell clinic and it said "urgent care" 
and I called them and I said, "Can I do a walk-in appointment?" and they said, "Yeah, sure, just come 
down". And I was fairly new to San Francisco, I didn't really know the geography very well, and I show 
up at this clinic and it's kind of tucked into a back alley behind the Department of Public Health. And as 
it turns out, it's actually a homeless clinic. It's a very well known homeless clinic. We actually have 
students that I work with now rotate through there. It's been there for years. It's actually an old first aid 
station behind the Department of Public Health building. And I walk in and there's, like, kind of folks 
crashed out on the-- on the very Spartan wire furniture, you know, which looks like you can kind of take 
a hose to it. And the woman behind the glass says, "Yeah, go ahead and have a seat," you know, "We'll 
be with you when we can". And, you know, it took them a couple hours to see me, but once I got in, I 
met with this guy who was a nurse practitioner and he explained why I didn't need antibiotics for my 
bronchitis and why instead he was going to give me an inhaler, and he drew out this-- this beautiful little 
teaching diagram on the-- on the exam paper [chuckles], you know, that covers the exam bench, 
explained why, you know, antibiotics weren't indicated for bronchitis. And I was so impressed. And I 
thought, "Wow, that's so cool". And, like, nobody had ever really explained to me why they were doing 
anything they were doing medically, and I thought-- I just really was taken by that. So that made an 
impression on me. And then, when I was at this job at the General, I was a little bit adrift, you know, I 
was-- I was kind of getting closer to 30 and not quite sure what I wanted to be when I grew up, and I-- I 
was pretty sure I didn't want to be a psychologist anymore. It seemed like a lot of training, and at the 
time, mental health was really in a lot of flux as to who was going to be delivering it 'cause, you know, 
as HMOs were really kind of inserting themselves into the workplace mark-- and into the mental health 
marketplace. And it wasn't clear if PhDs were even going to be needed to do therapy anymore, if it was 
gonna be a Master's level job. And, you know, I just wasn't sure if I wanted to do psychology anymore, 
but I didn't know what I wanted to do instead. And I was working with a couple of family nurse 
practitioners who did all the primary care for our-- our patients at the General, 'cause we had about 160 
patients in that facility. And so-- and a lot of them are older, and many of them had chronic health 
conditions. And so there were these two family nurse practitioners, Clare Senchyna and Shotsy Faust, 
and they-- I just thought they were so cool. I just-- I was so taken by the way that they were clearly 
super smart, experienced, but also really approachable not only by staff but by the patients. They had a 
great sense of humor, they were playful, and they really engaged the patients in their own care, which I 
thought was really amazing. And, you know, I was just kind of shooting the breeze with Shotsy one day, 
and I was like-- I think I asked her, I said, "How do I get to be what you are?" [laughs]. And she said, 
"Well, there's this program at UCSF called Master's Entry Program in Nursing or MEPN program". And 
the Master's entry programs in nursing are for people who have a bachelor's degree in something other 
than nursing that want to go into advanced practice nursing. So usually, they're structured so you spend 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
7 
 
the first part of the program getting your RN, and they can usually do that in an accelerated fashion 
because they're-- you've already done a lot of the stuff that would be part of a-- an RN education as an 
undergraduate, you know, you're-- you know, I had some-- I had to do some prerequisites, like anatomy 
and physiology that I hadn't done as a-- as a psychology student. But once you've-- once you do that, 
you go into the program, you finish your RN, in my case in a year, and then you stay for two more years 
and get your Master's degree. And that's what prepares you to be a nurse practitioner. And I thought, 
"You know, that's an idea, but I don't know if I have the aptitude for, like, hard science" [chuckles]. So 
I-- I took an anatomy class at City College in San Francisco and I loved it. It was really hard. I had a 
really-- [chuckles] really strict professor. He was a doctor from India. And I don't think-- he hadn't done 
his residency here so he couldn't get-- he couldn't get licensed as a physician but he was teaching 
anatomy. I don't think he was too happy about it. He was [chuckles] rather severe, but man, he was-- he 
was a good teacher. And I learned and I got an A in that class. And I thought, "Hmm, maybe I'll try 
physiology," 'cause, you know, those two kind of are paired together usually. And so I took physiology 
and I was fascinated. I did really well. And I thought, maybe I could do this. And so I applied and I 
started that program in 2002. And that was at UC San Francisco. And I did-- So I graduated with my 
Master's degree in 2005. I got my RN in 2003. 
 
[12:55] AG: And so it sounds like when you do these-- you said MEPA, like the Master's- 
 
AP: MEPN, m-e-p-n.  No, sorry. Master's Entry Program in Nursing. MEPN. Yeah, that's what she said. 
 
AG: And so in that case, you don't work as an RN through the classwork. You go directly-- sort of earn 
your RN in the process and come out the other side with an NP. Is that right? 
 
AP: Well, yes, sort of. So, you know, nursing education is interesting in that it really is integrated. The 
clinical work is-- is really integrated very early on. And this program in particular, we started doing 
clinical work, actually the first week of the program. And we were-- so I did my-- I did my first med 
surg rotation at Stanford, 'cause that was one of the sites that we had. And we were basically told we 
were allowed to do up to what we'd learned in class, you know, with-- with preceptor supervision. And 
so the joke was, you know, the first week, all we know how to do is make beds and wash our hands. But 
very quickly, you know, the skills were added on and I think it was like my fourth week or something, I 
was putting a urinary catheter in somebody, you know, it was-- So, so things happened fast. And then 
once you got your RN, you could work as a nurse and-- and a lot of us did work part-time while we were 
going through the Master's program. So I got a job with Kaiser Hospital in San Francisco as a medical 
surgical nurse right after I got my license. At the time, there was a terrible nursing shortage in the US. 
This is 2003. And, you know, normally new graduates aren't the most super desirable nurses because 
they require a lot of extra training and a lot of hand holding for the first six months or so but the 
situation was so bad with regards to staffing that, you know, if you had a pulse and an RN license they'd 
hire you. And, in fact, they had signing bonuses, which is crazy now to think back on it for, you know, 
people who were essentially needing a lot of hand holding just to get, you know, up to speed. But 
regardless, I did that job for the two years that I was in school to become an NP, so that was a really 
helpful additional education. I moonlighted a little bit in my second year at Marin County Psychiatric 
Emergency Services. So I'd do the occasional shift up there as as a nurse. So I did work as-- as an RN 
while I was getting my-- my NP, and then while you're in NP school, you're doing clinical rotations in 
that advanced practice role. So I was working side by side with nurse practitioners, clinical instructors 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
8 
 
in-- in clinical sites to learn that role. So there's a big part of nursing that is very much an apprenticeship 
model, you know. There's clearly the didactic piece and that you learn in a classroom, but because it is 
an applied science, you know, you've got to learn-- you've got to go do the thing, you know. And I think 
for adult learners doing the-- doing the things sooner rather than later cements the knowledge that much 
faster. And so, you know, to-- to actually go and practice the skills you just learned was-- was a good-- 
good structure. I think. 
 
AG: And in that first role where you were on the med surg for-- at Kaiser, what was that like balancing 
graduate school and a-- and a full-time RN role? 
 
AP: Yeah, it was a lot. I was-- I was 0.6 FTE, so that translated to three days a week. And yeah, I was 
doing that. I did that for a year and then a year into it I went per diem. So, you know, when you're a per 
diem nurse, you kind of-- you set your-- you don't set your own schedule but you can tell the staffing 
office when you're available. You can tell them when you're available and then they will slot you in 
where they need you. So that gives you a little more flexibility. And so I-- the-- that job and the 
psychiatric emergency job were both per diem, so I could just sort of tell them when I had time and 
when I didn't, and if they availed themselves of my-- my-- my availability, then I would work and if not, 
then I didn't, you know, so. So that was a super flexible sort of arrangement for when I was in grad 
school, 'cause it was busy. I mean, I remember particularly my second year, 'cause the second year of the 
UCSF program is much more clinically focused. The first year is more classroom. And so, you know, I 
was in-- I was in three clinics a week, so I was doing about 12, 16 hours of clinical work every week in 
that second year, plus I was working part of the time and I was going to class. There was a time when I 
was-- I was really, really busy, you know. It's like there was something every day that was either school, 
work or-- or clinic. Yeah, that was a busy time. 
 
AG: Must have been very busy time. And do you remember any of your initial impressions of nursing 
and whether it was a fit for you and what you thought of the work initially?  
 
[18:24] AP: Yeah, I-- you know, in all honesty, I didn't really feel like I fit in at first. I mean, you know, 
I think-- I think there's-- I mean, nursing is unusual in that, you know, the-- the percentage of men that 
are nurses is still quite low. I think it's still about 10% of the profession, even in  2021, which is wild to 
me. So, you know, just being male in that profession puts you-- makes you stand out. And-- and there 
were things that I didn't really understand about how nurses see the world that I really didn't come to 
appreciate until much later in my career really. You know, the value of the care that is delivered in the 
relationship between the patient and the nurse I think-- I think was something I was a little dismissive-- 
it seemed a little fluffy [chuckles] when I was in school. I don't think I really appreciated the value of 
that until I was much older and wiser. You know, at the-- I think at that stage, I was really kind of 
fascinated with the science aspects and pharmacology and the sort of-- the technical aspects of 
healthcare and I didn't fully appreciate the relational aspects of-- that nursing brings to the profession-- 
that brings to the table, that I think is what really is sort of the strong suit of nursing. 
 
AG: Were there any experiences that stand out to you that sort of demonstrated the value of that 
humanistic approach in your career? 
 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
9 
 
AP: Well, I think that, you know, the people who inspired me to go into nursing really demonstrated 
that. I mean, I think-- when I think about my-- my colleague Shotsy Faust, I mean, when I think about 
the way she would interact with patients, was so relational. And that's really a lot of what made her 
interaction successful in a way that maybe other professions were not as able to do. And she, you know, 
that she-- that she really valued those-- those relationships. It wasn't just sort of a task that needed to be 
accomplished, you know, 'cause one of the things that healthcare can do is, you know, medicine can do, 
is it can be very depersonalizing, you know. People stop being a person and they become a diagnosis, 
you know. I mean, even the sort of nomenclature we use in the hospital, you know, the-- the pneumonia 
in room six, you know. It's like, no, that's Mr. Johnson, who happens to have pneumonia, you know. 
He's not [chuckles]-- pneumonia is not his identity. But you know, it's not-- it's not that we're-- I don't-- 
you know, and this is not to disparage my colleagues in other areas of healthcare, I think it's-- it's a-- it's 
an efficiency aspect, you know, which, when you're really busy, you don't have time to be inefficient. 
And also, I think it's a way that we-- we protect ourselves from some of the suffering that we see in our 
work, you know, by keeping a certain degree of distance between you and that suffering, it sinks into 
your own consciousness, a little less, you know, and-- and you have to protect yourself when you're in 
this work, because, you know, you see-- you know, somebody working in a trauma unit of a trauma ER 
is gonna see more horror in a couple of shifts than most people will ever see in their entire lives, you 
know. So I understand why there needs to be a certain amount of protectiveness that we build up around 
ourselves. And nursing's not immune to that either. I mean. You know, a sort of cynicism, you know, 
can be rampant in nursing, you know, and I think it's a result of-- of that-- of seeing these difficult 
things, and also seeing difficult things and not feeling supported, you know. A lot of times nursing and 
hospital management can be rather antagonistic with each other. You know, there's a lot of places where 
I think nurses don't feel fully supported, ranging from, you know, the pay structure, the sort of quality 
of-- of the workplace environment. You know, there's-- I could go on about that, but there's a number of 
places where, you know, that-- that, I don't know if cynicism is warranted, but definitely a certain degree 
of wariness makes sense, and apprehension makes sense. 
 
[22:52] AG: Are there changes that you specifically have identified that would improve some of the, 
like, structural factors around nursing that might help ease burnout or, you know, allow people to feel 
more valued on the job? 
 
AP: Sure. You know--, I mean--, one-- you know, one place [chuckles]-- I'm sort of fond of saying, you 
know, I-- I really don't need Nurses Appreciation Week if you pay me well and you let me do my job 
[chuckles]. You don't need to buy me lunch. I'll buy my own lunch. Thank you very much. If you pay 
me well I don't need you to buy me lunch. 'Cause honestly, I think, you know, that sort of stuff feels, 
frankly, kind of patronizing. And I'm not a big fan of it. So I think, you know, the way we show 
appreciation and value in this culture, you know, for better or for worse, is usually through monetary 
reward and quality-- and sort of quality of workplace accommodation and things like that. So, you 
know, those are things that I think communicate value to-- to nurses. You know, it's been an interesting 
year with COVID and I think people really have a greater appreciation for what it means to be a 
healthcare worker, to be a nurse, and really have some inkling of-- of some of the challenges that 
frontline healthcare workers deal with on a daily basis even before COVID but certainly has been 
amplified by COVID. So, you know, I think having built in mentoring for new nurses is really 
important-- for all nurses, but particularly new nurses, because, you know, the rate at which people drop 
out of the nursing profession is actually quite alarming. I can't cite the exact number but, you know, 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
10 
 
there's some rather disquieting number of people that leave nursing as a profession within the first five 
years of graduating, you know, which is-- after you put that much time, money and effort into your 
education, it tells you a lot. That's, you know, that's not a decision you make lightly. That's a decision 
that-- that's made because you're really, really troubled by what you're dealing with and you don't see an 
easy way out of it. Well not even an easy way out, you don't see a way out of it. And so-- so that, you 
know, I think that's something that we really need to look at is retention. And I think mentoring is one 
way that we could certainly improve retention of nurses. Those-- those are a few thoughts. This is the 
40th anniversary of I think the announcement of, you know, the discovery of, or at least the awareness 
of something that later turned out to be HIV in 1981. So there's some-- and San Francisco General has a 
particularly strong history in that area. There's a wonderful documentary called Five B, which refers-- 
Five B was the AIDS-- the first AIDS ward, and it was started in part by a guy named Cliff Morrison 
who is a nurse. He's featured in that-- in that documentary quite prominently, along with people like 
Paul Volberding, who was the-- one of the main infectious disease docs at the General at the time who 
really did a lot of advocacy work around HIV. And of course, related to COVID, you know, Tony Fauci 
was very prominent in-- in HIV education of the public. I saw a video of a young Tony Fauci the other 
day talking about how you're not gonna get AIDS from a toilet seat, you know. I thought, "Wow, this 
guy's been at it for a long time" [chuckles], you know. It still sounds exactly like Tony Fauci, you know, 
like, straight out of Brooklyn. And so, so yeah, you know, in-- by the time I was training in the early 
2000s, you know, that was post-antiretroviral drugs, which absolutely changed the course of HIV care, 
you know, really made HIV, a chronic illness rather than a life short, you know, a rapidly life shortening 
illness. I mean, I was, you know, a kid growing up in the Bay Area seeing television news1 pictures of, 
you know, people in the early 80s with Kaposi's sarcoma, and-- and the, you know, rapid cachexia and 
wasting that was happening with, you know, young men who were dead within six months of diagnosis. 
I lost a friend in 1993 to AIDS and, you know, that's certainly- so that was about three years before-- I 
think the first antiretrovirals came out in '96. So, you know, he-- he didn't have the opportunity, and 
that's sort of how he looked as he was dying. And so where it came in for me, 'cause I trained a lot-- So I 
worked at San Francisco General for four years before going to nursing school. And San Francisco 
General has a real interest in culture. So it's very much part of the fabric of the city's healthcare ethos. 
So, you know, we have two large public hospitals here in San Francisco. So there's San Francisco 
General Hospital, which is now called Zuckerberg [laughs] San Francisco General, which I think it's 
funny, but-- 'cause Mark Zuckerberg gave a-- a ton of money to it, and then we have Laguna Honda 
Hospital, which is a-- which is licensed as a skilled nursing facility that has, I think, over 1,000 beds, 
you know. It's a huge facility that is for-- and both of these are really safety net hospitals. So Laguna 
Honda is a long term care facility for people that are elderly or disabled and don't have resources to take 
care of themselves. And San Francisco General, you know, in addition to being a level one trauma 
center, is really the safety net hospital, particularly for conditions of sort of socio economic injustice, so 
homelessness, substance use disorder, HIV. Really, there's a lot of-- there's a lot of care that's delivered 
there. And so where I got exposed to that was more around harm reduction and substance use. I had a 
wonderful mentor in Ward 83, which is the methadone clinic, a gentleman by the name of Matthew 
Tierney, Matt Tierney, who is really quite a well known figure. He's a nurse practitioner as well. We 
actually now teach in the same department, and he was a pioneer in buprenorphine treatment. And 
buprenorphine or Suboxone is a very well known option now, but back in 2002 or so when he was 
starting that service at San Francisco General, it was-- there really wasn't anything other than methadone 
for people that had opioid use disorder. And so buprenorphine was really a game changer, and he was a 
huge advocate for that, and has worked really tirelessly in educating not only nurses but all healthcare 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
11 
 
professions-- professionals around the use of buprenorphine and advocating for the use of 
buprenorphine. But I rotated with him for a year in Ward 83 and I-- and he did a imbedded psychiatric 
psychopharmacology clinic because people were coming for their methadone anyways, so it was really 
easy to check in with them about their mental health conditions and, if needed, to get medication started 
and get therapy started and so-- and he's-- he was one of the first people to teach me about motivational 
interviewing as a means of-- of enhancing change and enhancing interest in change and also harm 
reduction. And harm reduction at that time was a very radical idea, you know. You have to remember 
this is sort of really the start of the opioid epidemic, because this was a time when chronic pain was now 
seen as the fifth vital sign, as it was-- I was trained. And-- but that assessment of pain drove a lot of 
prescribing of opiates for pain, and this is when oxycontin was-- was just starting to get into the market 
and fentanyl as a prescription drug. So there was a lot of-- there-- that, you know, this is before it kind of 
got into the polite society of American middle class. You know, this is when opioids, you know, chronic 
pain and opioid use disorder were really kind of seen as separate issues. And, you know, and a lot of 
people who ended up having problems with opiate use disorder later were people that were started on 
those drugs for chronic pain. And then when we realized we'd kind of created a monster and a lot of the 
guidelines change. A lot of those people had their chronic pain no longer treated and they turned to sort 
of illicit sources of opioids in order to not go into withdrawal and not to have chronic pain. But at the 
time, harm reduction was really a pretty radical idea; this idea that, you know, things like needle 
exchange would save lives, and there was still this residual idea of, "Oh, you know, you're just enabling 
people to use drugs, and, you know, they're just gonna-- they're just gonna overdose on it. They'll die of 
something else on a different day". I mean, there was a-- kind of a gross cynicism about people who use 
drugs. And Matt was one of the people that really introduced me to a very different mindset around 
harm reduction. And, you know, harm reduction starts with a respectful dialogue. It starts-- and this is 
where nursing is really good at harm reduction, I think, because we show up for patients where they are 
at. So if somebody is-- and we-- and one of the principles of harm reduction is that there's a very-- 
there's no barrier to admission, you know, so any door is the right door. And if you're not ready to stop 
yet, that's fine. We want to keep you alive until maybe you'd get to that point, but in the meantime, any 
reduction in use, any use that is less dangerous is a step in the right direction. So, you know, while it 
would be great in a perfect world if people weren't injecting drugs, if they inject drugs with clean 
needles, they're less likely to get hepatitis C or HIV or get soft tissue infections from their injection sites. 
So if people using clean needles and using clean technique, you know, that-- that's a step in the right 
direction. And of course, opioid-- medication assisted therapy in opioid use disorder is a really important 
step in harm reduction. And Matt was one of the people that taught me how to do that, and really how to 
have that-- that kind of mindset when working with patients, and that has absolutely infused my work 
ever since. So, you know, I really-- I'm a huge believer in harm reduction. And-- and now, you know, 
the great thing is-- is-- it's-- it's become kind of standard, at least in this part of the country. I don't know 
if it is everywhere, but, you know, we're talking about actually having a supervised injection site in San 
Francisco so that people, you know, if they do overdose, they will be attended to and they'll be able to 
use clean materials and be attended to when they're inebriated so that they don't get hurt. And, you 
know, that's a pretty radical idea. They do that in Canada. It's-- I think there's a site in Vancouver. But 
I'm just thinking back, you know, so Naloxone, which is Narcan, is a reversal agent for opioid overdose 
that is now available in a nasal spray. And it's been around forever as an-- in ERs, but usually it was an 
injected drug. You had to give it an IV or IM. So the nasal sprays is something that's come out in the last 
10 years or so. I mean, I carry some in my work bag because I just, you know, might be on the bus and 
there might be somebody who's overdosed and I want to have that available to me. But back in 2003, 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
12 
 
there was a guy named Alex Kroll who was working with the San Francisco Department of Public 
Health to distribute Naloxone kits. And that-- Of course at that time, it had to be injected to people who 
were injection drug users. And this was a totally radical idea. You know, the idea of, like-- because a lot 
of people wouldn't call the police or call 911 if a friend had overdosed because the police would often 
bust them for possession. And so, you know, people were dying because they couldn't get this reversal 
agent fast enough and so they had the idea of like, "Well, you know, these are people who aren't afraid 
of needles. Like, let's give them the tools they need to, you know, to save their friends, if somebody 
should overdose. And so I remember writing a paper about this when I was in graduate school and just 
the resistance that people have to harm reduction. It's less so now but it's still there. You know, you still 
encounter harm reduction resistance and cynicism around it. But I think it's a really critical part of any 
public health policy, and-- and it really should be a core ethos of nursing, you know, because it's part of 
meeting patients where they're at and not letting the perfect be the enemy of the good. Sorry, that was a 
long [chuckles] diatribe.  
 
[35:39] AG: No, that's great. Can you talk a little about your role in patient care? 
 
AP: So my role in patient care now-- So, as I mentioned, I'm trained as a psychiatric nurse practitioner. I 
do some clinical work at the VA in a couple of different capacities. I-- we have a nurse practitioner 
residency, a one-year postgraduate residency at the VA, which is kind of uncommon. Most nurse 
practitioners do not do a residency. That's-- that's not a standard part of training, but the VA rolled out 
this nurse practitioner residency a few years back in a number of different sites in San Francisco. It 
might have been the first one. I am not-- I should know that piece of history, but I don't. Uhm, to give 
new nurse practitioners-- We have a-- We have a primary care nurse practitioner residency and we have 
a psychiatric mental health nurse practitioner residency. And so I work with the psychiatric mental 
health nurse practitioner residency. We have four residents a year, and they are-- they're there for a full 
year and they work in different clinics. They have their own patient caseload. So I oversee them, and so 
that's sort of a more indirect patient care role, because I have to sign off on their notes and consult with 
them about their patient care. And when they're first getting started, I go into the visits with them, or at 
least in the tail end of the visit. And then I have a small panel of veterans that I-- that are my patients 
that I take care of. And my role with them is primarily psychopharmacology, but I don't think you can 
really do psychopharmacology without doing some psychotherapy. I mean, I suppose a robot could but 
I'm not a robot. So [chuckles], you know, there's-- psychopharmacology is always contextual. There's 
always a reason in people's lives why they're seeking care. And I think it's incumbent on the provider to-
- to at least have some cursory understanding of that, if not a deeper understanding ideally, and-- and to 
really understand, if nothing else, how their symptomatology affects their functional life. Like, how does 
this-- If-- if-- if you have depression and you're having a hard time getting out of bed, how is that 
impacting your life? Oh, you know, you're-- you're not able to hang out with your kids or, you know, 
you're not making it to work, or he got fired from a job because you have absenteeism. You know, those 
are all functional impairments that really matter to me as a clinician, and so-- so I do that. I do some 
didactic stuff with the residents, so I, you know,1 teach them things [chuckles], 'cause that's built into 
the residency. So harm-- So to come back to your question about harm reduction, I see harm reduction 
as really informing everything I do with patients, you know. And so if somebody, you know-- one of the 
things-- one of the sort of precepts of harm reduction, which is different than, say, a abstinence-based 
model, you know, so in a 12-step program, substance use is seen in a very binary way, right? You know, 
you're either sober or you're-- you're not. In harm reduction, it's seen in a more incremental way. So, you 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
13 
 
know, I mean, let's just take a simple example of, like, tobacco use. So if somebody says, "Yeah, I 
smoke a pack of cigarettes a day", and I say, you know, "We have some medications that might help 
with that", you know, "Would you be interested in that?", and I prescribe bupropion or-- or varenicline 
or something like that, and they say, "You know, I'm-- I'm still smoking but I only smoke, like, eight to 
10 cigarettes a day," I'd be like, "That's fantastic! That's a 50% reduction," you know. "How would you 
feel about reducing further?", you know. So I get consent, right. It's like, I don't assume that the person 
wants to stop altogether. You know, they might say, 'Well, you know, I still like-- I still like to have, you 
know, there's something about having a cigarette after dinner that I just really like", and I say, "Well, 
what if we made your goal that you just had one cigarette a day?", you know, and they're like, "Yeah, 
you know. I could get behind that". It's like, "Okay, let's work towards that". And that would be 
something we would check back in on. I might say, "Well, you know, you-- Where do you-- Where do 
you feel the greatest cravings to smoke?" and they're like, "Oh, you know, I wake up really craving 
cigarettes". I'd say, "Well, you know, what if we replaced that nicotine with some gum, you know, some 
nicotine gum, when you first wake up, you know?" So-- so using these pharmacologic tools as ways of 
helping people get towards reduced use and towards their goals, rather than me saying, "Well, you need 
to stop smoking", you know, 'cause that generally doesn't work very well. I mean, there is evidence to 
show that-- that, you know, having a conversation about smoking definitely has an impact, you know. 
You should say something, but assuming that my goals are your goals is not harm-- is not harm 
reduction focused, you know. That's me imposing my goals onto you. And so, you know, I think you can 
use that model in-- in many areas of nursing, you know, whether that's your diabetes care, your 
hypertension care, your weight, you know, I think there's lots of things that can be-- that harm reduction 
and motivational interviewing can be used. I think one of the things that blew my mind about-- about 
motivational interviewing was one of the-- the precepts of it is that we ask people about the things that 
they like, about their use, you know, so some-- even some-- even to somebody who that seems absurd, 
you know, I mean, let's say, you know, you got somebody who comes in and they're drinking, you 
know, they're drinking two fifths of vodka a day, you know, which is an astronomical amount of vodka. 
You know, it would be easy to assume there's nothing good about that, right? Or just, you know, 
because this person's got pancreatitis or they've had delirium tremens or some other consequences of 
alcohol use. But, you know, so it's very easy to come in with our sort of agenda that this can only be 
bad. And, you know, and clearly, objective data would indicate that it is, but there's clearly some reason 
why the person keeps doing it, you know, so we might ask them, you know, "So tell me what you like 
about drinking vodka," and they might say, you know, "It's the only thing that helps me sleep," you 
know, and they wouldn't be wrong, you know. And so, I would take that as a condition and say, "Sounds 
like we’ve we really gotta find a way to help you sleep without the vodka, you know? Or with less 
vodka, you know. Would you- How would you feel about if we could find a way to help you sleep that 
doesn't involve so much vodka?" And they-- You know, and they might say, "That sounds great, 
because it actually costs me a lot of money to drink two fifths of vodka a day, you know, and I'm on 
very limited income, and, you know, I'm drinking $20 of vodka a day and I can't really afford it. And so 
if you have a better way to help you sleep, I'm open to it," you know So it may be an imperfect 
motivation. I mean, I might-- I might fantasize that the person would say, "Oh, I want to stop drinking 
and I would love your help to do it", you know, but their goal might be like, "I don't want to spend 20 
bucks a day on vodka". Like, "Cool, let's-- let's work on that," you know. So-- so I think, you know, 
nurses are really well suited to just meeting patients where they're at, not letting the perfect be the enemy 
of the good, and-- and being willing to kind of tolerate the sort of messiness that usually is healthcare 
[chuckles], you know, like, people rarely go in a straight line when they're getting better. You know, the 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
14 
 
line is-- is very-- it doubles back on itself. And there's-- exactly the-- there's times when you just feel 
like you're going, you know, backwards for every-- every step you take forward. And that's okay, 'cause, 
you know, we-- the idea of having these enduring relationships with patients and not abandoning 
patients when they are not doing what we want them to do because maybe we never asked them if that's 
what they want to do. We assumed, you know, so that's-- the word, like, you know, patient-centered or 
meeting patients where they're at, I mean, these are kind of platitudes that get thrown around a lot in 
healthcare. But, you know, what do they actually mean? You know, and I think what they sometimes 
mean is actually letting go of the thing that we want as a clinician, you know. It's more about sharing 
power, which is really uncomfortable sometimes, you know, because we I think in healthcare often feel 
a tremendous amount of responsibility. But we also, you know, so then-- then we feel like we need to 
have a lot of power, you know, in order to carry out our responsibility. And sometimes those things are 
in conflict with each other, especially when it comes to what the patient wants, you know. And then 
historically, we've had a bad practice of labeling patients that don't see the world as we do as "non-
compliant", you know, rather than saying, like, "No, they're actually just not on board with what we 
think," you know. "We are not in alignment". So-- So yeah, I think having that attitude that like we're 
going to really work with patients where they're at, and that that enduring relationship can maybe bring 
the person closer to what we imagine being healthier. 
 
[45:00] B: What made working for the VA appealing to you? 
 
AP: Well, I had-- I had never worked at the VA before. I'd never actually done any rotations or when I 
was training, so it's kind of fascinating to get to know a new healthcare system. But, you know, 
ultimately, the reason why I like working at the VA is I like working with veterans, you know. I really-- 
It's-- It's an interesting population. I mean, it is predominantly male but not exclusively. Um, so that is-- 
that is an interesting aspect of it. It's quite uncommon that I get female-identified patients, but it does 
happen sometimes. And, you know, they're really from-- I would say, you know, probably the nature of 
military history in the US means that we have a significant number of older, mostly men who were 
Vietnam era veterans, and then we have guys who are anywhere, you know, between their sort of late 
20s to early 40s who were involved in the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. And so it's-- it's-- and they're, you 
know, they're an incredibly resilient bunch. I really respect and admire their tenacity, and-- and their-- 
I'll share with you a story about, you know, when-- when COVID started, so, you know, when-- when 
shelter in place happened and we were all freaking out, like, "Oh my God! I'll have to, you know, how 
am I gonna go to the grocery store?" you know, and, "Where am I gonna get toilet paper from?" they're, 
like, "I was on a submarine for three months. We'd be underwater for two weeks at a time and, like, 
shelter in place, no problem", you know. Like-- or the, you know, the guys with PTSD are, like, "People 
have to stay six feet away from me? I like that. That makes me feel safer," you know. And it's like, cool, 
you know, you're adaptive. And that was-- that's-- I think that's the thing I really admire about these 
guys is-- is that-- is their capacity for adaptation and-- and their-- you know, the way that they-- they just 
kind of-- they get on with things is-- is really impressive. You know, there are some challenges to such a 
large healthcare system but, you know, I think it does provide kind of a model for greater access to 
health care and more affordable health care. And, you know, that-- that is a great thing about it. And 
there-- there are a lot of resources within the VA. Sometimes the challenge is finding them and 
connecting people to them, but they are-- they are there, which I like. Sometimes, it's not as adequate as-
- as I would-- as I would like to see, you know, when there are waitlists and-- and things like that, that 
troubles me. You know, and they have made efforts to ameliorate that. They've, you know, started 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
15 
 
contracting with therapists in the community to provide psychotherapy when we can't do it. But then 
sometimes connecting people to that is a clunky system, you know. Sometimes a veteran will get a 
referral to a therapist who's no longer taking patients or something like that, because, you know, the 
office that coordinates that referral has not been able to update that information. So, you know, those-- 
those come out in-- in the-- in the patient care, you know. When a veteran calls me up and says, you 
know, "They sent me to somebody who's not even taking patients", you know, I-- I really feel for that 
veteran because, you know, that person really wants to get care and they're not able to. But, you know, 
fortunately, that's less common than it could be. So-- So those are things I like about it. You know, there 
is kind of a singularity of mission there, and I think everyone is there because they want to work with 
veterans. And I like that they're-- that it-- that it's a culture that is really a teaching culture. You know, 
we are a teaching hospital. My NP residents train side by side with the medical residents, the psychiatry 
residents, and also like the psychology interns, students, psychologists who are getting their pre-
licensure hours. And so there is that like, multidisciplinary approach and-- and there's time built in for 
learning. Because a lot of healthcare systems don't have that luxury. And so-- so those are the things I 
like about it. And it occupies a phenomenal piece of real estate in San Francisco. The VA in San 
Francisco is on a cliff overlooking the Pacific Ocean and the Golden Gate Bridge, that, you know, if it 
was commercial real estate would-- would be millions of dollars per lot, you know, just not even with 
the house on it. So [chuckles] they grabbed some really nice land when they built that place back in the 
30s. It's a little west of the Presidio, so it's a place called Fort Miley, which if you're familiar with San 
Francisco, it's right behind the Legion of Honor Art Museum. So we're right-- that's our next door 
neighbor. So it's an area called Land's End. And really, if you think of San Francisco as, like, a, you 
know, the peninsula that it is, it's the very northeast- sorry, northwest corner of the peninsula. And so 
when you look out from the cafeteria, you feel like you're on the prow of a ship, you know, going out 
into the Pacific [chuckles]. It's pretty amazing. 
 
[50:31] AG: How did you end up, you know, doing the job that you're currently doing for the VA? 
 
AP: Yeah, so, um, so I worked for Kaiser for many years in outpatient psychiatry in Redwood City, 
California. And after a dozen years or so, I was starting to feel a sort of a creeping sense of burnout. My 
caseload was just kind of slowly increasing, and my amount of time to give patient care was-- was going 
down and it just didn't seem sustainable, you know, especially when I was sort of looking at like, a 20 
year horizon for my career. I was like, hmm, I don't think I can do this for another 20 years. And so I 
started looking for other possibilities. I had been teaching very part-time at UCSF almost since I 
graduated. We joke, “The UCSF stands for ‘U Can Stay Forever" because we have a tendency to pull 
our graduates back into teaching roles and precepting roles and such. And that certainly happened to me. 
So I actually started guest lecturing in like 2007, so a couple years after I graduated, and then the class-- 
the psychopharmacology class that I was guest lecturing in, the-- the professor who taught me was 
leaving that role. And so she said, "Hey, do you want to take over this class?" And so I took the leap, 
and I took on a 20% teaching position while I was still at Kaiser. And then, about three years ago, I got a 
message actually from my colleague, Matt Tierney, who said, you know, "Would you like-- Would you 
be interested in increasing your hours, you know, your time to UC?", and I thought, you know, maybe I 
could go full time. And so-- so a lot of the-- the clinical faculty, which is what I fall under, we all have 
clinical roles. So, you know, we-- we do clinical work in various settings, usually in a precepting 
capacity. So, you know, you're-- you're teaching students in addition to delivering care. And we're 
embedded in various clinics around the Bay Area. And so this particular-- where they had a need was at 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
16 
 
the VA to-- to be an attending in this-- in this residency program. And so-- so that was-- that was where 
there was an opening. And so that's-- that's how I ended up in there, and, yeah, it seemed like a good 
enough fit. I have-- I have a lot of interest in PTSD, which, as you might imagine, is a fairly common 
diagnosis at the VA. And so there were a number of things that-- that just made it a good fit. 
 
AG: And are there other diagnoses that you think of as being kind of common among the patient 
population at the San Francisco VA? 
 
AP: Um, you know, there are things that you see-- would see in any large population, you know: 
depression, anxiety, occasionally psychosis. Substance use is not uncommon there, you know, as you 
might imagine. I mean, so it's really, you know, it's a fairly representative population. I mean, there's 
probably more traumatic brain injury than you would see in-- in a general population, just because of the 
nature of military service. Yeah, so probably I see a higher-- higher degree of PTSD and traumatic brain 
injury. You know, one thing that I will give the VA props for is that they really have done good work in 
recognizing that racism is its own form of trauma. And so there is a-- they have race-based PTSD 
services there. So you know, I can think of a couple of veterans that I have who are Black, who were 
specifically targeted in basic training, or they were bullied by fellow soldiers or even worse is when it-- 
when they were sort of targeted by commanding officers because of their race. And so that is something 
that the-- the VA has really acknowledged. They've also acknowledged that military sexual trauma is far 
too common. And so that is something we assess for and provide services for. So, you know, a lot of 
veterans of all genders have been sexually assaulted within their military service and so sometimes that 
is one of the traumatic experiences that they are coming to the VA for help with. And so-- so the VA has 
done good work around that. And the other area where I think they're quite progressive is in the research 
area. So there's a-- there's a lot of-- there's a lot of research that happens within the VA, and also in 
partnership with institutions like UCSF, to-- to try and innovate care for-- for veterans, you know, which 
has implications for not just veteran populations, but for the population-- for the general population. So-- 
so yeah, you know. There's some very good work that goes on there.  
 
[55:40] AG: Can you expound a little bit on the gender dynamics at the VA?  
 
AP: So, it's a weird paradox, right, because I know this is an audio recording, so you can't see that I'm 
white, but I'm white and I'm, you know, male from birth onward. And so, you know, in this culture, that 
means that I was born on third base. And, you know, people like me are told, "Hey, you're on third base 
'cause you hit a triple". It's like, "No, I was born on third base", you know. So-- So there's a lot of 
privilege that comes with how I was born. And then you're plopped in this profession where you're a 
distinct minority because of your gender. And I, you know, honestly didn't encounter a lot of overt 
sexual or sort of gender discrimination as a result of that. I mean, I do remember being in my ob/gyn 
rotation on a labor and delivery floor and the nurse who was precepting me said, kind of dismissively, 
like, "Well, you're not going to do this kind of nursing anyways. You're probably gonna go into 
administration or something," you know. And I remember kind of feeling a little put out by that because 
I remember actually, at the time, there was a nurse midwife in San Francisco who was very much in 
demand who was male, you know, which, I mean, why that's even, like, noteworthy is interesting to me 
because, I mean, there's tons of men who are ob/gyns, you know, and that's not particularly uncommon, 
but, you know, being a nurse midwife as a male was-- was particularly radical in the early 2000s, I 
suppose. And, you know, I remember feeling a little annoyed by that comment, but, you know, I really 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
17 
 
didn't experience-- you know, I certainly didn't experience anything that I-- that would-- Arguably I can't 
experience sexism because the tables are-- are-- are in-- are set up in favor of-- structurally are set up to 
favor men. You know, and in some ways-- in many ways I think being male and being sort of 
enculturated with this idea that, like, I have something to say, I'd like to say it, you know. I mean, it's 
probably in evidence by this interview, right? But you know, just another institutional thing where, you 
know, I don't feel-- I feel comfortable saying what I think, you know, and I've been-- I've been-- the 
other part of my career has been being an educator in the continuing education world. So, you know, in 
our profession we have lots of conferences, because we all have to get continuing education hours in 
order to keep our licenses current, so there's kind of an industry of professional conferences, and I've 
been involved in that world for about 12 years or so, giving lectures around the country on various 
topics to different, you know, people from different professions within healthcare. And so, you know, it-
- it takes a certain kind of moxie or chutzpah to stand up in front of 500 people and think that the thing 
you're going to talk about is worth talking about. And, you know, that's probably just part of my 
acculturation as a white dude in this culture, you know. And so-- so it's a weird paradox to be a distinct 
minority in nursing because of gender, but definitely to come into it with a lot of this sort of privilege 
and power that is inherent from just where I was born in the society. And so-- so I, you know, I spend 
time thinking about how to use that power for good now.  And, you know, one of the great things I get 
to do as a teacher is I get to connect people, you know, students and faculty or students and people in the 
community or student to student, faculty to faculty and, you know, it's-- One of the things I delight in is, 
you know, having a student who's interested in a particular thing and I happen to know a faculty member 
who's doing work in that thing, and I say, "Do you know So and So?" and they're like, "Oh, I've read 
their work but I don't know them," and I say, "Let me introduce you", you know, like, and I shoot the 
two of them an email and I say, "Hey, this-- So and So, this is my student, So and So, who is really 
interested in the work you're doing and has done a little bit of this work and, you know, So and So, this 
is Professor Blah Blah Blah and, you know, she is doing-- been doing research in this and, you know, I 
think you two would have a lot to talk about. I'll leave it to you both", you know. And then I kinda step 
back and be like, okay, you know, my work is-- But you know, especially when I can connect students 
who might not have access to those people directly, you know, because they, you know, you know how 
it is when you're in school, you know. Professors seem really intimidating and they seem really busy 
and, you know, they don't want to talk to you. And, you know, the reality is actually quite the contrary. I 
mean, I love it when students reach out to me and they say, you know, "Can I-- Can I come to your 
office hours? I really want to talk to you about this thing," and it's like, "Yes, please. I love talking about 
this stuff". So-- So yeah, using that power and privilege for good, you know, and to uplift students who, 
you know, I think-- I think this incoming class of psych NP students is-- has the highest number of 
students of color, students who are first generation college than any of our previous classes. So that's 
great, you know. I think-- I think it's working, you know. We have a long way to go, but I think, you 
know, some of the-- our-- our efforts towards greater diversity and equity and inclusion, I think, are 
starting to bear fruit, and it's nice to be a part of that, you know, to whatever degree I can. 
 
[1:01:17] B: Are there any other services that you would like to see improved or offered? 
 
AP: I don't know if it's so much services. I think it's more just an efficiency of getting people connected 
to the care that they need. You know, it's-- it's-- it's frustrating to know sometimes that the care is 
available, it's just not available right now. Because, you know, you have kind of a-- there's a couple 
forces at play that I think are challenging. You know, one is that there's a-- there's a strike when the 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
18 
 
iron's hot, you know. When people come in and they're like, "Alright, you know, whatever this thing--". 
I mean, people when they seek mental health care did not just start having health care problems-- mental 
health problems yesterday. They've been having 'em for a while and they've been in the-- what we would 
call in motivational interviewing the pre-contemplation and then the contemplation phase of change, and 
thinking, 'Uh, maybe I want to do some about this. Maybe I'll call the VA. Maybe--," you know. In that 
sort of fragile, early stage of treatment, it's really easy to lose somebody, you know. If-- I mean, as 
simple as like, somebody doesn't answer the phone or it goes to voicemail. They're like, "Ah, forget it", 
you know, like, it's not worth it. Or if somebody doesn't call them back, and they're like, "I tried, you 
know, to get care, and nobody called me back", you know. So there's also this kind of confirmation bias 
that can happen, you know, and there's this sort of perception that, like, VA is this big institution and 
nobody cares and it's the government, it's a bureaucracy. And, you know, there are aspects of that that 
are true. I would not say that it's not that people don't care. I think sometimes the structures make it 
difficult for people to deliver what's needed. So it would be really nice if we can get people to the thing 
that they need really promptly. You know, when I tell somebody, "Well, there's, you know, a three-
month waitlist for that therapy", like, you know, that-- And, you know, the attempts to get people into 
community care was a-- is an attempt to ameliorate that problem, you know, the idea being that the 
community services were more responsive and a little more agile in getting people what they needed. 
And sometimes that's true, but, you know, there's still this referral process and, you know, the therapist 
has to call them and they have to get the records faxed to them, you know, there's just all these steps 
along the way that slow the process down. And meanwhile, I've got, you know, the veteran calling me 
and saying, "What's going on with the therapy?" And I'm like, "Let me check," you know, and it's-- you 
know, I look at the consult and it says, well, you know, the records have been sent to the therapist. 
There's also the challenge of outside of the community, we don't have as much accountability. You 
know, so these are contractors, basically. And, you know, I mean, we could pull their contract I suppose, 
but, you know, it's not-- I don't necessarily know these therapists, so it's not like I can call this person up 
and say, "Hey, what's going on with So and So?" you know? So there's that-- there's that little bit of 
discontinuity of care that happens. But so it's not so much about getting-- it's-- it's not so much about the 
therapy. It's about the availability of the resources that are there. And, I mean, just as an aside, so one of 
my research-- so I do-- the other hat that I wear is as a researcher, and I'm working-- I've worked on a 
couple of studies now looking at psychedelic-assisted therapy for various mental health problems. So I 
worked on a study of MDMA-assisted therapy for PTSD, and I'm currently working on a study looking 
at psilocybin as a treatment for major depression, psilocybin-assisted therapy. And, you know, if these 
get FDA approved in the next few years, there's going to be a tremendous demand from the veteran 
community for these because, you know, frankly, especially for PTSD, a lot of our treatments are not 
that robust. And some of the therapies are, but a lot of the pharmacology really is not. And even the 
therapies have limitations. And that's going to create some real logistical challenges for the VA, you 
know. How are we going to get these treatments to the people who need them, because it does require a 
certain kind of setting in order to give these treatments and it requires a certain kind of training of the-- 
of the therapist. Not just anybody can-- can give these because it's much more than just a pill. It's a 
whole kind of therapy that's facilitated by the medication. And so that's gonna be an interesting logistical 
challenge to solve. 
 
[1:05:36] B: How do you think that COVID has impacted the VA? 
 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
19 
 
AP: Yes, so COVID-19 on the VA-- It's interesting, you know, I think in some ways, we-- we adapted 
very quickly and very well. You know, one of the things that's interesting about the VA is because a lot 
of veterans tend to live some distance from the-- the hospital, from the clinics, they already had 
telehealth services in place. So even to the point where the VA would pay for a veteran to have an iPad 
so that they could have video visits. That was actually something which was available to veterans who 
did not have the technology, and I think they would pay for the internet too, you know, so that they 
could-- they could actually have these medical visits online, because, you know, some of our veterans 
they live, you know, two hours away, you know. They live up in Northern California or something, you 
know, where it's-- it's further away from here, you know. And we do have community-based clinics but 
they don't always have every service that's in the main hospital. And so, you know, if you have a more 
specialized need, you're probably gonna have to come to the hospital and that could be a couple hours 
away. So-- So in a lot of ways, we are already well-positioned to do this. They may-- you know, I think 
a lot of telehealth stuff, there was a need to be more flexible. So like, there's-- there's been this challenge 
about practicing across state lines, for example, you know. So a number of my veterans are like, "Well, 
you know, I don't want to-- if I can't enjoy San Francisco, I'm gonna go home and live with my parents 
in Florida or something, you know, and not pay San Francisco rent". And so, you know, they-- they-- 
they're in Florida, you know. They're still going to college here in San Francisco, you know, via video. 
So I'm providing health care to them in Florida, which, you know, fortunately is because of the 
relaxation of some of the laws around state--, but more importantly, because when we're treating patients 
within the VA, they're within a federal-- so I-- I'm governed under the federal rules of a nurse 
practitioner rather than the state rules, which is interesting. So there's that, you know, and as I mentioned 
earlier, the resiliency that veterans just sort of naturally have to adversity, I think has been great for 
some of them. I mean, I worry about-- you know, for a lot of people with PTSD, the world feels very 
unsafe, and part of the way that you treat that is repeated exposures to going out into the world, you 
know. So when you first come back from Iraq and you're used to, you know, your-- you get-- your heart 
rate starts to pick up every time you drive past garbage on the side of the road because there might be an 
improvised explosive device in that pile of garbage, you know, you're-- you're on high alert just driving 
down the road here, even though, obviously, you're not in Iraq anymore. But it-- it takes many exposures 
of going out into the world and not having bad things happen in order for your brain to kind of retrain 
that you're actually not in danger anymore. And I-- I worry about telehealth actually kind of reinforcing 
that avoidance. You know, I've had a lot of visits with [chuckles], you know, guys lying in bed, you 
know, 'cause they're like, you know, I mean-- it's interesting. I mean, it allows me to see what their-- 
their living conditions look like and how they kind of, you know, keep themselves when they're at home. 
 
AP: But I do wonder if one of the kind of unexpected downsides to telehealth, while I think it's great at 
increasing access and availability, I do wonder if it's going to kind of increase that avoidance that is 
really prominent in a lot of anxiety-driven disorders, but also particularly PTSD. And also the 
interpersonal aspect, you know, so thinking about, like, group therapy over zoom is a pretty different 
animal than like, when you're in the room with people, you know. And, you know, and when there's like 
weird voice glitches or whatever when you're trying to do therapy with people is-- it's-- it's hard to 
attend to people's effect and, you know, their-- their emotional state when you're doing it over a 
computer screen, you know. That is very different than when you're in the room with them during this 
time. And, you know, the therapist missed it because you're only seeing their face. You know, you're not 
seeing-- you're not looking at them going like, "Wow. You've lost a lot of weight," you know, like-- So, 
yeah, there are real downsides to telehealth. I mean, I'm not, you know, not sure exactly how to solve 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
20 
 
that. I don't think it's gonna go anywhere. I think telehealth actually is probably gonna become a much 
more prominent part of-- of-- mental health culture. I mean, I know a lot of therapists are just giving up 
their offices, you know. If nothing else, it's like, well, a) they don't have the overhead of paying $1,000 a 
month in rent. And-- and they like it 'cause they can practice from anywhere that they have internet, you 
know. So, you know, and it'll be interesting to see how that all-- that all shuffles out. But I agree, there 
are some real shortcomings to it. I mean, you know, and I personally like the interpersonal. I'll tell you a 
sort of sad but, you know, illustrative story here about this. So I'm thinking about a veteran that I treat, 
and I'll keep the details out of this for privacy. But, you know, this is a person who was clear he had 
trauma, but he, you know, like, a lot of people are very apprehensive to talk about their trauma at first. 
And, you know, so we weren't even sure what exactly his trauma was, 'cause he would just kind of not-- 
he didn't want to talk about it when-- when it came up. But it was very clear that he had symptoms 
consistent with trauma. It was until probably my-- at-- but I only ever saw him on the phone. I never 
actually saw him on video. This is a phone visit. It wasn't until maybe my sixth visit or something when 
he started to open up that I realized his trauma was all race-based stuff. I had no idea he was Black. I had 
no idea he was Black from talking to him on the phone. And then it was like, suddenly it all clicked. It 
was like, oh, you know, but this is like a really obvious thing that if we were talking in person, you 
know, I might have been able to say, you know, "Did you experience racism when you were in 
service?", you know, and he might answer that question. And we would have gotten to that point a lot 
quicker. But, you know, so I think that's a good example of how, you know, that there can be sort of 
almost comical shortcomings of telehealth, especially, you know, I mean, the video would have obviated 
that, but he's-- he only wants to talk on the phone. You know, that's how he feels most comfortable. And 
so, you know, but he's also somebody who maybe never would have come in for treatment if we only-- 
if we had to see him in person. You know, so he's in treatment now, which is good. He's getting better. 
But, you know, maybe he never would have set foot in the clinic if he had to come in. So there's an 
example of where access maybe it was a good thing, lower bar to treatment was a good thing, but, you 
know, the lack of information that I got from only seeing this person on the phone created a kind of 
almost comical shortcoming, you know, in the therapy until we realized like, oh, this is what-- 
[chuckles] this is the trauma that you've experienced. Like, now it's all making more sense, so. 
 
AG: Is your treatment and even your instructional activities still mostly remote at this time? 
 
AP: Yeah, we're still pretty much in-- we're still pretty much in remote. We are-- Yeah, I do-- Well, no. 
It's-- it's pretty much all remote. Teaching, we're hoping to go back to small group stuff in the fall on 
campus. I think-- I mean, all depends on how the public health guidance changes. Right now, the 
university doesn't allow more than 25 people in a room, and so that means that we've got-- yeah, that 
means, you know, big classes are out right now. But we have-- we hopefully will be able to do like small 
seminar groups in the fall. 
 
[1:14:12] AG: Thanks again, Andrew. We're really grateful for your time and this has been so 
illuminating. And like I said, it's been really nice to talk to people filling such different roles in the, you 
know, nursing world and in the VA in particular. One of the things that we've like sort of alluded to, but 
I wonder if you talk a little bit more about is, what is it that you teach and what's your kind of day to day 
like, just a typical week for you, balancing your clinical rotations with your clinical instruction and your 
research? 
 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
21 
 
AP: Yeah, so I teach-- Let's see. I'm Faculty of Record for a couple of different psychopharmacology 
classes at UCSF in the School of Nursing. I am Co-Faculty of Record for a-- it's basically an 
introductory psychology class that all the-- not only the psych NP students need to take but all the-- 
almost all of the primary-- both primary care and some of the specialty care like women's mental health- 
sorry, women's health, the midwives take it, family, nurse practitioners. They all take this class. It's 
essentially an introduction to psychiatry that I teach. That, and then I teach a small seminar which 
happens weekly in our-- so, we have a model where the students in the psych NP program do a two-hour 
seminar once a week, which is sort of a-- it's attached to their clinical experiences. So, in that we talk 
about psychiatric interviewing, case formulation, differential diagnosis, treatment planning, stuff like 
that. But we also-- they also practice presenting a case to their peers and talking about it, which is a 
pretty fundamental skill of any-- any clinician, so I teach that. So it depends on the quarter. Like, right 
now I'm coming out of a pretty busy quarter, so summer will be a little bit of a breather, and then 
jumping back into some pretty busy stuff in the fall. And so it kind of varies day to day. So like I said, 
I've got sort of three or four jobs [chuckles]. I mean, I-- I do-- I'm a co-investigator on this study, the 
psilocybin for depression study. And so that varies like I-- some days, I'm doing a physical exam on a 
potential subject, you know, or doing the screening interview to see if they're eligible for the study, or 
being a study therapist, you know. So, in this-- in this particular model, I don't know if you're familiar 
with it, but we, you know, we administer psilocybin one time in a very controlled setting. So there's-- 
there's therapy that happens before the session, the same two therapists. Sometimes I'll be one of those 
therapists. We'll be there the whole eight hour day that the patient ingests-- the subject ingests the 
psilocybin, and then we have integrative psychotherapy that happens in the days following. So I-- I serve 
in that role, too, so-- so some weeks, like, if we [unintelligible] a subject can be really busy. And then I 
do a couple of clinical days at the VA and do some what they call staff clinic, you know, so seeing 
patients in different spots in the day. So my-- my days are pretty full, you know. No two days are 
exactly the same, which I kinda like. Keeps it interesting. And, you know, and there's-- as I think 
everyone is right now, there's a lot of, you know, meetings and [laughs] ad hoc kind of things that 
happen, you know, throughout the week. So, it-- it varies. 
 
[1:17:55] AG: Various roles, have you seen the nursing profession change at all, you know, since, say, 
2002 or 2005? 
 
AP: Oh, hugely, yeah. So, you know, I think the role of advanced practice nurses is only growing, you 
know. When I-- when I first started in my program, you know, the idea of NPs even being specialized 
was a fairly new concept because, you know, nurse practitioners really began in a primary care role. And 
so, you know, having NPs be specialized in psychiatry or oncology or any number of specialties was-- 
was sort of a new concept. And so, you know, as-- as time has gone on, the profession has only grown. 
The number of nurse practitioners in the US has only grown. And, you know, the need for health care 
has only grown, you know. I mean, that's-- that's been quite clear. I mean, the other thing that happened 
in the time my career has been health care insurance reform, you know. The-- The ACA was passed, 
what, in 2010, 2011, something like that. So, you know, that has had some impact on-- on changing 
things. It's certainly increased the need for providers. You know, there is tension between the medical 
and nursing professions, particularly around advanced practice because, you know, in some ways it's a 
turf war, you know. There-- There are a lot of medical groups who really seem to be bent on disparaging 
advanced practice nursing, which is troubling to me, you know, and those are often kind of couched in 
terms of quality of care, but I think their motives are quite transparent. You know, that really-- I think 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
22 
 
that having nurse practitioners doing very similar work, if not identical work, to physicians at a price 
tag,] which is probably, you know, 65% of what a physician makes is-- is obviously a threatening 
proposition. And also, you know, as healthcare reform has kind of moved forward, you know, looking at 
cost controls within healthcare and realizing that a large portion of cost in healthcare is personnel costs. 
And so, you know, that-- if you're a physician making, you know, $500,000 a year or something, you 
know, if you look at that and say, "Well, you know, that's-- somebody making $500,000 a year is 
probably doing a lot of procedural medicine. They're probably doing surgery or some, you know, kind of 
technical procedural medicine". And, you know, if-- if insurance as well, you know, we're going to cut 
our rates by 25% of what we pay for this, angio, you know, plasty, or something like that, you know, 
that-- that represents a significant loss of income for a physician who does that kind of procedural 
medicine. And so, you know, there's a lot of-- there's a lot of potential downward pressures on income, 
and I think to medicine, NPs represent one of those. And so there has been, you know-- and to be fair, 
NP training is not as consistently rigorous as I think it should be, you know. I think there's been a 
proliferation of less than optimum schooling methods, you know, in an attempt to make access more 
accessible, and, you know, cynically, maybe for profit margin for some of these private schools is, you 
know, there's been a proliferation of online programs and people having to find their own preceptors, 
which I think, frankly, is deplorable. I don't think these schools should be accredited, and I think they do 
a disservice to the NP profession, you know, that by having-- by producing people that aren't adequately 
prepared to do the work. And so, you know, there's pros and cons to it. I-- I don't think that the advanced 
practice nursing profession is-- is inherently fraught with problems, but I do think that we-- we as a 
profession need to be good guardians of the quality of the education which permits one access and entry 
into the profession. I think, you know, in order for our-- for our credentials to mean anything, we-- we as 
a profession need to be vigilant about who can provide this education and what that education consists 
of. But I don't think that the advanced practice-- the advanced practice profession of nursing is 
inherently problematic. If anything, it's-- it's an incredible boon to patients, you know, that patients 
access care that helps them to-- to be well and to recover from illness and such. 
 
[1:23:08] B: I'm curious, along a similar debate, similar vein, there's been a little bit of a debate what 
role advanced nurse practitioners could play in creating more healthcare equity and creating more 
universal care in the United States, especially if we could create more standardization in accreditation 
and training with nurse practitioners. And I'm curious what you see-- what the role of nurse practitioners 
might be in creating more health equity? 
 
AP: Yeah, I'll take a stab at that question. Well, you know, one of the ways-- one of the-- one of the 
places where you see disparity in healthcare provision is in geography. You know, so if you are in a big 
city like I am, you know, healthcare professionals are not hard to find. If I move to, you know, rural 
Nevada or something, Nebraska, you know, healthcare professionals, particularly specialists, may be 
very hard to find, and I think that's where NPs can definitely fulfill a role. So for example, one of the 
programs that I teach in at UCSF is a post-Master's psychiatric nurse practitioner program. So a post-
Master's program-- let's say somebody is a family nurse practitioner and they want to re-specialize as a 
psychiatric mental health nurse practitioner. They already have their Master's degree. They're already-- 
already a nurse practitioner, so they would need to do a course of study which we provide which is a 
year long which gives them all the specialty coursework in psychiatry. So in that they would learn 
psychopharmacology and psychotherapy and psychiatric diagnosis and such. So that's a really rapid way 
to get more people into being psychiatric prescribers. And so we launched a program with support from 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
23 
 
the California Healthcare Foundation to provide this kind of education to existing nurse practitioners 
across California. And because one-- we've always had a post-Masters component to our program, but 
not many people have done that course, usually because it involves, usually, moving to San Francisco, 
which is a very expensive place to live, quitting their job. You know, and then-- and so-- and also, a lot 
of times when people come here they don't leave. And so they made this program remote, largely 
remote, so that we could have people, 'cause California's a big state, you know, so we could have people 
all the way from up near the Oregon border all the way down to the Mexico border. And, you know, it's 
like Eastern California's very sparsely populated, like the Owens Valley, and that is very sparsely 
populated. So, because it's-- it most of the didactic is done over-- over video, we can-- we can teach 
these people, these students, these skills. They-- And then they do their clinical rotations in their 
communities. So they'll-- We've created arrangements with different-- different preceptors in different 
parts of the state so that they can stay in their community, do their rotations there and, you know, 
hopefully, you know, a lot of these folks, they're gonna get hired by their-- where they're doing their 
preceptor-- where they're doing their clinical rotations, and be a mental health provider for that 
community once they're done. And so that's a way that, you know, I think that, you know, so for 
example, in the area that I'm most familiar with, which is community mental health, that's a way of 
getting more providers who can prescribe, which is, you know, an important skill that not every mental 
health provider can do, into the communities where they're needed. You know, 'cause some of these 
rural counties like, you know, the county mental health infrastructure consists of, you know, a very 
small clinic, and maybe a psychiatrist who comes by once a week. I mean, there are psychiatrists that, 
like, have an RV and literally like-- will cover like three or four counties, you know. On Tuesday they're 
in this county, and then on Wednesday, they're in this next neighboring county, but these are very rural 
counties. I mean, people think of California as being this-- I mean, it is a very populous state, there's 40 
million people here, but most of us are concentrated on the coast, and then, you know, the LA and Bay 
Area. But, you know, you get out into especially Eastern California, Northeastern California, there's not 
a lot of people out there [chuckles]. And so, you know, some of these tiny counties have, you know, 
25,000 people in the whole county. It's not enough to really support a robust mental health system but, 
you know, because of the social determinants of health, a lot of times people with-- with mental illness 
end up in these counties because they're cheaper places to live, you know, and housing is available. You 
know, they're often rural, so people kinda leave you alone, which sometimes is [chuckles]-- is what 
people with severe mental illness kind of want, you know, and so-- So it's not that there aren't patients 
out there, it's just their heart providers. So if we can get, you know, more nurse practitioners in those 
communities where they're needed, then that really improves access. 
 
AG: Absolutely. Thank you so much. That was so well said. I wonder before we say goodbye, is there 
anything you'd like to add, Andrew? 
 
AP: Hmm, I don't think so. I've talked a lot here [laughs]. I'm not sure there's much more I could say that 
would actually be useful, let alone interesting. So no, I think I'll leave it at that. 
 
AG: And any other questions B that you would like to ask? No? Wonderful. Well, thank you so much, 
Andrew. This was so illuminating, and really, really wonderful to chat with you. We so appreciate you 
taking the time.  
 
AP: Yeah, I enjoyed it, too. Thanks for-- thanks for asking the questions. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
24 
 
 
[1:29:13] End of recording