Kristin Holleran - Dec 13 2021
Mon, 12/13 12:01PM
39:13
SUMMARY KEYWORDS
laughs, tillamook, cheese, octopus, day, frito lay, plant, people, milk, floor, hourly employees, dairy,
values, ice cream, cheddar, filler, company, department, job, spokane
SPEAKERS
Jared Schmidt, Kristin Holleran
Jared Schmidt 00:01
All right, this is Jared Schmidt with Kristin Holleran, Director of Plant Operations at TCAA. Today
is Monday, December 13, 2021. And Kristen, before I proceed, I just want to make sure that I
have your consent to record this interview.
Kristin Holleran 00:26
Yes, absolutely.
Jared Schmidt 00:27
Excellent. Thank you, Kristen. I was wondering, Kristen, if you could begin just by introducing
yourself, when you were born, where you're from, that fun background?
Kristin Holleran 00:40
Sure. So, I grew up in Spokane, Washington. I was born in 1980. He went to college at Embry
Riddle Aeronautical University in Prescott, Arizona, I got a full ride volleyball scholarship, I did
not learn to fly. I got a business degree there. And I actually graduated about six months after
9/11. So, you know, studying airport and airline management didn't really, wasn't really
working out six months after 9/11. So, I found myself working at Pepsi Bottling Group back in
Spokane, Washington. And it wasn't really a professional job, it was kind of like an
administrative job. And so, I was just applying to every, you know, company within PepsiCo that
I could and got hired with Frito Lay. And so that's where I kind of started my professional career
and in food manufacturing was with Frito Lay here in the Portland area. And I worked for Frito
for 12 years, making all sorts of different salty snacks. And one of the plants I worked at made
Grandma's Cookies, too. And then I left Frito, after 12 years, and went to Amazon for a year,
and wasn't super keen on their culture. So, I was really fortunate that somebody that I worked
with at Frito Lay got a job here at Tillamook.
K
K
Jared Schmidt 02:15
Hmm.
Kristin Holleran 02:15
And he reached out to me and asked if I'd be interested in the plant director position and said,
"Yeah!" So, I came and interviewed, and I've been with Tillamook now for just over six years,
and I've been in the director position, the whole time that I've been here. I was new to dairy six
years ago, literally didn't even know that we made the same recipe, and it's just the age that
makes it a different, you know, sharpness. So that's, that was the [Laughs] level of knowledge I
had, which was nothing, basically. So, it was, it was pretty cool. And I still learn something new
every single day, because dairy truly is a science. And it's ever changing and evolving, and it's
just super cool. I definitely was a little cocky coming in thinking that I was in food
manufacturing, and it's all kind of the same, but dairy is very different. So...
Jared Schmidt 03:17
How would you say it's different than say, you're working at Frito Lays, versus, you know, chips
to cheddar, I guess?
Kristin Holleran 03:26
Yeah, um, well, you're working with corn and potatoes and frying it. So, there's like, no
microbial aspect to that. I mean, we would do like what we would call here, a CIP, like a full
cleaning of our line that Frito every two weeks, were here we do it, you know, every 24-hours.
The regulatory compliance aspect of it, in dairy, is, it's much more regulated. So, in, in frying
chips, we pretty much pick the auditors and it's only because, like our, it's for customer
reasons, so that we can tell our customers, "Hey, we have these quality checks." And these
people come in and they, you know, third party comes in and makes sure that we're running a
clean facility. Where, in dairy, it's government regulated, like you're gonna have checks and it's
going to be the FDA and the USDA, and, you know, the state government, so it's just higher
stakes.
Jared Schmidt 04:31
Okay. You said, CIP, what does that stand for?
Kristin Holleran 04:31
Clean In Place.
K
K
K
Jared Schmidt 04:36
Clean In Place.
Kristin Holleran 04:38
So, we have CIP and COP, Clean Out of Place. Because we have to clean our equipment every
24 hours, you can imagine if we had to manually, you know, scrub all of the vessels and
everything, that would be an arduous task. So, most of our system has Clean In Place
technologies, spray bars, and, you know, we use caustic and acid. And, you, it's all
programmed for specific times. And then you rinse it, you know, at the very end so that you
have a completely clean machine and ready for the next run of product.
Jared Schmidt 05:21
Okay, and that's done every 24 hours, the CIP?
Kristin Holleran 05:25
At least.
Jared Schmidt 05:26
At least.
Kristin Holleran 05:26
Yes, at least. Yeah.
Jared Schmidt 05:28
Okay. That sounds like a lot of coordination.
Kristin Holleran 05:32
It is. Yeah. And that was another thing that was really interesting coming from Frito to dairy,
because literally, the line would not go down at Frito Lay for days on end, you know, you just
run the same Lay's potato chips or whatever, for days and days. Where here, even though
we're running the same recipe, a lot of the time, we take the line down every 24 hours, it's
really every 20 hours and then do that CIP process and it's just to kill any, you know,
microorganisms that could be building up and that's the bad stuff that we don't want in our
product.
K
K
K
K
Jared Schmidt 06:09
Right. And that's done, you said, every 20 hours, so it takes like four hours to do, or?
Kristin Holleran 06:17
About, yeah.
Jared Schmidt 06:18
Okay. And it's automated? Or is there people that are specifically their job is to clean every tub
or line or...?
Kristin Holleran 06:26
A big portion of it is automated, but there still are a lot of people involved then, you know,
doing the floors and, and like the the environmental surfaces are all done by people. It's all the
machine, the vessels. So, like our cooking vats, the cheddar master, the salter belt, the towers,
those are all automatically done and, like, have the spray bars and stuff inside of that.
Jared Schmidt 06:56
And the octopus, right?
Kristin Holleran 06:58
And the octopus. The octopus, actually, doesn't really need to be cleaned because it's already,
it's all enclosed product.
Jared Schmidt 07:06
Oh, okay. I always when I, when I've brought people to the Creamery, I feel like that is a piece
de resistance of the observation experience is the octopus.
Kristin Holleran 07:17
That's funny. We just got a new octopus.
Jared Schmidt 07:19
Oh!
K
K
K
K
Oh!
Kristin Holleran 07:19
We installed it over the weekend. Yeah.
Jared Schmidt 07:23
How was that?
Kristin Holleran 07:25
It was good. You know, we, when we get new equipment in here, whether it's just kind of a like
for like, or if it's a big upgrade, and it's a lot different. We plan everything like to the nth
degree. So, we're planning for months ahead of time, a lot of outside contractors are involved
as well as our internal folks, you know, because there's always electrical, and plumbing, and
whoever the vendor is that actually built the machine and they have a crew in here, we have to
train our folks. We have to, you know, set up everything you know, make sure it's all safe, then
do safety checks and quality checks and all that stuff before we start up. So, and then train all
of the operators as well. So that's what we're doing today. And yeah, it's always exciting
[Laughs].
Jared Schmidt 08:07
Well, congratulations on the new octopus. I'll have to check it out.
Kristin Holleran 08:10
Yeah, yeah.
Jared Schmidt 08:11
I, I'm afraid to ask where the old one went.
Kristin Holleran 08:15
Yeah, I'm not sure. It's out back in the back 40 somewhere [Laughs]
Jared Schmidt 08:18
Decorate it with like a little Christmas ornament situation or little Santa hat on it.
K
K
K
K
Kristin Holleran 08:24
The new one doesn't have blue tubes, either. It's, it's just a silver octopus, I guess.
Jared Schmidt 08:29
Okay. A little less tropical.
Kristin Holleran 08:33
Yeah.
Jared Schmidt 08:33
Probably fits in with the Tillamook coast a little better if it's like that, right?
Kristin Holleran 08:37
Well, I was telling, I'm trying to get, like, orange and green. So we have a little beaver/duck
thing going on. But nobody's really latched on to that yet [Laughs].
Jared Schmidt 08:48
I like that. If I show up, and I see that I'll know that you must have snuck in and spray painted
the octopus.
Kristin Holleran 08:54
Yeah.
Jared Schmidt 08:54
That's funny. What what drew you, you said, you were doing a business degree in Spokane with
aeronautics? Was it? 9/11 that shifted your emphasis, you said, from from aeronautics to food
management? Or how did that how did that work?
Kristin Holleran 09:12
Yeah, it was it was mostly 9/11, just because the jobs were not there for, like, airport and airline
management, which is kind of what I was studying. There were zero jobs in that field. So, my
step-mom actually worked for Pepsi Bottling group. And so that's why I had that in there. And it
K
K
K
K
K
just was totally by chance. Then, obviously, when I got into food, I'm like, "Well, this is not too
bad, because everybody has to eat, right?"
Jared Schmidt 09:38
Mhm.
Kristin Holleran 09:38
So, job security is, is pretty good in the food industry. And I've been super lucky to work for
really awesome brands that I stand behind, you know, all three of them.
Jared Schmidt 09:48
Yeah, that's super cool. That's an interesting journey to have, especially such a world changing
event also change your career trajectory.
Kristin Holleran 09:59
Yeah, definitely.
Jared Schmidt 10:00
That's interesting.
Kristin Holleran 10:01
Yeah, and I, after being at Amazon and having to go through the highly seasonal, you know,
with Christmas and, they call it Peak at Amazon is the Christmas time, I can only imagine being
like an airport management and having to deal with the same thing.
Jared Schmidt 10:20
Mhm.
Kristin Holleran 10:20
And so, it's, it's nice food is a little bit more steady, and just kind of level, and it's always a little
crazy, but it's, it's fun at the same time.
K
K
K
K
Jared Schmidt 10:30
That's cool. That's exciting. Um, and then, so your position is director of plant operations,
correct?
Kristin Holleran 10:40
Yeah.
Jared Schmidt 10:40
Could you describe a little bit about what else that job entails? Aside from you, so, you've
already mentioned, you know, installing equipment, like the octopus, scheduling the CIP and
COP. What else does your job exactly entail?
Kristin Holleran 10:56
So, my job, I have, I have four manufacturing departments within the plant. And each one of
those manufacturing departments have a manager. So, I have a cheese department manager,
a whey department manager, ice cream department manager, and then a packaging
department manager. I also have safety, quality, and maintenance, that all report in, into my
structure. So, and within all of those departments are about 350 hourly workers. And so, the
majority of my day is really kind of making decisions on things, and helping to guide people,
and processes, you know, to ensure that we're kind of always remaining in our, in our values,
our company values. And, you know, just kind of following and abiding by, by those. So, if, I
know it's, I often think, what did I, like, what do I do all day? Because I'm in a lot of meetings.
And so that's why I say, like, I'm just making a lot of decisions, you know, on. I'm not doing a
lot, you know. I'm not actually out installing the new octopus, but in the planning meetings, and
stuff, I'm kind of directing the team on or asking questions, "Hey, do we have, do we have all
the right resources we need? Are we missing something? Is there something that you guys
need my support with?" So, really, in my role, I feel like I'm just the big kind of support function.
And it's like, what do all of you guys need to make sure this all gets executed the way it needs
to be executed?
Jared Schmidt 12:43
Mhm.
Kristin Holleran 12:44
And if there's a gap somewhere, let me know. And it's my job to go and figure that out for
them.
Jared Schmidt 12:50
K
K
K
That's cool. You mentioned that you're aligning your department with the company values.
Could you describe the company values and how you navigate your position with that?
Kristin Holleran 13:06
Yeah, the company values, I mean...They were rolled out several years ago, and it's really cool,
having been a part of some other bigger companies, because every company has company
values, but I've never seen it so ingrained, and saturated down to like, the floor level. Because
you'll hear people, you know, hourly employees say, "Hey, that's, that's not, you know, very
genuine care," or something like that. Or they'll use you know, the values. So our values are:
good stewards, genuinely care, one team, play to win, and uncompromising quality. And, so
there's the five of them. And it's, it's just kind of is the values that the company and all of the
employees ideally want to keep in mind when we're making those decisions. And when we're,
you know, operating every day. So, you know, if it comes down to a decision on, are we going
to save a couple bucks, or are we going to do the right thing by our employees.
Jared Schmidt 14:17
Mhm.
Kristin Holleran 14:18
It's always going to be we'll spend a little money and we'll do what's right by our employees,
because that's just what, it's just the right thing to do. You know, it helps us, I think, in some of
our trade-off decision making.
Jared Schmidt 14:30
Mkay. That's super neat. That's an interesting way of aligning everything with those values,
because a lot of times like you said, companies seem to have values and it's, like, PR fluff, but...
Kristin Holleran 14:43
Oh, yeah, it's like a poster on a wall. Like, I honestly don't remember Frito Lays, at all. Amazon
socializes theirs a little bit more, but even still, they, they're not, they were not as ingrained as
our values. I think they're also simple, you know, and they just kind of make sense. [Laughs] It's
common sense! Like, it's a good way, it's a good way to operate a company, it's a, it's a good
way to just be a human being, you know, like...
Jared Schmidt 15:15
Yeah. What is, what is your, your day-to-day look like, I guess, as far, as when you're making
these values, helping navigate, what, you said 350 hourly workers, your day to day, how does
that look? Or, I guess if somewhere to ask, you know, what'ss a normal day in Kristin's life?
K
K
K
Kristin Holleran 15:34
Uh, no day is normal. [Jared laughs] And no day is the same. So, like, this morning, I mean, I
have, unfortunately, I have, you know, one of my team members is out sick, I have two of them
out on PTO. So, I'm short, as far as the people that report to me and there's a lot going on in
the plant. So I'm, I'm today I've been out on the floor more than I normally would be, you know,
connecting with some of the hourly employees, checking up on the project, you know, today
was startup for the new octopus. And so, wanted to have a presence out there and show people
that, hey, you know, I'm here, I'm supporting you, we'll all get through this together, because
sometimes startups go really horribly [Laugh].
Jared Schmidt 16:20
Yeah.
Kristin Holleran 16:21
So, and, you know, that affects the frontline, the hourly employees the most, you know, they're,
they're the ones that are knee deep in whatever, trying to, trying to make it work. So, I think
it's always important to have a large leadership presence out there when you're starting
something new, and just letting people know that you're, you're in the trenches with them. So,
so yeah, every day is, is different, very different. You know, recently with staffing issues, I'm
spending more time, you know, in interviews and stuff like that, because we're constantly short
staffed.
Jared Schmidt 16:58
Right.
Kristin Holleran 16:59
So, yeah, it's, and COVID, is, that makes it even more dynamic, right?
Jared Schmidt 17:06
Is that, yeah. How does COVID, how has COVID impacted your department and the Creamery,
especially as you're making food for people amidst a pandemic? What have you seen any
stories about this at all, or?
Kristin Holleran 17:21
Oh, yeah. I mean, I think this was one of the great things about the dairy industry, and, maybe
K
K
K
K
not for everyone. But for us, this is true. I mean, you know, the government came out with,
"Hey, we need to, we need to sanitize all these high touch services, you know, X number of
times throughout the day, or whatever." Well, because of our CIP process, and our natural, like,
built in regulatory cleaning process, not much changed for us, you know. We, we increased
sanitation in the locker rooms, of the restrooms, the lunch rooms, you know, of course, we
separated out and, you know, used meeting rooms as lunch room space and stuff like that. So,
that kind of stuff changed. But, like, on the floor
Jared Schmidt 17:21
Mhm.
Kristin Holleran 17:23
on the production floor, almost nothing changed, because our normal process was to foam
every surface, you know, every 24 hours. Of course, we're wearing masks and all of that stuff,
too.
Jared Schmidt 18:20
Mhm.
Kristin Holleran 18:20
But, yeah, so we had a fairly easy transition, I think, probably easier than some other, maybe,
food manufacturers that don't quite have such a rigorous cleaning process.
Jared Schmidt 18:31
Like Frito Lay might have had?
Kristin Holleran 18:33
Yeah, yeah. They may have had to change some things out on their floor, yeah [Chuckles].
Jared Schmidt 18:38
So, it's almost as if you were ready beforehand, it seems like.
Kristin Holleran 18:42
Yeah. Yeah. It was nice.
K
K
K
K
Yeah. Yeah. It was nice.
Jared Schmidt 18:45
[Laughs] Do you think any of these, these practices that you've already implemented as a
result of COVID will probably stick around? Or, how is it, has it helped or hindered production or
in maintenance, or?
Kristin Holleran 18:59
Um, we're neutral as far as impact to, to production. You know, thankfully, because we have
had mask mandates and stuff. I think, as much as I hate the masks, and everybody does, I do
think that that's part of why, you know, we've had no business stoppage.
Jared Schmidt 19:19
Mhm.
Kristin Holleran 19:20
Where, I mean, we do have some areas, not a ton, but we have some areas where employees
are somewhat close together.
Jared Schmidt 19:26
Right.
Kristin Holleran 19:27
And so, if we were not wearing masks, then maybe some other employees would have been
impacted in like contact trace or something like that. But we have had no, you know, no spread
within the, within the plant. Every, every case that we've had has been external, you know, and
the employee, you know, just had to call us and let us know that they couldn't come to work,
and the reason why, and all that stuff.
Jared Schmidt 19:53
Right.
Kristin Holleran 19:53
But, yeah, no, it's we've been really lucky. In the first, like, 18 months of this pandemic, we only
had five positive cases in the plant.
K
K
K
K
had five positive cases in the plant.
Jared Schmidt 20:02
Hmm.
Kristin Holleran 20:03
It was it was that darn Delta variant that got us.
Jared Schmidt 20:06
Ahh, the story of America, right now, is that darn Delta variant.
Kristin Holleran 20:11
Yeah, yeah.
Jared Schmidt 20:11
All the memes, of "You had plans this summer? Meet the Delta variant," right?
Kristin Holleran 20:17
Yeah.
Jared Schmidt 20:17
Yeah.
Kristin Holleran 20:18
Yeah, that was us, pretty much [Laughs].
Jared Schmidt 20:22
Yeah.
Kristin Holleran 20:23
K
K
K
K
K
But it didn't impact production. You know, it was just, kind of, I think we had, like, 40 cases or
something like that. So...
Jared Schmidt 20:31
Mkay.
Kristin Holleran 20:32
over the course of several weeks.
Jared Schmidt 20:34
Right, right.
Kristin Holleran 20:35
So...
Jared Schmidt 20:36
You mentioned having, during, like, implementation or transitioning machinery, sometimes it
can go wrong. What's that like when, let's say, you know, some machine you install is not
working? How does that impact the, your job? How does it impact the creamery? Um, yeah.
Kristin Holleran 21:00
Yeah. Um, well, it impacts my job, because I will kind of drop, you know, any normal business,
any meetings or whatever that I'm having. And I will dedicate my time to be out on the floor.
And just, like I said earlier, to be there to support, but also kind of help guide the team like,
because sometimes when things aren't going well, everybody is very tunnel visioned. And so I
try to offer a little bit higher level. "Okay, let's step back," and like, "Let's meet, let's talk about
all the things that are going wrong. And like how are we going to fix them? What's the timeline?
Who's all going to support it?" You know, that kind of stuff. So, we definitely have had some go
wrong [Laughs].
Jared Schmidt 21:41
Do you have any stories you can share about that at all, or?
Kristin Holleran 21:45
K
K
K
K
Yeah, we had, we had an ice cream filler, several years ago, that we were all excited to get a
new ice cream filler. So, I mean, this is the heart beat of the ice cream department. Every
carton that we make goes through that filler. You know, without it, you're not making ice
cream. And we didn't find out until, really it was, like, delivered and here that it was a, oh gosh,
what's the word? It was it was, like, model number one it was it was not a filler that this
company had made before.
Jared Schmidt 22:03
Mhm. Mhm.
Kristin Holleran 22:04
And, you know, knew it was tested, tried and true. And everything's gonna go off without a
hitch. It was like new for everybody.
Jared Schmidt 22:05
Oh!
Kristin Holleran 22:06
And we didn't know that. Yeah, so even, like, the guys that came out to like, train us and stuff.
This was model one, like they didn't, they had never installed it anywhere else, either. And it
was, it was such a disaster that we, we tried for about three weeks, incurred some monetary
losses,
Jared Schmidt 22:54
Mhm.
Kristin Holleran 22:55
wasted product,
Jared Schmidt 22:56
Right.
Kristin Holleran 22:56
you know, and decided to tear it out and go back to the old filler.
K
K
K
K
you know, and decided to tear it out and go back to the old filler.
Jared Schmidt 23:02
Oh, really?
Kristin Holleran 23:04
Yeah.
Jared Schmidt 23:04
Ooh.
Kristin Holleran 23:05
Yeah. So, that's the only time our whole, we have a separate engineering team. Like, there's a
peer of mine, who's the engineering director.
Jared Schmidt 23:15
Mhm.
Kristin Holleran 23:15
And their team kind of helps with the projects and stuff, and the ops team, and the engineering
team partner when we're installing the product or the projects. And it was the first time in, like,
25 years of his career, whatever, that he's ever had to do that.
Jared Schmidt 23:33
Oh geeze.
Kristin Holleran 23:34
Like, it was going so bad. You know, we gotta, we got to cut our losses
Jared Schmidt 23:38
Yeah.
K
K
K
K
Kristin Holleran 23:38
and take it. So, that's the worst I've ever seen.
Jared Schmidt 23:42
Oh my gosh. Well, yeah.
Kristin Holleran 23:43
It was horrible.
Jared Schmidt 23:44
You can't, you can't stop the vanilla from coming out of the Creamery. I mean.
Kristin Holleran 23:49
No.
Jared Schmidt 23:50
Heaven, heaven knows my freezer is full of it right now. So, I appreciate you're working hard on
that [Laughs].
Kristin Holleran 23:55
Yeah.
Jared Schmidt 23:57
We've casually tossed around the word the octopus a few times. Would you mind describing
what is the octopus?
Kristin Holleran 24:08
Yeah, the octopus is a set of vacuum chambers. It's actually called an 8600. And CryoVac is
the, the name of the company that makes it. So it's a series of vacuum chambers, and we set
two of our cheese pieces, like two two pounders, we set on to one of these chambers, and then
the it's on a conveyor, so it goes round and round. And the cheese takes off and then the
K
K
K
K
K
chamber closes. And, it actually evacuates the air from the bag, and seals the bag. As you
know, right after it evacuates all of the air, and then it continues on and goes through a heat
tunnel, a Shrink Tunnel, and that's how you get that two pounder and with the shrink bag that's
really tight on it. Because it's evacuated all the air and then gone through a heat element
where it shrinks the bag.
Jared Schmidt 25:10
Okay. Is that, other companies, or food manufacturers that have similar equipment, do they
also call it the octopus? Or is that just the Tillamook?
Kristin Holleran 25:20
No. That was, a completely because of the Creamery and the Visitor Center. They were trying
to, you know, they were building the message of how to tell people what's going on on the
floor.
Jared Schmidt 25:32
Mhm.
Kristin Holleran 25:32
And they just, they couldn't really find another good descriptive word for that piece of
equipment. So they decided to call it the octopus because they actually had heard it. Like, I
think some of the marketing folks kind of walked around and we're listening to people's
conversation then heard people calling it like an octopus or whatever. And so that's how it got
that name is totally, I don't think anybody else calls it that. We don't call it that. On the, on the
manufacturing floor, we call it the 8600.
Jared Schmidt 26:01
Okay.
Kristin Holleran 26:02
So, yeah, the octopus started from just the storyboards that are in the viewing, that the viewing
area sees.
Jared Schmidt 26:12
Okay, so, so in on the floor, you said, you all call it the 8600.
K
K
K
Kristin Holleran 26:16
Yeah.
Jared Schmidt 26:17
But outside of that work reality, it's the octopus.
Kristin Holleran 26:21
Yeah [Laughs].
Jared Schmidt 26:22
Okay, because I have seen it on the interpretive panels as the octopus the first time I came to
visit here. That's fun. I've always wondered why, I mean, it's pretty easy to see why it is called
the octopus, but I never heard how I got called that.
Kristin Holleran 26:38
Yeah, it was totally just marketing [Laughs].
Jared Schmidt 26:43
That sounds, that sounds, that sounds about right.
Kristin Holleran 26:46
Yeah.
Jared Schmidt 26:47
Then, I was wondering, you mentioned earlier with product and, and seasonality, I think you
kind of alluded to that earlier. Do does your job shift with the seasons, right? Because we're
coming up on Christmas really quick. Does does the seasons influence like it's summertime
tend to make more ice cream? Or how does that work at all?
Kristin Holleran 27:10
Yeah, definitely. For ice cream, summer is always bigger. But this plant, the Tillamook plant,
we're pretty much at capacity, almost all of the time.
K
K
K
K
K
we're pretty much at capacity, almost all of the time.
Jared Schmidt 27:21
Mkay.
Kristin Holleran 27:22
So, our personal schedule, like, doesn't change. We basically just run, like, redline all the time.
So, every drop of milk that comes to this plant, we run it within 24 hours. And if we don't have
the capacity...Because, have you ever heard of spring flush?
Jared Schmidt 27:42
No.
Kristin Holleran 27:44
So, for milk, specifically, there's the seasonality, the highest volume is during spring flush,
which actually goes into the summer, too. But, it's when the cows, you know, they've been in
barns all, all winter, and then the grass starts growing, and the rain lets up a little bit. And then
a lot of the, you know, farmers, they let him out into pasture and they're, they're eating that
beautiful pasture grass. And so, they're the milk volume goes up because, like, the, the water
content, basically, goes up, and the components go down. So fat and protein go down, but
overall volume goes up. So, during that time, the Tillamook plant can't handle all the milk that's
produced in this county, we actually have to ship some to Boardman.
Jared Schmidt 28:36
Hmm. And that's called Spring flush.
Kristin Holleran 28:39
Yup.
Jared Schmidt 28:40
Okay. That's interesting. So, you said you ship what you cannot process somewhere else?
Kristin Holleran 28:46
Yep, yep.
K
K
K
K
Jared Schmidt 28:47
That's interesting. And then you said...
Kristin Holleran 28:49
It is...
Jared Schmidt 28:49
I'm sorry, go ahead.
Kristin Holleran 28:50
It's very interesting, because, I mean, we're really at the farmers' mercy. Like, they can change
the feed and stuff, you know, and change the, changes that they're making. We don't always
know about and then all of a sudden, our milk volume goes low or high or something, and we're
like, "What's going on?" And not that it's like a huge change, but we definitely notice it.
Jared Schmidt 29:10
Right.
Kristin Holleran 29:10
And it's, it's really interesting. Also, the cows never stopped milking. Some people don't realize
that, but like, we work Christmas and Thanksgiving, here, because the cows don't stop milking.
A flood happens, we're here, we're making cheese. No matter what.
Jared Schmidt 29:24
A plague hits, we're making cheese.
Kristin Holleran 29:29
Yep, yep.
Jared Schmidt 29:29
[Laughs] So, how does that relationship, it's really interesting to think about, at least for me,
K
K
K
K
the relationship between the farmers in the field and you all in the manufacturing floor. Is that,
how does that relationship work? Like, is it, is it more of a positive relationship? Or do you
interact with them at all? Or is it more what's delivered?
Kristin Holleran 29:50
Yeah, we don't interact with them. We have, there is a team that works for Tilkamook called
Farm Services. And those are the folks that interact with the farmers. I think, probably back in
the day, there was more interaction. But now the company has just gotten so big that there's
not...So basically, yeah, we, we just receive it, we take everything they give us, and then we
have to adjust our process based on whatever they give us.
Jared Schmidt 30:20
Okay. And then, a little bit ago, you mentioned you red line all the time, what does that mean?
I'm just curious.
Kristin Holleran 30:28
Like we are producing the maximum amount. You know, we're limited by our equipment, by
amount of run hours in a day. So, we produce, you know, the maximum amount of milk that we
can send through this plant every single day. It's not like we have room to produce more in a
day that we're always like, maxed out.
Jared Schmidt 30:52
Okay.
Kristin Holleran 30:52
Same with ice cream, usually. So, usually, you know, ice cream run six days a week. The only
reason why we can't run seven is because, well, it's kind of a long story, but we have to defrost
our spiral freezer and you have to, you have to do that once a week. Otherwise, it will freeze up
on you. So, we are, we are maxed out, like, all the time.
Jared Schmidt 31:15
Okay, that's interesting. I mean, it makes, it makes sense, I guess, cuz, Tillamook Cheese is
found everywhere, it seems like.
Kristin Holleran 31:22
Yeah, and well, you know, we weren't always like that, you know. When I started, we probably
K
K
K
K
produced like 28 baths a day or something like that, maybe 29 or something.
Jared Schmidt 31:33
Mhm.
Kristin Holleran 31:33
Now we're at 31. And next year, we're trying to make some adjustments so that we can do 32
vats a day. It's a lot of cheese, we're gonna hit, we're gonna hit seven, seven million pounds.
70 million pounds, sorry, of cheese produced out of this plant this year.
Jared Schmidt 31:54
Uh, total or each year, or the year?
Kristin Holleran 31:57
Total for the year.
Jared Schmidt 31:59
Oh wow.
Kristin Holleran 31:59
So, that's, that's a record for this plant. Yeah. We typically have hit 68 or 69 million. So this
year, we're going to, we're going across the 70 million threshold.
Jared Schmidt 32:09
Wow.
Kristin Holleran 32:11
Yeah.
Jared Schmidt 32:11
That's a lot of cheese.
K
K
K
K
Kristin Holleran 32:13
A lot of cheese [Laughs].
Jared Schmidt 32:14
When you, when you say a vat, you said 28 vats to 31. What do you mean by, is that, like,
volume of milk that you can store? Or does that, what does that mean?
Kristin Holleran 32:24
You know, when you're looking at the cheese make room when you've gone on the tour?
Jared Schmidt 32:27
Mhm. Yeah.
Kristin Holleran 32:28
That is one of those big cooking vessel. That's one of the vats. So we make, you know, 31 of
those in a day. And there's, usually, about 55,500 pounds of milk in one of those vats.
Jared Schmidt 32:43
Mhm.
Kristin Holleran 32:45
And then, and then about 10 to 11% of that gets, is actually cheese. And the rest of it is whey.
Jared Schmidt 32:54
Mhm.
Kristin Holleran 32:55
And whey is a byproduct of the cheese make process.
Jared Schmidt 32:59
K
K
K
K
K
Jared Schmidt 32:59
Mhm.
Kristin Holleran 32:59
And we dry our liquid whey, so the liquid whey goes through our process,
Jared Schmidt 33:04
Mhm.
Kristin Holleran 33:05
and eventually becomes powder that we sell, mostly, to, like, Indonesia.
Jared Schmidt 33:11
Oh, really? I didn't know that.
Kristin Holleran 33:13
Yeah. Yeah, I think, I think they put it in, like, a lot of baked good items, or something over
there.
Jared Schmidt 33:19
Mhm. Okay! That's cool. I'm gonna have to look that up. That's fascinating. Yeah, I didn't know
also that the, the 31 vats a day. That's, that's a lot of milk.
Kristin Holleran 33:32
Yeah. Yeah. It's about 1.6 million, I think, pounds, or 1.7.
Jared Schmidt 33:41
Okay. And then you said over the last six years, you've really seen the company grow even
further. Do you mean as far as distribution as well, you've seen that, or?
Kristin Holleran 33:54
Yeah, both in the, the growth and distribution obviously drives the growth for our
K
K
K
K
K
Yeah, both in the, the growth and distribution obviously drives the growth for our
manufacturing plants.
Jared Schmidt 34:02
Mhm.
Kristin Holleran 34:02
So, as we've, you know, we kind of did the Win the West Strategy, and, and then we kind of
moved into focusing in, you know, Arizona and Texas. And then, three years ago, I think, we
went all the way east.
Jared Schmidt 34:18
Mhm.
Kristin Holleran 34:19
And the East, especially the Southeast, really picked up on our ice cream, specifically.
Jared Schmidt 34:26
Mhm.
Kristin Holleran 34:26
They really loved it. And so, we've just seen huge, huge growth.
Jared Schmidt 34:32
Yeah. I laugh at, my sister's wedding rehearsal dinner she brought up a whole bag of the
individually wrapped Tillamook cheddar packages.
Kristin Holleran 34:44
Ha, yeah.
Jared Schmidt 34:44
And everyone was commenting and how good the cheese is, and if I've tried this cheese. And I
had to remind them, yes, I drive past the factory every day. It was just, it was very interesting
K
K
K
K
had to remind them, yes, I drive past the factory every day. It was just, it was very interesting
to watch that moment. I was wondering if you've had that moment, as well, where you've been,
you know, on vacation or traveling, and come across Tillamook cheese and been surprised by
it, or anything.
Kristin Holleran 35:11
Yeah, the one time that I was surprised by it was actually when I took a flight from Atlanta to
Lima, Peru, and the flight had Tillamoos on the the meal thing that they gave us. It was, there
was a Tillamoos on there. I was like, "Wow!" Because it was actually, that was, like, 2016, I
think? So, it was before we went east.
Jared Schmidt 35:38
Really?
Kristin Holleran 35:38
With our...Yeah, and the flight was from Atlanta to Lima, Peru, so I was like wow, that that's
kind of crazy that they had our cheese on, in the meal.
Jared Schmidt 35:48
Did you call them tell Tillamookies?
Kristin Holleran 35:49
Tillamoos [Pulls out a square piece of wrapped Tillamook cheese].
Jared Schmidt 35:52
Tillamoos? Okay. Making sure I heard, I heard right with the reception the little, like little square
ones, right.
Kristin Holleran 35:58
Yeah. Maybe we stopped calling them, I think, I think we used to call them Tillamook. Maybe we
stopped doing that. But, anyways, I think Tillamookies are the ice cream pies.
Jared Schmidt 36:09
Okay. I appreciate that you had one at the ready, though.
K
K
K
K
Kristin Holleran 36:12
Yeah [Both laugh].
Jared Schmidt 36:17
That's wonderful.
Kristin Holleran 36:17
I have that for my own personal snack, of course.
Jared Schmidt 36:19
Right? That's awesome. I mean, we have two blocks of cheddar in the fridge downstairs. So I'm
not, I'm not one to judge. We eat Pepper Jack than we should. What
Kristin Holleran 36:32
Good choice.
Jared Schmidt 36:32
is when you saw...Right? When you see Tillamook cheese, then, outside of the county, what do
you think? What comes to mind when you see that cheese out there?
Kristin Holleran 36:43
Oh, I'm just, I'm proud of it, in general, you know. I have a lot of family in Florida. I'm actually
going to Florida next week. And, the last time I was there, a couple years ago, I went, I made
sure I went to the store. Because sometimes they're like, "I can't I can't find it," you know. And
so I'm like, "I'm gonna go to the store. I'm going to stock up on this stuff," you know, and like
stock up their, their refrigerators and freezers so they're eating the right stuff.
Jared Schmidt 37:05
[Laughs]
Kristin Holleran 37:05
K
K
K
K
K
So no, yeah, I'm proud of the brand, for sure.
Jared Schmidt 37:10
That's awesome. My last question, because I want to honor our time here. It's almost 11:45. Do
you have a favorite cheese? I know you said earlier you didn't start with any knowledge of
cheese and you're learning every day, but I'm curious what, if you have a favorite Tillamook
cheese, and what it is, and why?
Kristin Holleran 37:29
It's, that's an impossible question.
Jared Schmidt 37:31
[Laughs] That's what I'm here for.
Kristin Holleran 37:35
Because, I really like our aged, like, five years cheese with grapes and red wine.
Jared Schmidt 37:43
Mhm. Ooh.
Kristin Holleran 37:43
I like a sharp or a medium cheddar on grilled cheese or a hamburger. I like pepper jack on
nachos. I like to snack on habanero, because I love a little spice.
Jared Schmidt 37:56
Mhm.
Kristin Holleran 37:57
So yeah, I mean, I like all of our cheese [Laughs].
Jared Schmidt 38:01
I'm partial to the Cape Mears, or what used to be called the Cape Mears.
K
K
K
K
I'm partial to the Cape Mears, or what used to be called the Cape Mears.
Kristin Holleran 38:06
Yeah, no. That is a great cheese, too. I left that one out because it's a little more rare. But, that
is fantastic cheese. I'm surprised it didn't catch on. It didn't it, didn't catch on, like, in the
mainstream, so...
Jared Schmidt 38:18
Really?
Kristin Holleran 38:19
Yeah. Which is really a bummer.
Jared Schmidt 38:21
Yeah.
Kristin Holleran 38:22
We have a lot of it, actually.
Jared Schmidt 38:23
I will, I will work on that for you [Laughs].
Kristin Holleran 38:27
Yeah! [Laughs]
Jared Schmidt 38:29
Well, Kristin, before we conclude, I want to see if you have any other thoughts at all, or any
comments before we wrap up for today?
Kristin Holleran 38:40
Gosh, we touched on, on a lot of stuff. But no, I appreciate you, you know, looking into this
stuff, and documenting it, and it's it's a cool, it's a cool industry. It's an awesome company and
K
K
K
K
K
business to be in and yeah, I'm sure you're gonna get lots of great information.
Jared Schmidt 39:00
Well, thank you Kristin. I will stop the interview here...