Jill Breit Interview with Ben Stauffer, North Lawrence, NY 
1 
Field Notes 
Interview with Ben Stauffer, North Lawrence, New York 
Interviewer: Jill Breit 
Date: March 18, 2013 
As you approach the Stauffer farm on County Route 54 in the town of Lawrence, the land is flat across 
hundreds of acres.  In mid-March, you can see the dried remains of cornstalks from last season’s harvest 
over those acres.  The modern buildings that comprise the core of the Stauffer operation appear like an 
oasis, humming with modern efficiency.  The end of the driveway into the farm is marked by a large 
glacial erratic to which are affixed metal letters: “Stauffer Farm.  Christ Is Our Rock.”  The Stauffers are a 
Mennonite family. 
I met Ben Stauffer in the farm’s business office, which was tidy and bright.  When I walked in, Ben was 
on a cell phone, reading google maps of his property on his computer, conferring with someone who 
was cutting firewood for them.  He explained after that they were checking exact property boundaries 
to be sure they weren’t cutting on someone else’s land.  The phone immediately rang again.  One of the 
farm’s drivers had a question.  Ben, an affable young man, told me he had “30 minutes, tops” to talk to 
me.  Ben was willing to answer my questions, but unlike some farmers interviewed for this project, he 
saw my presence more as a loss of productive time than an opportunity to tell his family story. 
This particular farm started in the 1970s with Ben’s father, Sandy, and has grown steadily and 
strategically.  Currently, they milk 1,500 cows, milking around the clock.  Ben clearly is proud of the 
profitable, efficient farm his family has developed.  He emphasized on and off the record that they took 
good care of the land, their animals, and their workers.  
You can hear machinery humming in the background of this interview. 
Terms: 
CAFO 
Animal Feeding Operations (AFOs) are agricultural operations where animals are kept and raised in 
confined situations. Feed is brought to the animals rather than the animals grazing or otherwise seeking 
feed in pastures, fields, or on rangeland. 
Forage 
Food for animals, usually taken by browsing or grazing. 
Loader 
A heavy vehicle with a hydraulically operated scoop on it. 
Skid steerer 
A skid loader or skid-steer loader is a small rigid frame, engine-powered machine with lift arms used to 
attach a wide variety of labor-saving tools or attachments. Though sometimes they are equipped with 
tracks, skid-steer loaders are typically four-wheel vehicles with the wheels mechanically locked in 
synchronization on each side, and the left-side drive wheels can be driven independently of the right-
side drive wheels. 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
1