Briana O’Higgins interviewing Connie Palacioz, It’s November 30, 2012 
 
Will you start with your name and a little bit about yourself? 
 
My name is Connie Palacioz and I am volunteering here at the aviation museum for 
the B29, and we are restoring the Doc and when I was 18 years old I rivet the nose 
section of this plane. That’s why I am so interested now that I can, I am able to 
restore it. I was 18 years old when I rivet the nose section, now I am 87. So I enjoy 
very much coming here to volunteer. 
 
Are you from Wichita? 
 
No I live in Newton, Kansas. I drive here from Newton.  
 
And so are you from Newton? 
 
It is only about 30 miles from here.  
 
But you were raised there? 
 
I was born in Peabody, Kansas, but I was two years old when my dad got a, moved to 
Newton to work the railroad. So, I have lived in Newton since I was two years old.  
 
Wow. Were you aware of Boeing… wait when did Boeing start here? (Film guy: with 
the war) Right, so.. 
 
Up to my high school years I work at a laundry. And we were getting 25 cents an 
hour, and so when I graduated, which was in 1943, May of 1943, I went to apply for 
a job at Boeing. And, they send me to a school on Waco Street by the Broadview 
Hotel and I was there for three weeks. Because they ask us what we wanted to do, 
and I say that doesn’t matter I just want to help the work effort. Because we really 
wanted to get that war out. Because a lot of our relatives were fighting. The men, so. 
They said they needed riveters, so I said, well I will try that. And I really did good on 
the riveting, because in three weeks they sent me to the plant. And we used to come 
from Newton, we used to, they dropped us at the Orpheum Theater and we would 
walk over there by the Broadview Hotel where they had a building where they had a 
school. And like I said, I was there three weeks and then they send me to the plant. 
 
How did you hear about the Boeing job? 
 
Well, we used to hear on the radio that they need help to come because all the men 
were at war. And so, most of the women had to do the job, so that’s, when I 
graduated that’s when I volunteered to come and work at Boeing. 
 
Were there other young women that went with you? Your friends, your family 
members? 
 
Yes. My sister worked, too. And there were a lot of friends, in fact they had a bus that 
would come from Newton, and it was 36 people who ride on that bus, and I rode 
that bus to come to Boeing. So, we had a lot of people from Wichita, I mean from 
Newton that came to work here.  
 
And you said a little bit that you worked on the nose, was that your primary job? 
 
Yes. When I got to the plant they put me on department 330, and that was the nose 
section, so all I did was I rivet the nose section on the plane there. 
 
How long did you work for Boeing? 
 
I worked there from May of 43 to August of 46.  
 
And during that time were you living at home with your parents? 
 
Yes, ah huh. I was living at home, I used to ride back and forth, and sometimes we 
used to even work on Sundays because we had to get those planes out. And when I 
arrived at Boeing the first day, that was the day that they started the B29. The first 
B29. The next day, and I got to work on it because they were taking the B17 was 
getting out of the flight line because it was finished and they were going to start , uh, 
building the B29 Super Fortress. 
 
So you really were the first day the B29 was built? 
 
Yes, ah huh I worked there. 
 
Um, how did your parents feel about you working for Boeing? 
 
Well, my dad and my mom, they were glad that I was helping and, to the war effort 
because my brother was in the Navy and my uncle was a solider, and then, so they 
were kind of happy that we were helping for to get the war finished, because that 
was our main purpose of all the women that came to work. So we worked hard to 
get that plane out and we had to get, you know they would say how many planes we 
would have to be out by that time, so sometimes we would work on Sundays, and I 
12 hours, and work on Sundays. Because they needed to get them out whenever the 
government wanted so many B29s, so we had to get them out. 
 
What were your shifts like? How many hours would you work and what time a day? 
 
Well, I used to work the day shift and we used to leave Newton at 5:30 in the 
morning to get here by 7 because we picked up people on the bus, and then we 
started working at 7 here, and we would work 8 hours, but sometimes, like I said, 
we would have to work 12 hours, and we did work 12 hours. 
 
What was a workday like for you? 
 
I beg your pardon. 
 
What was the workday like for you? 
 
Oh, the workday, I really enjoyed riveting, I, uh, the first day that I got to the Boeing 
they told me that they didn’t have a bucker for me, so the first day I didn’t rivet. But 
there was a girl named Gerry Warden, she was a black girl, and nobody wanted to 
rivet with her because she was black, so they, she was a good bucker, but nobody 
knew it because they didn’t let her work. So I told my lead man, well I will work for 
her because I am a minority, because I am of Mexican decent, and so she and I 
became partners. And I tell you she was the best bucker that I had ever seen. And 
that is why I did so good in my riveting, because I had her to buck for me. And 
afterwards everybody wanted her to buck, but she stayed with me until the war was 
over. So it was really nice, sometimes the few men when we got there at first were 
kind of a little, uh, oh I don’t know, they made fun of us ladies. And… I tell you, and I 
was so naïve about the things that they did to me. You know? And after they got to 
know us then they would help us, but before they wouldn’t even bring the ladders, 
because I had to get up on a ladder to get up to the top of the nose section. And they 
said no, you are earning money just like we are, so you do. But after they got to 
know us they turned out to be pretty good guys. But at first they were kind of, well I 
don’t want to say they were…. Real bad, but they made it hard for us. 
 
They weren’t used to having women around, were they?  
 
After that they became one of our best friends. 
 
You said that you made friends with this one woman, did you socialize with the 
other Boeing employees after hours, did it become your group of friends? 
 
Yeah, we, Gerry and I got to be real close because we worked there, and but, then 
after when the war was over and we got laid off, Gerry moved to Denver and I used 
to write to her for about three years we had a correspondence, then all of a sudden 
she never answered my letters. So I don’t know if she passed away or what 
happened but I have never heard from her.  
 
Let’s see.  
 
(Film Guy: what would probably be good, Connie, why don’t you explain what a 
bucker is?) 
 
Oh yeah, a bucker is a person that gets behind the airplane and the riveter is outside 
on the skin. And you’ve got to make sure that you don’t hit the rivet gun too fast 
because you can damage the skin, but the bucker is behind and when I hit my rivet 
gun she was always there to buck it. And then the rivet would come flat. And hold 
the skin. And she was really good, I mean, I think she was one of the best buckers. Of 
course, she was the only one I had, but she was good there. Because we used to 
finish the point before everybody else did. The others, so. She was good, and that is 
what the bucker is. You have to have good bucker to make a good riveter. 
 
You said at the end of the war you were laid off, was there and opportunity for any 
of the women to continue on with Boeing? 
 
Well, when I was laid off, of course, I had my, my fiancée was in the war, in the Navy. 
And then I got married in 46, and then I went to Emporia because he went to college 
there for the, during the war there was the GI Bill, and I got married in October of 46 
and then we were there for 5 years in Emporia while he was going to school. There 
is where my three boys were born. They were born in Newton, because I would 
come home to have the kids, but that is when I had my children, my three boys, and 
10 years later, I had my girl, which I never thought I was going to have any more 
kids, but here I had my girl, and that was a blessing.  
 
Um, when you were working for Boeing, did you feel like uh, were you paid similarly 
to the men who were still on working? What was your pay? 
 
Well, I think the men got paid more then us, but the highest pay for us  women was a 
dollar an hour. So I got to get a dollar an hour, and I got it pretty soon because my 
bosses gave me raises and afterwards they said, well this is it, you cant have 
anymore raises. But I stay there, but it was a dollar an hour. When I went in they 
were paying me 50 cents, when I was going to school. And then I came to Boeing and 
the first two weeks I only got 50, then they raised me to 75 and then they gave me a 
10 cent raise until I make the dollar. And in those days, you know, groceries weren’t 
as high as they are now, so it really helped us. A dollar an hour was really pretty 
good compared to 25 cents that I was doing at the laundry. 
 
Are you familiar with the Rosie the Riveter image that is floating around these days? 
 
I am the Rosie the riveter right now because there are other Rosie the riveters but a 
lot of them are disabled and none of them can come and restore it, I am the only one 
that is restoring the B29, which is the one plane that we are getting to fly, which I 
hope so some day.  
 
Back in the day when you were working at Boeing did you sort of feel like you 
identified with that? The woman with her arm up, her muscle flexed? 
 
I never thought I would get to be like that because after I got laid off I kind of lost, I 
didn’t have too much for the airplane because I got married and then I became a 
hairdresser, and I worked at the hairdresser for 47 years, until in 2000 when I heard 
that they were going to restore the Doc, and I had rivet that, and I got interested in 
that and I came, and I have been here ever since.  
 
How is this work different then the work you did on the B29 back in the 40s? 
 
Oh you mean the work? Well its different because they don’t use some of the– like 
the rivets that they use now they use different things. But up on the nose section, 
they way I understand from the B29, most of the rivets were rivet in 1943 are still 
there. They are still there, so I know that some of those are the ones that I rivet.  
 
(Film Guy: I was going to say, Connie, did you work on Doc the first time?) 
 
Yes, the nose section on the B29 when I was 18.  
 
(So you are working on the same section now that you did during the war) 
 
That is right, uh huh, that is the one the are restoring.  
 
When was the last time you were at the Boeing plant? 
 
The last time? 
 
MMhmm, 
 
Well after I got laid off, I didn’t until 2000 when we started restoring. And we were 
there in one of their flight lines at Boeing until they move us to the lets see what was 
it called, the [???] and of course now we don’t have a hangar, and so we are here at 
the museum, and they are loaning us to work in that office, but the plane we haven’t 
been working on it because there is no hangar. And the wings, they were in Newton, 
because there was a, a man that has a warehouse there and he loan the B29 boys to 
go over there to work on the wings, and they got them done now, so I am hoping 
that as soon as we get a hangar we can finish that plane. And right now we are just 
working on blue prints here at the museum there in the office, trying to get 
everything back in order, because they are all…  I mean different boxes, and we are 
trying to put them all back together, like all the ones of the blueprints together, like 
the ones that are for the wings and the fuselage and so forth like that. So, we are 
helping putting them together. 
 
Do you still know people who work for Boeing? 
 
No I don’t know very many. There is another volunteer here and his name is Charlie, 
he is a very good worker, and I think he is 93 or something. Now he worked at 
Boeing, but I didn’t know him until I came to volunteer. And he is the only one that is 
here that worked at Boeing when I did, but of course I didn’t know him at the time. 
The rest are volunteers and they worked for Boeing and now they are retires, and 
they are the ones that are helping to restore it.  
 
Um, did uh, you always feel a sense of loyalty to Boeing, even after you left? Did you 
sort of follow the company in the news as your life went on here in Kansas? Or did 
you forget about Boeing? 
 
Well, I kind of forgot because, like I say, I went into a different line of work. That is 
when I became a hairdresser, and I really didn’t think nothing too much until I read 
in 2000 that they were going to restore it. And that is when I really got interested 
and I have been here since then, that is when I really got interested again. 
 
What made you interested again in the airplanes? 
 
Well, I think the reason was that when I heard that they were going to restore the 
Doc, and since I had rivet that nose section, that is what really inspired me to come 
and volunteer. Because that is the only plane that they are restoring besides FiFi, 
FiFi is flying now, but this is the only plane that can be restored because it was in the 
desert you know, for 53 years, and they brought it here from the desert so, I never 
thought that we would see it like it is now, but now the wings and everything, it 
looks like a plane now. When it came in 2000, everything was in trailers, you know, 
it was a lot of work there that we had to do, because it was in the desert. Pigeons 
and everything, that thing was really dirty. But we helped clean it up, so.  
 
And over the last 12 years have you been climbing ladders, and putting in rivets like 
you were? 
 
No, I haven’t done too much of that, just a little but not too much. One of the things 
that I have been doing is I cleaned all the switches… 
 
(Museum visitors enter our room and start talking) 
 
When I would clean, I think 350 switches that the B29 has, and uh, I did that and 
then, of course the ones that weren’t any good they had to replace them, but we still 
used the originals that were still good. They were just rusty and everything, but it 
took me about three months to get all those done. And then another thing is that I 
helped when they were riveting the fuselage, some of those rivets they had to 
replace, well, I did help with those. But, like I said, now we haven’t been able to 
work. But, as soon as we get a hangar then I think we are going to start working and 
maybe I will have to do some riveting then.  
 
(Film Guy: Rosie, (her name is Connie), when you have been working on the 
restoration, are there things that just come back to you that is like, I remember 
doing this?) 
 
Yes, they do. I remember when I rivet those rivets, and then of course we had an 
inspector that would come and check all our rivets before, and like I said, if it hadn’t 
been for my bucker. But, usually, the inspectors would pass by our nose section 
right away because all the nose section was rivet right, so then our plane.. 
(Plane goes over the Kansas Aviation Museum, we have to stop for a moment) 
 
So yeah, I think about that all the time, about how we used to work and the nose 
section, and now that I see it, you know, um, I feel very proud that we still have a lot 
of the rivets in that section that we, that I rivet with my bucker in 1943. 
 
Why is it important that they restore this B29? 
 
They restore it? 
 
Why is it important? 
 
Well, it is important because of Tony, he is the one that owns the B29, he is the one 
that saw it in the desert, and he bought it, but you know, it takes a lot of money to 
rebuild that, and so tony owns it, but that is when he asked for volunteers, and that 
is why we are trying to help him to get that plane. And most of our volunteers here, 
they are very dedicated workers. 
 
Why do you want to see it completed? Why are you personally working so hard? 
 
I don’t know! I guess I work on it, and I hope to be on the plane the first time it flies, 
but I don’t know. At my age now, I don’t know if I will be able, because I don’t think 
it will get done. When I first came in 2000 they thought about 7 years, but it has 
been over 7 years now. 
 
Have you ever flown on a Boeing plane? 
 
No. I haven’t… well commercial when I had gone, I have flown those. But we have a 
very good volunteer, Jerry Sibly, is his name. And he owns a plane, so he took me on 
a ride, it wasn’t a Boeing, it was his plane. 
 
(Film Guy: so you never got to ride on the plane you worked on?) 
 
Never. Hahaha. NO. No at that time, they were sending them off to war. And this one, 
like I said, it was in the desert for 53 years, and the rest were probably destroyed 
because they said that was the only one that they could restore. This one and FiFi, 
that one that is flying right now. 
 
When you worked at Boeing, did you feel a sense of loyalty to the company? 
 
Well, yes, because you know, if they, if we hadn’t built those planes probably we 
wouldn’t have finished that war with Japan. So Boeing was really important during 
the war because they built all those planes that I guess the government or the Air 
Force bought to fight the war. So yeah, I think Boeing has been very good for that 
reason that they helped us for the defense. 
 
Boeing said last year that they were going to leave Wichita all together. They were 
going to stop making planes here. Did you feel sad…? 
 
Yeah, I was kind of sad because I am used to seeing Wichita with the aviation. And, I 
hated to hear that, but I hope that they don’t have to leave it completely. I think 
there is a little of Boeing still left. 
 
Do you think Wichita will change at all now that Boeing is leaving? 
 
Well I don’t know. I hope not. I hope it still stays the same, the air capital of aviation. 
I don’t know how much that will, you know, hurt Wichita.  
 
Is Boeing helping to restore this B29 at all anymore? I know originally the Boeing 
Company sponsored your project. 
 
Yeah, they did help us a lot. I don’t know about now because I haven’t heard too 
much about what they are doing now. I am just, like I said, hoping that we get a 
hangar but I don’t know whether we will get one or not. 
 
What do you hope for, I know you want it to be completed, but after it is completed, 
assuming that it is someday, what do you want to see happen to the plane? 
 
Well I hope that they have it for display at a museum like at the Smithsonian, in 
Washington, that would be nice if they could have it there, because I don’t know 
how long it is going to be flying.  
 
Do you think it is important that people see the B29 and are able to see it in all its 
glory? 
 
 Well I think the younger people now should see it because see, there was a lot of 
history in WWII, we fought the Japanese and Germany and all that, and I think they 
should know the history of the WWII because I don’t think very many know it, 
because some weren’t even born, so it would be nice for them to see the B29.  
 
(Film guy: Connie, how did you feel when you heard about the Enola Gay dropping 
the atomic bomb?) 
 
Oh yeah, well, I feel sad because all of those people that were killed that were 
innocent, because I think that a lot of the people there were innocent, but we had to 
end the war and that was the only way that, you know, the war could be ended. I 
thought that it was a good thing for the war because the Japanese when they bomb 
Pearl Harbor, that hurt us a lot, so I don’t want to say that they did it because of that, 
but I think that they did it because they wanted the war to end.  And if it hadn’t been 
for that I don’t think we would have won. I don’t know what would’ve happened to 
us. Maybe the Japanese would have been here. 
 
(Did you feel just a little bit proud that you had helped..) 
 
Well yes, I did feel a little proud, but like I said I felt bad for the innocent people that 
got killed, but it wasn’t our fault or their fault either, it was just that they lived there 
in that country where that bomb hit. It is just like we lost a lot of people in Pearl 
Harbor too.  
 
The other women that you worked with at the Boeing plant, were they in a similar 
situation as you? Young women who were just trying to help out with the effort? 
 
You mean other people that worked there? 
 
Yes. 
 
Oh yes, we had, I had a friend that her husband was in the service, and she uh, was 
you know, was interested that the war would be over, so and then, most of it, 
everybody had relatives of some kind or another, an uncle or a fiancée or brothers 
in the war. So everyone that worked there during WWII, I think they were working 
really for the war effort to end the war. 
 
Did any of your children or other family members ever end up working for Boeing 
or any other aviation company in Wichita? 
 
No, no, my boys, Joe my oldest son he graduated from Wichita State and he was city 
manager of Hutchinson for 18 years, he is 67, and then my next son worked for 
Westar, he’s retired too, and my youngest son, he is still working, he works in 
Hesston for the John Deere that makes the tractors, and then my daughter is 
President of Bishop Carroll Catholic High School. So she is in the teaching field. She 
taught school. Became assistant principle, the principle, then they made her now 
president, which I don’t know that is another title.  
 
Did you have fun when you went to work? Did you like your job? 
 
Yes, I enjoyed it. The only thing that, see during the war we had a lot of rations, and 
we had a ration book and you couldn’t get the things that were hard to get, so my 
dad liked to smoke, so I used to stand in line to get one cigarette box for him, 
because I never have smoked, but he did. And then they had sugar, flour, and 
sometimes they would only have 25 pound bags of sugar and we had to stand in line 
to get 5 lbs. and sometimes you would get it, and sometimes you wouldn’t get any. 
SO I spent most of the time trying to get some things for us to have at home, because 
we would ration and sometimes we didn’t get everything, you know. And then of 
course for entertainment a lot of the boys came from Mexico to work for the railroad 
because our boys were over there, and they are in Newton, I am bilingual and I 
speak Spanish really good, and they didn’t speak Spanish so I used to interpret for 
them. And then they started a little club and they would have dances and so we used 
to go to the dances. But in those days, all the girls would sit on one side and the boys 
on the other side and when the music start you couldn’t get a partner and so you 
would dance with the first one that reach you. Our parents said, you cant refuse 
nobody. You dance with whoever came. And that was our entertainment.  And then 
of course I worked in the church, too. And we had the … and he used to raise money 
because we were poor. He would have bazaars in the backyard and we used to buy 
some of that Walt’s perfume at the Woolworth’s store, and then us girls we would 
squirt the boys and 5 cents, and we would make money for the church. So that is 
what I did a lot to help the church make money. And in those days those boys from 
Mexico they were respectful, they never say no to us, haha. They were making 
money from the United States so they would give us the 5 cents for a squirt of 
perfume. Hahha. And that was my entertainment. 
 
(Film guy: when you were at work, what did you wear to work?) 
 
Oh, we wear coveralls, in fact I have my Rosie the Riveter uniform. Its in my car. I 
carried it in my car because sometimes they ask me, and that way I don’t have to go 
to Newton to get it. 
 
You have it with you? 
 
It is in my car.  
 
Can we maybe go see it after the interview? 
 
Yeah you can go see it. We used to wear a red bandana put it around here, and the 
coveralls, blue coveralls. 
 
What did you do with the extra money that you made while you were working 
there? 
 
Well I tell you, my mother kept all my money. She, my mother was such a good lady. 
She was a little strict with us, she wouldn’t let us go on dates or anything. I mean, we 
were really, she was really strict, but in a way now that I get older I think heavens 
knows what I would have been if she hadn’t been strict. But she was a good mother, 
and she taught a lot, to cook and everything. But our money, she took my, I gave her 
all my money. My check, I would sign it. But she would buy everything for us. And, 
my youngest sister, she never gave her money to my mom. I was a little upset with 
her, but she didn’t. My sister said NO, that is my money. And she didn’t make my 
sister. But my oldest sister and I, we used to give her the money. And so I didn’t get 
to save very much because my mom used to you know, have the money. Of course, 
she did, she hire a carpenter and added two more rooms to the house, and she paid 
for that. And we didn’t have to worry about the groceries or anything. She would 
buy everything.  
 
So there wasn’t one thing that you bought yourself from those three years you 
worked? 
 
No, haha. She would buy what we need, you know? If we needed it she would buy it, 
if we didn’t need it she wouldn’t buy it. 
 
I think that is it for me, can we go get the coveralls? 
 
Time lapse. 
 
Connie tries on her outfit for the camera.