RUSSELL, DEBRA 
Interviewed by Christopher Sims 
October 13, 2017 
 
 
RUSSELL [0:00:16]: Here’s an app, I’m not gonna eat a biscoti 
because I just had two ribs about 12:30 and here’s a napkin for 
you.  
SIMS: Oh, thank you. 
RUSSELL [0:00:25]: You’re welcome. And I’m like, I just feel so, 
last ro-, this past rotation, I kind of went into semi-
retirement, I’ve got a, I took a medical hiat-, a sabbatical 
kinda, until January.  
SIMS: Mhm.  
RUSSELL [0:00:46]: I got a ruptured bicep, a rupture that 
somehow, that got nerve damage going on inside. I said, “Look, 
I’ve been here 13.5 years, I gotta take care of me first”. 
They’re like, “Do you really wanna do this?”. I’m like, “Yeah”. 
They said, “Well come back January”. I’m like, “I think by 
January I’m good so”. I’ve been there a long time. But anyway, I 
got some, I took some notes.  
SIMS: Oh, okay. 
RUSSELL: Kind of as a guide, so I wouldn’t forget anything  
SIMS: Sure. 
RUSSELL [0:01:21]: Yeah, I always look around at this like 
things I need to do, but, it’s a cool old house. Have we 
started, you haven’t started recording yet, have you? 
SIMS [0:01:34]: Just this one to test the levels. 
RUSSELL: Okay 
SIMS: I can stop it for a second if you want- 
RUSSELL [0:01:39]: Oh I don’t care, I was just, just curious.  
SIMS [0:01:43]: So, before we get started, do you have any 
questions about who I am and what I’m doing? 
RUSSELL [0:01:46]: Well, no, Brenda, I know John Beckwith, Ray, 
John, Brenda talked to John. 
SIMS: Right. 
RUSSELL: You know, and I worked with John a long time, and I 
heard, some of the, you know, commentary about, just you know, 
saying, oh yeah that they had met you several times, you’ve 
been, you know-  
SIMS [0:02:08]: Yeah, I’ve known John since- 
RUSSELL: You were trusted. 
SIMS: 2005, maybe? I mean, before I had kids, I mean, so I’ve 
been coming i-, pretty much with every other year for a week or 
so- 
RUSSELL: Okay. 
SIMS: Up until this year but just photographing. 
RUSSELL: Okay. 
SIMS: I mean I would talk with people in the box but I’m 
primarily a photographer-  
RUSSELL: Oh nice.  
SIMS: And it’s hard to, I have an old fashioned medium format 
camera- 
RUSSELL: Okay. 
SIMS: So it’s hard to do interviews at the same time.  
RUSSELL: Oh, I bet, sure, yeah. 
SIMS [0:02:42]: But I, then got this, I’m doing a book which 
will be published two years from now. 
RUSSELL: Nice. 
SIMS [0:02:49]: And the Library of Congress in D.C. was 
interested in the project because it’s basically a new type of 
work, like a new occupation. So they asked me to do interviews 
with people involved so that will help the book project but 
also, be there, you know, kind of forever. And you know, I, I 
love going out there, you know, nobody in my regular life knows, 
has ever heard of these places and I know even around here, not 
everybody knows.  
RUSSELL [0:03:29]: That’s true, that’s very true. And the thing 
is, it’s been going on since Vietnam, you know, it is. With 
Tiger land, you know, they were training with the mock villages 
back then. I, I’m not sure if you were even aware of that. 
SIMS [0:03:46]: I was, I haven’t found, I found a few photos and 
I’ve seen some, some stuff written about it. 
RUSSELL [0:03:53]: You know in Tiger land, over off where the 
radio station is, out of - 
SIMS: Peason Ridge? 
RUSSELL [0:03:59]: Peason Ridge, no it’s right there, near where 
John and Ray’s office is, building is 70212, it’s where the com-
, they, they stood up the combat advisors, that train in there, 
they have a museum and everything, dedicated to that. So there’s 
a lot of photos there. 
SIMS [0:04:14]: I think I’ve been to that museum a while ago 
RUSSELL [0:04:17]: Yeah, probably so, and if you did, you’ll see 
that they have a lot of stuff there. 
SIMS [0:04:21]: Is it like a one-story, that has a courtyard 
kind of in the middle?  
RUSSELL [0:04:24]: Oh gosh, I don’t re-, I don’t know. I been 
there but it’s been such a long time but I know they have a lot 
of stuff. I know, my grandfather was a, - 
SIMS [0:04:34]: Could I ask you to put this on real quick? 
RUSSELL: Sure, oh sure.  
SIMS: And I’ll turn, I’ll turn this one on.   
RUSSELL [0:04:38]: Yeah, my grandfather was a, he worked at Camp 
Polk.  
SIMS: Camp Polk? 
RUSSELL: Yeah, when it was Camp Polk, yeah, that was kind of a, 
yeah he was a World War I veteran. 
SIMS [0:04:53]: Well, why don’t we start there? You said your, I 
don’t know if it’s on both sides, but you have family 
connections to the start of the parishes? Could you tell us 
about that? 
RUSSELL [0:05:02]: Yeah, well, my, my family, they were some of 
the original families that were here, that came.  
SIMS [0:05:11]: And where did they come from?  
RUSSELL [0:05:13]: Oh goodness, well like most, they came from 
the UK, and I was able to go to the Isle of Skye where one of 
our grandmothers, where they came from. But, I wanna say South 
Carolina, one of the Carolinas, and my brother would know more 
about this but they came here like most people did. They came 
and just settled the area. 
SIMS: Mhm. 
RUSSELL: You know, and it just kind of evolved from there. 
SIMS [0:05:42]: And what time period was, was that? 
RUSSELL [0:05:45]: Okay, you know, I don’t, back in the early 
1800’s, I would assume. Britain Nickels is one of the names, the 
Perkins family, and there’s a couple different sectors of 
Perkins. But we were of a, you know, different branch, not all 
Perkins are related.  
SIMS [0:06:11]: Mhm. And what was your, you said your 
grandfather had a connection to Camp Polk? 
RUSSELL [0:06:17]: Yeah, he worked there, absolutely. 
SIMS [0:06:19]: What did he, what did he do there? 
RUSSELL [0:06:20]: You know, he worked as a, as a machinist, you 
know. I think he was, he made boots or something like that, or 
something. It was just, you know, just labor, just making a 
living, he was a farmer. And my grandmother, I thought she was a 
nurse, but she was a schoolhouse cook, you know, so they just 
had this, very unique, you know, background of, you know, but, 
very helpful. Being, my brother loves telling the story of, of 
my grandfather who, who would always make sure no one went 
hungry. There were families that didn’t have quite what we had 
and he would always go and just drop off baskets of, of 
vegetables from the garden, of whatever he thought someone 
needed. And a lot of times, they never knew where it came from. 
And so, I think that was a, that’s a pretty good legacy right 
there  
SIMS [0:07:19]: And so where, were you born in DeRidder?  
RUSSELL [0:07:22]: I was born in Lake Charles at St. Patrick’s 
Hospital, yeah. 
SIMS [0:07:26]: Okay, so that’s about a half an hour south of 
here? 
RUSSELL [0:07:28]: It’s, closer to an hour, yeah.  
SIMS [0:07:34]: And what, when you were growing up, what was 
your, like what are the industries, you know, that most people 
worked in, like what is this area known for? 
RUSSELL [0:07:46]: Well, you know, you have the hospital, you’ve 
got schools, you have, you know, you have teachers, you have 
nurses, doctors, and of course you have attorneys. You have a 
lot of wo-, pulp wood industry, you see, if you’re traveling 
around, you’re gonna see a lot of log trucks on the road. You 
have that, and there’s a paper mill here, now it’s called PCA, 
Packaging Corporation of America but it used to be Boise, which 
was a, they made some type of paper product, I’m thinking. And, 
that’s all I can re-, you know, plus you know the restaurants, 
and you know mom and pop places, stuff like that.  
SIMS: So what- 
RUSSELL: Grocery store business, my husband’s family had that, 
and the cosmetic industry you know.  
SIMS: Oh. 
RUSSELL: My, my grandmother-in-law had, you know, she had the 
Mearle Norman in Leesville and DeRidder, and then families all 
in Mississippi had, they all got into it so it just kind of 
evolved from there.  
SIMS [0:08:52]: So when you were growing up, what was your 
impression of Fort Polk, like what did you associate it with in 
your head? 
RUSSELL [0:09:00]: Most people work there, it was a place, it 
was most people’s, it was everyone’s livelihood you know, 
people, if it wasn’t for Fort Polk, they said, you know, the 
town would just, you know, dissolve into a ghost town. But then 
again, there are people that, and my family included, that 
survived that when it shut down back in th-, I wanna say it was 
back in the 50s. It, it closed and then it just, you know, 
reopened, and I wish I knew more of the history of that. And I 
know I’ve heard it many times but if it didn’t, you know, 
pertain to me, I was a kid, and I wasn’t paying attention. As, 
as we get older, we realize, we should have took more, more 
notice to things that’s being said, that, you know, regrettably, 
I could research that and get that information, or you can 
research it, but, and, and find those answers. But, yeah, Fort 
Polk was everything, you know. It, it put food on the table for 
people and clothes on their back.  
SIMS [0:10:08]: So during the Vietnam War era, did, did anything 
change? I mean, I guess the base would have gotten bigger and 
more people came through. Was there a sense of that if you were 
here at the time? 
RUSSELL [0:10:19]: Oh, you bet, you bet. Cause it was, an 
infantry training site. It was Leesville, I’m not sure cause I 
grew up in the Leesville area, not DeRidder so I don’t know 
really how it affected DeRidder. But in Leesville, downtown what 
they call Third Street, would be, I mean, shoulder to shoulder, 
soldiers. I call-, especially pay days, or when they got leave, 
or something, it was just filled with, with army people. And- 
SIMS [0:10:50]: That’s, is that the main road still that goes-? 
RUSSELL [0:10:52]: Yeah, downtown, downtown Leesville where the 
courthouse is and the post office. Yeah, and, and lots of bars 
and stuff, you know, one end of town, what they call the south 
end, was just bar after bar after bar and a pool hall. You know, 
it was just kind of shady down there you know, and it was like, 
if, and there was a theater on the north end of town, two 
actually, the Polk theater and the Vernon Theater. And we were 
told as kids, “You can go there but don’t you dare go past, past 
the post office” you know, because that’s where only bad things 
can happen. You know, it was just, you know, local people, you 
know th-, it’s sad to say but Leesville had a really bad 
reputation, it really did. You know, the military were not 
treated very well at all, you know, so- 
SIMS [0:11:43]: Yeah, I mean, I’m from North Carolina so 
Fayetteville and, where Camp Lejeune is, there’s still a little 
more of it now than it seems like there is in Leesville in terms 
of, some of those establishments and the sort of tension 
sometimes between locals and- 
RUSSELL: Oh yeah. 
SIMS: But it seems like it’s, I’m guessing Leesville seemed 
more, I don’t know, was it more vibrant and full of people like 
during that era compared to now or? 
RUSSELL [0:12:17]: Much, much more so. Now it’s more, it seems 
more stable and the people, you know, things have changed, the 
people that used to take, I think, more advantage of the 
military financially, you know, they knew they had money and 
they would, I’ve heard stories that people say, oh yeah, that, 
certain people that had real estate or whatever, would really 
just gouge the military for, for rent or something, because they 
could, you know. And it just left a bad impression. And I’ve n-, 
I’ve had friends that were military that I’ve kept in touch with 
that later came back and said that their family liked the area 
but they hated the way they were treated. And then, when you 
hear that, it doesn’t sit well. It makes you feel kinda sick to 
know people were really taken advantage of, if that answers your 
question. You know, it’s, and you look around, it’s just part of 
life you know, people do it all the time, you know. People are 
gonna try and make that fast money the best way they can. And 
it’s just, it’s some people’s human nature, not everyone, but 
some people will do that.  
SIMS [0:13:34]: So did you leave the area for college, or for 
work?  
RUSSELL [0:13:38]: I did, I did, I moved, I married and we left 
and went to Mississippi and I became a respiratory therapist, 
did that for 20 years and lost half my family. My husband was a 
Marine and he was, he was Vietnam, he was almost a decade older 
than me, and, he, he died, 21 years ago, and he never, he never 
really recovered from what Vietnam, those experiences. And then, 
18 months later, our youngest son died of cancer. He, he 
relapsed a month to the day of his father’s funeral and we were 
a s-, I’m a St. Jude’s mother, you know. But I worked at the 
hospital and I had, Tom had good military insurance and I had 
good medical insurance so I had, I didn’t go to St. Jude’s 
because I didn’t have the money, it was just the best place to 
be and I have no regrets ever going there. Still keep in touch 
with, nurses there and, and one of the doctors. And then, after 
my, my so-, my, our oldest son, he graduated from a junior 
college there, and he acc-, was accepted into a college in Texas 
to finish up. And it was time for me to move too, I knew I 
needed a new beginning, I was a woman with the past, I had a lot 
of tragedy you know, and I knew I had to move on. So I went to 
Virginia, I went back to school, and, so when I finished there, 
my mother kinda demanded me to come back to help take care of 
her because she was, she was aging, she would be 90, 92 this 
year if she were alive. She, she died six years ago and, she, 
she needed help and I have no regret with that. And, so I came 
back, kinda begrudgingly, almost like “I don’t wanna come back 
here”, cause it was too fun to people, to come back to visit, 
and when you go to the Leesville mall which is like Wal-Mart you 
know, or the grocery store, people are like “Oh my god, where 
are you at?” and you tell them, and they’re like, “Oh thank god 
you left this area”. Everybody, they kinda get stuck, you know, 
cause it’s just a small town, and they just never branched out. 
Really no fault of their own, it’s just how their life evolved. 
And, so I really didn’t wanna come back but, I had a friend who 
was like, who was a retired teacher who was like, and she was 
working with media on the battle field, and she’s like, “You 
need, you need to come to work here”. And so, that’s how that 
came about. I had a friend that I grew up with who, actually, 
one day, we were sitting in her mother’s kitchen making tuna 
salad and her mother said, “Do you know you two girls are 
cousins”. We were like, “What”, and on my grandmother’s side, 
you know, she was like, are you, and, it was just one of those 
things like, I didn’t know that. So I asked my mother, later on, 
she was like, “Yeah”, you know. 
SIMS [0:16:55]: First cousins? 
RUSSELL [0:16:56]: No no no, my grandmother’s, my great aunt, my 
mother’s, my grandmother’s sister married my friend’s uncle, you 
know, so it was just like, you know, we’re, just, we’re related 
by marriage but it was one of those things, I told my mother 
about it, she was like “Yeah, of course, you didn’t know that?” 
and I’m like, “Well, no”. My mother used to ask me, she would 
say, “Are you sure that you’re from here, you know? Because you 
don’t seem to know anything. You don’t know who these people 
are”. I’m like, “Well, you know, y’all took it for granted that 
I knew”. My brother was eight years older, my sister was four 
years older and so they kinda got all the, they were more 
involved, you know, I was the kid. It was like, I don’t know, it 
was like, I just, I was too busy playing or being with friends, 
and I never really got involved. So, it was just, I was a 
product of my mother having me later in life, you know, and 
that’s just the way it happened. You know, I look back, it’s 
kind of funny, they’re like, “Are you, you know, you don’t know 
these people?”, I’m like, “Well, I’ve heard of them, I think”. I 
don’t- 
SIMS [0:18:04]: So how did you friend describe the job to you, I 
mean how’d you, I mean you probably knew what she was doing?  
RUSSELL [0:18:10]: No, not really, not really. It was one of 
those things, role-play, and we all had to go to role-play for 
all the stuff and it was really, it was one of those things you 
started not knowing exactly what to do because of, it used to, 
I, I think it’s changed over the years and we, we transitioned 
from role-play to under the video branch eight years ago. So the 
last eight years, it was totally different, we kinda, we, don’t 
have anything to do with role-play. I mean, we st-, we work 
alongside them but as far as- 
SIMS: Compared to the first part? 
RUSSELL [0:18:52]: Yeah, compared to the first, and so a lot of 
times, was a lot of intimidation, you better do this, don’t do 
this, you know, and it was more, more of, of the things you 
better not do than the things we want you to do, as, as in the 
way of guiding. You know, like this is what, you know, like 
scenario driven, this, if you, if you have this scenario, this 
is the best way to, to handle this. A lot of stuff we had to 
figure it out, or we, or some of the people who were in those 
positions a lot longer than me would share, would sh-, would 
share this, this is what you’re needing to do when it came to 
the role-play side. But with media, that was the easy, it’s 
never been easy cause you’ve always be-, you, you always wanna 
be the best, and you wanna ask the commanders the best question 
and to know, to get the best response. And the best, for me, it 
was always nice working with, you having someone that was a 
mili-, that had served in the military cause they knew what the 
right answer would be so I could set up the question and for 
their reply, they, I loved it when they followed up, you know.  
SIMS [0:20:03]: Like another reporter? 
RUSSELL [0:20:04]: Yeah, so it was good to be a team and then 
after a while, you know, then I knew what that, what the correct 
response should be. So you have to follow up with that, you 
know.  
SIMS [0:20:14]: Right, so just to be clear, I think this is the 
case, the entire time you’re with media on the battle field, 
it’s just that its focus changed a little bit for the last eight 
years? 
RUSSELL [0:20:25]: Yeah, yeah. Where we became distant, where we 
became separate- 
SIMS: Separate from roleplay. 
RUSSELL [0:20:31]: From roleplay, yeah. 
SIMS [0:20:33]: But are you hired by the same- 
RUSSELL: Same company, yes. 
SIMS: Company, the whole time? 
RUSSELL: Mhm. 
SIMS: It’s just that there’s a reorganization-   
RUSSELL: Right. 
SIMS: For whatever reason 
RUSSELL: We went to another sector. 
SIMS: Right. 
RUSSELL: And that was all. 
SIMS: Under the Video? 
RUSSELL [0:20:44]: Yeah, ins-, I mean, the job, the job 
continued the same, you know, it, it continued. But you know, as 
each time someone else takes charge, things do change, you know, 
things were done different or thi-, or the client, or the other 
people, the, you know, the Department of the Army civilians say, 
“Well I want it done this way” or someone down at the, at the 
JOC wants things, and everybody comes in, leadership changes, 
and they all want their input, you know, cause they have 
experience with this, and it’s just, you know, it’s just, it’s 
growth you know, it, it’s room for improvement. And sometimes 
it’s like frustrating for us but you just adjust and you just 
move on and get the client, which is the army, what they want.  
SIMS: Right. 
RUSSELL: You know, to be successful, in their missions.  
SIMS [0:21:33]: But also, it would seem like you would have a 
sense of ownership after so many years right?  
RUSSELL: Yeah. 
SIMS: And people come and go but you’re- 
RUSSELL: Yeah. 
SIMS: You’re sort of still doing the job, you must have some 
sense of like, I mean kind of with any job, like you’re gonna 
know best how to do it, even though you also understand that, 
you know, things will change too. 
RUSSELL [0:21:53]: You know, I, I have interviewed a lot of 
soldiers, a lot of commanders, I’ve seen ‘em as majors, 
battalion commanders, brigade commanders, now a retired 
generals, three-star generals, and, or two-star generals, the 
ones that are three star, the ones that actually came through 
that was, that were at Fort Polk, you know. And, but I know 
there’s one of our old COGS, he’s now a two-star general, I 
remember, I have a photo of him, of me interviewing him as a 
lieutenant colonel then as the brigade commander and then he’s a 
two-star general. You know, and he was just, you know, such a 
great leader you know, and you have those, and you have those 
soldiers. You’ve heard of the Green Ramp incident?  
SIMS: Mhm. 
RUSSELL [0:22:42]: You know, there was a, the brigade commander. 
I can see his face and I cannot think of his name, he was a 
young captain. During the interview, it was a, I noticed that 
his hands were burned, and I didn’t know what his public affairs 
officer, after the interview, when they were doing the hot wash, 
you know the AAR for, on him, with him, he asked us if we 
noticed his hands. They said he was a young captain, and he was, 
went in, pulling bodies off that plane, and it just gave you the 
sense of what this leader was, of the person he is, and, prior 
to Force on Force the, the box goes hot, we would interview the 
chaplains, the brigade chaplains, and their battalion chaplains. 
And the brigade chaplain, I ask about him, I as-, I said, “So 
what’s your boss like?”, he said, “He’s one of the best men, 
I’ve ever worked for”. And I, during the interview we conducted, 
and for years I conducted all brigade interviews, and, and I ask 
him, I said, “Sir, I see you have a lot of respect from your, 
from your soldiers”. He said, “You know Debra, they just”, he 
said, “I find”, he said, “It’s the way I treat them”, he said, 
“and they don’t want to disappoint me”, but you have those 
soldiers, that really you just can’t do anything with, that’s 
just who they are. But for the most part, you know, it was, you 
know, just, he was just a phenomenal guy. And then, fast forward 
just mere, a few short months, he was hit, he got hit by an IED 
and, but his command sergeant was killed, he was spared, and 
that was devastating, for all of us that had met him, met that 
team. They were just solid, you know, they made a good team, for 
the-, I didn’t get a chance, I met the sergeant, his command 
sergeant major, but, not for that interview, cause he was out 
doing something else, he had, he was on a mission, to go check 
on soldiers so, he did, he did not, and usually it’s, it’s the 
command team that we would interview. But that, but I didn’t 
ever get to interview him, I didn’t meet him, I never 
interviewed him, so it was still, you know, it was tough, to 
know that the people that we, that we meet and see, you know, 
they die. They get, they, they die in combat. That, that’s 
pretty tough. 
SIMS [0:25:21]: Yeah, I mean, especially because you’re talking 
with them, likely not too long before they deploy right?  
RUSSELL: Right. 
SIMS: So it feels like it would be in the air, in some aspects. 
RUSSELL: Oh yeah, sure, yeah. 
SIMS [0:25:35]: You, like, when you were talking with that, 
officer, do you have a, and you talked with so many people, can 
you get a sense, like in your interviews, like who’s a 
particularly strong leader and like, if so, how does that 
manifest in your interactions? Like how can you, like you 
undoubted-, you have to form some opinion or some impressions of 
people, like what, is it relatively consistent, in terms of- 
RUSSELL [0:26:05]: You know what, it’s one of those things, 
people are people, and each, each person is such an individual 
and with anyone, with any person you meet is how, is how, is how 
receptive they are to you, and how some people you can tell they 
just don’t wanna be there, you know, they, they could care less 
about sitting for this interview because some of these guys, 
they’ve been through so many, it’s like, “Oh I gotta check the 
block, you know, I’ve got to do this”. And some, some may feel 
that way, but they know they have to do it, and then, put us 
under, you know, under, under, just because we’re doing our job 
as well. And, for the most part, they wanna tell the story but 
there are some people that, are just not genuine, you know, they 
just, yeah you, you can get a sense for it. And there are some 
people, you just wanna like, “Hey, can I hang out with you” you 
know, you know, can we, you know, be embedded with you for a 
while, just to, just to learn more about your battalion or the 
brigade as a whole, you know. It’s just, it’s just what it is, 
yeah, I guess you do get a sense of, yeah you do, you can form 
an opinion.   
SIMS [0:27:26]: So, do you ever talk to people who are not in 
the command team? In other words, are there any scenarios in 
which, you know, you’re in a FOB or a village and you, you know, 
as part of the exercise, go up to a private or- 
RUSSELL: Absolutely. 
SIMS: You know, and just try to get them to talk and you know- 
RUSSELL: Yeah. 
SIMS: What’s the, what’s the goal behind doing that and what’s 
the right and wrong ways that they respond? 
RUSSELL [0:27:56]: Well, a lot of times, it’s, it’s that, that 
private or that PFC or that corporal who’s got the best story, 
who know their mi-, you know, they can tell you what their 
mission is, and I’ll never forget this. And I, still think about 
this from time to time, there’s a couple of stories that I, this 
one before I forget, there was a, I think it was a private, I 
was talking to this guy and he was like, “Yeah, and it was Iraq” 
and he was talking about his mission and what they were here and 
his first lieutenant walked up to him and saw him talking to me. 
He came up and he hit him up on the shoulder and he was like, 
“Hey, get back, I got this” like, and I thought, “You jackass, 
this guy, which is-, he sort of helped protect your life and 
this is the way you’re treating him, first lieutenant”. I lost 
all respect for that first lieutenant but that, that private on 
the ground, is the one that had, you know, I had the utmost 
respect for him, cause number one, that lieutenant made him feel 
like a POS, if you know what that is, you know, just, not that 
he took it personally like that. That was my impression, of 
like, “You arrogant officer, you know, how dare you treat this 
soldier that way”. And then, my first rotation ever, was out in 
a village called, it’s called Jenon now and I forget what it was 
called, I can’t think of the name of it, it was a village and, 
there was a soldier who was out there, and more, the role-
players more, had more free play then, they could get on the 
Humvees, they can like, I mean they were out, they were 
thieving, they were taking MREs, they were taking canteens of 
water away, and they were like, they were just driving these 
soldiers crazy. And, there was this one soldier, he was like 
Barney, like Andy Griffin you know, Barney, he was sitting 
there, he was shaking, he was just shaking you know and he was 
like trembling. I’m like, “Oh my God”- 
SIMS [0:30:00]: Because he was nervous? 
RUSSELL [0:30:00]: He was nervous, he had never done anything 
like this and he, he didn’t look young, like he thought he 
might, needed, you know, joined the army for a paycheck to help 
support his family. He probably went in the last, I, I can’t, I 
forget what the sign-in age is now, 38 or something like that, 
so you know, the guy was older. Anyway, he totally just failed 
you know, he failed himself because he was just that afraid, he 
didn’t know what to do. And he was, he was literally just 
shaking. The next day, he came back and I’ll never forget this, 
there were two Greek god soldiers, I mean they were just like 
something out of a magazine that came with him. And it was like, 
I’ve never seen this since, they stood him up and they, they had 
him, you know, they, they flanked his right and left side, and 
they were with him, and they just supported him. And I, I get 
tearful even thinking about that our guys did that, for him, 
this Barney Fife soldier who was scared to death the day before, 
they came back and they stood him up and they had him. They 
protected him and they guided him, and taught him, how to be a 
soldier. And I’m like, “Wow”, to this day, it, I’m still 
impressed. And if I had, I have written letters before to people 
I’ve worked with, to their parents and said, “This is the child 
you have, this is the person I worked with and thank you for 
bringing this person to the world”. And one of the girls is now 
a physician’s assistant, she’s a soldier who came from Mexico 
illegally, she’s legal now, and she’s one of our soldiers but 
her mother couldn’t speak English, still can’t, but someone had 
to interpret the letter. But I thought, this, “Good job, Mom” 
you know, you created a lovely soul, you know. So, you know, I 
would have written a letter to those parents, to say this is 
what I witnessed with your son, helping a soldier become a 
soldier, a professional soldier. It’s just, amazing, to see 
that, to have witnessed that.  
SIMS [0:32:19]: Yeah it’s, you know, it’s, I’m always, I started 
this project, you know, ten years ago, I was always so amazed at 
how young everybody was, right? Like, you know, and then the 
amount of responsibility that they have, you know, relative to 
me, you know. 
RUSSELL: Yeah, yeah, sure. 
SIMS: And this, even in just this practice scenario, let alone 
actually deploying into sea, you know, how much growth they have 
every day. 
RUSSELL [0:32:52]: Oh yeah, and I’ve done this a long time, and 
I’ve seen the military change, it, it’s changed, everything 
changes. And I, I see, it’s not, it’s not the military I first 
started with, it seems, you know. 
SIMS [0:33:08]: So, what, what’s the starting time period, your? 
RUSSELL [0:33:11]: I, I started in 2004, July of 2004, so it’s 
been 13 years and three or four months, something like that. 
Some, I’m, in, well, I was in, going on my 14th year of it, and 
it’s just evolved, it’s just different. There’s more, there’s 
more feelings involved, like you, seemingly, you can’t say this 
or that cause you know, you might hurt, you know, there’s just, 
there’s so many restrictions. And the reason I say that, my 
friend that told me about the job, who got me in, she was like 
(laughs), she and I were at a village with ou-, with her 
videographer, the guy was with us, and there was this soldier 
talking to us, who was kind of, kind of lax and his gun was 
hanging down, and all of a sudden, this command sergeant major 
walks up who looks like Al Pacino. And he sits there and he 
goes, “Soldier!” and he, you know, he just like this round of 
ex-, you know, expletives just like, like, “Pick up that gun”, 
you know, “What do you think you are, bah bah bah” you know, we 
were like (whispers) “Oh my God”. And so we kinda like, we turn 
away, we’re like “Oh jeez”, cause you know, this soldier is 
getting soldiered by his command sergeant major and it’s not 
pretty. And then he like tells him, and then he turns around, 
and he looks at us, and he looks at us, and he goes, “Hey, well 
I’m command sergeant major”, and he just, (laughs) about face, 
wow. All of a sudden we come under gun fire, he takes us and he 
pr-, he, he gets us into an area, he provides protection for us, 
you know, and it was the coolest thing. After, after it was 
over, we were like, “Wow, you know, that was so cool”, and we 
asked him, you know what, are you married, you know. And this, 
kinda started cau-, you know, he was with us, he was our 
bodyguard basically, you know.   
SIMS: Right. 
RUSSELL [0:35:01]: You know, cause she was, I was an Iraqi girl 
at the time, but she was the U.S. girl and, and so he was 
providing protection so he’s like, “Yeah, my sister’s always 
said, you know, we want you to meet a nice Italian girl”, and he 
was like, “So I’m telling you, nobody needs this full time, I’m 
telling you” you know, he was just one of tho-, he was like an 
Al Pacino guy, you know. And he was from New York City, you 
know, he was just, just, you know, we all were like, “Wow” you 
know. You, I think most women liked that rugged guy you know, so 
like, you know, sometimes you wonder like, what happened to them 
you know, like what happens to these people when they retire 
cause surely, that guy is retired by now. That was a long time 
ago, you know, so, that was just, you know, a really cool 
experiences, really cool, to see this guy come up and just like, 
like he lit that soldier up. What’d he say, he’s, I forgot what 
he called him but you know, “What do you think you are, effin” 
you know and it was like, and we just like, “Oh jeez”, it was, 
it was so cool.  
SIMS [0:36:11]: But that happens less now, is that one of the 
things you were- 
RUSSELL [0:36:14]: That was back in, oh that was probably 2004, 
2005. That was early on in my career. 
SIMS [0:36:20]: But nowadays you would say that’s less likely? 
RUSSELL [0:36:22]: Oh I, yeah, I don’t think you see that 
happening, you know, I don’t think you can see it happening. You 
know, and I think what the military forgets so often, you know, 
and this is just me, nobody, I’m not, have not heard anybody say 
this, this is just my opinion, and maybe I shouldn’t give it, 
you know. 
SIMS [0:36:45]: That’s fine, you know, whatever, that’s fine,  
RUSSELL: It’s- 
SIMS: You can tell me later if you want. 
RUSSELL [0:36:50]: I think I will, I’ll wait, yeah. I’ll stay on 
topic. 
SIMS [0:36:55]: Can you tell me the different, you mentioned you 
were an Iraqi reporter maybe-  
RUSSELL: Uh-huh. And, and Afghanistan. And, and now Atropian.  
SIMS [0:37:05]: So, what when you’re not an American reporter, 
what’s different, in terms of like your, do you talk 
differently, do you ask different questions? Are you, more or 
less, aggressive in your work? 
RUSSELL [0:37:19]: Well, yeah, I’m that, other day, Brenda and I 
were talking, she’s, we’re that good cop bad cop, she’s like, 
she’s the redhead you know, she’s like, just real high strung, 
and just like, she’s, she’s a go-getter. And, I’m, I’m not that 
way, it’s just not my personality, I’m more of a, I wanna know 
the, you know, I’m gonna be the one, I’m gonna come in, I’m the 
good, she, she said, her words were, “Good cop, bad cop”. You 
know, I’m the good cop, she’s the bad cop. (laughs) 
SIMS: Mhm.  
RUSSELL [0:37:55]: You know, and it, it’s to do with my 
character, and it’s also to do with my personality. I’m that 
fair balanced style, I, you know, I wanna tell your story, and 
if you mess up, well, your actions are gonna describe exactly 
what took place, I’m not gunning for you, I’m not, you know, I 
want you to be successful, I want you to succeed but when your 
gate guard opens the bus and tells the driver of that bus for a 
protest where your commander is, where their TOC is located, and 
I’m filming it going in, well you just messed up. 
SIMS: Right. 
RUSSELL [0:38:29]: And, and I ask, “How did that happen?”, and 
the commander says, “I think you can tell by the look in my eye, 
the tone of my voice, I’m gonna find out”. (laughs) “You better 
believe I’m”, you know, like I got it, you know. And, and you 
see them trying really hard, you know. And you also see, and 
things, they probably would handle things maybe differently, 
this is, I’m assuming, but I think most people are this way. If 
you know you have a camera on, you know, on them, you know, they 
might handle things a little differently, some people get caught 
up in the moment and they forget the camera’s on so they forget 
about their actions, you know. 
SIMS [0:39:13]: Right, I mean, that’s one of the bigger lessons 
to learn with this. 
RUSSELL [0:39:16]: Yeah, yeah it is. Like, be mindful, you know, 
you never know who’s watching and that’s life you know, that’s 
j-, that’s life in general.  
SIMS [0:39:27]: What do you think the hardest part of your job 
is? 
RUSSELL [0:39:33]: You know I think, for a lot of these 
soldiers, regardless of their rank, is to be successful, and 
they really want their soldiers to get the best training, they 
can’t and sometimes, maybe their, have certain restrictions or, 
would you ask me that questions again? 
SIMS [0:39:58]: I was asking, what’s the hardest part of your 
job? 
RUSSELL: Oh, oh. 
SIMS: In terms of, like, I mean, it could be either what you see 
or experience or just- 
RUSSELL [0:40:09]: The hardest part, I think sometimes we all 
have time constraints and we could, it would be better to stay 
out into the field a lot longer, you know, and to get that 
story, but it’s a really tough environment. It’s really, it, 
it’s either really hot or it’s really cold, and the days that 
are between are very limited because we got very short spring 
and falls here. I think that’s one of the hard parts, is wanting 
to stay out longer but we’ve got so much work to do when we come 
in, to produce a product, cause you’ve got all these checks and 
balances, you’ve got all of these things you have to do before 
you can even sit down to put your product out. And, and we’re 
human and we’re getting tired and sometimes, you know, we, the 
days get long, I think there’s been three or four, only three or 
four weeks in my entire career where I worked 60 hours overtime 
in one week. That’s 100 hours in a week and that’s a lot, and 
that will age you, and that will take a toll on you. So, that’s 
one of the hardest parts of our job, you know, we only have that 
one shift, and, and the editor, and the video editor, I mean, 
he’s got a life too so you know, he’s there a lot, late, trying 
to get this product out for the military, you know. So, 
everybody, it takes a toll on everyone. 
SIMS: Yeah. 
RUSSELL [0:41:38]: And that’s the hardest part, the- 
SIMS [0:41:40]: Well, it sounds like you have the, the actual 
daily deadlines of, you know, like a real newspaper- 
RUSSELL [0:41:47]: Absolutely, yeah you do. Yeah-  
SIMS: Plus- 
RUSSELL: And everybody, everybody wants it, everybody wants what 
you have. 
SIMS [0:41:54]: Plus you actually have to, you know, exist in 
this environment which has its like, its constraints and- 
RUSSELL [0:42:00]: And you have a life 
SIMS: And you have to act, right. 
RUSSELL [0:42:03]: You know, it’s been a lot of times when I’m 
like, “Honey, I, you know, I’m gonna miss this thing that you 
have going on at work or something because I’ve got to, I’ve got 
to work”, you know, and it’s understood.  
SIMS [0:42:17]: So during a, like a rotation, are you, tell me, 
like, what the typical, like, workload is, like what time you 
get there and then what time you would check out? 
RUSSELL [0:42:32]: Well for the most part, we get there at 7:30 
unless we have an early mission, you know, which is, you know, 
like, not every day, but one day, we have to go in early and 
I’ve had to be up there before, like, one time it was like four 
in the morning to be out on a mission like 5:30 and as you would 
have it, I went, I had a different car, I had a Honda that, and 
it was a car that Hondas, it’s not the legend that they’re made 
of. I go to get in my car, I’m like, “This is weird”, you know. 
I hit the, anyway, it was just dead. And I had to call and I'm 
like, "It's dead", it's four in the morning and I'm having to 
leave, might have been 4:30, it was at some ungodly hour. And I 
know my boss, he was probably thinking, "Yeah, you just don't 
wanna come". I'm like, that's not me cause I've done this 
before. So the next day, I go get gas at the, at the, at AAFES, 
at the shop at there, one of the guys I work with, I get gas, I 
go to start, dead, and they couldn't jump me off. And so it took 
three jumper cables, people, different people, the guy, he 
calls, he goes, "Hey, I'm with", people call me DC, they, he 
goes, "I'm here and her car won't start". It's like, it's dead, 
completely, just, and nobody ever knew what happened.  It just 
randomly do this thing, crazy stuff but I'm like, that was just 
God saying, "Okay, I got you on this one. Imma let him know you 
weren't just doing it". Cause you know, people gonna think 
"Sure", that's human nature, you just don't wanna be there, but 
that's not the case you know, you gotta trust people. You've got 
to say, "Yeah, you know, yeah well, she's always here so that, 
that was just one of those things I woulda been there, cause I 
mean, I was up, you go to leave and your car won't start, you 
know, anyway, so, so that was one thing like, then the next day 
he was like, it wouldn't start again, so I got rid of that 
Honda.  
SIMS [0:44:29]: I had a, I have a, here I have all Hondas, we've 
had that issue too. It's not like enough that, basically they've 
never figured it out, it only happens once every three months. 
Sometimes, it will then start up like five minutes later but 
it's-  
RUSSELL: Weird. 
SIMS [0:44:48]: Like I would pay whatever, $300 to fix it.  
RUSSELL: Yeah! 
SIMS [0:44:53]: But it’s like no one can figure it out, like 
there's no pattern  
RUSSELL [0:44:56]: Yeah, it's crazy. And then, wouldn't even 
jump off. The one guy who came, I have this roadside service 
from my insurance, he was like, "Oh yeah, this happened and it, 
come to find out, it was this”. And I wish I had written it down 
cause I was like, "I gotta get outta here", you know. And I wish 
I had written it down because I thought if that was the key, I 
left it, I let, I let the guy leave with it, I didn't write it 
down so I can't share you, share with you what it, what it is.  
SIMS [0:45:24]: So do you, what do you wear when you're a 
reporter? Do you, are you, just dressed in civilian clothes or 
do you wear  
RUSSELL [0:45:36]: I, I'm dressed in civilian clothes, when I 
was in Iraq as a reporter, they gave us, we had to wear garb, 
we, and it was more just like, like leggings with just a long 
dress type thing. And I think I look more African, cause I would 
wear my scarf from like, in a turban type thing, I was gonna be 
cool, you know, I was gonna, I was gonna look a little 
different. I didn't wanna look like everybody else. I don't 
know, I've always been that way. And, so I kinda did that, and 
Afghanistan, I didn't really have to wear, I, I did, I would 
wear it occasionally but I've always been, for the most part, an 
American reporter. 
SIMS: Mhm. 
RUSSELL [0:46:27]: I did do Iraq and I wrote down, I was Fatima 
Kadir, then I was something, the last name was Justine, and then 
Afghanistan, I was Mahan, I was Hanan Mazil, then I became Debra 
Lucas and I've been her for years and years and years so I just 
wear, you know, field clothes, you know. Very seldom do I wear 
jeans, I actually bought my first pair of jeans a couple years 
ago. Probably about a year and a half ago actually- 
SIMS: Wow. 
RUSSELL [0:46:58]: For a lo-, for years, other clothes were just 
more comfortable you know. I like to wear dresses and skirts, I 
like looking like a girl, you know, like a, like a woman. And I 
was with my, with my boyfriend and he was shopping for jeans, 
and I tried on a pair and he went, "Oh, I'll get those for you". 
And I'm like, "Well that works". (laughs) So I, I bought two 
pairs since, just this summer, you know, I just don't, to me 
they're, they're uncomfortable. They're kinda hot you know, I'll 
wear like khaki type, and there's a great Columbia outlet in 
Houston.   
SIMS [0:47:32]: My dad works at Columbia outlets. 
RUSSELL [0:47:34]: Does he? You know, I, people think, "Oh man, 
you know, wow, you know, Columbia". I'm like, "Go to the 
outlet". (laughs) 
SIMS [0:47:39]: Yeah, I love those, I mean I'm not much of a 
shopper but like, the family discount- 
RUSSELL: Oh yeah. 
SIMS [0:47:45]: Outlet, like, I found a little crazy.  
RUSSELL [0:47:48]: Yeah, heck yeah. It's amazing what you can 
get, a huge, two, a huge bag of clothes for like $100. I've got 
grandkids and a lot of the time, they have stuff like, begging 
to be bought, like you know, you can't, you've got to buy that 
for those little people. 
SIMS [0:48:06]: They are, yeah I know, the cute things you mean. 
RUSSELL [0:48:08]: Yeah, yeah, they've got some good stuff. 
SIMS [0:48:10]: Very colorful too 
RUSSELL: Oh, yeah.  
SIMS [0:48:13]: What are some of the questions you, you ask, 
like to a, you know, the commander of an operation, like in 
terms of like the, thinking of the bigger strategy questions?  
RUSSELL [0:48:27]: Actually, about, it was always about 
partnership, actually, before you leave, I will give, I think I 
have, when I interviewed General Paul Bontrager,  I think I 
have, actually I have, I have questions I wouldn't mind sharing. 
I'll give them, I'll give you a copy.  
SIMS: Oh okay, great. 
RUSSELL [0:48:49]: And that would just be, cause I just cleaned 
out my desk. And I want, I think I have it in that pile on 
there, cause I have piles of paper everywhere. I'm like, "Oh, 
God", I just burned, the other day I had a brush and stuff, I 
was doing some yard work. I was like, I can just burn this. 
SIMS [0:49:06]: That's the way to do it. (laughs) 
RUSSELL [0:49:08]: It is, I'm not gonna shred, when you get so 
much, it ju-, it's never ending. So, and here, you can get a 
burn permit through the fire department and so you can just burn 
so, it's about, you know, the eight, the eight essential 
functions of, they had, when they transitioned to Resolute, 
Resolute Support in Afghanistan. It's been, cause we haven't 
done Afghanistan for a while, Resolute Support is what I think 
it was called. The eight essential functions about strategy, you 
know, how do you employ these strategies, how do you know it's 
being successful, you know. Then you bring real world incidents 
into it, you know, the things that are happening, you know, you 
have to be, and the thing is, you really have to listen to what 
they’re saying. You know, we were, my partner and I, one time, 
we're interviewing this new brigade commander, he just went into 
command, and he wanted to sit down and talk with the Taliban, 
you know, he wanted to go, I said, "Sir, you're would negotiate 
with a terrorist"? He said, "Absolutely", (laughs) my guy 
Robert, he said, "Well", what was the Vice-President's name?  
SIMS: Cheney? 
RUSSELL [0:50:27]: Yeah, he said, "Well, he wouldn't". And it 
just like, it was on. And, and sometimes you don't realize who 
is coming in behind you and when this interview was over, it was 
out in the field. We were under a canopy and I looked around, 
and there were all of these generals, all these people in 
command and watching this guy and watching that interview. And 
so many times, I'm so glad we don't see who's coming in because 
it make, it makes you nervous cause you're on stage, you know. 
But, you know, and you ask about, if certain situations that you 
know that could create an international incident, you got to 
push those. And it depends on who you’re talking to, the rank 
they’re at, you know, a captain or major, you’re not gonna ask 
these questions, battalion commander, you wanna ask him the hard 
questions. And a lot of times they’re gonna tell you, “That’s 
way above my, my pay grade” you know, and then they’ll go back 
to what they do know. If they can’t answer a question, it’s one 
of those questions you do ask, what, what they can say, “I can’t 
answer, you know, I’ll give you that answer but Imma have to get 
back to you on that, but I can tell you what my mission is 
here”. They can always revert back to that mission statement, 
you know. And that way they’re not being, hostile. And I didn’t 
realize this until I had a public affairs NCOIC tell me before, 
if you ask two, like two questions in one, you ask a double 
question you know, that’s considered hostile. And I said I 
didn’t realize that, I just thought I was getting it all out you 
know. She was like, “Oh no, you know, because it’s making them 
like what if they forget to answer part two or three to that 
question and it’s making them not, you know, fulfilling that 
entire question you know, giving an answer and I had no idea. 
But you know, the strategy, how it’s gonna work, and it’s too, 
about how they partner with, with coalition. And, those are big, 
especially when you see, they might give you that canned answer 
but then you can come back and say, “Well, that’s not what I’m 
seeing, sir. This is what I’ve witnessed, you know. I’ve seen 
this happen”, you know. Apparently, there is no partnership, you 
know, cause they’re killing each other, you know. Now you have 
the, the angel, the guardian angel, you know, the soldier that 
comes into a room, you know, all the weapons are down but you 
have the guardian angel that has the weapon sitting out of 
sight, in the corner, whose presence is there but he’s not in 
that group, if something were to happen, you’ve got it, you’ve 
got that guardian angel that’s protecting our guys, you know. 
It’s real, it’s real. I was with, out in a village, in Afghan, 
it was during an Afghan rotation, and there was this full bird 
out on the ground who, he still, he just came in hit, he was 
wearing the ISAF patch and, and it was his guys, it was his guys 
that had been, had just been executed in Afghanistan in the top 
se-, only people that could get in there were top secret 
security. And it was almost a full bird, a lieutenant colonel 
and a major- 
SIMS: Yeah, I remember that. 
RUSSELL [0:53:50]: Yeah and that was his guys, and all I could 
say was my sincerest condolences and he said thank you and it 
was just devastating. You could see the devastation on his face, 
and because no one, no one, knew a thing about it, no one heard 
the, the, the fire shot, you know, no one, you know, all these 
Afghans just like, “Well, I don’t know, we didn’t hear 
anything”. Well someone let him in, of course it’s an inside 
job. I would think, I mean that’s, you know, no one, nobody ever 
came out- 
SIMS: Right. 
RUSSELL [0:54:21]: That I heard, nobody ever said anything, this 
guy was just there watching their training but he was just 
devastating you know. Because, you know, you build relationships 
with people, that was like the colonel with his command sergeant 
major, you know you see these people, they have such great 
respect for their soldiers. And their soldiers respect them. And 
I’ve seen a command sergeant major sit there and do push-ups off 
the bumper of a Humvee with this guy, like, “This is how you do 
it!”, they’re like, “Yes, sergeant major!” and they’re out 
there, he’s out there working along with them. He’s like, 
“Yeah”, you just see that comradery and they all wanna grow up 
to be just like him, you know, because he’s a soldier, no, he’s 
a leader, you know. And you know his kids, “I can’t wait for dad 
to get home” you know, hopefully, that’s the way it is. But you 
know, you like, you know, they love you like heck yeah, you 
know, that’s my guys, you know. And they wanna, they want them 
to live, they want them to succeed, you know, they’re leaving a 
legacy, you know, they’re leaving a legacy. And that’s what it’s 
about. And then, my, a guy Robert and I, we’re at, we’re way out 
in the box, we’re way down in the southeast corner at this 
little FOB called Anvil. And we’re doing a battalion interview 
and this, we’re sitting there, all of a sudden, the bad guys, I 
mean, we, we’re already cleared, we’re just waiting to get 
clearance to give, somebody ground got us in so we’re on the 
outside of the gate, at the ECP, and all of a sudden, you know, 
Opfor dr-, rolls in, and they have a big gun fight and Robert 
and I just like, we’re like, “Oh”, and we just hit our seats, 
and we just like laid back in the seat cause we didn’t wanna get 
caught. You know it’s fake bullets but still, it’s still a 
little intimidating. And we’re like (relieved sigh), you know, 
they’re like, “Get them in, get them in!” so we get in, and we 
have like “Near Miss” on our MILES and so we go through and 
we’re like, you know, and we get in, and we’re secure, they 
secure us, like “Are y’all okay”, and “Can we get you something 
to drink?”, and they’re trying to, you know, do all the right 
things. And so, during the interview, I ask the, you know, the 
colonel, the lieutenant colonel about this and he was like, 
“When did this happen?”, I’m like, “Sir, right before we came 
in, right outside your gate”. I said, “You got dead soldiers, 
you got dead Taliban”. He was like, “I didn’t know about this” 
(laughs) and, and, interview is over, he looks at his UPAR, you 
know what a U-, Unit Public Affairs Representative, the guy, he 
was like, “You knew about this?”, he said, “And you didn’t effin 
tell me! I got reporters coming in here and they witnessed this 
incident”, you know, he’s like, “You, alwa-, let me know, I got 
blind-”, you know, he was like, we’re like, “Oh”. He was just, I 
mean he didn’t really elaborate, I’m kind of, I might be 
exaggerating, no I’m not, he let the guy have it, you know, he 
was like, “You always let me know”, you know, he was like, you 
know.  
SIMS [0:57:16]: Do you feel, is it, more intimidating for you to 
talk to the higher ranked people or does that, as a civilian, 
does that not- 
RUSSELL [0:57:29]: Not any longer, no. 
SIMS: impact you? 
RUSSELL [0:57:31]: I’ve done it a long time and now it’s one of 
those things, when they gave me like a little Hail and Farewell 
at the office, I’ve got the paper over there, they, they had it 
all framed for me and stuff. And, they said, you know, “Debra, 
they, everybody remembers you”. Cause I, I’ve, I’ve interviewed 
these people, they’ve come through so many times. And some of 
these brigade commanders, they’ll say, “Oh yeah, I know her, 
yeah, I know her well, we have a relationship”. So, and, and 
it’s really cool for my standpoint to know, I tell you, I worked 
really hard and, and I, I’m not saying this to be a braggart, I 
just know what it takes for all of us to do our job. And, but I 
know I’ve worked really hard and I’ve been groomed, you know, 
I’ve had people take me as, and, and they help groom me and mold 
me to the person I am, you know, and, I, I’ve been with what 
they call “Real World Media”. And I’m like, that’s it? (laughs) 
You know, we’re as good as they are, you know, I mean we, you 
know, I, I would definitely, can take that, that role, you know, 
I can do that. You know, why aren’t we doing that, you know. 
I’ve been to places where, I was in Cypress in, in the 
Mediterranean, and I was there not long after they opened that 
border- 
SIMS: You mean in real life? 
RUSSELL [0:59:00]: In real life. And they opened, and I went 
into the occupied si-, in the Turkish occupied side of Cypress. 
And I was with a family who, they were there when they were 
told, I mean they fled, they were, they, they ran for their 
lives. And there are sections in that city, in that, where I was 
at, that was still, it may have be-, it might be a little 
different now but Gus told me, he knocked on the door of the 
home this family lived in, he said, you know, he, he introduced 
himself, he went, “Do you mind if I just walk in because this 
was my home before the invasion?” and they were so receptive and 
they were very kind and let him come in. And the job I have, and 
this was years ago, prepared me just to keep that dialogue going 
and just to ask those questions and to see what that experience 
was for them. I tell you, it was a little intimidating, going to 
occupied side to know that you had to check in, check out, and 
when they look at that timeline, they wanna know every place you 
went, what you did, what did you see, you know. It was, it was a 
little intimidating but, to know, to be able to do that, and to 
have those experiences and now, I think I, I know the right 
answers, the right questions to ask- 
SIMS: Mhm. 
RUSSELL [1:00:26]: People. And, it can be gut wrenching to hear 
what they say, it’s their, it’s their story, it’s what they went 
through and it’s, it makes you look at life through a different 
lens, it does. I was in Virginia Beach when the towers came down 
and if you’ve ever been around Oceana Naval Air Station, you 
know how noisy it is, all that jet noise, and to have the 
silence of dead air space, it was deafening. You knew the world 
had changed. It was like the world was, was holding her breath 
and then the shoreline, you could just see all these destr-, 
everything they had was out on the ocean, you know, you see 
frigates and air craft carriers, things that we would see 
occasionally, it was just, it was, it was scary. Every, even the 
wildlife, even the ocean, the dolphins, everything knew. It was, 
it, it left a ripple, what terrorist, that terror that gripped 
our nation, what, what happened. You know, I look, I look back, 
I was there for a re-, you know, not only was I in school, I was 
there for a reason and I experienced that and then all that, 
with the letters, the anthrax scare, the poisoning, (sigh) I 
hated to go to the post office to get my mail. I’m like, you 
know, you know there might be a trace on it, you know, it’s 
just, it’s, it’s, it was scary, it was scary. Scary time. And 
I’ll never forget it. I hope I never forget that. Some of my, my 
cl-, my classmates and my roommates were like, “You think we 
should go to war?” and I’m like, “Yeah, you know, I do”. I think 
we should, but you don’t go in gently, you don’t go in but I 
think when, this is off-topic from the interview but like, with 
the Mogadishu, in the Somalia incident, you know, those guys 
will tell you, we wanted to do our job but our hands are tied 
and it made us look really weak. We, they knew they might, 
they’re gonna take losses, you’re gonna take losses but you had 
to be in there. You had to be that stronger fighting force and 
that’s so, so often, we, our guys were, are held back. You know, 
they can’t go in and do their mission, or so it seems. You know, 
I’m not putting words in their mouths, it’s just what I’ve, I’ve 
heard, interviews and what I’ve witnessed. And, and this is 
just, to me it’s kind of obvious, you know, but I’m, I didn’t 
serve in the military so maybe I’m wrong. But maybe I’m right. 
SIMS [1:03:08]: Is there anything that we didn’t cover that you 
think would be important to include? I appreciate you taking 
notes ahead of time. 
RUSSELL [1:03:19]: You, you know, I, you know, I think one of 
the most endearing touching things I’ve ever seen besides the 
two soldiers stand up that, that young private was when I’ve 
seen the services for their fallen soldiers. Cause I’ve never 
been to one, you know, that they had on those bases. And, how 
they memorialize and how they honor that their fallen comrades 
is, it’s so touching and it’s so real. You don’t, you don’t 
realize it’s fake but they’re having to go through it and it 
makes you just realize, if, if you’re not a patriot when you 
finish this job, you didn’t belong there in the first place.  
SIMS [1:04:09]: What do they do during those ceremonies? 
RUSSELL [1:04:11]: You know, how they have their boots, they 
have their boots, the flag, you know, and how they, it’s been a 
while since I been to one but it’s, it’s very touching you know. 
And they’ll say the words, and the chaplains, there’s some 
things we can’t be a part of, maybe because it’s fake, I don’t 
know. But you can see bits, bits and pieces of it and I guess 
it’s part, part of the chaplain’s training too.  
SIMS: Right.  
RUSSELL [1:04:32]: For some of these guys and for their 
assistance to be, to make sure they do it right. Cause like I 
said, there’s some stuff, it’s just very touching, it’s very, 
it’s very spiritual, you know. It, it, it’s, it’s honoring the 
ones that were, you know, killed in action. So it’s- 
SIMS [1:04:53]: And that would happen like back at the FOB? 
RUSSELL [1:04:55]: Yeah, it would happen on their FOB. And it, 
it’s been years since I’ve seen one but it’s always that, it, 
it, it’s always been something that really touched me deeply. 
SIMS [1:05:04]: Yeah, I mean it’s something one doesn’t normally 
think about that just does, other soldiers have to practice- 
RUSSELL: Yeah. 
SIMS [1:05:11]: Specialties-  
RUSSELL: Yeah. 
SIMS [1:05:12]: that chaplains have to do that too, right? 
RUSSELL [1:05:15]: And the chaplain’s assistants, they gotta 
make it all happen, you know, those guys are, chaplains get hit 
pretty hard, they really do. People don’t think about those 
guys- 
SIMS: Mhm. 
RUSSELL [1:05:23]: But they gotta provide service, even for 
satanic worshippers, you know, you’re, you’re, you know, you 
gotta say, you know here you are, worshipping God but they’re 
worshipping Satan but you gotta give them all their, all their 
religious needs to make sure that, what, however they practice 
is fulfilled. So you know, but they, they don’t judge, you know, 
or they shouldn’t. Maybe, they probably question, I don’t know. 
But they, (laughs) it’s, it’s special, you know, like I said, 
this job has made me, I’ve always been a patriot, my family has 
fought since the Revolutionary War, we’ve been, we’ve been here 
that long. And to know, I just hope I’ve made, you know, I’m 
pretty confident I made a difference. 
SIMS [1:06:17]: Well, thank you. 
RUSSELL: You’re welcome. 
SIMS: It’s great to hear your stories- 
RUSSELL [1:06:22]: I, I hope, I, I, I gave you something that- 
SIMS: You did, 
RUSSELL: That you needed to hear. 
SIMS: Everyone has a, you know, obviously a different role and a 
different story- 
RUSSELL: Yeah. 
SIMS [1:06:31]: Even though I talk, you know, I’ve heard other 
media on the battlefield stories, it’s, you know, they’re all, 
have a different- 
RUSSELL: Mhm. 
SIMS: Take and perspective so, it’s really- 
RUSSELL: Yeah. 
SIMS: Helpful, and it’s, I have to do a lot of them but I think 
you need that many in order to really start, you know- 
RUSSELL: Oh, yeah. 
SIMS [1:06:50]: That’s just a start to get kind of the picture. 
RUSSELL: Sure. Absolutely. 
SIMS: I’m really sorry to hear about your losses too. I didn’t 
get a chance to say that when we were talking about it. 
RUSSELL [1:07:01]: Well, thank you, yeah, it was pretty tough, 
something you never get over. 
SIMS: Mhm. 
RUSSELL: You know, you don’t, you don’t, but it’s part of life 
and like these commanders I interview, you have to  
[INTERVIEW ENDS AT 1:07:14]