1 
OZUKI SALON 
 
INTERVIEWER:   
 
Candacy Taylor   
INTERVIEWEE:   
 
Staff at Ozuki Salon 
DATE & TIME:   
 
September 4, 2012   10am 
LOCATION:  
 
 
1025 Thomas Jefferson NW Suite 155, 
                     
 
 
Washington, DC 20007 
RECORDER:   
 
Marantz 661 – 24/96 
TRANSCRIPT:    
  
8 pages  
 
KEY:   
 
 
CT – Candacy Taylor (Interviewer) 
 
 
 
 
SL - Steven Landry - Stylist 
 
 
 
 
EP - Elizabeth Pierotti – Co-Owner 
 
 
 
 
IK - Iku Kawashita – Co-Owner 
 
 
 
 
AY - Akiko Yoshihara 
 
 
CT: I would like everyone to introduce yourself and state the number of years 
you’ve been doing hair and how long you’ve been working at Ozuki. 
 
AY: My name is Akiko Yoshihara, I’ve been in the states since 2001 and I’ve been 
doing hair for about 10 years. I was here first and then I moved to LA, I was 
working at a different salon in LA and [inaudible] worked for 2 years and then I got 
here, so since 2005, I’ve been working here 7 years. 
 
IK: My name is Iku Kawashita. I started in Japan in 1969. I came here in ’74 and 
there was probably a one year gap but I’ve been working in Georgetown about all 
that time. 
 
SL: My name is Steve Landry. I’ve been at this salon for about 12 years and I’ve 
worked in Georgetown for about 32 years. 
 
CT: We can talk as a group, just please don’t speak over each other so I can 
distinguish who is speaking. But I would like to hear about what your other salons 
were like and how it’s different working at Ozuki.  
 
SL: Well for me, this having happened at this salon after I was already here and 
having a similar clientele as Iku, we basically had a fairly high-end Washington 
clientele to begin with. I do very few Asian people because the clients want an Asian 
speaker that they feel comfortable with that does hair similar to theirs, so I basically 
have my same old clientele that’s mostly word of mouth. 
 
CT: So did you bring them with you? 
 
SL: Uh huh.  
 
CT: I see. 
 
 
2 
SL: Even Iku, who is the owner, brought his with him too. 
 
EP: Steven was here before we changed and became an Asian salon. The salon 
name was Industry, we had moved from another block. And we were just kind of an 
anonymous salon in a sea of salons. Iku and Steven had a very healthy clientele, they 
still do, but it was kind of difficult for us to make it. We just felt that we didn’t have 
an identity, so then we decided to become a Japanese salon. Iku started to get some 
Japanese clients and when I asked, “How did you find out about us?” And they said, 
“Well we wanted to go to a Japanese hairdresser. And so then we decided well that’s 
what we should do. So that’s when we started to look for Japanese hairdressers. 
Keiko {sp???} came first and was very instrumental in helping us feel and know the 
difference between a Japanese salon and an American salon and really helped us 
figure it out. 
 
CT: How did she do that? 
 
EP: I think because Keiko {???} was in Tokyo before she came to us and had 
experience in Japanese salons and we talked about…what’s a Japanese salon 
like…what kinds of things do Japanese clients want to have? She helped us with the 
logo, she helped us get things written in Japanese, our card is bilingual, we sent out 
announcements in Japanese, all kinds of things.  
 
CT: So was it challenging to speak to an Americanized-Japanese audience versus a 
traditional Japanese audience? You seem to have a varied audience, its not one size 
fits all here. 
 
SL: I think everybody felt comfortable and just kind of fell into their…. 
 
CT: …their niche. 
 
SL: Yeah. So Asian clients or Japanese clients that already here or very 
Americanized or Japanese-American, I didn’t really tell a huge difference sometimes 
when people are fresh from Japan, working for the Embassy or going to school…it’s 
a little more confusing for them just due to the fact that a way a business works 
here. So they come into the salon, it’s just paying for something, or getting their 
point across…it’s a little different for them, not so much for us. 
 
CT: So can you talk about the difference working with Asian hair? I know for me, 
being black, some stylists are more familiar with my hair texture, so that’s where I 
end up going. Do you find that’s true for Japanese clients? Or are they coming here 
more for cultural comforts or do you think it’s a balance between the two? 
 
AY: Both. The Japanese person knows best about their hair, so they feel 
comfortable. 
 
CT: How is Japanese hair different? I’ve read that there are 13 layers of keratin, 
which is why it’s so straight and harder to get curl into. Is that true? Can you 
educate me about this? 
 
 
3 
SL: I think Japanese hair is as varied as black hair or whatever. 
 
EP: Yeah, I would agree. Yeah all of Asian hair, it is varied. You have people who 
have very fine, straight hair, you have Asian people who have a natural wave to 
their hair, some thin, some thick, some fine. So I think it varies, just like it does in all 
humans. And the clients we have now are not just Japanese, we started to focus on a 
Japanese clientele, we tried to get the word out to the Japanese community but very 
shortly after that and certainly within a year, then Koreans came, then Chinese. 
 
SL: They all found us. 
  
EP: Yeah, word of mouth…it started to spread and now we do people from all the 
Pacific Rim countries, as well as Middle East and I think that the hair does vary 
within those subgroups. 
 
IK: At the same time I think a lot of white people come here too. 
  
AY: People always say I have thick hair. So I guess we have coarse, thick hair, so we 
have to someway reduce it to make it very natural wave or natural body. If you just 
have straight fine hair and cut it straight it looks fine, you can do that. But if you 
have coarse hair and cut it straight, it looks awful. It doesn’t have any movement. 
When it blows it’s nice, you know. 
 
CT: So is that why the razor technique is popular? 
 
AY: Yes (hesitantly), but without razor we can use scissors to make it that way. The 
razor sometimes makes it very dry looking which a lot of my clients don’t like that. 
 
CT: My friend who I used to work with, was Chinese and she had her hair razored 
and it kind of looked like grass but she liked that and she would dye it funky colors. 
But I remember her saying that she had a hard time finding someone what would do 
that to her hair and they really didn’t know how to handle her texture. So I think 
it’s great that you offer people with different textures more options. You don’t really 
have any competition right? 
 
IK: No. 
 
CT: So that probably really helped your business model? 
 
EP: Yeah I think so. I think certainly in Virginia there are salons that are 
Vietnamese owned there’s an area that has a lot of Vietnamese shops and everything 
but within the District, we don’t [have any competition]. I wanted to go back and 
just touch on…I would say about 75% of our clients are Asian, 25% are Caucasian. 
 
CT: Do you have any African American clients? 
 
EP: A few, I guess. 
 
SL: It’s a styling issue, more than a cutting. A chemical and styling…. 
 
4 
 
CT: Why do you say that? 
 
SL: Well, as you know, it’s a whole other planet because of the chemicals and the 
styling, it’s not so much the cutting, it’s everything else. It’s time consumption in a 
totally different way, for the client and for the hairdresser. It’s almost like a separate 
type of…so if somebody came to me, a black person, I would say, I can cut your 
hair, but I’m not very good at styling it…and some people have really, to use a bad 
phrase, good hair, and I can style that. It’s from that Chris Rock film, which was 
pretty funny. 
 
CT: Did anyone else see that? The documentary, Good Hair? It was interesting how 
many different kinds of people saw that. 
 
SL: That was great. How did the black community and hairdressers take that? 
 
CT: Varied, across the board. A lot of black women felt that oh we don’t want him to 
tell our secrets. And there was this illusion presented that all black women are 
getting extensions and they’re spending thousands of dollars on their hair, which 
isn’t really true. My hairdresser said, “People aren’t going to think your hair is real 
now.” 
 
SL: Yeah, “No black woman’s hair gets that long.” 
 
CT: Right. But I understand his intention and why he brought it up. It’s a very real 
issue. 
 
SL: It’s cool that he’s asking his children… 
 
CT: Right and that they were not feeling good about themselves and they asked, 
“Daddy, why don’t I have good hair?” Because their hair has a kinky texture, so in 
the community it seems like people are trying to get rid of that but I’m interviewing 
so many different black hairstylists who are saying that women of color are now 
embracing their texture and they’re trying to work with it, instead of work against 
it.  
 
EP: Exactly, I think it’s the working against it, that we’re not good at. The cutting 
or course and then the straightening before the styling, or the curling before the 
styling. 
 
CT: Do you do Japanese straightening here? 
 
EP: We do. 
 
CT: Okay, so how is it different from the Keratin Treatment or the Brazilian 
Blowout. Is there a chemical that actually straightens it? What is it? 
 
 
5 
AY: I never use a Keratin treatment or Brazilian Blowout because I’m not familiar 
with it but the Japanese hair straightening is a chemical that is used to straighten the 
hair. 
 
CT: Do you know what chemical it is? Is it formaldehyde-based? 
 
EP: No, the product we carry is not formaldehyde-based. That’s been in the news 
lately so. It’s the Liscio product which we get from a distributor in New York City 
who gets it from Japan. But it is a very time consuming thing. Akiko does the 
straightening for us and she always does it on Sundays. I like her to do it when she 
doesn’t have other clients around and she likes to do it all herself. 
 
CT: So is it Asians who have natural curly hair and want it straightened use this 
product? 
 
IK: If their hair is fuzzy, they want it smooth. 
 
CT: So you put the chemical on and then do you flat iron it into the hair? Is it a 
thermal treatment? 
 
AY: Right. 
 
CT: So a lot of black women were trying to use that but it wasn’t so good for their 
hair, right? 
 
EP: Well because if you are an African American woman and you have kind of curly 
hair and you want to wear it straight. If you have straightening done, it would 
straighten your hair but within a month, as soon as the new growth comes, it’s going 
to grow out of your head, curly. So the Japanese straightening, you do twice a year, 
maybe. It is not like a relaxer, you can have a relaxer every 6-8 weeks. So if you are a 
person, not even necessarily African American who has very, very curly hair when it 
grows out of your scalp it will be very curly at the scalp. So that is one of the reasons 
why people who have very curly hair, as a lot of black women do, it’s not a good 
product for them because can’t do it every 8 weeks, you have to wait every 6 months 
to do it. That’s one of the things we have to try to explain to people. I think there is 
a certain level of discomfort when African American people want to come to the 
salon. It kind of depends, like Steven said on how they want to wear their hair. If 
they like their hair natural and they want to wear a natural style, then we’re fine 
with that, then we can do some great haircuts, but being in a city that’s 
predominately black, it’s kind of uncomfortable when people call. What I say when 
people call is, “We specialize in Asian hair. And so we don’t do a lot of African 
American hair. You’re welcome to come…”  
 
SL: And that’s always appreciated. 
 
CT: Yes, I imagine so. I have been at the wrong place and they messed up my hair 
and I had to cut it all off because they didn’t know what they were doing. I wish 
they had just told me they don’t know.…. 
 
 
6 
EP: That’s right. I think people are very nervous and we don’t want to appear 
certainly racist, because we’re not. 
 
CT: No you’re not. 
 
EP: You know one of the things we’ve always thought about is that we celebrate 
diversity, we don’t ignore it. We don’t want to say we can do something that we 
can’t. When we became Ozuki Salon, one of the biggest difficulties for us was 
getting past the [notion that] we want everybody to love us. We want to be the salon 
for everyone, because that’s what people want, to be liked by everyone. But it’s 
better to find your niche and find out what you do well and do it. 
 
CT: So can you tell me what you do to celebrate Japanese culture here? I know you 
do Kimono dressing which I was really excited by. What other things are special to 
this salon? 
 
EP: Well we use Japanese products and we sell Japanese products. We use Japanese 
color and perms as well as L’Oreal and some American products as well. We serve 
green tea to our clients with a little Japanese cookie. We try to really be respectful of 
people’s time. We pride ourselves on running on time. If we’re not running on time 
we like to call people and say “sorry, someone came late and so…” 
 
CT: Is that how it is in Japan?  
 
EP: [she nods yes] 
 
IK: We teach people how to shampoo, that’s where it starts. It’s much more 
specialized here, we wash more thoroughly. Afterwards we give a little massage on 
the back. 
 
SL: The experience is more of a comfort thing that they’re used to having. It’s more 
of a service. 
 
CT: If you don’t wash thoroughly, is it easier to wash Asian hair and not get it as 
clean? 
 
EP: It doesn’t have anything to do with the person you’re shampooing, it has more 
to do with the shampoo technique. What I like about that type of shampoo when 
I’m getting my hair shampooed is that I feel like every part of my head has been 
tended to. It’s not willy nilly. First there’s this part, and then there’s this part, and 
then there’s this part….So when you’re a client and you’re lying there and you’re 
being shampooed and I’m not here I think they didn’t really do so much on this side 
of my head. You notice that sort of thing. They spent a lot time up here but not so 
much back here etc…are they going to come to this side, are they going to come to 
this side? But with the shampooists here, there is definitely a technique and you feel 
the whole head has been shampooed and then with a scalp massage afterwards and 
then also a shoulder and neck massage. When I have traveled to Japan, I have found 
the customer service to be excellent there, for everyone to feel welcomed, it’s a way 
of treating people. It is kind of like the customer’s always right but it goes farther 
 
7 
than that. So just in the terms of greeting people and making eye contact, right this 
way and you know you help them into their smock. If you’ve ever been to salon 
when you were younger and you’re like oh, where do I go, where do I go? My timer 
went off, have they forgotten about me? It’s to make sure that everyone feels 
comfortable, in whatever process they are in, from paying to shampooing, from the 
very beginning to the very end.  
 
SL: Paying is different. Do I tip, do I not tip? You know some countries do, some 
countries don’t. So when somebody says, “How much should I leave?” 
 
CT: In traditional Japanese salons, do they tip? 
 
EP: There’s no tipping in Japan at all. 
 
CT: So is there tipping here [at Ozuki]? 
 
EP: There is tipping here. Tipping as you know is a difficult concept, some people 
tip, some people don’t. Some people know to tip, or know that they should, or know 
that they should if they liked the service. Some people don’t know at all. I don’t 
want to tell people, you should tip, because if they don’t want to tip, then that makes 
me uncomfortable. But people want to know if they should tip. It’s a very difficult 
situation that we try to gingerly wade into then wade back out. If you want 
information about it, I’m happy to give it to you but I’m not going to say that you 
should or shouldn’t. 
 
CT: So how many people do you get from Japan versus people who live here? It 
seems like for dignitaries and people who are coming here looking for a place that 
feels like home. Do they come here? 
 
EP: Yes. People come to work in Washington DC for various companies or 
embassies or the IMF or the World Bank or students and they’re here for a while 
and then they go home. I think lots of people work for Japanese companies in the 
United States, they’re here for a couple of years and then they go back. And so those 
people here from…sometimes their predecessors or their co-workers or other 
students. And then there are just clients who just live in the United States and then 
occasionally we will get people who are visiting from Japan or from other Asian 
countries to go to a party or to go to a meeting or to go to a graduation or to a 
wedding…and those people tend to only come for special occasions. 
 
[clients are starting to come into the salon] 
 
CT: Just to wrap up can someone talk about how it’s different working here? 
 
AY: I used to work at this salon and this previous owner, she was American and 
Scottish. It was a chain. When I was working there I wanted to know about 
different hair, wavy hair, fine hair, because I had only worked with Asian hair so. 
 
CT: It seems like people are coming to you specifically to get more contemporary 
styles, is that right? 
 
8 
 
AY: Yeah.  
 
CT: Because I think it’s rare to find a stylist like you. For instance if an Asian kid 
wants his hair to look like Steven Tyler’s he’s not going to go to a traditional 
Japanese stylist because even thought they might be familiar with his hair texture 
they wouldn’t know how to do that style and it seems like that’s what you’re 
bringing to this place, is that true? 
 
AY: Yes, that’s true. I have a lot people come here and bring me pictures of Anime 
characters, because in Japan, it’s a very animation-based country.  
 
CT: That must be really hard because it’s a drawing. That’s not even real hair. 
 
AY: Right, right! 
 
SL: She can do it.  
 
AY: Yeah, I’m Japanese so she knows how to do it. So when I was in LA, for 
example.  
 
CT: Where were you in LA? 
 
AY: I was in Pasadena.  
 
CT: What was the name of the salon? 
 
AY: Star House, they changed to Crown Studio. Their clientele was very 
commercial, very…not like here, very different. A lot of blondes.   
 
[More clients are walking in so we decide to move the recording equipment to the 
back room]