1 
 
afc2020008_002_ms01 
 
Noelle Keeler interviewed by Vyta Pivo on May 24, 2021 at the Lehigh Cement Company 
Plant in Nazareth, Pennsylvania. The interview transcript has been edited for clarity.  
 
[00:00:00] 
 
Vyta Pivo: 
Perfect. So, today is Monday, May 24th, 2021. This is an interview for the 
occupational history archive, which is part of the Folklife Center at the Library of Congress, 
and it was funded by the Archie Green Fellowship. As part of this project, I am interviewing 
cement workers in the Lehigh Valley, Pennsylvania, the birthplace of the modern cement 
industry in the United States. The recording and transcript will become part of the permanent 
collection at the Library of Congress. I am Vyta Pivo and today I'm speaking with Noelle 
Keeler at the Lehigh Cement Company Nazareth Plant in Nazareth, Pennsylvania. And just to 
confirm, you give me the permission to record the interview, is that correct?  
 
Noelle Keeler:  Yes.  
 
VP: 
Excellent, thank you. So, could you tell me your full name, year of birth and where 
you were born?  
 
NK: 
My full name is Noelle P. Keeler, and I was born on ---- --, 1967 in Appleton, 
Wisconsin.  
 
VP: 
Appleton, Wisconsin.  
 
NK: 
About a year after that, we moved to Neenah and I spent most of my childhood and 
Neenah, Wisconsin.  
 
VP: 
So, when did you first learn about the cement industry?  
 
NK: 
And I was looking for a job. I was seven and a half years ago now. I wanted to leave 
my current employment, just general job dissatisfaction, and had a former alumni of mine, 
not of mine, with, somebody who went to the same college that I did, kind of gave me a call 
and said, would you be interested in this opportunity? And so I started the interview process 
for what was at the time the Senior HR Generalist position at our Evansville cement plant and 
successfully got that job. And since my role has grown to also be the HR manager for the 
Nazareth plant here, as well as we have a [unclear] grinding facility in Camden that I am 
currently the manager for.  
 
VP: 
And you've been doing this for.  
 
NK: 
Yep. So, then I started on November 17th of 2014.  
 
VP: 
And could you tell me a little bit about your educational background, what you 
studied?  
 
NK: 
Sure. My undergraduate degree is in business from Cedar Crest College here in 
Allentown, Pennsylvania, with concentrations in human resources and marketing. And I have 
a certificate in marketing from there as well. And then I also have a dual master's degree from 
2 
 
Lehigh University and I have an MBA and an M.E.D. educational leadership and business at 
the master's level. And part of the program at Lehigh, I was the recipient of a Martindale 
Fellowship to study corporate social responsibility. So, I have a little experience with that as 
well.  
 
VP: 
So, you've worked only in HR capacity in the cement industry, but you’re familiar 
with other parts of the work, obviously.   
 
NK: 
Yes, absolutely. Being the H.R. manager, it's my job to kind of know what everybody 
else does. Not that I can come anywhere near doing what they do, but to understand how they 
fit into the organization is part of my job.  
 
VP: 
So, yeah. Could you tell me a little bit more about what you do at work? Maybe you 
describe a typical day at your job?  
 
[00:03:46] 
 
NK: 
Well, there's no such thing as a typical day in the cement world because everything is 
reacting to what's going on around you in an operation of industrial manufacturing like this, 
that that doesn't stop. Its 24/7, 365. But the general scope of my responsibilities is labor 
relations. So, handling union issues, grievances, contract negotiations, things like that. I'm 
responsible for recruiting of hourly positions. And we have a talent acquisition department 
that does some of the primary work on salaried jobs, but I'm still the person coordinating it at 
the local level. So, there's recruiting at the salaried and hourly level. Labor, I mean, excuse 
me, just regular employee relations, when it comes to special events or employee recognition, 
discipline, working with my management team on, you know, staffing and making sure that 
we're being consistent and fair across the board with what we're doing. When Covid came 
along, I became the Covid coordinator and coming up with all sorts of ways to keep everyone 
safe in regards to that. I work in conjunction with all of the department managers to develop 
and their employees and to make sure we have the right training in place, things like that. So, 
it's a generalist position from an HR perspective. I do pretty much a little bit of everything, 
but we certainly have HR support from the regional and corporate level for things as well.  
 
VP: 
What was it like to learn about the different jobs that take place at a cement plant?  
 
NK: 
I find the whole process fascinating. I remember when I was in the interview process 
for the job myself and getting a plant tour and seeing what goes into making cement. It's 
fascinating. It's like a, it's like an ongoing chemistry experiment and it's really, really neat. 
And then people's role in that and how they keep the flow of materials going and all of the 
intricacies of the chemistry and the science, as well as the logistics of movement of that 
material and then having people who are trained to safely do their jobs in some pretty 
specialized areas. It's really, really interesting. But I, I learned just by being feet on the 
ground, I like walking out into the plant. I go out and I talk to employees and ask them what 
they're doing because they're the reality is I probably don't know. So, they are always happy 
to stop and share with me what they're doing. And, you know, explain to me what something 
is or a part is or a piece of equipment is. And so I have an inquisitive mind, but the people are 
also very proud of what they do. So, they're willing and happy to share with me what they're 
doing, so, that's what I've learned along the way. A lot more about the cement industry than I 
would have ever thought was even there to know.  
 
3 
 
VP: 
How does the how do the particularities of the industry change your job? Because I 
imagine there's a lot to learn, but also there are so many different moving parts.  
 
NK: 
There are, there are. And I've worked in many, several other industries before. I've 
worked in health care, I've worked in banking, I've worked in public education and so this 
was my first foray into industrial manufacturing. And going into cement is going in. The 
equipment is huge. The temperatures are high, it’s a very safety sensitive place to be. So, but 
it's also there's just so much history there and the family legacies that have worked at each 
facility. And several people have, you know, their children or their fathers or their children 
working, depending on which person you're talking about, relations working at the plant. So 
is generations upon generations. And it's the basic process of cement making hasn't really 
changed in over a hundred years, but the way we fuel it and the safety surrounding it has all 
evolved over the years in a very positive way. So, it's just it’s very interesting.  
 
VP: 
That's amazing.  
 
NK: 
It is.  
 
VP: 
And, so, do you meet with the workers on a regular basis or is it more casual?  
 
NK: 
There are at each facility that I manage, there is a monthly meeting with the labor 
union and you just sit down and kind of go over the, if they have any concerns, the current 
state of the union kind of information on a monthly basis. I have an open-door policy, so any 
time anybody wants, they can come stop by my office. They can call me, they can text me, 
they can email me if they need help with something or if they have a concern about 
something. I used to have a lot more time before I got the additional responsibility of 
Nazareth that I would definitely be out in the plant on a weekly basis, just talking to people, 
asking them how their day is going, asking them what project they're working on that day or 
that week. I have a little less time for that as of late because I'm stretched a little thinner 
between the facilities that I'm responsible for. But I have a foundation and having done that, 
so hopefully I can get back to doing that sometime soon.  
 
VP: 
And you mentioned that entire families work in the industry, so there is additional 
communication that happens, you have to know...  
 
[00:10:08] 
 
NK: 
So, you have to know, you just have to assume whoever you're talking about is related 
to somebody. So, you have to you can be delicate about what you say to who, because it's 
inevitably going to be somebody's nephew or uncle or something like that. But that's to be 
respected. I mean, you don't have your son come work for you if you're not happy with your 
job or you're not proud of what you do. So, I think that speaks volumes about the industry, 
that there is so much of that going on.  
 
VP: 
And it's a kind of added pressure on you to make sure that everyone is happy and the 
family continues.  
 
NK: 
Yeah, absolutely. And, you know, I'm trying to, each cement plant, while our 
company employs tens of thousands of people, each facility is its own little unit, kind of little 
4 
 
family. And to maintain the morale and the employee relations is an important I feel a very 
important part of what I do.  
 
VP: 
And, so, and also the relations with the community. So I think, you do some outreach.  
 
NK: 
Yes. Yes, we do. I've been kind of the coordinator of community relations at all three 
facilities as well. And in each plant and their location is, you know, invested in their local 
community and tries to do what they can to support different initiatives here at Nazareth. 
They're very involved with the Chamber of Commerce in the downtown Nazareth Group to 
keep, you know, a vital business, kind of a Main Street program type of thing out at 
Evansville. You know, there's a little bit more participation with the local school districts and 
helping lift up classrooms with special needs and special projects and things like that and 
sports teams and things like things like that to stay involved. And we're not the largest 
employer in those areas. I mean, Evansville has just about a hundred and I think we're at 110. 
Nazareth has about 140. But we're growing at Nazareth a little bit. We probably should have 
about 155 or so. So that we're not the largest employer in the area, but we're just very much at 
the heart of the community because our employees live in the communities.  
 
VP: 
So. So what kind of activities do you organize?  
 
[00:12:59] 
 
NK: 
The things we've done in the past. Again, I have a little more experience at Evansville, 
having only become responsible for Nazareth a year ago and with Covid going on, there 
wasn't a whole lot of in-person involvement. But at Evansville, we've participated in the 
National Night Out, which is a positive community program for the local police and law 
enforcement to reach out to the community. And we've been involved in sponsoring that, 
sponsor sports teams. And another thing we do at Evansville is we have a very big toy drive 
around the holidays to provide toys for the children's home at Redding, which is a home for 
troubled children or children in compromised family situations. And, so, we have a really, 
really successful toy drive that that people get a lot of enjoyment out of participating in. So, 
those are some of the types of things we have. We've sponsored some technology, I'm not 
going to remember the names there. These cube things, electronic, almost pre-coding devices 
at the elementary school. We've sponsored some flexible seating for some elementary 
classrooms. We've sponsored some music instruments for some music programs. I mean, just 
when people come and ask, we have a committee that looks at the request and we do that. We 
sponsor a student annually through the Future Business Leaders of America in the Berks 
County program. It's a free enterprise program, just lots of different things.  
 
VP: 
Do you organize activities for workers as well?  
 
NK: 
Yes, we do annual picnics, Christmas parties, retirement events, service awards, just 
bringing food trucks on site, just as atta boy kind of you did a good job, it’s hot outside let's 
get some Kona ice truck. You know, just lots of things like that. Last week in Evansville, we 
had boxed barbecue lunches brought in because we had gotten through our winter repair, 
annual repair period with very little incident and on schedule and on budget. And, so, the 
reward was a barbecue lunch, just stuff like that. Covid has kind of made some of that a little 
bit, can't do buffets can't do this, you know. But we've done an annual picnic at a local 
amusement park for years, an annual luncheon for at the holidays for retirees. Because of that 
connection to the community and the industry and the familial relation, we have an active 
5 
 
group of retirees who love to see each other every year. So, we do a holiday luncheon for 
them and lots of things like that.  
 
VP: 
So, I guess in the work, there are seasons or some kind of projects that everyone 
works collaboratively and then you celebrate it, correct?  
 
NK: 
Correct. The cement and most cement plants have what they call winter repair or 
winter outage. As I said, we are in industrial manufacturing, where we don't turn off. We run 
24/7, 365. And, but there are cycles to the season and cement is a little bit construction-based, 
obviously. And, so, winter is our slower season. And, so, we utilize that time to do a planned 
outage, to do preventive maintenance on some of our major pieces of equipment. And it's a 
very orchestrated two month long. This piece of equipment is going to be off and then this 
one's off and then this is the time we have them both off so we can do these electrical tests 
and things like that. It’s a very orchestrated, coordinated thing that's very complex. And when 
we get through that successfully, there's a reward to be had. So, but that's a cyclical thing on 
an annual basis that that happens. It doesn't always go as well as sometimes.  
 
VP: 
So how significant is maintenance as a work category?  
 
NK: 
Huge, it’s primary. There's two categories, production and maintenance, and they're 
both equally important. They often battle each other a little bit. But yes, the equipment we 
work with is huge and dangerous. And, so, having people dedicated to PM, preventive 
maintenance, we have PM techs, people whose whole job is to walk around and look at 
pieces of equipment and make sure the oil levels are correct and that there's no excess 
vibrations, and there's no this. We have, you know, all sorts of things. Again, I'm I know what 
they do, but I couldn't do it myself. But the maintenance of the equipment, especially from a 
safety standpoint, is really crucial to what we do.  
 
VP: 
So, how does that translate to hiring priorities? So, you mentioned there's two types of 
work. Could you talk a little bit about how many people work in each other and how the 
hiring is reflective of that?  
 
[00:18:42] 
 
NK: 
Absolutely. Now, when we're hiring, it’s a union environment. So, much of the 
advancement opportunities are done through union bidding. And, so, when we're hiring from 
the outside, we're almost always not one hundred percent of the time, but almost always at 
the hourly level looking for laborers. So, when I'm interviewing for laborers, though, I know 
that they're not going to always be a laborer and there's advancement opportunities within the 
hourly side for them to grow and advance to. So, when I'm interviewing somebody, I'm not 
really interviewing them for labor. I'm interviewing them for the potential to be some of these 
more advanced jobs. And those advanced jobs include millwrights, trained millwrights. We 
have what we call either craft training, apprenticeship or progression positions where through 
a combination of outside formal class work and on the job training over a four-year period, 
they become qualified in that job. And those so that we elect instrument electricians, electric 
journeymen, maintenance, millwright, maintenance journeyman, depends which plant as to 
which the job title is. Those are some of the positions that we're talking about, so in the hiring 
process, often we're looking at people with that willingness to learn or some sort of 
experience just being hands on and having that aptitude, that mechanical aptitude doesn't 
necessarily mean they already know how to do all that. But the people who work on cars as a 
6 
 
hobby, people who worked on a farm, and they understand that hard work and getting up 
early and teamwork and things like that, those are types of skills that we're looking for.  
 
VP: 
What are the most competitive parts to get?  
 
NK: 
You know, the main categories, again, would be the higher level skilled production 
technicians. They're kind of electrical and mechanical maintenance on shift. They're the ones 
kind of keeping the flow materials going. And then you have the maintenance positions and 
maintenance is split between mechanical maintenance and electrical maintenance. And then 
sometimes you have some mobile mechanics in there as well. For some of the, here at 
Nazareth, we run our own quarry here. And, so, there's quarry loaders and quarry equipment 
that needs attention on a regular basis. So, we have mobile mechanics, whereas at Evansville, 
we outsource the quarry. So, somebody else is responsible for those pieces of equipment, not 
us. So, we don't have that position. So, on the hourly level, you know, there's it just kind of 
wherever the guys have an interest. I mean, some people are very interested in, you know, 
instrument electrician and the PLCs and the automation of our equipment and things like that. 
And some people are more interested in the gears. And that's, it just really comes down to to 
their preference. Salary-wise, there's many of them are very similar once you get up into 
those more skilled positions, there's not a real difference. The ultimate, in my opinion, the 
hardest job and the most one that requires the most skill is the process control operator or 
control room operator. These are the people who are watching all of the stuff from a central 
control room on computers and monitors. And they're watching the levels of hundreds of 
things all at once. And the training for that program is extensive. And the ability, because 
you're not necessarily physically active, it's more of a sedentary job, but you need to still 
remain alert and be able to make decisions in a quick manner based on a ton of data that's 
coming at you. To me, that's kind of the key position, but that's intimidating to a lot of 
people. So it really, again, it has to be the right fit.  
 
VP: 
What's the most difficult position to hire for it? So, this one is sort of complicated, 
technically or professionally, but what positions have a higher turnover than you always need 
to replace them?  
 
NK: 
Our front line supervisor positions tend to be the ones where we struggle to both get 
people and keep people because it is a salaried level position, so it's out of the union. It's no 
longer, you know, there's no overtime involved, although I believe our compensation is quite 
substantial and fair. You're still looking at a salaried position where they're working off 
hours, they’re working shift, they’re working holidays, weekends. It's a tough job, it really is. 
And that's probably where we see the most turnover and where we have the hardest time 
finding somebody to come in and be able to supervise cement workers if they don't have 
cement experience yet. So, I can find people who have supervision experience, but no 
cement. And then I have people who have cement, maybe from the hourly ranks, who have 
no supervision. And it's trying to find a balance because I can't have all of one and none of 
the other. You really need to find a balance. And it's so that's probably on the scope of all of 
the positions, one of the harder ones to find and to keep. And the harder you have retaining 
them and the more turnover you have, the fewer experienced people you have to train when 
you do hire somebody. So, it's almost like a catch twenty-two. And then when we get into 
some of the salaried positions where we're talking, the more specialized technical positions, 
engineer level positions, sometimes there's a bit of a shortage of candidates for those as well.  
 
7 
 
VP: 
So, how then, like, the organization of the company, what's the division like? Do you 
have more salaried positions or do you have more hourly positions?  
 
NK: 
Definitely more hourly positions. Let's see. For example, at Evansville, I have 87 
hourly employees and I have 20 or 21. So, it's about 20, four to one, approximately. And the 
ratio is about the same here in Nazareth.  
 
VP: 
And do you hire mostly from within the region or do you bring folks from other parts 
of the country for particular jobs?  
 
NK: 
It just, it depends. Yes, we do relocate when necessary for the higher level jobs. We're 
not going to do that for a laborer, obviously. But we do that for the more technical positions. 
And we have we have and, again, we are a global company, but our recruiting team is 
actually a North American recruiting team. The talent acquisition department does 
recruitment for the whole North America region, which includes Canada and the United 
States. So, if and we will also transfer people from our other facilities across the country as 
well. So, we relocate internal candidates as well.  
 
VP: 
So, there's quite a bit of exchange between the different plants.  
 
NK: 
Yes, a little bit of. Yeah, it’s Rob from Peter, you know? Because then we have just as 
many pilfered from us. So, it is what it is. I don't think that's unusual for any industry that is 
specialized like ours.  
 
VP: 
What would you say is the most difficult part of your job right now?  
 
[00:27:14] 
 
NK: 
Right now, it's Covid.  
 
VP: 
And how has that made things difficult?  
 
NK: 
Well, it became an entire other job to try to come up with strategies to keep people 
safe, things like staggering shifts and additional time clocks and all of the masking rules and 
keeping track of when people called off sick to find out whether it was Covid-related and 
quarantining people, from travel, from illness, from exposure, tracking all of that data. This is 
a major, major task. It is not five minutes of my day, it's more like two hours of my day. And 
I had a full-time job before that started. And then they gave me Nazareth as well. So, it's, you 
know, it's to do more with less. And you run on such lean margins in a commodity industry 
like this that things like that, decisions like that are made all the time. But it's still, Covid 
became just another whole job, which I share with the safety manager. But even with two of 
us, it was still. And you'd get a call on Saturday night that somebody call our Sunday 
morning on the weekends, so I never had a 9:00 to 5:00 Monday through Friday job, but it 
became far more off hours intensive at that period of time. And it's tapered off a little bit now 
that hopefully we're getting through the bulk of this, but that made things really difficult. I 
think other than that, the most challenging aspect of my job is just maintaining positive labor 
relations. And that's really important to make sure you have good, transparent, trustworthy 
communication and establishing relationships with all the key stakeholders so that you get the 
information you need and you know who to give the information to when you get stuff, so.  
 
8 
 
VP: 
So, what's involved in doing that work?  
 
NK: 
Building relationships? 
 
VP: 
Who are you building relationships with? 
 
NK: 
Everybody, just everybody, all the department managers and supervisors, the key 
union leadership, and just trying to make sure every employee that I've built trust with them 
so that if they have an issue, they come to me first or at least come to me at some point before 
things would get worse or out of control. You know, that when we can help, we do help. But 
I can't help if I don't know that help is needed. So, just being, having integrity and being 
present. So, you've built, you know, some sort of trust with everybody who works with you, 
which is everyone. Everyone in this plant is important and everyone deserves the same 
amount of time and attention. So, people in the lab and people in the storehouse and people in 
shipping and all maintenance guys and all the production guys and having been assigned to 
Nazareth during Covid made that a little harder to get out and meet people, because I know 
people from their eyes only and not their whole face. And it was not prudent to just be 
walking around and chit chatting with people. The whole point was social distance and to not 
have any more people in a room than you needed. And so, you know that continues to be a 
challenge that I work through. But each week I meet another new person and I try to see, if 
this is going to help for the recording. But here we have these communication boards we use 
throughout the plant and they flash up information as well as technical. All the stuff on the 
left is the technical information of what's happening with all the equipment right now. And 
then we announce, you know, things that are happening at the plant. And I've tried to utilize 
those boards to communicate with people. And in a way that I see here, we have a 
competition between the plants right now for vaccines. And the reward is a visit from the 
Kona ice truck. So, you know, we try to, I've just tried to reach out in different ways because 
I can't just pop my face in wherever and wherever I want to right now. So, but that is what 
really what that job is, is just being present and showing up and being genuine with people so 
that you build a trusting relationship. And that's I think that's a major part of my job.  
 
VP: 
Have you been holding Zoom calls or sending out mass emails about information?  
 
NK: 
We do all of our meetings via [Microsoft] Teams. You know, the last thing I want to 
do is send out superfluous stuff. I want when they see something from me, I want them to 
know it's important and not just because, but all of our meetings have been Teams, but our 
hourly people don't have access to that system. So, we've done some information packets 
throughout the last year to just make sure that people are getting the information and not just 
having it mentioned at the pass off of a shift change over or whatever, but that they are 
getting concrete information. Then they're all getting the same information. It's not a whisper 
down the alley kind of stuff. And so, we've gone to printing out a few more things than we 
would have in the past. But that's what's going on there.  
 
VP: 
That's a hard adjustment to make for sure.  
 
NK: 
It is, it is. I'm very much you know, I got into human resources because I like humans. 
I'm a people person. And so being in human resources and having some of that direct face to 
face interaction taken away has definitely added a layer of challenge to my job.  
 
VP: 
And you mentioned before, that because the plant never shuts down.  
9 
 
 
NK: 
Right.  
 
VP: 
You are also not able to really have a 9:00 to 5:00 kind of a job.  
 
NK: 
Right.  
 
VP: 
Could you tell me a little bit more about what your schedule looks like?  
 
[00:27:14] 
 
NK: 
Sure. I typically get to work around 6:30, which is kind of during the night shift to day 
shift changeover. So, that night shift, people getting off. If they need me, [they] can roll into 
my office, I'm here. And day shift people right before they get on, they can come in and see 
me if they need to. And then I typically work until, on a typical day, about 4:00/4:30. And 
again, that's past the second to first, a second shift change over. So, every day I'm here, at 
least for a short time on all three shifts. I have my work cell phone, which I encourage people 
to text or call, and I also get my emails. So even on the weekends or in the evenings, if there's 
an emergency or if somebody needs to reach out, they have a way to easily get a hold of me. I 
always have a backup plan. I have, you know, if you can't get a hold of me, here's the safety 
manager's usually my backup. And so, typically that would have been my schedule is 
Monday through Friday from 6:30 to about 4:30. I would occasionally come in the evenings 
or at 11:00 o'clock onto night shift at the beginning of night shift infrequently but 
occasionally just to show my face. And “I don't see you guys very often. How is everybody?” 
kind of thing. But it's more fielding calls and things, incoming information than anything on 
the off hours, and that definitely accelerated significantly with Covid.  
 
VP: 
And so, because this is a dangerous manufacturing job, you deal with a lot of 
emergencies?  
 
[00:36:25] 
 
NK: 
No, we have a safety manager. You know, I'm aware I need to be aware of what's 
going on so I can make sure I'm helping to be a good communicator. But we do have more 
qualified people to respond to actual physical incidents here at the plant. But I'm certainly 
involved in that process more so. I think my role there is just helping foster a culture of safety 
and hiring people who understand that and enforcing that with managers and helping to lead 
by example with those types of things. Safety is just of the utmost importance and trying to 
get people to understand [that] the rules aren't meant to be a bummer or to make your job 
more difficult. Those rules are meant so that at the end of the day, you're going home and in 
as good a shape as you came and I'm not calling a family member telling them something 
horrible happened. I have now had to do that several times in my career and there's nothing 
worse. There's just nothing worse than having to deliver that message to somebody that, you 
know, something happened. So, safety is really about the caring about the people.  
 
VP: 
And so, what are the most important safety rules to follow for workers and which are 
the rules that people don't follow as often?  
 
NK: 
A lot of it is just they become complacent because they've been here so long and “I've 
done it this way 100 times and nothing's ever happened.” Well, you've gotten lucky 100 
10 
 
times. And that message that, you know, we just need to be vigilant. Lock out, tag out if 
you're going to be working on a piece of equipment, you need to properly lock out and take it 
out. That's just so that something doesn't happen. What else? Proper PPE, just getting people 
to wear their gloves and wear their hearing protection and the eye, the safety glasses, which 
we provide all of that, it’s not like they have to buy it, loads of it in the storehouse. But just 
on a hot day, you know, if it's they're working under the kiln, which is cooking at about 3,000 
and it's a 95 degree summer day. Yes, you still have to have long pants on and your boots on 
and the vest on and the hat on and the gloves on. And I get that it's uncomfortable. And then 
you add the layer there that you need, reminding them to stay hydrated. And, you know, it's 
just a job that you have to be on your toes and alert. There's major pieces of equipment, 
mobile equipment traveling around. There's, I mean, when I say high temperatures, the kiln 
does burn at about 3,000. We're melting rock here and that's not to be taken lightly. We're 
turning rock into liquid. That's kind of a big deal. And then the equipment that does that, you 
know, and the grinding and the crushing and things, there's just conveyor belts, moving 
pieces everywhere. You just, this is not a place you can be on your cell phone, just 
meandering around. You need to have your eyes up and you need to be alert and you need to 
be making smart decisions and you need to stop when you're doing something and say, “am I 
doing this the smart way?” I think that's probably the biggest hurdle, we have is just getting 
somebody who's done that job one hundred, probably a thousand times for them to still stop 
and say, am I doing this safely? Just pause for 30 seconds and do an assessment.  
 
VP: 
So, do you provide safety trainings on a regular basis?  
 
NK: 
Yeah, our safety manager and the safety team have programs and things in place, and 
we're regulated by a federal agency called MSHA. And MSHA has guidelines and things that 
we need to follow. And, you know, that's a minimum standard meeting the MSHA 
guidelines, and we should always be striving to do more than the minimum standard. And so 
we have programs called, like, take five. Where are you supposed to take five minutes before 
you start your job and you're supposed to assess, you know, your workplace, environment, 
workplace. And do an examination of, are there any safety hazards in this area, is the task I'm 
about to do going to create safety hazards or become a safety hazard? Do I need to take 
something off? Do I need to alert others, does something need to be addressed, fixed or 
something need to happen before I start the work and just a little checklist, take five minutes 
and just kind of do this little checklist. We provide these little small, little books for people to 
carry around in their pocket to remind them of what those steps are, simple things like that. 
As well as all the task training for things like lock out, tag out and all the other safety 
procedures and things we need to be, fall protection and things like that. It's comprehensive 
and it's not simple at all.  
 
VP: 
So, thinking about regulations, environmental regulations have also shaped this 
significantly.  
 
NK: 
Yeah.  
 
VP: 
How do you sort of work with that?  
 
[00:42:18] 
 
NK: 
We have an environmental manager who thinks that it's his job to be the expert on 
that. I am not a scientist again to go back to my education. I'm a business major, but we have 
11 
 
an environmental manager who's looking at MSHA guidelines and we have retrofitted 
equipment with sensors to help SEMS equipment. And I can say a lot of the acronyms, but I 
don't always know what they all mean. But yeah, we have, you know, on our team or people 
who, that is their job. That's not anybody's second job. That is somebody's primary job.  
 
VP: 
And what has it been like for you to work as a woman in the industry, which is pretty 
male dominated?  
 
[00:43:01] 
 
NK: 
Well, it's I personally, I have three older brothers. I think I was born to play this role, 
sort of. No one would ever describe me as meek or shy. So, I think I have the right 
personality to be unfazed by it. I don't like being considered a woman in this industry. I like 
being considered a professional in this industry. But it's not that you need to have tough skin 
because the guys here, for the most part, very much, gentlemen, I've never had any sort of 
issue with being treated in any way, that's never, never the thing. It's more of them being a 
little bit cautious about what they may say or not say around me. And I just have to make it 
clear that you can say whatever you want to around me, it's fine, that you're not going to 
offend me. But I find that I'm judged by my ability to do my job. I've never, you know, I've 
never had anybody really diminish my capabilities because I'm a female. You know, they all 
have, they might be mostly male here, but they also all have mothers, many of them have 
wives, sisters, daughters. And, you know, that, it's really kind of a non-issue. I just, it seems 
to be more of fewer women want to get into this industry. And I'm certainly not out in the 
plant, in the, you know, in the dirt, so to speak. But we do, certainly in our company, have 
women who are really, really in the field. I mean, I make it my business to get out into the 
plant, but I'm not doing that. You know, I think there's a slight difference between being an 
engineer, working on the equipment and me walking by saying, “hey, what are you doing?” 
And I respect that. So, I think they're mostly welcomed here. I don't, I've never experienced 
any issue, but I'm also, I'm a little tougher than some.  
 
VP: 
So, you mentioned women sometimes choose not to work in the industry. What do 
you think that is?  
 
NK: 
I think there's, I mean, there's certainly I don't know what the numbers are, but when I 
see the candidates on our online application system, I don't have female applicants. So, I don't 
know if that's because there are fewer female maintenance people. I'm sure that in some 
groups I'm sure there is fewer females. I know that female engineers are far more numerous 
than they were even 10, 20 years ago. But I don't really know where, I haven't studied where 
those numbers are. And if there are 50 percent of the population are not yet. But, you know, 
we make dirt, that's what we do. I think it's pretty cool, but it is not sexy. There is nothing 
Gucci or Coach about what we do, it's not boujie. It is the antithesis of boujie. And, you 
know, maybe that's what some people are looking for and that's OK. That's not what this is. 
We make dirt.  
 
VP: 
So, as we wrap up this conversation, is there something else that maybe you weren't 
able to talk about or I didn't ask that you would like to mention?  
 
NK: 
Just, I feel proud of what I do. I mean, cement is it sounds like a pun is the foundation 
of what this country is built on. It really is. If you watch any sort of documentary on the 
making of the Hoover Dam, it's every highway, sidewalk, your basement, you're probably 
12 
 
standing out. Whoever is listening to this right now is, look down at your feet, you’re 
probably standing on concrete and the foundation of concrete is cement and that's what we 
do. And it's I think it's fascinating, it's important, it's historic, and it's pretty neat, it’s pretty 
awesome. So, that's my only final words.  
 
VP: 
Awesome! Thank you so much, Noelle.