Interviewee: Samantha Hostert (SH) 
Interviewer: Meredith McGriff (MM) 
AFC Collection Number: AFC 2018/030 
Interview ID: 5100 
Date: November 17, 2018 
City/State: Chicago, Illinois 
Venue: Lillstreet Art Center 
Language(s): English 
 
 
Note: This interview was recorded in both audio and video formats. Timestamps in the transcript are keyed to the 
audio file. The interview took place in an office adjacent to the ceramics studios and classrooms at Lillstreet Art 
Center. This was the quietest place available to us, but there is still a lot of background noise from the many 
children working and playing nearby.  
 
 
 
Audio File (afc2018030_05100_sr01.wav) 
 
MM  0:00   
...do audio backup just in case. ...you never know... 
 
SH  0:05   
Yeah. 
 
MM  0:16   
I always try to do sort of a, an intro, like who's behind the camera and what is today, and  
 
SH  0:21   
Yes. 
 
MM  0:22   
And then I'm like, what day is this? Shoot. All right, well, if you are ready, 
 
SH  0:28   
Yes, this spot okay? 
 
MM  0:30   
Yeah, I think we're good. Let me double check. Yeah, that'll be good. 
 
MM  0:37   
Okay, so, I am MM, behind the camera, and today is November 17, 2018. And if you would introduce yourself 
and maybe just say a couple words about where we are.  
 
SH  0:50   
Okay, sounds good. Let me first ask, am I talking to you or the camera?  
 
MM  0:53   
Whichever you're more comfortable with. 
 
SH  0:57   
Hi, my name is Samantha Hostert. We are at Lillstreet Art Center in Chicago, Illinois. 
 
MM  1:02   
Great, thank you. So I would love to hear from you today about your career in ceramics and how that got started 
and where it's headed. Maybe we could start at the beginning and what got you interested in pursuing this path in 
the first place.  
 
SH  1:18   
Yeah. In... I went to a liberal arts college thinking I was going to major in science, but ended up majoring in art so 
that I can do everything, cuz I couldn't decide what to do. And I focused on drawing and painting just because it 
was kind of the simplest thing at that point. But I always wanted to take ceramics and I took one hand building 
class. Then, after college I did my masters in education, started teaching. Once I had a job, I had heard about 
Lillstreet. And so I came here to take a ceramics class, because it was a lot easier to paint in my apartment than do 
clay, so I needed a place to do ceramics. And so I took an advanced hand building class with Dave Trost, who is 
now the director of ceramics here, he was my first teacher, and I was like, well, this is what I'm gonna do with my 
life, better learn how to throw on the wheel. So I, so I started in beginning wheel throwing and just remember that 
was 10 years ago, exactly, now, that took the first hand building class here. And so it was always kind of a part-
time thing. So I was teaching, was my primary job, so I'd come here after work. And then I started working here, 
making clay first and then firing the soda kiln and that kind of continued keeping me hooked in, like, continuing 
to take classes all the time, even if I didn't feel like I had time for it. I was, it was clearly like, the main thing I 
wanted to do. And then I, when my son was born, almost five years ago now, I quit my teaching job, so I finished 
out that school year, then I worked in the office here for a little bit, just, it was a great part time job because I can 
also then, you know, be, stay here afterwards sometimes to make pots, and then that program got cut. And so, it 
was kind of a time where I was home, I liked being home with my son part time, I can either look for a different 
part time job, which would have been away from here and really taking away from making pots, look for a full 
time job, still would not have been able to make pots because... or even though it was terrible timing, decide then 
to try to do, like, actually make pottery as a job. So I tried to pick up a couple more classes here because I was 
teaching here and I do, as I mentioned love teaching. That's definitely goes hand in hand with the making for me. 
And so I started teaching more classes here and just started really trying to build it up in, in a positive way to sell. 
And that was maybe a year and a half ago, to maybe two years ago. So yeah.  
 
MM  3:29   
That's exciting.  
 
SH  3:30   
Yes.  
 
MM  3:31   
So where did you go to school?  
 
SH  3:33   
Santa Clara University.  
 
MM  3:35   
Okay. For both undergrad and graduate school?  
 
SH  3:37   
That's where I went to undergrad. And then I did my masters in education at DePaul, University of Chicago.  
 
MM  3:44   
Just for reference, what year did you graduate?  
 
SH  3:46   
I graduated undergrad in 2004. And then I did my masters. I finished in 2007. 
 
MM  3:52   
Great. Did you grow up in this area? Or  
 
SH  3:55   
I grew up in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.  
 
MM  3:56   
Okay. What brought you to, sort of Greater Chicago? 
 
SH  3:59   
I went to college in California... After college, I wanted to go to a big city just do art. So I was looking San 
Francisco, Chicago, New York. And my best friend from high school was moving to Chicago and needed a 
roommate and I hadn't found a job in San Francisco yet. So I was like, Sure. So we just got an eight month lease, 
because neither of us thought we'd even stay for a year. And then we stayed in that place. But I met my husband a 
year after I moved to Chicago and he had a great job here. And he was here and rooted and so it's now been like, 
15 years I've been here. So  
 
MM  4:27   
It seems to have worked out. 
 
SH  4:29   
Yes, yeah, it's working out okay. I still every February remind him that I should have been living in California or 
North Carolina. But. 
 
MM  4:38   
So when you were, when you were teaching, what were you teaching, and at what levels? 
 
SH  4:43   
I was teaching high school art. And so it was freshman through seniors, they kind of depend on the class, but a lot 
of them were multi-level classes because it was art. And it kind of ranged when I first started teaching. I taught a 
lot of ceramics. And then also art fundamentals, like a little bit of everything. Photography, then, I taught for 
seven years and in the middle of it I taught art history a few times. And by the end of it, I was teaching a lot of 
animation and graphic design and photography, and basically everything but ceramics by the end. 
 
MM  5:10   
That's quite a change.  
 
SH  5:11   
Yes.  
 
MM  5:12   
Big school? 
 
SH  5:13   
Ah, it was a, yeah, there were over 2000. It was, the district had four schools and I ended up teaching at all four 
different schools. They were, it wasn't, like, probably not typical of the job.  
 
MM  5:27   
Okay 
 
SH  5:27   
But yeah, we moved around the schools a lot, because when I first started teaching at the, in the district, they had 
two schools, then the next year they moved to four schools, and now they're back down to three, they kind of got a 
little over their... But because of that they were, like, moving the teachers around like every year, it was like kind 
of a jumble of like, where you taught, and what school and where the kids were going, so. 
 
MM  5:46   
Okay. So when you were teaching ceramics, what kind of resources were you pulling on to, to teach ceramics and 
to learn how to teach ceramics?  
 
SH  5:57   
Yeah, that's a good question. I used the Ceramics Monthly magazines a lot, and their publications. There was a 
website that I, I can't remember the exact name of it, was out of London. And it was like contemporary ceramic 
artists. And some of the ones that I found there, I still use, that Artaxis. So, kind of websites that had broad ranges 
of people that could really, I've tried to give my students a lot of examples. But with students I find if you give 
them one example, everyone looks like their, if you give them no examples, they'll be like, I have no idea what to 
do, so I tried to like overload them with, you know, like examples of like, so many different things. So. So yeah, 
...on those. Those were the main things. Couple of ceramic books that I had, like the 500 series, where you do like 
the 500 pitchers and plates, just looking at different ideas of surface decoration and design and, and a couple 
contemporary ceramic books.  
 
MM  6:52   
What was your own work like? And how did your own personal style develop over those years?  
 
SH  6:58   
Um, so when I first started, I think it was when I first started, when I took that initial hand building class, I made 
these sculptures that were, they were all coil built and kind of organic with like holes in the middle, and they 
derived straight from my painting. Right before, I had been painting before I started clay, because I when I first 
moved to Chicago, I just painted in my apartment and tried to get my work on around Chicago, before I went to 
do my masters in education. I was kind of deciding if I wanted to teach high school or college, I wasn't sure. So I 
was just working in a bar and painting. Um, I my paintings had been very figurative, and some of them, like, but I 
was doing a lot about the female figure, but like overly exaggerating the like, societal idealization of the female 
figure. So like, you know, like, like really tiny waist and really out. So kind of working with these kind of like 
surrealistic, but like exaggerated forms. So it was one of those forms and then I was just doing an experimental 
watercolor class at the Art Institute, that's actually where I met my husband, we were both doing painting class 
there. And um, and I really liked like drawing with the ink and then overlaying it with the watercolor and getting 
these layers and then also these kind of like, just forms of the figure. And so when I first started ceramics, it was 
kind of based on those forms of the figure, I like simplified it into, into those, so I was doing that sculpture.  
 
SH  8:14   
Then when I decided that this is what I was going to do, I needed to learn how to throw on the wheel. I mean I 
looked like a five year old for a few years, like making... I made like four pound bowls, and mugs with handles 
that looked like like, like flappy bacon strips. And so didn't realize that my intention for initially learning to throw 
on the wheel, though was to bring it back to the hand built. I thought I was just learning to throw the wheel so that 
I could, like, make some parts easier. Like I saw my... just had this really cool teapot it was hand built. And I was 
like, how did you make that handle? He was like, oh I threw it on the wheel. I was like, Oh, I would have never 
thought of doing that. I was like, I should learn how so that I, you know, so I at least have another resource to add 
to my sculptures. But then once I started throwing, I really got like, it might have just took a lot longer than I 
thought to like, I wouldn't even say I've mastered throwing yet, but to get decent at throwing, took longer than I 
thought. And by then I'd, I took a soda firing class. And in the soda, I've been doing these like sculptural tea pots, 
they were kind of like donuts, like bigger pieces and kind of trying to marry the, like sculptural and wheel thrown. 
But learning soda, so much got ruined. And I needed so many tests that I just started making these little cups, and 
really experimenting with surfaces, which I hadn't done much with surfaces, I was just kind of dipping colors, and 
like, I wasn't thinking that much about the glaze, I was much more focused on form. So I started make these little 
cups for the soda kiln because they went faster. And doing surface then because someone told me soda loves 
texture. And that really stuck with me. So I was just trying these different textures. And then I just got kind of 
obsessed with that. That was like six years ago, and... six or seven years ago.  
 
SH  9:50   
And I really, I started selling those, those are the first things I really put out there to sell. And I really liked 
making functional things, like, I never thought that when I was an art student, but I really came to love making 
functional things that people could use. And so I think that's where it's gone, now I just really can't get away from 
cups, I love it. So, and I have a, such a limited time to make, since I'm just like, basically one day a week is when 
I make my own work. And then one day a week I'm teaching. And so since I'm trying now to make a living off of 
it, or I can at least pay for daycare and slightly more, I feel like I, I don't necessarily feel stuck, like but I do feel 
like what I make, I need to be able to sell. And so someday I would love to play and like, go back, like it's still in 
my mind that someday I'll use the wheel thrown and hand built and like, make some more sculptural, functional 
things. But like, I'm much more rooted in the functional now. So I'd like, you know, I'd like them to take on a 
sculptural quality, but I really liking that, this functional thing. 
 
MM  10:44   
Is your surface decoration now related at all to your painting? 
 
SH  10:48   
Yeah, I think it's like, I think it's come full circle back. It's much more related to my painting than it was before. I 
think I boil it down to really I'm, I like the layers and, like those watercolors that I was doing... of like the ink and 
then the watercolor going over it. And like that's why I initially loved the soda kiln. But now I feel like I'm 
figuring out ways to really get those layers and that depth that I want. Like I really, I get really excited by the 
layers, and then this juxtaposition between order and chaos, I really like doing these intricate line drawings, and 
then putting in the soda kiln and having them like run and half of them get washed away. And couple years ago, I 
started using terra sigillata in my pieces to get another layer, like between the glaze and the clay, like it was, there 
was a lot going on, but it was still just like, there was the clay and then there was the glaze and I wanted 
something in between that could like be revealed and not revealed at the same time. And that's been working 
really well. It's like kind of a layer that can be flat with the clay but like reveal something sometimes and, and 
give me that extra depth that I was going for.  
 
MM  11:46   
Could you describe that process for anybody who hears this and doesn't know what terra sigillata is? 
 
SH  11:51   
Yes. So. Terra sigillata is a very fine slip basically. And so when you put it on at the, when the clay is dry, the 
bone dry stage, you can buff it, so it gets really shiny and really just kind of goes flat with the surface of the clay. 
Whereas like a slip you would paint on but you'd see the brushstrokes, it would add some like surface build up as 
well. The terra sig just really stays flat with a piece. It's meant for low-fire work, but it's working for me in the 
soda kiln, right now, sometimes it bubbles. But it putting being able to put that on the clay and then like, I'll go do 
a rectangle of terra sigillata and then other layers of glaze over the top. And then when it runs, like sometimes 
through the glaze you can see the terra sigillata or it changes the look of the glaze. Sometimes it doesn't. So it's 
kind of just another layer of depth.  
 
MM  12:34   
Okay, thank you. At what point did you start selling your work? And where? 
 
SH  12:42   
Yeah. When did I start selling my work?  
 
MM  12:45   
Or your ceramic work, because it might be 
 
SH  12:46   
Right.  
 
MM  12:46   
a different answer with the painting. 
 
SH  12:47   
Right, cuz the paintings I'd more been trying to like get hung and show. I think they, they used to do a student 
show here at Lillstreet once a year, every January, they open up, they open up the gallery for a week. And you had 
to apply to get into it, but it was you know, all students here and we kind of ran it. So like there'd be a meeting of 
all the students and someone helped set it up. But then everyone did different things. And so that's the first place I 
think I sold any ceramic work. And then for a little bit I was just trying to find like very small low-key shows, like 
I did one in a parking lot at a church which was you know, that was like, because I didn't have enough stock. And 
I looked at some of the bigger shows, like Bucktown Arts Fest is one that I do now. But like I looked at that, and I 
was like, you know, $300 booth fee, like I don't even have that many mugs that I could sell my entire inventory 
and I wouldn't make back the booth fee. So it was just such a small. I had such small... it was a slow process to 
build up since I was just you know, doing it outside of my full time job. So, so I did a few shows like that, that 
were okay. Like they always were like, "Oh, so a couple people want to buy this," but they weren't like great. And 
so finally one year I had enough to do Bucktown, it was I think the same year my son was born. The first time I 
did it, he was like sleeping in the crib in the back. And so that was... and it went really well. And I was like, oh, 
okay, it's worth it to do these bigger shows. If I have this, if I have the stock to do it. And. 
 
MM  14:07   
Did you also have to work up to having a display or 
 
SH  14:11   
Oh yes 
 
MM  14:12   
material to take with you? 
 
SH  14:13   
That's still a work in progress. Yeah, I think the first one I did, I just had folding tables, I think I rented one 
folding table, I had two. And then I had old photo, like paper boxes from when I taught photography. My husband 
teaches photography as well. So we had all these like photo paper boxes. And I just put them under the tablecloth 
to make like a two inch height in the back and put a bowl on there. And then the rest was just flat on the table. 
Yeah it's a kind of slow process. My husband then built me shelves and stained them. So that's, I have shelves 
now and they fit inside of each other so they transport better. I still feel like it's a work in progress. I still look and 
see some other people that are like, someday, like I see like the walls of shelves and the booths and like there's 
definitely ways to make it work better. So. 
 
MM  14:53   
Might take a larger vehicle for some people.  
 
SH  14:55   
Exactly. That. All my ceramic goals, are like very slow goals, like I used to be, like when I first started throwing I 
was like, in a year I'll be making wedding gifts. And then I was like, No, no, no, in a year, like, my bowls weighed 
a pound less. And I feel like it's similar to this, like, even with like my home studio now, and like, in a year I'll be 
selling out of my garage. And I'm like, no, maybe in five years that will be, that will start to happen. Learning to 
be more patient. 
 
MM  15:19   
Sure. Sure. Well, it sounds like you have a lot of things going on at the same time, too. 
 
SH  15:23   
Exactly. Yeah. It's never, it's never been, like I say now it's full-time/part-time because I'm working two days a 
week. Sometimes anyway. So, someday my children will be in school. And if it's still going in this direction, 
going well then maybe I'll be able to really give it a go full full-time.  
 
MM  15:38   
How many shows per year are you doing right now? 
 
SH  15:41   
Three to four. So this past summer I did four, the summer before I did three, and the summer before I did three. 
So, and then a couple pop ups around Christmas. There is a bar/coffee shop close to Lillstreet that they've actually 
purchased some of my mugs, mugs from people here to have in their coffee shop. And I've done just a pop up 
there, just in the back during brunch, someday in December, I'll set up and sell my work. So a couple smaller 
ones. But in terms of larger affairs, three to four.  
 
MM  16:09   
Do you do any retail or wholesale or... 
 
SH  16:12   
Right now just in the gallery here at Lillstreet. I've had work in a gallery in northern Wisconsin, and there's one 
other gallery in Chicago craft gallery that I have work in. And then I haven't really pursued it. And I said no to a 
couple things because I just don't have the stock, like I barely have the stock to, I feel like, keep up with what I'm 
doing now. So. 
 
MM  16:35   
So this was, you were at the Michiana Pottery Tour this year, where we met.  
 
SH  16:40   
Yes. 
 
MM  16:40   
Was that the first time you had taken part in, like, a pottery-specific type of event? 
 
SH  16:47   
Yes. 
 
MM  16:48   
Would you talk about that experience? And how that was for you? 
 
SH  16:51   
Yeah, it was, it was a phenomenal experience. It was great. Um, yeah, it's really nice for a couple reasons. One 
was the experience for me getting to meet so many other potters was just really great. Like I, you know, I know, 
potters at Lillstreet but I didn't study ceramics specifically. So I don't really have a network outside of the people 
I've met at Lillstreet, who do you know, who do ceramics or pottery. And so it was really great to meet so many 
other potters whose work I like, to see the demonstrations that the Friday before the tour, whenever we went to 
Justin Rothshank's house and like there are people demonstrating. It was just really great to see so many 
techniques ... and be able to talk to our other artists. So that's great. And then staying with Mark Goertzen and like 
seeing the pots in his house and just talking to the potters is wonderful. But also the customer base was different, 
too, since it was so pottery-specific. Everyone who came, came for pots. They really wanted to talk about pots. 
You didn't get the person, you know, who just woke up and was like, "What's going on this weekend? Oh, there's 
an art fair, let's go stroll through," which is great. I love those people and they come and, but it's a different 
conversation, I feel like, when they stopped by and there... But these were all people who were so interested in the 
pots and techniques, and a lot of students came, which I, well I was really excited about that was great to talk to 
the students who, you know, have driven from their university and really had, you know, questions about how 
specific pottery making and like, doing a career as a potter and all this, you know how that was working. So that 
was really great. 
 
MM  16:53   
That's great, I'm glad to hear that. Let me check the time, I have a ... limit on this camera, I want to make sure I 
pause it... it's okay, just to let you know. So, Lillstreet has been your pottery community it sounds like, mainly. 
What are what are some of the benefits? Or what are some of the things that you've gotten out of the group here, 
like different roles and things like that? 
 
SH  18:46   
Yeah, I think one of the, the main benefit is getting to work with people across so many different levels, that like 
when you saw the classrooms that they're the same classrooms where a lot of people who have been throwing for 
20 years, and then people who have never touched clay before are working right next to each other. And it's just 
been really great to be able to see the possibilities from the beginning. You know, it wasn't, there's not like a 
beginner area that's cordoned off, you know you're in class, but like, you could just see everything and so many 
different people trying so many different things, just keeps, keeps me inspired, like so it keeps a lot of different, a 
lot of different ideas fresh. It's also great to be able to take so many different, take classes from so many different 
instructors. That's been nice to learn from a lot of different people. They have an artists-in-residence program. So 
every year that brings in, it used to be one and now it's two different ceramic artists. So its, just kind of new things 
coming through the studio, and they always teach classes. So that's been really great to see. 
 
MM  19:51   
As far as... Sorry, I'm thinking of multiple questions as we go along here. As far as, like interacting with 
customers, and, at the point where you start selling your work and start hearing feedback.  
 
SH  20:05   
Yeah.  
 
MM  20:05   
What's that been like for you? And what kinds of things have you learned from interacting with your customers?  
 
SH  20:12   
Yeah, that's a good question. And that's one reason I like doing art fairs is because it's a, because I can watch 
people interact with my work, which is nice. And sometimes watching them interact, even like, gives me more 
information  than talking with them sometimes. I'm just seeing what they pick up and how they hold things. And 
you know. But I've learned, I think I've learned what, basically just kind of what designs most people are drawn 
to. And usually it is in line with my own intuition, which is good. Like, I'm kind of like, "I don't love this mug." 
And then also nobody else picks it up. Sometimes I can't pinpoint exactly why but... there. A lot of people really 
do appreciate the functionality of the work. There was a couple at Bucktown Arts Fest this past year, who, I just 
started making these flat bottom mugs that kind of angle in, that I feel like the form much more matches my 
surface, I feel like I finally, I finally found a form that really fits with what I'm doing. There were a few years 
where I liked my surface. And I liked my form. There was something that wasn't really working. But then, and I 
asked people in the, but everyone was like, "I love it. I love the form, I love the surface," which that is, I would 
say that's one of the downfalls of here, which is great, but everybody loves everything. And so it's been hard when 
I'm like no, but I want to move forward. And I've found that there's a few people here who like, I can ask for 
advice, and they will give me critical advice. So I've learned I just need to seek it out a bit more. And just ask for 
the attention and you know, like, go be like, "can I buy you a six pack of beer and can we talk for an hour? Can 
you be really mean to me?" And there's a few people who are like, "Yes, I'd love to be mean." So. That's been 
great. Um, yeah.  
 
SH  21:40   
So anyway, long story short, I finally found this form that's really fitting with my surface, and I'm really excited 
about it. And so I had a few of them at Bucktown was the first time I really had them out selling. And one woman 
came, she'd been looking at them. And then a couple hours later, she's came back and I was like, "Oh, welcome 
back," and she's like, "I'm here with my husband," she's like, "I have to tell you..." So her husband just has early 
onset... Parkinsons. And so he's been spilling his coffee all the time because he's shaking a little bit. And she was 
like, "these mugs are perfect. Because these can't spill... So I had to show him and he was like, I love these." And 
then they looked for a long time. And then like we need to get two cuz then he'll have a choice every morning, if 
he wants, too... Which was like, you didn't know you were making a, you know, something therapeutic too and 
this is one of the best interactions with customers because it was like even more than I intended, like I, that 
wouldn't be in my thought process of was making but it was so great to have like a, you know, the affirmation that 
what I was making. And really, I was loving just the functionality of it too, like, how when you set it down it 
wasn't tippy all, but that it was like, that personal...  
 
MM  21:40   
That's wonderful. 
 
SH  21:54   
So that was really quite, yeah... 
 
MM  22:40   
I'm really interested to hear you talk about watching customers?  
 
SH  22:44   
Yeah 
 
MM  22:44   
What kinds of things do you see? Or like, what kinds of actions are you observing with people?  
 
SH  22:51   
Yeah, I think I'm observing them... I like it when, I like seeing customers pick things up and kind of turn them and 
look at them. And that's one of the things that intrigues me about the soda firing is that like, the piece almost tells 
a story because it looks totally different as you turn it around. And so I really like watching people, a lot of people 
do pick them up and really turn them and continue to look in, which is why like the layers. And sometimes people 
do come in just like you know, pick things up. And they usually don't buy anything. And I, you can kind of tell 
right away... Um, but I like watching that. And I like seeing which ones, just which specific pieces they're drawn 
towards. And I watch how they pick up the handle, I watch how they set them down. And like that's one thing 
that's made me think more about just, like, the functionality, like I would like... I started using this flat bottomed 
mug that I got a couple of years ago, and I just hadn't used it that much. And I just realized liked using it so much. 
I used to make these ones with round bottoms. And they're not tippy, like, I make sure they're wide enough. But 
they're just like, somehow, these other ones just feel a lot sturdier. So I was liking using that, so I started using it. 
And so just watching other people do it too, like sometimes they'll put them down like, cautiously or carefully, 
and I'd like the work I'm making right now I really want just to be very functional. So I think that's helped me 
figure out how to make things more functional. You know, I'm not making super light dainty porcelain things that 
I want people to feel like they need to be careful with, which. But so I think that's helped. I like hearing people 
talk to their friends about it, oh like this person would like this, or this person. And then it is always just very 
interesting to hear people, like some people will pick up a cup and be like, "so, what'd I use this for?" What do 
you drink? Anything! 
 
SH  24:35   
But it is interesting that, it's made me realize even in the display, like people like to be told what to use things for. 
And so, um, talked about my display evolving, like with shelves, but I think I also would really like to evolve it in 
terms of like, putting out a plate with, like, cheese on it, or like, olives in it or something that, like, give someone 
an idea of how to use something. Because I think even when I think it's obvious it's not obvious to people just 
coming in. So I think could more just like, be like, I'd like to be more generous in explaining to people exactly 
how it is... I mean a mug is pretty, that's pretty obvious, I don't really get questions about how to use that. Um, but 
I, as I would like to make more objects and like more tableware and more things. I think like grouping things and 
giving people ideas of how they could see it in their home actually is really helpful. And I'd like to blow that off 
and be like well that's just a cup, like you figure out how to use it. I think some people do. You know, it would be 
helpful if I was more helpful in showing them how to use it.  
 
MM  25:30   
Yeah, that's really interesting. Is all of your work thrown right now? Or do you do any hand building, slab 
building... 
 
SH  25:39   
Yes, I have a few vases that are in the works that I haven't, I haven't brought any out to sell yet, unfortunately. But 
the head of the surface design that I do is like a long rectangle and then rectangles over it. I've made it into a wall 
base. So I've done a terracotta slab covered in terra sig, which usually the terrace, the gelato is the horizontal 
rectangle. And then I made a mold out of wood, where I just put a slab over it and drop the slab in. And so it kind 
of makes two slumps that I put together for a rectangle so it's kind of like a pillow rectangle that then hangs over 
the front. So it kind of mimics the drawing in vase form. And I'm loving making them was just taking a while to 
like figure out exactly how to get it all to work and how to hang them on the wall. I think I've just figured it out. 
But I really like, and that kind of brings back to the hand building that I was initially, like wanting to do and 
thinking about. And then some of the vases I made, they're thrown and ovaled. And then I put a slab bottom on 
them. So the few things that have a bit of hand building. Most of them are straight wheel thrown. 
 
MM  26:44   
Really interesting. I know you and I have talked a little bit, but while we're recording. Actually, let me go ahead 
and just switch to a new file. So the home studio versus working here.  
 
SH  27:04   
Yes.  
 
MM  27:04   
If you could talk more about your ideas for that. What kind of a shift that might be for you? How that came about 
in the first place? 
 
SH  27:12   
Yeah, definitely. Yeah, so my husband and I moved to Arlington Heights three years ago now, because we needed 
to be out of downtown Chicago for our son. But um, but also be part of the reason we got our house, a ranch, is so 
that we could section off the basement, put a studio into it. And so when I kind of, earlier than we had both 
thought, decided to do pottery as my main way to make money, my husband right away started building the 
studio. So he put up walls and we sectioned off part of it and a sink in. So we have a studio in our basement now. 
And initially, I was like I'll be selling out of my garage in a year. It's been a year probably and I have just bought 
my first batch of cone 6 clay. But that, I have an electric kiln in the garage, which I've had since we moved just 
because the timing worked out. And, so, I, at home, I'm going to do cone 6, electric. And so, it's just a whole, I 
have so many ideas. And just like starting and testing the glazes is a bit, not even daunting, it's exciting. I just 
always run out of time, because I think I'm going to have so much more soda work. But that will be, I'm excited to 
do things are cleaner. I love the soda kiln, I love the layers it does. But I sometimes wish there could be just like 
areas of white and just black or like, like, simplify some of the things I'm doing. But I, so I don't want to just do 
the soda work and put it in a cone 6 kiln. Like I don't want to do the same things I'm doing. So I'm excited to find 
new ways to get the layers. And to get that juxtaposition of order and chaos, those kind of two things that really 
excite me, I'm excited to, like work with new materials to find those. And I'm also excited to have control over the 
firings, and a lower loss rate. Because soda has such a high loss rate. And do tableware. I avoid plates in soda, 
because one, it takes them forever to get through the kiln. Just because it is, you know, it's a student kiln, we're 
firing all the student work in there too. They tend to warp, they catch things. The green glaze that I use isn't food 
safe. So the, the exact designs I'm doing don't translate, and I just haven't gone through the glaze testing to find a 
food safe glaze. Like, again, it's just you know, it's another time issue that I just have not put the time into. So I'm 
really excited to be able to make whole tableware sets and... Yeah, yeah, so we'll see where it goes. But I just got 
my first batch of clay. And hopefully. Now my goal is in January I'll start actually making a bunch of stuff.  
 
MM  29:38   
Yeah, it sounds like you probably... I hear from a lot of people and you can tell me if this is different from you. 
But I hear that summer is busy and Christmas time is busy. Do you have other busy times of year because of 
teaching or because of shows that you do or... 
 
SH  29:53   
No, it's mainly that. And I think it's just in my mind, I need to back up, and it's like summer is busy. But that 
means that like April and May are really busy making the stuff, especially here because again, because my work 
is going through with 600 students. Through the bisque kilns and then through the soda kiln, and the soda kiln 
gets fired less often than the regular kilns because we just fire it when there's enough work. It's just sometimes 
pieces can take months to get out. From when I initially start them. So like I tell my students the first day of class 
in September, make your Christmas gifts now or start writing IOUs. And then I forget to do that myself. But I'm, 
like I'm so excited for when I have my home kiln up and running that like, I actually can be making work in 
November that I could sell for Christmas, you know... but it wouldn't have to be quite backed up as much. But 
yes, no, those are the those are the busiest of it. In my mind then really, like winter, early spring is the time that's 
most calm. Like January, February, March, is when I think actually it's like I have the least amount going on. And 
do feel like I have a little bit of time to breathe because there's not something coming right up. 
 
MM  31:07   
That's interesting. You've talked a little bit about family. Like, what's your, what is your support system for this? 
Like, is it mostly family, other potters, do you have friends were involved in helping with shows? 
 
SH  31:21   
Interesting question. It is, no, mainly family, which is, has been great. My husband's like, super supportive of me 
doing this. And he you know, when I'm teaching then, he's with the kids, which is great, but that also then, a lot of 
the shows I just go to by myself because he's with our kids and um, there's one show that my mom does come 
down and stay with the kids so that he can help me set up and take down. Because usually, this past year and I 
think the summer before too, I did one show in early June, but then kind of three in a row right at the end of the 
summer. And so that gets a lot. There is one other potter here, Lesley Bevan, who I shared a booth with at a few 
different shows. And this past summer, we just did it for one show. But that has been nice just to have someone to 
sit with for at least one of the shows and share with and talk about things with. 
 
MM  32:08   
How far are you traveling for shows? 
 
SH  32:11   
Mainly they've just been in the Chicago area. So, I live in Arlington Heights. I do the Arlington Heights art show, 
so, six blocks. That's really just to build up a local following, like at some point I'd ideally, just you know, have 
people come to my garage in there. And then Bucktown is here. The Michiana Pottery Tour was the furthest I've 
traveled for one, and that was just a couple hours. But I would like to travel more. Again, just with the young kids 
it's not, you know, it's not in the cards at the moment. And, but I'd like to find somewhere you know, I have 
someone to stay with, too, because once you start adding in hotels, that's a lot of mugs to sell for, to make up for 
it. But yes, they've all been in Chicago area. So it ranges from like I said, five minutes to close to an hour but not 
super far. 
 
MM  32:57   
Okay. Well, that kind of leads into to one question I really like to ask is what are your goals for the future? Your 
plans, or, do you have, like, in 10 years I want to be doing...? Do you have things like that?  
 
SH  33:11   
Yeah, that's a good question. Yes, I would love to be, I would love to make enough money selling pottery that I 
can continue to make and sell pottery. Um, so like, that's one of the real goals is just to be able to make enough 
and have everything that I make go out into the world, like be efficient enough that what I'm making is all good 
enough that I'm selling it, you know, at the beginning. There's a lot of things... so I yeah, I want to make enough 
that I can continue making and selling, I definitely want to continue teaching, I love teaching. So whether that 
continues to be here, or pottery studio closer to my house or from my basement, or, you know, back to teaching 
high school at some point, like I really do, I really do enjoy teaching. That's a huge component of what I do. I 
would also really like to be able to use my pottery to bring people together or somehow have it, somehow have it 
go just above just making pots and bring, sending them out of the world. These are not fully formed ideas yet. But 
one thing I just did was I did on Instagram and I called it cups and conversation. And on November 1, I posted 20 
different cups and mugs and said, Well these are here, if you buy one, I'll send you another one for free. But the 
key is you have to take that other one and give it to someone else sit down and have a conversation, document it 
and then, and then use the hashtag cups and conversation [#cupsandconversation] to share it back. And people 
have just started sharing it back. But that's what I really want. Like I say that I make pots because I want people to 
like slow down and just take a minute to step out of life. And enjoy the moment of drinking their coffee instead of 
just rushing through it to get to the next thing. But then I make pots at a busy studio with my headphones on and I 
sell them online, and I take my mugs and I bring them in my car and they spill everywhere and the cup holders... 
it does not make me feel relaxed. Like I don't do that at all. And so I feel like I can't control what my pots do 
when they go out there, but like I wanted, I would like to have more ways to give people just a little 
encouragement to do that. Like it's, like slow down and take the time or sit and have face to face conversations. 
Because I feel like that's a huge thing that's missing, and that is a huge reason that like drives why I make the 
pottery. And I'm not right now physically promoting that. Like, I'd also love some day to, like, host some dinner 
parties where we actually do that, but like, that's where my mind started. And I was like, I just can't you know, 
hasn't been doing that. But I'd like to have another community component to the work. That is not, like I said, not 
clearly formed of exactly how that's going to look. But I really would like that to also be part of the work, too. 
 
MM  35:49   
That's really neat. How does any of that idea play out in your teaching ideas about community, or how you 
approach teaching students?  
 
SH  36:00   
Yeah, that's a good question. I do, I really like to, I want my students to feel like they're part of a community. So I 
have, one difference between teaching high school and teaching here is it, like high schoolers, you know, they 
have to be there. But then I can also like, you know, if they're, if they're late, I can hold them accountable for 
those things. In here, like people are paying, so they can really just do whatever they want. But I think I started 
doing more like, things to make them feel like a community, so come in and I've done, just so much, just like 
challenges with them. Like everyone wedges up three pounds of clay, and we see who can make the tallest one. 
And then the winner gets something and we go through. But I think it, it challenges them each individually, but 
also makes them feel like they're part of, of this community. And I think that's, that's one reason some, a lot of 
people are here, you know, they don't necessarily just want to come and work on their own work. I think when I 
came, I knew I wanted to like do this for a living. And so like, that's what I was really strongly focused on. Which 
some people are, that's great, but I think some people really want to come and just feel like part community and 
then they're also learning something and benefiting that way. But I've tried to really make the community aspect 
drive some of my teaching lessons and like what we're doing in class and then also, and then after that, then 
address everyone's individual needs that kind of bring them together first and then also bring them together in the 
class. 
 
MM  37:16   
Yeah. That's really interesting. I'm gonna pause just for a second because I'm running out of film. It's not film. 
And I know you have to teach so I'll maybe just ask you a couple of, some final questions. 
 
SH  37:24   
Okay.  
 
SH  37:35   
...what time... Oh, yeah, we're okay. 
 
MM  37:37   
Yeah, I just, I want to be mindful and not keep you right up until... 
 
SH  37:41   
I'm not used to talking on camera. So if you're like, you look... tell me... 
 
MM  37:59   
No, you're fine. Well, and it's not as though I expect, you know, for these, it's not, it's not like we go out and 
expect people to be like, professional, you know, like, oh I interview all the time. Although it is really interesting 
to me to see like people at different stages of their careers, because they are older potters who've been interviewed 
so many times, they're really good at it. I have to, like, work to like, get them to kind of break their usual 
narrative. 
 
SH  38:24   
Oh interesting. 
 
MM  38:26   
...so like, some people are easier for me just because it's like, "Okay, you've told this story, but you gotta like, 
warm up a little bit, like open up a little bit. So, anyway, just the different things you learn... So we were talking 
about teaching, I'm curious, who have been your primary mentors or who's, even not people that you've worked 
with in person, but who's influenced your work? Like who do you look at?  
 
SH  39:01   
Yeah that's a good question. There's three specific potters, who I kind of joke that I stalk online, and I really love, 
that their work has really inspired me. One is Julia Galloway, and I TA'd a workshop for her once here, and she 
was so kind and nice. And so I even, some of the techniques that I still do I learned from her in that workshop. 
Lorna Meaden who I consciously have to make sure my work doesn't look like hers. I did for a while, now I think 
I'm... And Deborah Schwarzkopf, I think just has the most beautiful forms and it's not like anything I would do. 
So I think it's, her work is really fun for me to look at because I'm just like, that's not where my mind would go. 
But I just love it, it's so beautiful. Yes, then here, I'm Joe Kraft, was an artist in residence a few years ago, and he 
taught some classes, and I did kind of a five week one-on-one class with him, and he's been a good friend, but 
then also mentor and teacher. And he's really helped push my work. And he's one of the people I asked, you 
know, "be mean to me," and he was like, "Okay." Which is great. So gave me a lot of really good feedback about 
you know, form and design and all that. And Brian Malnassey was the gallery director here and he's another 
person who has, he just handled so much pottery he really had a good like a great eye and could you know, pick 
something up and be like "No, don't do this," and like see things that I was not seeing in my own work... broad 
view of pottery so those are a couple of people have been really helpful here. And then otherwise, I looked at a, 
you know a lot of, now I feel like I could you know, list tons of potters but kind of like what I do with my 
students, I try to have more influences as opposed to less so, like I draw a lot of things from a lot of different 
potters you know, like I, there's things from like Todd Pletcher that I look at for my handle, for like this handle 
attachments. But then Sarah Pike for like the shapes of her mugs and like there's things that I've drawn on and 
kind of combined them all with... 
 
MM  40:54   
That's really interesting. When you started doing things like art fairs and selling your work, were there people 
who you were like, asking for advice about those sorts of things, or we were just kind of going for it? 
 
SH  41:08   
Kind of just going for... I asked some people, a lot of people here were in a similar situation. Um, I, no, I 
definitely asked people for advice. I'm Gary Jackson is a teacher here and he has a studio in second floor and I 
was his TA for a few years before I started teaching here. He does a lot of art fairs and really does very well at 
them and... very well. So I definitely asked him for a lot of advice. Chris Chaney is another one has been a great 
mentor here, give me some really good advice. And he's been teaching the wood fire class, now, you may have 
just met him. He has been fantastic and offering advice. And he once, a while ago, when I first when I was in my 
early years of doing soda firing, he did a whole class on selling your work, and gave a lot of tips on photographing 
and setting up an Etsy shop, and I was in the beginning stages of doing all that. So it was, it reaffirmed a few 
things I was doing, but then also gave me so many, a lot better ideas and kind of strategy for doing that. So that 
was really helpful. And hasn't been another class like that, there's currently going to be a website class that I can't 
take, but I think, I've even thought of teaching one of those, like now, because I feel like it's something I wish had 
been offered when I was in those, you know, initial stages. So.  
 
MM  42:17   
That's really interesting. There's something I always like to ask towards the end of an interview is what's 
important in your work that I haven't asked about, is there anything that's just really crucial in your...  
 
SH  42:35   
That's a good question. I feel like you've asked about almost everything. 
 
MM  42:39   
I try to be thorough. 
 
SH  42:40   
That, the connection thing is the one thing that I like, wouldn't have got to, be like, I really you know... And we 
got to the functionality and we got to the surface with like, the layers and that order and chaos and all that. I don't 
know if there's anything. 
 
MM  42:53   
Order and chaos is really interesting. What, like, how did you end up honing in on that concept?  
 
SH  43:02   
I think I honed in on it actually recently when I was trying to think about translating, or not translating, but just 
starting a cone 6 body of work. And I was really trying to pinpoint what about my work do I like, because it's not 
just the rectangles, you know, I don't want to be stuck doing only rectangles. Or stuck doing, you know, only this 
shape mug. So I was really trying to pinpoint, like, if you strip away, like what is the important part of my work. 
Like what part does excite me? And a lot of it is coming from the soda kill. So, but I was like that can't be the 
only thing because I'm now excited about cone 6, I was really just trying to pinpoint those specific things. And it 
was just a lot of thought...  
 
SH  43:38   
I also listen to this podcast called the Creative Pep Talk podcast, which has been really helpful in getting me to 
just like ask myself the right questions, I think, and just narrow my focus because I, like I said, I majored in art 
because I couldn't decide what to major in, and I can do everything. Like the majored in art, I can make art about 
like history and science and biology and psychology, like everything, I'm just interested in everything. And so it's 
hard when I first started making pots, I wanted to make everything. I still want to make everything and try every 
surface design and do absolute everything. And so I really need, I need for myself to have just a, like I need to 
narrow the parameters. In a way that's not arbitrary. I think for a while I would narrow them and be like, you 
know, to give them, because I know I work better within parameters, but then I just make them up and they be 
kind of random, so then I, they didn't like keep me there. So. So long story, just, I think I nailed down that the 
things that really intrigued me, like my favorite pots are where I have like drawn really specific lines, and they get 
kind of washed away. And it's like that, you can see the structure. And but then it's also kind of turns chaotic, and 
then also with those layers, like those are the things that really keep me going. And before I got to the surface 
side, I did a lot of grids, like I would start on every mug drawing the grid. And then I would kind of draw lines 
that made more like organic shapes within the grid. And I thought about it a lot like, I was teaching high school 
the time and like my life was run by bells. But then in between the bells, there would be this chaos in the 
classroom, then you go back and it's very structured, then chaotic in the middle. And so that's kind of where I got 
the grid from. But then the grid started holding me back. I think like, I just started everything with a grid, I needed 
to kind of break out of the grid. It has all the rectangles. Um, but I think, so I think like, grids and rectangles is 
where I was at. But I think it's really, in a broader sense that juxtaposition of like order and chaos and like 
structure. And like, same thing with life, like how you have this like, not me, and how do you find like meaning 
and like chaos within this structure? Like even just like taking that to society. So that really excites me. 
 
MM  45:38   
I'm curious, given your interest in science, is there a piece of ceramics like the chemistry that appeals to you?  
 
SH  45:47   
Oh yeah. 
 
MM  45:47   
Are you, do you get into that? 
 
SH  45:49   
Absolutely, yes. Yeah, absolutely. I think in eighth grade, you had to write a paper on what you wanted to be, like, 
interview someone, and I interviewed a chemist on it. And so I love science. And I feel now like I'm totally back 
full circle, sort of like firing the soda kiln and learning about all that. And I recently just took a glaze chemistry 
course, which is I'm dying to like, delve into glaze chemistry. Again, it's just the time but it's like, that excites me 
so much. And like learning about how the different molecules act, react with each other, and why they do, and 
testing and seeing, is really exciting to me.  
 
MM  46:21   
Is it something you get to teach about very much, or?  
 
SH  46:25   
I do teach about it, I don't know if my students want to... I warn them when I'm about to go off on a tangent, but 
yes. The class, the class actually that I teach today is, um, it's one I actually developed. It just, it's a bit advanced 
soda class, it's just surface for the soda kiln. There were students who were here on the weekends taking a 
beginning soda class, and they, some of them started asking if there can be an advanced class. And so I just, I was 
like, That's is what I do. I'm interested in it... And so it's great, I mean, great students. But when we talk about like 
why things work in the soda kiln, like I really dive into the chemistry a lot of it. I also tried to take them, at least 
once a course, back to the chem room, and say like if there's a glaze you want to make if there's something you 
want to do, like outside of what we offer here, we can make those. Just to get some more things going through the 
kiln and see how they react. And also then have, give them a better understanding of why things are doing what 
they do. And really, I try to give them... I'm not definitely not an expert on it, but like, just a broader sense of 
scientifically why things are happening in the soda kiln, you know, like when the sodium is volatile and how it 
goes through and how it hits the pieces. And why exactly it's doing this and not this, and I think it helps them too, 
because is soda is, it can seem very random, but I think it gives them, like it allows them to lower their 
expectations that everything you know, should look exactly like this, or like this, or why did this come out gray? 
Which, you get that a lot. But I think they understand their pieces better when they have a better understanding 
what's going on in the kiln.  
 
MM  47:47   
Yeah, would you describe the soda firing process, just like, in basic terms? 
 
SH  47:53   
Yes. So soda firing is, instead of putting a glaze on the outside of a piece you, you don't need, yeah. You don't 
really glaze the outside of the piece. Instead, soda does it, which is sodium. So it's a special kiln. And when the 
kiln gets to its hottest temperature, so almost 2300 degrees, we add baking soda mixed with wood chips and water 
into the kiln. And the sodium is volatile over 2000 degrees, which means it evaporates in the kiln, it travels with 
the path of the flame. And so where it hits the pieces, it interacts with whatever you put on the surface to create 
different colors, call it flashing. Basically, the pieces change as you turn them around a lot. So you get a lot of 
oranges, grays, yellow hues, you can put glaze on the pieces, but if you glaze the whole piece, then the sodium is 
gonna be, it's acting like another layer of glaze, it's probably just going to like run off. So there's different things 
going on that help the soda interact better with pieces and get just kind of exciting. It's like Christmas opening up 
the kiln, cuz it's always a surprise and always different. So there's a lot more potential for randomness than in the 
regular kiln where, you get you know, there's slight variation, but like you put something in and you know 
approximately what you're going to get. 
 
MM  49:05   
Yeah. Why the sawdust and water? 
 
SH  49:11   
So the way that we add the soda here is we put it on a piece of metal rebar and pull a brick out of the kiln so 
there's like flames shooting out and then stick it in on that metal. And so the wood chips in the water allow the 
soda ash and sodium bicarbonate, there are two things, kinda get to like a tuna salad consistency, so we can make 
burritos out of it and put it on the piece to put it in. You can also spray soda, which some people, some of the 
artists in residence have done in our kiln too, and then you just mix the sodium bicarbonate and soda ash with 
water spray and spray it in with a garden hose. I'd really like to try doing it that way. I haven't gotten to shadow 
someone spraying it in. And I think the burritos it allows more student participation, which as I mentioned, with 
the soda program, the students helped load the kiln, add the soda, and unload the kiln they can help, you know 
they can better understand the process. But the burritos and the mixing and the making allows the students to help 
better to... working out... 
 
MM  50:07   
Yeah, makes a lot of sense. How old is your kiln? What's kiln maintenance like with soda firing?  
 
SH  50:15   
Oh, that's good. The kiln needs a lot more maintenance than with a regular kiln. We just had a new kiln built in 
April. And before that had been September of like, four, a little over four years before that. So, this past kiln was 
the longest one we've had. Before that it was like about every three years they were rebuilding the soda kiln. 
Because the issue is the soda doesn't just glaze your pots, it glazes the entire kiln. And so it starts to erode the 
bricks and erode the floor. The arch was almost falling in in one of our kilns. So this past one, they kept the frame. 
And five years ago, they had also poured a new concrete slab so the floor was very flat, which really helped I 
think to, from any shifting that was happening because even the door, it's all separate, you know it's all separate 
bricks, just kind of held together by the tension of the metal. So the kiln, so the rebuilding happens more often 
than within normal kiln and the maintenance after every firing, we really scrape it out. So we scrape all the 
shelves re- kiln wash them. We scrape the floor out. So all the, you know, the skeletons of the burritos are in 
there, we scrape that out. We've put a kind of plastic in the floor, that helps prevent the soda from corroding it. 
But we still want to make sure we get as much of the soda out every time that we can. We sprinkle it with alumina 
hydrate, we check the walls and initially, we covered the walls with a, basically just a shino [glaze] to help protect 
them from the soda, but sometimes there's gets build up in the... real bad. If there's gaps, we try to add wadding 
into the gaps to prevent those. We've had to retighten it a few times, like when it gets really hot, you could, that's 
when you can tighten it a little bit more cuz it's loose enough to push in some... 
 
MM  52:02   
Do you think you'll build your own soda kiln someday?  
 
SH  52:04   
Oh my gosh, maybe. I would love to. I would also love to move to North Carolina and live in the mountains and 
have a backyard that I can put a soda kiln in. So we'll see. Right now I'm happy with my electric killed in the 
garage and.. there. So that's a much more of a like long term possibility. But. 
 
MM  52:23   
That's a lot of work for one person. 
 
SH  52:25   
It is, yes. Yeah, it really is. But to be able to have my own soda kiln and fire whenever I want, I would be, oh my 
gosh that would be so exciting. So, but, we'll see. Right now I'm excited to be able to use this one. 
 
MM  52:36   
That's good.  
 
SH  52:36   
Yeah.  
 
MM  52:38   
Would you talk a little bit of what the division of labor in the ceramic studio is here? Who takes care of which 
things? 
 
SH  52:45   
Yeah, that's good. That's a good question. So the, the head of the service department is Dave Trost. And he... 
everything. And he has an assistant Mary and the two of them kind of, they're the go-tos for all the questions. 
They order supplies for the tool closet, order supplies and they... I don't know that they run but they organize the 
monitor duties. So monitors are a bunch of people here who are students, but then they also help out around the 
studio. So one person cleans a day. So they come and clean up all the, wipe down all the tables, students should 
clean up after themselves, but wipe down the tables. Someone cleans the bathrooms. The floors are cleaned twice 
a week, so they hose them all down and squeegee them. And all that cleaning gets done between 10pm and 10am. 
Because there are, there's open studio, anyone taking a class here can come in and work anytime between 10am 
and 10pm any day of the week, as long as they find room and, you know, there's room in the classrooms. So the 
monitors do the cleaning, and then some other monitors, um, make clay. Which that's the first thing I did here I 
was a clay maker. So all of our clay, we, hopefully it doesn't get thrown in the trash, it all gets thrown in these big 
recycle buckets. So we have pug mill in the back and we reclaim the clay. So I think there's three people who 
reclaim the clay and just come and they kind of keep an eye on that, when the buckets are full they'll take them 
back and reclaim that and we resell it. And then there are so there's the cleaning monitors, the kiln loaders, people 
who load and unload the two regular kilns that we have for glaze and bisque firing. Which there are generally two 
bisque and two glaze firings every week. And then there are soda monitors, which there are four of us. And we 
kind of keep an eye on the soda program. So we watch the soda slips when they get low we'll remake those, 
there's some specific glazes that we have just for soda, and then the firing. So we just rotate firings. So we kind of, 
like, coordinate the schedule among ourselves. When there's enough work, we fire it, and we coordinate the 
students to come help us load, fire and unload and then we make sure that the kiln is totally set for the next person 
who is firing. Every, in between every session, so four times a year, we do a deep clean in the studio where all the 
monitors come in, it's a Saturday, the whole place is shut down, like no one else can come in from eight to one 
and like clean everything. So any shelves that students are off of we clean, we, you know find bags of half-used 
bags of clay that are around. Just like, we deep clean every nook and cranny of the studio. So that really helps 
keep it under control, too.  
 
MM  55:07   
Yeah, well it's always a kind of a dusty environment with lots of mud and dirt. 
 
SH  55:13   
Right, right. 
 
MM  55:15   
Yeah. Thank you. That's really helpful to hear about. 
 
MM  55:23   
I look forward to hearing where you head with all of this. I really do. It's exciting. I think that's all the questions 
that I have.  
 
SH  55:32   
All right. 
 
MM  55:33   
So unless there's anything you want to add... 
 
SH  55:36   
No, I think we covered... Thank you so much. 
 
MM  55:37   
Thank you, thank you.