AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Doug Miller – 3/5/22 
1 
 
Doug Miller  
Where: Pike County Public Library  
Date: March 5, 2022 
Location: Pikeville, KY 
Interviewer: Emily Hilliard 
Transcription: Emily Hilliard 
         Length: 1:16:54  
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Doug Miller – 3/5/22 
2 
 
Doug Miller (b. 1956, Pikeville, KY) is a retired rural mail carrier. He started working as a part-time rural 
carrier in 1978 after working in the coalmines. He got a full-time route in June of 1983 working out of the 
Pikeville Post Office. Miller is a former member of the UMWA and got involved in the NRLCA early on 
in his postal career. He served as a District President of the NRLCA for 20 years, a Local Steward for 20 
years, and an Area Steward for 8 or 9 years. Miller says that he knew two retired rural carriers, one of 
whom was on his route, who had delivered on horseback in the area. He speaks of practical jokes he 
would play on his coworkers in the post office, his strong relationship with his customers, and how the 
area along his route changed from when he started in 1978 (better roads, fewer coal trucks, more 
development). He also shared how his work changed over time due to technology, mail type and mail 
volume, and formalization of the work. We conducted this interview at the Pike County Post Office in 
Pikeville, KY, and wore masks during the conversation, as a COVID-19 safety measure.  
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Doug Miller – 3/5/22 
3 
 
DM: Doug Miller 
EH: Emily Hilliard 
 
00:00 
EH: Alright, it is March 5, 2022. I'm in Pikeville, Kentucky and why don't you introduce yourself and tell 
me your name, the year you were born and where you're from. 
 
DM: Okay, my name's Doug Miller. I was born 1956 here in Pikeville, Kentucky. 
 
EH: Tell me how you got interested in becoming a rural mail carrier? 
 
DM: It was by chance. I had no intentions on doing it--I was working in the mines at the time and my dad 
was close friends with a rural carrier here in Pikeville and he needed a sub and my dad came in one day, 
he talked to my after work and asked if I'd be interested in delivering the mail, so I thought about it and 
told him I'd give it a shot, so I met with the carrier, Nole Haird (sp?), and he told me to come and talk to 
Lucille Smith who was the postmaster over here at the time. So I went and spoke to Lucille and she told 
me to go take the test. So I went to Lexington, Kentucky and took the test and probably about a month 
later I was hired as a substitute.  
 
EH: How did you learn how to do it? 
 
01:28  
 
DM: We were given three days training with the carrier at that time. It's changed a lot over the years, you 
know, the way they do it, they have their academies and everything now, but at the time you just went 
with the regular carrier and you just basically showed you the case, read you through how the numbers 
ran on the case and went over how the route was laid out, which I already knew, I was familiar with the 
territory anyway, so then we just, I just helped him case the mail in the morning and we tied it out and 
went out and delivered it and just learned from that. 
 
EH: Was the first day on the job alone scary? 
 
DM: (laughs) It wasn't scary, I was ready to bring it back and just throw my hands up and go back to the 
mines about two-thirds of the way through it because I was, he normally, Nole usually got done around 
3:30 4 o'clock, so about 4 o'clock I was over on Zebulon highway over here, toward the end of the route 
and I was working a trailer court and Nole went by waving and blowing his horn and everything and I 
was just, "Stop and help me and get me lined out or something!" you know, but I had about another, 
probably another 100 deliveries after that, I made it back decent time for the first day. Second day got a 
little bit better and you know, if you carry back to back and see your mistakes and stuff, you know you 
learn from your mistakes and it got better and after 3 or 4 days it fell in line with me and I loved it.  
 
03:21  
 
EH: How long, or when did you get a permanent route? 
 
DM: Let's see, I started in May of '78, I think I got a permanent route in 1983, probably around June 
1983, I think.  
 
EH: And did you do that same route for the rest of your career? 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Doug Miller – 3/5/22 
4 
 
 
DM: No, the route that I went regular, that's what we call the permanent route is, went regular, it's post 
office jargon, it was, it wasn't a full-time route, it didn't qualify hourly, you know, hours per week. I think 
at the time you had to have, be evaluated at 35 hours for it to be considered a regular route. So I was on 
that auxiliary route for about a year and a half and what we do, we have mail counts and do the 
evaluations of the routes, you know--I don't know if you're familiar with that or not, but anyway, we had 
the mail count and it got enough hours to make me a full-time employee then. 
 
EH: Nice. And when was that? 
 
DM: That was in 1983. Actually I could have made it a year earlier--the hours were there but you have to 
have a mail count in order to you know, make a regular route, so we were in between contracts and we 
didn't have the regular mail count that year so I had to you know, delay it for 6-8 months. I stayed on that 
route for probably a year and then another route became vacant and I bid on it, which is a bigger route, 
and I stayed on that, which was route 5. Stayed on that for about a year, year and a half. And then the 
route that I started on then, route 2, became open--the guy that was on it transferred to Ashland and I bid 
on it and got it and I stayed on it for over 30 years then. 
 
EH: Nice. Could you describe the scenery and landscape along your route, you know, for someone who's 
never been to Eastern Kentucky? 
 
06:00  
 
DM: Today versus then? (laughs) 
 
EH: Yeah, let's start with then and then we'll talk about how it's changed. 
 
DM: Okay, okay, in '78 there was a lot of coal trucks on the road at the time, you know a lot of mining 
going on. The roads weren't the best in the world, you know, they were rutted out. They weren't blacktop 
roads, you know, just dirt and gravel roads. Now our roads, the coal severance tax started coming into this 
area and Paul Patton who was our governor later on was an executive judge at the time and I give him 
credit--he did a lot of good for the roads around here back then. A lot of blacktop went down in the early 
80s. In the 70s, when I was still subbing on the other routes, you pretty much had to have a 4-wheel drive 
vehicle at the time. It was just rutted out and especially in the winter, it was real bad. One of our carriers 
that carried over on Island Creek, which is route 5, which was my second route that I went on, but he got 
stuck right in the middle of the road and they had to take cinder blocks and rocks and build it back up to 
where he could get up and go on and finish the route.  
 
EH: Wow. 
 
07:47  
 
DM: But yeah, then we didn't go up all the little hollows and stuff, you know. Basically at the mouth of 
the hollows where these people lived there was just a bank of boxes, you know, 8 or 10 boxes on the same 
post and you'd have 3 or 4 families in the same mailbox, you know, so you'd get rid of a handful of mail 
in each box at that time. It was completely different than what it is now, you know. When 911 came into 
the area, we started going up more and more of the hollows and closer to the people's houses. Everybody 
had to have their own address after 911 so we gained a lot of boxes and it was just a little tougher to 
deliver after that. We wasn't delivering as much per box, but you had a lot more boxes on the route. 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Doug Miller – 3/5/22 
5 
 
EH: Yeah. 
 
DM: You asked about the scenery of the area? It's beautiful up here delivering. I mean especially in the 
summertime, it's just beautiful country.  
 
EH: Can you walk me through a typical day on the job to when you would get into the post office to when 
you would get home at night? 
 
DM: Okay, early in my career or later, because it changed... 
 
EH: Yeah, let's... 
 
DM: Quite a bit over the years, you know... 
 
EH: Well let's start with early and then we'll talk about how it changed. 
 
DM: Okay, early it was just a different Postal Service early on, especially on the rural side because we 
were out in the country, you know. We were on an evaluated system, we weren't hourly workers. All they 
were concerned about at that time was get the mail delivered, you know if you get done early fine, they 
were glad for it. If you had to work over, that's on you, you know, so it was an incentive to push it and try 
to get done. When I started out, we had wooden cases that we sorted the mail in. It's like a wall (hits 
microphone) Oh, sorry! (laughs) 
 
EH: It's okay! 
 
DM: We had a wall with I think it was probably 5 inch high, 3 inch wide holes in each shelf. Probably 30, 
30, 35 holes on each shelf. I think there was 6 rows of it and then you had a wing on the right and a wing 
on the left, so and normally you had 2 families per box, you know, to sort the mail. You start in the left 
hand corner for your first delivery and everything is sequential, you just follow along with the shelf for 
the way the route was run. (sighs) That was one of the first changes that they made was they did away 
with the wooden cases. We thought that was terrible (laughs) we hate change you know! But we went to 
the metal cases--it did give more room, more slots, and actually it was probably better, but like I said we 
just hate change here in the country, so. We would come in and the mail would be trayed out for us, the 
letters would be in trays. There was a big rack on the side where the magazines and everything went. Had 
a lot more mail back then than we did later on. That was because of several families per box. But the 
packages would be in a big crate, or a tub. 
 
There wasn't any Amazon delivery back then so a normal day, you'd probably on the bigger routes you 
would probably have maybe 15-20 packages in a day. Versus maybe 100 to several hundred, you know, 
depending on the route! We normally did the magazines and the newspapers and everything first. That 
way we could sort it, the first family to the left in the hole and you know, have it sorted out more that 
way. We worked the magazines up first and then do the letters. There wasn't any machine sorting back 
then, it was all what we call raw mail then. And we normally had what we call trays, you know, they're 
about 2 feet with the letters in it and it would range from 3-4 trays per route. But we would go through 
them and just case everything up and start at the bottom right and start pulling it out and we had leather 
straps back then. We would put it in the tub and we'd get the tub full and we'd just you know, pull the 
strap tight and put it on the buggy then, wheel it outside and load it up.  
 
Once we left there it was just out on the route you know and at that time, like I said, there wasn't these 
scanners tracking you (laughs) telling you how long you stopped at a certain place or anything like that. 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Doug Miller – 3/5/22 
6 
 
At the time we had a lot more one on one with our customers. We could spend more time talking to them, 
you know, and after you've been on the route for a while, you pretty much could tell from day to day, 
you'd be within 10-15 minutes of yourself, you know, anywhere on the route so people knew when to 
expect you. Later on, somebody would ask me, you know, when are you gonna be at a certain place and 
I'd just tell them anywhere from 12-3, you know, because I could never tell from day to day what it was 
gonna be like. Anything else on the...I know I'm missing something here. 
 
EH: I think that's good! Yeah, why don't you tell me about your customers--what kind of people you 
served and how you got to know them? 
 
DM: Okay. Well, (laughs) one time Nole, I subbed on all of the routes in the office at one time and Nole 
used to joke that I needed to be a politician because I knew everybody in the county (laughs), you know, 
so. But yeah, I got to learn quite a few people, especially once I got settled in on route 2 which was the 
route that I carried for 30-some years. Watched kids from toddlers and watched them grow up and start 
families of their own, you know, and they were 2nd family, you know, actually I've spent as much time if 
not more than I did with my regular family. But, a lot of good people. They would help you out if you 
were out and broke down or had a flat, you know, they'd come out and help you. I remember when I was 
subbing on a route, this little lady on, I think it was on route 5, yeah I know it was route 5, but she would 
always leave a Pepsi or something in the mailbox, you know, and sometimes it'd be a chicken drumstick 
or a baloney sandwich or something, you know, she'd just, everyday it'd seem like, she'd leave something 
out there for the carrier, which in the spring and fall was alright, but July and August, a hot Pepsi and 
green baloney sandwich is not too appeasing, but bless her heart, she was good to us.  
 
EH: Yeah, tell me about a time when you helped a customer? 
 
DM: Helped a customer. 
 
EH: Like outside of the normal duties of the job. 
 
18:17  
 
DM: Well there was one time I was on my route 2 and had pulled over--there's a little road that goes off 
the main highway there and there's probably 10, 12 houses over on that road and my son he works on the 
barges and he just happened to be in that week and he had run me down on the route and just had pulled 
over and was talking to him and we looked and saw smoke and we went and this guy's house was on fire. 
We tried to see if anybody was home and nobody was home so Josh, my son, he was trained on battling 
fires and stuff from the barges and stuff so he grabbed the water hose while I called for the fire 
department to come and they were there within 5 minutes or so and I got ahold of some other family that 
lived next to them there and told them what was going on so they came and they was able to get the fire 
out but there was so much smoke damage and water damage that they had to tear it down. 
 
EH: Wow. 
 
DM: Had this older guy, one time I was coming up to him and he just fell over. He was probably in his 
mid-80s at the time. Real frail guy. So I helped get him up out of the bushes where he fell and called his 
sister, yeah it was his sister, to come up there to be with him. There was another time, it wasn't a 
customer, I was delivering on the highway and I heard somebody screaming, screaming for help, I mean it 
was really (laughs), a woman screaming at the top of her lungs. She was on another little side road so I 
shot over there and she had a daughter, she was probably 4 years old and she was having a seizure and I 
asked her if she had been having these before or anything like that and she said, "I just need to get her 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Doug Miller – 3/5/22 
7 
 
calmed down and cooled off and all that." And at the time I carried a water cooler with ice in it, so got her 
a bag and kept it right around her neck and she calmed down and finally came to and everything was 
good. 
 
EH: Wow. 
 
DM: That's just some of them that come to mind.  
 
21:30  
 
EH: Yeah. What about a time when a customer helped you? 
 
DM: I broke down one time. This was early on before all the micromanaging and stuff, but my, I think I 
was driving a standard shift truck at the time and the clutch pedal broke off of it and you can't deliver that 
way! (laughs) And I was trying to figure out what to do with it and just call the post office and have them 
call a sub in or something, and this guy said, "Well, I'll just drive you and you can finish your route." So 
we loaded up and you know, I would have probably been fired these days for it, but you know, at that 
time you know, it was just, get the mail delivered was all they worried about back then. So yeah, he drove 
me around the route and wouldn't take a nickel for gas or anything, you know.  
 
There's been a couple times people would stop and help me change a flat. This lady, she had a dairy bar 
up there on the route, and every now and then I'd stop and get a sandwich--she made great sandwiches! 
And she would never let me pay her! (laughs) So I felt guilty, you know, I didn't want to take advantage 
of her, so I wouldn't stop as much as I wanted to you know, but, she was constantly, fixed me a free meal, 
you know. And I just--like I said I just felt guilty about it and wouldn't stop near as much as I wanted to.  
 
23:27   
  
EH: What would you carry in the car with you, you know for weather, for breakdowns, clothes, snacks? 
 
DM: I hated to be bundled up, really. I couldn't work with a heavy coat on. I liked a vest, an insulated 
vest. Normally just a pair of jeans and you know, wintertime it was some good boots, keep my feet dry 
getting out and stuff. And I'd have a jacket with me just in case, but normally just a flannel shirt with the 
vest and that's what I delivered out of. I was lucky, I really didn't have a whole lot of breakdowns! Maybe 
5 or 6 over the total career, so it's... 
 
EH: What kind of cars did you have over the course of your career? 
 
DM: I started off, I can't remember what model it was, probably a '71 model Cutlass Supreme, '72 Cutlass 
Supreme and that was what I had you know, when I started. After I delivered for a couple weeks, my dad 
asked me if it was something I was gonna stay with, and the car was decent, you know, for delivering but 
I guess he realized winter would be coming on, so after I don't know, probably a month or two, he went 
and signed a note for me, I got a '78 Bronco. It was the first year they had the full-sized Broncos, which is 
crazy you know, somebody that is guaranteed maybe 1 day a week plus whatever the carrier's vacation 
you know, I wasn't guaranteed anything back then but, I did side jobs when I wasn't carrying the mail too, 
you know, I worked for Sears part-time. I worked for the gas station on weekends from like 10-6 or you 
know, the night shift. Anyway, I went from the Bronco, I delivered in it 'til a little bit after I made the 
regular [carrier] in '83. Then I went to a Toyota pick-up, just a 2-wheel drive. Then a couple more trucks 
after that and then I got on a kick with the Chevy S-10s. I went through 4 Chevy S-10s and they quit 
making those so I went to the Colorado for my last one that I delivered on. I had another one, probably 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Doug Miller – 3/5/22 
8 
 
the best vehicle I ever delivered out of was a little Honda CR-V. It was a 2000 model I think it was. It was 
just a perfect little vehicle for mail route rural delivery.  
 
27:14  
 
EH: Yeah, were you able to fit all the mail in the pickups? 
 
DM: In the early days, yeah. I used a camper top, used my camper top or a tarp. Some of 'em had the crew 
cab too, you know, so it wasn't an issue and like I said earlier, back then we didn't have the Amazon and 
all the packages that we have now, so the biggest thing early on was when the Sears catalogs came out or 
the JC Penny catalogs and all those 'cause those would make a load quick. They would really load a 
vehicle down.  
 
Just a little side thing, early on even though it wasn't required when the Sears catalogs came, it'd be a 
tractor trailer load of 'em. And they wouldn't have enough clerks to get 'em unloaded and stuff, so us rural 
carriers, we'd just go help unload it, it needed to be done so we did it, you know. And times changes and 
you know there'd be grievances filed and everything else (laughs) these days for doing clerk work, so at 
the time you know, they was grateful for the help, you know, they was glad to get it done, you know, so 
we could get on out and get the mail delivered, so.  
 
EH: Yeah, how have you seen the area along your route change over time? 
 
DM: It's grown up. It's a lot more congestion than what it was back then. I can't compare the old days, or I 
call it old days but it really wasn't that long ago. '78, I can't compare it to Mayberry, (laughs) but 
compared to what it is today, you know, it was a lot more laid back time. A lot less stress. We (laughs) 
used to love to come in and prank each other in the mornings, you know. I was always constantly pulling 
a prank on somebody.  
 
EH: How would you prank each other? 
 
DM: I was reminding the guy that I subbed for that got me the job--I talked to him just the other day and I 
was laughing about it. He used to farm a lot. I mean not a lot but you know, just enough, raised a couple 
cattle, some pigs and stuff like that. Well he had butchered a hog and--you're familiar with cracklins, you 
know, take the fat and everything you know, the hide from the pig and render it down you know, for lard 
and cracklins. I love cracklins. So, I found out he had butchered that hog and I said, "Well when you 
gonna render those cracklins out?" And he said, "Oh, I'll let you know." Well it went about a week or two 
and I said, "You rendered them cracklins out?" "Yeah, I did that over the weekend." I said, "You was 
gonna call me!" And he said "Oh, I fed 'em to the dog." So I just said (laughs) "Well you sorry no count!" 
And then he got to telling me about that fresh pork chop that his wife Jean had fixed him, "Boy, I can't 
wait to get out there into that pork chop." He had a pork chop sandwich--he had that in his truck, you 
know, back then we didn't lock our vehicles you know, so I'll fix you! (laughs) So I went out to his truck 
and I got that porkchop sandwich and I just took as big a bite out of the middle of it as I could (laughs) 
and stuck the rest of it back in there (laughs).  
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
DM: Well he got mad (laughs). I never did tell him that I did it until the other day! 
 
EH: Wow! (laughs) 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Doug Miller – 3/5/22 
9 
 
DM: That was 40 years ago I guess when it happened.  
 
EH: What did he say about it now? 
 
DM: He remembered it and he said, "Was that you?" Yeah, that was me. And I used to love in the 
summertime, I'd got out there and turn the heat up on his vehicle you know, it'd be 100 degrees and he'd 
be halfway home before he realized his heater was on. Just things like that you know, and another one on 
the same guy--I killed a rattlesnake the day before and I took it over and I was showing it off to the people 
at the post office, you know, and Nole had this routine that when he loaded his vehicle, he backed his 
truck up to the dock. And he had a homemade box I guess in the back of his truck. He would always come 
out, back out to the dock, step into the bed of his truck and open the lid on that box and then start 
throwing his mail in there. So I coiled that rattlesnake up inside of the box on him (laughs). So he got 
ready to go out there to load and I grabbed the assistant postmaster. I said, "Come here and watch this." 
So we was watching out the window and he said, "What's going on here?" I said, "Just watch." So Nole 
backed up to the dock and he flipped the lid back on that thing and he stepped down in the bed of the 
truck and he just shot up! It looked like he jumped 3 feet straight up in the air! (laughs) He cussed! 
(laughs) 
 
EH: (laughs) Wow! 
 
DM: Here the assistant postmaster, he said, "What in the world?" And I said, let's see what he stepped 
into then. And we got a laugh out of it, you know. But I would have been fired these days for doing 
something like that. 
 
EH: Yeah. 
 
34:10  
 
DM: That's just an example of how things have changed over the years and the attitude, and you know, 
the way things are done. 
 
 
EH: Yeah. Yeah, talk a little more about how things have changed. You know, a lot of people have talked 
about being more monitored and not being able to stop and chat with people, but talk more about that. 
 
 
DM: Yeah. I heard a city carrier tell our route supervisor one time, he said, "Jack, you're the only one in 
this postal service that could take 2 weeks off and nobody would ever know you were gone." (laughs) 
And that's about the way it was--everybody knew the job and they came in and did it you know, so. And it 
was like that for several years so I don't know, it just, they started getting away from the customer service 
and they started looking more at the money and more micro-managing over the years and it really, at one 
time the city craft was looking at going onto the evaluated system, you know the pay system like ours. 
They were, I think they were seriously looking at it at one time and then they got away from it. But I 
never could understand why micromanage these carriers that you know, they're gonna get paid the same 
whether they work 'til 4 o'clock or if they get done at 2 o'clock. So why mess with a good thing? And it 
just, I think the money end of it hurt it a lot. And then once we started carrying the cell phones you know 
that had the chip where they could track you, then they went from that to the scanners and...I can see 
progress, I mean I can understand that, but the micro-managing of it I just never could understand it for 
the evaluated system. It just never made any sense to me. I worked on a detail through the union with this 
mapping that they're doing now, I don't know if you've heard of it or not, but it's eventually that's the way 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Doug Miller – 3/5/22 
10 
 
the rural craft is gonna be paid, you know, is through this RRECS, they call it, I guess. But I was on a 
team early on you know, go to the offices, and help map the routes and stuff, help plot the maps and all 
this and me, as I'm almost completely illiterate on a computer. 
 
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
 
DM: Okay, I'm just an old country boy you know, but me, going into an office that I know nothing about 
the route, I could look at the crumbs that they had left in tracking these carriers and I could tell you know, 
how they, whether they ran the route according to the way the route description is on the books or if 
they're sneaking and going up you know, another way earlier or whatever, you know. I could tell by 
looking at the computer when they got to the end of a road, I could tell whether they did  a pull into the 
driveway or a 3point turn of if they pulled in or backed in, you know, I could tell that just by looking at it. 
That's me as just a rural carrier. So I know that they have people sitting up there and that's their job to 
track what's going on with it. And I (sighs) I just couldn't, could never understand you know, why do that 
with an evaluated system. I mean if I'm spending 12 hours on the route, you know, it's costing me, you 
know, not the postal service. 
 
EH: Yeah. 
 
DM: That's just my feeling on that part of it. 
 
39:21  
 
 
EH: Do you think there might be a reason in the future when they want that data?  
 
DM: Yeah, in the future it's eventually how they're gonna be paid! I mean if they're not, if they're not 
taking the package to the door now, we told them, I was on this team 4, probably 4 years before I retired, 
so it's been going on for several years trying to get this system in place. But we would tell the carriers 
when we'd go to the union meetings, "People, they're tracking you. They're watching what you're doing 
out there. Eventually, this is the way you're gonna be paid. Deliver that package to the door. That's what 
we're being paid for!" 
 
EH: Yeah. 
 
DM: Some just don't get it and I'm afraid it's gonna come back and bite 'em someday.  
 
EH: Yeah. 
 
DM: I mean, we've still got these smaller offices, like we were back in the day, you know, it's not really 
hit them yet but eventually it's gonna catch up and you know, everybody's gonna be under the same 
system and if they've been delivering you know, 3 or 4 packages at mom or dad's place here rather than 
going up to Junior's or whatever you know, I'm afraid it's gonna come, sometime sooner or later you 
know, it's gonna come back and bite them. 
 
EH: Tell me about your involvement with the union? 
 
DM: Okay. I joined early on, just a little bit after I got hired on at the Postal Service. I always believed in 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Doug Miller – 3/5/22 
11 
 
the union. I was a member of the UMWA when I did my internship at Beth-Elkhorn [Coal] back in 1975. 
I saw in the UMWA a lot of abuse that went on. But I saw more good that came out of it, you know. But I 
did see a lot of people taking advantage of it. And it's the same with our union, you know, you see some 
abuse. But I never was a fan of trying to get something for nothing, which other crafts it seems, that's 
what a lot of the grievances would be--trying to get money for just a simple mistake, but you know, trying 
to get money for it. I wasn't a big fan of that. I started going to the meetings probably in 1982? 81-82. The 
first meeting I went to was in Paintsville. The guy that, Nole Haird, I mentioned him before, you know 
the guy that I first subbed for, it was me and him and John Edmonds (sp?). John ended up, he was our 
state steward later on. He's a good friend. But the 3 of us went to Paintsville and went to our first union 
meeting and it was just a district meeting, it wasn't a state meeting. Probably 40, 45 people there, maybe 
50. A lot of them in ties, jackets (laughs), most of them were at that time. 
 
EH: Wow. 
 
43:48  
 
DM: And I didn't really know what to think about it, you know, my first meeting because I heard a lot of 
complaining about things that I just couldn't dream this would be going on, you know. I mean here we 
were in Pikeville, you know everything's just, no issues hardly. But I did learn that there are problems out 
there. So we went to that one and a little bit later, we went to a state meeting, probably the next year we 
went to the state convention--John and I. Nole didn't go to hardly any meetings after that. But John 
(laughs) after the meeting he decided, "Oh, I think I'm gonna get into this, you know. I'm gonna run for 
the board," I think it was a board position he later ran for. He had this little look he'd give, you know, 
when he was thinking about something. So I said, "John, you go right ahead and I'll be right behind you. 
Way behind you." 
 
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
 
DM: But he did, he got involved with the, he was a district president at one time, got on the state board, 
moved his way up. Eventually he ran for state steward position. He was the state steward for several 
years. I went to the meetings regular. I was always the guy in the back of the room, you know, I was just 
taking notes and watching you know, observing. And I got involved with, I don't know if you've ever 
heard of the QWL? If anybody had ever mentioned QWL or not? 
 
EH: Hmm-hnn [no] 
 
DM: It's Quality Work Life employee involvement. But we got started in on that and what it is, it's 
carriers and managers meet together and we try to solve issues. And it was a great thing. I really hated to 
see it leave, but it was typical of everything else, you know, money just took over it. Instead of working 
on projects to make delivery and help carriers, it got to be, how can we make money for the Postal 
Service? But I got involved with that through the union. I was on the local work team here and then I got 
on another what they called the super work teams which was, it would be me and a guy from Berea was 
on that team. I think there was 3 rural carriers and 3 managers. And we got into some good projects 
through that work team. I can get into that later if you want me too. Through QWL I guess some people 
thought I might, you know, be able to do the job as a district officer. So, they asked me to run for district 
president and always before, you know, I said "Well yeah, it's a 2-year thing, you know, I'll do the term 
and run for reelection and then go back to my place in the back of the room!" 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Doug Miller – 3/5/22 
12 
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
 
DM: Twenty-some years later I finally got somebody to take my position from the district president! 
 
EH: Wow. 
 
DM: I don't know, it was 20-some years I was district president. I got talked into running for the state 
board. I did about, 2 years in my term I think and then I was asked to run for vice president, which again, 
the normal procedure, you know, on the thing was you know, serve a term or two on the board and then 
move on up to vice or president or whatever, you know, if you so mind, or just run for another board 
position. But (sighs) I was asked to run for the vice president, state vice president. I finally, I tried to get 
everybody to run. Nobody wanted to do it. So we were at the front of the room and they came for 
nominations and they called for the 2nd round for nominations and I just lowered my head and I said, "Go 
ahead." John Edmonds nominated me. I was declared by acclamation, vice president. Served 2 years on 
that, ran for president. I served 2 years as president then. (Sighs) I was the local steward in our office for 
several years, probably twenty-some years, I guess. I was asked to serve as an area steward. I did that for 
maybe 8 or 9 years I guess, as an area steward, which I covered from north of Ashland about to 
Winchester all the way down to Harlan so it was quite a bit of area. But you know, there's a lot of this 
area that it's not real, it's contract delivery you know, so big area but not really a lot of offices and not 
really a lot going on as far as grievances for it, so. 
 
50:55  
 
EH: Have you seen involvement in the union change? 
 
DM: Yeah, people are not involved anymore it don't seem like. They just assume it's always gonna be 
there for us, you know. (Sighs) Trying to think of a word for it, but yeah, I've heard it say, "Why should I 
go to a meeting, you come in and tell us, what went on," so it was frustrating you know, as vice president 
I've got the state meeting, or fall meeting you know, we go all over the state for our fall meeting, so I had 
to, the state fall meeting here in Pikeville in the hotel right behind the old post office there, old holiday in 
up here. All you gotta do is get done with your route, walk across the lot and go to the meeting. And of 
course, me and John Edmonds was the only 2 that (laughs) showed up there! And we'd have 3 or 4 from 
Paducah, drove from Paducah to come up here. But yeah, (sighs) I know the membership is probably up, 
still up, but involvement, people just don't seem to want to be involved with it like I feel they should. You 
know, I mean it's been good for me and my family, you know. There's you know, when we get those cost 
of living raises and pay raises and everything, you know, I was grateful for that. I wanted to give some of 
it back you know, so that's why I served. 
 
EH: Right, right. Tell me about the--so was Nole the person who delivered by horseback? 
 
DM: No, the one on horseback was Junior Collins. Kim Herald (sp?) was, she just went off of the board, 
she's served on the board for years and year and she served as my vice president when I was state 
president. But her dad was the one that delivered on horseback. He was involved with the union. He 
served as parliamentarian, which was another reason, I was proud to take that position, you know, with 
the union. I thought the world of Junior. But then a guy on my route, his name was Grady Bevins, he used 
to stop me on the route, you know, and he would talk about delivering by horseback back in the day, you 
know. That's the two that I personally talked to that delivered. I know there's several that did do it, but 
those 2 that I can say that I actually talked to, that had stories to tell about it, you know. 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Doug Miller – 3/5/22 
13 
 
 
EH: Yeah, what stories did they tell you? 
 
 
DM: Just like you were talking about earlier, you know, the feet freezing to the stirrups, you know, and 
then they'd have to get out every so often and knock the ice off the horse's hooves and stuff. I know Kim, 
she's brought them to the state meetings before, but Junior's old saddle bags that he carried the mail in. 
(laughs) You couldn't carry that mail these days in that, but... 
 
 
EH: Yeah! 
 
DM: ... but you know it was a different world back then, you know. 
 
EH: What was your favorite part about the job? 
 
 
DM: The people. That's an easy one. They were good to me. I said earlier, you know, that was my second 
family, you know. I still run into them every now and then out and they come and talk to me or give me a 
hug or whatever, you know. Yeah, with the same people every day for you know 30-some years, it's just, 
I guess they grow on you or you grow on them or whatever. A lot of them depended on you! 
 
56:16  
 
EH: Yeah, talk about what you see as the most important part about your work for rural communities. 
 
 
DM: Well it was a service I mean just like the name says it was Postal Service. I think that's what we did, 
you know, we provided that service. I'd like to think that I did a good job at it. I mean, I always did the 
best I could. You're not always going to please everybody but you just, you get 600 people (laughs) 600 
families, you know, you're not gonna please everybody 'cause they're wanting that check that was 
supposedly mailed yesterday, and "What have you done with my check?" you know, but then they get the 
check 3 or 4 days later and you look at the postmark and it was just mailed you know 2 days ago, so. But 
just a lot of them, I know I've probably said it before but you're the only person they would see, you 
know, up some of these hollows. And you'd be the only person they'll see until maybe their son comes 
home in the evening or something or maybe for days, you know, in some cases. But a lot of them love to 
talk (laughs) and you know I'd love to talk to them but I've got 600 more people, you know, I gotta get to! 
But in the early days you could spend more time with them. There are a lot of things we did back then 
that we can't do today. I delivered groceries on Nole's route, Route 1. There's this little old store on Lower 
John's Creek there that every so often this guy that lives a couple miles above the store there, he would 
call down there to the store and put in an order. There'd be a little bag of a loaf of bread and this and that, 
you know. And he'd come out and ask you to take it on up to John Burrhead (sp?) is what we called him, 
but John Maynard (sp?), or Jim Maynard, rather. And yeah, we'd deliver groceries, we'd give people rides 
up the hollows, you know. You can't do that now. If you had kids or somebody in the vehicle with you, 
you'd be fired these days.  
 
EH: Yeah. 
 
59:17  
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Doug Miller – 3/5/22 
14 
 
DM: (laugh) Matter of fact I got called in the office one time. This was, I'd been regular and we were 
getting ready for a mail count and the supervisor rides with you and he counts your boxes and checks 
your mileage and all this stuff, you know. So the supervisor had rode with me. Well, about 2 days later, I 
get called in the office and I sat down and Alistair (sp?) said, "Doug, I got a call that said you had 
somebody in the vehicle with you." And they'd put a stop to this probably a couple years earlier, about 
giving rides and stuff. And I knew I hadn't had anybody in the vehicle and I said, "When was this 
Alistair?" "Two days ago." And I said, "Alistair, what happened 2 days ago." He looked up and said 
"okay!" (laughs) 
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
DM: "It's all good!" So, it was Alistair! 
 
EH: So someone had reported you? 
 
DM: Yeah. Yeah, they reported that I had somebody in the vehicle with me. I guess Mrs. Kravitz or 
something, you know. I never did find out who it was. Didn't ask who it was, you know, didn't really care 
'cause I knew I didn't have anybody with me, so I wasn't concerned about it.  
 
 
EH: Yeah. What year did you retire? 
 
 
DM: 2017? Yeah, June 2017. 
 
 
1:00:57  
 
EH: What do you wish more people knew about the work of rural mail carriers? 
 
 
DM: (Sighs) What do you mean about people? 
 
EH: Just like, what would you want people to understand about the work, or what are the 
misunderstandings about the job? 
 
DM: Oh, okay. Like a misconception, I guess. That you just drive around, it's a pie (sp?) job and all you 
do is drive around with your arm out the window! (laughs) That's one of the big misconceptions. It's a 
hard job. It's not for everybody. I've seen people come in there that take the test and make a perfect score 
on the test and not make it through half of the route. 
 
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
 
DM: And then I've seen people that early, made it through the test, or some people just can’t test, you 
know. I mean I've seen good carriers that just couldn't pass the test. Back in the day, before they had the 
RCA's they could hire an RCR and they couldn't be considered for a regular route until they were you 
know, passed the test and making RCA if that makes sense. But some of the best carriers I've ever been 
around were RCRs and just had a terrible time passing the test. And we would just tell them "Just keep 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Doug Miller – 3/5/22 
15 
 
taking it and taking it, you know and eventually, you know." And eventually they did pass it and made 
RCR and made regular and they're retired now, so. 
 
1:02:54  
 
But that's yeah, the part about just driving around with your arm out the window is a big misconception. 
We don't know what we deliver. I'm sure some of it what we've delivered you know has been no good 
stuff. Matter of fact I know it is because they have postal inspectors come up and make some arrests on 
some stuff, but a lot of it's good! You know, the medicine that we deliver, the letters with all the 
telecommunication these days the letters are pretty much a thing of the past, but I remember a time that 
people looked forward to getting that handwritten letter from mom or dad or whoever, you know. Of 
course these days it's the Amazon package. We ordered it yesterday and it's delivered in a day or two 
time, you know, it's just, I'm glad to be away from it! (laughs) I mean I love my people and I love my job 
but it wasn't, it wasn't the same job that I hired in for 40 years earlier or 30-some years earlier. 
 
EH: Mmhm. What do you think the future holds for the craft? 
 
DM: I hope it's a bright future. I still have friends that are out there working and doing a good job 
delivering to the people. There's a need for the rural craft. I know we've talked about it, keep going back, 
it's changed over the years but it's still needed in this rural territory here, you know? A big thing that 
changed it I think was when the suburbs started extending out, the rural territory had already been 
established, you know, we couldn't come in and take customers or territory from the city craft and they 
couldn't come in on rural craft. Good example--Berea, Richmond, Lexington, Hamburg Pavilion out 
there. When I was on the super work team, this guy that was on the work team with us, this was before 
Hamburg blew up and everything. But he had been meeting with the city commissioners and he came in 
and told us at the meetings, he said that place is gonna bust wide open. It's gonna extend all the way to 
Richmond eventually and it's pretty much done that. But you know, this was already established rural 
territory and now you know, it's not sure, little S10 pickup you know, like me, going out with a, a half a 
load, you know? It's one of the right-hand drive LLV vehicles you know, and it's packed to the brim. And 
it's city-type delivery. But we're fortunate, we were able to, we had some issues with city versus rural, you 
know, over the years. Some grievances that had to be settled at the national level and stuff. But, yeah. I 
think the work is there I just wish we could (sighs)... With all the deliveries that we have now and the 
Amazon deliveries and all this other stuff off the internet, I just hope that the money can you know sustain 
the Postal Service, you know, I mean, it just seems like once we started with the package delivery and I 
want to go back to that too in a minute if you have time, once we started in on the package delivery and 
concentrating on that, it seems like since that time the Postal Service has been more and more in the red 
and it just, it never made sense to me, you know. We've done all this extra work and why is the money not 
there, you know? I mean I'm just a little small time rural carrier, you know (laughs) but it just never did 
make sense to me. But going back to the package delivery, I remember when the little brown trucks 
started up here, you know, we weren't delivering maybe 20 packages a day, 25 sometimes. And then these 
little brown trucks started showing up and I remember a carrier making a comment about well, we won't 
have to fill these packages anymore now. And I just looked at him and I said, "These packages is what 
makes our paycheck! You're gonna miss these packages one of these days." And these little brown trucks 
are everywhere now. We just gave it up, handed it to them. We don't want these.  
 
EH: Yeah. 
 
DM: But then all of a sudden, we want it but we don't want to be competitive in the price or something. I 
don't know what happened with the pricing, it's beyond my pay grade so, but the work is there. I just don't 
understand why the money's not there. 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Doug Miller – 3/5/22 
16 
 
 
EH: What about the--are you following the Postal Reform bill that's in Congress right now? 
 
DM: Yeah, that's something we've been pushing for you know, ever since I was state vice president, you 
know, we've been pushing for it. Yeah, I still read the magazines and I still have a few that I talk to from 
time to time you know about how things are going and stuff so. I've not completely disappeared (laughs). 
I didn't make the Somerset meeting. That was the first meeting I missed in, it's been 12 years I guess, 13 
years since I've missed a meeting and that one was in Paducah and I had to work that day so I couldn't. 
Actually I had planned on driving down after work but I had you know, worked late and I just wasn't up 
for the drive, so. Yeah, I try to stay up with what's going on and stuff. And it seems like they're getting a 
little bit more support in Washington with the reform, so hopefully eventually it'll pass, you know.  
 
EH: Seems like that will help financially with not having to pre-fund the retirement. 
 
1:11:49  
 
DM: That (sighs) that was another thing that was big when we were going on The Hill those 4 years. Why 
is the Postal Service the only unit that has to do that? And it's I mean they're paying now for people that's 
not even born yet is the way I understand it. 
 
EH: Yeah. 
 
DM: And you know if you look back over the years, there were years that instead of that big red mark on 
the Postal Service, if they hadn't had to do the pre-funding, they would have been in the black! 
 
EH: Mmhm. 
 
DM: If they're in the black, you know, a lot of this talk and bad mouthing of the Postal Service wouldn't 
be out there. And the people calling for privatization? They had no idea about these true rural delivery. I 
mean I guarantee you that 90% of the talk about this is people from the urban areas and it's nothing for 
them to just walk down to the post office and get their stuff or whatever. If it is privatized, it's gonna be 
like, like Amazon's doing us right now. They have their own delivery but they're taking the cream and 
leaving the rest of this, at the head of these hollows and stuff, they're letting it go to the Postal Service. 
You don't see Amazon trucks in this area. I don't want to pick on Amazon, you know, they give us a lot of 
service over the years, but it's just obvious to me. I mean it's a good business move, I don't blame them. If 
I can get rid of 50 packages, one stop, you know, pay somebody, pay the Postal Service $4 to beat up this 
holler, you know, 10 miles, yeah! It's a good move on their part. 
 
1:14:27  
 
EH: Well is there anything else we haven't talked about that you'd like to share or talk about? 
 
DM: I can't think of anything right off the bat. I think we've hit (laughs) I've had a pretty dull life really 
but I enjoyed my work, though. Love my customers and hated to leave them in a way but I wanted to get 
away from it while I still had my health and there are things I wanted to do, you know. I was talking to 
Nole just the other day I said if it was like it was when me and you delivered, I'd probably still be 
carrying. I mean it's just a different service.  
 
EH: Yeah.  
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Doug Miller – 3/5/22 
17 
 
DM: But I don't have a lot of regrets on it though. I thought, I think I did a good job. I don't want to brag 
but (laughs) I did put my customers first. I've argued with clerks--it probably cost me 15 minutes time you 
know, by the time I went up there and double checked postage, a postage due on something, you know, 
but (laughs) I'd argue over a 13 cent postage due.  
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
DM: But I worked with some good people too. Made a lot of friends and you know it was a good career 
choice for me. It beat crawling around in the coal mines, so.  
 
EH: Yeah. Well thank you so much! 
 
DM: Well thank you for having me! I enjoyed it.  
 
EH: Yeah, it was great. 
 
DM: A lot (laughs), I like talking about the old days, you know, that used to get them going up there at 
the Post Office, you know, I'd talk about the old days, but, it brought back a lot of memories there. 
 
EH: Nice. 
 
1:16:54  
 
END OF TAPE 
END OF INTERVIEW