NEW BEDFORD FISHING HERITAGE CENTER 
Date of Interview June 10, 2017 
Moreno, Mariana ~ Oral History Interview 
Corinn Williams 
Moreno, Mariana. Interview by Corinn Williams Workers on the New Bedford Waterfront. New 
Bedford Fishing Heritage Center. June 10, 2017. 
This oral history was produced in 2017 as part of the Workers on the Waterfront Oral History 
Project conducted by New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center with funding from an Archie Green 
Fellowship provided by the Library of Congress. 
New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center 
38 Bethel Street 
P.O. Box 2052 
New Bedford, MA 02741-2052 
Interview with Mariana Moreno June 10, 2017 
1 
Background 
Name of person interviewed: Mariana Moreno 
Facts about this person: 
Age 24 
Sex Female 
Occupation Fish Processing 
Residence (Town where lives) New Bedford 
Ethnic background (if known) Guatemalan, Maya K’iche 
Interviewer: Corinn Williams 
Transcriber: Corinn Williams 
Interview location: Community Economic Development Center, New Bedford 
Date of interview: June 10, 2017 
Key Words 
Fish cutting, cutting machine, skinning machine, cod, haddock, packing, weighing. New 
Bedford, Guatemalan, machista, budget, savings, English, education 
Abstract 
Mariana Moreno is from Guatemala and has been working at Bergie’s seafood since age 16. She 
has learned all of the job duties at the plant including jobs typically reserved for men like hand 
cutting fish. She discusses adjusting her family budget to fluctuating work hours. She was 
recently promoted at Bergie’s and is always eager to learn more and take on more 
responsibilities in the workplace. 
Interview with Mariana Moreno June 10, 2017 
2 
Index 
(2:02) Introduction, from San Andres Sajcabaja, Quiche Guatemala. Came to US at age 16 to get 
away from an abusive family situation. Motivated by the idea that in the US you could make an 
independent life for yourself Has a brother and sister who were here and an aunt who first came 
to New Bedford. There were no work or education opportunities for young women in Guatemala. 
(5:12) First job was at Bergie’s seafood, still working there. She didn’t have work experience, 
only doing domestic work in Guatemala. Her first job were putting together boxes and cleaning 
at the plant. Trained by the owner and adapted over time. She now knows how to do almost all 
the jobs at the plant, operating the cutting and skinning machines, cleaning and cutting fish by 
hand, weighing and packing. Recently given a promotion by the owner to prepare orders for 
shipping. 
(10:02) A typical day, getting ready with clothing gear and tools. Explains various tasks, 
cleaning, weighing fish at the scale, preparing the order. Fish packed after cleaned, day goes by 
quickly. If the machines are not working, she can cut fish by hand. She does whatever is needed 
to be done. 
She likes to weigh fish and preparing orders, doesn’t like standing in one place cleaning the same 
kind of fish for a long time, it can get boring. Explains process of cutting fish by machine, cut 
then skinned, covered with water and ice to be ready to fill orders. Packaged in 25 or 10 lbs. 
boxes or in (Styrofoam) coolers with ice. 
(16:10) Explains how to cut fish by hand, depends on species, sharp knife V cuts pollack and 
haddock, other cuts on whole fish from head to tail, removing guts. Differences of machine and 
hand cutting. Fresh haddock or cut hand cut because machine could ruin the fish or sometimes 
the machine is broken. Frozen cod is cut on the machine. 
(20:16) Looks at fish all day, doesn’t like to eat it, just scup or salmon sometimes. Owner is very 
generous to share. Sometimes works in a group of four women. Or works alone on the machine, 
or cutting she works alone. Prefers to work by herself Different nationalities at the plant, 
Guatemala, El Salvador, Puerto Rico, Portuguese. They all try to get along as best they can. She 
first learned how to do the job from her boss and now shows new workers different job tasks. 
People tend to leave the job when there are less hours to work during slow seasons 25-30 hours. 
(25:17) New workers come in when there is more work, during the Christmas holydays. Holy 
Week and Easter when people consume more fish. Less hours August, September, October 
slower months 25 hours a week. She is able to manage because she puts away money in savings 
when she is working more hours. She is able to pay basic expenses during slow months. Lives 
with her husband who is working, but not in fish processing. She has a son, 18 months old. 
Talks about son’s future, she is working hard so that he has a better future but not in the fishing 
industry. She likes her work and there are good people in the industry, but she hopes for a better 
life for her son, to get an education. 
Interview with Mariana Moreno June 10, 2017 
3 
(29:55) She is hoping to study English, she wants to get ahead and improve her life. She plans to 
stay in seafood processing, she likes where she is, she has adapted to the workplace. Doesn’t see 
herself changing jobs to start from scratch. She knows her job and her responsibilities but sees 
lack of better English skills as an obstacle. 
(32:57) Advice to new workers is to work hard and to demonstrate that you are capable that will 
bring your reward. That has been her experience although it was not easy, she has worked very 
hard and put in a lot of effort into learning all the different kinds of jobs at her workplace. She 
does everything, even jobs that men do. She earned the respect of the company owner through 
her hard work. She had been offered another job and she resigned because she was working very 
hard and not offered any wage increase. She left but she was called back to work at Bergie’s, 
which was unusual to be called back, and given raise. She feels that this experience has shown 
that she is valued for her hard work at the company. 
(36:34) It was difficult to ask for a raise, owner of the company treats men and women equally. 
The owner gave her the chance to learn how to cut fish which is considered men’s work. 
Sometimes the floor supervisors can be sexist (machista), they resent it that she can do jobs that 
are typically are reserved for men. She now has a 3*^ in charge role that some men don’t like. 
The owner recognizes that she doesn’t allow anything to get in her way to not do certain jobs just 
because they are “men’s jobs”. She is willing to try anything without obstacles. Other women are 
different, she is the only woman at the plant who does all the different jobs. One must put in 
effort to make it happen. Recognizes that there is physical labor she can’t do but any of the other 
jobs that don’t require those abilities she is capable. 
(45:37) End of Recording 
Interview with Mariana Moreno June 10, 2017 
4