1 
 
Transcript of Interview with Tim Sanders, September 14, 2020 
By Ethan Sharp 
Ethan (00:00:00): 
I will just give a brief introduction. So this is Ethan Sharp. And we're here at the Living Arts and Science 
Center. I'm here with--your last name just slipped my mind--Tim, Tim Sanders. I'm here with Tim Sanders, 
and it is September the 14th, 2020. So Tim, you were starting talking about your early life, if you want to 
continue. 
Tim (00:00:29): 
As I was saying, you know, my life started off very non-fictional. Non-fictional is truth, right. So, you know, 
like any other suburban family, you know, I had two loving parents. My father was diabetic, so he had 
some medical illnesses. But he was still hardworking. He wasn't the affectionate man, I love you and all 
that. He was a hard-working man to provide for the family. My mother was the affectionate one, you 
know, so I got the balance with them. So, when I was probably about six, my father's diabetes worsened. 
So, his eyesight was going bad. You know, his kidneys failed. You know, a lot of medical issues started 
piling up, and he started to have laser surgery in his eyes, and things like that. So, my father had to stop 
working, and my mother had to go to work. 
Tim (00:01:30): 
So, there was a switch. So I go from a family of used to having the hardworking father and the 
compassionate mother, to the hardworking and tired mother. And the, you know, my father was a drinker, 
but it became heavy when he stopped working. So, he became verbally angry and abusive, which 
eventually turned physical, but it was a very confusing point for me because I'm like, what just happened? 
You know, I knew my father was sick, but I can't grasp the concept and didn't understand at that age. 
Ethan (00:02:05): 
Did you grow up here in Lexington? 
Tim (00:02:07): 
No, I'm from Louisville. I grew up in a little neighborhood called Newburg. And you know, in my 
neighborhood, growing up was like a mix of half and half. When my father bought the house, when my 
sister was born, my oldest sister was born, the neighborhood was a predominantly white neighborhood. 
Tim (00:02:30): 
But through, through the course of years, it transitioned, and by the time, I was five years old, I was maybe 
one of four, three or four white kids left in our neighborhood. So, and I'll get to that struggle in a minute. 
But my father, when he, when he started drinking, you know, he was the peace, love, and party guy, the 
hippie. So he was into motorcycles. He grew up with all his friends. All his friends would come over. They 
formed a motorcycle club, you know. So I don't know if you ever seen that show Sons of Anarchy. That 
was my life growing up, to a tee. You know, because with that comes drugs, partying. You know, I can 
remember laying in the living room floor, my aunt and her boyfriend having sex on the couch behind our 
heads while watching TV. That type atmosphere is what my life turned into. 
 
2 
 
Tim (00:03:20): 
So, I went from A to B in a matter of a year or two. And you know, it, it just, it progressed, you know. It 
was, you know, when I was around seven, I had an uncle move in. I was sexually assaulted by him, and see 
when my uncle moved in, it was my mother's brother. So there was that passionate, loving, caring identity 
with my mother, and he was helping my father with the kids while my mother was at work. So he built 
that bond and used that to manipulate us into believing what he was doing was correct and right. You 
know, so it was, I was told that it's a secret, you know, and grownups do this, so you're, you're being 
taught to be a grownup, things like that. So it was like, even though it was painful, I accepted it because I 
didn't want to lose the, the bond that I had. 
Tim (00:04:23): 
Cause I lost it once with my mother, right. And I'm kind of detailed because that's the work I've done. So 
that went on for probably about five years. And I wasn't the only sibling involved. It was, you know, it was 
a lot of incest in that five-year period, no putting names, nothing like that. That was just my experience. 
And you know, we went to school like normal kids. We went to church, you know. We was, the church 
was [inaudible] on Sundays with the church bus. 
Tim (00:05:05): 
So, but you can't tell nobody nothing's going on. You can't talk to teachers. You can't talk to preachers. 
You can't talk to the police, especially with all the drug dealing, all that going on. But if you tell somebody, 
all that could be taken away. So the fear of losing your whole family is, is overwhelmed to a point where 
you absorb what's coming and what you're going through. You know, and then my, my neighborhood 
growing up, as I was saying, it was, you know, I was looked at as an outcast because I wasn't the same 
race. And I grew up there in the eighties. So it's like the telling of the racial wars, sixties and seventies. You 
know, we're kind of back in it again, but you know, it didn't make life easy for me, you know. I couldn't 
play with the kids in neighborhood. 
Tim (00:05:54): 
I couldn't, I had no kind of outlet. You know, just like a combustion chamber, just constantly absorbing. 
And I think, you know, I found cigarettes at eight. You know, I was like cool, you know, one of the cool 
kids again. And then started huffing gas when I was nine. My cousin turned me on to it. I was, yeah, I 
mean, because it gave me an outlet. You know, it took my mind away from what I was dwelling in. So it 
only lasted about a year. I passed out twice, ended up in the hospital twice off of it. Drank it once, you 
know, passed out and drank it while I was asleep. You know, and, and my cousins moved into the 
neighborhood and gave me a couple of white kids to hang out with. So my brothers were pretty much--
you know, it was my--my uncle got caught about this time. 
Tim (00:06:54): 
My cousin told. And when Nate, when he told, we all sewed up, like, no, we wasn't involved. We all lied. 
Cause we didn't want to be ashamed of what, cause we was taught that was correct. And the betrayal 
was like, you know, and my father would have killed him. So, my father would have blew his head off 
without question. And I didn't want, I knew that. So we all sewed that secret in. Right. And a lot of them 
are junkies today because of this, you know. A couple of them are in recovery, you know. But my, my aunt 
Rosie left him, and she got a house with her new boyfriend in our neighborhood. So, you know, I was 
already used to spending every weekend with them. They was, they was more like my brothers than my 
cousins, cause I'm the only boy with three older sisters. 
3 
 
Tim (00:07:45): 
See, I have three older sisters, and I'm the youngest of four. And then my uncle had the oldest girl and 
three younger boys. So it kind of, there was eight of us, but there was four boys, four girls, and we always, 
every weekend, the girls with the girls, the boys with the boys. So when they moved in, they were bad 
too. I wasn't quite out there like they was, but they was like--after their father came out with the prison 
and all that, they really just, you know. So we started stealing. You know, first it was bikes. Then we went 
into mopeds. And see, my father was a criminal, so I'd bring bikes home. He worked on cars, paint cars. 
So I'd bring bikes home, we'd strip them down, paint them. I'd resell them. I was taught this stuff was 
normal. 
Tim (00:08:37): 
You know, that's the fictional part of my life. You know, I knew I didn't feel right doing all this stuff through 
the years, but it's what I was taught to do. You know, but always one of my, to go back to that, that time 
before, you know, so when-- 
Ethan (00:09:01): 
When you were younger? 
Tim (00:09:01): 
Yes, before everything turned. So when I smoked pot, when I started smoking pot, it gave me that 
euphoria of I was back there. I could, I had, I was a daydreamer. I became a daydreamer so I wasn't 
thinking about this stuff that I was going through. I'd go to school, I didn't pay attention in school. I 
couldn't, because I had to daydream to forget about what I was going through. So throughout school, I 
was the bad kid. You know, at one point, you know, I was the one had the white t-shirt rolled up, 
cigarettes, slick hair. You know, they, in middle school, they sent me, that's when busing started, where 
they sent you to a school in another neighborhood. 
Tim (00:09:43): 
Yeah. They did that. And I was a, I was a poor kid in a black neighborhood. They sent me to a blue collar 
school with a bunch of rich kids, you know, to me, they were rich because they had a lot more than I had. 
And they didn't like me because I was poor. I had hand me down stuff, you know, generic stuff and thrift 
store stuff, you know. And I got in quite a few fights, but the girls loved that. The girls always liked the bad 
boy thing. They're out there playing sports, and I convinced them to have sex, thinking I'm cool because 
I'm getting laid, and I'm 12, 11. In middle school, you know, taking girls virginities. You know, and doing 
all this harm, I didn't, wasn't even aware of it. I'm thinking I'm doing something. You know, me and my 
cousins bragging about it and things, you know, just things that we were taught was normal. 
Tim (00:10:38): 
You know, so I think through middle, you know--when I was about 14, I got my twelfth grand theft auto 
charge. And I had been in and out of group homes multiple times, ran away from them. So they sent me 
to a group home at Glasgow, Kentucky, a couple hundred miles away. You put me within 30 miles of my 
house, I'm leaving. So they sent me about 150 miles away from my house, and I was stuck, didn't have 
nobody to come get me. So I went to the little group home and program. And you know, within six months, 
I went from 5'5'' to 6'1''. Grew like seven inches in six months, went through a growth spurt. You know, I 
was a small kid growing up, so I got picked on a lot. But when I come home, and when I come home, I 
weighed like--and now I'll start defending myself. 
4 
 
Tim (00:11:33): 
And I became like the crazy white kid in the neighborhood. Okay. If the name helps me out, cool, I'm cool 
with that. So through my middle school years, I didn't stop. I kept stealing and whatever I could get away 
with. When I was 17, me and my cousins, same cousins except for one of them, went up to a car lot in 
Louisville and took the car salesman out for a test drive. My cousin was, he's 17, but appeared--or he was 
18, so he could get a car, right. So we took this car salesman on a test drive, get him out on the highway, 
and put him out of the car with pellet guns. We didn't have real pistols. We had pellet guns. But it worked. 
Nice to know that's a federal charge. So we had--in about three days, SWAT found me. I had like 15 guns 
in my head that night. I was 17 and facing a serious case. 
Tim (00:12:34): 
I get there, and they're just like, well, what are we going to do with you. And so, I told my lawyer, I said, 
they wasn't even real guns. He said they wasn't. So he was able to get it amended because they were 
pellet guns. I ended up staying, you know, doing a year and a half as juvie. You know, when I was 19, I was 
able to come home. I had to stay, I had to spend 10 months in the county jail, but it was in a juvenile case. 
It was part of the plea agreement. So I didn't have an adult record at this point. So when I come home 
from camp, you know, I got my GED, certified welder, all that stuff, thinking I am going to change 
everything. Well, when I get back home, all the party is still going on. It was like, I didn't really get into 
stealing anymore. 
Tim (00:13:25): 
I was kind of like past that phase. You know, I got more into selling drugs and alcohol, you know. My father 
was a plug. I could get anything I wanted from him. So I went from--and I still worked. My dad taught me 
to work. He had a garage in the backyard. He always worked. Cause you have to have the mask for the 
other. So, you know, I worked, but I also got into the rush of selling drugs and partying and girls, you know. 
And that didn't, that didn't stop until I met my son's mom. I was like 21. And she lived in the other side of 
the neighborhood, one of the other white kids over there. And she was a pretty little thing. Wanted to 
get, you know, she didn't do drugs or drink and all that stuff. I was like, well, I am gonna stop. I like this. 
I'm going to cut all that out. And shortly after, I had her smoking pot with me. You know, that didn't last 
long, you know, and then drinking. And you know, her mom couldn't stand me. I didn't care. 
Tim (00:14:32): 
I was only welcome at the house, at her mom and grandma's house on occasion. You know, special 
Christmas things like that. But you know, no random, no regular visits or things like that. I wasn't good 
enough for her daughter. I didn't understand that then. I do now, but you know. But during that time I 
was gone to camp, my father, you know, the period from the group home to the camp, my father, he got 
hooked on crack cocaine, and I watched, I watched the empire he built go down to nothing. And you know, 
I didn't know--I had heard about the stuff, but I really didn't, wasn't aware really of it. It was new. It was 
the nineties. And it was still kind of new. But I knew--I seen my sister's on it with him. I just swore it off. I 
was like I ain't ever touching that. 
Tim (00:15:30): 
Well, when I come home from camp, you know, I helped him build a house for my mother, in another 
county. It took us two years. And I was 21, my girlfriend got pregnant, and I had to move out. And my 
mother, during that time, my mother left my dad for his best friend and moved to Florida. And then she 
called him up and said you want to be with me, you got to come down here. So he left all the doctors, 
5 
 
everything, went to Florida, and within a month, he was gone. You talk about anger, pain, and toward my 
mother as well, you know, resentment to my mother. And I didn't understand at the time why all that 
went on. I just was angry. Well, I was at a party like a month after my father passed away, and some guys 
were passing around some blunts, and they were breaking up some crack to put on it. He said it's cocaine. 
Tim (00:16:34): 
And I'm like, okay. I was in a dark place at that point. And he passed around, and he handed it to me, and 
I hit it. And I was like I found my new best friend, found my new cope. Well, he said, if you like it like that, 
try it like this, and he passed the tire gauge over to me. And I hit it like that. And I kid you not. I went from 
a pothead to a crackhead in about three seconds. That's how quick it took me. And when that started, I 
had a girlfriend. I had a kid with her at this point. I completely neglected any of that. Then I called her, 
probably about a month after that, and told her that I had a drug problem and needed some help. And 
she hung up on me. And when she did that, I was just like, fuck it. You know, that was one of the times 
actually--you know, one time when I was in school, I took my dad's bank card, took $50 out of the bank, 
and he beat the hell out of me. 
Tim (00:17:34): 
He sent me to school like that, black, blue, busted lip. Fifth grade. The teacher looked at me and said what 
happened to you. I started bawling and said my dad beat the hell out of me. She said, oh, we'll call CPS. 
They took me over there. I opened the door, and my dad said what the fuck you doing home? I said, they 
want to talk to you. He said, tell them what you did first. I turned around and told them what I did. They 
just said thanks, you have a good day, and walked right back out the door. And didn't do nothing about 
the beating I got. I deserved it. Said they would have done the same thing if it had been their kids. That 
kind of like opened up a free pass to ass whoopins at that point, you know what I mean? He's like, don't 
call them. They're not going to do nothing. They've already been here once. 
Ethan (00:18:11): 
I don't think they would do that today. 
Tim (00:18:13): 
No, no, no, no. This is back in the day. Today they're taking the kid immediately. Back then, it was all new. 
Like CPS, all that stuff, was new to the world. You know that. You know, so I, I got to absorb a lot of shit 
that kids don't have to today. You know, but one, one of the things that we were taught, preachers, 
teachers, please don't talk to them. Firefighters. Anybody. But if they do drugs, bring them on over. We 
can have them. But if they don't, keep them away. If you didn't trust your neighbor, you're not even 
allowed in my house, period. 
Tim (00:18:53): 
So, shortly after that, I met my ex-wife. 2002, I think it was. And she lived out in Crestwood, about 10, 15 
miles from where I lived. I was staying with a friend. Didn't have my own place. I was, had done lost my 
apartment, and I was staying with another crackhead. And I met her at a bar, and she took me out to eat 
and took me back to her house. And she's this 28 year old country girl. She wasn't the prettiest thing, but 
she was nice enough. And had her own house. Her rent was like 200 a month. I'm like--her mom and dad 
lived next door--I was like I can do this. So, I moved in, like the next night, you know. She was--yeah, I 
basically met her, met her and moved straight in. I mean, I was homeless. It didn't matter whose couch I 
was sleeping on, at least this one I was getting laid. So, I figured I could run away from my drugs. You 
6 
 
know, this whole--no matter where I go, I take me--so that didn't, that, concept wasn't even a part of my 
mind at that time. And I was there a month, maybe two, and she already told me she loved me. And within 
two months, she was pregnant. And when I met her, apparently she couldn't have kids, but she was 
pregnant within two months. I guess I got super sperm. I don't know. 
Tim (00:20:22): 
Then I was told that she was already pregnant. She was looking for a daddy, you know. You know how the 
rumors start after that. So, I moved out. I was like, I ain't equipped for this. You know, I ain't even got this 
kid, let alone starting another one. So I ran right back to what I knew. Got me another little apartment. 
She, she stayed, you know, she stuck around while I went through that phase. And she's like, just get your 
shit and come on back. I was like, okay. You know, I couldn't afford the apartment. I had a down payment, 
and you wouldn't have seen any more money out of me. I was a dope fiend. So I went out there, and 
finally, I got off the dope and just started doing like weekend karaokeing and shit, you know, drinking. 
Smoked weed at work. 
Tim (00:21:06): 
Didn't smoke--she was anti-drugs. There were no drugs allowed in her house, which was good for me. I 
had about four years of just weekend drunks, karaoke, you know. But see I'm one of them ones, when I 
went in, I had to have three shots just to get started. Instead of, most people that have a shot or two, 
they're good. No, I'd have three shots and a beer, and I'm ready to start singing, you know. And I'm not 
the one that's got that trigger that says, stop, you're too much. I'm like, I can drink more. I don't want to 
remember tonight, you know. So it's, that's the alcoholic mind, right. That went on for about, I don't know, 
a couple of years. So I started, I just fell back into what I knew. Well, she kind of changed too. She was this 
nice sweet girl when I met her. And she, when we got married, she became who she really was, this mean 
redneck country girl that, you know. But maybe she didn't change. Maybe I changed. My perception of 
her changed. You know, she might've been the same way all the time. I just didn't see it. You know, I didn't 
want to, so yeah, I left her after I got tired of going to jail. You know, we was fighting all the time. The cops 
were always out there. It just, we would end up fighting all the time. 
Tim (00:22:30): 
So I left. Met this other chick. Moved in about a month later. I had my own little apartment. Moved in 
immediately. I didn't pay any rent. I [inaudible]. And you know, she went through a miscarriage. She got 
hooked on pills. She actually introduced me to Oxycontin's. I was--you know, I went to a 28 day program, 
Ten Broek, outpatient, got off crack. 
Ethan (00:23:03): 
You did that? 
Tim (00:23:03): 
Yeah. Yeah. I did do that. So that was my first, well, my first exposure to AA was when I was 18 or 19 when 
my father was court ordered AA class or AA meetings, and his name is Tom Sanders. My name is Tim 
Sanders. So he gave me a half quarter bag of pot and a bottle of alcohol to take his class for, or his 
meetings, for him. So even though liked the fellowship, I wasn't there for me. I was there just to get paid. 
So there was no realness to that. It was when I went to a treatment program, that I went, and it had a 
little meaning. Until they told me I had to start being honest. When they told me that, I left. I liked them. 
7 
 
I liked the fellowship. I liked the vibe. Cause it kind of reminded me of my core, but I couldn't be honest. I 
wasn't built that way. 
Ethan (00:23:59): 
So they had asked you to continue with meetings? 
Tim (00:24:02): 
No, no. When I completed the 28 day program, it was up to me to keep going to meetings or what. I went 
for about three months after that that I completed. And it was when I started getting to them steps and 
then like, honesty, I'm like, nuh-uh. God. Nuh-uh. You know, I, I, I admit what? No, I'm not an alcoholic. 
My grandpa was an alcoholic. I'm not an alcoholic. I can handle my alcohol. So my mind wouldn't let me 
believe none of that at the time. Even though I enjoyed the fellowship, though, right. So I was clean for a 
little bit, and then, she, I got in a car wreck. And I really wasn't much on pills. I hadn't really experienced 
them much, but I got T-boned and had to go through pain management. So they put me on Lortabs. And 
like that first euphoria of crack, I was like, where you been all my life. 
Tim (00:24:55): 
It didn't just take the physical pain. It took the mental with it, you know, just like. You know, I would come 
home one day, and she's high as a kite. I'm like, you ain't on--what are you on? Cause you ain't on what 
I'm on. She's like, oh, your mom come over. Yeah, my mom come over. And she took me to get this, and 
she gave me some of it. Yeah, my mom had a drug--she used, she fell into that realm. She ended up dying 
of cirrhosis. So when my father passed away, her life, I watched her deteriorate. So I was like, well, I want 
some. My mind wouldn't stay away from it cause you look like you're falling over. My mind says I want 
some of that. You know, so I went and got some. I thought Lortabs were good. It took me to a whole other 
dimension. 
Tim (00:25:50): 
And from that point forward up to, for three years, there was no, other than scraping by on the rent and 
cell phone, nothing else got paid, child support, none of that. I ran from child support for probably 10 
years. You know, they'd catch me and lock me up. Give them a thousand dollars, they'd let me go. I'd 
swear I'm going to do better. I was a talker. So I am going to do better, I swear. I promise I'm going to do 
better. Boing. Catch me when you can. Right. So I went to jail for a year, and me and her ended. She was 
actually a 911 operator for the police in Louisville. Yeah. And me and her ended. And I had to do a year in 
jail for child support. They wouldn't take the thousand dollars no more. Well, they'd take a thousand 
dollars, but I was still staying in jail. 
Tim (00:26:44): 
Right before I got out, my brother-in-law introduced me to his sister, which I had met her once or twice. 
It's my sister's husband. It was his sister, and I had met her once, twice before. And I was a door-to-door 
meat salesman at the time, you know, selling steaks and stuff like that. I did that for--made real good 
money doing it too. It supports a good drug habit. I met her, and we hit it off immediately. She actually 
left her boyfriend and come moved in with me and my sisters. Yeah, now I'm at my sisters' house. I'm 
sitting there just getting out of jail. I didn't have nothing. But my boss went and got me, put a down 
payment on a truck for me. Cause I was a good salesman. I was one of the top ones. So, yeah. Gift of gab, 
if you can't tell. So in, through that little adventure, she, you know, she liked pain pills every now and then. 
She wasn't too far--but through our journey, she was, she followed me whatever path I was going. And I 
8 
 
was real good about talking them into doing that. My ex-wife was the only one I couldn't talk into going 
down that path. The rest of them, hey, follow me on down. She was just too independent, you know. You 
know, but you know, it went from pain pills. Then, I got a job at a brickyard making blocks and met up 
with a guy there who did meth. So I kind of went that route with him, and she was like, well, I'm going--
you can have your meth but can you still get my pills? And I wouldn't buy her pain pills or nothing no more. 
I just cut her off. And she was like you motherfucker. 
Tim (00:28:22): 
That went on about six months, and I had enough of that. I was up for about two weeks hallucinating. I 
walked away from a job and everything. I'm like, we got a hotel room, moved into one of them weekly 
hotel rooms, and I slept for about two weeks. And then I got up and went back to work. But as soon as I 
started getting a little money in my pocket, right back to the pain pills. Well, I was a worker from, I got by 
working for the moving company, through like Labor Works. And you know, we were staying with a friend 
of ours over in a trailer park. And it was manageable at the time, at least I thought I was. I traded a flat 
screen TV [inaudible] for a bag of heroin. And I was like, I could sell this to get the money for my pain pills. 
I had never touched heroin at that time. 
Tim (00:29:17): 
And my, my dude that had the pills wasn't answering. I couldn't find nothing. I was like, well, you know, I 
wonder what this is. I wonder if a little bit of this will help me, you know. So I broke out a minuscule 
amount and took it, and it was like, wow. Well, wait a minute. I can save money with this. I don't have to 
buy as much. And my girlfriend is like, is it good? I'm like, here you go, try it. She was like, yeah, you ain't 
selling that. I'm like, I know I'm not. Yeah, it was, that's how quick it is. And that, that road lasted about 
three months, two to three months. I think I picked it up in February. I OD'ed once on Roxy thirties so I 
put them away. I wouldn't mess with them anymore. A guy had a bad batch made of out fentanyl. I didn't 
look at the fact that I just died. I said, hey, okay, bad batch. I I'll just stay away from them. You know, I'm 
just lucky to still be alive. 
Tim (00:30:27): 
But you know, within three months, I bought a bag of heroin, and it took me out. And I wasn't shooting. I 
was just snorting. It was fentanyl. Carfentanil, actually. Police pulled up. I was on the sidewalk. My three-
year-old daughter trying to wake me up saying, daddy, daddy, get up. And I'm sitting there dead on the 
street. Luckily, they got me breathing before my heart stopped. I wasn't breathing. I was out, gone. You 
know, when I come to this time, you know, I've been on the run for three years, child support looking 
after me. I done caught four or five felonies stealing, writing cold--me and my daughter's mom found this 
checkbook. We were picking. We found this checkbook. So I go fill it out and make it out to me and go to 
CheckSmart, and I had her answer the phone to verify the check. 
Tim (00:31:21): 
And it was like five grand over a period of time. We didn't care. We didn't think about consequences. We 
just knew it could get us what we wanted. You know, at the moving company, I picked it out, somebody's 
jewelry box, put it in, you know, packed it away. It just took me to a level that I swore off 20 years ago. It 
just took me back to that place. But this time, it wasn't about the high of stealing. It was about getting 
what I want to get high. There's a completely different mindset. And when I come back to, that time, it 
was like, in my mind, I was like, thank God, this is over. You know, you're running and cops and--I was 
9 
 
bold. You know, I was working at Labor Ready, filing exempt, so the federal government didn't know 
where I was. You know you could do that, right? 
Tim (00:32:12): 
File exempt, you don't pay federal taxes. So they don't know where you are. I would go to Thorntons in 
the morning, four o'clock, and sit there and have coffee with the police while my daughter was playing 
with him, and I got nine warrants sitting on me. I was bold. You know, I was always taught hide in plain 
sight. You know, cops don't mess with you, if you don't act suspicious. You know, most people get caught 
cause they suspicious. If you don't act suspicious, they don't bother you. You know, so I knew that concept. 
That's how--you know, the only reason why they caught me is cause I OD'ed not because I broke the law. 
But it was the best thing that happened. 
Ethan (00:32:52): 
Yeah. What year was that? 
Tim (00:32:54): 
2016. It was June, June 2016, June 26. June 25th, 2016, I went to jail. And you know, as much as I hated 
that my daughter and her mom got left behind, out there homeless pretty much. Cause we were staying 
at a trap house. The guy was a needle junkie renting us his bedroom, and he's sleeping in the living room 
just so we could have a place to stay. He threw out immediately. You know, my heart went to that, but 
also my mind is like, man, I'm glad this is over. I wanted to stop doing dope, but I, I couldn't. You know, I 
just couldn't stop. You know, so when they locked me up in the jail, they put in this little program called 
Enough is Enough. It was a Louisville jail program. You know, a little three month program. Test, 1, 2, 3, a 
little information, nothing beyond that. So no foundation, you know, just the foundation, no house. And I 
was in that dorm for five months, but it got, it got stagnant. You know, I felt like I was just doing the same 
thing over and over, you know. It just, it got, I didn't want to do it no more. 
Tim (00:34:15): 
So I had them move me out of the dorm, and I figured I'm gonna go in the jail and get some guys sign up 
for the program, go save the jail, right. But it was just my mind convincing me to go do what I wanted. 
And I probably wasn't out of that jail cell, within two weeks, three weeks, I wake up and the guy with me 
has got anything you want crystal meth, heroin, everything. He looked at me and said, do you like that 
crystal? I said, no, no, no, no. I tried to convince myself. And I laid in that bed, and I probably pondered 
for an hour. My mind ran for an hour before I finally just said fuck it, give it to me. Because there was 
nothing to build on. There was nothing there. 
Ethan (00:35:00): 
And that was in the jail? 
Tim (00:35:00): 
That was in the jail. I was up for two weeks on crystal meth in the jail. You're talking about a weird place 
to be high, right? So it got to the point where I'm telling the guards to take me out of the dorm. I'm holding 
a mop stick, thinking the whole dorm is trying to kill me, hallucinating, you know. So they, they definitely 
pulled me out of there. And ended up going to another dorm. Hooked up with one of my cousins, not 
those, but a different cousin. And ended up staying clean from that point forward, you know. Then, they 
10 
 
come and told me, said, you know, I think it was--you know, I tried drug court and drug court wanted to 
accept me, but I had a warrant in another county. 
Tim (00:35:51): 
So, they couldn't take me. I didn't know that. So, for three months, I kept pulling the court, getting drug 
court to accept me, not knowing that warrant was holding me. So I spent three months of time that I 
could've just went on. So finally I was like, you know what, I'll take the, I'll take it, let's go. And when I got 
arrested, I was looking at 40 years. I had nine class D felonies when they locked me up. So, a minimum, a 
maximum of 45 years, a minimum of nine. Well, when I went to court, they, they, when I went finally and 
took my final sentence, they agreed to four years. They dropped five of the felonies and kept four. A year 
on each or one year on each or, no, four years on each to run concurrent. So I had four years. 
Tim (00:36:54): 
At 15%. So they come, took me out of there, took me to Jessamine County up there, class D up there. And 
I wasn't there but maybe a month. I was parole eligible as soon as I got there. And so this is how God 
works that I get locked up looking at nine to 45 years, and a year and a day from the day I got arrested, I 
showed up at the Hope Center. One year. And you know, they say, you're going to the Hope Center. And 
I'm like, but my home placement is in Louisville. They done told me I was approved and everything. But 
apparently--my girlfriend's on section eight. I can't get a placement there. And I didn't know that. 
Ethan (00:37:13): 
Really? 
Tim (00:37:13): 
So they sent me--yeah, if they're on welfare, food stamps, HUD, anything like that, you can't have a home 
placement from prison there. So, and it can jeopardize her HUD. I didn't know that at the time. So they 
said, you're going to the Hope Center in Lexington. I said, Lexington? I'm from Louisville. Why ain't I going 
to the Healing Place? I mean, I'm like, why I ain't I coming home? They said, well, they want, or probation 
wants you to go to the Hope Center. I'm like, alright. 
Tim (00:38:16): 
So I'm doing my jail recon, hey guys, what's the Hope Center? I had never been through this experience. 
They're like, oh, it's an IOP program, recovery house. You'll go out to work, and you know, do what you 
need to do. I'm like, oh, I can handle that. So, I get out to the Hope Center. Well, my first question is, so, 
when I do I get to go back to work. I'm ready to get after it and go, after being locked up a year. They said, 
he tells me, he said about six and a half months. Wow. I'm like, damn. 
Tim (00:38:49): 
Wasn't expecting that one. But at the same time I knew I was where I was supposed to be. You know, I 
had gained a little information, so I knew I was where I was supposed to be. You know, so my first couple 
months there was a journey, though, at the Hope Center. It was--you know, when you first get there, they 
tell you, when you get out, go get you a home group, get your meetings, get you a sponsor, and stay away 
from women. I'd been locked up a year, you think that's going to work? Alright. So, I do what they said. I 
went to my first Saturday off property. I went and got a home group. I got the sponsor. But I also got the 
girl [inaudible], you know, but I'm also, I'm one of the companionators. I like that. I don't like being alone. 
11 
 
Tim (00:39:40): 
I like having that friend on the other side. You know, it ain't just about the sex. It was just that relationship. 
You know, I'm one of them, you know. We got three months in, she relapsed. I was like, well, that rehab 
romance didn't work, you know. So I was at the Hope Center like four months, and they're like, they had, 
you know how they do it, I don't know if you know, they do like a community word in phase one. In MT, 
they got community word. The whole MT community goes to a room, and the coordinator does 
community and holds concern for everybody. Well, in phase one, the whole phase-one group, you go to 
a community, they hold you, and you go on a board and then they start asking you a bunch of questions. 
And then they, they give you a list of concerns they have for you. 
Tim (00:40:37): 
Then, you have to go and write on these concerns, how they relate to you, what they mean to you. And 
it's your choice at that point if you want to go in depth, or if you want to just scribble some, some words 
on a paper and get your, your word count. So I made it through phase one. She relapsed. I made it through 
phase one, and they, they held me in community and was like, we got some concerns for you. I'm like, 
what? I haven't been using no drugs or nothing. Even though I'm forging all my meeting sheets, I'm lying, 
I'm getting laid, but I'm not using, so I'm good, right? They're like, no. 
Ethan (00:41:21): 
So who presents the concerns? Everybody does it, or is it just the counselors? 
Tim (00:41:26): 
The coordinator asks you, does anyone have any issues or concerns? 
Ethan (00:41:33): 
So just sort of everybody? 
Tim (00:41:34): 
It's, it's a group question. It's a group thing. Well, you can hold a concern on yourself or hold an issue on 
somebody else. 
Ethan (00:41:47): 
I see. I see. 
Tim (00:41:48): 
So, a couple of guys held concerns for themselves. And, then, there was a couple of guys that have issues 
for me. Well, Dave B-- knew me, you know. He was kinda like, even though I was going haywire, I was still 
absorbing the information. And if you put a name on that, do Dave B. 
Ethan (00:42:11): 
Okay. 
Tim (00:42:13): 
12 
 
They don't like last names. Just--but you know, even though I wasn't applying information, I was absorbing 
information. So I could actually, I knew the information very well, and I can deliver it well, but I couldn't 
apply very well. So Dave knew I was running wild. He could--he just don't, you know, he knows it--so a 
couple of guys had an issue on me. He said, yeah, put Tim on the board. 
Tim (00:42:44): 
I was like, why, Dave! Why? I said, why y'all bothering me? I said, I'm not getting high. I'm doing good. 
They said, no, you're fucking crazy. And you're angry. Nobody can talk to you, because I knew everything. 
Nobody could tell me I was doing something wrong because I knew what I was doing. I didn't see it. Hey, 
dude. I was angry at first, like, oh, you all are just trying to be spiteful. Y'all trying to get me caught up. 
Y'all trying to do this. Y'all trying to do that. And they start asking some very personal questions and 
questions that I have been trained to steer away from and not talk about. And, finally, I just broke down, 
just started bawling. They're like, what is it, Tim? I said, man, my own parents and family betrayed me. I 
can't trust any of you sons of bitches. They said, well, you made the first step. You let somebody in. 
Tim (00:43:52): 
And my community went over a couple of days because I was pretty screwed up. And, you know, they 
gave me like 29, 30 concerns, and they're writing like 50,000 words. But what I found when I, when I did 
all that writing, I faced a lot of demons that I had put away for a long time. But what I also noticed is that 
they were right there behind me, supporting me, carrying me. And just through the emotional roller 
coaster rides, they just was there. And I hadn't experienced that in a long time, you know. So when I, when 
I, when I experienced that, it was like, man, these cats really care. I mean, there was some spiteful that-- 
you know, you got that balance, you know. But there was a core group that actually really cared, without 
wanting something in return. I was like, man, but also through that writing, they, they, they opened it--
through all that writing, it opened my eyes to understand my father's alcoholism, you know. And my 
mother's alcoholism and the anger and the abuse and everything. It helped me to be able to forgive him, 
for acceptance of his alcoholism, because I was an alcoholic. So once I accepted mine, I was able to accept 
his. So I was able to forgive him, but then to forgive him was to forgive myself. It's like a big [draws circle]. 
You know. So, I'm sitting there, and I'm writing and writing and writing. You know, I'm thinking that my 
uncle, you know, what he did to me was the root of my issue. So I'm writing to him. I'm facing him. I'm 
sobbing. I'm angry. I'm processing, but I'm still bothered. You know, I'm, I'm a lot better, but I'm still 
bothered. I wasn't free yet. And I went to Dave, and I was like, man, I've got an issue. He said, what do 
you need me to tell you that you already know? 
Tim (00:46:04): 
He already knew I knew the answer. I just wasn't seeing it. I was like, Dave, I was like, man, I keep going 
to it. I'm writing on it. I've done faced this stuff, man. But I'm still bothered. Why is that? He said, I got one 
question. I said, what's that? He said, man, he said, most children that's been hurt in the manner you was, 
at that age, what's the first thing they do? I said, I don't know. He said, tell the parents. He said, why didn't 
you? And it was like that, bing. You know, the--my father was hurting me, how could I, why would I believe 
to tell him to protect me. He betrayed me. He was betraying me. So how, why would I believe to tell him? 
And it just opened my eyes that I didn't trust my parents. And that was my core. That was the, that was 
that. It was like--but when I finally got past that and that being bothered and I was at peace in my mind, 
you know. I spent years with this noise in my head. It just never, never went away. 
 
13 
 
Tim (00:47:30): 
When I got, finally got peace of mind, I found out I wasn't ADHD. I just couldn't--I was always distracted 
by the noise in my head. Once that noise was gone, I could start hearing again. Not pacifying people, 
actually hearing what somebody was saying. Hearing, just hearing life in general, hearing the birds, hearing 
everything. It's just like the blindfold come off. It was like, man, peace. Then, it would get to the God 
aspect. You know, and you know, I come to this conclusion with me is that, you know, the preachers, the 
teachers, and the cops are the people who were put on this world to protect the people from the bad. 
When I come to realize that that was the false, this is the truth. I was able to look back and see where God 
was in my life the whole time. I just didn't see him the way I wanted to see him. They taught me how to 
see him the way I was supposed to see him. And when I did that, there come the tears again, snotting. 
But those are happy tears. That acceptance of God actually does that. He does care. He does exist. I'm 
thinking I'm abandoned. I'm disowned. I'm [inaudible] because of all the choices, all the anger, all the 
yelling, all the screaming, and all the blaming I did to God. It's like, how can he love me from that? And He 
still loved me, and He still gave me a purpose. So here comes the purpose. Now that you're free, go help 
someone else get free. 
Tim (00:49:22): 
That's where the peer support comes in. This is where, you know, I, when I completed, I peer mentored 
for four months at the Hope Center. And I, I wanted to get peer support certified. I didn't want to do it for 
the money. You know, there's, there's the triangle of recovering, it's service, unity, and recovery. Right. 
So I knew that I, believe it or not, when I, when I, when I--I accepted a friend request from Tanya, or she 
accepted a friend request from me that I never sent to her. I was like, how's that? But OK. Well, when it 
come up that she was the founder of Stop Heroin Lexington--that's what I died from! It was like, okay, 
there's my, there's my ominous sign. There's a path. Right. So I shot her a text immediately, not even 
knowing this woman from Adam. I was like, hey, if you ever need me to speak, if you ever need me to do 
anything, just let me know. She had me in her first event that year. I gave my lead and, you know-- 
Ethan (00:50:31): 
That was one of her like rallies or walks that she did? 
Tim (00:50:32): 
Yes, her and Larry McCoy. That's the one they did back in 2018. I did that one for them. I was one of the 
speakers. And she was, she had a partner at the time. His name is Joe T. You know who I'm talking about? 
Ethan (00:50:57): 
I don't know any of the back story, but we don't need to get into that. 
Tim (00:51:02): 
I'm not going to get too into it. I just know that the relationship went in a different direction. She started 
to have some feelings, so she, she called me. And I went and spoke to her, and she asked me to do a jail 
program with him to kind of feel him. Because there was some things that happened that she needed the 
truth behind. And I gave her my truth. My perception--now, Tanya, what it was, I'm just saying what I see. 
So she asked me to take over the jail program. Okay. I'm definitely down with that. I do table events, T-
Shirts, leads, speak, whatever. I was her partner. I was whatever you wanted me to be. I went to some 
harm reduction coalition meetings with her in Frankfort. I went to a grant meeting here in Lexington at 
the bank. 
14 
 
Tim (00:52:02): 
I've done a lot of this with her. And then back when--well, she sponsored me to go to get peer support 
certified. So I'm in the middle of writing a book. I think we talked about that. Yeah. It's called--I was going 
to call it Alternative Perceptions. That was the original name it was going to be, but that's now going to 
be a chapter instead of the name of the book. I think the Imprisoned by Perception is a better fit for the 
title. But I went to her, and she had access to the library. It's kind of like this [referring to room]. I said, let 
me start a class there. I'm peer support certified. We can do it under your umbrella, you know. So I started 
doing a class at the library once a week. 
Ethan (00:53:05): 
Oh, so you did it-- 
Tim (00:53:07): 
Rotating libraries here in Lexington. I did classes--I started a group, you can probably still see it on 
Facebook, called Alternative Perceptions group. I was doing classes. I had, when I, with the kickoff of the 
class, I had Larry, Tanya, and a few other people there. I had the news cover it, you know. 
Ethan (00:53:34): 
Was that last year? Last year? 
Tim (00:53:38): 
Yeah. Well, when I was in the Hope Center, the news came, and I did a story for the Hope Center then 
about fentanyl abuse. And I give them a part of my story then. And when I went to kick off the class, I 
emailed that same reporter, said, look, you know, y'all did a story on me then. I'm inviting you to do a 
follow up of what's going on. They were right out there. So I had the news cover it. You know, some 
magazine picked it up. They, they wrote a piece on it. You know, God's been putting my story out there. 
You know, not for me to go out here and take recognition for it. But like this right here, this isn't for me 
to go out here and tell the world what I'm doing. This is for my information to catch and help whoever can 
see it. You know, that's why you see I'm pretty detailed about what--you don't mind, do you? 
Ethan (00:54:42): 
That's great. I love it. So, but when your classes, did you tell your story, or did you have certain things you 
went through? 
Tim (00:54:52): 
We had a curriculum. Now, I would teach the curriculum based off my story. You know, I made it personal. 
She gave me the format, and I made it personal. You know, when I had, you know, I had maybe had three, 
four, or five guys at a time. It didn't build that much. Not, not yet, and then the COVID hit and wiped it 
out. Plus Tanya had a lot going on, and I couldn't get her to keep it updated on the website. So, you know, 
I love Tanya, but some people get so occupied in everything going on, they lose sight of some other things. 
I'm not mad at her. She just, it, it didn't fit her plate at the time. And I'm cool with that. But it gave me a 
piece of my story. 
 
 
15 
 
Tim (00:55:35): 
It gave me my experience. Yeah. And the jail program, I walked away from that. You know, Joe, I let him 
have that back under his own little thing he was doing. Cause I was his--before Stop Heroin Lexington, 
Recovery Warriors. She hooked me up with, to partner with Joe first, before Tanya. She wanted my--that 
was kind of like my interview phase, you know what I mean. Ok, if you're going to tough it out here, I know 
you'll do okay. So I teamed up with Joe, and that's where she wanted me to find out what's really going 
on. And I finally, I said, you know, Joe--I would go meet Joe every week for coffee before I'd go teach the 
jail program. I would touch on my story. He would tell me his. I would share with him. Well, what I find he 
was doing on Facebook, and I don't want this out there. What I've found, because I don't want nobody's 
name being bashed because that's not what this is about. This is why I separated from that. But so me 
and Tanya got together. And you know, I was running with her, you know. Whatever we needed to get 
done we was doing. We started developing an IOP program. God was putting everything in place. I had a 
storage unit full of office furniture. He introduced me to a therapist, introduced to her, to get this program 
going. And then the programming, the provider says [no.] 
Ethan (00:57:14): 
What program was that going to be? 
Tim (00:57:16): 
It was going to be called Alternative Perceptions. 
Ethan (00:57:17): 
So you were going to have that as an IOP? 
Tim (00:57:19): 
An IOP program that was based--it was Stop Heroin Lexington's program, based off their website, you 
know, their organization. But the class, even though I was gonna teach her curriculum, the class for that 
program was going to be called Alternative Perceptions, like I was building at the library. Well, we wasn't 
getting the attendance where we wanted it. So we was like, you know, let's halt it on the library. Let's 
focus on the IOP program, and I can merge my class into the IOP program. And then the provider said 
[no]. 
Ethan (00:57:55): 
So, so the people who are doing the program would, would take the class as part of their process? 
Tim (00:58:04): 
Well, yes. Anybody that gets to the IOP program, the class would be part of their program. Yes. I was trying 
to, yeah, infuse it into the, the whole IOP. And you know-- 
Ethan (00:58:19): 
That's all on hold for the moment? 
Tim (00:58:21): 
No, that's not even going to happen. 
16 
 
Ethan (00:58:22): 
It's not going to happen. 
Tim (00:58:22): 
Tanya took a new job since then. Her schedule, she has a friend that's, she's kind of, she's having a baby. 
Her friend's having a baby. She actually handed Stop Heroin Lexington over to her. You know, Amber is a 
nice lady, but she's not someone that I dedicated with. And when Tanya walked away, I kind of--I was 
building this with you, I'm not, I'm okay. 
Ethan (00:58:56): 
Yeah, yeah. 
Tim (00:58:56): 
You know, but you know, through the journey of all of it, all the events, all the meetings and everything, 
it kept me sober. You know, one key element is to give back to stay sober. You know, do I have thoughts 
of getting high again? Absolutely. I'd be lying if I tell you I didn't. You know, I was a drug addict for 30 
years. You know, when my back hurts, does my mind think about doing some pain pills? It does. But you 
know, what the, what the program taught me is to recognize the consequences of that. You know, 
recognize consequences. Before, before I didn't care about consequences. Today I value the person in 
front of me, that's sitting here. So, I recognize consequences now instead of just acting. You know, believe 
it or not, you know, like this right here, stuff right here, gets me spiritually high. And this, this high is a lot 
better than that high. You know, I never thought I'd find something better than dope. You know, I use to 
tell people I'm addicted to recovery. 
Ethan (01:00:22): 
And you still got to, you still have, you're still involved at Hope Center? You do the newsletter and you do 
some other stuff? 
Tim (01:00:34): 
Well, I'm teaching class there tomorrow. The IOP class program. Right now, they're not allowing any 
outsiders into the recovery program. But the IOP, at the Ball Center, I'm doing a class there. But it's still 
the Hope Center. My girlfriend, she's a third-shift worker at the women's Hope Center. You know, a lot of 
my fellowship, you know-- 
Ethan (01:00:57): 
And you still have the meetings you go to? 
Tim (01:01:00): 
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Definitely meetings. You know, I don't go to as many meetings as I'd like to go to because 
of, you know, my girlfriend's got issues, so I don't want to really expose her too much. But I also have a 
strong fellowship, and I have a lot of, a lot of good friends in recovery that we can all, we can, three of us 
get together to have a meeting ourselves. You know, my neighbor, he's going through some hard times, 
we pulled the book out, you know, the other day. You know, they say whenever there's two or more, 
there's the presence of the Lord, that's the presence of the Spirit. So you know, you don't have to be in a 
17 
 
building to have a meeting. You know, like this to me is like a meeting. You know, cause right now I'm not 
talking, my spirit is. 
Tim (01:01:46): 
You know what I mean? But it's a beautiful place to be. You know, I'm, I'm, I'm grateful. I mean, I've done 
lost relatives in sobriety. I've done, I've wrecked, totaled my car, texting and driving. I've done, I've had 
some bad things happen in recovery. But what I've found is that I, that, that I had that foundation to go 
to instead of a drug. And it's kept me sober. Being a peer support specialist, you know, when you, when 
you, when you can go to a person who is ignorant to the truth, not saying they're dumb or nothing, you 
know, ignorance to the truth. And they stand behind that lie and you give them some truth. You watch 
that switch, that light bulb, because it ain't, it ain't that they didn't know the truth, they'd never been told 
the truth. You know, it's when you, man, when you can sit there and watch that happen, it's like, there's 
my purpose. 
Ethan (01:02:57): 
So that's the kind of thing you, you did at the Hope Center and in the jail? 
Tim (01:03:04): 
And no matter who I am with-- 
Ethan (01:03:06): 
Is it like a one-on-one or in meetings? 
Tim (01:03:06): 
Groups, one-on-one, it doesn't matter. I could go do my lead at the men's Hope Center. There'd be 200 of 
them sitting there. It wouldn't matter to me. I'm going to reach as far as I can. 
Ethan (01:03:19): 
You can still sometimes see, when it's a big group, you can still see-- 
Tim (01:03:23): 
You see them pinging. It's almost like light bulbs coming on over their heads. You definitely can, when it's 
genuine. 
Ethan (01:03:31): 
Yeah, yeah. No, that's true. 
Tim (01:03:34): 
You know, there's, there's, I'm not--you know, I never mention names, but there's a lot of people out here 
that put on a good mask, you know. But there's a few of us that are genuine. Even in the rooms of recovery, 
there's still, there's people who are just as sick as the day they walked in. But they wear a mask very well. 
And, and I pray for them. You know, I pray that they lose the mask and become who God really intended 
them to be. You know, I'm just glad they're still sober. You know, I'm glad that's working for them now. 
You know, and people might not agree with the way I do my program. They might think mine is crooked 
and savage and whatever. But I know I'm honest and blunt for myself today. You know, I might not do 
18 
 
things perfectly. I'm human. I'm not going to. But I'm honest with myself, and I'm honest about what I do. 
As long as I stay honest, I can't betray being honest. I might hurt your feelings, but I can't, I'm not gonna 
hurt my feelings. 
Ethan (01:04:45): 
Yeah. I get you. Where did you do your peer support training? 
Tim (01:04:51): 
It's New Vista now. 
Ethan (01:04:56): 
New Vista. And how was that? I mean, was that sort of stuff that you already knew, or did you learn 
anything from it? 
Tim (01:05:06): 
Well, I kind of had, you know, almost a year's training before I took that class. There was some new people 
in there, and they had a little bit of a rough time. They maybe did a 28 day program. You know, me and a 
couple other guys, you know, kind of was like, we got it, you know. Hey, and you know, like doing the 
assignments, I'm like [woosh, woosh]. And this girl, 
, I still talk to--she was sitting beside me. 
She said, man, I wish I could get it that easy. I'm like, babe, I've been, you know, I've been in rehab for 
almost, for a year. Peer mentoring, teaching class, teaching recovery dynamics as a peer mentor. 
Ethan (01:05:47): 
So you did that before you took the class? 
Tim (01:05:50): 
Oh, yeah. For four months as a--when I completed, I went to an MT peer mentor. I wanted MT because 
that's motivation right off the street. I want them fresh in so I could teach them using my experience. You 
know, so I did that right out of the gate, and it taught me how to teach it. You know, so it's, it's--yes, I did 
have some knowledge already. But it's also going to a person's intellect too. You know, you gotta 
remember a lot of that, you know. You know, at a year in, my memory still wasn't the greatest. I had a 
hammer a lot. Today it's a lot better. You know, it's surprising how clear your mind gets when you quit 
diluting it. And, you know, I never thought I was a good learner. 
Tim (01:06:39): 
I never thought I was very smart. I always, always had a very low opinion of myself. And when I get, when 
I got clean and got a clear mind, I said, damn, I am [inaudible]. I do have some intelligence. I am capable 
of absorbing information. I am able to teach people stuff. You know, and the one that got me the most, I 
used to hate reading. I used to hate it. I still don't like it. But my grammar and articulation has improved 
a thousand percent since I've completed the program. You know, the way I speak, my speech pattern, my 
English, everything has just cleared up. You know, and the way God has blessed me with the ability to see 
something, decipher it, and explain it to somebody else. That, that is a skill he's blessed me with that I'm 
truly amazed that he's given it, you know. I give Him credit for everything. You know, without Him, there's 
no me. They say it's a we program, but see it's only me and you for an hour. I got me and Him for 24 hours. 
So it's a we program because it's got me and Him, so it's we. I don't do nothing anymore. Every now and 
19 
 
then, I'll make a bad decision. And I'm quick to convince myself that what I want is what God wants me to 
want. But then I learn that it's not what I'm supposed to have and then I get to learn a lesson. But I ain't 
got to get high, and that's the great part of it. 
Ethan (01:08:12): 
So, so what is, what--since you won't be doing that program with, with Tanya, do you have other things 
you might be working on? 
Tim (01:08:20): 
Honestly, before two weeks ago, but you know--I didn't know I was gonna be sitting here talking to you. 
Ethan (01:08:33): 
So you just see what opportunities-- 
Tim (01:08:36): 
You know, the, the Hope Center is limited on access. So, you know, the meetings have been limited, you 
know. So, there's not really a lot. For me to have the opportunity to do this and teach class tomorrow and 
within a two-day period is a big bundle compared to the access, to what's going on. So He's given it to me 
in the way He wants me to have it. When it comes to the recovery side, I don't even try to go to with that 
rule. Because every time I go right, He takes me left. 
Ethan (01:09:10): 
True, true. I just didn't know if you were talking about-- 
Tim (01:09:12): 
Well, I told Tanya if some other stuff comes up, I'm more than happy to jump in and help out. You know, 
I'm open to anybody that is trying to help. You know, and there's a few people out there who knows that. 
So, for example, they know I'm willing to do this stuff, that's why they reach, they make suggestions. And 
Tanya emailed me your information. I didn't wait. I just called. 
Ethan (01:09:37): 
That's good. 
Tim (01:09:37): 
Because it's like, I've been limited to what I could give. So, and I've been given, abundantly blessed, so it's 
like, I have a lot to give. So it's like, it's like here you go, here's you a plate, fill it up. I'm like, okay, I'm good 
with that. 
Ethan (01:09:55): 
Well, if somebody asks you to, if you wanted to come on and work full-time as a peer support specialist, 
that's not, that's not in the cards? 
 
 
20 
 
Tim (01:10:04): 
No. No. Well, it's because my, my budget is substantial. I pay 800 a month just in child support. So God 
has put me in a position-- 
Ethan (01:10:17): 
That wouldn't, that wouldn't cover your-- 
Tim (01:10:18): 
No, peer support specialists, the top range is 13, $14 an hour. I make almost double that. You know, but I 
have a lot of overhead. No, it ain't even about the money. You know, there's a triangle, a triangle: unity, 
service, and recovery, you know. I got my recovery, and I got my unity. This is my service. If I was getting 
paid for it, it's no longer a service. So even when I got my peer support certification, I wasn't looking for 
work. I looked for it to advance my service work. 
Ethan (01:10:58): 
So it opens doors for your service. 
Tim (01:11:01): 
Now, but don't get me wrong. I don't want any kind of service work. You know, I know some people that 
they chase, out to get jobs in recovery. And this is one of the bad things, kind of the negative things I see 
about working in recovery. That becomes their recovery. You know, some people, I know they, they, 
they're still full in, you know, meetings, book, but you know, a few people I see when they get a job in the 
recovery field, the job is their recovery. So they're not doing service anymore. 
Ethan (01:11:39): 
They're not doing personal work. 
Tim (01:11:40): 
That's not service. That's, that's a job. So they're not going outside of their job to get their own service 
work. You know, that's one of the negatives of that. That's why I don't search out work in recovery. I'm a 
service man. You know, and I love being that way, you know. And it doesn't, when you work in recovery, 
it actually limits you on what you can do. I'm limitless because I'm not bound with nobody. One person 
uses me, and that's God. And He gives me the ability to grow in areas to help, wherever He sees fit for me. 
You know, I know there's people out there that look for a good peer support specialist. I know this. I know 
this. That question when it came, if it didn't, but no, I just-- 
Ethan (01:12:28): 
Yeah. I mean, well, that's why I wanted, maybe we could talk a little bit--we're getting close on time--but 
a little bit about sort of how you, you know, sort of how you see maybe the peer support specialists, their 
roles changing, you know, in the recovery community. How you see that might change? Or what you 
would like to see change maybe? 
Tim (01:12:55): 
Well, everybody, well, it's well known that peer support specialists are tools that therapists use to gain 
trust with the clients, without a doubt. But when the peer support specialist just builds that trust and 
21 
 
hands off to the therapist, it stops for them, to a certain level. For me, that was a problem, you know, 
because when I build a trust with somebody, and I got to say, hey, now I suggest you go to this therapist, 
but I don't know this therapist. I don't know nothing about you. I don't know. So that kind of area--you 
know, I like to work on my own work to the end. I don't want to stop, and say, here you go, I've done the 
hard work, now you take over. And I understand. Don't get me wrong. I understand the process. And they 
had to come up with something to help therapists reach drug addicts, because most therapists ain't been 
exposed to the elements of what the drug addicts have been through. Plus, therapists are limited on what 
they can open up to their clients. And a peer support specialist can open, wide open with them. So I 
understand the process. I can't say I like it too much. But there is a need for it. So, it's a positive and a 
negative one, on that one. 
Ethan (01:14:27): 
But it could be that maybe therapists and peer support specialists could work together a little bit more. 
Tim (01:14:31): 
I agree. Maybe if the, you know, on, on the clients that--I agree with that--on the clients that are substance 
abuse, that a peer support specialist, you know, that they should be able to sit in session with them as 
well. You know, I know it takes away a billable hour for the peer support specialist, but it gives them the 
experience, to stay in their circle. That, that could be their service hour. You know, you've got an hour 
billable, to bill them. And then you got an hour of service to, to sit in with them. You know, that's a good, 
that would--me, I think, because that gives them, you know--and it ain't gotta be every one of them, but 
an hour or two, maybe three a week, they sit in with a client that they've built up. 
Tim (01:15:28): 
That gives them the service part of their recovery. That keeps them from thinking, okay, well, I work with 
them, so I'm doing my duty, my service work, but you're getting a paycheck. You know, that's why I stay 
away from the jobs. Cause I'm not limited. You know, and, and I'm not dictated on, okay, I can't go this far 
with this client because you're taking them over when you see that I'm done. You know, it's, you know, 
the guys I work with, I can go to their core and help them come out and not worry about a therapist saying 
you've done too much. You can't go that far with them. You can't, you know. You know, but some people 
agree with that method. Some people like that method, but me, I have a different opinion of that method. 
For me, for personal. 
Ethan (01:16:21): 
But the Hope Center, it's a little bit more flexible there. I don't know if you want to say. 
Tim (01:16:26): 
No, see, at the Hope Center, it stops at the peer, the peer mentors work with the clients, and the staff 
can't get too close. 
Ethan (01:16:35): 
Yeah. So, yeah, it's turned around. 
 
 
22 
 
Tim (01:16:38): 
They encourage peer mentors to go sit out and talk with them. It's the opposite. The Hope Center. From 
day one, they, they suggest give back, give back, give back, give back. The guy who got there a week ago 
can help the guy who got there today. The guy there a month could help the guy got there a week, been 
there a week. The guy that has been there six months can help the guy that's been there only a month. 
The guy that has been there a year in peer mentoring can help the guy that's going to graduate. It's, it's a, 
it's a give-back system. You know, and through the whole process, open up to whatever, it doesn't matter. 
You know, because-- 
Ethan (01:17:14): 
If that's the situation, that's where there's counselors, but that's only if you reach a point where--is that 
how it works? I don't know. If you just need to turn to that. 
Tim (01:17:26): 
Well, there's not really counselors. There's one-- 
Ethan (01:17:28): 
Or therapists. 
Tim (01:17:29): 
Well, there's one, there's a therapist that's billable for Medicaid. You know, but that, we're not going to 
go that far. 
Ethan (01:17:39): 
Okay. Okay. 
Tim (01:17:40): 
The Hope Center is my home. And I don't, I don't, let's put it this way: there's two sides of the hope center. 
There's the recovery side-- 
Ethan (01:17:51): 
I just wanted to know how the system works. I didn't want to get you into it too much. 
Tim (01:17:55): 
Well, you know, I mean, I can't give you answers I don't know, and I don't want to tell you something 
that's false. I just know the peer mentors, they do a lot of work with the clients. You know, they, they, 
they send, like, when I was in the program--see the Hope Center's not a therapist office. The Hope Center 
is just a recovery program to teach you how to apply the information to your life. So, for me, like I had 
PTSD when I first got there. So, I actually went to comp care at the time. 
Ethan (01:18:37): 
Out of the recovery program, out of Hope? 
 
23 
 
Tim (01:18:37): 
No, no. Over in New Vista at the time. It was called comp care at the time. So I was going to therapy and 
going through the program. 
Ethan (01:18:46): 
Okay. That makes sense. 
Tim (01:18:47): 
Yeah. Yeah. They offer therapy and stuff. 
Ethan (01:18:50): 
That's kind of what I was trying to get at. 
Tim (01:18:51): 
Yeah, they offer therapeutic services. They don't take somebody that's bipolar, and say, okay, recovery is 
gonna make you better. It's not--that's, that's illegal. They have, they give you the option to sign up for 
therapists if you feel like you need to see a therapist. Me and mine was a dumb song. I was an open book. 
I went out there and my therapist was like, where the fuck did you come from, cause I can barely get 
people to talk. And I'm telling my whole life story the first, you know. But I was told that's what I needed 
to do to get it out of me. You know, so within about four months, my program, when I, when I did all that 
writing and I took that to my therapist, I showed him that, you know, our principle started lining up with 
the Hope Center and the therapist, he said, you don't need me no more. 
Ethan (01:19:47): 
Really. Wow. 
Tim (01:19:47): 
Four months I was out of the therapist office because the, the PTSD, the ADHD, all that stuff was revolved 
around the noise in my head. You know, most people that have PTSD is cause all that noise they have in 
their head. And if you find an outlet to get rid of that noise, you're not suffering from PTSD no more. Not 
saying some people are so traumatic, they can't come back from it. I'm just saying my opinion, my theory 
on that is that if a person's mind, if you can get a person to slow their mind down to get rid of all that 
noise, it's gonna function again. Because most of your depression, anxiety, bipolarism, PTSD, all that 
revolves around exposures as a child, or at some point in life, to put you at a point where you can't manage 
the noise, which is the thought process. You know, they call it noise. It's your thought process. Your mind 
can't stop thinking about it. You know, and they showed me how to dissolve the noise, where I could 
function again. You know, so I'm not at that animalistic level anymore. You know, so hopefully I did good 
for you today. 
Ethan (01:20:55): 
You did awesome. I'm going to stop it here.