Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
1 
Project: Archie Green Project 
Interviewer: Andy Kolovos 
Interviewee: Mark Boyden 
Interviewee Contact: 
 
Location: Boyden Farm, Cambridge, VT 
Date: 19 March 2015 
Length: 01:03:40 
Recording Format: Digital 
Accession: au2015-1007 
Collection: vfc2014-0006 
Indexer: Shannon Esrich 
 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
START-00:00:30 
Introductions. 
Introduction. 
00:00:30-00:05:02 
Grew up on Boyden Farm, fourth generation on farm. Great grandfather bought 
farm in 1914. Diary farm for decades, dairy industry went through massive 
change in 1980-90s, time to either get big or get out. Looked into business 
plans for transition, but decided to change farm. Too much labor and costs to 
redo farm for new dairy market. Sold cows, made neighbors talk. Sold dairy 
heifers, horse hay, corn and soybeans. Then started trying beef cattle, local food 
movement was just starting, on precipice of taking off. Beef fit farm because 
didn’t want to milk anyway. Started selling beef to Healthy Living in 2004 when 
they had just opened. Saw it was right time to get into local food market. Tried 
to grow beef market since then to match market’s steady and large growth. 
Want their name out there first. Turned milk house into store. Were going to do 
pigs, lamb, chickens, sheep, and turkeys, but after first year decided to stick 
with beef and do it really well. Glad they made that decision. Small-scale retail, 
diversified would make sense, but as larger wholesale beef retailer makes more 
sense to focus on beef. Shut down store because not enough customers. Can sell 
Childhood, generational farming, 
family, dairy, transition, 
institution, Healthy Living, 
livestock, retail outlet, wholesale, 
Black River Produce, distributor 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
2 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
retail in Cambridge at cost of wholesale in Burlington, doesn’t make sense, so 
stick with wholesale. Some direct to stores and restaurants, but bulk goes 
through Black River Produce. Boyden gets lower price per pound but BRP 
handles accounts, transportation, promotion. Going forward, want to deal 
primarily with distributors. 
00:05:02-00:10:12 
Farm is multifaceted, brother owns winery 15-20 years ago, one of first 
wineries in Vermont. Also does distillery and hard cider. Business has exploded 
in recent years in VT. Dad turned old shop into sugarhouse. Had always tapped 
trees, but Dad has expanded it. Wife turned upstairs loft of old dairy barn into 
banquet facility. End of April-November host weddings, graduations parties, 
corporate events, etc. Was expensive project to get building up to code, but 
always booked and able to make money towards family living expenses. Also 
grow organic crops, though beef is not organic. Sell organic corn and soy, sell 
that to make money to buy non-GMO corn for cattle. Hay is organic too. Market 
beef as non-GMO feeds. Puts them at almost organic level with pricing without 
hassle of organic certification, wants nothing to do with people who write 
organic policy. Customers really want non-GMO feed. Long term, may switch 
crops to non-GMO program which were already doing 20 years ago and let that 
grow into beef program. Currently selling most crops and keep small part for 
beef, but wants to go back to old ways of having all crops go towards beef on-
farm and sell no or minimal crops. In a transition back. Used to grow GMO 
crops when first invented, thought they were great like other farmers. Once 
learned science behind it and research, especially with long-term negative 
effects on environment, didn’t want to do it. Upset about how much Monsanto 
makes off of farmers. Sold dairy herd in 2000. Converted to beef in 2002 with a 
few animals, 2003 sold by the half or quarter animal, 2004 started wholesale to 
Healthy Living and restaurants. 2-3 cows/week, had to drive to Rutland 
butcher shop. 
Diversified, winery, sugaring, 
banquet hall, GMO, closed loop, 
organic, customer, Monsanto, 
institution, retail outlet, Healthy 
Living 
00:10:12-00:12:47 Have never done butchering on farm, doesn’t want to do it, no interest in how 
Butcher, consumer, retail outlets, 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
3 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
to do it. Knows all cuts of meat with cows, many different ones as compared to 
chickens or birds. Need to market almost all parts of cow, only some go to 
ground beef. Weekly customers buy similar things, individuals and restaurants 
and Black River Produce, so try to sell as many parts as possible each week. 
Butcher gets live cattle, kill them, hang them in coolers to cool down, send 
weekly cut sheets to butcher to tell them which cuts are desired and where 
they are going, then Black River Produce picks them up from butcher to take to 
retail outlets. Black River does deliveries. Very good working relationship with 
butcher, need to have good butcher to cut meat well and trust their skills. Very 
happy with Ferrisburgh butcher shop, very old school and only 43 miles away, 
Vermont Livestock Slaughter and Process.  
distributor, Black River Produce, 
institution, processor, Vermont 
Livestock Slaughter and Process 
00:12:47-00:16:56 
Wanted to get out of dairy market because of unstable prices. Wanted own 
product with own label. Monte Adams selling beef in financial strife, Boyden 
hired him to do sales, went belly up and left the state. Boyden started doing it 
himself, organizing shipping and deliveries, then had butcher shop do that for 
him instead. Had no familiarity with butchering during dairy years. By doing 
occasional slaughter and learning characteristics of animals and of customers, 
learned customer demand. Wanted to join Black River Produce from the 
beginning with per box delivery starting in 2004. Kept handful of original good 
customers, but shifted others to Black River. Irony is went to UVM for 
agriculture with animal science. In third year supposed to take hard sciences, 
didn’t like it, didn’t think would use it. Switched to self-design major, From Cow 
to Consumer. Ended up being like a triple major of animal science, plant and 
soil science, and business management. Wanted to get out of hard classes but 
also to take relevant classes, and now using all of self-designed major. 
Graduated 1988 when Boyden was still dairy operation. 
Dairy, processor, butcher, Black 
River Produce, distributor, 
institution, University of 
Vermont, consumer 
00:16:56-00:18:55 
Started with Rutland slaughterhouse, then went to different place and had 
issues, another place really bad in Benson, then ended up in Ferrisburgh and 
really liked them. Always slaughter capacity, but concerns over processing 
Processor, butcher 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
4 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
capacity. Now, butcher shops all over, so easier to choose as farmer. Before 
with fewer options, had to accept poor business, but now butcher shops seek 
business from farmers. At least have options now. Began changing within last 2 
years. Everybody wants to butcher animals late summer and fall, but long 
stretch in winter without butchering. Some will now likely go out of business. 
00:18:55-00:21:35 
Mark’s Dad, grandfather, and Dad’s uncle owned farm when Mark was kid. 
Grandfather and great uncle passed away in same year, Dad was about 34, Dad 
ran farm. Typical dairy farm, tie-up, but also had really good land and a lot of it. 
Had more land than other farmers, Dad started growing own grain for cows 
.Always had a combine, used extra land for corn and stored in silos. Saved a lot 
of money. Started growing soybeans. First farm in northern VT to grow them, 
grew well. Close to yields in Midwest. Mixed roasted soy with stored corn and 
didn’t need to purchase any off-farm grain. Wants to get back to that self-
sufficient model. Cheaper to grow own grain, break even at worst if corn prices 
are low on market. Dairy prices just as volatile with grain prices on the open 
market. 
Family, transition, closed loop, 
grain, volatility 
00:21:35-00:24:12 
Each family member owns own business. If in theory all one business, could 
buy one another out if someone left farm. Problematic to do that because all 
very different individuals with different business interests. Don’t think it would 
work to co-own, budget spending would be a mess. Working out details of 
retirement or accident funds. Any individuals could sell their own business if 
had to earn money, but still need to work together especially considering 
banquet events. Try to coordinate farm activities to avoid upset guests at 
events. People like the look, not the smell of agriculture. Mark, as oldest of 
family, acts as ringmaster for the coordination. Example, pump is wearing out, 
but not any individual’s fault, jus need to replace it and will all split the bill. 
Family, business model, 
cooperation, consumer, shared 
costs 
00:24:12-00:30:46 
Scope of farm is beef, crops, and a small sugar woods. Other people hired to 
take care of that, sap is sold to Dad. Mark’s job to make sure sap is collected, but 
sells back to Dad. Historically bought feeder cattle, but can’t find them on 
Livestock, diversified, sugaring, 
customer, husbandry, expanding 
business, processor, retail outlets, 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
5 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
market anymore. Customers want story of birth to butcher shop. Have special 
beef bulls, bring calves back and raise calves. Huge challenge and learning 
curve. Used to do that, going back to old ways of their farm. Currently 
butchering 4-500 heads a year, want to jump to 1,000 and then 2,000. Have the 
business with just Vermont, tiny bit in NH, so know they can expand in Boston 
and rest of New England. Beef will be different, will lose some fancy restaurants 
looking for highly marbled beef. New beef will be tender and healthier. Will 
shift target market to retail like Healthy Living, City Market, institutions, 
hospitals, private universities. Those are goal markets, and those people will 
pay. Restaurants are difficult to deal with and don’t mind losing that end of 
business. Have up and coming trademark name for type of beef they are 
developing, name not yet released. Special hybrid breed. Copying model of 
Vidalia onions. Type of beef will be regional to New England and New York. 
Type of provenance, can only call it that beef name if raised here. With more 
animals, wants to work with other small VT farmers to fill their empty barns 
with hybrid calves. Could contract those farmers to grow his cattle until 900lbs, 
then take them back to finish them off with good haylage. Story of each cow 
remains in tact. “We’re in the entertainment business. It’s all about the story of 
the beef, or whatever product you sell. People want the story of working with 
multiple farmers and small farms; they don’t want to see a 2,000-cow CAFO 
operation with liquid shit. They don’t want to see it and I don’t want to spend 
the money on it.” That way Boyden Farm LLC owns cattle and that’s it, other 
farmers own their own barns and feed, etc. Purdue and Tyson figured out 
contract farming very well a long time ago. Want to do similar thing but on 
Vermont scale. Pete and Jerry’s Eggs in NH do same thing, contract regionally to 
small farms and only own chickens and eggs. Without new construction, could 
raise 500 head on farm, not enough. Need to own double what you want to sell 
annually. Willing farmers are out there, would need good protocol and would 
check on farmers monthly, but could do it. 
contract farming, institution, 
Purdue, Tyson, Pete and Jerry’s 
Eggs 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
6 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
00:30:46-00:34:14 
Give premium to farmers who raise those hybrid calves for him, that’s the 
incentive for contract farmers. Right now, price for calves/beef insanely high 
compared to usual. Most farmers breed only part of their herd. When prices 
drop, then premium will stand out. Way for farmers to realize new income for 
calves they don’t need. Offering consistency in price. Aside about sex semen. 
Using it currently. Will get more farmers to do it as he needs more cows. 
Price premium, producer, 
contract farming 
00:34:14-00:40:07 
Boyden Farm is 750 open tillable acres, 550 owned, couple 100 rented. Home 
farm, plus farm up road, more acres down the road, hay fields in between. 
Pasture medium sized animals, keep them at barns to fatten up with grain once 
older. Lifecycle of beef cattle. Breed calf, breed heifer to get calf, bottle feed 
with milk for several days, then mother’s milk, weaned after 60-90 days, stays 
in barn to get used to hay and grain. Then go to barn up road, get really high 
quality second cut hay because more tender and higher protein, plus calf grain. 
6-7 months come back to barn, get TMR feed, mix of haylage and shell corn and 
minerals. Need more farmers to help grow feed as well. New hybrid will go to 
slaughter likely between 20-22 months old, 24 tops. Commodity beef is 16-17 
months, but hormones make them grow faster and fed almost exclusively corn 
since calves. Then feed antibiotics to keep livers from exploding from corn, and 
just enough hay to keep stomachs working. Grow faster but spending more per 
day, but less total because shorter lifespan. Feed some corn at Boyden, but only 
5% of mix. Biggest challenge is getting consumers to understand that their corn 
regimen is different from CAFOs out west. Michael Pollan’s Omnivore’s Dilemma 
makes everyone aware of and hates grain. Tried doing grass-only beef and was 
disaster, almost went out of business. Works on small scale with animals on 
pasture in May and butchered by fall, but year-round business doesn’t work. 
Even with good grass in winter, cows lose weight and meat becomes tough. 
Customers didn’t like it, but also wanted grass-fed. Went back to feeding small 
amounts of corn. Biggest challenge educating customers about differences 
between commodity beef and his. Commodity has less flavor, pinker, more fat. 
Land base, lifecycle, grain, grass-
fed, commodity, antibiotics, 
hormone, consumer, education, 
retail outlets, distributor, quality 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
7 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
Feeding dairy cows need more grain, but raising calves and beef calves almost 
identical. Not big change. Switched to trying grass-fed only because of Michael 
Pollan’s Omnivore’s Dilemma. Everyone read it, customers would lecture him on 
evils of grain. Went back to old ways with feeding some grain, and sales went 
up. Retail outlets like Healthy Living still sell more grass-fed than his, but still 
getting higher sales each year. With new breed, want to hit grass-fed market 
head-on. Want to gain distributors who are tired of lack of quality and 
consistency with grass-fed. Only did grass-fed for 1 or 2 winters, really bad. 
00:40:07-00:43:13 
All crops certified organic. Hay is non-GMO, organic. Corn is issue, have to buy 
corn from Bucher Family Farm, they plant old-fashioned hybrids. This year will 
be growing own corn. Will use varieties Blue River, Dee Dale, Masher’s Choice. 
Masher’s Choice has nice white flowery kernels, modern corn in theory has 
more energy because heavier, bushels weigh more. But heavier because dark 
orange starch like popcorn. Will come through in manure, not good. Masher’s 
Choice is soft, mealy, like corn meal, in good way. No corn in manure with that, 
will continue to grow that in future. Corn will grow separately from organic 
crops, will be conventional with minimal herbicide but no Bt, Round Up, etc. 
Currently grow all hay, was buying all corn from Bucher. Plan to grow all own 
corn. Want to spend less money towards someone else. Cultivating non-GMO 
corn big hassle. Yields plummet. Organic corn a nightmare, trying to grow only 
first and maybe second year corn. Soybeans easier to manage because can 
handle heavy disturbance, corn not so. Will have fewer cultivated acres, and 
make them towards non-GMO corn. Will make life simpler.  
Organic, GMO, corn, Bucher 
Family Farm, producer, harvest 
00:43:13-00:47:18 
Have 2 full time employees through because raising calves through winter. 
Before, had 1, then in summer have additional 2 more. Student in Montana 
comes over to run cultivation, goes out with daughter in off/on relationship. 
He’s really good worker. Other guy does cultivating. Sometimes bring in part 
time help for smaller chores. Finding employees not hard, but finding good help 
is hard. Fired guy in September, worked there for 3 years, was very capable but 
Employees, cooperation, 
immigrants, migrant labor, 
Mexico 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
8 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
worked too fast. Too hard on equipment and wasn’t team player, aggravated 
other workers, got worse. Wanted everyone to work his way, had drinking 
problem, ended relationship before it got worse. Hard to do as boss but was 
giving bad feeling, good to have the change. Hired local farm kid to replace, 
doesn’t want to work, wants weekends off. Always gives day off each week, 
more if possible, but animals require daily attention, even on families. There’s 
always people looking for work, but really good help hard to find. “Most of the 
farms have Mexican help now, and they’re excellent help. They’re really the 
new Americans…they’re here to make a better life for themselves and they 
work their ass off and they’re good.” Don’t have any yet working on farm, but 
may in future. If work with smaller farms, won’t have to. 
00:47:18-00:49:10 
Grew up with hired labor, was always hit or miss. Darrel and Dalton Driver 
from East Charleston VT had never left the Northeast Kingdom, very simple but 
very hard working good guys. Salt of the earth, worked there for years. Don’t 
joke about Northeast Kingdom anymore because Cambridge fallen out of 
popularity, and Kingdom is popular, wishes he were there. “It’s been a big 
change, and you can’t stop it. Years ago, this whole ‘Take Back Vermont’ thing – 
well take it back from whom and to what? What are you going to do?...It’s the 
whole ‘Take Back Vermont’ – you can’t!  It’s changing, everything changes; 
either you change or you die, simple as that.” 
Employees, change, Take Back 
Vermont 
00:49:10-00:56:19 
Small steps to transition from dairy to beef. At that time was running farm, 
selling cows was closure to butting heads with Dad over it. By selling dairy 
cows, split money, on his own to change business. Didn’t have a plan. Very good 
at improvisation. Having plan with new breed of cattle first plan in life of what 
he wants to do and where he wants to be in future until retirement. After 
graduating college dabbled in soybeans, adding more milk cows. First time with 
concrete idea at 48 years old. Marketing is everything. Is very good people 
person, okay animal guy, very good crop guy. Went to UVM and saw teachers 
didn’t always know about farming. Visited farms, learned more from bad farms 
Transition, dairy, planning, 
institution, University of 
Vermont, experiential learning, 
marketing, flood, retail outlet, 
Healthy Living, advertising, 
health, consumer 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
9 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
about what not to do. Very good with people, public speaking, expressing ideas. 
Having 4 years of college let him grow into being people person and 
understanding other parts of world, why people think certain ways. Learned a 
lot about people, marketing, always thinking about marketing. Wife hates it. 
Thinks of it immediately looking at other’s products at market. Was growing 
edible beans for a while during dairy, biggest grower in New England, lost tons 
of money from 2 floods in 3 years. 1995, 1997. Business shifted to drier areas of 
country, pulled plug. Have to know when to get out of something before losing 
more money. Dad was upset, but knew wasn’t worth long time. Shifted to beef. 
Marketing Is key. In entertainment business, plus good product, but doesn’t 
have to be best product. All about the story, want customers to feel good about 
price. At Healthy Living, have pretty picture on point of sale labels, bullet points 
about growing practices. With new website plus QR code for iPhone users, 
customers can hopefully find all desired information. Wants to get message 
across that it’s a hybrid beef unique to Boyden and to region, healthier for you 
(lower cholesterol, lower saturated fat, more Omega-3s), working with small 
local farmers to help them keep farming and keep working landscape. 
00:56:19-00:57:50 
All animals coming to farm are half Holstein half special beef breed, all half 
bloods. Need cow numbers, not enough breeding female cows. Could truck in 
calves but too expensive. Better story raising calves than buying in calves. 
Holstein is the Vermont cow, good image already.  
Hybrid, marketing 
00:57:50-01:00:46 
With pricing, organic is extreme, below that Boyden and grass-fed, then 
commodity natural (no hormones of antibiotics). Then commodity. Boyden 
uses antibiotics only if necessary, just if sick. Don’t pull them out of herd. Treat 
them just like kids. Don’t feed antibiotics in every meal like in commodity beef. 
Baby calves need shots to stay healthy, but hardly need to be treated as adults. 
Striving for honesty, rather than saying never using them and being unclear or 
dishonest. People will sign contracts saying whatever just to get money. One 
buyer agreed with Boyden’s practices, but wanted treated cows separated from 
Organic, price, hormones, 
antibiotics, commodity, 
transparency, honesty, consumer, 
distributor 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
10 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
the herd to sell cheaper to other customers. Boyden refused, that person out of 
business now anyway.  
01:00:46-END. 
Fletcher Allen great customer. Healthy Living and City Market excellent on 
retail end, but Fletcher Allen is flagship for his own business goals. Large 
volume, pay good price, new healthier beef will be desired. Price point will 
likely stay same, maybe even decrease. Want to increase business with similar 
enterprises, especially hospitals and universities. That is target market. Don’t 
want to get into Whole Foods, people making rules without understanding 
farming, practically own the producers, can end accounts whenever they want 
to. Retail, hospitals, private schools and universities are future market. Do all 
these accounts through Black River Produce. Still self-delivering to small 
accounts or original accounts, the small co-ops and a few restaurants.  
Institution, University of Vermont 
Medical Center, retail outlet, 
Healthy Living, City Market, price, 
expanding business, Whole 
Foods, distributor, Black River 
Produce, wholesale