AFC 2020/004: 14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
             Eric Gansworth 
 
Living Nations, Living Words: A Map of First Peoples Poetry 
Poem commentary by Eric Gansworth, 2020 
 
Speaker: Eric Gansworth 
Date of recording: July 13, 2020 
Location: Niagara Falls, New York 
Length: 14 minutes, 53 seconds 
 
START OF RECORDING 
 
Eric Gansworth:  This is Eric Gansworth, Sˑha-weñ na-saeˀ, citizen of the Onondaga Nation. The 
poem I’ll be reading is called “Angry Red Planet.” 
 
[Eric Gansworth reads “Angry Red Planet”] 
 
EG:  In general, I feel like I have a fairly strong memory for detail. Most writers perhaps feel this 
way. Either as a byproduct skill of paying attention for work, or as the primary tool that allowed 
for writing as a nuanced activity. To reflect, you need to remember the events that planted 
those seeds of reflection. I’m also nostalgic, though not so much for the life I had as a young 
person. In some ways, reservation life in the sixties and seventies was tough and my family, 
particularly, was consistently in improbable financial straits. Instead, I’m nostalgic for the 
popular culture I consumed: the movies, TV shows, music, books and comics I escaped into. Like 
many kids, I gravitated to heroes and monsters, science fiction and fantasy. Indigenous life was 
rapidly changing with a new and assertive political awareness among young indigenous peoples 
whose parents were nervous about this shift, their memories of boarding schools still fresh. The 
other worlds portrayed on Batman, Land of the Giants, Prince Planet, and even the Monkees’ 
relative realism were easy distractions from those tense days.  
 
But for all of my belief in my strong memory, I learned the hard lesson most people do. The 
past has its own complications. I mean, there’s the usual expectation: that entertainment you 
liked as a child probably doesn’t hold up for you in your adult life. I was okay with that. I now 
recognized that, in Ultraman, aside from the visual look of any episode’s giant monster, every 
installment was almost identical, down to the moment Ultraman would appear, two minutes 
before the end. And the cliffhangers on Batman and Lost in Space that ended each episode, 
never had any real bearing on the plot. 
 
But revisiting these past loves, even accepting their era’s limitations, I am shocked to see how 
consistently faulty my memory really is. If asked, I’d have said that, other than Tonto on 
syndicated Lone Ranger re-runs, I hadn’t seen Indians in much entertainment. Yet over and 
over, I discover now that Indians weren’t absent at all. In fact, we showed up kind of regularly, 
but the appearances were never accurate, even by the loose demands of pop culture. We were 
often portrayed cartoonishly—fools, frozen in some clichéd nineteenth century plains version 
of ourselves. Our erasure from the present was so thorough, so removed from my life, 
apparently I erased these inaccurate images from my own memory. They rarely had bearings on 
the life I knew. Even when Batman encountered indigenous peoples in the comics, he used a 
time-travel device to find some in the first place. The few popular culture creators attempting 
to address social issues gave us reimagined hokey Nobel Savages, like Billy Jack movies and 
songs like “Indian Reservation” by, ironically, Paul Revere and the Raiders. 
 
Each time I encounter these forgotten artifacts, it’s like a slap to the face. But on occasions, that 
slap is more like a punch. These are the times I’m most surprised, like when I encountered films 
like 1959’s The Angry Red Planet. It’s a pretty basic “trip to Mars” story, which was very popular 
at the time. Science fiction trappings were often thinly disguised westerns, reimagined for the 
coming space age. This film, like so many similar works, invokes violence toward indigenous life 
casually, even in the dialogue. Watching it as an adult, I wondered how I could have forgotten 
the explorer crew idly discussing their legacy family skills against indigenous peoples, as they 
landed on Mars and prepared to enter unfamiliar territory. In the script, we were barely even 
metaphoric, just another example of “Something that needs to be conquered.”  
 
You hear warnings about being too nostalgic for a past that didn’t exist, and you understand 
that memory softens some harsh realities. But I’ve discovered that revisiting the past in its 
concrete details has continued, over and over, to remind me of all the complications that exist 
for indigenous peoples, just in continuing to survive Manifest Destiny. 
 
END OF RECORDING