Howard Horton 
August 13, 2014 
89 years old  
Glastonbury, Connecticut 
Born in 1925  
(The interview took place in a part of a barn close to the farmhouse which was under renovations so 
there is some noise interruption from that. Also, there is a break in the flow of the interview about his 
deferment from WWII so that he could remain and work on the farm. We have pieced this together and 
created an accurate narrative. Our apologies for the confusion.) 
The farm has been in the family since 1860. The main crop has been tobacco and supplemental crops 
have been vegetables. I was born into it. (Dale turns down the scanner) I was born right here in this 
house. During the depression time during the 30’s when I was 9-10 years old I was expected to work in 
the fields with the harvest group. I have remained with the farm ever since. Today my son is the fifth 
generation of the Horton Family to be managing this farm. His name is Kenneth. 
3:15 I basically involved myself in just about every phase of the production of the tobacco. I helped with 
the seed beds, transplant, cultivate, and harvest and the finished pack of the tobacco to the shipment to 
the brokers.  
4:30 The seedlings were one time produced in the cold frame. Seeds were broadcasted there in the soil. 
At six to seven inches in height they were ready for transplanting. The hoop house, depending on 
whether the structure has heat it is a green house. The hoop house is a plastic covered structure with no 
heat. The seeds were started in individual flats or what we called cells. One plant per cell. Larger than 
the individual cell.  
5:50 They are tough plants. If they are transplanted in dry weather the baby leaves burned off and just 
the tiny center leaf remains it will survive it will still grow. (Kenneth walks into the shed and we interrupt 
the interview for introductions) WWII when farm youth entered the armed forces there was…. We grow 
just broad leaf, the shade grown that was produced here in Glastonbury the company still exists but 
they no longer produce it in Glastonbury. The barns with the CCC on them. 
7:45 In my youth my father and a neighbor who also grew about 5 acres. Well they helped each other. 
Neither one owned a team of horses so if they needed a team they’d borrow each other’s horse. The 
transplanted in cooperation with each other. The cultivation they did on their own but they helped with 
the harvesting. The neighbor would be in charge of the field work and my father was in charge of the 
shed work. The sheds on this property. My father had one typical tobacco shed on the property and 
then some of the outbuildings have been retrofitted to hang tobacco. The good shed got washed down 
the river with the1936 flood. Town foreclosed for lack of tax payment. Somehow my father’s attorney 
was able to get ahold of the property by paying the back tax lien. In 1938 another piece of property 
adjoining was foreclosed on for the same reason and the same person. That went to auction. It 
consisted of about 16 acres and a fairly sizeable tobacco shed. My father went as a spectator and he 
went to my father and said, “that property goes with your farm. You keep bidding until you buy it and if 
you need money I will loan it to you interest free and you can pay me whenever you are able to.” So my 
father kept bidding. The bidding went to 2300 or 2400 dollars and the other person dropped out. That 
more than doubled the size of the original farm.  
11:45 Then in September a storm destroyed the shed on that property. So my father and I farmed six 
acres of that 16 with tobacco. We had again a structure retrofitted to use for tobacco. Some of the 
lumber came from Vermont. Just over the borderline from Massachusetts. Since then Kenneth has 
increased the acreage. We employed carpenters to construct sheds. They knew the method.  
13:00 Do you want to know my smoking history? My father always rolled his own cigarettes and when I 
was about five I decided to try it. I took some of dad’s materials and haven’t smoked since. 
14:00 According to what my father told me, his father did not maintain buildings properly. My father 
made up his mind that he’d not do it the same way. If something needs replacing, he replaced it. That is 
how I was brought up. The red paint is what is available. The choice today is very limited. We order 1, 2, 
3 five gallon pails from Sears Roebuck shipped by freight and then he’d have his paint material when he 
was ready.  
15:45 I was going to mention a concussion that happened when my grandfather fell from a tobacco 
shed. As far as I know, he was working inside probably during harvest. My father had gone to business 
school at Harvard and had a job as a book keeper for a manufacturing company. His father passed away 
and had no one to take over the farm so my father did. He’d go into the field with a shirt and a tie. The 
old folks could not carry on the the farms alone so my father went for a deferment. 
17:15 We have hired outside of the family for laborers. Today, Glastonbury is an affluent town and the 
youth are not interested in work. We hire Mexicans and they have no problem bending their backs so 
we have so far been satisfied.  I never worked in the shade but they have told me that it is brutal under 
the tents. Some growers do nail their hanging rails so that they can move them closer together to that 
they do not have to straddle four feet.  
19:00 Generally today the interested buyers will come through during the growing season and will check 
the progress of the plant and make note of what they think looks like a good crop. Color and size are 
both determining factors. The larger leaf, the more wrappers are available from each piece of leaf. You 
can get a fairly good feel for the crop from the field. We have had adverse situations when hale and 
wind has wiped out an entire crop. We’ve also had condition called blue mold. It is a fungus that is air 
transported from other growing areas. Usually it starts in the Caribbean’s tobacco producing islands. If 
the wind transports the spores to Florida, wind conditions can then pick up the spores and distribute it 
in any areas in the United States and in Canada. It affects the quality of the leaf. The spores land on a 
leaf and if allowed to multiply it leaves small or quarter size damaged areas in the leaf. So it becomes a 
poorer quality leaf.  
 
22:40 The buyer makes an offer and if it is acceptable (this happens after it has been delivered and 
examined some of the leaves) One difference between broadleaf and shade is that the entire broadleaf 
plant gets cut and harvested and then the leaves have to be stripped. The laths of broadleaf are much 
heavier than shade.  
24:15 Hang up plastic and hang out here. Be comfortable enough to work. Kenneth did not want to go to 
college. If there is something mechanical, he will tackle it. Some of the neighbors prevail upon him to fix 
their lawnmowers and snow blowers.  
25:40 We do not have living facilities here. One of Kenneth’s friends has a large trailer in place and they 
live there. We do not take them out to movies but occasionally we will take them to a Mexican 
restaurant and treat them to a Mexican meal. And once in a while I will buy a carton of ice cream and 
put it in this old freezer here. Kenneth and his wife once in a while buy them Cocoa Cola. We only had 
one employee who did not show up for work. Made an impact.  
27:30 When Kenneth graduated, jobs were not that plentiful in the truck repair field and one of his 
teachers said why don’t you work with your Dad and your uncle and see how it goes. He has stayed ever 
since. A couple of years ago my brother had an issue over something that didn’t amount to diddly. 
Kenneth told me, “ I have worked 20 years on my own here.” Kenneth said he couldn’t work for anyone 
else. He has two girls and a boy. The oldest just turned 11 and the boy is in the middle. The boy likes to 
help out and get on a tractor.  
29:20 Tomatoes, butternut squash and Kenneth and his wife have a stand and they grow various 
vegetables for that. Last year, we sold over 80,000 pounds of tomatoes. This year they are very slow in 
ripening. The soil did not warm early and it held everything back. Last year the price of tobacco was 
good, satisfactory. No regrets! (He wanted us to get in touch with Bill Dufford has friend who also grows 
tobacco in Glastonbury)