Physician Oral History: Susan Morelli 
Page 1 
 
PHYSICIAN ORAL HISTORY 
TRANSCRIPTION COVER SHEET 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interviewee:   
Dr. Susan Morelli 
Place of Interview:  Intermountain Utah Valley Hospital; Provo, Utah 
 
 
Date of Interview: 
November 5, 2019 
 
 
  
Interviewer:  
 
Lisa Gabbert 
 
Recordist: 
 
 
Lisa Gabbert 
 
Recording Equipment: 
Tascam DR-100MKIII, EV RE50N/D-B omni mic 
 
Transcription Equipment used:   Express Scribe with PowerPlayer foot pedal. 
 
Transcribed by:  
 
Susan Gross, 18 December 2019 
 
Transcript Proofed by: 
 Lisa Gabbert and Susan Morelli 
Brief Description of Contents:  Dr. Susan Morelli is a neonatologist and geneticist in the NICU 
at Intermountain Utah Valley Hospital, in Provo, Utah. She talks about what inspired her to 
become a physician, her medical training, as well as some anecdotal experiences throughout her 
career. She talks about the role of humor in the medical workplace and touches briefly on the 
subject of her own spirituality.  
Reference: 
 
 
LG: 
Lisa Gabbert 
 
 
 
 
SM: 
Susan Morelli 
 
 
 
 
NOTE:  Interjections during pauses or transitions in dialogue such as “uh” and false starts and 
stop in conversations are not included in transcribed.  All additions to transcript are noted with 
brackets.   
 
TAPE TRANSCRIPTION 
 
 [00:01] 
 
LG: 
Okay, this is Lisa Gabbert, and today is November 5th, 2019; and I am talking to Dr. 
Susan Morelli, who is a neonatologist here at Intermountain Utah Valley Hospital, in 
Provo, Utah. And she works here in the NICU, and she’s going to be talking about her 
work for the Physicians Oral History project for the American Folklife Center at the 
Library of Congress. 
Physician Oral History: Susan Morelli 
Page 2 
 
 
 
So, thank you for agreeing to do the interview. And you know you’re being recorded, and 
I have permission to record you? 
 
SM: 
Yes. 
 
LG: 
Okay. And for the record can you give your birth year? 
 
SM: 
1968. 
 
LG: 
We are the same age. 
 
[Laughter] 
 
 
Okay. We’re going to start off really generally. If you could just talk about your medical 
background and training: where you went to medical school, what year you entered, 
where you went to residency, years entered, and all that? 
 
SM: 
So, I was going to tell a story about why I went to medical school –  
 
LG: 
Let’s start there. 
 
SM: 
So, as a child I was super-smart in math, like over the top smart. And I was always good 
at math and science. And I had this grandmother who – she always wanted to be a doctor. 
And she had a pretty hard life. By the time she was 13, she was with a step-mother and a 
step-father and moved out on her own, with her eighth-grade education, and made a life 
with my grandfather.  
 
 
And she never had those opportunities. And she would call me up every day (well not 
every day), but when she talked she would ask me, “So, don’t you want to be a doctor?” 
I’m like, “No, grandma; I hate hospitals.” And she would say, “I know; you’re really 
good at math.” 
 
 
And when I was in high school, she went into some nursing homes (after a stroke), and I 
spent a lot of time with the elderly and in nursing homes. And she passed away my first 
year of college (I was studying math at Harvard). And she passed away that March.  
 
 
And that summer I was home, I was working, and my mother and I were driving to the 
beach one day, and it literally popped into my head, “I should be a doctor.” And I always 
think I guess my grandma had more influence on the other side. [Laughs] 
 
[02:34] 
 
LG: 
It does sound like she was speaking to you, a little bit. 
 
Physician Oral History: Susan Morelli 
Page 3 
 
SM: 
And it was funny because I had finished my freshman year of college and I was definitely 
going to be a math major, and I continued my math. And I wouldn’t even actually tell 
anyone I wanted to be a doctor for another year and a half. I just did the program of study 
that was –  
 
 
There was enough leeway in my math degree to just take the chemistry. And I didn’t 
even take biology until my senior year. And I finally had to tell people about going to 
med school. And [laughs] I didn’t want to – I wanted it to be just this private thing that 
was my idea of how meaningful it was for me. 
 
 
And there’s this other story. In college, I was at Harvard, and they were very – they very 
much encourage and supported anyone going to med school. They made it easy, and they 
had this method of getting you your, I guess your recommendations. And I had this really 
important meeting with this professor who was in charge of that.  
 
 
And it was like eight o’clock on a Tuesday night. And on Wednesday, I bounced back 
from classes at like one in the afternoon, and I pull this note out of my mailbox. And it 
said, “As you know, Dr. Khoshbin was called away last evening for an emergency and is 
unable to meet you.” Because I had actually forgotten to go to that meeting. And I still 
have that note, today. And I’m like, “Okay, grandma. I won’t screw this up.” [Laughs] 
 
LG: 
Nice. 
 
[04:25] 
 
SM: 
And I just, you know – so, I have all these moments where it just happened. I was like 
meant to be a doctor. 
 
LG: 
Why didn’t you want to tell anybody? 
 
SM: 
I thought there was – I thought of pre-med students saying they’re pre-med as bragging, 
and I didn’t want to be like that. I wanted to just be studying, and not bragging. It was 
always important to me to – I always knew I was very smart, that I needed to use that to 
help people, and do something meaningful and not waste that. That was – and talking 
about going to med school seemed like just talking about it to talk about it, and not 
because it was meaningful. 
 
LG: 
And where did you end up going to med school? 
 
SM: 
So, I ended up going to med school at University of Connecticut. At the time, private 
med schools were very expensive, and everyone advised me to just keep that cost down, 
because it was so expensive. And I ended up going to University of Connecticut, back at 
home. I lived with my mom for about a year, and then that didn’t work out. And then I 
lived in an apartment, in Farmington, Connecticut.  
 
Physician Oral History: Susan Morelli 
Page 4 
 
 
So, I actually lived right near where my grandmother was. Like (essentially) a block over 
from where my mother grew up. 
 
LG: 
Hmm, so you’re from Connecticut originally? 
 
SM: 
Um-hmm. 
 
LG: 
What year did you enter medical school? 
 
SM: 
In 1990. 
 
LG: 
1990. Can you talk about what medical school is like? (Or was like when you went 
there?) 
 
SM: 
So, yes. I was actually telling these stories to my daughter the other day, because she’s 
about to apply to med school. Med school is – it’s different than other education. There 
were 100 of us (about), and we take the same classes every day, and we learn the same 
things every day. And then you study and interact with those people all the time. That 
was it. Like [laughs] it wasn’t like I was going off to biology class, and someone is going 
off to their history class. It was – we all had the same class. And it really bonds you to 
this kind of whole group – you get to know each other pretty well.  
 
 
And it was a very routine thing. We had sort of desks in the anatomy lab. So, the first 
year we did gross anatomy (like typical medical school). And we could go back and just 
study in those labs; so, you had a subset of kids – maybe 12 of us would be in the same 
area (we might have desks near each other), and we would study. 
 
[07:20] 
 
 
So, I would, you know, have classes all morning, all afternoon; go home and eat some 
cheese and crackers and then go back and hang out and study. 
 
 
And in general, it was about memorizing things. I had studied math and physics in 
college, and so med school was easy in that sense: of memorizing things and learning 
how to take multiple choice tests. And it was pretty straightforward for two years.  
 
 
And then we started the clinicals. And back then, they were trying to add some clinical 
experiences earlier in the curriculum. And we would have to go like do a practice history 
on people. And what I remember – I remember it as enjoyable, just learning all the time. 
And I wasn’t in a hurry to be done, I enjoyed it. 
 
 
There was one – and I had learned – I always thought I wanted to hang out with old 
people. So, there was this one time we were practicing interviews, and what I knew about 
talking to old people in nursing homes is they just love to talk, and it makes them happy.  
 
Physician Oral History: Susan Morelli 
Page 5 
 
 
So, one of the times I was doing a practice interview with a preceptor in the room. I just 
let this old woman talk for like 45 minutes, because I knew she just wanted to talk. And I 
didn’t interrupt her, and I didn’t ask the right questions, and I just let her talk.  
 
 
And afterward, the preceptor was like, “You really should have been more directive in 
your questioning.” And I said, “Yeah.” 
 
 
I think I always have this slightly defiant streak, and that was kind of my, “I’d rather let 
this woman talk than do the interview,” right? 
 
LG: 
[Laughs] Nice.  
 
 
What was the hardest thing about medical school? Or one of the hardest things? 
 
[09:22] 
 
SM: 
The hardest thing about medical school was staying on task, and just kind of always 
having to be there, and go, and do, and learn, and figuring out ways to take a break from 
that.  
 
 
I guess the times where you didn’t feel connected to the other kids – like when it was –  
 
It seemed okay when we were all kind of in it together, and we had a social group. And 
then sometimes that social group would kind of break up, and then it was hard to be kind 
of alone, and just grinding through things.  
 
I remember the other thing that happened during that year of gross anatomy, in that lab 
(late at night) was when Desert Storm started. The war started, and we were all in there 
together, watching that. And kind of feeling a little spun out from the world in medical 
school. 
 
LG: 
Um-hmm? 
 
SM: 
But it’s still there, but we’re busy doing these other things.  
 
LG: 
Can you talk a bit about gross anatomy? That’s always the class that’s the most 
fascinating for the public. 
 
SM: 
Yeah, so [laughs] yeah. Gross anatomy. So, my anatomy partner was like my best friend 
in medical school; and he had actually done gross anatomy before, as a dental student, 
but had to repeat it. And so, there were four of us on one body: two on one side, and two 
on the other.  
 
 
And John and I worked so well together, it was amazing. We would just go through it, 
and it was like a magical way of learning because it was touching, seeing and hearing – 
Physician Oral History: Susan Morelli 
Page 6 
 
because he would tell me what I was looking for (I was dissecting). And we didn’t really 
trust the people on the other side of the body very much. 
 
 
And one day, when there’s midline structures, you kind of have to share them. And one 
day we go into the abdomen, and we’re like, “What just happened?” And the girl on the 
other side was like, “Well I was just working on the stomach, and the artery is there,” –  
 
 
And we’re like, “Oh, no – we can’t even find those arteries anymore. That’s it! No one 
touches the midline. No one touches the midline!” [Laughing] We were so mad at them. 
We were like, “You guys! You can’t touch the midline without us.” 
 
LG: 
That’s funny. 
 
SM: 
Yeah, we had some –  
 
[12:08] 
 
 
I think we had a student that took the head home, you know, to study it at home. And that 
was the year I was living with my mother. And my mother’s reaction to the story was 
like, “That’s awesome. You know, when I die, will you please donate my body? I don’t 
need my body anymore. I think it’s great that you guys have these bodies to examine.” 
[Laughs] 
 
LG: 
That’s good. Do you remember any gross anatomy humor? 
 
SM: 
Not specifically. It was mostly just the humor between us, and our ongoing, “Don’t touch 
the midline structures.” John and I – we would say it nicely, and in joking; but we were 
pretty serious about not letting them touch the midline. But we would make a joke every 
day of it like, “You didn’t touch anything in the middle, did you?” [Laughs] 
 
LG: 
That’s cute.  
 
 
Can you talk a little bit about your residency training? And how you decided to go into 
neonatology? 
 
SM: 
So, I started medical school thinking I wanted to be with old people. And medical school 
– the adult medicine doctors were much meaner and nastier than the pediatric doctors. 
That was the time of people dying of AIDS (in the early 90s).  
 
 
And this sweet looking resident walked into a room of a man dying of AIDS, and said, 
“Do you have any questions?” And he said, “Can you close the blinds, please?” Or open 
the blinds. And she said, “No, I meant medical questions.” 
 
LG: 
Wow. 
 
Physician Oral History: Susan Morelli 
Page 7 
 
SM: 
And I decided I didn’t want to be around people like that. And pediatricians can’t fake 
being nice. You can’t be around children and examine them and interact with them unless 
you’re genuinely a nice person. So, I ended up in pediatrics for training.  
 
[14:25] 
 
 
And I got married at the end of med school, and I had one training program to apply to, in 
Utah, because that’s where he had a job. And so I started pediatric training in Utah in 
1994.  
 
 
Again, it was that sense of community because, you know, we were all in it together, we 
were all doing the same things. Most of us didn’t have children – we all had dogs, and the 
social part of that was really important. And I really liked pediatric training.  
 
 
I probably ended up in neonatology because my first two months of pediatrics was in the 
well-baby nursery, and then in the NICU, with a lot of serious stuff going on: babies 
dying of sepsis and other things, and just seeing how doctors responded to that and took 
care of that was really interesting.  
 
 
And then a few months later I did a genetics rotation, and I really liked the geneticist. I 
ended up doing a training program in both genetics and neonatology. 
 
LG: 
How did the doctors respond, that you found interesting? Can you talk about that a little 
bit more? 
 
SM: 
So, the story that kind of hit me the most was – there were two stories that year in the 
NICU, and one was one of the neonatologists, she was a dear woman, who was pregnant 
with her second baby. And you know, big and noticeably pregnant.  
 
 
And there had been a baby who had been very sick, on a ventilator, with a bunch of chest 
tubes, with group B strep sepsis. I think that was the theme of those two months, was 
babies dying of group B strep sepsis.  
 
[16:26] 
 
 
And I get to the NICU one day, and she’s feeding him a bottle and she just looks at 
everyone and she goes, “That’s it – I’m feeding him his first bottle, because he survived 
and I get to feed him.” 
 
 
And that idea that I could just be my real self in that setting like this woman. Like I want 
to love on this baby, and I can. 
 
LG: 
Um-hmm? 
 
Physician Oral History: Susan Morelli 
Page 8 
 
SM: 
And at the same time that year in the NICU, there was a family who had had a tiny, 25-
week baby, who had lived in the NICU for like seven or eight months, and went home 
and died.  
 
 
And the mom had now made it to 36 weeks with a baby, and had proudly walked through 
the NICU a couple weeks before saying, “I made it to 34 weeks.” And her baby had 
group B strep sepsis, and he was dying on even our most powerful ventilators.  
 
 
And there were about five OBs and three neonatologists standing at that bedside for a 
whole day, just crying as he died. No one could hide that emotion. And that was okay, it 
wasn’t that they were weak doctors: they were caring doctors.  
 
LG: 
That sounds very difficult. 
 
SM: 
Yeah. And I think that sense of, you know, babies sometimes have severe problems and 
they die. And if we can help the family, we make a huge difference for the rest of their 
life, if they can go through the mourning process in what we know is the most healing 
way, and we can help them – we can do as much good as when we save a baby’s life.  
 
LG: 
Hmm, can you talk about that a little bit more – the mourning process? 
 
[18:25] 
 
SM: 
So, you know, a long time ago we used to think that babies didn’t need – like we would 
just whisk them away and not let them see their baby before it died, or have this bonding 
before a baby dies.  
 
 
Actually, I had a psychiatric professor (that probably influenced some of this) – I had a 
psychiatric professor in medical school who, when he was working in the Army, there 
was on OB/GYN –  
 
 
There was a woman very depressed because she had adopted her baby out, and she had 
never seen him (she had literally never seen the baby). And one morning he went and 
found the baby at the other, way far away, at the other side of the hospital and brought it 
to her and said, “Say goodbye to your son.” And she was better.  
 
 
And I think what we know about that process of death and holding the baby, and being 
part of that, and you know, getting the family to hold the baby helps them grieve, and 
giving them some memories. And it matters a lot for their life and their future. And I 
think all the NICUs I’ve been in do that amazingly well. And it’s just a privilege to be 
part of that, even though it’s really hard.  
 
LG: 
How do you – since that is your work, the NICU, and you’re working with very sick 
babies –  
 
SM: 
Um-hmm. 
Physician Oral History: Susan Morelli 
Page 9 
 
 
LG: 
How have you learned to cope? 
 
SM: 
Yeah, a lot of tears. I live an hour away from my work and I have that downtime on my 
way home. I tell people that’s really important. I think you know –  
 
 
I have been in this NICU for 17 years, and in the last five years, we’re actually paying 
more attention to the trauma that doctors and nurses and caretakers experience during the 
hard times, and when babies die.  
 
[20:41] 
 
 
But over the years, for me, it’s been a variety of things. I think I can usually get through 
the moment pretty well; I find myself in hallways, just bawling, where no one can see 
me. I find myself – the next morning, after a baby dies, and the new doctor comes in at 
eight o’clock, just crying, “Why? Why do I work in a job where babies die?” And if I let 
that emotion out, it’s okay. 
 
 
And we are trying to have very specific – we have like a – oh, what do you? When you 
talk after something? We have a debriefing. 
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. 
 
SM: 
More often now. We try to be more rigid about the debriefing, and making sure all the 
staff has some kind of voice when a baby dies.  
 
 
Most times, we can tell that nature’s just taken the baby – we do everything we can, but 
they are born with a birth defect, or they have an infection that there’s just nothing we 
can do after a certain point. And it means a lot to help families.  
 
 
We also attend – we’re unusual: we attend the babies’ funerals, especially when they’ve 
been here for a long time. Because the difference for a newborn, is that they’ve never 
gone home: we take care of babies who’ve never been home. And so, this family has not 
had their child in their own home. Their child has been in our care for their entire life, 
and we care for the baby when they’re not here. And so, we are this child’s other family, 
and it helps give them closure, as well, when they see us at the funerals.  
 
LG: 
That’s nice.  
 
SM: 
Baby funerals are very sad. And it’s also another time for me to process that information 
and be a part of that.  
 
[22:50] 
 
LG: 
Can you talk a little bit about your work and patient care, here – what kinds of things you 
do? 
Physician Oral History: Susan Morelli 
Page 10 
 
 
SM: 
Yeah. So, we have a large NICU here, we are a level III NICU, so we take care of the 
sickest, smallest babies. And we are not a teaching hospital, so we are very hands-on with 
rounds, with the nurses, and the respiratory therapists, and the babies. And we talk 
extensively to the family every day. And we try to be family-friendly, and make sure that 
the family, as well as the baby, is taken care of well. 
 
 
We have an amazing group of doctors and nurse practitioners. And we help each other 
out, like family. Like Dr. Minton always says (who started this NICU), we actually spend 
more time with each other than we do with our own family.  
 
 
And we know when someone’s sick – we just cover for each other. We just walk through 
the door like, you know. Dr. Minton walked in one day, “I’m Susan today.” And they 
were like, “You don’t look six months pregnant, but okay.” 
 
[Laughter] 
 
 
And we just take care of each other. And so, it makes it a really amazing place to come to 
work, where everyone cares so much about what happens for each other, and for the 
babies, and for the parents of the babies.  
 
LG: 
And as a neonatologist, what is your primary responsibility? 
 
SM: 
So, we take care of babies that are born – when they’re first born and they need help that 
they don’t go to a well-baby nursery. So, they are either premature, or they’re sick (even 
though they’re full-term). So, we take care of all sick newborns. We are also in charge of, 
essentially, all the babies in our region, where the other pediatricians call us for help.  
 
 
We help them (sometimes) over video, with telehealth, as the baby is born in other 
hospitals. We have about ten (or more) hospitals that we will get on the video and audio, 
and help the doctors in the community, with the newborn and watching what’s going on, 
and bringing those babies here if they need to come here.  
 
[25:47] 
 
 
So, we’re a big resource – not just for taking all the babies that are admitted here, but also 
as a consultant to other doctors, for all the newborns in this part of the state. And so, we 
attend on all of those issues.  
 
LG: 
How has taking care of sick babies changed you as a person? 
 
SM: 
I think to be at the beginning of life on a regular basis is quite magical. And to see 
families with a newborn baby struggle, and to see the different things they go through – it 
gives me a lot of perspective in the rest of my life.  
 
Physician Oral History: Susan Morelli 
Page 11 
 
 
Every minute my children are healthy, they can breathe, they can swallow, they can run, 
they can – just really basic things are amazing. And it helps me appreciate life in so many 
ways. That every, little thing a baby does is miraculous, you know?  
 
 
One baby was going to die if she couldn’t make urine. And so, she finally peed, and 
lived. And the dad was just screaming, “I don’t care! I’ll change every diaper there ever 
was, I don’t care if she pees all over the floor! I’m just so happy she’s going to live.” And 
it just gives a lot of perspective to life.  
 
LG: 
Does anything funny ever happen in the NICU? 
 
[27:43] 
 
SM: 
[Laughs] Yeah, I think we – the funny things are sometimes how we treat each other, you 
know, with some practical jokes. And every once in a while, we actually have a parent 
who is like even funnier than we are –  
 
LG: 
[Laughs] 
 
SM: 
[Laughing] There was a mom who was always practical joking. She had twins here, and 
she had twins for a long time. And we had one nurse practitioner who is, you know, a 
very sweet, sweet girl, you know? Not really a, you know, not out there doing practical 
jokes herself.  
 
 
And this mother put real, live goldfish in her bottled water one day –  
 
[Laughter] 
 
 
And you know, some families have a baby here for months, and it gets to be fun to see 
them and talk to them, and have them be part of this family in that way. 
 
LG: 
Can you think of an example of a practical joke that you guys played on each other? 
 
SM: 
Yeah, I wasn’t usually part of those; it was the other doctors who would – they would get 
the pretend baby for resuscitation and like put it, so it was a doll and they would put it in 
a bassinet and run down the hall, teasing the doctor that he had to do something quickly. 
And really, it was just a fake baby. 
 
LG: 
That’s funny. 
 
SM: 
[Laughs] 
 
LG: 
Real cute.  
 
SM: 
Yeah. And sometimes (maybe because I’m from Connecticut, and I’m practicing here in 
Utah), I have a little bit of a harsher sense of humor than people really get. And so, 
Physician Oral History: Susan Morelli 
Page 12 
 
sometimes the new nurses wouldn’t really get that I was making a joke. And nurses who 
knew me would just be like, “Don’t worry, she’s just kidding!” 
 
[29:54] 
 
 
I was putting a chest tube in a baby one night, and putting lines in. And getting the setup 
is, you know – I’m standing there, and I’m like, “We can put a man on the moon, but we 
can’t put saline into this kid so that I can get it easily?” And I’m kind of saying it loud 
and aggressive.  
 
 
And the nurses were all nervous. And then the nurse who knew me was like, “Really, 
Susan? Really?” Just giving it right back to me. It was just one of those nights that they 
just didn’t get that I was just being jokey about it, even though I was, you know, I 
sounded annoyed. [Laughs] 
 
LG: 
Do you guys, as physicians, as neonatologists, ever make fun of yourselves? 
 
SM: 
Oh, yeah; pretty regularly, you know? We have this Monday meeting, and when I was 
first here and always physically present for the Monday meeting, it was pretty much 
constant banter in that meeting. And I would pretty much make fun of Steve Minton on a 
regular basis, because I don’t have any fear of making fun of people. Like I always have 
that kind of defiant streak. 
 
LG: 
Can you think of an example?  
 
SM: 
[Laughs] Yeah, I’m not the best storyteller like that. But I guess early, early, early Steve 
is sitting there, going on, and on about the new scalpel, and how he cut himself, and how 
it doesn’t work, and how it hurt so much when he cut his finger with that scalpel. And I 
was like, “Yeah, it’s a good thing your three wives had all your five kids.” 
 
[Laughter] 
 
LG: 
Cute, cute. 
 
[32:00] 
 
 
As a female physician, have there been any particular barriers that you’ve had to 
overcome? 
 
SM: 
I never felt barriers as I went through medical school and training. There was always 
plenty of women around me. 
 
 
I did find moving to Utah, people would assume I was a nurse more than a doctor. And 
the only thing I did, I always made sure I was dressed professionally, especially early on, 
so that they would just know that I was a doctor. I probably dressed in black for ten years 
–  
Physician Oral History: Susan Morelli 
Page 13 
 
 
LG: 
[Laughing] 
 
SM: 
With a blazer on. Just had to always make sure they knew I was the doctor. 
 
LG: 
Um-hmm, um-hmm. 
 
 
So, doctors (as a general profession) are somewhat stereotyped as having a sense of 
humor. Why do you think that is? 
 
SM: 
I think that – when I think of my own humor, I think of it as a way of processing the next 
kind of way of saying something, and being able to say it in a funny way. I think if I can 
do that, it lightens the mood, it puts the nurses at ease.  
 
 
Because most of the time when I’m around the nurses, we’re not doing something serious 
– there’s a lot of NICU time that’s just down time: we’re taking care of healthy babies, 
we’re just going through the rounds. And so, it definitely helps to have that rapport with 
the nurses, and to be able to just twist and say something funny. 
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. What has been your own response – you talked (just getting back to this earlier 
question) – to the suffering of the babies? 
 
[34:25] 
 
SM: 
Yeah. I think I actually have a pretty deep religious belief in this sense of babies who 
come into the world and live for a short time, and then die. I think that, in my field, we 
don’t just deal with life and death: we deal with birth, life and death. And it’s something 
different for me. 
 
 
In this very, very short life that a baby has, has a huge impact on the family and the 
people around it. And it’s very special; it’s a very spiritual experience for me. I haven’t 
written my story yet, called “Detour from Heaven.”  
 
 
So, I believe that babies come from straight from God, and then they go straight back to 
God after (minutes, hours or days). And they’re very, very much a part of the spiritual 
world. And that they cross my path is very special and I consider that a spiritual 
experience. And I see that happen, as the families see the world differently when a baby 
dies.  
 
 
We had a family where – sometimes the mother and the father come from very different 
walks of life. And this baby who was dying, his aunt was very disdainful of her brother 
(who was the father of this baby), and thought – I think she thought she was better than 
her brother, who was this, you know, the man had come out of jail, and had been on 
drugs. And the mother of the baby had a severe genetic illness.  
 
Physician Oral History: Susan Morelli 
Page 14 
 
 
And she held that baby a few times, and when she spoke at his funeral, she saw the world 
differently, and she saw her family differently. And that little baby made a profound 
impact on that family, and how when she held him, she got that message.  
 
[37:25] 
 
 
And it seems like it’s like that every time there’s a baby who lives a short life: there is 
some profound impact they have on the universe. And so, to be a part of that is precious 
to me. It’s a privilege to be a part of that.  
 
LG: 
What’s the best things about your job? 
 
SM: 
The best thing about my job? [Laughs] Right now, it’s really good hours and good pay: 
the work/life balance that I have. But I used to say the best thing is that when I’m on 
overnight, there’s fun nurses to hang out with, piles of candy, and some kind of magazine 
to read while we’re waiting for x-rays.  
 
 
The people are really the best part of my job, and the people I get to be with on a regular 
basis. There is about 150 nurses here, and I know quite a few of them very well, over 
many years of chit-chatting at the bedsides. And we all care about each other so much. 
And everyone here cares about babies that much as well. 
 
LG: 
And how about the hardest thing, or the worst thing about your job? 
 
SM: 
It probably is those moments when I’m exhausted and overwhelmed, and I’m having to 
take care of a very sick baby on, you know, while I’m really, super tired. And then trying 
to kind of regroup the next day, when I’m exhausted. And making sure I find the space 
and time to rest the next day. That’s really hard.  
 
LG: 
Okay. Well I’m going to wrap up; but is there anything else that you think is important 
about your job, or that you would like people to know about your work? 
 
SM: 
I think the other part of my job is genetics, and diagnosing people with syndromes, and 
also taking care of babies who will be handicapped for the rest of their lives. And 
knowing that the families actually do a lot better with that than you would think.  
 
 
And so, seeing that even a baby who is not going to walk, and maybe not talk is still 
incredibly valuable to a family, no matter what. Just how precious life is, no matter what. 
 
[40:31] 
 
LG: 
Can you talk about that a little bit more? About what happens when people get a 
diagnosis like that? 
 
Physician Oral History: Susan Morelli 
Page 15 
 
SM: 
Yeah. I think – so, what’s harder than a bad diagnosis is the unknown. And so, a lot of 
our conversations with families are, “This is unknown; I don’t know what this means. 
Your child might be handicapped or not.” 
 
 
And when we have a (let’s say) genetic diagnosis – the most familiar would be Down 
Syndrome, but other syndromes, and other diagnoses. And we can tell them what their 
future is going to be like, and what they can do to best help their child. It also really helps 
the family a lot to process it. And mourn the loss of a healthy child, and accept the child 
who is different. 
 
 
I had one mother whose daughter had a very rare, severe condition, and wasn’t expected 
to live very long. And a few weeks before she died, I visited the at home. And I said to 
the mother, “When I first told you the diagnosis, I might have said you were going to 
love this, and you wouldn’t believe me.” 
 
 
And she said, “Yeah, but I would have wondered why you said that.” 
 
 
She had taken that four months of her daughter’s life, and chosen very clearly to see the 
glass half full. And she had appreciated every minute she had with that child, and told me 
how much she loved that journey, as painful as it was.  
 
[42:35] 
 
 
And that’s something that is hard to explain to people who don’t experience it. But it’s 
also magical, to be a part of. 
 
LG: 
Okay. Anything else you’d like people to know? 
 
SM: 
[Laughs] I can’t think of anything. 
 
LG: 
Okay. 
 
SM: 
Off the top of my head.  
 
LG: 
Okay. Well thank you very much for talking with me today. 
 
 
Again, this is Lisa Gabbert, and I’m talking to Dr. Susan Morelli, who is a neonatologist 
and a geneticist at Utah Valley Hospital –  
 
SM: 
Yes. 
 
LG: 
Here, in Provo, Utah. And today is November 5th, 2019. 
 
SM: 
Thank you very much. 
 
[Recording stops and starts again] 
Physician Oral History: Susan Morelli 
Page 16 
 
 
[43:22] 
 
LG: 
Okay, go ahead? 
 
SM: 
So, there was a moment, I think, that really captured this sense of what I do, as a doctor, 
and as a person, and as a spiritual person. 
 
 
My son Thomas was four months old and we had just baptized him. And a couple weeks 
later, I was in the NICU (late at night, or the evening), and a mother came in with twins – 
and they knew that one had severe birth defects. And she needed to be delivered.  
 
 
And we were scrambling for resources – they were Spanish speaking, we had a secretary 
just stay (because he spoke Spanish). And when the twin with birth defects came out, she 
had anencephaly, and she was not going to survive. And I was taking care of the other 
twin.  
 
 
And about an hour into caring for the other twin, and the nurse was holding the girl who 
was going to die. And the family finally says, “We need the baby to be baptized.” And no 
one could get hold of a priest or a chaplain. And I knew that I could baptize the baby. So, 
I called the deacon who had baptized Thomas and asked him what to do.  
 
 
And then I [emotion in voice] went in the hall and cried, pretty hard because I can take 
care of life and death, and I wasn’t sure I was really going to take care of someone’s soul, 
as well, that day. And I went back in and did it: I baptized this little girl for this family. 
And I cried a lot more tears that night.  
 
 
But it was quite special to be a part of that, for that family, and to give them that comfort 
at that moment. So, sometimes I’m called to do even more than be a doctor.  
 
LG: 
Thank you. 
 
SM: 
Yeah. 
 
[End recording – 45:48]