Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
1	  
Project: Archie Green Project 
Interviewer: Andy Kolovos 
Interviewee: Joshua Gibbs 
Interviewee Contact: 
 
Location: Mad River Food Hub, Waitsfield, VT 
Date: 7 May 2015 
Length: 01:03:31 
Recording Format: Digital 
Accession: au2015-1013 
Collection: vfc2014-0005 
Indexer: Shannon Esrich	  
	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
START-00:00:46 
Introductions.	  
Introduction	  
00:00:46-00:03:49 
Grew	  up	  in	  northern	  New	  Jersey,	  moved	  to	  Essex	  Junction	  VT	  in	  high	  school.	  
Stayed	  around	  Burlington	  after	  high	  school,	  attended	  culinary	  school	  at	  
NECI,	  worked	  as	  in	  Boston	  for	  very	  high-­‐end	  restaurants.	  Moved	  back	  to	  
southern	  Vermont,	  taught	  at	  NECI	  for	  about	  10	  years.	  Moved	  into	  current	  
job	  last	  July,	  skills	  really	  fit	  the	  hub’s	  needs	  very	  well.	  	  
Childhood,	  culinary	  school,	  New	  
England	  Culinary	  Institute	  
(NECI),	  education,	  institution	  
00:03:49-00:06:15 
List	  of	  previous	  restaurant	  jobs.	  Aside	  about	  types	  of	  cooking	  and	  flavor	  
profiles.	  
Career,	  cuisine,	  flavor	  profile	  
00:06:15-00:10:27 
Motivations	  for	  becoming	  chef	  and	  instructor.	  Gives	  him	  chance	  to	  be	  a	  chef	  
during	  the	  day	  instead	  of	  at	  night	  like	  at	  restaurants.	  Being	  instructor	  also	  
gives	  him	  more	  time	  for	  family	  and	  friends.	  As	  culinary	  student,	  thought	  
being	  professional	  chef	  would	  be	  easier,	  but	  is	  always	  very	  difficult	  work.	  
Being	  instructor	  was	  like	  having	  2	  jobs,	  cooking	  and	  serving	  during	  the	  day	  
and	  grading	  papers	  at	  night,	  but	  learned	  a	  lot	  and	  met	  many	  good	  people.	  
Details	  about	  NECI	  campus,	  course	  schedules,	  and	  constant	  change	  in	  
professional	  kitchens.	  
Education,	  career,	  chef	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
2	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
00:10:27-00:12:37 
Aside	  about	  skills	  it	  takes	  to	  be	  successful	  chef.	  
Skills,	  chef	  
00:12:37-00:15:20 
At	  NECI	  taught	  business	  classes,	  butchering.	  The	  food	  hub	  is	  very	  
specialized	  in	  meat	  inspection	  and	  processing,	  very	  important	  to	  keeping	  
food	  safe.	  Having	  knowledge	  of	  food	  safety,	  Food	  Safety	  and	  Inspection	  
Service	  (FSIS),	  meat	  skills	  made	  him	  great	  candidate	  for	  job.	  Felt	  
comfortable	  almost	  immediately	  aside	  from	  employee	  transitions	  within	  the	  
hub.	  Job	  responsibilities	  fit	  like	  a	  glove	  to	  his	  skills	  and	  enjoys	  learning	  on	  
the	  job.	  
Institution,	  New	  England	  Culinary	  
Institute	  (NECI),	  processing,	  food	  
safety,	  Food	  Safety	  and	  
Inspection	  Service,	  meat	  
00:15:20-00:19:03 
Mad	  River	  Food	  Hub	  is	  an	  L3C	  (low-­‐profit,	  limited	  liability	  company),	  
between	  non-­‐	  and	  for-­‐profit	  company.	  A	  for-­‐profit	  company	  with	  a	  social	  
mission.	  Hub	  opened	  November	  2011.	  Food	  hubs	  gaining	  popularity	  
nationwide,	  7-­‐8	  in	  VT.	  They	  are	  central	  places	  of	  aggregation	  for	  food	  
products,	  where	  food	  producers	  and	  processors	  can	  share	  at	  least	  one	  
aspect	  of	  the	  food	  system.	  Mad	  River	  in	  particular	  tries	  to	  be	  a	  business	  
incubator,	  looks	  for	  small-­‐scale	  producers	  with	  dream	  to	  build	  local	  
business	  of	  value	  added	  foods	  using	  local	  ingredients.	  Not	  just	  collecting	  
and	  redistributing	  foods,	  have	  equipment	  to	  transform	  foods	  and	  turn	  into	  
new	  products	  with	  people’s	  own	  label	  on	  it.	  Likes	  the	  model,	  likes	  to	  say	  
people	  graduate	  from	  the	  hub.	  Having	  your	  own	  facility	  to	  start	  a	  business	  
can	  be	  very	  expensive,	  so	  the	  hub	  helps	  people	  start	  out	  with	  just	  patience	  
and	  hard	  work.	  Need	  some	  insurance,	  business	  plan,	  and	  fairly	  good	  
understanding	  of	  food	  safety,	  but	  with	  hard	  work	  and	  research	  try	  to	  make	  
hub	  accessible	  and	  keep	  rates	  to	  15%	  of	  producers’	  revenue.	  	  
L3C,	  aggregation,	  producers,	  
processing,	  distributor,	  local,	  
value	  added,	  business	  model	  
00:19:03-00:20:36 
“Graduates”	  of	  the	  Hub	  include	  Vermont	  Bean	  Crafters,	  still	  use	  hub	  
sometimes	  because	  moving	  into	  new	  facility	  but	  are	  growing	  fantastically.	  
Screamin’	  Ridge	  Farm,	  Joe’s	  Soups	  are	  other	  graduates,	  distribute	  to	  upper	  
scale	  markets	  like	  Healthy	  Living,	  City	  Market,	  Hunger	  Mountain	  Co-­‐op.	  Joe	  
still	  works	  in	  hub	  but	  working	  on	  moving	  into	  his	  own	  facility.	  Also	  host	  
Vermont	  Salumi,	  they	  have	  their	  own	  plant	  for	  raw	  products	  but	  hub	  has	  
Producers,	  Vermont	  Bean	  
Crafters,	  Screamin’	  Ridge	  Farm,	  
Joe’s	  Soups,	  retail	  outlets,	  Healthy	  
Living,	  City	  Market,	  Hunger	  
Mountain	  Co-­‐op,	  Vermont	  Salumi,	  
processing	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
3	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
only	  inspected	  dry	  curing	  facility	  for	  meats	  to	  make	  charcuterie,	  salami,	  etc.	  
Only	  place	  in	  VT	  that	  does	  it.	  	  
00:20:36-00:21:30 
Aside	  about	  personal	  relationships	  among	  people	  working	  in	  Vermont’s	  
food	  system,	  all	  people	  Joshua	  knows	  and	  Andy	  interviewed.	  
Aside,	  relationships	  
00:21:30-00:25:12 
“I	  think	  our	  main	  focus	  is	  on	  processing,	  on	  incubating	  those	  businesses	  and	  
getting	  them	  to	  where	  they	  need	  to	  be.	  Because	  without	  the	  processing,	  we	  
would	  just	  be	  another	  distributor,	  and	  that’s	  not	  what	  we’re	  looking	  to	  be.	  
We	  definitely	  are	  interested	  in	  staying	  local,	  small-­‐scale.	  We’re	  not	  
interested	  in	  attracting	  large	  corporations	  into	  our	  freezer	  or	  storage	  units.”	  
Want	  to	  maintain	  facility	  for	  local	  producers.	  Without	  processing,	  don’t	  
have	  need	  for	  storage,	  and	  without	  processing,	  don’t	  have	  need	  for	  
distribution,	  hence	  cyclical	  logo	  of	  the	  hub.	  Distribution	  is	  important	  
though,	  have	  2	  drivers,	  which	  is	  an	  increase	  from	  1	  in	  the	  last	  year.	  As	  
producers	  start	  to	  scale	  up,	  they	  look	  outside	  the	  hub	  for	  more	  distribution	  
options	  because	  need	  more	  deliveries,	  so	  by	  necessity	  do	  more	  deliveries	  
for	  smaller	  scale	  producers.	  Many	  people	  go	  to	  Black	  River	  Produce	  after	  
the	  hub,	  which	  Joshua	  thinks	  is	  great.	  Other	  distributors	  too	  pick	  up	  from	  
the	  hub.	  
Processing,	  producers,	  
distributor,	  local,	  business	  model,	  
storage,	  Black	  River	  Produce	  
00:25:12-00:28:18 
Hub	  primarily	  interested	  in	  USDA	  product,	  so	  mostly	  meat	  products	  but	  can	  
also	  do	  vegetables.	  Vermont	  Bean	  Crafters	  is	  a	  vegan	  company,	  for	  example	  
of	  certification.	  Hub	  can	  make	  sausage,	  dry	  cured	  products,	  but	  also	  fully	  
cooked	  meat	  products	  like	  Joe’s	  Soup.	  Lots	  of	  work	  to	  earn	  certifications,	  
need	  HACCP	  plans	  for	  every	  process,	  and	  usually	  every	  product.	  Have	  up	  to	  
10	  plans	  currently.	  Bacon	  jam	  company	  starting	  soon,	  will	  likely	  need	  new	  
plan.	  HACCP:	  Hazard	  Analysis	  Critical	  Control	  Point.	  Developed	  by	  food	  
safety	  scientist	  for	  NASA	  in	  1980s	  to	  keep	  astronauts	  safe	  in	  space	  from	  
food	  borne	  illness.	  Adapted	  by	  USDA’s	  FSIS	  around	  1995	  to	  keep	  food	  and	  in	  
particular	  meats	  safer	  on	  the	  market.	  Since	  inception,	  has	  drastically	  
reduced	  number	  of	  food	  borne	  illness	  outbreaks	  in	  US	  by	  2/3s.	  HACCP	  for	  
Institution,	  United	  States	  
Department	  of	  Agriculture	  
(USDA),	  producer,	  Vermont	  Bean	  
Crafters,	  Joe’s	  Soups,	  processing,	  
Food	  Safety	  and	  Inspection	  
Service	  (FSIS),	  poultry,	  meat	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
4	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
anything	  that	  contains	  meat,	  poultry,	  and	  sometimes	  eggs.	  Everything	  
intended	  for	  wholesale	  or	  released	  into	  commerce	  must	  be	  inspected.	  VT	  
has	  helped	  in	  being	  somewhat	  lenient	  with	  farmers	  and	  creating	  some	  
exceptions	  to	  national	  and	  federal	  laws.	  Want	  to	  keep	  agriculture	  as	  vital	  
part	  of	  VT	  economy,	  want	  to	  help	  farmers.	  Example:	  Small-­‐scale	  chicken	  
farmers	  can	  sell	  certain	  amount	  of	  product	  at	  farmers	  markets	  that	  are	  
uninspected.	  Overall,	  inspection	  is	  good	  though.	  
00:25:12-00:33:35 
HACCP	  based	  on	  food	  safety	  science.	  “The	  burden	  is	  on	  the	  producer	  –	  or	  
the	  plant,	  I	  should	  say	  –	  to	  provide	  a	  plan	  and	  to	  research	  and	  know	  about	  
the	  different	  hazards	  that	  are	  associated	  with	  the	  process	  that	  you’re	  
doing.”	  Starts	  when	  meat	  enters	  facility	  and	  ends	  when	  final	  product	  
leaves/is	  delivered	  to	  consumers/retailers.	  Break	  that	  whole	  process	  down	  
into	  steps	  of	  activities	  and	  safety	  procedures.	  Uses	  making	  sausage	  as	  
example	  of	  step-­‐by-­‐step	  process.	  Look	  for	  forms	  of	  biological,	  physical,	  and	  
chemical	  contamination,	  the	  likelihood	  of	  their	  occurrence,	  and	  evidence	  of	  
your	  decision.	  USDA	  puts	  burden	  of	  proof	  on	  plant,	  even	  though	  they	  
already	  know,	  to	  make	  sure	  people	  making	  the	  food	  know	  too.	  Decisions	  
and	  reasoning	  vary	  based	  on	  individual	  make	  processes.	  Hub	  does	  food	  
safety	  plans	  for	  their	  producers,	  very	  daunting	  to	  write	  on	  your	  own.	  	  
Producer,	  processing,	  food	  safety,	  
institution,	  United	  States	  
Department	  of	  Agriculture	  
(USDA),	  meat	  
00:33:35-00:35:36 
Get	  meat	  from	  range	  of	  slaughterhouses,	  currently	  3	  regularly.	  Hub	  wants	  to	  
service	  to	  farmers	  who	  want	  to	  do	  more	  of	  the	  meat	  processing	  themselves.	  
Example,	  Artisan	  Meats	  of	  Vermont	  is	  two	  brothers	  who	  butcher	  their	  own	  
animals,	  but	  who	  now	  butcher	  for	  others	  and	  do	  co-­‐packing	  for	  other	  
farmers’	  products.	  They	  serve	  small-­‐scale	  customers	  throughout	  VT,	  pack	  
according	  to	  customers’	  decisions,	  and	  put	  that	  farm’s	  label	  on	  it.	  
Meat,	  processing,	  producer,	  
Artisan	  Meats	  of	  Vermont	  
00:35:36-00:39:37 
Slaughterhouse	  must	  be	  USDA	  or	  Vermont	  state	  inspected.	  USDA	  product	  
can	  be	  sold	  across	  state	  lines.	  Can’t	  turn	  state	  inspected	  into	  USDA	  
inspected,	  but	  can	  do	  the	  reverse.	  State	  inspection	  must	  be	  equal	  to	  federal	  
inspection,	  so	  all	  federal	  regulations	  apply	  to	  state	  inspection	  as	  well.	  USDA	  
Institution,	  United	  States	  
Department	  of	  Agriculture	  
(USDA),	  inspection,	  food	  safety	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
5	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
hires	  out	  state	  inspectors	  as	  USDA	  inspectors,	  so	  VT	  they	  are	  the	  same	  
people.	  Not	  like	  that	  in	  all	  states,	  and	  not	  all	  states	  have	  their	  own	  meat	  
inspection	  services.	  No	  cost	  to	  USDA	  inspection,	  paid	  by	  taxes.	  
Slaughterhouse	  may	  not	  get	  USDA	  inspected	  if	  don’t	  need	  to	  be,	  if	  really	  
small	  scale	  and	  only	  serve	  local	  clients	  wouldn’t	  need	  federal	  inspection.	  
State	  is	  also	  usually	  better	  working	  with	  and	  coaching	  plant	  managers,	  
while	  USDA	  may	  not	  teach	  and	  will	  only	  give	  evaluation.	  Develop	  good	  
personal	  relationship	  with	  regulators	  and	  inspectors,	  teaches	  you	  a	  lot.	  
00:39:37-00:42:25 
Joshua	  is	  general	  manager	  at	  Hub,	  takes	  care	  of	  most	  of	  the	  finances.	  Have	  
facilities	  and	  operation	  supervisor	  who	  does	  much	  of	  grunt	  work.	  2	  drivers,	  
also	  help	  with	  cleaning.	  Joshua	  leads	  staff,	  keeps	  everyone	  on	  task,	  
organizes	  distribution,	  program	  routes	  and	  GPS	  systems,	  and	  communicates	  
with	  clients	  about	  distribution.	  Loves	  that	  hub	  takes	  distribution	  service	  
very	  seriously,	  very	  client-­‐centric.	  “It’s	  our	  mission	  to	  serve	  the	  local	  clients	  
and	  the	  businesses	  that	  are	  processing	  here,	  as	  well	  as	  our	  just	  purely	  
distribution	  customers.”	  Joshua	  works	  as	  plant	  manger,	  does	  food	  safety	  
plans,	  talks	  with	  different	  clients	  to	  arrange	  for	  equipment	  repairs,	  or	  
helping	  out	  himself.	  Jack-­‐of-­‐all-­‐trades,	  maintenance,	  management,	  finance,	  
and	  human	  resources.	  	  
Responsibilities,	  employees,	  
distributor,	  finances,	  producer	  
00:42:25-00:44:30 
Producers	  who	  are	  inspected	  have	  strict	  set	  of	  hours	  when	  they	  can	  operate	  
based	  on	  8	  hours	  of	  paid-­‐for	  production,	  anything	  more	  producers	  must	  pay	  
out	  of	  pocket.	  Non-­‐inspected	  producers	  can	  come	  in	  any	  time,	  but	  
preferable	  to	  work	  when	  staff	  is	  in,	  so	  7-­‐5	  Monday	  through	  Friday.	  Tries	  to	  
get	  people	  not	  to	  work	  on	  weekends,	  but	  producers	  can	  work	  with	  storage	  
and	  non-­‐production	  related	  tasks	  after	  hours.	  Some	  producers	  obtain	  
trustee	  status,	  in	  which	  Joshua	  feels	  comfortable	  trusting	  them	  to	  complete	  
tasks	  completely	  or	  correctly	  without	  his	  being	  there.	  
Producer,	  processing,	  
relationships	  
00:44:30-00:48:53 
Details	  of	  typical	  day	  for	  Joshua.	  Arrives	  just	  before	  7am,	  immediately	  gets	  
day’s	  distribution	  in	  order.	  Does	  load	  checks	  for	  drivers,	  sends	  them	  off.	  
Responsibilities,	  schedule,	  
processing,	  United	  States	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
6	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
Tries	  to	  organize	  routes	  efficiently	  but	  with	  customers	  in	  mind.	  Does	  
preoperational	  checks	  for	  sanitation,	  checks	  each	  room	  and	  all	  pieces	  of	  
equipment	  for	  cleanliness	  and	  function.	  Processors	  arrive,	  unload,	  and	  start	  
production.	  Throughout	  day,	  talks	  with	  storage	  clients	  to	  make	  their	  
products	  available,	  figure	  out	  storage	  locations	  and	  timing.	  Watches	  
progress	  of	  delivery	  trucks,	  stays	  visible	  in	  processing	  rooms	  to	  help	  and	  
make	  sure	  everything	  stays	  sanitary.	  Enters	  invoices,	  pays	  bills,	  always	  
looking	  to	  buy	  something	  for	  the	  hub.	  Growing	  now,	  have	  some	  extra	  
money,	  so	  starting	  to	  reinvest	  in	  the	  hub.	  Have	  adequate	  facility,	  but	  can	  
expand.	  Getting	  new	  requests	  for	  processes	  they	  can’t	  efficiently	  do	  yet,	  like	  
a	  smoking	  facility	  for	  smoked	  fish	  and	  meats.	  Curing	  facility	  is	  new,	  was	  big	  
first	  reinvestment.	  Had	  to	  upgrade	  some	  of	  existing	  systems	  like	  drying	  
rooms,	  will	  start	  again	  in	  several	  days.	  Also	  upgraded	  from	  state	  to	  USDA	  
inspection	  for	  cured	  meats,	  many	  higher	  end	  customers	  outside	  the	  state	  so	  
became	  necessary	  to	  sell	  outside	  of	  VT.	  Helps	  clean	  up	  and	  shut	  down	  
everything	  at	  end	  of	  the	  day.	  
Department	  of	  Agriculture	  
(USDA),	  inspection,	  distributor,	  
producer,	  finances	  
00:48:53-00:51:10 
Delivery	  routes	  go	  to	  Burlington	  twice	  a	  week,	  several	  routes	  in	  Mad	  River	  
Valley,	  Waitsfield,	  Warren,	  East	  Warren,	  Montpelier,	  Barre,	  Waterbury,	  
Shelburne,	  Winooski,	  and	  West	  Lebanon.	  Mostly	  distribute	  to	  upper	  scale	  
groceries,	  Healthy	  Living,	  City	  Market,	  some	  to	  Lawson’s	  Finest	  Liquids	  
which	  is	  in	  incredibly	  high	  demand	  currently.	  April	  fairly	  quiet,	  ski	  resorts	  
close	  so	  no	  big	  distributions	  there.	  Mad	  River	  Valley	  dependent	  on	  those	  
businesses,	  and	  take	  vacations	  when	  ski	  resorts	  close.	  
Distributor,	  consumer,	  retail	  
outlet,	  Healthy	  Living,	  City	  
Market,	  producer,	  Lawson’s	  
Finest	  Liquids	  
00:51:10-00:57:17 
Producers	  who	  inquire	  usually	  have	  dream	  product	  that	  they	  want	  to	  make	  
because	  friends	  tell	  them	  they	  do	  it	  really	  well.	  Ask	  about	  knowledge	  of	  food	  
safety	  requirements,	  hub	  offers	  to	  help	  them.	  Good	  to	  see	  people	  come	  in	  
with	  base	  business	  plan,	  getting	  started	  but	  also	  short-­‐term	  future	  of	  
business,	  figuring	  out	  customer	  base.	  Then	  people	  start	  to	  realize	  how	  hard	  
it	  is	  to	  start	  and	  get	  product	  to	  market.	  Often	  a	  disconnect	  there.	  Very	  few	  
Producer,	  business	  plan,	  
processing,	  finances	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
7	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
people	  do	  the	  work	  to	  finally	  get	  started	  at	  the	  hub.	  Can	  put	  a	  lot	  of	  effort	  
into	  developing	  their	  business,	  but	  never	  pans	  out	  and	  work	  goes	  to	  waste	  
for	  that	  business.	  Can	  be	  frustrating,	  but	  still	  learning	  through	  each	  process	  
so	  okay.	  Will	  point	  people	  to	  others	  to	  help	  them	  create	  a	  business	  plan,	  but	  
hub	  is	  just	  a	  facility	  to	  get	  a	  product	  to	  market,	  won’t	  do	  it	  for	  the	  producer.	  
Aside	  about	  producer	  who	  wanted	  to	  make	  the	  product	  for	  her,	  but	  hub	  
doesn’t	  do	  that	  and	  not	  the	  client	  the	  hub	  wants.	  Some	  of	  earliest	  producers	  
just	  getting	  to	  success.	  Not	  always	  because	  of	  processes,	  just	  because	  of	  
money.	  Need	  equipment,	  loans,	  grants,	  and	  need	  to	  get	  everything	  to	  work	  
together.	  
00:57:17-00:59:22 
Favorite	  part	  of	  job	  is	  being	  with	  the	  food,	  seeing	  success	  of	  clients,	  talking	  
to	  the	  farmers,	  even	  those	  who	  just	  use	  cooler	  storage.	  Seasonality	  of	  
products	  and	  facility	  uses	  is	  great.	  “It’s	  a	  great	  thing	  to	  see	  people	  growing	  
into	  this	  new	  resurgence	  of	  local	  food	  and	  better	  food,	  and	  they	  go	  hand	  in	  
hand.	  Local	  food	  does	  not	  always	  make	  it	  better;	  I	  mean,	  in	  other	  words,	  
place	  doesn’t	  necessarily	  dictate	  quality.	  But,	  generally	  a	  carrot	  that’s	  picked	  
yesterday	  up	  the	  road	  is	  going	  to	  taste	  better	  than	  a	  carrot	  that’s	  been	  
sitting	  in	  cold	  storage	  for	  a	  month	  and	  half	  before	  it	  even	  hits	  the	  grocery	  
store	  shelf.”	  Seeing	  successful	  clients	  is	  great.	  Example,	  Artisan	  Meats	  of	  
Vermont	  growing	  with	  own	  label	  but	  also	  co-­‐packing.	  They	  are	  developing	  
new	  recipes,	  and	  is	  exciting	  and	  fun	  to	  see.	  Speaks	  to	  his	  background	  as	  a	  
chef,	  keeps	  the	  job	  interesting.	  Also	  knows	  were	  Lawson’s	  is	  kept!	  
Seasonality,	  local,	  success,	  
producer,	  Artisan	  Meats	  of	  
Vermont,	  processing,	  Lawson’s	  
Finest	  Liquids	  
00:59:22-01:00:59 
Wants	  to	  see	  hub	  expand.	  Wants	  it	  primarily	  to	  exist	  in	  20	  years,	  but	  should	  
also	  expand.	  Wants	  more	  and	  different	  types	  of	  producers	  and	  products.	  
Wants	  to	  reach	  more	  people	  who	  have	  the	  dream,	  need	  the	  facility,	  and	  are	  
almost	  ready	  to	  go.	  “Being	  at	  this	  food	  hub	  is	  like	  being	  on	  the	  heartbeat	  of	  
all	  of	  it;	  I’m	  talking	  to	  farmers,	  but	  I’m	  also	  talking	  to	  the	  wholesale	  buyers	  
at	  the	  grocery	  stores,	  and	  the	  producers.	  It’s	  really	  fantastic;	  I	  see	  it	  from	  all	  
aspects.	  I	  see	  all	  aspects	  of	  food	  and	  food	  production	  from	  where	  I’m	  sitting	  
Future,	  producers,	  distributor,	  
retail	  outlet,	  system	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
8	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
now,	  and	  I	  just	  absolutely	  love	  it.	  And	  it	  helps	  me	  rest	  easy	  knowing	  I’m	  
doing	  something	  that’s	  pretty	  socially	  responsible,	  too.”	  
01:00:59-END. 
“Keep	  eating	  local	  food,	  but	  look	  for	  the	  better	  quality	  local	  food	  too	  because	  
there’s	  some	  junk	  out	  there.”	  Short	  history	  of	  the	  building’s	  uses	  prior	  to	  the	  
hub.	  Robin	  Morris	  started	  and	  owns	  food	  hub.	  Took	  1.5	  years	  to	  build	  and	  
get	  building	  up	  to	  standards,	  makes	  enough	  to	  be	  sustainable	  and	  reinvest	  
into	  food	  hub	  but	  not	  highly	  profitable,	  but	  doesn’t	  want	  or	  need	  to	  be.	  
Conclusion,	  local,	  success