BATON ROUGE FOLKLIFE SURVEY 
AUDIO RECORDING LOG 
 
 Audio Log # 
1  
 Photo Log # 
1 
 I.D. Form # 
 
 
 Interviewer(s) 
Jocelyn & Jon Donlon  
Date & Time 
 
12/29/14 
 
10:00 am 
 Recording Title (informant or event)                                                               
Mr. Gary Alford, owner  
 Location of Interviews 
Alford Safe and Lock, Alford Locksmith, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 
 Recording Equipment                                                    
Marantz PMD 660 
 Format 
WAV. 
 Length of Interview 
45 min 
 
 Note: The primary interviewee is Mr. Gary Alford, owner of Alford Safe and Lock, locksmiths in Baton Rouge, 
Louisiana. The interviewer, Dr. Jocelyn H. Donlon poses questions and makes occasional comments (JHD). 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject 
Interviewee 
 
      Part I 
 
 
Gary Alford 
00:02 
Establishing content, contact information, and particulars about Alford’s 
background; how he started in the business, and other general, non-
technical information. 
 
-- 
01:44 
History of the business, [1946), number of locations, “…I’ve been making 
keys since I was 9 years old.” Before that the father had 2 brothers, both 
of whom were locksmiths. In the 1930s the brothers would travel in a 
large geographic area (Texas, North Louisiana, Oklahoma) and, working 
from a vehicle – set up “shop” temporarily. They would work on locks, on 
vaults on bank. Do any “engine repair work that needed to be done, They 
would even sharpen lawn mower blades.” At the time, he explained, they 
had a set of lock picks, a key machine which was hand cranked. 
-- 
05:13 
One brother opened a shop in Panama City, Florida. The dad and other 
brother continued to travel a bit, including Florida. Back through Texas 
(Fort Worth). Ultimately, family business starts in BR. 
-- 
08:51 
GA describes growing up working, “I never saw cartoons on Saturday 
mornings. If I wasn’t in school, I was either working at the farm [20 acres 
in a community near by] or here working. We also sold bicycles and 
worked on bicycles…” He did many kinds of chores, recalling, “duplicating 
keys” as a child, too young to drive.   
-- 
I 
1 
 
 
Subject 
Interviewee 
0:13:25 
Gary discusses the technical aspects of actual locks and keys, describing 
the fact that 16 or 17 parts comprise a typical device. Locks exist in 
various grades, household, commercial, and high-security. He mentions 
springs, tumblers, and tolerances – elements of locks smithing. The 
company maintains an enormous range of “key blanks.” 
--- 
Part 2 
 
Gary Alford 
00:04 
GA describes an example door lock, and continues to mention the 
mechanical aspects of the devices. Locks have “five bottom pins, five top 
pins, and five springs to activate everything.” As a lock gets more 
complex, it tends to get more secure, “most commercial grade locks have 
more, instead of ten tumblers, they might have twelve or even 
fourteen.” He said he prefers locks made of metal that resists corrosion, 
and discusses manufacturers. 
--- 
 
05:13 
Some older locks are just not made anymore. “…some of your old Morris 
locks, some of your old skeleton key locks…” A lot suffer from broken 
springs. JHD asks the benefit of keeping the old lock, “you’d have to fill in 
the door, and you’d have to do a lot of woodwork on the door, just to be 
able to put one [new lock] on there…” More description of problems 
changing old locks for new. 
--- 
07:09 
Move from general lock smithing to talking about safes, opening safes, 
and problems with safes. [The entire safe can be compromised OR the 
lockset removed and a new one installed, saving the value of the box.] 
The most common safes are fire resistant, non-electronic, regular-locked 
style box types. 
--- 
10: 22 
Most of the time they get called because a part in the lock breaks. They 
often open the box by hand, but a new machine can “work” the dial 
through various combinations. “Our quickest time,” GA notes, “has been 
twenty minutes and the longest time has been six days of dialing 
combinations with the machine.” 
GA 
11:14  
Jon G. Donlon, the photographer, asks about the images of safes in 
movies, the use of explosive, and if “dynamite” used to “blow up” a safe 
really works as it does on film. GA explains that most of that is 
“Hollywood,” explosives have a role at times, but very little. “They have 
to be inside.” He explains other ways movies are fantastic about banks 
and vaults. 
 
JGD, then GA 
14:04 
Discussion moves on to what kind of skills are necessary to be a good 
locksmith. There is very little movement in the field. “Usually people that 
I would like to hire are already working in this field and are happy where 
they are,” GA says. He has trained all his present staff. Skills called fare 
are: first and foremost, honesty. Then, curiosity, mechanical aptitude, 
good with their hands. It helps if they are already knowledgeable about 
sparkplugs and screwdrivers and stuff.   
GA 
 
Part 3 
 
Gary Alford 
0:00 
“But basically mechanically inclined, and enjoys working with things?” 
JGD 
0:1:22 
Conversation about State licensing of locksmiths 
GA 
 
 
 
Subject 
Interviewee 
03:05 
GA discusses employment in his business and his workers, how long they 
have worked. Also, how long it takes to train to become a skilled 
locksmith. 
GA 
04:55 
JHD raises the question of parts (the space is filled with metal racks of 
key blanks). Most of the parts are ordered through Chicago and Boston, 
but the business maintains a large inventory of parts and key blanks. [DA 
estimates ½ million or more] 
-- 
07:15 
In addition to traditional keys and locks, Alford works with electronic 
locks (for example, in cars).  
-- 
10:34 
JHD begins to wind down discussion with probes and questions about the 
special tools. Alford’s work area displays small but complicated power 
milling and drilling machines. DA explains that they use hand tools, too: 
files, basic tools, such as various screw drives, punches and hammers, 
awls, and so on. The computer is necessary to work on electronics, the 
very old skeleton key machine (the oldest in the shop) to cut these 
antiquated mortise lock items. [recording cuts off mid-sentence: 
conversation ends with description of Mr. Alford relating a story 
about having to crack the safe for Freddy Militello’s family (an 
interviewee for this project who died months after the interview); 
Freddy was the only person with the combination, and Mr. Alford, 
who was a personal friend, cracked the safe to get to important family 
documents.  The interview ends with mutual sympathy for the 
Militello family.] 
--