AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Margaret Fisher – 11/21/21 
1 
Margaret Fisher 
Where: At her mother’s home 
Date: Sunday, November 21, 2021 
Location: Mayking, KY 
Interviewer: Emily Hilliard 
Transcription: Emily Hilliard 
Length: 1:03:44 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Margaret Fisher – 11/21/21 
2 
 
Field notes:  
 
I met Margaret Fisher at her grandmother’s house in Mayking. Kenny Miles, Margaret’s nephew, who has 
also been a rural mail carrier, and who I interviewed earlier that day, met me there. Margaret, Kenny, 
Margaret’s elderly mother and I sat around the kitchen table for the interview. Margaret’s mother 
interjects occasionally.   
 
Margaret Fisher (b. 1949, Mayking, KY), has been a highway contractor, delivering rural routes for the 
United States Postal Service, for 50 years in Mayking, KY. In this interview she talks about the realities 
of being a contractor for the Postal Service, how she learned the and what she likes about it, dealing with 
inclement weather and animal encounters, the landscape and terrain on her route, and her relationships 
with her customers. 
 
 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Margaret Fisher – 11/21/21 
3 
 
MF: Margaret Fisher 
EH: Emily Hilliard 
KM: Kenny Miles 
M: Margaret Fisher’s mother 
 
 
00:00 
M: (talks) 
 
EH: Alright, we're here in Mayking, Kentucky. It's November 21st and we're doing an interview 
with Margaret for the rural mail carrier’s project. So why don't you introduce yourself and tell 
me your name, where you were born and when you were born, but don't give the actual birthday, 
just give the month and the year. (To Kenny) I forgot that part [in our interview]. It's like a 
confidential online security issue. 
 
MF: I'm Margaret Fisher and I was born right here in this house. 
 
EH: Oh wow! 
 
MF: In May of '49. Is that what you need? 
 
EH: Yeah, that's perfect! That's perfect. And why don't you tell me how you first became a rural 
mail carrier. 
 
MF: Well, my cousin, Delmore Kincer, he and his wife were carrying the mail. And she had the 
opportunity to go inside to work, well they found out that you could not be a contractor and work 
inside the post office. So that's how--so he wanted me to do the route. And you had to be 21 at 
the time to carry mail, so I was 21. And I started doing the route. And she would do the mail, this 
was hilarious to me, but she had a file folder from A to Z and the route was little from, this 
would be at Ermine [Kentucky]. She would cast it in that in alphabetical order. That's how, in 
alphabetical order with the names, you know? Would cast the mail in that file folder! (laughs) 
So, but then that didn't last very long, after I started doing the route, they got cardboard cases and 
fixed my route up on this cardboard case with the names. And at that time it was Route 3. And 
they would use Route 3 and, if anything came like, that was mine. Then it went from Route 3 to 
HC87, Highway Contractor 87 and then it went to the rural addresses. You know, just like 504. 
So now our cases are just the addresses, no names or anything. I thought, I'll never do this, you 
know, 'cause I had learned all the names, moms and dads and aunts and uncles, the children, 
grandchildren, you know you learn everybody! And then they took that all away, but it was 
really easy after they took the names away, those addresses--now I don't know anybody's name, I 
just know their address! (laughs) 
 
EH: (laughs) He [Kenny] was saying you know the addresses in the order. 
 
MF: I do. 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Margaret Fisher – 11/21/21 
4 
 
EH: You can recite them. 
 
MF: We don't want to do that! (laughs) 
 
EH: You want to recite a few? (laughs) 
 
MF: Oh my gracious! 
 
EH: It's interesting. 
 
MF: Yeah, we start at Dye Addition and it's 80 Dye Addition, and then 172, and 220 and 250, 
these are all Dye Addition. And I forgot Janet's address. See, I've not been working, I've only 
been working 4 days a month now. 
 
M: Did you say you're 72? 
 
MF: Yes, I am mother! (laughs) 
 
03:39  
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
MF: We have 220 Dye Addition, 63 Dye Addition, and it comes, that's how they do the... 
 
M: I wish I was that young! 
 
MF and EH: (laugh) 
 
M: And looked that good! 
 
MF: Well thank you mother, you're so kind.  
 
M: We've known each other since we were purely babies. 
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
M: Haven't we? 
 
EH: Well you were! Yeah. 
 
MF: That's what she'll say, yeah. But I come out of Dye Addition, then I do, it's the road number, 
like 400 Highway 3410, and 405 3410 and 512 3410, so that's all I have on that section, and then 
I go up to Great Oak Rd. and it's 602 Great Oak Rd. So you just have to learn your streets and 
you just learn it naturally and I think that's enough! (laughs) 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Margaret Fisher – 11/21/21 
5 
 
EH: (laughs) That's good! So why don't you tell me what it was first like to take on that job as a 
pretty young woman, out on the road by yourself, right? And how did you learn to do it and what 
were those early days like? 
 
MF: Well I'll tell you, the mail route, I think it's just repetition. That's how you learn by doing, 
every day. And when somebody's showing you, you think I'll never do this, I'll never be able to 
do this until you get out there by yourself, that's when you'll learn how to do mail. That's when 
the names will stick. Hello sister! 
 
EH: That's okay. 
 
MF: Repetitive. 
 
EH: So when you start doing it... yeah. 
 
MF: Yeah. And I was terrified. And I didn't think I could do it, you know? So anyway, I didn't 
have--I had a big old Ford car and so I had to go buy a Volkswagen. Standard shift of course, 
you know. I couldn't drive a standard shift! (laughs) So my husband, I take him to town, he 
worked at the funeral home at the time. He gets out of the car, he says now take it home! So 
that's how I learned! (laughs) to drive a standard shift. 
 
EH: Wow. And was it a right side drive? 
 
MF: No. I did not get a right side drive until about 2004. I used a left hand drive, you know, 
leaned over and did all the boxes that way. And then when I started that, because as I get older, 
you know, I probably couldn't do a mail route that way. So that made it much easier. So I bought 
this 2010--2004 Jeep, I thought the first day, oh I made the biggest mistake, I'll never do this. It 
was just so weird, so weird, you know? But I sat and thought about it, I thought, now what do I 
look at when I'm driving? (laughs) 
 
06:53  
 
EH: I thought I was gonna sneeze but I guess not! Go ahead. 
 
MF: But anyway, I just figured out how to drive. I thought, well, you're just looking at the road. 
It's really much safer than driving a right hand drive, for the driver, I think. I love it. So I've got, I 
had the 2004 and then a 2010 right hand drive, and 2014. So that's 3 of those. Plus I went 
through numerous Volkswagens. 
 
EH: And why did you choose a Volkswagen to do the mail? 
 
MF: Well, the economy of it, you know, but then gas was only like 29 cents a gallon (laughs). 
 
EH: Was it diesel? 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Margaret Fisher – 11/21/21 
6 
 
MF: No, no, just regular gas. And they would go in the snow, because you know, when you're a 
mail carrier, it's rain sleet or snow, you go!  
 
EH: Right. 
 
MF: You know? I said, I was telling them before you came, I said one thing about the mail 
carrying is it teaches you to be dependable. What was the word I used, Kenny? But anyway... 
 
KM: I don't know the exact word. Consistent maybe? 
 
MF: No, that wasn't the word. Anyway, you know, you don't get up and think, oh I just, I don't 
feel good. If you're sick, me, when I was a contractor, 'cause I am, you know, I had to do the 
route if I didn't have somebody else to step in! And if you were sick, you went on to work sick! 
And for years I had to do it that way, you know? But I was blessed to be a pretty healthy person, 
thank goodness.  
 
EH: Do you remember having to do it, you know, if you had the flu or something like that? 
 
MF: Yes.  
 
EH: That sounds bad! (laughs) 
 
MF: Well, I'll tell you, I mean at the time here I'm gonna bring in my religion, I would always 
pray, but I wasn't saved until I was 37, I didn't realize God wasn't really hearing me until I was 
his child. (laughs) But I would say, now Lord, you know I have no health issues. Don't let me be 
sick! You know? So I would just go on, you just muddle through, you know? But when you're 
out in the outside, you know, when you're inside working, that's when you're so sick, 'cause it's 
hot and your head gets all stuffy, and you get outside and it's better! I love. I LOVE being a 
mailman. Mail girl. My oldest son, oh you call me a mailman and he'll want to fight. My mama's 
not a man! (laughs) 
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
MF: Oh I probably shouldn't have (laughs)...is that politically correct? 
 
EH: Oh, it's fine. (laughs) Yeah, so tell me why you love it? 
 
MF: Well, because you're out on your own and I LOVE radio and I love listening to the radio 
and I hadn't been really with people. And I love talk radio and I just like it 'cause you're out there 
on your own, and I'm having to see, do this. I know what I have to do and I do it the way the 
Postal Service wants it done. And that's the main thing. And I just like it, I like being out to 
myself, I guess! Like I say, I like the radio (laughs). 
 
EH: So do you listen to music too or mostly talk? 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Margaret Fisher – 11/21/21 
7 
 
MF: I do, I listen to music. I do. I...not a lot...the new music I don't really care for, but I like the 
music of my era. And Peter, Paul, and Mary and all that--I don't get to hear that much, but 
(laughs). But anyway, I do, I like music of all kinds and but I love talk radio. I love to...I'm 
listening and driving and working, but if I start getting behind, I have to turn the radio off! 
(laughs) 
 
EH: Right! 
 
MF: You don't realize how really, that you're thinking about what you're listening to. 
 
EH: Right.  
 
MF: So anyway. I do, I love it. I still love it to this very day! And I guess when I was in high 
school, I'll tell this story. My dad went in on a car, I mean I was from a big old family, there was 
10 of us, 10 children and but I took driver's training in high school. And I look back at my life 
now and I really believe that God was preparing me even then to drive to do what I've done for 
50 years, you know? 
 
EH: Yeah. 
 
MF: And driving standard shift and I love it. Now I have to use an automatic, but I still love a 
standard shift car. They're...better. 
 
11:45  
 
EH: They're yeah, they're fun. Why don't you tell me about the route and is it--you like being out 
in the scenery on the roads? Tell me what the route looks like and maybe describe it for 
somebody who's never been to Eastern Kentucky what the scenery is like. 
 
MF: Okay. When I first started the route, there was very few paved roads, so you really put 
havoc on your cars constantly, having to put in new CVC joints and stuff like that, especially on 
the right hand side when you pull off and do that box. But now the roads are very, they're good 
and they're paved and it's just prettier here now because they've got better rules about the garbage 
and keeping things nice, so it makes it nice for me. It's grown so much, everything is, it's a lot 
bigger than it used to be here. And I did Crafts Colley's [Crafts Colley Creek] mail. I was just 
astounded. I did that for oh my gracious, 30 years, I guess. Cause that was part of the route when 
I first started. You would go to Whitesburg, and you would pick up mail for what they would call 
the golf course at the time. And I had about maybe 30 boxes for that at the time. Then it grew. 
Our route got so big, they have divided my route at least 3 or 4 times. Another route would start 
because you can only do so much! You know? And, but it is, it's much nicer now, they're all 
paved roads, your cars last longer and so it's beautiful. I LOVE Kentucky. I love where I live! 
This time of year, now I don't care much for the hot summer when it gets real dusty, then when it 
starts being the fall of the year, before, it's not pretty then, I don't care for it then, being out. Not 
that I don't care for the mail, but being out--it's not pretty then to me. Too much even dust, even 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Margaret Fisher – 11/21/21 
8 
 
if the roads are good, you still have...but I still love it and it's beautiful. What else do you need, 
what else can I add to that? 
 
14:04  
 
EH: What about weather? Has that ever been a concern or do you feel like it's snowy as it used to 
be or has that changed at all? 
 
MF: Oh no. Used to, it would start snowing, and we would start having snow in November and I 
mean big snows. We would have, we had a snow here once it lasted for at least 14 days, ice and 
snow. But I had, I guess I was still in the Volkswagen. It might have been the Subaru. But it was 
just a front wheel drive. Those are amazing. They'll go just like a 4-wheel drive. They'll climb a 
tree! (laughs) My little Subaru is a Subaru sedan, but that was before the route got so huge. Oh 
my gracious, when you, when they keep adding and adding and adding I had to get bigger 
vehicles.  
 
EH: For the mail. 
 
MF: Yes. And but one day I was doing the route and I was gonna take a shortcut. You go up this 
mountain, from Pine Creek Road over into Cram Creek. Well I got up there and I mean it's just 
like this (makes steep gesture) and the Jeep and the car wouldn't go. I thought oh no! How am I 
ever gonna explain I'm not where I was supposed to be taking the shortcut. And then when I tried 
to stop the car starts sliding backwards (laughs). I said now Lord, here I am again! (laughs) But it 
stops! It just stops! And I always started praying anytime anything started happening. And I 
would walk, I had to get out and walk down to a telephone. At that time we didn't have 
cellphones or anything. So I would walk, I locked the car up and walked down to the next town. 
It wasn't real far down and used their phone and I told Mr. Baker, Bryce Baker, and he came and 
he said, well Margaret you've been driving all day and this thing's not even in 4-wheel drive! 
(laughs) 
 
16:08  
 
Now that was a, that was a Subaru, but it was a Subaru station wagon 'cause I went through 2 or 
3 of those. That's when I had to get a bigger car, and I was in that station wagon driving all day 
long. Driving around listening to the radio (laughs) as Jim Webb [poet and WMMT radio 
program manager] would always say. 
 
EH: So would you listen to WMMT? 
 
MF: Oh yeah! Yeah, I loved...after Jim passed away, though, it really broke my heard because I 
loved listening to him. 
 
EH: Yeah. 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Margaret Fisher – 11/21/21 
9 
 
MF: And yeah, and I love bluegrass. I love to hear bluegrass music. Listen to that and, but when 
they have those heavy metals on there... 
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
MF: (laughs) it's what it is. But anyway. I put it in 4-wheel drive and I just got in it and went on 
my way, you know, because those were amazing, you know. First thing, you couldn't be afraid. 
And one time I was delivering mail, this was over in Surgett (sp?) and I was at this bridge. I 
despise this bridge, and it had the 4 boards that you had to stay on there... 
 
EH: Wow. 
 
MF: No railings, and you went over the river over there. So I did, I sat there and I finally got 
across to go up into Surgett, but I could not make myself cross it when I came back out. (laughs) 
This Mr. Gibson lived there right by the road. I said Mr. Gibson, I said, I need to ask you a favor, 
(laughing) would you drive the car across the bridge for me? Why sure, he did, and I was fine 
then after I got over that bridge, I was good the rest of the day, you know.  
 
17:51  
 
EH: Did you have to go across that bridge every time on your route? 
 
MF: Every day! 
 
EH: But there was one day you just couldn't do it? 
 
MF: Couldn't do it! You know? I believe in listening to (laughs) your inner sayings. But I was 
terrified, I just couldn't do it. And I did that once coming through what they call from Laurel 
Fork or Webb Branch over into Bottom Fork, or Highway, it's all 3406 from the mouth of that all 
the way through to Highway 119 up at Payne Gap if you know anything about that. 
 
EH: I think I saw--I think I know where Payne Gap is, yeah. 
 
MF: But I used to travel that. My route was about 75 miles and it just got so big that I was like to 
6:30, 7:30 getting in, you know, when you got, 600-700-some boxes and doing all these hollers 
and that it, finally they had to take it off and make another route, you know, they changed my 
route all around. But I lost a lot of money doing that. I lost about $3,000, which don't sound like 
a lot, but it was for me! 
 
EH: That's something, yeah! 
 
MF: But my boss just felt so bad she said, I said, you don't need to worry about my route, it'll 
just grow right back, and it has. I mean they've already taken from it again, you know? 
 
EH: So how many boxes did you start with and how many do you have today? 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Margaret Fisher – 11/21/21 
10 
 
 
MF: When I first started, I guess there might have been about 180 if it was even that many, yeah. 
Maybe 200, I'll say 200 because I did start at Whitesburg, and then I would do, and then I would 
leave Whitesburg and go to Ermine and case and load, and go up Ermine, Crafts Colley is what 
they call it, come back out of there and I would deliver then what I had picked up at Whitesburg. 
And then I would go to the Mayking Post Office and pick up for Highway 3406 and 3410 and 
Pine Creek Road. And I still do that. And... 
 
EH: So do you deliver your own mail to this house? 
 
MF: I do!  
 
EH: You do? (laughs) 
 
MF: I've been my mom's mail carrier for... 
 
EH: Oh yeah, that's right, it's your mother's house. 
 
MF: Because it all, this all was added on after the route was mine, you know, after they changed. 
Because when I first started all I had was, I started at Whitesburg with the golf course and then 
did Crafts Colley and Highway 3406 and I think that was about it, you know, it wasn't real, real 
big, but it was huge to me you know? And then they added on the Pine Creek route and then the 
Highway 3410 and they added on Thornton. When they put Thornton on, that was 17 miles in 
and out, you know? That's the way Millstone is right now, and all kinds of...and they said, oh all 
you have to do is stay on the main roads. No, no, no!  
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
MF: There was little roads all over the place and I would get real confused about it (laughs) 
cause you'd turn and did this little road and head back out! Then you would turn and keep going 
on up higher. But somedays I would come out and just make that left turn and (laughs) Oh I 
forgot to go! You know, you do, but you just have to learn! You just do it, you know. It's so 
embarrassing when you think about what you do, but I don't know. 
 
EH: So you've been doing this, almost the same route for 50 years? Why don't you tell me about 
the relationships you've formed with your customers and who they are and, yeah, how you've 
helped people. 
 
MF: Oh my. 
 
21:39  
 
M: [unintelligible] sticking that gun at each other... 
 
EH: (laughs) 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Margaret Fisher – 11/21/21 
11 
 
MF: Mama, this is a microphone, honey! It's not a gun. 
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
KM: It's a microphone. 
 
EH: It's just a microphone. 
 
MF: It's a microphone. 
 
M: [unintelligible] 
 
MF: Sorry. 
 
EH: I'm getting roasted over here. 
 
MF: (laughs) It's not a gun, mom, I promise. 
 
KM: It's just a microphone. 
 
EH: It's just a microphone. 
 
M: [unintelligible] 
 
MF: This is just my friend Emily. I just met her. I did say that right, again? 
 
EH: That's right. 
 
MF: She was sitting there quiet as long as she could. 
 
EH: Your customers. 
 
MF: Yeah, I know. I was still trying to think. One that was really big in my mind, and this has 
not been too many years ago. But this lady, I was way up on the head of Millstone and 
Millstone's beautiful by the way. And I heard somebody, "Help, help!" You know? And this 
Miss Baker had went out to go, wanted to go and check the mail, you know, that's what people 
do! They love to go check the mail. And she was in, with a walker, but anyway, she fell off of 
her the walk--a ramp was built--and she fell off of it. She laid on her back and couldn't get up 
and it was cold. And she has a daughter that was...uh...I don't know how to explain what was 
wrong with her, but she was like a little child, but she was like in her 30s. And she'd always, her 
mom always took care of her. And there the daughter was in the house and couldn't help the 
mother. Of course I was running behind, you know, and if we don't get the mail down there in 
time, you have to take the mail yourself to Hazard now. We have to do it 'cause it has to go. So I 
called my boss and told her. I said Miss Baker is here and there's nobody with her and I said I'm 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Margaret Fisher – 11/21/21 
12 
 
not leaving her until somebody comes. And that was the wrong thing to say, you know, but you 
know, what kind of person could leave somebody like that? 
 
EH: Yeah. 
 
MF: And so I did and she was very upset. It was Miss 
. I never did care for her, but 
anyway.  
 
EH: (laughs)  
 
MF: There she sat, you know, all mad and patting her foot and I said now don't start! I said I've 
had a bad day! (laughs) You know, I respect my bosses, I never did...but now, there's a time that 
you have to...the rules just can't apply. 
 
EH: Right. Mmmhm. 
 
MF: And, but they were so, so grateful, her daughter and the family was just so grateful.  
 
EH: Mmhm. 
 
MF: But anyway, she wanted to put that in the postal manual, in the magazine they have. I said, I 
was embarrassed. I said oh no! (laughs) You know, that's just what you do! 
 
EH: Was that for the Kentucky Rural Letter Carriers Association? Some kind of magazine? 
 
MF: Something! Yeah, they have things that people do. But I never even thought about it for 
that.  
 
EH: Yeah, right. 
 
MF: Didn't even give it a thought. But anyway! They were grateful and I was glad I did it. And 
one time my son and I, we were at my Volkswagen that tore up and I had to use my, a Ford, and 
so he was with me to help put the mail 'cause I couldn't reach or anything. But we came through 
the Bottom Fork area, Highway 3406, and there was the biggest rattlesnake you ever saw. So I 
was trying to kill it. And it raised up its head over the window! You know? And I kept trying to 
slide over there and that was just exciting my little boy to death to see that big rattlesnake. 
 
EH: Wow! So that was as he was trying to put mail in the box? 
 
MF: No! We were coming through and the next box, I had to--it was right there at the box. So 
well that was dangerous! So anyway, Mr. Newsom, that's the house I was going to, he told me 
the next day he said, now when you run over a snake, you kill it! He said, "I had to get out and 
hunt that thing down!" (laughs). I did run over it and try to slide on it you know, but that was... 
 
EH: And you didn't kill it by running it over? Or you didn't, you missed it? 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Margaret Fisher – 11/21/21 
13 
 
 
MF: No. They eventually will die if you break their bones, of course. He went and shot it. But it 
was huge.  
 
EH: Wow! That's scary. 
 
MF: It was at Sally Webb's house. They was, they would be up there on her porch! She'd see 2 
and 3 rattlesnakes. Snake is... but that really scared me. Me in that big old car and that big snake 
was just (laughs). I said what if I do this wrong and it just falls in the car! 
 
26:56  
 
EH: (laughs) Yeah right! Did you--have you ever had other animal encounters on your route? 
 
MF: I saw a bear once and it was just sitting in this lady's yard and my heart just...I'm terrified of 
a bear being in the road. Now I see deer everywhere. I've got some pictures in there if you want 
to see 'em of old Millstone. I can find them real quick. But anyway, I've seen a bear and it was 
just sitting there. It had its lunch, a bag of garbage just sitting there eating. And this man had 
been shooting a gun trying to scare it and everything and it just...I think it finally picked its little 
bag of food up and went on up the hill (laughs). But that scared me, me in the car. But I just don't 
know what I'd do if a bear, if I ran at one in the road, you know? But deer, you see deer all the 
time. And the elk. But I'm not afraid of that. Now horses. Scares me when there's horses in the 
road. I have come up on horses. You know, because you don't know what they're gonna do. I 
don't know anything about horses.  
 
EH: Is that a wild horse or a horse that has gotten loose? 
 
MF: Horses that have gotten out. That have gotten loose, yeah. And because you know, they can 
do some scary stuff. Anyway, I was gonna see if I could find this deer [photos]. Now what else 
you need to know? 
 
EH: Let's see. Yeah, what would you pack in your car with you in times of weather or just so you 
could be safe, and would you bring snacks and food along with you? 
 
MF: No. (laughs) Not always. Sometimes. I would always stop at James McAughely's (sp?) store 
for the longest time. I loved Dr. Pepper and an oatmeal cake and barbeque potato chips. (laughs) 
 
EH: Sounds good. 
 
MF: I would love that! You know, and I would get that. But we were required to have, always 
had to have those flares. Had to have those square orange things--that was a requirement. 
 
EH: I see. 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Margaret Fisher – 11/21/21 
14 
 
MF: And a fire extinguisher. But as far as ever taking a blanket or anything? I didn't even think 
about it! But I dressed warmly. I always tried to dress. I layered. If it got too hot, I'd just take off 
another coat or whatever. But I had to walk. One time I got afraid again when I was crossing 
through from Laurel Fork over into Bottom Fork. It's real isolated and a little road, you know 
how it is, Kenny. And it was real icy and I could not make myself go over that! Over that one 
slick spot. 'Cause you would just go over the hill, you know? And I don't know who I found, but 
I just locked the car up and walked to the next house and they came and drove me over that! 
(laughs) 
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
MF: It was probably very illegal. They'll put me in the Guinness Book of World Records for 
breaking the law! (laughs) But I never left everything unkempt. It was real isolated anyway and 
not a lot of travel. But I just couldn't make myself do it! 
 
EH: Right. 
 
MF: So. 
 
EH: Yeah. Maybe you saved yourself! 
 
MF: Probably did! I don't know. But anyway, I didn't...I called my husband, I said, you're gonna 
have to come up here and drive over this for me. "Now Margaret, get in that car!" 
 
EH: (laughs) Have you seen the landscape on your route change like more houses being built, 
businesses, farms going away or coming back or things like that? 
 
MF: Yeah, I've seen--a lot of people have moved and businesses have closed. Now, when I am 
on the mail route, this is embarrassing, but you have nowhere to go to the bathroom! (laughs)  
 
EH: Right, right! 
 
MF: You know, so there's a monument place there at Kona, then I talk to her, so she lets me, if I 
have to go to the bathroom I can go there. She said, I don't care if I'm not even here, says you can 
come on in, you know. So that was good. So, after I leave Mayking there's nothing until that 
place. 
 
M: [unintelligible] 
 
MF: To go to the bathroom, mama. 
 
EH: Well that was in the news recently with Amazon drivers, they were talking about... 
 
MF: Was it? 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Margaret Fisher – 11/21/21 
15 
 
EH: Yeah, yeah. (laughs) The strategies they use because they're so on the clock. 
 
MF: Well it's so populated now, you used to, you could go in the woods! And my sister (laughs) 
Kim went with me once and she got in this great old big tunnel thing, thought she was protected, 
she looks around and there was a house! (laughs) 
 
EH: (laughs) Uh-oh! 
 
KM: (laughs) That's my mom.  
 
MF: She just laughed. We just laughed. What, you have to laugh! 
 
EH: Right, yep. 
 
MF: You know, it's already done, but we (laughs) it looked real isolated! It was a big old culvert 
that they were getting ready to put in. That's what it was.  
 
EH: I see. 
 
MF: And so when you got in that culvert that was a house on the other opening! 
 
EH: Whoops (laughs) 
 
MF: But she didn't care, my gracious. That's Kim. 
 
32:28  
 
I want to find those deer real quick, if I can. I don't know where my pictures are anymore. Now, 
what else you need to know? 
 
EH: Do customers leave you little gifts? What have they left you? 
 
MF: I have very few that--I probably shouldn't tell this, but they would want to leave money 
(laughs) 
 
EH: Well I think that's common! 
 
MF: Yeah. But they do, you know, and you gotta be really careful 'cause you don't want, you 
can't take anything. I don't think we're even supposed to because it's showing favoritism, that 
you're gonna be kinder to somebody. But I try not to do that, you know? And they leave candy, 
oh my gracious. And some of them, not very many. You have maybe 20 out of that many people 
that do that. Cause they're not aware, you know? But they're grateful, they're just so grateful for 
the mail carrying, you know, for the route that I have to go, I bring their packages, I do 
everything for them. And they're grateful. I had this old man and he was blind, could hardly see, 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Margaret Fisher – 11/21/21 
16 
 
and he told me, he said you just don't know how much I appreciate you, you know? That just 
touched me. That meant more to me than somebody leaving me 50 dollars or whatever. 
 
EH: Yeah. I mean that's important--you might be the only person they see all day! 
 
MF: That's right. That is. There's people that's like that. And I love, I tell ya, I love the customers 
and they know I care for them! But now you just don't have time to talk or anything. 
 
EH: 'Cause the route's so big. 
 
MF: Yeah. 
 
EH: Yeah. 
 
MF: Yeah, it is. And now that we have to scan everything, every package, everything, and they 
know everything that we're doing because of the GPS and... 
 
EH: Oh wow. So you feel kind of monitored in a way that you weren't before. 
 
MF: You are! Yeah. And I don't mind because I am a person that I do what I'm supposed to do, 
you know. People that do that, I think you're very offended by mistrust. 
 
EH: Right. Yes, yes. 
 
MF: You know? It doesn't mean that I'm doing anything wrong, it just means that I'm doing 
everything right and I'm still being questioned, you know? My first boss, he was such a good 
boss, R.C. Day (sp?) he was the postmaster at Whitesburg. But he took care of his carriers, you 
know? He didn't let people call. He said I know my carriers, I know what they'll do. Now there's 
been some bad ones, and it just shocks me--the people who have lost jobs for taking money out 
of... 
 
EH: Wow. 
 
MF: You know? I've never ever given that a thought. 
 
EH: Yeah. 
 
35:19  
 
MF: You know, 'cause I used to buy money orders for my people on my route. They would leave 
3 and 400 dollars in the box. But that finally had to, 'cause it got so big that I couldn't do that. I 
couldn't give them that service and I would stamp all their letters and at Christmas you would 
come in and you would have to do like 400 Christmas cards, you know? Stamps were at that 
time about 8 cents, you know. So I had to stop doing that. I said I can sell you stamps, but you're 
gonna have to...but it made me feel bad, you know?  
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Margaret Fisher – 11/21/21 
17 
 
 
EH: Yeah, yeah, right. 
 
MF: But you know, you just can do so much! 
 
EH: Mmhm, mmhm. 
 
MF: But anyway, it's still, it's a good job to have and as long as you do it right when you're a 
contractor, as long as you're doing it right, unless they--one time I had to big on my route, as 
long as I've had it--is when they put the Thornton route, combined it with mine. And I did get the 
bid, the contract. So, and the lady that had done that before me, she would, she was like a taxi 
service they tell me. Take 'em to town, they'd wait on her, take 'em to town, well they said no, 
you're not allowed to do that! I said, well I'm (laughs). 
 
EH: I know, I thought I read that you can't have an unauthorized person. 
 
MF: No, never. Anywhere the mail is, anybody that rides with you--my husband had to get a 
contractor's card, you know. Because in the winter, he wants to drive me, so it has to be legal. He 
can't just go and but it's really, it's awful when somebody has to go with you that doesn't know 
how to help. 
 
EH: Uh-huh. 
 
MF: You don't have room! I tell him, I say honey, I have nowhere to put you! 
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
37:07  
 
EH: So yeah, how do you arrange the mail in the car? 
 
MF: Well I do it in the order of delivery, you know, I put the last mail last. I have little trays. 
Everybody doesn't do it the way I do it, but I use those small trays when I pull the case it's in the 
order of delivery. And Millstone will be last because that's the last place that I go, you know, and 
then Kona and then all the Mayking area. But it's in the order of delivery. With packages, now 
that's a whole new ballgame. 
 
EH: Yeah, so tell me--you're delivering a lot more packages than you used to. 
 
MF: Yeah. My relief driver now that I have, she had 115 packages one day last week. And 138 
you know? And I really don't know, but see, they will, the Postal Service, you have to have 2 
vehicles. But they will pay me, you know, if there's too much to put in your Jeep, if it's too big, 
but that was little packages, couldn't have been a lot of big ones. But they will pay me for the 
second trip. So that helps. 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Margaret Fisher – 11/21/21 
18 
 
EH: So they require you to have 2 vehicles? 
 
MF: Yes. Plus now we're required to have a cell phone so they can call us or whatever, you 
know? If they need to fuss us! (laughs) 
 
EH: Yeah, right!  
 
MF: No... 
 
EH: So that's quite...so you have to factor that into your contract when you bid on a contract. 
 
MF: You do! It's all in there and which is all tax deductible. Here you are doing so good, wanting 
to save you know, 'cause you have to pay so much because you pay that full 15% [taxes]. So then 
when I retired, I mean when I started drawing Social Security, I waited 'til I was 66 'cause the 
sooner you draw, you know, the less you get. So now I still work and I told them, now I'll still be 
working! So they adjusted up, not very much, you know, but you don't realize how little you're 
going to be getting, you know, when you're a contractor. But anyway, it's been a good, it served 
me well, you know? So, I'm not used to having a lot anyway, so. But it has improved. The pay 
has really improved.  
 
EH: That's good. 
 
MF: Yeah, it has. I mean when I, was that many years ago when gas was 29 cents, you know, 
you thought you were making a lot of money, but really you look at it now and it almost makes 
you laugh. (laughs) You know, how did you survive? But talking about my customers, I have 
some really, and a lot of them have died, you know? I've done it so long. And their children, and 
they'll tell me, I remember when I was a little girl and they would tell me how good I was to 'em 
you know? "Oh and we all thought you were so pretty." (laughs) It embarrasses me to death you 
know? But anyway, they're just really kind and still, so now I'm delivering mail to their kids 
now. 
 
EH: Wow, yeah. 
 
40:19  
 
MF: And that's what amazes me. 
 
EH: Do a lot of the kids live in their parents' old house?  
 
MF: No. The parents, most of 'em are mostly living, and they build around them though. That's 
how it's gotten so much bigger, you know? But like I was telling you about Crafts Colly, I had 
about 90-some boxes from the beginning to the end. But not it's huge. I mean I don't know how, I 
mean they got little hollers, they just go all over the place, taking the mail, which I didn't do that, 
I just stayed on the main drag until they started doing the, when we had to have the physical 
addresses, you know. So everybody...because if you have a, if you can't get mail delivery then 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Margaret Fisher – 11/21/21 
19 
 
you get a free box at the post office. But if they can supply you delivery, if you chose not to have 
delivery, then you pay box rent. 
 
EH: I see. 
 
MF: And it's not cheap. So. 
 
EH: Oh I had a question...what was it? Oh, so when you have packages do you deliver those to 
the door? 
 
MF: I do. 
 
EH: And so that's adding a lot of extra time. 
 
MF: Yes! That's what I try to tell them! I mean, you know, if they'll fit the boxes, that's a whole 
new story, but if you have--there's this one, have to go down in and walk! It's far to her house 
'cause it's, I mean it's all flat land but it's real, it's--the grass is real wet. I'd be afraid to go in 
there, you know. And you have to park way and walk down you know, to take the packages. And 
that's, you can't--when you're given like 15-seconds to pull up to a box to deliver and if you have 
to add a scan to that, sometimes your scanner works great, sometimes it doesn't want to, 
sometimes it'll just die, you know and you have to reboot it. You know, that's a time consumer! 
And when you're out there, when you've got like 500--I guess I've got about 550 customers now-
-I don't really know right off, but I know it's a lot. And you're allowed I think 15 seconds. 
 
EH: That's nothing! 
 
MF: To pull up, stop, deliver. It might be 20. I may not be telling it right. But when you have to 
stop and scan, you're talking 1 or 2 minutes and I know that sounds like nothing, but on a mail 
route that's a lot, you know, when you have to lose that much time. When you're in a hurry and 
you're already running behind and you see somebody--Oh no! They're a talker, you know? 
(laughs) 
 
EH: (laughs) Right! 
 
MF: They'll follow your car when you're trying to go, you know, I need to hurry and they're 
walking along side of you! (laughs) You don't want to say, you don't want to be rude. That's 
something that really bothers me. When the sun starts shinning that's when they're everywhere! 
"Wait a minute! I got you some grapes, let me run up here and get this." You, I just sit there.  
 
EH: What about dogs--have you ever had any dog encounters when you deliver packages? 
 
MF: Yes, there's this one. But now I thank goodness for this. There's this one dog up on 
Millstone and it's just a little short leg dog, but it's vicious. You know, you can't make it, you 
can't say stop, even its owners. And I'm terrified of that dog and I'm usually real good with dogs 
you know? But now they're telling us because somebody got bit really bad, that the other, it was 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Margaret Fisher – 11/21/21 
20 
 
a different mail carrier, but it was a real friendly dog to that first carrier, but the second one it 
about ate that boy up.  
 
EH: Oh no. 
 
MF: So they tell us if there's a dog, if there's a dog anywhere, no matter if you think it's friendly, 
you cannot get out and deliver packages. So I tell them, I say you all need to write letters and tell 
our customers whey we're not doing what we're doing. And there's a lot of those Pyrenees dogs. 
But I love 'em I mean they're real sweet to me.  
 
EH: Those are meant to be guard dogs for sheep... 
 
MF: Yes! 
 
EH: So they might bark but I don't know if they would bite. They might be ferocious-seeming. 
 
MF: I just say, "Oh baby." My heart. (laughs) It terrifies me, you know. But you know, some 
dogs, you know. You can tell a dog, its hair will just raise up on its back or. But now we do have 
a place on our scanner, animal interference that we, you know, can't do what we need to do, and 
some people, they get really upset that you're not doing... 
 
EH: Would you use that if you saw a bear too, or is that only for pets?  
 
MF: Any animal--it's an animal. Anything that would make me not be able to complete my 
rounds, you know? And flooding, we're not allowed to go if it's real, if it floods or anything like 
that, through the water. Well you know I always did that. Never though anything! I thought I had 
to, you know? I was in the Volkswagen! (laughs)  
 
EH: Have there been--do you think there's more floods than there used to be or more floods back 
then? 
 
MF: No, they really, it's been bad this year, more flooding. The last 3 or 4 years I'll say. But at 
Millstone you would think how could it possibly flood? But it's all low-lying. The creeks are real 
close to the road, so they have ditched and cleaned 'em out, you know, making them a little 
deeper. And but it just covers. You can't, it's just all water, so I don't even...but then we're not 
allowed to back up! (laughs) 
 
EH: Not allowed to back up? 
 
MF: No, they tell us, you can't back up. And under those circumstances of course. I mean what 
can you do? And my little carrier, she'll tell every time she has to back up. I don't even think 
about it, I've always had to back up, you know? I hate backing up, I don't like to back up 
especially my Jeeps because I don't have one of those mirrors, those things like in my car. But I 
have learned to back up with my mirrors--I'm so proud of that. 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Margaret Fisher – 11/21/21 
21 
 
EH: (laughs) Nice! 
 
MF: I just learned to do that last year! 
 
EH: If the mails covering the back window, then... 
 
MF: Oh it does! Oh that's what's bad. And it's really not allowed, but what do you do? 
 
EH: Right, right. 
 
MF: I use my side mirrors, you know? But you get one of those mirrors cracked, you're getting it 
fixed because you can't. It's awful when your side mirrors are not right. But I've had a lot of 
relatives, you know, on my route and stuff, and, but people says what are we gonna do when you 
don't do the mail, you know? But my carrier, the one that I--God has really blessed me--this girl 
is amazing! And she loves the route. She likes doing the mail! That's the main thing with being a 
mail person. You gotta like what you do. 
 
EH: Do you tell stories? What are the stories that mail carriers tell to each other? 
 
MF: (Laughs) Can't tell that! 
 
EH: (laughs)  
 
MF: Now I really don't know! I mean I haven't had anything except maybe people backing up 
and they tell all kinds of things on the carriers and I just, I can't believe it--oh this one buries 
their mail here, does this and that, I said no! (laughs)  
 
EH: Who says that? 
 
MF: The other carriers! If they don't like a carrier, you know.  
 
EH: I see, I see. 
 
MF: "Oh they got a place they hide everything up there." I say no! You reckon? But people do, I 
mean they take all this bulk mail and take it home with them. Honey, if I'm gonna go that far and 
not do something, I'm not gonna keep that mail anywhere on my person. Would you? 
 
EH: No way. (laughs) I wouldn't want to see it. 
 
MF: Me either! If I find a piece of mail in my mail car, it terrifies me. Bulk or what, you know? I 
don't want it in my car. So we really have to look and...'cause they'll come and check your cars. 
 
EH: Make sure that you're being diligent? 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Margaret Fisher – 11/21/21 
22 
 
MF: Diligent. Oh my. But that is a true mail carrier, I think is you're faithful--you have to be. 
You know? You're gonna go no matter. Only time, one time my little boy was real sick, my son 
Ben. And they couldn't figure out what was going on--he had tonsilitis. They was treating him 
for Strep, well he wasn't getting well. He got real sick. So they called me--I was at the Millstone 
Post Office. That's about half of the route. They said you need to get him to Harlan. I need to 
take him to another hospital because he was always in daycare. Well I just left it all! I said you're 
all going to have to manage. In that kind of circumstance! And if they had done anything other 
than what they did, I think I would have just quit. You know, if you can't work--people have to 
have compassion. And if it's just every now and then, now if you're doing this once a week or 
something, you (laughs) it might be a little iffy, you know. But the only time I did, I just had to 
leave. I just left. I said...but they called another one of the contractors, I mean another mail 
person out of the Whitesburg office because they have to, I mean it has to go. 
 
50:29  
 
EH: Do you feel like you're a representative of the government? Of the US Government? Or do 
you, does that add importance to your work? 
 
MF: Well I discovered, we were getting a loan through Rocket Mortgage, and I discovered that I 
am a contractor for the Post Office. You know, so I'm not a postal worker, I'm a contractor. I do 
a service for the Postal Service, you know? And the only way, and we have people that back us. 
See I never did feel that I had any kind of support if anything happens.  
 
51:09  
 
I hated that. But we do! There are people that, they have these meetings twice a year and you 
really need to go to those if you're a contractor. But they're always so far away, you know?  
 
EH: Is that the union? 
 
MF: It's called the Star Route Contractors and there are people there to represent us and that they 
can't just get rid of you 'cause they don't like you, you know? So that made me feel better about 
working for the Postal Service. When I first started and got the route, I didn't have to bid on it, 
'cause my cousin that I was doing this route for, I had my own vehicle, I was paying everything 
myself. I was young, I was--really didn't understand anything about contracting. Well when they 
found it all out, they told him. They said you get her and you get her to sign this and that route, 
they turned that route over to me. So that was a good thing, you know? But he was taking, he 
kept $100 out of my pay every month but he didn't tell me, talk to me about it. 'Cause the check 
came in his name to him. 
 
EH: Hmm. 
 
MF: And I was trusting, you know. 
 
EH: Why did he do that? 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Margaret Fisher – 11/21/21 
23 
 
 
MF: Well, it was his route and I was doing it but because I had supplied my own car, he wasn't 
supplying anything. I bought me a car, I did everything! So really, they were not doing anything. 
Now if he had sat me down and talked to me, now Margaret, now that would have been okay! 
But the way it was is what really bothered me. 
 
EH: Right. 
 
52:49  
 
MF: You know. But anyway, that route, that's how I got the route. And then that one time is the 
only time I've ever bid on it was with that Thornton. When they combined it, you know? There 
were two routes. But as long as you do the job like you're supposed to, you just, every 6 years 
sometimes, sometimes every 4 years you just renewed, yeah, I want to do the contract some 
more. 
 
EH: What's your favorite part of the job? 
 
MF: I hate to say listen to the radio! (laughs)  
 
EH: No! 
 
MF: No. I think just every day to me. Because I enjoy getting, receiving mail, you know? And I 
think that's why I like being a mail carrier, you know? Because sometimes it's real happy stuff 
that you're taking to people and they're looking for it, you know, and that's--I like that part of it 
and then sometimes it's sad, you know. But I just like what--the relationship that I have with, 
even though I don't see 'em one on one, everybody knows the mail carrier. And you don't know 
'em, you know. "Oh I know you." And then I'll say well what's your address? (laughs) 
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
MF: That's how I can connect, you know. Not what is your name but what's your address? "Oh 
yeah!" 
 
EH: So do you feel like you can pick up things about people just from the mail even if you've 
never met them before? 
 
MF: Well yeah, you know you can, but that's as far as it goes. 
 
EH: (laughs) Yeah, right. 
 
MF: You know, I just don't. You know, especially if I've been through something that I see this 
is happening to this person, you know, it really disturbs me, and it shouldn’t, but it does. You 
know, you don't want people to have, to be worried and, but anyway. Yeah, you'll know, but 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Margaret Fisher – 11/21/21 
24 
 
that's one thing I do. I tell my carriers when I, you don't discuss people's mail, you know, it's so 
private, you just don't. So I don't! 
 
EH: Yeah, kind of like being a doctor or librarian or something. You don't reveal what people 
check out, you don't reveal people's illnesses. Yeah. 
 
MF: No. Yeah, I never thought about it like that but you just, you don't. It's just very private and 
you need to be, you have no excuse. I used to, we had these big snows here and I mean they 
would (laughs) BIG! And then when they would scrape the roads, they'd pile it all next to the 
mailboxes. And right then when you're, they're not even letting people on the road, that's when 
everybody will dig their little path, put a letter in and then raise the flag! (laughs) 
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
MF: But not fix it 'til you can drive--and you have to get out and...get that out. 
 
EH: Right! 
 
MF: So then I put it on the radio, you know, if you don't clean out around your box, you're not 
gonna get the service. 
 
EH: Yeah. So did you put it on the radio, or just... 
 
MF: The postmaster. I didn't. 
 
EH: I see. I see. 
 
MF: But we would complain and of course they would do that. Because people don't think, you 
know. And then the mail trucks are not even new. They're not taking the mail anywhere.  
 
EH: But you don't get that much snow like that anymore. 
 
MF: No, we haven't lately. The last 3 or 4 winters have not. It was real icy one year, oh my. I'd 
rather have snow anytime rather than ice. It's terrifying. But they're real good, or our Highway 
Department is real good about putting gravel down, and if it gets really bad on these bad roads, 
we don't have to go. If you feel like your life is going to be in danger, we're not required to go. 
And but people don't understand that. They don't understand why I'm not being there, didn't go 
there, or you know, they think their mail is more important, I guess. I don't know! 
 
EH: Yeah. Do you send letters yourself? Letters and cards? 
 
MF: Sometimes. I do, I do. You know, postage is 58 cents, but you know, that's a bargain! For as 
quickly as mail can get from here to California, you know? It amazes me that you can do a letter 
for how many years. It started out at what 3 cents, then 8 cents, and took a lot of letters to move. 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Margaret Fisher – 11/21/21 
25 
 
EH: Do you remember how much stamps were when you first started? 
 
MF: I think it was 8. I think it was 8 cents. Because I could get 10 books--I was allowed--I had a 
$40 stamp value. And I could get like 10 books you know. But now I can't even get 4! (laughs) 
You know, $11.60 a book. But you just get used to that. And people are just now, they just go 
ahead and get that 55 cents, or it was, it was 50, what 2, and then it went to 55? They'll just leave 
the 50 and I'll pick it up and I'll say this is getting too high for me to do this for everybody, you 
know? And now they finally started leaving 55 cents and it went up to 58 and they don't think 
about those 3 pennies.  
 
EH: Yeah, right. 
 
58:30  
 
MF: But you know, it's really not advertised a lot. Not this time but the time before--I don't even 
know the stamps went up. 
 
EH: Yeah, I didn't either, actually.  
 
MF: Yeah! Yeah, that used to be a big thing. It was on the news and when the postage was going 
up you know, but now... 
 
EH: Seems like it didn't go up as much. As often, you know, when I was a kid. 
 
MF: As it does now, yeah. Oh now, but I'm surprised. I wish that they had took it on up to 60 
cents. 58, the pennies--it's bad when you have to deal with change like that. But you do. You just 
get used to it, you know. 
 
EH: Well, is there anything else I didn't ask you about or anything else you'd like to share about 
your work over the years? 
 
59:22  
 
MF: You know, contractors, we do the exact same thing as people that are hired into the Postal 
Service for much less money. And that's the only thing that I ever really resented is the way they 
have, we've been treated like a 2nd class citizen. Not from the people but from the coworkers--
people that work inside, you know. "Oh, you don't answer the phone, you're just a mail carrier." 
Honey, I don't want to answer the phone anyway! (laughs) Just trying to be nice! 
 
EH: And so but non-rural mail carriers, they are employees, right? 
 
MF: There are rural carriers at Jenkins, at the Jenkins Post Office but we have no rural carriers 
out of the Whitesburg office--it's all contractors. Now rural carriers, they can go inside. They are, 
they have benefits, you know, they have vacation days. It's much better to be a rural carrier.  
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Margaret Fisher – 11/21/21 
26 
 
EH: So what in your--so there's rural carriers and then there's contractors? 
 
MF: Contractors. I'm just a contractor. 
 
EH: Okay, interesting. 
 
1:00:28  
 
MF: Very. 
 
EH: So why does Jenkins have rural carriers and not contractors? 
 
MF: I don't really know why that is. My cousin was a rural carrier. But you have to supply your 
own car. Now they don't supply your cars. 
 
EH: Right. 
 
MF: But the pay, I mean you can go from a rural carrier and go inside and work.  
 
EH: I see. 
 
MF: But as long as you have a contract, I know when Mr. Taylo (sp?) was postmaster at Hazard, 
he was determined I was gonna quit doing the mail route and go inside and they said no, as long 
as she's got the contract, she can't. Well at that time I was, my husband and I were going through 
divorce, and I thought, I was only person working and it was a scary thing! 
 
EH: Yep, yeah. 
 
MF: And so I didn't, I didn't give my route up. But then I didn't understand because I was 
considered, what is it called? Part-time. You know? There are very few full-time employees even 
at the Whitesburg office right now. 
 
EH: I see. 
 
MF: They're considered part-time. But see if I understood what part-time meant even at the time, 
I wouldn't have even hesitated, you know? But I didn't! And I'm still, I mean I'm happy to--I 
chose the path and I was good, you know? So. I've survived it! And I miss it, you know, just 
when I work now, that's really, I like, I still like to work! Which you know, I don't know why I 
feel bad at being 72 and still working. But you know if you're healthy and there's nothing wrong 
with you, why would you not do it? 
 
EH: And it keeps you healthy too I think... 
 
MF: I do too. I told Bobby, this is terrible when you don't have to get up every morning and 
brush your teeth! You really let yourself go (laughs).  
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Margaret Fisher – 11/21/21 
27 
 
 
EH: (laughs) Yep. 
 
MF: So I try to not do that anymore. Anyway! 
 
EH: Yeah, well thank you so much! It's great to talk with you and learn about your work.  
 
MF: So now I go in at 7:30 in the morning. Quarter 'til 8. Yeah. And sometimes I still don't get 
back in about 'til 5, you know? 
 
EH: That's a long day. 
 
MF: It is!  
 
EH: And you don't really get a break. 
 
MF: No! You really--the other girl, I mean she's 45, she moves like the wind, you know? So I'm 
not gonna worry about it. But anyway! They miss me, you know, when I'm working, they're just 
so glad to see me, you know. But I'm just thankful for Sharon. She's so good and she's good to 
the people and that means a lot. 
 
EH: Nice. You make a good team. 
 
MF: Yeah, we do. She's real good. But I hope I've not embarrassed you! 
 
EH: No! Not at all! This was great--thank you so much! (laughs) 
 
MF: You have to laugh now, don't you? 
 
EH: Totally. It's fascinating.  
 
1:03:44  
 
END OF TAPE  
END OF INTERVIEW