Civil Rights History Project 
Interview completed by the Southern Oral History Program 
under contract to the 
Smithsonian Institution’s National Museum of African American History & Culture 
and the Library of Congress, 2013 
 
 
Interviewee:  
 
D’Army Bailey 
Interview Date: 
 
August 13, 2013 
Location: 
Memphis, Tennessee 
Interviewer: 
 
 
David Cline 
Videographer:  
 
John Bishop 
Length: 
 
 
03:11:00 
 
John Bishop: Now it’s going. 
David Cline: Today is August thirteenth, 2013. This is David Cline speaking. I am a 
professor of history at Virginia Tech, also working for the Smithsonian Institute’s National 
Museum of African American History and Culture and the Library of Congress for the Civil 
Rights History Project. Today we are interviewing Judge D’Army Bailey here in Memphis, 
Tennessee. And behind the camera is John Bishop of UCLA and Media Generation. And we will 
begin now. Thank you so much for being part of this project. 
D’Army Bailey: I’m honored for the opportunity. 
DC: Great. So, as I started to say off-camera, I wanted to start with a couple of questions 
before we get into the—really, your life story and your story in the Movement. And, if I could, 
the first question is: To you, what is the difference between an activist and a radical? 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
2 
DB: An activist is a person who devotes energies to making change to some project or 
some issue that that person is dedicated to. A radical is a person who is also devoted, in terms of 
their energies to making change, but they’re not bound by the same parameters that an activist is. 
A radical sees beyond the acceptable barriers for action and conversation and bangs against the 
outer walls to make progress much farther than is institutionally conceived. Now, being a realist, 
[DC laughs] even though you’re doing that, and you’re trying to open new horizons beyond 
acceptable boundaries, the end result is that you’re lucky if you get to those walls. But the 
activist, I think, short sells himself or herself by accepting the boundaries, and therefore—
because you’re never going to achieve everything that you are seeking. And so, the radical—we 
posit concepts and agendas for change that in reality we don’t expect to achieve. But we’re 
dedicated to it. We fight for it, as if we believe that we will, and that’s what keeps us going and 
makes dramatic change. 
DC: Um-hmm. And I think you probably appreciate why I started asking you that 
question, especially because of the subtitle of your autobiography. And I think—do you think of 
yourself in those terms, in terms of being both an activist and a radical, or different things at 
different times, or a radical? 
DB: Well, actually, I generally eschew labels. We use that label for the book, The 
Education of a Black Radical, and when I was in politics in California, I and the other two of my 
colleagues who were elected to the Council were dubbed by the media as being radicals, and it 
was called “the radical takeover of the Berkeley city government.” I’ve had that label attached to 
me. I never used that myself in terms of definition when I was out there, and I really don’t use it 
much today. But I do accept that that’s a fair definition of me and my politics. The reason I don’t 
like labels is simply because it makes you more easily pigeonholed and, therefore, you’re a much 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
3 
easier target for those who want to discount what you’re trying to do by attaching you with a 
label. But when I was involved in civil rights in Baton Rouge, my friends were in CORE, the 
Congress of Racial Equality, and they were big supporters of what we were doing. But it took me 
the longest of time before I was willing to join CORE because I just don’t personally like to 
associate myself with identifiable groups where I can then be limited, in terms of how people 
perceive me or what I can do. 
DC: Right, right. Very interesting. Thank you. And then, the other big question I want to 
ask before we get into the biography is: How to you define the Civil Rights Movement? I mean, 
our project here is called the Civil Rights History Project. And there’s a sort of traditional take 
on what the Civil Rights Movement is, which is often bounded by or focused on Dr. Martin 
Luther King. But I was very struck at the National Civil Rights Museum that you were a founder 
of that you begin the story much earlier, basically starting with the story of slavery and coming 
up to the very present day. I’m interested in how you see the Movement? Is it a much longer 
battle on many fronts than we sometimes see in the history books [00:05:00] as the 1959 to 
1968? 
DB: Well, the earlier context of going back to slavery and the abolitionist movement, I 
can’t really claim a great deal of credit for envisioning that as a preliminary to the larger exhibits 
at the museum. That was a broad context that was created in collaboration with some very 
excellent designers, including Ben Lawless, who had helped us to lay out much of the plan. But I 
brought to the creation of the museum my experience in the Civil Rights Movement. We had 
bought the Lorraine at a foreclosure auction. I knew that it was a place that people would come 
from around the world, because that’s where Dr. King’s blood still can be seen on the concrete 
walkway outside of the room where he last slept. 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
4 
To me, it was a way of taking the magnetism of the death of King, but not creating a 
museum about King. The museum that I wanted to create, and it was in large part the sense of 
my own experiences in the Movement that helped to set the path for what the museum was to be. 
Because, having come as a young college student in 1960 to the beginnings of the sit-in 
movement in Baton Rouge, and then having traveled down to Atlanta and visited with the SNCC 
leaders, and been out into Ruleville and sat down with Fannie Lou Hamer on her front porch, and 
been at some of the great marches and dramatic scenes over in Bogalusa where the Deacons for 
Defense and Justice had to meet us and escort us into town and protect us while we were there. 
I knew the intensity of that Movement, and I also knew that the Civil Rights Movement 
was not King. It was not any singular leader, even such a great person as a James Farmer, who 
was equally very much important to that struggle. But, rather, it was the combination of 
individuals, those young students that I saw, who inspired me, as another student, who were 
willing to put their education on the line, to go to jail, to have their families worry about them, in 
some cases their economic security being threatened, their family’s security, because their 
students were involved. And I saw the courage of these people. 
And as I would go to these rallies and participate in them and hear the music—that’s why 
we have an exhibit about the music of the Civil Rights Movement: the SNCC Freedom Singers, 
and of course you know Fannie Lou Hamer was a very great singer at these meetings. I’ve heard 
her sing. And Guy Carawan and Pete Seeger. 
DC: Yep, yep. 
DB: All of that was a part of the spirit. Even Anne Braden and Carl Braden. Well, Anne 
Braden I came to meet when I was thrown out of school at Southern, and she was editing the 
Southern Patriot newspaper out of Kentucky. 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
5 
DC: Okay, yeah. 
DB: And she would send us words of encouragement and a few dollars here to help us. It 
was a whole broad range of people that I saw. Will Campbell up in from Mount Juliet, who 
recently passed, who— 
DC: No. 
DB: Who was a mentor to me— 
DC: I didn’t know he had passed away. 
DB: In helping to understand the spirit of human struggle. I spent about three weeks at 
the University of Wisconsin in 1961 at a Southern Student Human Relations seminar, where 
there were 18 students, half black and half white, sponsored by the National Student Association. 
And we were studying race issues, and we were bringing in speakers, and Will Campbell and 
Connie Curry were the two leaders of those sessions for us, and we got to know each other. Bob 
Zellner, for example, who later became a leader in SNCC, was one of my members of that group 
there at the University of Wisconsin. 
So, it was the process of learning, of studying, of being on the scene. To me, the Civil 
Rights Movement was the cauldron within which you had this extraordinary mix of spirit, of 
courage, of people from different backgrounds, and most importantly, young blacks. We were 
the first generation from our families that went to college. And we didn’t go off to college at 
these black state universities in the South with the intention of creating the Civil Rights 
Movement. It was completely accidental that the Movement happened in my first year of college 
and that I became exposed to it. We went off to have a good time, to educate ourselves for 
[00:10:00] a better opportunities in the world of business and growth. But we were aware. 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
6 
So, I guess I’ll have to look back a little bit in terms of the definition of the Movement, 
because it was not just what happened in 1960 with the students at Greensboro. But I would 
remember as a young teenager sitting in a drugstore where I delivered ice cream and things to 
people in the neighborhood on my bicycle who would order it at the store. But when I wasn’t 
working there, I would sit and look at the magazine rack, where we had Jet magazine and Ebony 
and black newspapers from Detroit and Atlanta Daily World, and I would read about the Civil 
Rights Movement. And I saw the picture of Emmett Till when he had been killed, and his 
bloated body was exhibited in the casket. And being in Memphis, which was so close to these 
hot spots in Mississippi, I saw those kids over in Little Rock at Central High School and the 
courage that they showed. And these were kids my age. 
My Civil Rights Movement, not as I define it, but as it defined me, was a movement that 
started probably in the 1950s with the killing of Emmett Till, with the students at Central High 
School in Little Rock, with, in a somewhat more distant way, the Montgomery bus boycott. And 
when we were setting about to build the museum, the primary story, and that’s why the exhibit is 
there, and the primary exhibits in the museum start with the Central High School’s 
desegregation—well, it starts with Brown versus Topeka, with the large exhibits there, because 
the ’54 decision was a pivotal one. But I don’t think that the ’54 decision was the fuel that 
ignited the spirit of black America. I think that seeing Emmett Till’s body and seeing those black 
kids—now, of course, that came as a result of the ’54 decision, but it was the hard work, the 
groundwork that had been done by Daisy Bates with the NAACP there in Little Rock, who had 
the courage to help those kids to go to school. The courage of all this movement— 
DC: Do you remember your actual reaction to the Emmett Till photograph, or, I mean, 
your reaction but also other people in the community? 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
7 
DB: [Pause] Quiet shock. I can’t say that I was completely surprised. Nor was I 
overtaken with strong emotion about this, because it was an education. It was a wake-up call 
more than a shock, I guess. It was a wake-up call that we’ve got some hell of a struggle ahead of 
us here, if this is what they’ll do to these young kids, to my people, to me, that this is serious 
business. So, it matured me very quickly, as did what I saw those kids at Central High School do 
and go through. It made quick men and women strong and it began to prepare us for what lay 
ahead. 
DC: That’s interesting, because you were “young people,” it’s happening to young 
people. 
DB: Yes. 
DC: Right. 
DB: And it was no platitude to say it could happen to me! I mean, I—you know, I would 
get on the bus when I was going to Southern. I’d take the train from Memphis to Hammond, 
Louisiana, and get off there. And then, I’d have to take a bus from Hammond over to Baton 
Rouge. And I would sometimes be sitting in the front section of the bus, because I knew that the 
law was that they couldn’t segregate me, but I’d be the only black sitting up there in the front. 
And then, as the bus stopped at these little small towns, and this was in 1960 and 1961, whites 
would get on, and they would refuse to take the seats behind me, and so, they’d be standing in 
the aisles. And I would just be there in the seat, and pretend that I was sleeping, and just turn and 
go on about my business. But— 
DC: That was an interstate bus? 
DB: An interstate bus, yeah. 
DC: So that was 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
8 
DB: Because they would have signs in the bus stations that said “Whites,” “White 
Women” and “White Men,” and “Colored.” The “White” sign would actually say, “Whites and 
Interstate Passengers,” but they would also have signs that said “Colored,” and of course they 
didn’t differentiate between colored men and colored women. Even though by law, since I was 
traveling from one state to the other, they couldn’t segregate me, but in reality, [00:15:00] you 
were in quite some danger if you had been—and I would even go on the buses from Baton 
Rouge to Atlanta, sometimes alone. And why I did that, and where I had the courage to do that—
because I could have easily ended up missing. 
But maybe I was just crazy like that, I don’t know, but I just felt that I was not born to 
lead my life letting fear overcome my dignity. It wasn’t that I wasn’t afraid, but it was the 
question of which would win out. As I would go into these places, I was shaking in my boots, as 
it goes. But they didn’t know it! [Laughs] 
DC: Right, right. Couldn’t let them see that. 
DB: Yeah. 
DC: Would you mind telling us a little bit about your mother and father and the 
influence—? 
JB: Let’s stop the tape first. 
DC: Oh, I should have— 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
DC: I have a little time to say it. 
JB: Yeah, we have to close the file. Otherwise, it gets bigger and bigger, and if anything 
happens, we lose it all. So, we’re going again. 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
9 
DC: Okay. So, if I could ask you to tell us a little bit about your parents and maybe their 
influence in this regard. And I know a little bit about what they did for work, and there’s a story 
there, as well, I think, about independent African Americans and the tradition of the Pullman 
porters, for example. So, could you tell us a little bit about that? 
DB: Well, it was a struggle for both my mother and father, neither of whom finished high 
school. They got married while they were both in high school, and so my daddy went to work 
with his father, who was building and repairing houses. And my grandfather was sort of an 
entrepreneur, after whom I’m named, and— 
DC: Is that in Tennessee? 
DB: Yes, although he was born in Mississippi, near Shelby County, up near the 
Tennessee line, actually. So, when I was growing up, my mother was—the earliest work that I 
remember her doing was as a housekeeper at a medical clinic, at a doctor’s office. And they 
treated her very well. I mean, they treated her with respect. She would even double as a 
receptionist at the clinic, although these were white doctors and their clientele was white. But she 
was basically a maid, but she was respected and she carried herself with dignity when she was 
there at the clinic. And she worked with Dr. Segerson, E.C. Segerson was the physician. And I 
remember that following her work at the clinic—and we would go visit, my brother and I, 
sometimes, and we were, again, we were treated with respect. 
And my grandfather, in addition to the work that he did with his own business, pardon 
me. My grandfather, Papa, as we called him, would work for two white women, sisters, who 
were wealthy, and they let him plant cotton on the back field of their yard, as well as peanuts. 
Again, they treated Papa with a great deal of respect. My early experience, both in terms of my 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
10 
mother and my grandfather—my father, as I said, was working with my grandfather in those 
early years. 
Following the early work with his father, he started working for the railroad here in 
Memphis. He worked as a mail handler, so he would unload the mail from the trains onto carts at 
the station, and was able to initially get promoted up to work as a trained porter, first part-time, 
and then, he got a full-time position with the Illinois Central railroad. And Daddy worked the 
line from New Orleans to Chicago. He’d get on the train here in Memphis, and then he’d go to 
Chicago, and then back to New Orleans, and then come back and get off here at Memphis. 
And as a result of him working with the railroad, we could travel free, my brother and I 
and my mother and, of course, my daddy. He would take my brother and me to baseball games. 
DC: Oh, yeah. 
DB: And we’d go to St. Louis and Chicago and Detroit. He’d take us over to St. Louis, 
and I saw some of the early black stars, Jackie Robinson and Roy Campanella, and Don 
Newcombe. We were just kids. We stayed in a little black hotel there in St. Louis. [00:20:00] 
My mother always respected the maturity of my brother Walter and me. We had some 
latitude, in terms of what we could do as young people. We could go out at night and party late 
and borrow my daddy’s car, because we acted responsibly. She knew that both my brother and I 
were working with some black political people here, doing political campaigns in the late ’50s 
and early ’60s, even as we were early on in college. There was no criticism of that. 
DC: Were they involved at all, your parents, or were they just supportive of your 
activity? 
DB: No, they were not politically—I mean, they were voters, but they were not 
organizationally active. Now, my mother was—she went back to school and got her GED and 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
11 
then she got licensed as a barber. She was one of the first black female barbers in Memphis. And 
then, she did that for a short while—well, a short while, it was probably four or five years—at a 
barbershop in the center of the black neighborhood in South Memphis, Mississippi and Walker, 
where we grew up. And after four or five years of cutting hair, she went back and got her license 
as a nurse and became a licensed practical nurse and worked first at—well, she was one of the 
first black nurses at St. Joseph’s Hospital here in Memphis, and worked for many years, 
ultimately retiring in nursing. 
My father, in addition to being a train porter, he liked to play checkers and pool, so he 
had a lot of friends and he was outgoing, very proud of his two sons. But he was probably a bit 
more cautious or savvy, I should say, and therefore, he didn’t particularly urge us to be shaking 
at trees or rocking the boat. I remember that when we would go down to the train station to get 
on the train to go down to Baton Rouge, when you got to go up onto the train, the conductor 
would ask you where were you going. And you’d say Baton Rouge or Hammond, and they’d 
say, “To the left.” Well, actually, “to the left” was where the blacks were being sent, and “to the 
right” was where the whites were being sent, so it didn’t really matter where you were going. 
DC: Right. 
DB: But I would—sometimes if my father wasn’t there, I’d go to the right into the white 
section and sit down. But typically if he was with me, or my mother and I, then I wouldn’t get 
them too upset about doing that. But they knew that Walter and I—Walter was a football player 
and a very good one, so he was with the jocks, to some extent, in the early years. He later 
decided, in part because of the civil rights efforts that were going on, and he had been put off 
campus when I was expelled from Southern because of my activities. And they lodged him in a 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
12 
dormitory of married students, a number of whom were law students, and that’s how he got 
interested in a career in law. 
But my mother was supportive when I was expelled from Southern in my junior year. 
And I called her and told her about it, and she was very calm. She took things calmly. And my 
father did, as well. He was very supportive. But I guess it was the calmness and the serenity and 
elegance, in some ways, quiet, of my mother, and the strength of my father. But she really kind 
of nurtured, I think, in her own way, not by advocacy, but by supporting us, the sense of 
independence that I developed and that my brother developed. 
DC: Um-hmm. And even before you went to Southern, you were involved in some local 
organizations, right, with the NAACP and in Shelby County? Can you tell us a little bit about 
what those organizations were doing at that time? 
DB: Blacks did not have a big [00:25:00] challenge to vote in Memphis, because for 
many years in the 1940s and into the 1950s, Memphis was run by a political boss, one of the 
nation’s premier bosses, Boss Crump. And the Crump Machine controlled politics not only in 
Memphis, but across the state of Tennessee. Part of his strength came from the black vote, and so 
Crump would have certain people that were his lieutenants in the Memphis black community that 
would help corral and deliver the black vote for him. And these lieutenants would in turn be 
influential, so that if black people needed a job or needed some contact, then they could go to 
these lieutenants. So, the blacks were able to vote in Memphis early on. When the Crump 
Machine went into its decline in the early 1950s—by the mid ’50s, there was no longer a Crump 
Machine, but you had a tradition of voting among blacks. 
Now, the NAACP was the premier black political organization during that time, 
composed of some black business owners and professionals, but also a lot of rank and file blacks 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
13 
were—constitute the NAA. That was about the only really noticeable civil rights group here. 
There wasn’t a SNCC or a CORE in Memphis at the time. 
DC: Sure. 
DB: And the NAA was a little bit more cautious in its strategies than some of the groups 
that emerged in the Civil Rights Movement, such as CORE and SNCC. To that extent, the thrust 
of the NAACP was into the political arena, working with a group of black Democrats that 
formed the Shelby County Democratic Club. 
DC: Right. 
DB: And that was the strongest black political organization here during the time that I 
was growing up as a teenager. My brother and I worked as volunteers with the Democratic Club, 
going to their meetings. We would go out on the sound trucks during elections and speak on the 
microphone on the sound trucks and put out literature in the neighborhoods, urging votes for 
white candidates that were not segregationists. In those days, we supported white candidates 
primarily on the basis of whether they were for or against racial segregation. 
DC: Right. 
DB: And these would have been liberals or moderates at the time, so the Democratic 
Club was very active in supporting those candidates and then beginning to support some 
trailblazing black candidates. In the late ’50s, there were at least a couple of black candidates, 
Dr. Walker, J.E. Walker, who ran for the school board. He was one of the leading black 
businessman. And also Russell Sugarman, who ran for the Commissioner of Public Works. And 
that became sort of—those races, particularly the Sugarman race, became sort of cause célèbres, 
because there was a good chance that Sugarman could have won, except that the white 
community coalesced to force out some of the white candidates in order to focus their support 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
14 
around one, who was Bill Ferris, because there was no runoff, and they were fearful that if they 
didn’t do that, Sugarman would win. 
So, that became kind of, I guess, in a way, my first introduction to the politics and also 
the politics of race, and they were inextricably bound together in the late ’50s. In Memphis, the 
way of civil rights in the late ’50s was more of a political effort than it was openly race-based. 
So, by the time I came through high school here and left in ’59 off to college, Memphis was still 
sharply segregated. The amusement park, we could only go to the amusement park on Tuesdays. 
And if the Tuesday was a holiday, then we couldn’t go. We’d have to wait until the following 
week, because whites would go. And the same thing with the city zoo. We’d go on Thursdays. 
And the schools were still segregated, the buses were segregated. So, right on into the end of the 
1950s, racism had not been tackled directly here in Memphis, as it had began to be tackled in, 
say, Montgomery with the bus boycott in ’55 and ’56. 
DC: But even those white candidates that you describe the black community as— 
JB: Can we pause for just a second? 
DC: Oh, yeah. 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
DC: Perfect. 
DB: Part Two. [Laughs] 
DC: [Laughs] Part Two. 
DB: [Laughs] Part Three! 
DC: So, even those—even the white political candidates that the African American 
community did support because they weren’t strict segregationists, they weren’t really 
dismantling the system? 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
15 
DB: No. No, they were not. [00:30:00] But that was dramatic to have a Commission 
candidate or to have a candidate for Senate, which we did. In fact, he won. He served only a 
short time, Ross Bass, Democrat. George Grider, who won a seat for Congress. And, again, they 
were not pro-segregationists. Well, the spoke in terms of the need for change. 
DC: Okay. 
DB: And that was all we could expect. But basically they were not tilting at dramatic 
change in the system of racism that we saw here. But those were the—but these were the baby 
steps that were necessary, and they were important to us at the time. 
DC: Okay, and so, that was the Shelby County Democratic Club. The NAACP—was 
there a youth organization here in Memphis? 
DB: No, not at that time. That’s why my brother and I were, ordinarily in today’s time 
would have been part of the youth organization. And I think that it was good that there was no 
youth organization. We were thrown in there with the seasoned strategists, and we were in the 
meetings with them, and we were treated not as youth, but we were treated—in fact, one summer 
I worked for the club, and the sheriff, Sheriff Hines, M.A. Hines, who was a white sheriff here. I 
got paid for doing my work with the club by the sheriff’s office, because the club was supporting 
the sheriff. So, he hired me—and I don’t know, I might have gotten $40 a week, which was a 
nice little stipend—and my job was to go out and find bootleggers and let him know who was 
selling corn whiskey out in the county areas. I’d go out to the bootleggers’ and buy a half-pint of 
corn liquor, and whenever it was time for me to go get my check, I’d take it down there and tell 
the sheriff they were still out there and give him my half-pint of whiskey and get my check and 
keep on going. 
DC: [Laughs] 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
16 
DB: But that was support. That was how—you know, I mean, that was the nature of the 
give and take of our relationships that helped us to get things done. 
DC: So, you had your eyes opened to how politics really work at a young age. 
DB: [Laughs] Indeed I did! 
DC: Yeah, yeah. Very interesting. And so, then, when you went on to college at Southern 
in Baton Rouge, you came down there as things were beginning to happen politically down there 
with some experience. 
DB: Yes. And, in fact, I ran for president of the freshman class at Southern and was 
elected, which was actually an interesting—a good feat, because I was an out-of-stater. Most, the 
vast majority of students at Southern were from Louisiana. And our class was probably about 
somewhere between 1200 and 1500 students. So, it gave me a forum, an opportunity to speak out 
with the students. And, again, at the beginning, when I was elected president of the freshman 
class, it wasn’t a civil rights agenda, although I was becoming aware of what was happening in 
South Africa, because they had had the massacre in Johannesburg, where some black activists—
and so, I was beginning to at least sense not just the national thrust of change, but the 
international by the drama of these people being massacred over there in South Africa. And I had 
talked a little bit about that on campus. I wrote a column in the campus newspaper. I didn’t do 
that until my second year at Southern. 
But I was beginning to emerge, I guess, as a student leader on the campus, but not with 
any defined agenda, but just working with other students to have nice parties. I brought in a band 
from Memphis, which was great for the people in Baton Rouge, because they had never seen a 
great rhythm and blues band like I brought in. They came in with their trailers, I mean, little—I 
don’t mean these big trailers. I mean trailers on the back of cars. Gene “Bowlegs” Miller just put 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
17 
on a hell of a show there. And I brought Arthur Prysock to appear at one of our dances. Because 
Walter and I, we used to, when we were teenagers, I mentioned that my parents would tolerate us 
going out. We’d actually go to some of the adult—I mean, some of the— 
DC: Clubs 
DB: Mature clubs, nightclubs. [00:35:00] And drink whiskey and listen to the music. But 
we would come back and we would handle ourselves responsibly. So, I was already introduced 
to the entertainment circuit, and I just brought in some of those entertainers, at least like that 
band, anyway, that I brought from Memphis. And, of course, I didn’t have any previous contact 
with Arthur Prysock, but we brought him there, as well. 
So, it wasn’t just political that I was engaged in when I was at Southern. I was just, as I 
said, a student leader, having a good time and enjoying Louisiana. It was a nice change for me, 
the environment. The students were—they had beautiful women. Southern had some of the most 
beautiful coeds of any college on the black college circuit. And they had a great band, Southern 
University Band. So, it was a great experience for me in my first year there. 
DC: Um-hmm. And what year was that that you first went? 
DB: ’59. 
DC: In ’59, okay, alright. So, and then Greensboro happened. 
DB: In that March—well, that February. 
DC: Yeah, that spring, right, winter/spring. 
DB: And I didn’t know, but within a month or two of that, some students from Southern 
went and got arrested. And we didn’t know, “we” meaning most of the students, that they were 
planning to do this. And that was a real eye-opener to us, not just that they’d gone down there 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
18 
and been arrested, but then, when they were released on bond and got back to the campus, and 
the administration chose to expel them from school. 
DC: And this is—they sat—can you tell us just a little bit about what they did? They sat 
in. 
DB: Yeah, they went and sat in at some lunch counters in downtown Baton Rouge, and 
they were arrested and charged with disturbing the peace. In fact, the first group of them that did 
that led to the first U.S. Supreme Court decision, Garner versus State of Louisiana that affirmed 
the right of demonstrators and paved the way for many of the subsequent demonstrators to 
proceed without being prosecuted. And the basis of the Garner case, Garner versus Louisiana, 
was that these Southern students had been arrested in downtown Baton Rouge, and the state had 
accused them of disturbing the peace. And the Supreme Court decision was that—and the theory 
of disturbing the peace was that they were peaceful, they went and sat at the lunch counters, but 
that they would stir other people, white people up, who would attack them, and that was 
disturbing the peace! And the Supreme Court said in that decision, reversing the convictions, 
because they were convicted at the state level, that you cannot be convicted of disturbing the 
peace because your peaceful conduct provokes someone else to engage in unlawful conduct 
against you. 
DC: Right. Fascinating. 
DB: And so that was a pioneering case that came out of the first year of demonstrations 
there at Southern. 
DC: Amazing how the law works sometimes. You know, you could charge someone for 
inciting a riot, I guess, by being peaceful. [Laughs] 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
19 
DB: Yeah! In fact, two Supreme Court decisions came out of—two years later, because 
the Garner decision was rendered—the kids were arrested in 1960, but the decision wasn’t 
rendered until 1961, which is pretty quick for the Supreme Court. 
DC: Very quick. 
DB: But that came out in the autumn of ’61. Later that fall, the students at Southern 
started demonstrating again. And I was then part of a large demonstration of students that 
marched into downtown Baton Rouge in December of 1961. And we were teargased, and dogs 
were set upon us, and some of our leaders were arrested. And one of our leaders who had been 
an organizer for the Congress of Racial Equality, Reverend B. Elton Cox, was arrested there that 
day. And that led to a second Supreme Court decision, Cox versus Louisiana, in which the 
Supreme Court reversed the Cox conviction. And they accused Reverend Cox of violating a 
Louisiana law that said that you couldn’t demonstrate at a courthouse, that it would be 
intimidation. 
And the Supreme Court actually went through some—it was a divided opinion of the 
court. And they ended up reversing the conviction by saying that, well, he actually had 
permission of the police. [DC laughs] Well, I was standing next to Cox when we marched, and I 
know that he didn’t have permission of the police, because we got stopped twice. And the first 
time the police officers told him, and my brother and I were right there at the head of the line 
with Reverend Cox, as we formed around the old State Capitol in Baton Rouge and were getting 
ready to march. And the police captain came over and spoke to Reverend Cox and said, “Turn 
these students around.” And he said, [00:40:00] “Well, we came here to march, and we’re going 
to be peaceful.” So, we started out to march, and they stopped him again. And they said, “Now 
you’ve had your say. Now, I’m going to have mine. I want you to turn these students around.” 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
20 
And Cox said, “We’re going to proceed to the jail. We’re peaceful.” And so, they stopped him 
twice. 
Well, the Supreme Court took that as being that he had gotten permission to carry on the 
demonstration at the courthouse, well it was really—he was violating the order of the order of 
the police is what he was doing. But they didn’t—they let us go on to the—because at that point 
they either could break us up and start arresting us, or let us go on to the courthouse, to the jail, 
because it was both a jail and courthouse. And we were really going to protest because our 
students were in jail down there. But the arrest was based on the fact that we were at a 
courthouse.  
DC: Right, right. And that was a state law? 
DB: Yeah. And many states had that. 
DC: Right. And so, that changed that? 
DB: Well, yes—well, it changed it—it didn’t really. The court danced around it because, 
as judges themselves, they didn’t want—[laughs] 
DC: [Laughing] People on the steps. 
DB: [Laughing] So, that’s why they did this flip-flop about, “Well, he had the 
permission, so it really wasn’t a violation of the statute.” 
DC: Okay. So, they didn’t—so, the statute was left unchallenged? 
DB: No, they didn’t overturn the statute. 
DC: Oh, very interesting, very interesting. Because, of course, the courthouse is a potent 
symbol and a common place to demonstrate. 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
21 
DB: Yes. And the court wasn’t—you can tell from the opinion, if you ever read Cox 
versus Louisiana, that they certainly didn’t want to say that you could come on the courthouse 
steps and protest. 
DC: Right, right. 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB: Okay, we’re back. 
DC: So, you were involved in those protests, and the result of your involvement in that 
was what at Southern? 
DB: Well, by the time of my junior year, because the first wave of protests that happened 
in 1960, upon the—in the wake of the Greensboro sit-ins, did not yield any breakdown in 
segregation. The restaurants continued segregated. And things quieted down, because the 
expulsion of the student leaders continued. 
That summer was really my first venture outside of the South where I was in an 
interracial setting when I went to the national convention of the United States National Student 
Association, as one of the two delegates from Southern. And these were student leaders from 
around the country, black and white, including many from the South. And there was a great 
debate going on at that convention, because the Southern schools were mad that the leadership of 
the National Student Association had endorsed the sit-in movement, and they wanted to reverse 
that decision. The entire convention was overwhelmed with the debate about whether to support 
the sit-in movement, which the convention ultimately did. But here I was, on this campus with 
some of the best student leaders, both conservative and liberal, from across the country, arguing 
about the issue of the sit-in protests and about civil rights. 
DC: And this was where, again? 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
22 
DB: At the University of Minnesota, on the campus of the University of Minnesota. 
DC: In the summer of 1960? 
DB: The summer of 1960. And that’s where I got to meet people like Allard Lowenstein 
and Tom Hayden. Barney Frank was a student at Harvard at the time and one of the outspoken 
supporters of the sit-in movement, fighting against the Southern schools that wanted to reverse 
the endorsement. I mention that, because not only was this my exposure to white activists, but it 
also was, for me anyway, the pivotal chance to see that the student activism—you see, it was a 
whole different climate at that time, not just black students now, but white students. 
The National Student Association was a strong national organization, based in 
Philadelphia, that had a budget, it had a lobbyist in Washington that was working to lobby 
Congress on issues that the students took positions on. Allard Lowenstein, who later went to 
Congress, was one of the sort of—he wasn’t a student at the time, but he was very close to the 
students, and he was sort of one of the liaisons between the student associations. So, we had a 
national student group then. Now, the NSA also had its international wing that was called the—
[00:45:00] well, it was the International Division, which later was associated in some kind of 
support from the CIA, and it was an embarrassment to the NSA from that. But the national 
section of the NSA was not caught up in that. 
But I saw in my two years of conventions at the NSA, again, some of the great issues and 
debates of the time. That was when HUAC—there was a big debate about the House Committee 
on Un-American Activities, and they had had the demonstrations out there. And there was a film 
that was put out by Fulton Lewis III that attempted to brand all of the activists as communists. I 
can’t remember this film now, but they were going around the country trying to persuade people 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
23 
that this was all a communist plot among the students. And I saw a great debate on the 
Wisconsin campus in the summer of ’61, the following year, after I had done this seminar there. 
So, I mention those things to say that, by the time I was in my junior year at Southern, my 
horizon had expanded in terms of understanding the national and even the international 
dimensions, but particularly the national dimensions of this movement. And it was not just then 
confined to the energy of southern black students, but it was confined to the supportive energy of 
white students from different parts of the country. I could see a strong movement that I knew was 
there to last, and it did last. 
Out of NSA came the Port Huron meeting of the students and the formation of the 
Students for a Democratic Society. In fact, I have one of the original Port Huron statements 
among my papers. And that was, of course, the statement by those who gathered at Port Huron, 
Michigan, to give sort of their treatise on the things that needed to be changed in America. So, 
again, if you think in the context of what makes a radical, those who gathered at Port Huron and 
formed the Students for a Democratic Society. And, again, I knew many of these people. I wasn’t 
at Port Huron, but I was close enough to these people in their thinking and my associations with 
them, not just at these conventions, but in later meetings, because I would go back to—when I 
was in Massachusetts, up to Yale, and we would meet on the campus there, and student leaders 
would come from different parts of the North to gather. 
But when I was in my junior year at Southern, protests broke out again by the time of that 
decision in the Cox case. And Cox was arrested and prosecuted, and that was in December of 
’61. And the president closed the school, the president of the university, and ordered everybody 
home early for the holidays. When the school reopened, we still had a number, about 20 of our 
students still in jail that had caused us to go down and protest to begin with. We started a boycott 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
24 
on the campus, because we wanted to be assured that these students were not going to be 
expelled. We started rallies, and the administration asked us not to do that. 
And they called me to the dean of men’s office one night, my brother and me, and the 
dean of men talked to me and told me that if I spoke at the rally that we had planned, the next 
rally, that he was going to—that I was going to be expelled from the university. And so I spoke. 
And they called me to the dean of men’s office within a day or so, and the dean of men and the 
dean of students talked to me and gave me a letter expelling me from the university. 
And simultaneous with the time that they had me in this meeting, the president of the 
university had called a campus-wide assembly of students in the gymnasium and announced that, 
because of the ongoing protests, that he was going to close the school and that all students had to 
be off campus by five o’clock. This was a noon rally. You’ve got students there from all over the 
state of Louisiana who don’t know how to get back home. They’ve got to make 
accommodations, they’ve got to get money and they’ve got to contact their parents. And it was 
hectic and very scary to many of these students. 
I didn’t know quite what was going on because, as I said, they had me in the dean of 
students’ office. They handed me this letter, and it said that my connection with the university 
was being ended, [00:50:00] and they said I violated Rule 18, and it was a rule in the University 
Handbook that was entitled “Lack of University Adjustment.” And the rule read that “the 
University reserves the right to sever a student’s connection for general inability to adjust to the 
patterns of the institution,” period. 
DC: However they interpret that, right? 
DB: Well, as I was told, that this was a rule that they were using when students were 
homosexuals to expel them. But most of the students who had been in the Movement, you see, 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
25 
they were expelling them because they had been arrested. Well, I hadn’t been arrested at that 
time. The only rule that they could find that they could use to justify my expulsion was this Rule 
18. With that expulsion, actually, I did not leave campus that night. I stayed in my dorm, because 
a lot of the students actually couldn’t literally get off campus that night. But the campus was on 
lockdown. And we soon thereafter had to move off campus into a black hotel in downtown 
Baton Rouge and were banned from coming to the university campus. 
DC: Amazing. So, that must have sown all sorts of—I mean, you’re talking about the 
chaos of everyone having to leave, but then, that sows sort of recrimination, I would think, 
among the students, too. 
DB: Yes. And there was confusion, because when President Clark announced that the 
school was closing, he told the students, “We don’t know when the school is going to reopen. 
And we’ll send you—if you’re to come back, we’ll send you a letter. If you don’t get a letter, 
don’t come.” It wasn’t just then a matter of those students, because some other students, those 
who had been arrested, and a handful of other leaders were explicitly told that they were 
expelled. But many students were not told that they were expelled. They just did not get a letter 
to come back to the university. 
It opened about two weeks after Dr. Clark closed it. I think it was about ten days that he 
reopened the university. In the meantime, we were trying to keep the boycott going and trying to 
get kids. And three of us who had been expelled took a taxi from downtown back to the campus 
to make a stand by attempting to register. And the police quickly surrounded us on the campus. 
And fortunately for us, one of the university security put us in a car and drove us to the edge of 
campus as we were followed by Louisiana troopers. Otherwise, we would have been arrested on 
the campus. But they didn’t want us to be arrested at that time, so they drove us off the campus. 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
26 
But that was how determined they were to quell any continuing protests, and they did. They 
killed the Movement. At least, they killed it for a time there. 
DC: Yeah, yeah. 
JB: I’m going to pause. 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB: We’re back. 
DC: Now, how devoted were you to the concept of nonviolence in your protests there, 
and did you ever think about other options, other ways of protesting? 
DB: We really—it really wasn’t a choice. To me, the whole concept of nonviolence was, 
for us, really more of an academic issue, because strategically you didn’t have much choice but 
to be nonviolent. I mean, if you’re going into a lunch counter or, as we were, 3000 of us 
marching from the campus to downtown Baton Rouge, and they’ve got police dogs and they’ve 
got tear gas, it didn’t make any sense to be violent. How are you going to fight back with 
something like that? It’s all you could do. So, yes, we were—strategically, we were all well-
dressed, orderly, and even as we ran with the gas and with the dogs, we tried to maintain some 
decorum among ourselves. 
But I would go, as I said, periodically, down—in fact, I was holed up in this black hotel 
in downtown Baton Rouge, where we stayed for, oh, I guess, three or four weeks, trying to carry 
our movement on, and our bill was being paid by the national office of CORE. SNCC, the 
Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee—one of the leaders that had gotten us stirred up in 
this second wave of protests was a young man by the name of Dion Diamond, who had come to 
Baton Rouge. But Dion was a SNCC organizer that came to the Southern campus. Now, there 
were organizers from New Orleans who had been with the Congress of Racial Equality, who 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
27 
were also involved. Well, Dion was arrested quickly [00:55:00] for his coming on the campus, 
speaking and raising hell. So, because Dion was in jail—we were out of school, we were down at 
the black hotel—SNCC sent into Baton Rouge two of its field secretaries, Chuck McDew and 
Bob Zellner. 
DC: Okay, yeah. 
DB: Well, Bob I had known. We were both at the seminar at the University of Wisconsin 
the year before. They came and checked in at the Lincoln Hotel, where we were. And they were 
going to visit Dion at the jail. And they went down to see Dion and they were arrested. They 
looked into Bob and Chuck’s briefcase, and found some literature and stuff, and accused them of 
criminal anarchy and sedition, and arrested them. 
Because of that involvement of the SNCC leaders, I then started going to Atlanta for 
some of the SNCC staff meetings, and that’s how I initially got to know John Lewis and Julian 
Bond. Julian was editing the SNCC newsletter, the Student Voice, and John was active in SNCC, 
and Jim Forman was the national director. I went to a couple of the SNCC meetings in Atlanta 
from Baton Rouge, and some of the CORE people, Dave Dennis being one of them, who was a 
CORE field secretary who was staying with us at the hotel, but hadn’t been a student, they were 
suspicious of what I was doing, going to Atlanta meeting with the SNCC people. And I hadn’t 
joined CORE—we had created our own student organization called Student Action Committee, I 
think—because I just didn’t want to be identified with a formal group. At one point, they even 
looked at my mail that was coming from SNCC to see what kind of correspondence was going 
on. 
Now, I mention that as an aside only to suggest that there were some rivalries. Now, I 
wasn’t part of those rivalries, because there was nothing sinister, or one group plotting against 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
28 
the other, but there was just that sort of group, I guess, self-protectiveness of turf, I guess, or 
whatever you want to call it, and I was not a part of that. But by doing that, by getting to know 
some of the SNCC people, it expanded my base of contact with the Movement, because, by the 
time I left Southern and went to school in Massachusetts, the Northern Student Movement, 
which was run by Peter Countryman, a young white student up at Yale, had been formed by 
Peter and some of his people, Tom Gilhool and some others. It was based there, so I would go 
over from Worcester to Yale to some of the NSM meetings. Well, because NSM was so closely 
allied as a support group in the North for SNCC, then the SNCC leaders would come up to the 
Yale campus for some meetings, and so I would go over to New Haven. In fact, I started a 
chapter of the Northern Student Movement in Worcester. 
DC: Oh, you did? 
DB: And we started tutoring and having some anti-discrimination demonstrations against 
some businesses in Worcester. 
DC: Now, how did you end up at Clark? 
DB: Rather by circumstance or accident, I guess. After I was expelled from Southern, I 
was at the Lincoln Hotel. We filed a lawsuit to try to get back in. We sued in federal court with 
lawyers from CORE, a law firm out of New Orleans, Collins, Douglas and Elie, which is a black 
law firm that was helping us. And they made a compromise with the university that they would 
let most of the students that had been expelled back. There were two of us that they would not 
take back, and that was me and Ronnie Moore, who was one of the other student leaders. 
And I was told that the president was mad at me, because I had called up to his house one 
day when we were—a group of us student protesters wanted to meet him, meet with him. And I 
couldn’t get him on the phone. And I think I might have spoken to Mrs. Clark, and I said—I 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
29 
mean, I’m not sure—but I said, “If he won’t meet with us, we’ll just come up there to the house.” 
So it may have been his office. I’m not sure but, in any event, I’m told that he was angry about 
my rudeness in that encounter, because I remember that we ended up marching to his house. 
[01:00:00] That was a little bit later, I think, because we had an all-night vigil on his lawn. But 
this was also before we had been expelled, so Dr. Clark apparently was pretty clear that he didn’t 
want me back. 
DC: Yeah. 
DB: So, they settled the lawsuit, and it didn’t bother me that they settled it and said that I 
wasn’t going to come back, because maybe by that time I already had the offer to go to Clark. 
I’m not sure. That came because Walter Williams, who was a black student at Jackson State in 
Mississippi, was in the seminar with me at the University of Wisconsin the previous summer. 
Walter had been offered a scholarship to go to Clark, because he’d been expelled as student body 
president at Jackson State. And he said, “Well, I’m going to go in the military, but contact my 
friend D’Army Bailey in Baton Rouge. He’s been kicked out of school there.” So, they contacted 
me while I was at the hotel there in Baton Rouge and offered me a scholarship to go to Clark. I 
didn’t know anything about the university. I’d never heard of it. I looked at the catalogue and 
saw all these white kids and this completely alien-looking environment to me, you know. 
DC: [Laughs] In Worcester. 
DB: But, you know, it was a—I could tell it was a good school, and I didn’t—I wasn’t in 
any other school. 
DC: Right. 
DB: I came back to Memphis, and then I had to take the SAT test here in order to—I 
mean, I had been admitted to Clark, but I had to take the SAT, nevertheless. I went to what is 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
30 
now Rhodes College, which is just a block away, and I took that the summer before I went to 
Clark. I mention that because, at the lunch break, the test administrators came over to me and 
pulled me aside, and they said that I couldn’t have lunch with the rest of the students who were 
taking the test. So, two or three of them very nicely—I mean, they were nice about it, but they 
took me to the faculty dining hall on the side, and I had dinner or lunch with a couple of them, 
because I couldn’t with the—and this was in 1962. 
DC: Wow. 
DB: But I took the SAT and then, that fall, I went on to Clark. Well, how did it come 
about was that a number of student leaders in the South were being expelled. This was a gesture 
made on—led by students at Clark University to raise money. And they had car washes and bake 
sales and the like and they raised a couple of thousand dollars, and the university may have 
chipped in a little bit and offered a scholarship to some student who had been expelled from a 
Southern school, and consequently, that’s how I ended up there. 
DC: Were there other schools that were doing similar things? I’d never heard of that. 
DB: I don’t know. I do know that Senator Javits made note of the Clark effort in the 
Senate Records there, because it was an outstanding gesture on their part at the time. 
DC: Um-hmm. And, as you mentioned, it was a bit of a different world that you entered 
into in Worcester, coming from Tennessee and also Louisiana. 
DB: I didn’t know, really, what to expect. I mean, I knew I had a free train ride, because 
my father—I could get the pass to ride up to Massachusetts. I’d have to go all the way up 
through upstate New York, because I had to follow the route that—Illinois Central had 
partnership with New York Central, and so I would go Memphis to Chicago, and then from 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
31 
Chicago up through Poughkeepsie and Buffalo and all those places to ultimately get to Boston, 
well, actually, to Worcester. 
And when I got there, the school had picked out two nice students, Bob—I have trouble 
remembering his last name—I think it was Miller, and Fred Jealous, and they met me at the train 
station. And they had an apartment that I was to share with them, and so, they took me over. 
Fred, by coincidence, is the father of Ben Jealous, now the national head of the NAA. But I 
roomed with them for the first year that I was there in the apartment, which was in a building 
owned by the university. 
DC: Um-hmm. Could you have lived on campus? Was that an option? 
DB: Yes, it was, I think. But I think the university was wanting to create an environment 
for me with two, I guess, volunteers or nice students, and a nice little—I mean, it wasn’t fancy, 
but a nice apartment. So, it never came up. I mean, they had the place for me when I got there. 
DC: Right, right. 
DB: I just went and—I remember my 21st birthday party, they gave me [01:05:00] a fifth 
of Jack Daniels and [laughs] so they were nice. When I first got to Clark, the students were—of 
course, it was—I was something of a cause célèbre, because I was the one that they had raised 
the money to bring up there. 
DC: Sure, right. 
DB: And kids would want to talk to me about the South. And initially, I would talk to 
them about the South and civil rights and the like. And then, I got tired of it. I got tired of just 
talking about race in the South, and I started asking them about what was going on in Worcester. 
Well, Worcester didn’t have a large black community. It was only about three thousand out of, I 
think, a couple of hundred thousand people. But that black community that they had was in a 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
32 
segregated area of the city, and there was not much interaction of that community with the rest of 
the community. As I said, the department store downtown didn’t have any black clerks. The big 
factory there, Wyman-Gordon, which was run by the national secretary of the John Birch 
Society, had 18 black employees, and they were all janitors. 
So, by going over to the Yale campus and getting support to start this Worcester Student 
Movement, this WSM chapter, on the Clark campus, I drew in students, liberal white students 
from the campus, as well as a handful of people from the black community in Worcester. And 
we formed a group and started having meetings. We began tutoring. The main mission of NSM, 
a part of its mission, was to tutor kids in inner city neighborhoods. We had volunteers and were 
tutoring those kids. Out of our effort in Worcester was created an organization called Prospect 
House, which is now an ongoing community institution of some importance to Worcester. Abbie 
Hoffman was living in Worcester at the time and had come out of Brandeis and needed a cause, 
and he attached himself to our efforts, even though he wasn’t a student, but he was living there. 
And he became sort of a self-appointed publicist for us, putting out a newsletter called The 
Drum, and he came to our meetings. 
But we were primarily students and members of the Worcester black community. And we 
set about the business of finding out what was happening on the job front with minorities, and we 
did tackle the largest industrial employer in Worcester, Wyman-Gordon Company, which, as I 
said, was run by Robert Stoddard, who was the national secretary of the John Birch Society. We 
went and met with him and asked him about his employment of blacks and whether he would 
promote them. And he said, in essence, no. We picketed his plant and brought the plant to a stop, 
at least for one day, because the teamsters wouldn’t cross our picket line. And I filed complaints 
with the Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination and the Defense Department, 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
33 
because they were a big defense contractor. And investigations were undertaken by both 
agencies, in which they found some cause and demanded, or required that the plant undergo 
some change. 
So, this was a case of not only were we putting pressure, starting as just a group of young 
activists, but we were putting pressure on this big factory. And Stoddard was not just the owner 
of Wyman-Gordon; he also owned the Worcester Telegram & Gazette, which was the local 
newspaper, and the local radio station there, WTAG, and was on the board of Clark. 
DC: He had a lot of power. 
DB: Yes. 
DC: Locally. 
DB: In fact, the president of Clark called me in the day of our picket and was gently 
trying to dissuade us. He wasn’t heavy-handed about it. But, by that time, when I called over to 
the picket line, they were already started. I had a good out with Dr. Jefferson that I couldn’t stop 
it, because it was already started. I mentioned the multifaceted strategy: picketing, but also those 
complaints with the Massachusetts Commission and with the Defense Department. So, here we 
were, using multifaceted strength against this corporation and made them change. And it was 
clear to me that you can, as a small force, but if you use the right strategies and do your research 
and know where the vulnerabilities are, you can force corporations to change. And that’s what 
we did in Worcester. 
DC: Um-hmm. 
DB: When I graduated, there was an editorial in the student newspaper [01:10:00] that 
said, “One is Enough,” and the editor was talking about that some students had talked about 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
34 
having another campaign to raise funds to bring a student from the South, and they said, “We’ve 
had that experience once before, and he found racial problems under every rock,” so to speak— 
DC: [Laughs] 
DB: “And we don’t need to do that again.” And the next issue of the Clark paper, though, 
had a page full of letters in opposition and in support of— 
DC: Support, yeah. 
DB: That I wasn’t really that terrible of a force on the Clark campus. 
DC: [Laughs] Right. 
DB: Clark gave me an honorary doctorate of laws three years ago. 
DC: Okay, great. [Laughs] Now, you know, this is— 
JB: Pause for a second? 
DC: Okay. 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB: We’re back. 
DC: I’m curious about, you know, we’re—now, we’re in the North, and it’s a couple of 
years later. You had been talking about the sort of—the very real sort of fear and intimidation 
that was so prevalent in the South when you first went, say, down to Southern. What was the 
situation like that you found a few years later, and up North, around Clark and in Worcester? 
And what gave you the strength to do things like challenge the national director of the John 
Birch Society? 
DB: I didn’t have much fear in Worcester. The opposition to what we were doing was—
there wasn’t any visible—there were some students, actually, from the Clark campus, who 
counter-picketed us against us when we picketed the plant. But the police in charge, the sergeant 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
35 
at the scene of our protest, came over to me because they had wanted some of our students to let 
the trucks come through. And, as I said, the teamster trucks refused to cross the line, but there 
were some company-owned trucks that wanted to come on into the plant, and some of the 
students had taken it upon themselves to decide that they would continue to circle in the 
driveway and not let the trucks through. So, the police in charge came over to me and he said, 
“Look, I don’t like this son of a bitch any more than you do, but we’ll have to—you can’t 
continue to block this driveway,” because Stoddard was nonunion. He said, “But you can’t—
you’re going to have to do something here.” 
I spoke to the kids and I told them, I said, “Look, they’ve said you’re going to have to 
stop and let these trucks in, or you’re going to be arrested. Now, I’ll leave it up to you all.” Even 
though I was there as part of them, but I was addressing them after talking to the policeman. And 
I said, “Now, if you stay, I’ll join you. But if you want to leave, then now is the time to let these 
trucks through.” And by this time, one of the priests that was one of our supporters intervened 
and pleaded with us yet again to let the trucks through—Father Gilgun, Bernie Gilgun, who was 
an activist priest in Worcester. We then relented and let the trucks come through. But I’m saying 
that Stoddard was, at least, not just for reasons of our civil rights protest, but because of the 
union issue, there were also some people that were supportive of what we were doing. 
DC: Sure. 
DB: But, you know, the opposition in the Northeast was much more refined. The 
Worcester Area Council of Churches invited Stoddard to speak at a luncheon at their meeting. 
And we contacted them and said, “Well, let us come and give our side.” This was in the wake of 
our picketing the plant. And they refused. And so, we picketed the Worcester Area Council of 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
36 
Churches luncheon. It was really the opposition, the quiet opposition, that you had to deal with. 
We didn’t have people threatening us on the sidewalks. 
One of the black ministers who was the head of the NAACP in Worcester, Reverend 
Stringfield, criticized us picketing and said that, “We were going off half-cocked,” when we 
picketed first a downtown department store. What we did, a number of us increased the 
membership of the NAA with young people, students from the campus and some people from the 
black community. Then, I called Reverend Stringfield to the side and I said, “Look, we’re going 
to picket the plant, and I want you to join us on the picket line.” [01:15:00] And I said, in 
essence, “If you don’t, we’re going to move to vote you out at the NAACP.” And so, he resigned 
as the head of the organization. But we were moving to preempt an attack from the NAACP, 
which we had seen happen in our first picket. 
DC: Right. 
DB: Again, it was a matter of using strategy from within and from without, going within 
the NAACP to boost membership and therefore give ourselves a position of strength. Now, when 
I was in—so, in Worcester, now, when I brought Malcolm X to speak, I had called Malcolm at 
his home in New York and asked if he would come and speak on the campus, which he agreed to 
do. And then, a couple of the members of the board of our organization, white ministers, said 
they would quit the organization unless we got someone to give the other point of view. 
When I told that back to Malcolm by phone, and I had gotten him on the phone at his 
home. It was amazing that I was able to do it, but I did. And I told him that they’ve said that I 
had to have someone to present the other point of view. And he said, “Well, I’ll debate Dr. 
King.” I said, “Well, alright.” I said, “Let me say what I can do.” I called Atlanta and asked them 
if Dr. King would debate Malcolm. And they said, “No. He’s not available,” but that Bayard 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
37 
Rustin would. When I talked back to Malcolm, he sort of chuckled on the phone and he said he 
knew that King wouldn’t debate him, but he wasn’t going to debate Bayard Rustin. And so, at 
that, I decided that if those ministers were going to quit, they were just going to have to quit, 
because we were just going to go ahead and bring Malcolm to speak in Worcester, which we did. 
DC: Um-hmm. Did he say why he didn’t want to debate Rustin? 
DB: He thought Rustin was just a lackey for, a front for King. He wanted to bite into 
King. [Laughs] I mean, that was the debate he wanted. He wasn’t going to debate some second—
I mean, Rustin wasn’t truly—I mean, you know, he’s credited with being the leading star behind 
the scenes in the March on Washington. 
DC: Sure, sure. That would have been a heck of a debate, too, I think. [Laughs] 
DB: It would, but Malcolm was going to have no part of that. 
DC: Sure, sure. 
DB: So, he came, and I spent the day with him, and he was just an extraordinary person. I 
went with him to the radio station for an interview, Stoddard’s station—WTAG. But Julie Chase 
Fuller, who was one of the disc jockeys there, conducted the interview, and she was very 
supportive of what we were doing in Worcester. And she and I and Malcolm did the interview 
together. I did mostly listening, and it was mostly between her and Malcolm. There was a couple 
of times during the interview when I was kind of asked whether I agreed with Malcolm, and I 
was careful not to get drawn into a me-versus-Malcolm X debate, and because I tended to agree 
with a lot of what Malcolm was saying. 
Now, of course, Malcolm, as you know, was not in favor of nonviolence, and he made 
that very clear. But I was never an advocate of nonviolence as a belief, as I said earlier. We were 
forced into nonviolence by the reality of the circumstances. When I went from New Orleans to 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
38 
Bogalusa with these two priests in the summer of—let’s see, I was working that summer in New 
Orleans, and we went over, and that would have been in the summer of ’65. We were going to 
participate in a protest in Bogalusa. And we got met on the other end of the Lake Pontchartrain 
Bridge by an armed carload of people with the Deacons for Defense and Justice. And they 
followed us into town, put us up at a house where they kept watch, and then at the rally and the 
march that we went to, they had people carrying shotguns alongside the march. And that didn’t 
bother me in the least bit! I was rather reassured. Because the Deacons’ philosophy was that 
we’re going to fight back. 
DC: Um-hmm. 
DB: In fact, and I don’t know how historically accurate this is, but there was some 
scuttlebutt that some whites had run through the black community, attempting to intimidate them 
with some gunfire, and that the Deacons had fired back and wounded someone, but that it had 
been downplayed because they did not want that publicly known. Now, the kind of violence that 
I would have been against, however, would have been random violence—I mean, self-defense 
was one thing. 
DC: Right. 
DB: But proactive violence, for example, what the Weathermen [01:20:00] and others 
were doing— 
DC: Um-hmm, fire bombings. 
DB: Yeah. 
DC: Right. 
DB: That kind of thing. I would not have necessarily outwardly condemned it to those 
who believed so firmly in their cause that they chose to resort to that. But I would not have been 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
39 
a part of it. But I can accept that some people would feel so strongly the need for change, and 
that other means had failed, that they would have to make some—take some acts of violence. For 
me, and particularly as—and I think for black people in general, I did not think that was a 
particularly effective and defensible strategy. 
DC: Um-hmm. But you— 
JB: In Bogalusa, were you involved with the Hicks family? We interviewed the Hicks 
family in Bogalusa and the man who was— 
DB: Hicks, yes! I thought you said Hooks. I’m sorry. Okay, Hicks, yes. In fact, I think I 
met some of them then when I was over there. Well, also, that same summer that I went over 
there for that march, I had actually—what I was doing was, I was in my second year of law 
school, I believe, between my first and second year. And I was working, actually, out of the 
office of Ernest Morial, who was practicing law at the time, along with A.P. Tureaud. 
DC: Ernest who? I’m sorry. 
DB: Ernest Morial. 
DC: Morial? 
DB: Yeah, and he was, again, one of the black lawyers doing civil rights work, and he’d 
given me office space in his office in New Orleans. He later became mayor of New Orleans, and 
his son is actually now the national head of the Urban League, [phone rings] Marc Morial. But 
the reason I was in New Orleans [phone rings] that summer, the summer of ’65— 
DC: Would you mind just waiting until the phone answers? 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
DC: Okay, great. I’m sorry about that. [Laughs] 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
40 
DB: When I was in New Orleans in the summer of ’65, I was in between my first and 
second year of law school. And the NAA Legal Defense Fund office in New York had hired a 
half dozen or so law students, mostly blacks, and they sent one of us each to a southern state. 
That was the year that Title VII had become effective. It had been passed in ’64, but you could 
begin to file complaints in ’65. And so, the Legal Defense Fund sent us out to get employees to 
file Title VII complaints. 
DC: Interesting. 
DB: I had gone over to Bogalusa, even prior to that first march, and I had gotten workers 
at the Crown Zellerbach plant in Bogalusa to file Title VII complaints. In fact, those were some 
of the first complaints and most effective complaints under Title VII. But that was the work that I 
was doing with the Legal Defense Fund that summer. 
DC: Okay, very interesting. So, and then you went back. You finished law school at Yale. 
DB: Yeah. At that time, I had done a year’s law study at Boston University. And while 
there, I had gotten involved with a group called Law Students Civil Rights Research Council 
(LSCRRC) and it had been formed by some northeastern law students. And it was funded by 
private foundations: New York Fund, Taconic, Rockefeller Brothers, New York Foundation, and 
some others. And the idea with LSCRRC, Law Students Civil Rights Research Council, was that 
the lawyers in the South who were doing civil rights work were so overwhelmed that they 
needed help, and the best way to help them was to take some of the top law students from 
universities around the country and send them to the South. 
DC: That’s great. 
DB: We had funding to hire these law students in the summer and send them to all over 
the South. We would hire about anywhere from 100 to 200 law students, pay them $30 a week, 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
41 
which was just enough for them to pay for their food and laundry, and we’d put them out in the 
black community, and they would stay with people in the community. The lawyers would 
typically help find a place for them to stay while they were assigned to the lawyers’ offices, and 
they’d work there. 
Well, it was a twofold strategy with LSCRRC. The first part of it was to provide this 
much-needed help to these lawyers. We didn’t confine ourselves to the South, but I’d say 90 
percent of our students were in the South. [01:25:00] But we also put lawyers in civil liberties 
offices outside of the South to work with ACLU people. In fact, the headquarters for the 
organization was in the national office of the ACLU. 
DC: Oh, it was? Okay. 
DB: My first year of law study at Boston University, I organized a chapter of this 
organization at Boston University. That summer was when I did the work with the Legal Defense 
Fund. 
DC: As part of—was that an assignment from this organization, or was that separate? 
DB: No, actually, it was separate. 
DC: Separate, okay. 
DB: And then, I got accepted into Yale as a transfer student. 
DC: Okay. 
DB: Instead of returning to BU, I went to New Haven. I actually had applied while I was 
at Clark to Yale and Columbia and Harvard, and several other top schools, and had been rejected 
by all of them. I had been accepted at Boston University. I was on my way back to Clark one day 
with one of my schoolmates by car, and we stopped. I asked him to stop at Yale, and we stopped 
over on the campus. And I went to the dean of admissions’ office, and it turned out to be a one-
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
42 
armed white man—of course, all of the top people there were white—from Bolivar, Tennessee, 
about 80 miles up the road from Memphis—Dean Tate, Jack B. Tate. And we got to talking, and 
he took a liking to me, and we talked a little bit about my civil rights background. And he said, 
“Well, let me see if there’s someone around still that I can introduce you to.” Well, none of the 
key people were on the campus at the time. So, he said, “Well, you go on back and let me see 
what I can do.” 
So, the end result was he got me on the waiting list, but they never had the openings. He 
said, “You go on and do your first year and then get in touch with me.” It was that summer while 
I was working out of Morial’s office that Dean Tate sent me a letter and said I could come to 
Yale as a transfer. 
DC: So, if you hadn’t just stopped over on the campus, that never would have happened? 
DB: It never would have happened. I’d already been rejected. [Laughs] 
DC: Yeah. [Laughs] That’s great. That’s a great story. Okay, so, I guess, just continuing 
with the chronology that you—after you graduate from law school at Yale. 
DB: Following law school, I was—the second summer, after I had done that summer in 
New Orleans, I worked out of New York, traveling around the South, to coordinate these law 
students. I had developed a pretty good friendship with many of the leaders on different 
campuses. And we had campuses from California to New York. And there were about 35 law 
schools that were members, that had chapters of LSCRRC. And so, I was elected to national 
director. The national director would serve for—each year, they’d pick a new national director, 
and that would be someone who had just finished law school. I went from law school to the 
headquarters, which was, as I say, in the national office of the ACLU. 
DC: Um-hmm, in New York City? 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
43 
DB: In New York. And so, that’s what I did my first year out of law school. And 
interestingly, Bill Robinson, who was the director before me, had gotten a deferment, because by 
this time, the draft was very alive and active. 
DC: Um-hmm, of course. 
DB: And I was a prime candidate, in terms of my age and being single, to be drafted. 
That had nothing to do, quite honestly, with the work that I was doing with LSCRRC. But 
Robinson had gotten a draft deferment working with the organization, and so I applied for a 
deferment as well when I went to work with LSCRRC. And I had letters from Jack Pemberton, 
who had been the director of the ACLU, and I think Bob Carter even might have sent a letter for 
me. I had had some key national civil rights people to write letters, saying that this work that I 
was doing was in the national interest. 
So, I came down to Memphis and I met with the draft board. Well, we had one black on 
the draft board. My brother had talked with him, and he was very supportive. And I think there 
were about four whites on the board. And I came down and talked with them. Well, one of the 
white ladies, when I got into the meeting with them, she was intrigued to know what I was—
what kind of work I was doing, and we got to talking about civil rights. Well, it turns out she had 
daughter who had been somewhat involved in some civil rights activities in the North. But the 
long and short of that story was that they, after a very cordial meeting, they gave me a 
deferment—and this was in 1967 from a draft board here in Memphis—that said that my work as 
a director in New York was in the national interest and, therefore, they granted me a deferment. 
DC: Right. [01:30:00] 
DB: Of course, that year’s deferment actually got me past the age limit where I would 
have been drafted. 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
44 
DC: Oh, so then you were—yeah, yeah. 
DB: Because I was kind of torn, really, personally, because if I had gotten drafted, I 
didn’t quite know what I would have done. I was pretty strong in my belief that the war was 
wrong, and I don’t think that I was prepared to put my life on the line and go to Vietnam on a 
war that I felt was wrong. But I never had to come to really make those tough choices, because I 
got that deferment. But I think that I would have rather gone to jail than to have gone to the 
Vietnam War. Of course, this was ’67, the height of it. I had been going to teach-ins in Boston. 
Staughton Lynd and Howard Zinn and others were speaking at these and making some very 
persuasive presentations about the wrong of the war, and I was convinced that it was wrong. 
Norman Thomas was one of the people that I brought to speak at the Clark campus while I was 
still in Worcester. 
So, anyway, I did the work there with the LSCRRC, the Law Students Civil Rights 
Research Council, for that year. In fact, I raised special grant money and sent ten law students 
down here to work with the lawyers during the sanitation strike when they were on strike. And 
the first suspect, Alex Herder, I think was his name, is now a law professor at Vanderbilt, Alex 
Heard or Herder, but he was the first person taken into custody in Memphis as a suspect in the 
assassination because he was a white person down around the Lorraine Motel at the time of the 
assassination. Of course, he was released relatively soon afterwards. 
But the night of the assassination, I was in my office, and the office had basically closed 
down. This was about 6:00 New York time, which was closer to 7:00 here. And my secretary 
came out and told me that the radio had announced, that she heard on the radio that Dr. King had 
been shot. And then, minutes later, she came back out and said that he was dead. Well, I was 
working late that night because I was getting my—I had a flight to Memphis scheduled for the 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
45 
next day, because there was going to be a march that Dr. King was to lead within three or four 
days, I think April the eighth. Of course, New York was tense and on edge that night, and I did 
take a plane the next day and come to Memphis. And then, I went on from Memphis to Atlanta, 
where they had his funeral services. But I couldn’t get into Ebenezer, because it was packed, so I 
stood outside and then went over to the Morehouse campus, where they had a caravan from the 
church. And I think they brought his body over there and they had speakers and things at the 
Morehouse campus, as well. 
DC: Yeah. 
DB: But following my work with the Law Students Council in New York, which ended 
in ’68, then I had to decide. I had offers to stay in New York and work either at NYU Law 
School or with some foundations and had an offer to go out to work with the Cummins Engine 
Foundation. Phil Sorensen was running that, Ted Sorensen’s brother, and had made me—had 
offered me a position with the foundation out there. 
But I had been out to California, because we had chapters at Hastings School of Law and 
at Boalt Hall and at UCLA. And when I was in the Bay Area there, visiting the chapters during 
that year that I was running the organization, I had a great time and it was such a beautiful area. 
And one of the former presidents or directors of my group was then working with legal services 
in San Francisco, Steve Antler. He persuaded the director out there to offer me a job on the staff 
of legal services in San Francisco. 
DC: What was the last name, Steve—? 
DB: Antler, A-N-T-L-E-R. 
DC: Okay. 
DB: And so— 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
46 
DC: That’s how you got out there. 
DB: I chose to move out to San Francisco in the winter of ’68. I actually took two months 
and went to Europe by myself with a book [01:35:00] called Europe On 5 Dollars a Day. 
[Laughs] 
DC: [Laughs] I remember it, yeah. 
DB: It worked sometimes, but fortunately I, on two or three occasions, was nice enough 
to, or was lucky enough to meet somebody who would take me in, and that kind of helped me 
part of the way while I was staying around over in Europe. But then I came back out to 
California, and that was about October or November of ’68. Started practicing law in San 
Francisco and continued to do that with legal services. I was in the central office, doing test case 
litigation, primarily on areas of consumer fraud. 
And I became outspoken among the—we had the central office and then, there were 
neighborhood offices, two of which were run by black lawyers. And, you know, you have to 
always leave your own motives up for examination, whether by others or by yourself. And when 
I had taken that job, I thought that I had kind of reached an understanding with the director that 
I’d be able to do some other things. But I think that part of it is I’m not well-fit to work for 
people, I don’t think, I mean, to be in a job. I mean, I started asking questions and I started 
challenging the authority of the leadership and talking about the fairness with which other 
employees were being treated in the central office and in the neighborhoods. And it led to some 
polarization within the offices, particularly in the central office, to the point that I went to the 
board meeting and said that the director ought to resign, which he did. 
DC: Hmm, um-hmm. 
DB: But they hired a black guy that came in, and he fired me within—[laughs] 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
47 
DC: [Laughs] 
DB: [Laughing] A very short time after. And I filed a lawsuit. One of the lawyers, white 
lawyer on the staff who was one of my supporters, filed a suit for me in federal court. And we 
settled it by their agreeing to rescind my termination, and then I told them, and agreed to it, I did 
resign from the staff of legal services. 
DC: Oh, okay, right. 
DB: That would have been after being there probably a couple of years. And the issues 
were—there were some genuine issues about employee rights. I mean, it wasn’t anything blatant, 
but it was—the minority and the ethnic staff, I didn’t think, including the lawyers, were being 
treated with the same degree of fairness that others were. And they agreed, I mean, the ethnic and 
black lawyers agreed with me. But, as often happens, people don’t speak up. I mean, they 
support you and they’ll tell you quietly how much they agree with you. But you get left out there 
on that limb, you know. 
DC: They don’t want to go to battle with you. 
DB: [Laughs] And, of course, that’s part of the—you know, if you’re not willing to be on 
that limb by yourself, then you better stay at home, because that’s going to happen time and 
again. 
DC: So, you found yourself on that limb a few times in your life? 
DB: Yes! 
DC: Yeah. 
DB: But I’ve been blessed that when I fall off the limb, there’s always another net 
somewhere. 
DC: [Laughs] Another limb. 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
48 
DB: [Laughs] It becomes that. 
DC: [Laughs] Yeah, climb back up. 
DB: When I was with legal services in San Francisco, a young white fellow came to me, 
a volunteer, and confessed that he and his wife had a lot of money, and he didn’t know what to 
do with it. He felt guilty about it. And after he turned down my initial suggestion that they could 
give me a million dollars, which I actually did tell him. 
DC: [Laughs] 
DB: And he looked at me seriously and said he would think about it, he and his wife. He 
went and talked with his wife about it. And the reason I said that was because you can’t make 
change without money. I mean, whether it’s in civil rights or any other kind of struggle, it takes 
money. It took money in the Movement. It took money with our law students. 
DC: I was going to mention this when you talked about the foundations that supported 
your law student organization, because, to me, that is one of the great untold stories of the Civil 
Rights Movement at that time, was the Rockefeller Foundation support, Taconic. The Movement 
couldn’t have survived without those. 
DB: Not at all! 
DC: And when those foundations did disappear or stopped giving [01:40:00] money, it 
really changed the landscape. 
DB: It did, absolutely! And what happened was that Congress saw the impact that these 
foundations was having. And they, then, attacked these foundations and intimidated them and 
backed them off. 
DC: Went after them, um-hmm. 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
49 
DB: Because, I mean, Leslie Dunbar, who led the Field Foundation, you know, he was 
one of the—Marian Wright, he got Marian Wright started in building the Children’s Defense 
Fund. He was close to—he got John Lewis—in fact, it came to—Vernon Jordan had headed the 
Voter Education Project in Atlanta for the Southern Regional Council, and when Vernon left 
that, it came down to whether they were going to hire me or John Lewis. When I say “they,” 
Leslie Dunbar was really the person who was talking to both of us about taking that position as 
the head of the VEP, Voter Education Project. And Leslie, [clears throat] he said, “Well, look,” 
he says, “John can use this position at this time much more than you.” In essence, what he—is 
how he kind of made the decision. It was two good men that he had to do it, and he picked John. 
DC: Um-hmm. 
DB: But when I was in San Francisco, he hired me as a consultant to the Field 
Foundation. 
DC: Oh, okay. 
DB: So, I would go back and meet with the board, which was chaired by Ruth Field. But 
if you want—I organized, while I was on the City Council in Berkeley, and two black kids got 
killed on the campus of Southern in a protest demonstration, and that was, I think, around 1972, 
’71 or ’72. And the media was unclear about how they got killed or who killed them. Well, they 
had been killed by a sheriff’s deputy on campus. A line of sheriff’s deputies started firing at the 
students. And two of them ended up dead, and they said they never knew who did it. 
I called a black lawyer that I knew in Baton Rouge, and he said, “Well, you could help if 
you came down.” And I called Les Dunbar in New York, and I said, “Les,” I said, “I’d like to go 
down to Baton Rouge.” He said, “Well, alright,” so he gave me $5000 of money from the Field 
Foundation. And I then contacted John Lewis and Owusu Sadauki, who was the leader of a 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
50 
Black Nationalist group, and my brother out of Memphis, and took another black Councilman 
with me from Berkeley, Haywood Burns, who was heading the National Conference of Black 
Lawyers. 
And we went down to Baton Rouge and convened what we called the Black People’s 
Committee of Inquiry into the shooting deaths of these students, and we had hearings. And 
actually the governor came to the hearings, Governor Edwards. But we focused attention and got 
the story out. But I mention that because I would not have been able to do that if I hadn’t been 
able to pick up the phone and call Les Dunbar to get that $5000 from him. 
DC: Had money, sure. 
DB: Or it may have been ten, because actually when I left California, he gave me $5000 
to help me relocate from California to Memphis. 
DC: Oh, really? Yeah, so he was helping out individual activists? 
DB: Yeah, he gave me a grant to write a story on black lawyers in Tennessee. [Laughs] 
DC: [Laughs] So, that was—yeah, that’s a way of getting it done, getting you some 
money. Sure, sure. 
DB: Yeah. But, you see, if I went to him when I had a project—I could go to the Norman 
Fund, or Vernon Eagle at I think it was the New World Foundation, Leslie Dunbar at Field. But 
Leslie could talk to the heads of the other foundations, and then they would act as a consortium 
to put the money together to fund the project. 
DC: What was the first one you said, the New World—? 
DB: Debbie was with the Norman Fund. 
DC: Norman Fund. 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
51 
DB: And there was Taconic, there was the Rockefeller Brothers, there was the New York 
Foundation, Cummins Engine Foundation out of Indiana, Stern Family Fund out of New 
Orleans. 
DC: So, these were all well-known to people in the Movement, where they could get, 
where money could be solicited from? 
DB: Absolutely. Exactly. And it was the same group, same group of foundations. And 
without them, you know, much of this wouldn’t have happened. And they had the kind of 
relationship with leaders, including King and others, Cesar Chavez—Dunbar helped the United 
Farm Workers through the support that he could generate. So, [01:45:00] yes, these— 
So, my friends in San Francisco, they were—it was ironic because when my friend came 
to me, and he said, “You know—” 
JB: I’m going to stop for a second. 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB: Okay, we’re back. 
DB: My friend came to me and said, “You know, I told you earlier that I had some 
money, but it actually is quite a lot of money, and I’d like your ideas about what to do with it.” 
And I said, “Well, give me a million dollars.” Well, the reason I said that was because I knew 
that my commitment would be to use that money to stir up things, to make things happen, to 
change things. It wasn’t just to go live comfortably on a boat somewhere. But I would be free of 
strings if it was my money. 
So, he came back and he said, “Well, we’re not going to do that, but what we will do is 
we’ll bring a million dollars from the Northeast out here to California and set up a trust and put 
you in charge of it. And then, you can take the money,” he said, “you can all of the interest or the 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
52 
dividends that it earns,” because they put it into an account at Bank of America, which was in 
turn invested. And they said, “You can take the dividend money and give it away however you 
wish, plus you can go into the corpus at least to $100,000 without talking to us.” And they paid 
me a $10,000 salary to do this. 
Now, the purpose for them doing this, setting it up, was they said, “We want you to give 
this money to projects that are not tax-exempt. The ones that are now getting support from 
foundations and the like, those are not the ones we want to support. We want to give it to non-
tax-exempt organizations.” I then was able to pick and choose different projects going on around 
the country. And I did that—of course, that was just a part-time position. But I also, as I said, 
was engaged as a consultant to Field Foundation at the same time and was a consultant with 
another group that recruited minority law students, CLEO, Council on Legal Education and 
Opportunity, recruiting black students, I think that was the name of it. 
Anyway, so, with the funds—so, after I had gotten fired at legal services, in essence— 
DC: Right. 
DB: I was able to continue to float with the independent income I had coming in. Well, I 
was living in Berkeley because— 
DC: Now, did that foundation ever have a name? Or was that a quiet—? 
DB: Yes, we named it Bread Limited Trust. 
DC: Brett? 
DB: Bread Limited Trust. 
DC: Bread. 
DB: Meaning we didn’t have a whole lot of money. [Laughs] 
DC: [Laughs] I love it. Alright. 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
53 
DB: I was at the same time on the board of Berkeley Legal Services. In fact, at one point 
I became chairman of the board of Berkeley Legal Services. And I became active in the Berkeley 
Black Caucus. By the time Ron Dellums ran—he had been on the City Council and was very 
visible as a Councilman out there. Because of Dellums’s eloquent statements against the war, he 
became very supported by the white left, and so, that’s how he got to be elected to Congress 
from there. 
When Dellums got elected to the Congress, my friend Ira Simmons and I—Ira was a 
lawyer that had come out west and was working up in Sacramento, and I had encouraged him to 
come to Berkeley and helped him to get a post with Berkeley Legal Services because I was on 
the board there. 
DC: Also a black lawyer? 
DB: Yeah. 
DC: Yeah. 
DB: He and I were spending the evening just relaxing at his home, and we said, “Well, 
we ought to run for the Council,” because Dellums had gotten elected, so there was a vacancy 
created. We said, “Well, we’ll run as a team, the two of us.” Now, I didn’t know anything about 
the politics of Berkeley. This was just looking—what-do-we-do-next kind of thing, you know. 
DC: Um-hmm. 
DB: But that choice, that decision we made came at the same time that the white left had 
been planning and organizing for a good while to run candidates in the Berkeley city elections. 
And they had formed their group called the April Coalition. 
DC: Okay. 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
54 
DB: The deal that they had set up [01:50:00] was that the white left, the April Coalition 
would pick two candidates, two whites, and the Berkeley Black Caucus would pick two black 
candidates, and those candidates would run as a slate— 
DC: Got it. 
DB: To be endorsed by Ron Dellums. By this time, Ira and I were regular attendees at the 
Berkeley Black Caucus meeting. I had even given $500 or so of my friend’s money to help them 
get a headquarters. We were liked within the Caucus and we announced that we were going to 
run for the Council. Well, this kind of got the Caucus upset because they already had in mind 
who they were going to put onto the ticket in these two seats. They kind of pleaded with Ira and 
me not to run, and Dellums pleaded with us. When they saw that we were going to move 
forward, then the plea was, “Well, why don’t one of you run?” And I said, “No, that’s not going 
to work,” because I didn’t want to—if I showed that I was willing to dump Ira, because he didn’t 
have the money. I had the money. 
DC: Got it. 
DB: Then, that would sort of weaken me at the beginning and might create an adversary 
that I didn’t want. 
DC: Um-hmm. 
DB: So, I said, “No, it’s both of us or nothing.” So, in the end, we forced the Caucus to 
accept us as their two candidates, because they knew that I had the money and that I was going to 
run. I went to my friends and I said, “Look, I’m going to run for the Council. I need you to put 
up the money.” “I need to use your money,” is what I said. 
DC: Right. [Laughs] 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
55 
DB: And they said, “Alright.” That’s how I got to be—the two of us got onto the ticket 
with Loni Hancock and Rick Brown, who was the student. The April Coalition knew nothing 
about us. [Phone rings] We had had no dealings with them. 
JB: Let’s hold up for a minute. 
DB: And I’m going to turn it off after— 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB: We’re back. 
DC: So, the April Coalition, they didn’t know who they were getting? 
DB: They didn’t know who we were! 
DC: [Laughs] Yeah. 
DB: Suddenly, you’ve got two young black lawyers that pop up out of nowhere, and 
they’re on the ticket. And we’re endorsed by Dellums, because that was the deal. The Caucus is 
mad at us, or some of the leadership is, but they can’t show it. And so, then we—once the ticket 
is there— 
DC: [Speaking to JB] I can hear this. You can hear it? 
JB: Barely. Let’s just go. 
DC: Okay. 
DB: Well, if you can hear it, we can take it off in another room. Can you unhook me just 
to—? 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB: Okay, it’s gone. 
DC: Great. So, just pick up where we were. We had been talking about the formation of 
the April Coalition, you and Ira are put on the ticket. 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
56 
DB: Yes, and the thing about it was that this was my first foray into elected politics as a 
candidate. I had never really seen myself as running for office. In fact, when I went to sign up as 
a candidate at City Hall, the City Clerk asked to see my voter registration, and I wasn’t 
registered. I had to go register before I could sign up as a candidate. I had not lived in Berkeley 
but three months before the election. The election was April. I moved from Kensington, which 
was a suburb adjacent to Berkeley, into Berkeley 90 days before the election in order to qualify. 
DC: Got it. 
DB: I’d never, to be quite candid, I had never been to a Council meeting, or even in the 
Council chambers. But, as I said, Ira and I made the decision that we were going to run. We 
thought it would be a good forum. We’d been there long enough to see the energy and politics of 
the area. We thought we could introduce some new thought. 
When I had my announcement, I made a statement, and I don’t think that people were 
paying much attention because, again, we were very new. But I said that my first priority is 
going to be to the interest of the black community. And that was pure Southern. That was 
D’Army Bailey speaking in the context of my experience in politics here in the South, where if 
you were a black politician, then— 
DC: That’s what you said. 
DB: That was what you were about. You were about speaking for and advancing the 
interests of blacks. I did not see that as being necessarily much different from what my agenda 
should/would be in Northern California. Because I knew that the interests of whites—I could 
look at the platform and work was being done. Well, I also knew that we were looked upon with 
suspicion by the black, [01:55:00] indigenous black community there, because they were not that 
supportive of the white left. They always had questions about their motives. And even though the 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
57 
Panthers were close with the white left, and there was support for the Panthers, but there was 
some suspicion or discomfort there, too. 
So, here we are, newcomers, and we had to establish our own sense of legitimacy, first 
with a base, and that would be the black community. In fact, the April Coalition wanted us to run 
a joint campaign office, and I said, “No.” I said, “We’ll open our own office in the black 
community. And we’re not going to start carrying your two candidates with us into the 
community to campaign until we’ve gotten out there and introduced ourselves, and then we’ll 
bring you in.” 
Early on in the campaign, we ruffled some feathers in terms of the position. We had 
already ruffled the feathers of the Caucus. We had put Dellums in a fix, in terms of having to 
endorse us, and one of the people that he wanted to run was his good friend Ken Simmons, who 
was going to be one of the two that was already supposed to fill those seats. 
By the time we won the election, and we had started working with the—bringing the 
white candidates into the black community, but by this time we were pretty strong forces in our 
own right as politicians, having run a very strong campaign. I brought in Myrlie Evers, who 
walked the streets of Berkeley with us to help us campaign. I had Julian Bond cut a radio spot for 
me. And we had a damned good campaign manager that we hired. We had two initially that were 
not that good, and we ended up with one who knew what he was doing, Beau Sitner, who had 
campaigned with Birch Bayh out in Indiana. He was a law student at that time at Boalt. And so, 
come election day, we were on a roll. 
Now, we had some friction. There were points at which the Coalition was about to fall 
apart, because of our determination to set our own agenda. But we held together, and then came 
election, and we won two of the three seats. Loni won the other one, and their fourth candidate 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
58 
lost. We came in two strong, to one strong on the white left, at least the far white left. Now, 
again, because Berkeley’s left was not all homogeneous. You had—I mean, one of my strongest 
supporters then and throughout was Dan Siegel, who had been the president of the student body 
at UC-Berkeley, who sort of was speaking on the campus when he said, “Let’s go down there 
and retake the park,” and that’s what led to a deadly confrontation down on Telegraph Avenue 
about the demonstrations against People’s Park. And so, I had the support. 
And then, I had some run-ins with the Panthers, with Huey Newton. Huey wanted me to 
join the Panthers. Again, I’m not a joiner. I tried to make that as diplomatically clear to Huey as I 
could, that I would support his programs. Huey said, you know, “You come put your office in 
ours. We’ll feature you in our Black Panther newspaper.” And I begged off from that. Well, I 
would go to Huey’s penthouse at 1200 Lakeshore Drive, Ira and I, we’d meet with him and talk 
with him from time to time, and have some Chivas Regal and have an enjoyable visit. But he 
then asked me for money. He asked me for $25,000, and I told him that I didn’t have it. And 
from that point, he began to become threatening, and I had to stop visiting with Huey. But I 
continued to support on the Council the programs that the Panthers were pushing. The Free 
Breakfast Program we funded, some of their Daycare Programs, and other things. 
The conservatives, who had initially said they were going to recall all three of us, said 
then, “Well, let’s not recall Loni Hancock. She’s not a big problem. That Bailey is the problem.” 
But they wanted to get both me and Ira Simmons, my colleague. But then, Wilmont Sweeney, 
who was a conservative black Council member, the first black Councilman in Berkeley, said, 
“Well, you can’t do that. If you’re going to drop off the white woman on here, then you can’t just 
run against—run a recall against the two blacks.” At that point, they said, “Well, let’s drop Ira 
Simmons,” I was then the one they chose to focus in on, because they had figured, and I think 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
59 
correctly so, that if they could get me, and they succeeded in that, that they would be able to stop 
the force of what we were doing, which was using the Council chamber as a megaphone to 
demand change and get change. 
Filibuster in the meetings? Yes I did! I would talk in the Council meetings and sometimes 
to the point that the mayor, who was black, would say, “Well, Mr. Bailey, you’re out of order!” 
And I would keep talking, and he would ask the clerk to turn my microphone off. [02:00:00] And 
I would stand and continue to talk. And, of course, we had a crowd. Typically, the meetings were 
crowded with people. And we had issues that we were fighting. 
And I had a staff, because I had taken not only—when I found my campaign account 
showing that I had spent $25,000-$30,000 in the campaign, and I listed 25 as being anonymous, 
which you could do in California at the time. And that raised a lot of eyebrows. Where’s the 
money coming from? So, not only was I then being accused of being a carpetbagger, because 
that was one of the things that the conservatives used against me, but then the question was: 
Well, where is he getting his funding from? 
Well, the agreement that I had made with my friends was that I was not going to put their 
name out in public. I mean, they were two quiet people, young people, and they did not want the 
notoriety. In fact, Mike Wallace interviewed me on 60 Minutes and asked me, “Well, where is 
your money coming from?” And I was a bit surprised, because he had been very charming. We 
had met on the campus of UC-Berkeley, and then we’d driven over to my—I had a little cottage 
right near the Berkeley Hills, and we sat out on the patio. And, as soon as the cameras started 
rolling, he became quite a different person— 
DC: [Laughs] 
DB: And went after me. 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
60 
DC: Yeah. 
DB: And he wanted to know where was the money coming from, and I was a little 
surprised by that. And I said, “Well, I’m not going to tell you.” He said, “Well, here you are. 
You’re living up here in a nice place and you’re driving a nice car, and people have a right to 
know.” I said, “Well, the less you know about me, the stronger I am. I’m not going to let people 
know everything about me,” and I felt that way, that if you know the source of my support, then 
you know where you can make your attack. And so, I didn’t tell him. 
Well, this aired, actually, on 60 Minutes, this little segment. But before he aired it, he 
called me from New York, and he said, “D’Army, I’m putting this show together and I’m going 
to give you one last opportunity to tell me where your money is coming from.” And I said, 
“Well, I told you I’m not going to tell you.” He said, “Well, if you don’t tell us, we’re going to 
find out anyway.” And I said, “What do you mean?” He said, “Well, there’s a group that’s put up 
some funds to find out where your money is coming from.” 
So, I called Les Dunbar after that, back in New York, and I said, “Les, Mike Wallace tells 
me that somebody’s put up money to find out where my money is coming from.” And he said, 
“Well, let me look into it.” And he called me back and he said, sure enough, that there was a 
group called the Fund for Investigative Journalism, and that they had gotten a grant from the 
Stern family out of New Orleans to find out where my money is coming from. Now, this 
continued to be a sore point in Berkeley, and it kind of dogged at my heels, because I wouldn’t 
tell who the source was. 
At one point, there was a counterintelligence black spy for the government, for 
California, who actually revealed himself as such. He would go into radical organizations and 
stir up dissent and distrust. And he had infiltrated my campaign. He wrote about it in a book, The 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
61 
Glass House Tapes. But at one point, he went on the radio in Los Angeles and said he had given 
me $10,000 to help him infiltrate the Angela Davis campaign. And I had to then go to KPFA, the 
sister station in Berkeley, and he was on the microphone in Los Angeles, where he was making 
this outlandish charge, and I told them, told the station there that, “You’d better investigate this 
before you run it.” Well, clearly, what he was trying to do was smoke me out. He knew that I 
couldn’t reveal my financial sources, and he was trying to discredit me. The guy, I thought, was 
just a bum drunk who was hanging around the campaign headquarters. 
DC: Right. 
DB: But, in truth, he actually was a spy. And fortunately for me, a reporter for 
Muhammad Speaks, the Black Muslim newspaper, came out from Chicago and investigated the 
story, and they did a good story. KPFA didn’t air the charges. But I was in a rather tough pickle 
there for a few minutes, based upon this kind of activity. 
DC: Wow. 
DB: But, again, that’s the kind of thing that you had to live with and go with. At one 
time, my life was threatened. I had to have around-the-clock security. Somebody said they knew 
about a contract on my life, and it turned out it was an extortion plot where someone wanted me 
to pay them some money. I had to—he was eventually arrested by the Berkeley police. But so, it 
was—there were few dull moments in the period. 
DC: [Laughs] Yeah. 
DB: But, again, we got change. That was the important thing. We made things happen. 
DC: Um-hmm. We’ll take a quick break for a second. 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
DC: Do you have your—? 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
62 
DB: Better to be safe than sorry. 
DC: Yeah. 
JB: Okay, we’re back. 
DC: [Laughs] It’s the first thing I said to my fiancé, is you’ve got to tell me if there’s 
anything in my teeth. 
DB: Yes, absolutely. 
DC: [Laughs] Alright, so that—yeah, so that was a pretty adventurous [02:05:00] time. 
DB: So, they got the signatures on the petition. The way recall works is that if you get 25 
percent of the people who voted in the last election to sign a petition, then you force a new 
election. 
DC: Okay. 
DB: They had 18,000 people already that had voted with them in the election when we 
were defeated. All they needed to do was organize a campaign with the money from the business 
community and the conservatives and put on the ballot the question: Shall D’Army Bailey be 
recalled? Yes or no. 
Well, in order to survive, once they get those signatures, then you have to get a majority. 
So, it’s no longer the situation where I had won with a plurality, but I had never had a majority, 
because the conservatives were still in the majority in Berkeley at that time, and they knew that. I 
knew that by the time they got those signatures that it was, that my chances of defeating the 
recall were going to be rather slim. 
DC: Right. 
DB: But, and I knew that, for two and a half years, that I was under the specter of that 
happening. 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
63 
DC: And it sounds like they were, because of the way they could do that, they were going 
to recall somebody from your—from that ticket. 
DB: Yes. And a friend of mine, Roger Baldwin, who was a founder of the ACLU—well, 
I knew him because in New York, his nephew and I were good friends, and he had introduced 
me to Roger, and we had lunch a couple of times. He came out to the Bay Area to visit during 
the recall. And I picked him up, and he said, “Just pull over to the side of the road.” He said, 
“Look,” he said, “I’ve been out here and people are—the information that I get is that you’re not 
going to beat this recall unless you tell where your money is coming from, because people just 
don’t like not knowing that kind of thing.” That was another factor that I’m sure was on the 
table. 
But what had happened was that my friends had closed down the trust as more and more 
questions began to be asked about the money, especially after I had won and reported that 
anonymous contribution. So, they had given me $100,000, which they paid the taxes on, and I 
used that money to pay staff. So, I had a staff of, well, actually, as many as 13 people. Several of 
them were students, so I could get them on work-study, so I didn’t have to pay them full salary. 
Then, I had one full-time person assigned to me by the Joint Center for Political Studies back in 
Washington. I put together this quite competent staff. 
So, whenever I went to the Council meetings, I had these thick books of information, 
because my staff would go out, they would research all of the agenda items, they would talk with 
people in the community, and there’s nothing that brings about change more than information 
properly used. And that’s what I went in there armed with, on the Council, and that helped me to 
make a difference as a Council member. 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
64 
But by the time of the recall, I had used up a great deal of that hundred grand, and I had 
probably a third of that money left, probably not that much. But I had to spend most of what I 
had left fighting the recall. So, by the time the recall was over—of course, they didn’t know it in 
California, but my money was pretty well out anyway. And I knew that it was going to run out, 
because I wasn’t practicing law. I did, as I say, have some stipends coming in, but I don’t think I 
was at that point still doing the consulting work, because it was limited work with the Field 
Foundation. So, financially, the jig was going to be up anyway. 
DC: [Laughs] Right. 
DB: I couldn’t have carried on with the same momentum and resources for a full four-
year term. In some ways, it was really fortuitous that they recalled me after two and a half years, 
because I’d have a tough struggle to carry on the kind of momentum. 
DC: Um-hmm. 
DB: When they completed the recall, I had to decide do I want to stay out here in the Bay 
Area and practice law, or do I want to go somewhere else? And that’s when I made the decision 
to return to Memphis. 
DC: Right. But even in that limited time, the two and a half years, you said you were able 
to achieve some change. Did the change last? Did you stay in touch and see if some of that 
change persisted in Berkeley? 
DB: Much of it did. Some of it—for example, we set the pattern of an integrated City 
Hall with top-level staff people. That continued. The same thing as opportunities in the police 
and fire departments. That continued. I took [02:10:00] the lead in helping give the garbage 
workers increased benefits. What happened was that there was a strike. And we had, in executive 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
65 
session, told our negotiator to offer the union more money for the lower-paid workers, who were 
the garbage workers, but that didn’t get conveyed to the garbage workers in the negotiations. 
They went on strike, and so, there was an impasse. And Kurt McLean, who was a black 
union leader in the Bay Area, came to me and said, “D’Army, you need to take some leadership 
and call for a resumption of talks.” And so I did. I said, “I’m going to show up at the negotiating 
table, and I’m asking the union and the garbage workers to do the same,” which they did, and we 
recommenced the negotiations. And two of the other Council members joined me. 
Well, when we started again, we were getting nowhere fast, and I called the garbage 
workers’ leaders aside, and I said, “Look, let’s go talk.” And I took them into a side room and I 
said to them, “Look,” I said, “Do you realize that we’re offering you guys an accelerated 
increase versus these other guys,” because the only people that were on strike were the garbage 
workers, but the negotiations were for all of the municipal unions: police, fire, and engineers, 
and everybody else. And they were riding on the backs of the garbage workers who were on 
strike! And I told those workers, “Look, if we go ahead and settle this thing, you’ll get more 
money,” because we were trying to raise them to a level on a par with these other city 
employees, which we did. 
And so, that came, because of that—well, because when we got to the garbage workers, 
when I pulled their coattail and let them know what was happening, and they decided that they 
weren’t going to carry these other unions. Paul Varicelli was the head of the union, negotiating 
for all of them, but he was—he had divided loyalties there. Tough union man. So, anyway, those 
kinds of things were changes that we brought about. 
Now, what has changed since then is the gentrification, that in those areas now where 
blacks lived in the what we called “the Flatlands,” nearest to the river, or to the Bay, are now 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
66 
areas that are largely gentrified, where you have, instead of black families living in those areas 
now, you have a much greater proportion of upper-income whites, because the land is so 
expensive. And those blacks have sold out, many of them, sold their property and moved 
elsewhere. The black population of Berkeley has declined substantially from the 25 percent when 
I was there. 
DC: Okay, yeah. Interesting. 
JB: Yeah, I looked into living in Berkeley. There was no chance. 
DB: Yeah, I mean, you couldn’t—it’d be impossible to afford it. 
JB: Yeah. 
DC: Yeah. So, we’re going to jump to Memphis. I wanted to ask— 
JB: Let’s stop. 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
DC: I wanted to ask about, especially since the anniversaries are happening or coming up, 
about the Civil Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act, and where were you at the time of those 
pieces of national legislation, and what your reaction was. 
DB: Give me the year because there was so much happening. 
DC: ’63 and ’64. 
DB: Okay. ’64 I was still at Clark, because I remember, let’s see, President Kennedy was 
assassinated in November of ’63. And it was in the wake of the assassination of President 
Kennedy that Lyndon Johnson took the leadership and gave great momentum to the thrust to 
pass that legislation. And I remember him in ’65 pushing for the Voting Rights Act, and that was 
in the wake of Selma and the killing of Viola Liuzzo and Reverend James Reeb. And I remember 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
67 
watching him on television when he was announcing his support for that and said, “We shall 
overcome.” 
And when I was sitting there watching this white southern President in his southern 
accent say, “We shall overcome,” but not just say it, but mean it, in terms of putting the weight 
of the presidency behind getting this legislation passed in ’65, I knew that things had changed in 
America, I mean, with Johnson. Kennedy had been, in many ways, viewed as the hero, but the 
real difference came with the shoulder-to-the-wheel work that Lyndon Johnson did after the 
assassination to get that legislation through the Congress. 
And with the passage of the Voting Rights Act, [02:15:00] I did not feel that the act itself 
was going to make a momentous change. Because, having seen in Memphis that blacks had the 
vote but still no money and no power, that when all was said and done, give them the vote, but 
what does that mean in terms of fundamental change? And I never really thought, and still don’t 
think, for that matter, that voting power, political power, is the be-all and end-all of the quest for 
liberation. It is a tool. 
When I ran for the Berkeley City Council, it was not based upon my belief that the 
system works. Now, the media treated it that way. They said, “Oh, the radicals have now gone 
within the system, and they now believe in the system, and they’re going to make the system 
work.” After our election in Berkeley, some young people ran in Madison, Wisconsin, and were 
elected on a progressive platform, and others of our generation began to mimic this whole notion 
that we in the Bay Area had developed. And a lot of that was through the strategy and the 
philosophies refined by the April Coalition, the hard work that they had done in setting the pace. 
We just helped to bring it about in a victorious way. 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
68 
But I didn’t—to me, it was opportunism, as opposed to belief in the ongoing amenability 
of established political systems to make a difference. So, I never looked—the beating of heads in 
the street and the going to jail, those were the things that I knew made a difference, that would 
cause change in this country. The riots in Watts and in Detroit and in Newark, when people take 
to the streets and really confront those in authority and bring things to a halt. 
And that was my strategy in Berkeley. Now, of course, you have to recognize that those 
strategies are not lasting. In other words, you’ve got to be prepared to move from one arena to 
the other. Because if you think that you can take one strategy and stand fast on that strategy and 
carry forth to progress, then you’re in for a rude awakening, because you’re going to be run over. 
DC: Uh-huh, right. [Laughs] 
DB: You’ve got to know, as the song says, “know when to hold them and know when to 
fold them.” Because they’ll eventually figure out how to neutralize what you’re doing. But in the 
meantime, you can make dramatic difference. But the system is not going to change, because the 
political system is basically designed to be used and controlled by the monied power of the 
country, because it’s money that you have to have to run for office and to stay in office. And 
then, the communities that you’re trying to reach, you have to reach through mechanisms that are 
controlled by money: communications, and right on down to the workforce. And they’ve 
decimated unions, and so you don’t have a labor voice that can kind of offset. 
And now, for example, in states like Tennessee, where politics means very little because 
we’ve got super-majorities in the legislature and a Republican president [governor]. And they are 
now—they are balkanizing the country with strongholds of rightwing power. And I’m not sure 
but that, in time, the growth of that power will not again become majority power in America. 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
69 
DC: Um-hmm. I mean, this is why—yeah, this is what we’re up against, but it’s also, I 
mean, as you say, why a movement needs to be multifaceted. 
DB: Yes. 
DC: You need to have these fronts. You need to have the judicial front and the NAACP 
at the same time that you have SNCC and protest in the streets. 
DB: Sure, sure. And I spent 19 years as a trial judge here in Memphis and 14 additional 
years as a lawyer, during which I represented people who were charged with murder and were 
facing the death penalty. I’ve tried over a dozen capital cases, where my client was facing the 
chair. And in those cases, I had to work within the system to try to get justice for my client. I was 
almost to say I had to thwart the system, because lawyers within the judicial system are not 
looking for justice. [02:20:00] We look for victory for our side. And that’s true if you’re a 
plaintiff’s lawyer or you’re a defense lawyer or if you’re representing the prosecution or the 
defense. 
When I was representing people facing the chair, justice may have been that—I’m not a 
believer in capital punishment, but it may have been many long years in the penitentiary. But if I 
got someone off with few or no years, then to me that was a gratifying victory, because that was 
my job, not to have a just result. As a judge, however, for 19 years, my role was quite different. 
It was to assure that the system at least was a level playing field for all sides within that arena. 
But I never felt, even then, that the legal system is a system set up for fundamental justice. It’s a 
system by which you can order disputes and set the rules by which to resolve disputes where 
people don’t have to resort to violence. 
DC: Hmm. And maybe tweak it here and there to make it a little more just, right? 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
70 
DB: Yes, but then, you know, when you think about it, and we look at the legal system—
I remember Bill Kunstler and Arthur Kinoy, who came to Memphis when we were opening the 
Civil Rights Museum in 1991. And those were two of the premier lawyers in the civil liberties 
and civil rights struggle. And at that time, they were arguing in their presentations to the groups 
there that lawyers and activists should take their pleas now to state court and state systems, 
because the federal system and the federal courts were not responding. It was a matter of where 
do you fight? Do you fight on the state level, or do you fight on the federal level? It’s not that 
you have any great affinity for either, as it relates to change. 
Well, now, the kind of advocacy that may have been developed to go into the state 
systems and fight there, or even in the 1960s to go into the federal systems and fight—well, now, 
we can’t go into the federal system and fight, because you’ve got a Supreme Court with a 
majority that has no sympathy— 
DC: Right. 
DB: —for the change that people need and are fighting for. 
DC: Um-hmm. 
DB: And while you do have some federal appeals courts that are more sympathetic, many 
of them are not. And on the trial court level in the federal system, you may or may not get a good 
conscientious judge. 
DC: Right. 
DB: So, while in the past we could say that the judiciary is a means of change, but if you 
look at what’s happening with them, with the changes they’re making on the Citizens United, 
where they’re letting corporations have complete ownership of the communications and electoral 
machinery that makes a difference in this country, with unlimited money, then the judiciary is 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
71 
opening the way for that. The Bush versus Gore decision, which was a coup d’état, judicial coup 
d’état, against the will of the majority of the people—and then, I saw Mr. Justice Scalia say on 
television within the last year or so, “Well, people need to just, quote, ‘get over it.’” And so, 
that’s kind of the judicial attitude. 
DC: Yeah, gutting the Voting Rights Act. 
DB: Yes. So, you just have to look at: Well, where do we turn to now? And, in some 
ways, we’re just as desperate—I mean, there are some of us who are better off. We’ve got a few 
more material things. Educationally, there’s a decline in the number of African Americans, for 
example, proportionately, that are getting into the major colleges and universities. When I was 
coming up, we had at least the idealism that one generation would be a step better in its hard 
work and achievements than our parents. 
DC: Um-hmm, of course. 
DB: But that’s no longer the case. I attempt to sometimes use the analogy of Hegel’s 
Dialectic, in which there’s the notion that there’s a cycle. And that things calm down, and then, 
in the calm, oppression raises its head again, and injustice gets worse, and people then rebel. And 
out of that rebellion, you get progress and change. [02:25:00] 
DC: Right, right. 
DB: And there’s a continuing cycle of the thesis, things as they are; the antithesis, when 
people revolt; and the synthesis, some progress comes. Then, things get bad again. As it relates 
to the Voting Rights Act in ’65, as it relates to the Civil Rights Act, the public accommodations 
act, those things were important changes and they were important landmarks, but they never 
struck me as being major game changers. Even when Title VII, fair employment, Equal 
Employment Opportunities Commission, was passed in ’64 and became effective in ’65, I was 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
72 
never so naive to think that we were truly going to see the elimination of racism in employment 
opportunities in this country, and we don’t see it, even today. The barriers are different. I mean, 
they’re not outright racial in the same way, but the result is the same. 
JB: Could I ask you to talk just a little bit on a side subject of this, which is the one great 
gain blacks have made is in prison populations? 
DB: Absolutely. 
DC: I was thinking the same thing, yeah. 
JB: As a judicial person, can you speak to—? 
DC: It removes people from the ability to vote, as well, right? 
JB: Yeah. I don’t even know what the question is, but you know more about the different 
systems at work than I do. Could you give any hope for reversing the situation? 
DB: I think that the explosion of blacks in the penal institutions is part of the sense of—
this country has destroyed systematically the sense of value and self-worth among minorities. 
And we kid ourselves, and I think it’s unfair for white America to think that in the last 50 years, 
say, since the Brown case, or 60 years, that suddenly we can erase all of the ills and evil that 
arose from three centuries of denial and exploitation and defeat. And as black families were 
destroyed, in terms of broken-up or not allowed to flourish, where black manhood was not 
allowed to be self-respecting, the impact of that has been devastating on the psyche of black 
America. 
I was reading an article about the psychological impact of everyday racism that works on 
black people, because even among whites who don’t mean to be offensive, they create a tension 
in their own interaction with blacks, whether it’s on an elevator or in a department store or 
passing down a darkened street, on up to who you prefer when you make a job hire, or who you 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
73 
prefer among your associates. But that creates an ongoing tension among black people that adds 
even, in one study at Columbia University, to our health problems. It creates issues of blood 
pressure and illness. 
My point is that the pathology of blacks in prison is not just because you’ve got a lot of 
young black men who are irresponsible—and there are, there are a lot of them that are 
irresponsible—that leads to their, I mean, as the immediate cause of their incarceration, an 
attempted robbery or burglary or what they call black-on-black crime, even. But if you look 
behind that, as to why they are in this condition, why do they have so little sense of investment in 
life and in the society around them? 
Because they have not been exposed to the better things! Those things are alien to them. 
And you have to create an entirely new sense of cultural and personal awareness, which requires 
investment into the human resources in these communities that this country is not prepared to do. 
The refuse of our ills and of our mistreatment [02:30:00] of these centuries is there, that becomes 
the fuel that nourishes this continuing nihilism and this continuing walk in and out of prisons of 
our young people. And it’s the justice system that becomes the gatekeeper that revolves them in 
and out. But the ones that come in with these pathologies leave with the same pathologies, only 
to return. 
DC: Right, right. And this expectation that they will be incarcerated back to normal 
and—right, you’ve got to break that cycle. 
DB: Because, you know, if you look at why a people—I mean, when I was growing up, 
there were cases of blacks who would be violent toward each other, but often that was family or 
friend violence. Today you have a lot of this violence, senseless violence that emanates from 
gangs or from the attempt to imitate gangs. And what causes a young person in his or her teens to 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
74 
associate with an organization that has so little respect for another person’s life or suffering, or 
their own life, because they surely know that there’s a price to pay. But it gives them a sense of 
bigness and some sense of worth that they can identify with these criminal elements, these gangs. 
And the bigger, the more criminal they become, at times, the bigger they feel within their, within 
this— 
DC: Tiny world. 
DB: This diseased infrastructure that they’ve become a part of. And society wants to 
condemn them, looking at the end result, not recognizing its complicity in creating this monster 
that’s out there and that’s continuing to grow. 
And it can be reversed, but it takes not only resources, but it takes a different attitude. 
And white people have got to stop being defensive and being in denial. You cannot eliminate 
generations of racism in 50 years. There’s just—and people who say, “But I don’t see color,” are 
just liars. I mean, you have to see color every day, and you may as well admit it, and then ask 
yourself: What does it mean when I see it, in any given situation? And am I doing the positive in 
this situation as I see this color, my color, his color, her color? Or am I creating negative energies 
that are making the situation worse? But so long as you’re in denial and are quick to take offense 
and say, “Oh, well, he’s overly sensitive—” 
DC: Right. 
JB: That was a great speech. 
DC: Yeah, that was. It was a great answer. And, I mean, and it’s interesting that the 
moment of the Obama election—I mean, the Obama presidency plays into this, right? Because 
there was a feeling of, like, this is a Band-Aid or a panacea or however you want to describe it. 
That’s when we heard so much of this, pardon me, but b.s. about “beyond race.” 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
75 
DB: And my wife and I were in the Gulf on a cruise the night of the election. We had 
voted early. And I’m frankly glad that I was not ashore, where I would have to contend with the 
difficulty, personally, of knowing that, in spite of all this exhilaration, that the next morning was 
going to bring the same challenges and the same battles as the morning before. 
DC: Um-hmm. Or maybe even more, because then you’ve got some people who are 
excusing themselves or patting themselves on the back, right? 
DB: Absolutely. 
DC: So, pretending the problem has been solved somehow. Sorry to interrupt. [Laughs] 
DB: No, that’s it. 
DC: Hmm. Very interesting. Okay, we could go on for hours, but we need to talk about—
let’s talk about the Civil Rights Center, and then we’ll wrap up. 
DB: Okay. 
DC: Thank you for giving us so much of your time. 
DB: Oh, sure. I’m glad to. 
DC: I’m sorry to take over like this. 
DB: Give me one minute. I have to check my— 
DC: Yeah, of course. Of course. Let me— 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB: We’re on the road again. 
DC: Okay. Alright, so you return to your hometown in 1971—? 
DB: ’74. 
DC: ’74, okay. And start practicing law here? 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
76 
DB: Yeah. My brother was practicing here since ’65, and so I shared office space 
[02:35:00] with him, from ’65 on, actually, until I was elected judge in—or from ’74, rather, 
until I was elected judge in 1990. And when I first got back to Memphis, I knew that people 
would be a little concerned that here’s this crazy radical Californian, so I, in addition to 
practicing law, I wrote a weekly column in the morning paper each Monday, an op-ed piece. And 
that gave me—and I did that for seven years, and that gave me a chance to kind of level out the 
perception of me, as opposed to letting people perceive me as being this wild-eyed California 
radical. And that, I thought, was helpful. 
And in ’83, I ran for mayor because I felt that there was a need to introduce my kind of 
thought in the process. There were two other black candidates and one white candidate in that 
race, major candidates. The papers treated the four of us as major candidates. But for me it was 
an opportunity to advocate. The white candidate won, and that was likely to happen in any event 
because of the strength that he brought into the race. At that point, we had not yet elected a black 
mayor in Memphis, but that was a foray that I undertook in ’83. I continued my law practice and 
then, as I said, was elected judge. 
Well, back in ’82, while I was practicing law, I ran into Mr. Walter Bailey, who was the 
black man that owned the Lorraine Motel. And Mr. Bailey had the first—had the same name as 
my father. They were both Walter L. Baileys. When I grew up, people often thought that it was 
my family that owned the Lorraine Motel, even though it was a different Walter Bailey. So, I 
saw Mr. Bailey. I was going into a little neighborhood convenience store to buy a beer. And 
there was a laundromat next door to it, and Mr. Bailey had been in that laundromat to wash and 
to do his laundry. And it was down here at Vance and—a few blocks from where the Lorraine 
Motel is. 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
77 
And I really had never been that much involved with or thought much about the Lorraine. 
This would have been when I first met Mr. Bailey—let’s see, the foreclosure on the motel was in 
1982. I met Mr. Bailey around 1979, I think, somewhere thereabouts. And he was struggling to 
try to keep the doors of the place open. His wife had had a stroke the night of the assassination, 
and she died three days later. And she had helped him to run the business. So, Mr. Bailey 
continued to operate it. So, I introduced myself to him, and this was, as I said, late ’70s. 
DC: Had it been a sort of shrine, of sorts? Did people come to visit it? 
DB: Oh, yes. After the assassination, people were continuing to make pilgrimages to the 
Lorraine Motel, but it was basically a rundown motel. 
DC: I know that the Poor People’s Campaign announced its start there with Reverend 
Jackson and others. 
DB: Yes. 
DC: So, it did have some resonance, but as an establishment, it had really run down? 
DB: Yes. Well, there were three buildings on the property, one of which was an older 
motel building that was closed. And then, there was a second hotel building which was attached 
to the office, and that was basically closed. And the only one of the three buildings that was 
largely functional as a motel was the L-shaped building where Dr. King was standing on the 
balcony of. 
And much of the business there, or at least, I’d say, probably half of it, were prostitutes. 
Because after the assassination, that area of downtown was really decaying or had decayed, and 
there were no businesses of any consequence in that area. It was a dark and seedy area, and there 
were prostitutes up and down the street and using the rooms of the Lorraine. And Mr. Bailey was 
trying to make ends meet, as best he could. 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
78 
He had created a little bit of a shrine in the room that Dr. King had last occupied, where 
he kept the dishes that Dr. King last ate from, which I now have, actually. And he kept the 
library of his wife on display. And he kept shoes of his wife. They were in a display case next to 
the dishes. And people would come and go into that room. [02:40:00] And it was small, simple, 
but very hallowed. And it was open to the public, you know, there was no charge. People would 
leave donations. But that was it, as far as any kind of shrine at the site. Otherwise, he was trying 
to run the motel. 
And I incorporated for him a nonprofit group, the Lorraine-King Shrine Foundation, and 
they were to then try to raise money to build a significant shrine there at the Lorraine. He 
couldn’t get any support. There had been people, from time to time, who would come in from out 
of town, or maybe locally, say, “We’re going to do this at the Lorraine and we’re going to raise 
money.” None of it panned out. He was trying to keep the doors open, just with the business that 
he could get on a day-to-day basis. 
And, in fact, I went with him one day as he took his mortgage payment out to the 
mortgage holder’s home. And Mr. Bailey and I went out there to—Harry Sauer was the 
mortgage holder. And I remember Mr. Bailey pulling out a little small brown paper bag that he 
had his cash in, and he counted out his payment to Mr. Sauer there, and they chatted for a bit, 
and we left. But that was the level of business operation at that time. 
When he couldn’t get any traction, any interest in the shrine foundation, I did then go to a 
local white businessman, Murray Reiter, who had a construction company, and that’s R-E-I-T-E-
R. And I said to Mr. Reiter, “Look, come on down and let’s look at the Lorraine, and let’s put 
together some money and buy it privately and develop it.” And he looked at it and brought some 
other partners down to look at it, and they said, “We’re not going to do it.” So, that was about all 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
79 
I could think of to do at that time. Again, this was nothing public, because I was not prone to any 
kind of public campaigns and I wasn’t that vested in the issue, for that matter. 
Mr. Sauer initiated foreclosure on the place, and Mr. Bailey then had to file bankruptcy in 
order to stop the foreclosure, and that happened in April of—the early spring of 1982. And Mr. 
Bailey got an order from the bankruptcy court to stall the foreclosure. And when that happened, 
the black-owned, not black-owned but the black-oriented radio station, WDIA, here launched a 
campaign here to raise money to save the Lorraine. And Chuck Scruggs, who was the general 
manager there and two or three of his staff people were going to organize a major fundraising 
effort to buy the Lorraine from Mr. Bailey. 
And that’s when they called me and asked me to join their effort. And I incorporated the 
initial foundation, the Lorraine—well, we actually called it the Martin Luther King Memphis 
Memorial Foundation. But the effort of the radio station that was going to raise the money to buy 
the Lorraine directly from Mr. Bailey fell through. They were unable to raise any significant 
money. After two delays from the bankruptcy judge, he allowed the foreclosure to proceed. 
Now, we had done all that we could. I’d—by this time, now, I am out publicly with the 
radio station and the people about raising money to save the Lorraine. And I really very bad 
because it was not my approach on things to get out into a big public campaign without at least 
seeing a reasonable chance of success. But I was banking on the radio station being able to 
deliver, which they couldn’t. 
The foreclosure went ahead, and the sale was on December the thirteenth of 1982. And 
the mortgage was about $153,000, I believe. And Mr. Sauer’s son, Raymond, did the bidding at 
the courthouse on the day of the auction, which was at twelve noon. And I bid for my nonprofit 
group. Well, I went to the auction and I think I had about $50,000 that we had raised in our 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
80 
different radio-thons and everything we could do. So, that was well short of what we needed to 
get close to the mortgage holder’s mortgage, and he could bid up to that. And if no one matched 
it, then he could walk away with the place. 
Well, the union leadership had promised that they would give $25,000, the AFSCME 
union, and I was on pins and needles. [02:45:00] And Jim Smith, who was the head of the union, 
locally, showed up 30 minutes before the auction, and he had a check for $25,000. That put us at, 
let’s see, we had the $25,000 from the union—we still were well-short. We ended up with a 
$140,000. We must have had $65,000 going into the auction, because the $25,000 from the union 
put us at $90,000. 
And one of the leaders of my little small group, the Martin Luther King Memphis 
Memorial Foundation, was a black lawyer, A.W. Willis. And he came to me on the steps of the 
courthouse and said, “Look, D’Army, we can borrow $50,000 from Tri-State Bank.” Well, that 
was the black-owned bank. And Jesse Turner was at the auction, who was the head of the bank 
and was one of my group. So, he said, “Well, I will loan the money if you get me two 
guarantors.” I went to Jim Smith, of the union, and I said, “Jim, will you all guarantee $25,000?” 
He said he would. And then, I went to Paul Shapiro, who had a cosmetics company, and I said to 
Paul, “Paul, will you guarantee $25,000,” which he said he would. So, with their commitment 
there on the courthouse steps, we had another $50,000. 
DC: This is all happening right before the auction? 
DB: Just minutes before the auction. When the auction started, I had $140,000. As the 
bidding started, I was bidding, and initially, there were probably a half dozen or more people 
bidding. But by the time the bidding got to $100,000, it dropped off to just being Sauer and me. 
And I’d make a bid, usually in increments, say, of $5000, and he would increase it by $5,000. 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
81 
And this went on until I got near to the $140,000, which I knew was all that I had. And when I 
finally did get—well, actually, I went over the $140,000, but I started dropping the bid down to 
thousand-dollar increments. He kept bidding over me. And I finally got to $144,000, and I said, 
“And not a penny more.” And he didn’t bid after that. And so, the hammer fell at $144,000. 
I got home that night and I called Jack Belch, who is the owner of the Peabody Hotel 
here. And I had been able to call on him from time to time for small support, not financial, but if 
I needed a meeting place at the Peabody or something. So, I told him I needed $4000, and he 
raised that for me overnight. I had to appear at the auction company the next day with a cashier’s 
check for $144,000, which we did. So, we bought it. 
So, here I am. I’m practicing law. Chuck Scruggs is a radio station man. Jesse Turner is a 
bank man. So, none of us were in this thing to build a motel or run a shrine. So, what do you do 
now? We own it! 
DC: [Laughs] You own it. 
DB: So, we turn to Bailey, and we say to Mr. Bailey, “Look, you continue to run this 
place, and you don’t have to pay us any money. Whatever you make you keep to pay for 
maintenance and what-have-you. Try to keep the prostitutes from being so aggressive.” 
DC: [Laughs] 
DB: We knew that he wasn’t going to stop it, I mean, he couldn’t stop it. He continued to 
operate it from the time we bought it in ’82 until finally we got the project funded in 1986, but 
we didn’t start construction until ’88, when they closed the Lorraine, and the construction 
actually began. 
Well, once we bought it, I got a letter from Mrs. King’s lawyer in Atlanta, and the lawyer 
said, “If you don’t drop Dr. King’s name from the project, we’re going to sue.” At that point, I 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
82 
reported it to the board and recommended that we drop it, which they did. And we renamed the 
foundation the Lorraine Civil Rights Museum Foundation, which is the name of the organization 
now that currently runs the museum. 
But, actually, it was really a blessing in disguise that I had gotten that letter from Mrs. 
King, because I had not made any overtures to them, although I later was told that Chuck 
Scruggs at the radio station had apparently had some conversation with her before I got involved, 
which didn’t go very well, and that that might have created some difficulties. I don’t know, 
because, as I said, I didn’t have [02:50:00] any—until I got that letter, I had had no contact with 
the Kings. But by getting that letter and by dropping Dr. King’s name, it then freed me from 
having to be involved with having to go back and forth to the King family to discuss what we 
were doing or to get their approval on anything. So, she made a couple of comments to the media 
that our project was morbid, that we shouldn’t be focusing on a place of death. And I didn’t get 
into a debate with her about that. We just kept going. 
Now, here we are. We own the Lorraine. We’ve got no money. The debt—we owe the 
bank $50,000. So, it was at this point that—I mean, none of the others really had much of an idea 
of what we were going to do with it. My ideas came from my involvement with the Movement, 
and I knew that it was a place of tremendous magnetism, that people would always come from 
around the world. And having been privileged to be a firsthand observer and participant in a very 
dynamic Civil Rights Movement, it was clear to me that the thing to do would be to wed the 
spirit and the strength of that Movement, and the story of that Movement, in the most dynamic 
way to this site, and to build an exhibition there that would make the visitor a part of the 
Movement, because the Movement by this time was no longer. 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
83 
But I knew, I had seen how engaging the Movement was to young people, how it would 
bring people in and get them motivated and convert them to warriors. I felt that we don’t have a 
Movement, but if we create one here, we can perhaps continue to churn out new activists. We 
sent out—I got some architects to volunteer their time to help come up with some very rough 
plans. And with that, I asked Belch to give me a room at the Peabody to bring in some 
government leaders, and they gave us $50,000, which we used to ask for proposals from 
consultants, and we had a half dozen different proposals that came in. 
And among those was a proposal from Ben Lawless. And we had a three-member 
committee—myself, John Elkington, who was a white developer, and A.W. Willis—and we 
looked at those proposals. And when I saw the proposal that Ben had, and Ben’s proposal was 
largely the same exhibition design that is in the museum now. Now, it’s being redone now, but 
that’s been the museum for the last 21 years. I saw that this was someone that had immediately 
captured the spirit and the energy that I wanted to see conveyed in that museum. The way he had 
laid out the exhibits to make them interactive, or not so much interactive, but make them 
dynamic with voiceovers and music and photographs to bring to life. Now, I told them that I 
wanted them to burn that bus and put it in there, because I wanted people to have a feeling of 
being on the scenes. I wanted them even, if they could, to smell the tear gas. And we had the 
sounds of barking dogs and what-have-you in the Birmingham exhibit. 
With the design that Ben created, because we then hired him on the basis of his proposal, 
gave him the $50,000, he came back with a much more detailed plan for the museum and a price 
tag of $8.8 million. 
DC: [Laughs] 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
84 
DB: So, I say to Ben, “Well, alright, Ben, how are we going to find $8.8 million?” And 
he said, “Well, get the state to give you half, and get the city and the county to give you half 
each, or a quarter, 25 percent.” So, I went to the—Willis and I and Scruggs—I think he was with 
us. I know Willis was. We met with the leader of the county government, and he said no. The 
city government leader, I couldn’t even get a meeting with. Then Willis had gotten a black in the 
legislature to have introduced a bill to give us $10 million, and it was just laying in the 
legislature. Nothing had been done on it. But I knew that we were at a dead-end. 
So, I called a Republican that I knew locally, because Alexander was a Republican 
governor. And I said, “Can you find out where the bill is?” And he checked and he said, “The 
bill is nowhere. It’s just up there.” So, I called the legislator who introduced it. I said, “Roscoe, 
we need to get that bill moving.” So, then we—A.W. and I and a staff person that had been 
assigned to work with us from a government agency—went to Nashville and started lobbying the 
legislature. And we went from office to office, talking with the legislators. And Ben Lawless 
came in from Washington. We met with the Speaker of the House, Speaker of the Senate, and we 
argued—we didn’t argue with them—we made presentations about what we were trying to do. 
They saw it as a Martin Luther King project. That was a positive [02:55:00] for us at that 
time. We had a Democratic-controlled legislature. And there were some people who had some 
misgivings, that they thought it would create antagonisms and tension. And I would argue, or say 
to them, “No, this is just to inspire people,” although I was hoping that it would create these 
antagonisms and tension. That was the underlying idea. 
DC: Um-hmm. Did they see tourism dollars, too, at that point, or not? 
DB: No. 
DC: No, that wasn’t even mentioned, okay. 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
85 
DB: They saw it as something black people wanted, and it was a King project. 
DC: Okay, right. 
DB: In fact, one day, I went by one of the legislator’s office, as we were lobbying. And 
he said, “Mr. Bailey, let me—if I can speak frankly with you, I’ll tell you something.” He said, 
“We were talking, me and some other legislators, here last night at dinner. And they said these 
black legislators—” and most of the blacks in the legislature were from Memphis, still are. We 
had probably a dozen black legislators from Memphis, and the rest of the state combined only 
had two or three. He said, “These black legislators want this money for your King project, but 
they’ve also got their own projects that they want, and you can’t have everything. Now, if they 
tell us that this is their number one priority, you can get your money.” 
So, I saw these black legislators the next day and I said, “Fellows, let me tell you what 
the white man told me. He said, ‘Now, y’all got these other projects,’ and I respect that. But 
you’re going to have to put those on the back burner and let them know that this is the number 
one priority.” And, to their credit, they did. And when the black legislators let it be known to 
their white colleagues that they wanted this King money—at that point we were down to asking 
for $4.4 million, which would be half, half of the $8.8 [million] we needed. With the black 
legislators solidly behind it, the Speaker of the Senate was behind it, and the Speaker of the 
House was behind it, both Democrats, it passed something like 83 to 17 in the House, and 33 to 
nothing in the Senate. 
In fact, I was in the Senate gallery when it passed, and one of the—I asked to look at the 
agenda of one of the aides that was in the gallery where I was. And someone had written by that 
item for the Lorraine, “This bill is going to pass anyway, so vote your conscience.” And it passed 
33 to nothing in the Senate. 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
86 
So, we left there with $4.4 million. Came back to Memphis, and then gathered the local 
leaders and said, “Look, we got half the money.” I brought in some legislators from Nashville. 
“We need the other half from you.” The county mayor balked, but he finally came on board, and 
we got the other $4 million locally. Then the question came up: We’ve got $8.8 million, and we 
were meeting in Nashville at this point— 
DC: So, raised from local business people or—? 
DB: No. $2.2 [million] from the city government, $2.2 [million] from the county 
government, and $4.4 [million] from the state. 
DC: Okay. 
DB: No, the only money we got from local businesses was Paul Shapiro, who I’d put on 
the board, who gave us $10,000. That was it, as far as local business support. 
DC: Wow. But everything else came from government? 
DB: Yeah. 
DC: Okay. 
DB: So, then, A.W. Willis and I—well, A.W. was physically—was suffering from 
cancer, actually, so he ultimately had to stop working on the project. But up until that point, he 
was with me when we’d go to Nashville on most of these trips. And he was with me when I was 
sitting at the table with representatives of the three governments in Nashville and the question 
came up, “Well, we can’t give all this money to this nonprofit group,” talking about our 
organization. “We’ll have to give it to a government entity.” The city of Memphis didn’t want it. 
Of course, now, this was a white mayor at the time. This would have been ’86. The county didn’t 
want it, white leadership. 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
87 
So, I said, “Well, we’ll give title to the state, if the state will build the museum,” because 
my organization still owned the property. The state said, “Well, we’ll take it.” Now, the 
condition was that, “We’ll give you the title if you’ll build this museum according to the plans 
that we have here, which were the plans that Lawless had designed.” So, they agreed that they 
would do it. The city and the county agreed that they would send their $2.2 million each to the 
state. And thus it became and is the only state-owned museum in Memphis. But the state took the 
title because—I was kind of happy with that, because I figured that that would limit political 
interference as we went along, local political interference. 
So, we then—once we got the money in place, as I said, it was about ’86, then I had to 
meet—by this time, it was me alone, because Willis was no longer able to keep going to 
Nashville. So, I would then start meeting with the state architect. We had one bit of a flare up, 
because Lawless had recommended a white architect for the project here locally, and I was 
backing his demand and I supported the one he wanted. [03:00:00] Well, one of the black 
legislators said, “No, I want my man,” who was also a white architect. 
DC: Oh. [Laughs] 
DB: With the standoff between the two of them, because at least our plan had had a 
collaboration with a black architectural firm in Nashville, the state said, “Well, we’ll give the job 
to the black architectural firm in Nashville.” So, the black firm in Nashville got the job, 
McKissack & McKissack, but with the condition that I extracted from the state that they would 
put the state architect largely in charge of the project, because this was a major project that I 
wanted to make sure was going to be done right. So, Mike Fitz, who was the state architect, 
actually took control of the project. We had to do all of our meetings and planning in his office in 
Nashville, where we proceeded to send out bids for contractors and designers and all of that. So, 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
88 
everything was then being done with me traveling to Nashville, Lawless coming in from 
Washington, [03:00:56] from Kansas City, the architects here in Nashville. 
DC: Meanwhile, you’re still practicing. 
DB: I’m still practicing. 
DC: So, you’re burning the candle. 
DB: Yeah. And I’ve got a board which hadn’t been coming to board meetings, but then, 
as the project was becoming a reality, they started coming to the meetings and wanting to know 
what’s going on and where do we get input? And basically, I was filibustering them, holding 
them at bay, because I didn’t want them to have input, because we had designed this thing, we 
knew what we were going to do, we had the team that was doing it, and I didn’t want to have to 
then deal with the politics of, “Well, should you have this person in the exhibit, or this person in 
the exhibit, or this theme or that theme?” 
DC: Right. 
DB: I would basically stonewall the board. And then, they wanted to have new elections 
and bylaw changes, because they were trying to figure out some way to get a handle on how to 
control this process, and it was moving and moving real fast. And my objective was to keep them 
out of it, let the people, the team that we working with in Nashville. At that point, and this was as 
construction got underway and it was being built, they were getting madder at me, some of them 
on the board. I had some supporters. We had a board of probably 15 people. I had maybe six or 
seven that were good strong supporters. About four whites that were on the fence, but when they 
saw the tension, they saw an opportunity, at least one of them, a millionaire member of the 
board, to step into a vacuum there and align himself with one of these factions. And he 
ultimately aligned himself with the faction that was against me, because he knew that I wouldn’t 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
89 
allow him control of this organization, whereas the others didn’t have anything really to bring to 
the table to withstand his money and power. And that’s Pitt Hyde, who now chairs the executive 
committee of the museum and basically controls the museum. 
But what I would do is—the board meetings would sometimes break up in disarray. I 
mean, rather than have them vote on things that would create problems, I would be involved in 
heated discussions and arguments with the board, and people would just get so frustrated and 
tired, and they’d throw up their hands and walk away. And then I could return to the calmer 
meetings in Nashville, where we were continuing to put this project together. My objective being 
let me get this thing done and through before they get the control that they are after. By the time 
it opened—we had built this and built it right, but they were, some of them, furious with me and 
were finally moving forward to get bylaw changes and elections. 
DC: This is the better to ask forgiveness than permission effort. [Laughs] 
DB: Absolutely. And then, Ben Hooks was the one that—he had been on the board for, 
let’s see, by this time, it was ’91, when we opened the museum. And he had been on the board 
for probably at least five or six years, but had never been to a meeting. But a couple of the people 
on the board who were close to him had talked to him in New York and gotten him to agree that 
he would serve as the president if they had enough votes to elect him as opposed to me. 
And when I was trying to strategize on how to forestall this, which was essentially going 
to be a losing effort, but I called Ben, who professed that he knew nothing about the plans 
underfoot. And yet, when I got to the board meeting, they had a letter from him, saying that if 
they voted him in, he’d take the job. By this time, the museum has been open [03:05:00] for six 
months. 
DC: It’s open, yeah. 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
90 
DB: They voted in a nine to six vote to elect Ben as the president of the board, and they 
put the white millionaire chairman of the executive committee. 
And they were going to have me to serve on the executive committee, but I had my letter, 
statement of resignation from the board already prepared, which I read that night, and resigned 
from the board. Because I had—by that time, I knew I had no strength to try to have any—I 
mean, I’d have to start from scratch on any new agenda, because, see, my idea was to move from 
the museum to a place of action. That’s why when I opened the museum, I brought in Bob 
Moses, Julian Bond, John Lewis, all of those activists from the Movement, because my view was 
that I was going to use those people and use that place as a center for their energies and to build 
new energies to carry on for the Movement, which is not what it is now. Now, it’s basically a 
corporate—most of the board is controlled by corporate people who—I mean, some of them are 
black, but they still represent interests of corporations. And that’s where the money now that 
fuels the museum comes from. It’s no longer self-controlled. 
DC: And you had said that you originally wanted to call it a center rather than a museum? 
DB: Yes, the National Civil Rights Center. But I used the word museum in one of our 
meetings in Nashville. I told our group, I said, “Let’s change it to museum,” because 
periodically, I’d still have to go before the City Council or the County Commission for different 
approvals, because at one point we had to get additional money. We had to go before the state 
Building Commission in Nashville to get different contracts approved. We were still in political 
waters. And I knew that there was still an uneasiness about where this thing was ultimately 
headed, and I thought that by calling it a museum, it would give it a more neutral appearance and 
create less problems for us. 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
91 
But it wasn’t my idea to really have a museum. It was my idea to have the Movement 
represented there in those exhibits as the beginning point for people to become re-energized and 
create a new spirit of activism. 
DC: And you feel that that hasn’t happened? 
DB: No. 
DC: Or not to the extent that you had hoped? 
DB: It hasn’t happened at all. And Hyde, who now controls the board, told me, “Well, 
D’Army, if that’s what you,” said, “That’s not what the museum is for. If you want to do that, 
you need to build your own museum.” 
DC: Hmm. Now, when we were down there today, we heard the plans described for the 
new building, and that there would be that aspect to it, that at the end of all the exhibits, you 
would be sort of inspired or asked what are you going to do? 
DB: Well, you can ask that, yes, but that’s not the same thing as having the planning 
going on there at the site, having the—I mean, how can you? Let’s face it. The problems of 
America, the challenge of change, progressive change, in America is still to tackle the 
corporations. Now, how are you going to have an institution that has now been taken over by the 
corporations—Federal Express, International Paper, AutoZone Corporation—which had been 
sued for major racial discrimination and, in fact, at the time that this discrimination was going 
on, Hyde was the chairman of the corporation. First Tennessee Bank—I mean, these are the 
corporations that are seated at the table at the board. 
And so, corporations—I mean, it’s not just the museum. I mean, this is happening across 
the entire Movement. We talked earlier about the foundations. They didn’t extract a pound of 
flesh from the integrity of the Movement. They stood to the side and thrived on our 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
92 
independence. They didn’t try to tell Chavez or King—I mean, they may have, if asked. And 
they had their own ideas of things they wanted to fund, such as Les Dunbar wanted to see the 
Children’s Defense Fund, but he was a big supporter of Marion Wright Edelman. 
But it’s a whole different scenario now. The corporations are the ones that are doing the 
funding, and that’s why the Movement has basically been killed, not just at the museum, but the 
Civil Rights Movement itself, the NAACP. When Bloomberg wanted to talk about limits on fast 
foods, the NAACP [03:10:00] said, “Wait a minute! We don’t need any limits on—obesity is not 
a problem.” That’s in essence what they said, because they’re getting money from some of these 
fast food giants. 
It’s a monster. And that’s why when I said earlier, and I’ll say the same thing about the 
museum and about the civil rights organizations that I said about politics: Institutions are only 
useful to the extent that you can use them to make change. At some point they become obsolete, 
in terms of your objective, and you have to create new forms to bring about change. 
DC: Or not only obsolete, but obstacles. 
DB: Absolutely, absolutely. 
DC: Yeah. 
JB: Well, that was a great sound bite. Making change. 
DC: That was terrific. Should we end there? Or should—well, we probably should end 
there, because we’ve taken up hours of your time. 
DB: Oh, well! It’s been my privilege. 
DC: It’s been an absolute pleasure. Thank you so much for doing this. 
 
[Recording ends at 03:11:00] 
D’Army Bailey, August 13, 2013 
93 
END OF INTERVIEW 
Transcribed by Sally C. Council