Finding Roots: Asian American Farmers in Contemporary America 
Kellee Matsushita-Tseng 
January 15, 2021 
Interview conducted by Katelyn Reuther 
Kellee Matsushita-Tseng is the Assistant Manager of the Farm Garden and an Apprenticeship 
instructor at the University of Santa Cruz's Center for Agroecology & Sustainable Food Systems 
in Santa Cruz, California. 
This was a 
remote interview conducted during the COVID-19 pandemic. Kellee Matsushita-
Tseng joined the interview from Santa Cruz, California, and Katie Reuther joined from Boston, 
Massachusetts. 
Interview Log 
00:00:00 
Introduction 
00:00:50 
Kellee's family had a 
mixed food culture when she was growing up. There were 
key, tradition-holding food items juxtaposed with a 
culture of convenience and 
assimilation. Kellee remembers visiting the Japanese market with her mom 
regularly, but feeling out of place and gravitating toward specific items that were 
a 
source of comfort and familiarity to her. She recalls her mom baking Rice 
Krispies Treats for her school class; her dad cooking spaghetti, fried pork 
wontons, and fried rice at home; eating food from In-N-Out Burger and pre-made 
and half-prepped meals from Trader Joe's. 
00:03:54 
Kelle describes her food preferences as a 
child. Kellee's mother is Japanese, and 
her father is Chinese. She recalls getting udon noodles at the Japanese market and 
enjoying Chinese green onion pancakes, or cong youbing, one of the few Chinese 
foods she liked. Because she has never liked eating meat very much, and the 
Chinese food she knew tended to have a 
lot of meat in it, she found very few 
items that resonated with her and leaned away from Chinese food as a 
kid. 
00:05:38 
In her early teen years and as a 
youth, Kellee wanted to eat delicious food. She 
preferred foods that were made from scratch rather than pre-made or takeout. 
Because of her home situation, she realized that if she wanted to eat good food, 
she would have to make it herself. Kellee took her first cooking class in middle 
school and became enthralled with it as she learned how to make simple dishes 
Kellee Matsushita-Tseng Interview Log, January 15, 2021 
1 
like a 
red spaghetti sauce or baked chicken. Watching The Food Network acted as 
a 
source of refuge and comfort for her as an early teen. 
00:08:18 
Homemade foods such as stuffed shells with red sauce, parmesan chicken, and 
chimichangas brought her the most comfort. She did not yet know how to reach 
into Asian tradition. 
00:09:03 
Her work in agriculture has only become personal more recently. With her early 
work rooted in community organizing, community health, youth education, and 
anti-death penalty work, Kellee later realized food was the confluence of all the 
things she cared about most. Growing up, she thought about farming in the 
extremes: either people growing their own food off the grid in a 
remote location, 
or hyper-industrialized commercial farmers who do not touch their seed. Now, 
after growing and working toward structural change in the food system for a 
while, Kellee has begun to bring personal identity into her work. 
00:12:21 
Kellee talks about how she developed her interest in agriculture and learned about 
farming. She did several short farming stints after university, including through 
the WWOOF (World Wide Opportunities on Organic Farms) program. She 
became enamored with being able to grow food, take care of plants, and build a 
relationship with land, but she still did not see it as a 
feasible career. She came off 
of those experiences both inspired and disillusioned about how it could all apply 
to her life and community. 
She joined a 
Master Gardener program in Los Angeles and worked with a 
diverse 
community of people who were passionate about their food. Some were using 
food and food access as a 
means of deeper transformation, and it inspired her to 
start working at community spaces that grew food. She learned a 
great deal from 
the Latinx community of growers, but also recognized that the knowledge she was 
gaining was not from her own heritage or traditions. In 2013, at the age of twenty-
four, Kellee was accepted into the University of California (UC) Santa Cruz's 
Sustainable Agriculture program. 
00:16:55 
Kellee studied art history and photography in college and had no exposure to food 
systems or agriculture in school. However, looking back, all of her work as a 
photographer documented projects about community food: a 
performative art 
piece about free and available fruit; dynamic space under highways with food 
growing, art creation, culture production; the gentrification and loss of tradition in 
Little Tokyo. 
00:18:57 
In the Master Gardener program, they were not allowed to talk about saving seed 
or GMO (genetically-modified organism) seed, nor were they allowed to pull 
political education into their work. Attending a 
seed saving course with Native 
Kellee Matsushita-Tseng Interview Log, January 15, 2021 
2 
Seed Search cemented that this was the direction she needed to go. Working with 
seed clicked in a 
profound way, with a 
focus on biodiversity conservation and 
building regionally adapted seed. As Kellee kept questioning why they were 
prohibited from talking about seed saving and consolidation of the seed industry 
in the Master Gardener program, she came to center seeds as the focus of her 
work. 
00:21:27 
There was not much about seed saving incorporated into Kellee's time at the UC 
Santa Cruz program. Now as an instructor there, she teaches workshops on seed 
sovereignty as a 
means of self-determination and community health, and leads in-
person trainings on how to grow, produce, and process seed. She also works with 
other members of the Asian American farming community to grow, conserve, and 
duplicate seeds important to their foodways and heritage. Recently, they grew out 
several different chili pepper varieties to evaluate for agronomic traits and 
potential, in addition to culinary and cultural connection. 
00:23:40 
Kellee has taken every opportunity possible in the last five years to gain seed 
knowledge, including attending conferences, reading, and growing. Seed takes 
time to grow, so the knowledge is something that is embodied over time through 
observation and learning from the land. On one initial farming trip out of 
university, she picked up and read Eccfeminism by Vandana Shiva, which 
informed her work and the direction she has gone. Specifically, viewing seed 
sovereignty as a 
movement that fights against violence enacted upon seed, the 
earth, women, and gender-nonconforming and non-binary people. 
00:26:28 
Mohawk seed keeper Rowan White has been a 
guide and inspiration, as have the 
Asian American farmers with whom Kellee works. 
00:27:12 
Incorporating her Asian American identity into her work is relatively new. She 
previously took a 
more systems approach to the importance of food, growing, and 
accessibility. 
00:28:22 
Identity and what it means to situate herself working in food has always been 
important for Kellee. In the spaces she worked before, there were clear class, race, 
and power differences, all of which she saw accentuated in food work. Through 
farming, she not only found her queer identity, but she also feels the most strong, 
happy, and comfortable with who she is. She wants to push against the 
conceptions of who people think a 
farmer is, or who people believe can do 
specific projects. Although exploration of Asian American identity was always in 
the back of her mind, Kellee only more recently found herself in spaces where she 
was exposed to this work and could have conversations about these topics. 
Kellee Matsushita-Tseng Interview Log, January 15, 2021 
3 
00:31:21 
The community of other Asian American farmers has been the most integral to 
Kellee's own journey as a 
farmer. She is learning about how they understand their 
identity and incorporate that into their work while also farming and making a 
living. She would like to have a 
more extensive connection to older generations of 
Chinese or Japanese farmers, but there are fewer and fewer of them out there 
doing this work. Kellee's Japanese grandfather and great-grandfather worked in 
agriculture before World War II, but they lost access to their land during Japanese 
incarceration. That was the point of disconnection from farming in her family. 
00:34:26 
Initially, Kellee's family was unsure of her decision to go into agriculture. 
However, as her time in the field progressed, they became increasingly proud of 
her and her work. 
00:35:18 
People are generally very receptive and excited about her work. Conversations 
around seed sovereignty and seed preservation are becoming more accessible to 
the general public as their awareness of seeds and seed sourcing grows. People are 
interested in how it relates to her heritage. 
00:36:21 
When thinking about identity in relation to the seed work she does, Kellee says 
she experiences curiosity and pushback against some of the ideas she brings into 
the work. She discusses how some Asian vegetables are becoming increasingly 
accessible to small, organic farmers in a 
commercialized way. They are being bred 
in a 
certain way and then grown, sold, and marketed toward higher income, often 
white consumers, especially in inaccessible restaurant spaces. How is this 
acknowledged or recognized? What are the intentions and the economic impacts? 
What does it mean to be a 
second, third, fourth generation immigrant? It's not a 
monolith; it's very different for each person. People have a 
lot of questions, 
unknowing, curiosity, and sometimes confusion. 
00:40:20 
When approaching these conversations in her work, reducing tensions is not 
necessarily her intention. Tension and conflict can be necessary and generative. 
There can be a 
way to hold it and also move forward. It depends who is 
participating in the conversation and where they are coming from. Kellee says it's 
necessary to find a 
point of connection for the person to link into the 
conversation. 
00:41:52 
Although Kellee has never felt lonely per se due to her race or ethnicity as a 
farmer, she does have a 
desire for more connectivity with her community. They 
are often far away and busy farming. The rise of virtual meetings worked to 
increase connection with Asian American farmers across the country, but she still 
has a 
deeper desire to be held by and connected with a 
physical community on the 
land. 
Kellee Matsushita-Tseng Interview Log, January 15, 2021 
4 
00:43:14 
For Kellee, connection in the same physical space would look like an 
intergenerational mixing pot of youth, Asian American farmers, recent and older 
immigrants being in a 
physical space to share knowledge, learning, food, and 
stories. 
00:44:31 
Kellee says she believes her race or ethnicity has definitely worked to her 
advantage, although she could not name any particular instances. She mentioned 
that because Asian people are perhaps seen as more white adjacent, there is the 
privilege of having accessibility to certain spaces that people of other races do 
not. 
00:46:06 
Kellee describes her favorite aspects of working at UC Santa Cruz. She enjoys the 
moment when people really connect to something and are able to draw in their 
own inspiration and excitement about it. She also appreciates students' ability to 
learn, incorporate the knowledge into their own lives, and use it as a 
tool for work 
they want to do. Kellee uses science, storytelling, culture, and a 
mix of modalities 
and disciplines in her seed sovereignty workshops to weave together stories and 
connections people have in a 
way that is not necessarily captured in other 
educational spaces. She has had amazing moments of witnessing people's 
learning journeys and personal identity development and connection. 
00:47:53 
Kellee recalls an exercise she does with her students. They co-create a 
visual web 
of what seed sovereignty could look like, and she says it is an especially 
transformative moment when people have the opportunity to add their own input 
and perspective into something, and then connect that to everyone else and the 
bigger picture. 
00:49:21 
A 
lot of what Kellee does and makes is informed by what she did not see existing 
or did not have access to before. 
00:50:10 
Her overall perspective on the work she is doing has not changed, but her 
perspective has deepened exponentially. Anytime she is exploring a 
piece of the 
work she is doing, she discovers that there is infinitely more to learn about it 
(knowledge, skill set, history of a 
practice). 
00:51:44 
Kellee reflects on how the events of 2020 impacted her work in the food system. 
Because of the COVID-19 pandemic, she has more optimism that people are 
seeing the importance of having community-controlled, durable, resilient food 
systems. There has been an incredible opening in the year and in this moment, 
where the general public is seeing the vulnerability of the food system and of farm 
and food workers. This has also been a 
wake-up call for farmers, producers, and 
distributors. Even if producing organic products and trying to have good 
practices, they are still absorbed into the larger industrial, commercial food 
Kellee Matsushita-Tseng Interview Log, January 15, 2021 
5 
system. People have begun to think more creatively and be more nimble. For 
example, many pivoted to CSA (Community Supported Agriculture) because of 
the restaurant industry collapse. 
The murder of George Floyd compelled Kellee to continue to learn more deeply 
about how her work can be in solidarity with other communities, and how her 
community of Asian American farmers can be in solidarity with Black farmers. 
People have become more receptive to unpacking the history of police brutality 
against communities of color, and how the foundation of the food system is built 
on violence on land and the exploitation of people. People are working to 
create different strategies for making spaces more equitable and inclusive. 
The fires in Santa Cruz resulted in their seed becoming unintentionally fire and 
drought adapted. There is another moment of opening in which people are seeing 
that natural and farming spaces are vulnerable when there is lack of water and 
forests have not been properly managed. This highlighted how important it is to 
have farming systems and communities that can create their own solutions and are 
not so reliant on any one thing (resource, distribution outlet, crop). 
00:59:25 
In the wake of everything that happened last year, her general direction will not 
change. However, Kellee does feel a 
need to think more creatively about things. 
Letting go of anything being secure or certain in terms of planning outcomes 
forces adaptability and creativity. She is hoping that some of that creativity can be 
part of the way she moves forward. 
1:00:28 
There are many changes Kellee would like to see take place across the food 
system: decommodification of seed and food in general; land access for farmers 
of color; land reparations. In thinking about things from a 
big, structural 
perspective through her work with the National Young Farmers Coalition, from a 
micro perspective through being on land, and then everything in between (local 
regulations, problems with distribution and access), she believes there are many 
components that need to change. The biggest change needed is the shifting of 
power of land and resources from corporations to communities. She would 
like to see it become a 
possibility for the many people who can grow food to do 
so in a 
way that is beneficial for the land and their communities. 
1:03:38 
Kellee advises other BIPOC (Black, Indigenous, people of color) who want to go 
into farming to find their community and find their mentors. If they are in a 
space 
where they feel they do not have something, it is not because of them, but because 
of the space they are in. She encourages them to find spaces where they feel 
engaged, excited, and empowered, because that is where they will do the best 
work. 
Kellee Matsushita-Tseng Interview Log, January 15, 2021 
6 
1:04:55 
Last year, Kellee witnessed the resurgence of xenophobia and racism against 
Asian immigrants, and particularly the Chinese community, due to the pandemic. 
This was another big moment of trying to understand what it means for her to do 
this work, and how others see her. 
1:06:00 
Kellee did not experience workplace discrimination, but found that while out in 
general public spaces, people would act a 
particular way (things they said or body 
language). 
1:07:23 
End of interview 
Kellee Matsushita-Tseng Interview Log, January 15, 2021 
7