NEW BEDFORD FISHING NERIIAGE CENTER 
Date of Interview 02/07/2017 
Anthony, Paul ~ Oral History Interview 
Laura Orleans 
Anthony, Paul. Interview by Laura Orleans. Workers on the New Bedford Waterfront. New 
Bedford Fishing Heritage Center. Date of interview: 0210112011. 
This oral history was produced in 2017 as part of the Workers on the Waterfront Oral History 
Project conducted by New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center with funding from an Archie Green 
Fellowship provided by the Library of Congress. 
New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center 
38 Bethel Street 
P.O. Box 2052 
New Bedford, MA 02741-2052 
Interview with Paul Anthony, February 7, 2017 
1 
Background 
Name of person interviewed: Paul Anthony [PA] 
Facts about this person: 
Age 52 
Sex Male 
Occupation General Manager, Sea Fuels Marine, New Bedford, MA 
Residence (Town where lives) 
Ethnic background (if known) 
Interviewer: Laura Orleans [LO] 
Transcriber: Laura Silverman [LS] 
Interview location: New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center, 38 Bethel St, New Bedford, MA 
Date of interview: 02/07/2017 
Key Words 
Sea Fuels Marine, fuel transportation, connections between fishing industry workers. Eastern 
Fisheries, ethnicities of fishing industry workers, dockside safety, fuel prices, fishing boat fuel 
consumption, how to fuel a fishing boat, fishermen’s attitudes, impact of weather on fueling 
boats, fishing industry nicknames, fishing industry jargon, fuel through put agreements, process 
of paying for fuel. 
Abstract 
In this interview, Paul Anthony gives a rich description of the fuel delivery industry on the New 
Bedford waterfront. He discusses the process of fueling a fishing boat, how payment works, 
fluctuations in fuel pricing, and the relationships between dockworkers. 
Interview with Paul Anthony, February 7, 2017 
Index 
[0:00] Introduction to the project, Paul Anthony, his work history, and how he came to work in 
the fuel industry. 
[5:07] Paul Anthony’s relatives also working in the fishing industry, common ethnic groups in 
the New Bedford area fishing industry 
[9:57] New Bedford Seafood Co-op operations in the late 1980s, safety factors to consider when 
fueling up a fishing boat. 
[14:24] Process of fueling a fishing boat in the past versus now, average fuel consumption of 
fishing boats. 
[19:20] Fluctuations in fuel prices, fishermen’s concern with fuel prices, busiest season for 
fueling boats, tools necessary to deliver fuel to boats 
[25:11] How to fill a boat’s fuel tanks to the appropriate level, captains’ preferences on fuel tank 
filling, typical number of fuel tanks on a boat. 
[29:35] Reasons why Paul enjoys his work, constant changes in the fishing industry, fishermen’s 
attitudes when they return to port, how weather impacts fueling a boat. 
[34:16] Necessity of working overtime on the waterfront, terminology and jargon related to 
fueling boats 
[40:51] Nicknames for waterfront workers and objects related to the fishing industry, pranking 
workers new to the industry, fishermen’s reactions to rising fuel costs, keeping track of inventory 
in the warehouse 
[46:04] Explanation of the through put agreement between Global Petroleum and the fuel supply 
companies on the waterfront, competition between fuel supply companies on the waterfront, 
keeping customers 
[49:34] How payment for fuel delivery works, payment timeline, other services Sea Fuels offers 
such as oil changes, expense of an oil change on a boat engine, early mornings on the waterfront. 
[55:43] End of audio 
Interview with Paul Anthony, February 7, 2017 
3 
[0:00] 
LO: So, today is Febmary... 
PA: Seventh. 
LO: Seventh in the year 2017, and this is an interview for the New Bedford Fishing Heritage 
Center, funded by an Archie Green Fellowship from the Library of Congress. As part of this 
project we are interviewing shore side workers in the New Bedford/Fairhaven fishing industry to 
record their stories, document their skills and knowledge, and better understand their important 
role in the fishing industry. The recording and transcript will become part of the permanent 
collection at the Library of Congress. I am Laura Orleans and today I am speaking with Paul 
Anthony here at the Fishing Heritage Center, and it is about quarter of three in the afternoon... 
PA: Yeah, quarter of three, yeah. 
LO: I will have you sign that formal document, but just for the record, do you give us permission 
to record you for this project? 
PA: Absolutely, yeah. 
LO: All right, so I know that I just said your name, but if you could introduce yourself for the 
purposes of.. 
PA: All right. I'm Paul Anthony, and I work at Sea Fuels Marine. 
LO: Okay. And more specifically what is your job at Sea Fuels? 
PA: Well, currently I'm the General Manager, so pretty much run the day to day operation for the 
facility. But it's a small fuel facility on the waterfront in New Bedford and we fuel most of the 
fishing fleet. Most of our clients are the fishing industry itself We do have some private yachts 
and things that come in during the summertime, but our main business is just the fishing 
industry. 
LO: So when and where were you born? 
PA: Well, I was born here in New Bedford, and raised here in New Bedford. Moved for a short 
period of time to Cape Cod for work, unrelated to this business, and then I returned back here, 
probably, I spent about ten years down there on Cape Cod and then came back here, and took the 
job on the waterfront. That's when I became related with the fishing industry at that point. 
LO: Okay. And then, when were you born? Year? 
PA: Uh, in, January 30th, 1965. 
LO: Oh, happy birthday. 
Interview with Paul Anthony, February 7, 2017 
4 
PA: Yeah. It was just the other day. 
LO: Just recently. So tell me a little bit about your childhood growing up. 
PA: Well, I grew up here in New Bedford, in the south end of New Bedford, which is down right 
on the right on the waterfront, down in the beach area and the peninsula. So I've always been 
around the water. My father was not related to the fishing industry in any way, he was an 
electrician, but I spent a lot of time on the water, and I, just personal, recreational fishing was my 
thing, so when I was a little kid I spent all my time out on my small boats. You know, we lived 
right up the street from the beach, so I'd be in the water all the time fishing with my little rod and 
reel and my buddies, and that was, uh, we kind of grew up all summer just playing around there. 
But then I went to school here in New Bedford, went away for a little bit to learn a, a sign trade, 
did that a little while down on the Cape, and then I moved back to this area, worked in, for this 
specific company which was called the Co-op at the time, it was the Seafood Co-op back then, 
and that's where I got my experience, was working as a tanker man to fuel the boats, things like 
that, got my license to, fuel boats and run fuel barges. And then that, had a little period of time 
where it, where that company started to lay people off and being a new employee there I got 
another job working in the same industry but not fueling fishing fleets, but working for a large 
fuel company, Reinauer Transportation. So I used to travel to New York, and then I'd go up and 
down the coast fueling, you know, transporting fuel out of New York City and, and that location. 
New Jersey and the refineries, and then bringing it up and down the coast. And then returned 
back here when I started to raise a family, it was just more convenient to be home for my kids 
and, so, and I got a job offer here, down here at Sea Fuels, and have been here for a good twenty- 
two years. Yeah. 
LO: Okay. So tell me with regard to, to after the sign company, we can talk about that in a 
minute, but what attracted you to the fuel business? How did you... 
PA: You know, you know it was, it was just kind of funny, it was a friend of mine who was a 
fisherman, a few of my buddies that I went to school with growing up in New Bedford they took 
the opportunity to go work out on boats, and in a roundabout way, one of the captains that he 
worked for ended up as a, as a manager for the New Bedford Seafood Co-op, which the New 
Bedford Seafood Co-op actually, it sounds more like it was related to the seafood industry, but it 
was really a supporting business was the fuel part, uh, fuel industry, that fueled the fishing boats. 
So, uh, the guy that was actually the Operations Manager at the time was a captain of one of my, 
one of my friend's, and he took him on board to work, and with him at the Co-op, and, I was out 
of work at the time for a short period of time, so he, they had an opening and it was a really 
sought after job at that time. So it was difficult to get in, but because I knew somebody, kind of, I 
moved my way into that position. So I was real grateful because if s, if s been a pretty good 
career for me. Yeah. 
LO: I have a sense from the limited knowledge that I have, or experience, exposure to the 
industry, that that's not so unusual. That a lot of, there are a lot of personal connections, family 
connections, or just knowing somebody is... 
Interview with Paul Anthony, February 7, 2017 
5 
[5:07] PA: That's correct. Yeah, it, it does seem that way. The waterfront's kind of an odd, ifs an 
odd animal, I guess, to kind of say, but yeah, it's strange that you get to meet a lot of people on 
the waterfront, and you find that they're related one way or another, whether it's friendships or 
actually blood relations, that these people, and it looks like a big town and a big waterfront, a lot 
of boats. But ifs almost like a small, ifs almost like a small fishing village. It's hard, that's the 
way I can describe it because you start to realize how many people are connected. Myself now, I 
have a lot of family members that are connected here to the waterfront, and so you know it's 
really strange. And people say, oh, that's so-and-so's brother, or thaf s so-and-so's uncle, and they 
knows this one, and, and though, though it looks like a big waterfront, not, not something simple 
you'd see like up in Maine or some of these small villages where you see small boats. Even 
though the boats are big, their fishing families are still pretty much the same. And you see a lot 
of people that are, and they may not be fishermen, but they work in related, you know, whether 
ifs welding or, something to do with gear, or even fuel. And that's basically, yeah, that's kind of 
how you see a lot of people do end up working in different industries. I wouldn't say everybody, 
but, a good part of them, and ifs a really strong industry. Ifs gone through ifs times, ups and 
downs, but ifs always been a big industry here in New Bedford, so I think it, ifs employed so 
many people through the years. It's an opportunity, put it that way, it's, it's one of the bigger 
opportunities here in New Bedford, so by having that opportunity, it does employ a lot of people. 
And then you find that, you know, it brings on other people after that and you see generations of 
people that are down here, they continue to work, in one fashion or another. 
LO: So, you mentioned that you've got family in the industry. I happen to know a little bit, but, 
for the sake of the recording, tell me a little... 
PA: Yeah, well my brother, he helps run one of the larger fishing companies here in the city for 
his father-in-law. Eastern Fisheries is a pretty big, pretty big fishing company here so he's 
involved in that, and helping run that fishing industry there. We actually do very limited business 
with him. The company I work for, they actually have their own division where they fuel their 
own boats. But we fuel the other boats, but we're, you know, because we're on the waterfront we 
know each, and all that. I got a nephew that also does a lot of diving and things like that here on 
the waterfront, and of course his children, most of, his two sons are involved in the fishing, so I 
got two nephews that also work in the fishing industry, you know, for Eastern also, you know, 
just small connections like that, and then of course a lot of friends and things like that that I've 
known through the years, just growing up going to school, and they still, you know, in the area 
they work in different industries here, whether they're fishing or whether they work in the, some 
of the boat yards, or some of the fish houses and things like that. So yeah, ifs a, even in law 
enforcement, I got one of my best friends, one of my good friends works here in the law 
enforcement, so on both sides I have people that I know, you know, I, that's funny because I 
always think about him when I see him go by, because I know not always looked in favor of his, 
his job that he does, and yet, we, we still remain friends, we see each other, work amongst each 
other, yeah. 
LO: So is that law enforcement specifically on the waterfront? 
PA: Uh, yeah, he works for the fisheries division, for the marine fisheries division. He's, but he 
grew up here in the south end with me, one of the guys I was talking about hanging around as a 
Interview with Paul Anthony, February 7, 2017 
6 
kid playing and fishing and stuff like that. But he went to college and got a degree in marine 
science, and then worked his way into the working law enforcement with the marine fisheries, so 
you know, I see him on the waterfront all the time so it's, it's funny, you, you get to see a lot of 
different people. 
LO: So, the waterfront is very diverse ethnically, too. I've been really interested in that, and I'm 
curious, what's your ethnic background? 
PA: Well, yeah, a lot of Portuguese, that's was main, there's quite a few Polish fishermen here in 
the city, and of course Norwegian is a big, big part of this waterfront, you know. Myself, I, I got 
a little Portuguese in me and French, but really it has nothing, no connection, I would say, with 
the waterfront, or my ethnicity never really been a factor, and either way I don't speak 
Portuguese, but, you know, because I've known so many of the people that work in it, you know, 
you just, that's about it. 
LO: So you said you worked at Sea Fuels about twenty-two years... 
PA: Yeah, yes, for Sea Fuels. And I worked, prior to that, probably four or five years with, when 
it was the New Bedford Seafood Co-op, and the stint in between that was, you know, the stint in 
between I was working for Reinauer Transportation. 
LO: So actually... 
PA: ...Out of New York. 
LO: ...let's back up to the Seafood Co-op... 
PA: Yeah. 
LO: ...because I am curious, a little bit more, about that. Was it strictly just fuel, the Seafood Co¬ 
op? Or was it several... 
[9:57] PA: Yeah the New, when I came on, for the New Bedford Seafood Co-op, at that point, 
was pretty much a fuel and, you know, fish supplies for the fishing boats and things like that. 
They sold some gear, not an awful gear because there was a lot of different businesses that do 
that, so it was mostly like the petroleum products, you know, oils, greases, things that got to do 
that, equipment they use in the engine rooms, you know, grease guns, things like that. It was a lot 
of things like that, bilge cleaners, all that was in a warehouse, so that was a big, that was a very 
big part of the business, still is, big part of the business. But the fuel, they had four different 
barges that would go out and fuel the fuel barge, fuel the fishing fleet, excuse me. They'd fuel the 
fishing fleet so there was four barges and we used to leave at 4:30 in the morning, was the, it was 
usually the time when the boats actually left the dock, so you got there just, you know, just after 
four, got your boat warmed up and all four barges would go out. At the time, that was the only, 
there was only one other company that was actually in the harbor, that did the same type of work 
that we did. And it was one barge with two individuals on it. So, really, most of the fleet, and the 
Interview with Paul Anthony, February 7, 2017 
7 
fleet was a lot bigger back then. So, the four barges, we had pretty full schedule to keep things 
going just to keep everything fueled. 
LO: So give me a sense of, of time, are we talking '80s? 
PA: Yeah. That, when I came on, yeah, it was definitely back in, well, let me see. '80, it must 
have been around '89, '88, '89 was when I came down. And came to work for the Co-op, yeah. 
'89, '90, somewhere in that area. It's, I'm foggy, trying to remember what time it was, must've 
been around '90, and then I came to work, like I said, I worked for the Co-op at that point, and 
we put in, like I said, there was four barges, so there was quite a few individuals that worked 
there, and at the time it was a union shop, it was, the Local 59 was the, it was the local union that 
we worked under. And Local 59 used to take care of a lot of different things here on the 
waterfront too, they weren't, you know, just not, just the fueling, but there was other, other 
company, other divisions. 
LO: And so that was also after the, the strike, the big strike... 
PA: Yeah. 
LO: ...in 19... 
PA: I, yes, exactly. I started shortly after the strike, supposedly they got a, I heard a lot of those 
stories and things, but at that point I was already, that had gone on, by already. They had, you 
know, they'd been, done some changes, even at, even at the Co-op where some of the individuals 
were let go, and that's what left some open spaces, because of different things that took place 
during that time, and so when I came up here, I didn't have, I wasn't licensed or anything, but 
they took me on to work as an employee and then I got my license through the Co-op, they 
actually helped me attain my license through the Coast Guard, and um, that's how I started the 
career in fuel, uh, working with, as a tank man, working on the fuel barge. 
LO: So tell me a little bit about that, that on-the-job training? 
PA: Yeah well, like I said, I had a lot of experience in the water, on the water from being, you 
know, younger, we always had pleasure boats and things like that, and a friend of mine, think he 
should be, you know. There's safety factors, you got to be paying attention all the time, but have 
a tendency to let your guard down, and if you do, you know, you're working along, amongst the 
same things that the fishermen are working on when they're out at sea, a vessel might not be 
operating at the time you're doing it, but there's operations going on where they might be taking 
out fish, there's heavy baskets swinging things, you got to pay attention so that nobody gets, you 
know, again, you know. And people do look out for you. And there's times when we've fueled 
the boats when they're sitting idle at the dock where the boat has come in from fishing, and 
during the evening, when you weren't, we weren't on duty, and when we get out there in the 
morning we just jump aboard, and we fuel it, you know, and get the fuel done before, maybe, 
the settlement house opens at eight o'clock, we'll have the fuel aboard and if s, the oils and 
anything that it needs, and so that they can settle the boat, and sometimes those hours in the 
morning, usually at dark, so you got to be a little bit more careful. I, we've had incidents where 
Interview with Paul Anthony, February 7, 2017 
8 
guys slip and fall because of ice or anything else, and then the, you know, like I said, sometimes 
they fall in the water. It not common, pretty much everyone's pretty conscious of that, but it does 
happen, it does happen, so yeah, there's a certain safety element to it, you know, personal safety, 
but. Um, not as dangerous as being out at sea, but. 
LO: So take me on a, kind of a typical, or is, is there a typical day? Like what time does the day 
start? 
[14:24] PA: Well, you know, if s changed so much now, because of the way that, before, the 
boats would come in, they would be, you know, and any given day you might have twelve, 
fifteen or twenty vessels in, on, on a day, and taking out fish, and, what they do, the auction was 
something that was - you probably had another interviews and things - but the auction was 
something that was going on at the time. And when they got their assignment of where to take 
their fish, the boats, after they came in, they would find out where they going to, and they'd all 
rush the fish houses, and you'd kind of stay clear of them with the barge and let them kind of 
settle into the fish houses. They got to be taking their fish out and we'd come along side, and 
you'd just continue there, you'd go from boat to boat to boat, and you'd try to get them. Now, if s 
not so much that way. Individual houses buy certain trips from certain boats, so we know to look 
for them and where they're going to be. You know, if we have a certain boat thaf s due in, we 
know where that boat takes out, so we kind of look in that area in that direction, and we get to 
them. So if s a little more, time-wise if s a little more relaxed than what it was before. Of course, 
makes it safer, too. Yeah, I think before when you used to feel rushed and under pressure to do a 
lot of boats in a day you would have a tendency to maybe, you know, you're trying to rush along 
with the job and your possibility of having an incident or an accident. So now if s a little bit, so 
you get out there, there's a little more, and you have more time to be a little more safer at your 
job. And, the boats, of course, changed so much from years ago; the older boats were very 
difficult to fuel. There wasn't a lot of thought into the process of how they would fuel, and as the 
fishing fleet had to travel further out and fish in different waters and different timelines, instead 
of being out for six or eight days they were going out for twelve and fourteen days, they had to 
carry more fuel so they would put the fuel tanks aboard the boat that weren't normally where 
they would be, or maybe not the safest way to have them installed in the boat, so it made your 
job a little trickier. But today, pretty much with the modem boats and the new boats, the fleet's 
been through a big change. They're a lot easier to fuel. I'd have to say, most all the modem boats 
and the newer boats, the systems are a lot easier, the location of the fuel tanks, things like that, 
makes our job a lot easier. So we leave the dock, we come alongside, typically it takes about an 
hour and a half to two hours per vessel to fuel, roughly, depending on the size and amount of fuel 
that they're going to take, and of course the amount of fuel depends on how many days at sea 
they've been. Obviously the longer they've been or the tougher part of the, the water they were 
fishing in, they might burn a little more fuel, a little less fuel, so, you know, of course that would 
be a factor of how much time you'd spend aboard a vessel. And once you were done, you would, 
if we, all our products are ticketed, so we have meters and tickets aboard the barge, we fill them 
out and you're basically left with a fuel ticket that tells you how much, the amount that you took. 
And the vessel gets a copy which we normally leave somewhere in the vessel. If there's 
somebody aboard the vessel at the time we leave it with them, if not we just leave it somewhere 
in the galley. And then the fuel slips get called in to the office and we have a girl in the office 
that makes sure that the settlement houses get that amount of fuel at that day's price, and gets 
Interview with Paul Anthony, Febmary 7, 2017 
9 
billed, so that they can get that settlement in so the boats can settle up and the guys can get their 
money. And we'll move on to the next boat and just basically go about our day. Some days you 
may have a lot, you know, five, six boats, and other days you may only have three or two boats. 
And there's typical days that we may not have any boats in, so you know, it gives you a chance 
to catch up on things in your vessel. 
LO: So, I, I understand that the fuel amount might change... 
PA: Yes. 
LO: ...you know, according to the size of the vessel and all those factors... 
PA: The type of fish. 
LO: ...is there a, is there an average, or? 
PA: An aver-, yeah, you know, I, a lot of people ask me that, because it does, kind of, you know 
they say, “Well, how, you know, how much fuel do they take?” So something like a scallop boat 
that as a full license with two drags, anywhere from, typically you can say anywhere between a 
full trip which would be ten, twelve days, might be anywhere between 7 and 12,000 gallons of 
fuel for that trip. And a dragger, which usually doesn't spend as much time out and the fishing 
may not be as, the boat might not have to work as hard as it does dragging across the bottom 
with the big steel drags that they use to do scallop with, so they'll burn anywhere between 3 and 
6,000 or 8,000 gallons. So that's about an average between a scalloper and a dragger. So if you 
look out in your day and you see you have three scallopers in and a dragger, you can kind of 
calculate roughly how much fuel you're going to be using on that day. You have an idea. And by 
looking, if you keep a good enough log, you know when the boat left the dock, so you know 
about what time he's back in, and you can kind of figure after awhile about how much ga-, how 
many gallons a day they burn. So while they're out at sea if they typically take 700 gallons a day 
and they're out ten days, you figure 7,000 gallons. So you kind of have an idea, so once you get 
to know your customer you kind of figure that out. 
LO: How much does the price change, day to day? 
[19:20] PA: Well, that's always a big thing, now it is. Years ago it never was, but nowadays it's a, 
um, my job, basically in the, first thing in the morning, by 6:00 I have all my prices. And what I 
have to do is, every day the prices change, because it's bought and sold on the Commodities 
Market in New York, so the price gets set at 6:00 in the evening, so that next, the following 
morning is the price, we're setting the price of the fuel at the 6:00, market price in New York, at 
the Exchange, the New York Stock Exchange, and then we have to take that and factor in, of 
course, our transportation and our, you know, profit, things like that. And then we work out the 
price every day. So it fluctuates quite a bit. But it basically the owners and those people, they can 
figure about how much it is going to be a trip if they pay attention to the Stock Market, which a 
lot of them do, and they see that the fuel, you know, fuel might have rose three or four cents 
overnight, so they know there's going to be a three or four cent increase in the fuel price. Or even 
if there's a four or five cent drop and you, the market swings, it's the stock market, so some days 
Interview with Paul Anthony, February 7, 2017 
10 
you might go a week where it dropped, you might go a week where it went up. So it, there can be 
pretty good swings in the fuel price. So yeah, and where you're taking that much fuel, that's one 
of your biggest expenses to settle the boat, so yeah. 
LO: Do guys plan their arrival accordingly? I mean, they don't wait to come in because the fuel 
prices... 
PA: No, no, that would take, that doesn't factor in. They're just doing their job. 
LO: It is what it is. 
PA: They're doing their job and yeah, thaf s basically what it is. You know and if they hit it three 
or four cents more or less one day or another, it is what it is. Thaf s usually not a big, big factor. 
Three or four cents, I know if s, with a large amount of fuel, 10,000 gallons of fuel, three cents, 
it's a difference divided amongst everybody. But it's, historically, through time though, over the 
last few years, when we, when I first started in the industry, the price of fuel for many years 
probably way back, was anywhere between, you know, you'd pay sixty-five to eighty-five cents a 
gallon, and that was, that was per gallon of fuel. And today, typically, it doesn't fall below two 
dollars and if s typically up as high as two dollars and fifty cents. The swing goes between there. 
So thaf s, you know, if s changed a lot. 
LO: A couple years ago... 
PA: Yeah. 
LO: ...it was worse. 
PA: Yes, it was, when you have, have any big changes, like if you have a, an ongoing conflict 
somewhere, like a war or something, it, the price can go crazy, or you have something like an 
embargo going on and, you know, depending, politically, it really screws things up politically 
too. And it can go both ways though, sometimes it can really drop or it can really rise. But those 
swings, you know, they're, thankfully, usually far and few between. But, yeah, they can be, they 
can be hard on the industry. And depending on how well the industry's doing. If the industry's 
going well - one of the typical things that I always laugh about is years ago when, when the boats 
weren't doing so well and fishing, they weren't getting as much price for their product and it was, 
they were always ask, every time, what's the price of fuel? You know, the guys aboard the boat, 
because they knew that impacted their check quite a bit, because if s the largest expense on their 
settlement sheet will be the fuel. So then they'll say how much is fuel? And whaf s the fuel? And 
then, you know, they get, they bitch about it, oh, if s crazy, it's so expensive. But when fishing's 
doing really well and they're getting paid very well and the amount of the product they're getting 
is coming in real well, they have a tendency to not to even ask that question, you know? And 
they kind of relax and they just, they don't even say anything. They come, you come aboard, 
they're just happy to be done with their trip, they know they're going to making a lot of money, 
there's, you know, the price of the product is pretty high, and you may not even get asked how 
much the fuel is. So, it all depends on what, you know, there's both sides of the coin, you know, 
how well the market's doing and how much the product is, you know? 
Interview with Paul Anthony, February 7, 2017 
11 
LO: Is there much change seasonally, in terms of the volume of business you do, and... 
PA: Yeah, well, yeah, typical, well because the boats, they get more fishing days, they get - their 
days are kind of centered around, for scallop boats, if s like, uh, in the March season. That's when 
the biggest part of the fleet really starts working, is after March. So they get their days back, 
what they call their days, they get so many days that they can fish. And they all start to go out 
then through the summertime if s usually much busier. We have a lot of boats there from the 
southern parts here on the coast, they come up and fish up in the northern parts, and so they're in 
and out of the port too, so the volume increases quite a bit between March and towards the end of 
the fall into like October, you know, and that's, usually that's between March and October is the 
biggest volume of fuel that we use. Even, you know, of course the pleasure yachts too, that we 
do a lot of pleasure yachts. They come into our dock also, we're open for that type of business. 
As I say, primarily if s the fishing fleet, but we do, of course that's in the summertime only, up 
here in the northeast, no, nobody's out there in their pretty boats this time of year. 
LO: How about tools? We talked about clothing a little bit, are there tools that you bring with 
you on jobs, or that are on... 
PA: Not too much, I mean, basically, you can almost do your job with a, you know, a pipe 
wrench, a screwdriver, you know, there's not a lot of The equipment's pretty much the same, just 
about, I mean you do have some boats a little more trickier than others and places you have to 
get your hoses into, and places that a little more difficult to get around some equipment they may 
have aboard the boat, so you have to move things and all. But no, really the tools-wise, there 
really isn't anything specific. Good set of eyes and a good set of ears also so you know when 
you're, you can hear your product splashing in the tank and know where you're going. And just 
paying attention to, usually the safety, things that are aboard the boat, like your sight glasses and 
sounding tubes, things like that, and make sure that you know that you're doing, it's going in the 
right place, not ending up in the water. 
[25:11] LO: And is it sort of similar to fueling up your car in terms of like, how do you know 
when you've, when if s done? 
PA: Well basically, yeah, no, not at all. It's nothing even close to filling up a vehicle where you 
have what they call back flow nozzle that shuts off automatically. So when your tank is full, it 
comes up and it snaps off That doesn't happen in this, not in this industry. You rely on sight 
glasses, which is basically a tube where you watch the fuel actually rise in the glass and you can 
see the level of it. A lot of boats, typically, they want to balance the boat so it floats the way 
they, each captain's usually pretty particular. When a new captain takes a boat, after he gets 
familiar with how the boat rides in the water and the way he likes to fish, they may personally 
mark the tanks at the sight glasses where they want the fuel, “don't go any higher than here,” or 
“leave these tanks.” The forward tanks they want a little bit more so that the boat comes down a 
little bit in the head, she'll go deeper in the water and a little higher in the stem, or vice versa. 
They might prefer the boat to have a deeper draft in the stern, so they want more fuel in the stem, 
a little less in the forward part of the boat, so it's all personal taste, and so you go aboard the boat 
and you pretty much go for where the levels of fuel that each particular captain or engineer might 
Interview with Paul Anthony, Febmary 7, 2017 
12 
want his boat to be set at to give him his optimum ride for the boat while they're fishing. He'll 
make the job a lot easier on everybody aboard the vessel when they're working, so, but that's 
basically it. I mean you, and so, you're not really, if s not like when you're filling a car where you 
fill it until if s done; you fill it specifically to the boat. So wherever the boat needs to have it, 
some guys want it filled right up out of sight, in other words they want the, the fuel to actually go 
to the top of the sight glasses where you don't see it anymore, which means that the boat, the 
tanks are very, very full. And so, but you just get used to those, again, those are the things that 
you get used to your customers and how they want it and what they want. And they try to, every 
time you fuel the boat, you want to bring it back to that point because then you know that's 
exactly what they burned on that trip, and that's exactly what they're going to get charged for, the 
guys aboard the deck know exactly what they're going to get charged for so. And barring 
anything, unless there's an incident where a boat has maybe a breakdown or something and 
they're going to have to go on a railway, they don't want to put all that weight on, all that fuel 
causes a lot of weight in the boat, so they'll estimate the fuel, so then they'll figure, like I said, 
700 gallons a day, ten days, 7,000 gallons, they estimate a 7,000 gallon fill and we can make a 
bill up for that and then when they get back in the water we can make sure they get their 7,000 
gallons worth of fuel or, as opposed to how much money they paid, they're getting the fuel, and 
that way there they, they can get the boat out of the water safely without having all that weight 
aboard. So something like that may change our job a little bit, but. 
LO: How many tanks does a boat typically have? Is that standard, or? 
PA: Oh, you know, most boats, it varies. I've been on boats thafve had six and eight tanks and, 
some of the new, modem boats that, most of the newer boats that we do, the larger scallop 
vessels, they have typically six tanks. They may have two tanks forward on either side, port and 
starboard side, forward, what they'll call forward tanks or bow tanks. And then you get what they 
call saddle tanks, or mid tanks, which are usually right almost dead center of the boat where the 
engine is. And you have a port and starboard tank there. And then most of them have tanks in the 
stern also, and you'll have a port and starboard stern tank. So, they'll be, typically, maybe six is 
most boats have. Smaller boats may only have four or even just two. Even the small, some of the 
smaller draggers just got two saddle tanks, forward in the engine room and they just, you know, 
fill those tanks there. 
LO: And each tank is filled independently? 
PA: Individually, yup. So if you got, they would be filled, we have two hoses aboard the barge, 
and so we would put a hose on the port side and one on the starboard side, or one forward, one 
aft, depending on how you, how the individ-, you know, how you like to fill the boat. Because 
we pretty much make that decision on how, when we're putting fuel on, how we want to fuel it. 
We might want to fill it something forward and something aft first, maybe both forwards first, 
maybe both aft first, and it, thaf s something we get used to, just to keep our job safe when we 
know, you know, where it is. But as long as the individual, the captains get what they need, 
they're happy. 
LO: So what do you enjoy most about this work? You've been doing it a long time. 
Interview with Paul Anthony, Febmary 7, 2017 
13 
[29:35] PA: I don't know, I guess it's, I guess it's the people more than anything. I mean, it's like 
any job, you know, you try to, you see so many people come and go and they're just - yeah, I 
guess I'd say it's just, it's an atmosphere. It's hard for me to describe. I just, you know, been doing 
it for so long if s not glamorous business, at all, and if s not something like, you know some 
people say you're a fisherman, they picture you in the movies offshore and this and that, and the 
wind blowing and the spray in your face. This kind of work is nothing like that, you know, I 
mean, you're just about doing your work every day, jumping aboard. But I think ifs maybe the 
early hours and you know, I like getting down on the waterfront really early when the sun's 
coming up and I, you know, ifs hard to describe, but I guess I have to say just, and, and ifs 
interesting all the time; it changes. It's not like working in a factory constantly stitching 
something or, or making something over and over repetitively, even though it's somewhat of a 
repetitive business, ifs always different, you know. These different stories of the trips the people 
coming in, what they're doing. And, and seeing the boats, the boats change a lot. Lot of times 
there's - it just fascinates me - the gear and stuff that they use. And even the scientific end of it, 
really, always astonishes me. There's a lot of scientific stuff going on now, you know, surveys 
and, and I ask a lot of questions. People probably want me to shut up, but I like to ask anyways. 
You have those who want to talk to me and others. I'll listen because I, I think ifs fascinating. Ifs 
an evolving business all the time and so even though our business doesn't change a heck of a lot, 
theirs does and ifs fascinating. Because we do see it, we see it every single day you're down 
there, you're exposed to it, you know? How many, you know, how many bags of a product did 
they bring in this trip, you know, where are they fishing right now, where's the best part they're 
fishing? You can see the product how it changes, and then the pricing. And then you also see on 
the scientific end of it, you know, where they're finding, you know, different areas that they, 
you're fishing and they're getting more product in this area, or less in that area, and they put more 
pressure in this area, they want to close down that area. And you hear, you hear both sides of 
those stories. I think it's kind of - and not being directly involved with that end of it - the actual, 
the product itself, we're just kind of supporting that end of it. It's like I said, that part that 
fascinates me. I feel like I, ifs not boring to me, so, you know. 
LO: And you're kind of at the first line of, how do you say it, but you hear those stories first. 
PA: Yeah. When they hit the dock ifs usually out... 
LO: You're there. 
PA: ...we're meeting them when, lot of times, before they even, you know, they've maybe not 
even talked to their wives yet or their, you know, their family yet. They've hit the dock and a lot 
of times it all depends. They could be in a good mood; they could be in a bad mood. You never 
know what type, or you know, you kind of steer clear or you can get engaged in conversation, 
depending on. Most of the time they're pretty happy. They're home. Ifs been a long trip and 
they're home. So yeah, you get aboard the boat and you kind of see them, and if they've had a 
good trip, you know, they're going to be pretty excited, the fact that they're going to, you know, 
so. And then they don't bother me so much about how much fuel is. 
LO: Can you think of a time that you had a particularly challenging job or situation? 
Interview with Paul Anthony, February 7, 2017 
14 
PA: You know, I think the only time that it, the only time that it gets fmstrating, actually is when 
you get weather conditions. Obviously, it's the weather conditions, you know? The heat of the 
summer, I don't like a lot of heat. I don't even mind the cool, I can dress warm for it, but when 
you get in very windy conditions for days there, it can, it actually, I personally being the General 
Manager, I'll call the barge off on certain days depending on the conditions in the harbor. Even 
though we're in the harbor, we're not outside, but it doesn't matter because the equipment can get 
banged up pretty good. And when you still get a good breeze against the side of a boat and it 
makes it dangerous. It just makes it dangerous to moor the boat to the vessel. It makes it 
dangerous to, you're on board, you're working and the wind's blowing and, so in those conditions 
when you get really high, high winds or days when you get an awful lot of snow and things like 
that, if s difficult. It slows your day down. You got to be more careful, you're doing a lot of 
shoveling just to get at the equipment aboard the barge, also aboard the fishing boats. So, you 
know, those days, I wouldn’t say dangerous in any way, but there's days when if s a little more 
difficult than others. Cold weather, always ice is a problem. But, if you dress warm for it, you 
know, different people look at it different ways. I don't mind the winter, but I have a, one of my 
guys that works for me comes from Texas, and let me tell you, when temperature drops he's 
never happy. 
LO: So you kind of alluded to the uniqueness of the waterfront and the community there. What 
are the qualities that you think are really valued in workers, on the waterfront? In your job, but 
also just in general? 
[34:16] PA: Yeah, well, the hours are always something that a lot of people, uh, are fasci-, I don't 
know where that changed for me. Because when I worked in the sign industry or any of the other 
places that I worked, most people have like, okay, you know, set hours. You get in a certain time 
you leave at a certain time. And overtime's always a nice thing to have. This industry, the time is 
the time. We do have set times, the guys come in, they get paid. And they get paid overtime also. 
But overtime's not only a good thing, but if s a required thing in our industry, just because if s like 
a never-ending day. It goes from day to night, so, we may have a boat that needs to be fueled 
because he has to get back out. In the morning he'll call and say, all right, we've been in since 
5:00 in the morning working and now if s like three in the afternoon, we're winding down, 
getting ready to, you know, we're here for almost twelve hours a day at our location. Not all 
guys, we share: some guys get a little overtime some guys get a little less. So, well, you know, 
share the overtime each day. And then but we'll get somebody who calls and says they, I really 
got to get back out. And it's like, you can't, you don't have the, you don't have the luxury to say, 
well. I'm off duty at five. Sounds like, no, you know, the guys have to understand when they 
come to work for me, you know, at 5:00 the boat's going to hit the dock and he needs to be back 
out before midnight; regulation-wise, whatever the reason being, he needs to go. I need you to 
stay here and you can't say no. I need you to be here. And I need you to be able to do the boat at, 
you know, six, seven in the, o'clock, at night, you know, and get it done and so they can get back 
out. You know they're under constraints so we're kind of under a constraint to get our job done. 
So those things sometimes can be, you know - so yeah, thaf s a uniqueness of the job I have to 
say, you know, and, and seeing that kind of thing. It's something that you have to kind of get 
used to and not a lot of people are used to something like that. Yeah, some are starting new they 
kind of get like, well. This is a requirement. You need to realize that the timing-wise, weekends, 
not always your weekend. It may be your weekend off, it's fine, but now all of sudden I got 
Interview with Paul Anthony, February 7, 2017 
15 
something we got to do I got to call you in, you got to come. We have ships that come in and we 
do some ships here in the harbor that take fruit and things like that. We also fuel them. And 
they're under really rough time constraints. Just this weekend we had to do a freighter that 
needed to be leaving at 0600 on Monday morning. So he didn't hit the dock till Friday afternoon, 
and late, and they have a lot of things they have to do before they can bunk-, what they call 
bunkering the ship, or put fuel aboard the ship. And in order to do that we have to set up a time, 
it has a lot of paperwork that has to go in for these ships. So it fell within the weekend, so the 
guys realized, well, you know what, I need everybody on, not just one guy to help work on the 
dock, I need to have everybody, the whole crew, so everybody can get their job, we can get it 
done. So, and it, you know, we really don't have that option to say, well I really don't want to 
work today. No, you kind of, we're a small crew here. You're going to be in, thaf s the way it is. 
LO: How many work at Sea Fuels? 
PA: Well, doing the operations now, we have, one dock man, we got two bargemen, and then 
myself, I float, I do everything and anything that needs to be done there. So typically the workers 
that are doing all the, you know, the work itself is four of us. And then the boss is also there for, 
you know, he's always there to back up the, if he needs to be there on the dock to keep things 
running there so that we can get out on the barge and do things that we need to get done. So 
yeah, there are four that are primarily working all the time, that are on duty to just make sure 
things get finished and get done and then, like I said, the boss is always there too to back us up 
when we, we need to have, uh... 
LO: That is a small crew. 
PA: Yeah. 
LO: How many boats do you service? 
PA: Oh, boy, I don't know, probably... 
LO: Fishing boats. 
PA: Yeah, fishing boats. I'd have to, you know. I'd have to say that if s in, I haven't gone through 
the list recently but if s got to be close to 200. 200 boats. So, yeah. At any given time, depending 
on what time or season, some might be up here more in the summertime, about 200 boats. 
LO: Oh, you mentioned bunkering. So, I'm fascinated by the language of the waterfront. 
PA: Yeah. 
LO: It seems like there's some special terms and jargon pretty much in every aspect of the 
waterfront. Are there words that you can think of that you guys use that you all know what you 
mean but, but I might not know? 
Interview with Paul Anthony, February 7, 2017 
16 
PA: Well, you know, it's funny, because guys will say, you know, put fuel aboard the boat. Yeah, 
a lot of people that aren't from the industry say, well, you know, they have to get gas. Because 
they think of cars and things like that, if s not called gas. It's kind of, you know when someone's 
kind of green at their job, they'll say we have to gas that boat, we have to put gas, you know, 
they'll go the gasoline, or gas. No, thaf s not the right term. It just sounds, doesn't fit. It's fuel. 
They're going to put fuel aboard the boat or, you know. Bunkering is a term they use mostly in 
ships, you know. But if you were to go sit for your tanker man license, your PIC, they consider it 
bunkering when you're doing vessels, any vessels, so as you're even a fishing boat in terminology 
as the Coast Guard sees it, if s bunkering fishing boats. It's just what they use. We don't, we just 
say fueling the vessels. You know, ifs vessel fueling operations, is just the way we look at it in 
the smaller industry. But if you worked down on the big industry on the ships, ifs always 
bunkering. If you come and you say, do you need fuel, they kind of look at it the same way that I 
do when someone says gas. They gas boat, if you go aboard a ship and say we're going to put 
fuel aboard, they're like, okay. You mean you're going to give us bunkers? You know, thaf s the 
way that they, it's just kind of a term that we don't use it all the time down there, but most, most 
of the people in the industry will understand what bunkering means. Yeah. Things like that. 
Other than that, you work, you know, when you, like the car, you pull your -1 have a tendency to 
say, when I'm driving, and it drives my wife nuts, and I'll say, she'll be pulling up to something 
and I'll say, watch your bow. Because I don't want her to bump into something with the front end 
of the car, and she'll say, ifs the front end of the car and Tm like the bow. I say, when you back 
up, make sure you clear your stern before you - and ifs just, it kind of gets ingrained, you know? 
And sometimes I'll say that about the car, you know, the starboard side or the right, instead of 
saying the right say, it'll be, over here on your starboard side. Over by the right, you know. It 
just, you kind of, you know, other than that, I mean, it's kind of silly things that you kind of But, 
oh, a line, a lot of people consider they say give me a rope, you know, a rope. Well yeah it is a 
rope that you're working with, that may be the actual, but ifs a line. Ifs, ifs always called a line, 
you never say, you know, tie the rope off, you know, you tie a line. Things like that, that you 
may, you don't hear anywhere else, that you might say, you know, oh, how many ropes do you 
put out your boat? You know, how many lines do you put out. It's kind of like, you know, it's just 
the terminology, maybe stuff like that. But. There's nothing really that would be too baffling to 
people, you know, you can kind of understand what you mean. 
[40:51] LO: What about nicknames? 
PA: Oh, nicknames, well everybody has nicknames and, and, yeah, I mean, ifs just, people, I 
think most of the people on the waterfront, there's individuals that I've called names for years, 
and figuring that was actually their name, and then find out later that their name has absolutely 
nothing to do with what that name was, so, yeah, that's kind of funny. The names are, or even 
things on the, you know, you mean like working with equipment and things like that... 
LO: Yeah, yeah. 
PA: ...you know, push boats and, you know, the wheel is, you know, people think of the wheel 
and the wheel is, anyway if you say, “oh, jeez, you got to be careful you're going to get that in 
your wheel,” you know, that means your propeller. Things like that, you know, people don't, you 
know, that kind of terms, or the things like that; it's hard to say off the top of my head. But 
Interview with Paul Anthony, February 7, 2017 
17 
there's, there's quite a few terms that, nicknames for things, you say, well, “you back up, I got 
something stuck to my prop or my propeller.” Everyone would understand that. But the 
terminology most people use, you know, you going to get that in your wheel so be careful, you 
know what I mean? You kind of know right away what they, what that means when someone 
says something like that. So yeah, there's certain things you might, don't hear typically in a 
typical, any other industry that 
LO: And does Paul Anthony have a nickname? 
PA: Oh, myself... 
LO: Maybe we'll share. 
PA: You know, yeah. No, no, not necessarily, no. I mean years ago there was a big bunch of 
guys who used to work at the Co-op and everyone had really kind of silly, goofy names, you 
know. They were really nothing other than that was, you know. And they didn't really stick, they 
wasn't like, you know, stuff that their nicknames that carried on. But, um, no, myself, no. Other, 
you know, and then teasing one another, that was about it. 
LO: And tell me about the te-, is there like, um, I don't know, if you get a new guy who's just 
starting out do you guys play tricks on them? 
PA: Uh... 
LO: Or any of that stuff that goes on? 
PA: Yeah, you know, I think it's typical that a lot of, lot of industries do that, you know. Guys 
that'll, you know, you tell a guy to go down in the fo'c'sle to get something and, you know, he 
may be unfamiliar with where the fo'c'sle is, and then they might tell him well, you know, you 
get, it's down in the stern of the boat and that's actually the lazarette, and then so he'll say, I can't 
find it in the fo'c'sle, and the guy'll go down there again and and he'll go, and I still can't find 
that. Were you looking in the right spot? Yeah, I been in the fo'c'sle. Somebody'll look and go, 
ifs not in the lazarette, why is he down there, it's because he has no clue. He just, you tell him, so 
maybe little, little tricks like that, you know, you might say things like that. Because they don't 
know the difference from, you know, the, the boat's fo'c'sle to the boat's lazarette, to the, you 
know, things that, they catch on quick though. Once they learn that, you know, you're not going 
to get away with that, but. 
LO: Thaf s part of how they learn, probably. 
PA: Oh yeah, yeah. 
LO: Right? 
PA: A lot of it is true. After they've told you a few times, you kind of figure that out. Yeah. 
Interview with Paul Anthony, February 7, 2017 
18 
LO: Trying to think if there's anything we didn't cover. Anything you don't like about your job? I 
mean, you mentioned the weather... 
PA: Yeah. The weather. You know because of the position I'm in now the pricing's always 
something that I kind of look, like the guys that are fishing are just ordinary guys, they make 
decent money but you try to save them, and you try to get, and so when the, when the price 
fluctuates wildly, especially, you know, increases, if s tough. It bothers me because I don't, you 
know, I don't want to see anyone pay too much. Our margins are our margins; we make what we 
make. We're not, and, but you got to realize that when you go and you say, okay, last week you 
were paying a dollar eighty a gallon for fuel and this week is two dollars and eighty cents, it's 
almost a dollar, right, and it has nothing to do with us. And it looks like, you know, and they get 
angry and you, and if s like, if s not necessarily us. This is the price of fuel, we're just working on 
our margins, it's just that it went up. And stuff like that, it kind of gets frustrating when you try to 
maximize the amount of money that you can make by, you know, watching the swings in the 
market and making sure you have enough supply on hand. Even in the warehouse, because I do 
all the inventories for the warehouse, so oils and greases and different products like that. And 
those products are constantly, so I'm watching that stuff all the time. It's one of the things that I 
say I don't enjoy the most, but if s very important. Because if you don't pay attention to that, you 
know, it's not fair to your consumer, and then the consumers, you're going to lose them anyways, 
because they don't look at it and say, you know, Jesus, how come this has been so high, I know it 
can be cheaper. So you got to constantly watch that in my position. But not necessarily the 
working end of it, but because of my position a lot of if s got to do with the pricing and my 
inventories. That's eighty percent of my work, is inventory work. Always making sure there's 
enough supply. So, you know, the pricing can, yeah, probably about the most annoying thing for 
me, that have to keep my eyes open on it, you know. And nowadays it's a daily, it can be a daily 
thing, the market can swing in a matter of hours. I've had the market go up on us and our actual 
fuel price as we're taking in the product here at the facility in our storage tanks, it may rise six or 
eight, ten cents in a day, as the day goes on. So then the price'll go up as, you know, the price'll 
go up. I'll get a price change at, at nine in the morning and another price change at two in the 
afternoon and I'll get another price change at three. And it's like, you know, you get three 
different price changes and you've got to stay on top of that, because it's very easy to lose your, 
your margin if that doesn't happen. 
[46:04] LO: So there are several fuel supplies, right? 
PA: Yeah, doing the fuel barge part of it, yeah. And, but, our facility if s called a through put, so 
one of a large oil supply company that's up here in the northeast. Global Petroleum, has a 
through put agreement with our terminal, which means they take, they put their fuel into our 
terminal and we actually provide our competition with fuel at my facility. So all the other fuel 
companies that we're in competition with, we facilitate the larger oil company. Global 
Petroleum, to get their product aboard their vessels. So it is, if s unique. Because people say, 
aren't you Sea Fuels? And I say, and that's Warrior Fuels and this is Pier Oil, but we're all buying 
the fuel from one company, but my facility where I actually work is the facility that actually has 
the through put agreement with the fuel supplier, so. 
LO: How much does the price change between, say, you and Warrior and Pier? 
Interview with Paul Anthony, February 7, 2017 
19 
PA: You know, I can't say, obviously, how they price their products and the way that they, what 
their margins are and what they, how they take care of their customers. I can't really, I wouldn't 
even know, and it wouldn't be fair for me to even, I wouldn't base my business, I know with my 
business... 
LO: But you guys... 
PA: ...what they are. 
LO: ...can all set your price? 
PA: But you pretty much, well, because of the fact that we're all buying the same product and 
we're buying volumes about the same, all this factors into the deal that you're making with the 
fuel supplier. Global Petroleum happens to be, are going to be pretty much the same. So we're all 
pretty much working on the same, you know, ballpark, within a certain, maybe a few cents here 
and there, but we're all pretty much, almost right in the same levels. Look, the, most of the 
waterfront's getting a pretty good service no matter who they go to as far as pricing goes. And 
then if s just a preference, who you'd rather have fuel your boat, you know, you like this fuel 
company better than that fuel company, or they feel that these guys fuel your boat a little bit 
better than these guys fuel your boat. Why, who knows. If s, it's really, there's such a small 
difference between either, any, or all of us, that it really wouldn't matter. It's kind of your 
customer's your customer. And you do whatever you do to keep them happy and obviously that's 
going to keep them satisfied, they're going to, as long as, if s kind of like if they don't have to 
think about it and it gets done, they're happy, you know. And that's the most important thing is 
servicing the customer without having to. I'm not going to say bother them, but basically, 
basically, yeah, they know that we know what they need, so we take care of it, and they just go 
pick up their checks, you know, they know that their, you know, and so it's a collaborative effort 
between the guys on the barge, guys inside the warehouse, the guys working the dock, the girls 
in the office making sure the bills are getting done, and put out at the proper time, and that, you 
know, everybody is gotten, so it's kind of seamless. They don't have to think about it, you know? 
It's a big purchase. Because, you know, if you think about it, 7, 8,000 gallons of fuel at two 
dollars and fifty cents a gallon, thaf s a very big, if s a huge purchase, if s a lot of money, if s a lot 
of, monetary exchange, but if s seamless. It works very easily and if s, you know, as long as 
everybody's doing their job, so. All four companies pretty much have that same style of doing 
business. Just the way it's done, you know, so. 
LO: And do you get paid by the settlement house? Do they... 
[49:34] PA: Yes. The settlement house usually settles up the boat, and then they will cut a check 
from the corporation that owns the boat, and then typically if we fuel a boat today, the check'll be 
ready, usually, tomorrow. So if s like, you know, there's not a lot of wait time. Whereas we're 
purchasing the fuel and they're taking, you know, the company that we buy fuel from, as we 
purchase it, we don't have, we only have a very short time to pay them. They need their money, 
they don't give us long terms: if s just the way it is, because if s an awful lot of money that goes 
out when you're taking 10, 20, 30,000 gallons of fuel. So our customers understand that. They 
Interview with Paul Anthony, February 7, 2017 
20 
settle the boat up; we can pick up the check the next day. And, you know, so, it moves, it's a 
unique business. I've had a guy that does books for us years ago, and he came down and he said, 
he’s an accountant that worked for the company. He said, “I've never seen a business like this.” 
It's so much volume of cash that gets moved between, you know, the purchase and sale of this 
stuff, and yet it works very freely. No one's really hanging out in the line for very long. 
Everything pretty much, it moves. It is; it is unique. You don't realize it, but a lot of people don't 
think of, you know, they think of purchasing something, they have thirty days, you have 
something of that large, or you get some type of a terms to pay your bill. It just gets paid, you 
know what I mean. And everybody kind of, it's just the way that always worked, you know. 
LO: We should probably establish. I'm realizing, you've been talking about fuel, if s diesel that 
we're talking about... 
PA: Thaf s correct. 
LO: ...yes? 
PA: Oh yeah, yeah. Oh, I'm sorry. Yeah. Diesel, diesel fuel. 
LO: Only because, just for... 
PA: Oh, thaf s true too, yeah. 
LO: Whoever might be listening 
PA: Yeah, no, if s, it's diesel fuel. And then of course a lot of lubricants, you know. We sell an 
awful lot of lubricants, the boats use a lot of lubricants, big engines, they require a lot of A 
typical oil change in a car you're talking four or five quarts of oil. And a boat you can go, 130 to 
260 gallons of oil in an oil change. And the high-end oils that they use can, just an oil change 
alone, if you, can cost quite a few thousand dollars, just the actual product itself to change the oil 
in the engine. 
LO: And do you guys do the oil changes? 
PA: Yeah, the oil's, yeah, we assist that, get that done for the boat too, when they're ready to do 
their oil changes. Because it's such a large quantity they need to remove that and we take the 
waste oil back, so we take their waste oil back, we fill the bases of the engine with the oil 
directly with a, you know, a large volume pump so that we can pump drums of oil aboard, at a, 
you know, quicker rate and stuff like that, so... 
LO: And how long, frequently, do they get the oil changed? 
PA: Well, you know, that, depends on the oil. Some of the oils today, they can go a lot longer 
intervals. So they can get a lot more hours on them, but, and because of the, they only fish so 
many days of the year, some of the boats we're only doing two, maybe three oil changes a year, 
on them. Some of them only two oil changes a year. And if s an expensive cost to do so if you 
Interview with Paul Anthony, February 7, 2017 
21 
don't need to, some people just have their oil tested and if the oil is in good condition, the 
company that backs their oil, like Mobil has a program and Mobil products and things like that. 
They test and they'll tell you that you're, whether your oil's still in really good condition, you 
don't need to change it. So that way you're not spending an extra 3, 4, 5,000 dollars to change the 
oil in the engine if you don't have to, you know? So. And thaf s been a - but then again, used to 
buy the, the oil for, you know, few dollars a gallon. Now if s like, eleven, fifteen dollars a gallon, 
so depending on, on the type of oil you buy, so, you know. Thaf s helpful to the fishing boats, 
you know. 
LO: So, um, is there anything I haven't covered that you would like to talk about? I feel like we 
kind of.. 
PA: I know it's, you know, oh, if s, I guess it can be interesting, but I really, don't realize how 
boring it is or how interesting is it until you start talking about it, you know, but, um. No, I think 
you pretty much... 
LO: I learned a lot. 
PA: ...pretty much hit everything on it, yeah, I mean. If you're down on the docks early, you 
know the fuel companies are there. That's one thing you can always tell. And you get a lot of the 
old-timers that used to fish, and they no longer fish. Maybe they still own boats but they don't go 
out to sea. And you'll find it funny, they'll have a tendency to get up and be taking a ride around 
the waterfront. They always know they can get a hot cup of coffee at the fuel company, because 
we're there. We're always there early in the morning. The fuel companies always open early in 
the morning on the waterfront, so it's funny. You get to see the first guys coming down and 
coming around the waterfront, you know. The only guys that might be a little bit earlier than us 
is some of the lumpers thafre going to help lump out the fish boats, because they usually get 
there at the same time that the boats are hitting the dock too, but, other than that, you know, it's a, 
so. Hey, if you're down there. 
LO: What time does the waterfront come to life in the morning, typically? 
PA: Well, usually, nowadays, years ago it was a little bit earlier, but today, I would say, usually 
by, you know, 5:30, 6:00, people are about doing their things, it's not just, you know, they're 
showing up for work and getting ready. They're not just, you know, milling about, they're 
actually coming down and getting ready, so you know, this way here, you hit the ground running 
by, and you're actually underway and doing things by 6, 6:30 you want to make sure you're 
operation's in full swing. Because the settlement houses and things like that need to get a lot of 
this paperwork and everything I was talking about, they need to get this stuff done. It takes them 
time. I'm sure, because they have to settle on everything on the boat, the ice and the fuel, as well 
as the grub and any other expenses that they have. Plus they have to get from the fish houses and 
what they have to tally. It takes them time. So the sooner they get the fuel bill in the better it is. 
So we try to get our stuff into them before, by noon time, as close as possible, so they can at least 
finish up and settle their boats out before they close for the end of their day, and make sure that 
the guys get paid. So, you know, we're down there early. And anybody that's up early, you can 
always stop by and have a cup of coffee. 
Interview with Paul Anthony, February 7, 2017 
22 
LO: All right, well thank you so much. 
PA: All right. 
LO: I really appreciate it. Sorry about all the interruptions. 
PA: No, that's fine, that's fine. No, I hope you get what you're looking for. I wasn't sure if this 
was exactly what you were looking for, but. 
LO: Absolutely. 
PA: If this gives you some information, some insight. 
[55:43] End of recording 
Interview with Paul Anthony, February 7, 2017