1 
NEW BEDFORD FISHING NERIIAGE CENTER 
Date of Interview: March 23, 2017 
Ayala, Sebastian- Oral History Interview 
Madeleine Hall-Arber 
Ayala,Sebastian. Interview by Madeleine Hall-Arber. Workers on the New Bedford 
Waterfront. New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center. Date of interview: March 23, 2017. 
This oral history was produced in 2017 as part of the Workers on the Waterfront Oral History 
Project conducted by New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center with funding from an Archie Green 
Fellowship provided by the Library of Congress. 
New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center 
38 Bethel Street 
P.O. Box 2052 
New Bedford, MA 02741-2052 
Sebastian Ayala interview, March 23, 2017 
2 
Background 
Name of person interviewed: Sebastian Ayala [SA] 
Facts about this person: 
Age 
43 
Sex 
male 
Occupation 
Norpel Supervisor 
Residence 
New Bedford 
Ethnic background Hispanic 
Interviewer: 
Transcriber: 
Madeleine Hall-Arber [MHA] 
Amy [AO] 
Interview location: NORPEL Plant, upstairs office 
Date of Interview: March, 23, 2017 
Key Words 
Norpel, foreman, fish, El Salvador, temporary workers, fish brining, grinding, fish house, 
cutting, cleaning, line workers, seasonal work, factory, packing, freezer, safety, freezer ammonia, 
Spanish speakers 
Abstract 
Sebastian Ayala is a forty-three year old foreman at the Norpel plant in New Bedford. He has 
been working at the Norpel plant for almost fifteen years, working his way up to a foreman 
position. In this interview Sebastian describes coming to New Bedford from El Salvador and his 
work at Norpel, including various positions in the factory as well as safety concerns. 
Sebastian Ayala interview, March 23, 2017 
3 
Index 
[00:00] Intro: Sebastian Ayala was born on January 30, 1974, in San Sebastiano, El 
Salvador. He grew up there and came to the United States twenty years ago for better work 
opportunities and to help his family. He has family in Virginia but prefers New Bedford. He 
started on the waterfront in New Bedford doing quality inspection of fish and has been now 
working at Norpel for fifteen years. He briefly describes his responsibilities as foreman at 
Norpel: machinery supervision, position assignment for workers, and teaching and training new 
workers. 
[05:00] Describes his work when boats come in, his history of working at Norpel, and what his 
likes and doesn’t like about his work. Discusses the seasonal nature of the job. 
[10:00] Talks about various positions and their pay. Describes the ethnic background of the 
workers, and the difficulty of finding people to work in the plant. Talks about his 
family. Describes the clothes he wears for work. 
[15:00] Adds more clothing necessary for the job. Talks about his approach to hiring 
employees and the use of temporary workers. Describes the one danger that he must warn new 
workers about is the potential for ammonia leaks in the plant. 
[20:00] Speaks about changes made since he started working for Norpel. Talks about languages 
spoken among workers. Discussion with interviewer on the new Fishing Heritage Center and its 
museum. 
[25:03] Continued discussion on the Fishing Heritage Center. Describes some difficulty for 
women working in the plant. States he likes living in New Bedford. 
[30:00] Ending the interview 
[31:07] End of Audio 
Sebastian Ayala interview, March 23, 2017 
4 
[00:00] 
Madeleine Hall-Arber: So I'm going to ask you to just say your name so that I can make sure 
that this is close enough to you and it will pick up the recording. 
Sebastian Ayala: Okay. 
MHA: So what is your name? 
SA: Yeah, my name is Sebastian Ayala. 
MHa: Great, thank you. And I'm going to give you a short introduction that is for the 
recording, so that they know. 
SA: Okay. 
MHA: So today is March 23, 2017. This is an interview for the New Bedford Fishing Heritage 
Center, funded by the Archie Green Fellowship from the Library of Congress. As part of this 
project, we are interviewing shore side workers in the New Bedford/ Fairhaven Fishing Industry, 
to record their stories, document their skills and knowledge, and better understand their 
important role in the fishing industry. The recording and transcript will become part of the 
permanent collection at the Library of Congress. I'm Madeleine Hall-Arber, and today I'm 
speaking with Sebastian Ayam? 
SA: Ayala. 
MHA: Ayala, oh yes, I see. Okay great, thank you. And it is a little after noon, it is about ten 
after twelve, and you give us permission to interview you and record this? 
SA: Yes. 
MHA: Okay great, thanks. So I'm going to ask you again to say your name and where you 
work. 
SA: Oh, my name is Sebastian Ayala, I am working for Norpel. 
MHA: Okay, and what is your job? 
SA: Uh, I do it uh, foreman for people you know, organize everything, make sure everything 
working. 
MHA: Okay. 
Sebastian Ayala interview, March 23, 2017 
5 
SA: Yeah. 
MHA: And how did you find your way to Norpel? 
SA: Oh! (laughter) Very very long time, I got, um I've been here. I've gonna here almost twenty 
year, twenty-one? 
MHA: Really? 
SA: Yeah. I worked for a few you know companies here around New Bedford and uh the 
beginning I see all the signs here a lot of boards here lot of, and I come and I asked if he need 
people and he told me yeah, come in that day, come in, a lot of work, a lot of work, yeah. 
MHA: Good! 
SA: Yeah. 
MHA: So when you first started on the waterfront what kinds of jobs were you doing? 
SA: Oh, I the first job when I come picking fish up there, come and pick out the broken, pick 
everything, make sure you know the quality of the fish is good. 
MHA: Okay, and um, where are you from, originally? 
SA: Oh, I from El Salvador. 
MHA: Okay. 
SA: Yeah. 
MHA: And what town? 
SA: San Sebastiano. 
MHA: Okay, when were you born? 
SA: I bom in El Salvador, San Sebastiano. 
MHA: And the date? 
SA: The date is uh, January 30, ‘74. 
MHA: Thank you. Was anybody else in your family involved in fishing? 
SA: No. No I try my nephew, he working for a couple year, he working for a year, but he got to 
move, because the family in Virginia. The rest of my family is in Virginia. 
MHA: Really? 
SA: Yeah. 
Sebastian Ayala interview, March 23, 2017 
6 
MHA: So, how, what made your family come up? From, leave El Salvador. Why did you come 
to the United States? 
SA: Oh! Why come to USA? Because it more opportunity you know for working on these 
different... Yeah I try it and hope the people it help my father, my mother, my family, my 
brother, yeah. Yeah. 
MHA: So, um, lef s see, I have to find the right place here, (pause) So can you tell me about 
your typical day? What do you usually do? 
SA: Welluh... 
MHA: When you're working here? What do you usually do- have to do? You said you 
organize, but what does that mean? Can you give me a little more detail? 
SA: Oh more detail? 
MHA: Yeah, (laughter) 
SA: Oh no, if s ah... I try and make sure everything running, everything at the beginning, started 
put it the pump, make sure everything go alright, all the machine working, you know, put in the 
people, remind the people where they working, yeah. 
MHA: So you have to learn... 
SA: Yeah. 
MHA: Everybody's skills? 
SA: Oh yeah. 
MHA: And see how fast they can work or how slow they work? 
SA: Yeah. 
MHA: And that kind of thing? 
SA: Yeah. Got to supervise and make sure everything working you know, working right. 
MHA: Do you have to do any training? Do you teach? 
SA: When the people come in? 
MHA: Um hmm. 
SA: Yeah ... surely you know, 
[05:00] SA: [continued] there's plenty of people when they come in, what do you do you know, 
yeah, but uh, they got to tell you but most of the people coming, or most the guy you know, 
regular guy trying to put another, help the guy he know what he going to do. Yeah. But uh, I 
show everything when they come in, show what they got to do. 
Sebastian Ayala interview, March 23, 2017 
7 
MHA: Uhhuh. 
SA: Yeah. 
MHA: So do you, do they ever have temporary people come in? 
SA: Yeah. Come in a lot of people temporary when the boat come in, because this is the work 
you know. They have a lot working. When a lot of boat come in you know, two boats, three 
boats, at least two, two like uh... 
MHA: Shifts? 
SA: 2 shift. Yeah, shift. I work the night and the day. I work 6 in the morning to 6 at night. 
MHA: Uhhuh. 
SA: Yeah. Whenever busy, you know. Regular guy an hour work, like hour, now work 7-8 
guy. But when they come, a lot of fish, a lot of boat, we need like uh, 23-24 people. 
MHA: I see. 
SA: Yeah. Each shift. 
MHA: So when they’re, the boats are not in, what is the plant doing? 
SA: Now, we now grinding the fish. Yeah, grind the fish. 
MHA: Right. 
SA: Do a lot of thing. Sometime freeze a little bit fish, couple tote, couple like uh you buy a 
fish you know, freezing, yeah, packing frozen... 
MHA: Okay. How did you learn what to do? 
SA: Oh, how did I learn? I have this many years, yeah, here, I have almost I think it’s 14, 
almost 15 years that I work here. 
MHA: So when in the very beginning, when you first came to New Bedford, you started out 
with helping pick the high quality, making sure the fish was high quality, right? 
SA: In the beginning when I coming here? 
MHA: Yeah. 
SA: Oh in the beginning, yeah, no at the beginning I was coming I don't remember at first, yeah 
I could come I working in the fish house, yeah. I working for a couple months, yeah. 
MHA: And did somebody show you? 
SA: Yes, somebody show me how to cut a, cut a fish. 
MHA: UhHuh. 
Sebastian Ayala interview, March 23, 2017 
8 
SA: Yeah. Clean a fish and all these things. 
MHA: And then what? How did, where did you go from there? 
SA: Then I work in an industrial park. One a company for make a transformer. We work a 
couple, I think 2 or 3 year. Now when I got to pick outside, then I started working here. 
MHA: I see. 
SA: Yeah I think 2001 I started here. 
MHA: And you started out with, on the line? 
SA: Yeah. I was there. 
MHA: And then you worked your way up? 
SA: Yeah, I got to move every time. You need, you know, help sometime because when I 
started beginning here, started here, uh very quality some people working like you go some 
people come and stay. 
MHA: Um hmm. 
SA: Try to get more and more working here, working outside, I learn everything you know, 
what their doing, yeah. 
MHA: What is your favorite part? 
SA: Favorite part? 
MHA: Um hmm. 
SA: What. Uh,uh? 
MHA: Working. 
SA: Working? 
MHA: Your favorite part about the job? Yeah. 
(pause) 
SA: I think it's helping the guys, you know, helping, make sure everything moving, you know, 
like, like, when they like fixes something you know, see everything running, everything 
go. Yeah. 
MHA: And what is the hardest part? 
SA: The hardest part? I think the cold. 
MHA: The cold? 
Sebastian Ayala interview, March 23, 2017 
SA: The cold, yeah. The winter. I think it’s the hard, like urn the work is sometimes you know, 
hard to work. Hard a little bit you know; sometimes the winter. The winter's cold, very terrible. 
9 
MHA: I agree with you! I don't like the cold! So um, let's see, does, you were mentioning that 
the work changes depending on whether the boats are in, but does that depend on the 
season? Does it change? 
SA: Oh yeah, depends on the seasons, yeah, the seasons depending. Seasons in general, but this 
year, no. No fish. Yeah. Last year I worked a couple of months June I think, in July. Depend on 
the season. Yeah sometime two month, three month, depend. Every year different. Yeah. 
MHA: But you, yourself, have a full-time job here? 
SA: Yes, I have a full-time job. Yeah. 
MHA: So there's always something with the grinding and... 
SA: Yeah, sometimes clean, paint. Doing something that run the factory. 
[10:00] MH: Uhhuh. 
SA: Yeah. 
MHA: Okay. How, which jobs in the, in the plant pay the best? 
SA: What jobs pay the best? I think it’s the people up in the high loading you know, the 
highest, the job here is um they depend you have to load a couple two or three things uh like in 
the tank, the people working the tank, pay a little bit more in the tank. You have to know, what 
they doing put all the fish out there you know. 
MHA: Uhhuh. 
SA: Yeah. And uh, the people most, you have to learn a little bit more, you have to learn a few 
things you know this, a little bit job... 
MHA: Yeah. And uh, what, which jobs are the very beginning jobs? 
SA: Very beginning job? When it, the very beginning you know is in the packing 
room. Yeah. Packing room. Downstairs. 
MHA: So the people mostly start there and move? 
SA: Yeah. You can move its because when they come in like a, it’s a lot of, a lot of part you 
know, a lot of position, in the beginning when they picking fish you got to make sure when the 
fish come in, clean it up. 
MHA: Um Hmm. 
SA: Other people have to know how to put it in the freezer, yeah. Explain the people do the 
frosting when it come and the people most in the packing room. 
Sebastian Ayala interview, March 23, 2017 
10 
MHA: I see. 
SA: Yeah. 
MHA: And you kind of see how they do with that? 
SA: Yeah. How they do. Yeah. 
MHA: And how are the people that you work with are, are there a lot of people from El 
Salvador? Or is it all mixed? 
SA: Um, yeah most people are uh, most mixed. Guatemala, El Salvador, a few people 
Honduras. Yeah. Most people coming, a lot of people but not too many people like the fish 
house, not too many people like the fish house. Most people you can see working is the people 
from Guatemala, San Salvador, the fish house yeah. 
MHA: And why do you think that is? 
SA: I don't know. Probably it’s the fish, how they smell, maybe, I think if s... I don't 
know. Yeah. 
MHA: There's something that has come up in other conversations with other people that there 
aren't very many young people starting in processing plants, even on the boats, that a lot of 
people are going grey, (laughter) So how about, do you find that here? Or are there still a lot of 
young people coming into the plant looking for jobs? 
SA: Yeah, sometime no. Sometime hard finding people like in the summer, when the most, 
most people working different job outside. 
MHA: Elm Hmm. 
SA: Yeah hard sometime, but in the winter you find more people because a lot of people staying 
home, you know. Yeah. 
MHA: They don't want the cold? 
SA: No, the cold, yeah. Yeah. 
MHA: And do you have a family? 
SA: Yes, I have my wife, I have my daughter, one son. 
MHA: How old are they? 
SA: My daughter she has a fifteen years to go, my son is ten. 
MHA: Oh, nice. And do they want to do anything in fishing? In the fishing plants? 
SA: No, (laughter) No I ask, I say you know, I tell you want to work with me? No, no, no, they 
say. 
Sebastian Ayala interview, March 23, 2017 
11 
MHA: So what does he want to do? 
SA: He want to do different, my daughter she want to go, she want to go a like a um... not 
doctor, the other, but like help them... 
MHA: A nurse? 
SA: Yeah, a nurse. 
MHA: Good! Thafs... 
SA: Yeah my son, he no know. 
MHA: He's young. 
SA: Yeah. 
MHA: Lef s see... so this is what you typically wear? Most days you wear a jacket, and a 
hat? Or do you have other special clothes that you have to wear? 
SA: No this is the, this is the normal because now cold it is. 
MHA: Yeah right. 
SA: Yeah. Yeah. But normal is this, this stuff 
MHA: And do you have any special 
[15:00] MHA: [continued] tools that you need to use? 
SA: No. No. 
MHA: How about for any of the jobs in the plant? Are there... 
SA: Oh, there are the people working use an apron, then some the other one use the orange 
paint, use a jacket. Because water... you got to use some boot. 
MHA: Right. 
SA: Special boot because of the water everything. Yeah. Yeah. 
MHA: Okay. When you're looking for somebody to hire, I don't know, do you get any, are you 
able to hire people yourself? Or does it have to go through... 
SA: No, I hire. 
MHA: So what do you look for? What are you trying to find? 
SA: No. I try to give a chance when the people come, you know, I don't... make sure the people 
like he want to work. I ask, "You want to work?" And the first thing they got to tell you, "You 
want to work in the fish? I show you most. Show you around. You want to work with 
this? This is the job. And if he say yes, you know he can come and work, yeah. Yeah. I don't... 
Sebastian Ayala interview, March 23, 2017 
but special people I ask him you want to work in others? I explain a few position when they 
started working... you know. Yeah if he, you want to work you know there’s a lot of... 
12 
MHA: And do you find that most of people that you hire after they see and they say yes, do they 
stay with it for a long time? 
SA: Mmm, not many. No. The other thing is especially is ah when they come in the position 
and lot of worker equal from different places the people come in like day different, I don't know 
is employment? They send the people like temporary, like a two or three days? 
MHA: And so those people are always changing, right? 
SA: Right. Yeah. For some like come one week, two days, but most people is working 
temporary, no not temporary, but... 
MHA: Permanent? 
SA: Permanent, yeah. 
MHA: That I would imagine that's better for the company and for you, if somebody was here. 
SA: Oh yeah. Thaf s easy you know, it’s working. It better to have people like that. Got to 
explain, you know. 
MHA: What about safety issues? Do you have to explain? I don't, I haven't seen this plant. I've 
seen some herring plants but I haven't seen this plant, um is there anything dangerous? 
SA: Yes. We work with ammonia. There every year, oh every, like um, a lot of people 
working? I show you how the ammonia, I show you how, what happen when the freezer leak 
ammonia or something you got to go outside, or when the alarm, everybody have to got to go. I 
don't see a lot of ammonia when they stay here but it sometime the smell sometime when you 
open that the freezer, like a leak a little bit smell you know. But the people have to know what to 
do, like stop you know. Yeah. And if you smell a lot you have to got to go outside. Yeah. So a 
little bit, I don't feel something happen, you know it leak a little bit. Yeah. 
MHA: So people just go out and then it clears out? Somebody checks? 
SA: Yeah. He call me somebody have to check they got to call, they got t go look the leak or 
something, yeah. I think if s the most, but if s dangerous, you know. The machine danger but it’s 
safe for the people. 
MHA: Yeah um, I would think that anything that is moving would have some dangers- some 
people's hands might get caught or something like that. 
SA: No, like a machine, you know you have the belt, but if s not no, 
[20:00] SA: [continued] it’s no something like uh, how would I say something very dangerous, 
no, I think the most thing is the ammonia. 
Sebastian Ayala interview, March 23, 2017 
MHA: Yeah, yeah. And um, do you think you'll stay here for your whole career? Do you like 
working for this company? 
SA: Oh, yeah, I like it. Yeah I like it. Yeah. I like it. Yeah. 
13 
MHA: You've been here almost 15 years. Have you seen uh, changes in the technology? Has 
the plant changed at all? Or has it been pretty much the same the whole time? 
SA: No. It change. A lot of things. I remember when I started, no, its... every year change a lot 
of things different. Yeah. 
MHA: Like what kinds of things? 
SA: I remember when it started, you know have like upstairs, you know the roof is uh started 
have everything open. Yeah. And uh the factory it’s not too small, it’s a big one. Yeah. It 
change a lot of things you know. Control, move, the .... 
MHA: And how about Eoin was talking about the grinding? That's new isn't it? 
SA: Thafs new, that started last year. Yeah, that's new. Grinding machine. If s fast. Fast. 
MHA: Was it easy to learn? 
SA: Yeah, the machine put a fish down because the head engineer, he got to make sure you 
know how to like stop machine and start it. He train me, yeah... special people like for when 
starting the machine, the engineer. If s easy. No hard, no. 
MHA: Now, when you said, you mentioned that there were a lot of people that speak Spanish in 
the plant. Do people normally speak in Spanish during the work day? Or are people trying to 
speak English, to practice their English? 
SA: No, normally is more Spanish, but ah, yeah. 
MHA: Okay. 
SA: A few guys speak English. Not too many. 
MHA: Now, how about the fishing industry in general, do you feel like you're part of the New 
Bedford fishing industry? I mean, it's hard to explain what I mean. Some, sometimes when I talk 
to other people that are not in fish plants, say the people that deliver the fuel to the boats, they 
were saying they like their job, because they know if s helping the boats. Because the boats need 
fuel, so they have to have somebody come and put fuel in. The processing plants are important 
too, um, because the fish has to go somewhere; the fish has to be processed and sold. 
SA: (coughing) My cold, (laughter) Sorry. 
MHA: It's okay. So do you feel a part of the industry in that way? Do you know what I'm 
asking? 
SA: Yeah, I think its yes. Yeah. 
Sebastian Ayala interview, March 23, 2017 
MHA: So, um have you ever been to the Fishing Heritage Center? 
SA: Fishing Keri? 
14 
MHA: Fishing Heritage. It's like a museum, it's right over here on Bethel Street. It's very near 
the Whaling Museum. It's just down the street a little bit. And it shows the fishing industry. So 
sometime you should take your kids there, just to show them. 
SA: Yeah, every year I go there. Yeah. 
MHA: Oh, it's not the Whaling Museum, this is new. 
SA: This is new? Because I see like, the show like a kind of the boats, how to work in the boats 
here, (crosstalk) It's got like a festival. 
[25:03] MHA: Exactly. Yes. Well, now if s not just a festival. If s the same people, the same 
people that started the festival, now have opened up a museum. 
SA: Oh, a museum, wow. 
MHA: Yeah. So if s small. But at least it shows a lot of things about the industry, so you might 
enjoy going to see it. If s only open Thursday through Sunday. So Thursday, Friday, Saturday, 
and Sunday. Yeah. And uh, and if s free right now so anytime you can go. So if somebody was 
just starting out and maybe just came to New Bedford, and they had never been in the fishing 
industry before, what would you tell them, how would you tell them to get started? 
SA: How would I tell them started work? 
MHA: What advice would you give somebody? 
(laughter) 
SA: I don't know I understand that. 
MHA: Okay. 
SA: If somebody coming. 
MHA: Yeah. Would you advise them to try to get a job? 
SA: Oh, oh, oh... You got to explain them the companies is around here, you know, I tell them 
look and go and here, or go different, yeah. 
MHA: I know there are at least a few women who work here. Is, do the men and the women get 
along okay working? 
SA: The women in the? 
MHA: I know that the women for example, Jackie, are there other women? 
SA: Yes, the cleaning. Yeah. 
Sebastian Ayala interview, March 23, 2017 
MHA: And do the other workers get along okay with Jacqueline for example? Are they okay 
together? 
15 
SA: Yeah, okay. Yeah. When they having more people of course you have girls picking fish, 
and here right now, not too many like um, work for women because sometimes it’s a little bit 
heavy, like you have to pick them up, yeah, it's not comfortable for women. She was fine, but 
not for a lot of women because sometimes very little you have to pick them up, can be like 50 
pounds, yeah. 
MHA: Right. 
SA: Yeah. 
MHA: It used to be that a lot of the fishermen were made very nervous when women were doing 
work on the dock or on the boats, um, but there were always a few, a few women who would 
work I think there was a big superstition for awhile... bad luck! (laughter) So I don't know, is 
there anything about your job or about living in New Bedford that I haven't asked you that you 
think I should have? 
SA: Um, no the beginning coming here I like it. I like New Bedford. I feel comfortable here. 
MHA: Good. 
SA: Some people say don’t like it so I tell you I lived in Virginia five years before, I like 
Virginia, if s beautiful, but I like New Bedford, more comfortable for me. 
MHA: And why is that? 
SA: Cause um, the living here is different. In Virginia, more and more expensive everything 
more. The rent is more and more expensive, the job, there's a lot of job but if s, we have to 
move, we got to working very far. 
MHA: Oh really? 
SA: And when they coming here I feel comfortable in New Bedford, I like my job too. 
MHA: Good. Do you live in New Bedford? 
SA: Yeah, I live in New Bedford, in the South End. Yeah. 
MHA: Good. Is the community, are there other people from El Salvador that live in the South 
End where you are? 
SA: Yeah. I see a lot, a lot of people in New Bedford, yeah. 
[30:00] MHA: All right, well, I think I've asked you everything that I was going to ask. 
SA: Yeah? 
MHA: I feel like there should be more questions. 
Sebastian Ayala interview, March 23, 2017 
16 
(laughter) 
SA: Yeah, probably. 
MHA: But I don't know quite what to ask. 
SA: I don’t have a like, express English very... 
MHA: That's okay, you do fine. Yeah, I had no trouble understanding you, so that was 
good. So, thank you. 
SA: Okay. Okay. 
MHA: You wouldn't believe how noisy it is through this, because I can hear all the trucks, 
because this picks up everything. 
SA: Oh, it picks up all the noise? 
MHA: Yes it's very loud. 
SA: Okay. 
MHA: Alright. 
[31:07] End of audio 
Sebastian Ayala interview, March 23, 2017