AFC 2010/039: CRHP0125 
12/08/2015 
Dorothy Zellner 
Civil Rights History Project 
Interview completed by the Southern Oral History Program 
under contract to the 
Smithsonian Institution ’s National Museum of African American History & Culture 
and the Library of Congress, 2015 
Interviewees: Dorothy Zellner 
Interview Date: December 8, 2016 
Location: Baltimore, MD 
Interviewer: Emilye Crosby 
Videographer: John Bishop 
Length: 1 file; approximately 3 hours, 5 minutes 
START OF RECORDING 
Female 1 : From the Library of Congress and the Smithsonian National 
Museum of African American History and Culture. 
EC: This is Emilye Crosby on December 8th, 2015. We’re in Baltimore at 
Betty Garman Robinson’s home. We’re interviewing Dorothy Zellner, Dottie Zellner, as 
part of the Civil Rights History Project cosponsored by the Library of Congress and the 
Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture. Also with us is 
John Bishop and Guha Shankar is here as well. Dottie, could you start by telling us when 
and where you were born and about your family? 
DZ: Yes. I was bom in New York City January 14th, 1938, the oldest of three 
children. My parents are both immigrants. My father’s people came from Lithuania to 
England. He was born in England. He emigrated at age eleven in 1910 to Toronto, 
Canada. My mother was born in Kiev, which is now the Ukraine, but she always 
Dorothy Zehner 
2 
considered it to be Russia. A babe in arms at six months, to Toronto, Canada. Both of 
them emigrated to the United States. They were married here. They were both 
naturalized. Tm the oldest of three children. My sister is Eleanor, a year and a half 
younger than I, and my brother Jonathan is five years younger. 
EC: Can you describe your growing up years in New York? 
DZ: My father was a dentist. He became a dentist because as a Jewish person 
in Canada he couldn’t be a teacher. There was one teacher in the entire country in 
Canada in the ’30s, one Jewish teacher, so he became a dentist, second best, and he 
migrated to the United States in 1929, a very key year. Didn’t have a job for three years. 
Actually was hospitalized at one point for malnutrition. 
I’d say the big factor of my growing up as a young child was World War II. I 
have very distinct memories of air raid drills and pulling down black curtains on the 
windows. My father was eccentric, to say the least, and he and my mother, who was his 
quote, unquote nurse, his assistant, they worked in the front of our apartment, and we 
lived in the back three rooms. It was a typical immigrant mom-and-pop operation, 
differing only in location from many many other hundreds of thousands of families who 
also lived and worked in the same place. My father was totally worked up about the war. 
In between patients he would run back into our living space, which was three rooms in 
the back, and he would turn on the radio to get the war news. 
My father was left-wing, my mother was left-wing, they were both highly 
involved in the issues of the day. And both of them had come from Orthodox Jewish 
Dorothy Zehner 
3 
families. They were not Orthodox, they were secular. But quite Jewish. I remember the 
war was living in our house. The war was another member of the family. 
Another early memory I had was that my father was a great movie fan. He took 
us to the movies. Now who us was, I must have been about seven or eight. Seven. I 
think the war was still going on. There was a newsreel that accompanied the film. It 
must have been a cartoon movie that he took us to. There was a newsreel film of the war, 
which he was not anticipating. I actually remember seeing a child hobbling along with 
crutches and one missing leg, and I became so frightened and upset that I crawled under 
the seat in the movie theater and they had to pull me out. 
So the war was this ever present specter in our house. After the war I came across 
a book called The Black Book which was in my parents’ [5:00] library. And it was a 
picture book of the concentration camps. I remember reading it and I guess I was about 
eight then. And being the oldest child, I was very protective of my younger sibs. I took 
the book and I threw it in the garbage. The garbage cans were in the hall outside our 
apartment. [Laughter] When my mother saw the book in the garbage, she had a fit. My 
father had a fit too. Their attitude was not that I as a young child had been petrified by 
these photos but that I had had the temerity to throw away a book. You never throw 
away a book. That was what was the message that was sent to me. 
So the question about the war was, now looking back on it, a lot of fear. Were 
we, I mean as Jews, going to survive? Now if you had asked me that at age seven, I 
would not have been able to articulate that at all. But that was what was simmering 
around us. When I give talks now, which I have been doing for thirty years, I tell people 
that it was not just a theoretical question. It was an actual question. Were we going to 
Dorothy Zehner 
4 
make it was a real question. Actually if things had happened differently, we wouldn’t 
have. We actually wouldn’t have made it. 
When my father was cheering on the Red Army he was very correct to do that, 
because if it hadn’t been for the Red Army, the German army would possibly have 
triumphed. So it was a very vivid thing. Hitler was a real person. These were all real. 
Real people. 
EC: You mentioned that your father couldn’t be a teacher in Toronto. So did 
Canada have some kind of prohibition on Jewish teachers? 
DZ: I don’t know if it was statutory or whether it was custom. But it was a 
very anti-Semitic country. He always felt that it was very provincial. Very boring, very 
Waspy, very provincial. 
EC: Is that why they migrated? Or is that why he? Did your mother have a 
similar feeling? 
DZ: Yes. Oh yes. Yes, yes. I think it was because both of them were exposed 
to the broader world. They were both on the left. And Toronto was like being in Ish 
Kabibble, Idaho, something like that. So that’s why they came. 
EC: And you talked about the war a lot and about it being almost like another 
part of your house and Hitler is a real person. So from that I get the impression that your 
parents talked to you about how Jews fit into that war. 
DZ: I don’t remember their actual words. But they talked about it. They 
talked about what was happening to the extent that they knew. And by extension their 
concern about Jews was extended outward to other people. Other people who were 
marginalized and in difficulty. I remember asking him when I was about eight or nine. I 
Dorothy Zehner 
5 
said, “Daddy, I don’t understand.” I said, “How did they know who we were?” So I 
must have been quite preoccupied with it. 
He said that they didn’t know. As it turns out, that’s why they had to register 
everybody. Because they didn’t know. I remember thinking, “Well, a lot of times they 
didn’t know who we were. But they would have known who a black person was.” So 
from an early age I think there was a sort of an awareness. An awareness. 
I do remember when I was about five, one of my younger moments actually. I 
remember getting on a bus with my mother in the city. There were some black people on 
the bus. I remember saying to her in a very loud voice, “Why aren’t they speaking to 
each other? Are they angry with each other?” She said, “What do you mean?” I said, 
“Well, they’re all in the same family. Why aren’t they talking?” And of course she 
became mortified that I had asked such a question out loud. So it made a big impression 
on me, that’s why I remember that I had made some horrible faux pas. But I was 
obviously very—I was conscious. I was conscious. I don’t remember that they had very 
many [10:00] black friends. But they did have a few. My father had a few black 
patients. 
My father also was very very very devoted to the veterans of the Spanish Civil 
War. He had not gone to the Spanish Civil War to volunteer. I don’t know exactly why. 
Later on when World War Two started he then had two children and he was in his forties. 
He tried to enlist, but they wouldn’t take him. He was too old. But about the Spanish 
Civil War, he always treated all of the vets that were in his practice for free for the rest of 
their lives, the rest of his life. He repeated that with some of the people from SNCC. He 
Dorothy Zehner 
6 
treated them, and he was only one part of really I think considerable number of medical 
people who took care of civil rights vets. 
And let me hop to one story about that. When Bill Hansen was in jail—don’t 
know where, it must have been Arkansas—and he got his jaw—. 
EC: Albany. 
DZ: Albany, and his jaw was broken. In Albany they wired up his jaw 
together, and they told him that he could get it unwired in a month. He had to walk 
around with his jaw wired together for a month. He was able to drink through a straw. 
And on the day when the wires could be taken off, I guess I arranged that, that my father 
would take out the wires. So he came to the office. I remember my father took all the 
wires out. Then Bill was totally crestfallen to find out that this had fallen on a Friday. 
As a Catholic he couldn’t eat meat. He had been longing to have a huge steak like this 
big. [Laughter] He said, “Oh, no, it’s Friday, I have to have fish.” Of course thinking 
back, oh, can you imagine? I mean such a thing happening today, that would never 
happen today. So I don’t know how many other people he treated. But I remember Bill 
was. 
So then my father had a whole bunch of friends who came over. My mother had 
friends. They were all lefties. They were very concerned about everything, everything. I 
remember in high school I came home one day. And one of my father’s friends was in 
the house. My father loved his friends. I said, “Well, today we were told,” this was in 
1954 now when I was in high school, I said, “I said in class that the United States was 
starting to send aid to the French to fight in Vietnam. The teacher said it was absolutely 
false.” My father’s friend Sal, two days later he came in. He said, “Take this to your 
Dorothy Zehner 
7 
teacher.” [Laughter] And it was an article in the New York Times. I did. I raised my 
hand and I said, “I wanted you to know,” I read him the article, and he was very 
embarrassed, I’m happy to say. So I sort of felt like there were some adults sort of 
cheering us on. Because then when we were in high school we were in the depths of the 
McCarthy days. There were a lot of people who were sort of, I don’t know, keeping an 
eye on us, that we would be OK in McCarthy days. 
Now during the war there was a feeling actually of camaraderie and that 
dissipated soon enough. I’d say by 1949 there were problems. Now in our apartment 
building, which consisted of six floors with the fire escape out front, which I made a 
mistake of describing as a tenement in an article I wrote later on in life, and my mother 
took high exception to this, “We never lived in a tenement,” but actually it was a 
tenement—a tenement is not a pejorative word actually-diving in our house was a leading 
member of the Communist Party and his family. We were quite friendly with them and 
his—. 
EC: I’m sorry. 
DZ: In New York. 
EC: You said in your house. Do you mean the apartment building? In the 
building? 
DZ: In the building. In the apartment building. In the apartment building 
where I lived till I was thirteen. [15:00] We became very friendly with that family and 
the father, the male parent of this family, was arrested in 1951 under the Smith Act. The 
Smith Act charge—people don’t remember this at all when I tell these young people—the 
Smith Act made it a crime to advocate and conspire—no. Conspire and advocate the 
Dorothy Zehner 
8 
overthrow of the US government by force and violence. So first you had to advocate and 
then you had to conspire. It was two steps removed at least from actual violence. And 
not one of these people was ever convicted of ever even having a peashooter, much less a 
gun. It was extreme McCarthyism. And it was singling out this party as the source of all 
devils and evils. 
So of course I imagine we had FBI watching. Certainly they had FBI watching. 
When he was arrested, the father was arrested, it was seven o’clock in the morning, they 
came tramping up the stairs in the six-story building. Everybody, all of us, knew, who 
were in the house, that this had happened. This was very traumatic. Very traumatic. 
So I always felt growing up that I was definitely marginalized. Definitely. I 
knew I was in a group of very unpopular people. And by then of course the 
McCarthyism was extreme. I mean it’s even hard to describe this to younger people. 
Here’s an example. 
When I was in high school, I was a junior in high school—so I graduated in 1955. 
In 1954, our class decided that as a graduation speaker we wanted to invite J. Robert 
Oppenheimer, who was one of the atomic scientists. This was so outlandish and extreme, 
viewed by the principal of our high school, that he refused. Now Oppenheimer was one 
of the semi-semi-suspect scientists working on the Manhattan Project. Certainly not a 
raving red by any means but nevertheless somebody who had criticized the building of 
the atomic bomb, that was his great sin, and who was reluctantly participating in 
rearming with atomic weapons. This was such an extreme thing that they almost closed 
down the school. It was an unbelievable thing. Hard to even identify with. 
Dorothy Zehner 
9 
So I don’t know how deep you want to go. The signal event of my teenage life 
was when the Rosenbergs were executed. My friend Freddie, the son of the family I was 
just talking about, he and I and his mother and my mother, the four of us, went to 
Washington. I was fifteen, he was fourteen. While we were in Washington the Supreme 
Court issued a stay of execution. And instead of everybody coming back, a lot of people 
stayed over in Washington. And Freddie’s mother said he could stay, and my mother 
very reluctantly said I could stay. So there we were in front of the White House all night, 
picketing in front of the White House. And one of my memories is that along with us 
was picketing this young woman in high heels. And it was Mary Travers, soon to be in 
Peter, Paul and Mary, who was then a couple of years older than I was. She was there. 
So you can see coming into the movement I was not your typical average 
American teenager. OK? Also I was quite romantic, I think. I mean I was living on 
books and stories about the war, and I actually probably was a teenage expert on what 
had happened to the Jews. And particularly the stories about the Warsaw Ghetto, which 
is where the Jews were captured, [20:00] from which they were brought to the 
extermination camps. And in April 1943 they had a revolt. Six weeks they held off the 
German army, for six weeks. This was the only civilian armed uprising, including—and 
I’ve just been to Paris a month ago—including the great French Resistance, which fought 
for six days in Paris. This was six weeks, fighting by desperate people who knew they 
were going to be killed, and who just decided if they were going to go they would bring 
as many of them with them as they could. 
This made an indelible impression on me, to this very day. To this very day I 
consider it not only an obligation but an honor that if you are up against the fascists and 
Dorothy Zehner 
10 
you have no other recourse that you have to, you must, bring as many of them with you 
as you can. 
So by the time the civil rights movement came along, was there really a question? 
Now there might have been a question. I think Freddie urged me to go. Other people 
urged me to go. I don’t think I was just sitting there thinking about this myself. But I do 
remember, and I’ve talked about it many times, I remember where I was even sitting 
when I read the paper and I read the story about the sit-ins. I remember every single 
thing about that. 
EC: You alluded to the fact that you have vivid memories of reading about the sit- 
in movement. Do you have memories of other aspects of the civil rights movement from 
before that? 
DZ: Oh yes. Oh yes. Well, somewhere along the line in high school I joined 
the NAACP. And it was just with the friends that I had, especially being on the left, it 
was a given you were going to support black people. Actually I have to say that I have a 
totally thrilling memory that I will share with you. I don’t know how old I was, maybe 
fourteen or—thirteen or fourteen. Freddie’s father was friends with Paul Robeson, who of 
course was a great tremendous hero of my youth. And Paul Robeson must have been 
coming to visit him. My father must have been coming out of the office or something, it 
was the daytime, and it was Second Avenue and Eighteenth Street. Across the street 
comes Freddie’s father Jerry who was about five-foot-seven, my father who was five- 
foot-two—no, maybe he was five-foot-four—and Paul Robeson who was about seven feet 
tall. [Laughter] They’re walking across Second Avenue. Paul Robeson, oh my God. 
Dorothy Zehner 
11 
So anyway I don’t remember going to Harlem, I remember having some black 
friends. Not really close black friends. But it was an article of faith that this is something 
that you would be involved in. So when the bus boycott—the bus boycott, I remember 
actually the day of Brown versus Board. And everyone really getting excited. I 
remember those banner headlines. So Brown versus Board was [19]54. So I was sixteen. 
I remember going on demonstrations. I guess it was about the bus boycott. I mean the 
bus boycott was totally thrilling. Completely thrilling. I don’t remember ever seeing Dr. 
King at all in New York, I don’t remember any of that. So what was your initial 
question? 
EC: It was just memories of the civil rights movement before that. 
DZ: Oh. The civil rights movement was very very very present. I think in 
simpleminded psychological terms the civil rights movement replaced what I had 
vicariously experienced as revolt by Jewish young people during the war. This was like 
our time. This was our moment. That’s why I got so electrified. I wish I knew the name 
of the place. I just know I know where I was. I was on Forty-second Street. The main 
library, I had been at the library doing something. I don’t remember what. I went across 
the street. There was a coffee shop there. I sat down at the counter. Isn’t that ironic? At 
the counter. [25:00] And of course as I’ve told all these kids, we all smoked. Oh my 
God, did we smoke like chimneys. Coffee. I remember sitting there, I opened up the 
paper. What? [Laughter] What? And it wasn’t so much that they couldn’t be served, it 
was that they didn’t get up. They didn’t get up. 
And it was just thrilling. And now I keep saying to myself I should go to the 
microfilm at the Forty-second Street library and see what page it was on. I always say 
Dorothy Zehner 
12 
it’s page sixteen, page thirty-seven. I don’t actually remember. But it was not page one, 
I’ll tell you that. 
EC: So this is the coverage of the Greensboro sit-in. 
DZ: Yes, right. 
EC: Was there a picture? 
DZ: No. 
EC: It was just that little short little first article. 
DZ: And you remember in those days they called the Times the Gray Lady 
because it was gray, gray, gray, they had hardly any photos, tiny tiny type, and ads. I 
don’t remember what page. I have to find out someday. Someday. Somebody must 
know, it’s in some history book somewhere, the page. 
EC: So at this point it’s February. 
DZ: February 2nd. 
EC: Right. So the first Greensboro sit-in is February 1st, so you’re reading 
about it on February 2nd. 
DZ: Right. Oh my God. Electrified. 
EC: And you’re a college graduate? Living at home? 
DZ: Yes, college graduate. College graduate. What? 
EC: And living at home? 
DZ: College graduate, living at home, had just graduated. Looking around for 
a job, which I did, I got a short-term job at the National Guardian, which was a left-wing 
newspaper. Being very unsettled, not knowing what I was going to do. A lot of the girls 
that I knew were already married. [Laughter] Some of them had become pinned. I don’t 
Dorothy Zehner 
13 
know if you know what that even is. Do you know what that is? To be wearing a 
fraternity pin. They would wear it as close to the nipple as possible. These bras were 
like this then, like arrows, like the prow of boats. They would wear this thing right here, 
oh my God. It was ridiculous. So those people were already married. Then half of the 
other people had to be engaged. My sister got married when she was twenty. I was a 
year and a half older. And people came to me at the wedding and said, “Don’t worry, 
dear, your time will come.” I was twenty-one. 
EC: Were you worried? 
DZ: [Laughter] I think I was worried. I mean I think yeah, sure, I was worried. 
I mean if they were worried how come I wasn’t worried? I mean of course I was 
worried, a little worried. So I was at a good place. I mean had I had family 
responsibilities I probably never would have gone, knowing me I would not have gone. 
So finally I found through Freddie’s girlfriend Jocelyn—and she was working at 
the CORE office. She said, “There’s going to be this workshop.” So I was not brave like 
other people. I mean I saw people for years coming south. They would walk in the 
office on Raymond Street with a suitcase. “OK, here I am, I’ve just come from blah blah 
blah.” I remember being very ugh with them, like “Why didn’t you tell us you were 
coming? What is this just popping up?” I would never have done that, never, no, never. 
So I enrolled in this workshop. We went to Miami, Florida, this was CORE, there were a 
lot of people there from Louisiana. I ended up living in Louisiana for seventeen years, 
but had absolutely no idea that was going to happen. Some people who turned out to be 
kind of famous. There was—oh, just died. 
EC: Rudy Lombard. 
Dorothy Zehner 
14 
DZ: Rudy Lombard. Rudy Lombard. There was a white guy named Hugh 
Murray. There was one of the twins, Pam and—hmm. Well, her married name was Due, 
D-U-E. 
EC: Priscilla and Patricia. 
DZ: Pat, that’s right, Patricia and Priscilla. Can’t think of their last name. 
EC: Stephens. 
DZ: Stephens, exactly. And Angie Butler. Angie Butler was in that group. 
EC: From Nashville. 
DZ: From Nashville, that’s right. We all gathered in Miami and actually some 
of the people were pro—I mean Angie was a pro by then. She had been arrested several 
times. And it was four months after the sit-ins. So the sit-ins were February. This was 
March, April, May, June. June. It was June, four months after the sit-ins. 
EC: So how long was the workshop? What were you doing at the workshop? 
DZ: Well, the workshop as I recall, [30:00] here my memory gets a little fuzzy, 
it was about two weeks, and the idea was from the CORE point of view that everybody 
would be trained as nonviolent organizers and go back. But going back for CORE was—I 
mean they were not in the rural areas at all. The only place in the South where they 
actually were was New Orleans. So they were heavy-duty Northern people. Jim Laue 
was one of the people. He was there. So there were people who were never going to be 
working south, they were going back north. I don’t remember what their organizational 
overview was. I was just one of the people. Looking back, now that I’m thinking about 
it, which I don’t often, they must have also been looking for another generation of 
Dorothy Zehner 
15 
members, supporters, fundraisers. They probably wanted as big a geographical spread as 
they possibly could get. 
EC: Of course, you just alluded to that, but CORE is basically an urban—. 
DZ: Urban Northern. Urban Northern. Yeah. But they had this kind of branch 
in Louisiana. They were strong in Louisiana. 
EC: Do you have a sense at all from that that they’re trying to make inroads 
into the South? Especially if they’re bringing these sit-in veterans? 
DZ: Yes, yes. I don’t think they succeeded. Because their roots, their 
administration, everything was in the North. We had some national leaders there. 
Marvin whatever his last name was. 
EC: Rich. 
DZ: Rich. Was there. I have a picture somewhere of all of these people. So 
that was amazing experience. And do you want the story of the arrests and all of that? 
OK. So we were sitting at this restaurant the name of which I can’t remember. But 
Angie Butler remembered. They wouldn’t serve us. “You will not be served.” I don’t 
remember how many people, seventeen maybe. And on the way out we started to sing. I 
think I was one of the first people, I’m happy to say, that we started singing. Then I 
realized, it dawned on me, that I was the only white woman in the group. We were on 
our way to jail. [Laughter] This is what I tell these young people now. I say, “Look, you 
think it’s only the lunch counters and only the buses.” So I say, “From the time you got 
up in the morning till the time you went to bed your entire life was formulated on the 
basis of your color.” I go into a list which they’re very shocked to hear. 
Dorothy Zehner 
16 
Of course the jails. Do they care about the jails? But it didn’t dawn on them that 
the jails were segregated. I talk about how when I went to Atlanta middle-class black 
women would spend four hundred dollars for a dress, couldn’t try on the dress, no 
dressing rooms. Had to take it home, too bad. Didn’t fit? Too bad. Then I notice all 
these young women are nodding at me like oh, oh. Talk about the dentist’s office, the 
doctor’s office. 
So here I was on the way to jail. OK, so it was very frightening. They brought 
me into this cell, and it was at night, so the bed was not made, so there was some sort of 
covering, and I lay on the mattress. Oh, the next morning, the women said, “You slept on 
that.” Oh God, they must have—this poor little thing had no idea. [Laughter] I don’t 
know what I was supposed to do. Sit up all night? I wasn’t about—and it was on the 
upper bunk. A detail I had forgotten about till this moment. I wasn’t about to be making 
a bed in the middle of the night. 
So the matron came in and we all had to line up. She did not call me a nigger 
lover or anything like that. But they all knew there was something peculiar about me. 
She handed me this mop. The mop weighed about thirty pounds. And “Mop the floor.” 
Now believe me that housework was not my strong suit at the best of times. So I did 
something, pushed the mop around, and they were all—they made ruthless fun of me, 
these women, “Oh my God, what.” But I don’t remember them being vicious. I really—I 
mean aside from being petrified that I was in jail I didn’t really feel any terrible menacing 
come. 
I think they must have asked me why I was there, and I must have said, “Arrested 
at a lunch counter.” I didn’t know how to lie. I probably said that.[35:00] Who were 
Dorothy Zehner 
17 
they? They were check forgers. They were white-collar women. It was obvious. No 
money to feed the kids, so petty thieves, that kind of thing. They shouldn’t have even 
been there to begin with. 
So after the whole day went on like this, then they called me into a meeting with a 
lawyer. They said, “People are coming out, if you want to come out, you can come out.” 
I guess they had gotten the bond. They didn’t want to keep us there for days and days. I 
said, “Yeah, I want to come out.” 
So I have a picture, by the way, of me through the bars. 
EC: Do you? 
DZ: Yeah. 
EC: When are you going to share that picture with me? 
DZ: [Laughter] OK, well, I have to lay my hands on it now. But it’s from the 
newspaper. There was a newspaper article about me. And it’s me behind the screen. 
EC: You said that people were coming out. I know that like Patricia Stephens 
had—. 
DZ: Stephens, she stayed in, Angie stayed in. 
EC: Because some of them had already—I think the Stephens sisters had 
already done jail, no bail—. 
DZ: That’s right. 
EC: —with their sit-in, and so I wondered if there’s any discussion about 
staying in. Of course you have nobody to discuss it with. 
DZ: No, I had nobody to discuss it with. I don’t remember any discussion 
ahead of time. Now that would have been nice as an organizing thing to say if you’re 
Dorothy Zehner 
18 
arrested what are we going to do, are we staying in. Nothing. Nothing. And now 
looking back, there was no—I didn’t expect any special treatment, but it seemed to me as 
an organizer that many years later I would have noticed that oh, there is one white 
woman here, do we need to do something special here, because obviously I was in 
minimal danger. I don’t think I was—I wasn’t endangered, but it would have occurred to 
me if I had been an administrator, “Uh-oh, maybe this is our weak link here.” Maybe 
that’s one of the reasons they wanted to get me out also. But they didn’t communicate 
that with me. It was left entirely up to me. 
I think Angie stayed in, other people stayed in. But they had an administrative 
problem because they had this project. Were they going to keep people in jail forever? 
Looking back, now that I’m talking about it, it wasn’t very well thought out. [Laughter] 
EC: Were you expecting to get arrested? I had the impression that you maybe 
weren’t expecting to be arrested and then ended up being arrested. I’m not sure why I 
think that. But it’s sort of like a little glimmer. 
DZ: Well, it’s possible. It’s possible. I mean they chose the restaurant. They 
must have cased out the place first. They must have. 
EC: So this was basically your practicum, right? You’ve been studying the 
theory of nonviolence and now you go out on your sit-in. 
DZ: Yeah. They did the usual thing beforehand. We lay down on the floor, 
“Hold your head,” people would come and scream at you. I do remember that they had 
us change roles. Either you were the victim or you were the perp. And in these little 
practical things. But they made us the perps, the people who were the perps had to 
scream every vile thing they could possibly scream, and I remember screaming, getting 
Dorothy Zehner 
19 
unbelievably upset that I was standing there screaming and how easy it was, to tell you 
the truth. Oh, you can stand there, you can turn into a fascist. Unless you’re careful. 
Unless you’re careful. 
EC: Do you remember in that workshop having any sense of males and 
females having different roles? There being any concern about women being hurt and 
men being protective? 
DZ: No, I don’t remember anything like that. But I think I was very poor, I 
was definitely a poor subject when it came to women, I had no consciousness of myself 
as a woman at all. I mean I think up until that point, several years afterwards, I was 
following along. True, an unorthodox, path. Nevertheless, it was expected I was going 
to get married. I was going to have children, it was all programmed. This was a rather 
unorthodox way of going about it. But it was nothing. [Laughter] 
EC: Looking for a spouse in a Miami jail? 
DZ: So then I didn’t want to leave them. When it all came over, I didn’t want 
to leave. So I begged them to take me with them to New Orleans. 
EC: You say them. Because there was a large contingent. 
DZ: It was a large contingent. That’s what I mean that they were strong in 
Louisiana. Stronger, I should say, in Louisiana. [40:00] A whole bunch of them were 
going back. I stayed with somebody whose name I can’t remember, a black woman who 
lived on Claiborne or near Claiborne Avenue. I stayed at least a week, if not two weeks. 
They were getting ready for the first sit-in, which they had not had yet. Now that was 
kind of interesting. Somebody’ll write an article about that, because what was the name 
of the black college there? There were two. 
Dorothy Zehner 
20 
EC: Dillard? 
DZ: Dillard and Loyola. Not Loyola. Loyola. 
EC: Xavier. 
DZ: Xavier. Dillard and Xavier. So that was kind of unusual that they had not 
had any sit-ins there. I don’t exactly know why. Somebody knows why but I don’t know 
why. Maybe there was infighting in the community. I don’t know exactly why. So 
when we got there they were definitely ready to do it, but now that I’m thinking about it, 
it was coming from outside, it was coming from the CORE people. It was not coming 
from the local students. I mean it was coming from Hugh. It was coming from this 
woman who I stayed with. It was people who lived there who were resident there, but it 
was not coming from student groups as I recall. 
So we met in the Y, the black Y, and so I was making signs. I had gone to music 
and art high school, this is where my art career came in handy. [Laughter] So I was 
making signs. Then there was this—as one of the white people I was to case the 
Woolworth’s on Canal Street. We did that, there were several of us, and we cased the 
place, and what was going to happen, and where was the lunch counter, and so forth and 
so on. Then my role was they asked me would I do outreach into the white community. 
I went to see this rather famous priest named Father Fichter, who was at the white 
Loyola. Loyola was white. He had been very well known as very good on racial issues. 
The Catholic Church actually was definitely more advanced than almost any institution 
there. They had already integrated their schools. I met him. I told him that there were 
going to be sit-ins there. The first sit-in. And could they do anything? He said, “Yes, we 
Dorothy Zehner 
21 
will help, we will talk about it in our parishes, I’ll spread out the word.” Very very 
cooperative. 
Then they sent me, they told me to go to him, and to go to the rabbi, one of the 
big rabbis. That’s where I went to see this rabbi who kicked me out of his office. Which 
I must say now in retrospect he didn’t realize what a big favor he was doing. Because I 
have used that story fifty-five years. Thank you very much, Rabbi Jules Feibelman, F-E- 
I-B-E-L-M-A-N. 
EC: You don’t remember him, do you? 
DZ: No, don’t remember him at all. I was extremely upset when he threw me 
out of his office. Really upset. As I said that has stayed me in good stead as a Jewish 
activist now that this rabbi threw me out. When the Catholic had invited me in, OK? I 
just should say parenthetically that as the years went on and I traveled around the South, I 
learned what had happened to the Jews there. 
I remember one time Bob and I drove through, it must have been Hayneville. Am 
I saying it right? 
EC: Is this Bob Zellner? 
DZ: Bob Zellner, my former husband. Is it Hayneville? Am I right? 
EC: Haynesville? Where? 
DZ: Well, we pronounced it—it’s in Alabama. In Lowndes County. 
EC: You mean the one in Lowndes County. I think it’s Hayneville, but I don’t 
know, maybe I’m wrong. Haynesville I guess. 
DZ: Well, if it’s Hayneville, then I think some of the local people, I don’t 
know, I have to look. I remember it as Hayneville, but it’s probably wrong. 
Dorothy Zehner 
22 
EC: I may not know how--. 
DZ: I remember going through that town. I will never forget that town. I don’t 
know what it looks like now. Then it looked like a movie set. It looked just like Intruder 
in the Dust or the one with Atticus Finch. 
EC : F inch, To Kill a Mockingbird. 
DZ: To Kill a Mockingbird. There was the town square like this, and there 
were men on their chairs tilted back, there were the trees with the vines. 
EC: Spanish moss, kudzu, Spanish moss. 
DZ: Spanish moss. Yes, hanging down. There was [45:00] Goldberg’s store. 
Or if it wasn’t Goldberg it was Feinberg, it was somebody’s store. And in the middle of 
blankety-blank nowhere. Actually am I allowed to use bad language on this? Probably 
not. Not. OK. 
EC: Well, Guha would prefer you didn’t. 
DZ: OK. So then-. 
EC: You’re certainly welcome to quote people. 
DZ: All right. So as the years went on I understood how they had gotten there. 
Their role was not enviable. They were not accepted by anybody. They were always 
trying desperately to be white. They were never secure. They were like the Chinese 
storeowner in Greenwood who was the same way. Trying so hard to be white, and he 
would never be white, no matter what he did. 
I don’t know. Someday maybe somebody will write some books about 
them. Maybe they have. 
Dorothy Zehner 
23 
EC: You want to save it? In another conversation when you were in Miami on 
the workshop a lot of people were telling you about SNCC. 
DZ: Oh yes. Oh, no, no, absolutely, absolutely, I realized while I was there, 
and then in desperation I had to go to New Orleans, that I had found something that I 
wanted to come back. I knew I wanted to come back. I started asking people. I said, 
“Well, what do you advise?” And Bernard Lafayette was in this group. And it was 
Bernard who said to me, “SNCC. Go to SNCC.” I sort of stored that away in my mind 
that SNCC was—I didn’t know a thing about SNCC. 
So I was in New Orleans I guess for a couple of weeks. Then we had the famous 
sit-ins. The sit-ins were spectacular. I must say. They really were. And one of my 
assignments was to drive the car. [Laughter] So keep track of what I’m saying, Emilye, 
because I want to skip ahead and say something about cars. 
EC: OK. 
DZ: It’s only after we did the book, the Hands on the Freedom Plow, that I 
realized that SNCC had no resources except for one, cars. OK? That it became a big 
issue who controlled the cars and who drove the cars. OK? So young women are very 
surprised to hear that if you were in an intergender group, a woman never drove a car if a 
man was in the group and could drive a car. Never. Like never. 
And our book has many wonderful stories in it about cars and who controlled the 
cars. The best one is Zoharah Simmons who was a project director and controlled—the 
car was controlled by the previous project director who then left, and she felt it came 
within her purview as everybody else did, except this guy wanted to take the car with 
him. So then I realized cars. Cars loomed very big. And you talk about our great 
Dorothy Zehner 
24 
characters like Stokely. Stokely in my mind is inseparable from a car. We had these 
legendary drivers. People would talk about so-and-so drove. I mean they drove like bats 
out of hell. But they must have been fantastic drivers. Maria Varela has a story in Hands 
on, where she’s driving trying to escape the Klan at 110 miles an hour. Cars loomed very 
heavily under the story. Anyway I was—. 
EC: You said something not very long ago about how Stokely would come into 
town. 
DZ: Oh yes. Oh. Well, Stokely, he was head of the second district. 
Mississippi was divided into districts and his district was one of the really hopping 
popping districts because it was not only Greenwood, it was Tallahatchie County. It was 
these truly unbelievably terrible places, Ruleville was in the second district. I don’t know 
if Greenville was in the second district. Oh, Greenville. So he would be making the 
rounds all the time. He was an unbelievable character. He was about six-foot-three, 
[50:00] skinny like this, very very handsome, very charismatic. He would drive in, we 
always knew it was him. [Laughter] He would drive in. Oh. Put his feet on the brakes. 
The gravel would be flying. Get out of the car. Smooth his clothes down. He was an 
unbelievable character, unbelievable. 
So that’s the way he drove. So driving was very important. Actually driving was, 
because your life could depend on how well people drove. So women seldom if ever 
drove. And back to this story. I was supposed to drive. 
EC: In New Orleans, we’re back to New Orleans and the sit-ins. 
DZ: In New Orleans. Now we’re back in the sit-ins, 1960. I was supposed to 
drive and I was a terrible driver, I had learned to drive late in life in New York City 
Dorothy Zehner 
25 
where none of us had a car. But I did have a license. And evidently, I don’t remember 
why nobody else could drive, I have no idea. So after the event they had me driving, and 
we almost got killed I’m sure. We were going around a traffic circle which later on, 
living there seventeen years, I went around all the time. I had no idea what I was doing. 
And everybody was screaming in the car, “Oh, what are you doing?” [Laughter] 
Screaming, “We never should have let you drive.” Oh my God. 
So it was very dramatic because Hugh Murray’s father had been driving along in 
Harahan. I think they were from Harahan. He heard on the radio that a sit-in was going 
on and that there was a white man in the group. I think they must have said his name or 
he knew it was his son. So he came storming into the Woolworth’s through the cops, 
through—they roped it off. And literally grabbed Hugh and dragged him off the seat and 
dragged him away. And Hugh—actually I don’t know if it was ever the same again. I 
met him a few times over the years. He was kind of an eccentric character. The white 
people who lived there, the Southern white people, they had very little support. This was 
a big thing. It was covered in the Times-Picayune. I don’t really know, I think he’s 
written something, I’m not sure. Might have written something, Hugh Murray. 
So then I went home, and I said, “Oh, well, SNCC is the place to go, Bernard said 
SNCC,” other people had said SNCC. CORE was not an attractive thing to me. 
EC : Do you know why? 
DZ: Well, I suppose first of all there were very few what I would call—later 
came to call—local people. Even though the Stephenses I think were from South Carolina 
or North Carolina. 
EC: Florida. 
Dorothy Zehner 
26 
DZ: From Florida, oh, that’s right, from Florida. There were several people 
from New Orleans there, but a lot of people from New York. I don’t know, I just didn’t 
want to be New York, I just felt it was a Southern thing, I don’t even know how much I 
thought about. But it wasn’t attractive to me. Definitely was not. So all through that 
year I was writing letters to SNCC. And little did I know, they were throwing them in the 
garbage, there was nobody there to even open them. 
I just thought, “Well, they’re not interested.” What did I know? I finally got a 
job. For my first job after I came back was this horrible job doing proofreading for a 
scientific magazine, proofreading equations, can you imagine anything more terrible than 
that? I lasted about six months on that. Then I had to leave. Then I finally got a job in 
the Welfare Department. The Welfare Department was like the home for everybody 
there, didn’t matter who you were, you graduated, you had nowhere to go, you went into 
the Welfare Department. I was a welfare investigator, which was another story we’ll get 
to some other year. Then by a peculiar fluke, because life is made of all these flukes, it 
turns out that a black guy had been hired at the Southern Regional Council and his name 
was James A. Moss, M-O-S-S. He had been a professor at Queens College when I was 
the editor of the student newspaper. He was the only black professor in the entire school. 
[55:00] His contract was not renewed. He came to me and told me his story. I was 
totally outraged and I wanted to do a story about it. But he wouldn’t let me, he was 
afraid, and he felt he would never be hired anywhere else, and he left. 
EC: Do you know why he would come to you about the story even if he didn’t 
want it to be published? 
Dorothy Zehner 
27 
DZ: Yes. I think he wanted some emotional support. I think I was the editor 
of the paper, I was known as a lefty, and I think that’s why he came to me, otherwise I 
would never have known. 
So one of the many many places that I wrote to to get a job was the Southern 
Regional Council, and here James Moss had just been hired as the research director, and 
he saw my letter. See how life is so—and he said, “Oh, I know her, hire her.” So in three 
weeks I was down there. From the time that he got the letter. I was down there. 
I said, “OK, everybody, Fm going.” I said to my parents, who were probably 
very happy to get rid of me. My mother, I remember my mother didn’t want me to go, 
but she helped me pack a trunk. A trunk. I took a trunk down there. I took sheets, I took 
silverware. I don’t know. 
EC: You were going to go marry the Southern Regional Council. 
DZ: I was going to marry the Southern movement is what I was going to do. 
So yes, so I went down there, and I became a research associate, what they called then, 
and they actually put me to very good use. Because I am the one who did the research for 
that Southern Regional Council report which was about the first eighteen months of the 
civil rights movement—of the sit-in movement. Heavily edited by Les Dunbar of course. 
I think appropriately so. But I am the one who went through all the newspaper clippings 
and everything, added things and tallied them and blah blah blah. Made up all the 
categories, figured out. And it was really an impressive thing. 
When they issued it I remember very well it ended up on the front page of the 
New York Times, this report, not my name of course, I didn’t exist, my name was not on 
Dorothy Zehner 
28 
this thing at all, as the style of those days. Research people, they did the work, they 
wrote it, and they were gone to history—from history. So that was very useful. 
I lived on the white side of town. I lived on Peachtree Street, one of the many 
Peachtree Streets. And SRC was an interracial organization so we went many places 
together when we could. I lived a double life. I went on the white side and I went on the 
black side as well. 
EC: So what was it like to work? You said you were sort of on the white side 
and the black side of town while you worked for the SRC. 
DZ: Well, I must say I had some guilty moments but it didn’t stop me from 
living on the white side. I didn’t really have a way of getting to the black side. And 
often the black people came to my house on the white side after dark. And looking back, 
I mean weren’t they ashamed, wasn’t I ashamed? I mean really it was overt. Oh, it was 
nighttime? You can go to her house. Nighttime. What is that? 
EC : Did you talk about it? 
DZ: No. I remember black people, friends of mine who worked there, this was 
an interracial organization. And it was just taken as a matter of course. Well, of course, 
she lives on the white side, so we have to go make sure that her neighbors can’t see. 
I remember going to places that I knew my black colleagues couldn’t go to. I 
wasn’t easy about that. I only had one white friend that I had met other than SRC and of 
course she had nothing to do with the civil rights movement so she was the one, “Oh, 
let’s go here, let’s go there,” so I went. 
EC: What would happen when you’d go places on the black side? 
Dorothy Zehner 
29 
DZ: Oh, on the black side it was always “Are we going to be arrested?” 
[Laughter] Except when we went to a black place. It’s very hard to—this is what I tell 
these kids. I say, “Try to put your mind in a place where you’re going to a dangerous 
neighborhood.” I say, “What does that mean when people say you’re going to a 
dangerous neighborhood now?” Well, of course it means a black neighborhood, Latino. 
I said, “With us it was the white neighborhood that was the dangerous neighborhood. 
[1:00:00] So when we were in the black community we felt completely safe, completely 
safe. White people. White people. I don’t know what that means to a psychologist. 
Would have some interesting insights. What do you look at when you look in the mirror? 
You’re saying to yourself, “Well, I’m one of them. But no, I’m not one of them.” 
Then Jane came to work. 
EC: Jane? 
DZ: Jane Bond came to work. We liked each other a lot right away. She was 
dying to move out of her house. She had been a graduate student in Indiana or 
somewhere, coming back, she didn’t want to live at home. I was able to find a reason to 
be on the black side. In those days to live alone as a woman, getting an apartment, was 
not easy, and very few people did it. And for me to have gone into the black side, I don’t 
even know if anybody would have rented to me. I don’t know. But I didn’t even try. So 
then Jane and I set up household at 2222 Telhurst Street, which by the way the last time I 
was in California Jane and I went to see. I mean not when I was in California, when I 
was in Atlanta Mary King took me to Telhurst Street and I told Jane about it when I saw 
her in California. We lived there for a year and a half. I think I might have met Jane 
before I met Julian. All this time I was in SRC and people would come in regularly, 
Dorothy Zehner 
30 
visitors, other countries, and they’d say, “Oh, and here we’re having a meeting here, and 
now we’re going to SNCC.” I knew perfectly well where SNCC was. I had tried to work 
for them, but they had not responded, and they were literally twenty minutes away by 
foot, and I couldn’t get there. 
I was reading about all of these people in the newspaper. Now they were part of 
the people that I was making my report about. Among others I kept seeing this name, 
this name, Robert Zellner. I thought to myself, “What is this Jewish boy doing running 
around?” His father was a minister. So I had no idea who he was. And finally, finally 
there was this Swedish journalist named Per Larsen and he came, it was in October, and 
he said, “I’m going to SNCC now. How do I get there?” I said, “I’m going with you.” I 
finally worked up courage. Five months it took me. 
EC: So did you start working for SRC like summer of [19]61 or spring of 
[19]61? 
DZ: June of [19]61. 
EC: June [19]61. 
DZ: Yeah. I went over to SNCC the first time in October of [19]61. 
EC: Good timing. 
DZ: Good timing, because Forman had been there a month. If I had gone there 
two months earlier there would have been nothing, I would never, who knows when I 
would have gone back? So I don’t remember what happened to Per Larsen, I don’t know 
what happened. Then my next memory is meeting Forman. That became this 
momentous thing that he said to me. So I remember he shook my hand, and he said, 
“Can you type?” I said, “Yes.” He said, “Good, we need you.” OK. 
Dorothy Zehner 
31 
Now later that became deconstructed by feminists as the most terrible thing a man 
could say. I’ve said many times I was beyond thrilled that he asked me if I could type, I 
was so happy I could type. By then I knew that my ability to function in the South was 
limited. OK? Putting it mildly. First of all I was a woman. Second of all I was a white 
woman. White woman equals death to black men. [Laughter] Third, I was from the 
North. What else was I going to do? This is why I later had very little sympathy with the 
poor white women who felt that their skills were not being developed enough. So I said, 
“Yes, I can type.” He right away put me to work typing. 
Then it wasn’t initially the same day, it was [1:05:00] probably a couple weeks 
later, I went up to him and I said, “You know, Forman, I can write also.” Maybe I said to 
him I was the editor of my paper, I don’t remember if I even said. He said, “Good.” 
[Laughter] “Fm going to put you to work with Julian.” So I think probably by 
December, November, December, I was already—had met Julian and maybe Jane and I 
started living together a little bit later. I’m not sure exactly. 
EC: And Julian is Julian—. 
DZ: Julian Bond. 
EC: And Jane’s brother. 
DZ: Jane’s brother. We started right away working on the Student Voice. 
Right away. This is where Forman’s great genius was, that he was walking around with 
this switchboard in his head. And of course I say switchboard here but young people 
don’t even know what that is. It’s a board with holes in it and you put the screws into the 
right place, the plugs into the right place. He knew everything. He was walking around, 
he knew, the whole organization was laid out in his mind in a three-D version. He knew, 
Dorothy Zehner 
32 
“Oh, we need people here, oh, we need people to do that, we need people to do this.” 
When I said what I could do he just instantly knew. I mean literally. He didn’t sit down, 
“Hmm.” Think. I mean he knew right away. “Yes, you can type, good, because we have 
people coming from the field, they need to write affidavits, they need to do this, we need 
you to type.” 
That’s mostly what I remember typing. But it got so in the later years that he 
would hand me his mail and he’d hand me a whole letter, he’d say, “No.” I wrote the 
whole letter. Said no. Then he’d sign it. Or he’d say, “Tell them next week.” I mean he 
would say the briefest possible thing. I would write his mail, write his letter. 
EC: So he would just leave it up to you to figure out what to say to people and 
how to handle it? 
DZ: Yeah. He told me what to say. 
EC: Well, he told you. 
DZ: He told me the essence. The request is denied, the request is accepted, I 
mean whatever. I wrote four paragraphs. I talked about SNCC and I wrote about SNCC 
and everything. 
EC: Are we rolling? Can you explain for people who may not know what you 
meant about white women and black men? 
DZ: Oh yeah. Well, especially in the rural areas but in the cities also, the 
deadly combination for reasons of psychotic behavior in the white community was the 
combination of a white woman and a black man. And by then black men had been 
charged at least for more than a hundred years with raping white women. I had 
experienced in my youth some very famous cases like Willie McGee. Cases of people 
Dorothy Zehner 
33 
who were lynched from jail. And usually because they were accused of having raped a 
white woman. And it’s possible that maybe some rapes did occur somewhere along the 
line. But the famous cases were in fact white women and black men who had had 
relationships. Then for some reason the white woman betrayed the black man either out 
of fear herself or being forced by her family or her whatever. And Willie McGee was 
one of those cases where he’d had a long term relationship with this white woman and 
then they charged rape and he ended up being lynched. 
EC: I think he was actually put to death. 
DZ: Wasn’t he taken out of the jail? 
EC: I think that was--. 
DZ: But maybe that was somebody else. 
EC: I think you’re combining it with Mack Parker. 
DZ: Maybe with Mack Parker. OK. They’re both in Mississippi. 
EC: They both ended up dead because of their relationships. But I think one 
was lynched and one was convicted with the death penalty. 
DZ: Maybe Willie McGee, yeah, yeah. OK, thank you. So anyway in the rural 
areas we were anathema, white women were anathema. And our book is full of examples 
of how just walking along the road with a black man could mean that he would die. He 
would die. So you had in your mind. I mean I think for white women who didn’t deal 
with this, they were in super denial. Super denial. And especially—I never went to 
Southwest Georgia by the way. But according to the stories and the book, I mean 
Sherrod was a maniac about this. Sherrod [1:10:00] I mean viewed white women as sort 
of charges that were about to be detonated. And very strict rules. You can’t go past this 
Dorothy Zehner 
34 
street for a week, you can’t do this, you can’t do that. To make sure they didn’t wander 
off somewhere and end up getting somebody in severe trouble. 
EC: So Charles Sherrod was SNCC’s project director in Southwest Georgia. 
And Southwest Georgia was unusual in some of SNCC’s projects because it was 
explicitly interracial, he recruited whites and blacks to work. 
DZ: Right. 
EC: Can you describe Jim Forman and Julian Bond and what they were like? 
DZ: Well, I’m going to get weepy here because they were my special ones and 
they’re both gone now. Jim was an amazing, amazing person. I really think that 
historians who write about him who didn’t know him and who didn’t interview people 
who knew him have misconstrued his character. First of all, he didn’t suffer fools gladly, 
number one. He was highly intelligent. I mean extremely intelligent. He was very 
cultured. He was a French speaker, he spoke French. He read books from Africa before 
anybody ever heard of Africa. But he had very few what they call common social skills. 
He didn’t chat. He was not a chatter. He was not an ass-kisser. He was not somebody, 
he was not going to sit there and pass the time of day, he got to the heart of things, got to 
the meat of things. 
He invented the concept of friends of. And now this is a concept that has been 
replicated all over the world. Forget all over the United States. All over the world. He 
knew in his mind, I described the switchboard in his mind, but he also—here was Atlanta 
and everything else was this wheel. Atlanta was the hub. It was the wheel. He invented 
the concept of support groups which did not do policy, they did not make policy, it was 
Dorothy Zehner 
35 
the center that made the policy. The support groups had the option of supporting or not 
supporting. But they did not have any other option. They did not. 
And now Miss Baker was really responsible for keeping SNCC autonomous. But 
she did it, she was protected—not protected, her work was extended by Forman. And 
Forman insisted on that. Can we stop for a second? 
M: We’re rolling. 
DZ: OK. So Forman, Fm sure it was his idea that all of these field secretaries 
would come off the field, the field being everything but the main office, writing these 
affidavits. What he called affidavits. Now they weren’t legal affidavits in any sense. 
They were statements basically. That’s what I did as a volunteer. People would come off 
the field, they would sit next to me, and I would type and they would speak. 
At the time I was a very fast typist, very inaccurate typist, and—. 
EC: You said inaccurate? 
DZ: Inaccurate. And if I made a mistake I didn’t stop, I didn’t correct, I just 
put an X on it and just kept going. So I am able to tell what I typed now, fifty years later, 
because nobody else was sloppy like that. But I was really fast, so I could type as fast as 
somebody could speak. Then he sent them off. He sent them off to Robert Kennedy. 
“This is what’s going on now.” The idea was that there was enough on the books already 
in the 1957 Civil Rights Act where all these registrars could have been sitting in jail all of 
this time. 
EC: The registrars, these are like voter registration? 
Dorothy Zehner 
36 
DZ: Voter registration, people in charge. We kept sending them off. “We 
want you to be aware that.” I don’t even remember where the letters are. The letters are 
all in the SNCC papers I’m sure. That was one of the things I did. 
Let’s see. He didn’t have small talk. But when he made a human contact with 
you, it was like a laser beam. I found him very very attractive. In a very atypical way. 
[1:15:00] He had a wonderful smile. As a dentist’s daughter I notice everybody’s teeth 
without fail. He had wonderful teeth. He smiled. He had a good sense of humor. But he 
rarely if ever—he didn’t initiate the humor. I think he appreciated people’s humor. He 
was constantly exasperated. He never hid that at all. His famous gesture. When people 
would talk he would go like this. Wind it up. Wind it up. [Laughter] 
So I had a couple of narrow escapes when he was present, which is of course one 
of the many reasons I loved him so much. Once we were in Greenwood, Mississippi. 
Not the summer of [19]64, the summer before that. And it was the occasion of Bob 
Dylan and the folk festival. And on the way out there were two or three cars, interracial 
cars. We were all stopped by the cops. It was at night. And it was on or near a railroad 
track, that’s all I remember. The cops made everybody get out. We had to put our hands 
up on the hood of the car. He handled it. I don’t remember what he said. He was very 
calm. Very very calm. I don’t know what they said to him. He dealt with it. That’s the 
way I felt about him. I had total confidence in him. That’s why I bitterly reject some of 
these historians saying that he was unstrung in some way. When I dealt with him, when 
we were in extremis, he was deathly calm. His instinct was absolutely right. He was 
never—he wasn’t provocative. But he was very dignified. He was very contained. Self- 
Dorothy Zehner 
37 
contained. He didn’t pop off. He didn’t scream. He didn’t do anything like that as has 
been portrayed. 
I had truly total confidence. If he said to me, “It’s OK to do this, go walk out here 
and go across that street. There’s a car coming but I know you’re all right,” I probably 
would have done it. I just had total confidence in him. So that was one time. 
Then in Danville when we were almost all killed again at a demonstration when 
they were getting ready to hose us down and beat us up, he saved us. He realized that we 
were—he realized it was going to be a disaster. He got up, and he went to the police 
chief, and he said, “Do you realize what’s going to happen here?” I think those were his 
actual words. And behind his back he sort of motioned us all to leave. 
EC: Can you describe the situation? 
DZ: Yeah. So here we were in this wretched little town which lived and died 
by the mill, by the Dan River Mills Company. And black community had been 
struggling and struggling there to desegregate. The community was taking a big hit. And 
SNCC went in there, and he sent me up there to write a pamphlet. See, that was his idea. 
Who would think about that? Writing pamphlets. You see? 
Now when he wrote a pamphlet, the pamphlet wasn’t only “Oh, well, we’ll just 
do it for history’s sake.” Even though he believed in that. But he knew exactly what he 
was going to do with it, he was going to print it, he was going to distribute it, he was 
going to send it here to the North. I mean he had plans. He had plans. Big plans. 
So we were out there on these steps. OK. Can we stop for a second? There were 
about forty people out there on the steps of this horrible town hall—city hall. Right across 
Dorothy Zehner 
38 
the street were all these deputized drunks and God knows who else. They had the fire 
hoses across. I’d already been knocked down by the fire hoses. And--. 
EC: Had people been hospitalized? 
DZ: Yes. People had been hospitalized. It was in the previous demonstration. 
There were two demonstrations. One was when we were praying by the jail and they 
came out and they turned the fire hoses on us and then later on that’s when I was hit over 
the head by this cop. That’s the picture that Danny Lyon took where Forman is sitting 
next to me. He’s taking an affidavit. [Laughter] I am talking about being hit over the 
head. And unfortunately I’m sitting in this position. People think I’m posing as a model. 
But it was actually I was holding my head. 
That was number one. Number—. 
EC: So how did you get hit? 
DZ: By this cop who hit me. I was on my hands and knees. I weighed 106 
pounds. I had no purse, it was—disappeared. I didn’t have any shoes. Washed away. 
This guy came just out of total unnecessary sadism, hit me over the head with his stick. 
OK? That’s when I said that they say that seeing stars is an expression, it’s not an 
expression, because I actually saw lights going off in my brain, I’m sure that he damaged 
some blood vessels in my brain and that’s what I was seeing. 
So not to be outdone, we went back. That was the other thing about SNCC. 
Always go back. Wherever people are in the most danger, you go to them. We’re like 
the fire department. It was like the fire department. Then if something bad happens you 
go back. You do something that shows that you’re not afraid, that you’re going to 
continue. That was the whole SNCC methodology. 
Dorothy Zehner 
39 
That’s probably why we had such a reputation, for good and ill, that we were not- 
-that SNCC was intemperate and hotheaded and so forth. So the going back was the 
community went back to city hall. They vowed that they would stay there for—day and 
night if necessary. We lasted about eight hours. My favorite memory of lasting is that 
Forman—here we were all sitting on steps. [Laughter] He must have thought to himself, 
“These people are going to go stir-crazy just sitting here all day. I have to do 
something.” Said, “Now we’re going to have a workshop about black history!” He went 
up and down the steps. “Now who was Harriet Tubman? Tell me who was Harriet 
Tubman.” And people would answer. He actually got them involved. He had been a 
teacher in Chicago. 
So then they arrayed all of this hardware in front of us and I was really scared. 
Really, really scared. I was sitting on the steps holding on to this rail with both my hands 
like this. I remember thinking to myself, “This is probably it.” 
Because the idea was they were going to wash us down the steps with the hoses 
and then come and kill us with the sticks. I would have sat there. I would have sat there. 
I mean people have asked me. I mean it was inconceivable to get up. How could I get 
up? How could I possibly? Aside from the fact that I was the only white person in the 
group, how could I possibly get up? I mean who had the option to get up? You don’t 
have an option. You got there on your own two feet, you’re going to stay there with 
everybody. 
So that’s when Forman came up. He distracted the police chief. And behind his 
back he went like this. This meant “Get up and get the hell out of there.” We did, we got 
up. Very dignified. We left. So I consider that twice he saved my life. 
Dorothy Zehner 
40 
If he had been in any way intemperate or off the wall in Mississippi when we 
were stopped that night, who knows what would have happened? Then in Danville we 
knew what was going to happen. But you see, he had the stature to know when it was 
time to retreat. He was not a crazy hothead. Because if he had been he would have just 
said, “Oh, OK, so we’ll have four, five people killed out here today.” He didn’t, he 
wouldn’t. He wouldn’t do that. I was incredibly fond of him. I really just loved him. 
He was also brave in other ways. Like who is brave enough to buy twenty cars at once? 
And just the idea of having the money. That was two thousand dollars a car by the way 
in those days. So he said to himself, “I can do this.” Who knows if we only had forty 
thousand dollars in the bank? We might have. He said, “Now is the time.” He was 
brave. He was brave in that way. 
Then he put up with all sorts of unbelievable people as we well know. I mean 
really the SNCC people as a group were definitely—what should I say? Exceptional. 
[Laughter] In all respects. [1:25:00] He put up with a lot of divas. A lot of divas. 
So I had nothing but respect for him. Nothing. He’s never been treated properly. 
To think that he was reduced to that person in the movie in Selma. It was totally bizarre, 
a totally bizarre portrayal of him. Makes me feel bad. It makes me feel bad to read a 
book just recently that he was petulant, that he was jealous, he was—no, no, no, no, no, 
no. Wrong guy. Wrong guy. Again he certainly was not flawless by any means. He 
could be definitely very brusque, very brusque. But he would look at you, he’d tell you 
the truth. He would tell you the truth. “No, you didn’t do that right. No, you didn’t do 
that right.” I don’t remember that he spared himself either. 
Dorothy Zehner 
41 
Then of course what happened to him was very sad. Now all the time that I knew 
him, I knew him really well up until 1967. So I knew him well from 1961, the fall of 
1961, to the spring of 1967. All that time I did not know that he had had a psychiatric 
history. I didn’t know that he had had a breakdown as a young man. There was 
absolutely nothing to indicate in any one of his dealings that he had ever had any 
problem. I don’t think I was—I certainly was not a nurse then or anything. But I think I 
was pretty sensitive to weird people. Like within five minutes. He wasn’t like that. He 
was not like that. He showed no sign of psychiatric problems whatsoever. Then he 
crashed. Then he had a breakdown. 
Now whether—it’s hard to believe that it was not a result of accumulated stress 
and accumulated trauma. Because he was in a very responsible period for many years. 
And considering that he had had a previous breakdown, I suppose it’s not surprising. 
Now Dinky managed to get him back. She took him to Puerto Rico. And in that 
period Liz Sutherland worked with him on his book. He came back. I think he had 
altogether three breakdowns. His final breakdown, I remember somebody telling me who 
was a medical professional that with the final breakdown he had two options then. He 
was going to deconstruct completely. Then he would be able to be rehabilitated through 
therapy and medication and restore his personality. Or, without intervention he was 
going to level off at some chronic state. He at that point refused treatment, and that’s 
exactly what happened is he leveled off at a chronic state, and became a totally different 
person. This is the person who was talking about class warfare, who became this lapdog 
of the Democratic Party. I remember having a knock-down, drag-out fight with him 
about Ed Koch, the mayor, whom I loathe and despise. He was giving some sort of a 
Dorothy Zehner 
42 
reason why it was important to support Ed Koch. Oh my God. Then we became very— 
we became distant. I mean I cared about him. He would come and visit me. He even 
stayed at my house once. By that time, when he was in his very sick period. He was 
convinced that he was being poisoned. He refused to eat anything with me; we’d go to a 
restaurant, he wouldn’t eat. I just said to him, “If you’re afraid you’re being poisoned, 
give me the food and I’ll eat it first, and if nothing happens to me, you can eat it.” I just 
treated it like, “OK, if this is what you think, let’s try that.” He ended up—. Well, 
everybody knows how he ended up. 
[1:30:00] He ended up in Washington. He was extremely bizarre. He was a great 
man. He has not been treated like a great man in all these years of historiography. I am 
totally convinced we would have had a collection of extremely brilliant people who 
would have been all over the place, if it hadn’t been for him. I mean, he really—he 
invented the hub, the wheel and the hub, and he was standing right there, right in the 
center of the hub. He invented the campus travelers. He invented, I said, the friends 
groups. It was all to serve the rural areas. That was all—. We didn’t put it in those terms, 
but now looking back, that’s what it was. 
We were all serving the work, and that’s what his motto was because that’s what 
he did in his life. I don’t believe—. I think he took vacations. He certainly—he didn’t 
care about clothes. There was nothing that he did. He didn’t care about food. He didn’t 
care about any of that. He was very ruthless about publicity. He wanted publicity for the 
work. I don’t remember anything where he wanted publicity for himself. He wasn’t like 
that. 
EC: You mentioned Dinky was able to get him through the first—. 
Dorothy Zehner 
43 
DZ: Yes. She got him through twice. 
EC: And can you say who she was in this context? 
DZ: Oh yes. Well, she was his virtual wife, the mother of his two children, 
both of whom are accomplished. James Forman, Jr. is a professor at Yale, and the 
younger son, Chaka, is an actor and a teacher in California. So, it was a long series of—a 
heart rending thing to watch. I remember Betty and I sent to see him a couple of months 
before he died, and he was living in this sort of rehab home after surgery. Then he had an 
obsession that Aretha Franklin was a Native American. That’s all he would talk about, 
was Aretha Franklin and being a Native American. I looked at him, and he said, “I’m a 
Native American, too.” I remember looking at him, and I said, “Really?” He showed a 
little flash of his old self. He said, “Yes, I’m telling you. Yes, yes.” [Laughter] But that 
disappeared. 
Then we had a big party for him, you know, when he was seventy-five, but that 
was before. He had stabilized at that point. He was like your chronic, eccentric person; 
he didn’t have big ups, he didn’t have big downs, but he stabilized at a level that was a 
different person. I don’t know the technical name for that, but his politics were different, 
his—. He didn’t have any great passion left. He had spent it all. He gave himself to us. 
Unfortunately there are a lot of people who don’t realize what a gift that was. 
EC: And for people who don’t know SNCC’s history, he really is the person 
who’s the executive secretary when SNCC was building the infrastructure to support 
people working in the field, and held that position until sometimes in [19]65 when he was 
moved on to a different position as international—. 
DZ: Yes, but he was still very much in the leadership. 
Dorothy Zehner 
44 
EC: He wanted a different person to be in that position. 
DZ: Yes, and then Ruby Doris came in there. 
[Recorder is turned off and then back on] 
DZ: Well, all I remember—I remember Pete Seeger was there. 
EC: This is the festival in Greenwood in 1963? 
DZ: In Greenwood in [19]63. I remember Bob and I were supposed to take 
Pete Seeger around, OK? And Bob Dylan was at the festival. Danny Lyon did several 
photographs of him singing there, and it was out [1:35:00] in a big field, and he sang 
songs that were fabulous and totally incomprehensible it seemed to me, to the audience. 
[Laughs] He was singing, I remember he sang a song that I totally loved and agreed 
every word of, which was, “With God on Our Side,” to a group of people whose religious 
faith meant everything to them and that had held them together for 300 years, and here he 
was singing “With God on Your Side.” I don’t know what people thought of him. I 
don’t know what they made of him. 
I think that’s might have been where I met the Green family first. I don’t 
remember how long we stayed there. I mean, we were only there a few days. Only a few 
days. But enough, of course, to get into trouble ( ) with the cops. 
EC: What was it like for you? Was this your first sort of foray into the more 
rural South, away from the quote safety of Atlanta? 
DZ: I’m trying to think. I had only been in the rural South in the white side in 
Alabama through Bob’s family. I had not been on the black side. 
EC: Was this before or after Danville? 
Dorothy Zehner 
45 
DZ: Well that’s what I’m thing to remember. It seems to me it was after 
Danville. I think Danville was June. We got married in August. So it must have been 
somewhere around July. What a time to have a festival? In July in Mississippi? In 
Greenwood. Or was it the summer of [19]63? Am I right? 
EC: It was [19] 63 but I’m not sure when in [19] 63. I just don’t remember the 
exact time. 
DZ: Yes, we can find out. Well, I don’t remember making a distinction 
between rural Mississippi and urban Mississippi. I remember the Welcome to the 
Magnolia State sign, and when you saw that sign your heart went to your feet and it 
didn’t matter where you were going. I think I only ended up being in Jackson maybe 
twice. So that was the only urban area. I didn’t consider where we were in Greenwood 
to be urban, quite. To me the whole place was like a nightmare. A living nightmare. 
That whole summer was a nightmare, definitely, a nightmare. 
EC: I’m going to back—. You’re talking about summer of [19]64 was a whole 
nightmare. 
DZ: Yes. 
EC: I’m going to backtrack a little, and you were—. The last time you were 
talking about your chronology. You were working for the Southern Regional Council 
and volunteering with SNCC. 
DZ: That’s right. 
EC: At a certain point, you moved from the SRC to SNCC. 
DZ: Right. 
EC: What was it like to work at the one versus the other? 
Dorothy Zehner 
46 
DZ: Oh, well the SRC was just a regular office situation. Jane and I both were 
well-payed clerical workers. She already at least had a part of a Master’s. I was a 
college graduate. I think we were doing, I don’t know, paper-pushing. I don’t know 
exactly what we were doing. I was still ostensibly keeping track of the sit-in movement 
and statistics and all of that. 
Now we’re back to the winter of [19]61, [19]62. And, at some point the FBI 
came and questioned Les Dunbar, who was the head of SRC then, questioned him about 
me. He told me. This is what he told me. They apparently came with a photo of me 
somewhere. I never saw the photo. I don’t know if I ever asked Les Dunbar about it, but 
I was always—I always had some hopes for what that photo could have been, and I hoped, 
I hoped, I hoped, that it was of me at a Paul Robeson concert. That’s what I hoped; that 
they had a photo of me. Anyway. He fired me. 
Now, I had been talking to Forman about—. Forman had asked me to come on the 
staff, but there was no money at the time, and I said well, I might as well stay here and 
get my salary paid and I’ll come and work at night. So, that’s what I did. And, of course 
my life ended up being in the evenings at SNCC, but I still had friends and Jane was still 
at SRC. We lived together. So it was all a kind of tidy, a tidy thing. Then the FBI 
[1:40:00] came and then he claimed—now this is all from him— he claimed that they had 
come and that two or three months later he had decided that I was now redundant, and 
that there was no point in paying me a salary to clip articles. They could get anyone to 
clip articles or they could get a service, a clipping service. That’s what they had in those 
days was a clipping service. 
Dorothy Zehner 
47 
He called me in and he fired me. I went to Forman and I said, “OK, now’s your 
chance. You can put me on the staff.” [Laughs] He said, “OK.” I think he had started 
asking me around the winter, and if I had been him, as administrator, I definitely would 
have hired me because, first of all, I did anything. Put me at the mimeograph machine for 
four hours, I’d do it. I was just so thrilled to be there, whatever I could do. I was, by 
then, I was skilled and I could put out a newsletter and I could write letters and I could 
write affidavits, and I could do all of this stuff. 
Many years later—in fact I think it might have been at his memorial. I’m not positive- 
hut, Les Dunbar showed up and I took a lot of—this you might want to—well—. I’ll tell 
the story. I’ll tell the story. I did take some immoderate pleasure in introducing my 
daughter, Margaret, to Les Dunbar, and saying, “This is the man who fired me when the 
FBI came.” Now, he claimed that I was redundant and that the FBI had nothing to do 
with that, and you could possibly give him some credence in that because he didn’t fire 
me the next day; he fired me two or three months later. He didn’t tell me that they had 
been there until he fired me. So you could possibly say that. On the other hand, on the 
other hand—. 
EC: It wasn’t—. 
DZ: On the other hand. I’ll just say that. I did—. This was many years later. 
EC: Yes. He also fired Jack Minas. 
DZ: Did he? 
EC: Who also then came over to SNCC after being fired by the SRC. So, 
SNCC got some really good people fired by the SRC. 
Dorothy Zehner 
48 
DZ: Yes. Oh my God, we don’t have time to even go into some of these 
characters like Jack and people like that. 
[Recorder is turned off and then back on] 
DZ: Oh. Well, you said that Jane Bond said that I was fired because I 
participated in a demonstration about the Cuban Missile Crisis that was organized by 
Howard Zinn. I said maybe that’s the photo that the FBI had. Now, they did have my 
name. I know that because I think Howard told me that they—I think there were twenty- 
three of us. They knew every single person’s name. 
EC: Howard Zinn? 
DZ: Howard Zinn told me. So, that’s possible. I don’t know what the photo 
was. And, I said, to give him credit, maybe—. On the other hand, if I had an employee 
that the FBI came about, I wouldn’t wait three months. I would discuss it with them right 
away. So, there’s something off there. 
EC: Yes. So, when you started working with SNCC full time, there were a 
couple of things I know you were working on; one was the Civil Liberties conference, or 
workshop. And, you were also working with Julian Bond on the communications? 
DZ: Yes. 
EC : Can you talk about those—that work? 
DZ: This is going to be hard because I have to talk about Julian now. Well 
let’s see, I started working with Julian the winter of [19]61, [19]62. And, right away we 
meshed. And, probably you couldn’t get two more different people because I was—. I’m 
sure I was hard to deal with. I think I was hard to deal with by some of the people there 
because when I said I’m going to be somewhere at nine o’clock, I was there at nine 
Dorothy Zehner 
49 
o’clock. I mean, that was the hardest thing for me to adjust to; was, we’d say, “Oh, we’re 
going to meet at nine o’clock on Thursday,” and it might be nine p.m. on Tuesday. I 
found that very hard to deal with. I don’t know if I interpreted it as a Southern way of 
life, but it might have been anything but a frenzied New York way of life. [1:45:00] I’m 
willing to grant that. 
So, we had different ways. I was really hard driven and he was much more 
relaxed; relaxed meaning coming in later, leaving earlier, then coming back. But, we 
really got along well, extremely well. He was well-known to love gossip. He loved 
gossip. He loved funny stories about people. The interesting thing is that, when I needed 
a confidante about personal matters which I will not go into, who did I pick but Julian to 
talk to? That was early on. I’m thinking—.I’ve been thinking since he died why I did 
that. There was something about him, I trusted him. I don’t believe that whatever I told 
him—and I know what I told him—that he ever, ever, ever mentioned that to another living 
soul. So, there was a lot of respect there. 
And of course, he happened to be one of the funniest people who ever lived, and 
I’m very fortunate—. I just hand lunch with Pam, his widow, last Saturday, and I’m very 
fortunate that I have a lot of his emails. I don’t think I ever destroyed one email that he 
ever wrote to me, so someday I have to get them all together and print them out and give 
them to her. 
He was also really unique. One time, I think it was probably around 1963,1 said 
to him, “Julian, let’s write a book.” And of course the two of us, we were so far from 
writing a book as being able to fly to the moon, because one thing you needed was to 
have all of the pieces of paper together in one spot, filed and kept. We didn’t have that. 
Dorothy Zehner 
50 
I’m thinking, if we had written a book, wouldn’t that have been great? From 1963. It 
would have been 1963. I just, I loved working with him. 
He also—I’m not going to give you the actual incident, but one thing that was very 
meaningful to me was that the defended me inside SNCC because I was being criticized 
for being the kind of person who got there at nine o’clock, and was irritated when other 
people did not get there at 9 o’clock. Julian did not like conflict. He was very conflict 
averse. So when he took up for me in a staff meeting, that was very meaningful to me. I 
never forgot that. I am finding it hard to realize that he’s gone. It’s not that I saw him so 
much—maybe I saw him every year—but just knowing that he was there was something 
meaningful to me. When I got that email that he had died, and I—somebody sent it to me. 
It was totally—. I think it was Dorothy Burlage. She had seen it on the Associated Press. 
She was up like at four o’clock in the morning or something. When I woke up in the 
morning I saw it and I just couldn’t. I said, “No, no, Julian.” So, they were both totally 
different characters. Completely different characters. I was lucky to work with them. 
Really lucky. We didn’t have too many moments of a high danger, you know, like I did 
with Jim. Julian was cautious. He didn’t put himself in too many moments of high 
danger, although he did travel to Mississippi quite a bit, so there must have been some 
high danger there. 
EC: How did you put out the Student Voice and how did you work with 
reporters? 
DZ: Well, I think—I’ve been trying to remember. I remember laying out 
dummies of the Student Voice, but I think Julian brought it to the guy who put out the 
black newspaper, whose name I don’t remember. [1:50:00] 
Dorothy Zehner 
51 
EC : The Atlanta Inquirer? 
DZ: Might have been, yes, somebody at the Atlanta Inquirer. We did not put— 
. We didn’t do the type ourselves. We didn’t set the type. We didn’t have the ability to 
make the photos, but I remember doing many dummies. 
EC: Did the two of you write all the stories? 
DZ: Yes, we wrote all the stories. And later on, we also tried to teach staff 
people and the summer volunteers, both, about how to deal with the press. He and I 
really saw eye-to-eye on how to deal with the press, because there were some press 
people we really liked a lot, and even if we didn’t like them, we always told them the 
truth. That’s something that I—we taught the volunteers. Since then, I’ve always taught 
people. I’ve said, “If you have a demonstration, don’t say there were 500 people when 
there were forty-two people. Say there were forty-two people, because they guy who 
covers it the next time, he’s not going to come if he knows.” Now, nobody taught us that 
in journalism school. Actually, neither of us ever went to journalism school, but I did run 
the newspaper and I think he was on the newspaper, if I’m not mistaken, or with the 
newspaper, at Morehouse? I’m not sure. 
EC: He actually—. When he left Morehouse, he worked with the Atlanta 
Inquirer when they were being formed. 
DZ: Yes. So, we liked these guys and they trusted us, and we had really a— 
looking back— a really unique and wonderful relationship with them. A lot of them 
gravitated towards him. He was very beautiful and very charismatic, and I was this New 
York girl, you know? They weren’t going to dwell over me, although Fred Powlich 
became quite fond of me at the end. But he was very charismatic. He was great to be 
Dorothy Zehner 
52 
around. We did these live phone conversations. Well, they were live but then they taped 
them, but even then, oh, he was a master at that. Ten times. 
EC : Explain what you mean by that. 
DZ: Well, somebody would interview us over the phone. I was good; I was 
earnest and everything. He was witty and funny. I mean, he had to be one the funniest 
people who ever lived. He could just knock off these witticisms like it was just nothing. 
The younger he was, the quicker he was. So when he got—. Most people saw him when 
he already was down half his speed. You can imagine what he actually was when he was 
twenty-two. We were born on the same day. Date. The same day, not the same year. 
Em two years older. So they knew if they talked to Julian they would get a good quote. 
So they would always get a good quote, then they would get the truth from us, and they 
would get what actually happened. If we didn’t know what happened, we’d say, “We 
don’t know what happened.” These are all things that have flown by the wayside, you 
know? [Laughs] So, they were reasonably sure they didn’t have to go double-checking 
and triple-checking and so forth. Then we called them constantly and we sent press 
release, press release, press release. 
Now, we had—if I’ve got this correct. I’m not sure I do. We identified black 
people deliberately. Of course we didn’t say black then; we said negro. Now it looks a 
little strange, but we did it deliberately because we wanted people to know that there 
were black people in the front of this, so that when people got arrested it was especially 
important. Now, I’m not sure that really came through to a lot of people wondering, 
because we didn’t say white. White was the default, but we wanted people to know that 
there were black people in the leadership. I hope some historian will write that down 
Dorothy Zehner 
53 
somewhere because it will look definitely strange in twenty or thirty years; why an 
organization that was black-led kept, making a whole point only about the race of a 
person when it was a black person. But there was a reason for that and we did that 
always. Always. Now, off the record, sometime—. 
[Recorder is turned off and then back on] 
EC: So, I want to jump ahead a little bit, but so, I know that you worked in the 
Atlanta office through the summer of [19]63. You and Bob Zehner [1:55:00] were 
married in August, [19]63? 
DZ: Yes, we were married in August, but to say “through the summer” was not 
quite right because part of that was in Danville. Then, if we’ve got the dates right, 
another part of it was in Greenwood at the music festival. I wasn’t—. 
EC: So, based out of the Atlanta office. 
DZ: Based out of—. Absolutely, yes. And got married in Atlanta. 
EC: Then you and Bob relocate to Boston? 
DZ: Yes. 
EC: He’s in graduate school and you create a Boston Friends of SNCC? 
DZ: No. There was a Boston Friends of SNCC, and I created a Northeast 
Regional Office of SNCC. I always made it—. Nobody paid the slightest bit of attention, 
but I always made a big thing about that because I was not—this was not a Friends of 
SNCC group. I was a staff member and I took leadership directly from Atlanta, and I 
was a staff member. 
EC: And did most of the Friends of SNCC not have a staff member? They 
were—. 
Dorothy Zehner 
54 
DZ: That’s right. Many of them had volunteers. Some of them only had 
volunteers. 
EC: So then like Chicago and New York, are those also SNCC offices as 
opposed to Friends of SNCC? 
DZ: Well, it’s sort of mixed. I don’t know. You’d have to ask people who 
work there, but there were staff members there, too. 
EC : I guess that’s what I was—. 
DZ: Yes. 
EC: So you’re in Boston, and I know one of the things that you did was 
interview people who were going to be volunteers in the summer project, and decide 
whether they should, to accept the applications. Then you went to Greenwood that 
summer, of [19]64, as part of the national office in Greenwood, and at some point you’re 
in Newark? 
DZ: No. 
EC: You and Bob? 
DZ: No. 
EC: I thought—. 
DZ: We went back to Cambridge where we were living. He went back to 
school in [19]64, [19]65. I ran the SNCC office, continued to run the SNCC office there. 
I mean, the Northeast Regional, the Friends of SNCC, whatever you want to call it, in 
Boston. And got pregnant. Then I resigned from that particular work, but not from the 
SNCC staff, in the spring of [19]65. Then my daughter was born. We went back to 
Atlanta in the fall of [19]65, and then we took a year’s leave of absence and Bob was the 
Dorothy Zehner 
55 
campaign manager for the first anti-Vietnam War candidate in the country, whose name 
was Bob Cook, who was a Yale professor. 
EC : So you were in New Haven? 
DZ: We were in New Haven. 
EC: That must have been what I was thinking of. 
DZ: Yes. We were in New Haven, but one or the other of us always went to 
staff meetings. So, we were on leave but we were still going to staff meetings, we were 
still involved in staff discussions. 
EC: Can I ask? So then when you said that you resigned from running the 
Northeast Regional but you continued to do work, what kind of work were you doing? 
DZ: Oh, I don’t remember if I did any work when we were still there. When 
we came back to Atlanta I worked. I brought the baby to work. 
EC: OK, I just-. 
DZ: Then when I came back—that was the winter of [19]65 if I’m not 
mistaken—the spring, it went from [19]65 to [19]66, that’s when Stokely asked me to 
work on the Panthers. Now, while we were on leave, as I say, Bob always went to staff 
meetings, and I did too, if I was able. But at the time in [19]65, it was the custom; you 
didn’t work after your seventh month. Now you work right up until the minute you give 
birth. 
EC: Is that when you resigned? When you were seven months pregnant? 
DZ: Yes. But I didn’t resign from SNCC, I just stepped down from the office. 
Bob took over running the office. 
EC: While he was in school? 
Dorothy Zehner 
56 
DZ: Yes, but he was already—he was pretty—. And never graduated. I mean, 
never finished. So, she was born in July. I probably—. It was late May, he had already 
finished his semester and he started running the SNCC office. 
EC: So, she’s born in the spring. 
DZ: She’s bom in July. 
EC: She’s bom in July. That fall you’re back in Atlanta? 
DZ: That’s right. 
EC: At what point do you take the leave of absence? Is it—. 
DZ: It was probably shortly thereafter. [2:00:00] Maybe the winter. Then we 
worked through the election, which was again November, I guess, of [19]66. Sixty-six. 
Then we stayed there a few—a couple of months after that. Then we went south and we 
were getting ready to go back to work with SNCC, because by that time—. 
EC: Were either of you at the December, [19]66 meeting with Peg Leg Bates? 
DZ: Bob was there. 
EC: Bob was there? 
DZ : But I wasn ’ t there. 
EC: Can you tell us what he said about that meeting? 
DZ: Oh, well, he said that white people were asked to leave, and the only thing 
I remember was that most of the white people had abstained, and that he—as I remember. 
I don’t know if the Library of Congress is interviewing him, but he apparently abstained. 
I should say that the most coherent recounting of that meeting—which, if you get ten 
people, they have eleven versions—is Betita, Liz Sutherland’s version, in our book is the 
most coherent. I have heard other people say that white people were never asked to leave 
Dorothy Zehner 
57 
SNCC, and I have heard multiple votes, each one contradicted the other, the last one at 
two o’clock in the morning, and so forth and so on. Hers is the most coherent, and I think 
it’s probably the most accurate one. 
But in any case, when we went back the first time, which was [19]65, before we 
left for New Haven, already there was discussion about SNCC becoming all black. 
EC: Do you—, were you part of those discussions or just have a sense they 
were going on? 
DZ: Yes. Well, they weren’t—. Well, the substantive discussions were not 
conducted with white people there, but it was a not a secret and people were saying, yes. 
I remember—. I don’t remember people’s names, but I remember being in meetings were 
people would say, “Yes, we think it’s—we want to go all black.” 
EC : What were you thinking at the time? 
DZ: Oh, I was beside myself. Now that you’ve heard part of my little story. I 
went down to marry the movement. [Laughs] I was completely beside myself. 
EC: And you’ve got an infant daughter. 
DZ: Totally beside myself. Yes. Then we decided—. Then I said to Bob, “I 
am not disappearing without a trace. We have to write something.” After all, who told 
us to write everything and keep everything was Forman, right? So, we were at the 
moment—at that moment, I think it was May [19]67, and we had been in Alabama with 
this baby, roosting there until we figured out what was going to happen to us because, in 
the meantime, Anne and Carl had said that they wanted us to come and work for SCEF, 
Southern Conference Educational Fund. We wanted to get—as I remember—straightened 
Dorothy Zehner 
58 
out with SNCC before we decided, before we made a decision. I mean, our vast 
preference was to stay in SNCC. 
So, we talked about it and we decided that we would agree to work in the white 
community, but we could not agree to be—to surrendering our vote. In other words, we 
would insist on being treated as regular staff members in the organization, and we would 
work in the white community. And furthermore, to do otherwise was wrong; that you 
can’t organize white people in a vacuum, that we know what happens then. I wrote that 
statement, and actually I read it now and then. I have to say, it is extremely well done. It 
is well done, because it right away says, we are not doing this out of sentiment, we are 
not doing this out of longevity. After all, Bob was the first—one of the first field 
secretaries, period, and the very first white field secretary, and I came on in June of 
[19]62. 2:05:00] I outdated many of the people who wanted us to leave. I was there 
before them. We said we were willing to do that. 
Now, looking back, there was only one place in Alabama I think we could have 
survived, and that was this little artsy-craftsy town called Fair Hope. And, Bob’s family 
lived in Daphne, Alabama, which was near Mobile, and Fair Hope was further inland 
maybe, I don’t know, thirty or forty miles, and Fair Hope had a reputation of tolerating 
artists who lived there and more unconventional people. I felt maybe we had a chance 
there, but I was very afraid. [Door opens] [Recorder is turned off and then back on]. 
So, I was very, very afraid, and I said to Bob, “I don’t want to go there.” He said, 
“Oh, it’ll be OK, it’ll be OK.” I said, “I’m afraid we’re going to be killed there.” And 
fortunately, he—his mother intervened, and his father had a church but he had lost several 
churches because he had turned into a liberal by that time. He had lost many churches, I 
Dorothy Zehner 
59 
don’t remember how many, and his mother said to him, not to me, to him, “I don’t want 
you to come here to Alabama because, whatever you do, we will pay the price and we 
will—who knows what will happen to us.” So, he wouldn’t listen to me at all, but he 
listened to her. 
In any case, if SNCC had accepted it, we would have gone to Alabama, with his 
mother or without his mother, and the only place, as I said, I could have thought was Fair 
Hope. Now, how long we would have lasted in Fair Hope, I have no idea. It’s 
conceivable to me that I, at some point, would have said, “I can’t live like this. Good¬ 
bye.” I mean, everything was up for grabs. 
How it was going to actually work day to day, I don't know. We would have 
started organizing somehow in Alabama, in the white community, and then we would 
have gone to staff meetings somewhere where there would have been black people and 
white people. We would have discussed our work. Sooner or later I think the objective 
would have been that we start introducing some black people to some of these white 
people. We would have—. Knowing us, we probably would have looked for situations of 
conflict, like Laurel, like Mississippi. Who knows. 
I mean, after all, fifty years before this, as we can tell from Robin Kelley’s book 
Hammer and Hoe, that there were organizers in Alabama, and there were even interracial 
organizers in Alabama. And, according to a story that Martha Norman Noonan told us, 
she was able to detect traces of that interaction many decades later. So it’s up for grabs. 
I think that the chances are good that we would have been killed. One of us would have 
been killed, or they would have set a bomb—thrown a bomb in the house, and they would 
Dorothy Zehner 
60 
have tried to kill us like they did the McShirleys, but I’m not sure. In any case, it did go 
on the record, this piece of paper did last from [19]67 till now. 
EC : What was the vote? 
DZ: Well, we never were—never got it straight. We heard all kinds of various 
things. We ended up—. We heard there was one vote for us, not Forman. 
EC: Actually I guess I should backtrack. So, you write this statement and then 
Bob takes it to SNCC. 
DZ: That’s right. That’s right. 
EC: What was it called then? It wasn’t the executive committee. 
DZ: It was the central committee. 
EC: The central committee. He presents it. Does he talk about it or does he 
just bring the paper, the proposal? 
DZ: Well, according to the minutes—. The minutes are written, are in Danny 
Lyon’s book. So, as I remember, he made a presentation and then he was asked to leave 
the room. Then the minutes talk—they talk back and forth. You know, according to the 
minutes, people said, “Gee, this is a hard situation. You know, he was there, he’s very 
brave. He’s a legend. But we’re moving on. We’re moving on.” 
EC: In that [2:10:00] interim period between when you come back to Atlanta 
in [19]65 after your daughter is born, and then this moment in [19]67 when you make the 
formal proposal, do you have conversations about this with people you were close to in 
SNCC, like Forman? 
DZ: Well, my overriding impression of those years was that Forman was in 
deep psychic distress. Let’s see. His breakdown—his first breakdown was in [19]68. So 
Dorothy Zehner 
61 
this is before his breakdown. What—. I remember talking to him after Peg Leg Bates, 
and I remember I was sitting—he was sitting on a couch, I was sitting across. I said, 
“Don’t tell me you agree with this.” He didn’t deny it. I said, “I know you don’t agree 
with this.” “Yes, but Dorothy—.” He called me Dorothy. “Dorothy, you know—.” He 
didn’t. He was in deep psychic distress. 
I think he understood that—where people were. He was—he couldn’t hold them 
back. He didn’t want to be in a position of holding them back because he knew it would 
undermine his own leadership abilities. He was deeply uncomfortable. I think—my 
impression is that he would definitely have preferred an interracial organization lead by 
black people, which is what we had. Not an organization where we took on eighty white 
people from a Mississippi summer. That was untenable. That was totally untenable. I 
think that was his comfort zone. I think he was basically a class guy. He was for class- 
unity around class. I think that’s where his comfort zone was. But he couldn’t do 
anything to stop it, and he wouldn’t. He wouldn’t. But the fact that he was not out there 
gung-ho meant something to people. You know, he was making a statement by not 
making a statement, and he was in difficulty. I think Julian also. 
Now, I don’t remember ever—. But Julian left relatively early on. I don’t know. 
Do you know what year he left? He left by [19]65. 
EC: Well, I think it was in conjunction with the election. 
DZ: But it was before that. It was before the election. 
EC: Yes, then I have—. I saw a press release about him leaving SNCC and I 
thought—. I don't know. He framed it in terms of, he looked up one day and realized he 
Dorothy Zehner 
62 
hadn’t been doing any work, so he shouldn’t be. But yes, I don’t know the timing of that. 
I don’t remember. 
DZ: I don’t know if that was the only reason, and I’m certainly not saying to 
anybody who ever watches this that SNCC died because white people left. I do think that 
the fact that whatever happened to SNCC causing it to disappear three years from then 
was a horrible tragedy for the United States, and has had a deep, deep impact every 
decade since then. It was truly unique. It was—. It definitely was a magnet with the 
absolute best, most creative, most innovative, most intelligent, bravest people, and we’ve 
needed it desperately ever since. 
I myself think that what happened, the fracturing, was a factor, but I think there 
were other factors, and I think deep disillusionment following Atlantic City was a 
tremendous factor, and I think—well, it sounds very simple minded, but in a way it was 
people’s faith in democracy, lower case D, that did them in, because it didn’t prepare 
them for what was going to happen. If you look back on it and just see, oh, you say to 
yourself, [2:15:00] “Oh, we should have gone into Atlantic City saying—” and I was not 
in Atlantic City. We should have said, “Maybe this will work, but probably it won’t. 
And next month we’re hm-hm-hm.” But we were not thinking about that. 
EC: Bob Moses said to me that he thinks things might have moved forward 
better if there had just been a planned debriefing for the summer project students at the 
end of the summer. Something to sort of bring people together to debrief and then move 
on back to wherever. I don't know. So, what did you Bob do—you and Bob Zellner do at 
that point when the proposal was rejected? 
Dorothy Zehner 
63 
DZ: So when it was rejected we told Anne and Carl that we were coming to 
work with SCEF. So we moved to New Orleans where Fd live for the next seventeen 
years, and we worked there for five years. We worked there and for SCEF for five years. 
And Anne and Carl had wanted us to take over the organization, and they had this idea 
that we would replicate their behavior and their division of labor. They had three 
children, one later died, but their idea of how they conducted themselves was, each one 
was six months on the road while the other, you know, was fanning the home fires. I 
absolutely did not want to live like this and I felt that it had a very, very serious effect on 
their children, and I was not about to do that to my children. And furthermore, since Bob 
had very little administrative ability, I did not want to end up running the whole thing, 
which I would have had to end up doing. He would have been on the road doing the 
things that he could do well; making the contacts, making the speeches. I would be home 
raising the two children and running an organization by myself. No, thank you. So, we 
stayed on this project and—. 
EC: So how did you do it then? 
DZ: Well, I stayed home and worked from home. I was—and Anne did me a 
tremendous favor; she insisted that I get paid separately so that I would have Social 
Security in the future. And every—I should think about her every month when I get my 
Social Security check because it’s thanks to her because they were—five years we would 
have had nothing on the books. And Bob still—he traveled, he went to Mississippi. He 
worked on the woodcutter’s project and the grassroots organizing work. I stayed at home 
and I did stuff from home. I wrote. I did all the things that Fve always done; I wrote 
pamphlets, I wrote things—. I have it down on that piece of paper. 
Dorothy Zehner 
64 
Then, finally, after we had been in civil rights—. We had been professional civil 
rights workers for ten years. I said to Bob, “We have to become regular people.” You 
know, I felt like we were going to levitate into the sky. You know, I mean, nobody was 
standing there saying, you better get up at seven o’clock, you have a clock to punch. You 
know, we were—. If we had gone on much longer we wouldn’t have been able to 
integrate back into the regular world. There’s something about long-term organizers 
where they don’t have regular routines, it sometimes separates them from the people who 
do—people that they’re organizing. 
So, he became a carpenter. He was a carpenter and he was able to join the union, 
and I went to nursing school to be a practical nurse. Then of course we continued doing 
stuff as volunteers and some local struggles that we got involved in. But we had other 
work, other jobs. 
EC: So, can we go back? 
DZ: Sure. 
EC: So you’re working—. Can you tell us about the civil liberties workshop 
that you organized? I guess it was carried off in summer of [19]63, right? 
DZ: Yes. I think it was in spring. It was in spring of [19]63. Well, that turned 
out to be a totally unsung but very important episode in SNCC’s history. I think I’m the 
only one who’s written about it so far. I’m sure there’ll be other people down the road. 
It’s the product of this very close relationship that Anne Braden and Miss Baker had, 
[2:20:00] and they were survivors of McCarthyism, and McCarthyism was not dead; 
McCarthyism was very much alive at the time, although in retrospect it was waning. I 
don’t know when the last—. Let’s see. I think the House Un-American Activities 
Dorothy Zehner 
65 
Committee was still having hearings even up to 1964, if I’m not mistaken, where their 
back was really broken by a group called Women’s Strike for Peace. That was in the 
early 60s, [19]61 or [19]62. I’d have to check that. Women’s—. 
Previously, people who were called before the Un-American Activities 
Committee were faced with two very unpleasant options. First of all, they had to get 
lawyers. You couldn’t go into a hearing without a lawyer. You had two options; you 
could take the Fifth Amendment, which is your guaranteed Constitutional right, and 
which the American mass media would make equivalent to saying you were guilty. All 
the mafia people took the Fifth Amendment. Anybody who didn’t want to go to jail took 
the Fifth Amendment. Or, you took the First Amendment and you had no protection 
whatsoever and you could be cited for Contempt of Congress. Which is what happened 
to Carl Braden and Frank Wilkinson; they went to jail for a year. 
So, there were very few protections. Previously to this, in the 50s—flying out of 
my head—Charlie Jones had testified—. 
EC: OfSNCC. 
DZ: OfSNCC. 
EC: He eventually joined SNCC. 
DZ: Yes. 
EC: This was before he joined SNCC. 
DZ: Yes, before he joined SNCC. He had been a super patriot of some kind 
and he had testified. By nineteen—. Anne was completely committed to fighting these 
investigating committees and fighting McCarthyism. And, parenthetically—make sure I 
come back to this—when I was living in New Orleans I wrote a paper when I was briefly 
Dorothy Zehner 
66 
in graduate school, about the Eastland hearings that took place in 1954 against the 
Southern Conference Educational Fund. So, in 1974—1954. Sorry, 1954 was probably 
the height of McCarthyism, 1954, [19]55, [19]56. They did everything they could to 
smear the Civil Rights Movement. 
So, Anne was a survivor of this, and Miss Baker was—I don’t think she was ever— 
that they ever thought of calling her, but Anne was always in danger of being called, and 
Carl had gone to jail for a year. So they cooked up together that it was very important to 
have some internal education about what SNCC was going to do if it was ever called by 
an investigating committee. It turned out this was extremely important, and there was—. 
I think the conference went on for at least two days, as I remember. I have no idea what 
the actual process was, but I remember a lot of agonized discussion, and whether SNCC 
could admit people without loyalty oaths, whether it had to be concerned about people’s 
politics, volunteers’ politics. 
By then, A1 Lowenstein was around and who had already told Bob Moses—no, no. 
He was around the next fall. The next fall. The next summer. But there were people 
always coming up. There were always rumors and people coming up to Forman and to 
Bob Moses saying, “Uh-oh, watch out this one. This one is a Red, that one’s a Red,” and 
so forth. So we had this agonizing discussion, and Bob at that time was very nervous 
about having white people—Bob Moses—coming in, because of the danger to local 
people, and he was doubly nervous about having anybody who was called a communist 
coming in, also for the same reason. There was a lot of agonized discussion, but at the 
end, people decided that they would not cooperate. This was a stunning victory, 
unbeknownst—. I mean, this totally has gone without any historical—. I think I’m the 
Dorothy Zehner 
67 
first one who wrote about it, and I am convinced that there was—there had to be an 
undercover agent there and it was transmitted to the government, that if these people 
were subpoenaed, they would refuse to cooperate. Then, in 1963, [2:25:00] there was 
still an incredible amount of goodwill in reserve in the country for the sit-in heroes, and it 
would not have looked good internationally to have sit-in heroes go to jail, sent by the 
U.S. government, because they refused to talk about their views. That would have 
definitely looked very bad. 
EC: Wasn’t one of the big issues about whether or not—basically a political test 
on letting somebody in SNCC or working with SNCC? 
DZ: Yes. Well, that’s what I’ve said; there was pressure about that, about 
people’s views. They decided no, they were not going to have an oath, and furthermore, 
if they were called by a committee they would not take the Fifth Amendment; they would 
take a First Amendment, they would go to jail. And later on, Julian told me many years 
later, that in the ’60s and he said the ’70s, he—and he was never able to verify this 
because I asked him within the past couple of years about it. He said he had read 
somewhere that the government had 6,500 black informers all over the country. So we 
had to have an informer, and that person probably still—if that person’s still alive, they 
have not been unmasked and we’ve still got him, somebody. 
EC: There was something that happened before that workshop, it was like 
maybe in [19]62, maybe fall [19]62, Carl Braden was in Mississippi and there was a lot 
of newspaper coverage about Red, Commie, I don’t know how they put it, but coverage 
of that. And Bob was—Moses was really concerned about it. Do you remember that? 
Dorothy Zehner 
68 
DZ: I don’t remember that particular thing, but I know—I remember he was 
very concerned. He was very concerned. But he was never concerned from the point of 
view of, “Oh, I can’t have these people around,” and “Oh, they’re going to screw up what 
we’re doing.” It was solely because of the danger that it presented to local people. And 
by then, you know, Herbert Lee had been killed, so that’s a whole other story about 
walking around feeling responsible. So, I think it was a protective measure, and I 
honestly don’t know. That was the fall of [19]62 you said? 
EC: I think so. I think so. 
DZ: I should be able to remember that, but I don't remember that. 
EC: Can you talk about what you were trying to do when you were 
interviewing people to go to the summer project? 
DZ: Oh yes. Well, like I said in the movie, I mean, it’s in the movie. I mean, 
we were very, very hard-headed about it. We did not want crazies and we didn’t want 
divas. Now, I think we succeeded pretty well because I think, of the hundreds of people 
who were there, I think there were a few divas and there might have been a few crazies, 
but considering the high percentage that there could have been, I think we kept it down. 
Now, I was only in one place. I don’t know what other people were doing around the 
country. My impression is, that it ranged from being very hands-on to very loose, and 
that there were some places where people just said, you know, “Go.” 
EC : Do you remember how you were? 
DZ: Oh, we were—we were totally rigorous, to say that least. 
EC: Do you remember how you did it? How you approached it? 
Dorothy Zehner 
69 
DZ: Oh yes. Well, we had a questionnaire which I believe was prepared by 
COFO. We didn’t—. See, our whole way of functioning was we were taking direction 
from the center, from the hub, so it would have been unheard of for me to write an 
application for somebody. This was written by people in Mississippi. We interviewed 
every one of them personally, and usually there were two of us; a black person and a 
white person, and we wrote detailed reports, which—and who knows—. I think I know 
where they are but I don't know, and Fm certainly hoping they’re uncovered after Fm in 
my grave, because some of them were not very flattering. Let’s put it that way. So, what 
we were looking for was to get—make sure that nobody was an adventurer, like, “Oh, I 
think Fll do something exciting. Fll go to Mississippi.” We wanted people who were 
going to be respectful of the black communities even if they didn’t understand a thing 
about black communities. [2:30:00] The way we put it, we put it in very, very simple, 
concrete terms; are you going to wear shorts to church? Those kind of examples, to see 
how—. I don’t know how clever we were because you didn’t have to be a brain surgeon— 
certainly not Ben Carson—to figure out what the correct answer was, but we were also 
looking at them and seeing their body language and their reaction. We wanted people 
who would behave. Who would behave, and who would realize that they were going into 
a very dangerous situation. 
Now, you know that in this last reunion, a woman came up to me who I did not 
know at all, she said, “I know you don’t know—.” Fm talking about recently in 
Mississippi. She said, “You don’t know who I am, but you interviewed me.” There were 
several people who came up to me. She said, “I have to say, Fve never forgotten it in my 
whole life.” I said, “Oh my God, what did I do?” She said, “You scared the hell out of 
Dorothy Zehner 
70 
me. You said, ‘Are you ready to die?’” I said, “Oh. Well in that case, that’s not so bad.” 
[Laughs] So, I said, “You mean I didn’t send you down there on false pretenses?” She 
said, “No. No you didn’t.” She said “It was one of the worse things I ever went 
through.” She said, “But the good thing is, when I give an interview I remember what 
you did, and I tell the truth and I bear down on people.” We did. Oh, we did, we did, we 
did. Because, in my mind, I didn’t also be responsible. “Oh my God, you let this person 
go through?” I’m sure that if errored, we errored on the other side of caution. We 
probably didn’t let some people go down who should have. Now, the one person I 
slipped up on was Abbie Hoffman. [Laughs] 
EC: You let Abbie Hoffman through? 
DZ: We let Abbie Hoffman through, but at that time he was wearing a suit and 
tie. I mean, he was a completely different person. He, ironically, is the only one—I’m 
sure I’ve told you this—that I know who actually went public after white people left 
SNCC, gnashing his teeth about how terribly he had been treated as a white person. Yes. 
In The Village Voice. Yes, yes, yes. 
EC: Did he—. Was he in SNCC after the summer? 
DZ: Well, the question was whether he was ever in SNCC. I mean, by 
stretching the—. I mean, that’s the thing. People ask me now, was so-and-so in SNCC. I 
say, “Well what do you mean, in SNCC? Do you understand that we didn’t have 
members?” “Oh, what?” I said, “We didn’t have members, we had staff.” So there’s a 
lot of mushiness about that. If you were in a project in Mississippi and you were in a 
freedom school, were you in SNCC? You were in a COFO project, to be actually 
accurate. But he was one of the few. 
Dorothy Zehner 
71 
EC : But he was a summer volunteer? 
DZ: He was a volunteer. 
EC: Where did he work? 
DZ: I don’t know, but this is easy to find out. It’s in the stuff—. You should 
definitely look up that. It’s The Village Voice. The other person I think who had bad 
things to say was Susan Brownmiller. If I remember. There were two of them. Two of 
them. Now, she was not SNCC, but she had a lot of bad things to say about white people 
being used and poor white people and poor white people. So, after all of that episode, 
there were press who wanted to interview us. We said no. We’d never. We were never 
interviewed. I just want to clarify that, what happened to white people—. It ends up that 
everybody’s always crying over the poor white people, you know? If we all look back, it 
was—. Is it a surprise after what happened in Atlantic City, really? Would we have not 
done the same ourselves? Very likely so. So that’s what always held me back from 
crying. I was always loyal to SNCC, but also, I can’t say for a hundred percent that I 
would have—. If I had gone through what they went through, I don’t know what I would 
have done. I mean, Bob Moses’s suggestion about getting all the volunteers together, 
that would have been helpful. It would have been helpful—. I mean, you see him, Bob 
Moses, and it’s very sad, in the movie. [2:35:00] What’s the other movie about the 
freedom summer? It’s just slipped my mind. 
EC: The older one or the recent one? 
DZ: The older one, the older one. 
EC: Freedom On My MincH 
Dorothy Zehner 
72 
DZ: Freedom On My Mind. He’s standing there. I’ve seen the film several 
times. He’s standing there with a clipboard. He’s in Atlantic City. He’s keeping track of 
all the different delegations and the votes. He looks at the camera and he says, “If things 
go along the way we expect, we’re going to win.” So, if everybody—. And certainly if 
somebody of Bob Moses’ stature thought we were going to win, was anybody going to 
say, “Hey, wait a second. What if we don’t win? What are we going to do? What is the 
plan B?” We didn’t have one. We didn’t have one. Given all of that, is it any wonder? 
Now, some people feel—. I don’t know, Judy may feel or other people may feel, 
that going—becoming all black was a natural thing and needed to be done. It should have 
been done. I don’t think I agree. I think we were a powerhouse. When you think of 
what we were able to do. It’s not because we had all those white people, because we 
didn’t have all those white people. I don’t think until the summer of [19]64 we had more 
than twenty percent of the people who were white. Maybe twenty-five. I think there 
were some very good lessons that we taught. We taught that a black person can tell a 
white person what to do. That was unheard of. That was unheard of. We were told—. 
We taught people by example that, if the context changes then people’s behavior can 
change. That was unheard of. 
I tell people that we probably, for those brief years, are the only Americans who 
ever experienced racial equality. I mean—maybe equality is not the right word. That we 
achieved, in the South African term, a non-racial community. Not because we weren’t 
racial, because everybody knew and was conscious of that, but because the context was, 
if you’re going to be with us you’re going to take a bullet. And you can take a bullet as a 
white person or a black person. 
Dorothy Zehner 
73 
It was unique really, when you think about it. What other group was like that? I 
think we taught a lot. The country is so deeply racist that whether we could have 
remained that way—. Obviously we didn’t. We couldn’t. It was racism that did us in, 
and you know, people have different ideas about why SNCC came to end. There’s a lot 
of contention about that still. I think there were many, many reasons, but the basic reason 
really was, this is a profoundly racial—racially disturbed country. In order to really get 
through it, we’re going to have to have Black Lives Matter times a million. I mean, 
we’re going to have to take it on every which way; culturally, socially, physically, 
academically, every way. Otherwise, that’s the vacuum. The vacuum is racism. When 
there’s racism then all kinds of people walk into the vacuum. 
So, I can’t feel sorry—. I still feel sorry that SNCC is lost, that was lost. I don’t 
know if other people do. I think it may play out in a lot of racial ways, it may play out. 
There’s certainly an awful lot of confusion about what happened, and you know, there 
was confusion right away after Peg Leg Bates. Within two weeks there were debates. 
This vote happened, this vote didn’t happen. All of that. I don’t know how we would 
ever—. I don’t think there was any kind of coherent note-taking there. It doesn’t seem 
that anybody—that everybody can agree with, that everybody can adhere to. 
But I don’t want this—my interview to be only on—to end on that note, because 
it’s not the critical thing. It’s not the critical thing, what happened to the poor white 
people. What happened to poor us? You know? That’s not the critical thing. The 
critical thing is that I think that we showed that, without sounding hyper lowercase 
[2:40:00] democratic, we showed that there is an incredible resource and reservoir of real 
creativity and ingenuity. Certainly in the black community, and in the white community 
Dorothy Zehner 
74 
that is willing to support black liberation. It’s there, it’s still there. It’s there. It’s 
definitely—. At different times it’s going to come out, and people have hopes that each 
time it’ll be the time that we can recreate that. Each time. 
EC: I've heard you say that your—that some of the work you’re doing now, it 
feels to you that you’re fulfilling the charge that SNCC made to white people to work in 
their own community. Can you talk about that? 
DZ: Well since—. Let’s see, I’m—. For thirteen years I’ve been doing this, 
mostly you know that’s what I do, in addition in my job, is work in—speaking out as a 
Jewish person about Israel/Palestine. And, I’ve come a long way in those twelve or 
thirteen years and learned an awful lot. My initial impetus was to do what SNCC said to 
do, which we—as you can tell, we were ready to do it, we said at least, in 1957 and it 
never came about. 
EC: [19]67? 
DZ: [19]67. Sorry. In the GROW project we tried to do white organizing in a 
moment of crisis in Mississippi. Now we say “we” and I use that sort of in quotes 
because, I was home with children and I was not traveling to Mississippi. There were 
several men who were doing that, and different—to different degrees of effectiveness. So, 
I took it to heart; this is what I have to do. This is what people expect me to do. I have to 
say, there are not a whole lot of SNCC people who say to me, “Oh, I’m going to join 
you,” but I have yet, in thirteen years, have one SNCC person ever say, “I don’t agree 
with what you’re doing,” and many of them have said, “Good for you that you’re doing it 
because it’s tough.” 
Dorothy Zehner 
75 
It’s tough without having some of the benefits that SNCC had, because even 
while we were right there in the middle of it, I knew at least—I presume other people 
knew—that if I lived to be a million would I ever be able to sit in a room with people like 
this. I mean, almost every one of them out dazzled the other one. That’s the other lesson, 
takeaway that I tell people. You know, SNCC stood everything—in addition to having 
black people telling white people what to do, it showed you that a person with a third 
grade education might be smarter than an PhD. This is very useful to know. There were 
a lot of things that were stood on their heads. Those are all carry-aways. We don’t have 
that in this movement, and I have definitely—. I’ve told kids, I’ve brought kids lessons 
from those days. I’ve said, “You have to take care of each other. You have to send 
people away on R and R.” That’s what Forman did. Forman invented that. He invented 
that. 
We don’t have, you know, oh you walk into a room and say, here we are. We’re 
all together. We can get sustenance until the next time. We don’t have that because, 
when we’re out there, we’re out there. On the front lines with people who hate us. Hate 
us. Vicious and hateful people. And, actually it was one of the women in our book, one 
of the black women, who told me that she was in a demonstration in Israel years ago of 
progressive—with progressive Israeli Jews, and she said the abuse they had suffered there 
was worse than anything she had ever went through in the South. And people ask me and 
I say, “Well, the difference is, they didn’t talk to you much; they just tried to kill you. 
Here, they abuse you. They don’t—up until now have not tried to kill. The abuse level is 
extremely high. 
Dorothy Zehner 
76 
So, I can’t say that I go home and I rarely am able to say to myself, wow, we did a 
great thing today. [2:45:00] What I said is, “Well, we did it. At least we did it.” 
[Laughs] Hopefully it’s going to mean something someday. I think it is starting to mean 
something. 
EC: Can you tell me about Ruby Doris Smith-Robinson? 
DZ: Yes. I met her probably the winter of—. I met her before I was on staff. I 
met her when we were in the loft. You know about the loft? People have forgotten about 
the loft. First we had the windowless cubicle, then we had the loft, then we had 
Raymond Street. There might have been something in between. So, I met her in the loft, 
which was also on Orban Avenue, I believe. So if that’s the winter of [19]61, [19]62,1 
don’t know when she got out of jail from Rock Hill. 
EC : It would have been spring of [ 19]61. 
DZ: Spring of [19]61. OK, well when she came into the office, there was—they 
always—there was a murmur because she was—she had a tremendous reputation as being 
brave as a lion. In those days, brave as any man, or braver than any man. 
EC : That’s how people put it? 
DZ: Probably. I don’t know that for sure. [Laughs] So, how to sum up Ruby 
and I. Until Ruby got sick, I think Ruby didn’t really like me very much, but put up with 
me because I was a very hard worker. Later on, Cynthia Fleming, when Cynthia Fleming 
did her book about Ruby, she called me and she wanted an interview, and she said the 
word that I get is that you were one of the few white women that Ruby liked.” So, liking 
was different from respecting. We never socialized. I don’t think we ever had three 
minutes of chit-chat. It was work. And, she was very fierce. Very awesome and fierce. 
Dorothy Zehner 
77 
And, I, like everybody else, was afraid of her. A little afraid of her. But she was never— 
there was never anything I had to be afraid of because I did my work. That was the main 
thing with Ruby. Are you doing your work? I always did my work. But when Ruby got 
sick, then we became friends. 
EC: What was her role in SNCC? 
DZ: Well, Ruby was—even without having the title to go with it—she was sort 
of second to Forman. And, she—in modern terms, she did a lot of personnel work, and 
she kept track of where people were and what they were doing, what they were supposed 
to be doing. She did financial planning to the extent that we had any financial planning, 
with Forman. He respected her a lot. Fm not sure if I would call her an even-keeled 
person. I don't think she was. She was very emotional, and she had obviously had 
trauma. She was—, I think that thirty days of chipping or breaking rocks was an 
unbearable trauma for her. 
EC: Well, she went to Parchman, too, on the Freedom Rides. 
DZ: Yes, and she went to Parchman. 
EC: Did she ever talk about that? 
DZ: Not to me, no. She never—when we became sort of friends, when the 
barriers came down, she was flat on her back at Beth Israel Hospital, and I came in there 
and I was—, I mean, this is long before I became a nurse. Some people are afraid of sick 
people and some people aren’t. The people who were afraid, they stayed away. Then 
there were the people who weren’t. I wasn’t afraid. We were living in New Haven then, 
but we would come to New York very often. My parents—we would stay at my parents’ 
house and they lived one block from Beth Israel. I was able to get over there a lot. At 
Dorothy Zehner 
78 
one point she was a holy terror in the hospital, and the nurses wanted her to do something 
and she refused. She jumped out of bed [2:50:00] trailing all these IV things and ripping 
them out. She was—looking back, I just--here she was in New York. What? I don’t 
know why she was in New York week after week after week after week in the hospital. 
It’s hard to believe that she couldn’t—they couldn’t have flown her home. I don’t know. 
Here she had a little boy by then. She had a husband by then. Here, day after day after 
day she’s in the—I think she was in there for weeks. Weeks. 
So, then things—. Then Ruby was not—she became gentle, and we talked. We 
laughed, we talked about “Oh, so-and-so, can you believe so-and-so is up to this?” “Oh, 
tell me about it, girl,” that kind of thing. [Laughter] 
EC: You and Ruby Doris gossiping. 
DZ: Yes. Then Forman would come and the three of us—our heads would be 
bent over and we would be telling funny stories. He was very kind to her. He was very 
gentle with her. And, I don’t know—I actually spoke to her sister—whose name I can’t 
think of right at the moment. 
EC: Marianne 
DZ: Marianne, who is a doctor, and when we had the SNCC reunion, I—. I 
think I tried to talk to her about what the medical issues were, which always was a 
mystery to me. I think it was a form of leukemia. It was very, it was virulent. I think she 
got sick and within two years she was dead. When she died we were already living in the 
South. Back in the South. We were in New Orleans. We came over from New Orleans. 
I remember that funeral, oh. So of course they had her hair done. That was the number 
one thing, first of all. 
Dorothy Zehner 
79 
EC: What do you—. Explain what you mean. 
DZ: She had her hair straightened as a corpse, and she—in her life—she was one 
of the first people who wore her hair natural. She always wore her hair natural. So, she 
hardly even looked like herself. I could hardly go up there. Oh God what a nightmare 
that was. Then we were outside afterwards, and I completely broke down, sob, sob, sob. 
Casey came over to me. “Why you crying so much?” she said. “Don’t cry so much.” I 
cried a lot. 
So, there was a view—. I think Forman held this. I didn’t agree with this. You 
know, that some—I don’t know if she was poisoned or the government did something, and 
I think her immune system just completely crashed from what happened to her in the 
prison, but mostly, in breaking rocks. I was later—they explained to me—from side to side 
on the road. I mean, it was completely useless, useless, useless, harassing, horrible, 
physical work. She was a complicated character. 
EC: Did you name your daughter? 
DZ: I did. Catherine Ruby Zellner. After Bob’s mother. So it was after two 
people. So, she was a very—. She was a difficult, passionate person, and she really 
cared. Now, to think that she got—now I appreciate that she got married and had a child 
and worked for SNCC and managed to keep all of that going somehow? I mean, really 
my hat’s off to her. Then, I don’t know how many months she was sick, I think she was 
twenty-six when she died. She had to have been sick a year, because I know she was in 
the hospital for weeks and weeks and weeks. In New York. So she didn’t have much 
time. She had twenty-five years, you know? 
Dorothy Zehner 
80 
Now, I don’t remember her being a big architect of policy, but maybe she was in 
meetings that I wasn’t—. You would probably know more than I would. But, she’s the 
one that I remember she’d say—I mean, if you look at some of the minutes—she’d say, 
“Where are the floaters?” She said. She wanted to know where. “What is so-and-so 
doing?” When I used to answer the phone, people had to speak, I’d say, “Ruby wants to 
talk to you,” voom! [Laughter] The men were petrified of her. Petrified of her. [2:55:00] 
EC: So, how did you feel about going into Mississippi in Freedom Summer 
after you did the interviews and? 
DZ: Oh, I was terrified. I was terrified. I spent weeks imagining. Oh, I can 
only get run over. I got run over and just broke my foot, what’s so bad about that? 
[Laughter] 
EC: So you were going to be like the draft dodgers and take yourself out of the 
action? 
DZ: Here I was—you talk about a psychological issue—here I was vetting 
people to go to a place that I myself was terrified about going, was hoping something 
would happen. No, no. It was terrible, terrible. And ever since—. I’ll never be the same. 
Whenever I see that sign. Here it is, years and years later, I have to hand it to you for 
living in that place. [Laughter] 
EC: I didn’t know any better. 
DZ: But I don’t think it’s worse than Alabama. My heart didn’t drop when I 
went to Alabama. They’d kill you in Alabama just as much. [Laughter] 
EC: Yes. 
Dorothy Zehner 
81 
DZ: So the other day I was talking about terrorism. I said, “We’re the only 
ones who really—we’re the ones who have been victims of terror. If you define terror as 
violence against the civilian population to create fear for a political objective. OK? If 
that’s terrorism. We had nothing but terrorism. But of course, they’re not terrorists 
because they’re white. White people are never terrorists. In fact, this Roof, the one who 
killed the people in South Carolina. He was not a terrorist. The white people are crazy. 
It’s the Muslims and the black people who are terrorists, you know? 
EC: [Recorder is turned off and then back on] You were talking about the 
difference in how people perceive who’s a terrorist. 
DZ: Yes. 
EC: What was your work in Mississippi that summer? 
DZ: In Mississippi I was one of the people on the WATS line. I did my eight 
hours. I did the first eight. 
EC: What did that entail? 
DZ: That entailed keeping track of people who were arrested. Doing some 
minimal work with the FBI, such as they were. Being a press contact. That was it, and 
that’s what I—. I mean, the three of us split up the WATS line. 
EC : Who’s the three of us? 
DZ: Judy, Betty and me. I did 7:00 to 3:00 or 9:00 to 5:00, whatever. So 
basically we were a contact for the parents, for the local people. I mean, the people local 
in the areas that the volunteers came from. Back and forth, and of course when Harry 
and Sidney came in and we worked on, you know, that tour. Mostly I was in the office, 
in literally the office. 
Dorothy Zehner 
82 
EC: So did you get used to being in Mississippi when you were there? 
DZ: Never. When we left we went to New Orleans, I said, “I’m in Paris.” And 
New Orleans was segregated and I felt like I was in Paris. Oh my God. [Laughs] No, 
Judy has all kind of memories about going here and there. I didn’t go anywhere. I was in 
that building. I didn’t leave. I thought Bob was going to get killed. I thought, “I’m 
going down the road that Rita has gone.” That’s what I thought. 
EC: [Recorder is turned off and then back on] You were saying about 
Forman? 
DZ: You know, he didn’t have manners. So, when you dealt with him you 
didn’t do the normal thing about saying something good and then you’ll say something 
critical, and then you’H—. You didn’t play those games. He didn’t play the games either. 
I mean, he’d call you up and he’d say, “Do blah, blah, blah.” I mean, he didn’t say 
please, he didn’t say—he didn’t have anything like that. But you knew when you knew 
him that he didn’t mean anything by it. It wasn’t an insult, it was the way he dealt with 
people. 
I remember when Kennedy was shot. Actually, there is nowhere in any book. I 
picked up the phone. It was him on the phone. It didn’t even ring. Did not ring. I think 
I was going to—was picking it up to call him. He called me. He said, “Did you hear? 
Kennedy’s been shot.” He was beyond shocked. Of course, who wasn’t? His first 
thought was that Oswald [3:00:00] had been one of ours in the movement. He was very 
unnerved. Very unnerved. Then, the winter of [19]64, [19]65 was when I inadvertently 
found out that Barney Frank, the—who was the then the assistant to Allard Lowenstein— 
had been at a party—actually, we were at a party, and we heard that A1 Lowenstein had 
Dorothy Zehner 
83 
been—that Barney Frank had been in some meetings, and I called Forman. I said, 
“There’s something going on.” He said, “Go meet him.” That’s the kind of thing he—. 
“Go meet with him.” I said, “OK.” 
So, I met with him, and then—. And of course he told me to write it down 
immediately, and I did, and fortunately Julian found it. He found it. I didn’t know where 
it was. I said, what a—. He found it. I don’t know how he found it. And of course, this 
is what they were planning to do, was planning to get SNCC out of the way, and it was a 
meeting of some very high level people in the Civil Rights Movement, in the room—. 
EC: Is this the post Freedom Summer meeting where the National Council of 
Churches and all these—. 
DZ: Yes. NAACP. Yes. 
EC: They’re talking about a coalition of civil rights groups in New York 
making decisions about what’s going on in Mississippi? 
DZ: That’s right. To make sure that the next summer, the summer of [19]65— 
which there never was, it never occurred—would not be controlled by SNCC. That SNCC 
was too out there, too far out there. They didn’t like the loyalty oath issue. He verified 
that, and I wrote it. I mean, what Forman taught—of course, Forman did not teach us to 
put dates. 
EC: Yes, I’ve noticed that. 
DZ: Why is it that none of us—. None of us. Him and Judy was the only one 
to put a date on it. 
EC: Well, some letters have dates, but the press releases just have months and 
days and no year. 
Dorothy Zehner 
84 
DZ: But that’s very common, you see. That comes from the newspaper. You 
read the New York Times, it says, “February 9.” It doesn’t say the year. On the story it 
doesn’t. On the masthead it did. So. 
EC: So are there other things that we haven’t talked about that you think are 
important? 
DZ: Not that I can think of. I’ll think of them later. I’ll think of them tonight, 
but it’ll be too late, so. 
EC: I’ll send you home with a tape record. [Laughter] 
DZ: No, I think I’ve had it. 
EC: Thank you, Dottie. Thanks. 
DZ: That was three hours, I think. 
Female 1 : This has been a presentation of the Library of Congress and the 
Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture. 
END OF INTERVIEW 
Transcribed by Audio Transcription Center, March 28, 2017