Date 
January 14, 2021 
Time 
10:30am 
Interviewer 
Edward Y. Millar 
Interviewee 
Derek Wagner 
Location 
Derek’s Garage 
Audio log 
Prepared by: 
Edward Y. Millar 
Collection 
Number 
AFC 2020/013    
The Ransomville Speedway: Dirt Track Workers in Western New York 
 
Archie Green Fellowship Ransomville Speedway Interviews,  
American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fieldnotes 
Pre-Interview 
I got to Derek’s place in Middleport, around 10:20ish in the morning for our 10:30 interview – a surprise 
that I was early / on time for once! Earlier in the week, we had rescheduled for this time during the day 
as Derek, who works for the municipal Highway Department learned he would be working the night 
shift, so earlier in the day was better for him. We confirmed the day before that the time still works, and 
Derek arranged for us to do the interview in his shop/garage and setup a table. After I got there, sent 
Derek a quick text / heads-up that I was there and headed on in.  
Before we got started with the interview, I walked Derek through the forms, talked about the interview 
some more, had some small talk, and then got started with the interview. 
Interview 
During the interview, Derek shared his earliest experiences in racing through the different classes. 
Starting out with racing karts (one year), then moving on into four cylinders, mod lights, and eventually 
into sportsman - the class he has most recently been racing in. Derek has truly grown up surrounded by 
racing culture, remembering his first foray around racing crews at the age of 10 years old, with early 
responsibilities being washing the car, helping out in the shop (too young to go into the actual pit during 
a race, Derek thinks that the age limit was something like 14 at the time). Derek shared his encyclopedic 
& discrete knowledge of racing, touching on a number of different themes including his understanding 
and approach to the sport, repeatedly emphasizing that a race isn’t won on the track, but in the shop 
(i.e. the rest of the week), and isn’t won by the driver themselves but by the whole team. As an outsider, 
this is something that has certainly been one of my misconceptions in placing extra emphasis on the 
specific race and night, which while important, I’ve come to learn is just one part of the equation. 
One of the major themes that Derek touched on was the community and friendships connected to dirt 
track, and all of the old racing families and how people get into dirt track culture. If there were any one 
takeaway from the interview, it was undoubtedly just how impactful and meaningful racing is to Derek, 
and how it really is in his blood, and a core part of his identity. I think a perfect encapsulation of this was 
towards the end of the interview, after talking about some of the local sponsors that help support him in 
his work, and it shifted to focusing on friends and family, he started to get choked up (and I did as well), 
talking about friends and family, and members of his crew that have passed away and aren’t with us.  
I think if anything shows just how much racing is about family, need look no further than Derek. 
Post Interview 
After the interview, Derek and I shared some more small talk, and I also ask him a question that I forgot 
to ask during the interview: how he arrived at the number he wanted. And his response again showed 
just how deeply meaningful racing is to him, and how important family, friends, and community are: his 
number (61) is a combination of two of his friends/mentors that have been close to him in racing: BJ 
Bowman (sp?) and PJ Allen. I also talk a bit about the photographs to use, and make a point of 
remembering to ask Tom about any photos from the King of the Hill race which he won/led all 100 laps.  
After saying goodbye to Derek, I hopped in my car and went on my way back to the museum, essentially 
driving the ‘width’ of Niagara County (from end to end), which is about 40 minutes or so one way.