1 
 
Transcript of Interview with Ariel Appling, August 4, 2020 
By Ethan Sharp 
Ethan (00:00): 
All right. So this is Ethan Sharp. I'm here with Ariel Appling, and we are here at New Vista in Lexington, 
Kentucky. And today is August 4th, 2020, and Ariel to get us started, could you tell us a little bit about 
your background, tell us where you're born and where you grew up?  
Ariel (00:31): 
So, my name's Ariel Appling, and I was born in a really small town, Interlochen, Florida. It's near 
Gainesville. It's like 20 minutes away. When I tell people Gainesville, they're like, oh, okay, I know where 
that's at. I grew up, I would say, pretty poor. I lived in a trailer with my mother and father and my brother. 
I lived in Florida till I was about five and then we moved to Kentucky because my dad found work up here. 
And that's also where his family's from. So that's how I, I came to Kentucky. My mom, she's a Jehovah’s 
Witness, so that's a big like background story. My mom was a Jehovah’s Witness, so she was very like into 
the church. I didn't celebrate holidays growing up, things like that. But my dad on the other hand was an 
addict, and he actually, he smoked pot a lot. So that's kind of like my whole story. I had, like these two 
different, two different parents. One was like, you know, really into, you know, spiritual side. And then 
my dad was kind of like the hippie. So, but I actually, I didn't really start using until my dad got sick. He got 
cancer. He actually had brain cancer. And when I found that out, I kinda just went off the deep end, just 
trying to numb my feelings. And then of course the longer I use, the more it progressed into other things 
and so forth. It wasn't until really I was 18 till I started using like opiates, but before then I was drinking, 
smoking pot and so forth. 
Ethan (02:34): 
Yeah, I see. And then, so what was your treatment and recovery process like? 
Ariel (02:43): 
So, I have children. I actually had gotten pregnant when I was 17, and my addiction really wasn't that bad 
until I got pregnant with my second child. And I actually entered a Suboxone clinic when I was pregnant 
because I knew I wasn't gonna stop using. And that was the way I went. From there I had relapses, I ended 
up getting involved with the family cabinet with DCBS and a lot of people are upset with that, but I'm truly 
grateful for the cabinet because it kind of forced me to go to treatment. And that was like my first 
experience with going to treatment. Cause they told me, you know, you need, if you don't, if you don't go 
to treatment, you're never going to get your kids back. And so that kind of really gave me a push, but it 
wasn't until I finally wanted to go for myself and not for my kids. And so I, I begged to go to the longest 
term, cause before I just went to like 30 day treatments, but this time I was like, just send me off, send 
me out of state, send me anywhere. I just want to get better. So I went to the Chrysalis.  
Ethan (04:01): 
So you did stay in state, but it was a long, they had long-term? 
Ariel (04:06): 
Yes, it was at the time. It was an 18 month program. Now I think they've shortened it because money 
purposes and getting people in.  
2 
 
Ethan (04:16): 
And about how long ago was that? 
Ariel (04:18): 
That was in 2015. I went to the Chrysalis.  
Ethan (04:24): 
So from, so from there then you learned about peer support. Can you talk about how you learned about 
peer support work, and then how you got involved in it? 
Ariel (04:34): 
Yeah, so I worked at like a lot of different jobs, and it was just kinda, you know, I wasn't really, didn't ever 
really love my job. And I actually had this friend who told me he was working at UK and youth peer support, 
and I didn't know anything about it. And I was like, oh my gosh, that's so cool. And he's like, I think you'd 
be really good at it, Ariel. And I was, I didn't know, you know, I can get paid to do these things that I already 
do in my recovery. And so, he told me about this, and I actually started out with youth peer support at UK 
Healthcare. Across from the Ridge. And I worked there for about a year, but it was all ran on a grant then. 
So that's the only thing a lot of peer supports run on a grant. And so it's hard to, it's good that it gets 
funded, but then it runs out and there's no, no job, but that's kind of how I started in peer support. I 
started with youth, and then I went and got my adult peer support [certification]. I worked for a little 
while at Step Works which is a treatment facility for women in Nicholasville. And then then I came here 
to New Vista. 
Ethan (05:54): 
So how long were you at UK? 
Ariel (05:57): 
At UK? I would say almost a year. It was about a year. 
Ethan (06:02): 
So when you just decided you wanted to do the, the youth peer support, you had to get the training for 
that too. So did you do that through… 
Ariel (06:14): 
I did that through, I want to say KY Stars through the, I did that through the state. Cause that training isn't 
offered a whole lot through a lot of places, but yeah, I completed that. I want to say in 2017 or 16 is when 
I got my youth [certification]. And then about a little later on, I got my adult peer support. Yeah. And UK 
actually it was so cool. The grant we had, like I was able to get my adult peer support, more training. We 
traveled to Arizona and went to like a peer support convention. Yes, it was, it was super, super cool. 
Ethan (07:00): 
Can you tell me a little bit more about that? The peer support convention? 
Ariel (07:04): 
3 
 
Yeah, so it was like a worldwide convention, and peer support actually started, I believe, in Arizona. That 
was like one of the first, so I guess that's why they had it there, but they had a lot of different workshops 
on how, you know, how to present for peer support and where it is still so new, you know, how to use 
wraparound services in places of work. And it was cool because there's different people from different 
states, and we're so behind still as Kentucky really. Cause a lot of these peer supports they're already like 
riding in the cop cars, like when there's an overdose, and I think we are working, we're working a lot more 
towards things. But just to see how each state's doing peer support differently, it was pretty cool. Like in 
California, it's, it's a whole other world. 
Ethan (08:01): 
So that was part of your training to go to the convention, or was that something extra Kentucky, UK paid 
for? 
Ariel (08:08): 
No, it was, it was a part of a training for CEUs because they did have workshops there, and they had 
different trainings there that you could take throughout the few days, for continuing education.  
Ethan (08:24): 
Cool. So is that a convention they do every year?  
Ariel (08:29): 
I honestly don't know. It would be cool to know. I believe they do. I'm sure with all of this going on there 
isn't one this year, or if there is, it's virtually, but it was super cool. I do have to say that 
Ethan (08:44): 
I have to check that out. So, then you did your adult and then you were at Step Works. About how long 
ago was that? 
Ariel (08:54): 
I wasn't there for very long. And I'll, I'll tell you why, it's because, so, you know, I told you I was involved 
with DCBS. I had actually, I got a child neglect charge against me, and so I couldn't have that while working 
there cause there's people there with like, I don't have anything on my criminal background, so there's 
people there with felonies. And since I have that child neglect charge from when I was using, with having 
custody of my kids, I couldn't work there. So I only worked there for about two months. I tried to get it off 
my record and things while I worked there, but it just didn't work out. And the thing is, is I was the very 
first person who had that issue because the place was so new at the time that the director he didn't know. 
Ethan (09:43): 
They’re really in Elizabethtown, right? 
Ariel (09:47): 
Yeah. There's another one in Elizabethtown. 
Ethan (09:53): 
4 
 
Well I was going to ask you, you said, when you heard about youth peer support you were interested in 
that because you already were doing something like that. So can you tell us more about that? Was that 
because you were doing a 12 step program where you were? 
Ariel (10:14): 
So I work a 12 step program. I go to meetings regularly. I sponsor women, and I work steps myself. So 
that's what works the best for me is working that program.  
Ethan (10:27): 
So with that experience, you felt like you were giving? 
Ariel (10:31): 
Yeah, it's like a service work.  
Ethan (10:33): 
Yeah, yeah. All right. So once you, so let's talk about your work here. Have you been doing pretty much 
the same thing since you started here?  
Ariel (10:48): 
Yeah. 
Ethan (10:49): 
Okay. So what is your work here? 
Ariel (10:51): 
Here I work with specialty courts, I always want to say drug court, but they changed it to specialty courts. 
So, I work with specialty courts. I also have, my job's very diverse because I have a lot. I work with a grant 
through greenhouse 17, which is a domestic violence shelter. I also work with clients that are over on the 
MAR side, which is medically assisted recovery like Suboxone and methadone and things like that. And 
then also we do, I think, work still with some that are from DCBS and have, have to come here for 
parenting and things like that. So, so I have a lot of different roles here. 
Ethan (11:44): 
Well, can we talk about each of those? I mean, let's see. So the specialty court, so how do you, so how 
does that work? So, there's people going through the court program? 
Ariel (11:58): 
Yes. So there, we have an MOU with, with specialty court. So, they have New Vista as their therapy. They 
do groups here. So a lot of times I help facilitate the groups. A lot of times too, all my referrals usually 
come from the therapists, you know. So, a lot of times they might want to meet with a peer. They're 
required to go to meetings. So, a lot of times I've been able to go to a meeting with them, and Gratz Park 
is right next to the office. So a lot of times I can just walk with them over to the meeting because 
sometimes they don't always feel comfortable going by themselves. So that's part of my job. Well, I don't 
know about right now, but there used to be like a noon meeting. It's like Al-Anon and AA meetings in that 
5 
 
little building over in Gratz Park. It's actually, I think the first floor is like the main AA. They have like all 
the literature and stuff there.  
Ethan (13:05): 
Okay. Yeah, no, I've seen that building, and I wondered what it was, and I've also seen people going there. 
Ariel (13:12): 
That's AA meetings and Al-Anon meetings.  
Ethan (13:29): 
And you run some of those meetings over there? 
Ariel (13:31): 
No, no, no, no, no. I just take them to like, because they're required to get eight meetings and groups, so 
two separate things. So they have to do outside. 
Ethan (13:42): 
Yeah, yeah. 
Ariel (13:44): 
No, you're fine. They get that confused too. Cause sometimes they think, you know, their groups count as 
their meetings and their meetings count as their groups. It does get complicated. So, so I do groups here 
at the office. I would say we have about four or five groups. I do about three of them throughout the 
week. Right now I'm doing them all on zoom. Yeah. Yeah. 
Ethan (14:10): 
But yeah. So, what is the, how's the group therapy different from the AA meeting?  
Ariel (14:19): 
In our groups we follow, we have to follow by guidelines. So we use the matrix model. Yeah, I wish it was, 
I do throw in some of my own stuff to make, keep it interesting because worksheets become really tedious 
just to go over. So, I kinda like read a little bit of the worksheet, and then I just stop, and we'll have an 
open discussion. But we do really try to focus on like triggers. We've tried to focus on boundaries. We 
usually have some type of topic that we try to really focus on. Like all these things in the room are kind of 
things that we've worked on together. We try to talk about like fun things they can do in recovery, you 
know.  
Ethan (15:07): 
So you would do the meetings here. Is that true? Okay. And then you mentioned the medication assisted 
recovery, and that's kind of a similar, you provide similar services over there? 
Ariel (15:24): 
Well, that one, most of my clients, I usually just meet individually. I don't do any groups with them, but I 
meet them individually. I have gone to meetings with some of the clients. A lot of times it's easier for them 
6 
 
when they meet their therapist here. Right afterwards they'll, they'll meet with a peer, and it's kind of just 
I've helped them with different things. A lot of them need a lot of case manager type things. You know, a 
girl, I was helping her with housing authority and things like that, because on that side right now, we don't 
have a case manager. So a lot of times I'm doing that with them. Cause they don't have that extra.  
Ethan (16:06): 
Right. And is it, and then you sort of work out a plan for each person with the therapist? 
Ariel (16:15): 
Yes. So we have a treatment plan. And so usually I'm somewhere in that treatment plan, whether that's 
getting them connected with 12 step meetings. Sometimes it's just getting them to a lot of their goals or 
completing like specialty courts, almost every single one, [it is] I just want to complete this program. 
Ethan (16:35): 
So they can be doing both the medicated and the specialty court? 
Ariel (16:39): 
Yeah. 
Ethan (16:43): 
Okay. And then Greenhouse 17? 
Ariel (16:49): 
That one's, that one's fairly new. Because I started at the beginning of this year, and then it was like, then 
the pandemic hit, and I'm actually getting back into groups and stuff with them. So, so that, that's been 
really interesting. So I have in the beginning I was going over there, and I would hold groups. Now that 
one, I can kind of do a freestyle group. And I pretty much let them facilitate the group, and I just kind of 
stand back, you know, which is really cool because I do have a domestic violence background. So I'm able 
to relate with them not only on the substance use level. But they needed a peer because it's hard. It was 
hard for them to see the substance use side where they mainly just deal with trauma and domestic 
violence. But a lot of times there's substance use involved with it.  
Ethan (17:53): 
And New Vista is providing the therapy and the peer support? 
Ariel (18:00): 
Right now, it's just peer support. They did have a therapist going out there from New Vista, but I don't 
think it was very successful. I think they have a therapist there too.  
Ethan (18:13): 
And there you don't do one-on-one so much? 
Ariel (18:16): 
7 
 
I would do some like before group. They would just, they would like run to me like, Ariel, come, I need to 
talk to you about something really important, and I don't know what to do. And so, it was really cool 
because they didn't have, it's really weird, like specialty courts, like they have to be there, versus groups 
that they can come to, they don’t have to. It makes a big difference. They are very acceptable about, you 
know, getting help. Most of them, I wouldn't say all of them.  
Ethan (18:55): 
And how many are, how many women do you work with over there? 
Ariel (18:59): 
Oh, there's a lot of women over there, but I probably work with about, let's say 10 or so. It's, it's kinda 
gone down now, but yeah, at the time I was probably working with about 10 of them who come to group. 
Ethan (19:17): 
Yeah. I was just curious. Did you do you have like a caseload, like you have a certain number of people 
you're allowed to work with? I mean, is it, how do you sort of manage all of your time? 
Ariel (19:30): 
Yeah. It gets a little, it gets a little chaotic. My caseload, though, always is revolving because I will lose 
some, they'll go to treatment or they'll finish their treatment plan or, you know, graduate. So my, my case 
plan is always varying. So sometimes I might only have four people, and then I'm really struggling to get 
productivity. And then sometimes I'm over productive, and I got 30 people I got to meet in the same week, 
and it's like, oh my gosh. 
Ethan (20:05): 
So, it varies from month to month. Yeah, the issue of productivity, I heard them talking about that in the 
training. But your programs are pretty much, they're not covered under Medicaid, right? So that's not an 
issue? 
Ariel (20:29): 
No, they're all covered under Medicaid. Yeah. Except for the greenhouse 17 is paid for by a grant. So yeah. 
And that one I have to, I do have to document that I'm doing that, but I don't, I don't like add a whole lot 
to it as if I was doing a Medicaid, because it's not through Medicaid, because they're not actual clients 
through here. If that makes sense.  
Ethan (20:55): 
No, no. That's just something that I'm learning about. So I was curious.  
Ariel (21:01): 
It gets complicated. I'm learning still about some things. 
Ethan (21:06): 
Well, yeah, because we might want to come back to that issue, but I do want to ask you about, you know, 
you know, establishing the rapport is important, and I wanted to ask you how you do that. And also, how 
8 
 
you bring your story in, your personal story. You've already talked about it a little bit, but how you bring 
your personal story into your relationships with clients?  
Ariel (21:38): 
Absolutely. My biggest strategy in building rapport with clients is I try to make them feel more than 
comfortable. Usually I find humor in things. And so I'll, you know, you know, lighten it up while I'm making 
a joke or something in that category. Cause usually when they come in here, they usually are upset. They 
don't want to be here, or they're scared to death. And so I just make a joke, you know, 
Ethan (22:06): 
Can you give an example?  
Ariel (22:08): 
Like I guess if somebody was through thinking about going to treatment, now like, I don't know, I don't 
want to go to treatment. I'm like, well, nobody wakes up and says, Hey, I want to go to treatment today. 
I was like, I know I didn't, you know? And so I'd throw in some of my stuff too. So I make jokes, you know, 
I didn't wake up and say, Hey, let's go to treatment today. And so they, you know, just something simple 
like that. So, just to make them feel comfortable because I always go back and try to reflect on how I felt 
at that moment. And how I put my personal story? I usually don't try to, unless they ask me things, I don't 
try to push like everything I've been through because sometimes I think they just want to hear themselves, 
or they want me to listen to what's going on with them. So unless they ask me or they're going through 
something and I have a relatable story, I'll share my experience. I'll be like, well, you know, I decided not 
to do this. And this is what happened to me. Not saying it'll happen to you, but you know, and that usually 
helps them because they look up to me because they want to be in recovery, or they want, you know, to 
have a decent job, or I'm going to school right now. And so they'll be like, how did you do it? You know, 
things like that. 
Ethan (23:29): 
So, yeah. And so they might ask you directly, did you have something like this too? 
Ariel (23:36): 
Or how did you get past this? Or, you know, or they might not even ask me, they're just, yeah, they'll just 
be upset about something. Be like, you know, I've been through that, and it will pass. It feels like forever, 
but it goes away.  
Ethan (23:52): 
So you are going to school too? 
Ariel (23:55): 
Yes, I am going to BCTC right now for human services. But only cause BCTC doesn’t offer social work. I'm 
wanting to go into the social work field, maybe at EKU. Cause I want to be a therapist. That’s what I really 
want to do. And this is kind of a stepping stone.  
Ethan (24:13): 
So if they ask you, how did you, how do you do that? What do you say? 
9 
 
Ariel (24:21): 
I just had to make small goals to get to that point and take certain steps, you know, signing up, filling out 
the FAFSA beforehand, going through the whole process and just not giving up is the biggest thing because 
school's pretty hard. Especially if you work, and I work two jobs and have two kids. 
Ethan (24:44): 
So I was going to say, yeah, you work two jobs? 
Ariel (24:50): 
I have just a, it's like a part-time cleaning job. I clean, I clean a bank actually, which is really funny because 
people are like, you're in, you know, in recovery, but they know I'm in recovery.  
Ethan (25:01): 
So it's just, it's extra money. I had a question but I forgot. Would you, would you be able to talk about an 
example of someone who you've helped and who's done really well, who’s kind of turned things around? 
Ariel (25:31): 
Yeah. I can think of one off the bat. I had a client, she was in specialty court. She really struggled to be, it 
was almost like, you know, when you're in high school and you're like, oh, I gotta be cool. I can't like be 
into learning things. I want to be outside smoking a cigarette. You know, it's like she was trying to fight, 
fight the system pretty much. And then finally, you know, we talked, and she went to, she went to 
treatment, kind of forceful, though, because especially court, you can't, unless you want to get, you know, 
terminated. So she went to a treatment. Now she's doing really well. She's going to meetings, she's using 
support. She uses me as support. It's funny, whenever she gets a job or something new happens, she'll 
message me on my work phone. Like, look, I gotta you know, an interview at St. Joe, like really cool things, 
you know. She's going back into the nursing field, and this is just one example. I'm sure I have a few, but 
just off the top of my head, she's the most recent. So yeah, she definitely, you know, it feels good when 
they reach out to me because at first they're not so much reaching out to me because you have to build 
trust. So, so yeah, she's doing really well now. My biggest thing is showing consistency and keeping my 
word on things. 
Ethan (27:08): 
Right. Well. I remember my question. I was going to ask you, you have experience being a sponsor and 
with, you know, 12 steps. What was the transition like to being a peer support? Because I know they're 
not the same thing. How did, how was that?  
Ariel (27:30): 
It came with a lot of practice and mistakes and finding that I think the biggest thing is the boundaries part, 
because this is a profession, and I can't, you know, the things that I would do with my sponsees, I might 
go to the movies or something with one of my sponsees, but I can't do that with a client. And I understood 
that, but it's hard to make them understand that because I'm on this deep, personal level, more so than 
a therapist. But I also have this line I have to draw where I can't, we can't kick it, you know, after the 
meeting, you know, but I can take you to the meeting. So, it's just one of those things. But I had to learn. 
After a while, you know, they're like, oh, okay, this is what this is. Cause a lot of clients, they don't know 
what peer support is. They think it's a new friend or, you know. 
10 
 
Ethan (28:27): 
But they can like call you, and are you pretty much available? 
Ariel (28:33): 
I let them, I give them my work cell phone number, and I tell them if they need anything just to call or text 
me. I do tell them after a certain time, it might be later on until I get back, or the weekends I'm not very 
good at getting back. So I make sure to tell him that, so there's not, you know, an issue where they're 
calling me on the weekend and I don't answer it. And they're like, what happened? But I also do try to get 
them connected to other resources and things. So I'm not their only one. Cause I've done that before, and 
it's exhausting to be the only resource. 
Ethan (29:06): 
If that’s the case, you just have to say, I’m too busy. Yeah. One thing I did want to ask about is the issue 
of stigma and shame. I don't know if that's something that you help people deal with, or is that something 
that comes up a lot? 
Ariel (29:34): 
Yeah, I believe as an addict, a lot of people, you know, think it's such a bad thing. I think peer support 
where they're showing, you know, not only to the clients, I think like at the workplace showing that we 
can be responsible, we show up to work on time. We can dress nice. You know, a lot of my coworkers are 
like, you know, I wouldn't even know you're an addict, Ariel, if you didn't tell me, you know, things like 
that, which is awesome. But it's, I think it's like just a sign, and that's what peer support is too, is just being 
a role model of recovery. And so yeah, a lot of times it's just kind of modeling. 
Ethan (30:17): 
So they see the path. And that's one thing I did want to ask about is, you know, your relationships with 
the folks here that you work with, you know, it's come up before in an interview that initially there's some 
misunderstandings. So could you talk a little bit about how that’s worked out because you know, you're 
dealing with different professionals. 
Ariel (30:47): 
Yeah. So it's been different at different places of work. Like at UK, it was almost, you know, because I 
dressed different to meet with the clients there because it was young children. If I dressed really nice, 
they would have just thought I was a counselor, their PO, or you know, somebody with some type of 
authority side, so I dressed down. And a lot of people at UK, they didn't like that. And they were like, are 
you lost? They'd ask us. And then I know they asked like for us to do things that weren't even in our job, 
you know, but it got better over time, but it still kind of was like, they didn't know what peer support was. 
But here it's very like welcoming. I work really good with my coworkers here. And they're pretty 
knowledgeable. They take, we have all those trainings about peer support that they take even in 
orientation. Yeah. So, it's worked out really good here.  
Ethan (31:54): 
Just to clarify, how many years have you been here? 
Ariel (31:57): 
11 
 
I've been here about a year and a half. It was March of 2019 when I started. 
Ethan (32:03): 
So were there other peer support specialists in this facility? 
Ariel (32:08): 
No. Well, there was, before I was here, there was two peer supports, and then they went on to somewhere 
else. So when I started, I was the only peer support here, and it was kind of hard cause I didn't have any 
clients. And I honestly didn't know what I was supposed to be doing. And my supervisor started the same 
time as me. So we, I kind of had to learn as I went. But it ended up working out. So, but there was at one 
point like four peers. And so, I kind of like helped train them, like this is what I did. 
Ethan (32:46): 
And how many are here now?  
Ariel (32:49): 
Technically, there's three. I mean, we have one guy that still meets with people, but he has another 
position on the other side of the building. 
Ethan (32:56): 
Oh, I see. I see. I see. Okay. And who else? You've got therapists in the building. Do you also have 
physicians? 
Ariel (33:09): 
I believe on the other side we just started where they can actually get, cause before we had to send them 
somewhere to get their labs and everything for lab work and stuff before they could enter the clinic. And 
now we're doing that here. Yeah. We have a lot of, we have like four or five nurses. 
Ethan (33:32): 
Oh, okay. Now I wanted to ask about, so it seems like, you know, there's a good group of peer support 
workers at New Vista. So what is that relationship among, you know, you all, do you meet regularly? Like 
do you meet with Bobby, for example? 
Ariel (33:51): 
We were. Bobby's left now, but we were having about once a month, all the peers meet so we can kind 
of go over like caseloads or like issues we're having or anything like that to help us for our job. But honestly  
Ethan (34:15): 
So how many were there? 
Ariel (34:19): 
 
12 
 
Probably like nine or 10. But now we have, I have like a group message with the peers here, and we all 
kinda, we just message each other. Yeah. If we have an issue. So, I got a lot of support just in my little 
building. Just, yeah, we communicate here. 
Ethan (34:40): 
Yeah. So, what would be an example of, not to get too detailed, but like what would be an example of like 
something you might have to go for help with?  
Ariel (34:53): 
The biggest one, especially right now is getting a hold of people or like, oh, I was stressed out because I 
felt like I was chasing the clients. Like I'm constantly, you know, you know, I've talked to him, they'd be 
like, well, we'll meet on this day. And then we'd meet on that day, and they're either late or they forgot 
about it. And so a lot of times I'm like, where do I draw the line? When do I tell them if you don't want to 
meet, that's fine. But I can't keep taking time out of my schedule. So. 
Ethan (35:23): 
And so what you're talking about now is meeting—  
Ariel (35:25): 
On zoom. Yeah. I'm like, it's so easy! Just log on. Or like the technical difficulties and everything that goes 
along with it. I'd say that's probably one of the big things, at least lately. 
Ethan (35:42): 
Yeah. So you just keep rescheduling? Cause they just don't log in. 
Ariel (35:48): 
And it's usually only one or two people, you know, out of the whole bunch. A lot of them are really easy 
going, or they at least let me know, but then there's some, that's like, I didn't hear from them. I don't 
know where they're at. Or issues, I've had to go to peers on what I should do with a client if I think they're 
using. And you know, for some, that can go into a whole other, dangerous thing. Like what do I think 
they're using? Because they could die. And you know, I usually go to their therapist, as well to talk to 
them, to see what I should do about them. 
Ethan (36:27): 
And then, and then you might do like an intervention? 
Ariel (36:31): 
Well, if they're in specialty courts, they usually get caught up pretty quickly anyways with the drug testing. 
Ethan (36:39): 
Or you might have to say? Or stop providing services, right? Were you talking about that in the training 
about like giving them three chances?  
Ariel (36:59): 
13 
 
I think Bobby was talking about that. Yeah, that's a, that's a really good way to go by. Like if they don't 
show up after three times just cutting them. 
Ethan (37:09): 
But you don't usually do that. It just kind of varies from person to person? 
Ariel (37:13): 
It's very like person to person because some of the people, I don't think they're doing it on purpose, but 
then some of them I'm like, they're not trying. So usually what I'll do is I'll, you know, if they don't work 
out with me, then I try to give them over to, I have another female peer, or if they're a male, I give them 
to the male peer. So sometimes I've even done that. Just to see if maybe it's just not working with us, and 
that's okay because I don't take any of that personally. 
Ethan (37:41): 
But that is something you, you did bring that up actually, I believe in the training that, so you work with 
men and women and that was something new for you? 
Ariel (37:54): 
Yes. When I worked at UK, well, Step Works was all women and UK, we had women stuck with women, 
men stuck with men, and here it's kind of also too where we have one male peer and there's so many 
people in recovery, we’re not gonna not give them the chance, you know? So yeah, I work with, 
Ethan (38:16): 
Is that a challenge sometimes? 
Ariel (38:16): 
Sometimes, it is because a lot of these males, they're coming into recovery. They're not really working a 
tough program. And so, they're very, you know, trying to get attention or give attention. So it's kind of, 
that's one thing, but I really try to stick to my boundaries, and I remind them like, you know, I work at New 
Vista, like I have a profession. 
Ethan (38:43): 
Right, right, right, right. So you’re able to—   
Ariel (38:49): 
Yeah, I have to draw a line. If not, I'll have to give them to someone else. But I haven't had, a lot of my 
clients have been for the most part respectful. There's been sly comments here and there. And I'll be like, 
you can't be saying that, you know. Don't ask me if I have a boyfriend and stuff. That's not appropriate.  
Ethan (39:13): 
So yeah. So, you just stop them in their tracks on that? 
Ariel (39:16): 
Yeah. And if the issue prolongs, I get my supervisor, talk to their therapist about it. 
14 
 
Ethan (39:24): 
Right. So you could work with the therapist on those kinds of issues. Because, you know, Bobby was talking 
about that example of the therapist coming to him and saying, you know, can you help with, you know, 
[inaudible], you know, the client was talking about women in a particular way and the therapist thought 
that Bobby could handle that. Are there situations like that where they might come to you and say, can 
you help them with this? Cause I'm not really the right person or vice versa. 
 
Ariel (39:59): 
A lot of times the biggest one’s like treatment, like when the therapist thinks they need to go to treatment. 
They don't really want to listen to the therapist. Cause they see it as like an authority. So usually like, Ariel, 
can you please talk to, you know, Susie over here? You know, she's on the fence. And a lot of times I'll just 
kind of give them my experience. Whether they go or not, I think it helps plant some type of seed in their 
head. So that's, that's probably the biggest thing I help them with. 
Ethan (40:36): 
This kind of goes back to something we already talked about, but you know, with you doing the 12 steps 
in your treatment, was it an adjustment for you to look at different recovery pathways? I mean, I don't 
know what your experience was, if you were like, this is the way it has to be, and then you had to learn 
about other pathways. 
Ariel (41:02): 
Yes. When I started off in peer support, I had to become really open-minded to the Suboxone and 
methadone treatment. Because I was giving, I was giving my own experience of it not working out for me. 
So I was thinking, well, it won't work out for anyone—you got to do 12 step. But now I've really worked 
through that, and I've been really open-minded. And I've seen, I've seen people not successful, and I've 
seen people who are successful. So that's one thing I've had to really work towards because, and as a 
peer, if you aren't open-minded to those types of things, it's not going to work out. 
Ethan (41:41): 
Yeah. And then you have folks that you work with who are pursuing different pathways? 
Ariel (41:46): 
Different kinds of recovery. I have clients that use yoga instead of meetings, and that's okay. And I have 
to, I think too, making them feel comfortable and not forcing my beliefs and 12 step on them. Because 
I've seen people do that, and that just pushes them away. So, I really try to be very open to them. Like we 
can do a lot of different things. You don't, I know you're required to go to meetings, but why don't you 
find something else that you like to do. 
Ethan (42:18): 
Right. Okay. There's this question that I have that hasn't really come up before, but do you sort of help 
clients to think about their situation in different ways, you know, maybe to learn more about the science 
behind substance use disorder. I don't know if that's something that comes up or maybe that's something 
like the therapist might do. 
Ariel (42:57): 
15 
 
No. We have had like Addiction 101. We've done like in a group, where we show the effects on the brain. 
Usually, I do have a therapist help me. Yeah. Usually, I have a therapist help me do a group like that 
because I'm not very good with words, I think, sometimes in explaining details like that. And it does, it's 
always, it always goes good, because there's always one person in the group that's very like into that kind 
of thing. And they really enjoy knowing the science behind addiction. Yeah, we've done that.  
Ethan (43:35): 
So maybe a session or two?  
Ariel (43:39): 
Yeah, we've done some Addictions 101 and the brain, effects on the brain. We try to do little different 
things every now and then, because everybody has different learning styles, and everybody has different, 
you know, what they're interested in.  
Ethan (43:58): 
Yeah. Okay. Well, I wanted to, kind of getting toward the end, I wanted to talk about some challenges, 
you know, some rewarding aspects. You know, what are the, where do you see the profession going? 
Maybe we could start with just sort of talking about the pandemic a little bit, and how that's been a 
challenge. And so, what has been the impact for your work and on your clients? 
Ariel (44:38): 
Now my clients love it because they can just, yeah, they don't have to travel down to the office. It's 
convenient. They can be at work, and it's just. But the challenge I feel like is not really, I look for facial 
expressions and like their movement, anything, like I can see some things on video, but like I can tell when 
someone's high, for sure, face to face, but over video, they can kind of hide it. They can wear sunglasses. 
They can, you know, and it's just not as, I don't feel like it's as personal, and I don’t get those same vibes 
as if I was just sitting right in front of someone. You know what I mean? So that's been a really big 
challenge. I worry, like if I can't get ahold of them, because with this pandemic, you know, they get away 
with a lot more things. Like they're not going to jail as much for things. So it's been a challenge just 
worrying about like the overdoses have increased. So, it's really scary, you know. Thank God we haven't 
had anybody, any of our clients that I know of overdose, but it's out there. 
Ethan (45:56): 
But you had a drop off in cases a little bit, you know, people get just kind of. 
Ariel (46:04): 
Yes, I have a lot of people who've gone to treatment here recently, which is awesome because you know, 
the treatment centers there for a while weren't taking new people in and their capacity was lowered. So 
a lot of people I think, are getting back into treatment or kind of getting right back on the path. There was 
some slip ups, but I think people are starting to become normalizing this as much as they can.  
Ethan (46:35): 
What are some other? Well, just one more quick question about that. So you're checking in with people 
also by telephone? 
16 
 
Ariel (46:46): 
Some people, telephone, but most of them are on Zoom. Because we have to do Zoom for telehealth.  
Ethan (46:55): 
Okay. Okay. And that, well, I think Bobby had mentioned like he saw, like he saw his activity, his 
productivity pick up. But maybe some of the cases have gone down. 
Ariel (47:12): 
I actually, honestly, I actually got more cases when the pandemic started because we didn't have groups 
and stuff. And even now we can't do so many groups on Zoom as we did in, in the office. Like all the 
different group times we had it's, it's really changed here lately. So, I was meeting, and I still kind of am, 
meeting with a lot more than I would be throughout the week. 
Ethan (47:45): 
So what are some other challenges that you see in the profession or things, maybe things that kind of 
need to be ironed out in the profession?  
Ariel (48:07): 
Honestly, I don't know, for me, it was like more of a hands-on experience. Like the training was good, but 
it didn't really prepare me for what I was going to be doing. So, I think if they had more peers to just go 
and like shadow other peers at their job, almost like interns, you know, I kind of think if they had that for 
peer support, it would be really beneficial. Because for me personally, I can listen, and I can learn, and I 
can do all this great stuff at trainings, but it's not until I'm really put in front of a situation that I can know 
what to do. And I'm sure even if you job shadowed, it would still be hard. But I think just seeing someone 
else do it would really help.  
Ethan (48:55): 
I guess, sort of the thinking is, if they're in recovery, you know, they have that experience. They already 
have been in a treatment and recovery setting. 
Ariel (49:08): 
A lot of it does come natural, but I think the challenge is being at a work setting and going by all the ethics 
and all the certain things that I'm supposed to be doing, you know. It can kind of get confusing, but my 
commonsense kicks in like, well, I need to do this, but I don't know if this is exactly what they would want, 
the agency would want me to do. 
Ethan (49:32): 
Right. So, it is really learning how to work in a professional capacity? An internship could help with that. 
What about issues with burnout or, you know, people wanting to make more money? Is that an issue 
you’ve seen? 
Ariel (50:00): 
Yes, I struggle sometimes myself with like, you know, I'm like, man, I could be working here and get paid 
more. But then I go back and look at all the benefits of my job. It's not hard labor. It's, it's very, it is 
rewarding because I get to help people. And that's like my calling, and I love to do that. I find joy out of 
17 
 
that, and I wake up every day wanting, wanting to work, you know, or not minding it, even if I'm having a 
bad day.  
Ethan (50:31): 
So it’s really like, you're making a difference? 
Ariel (50:33): 
I like to be an impact in somebody's life. And if I can just do one, help one person out of a hundred people, 
like that's rewarding to me.  
Ethan (50:44): 
Yeah. You personally, you're, you're looking toward becoming a therapist. Do you want to talk a little bit 
about that? What your personal professional goals are? 
Ariel (50:59): 
Yeah. So, I'm getting my associate’s in arts and human services through BCTC, and then right now I plan 
to go to EKU to do my social work. Cause they have a social work program, that's really good, that’s what 
I’ve heard from friends. So that's, that's kinda my goal so far. 
Ethan (51:25): 
And does New Vista provide some support? 
Ariel (51:29): 
Yes, actually. And that's another thing too, with working here, it's got its benefits because they have some 
type of program if you, they’ll provide paying for six months, if you sign a contract saying you'll stay for 
six months providing services. So, they do that where they'll help pay for school. After 10 years, I think 
they'll pay off all your student loans and everything too, which I don't have any, because I've tried to make 
it my goal not to get into that debt. But I'm sure I will eventually. 
Ethan (52:06): 
Have you seen other peer support specialists make that transition from being a peer support specialist to 
being a therapist? 
Ariel (52:17): 
No, not that, but I have seen a peer support that I actually work with that just graduated from UK, and 
he's gotten another position here, but that's higher up. I don't know what it's called exactly. I just know 
like it's almost kind of an admissions type position, but yeah, I have seen like case managers go to school 
and become therapists working here. I haven't quite seen the peer support side. Because it's so new, and 
it takes so long to go to school. So, it's like, I haven't seen the whole process through, but I do have a 
friend, he's actually the director over at Step Works. Well, now he’s higher up. He's in recovery, and he, 
he went to school, and he now, he's high up in there, so. 
Ethan (53:11): 
Yeah, it seems like there would be other peer support specialists who would want to pursue that. I think 
probably, you'll probably be the example that many people follow. So how do you see the profession? I 
18 
 
mean, that's sort of maybe an example of how the profession will grow and change, people will be seeking 
opportunities and sort of moving up into new positions, but you know, the profession itself, you know, 
peer support specialists, how do you see that developing over the next few years? 
Ariel (54:02): 
I think we'll see a lot more peer supports at different places. Just because all the surveys and research 
they've done have shown that peer support does help and work. And it's a lot of wraparound services 
because, you know, I think, I think peer supports needed. I always think to myself, like I really wish, you 
know, there was peer support when I was at treatment, or things like that. But in a sense, it's always kind 
of been around, because a lot of the staff that works at treatment centers are all in recovery, but I think 
now it's just kind of been given a title and trainings and guidelines, which I think is awesome because we 
all need that. 
Ethan (54:46): 
Yeah. You think that, so you do think maybe the training will, there'll be more training opportunities, 
internships in the future. Is that something that they've talked about? 
Ariel (54:59): 
I know we've talked about doing more frequent, like peer support trainings. And I know peer support is 
growing because there's always a ton of people. Even when it was face to face, the rooms would be full, 
and people will be asking. And we're not the only ones in town that do it, you know, there's other places 
that do it. So, you know, it's, it's evolving. Everybody wants, everybody wants to do it that’s in recovery. 
It is hard finding jobs though, because it's very, there's not a whole lot still other than New Vista. There's 
not a lot of places still. 
Ethan (55:34): 
But is there that, you know, that CEU program that you had, does that exist for peer support specialist or 
is that? 
Ariel (55:42): 
What is it? 
Ethan (55:42): 
Somebody who wants to keep getting credit to keep their certification up? Is there a system for that? 
Ariel (55:51): 
Yes. There's a Tris system that we put all our CEUs in online. 
Ethan (55:56): 
But that's just for New Vista? 
Ariel (55:56): 
It's for the state. It's to show the state. Yeah. And we have to get six CEUS, just six hours every year, to 
keep up with it, or else it's not. 
19 
 
Ethan (56:17): 
To keep the certification? 
Ariel (56:17): 
Yeah. And it's called the Tris account. I'm pretty sure, don't quote me, I think therapists have to use the 
same account or somebody has to, maybe case managers or something. Cause I've seen something on 
there. 
Ethan (56:35): 
No, like what, like, what is an example of a CEU that you have done? 
Ariel (56:41): 
The trainings that I've been to, I make sure they have some type of printout of how many hours the 
training was. 
Ethan (56:47): 
That sounds like the one-day training. So those count, and how many credits are they? 
Ariel (56:54): 
I think they do credit by the hour. So if I'm there for like six, six hours or two hours, a lot of them are really 
short trainings, and you just put them in the system. 
Ethan (57:05): 
So that's usually what you do? 
Ariel (57:08): 
Usually, I have too many trainings. I have too many trainings because I like going to trainings. I like learning 
new things. I like meeting new people. And so I enjoy going to trainings. 
Ethan (57:21): 
Well, that's something that's never come up before. I didn't realize that. Maybe some people don't keep 
up with it. 
Ariel (57:31): 
Yes, that does happen. That does happen. Yeah. It happens a lot. 
Ethan (57:36): 
But that's, that's good. I didn't realize that. That's great. I think that's probably a good system. So you see, 
you know, when you've got all these people going through training, you do see jobs opening up for them? 
More and more jobs? 
Ariel (57:56): 
Yeah. I think it's in bigger, the bigger cities have a lot more job opportunities. And, you know, than the 
smaller towns. 
20 
 
Ethan (58:05): 
That's always like a concern that I have when I see all those people in training. 
Ariel (58:08): 
Yeah, like how's everyone going to get a job! And I think it's one of those things where it might not happen 
right away because I didn't get a peer support, I mean, I did my youth peer support and got my adult, but 
I didn't get an adult job adult peer support job till a couple years later. So I think it's, it's one of those 
things where it's always evolving. 
Ethan (58:28): 
And it could be that they already have a job like you were saying. 
Ariel (58:33): 
A lot of them that are in there already work, but they had to come to the training for their peer support 
certificate, so. 
Ethan (58:41): 
Well, that's pretty much all the questions that I was going to ask. Did you have anything to add? Maybe 
something I forgot. 
Ariel (58:52): 
Not that I can think of. I always, yeah, I'll think of something tonight when I'm laying in bed. Like, oh my 
gosh, I should have told him about this. 
Ethan (59:01): 
No, that's okay. No, I think that was great. I think we've really covered everything. So, thank you.