Teachers Offstage--The Occupational Folklore of Wisconsin Teachers: Archie Green Fellows 
Project, 2013-2014 
James Mathews interview, 2014-04-14 : interview conducted by Mark Wagler 
Interview ID: afc2013017_01765 
Date: April 14, 2014 
Duration: 01:04:30 
00:00:02  
April 24, 2014, Mark Wagler talking to Jim Mathews in Madison, Wisconsin. 
Born in Racine, Wisconsin in April, 1969. Ethnicity isn’t strongly important to him; his father 
was born in Germany; he was in the German Club and Jim’s grandmother spoke German, but 
Jim’s mother isn’t German so they didn’t speak German at home. Jim’s Bachelors is from 
University of Wisconsin, in Secondary Education with an emphasis on History. He had an 
undergraduate degree in History and a teaching license came with that as well, via the 
Department of Curriculum and Instruction. He has a Masters in Curriculum and Instruction, 
years after he had been teaching about 10-12 years. Then continued to teach and went back 
to school part-time to work toward his Ph.D. Currently he has a Ph.D. in Digital Media which 
came out of Dept. of Curriculum and Instruction.  
Jim got his first teaching job in the Middleton-Cross Plains school district in 1993. It was the 
first year of an alternative high school for 11th and 12th graders, called Middleton Alternative 
Senior High School; some people know it as MASH. He has been lucky, because he has stayed 
in Middleton-Cross Plains for his entire teaching career, roughly 20 years. Taught at MASH for 
18 years, then a group decided they wanted to start a new school, and this is now the second 
year of that new school, which is now Clark Street Community School, 9th-12th grade high 
school, also an alternative high school in that it looks very different from the traditional high 
school in Middleton-Cross Plains. Jim mostly taught social studies, anything from history to 
sociology to local culture.  
He also works with students on media production—film studies, documentary production, 
photography, etc. Usually that work has been in the service of social studies. He was 
influenced to become a teacher because he didn’t have a good experience himself—although 
he had a great experience in elementary and middle school but high school wasn’t great. He 
was a gym rat growing up and had great experiences with adult mentors in spaces outside 
school, like community centers and scouting. That influenced him to be interested in 
alternative education. 
00:05:49 
It is interesting to think of what might be a typical day; more appropriate might 
be what patterns does Jim observe in his work. He is in a unique position as a part-time 
person, and also part of his day is school planning—not quite administrative, but getting 
involved in curriculum development and long-term planning; he is a classroom teacher as well. 
His school looks different from a typical high school. So, often Jim’s day may start with a staff 
meeting; they have a relatively small staff and lots of opportunities for them to be involved in 
making decisions; many of the morning meetings are about those decisions: curriculum 
planning, policy planning, etc. He will also have small one-on-one interactions with students, 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
1
in the hallways, grabbing them between classes, an informal system of working with students 
as a mentor. Other times he schedules longer meetings with them during the day. He also 
teaches classes, so part of his day is in the classroom.  
 
His classes are bloc classes so he is with students for about an hour and fifty minutes, two or 
three times a week depending on the week. Also has leadership committee meetings; a small 
group of administrators and teachers, who help make decisions about what initiatives are 
important. He also has a number of informal conversations with other teachers throughout 
the day, in the hall or at lunchtime. 
 
00:09:48  
The way Jim typically starts a course (and this is typical in his school) is: 
students come in, and they start in a circle. For the most part, it is a check in, and then they 
launch into class activities. The circle allows Jim to know how students are doing, if they are 
struggling with material, and lets Jim explain what the agenda is for the day. Most of Jim’s 
classes (again, typical of the school) tend not to be Jim lecturing in front of the class, although 
that happens on occasion if he is trying to deliver ideas to get students to frame their own 
work in some way. Jim’s classes are production oriented, so students are working on projects, 
particularly in media studies. Much of the time for students then is working individually or in 
small teams on projects. Jim weaves throughout different groups or with individuals to check 
on how they are doing or if they have questions.  
 
Throughout the term, there are cycles of students proposing ideas, working on projects, 
getting feedback from Jim and peers, and then making changes based on feedback, what Jim 
refers to as a cycle of iterative design. They are mostly moving toward a final product—a 
media product or event planning of some sort. Jim has had a lot of autonomy in his own 
classroom determining what and how he teaches. So for example, if students need certain 
skills to go out into the work force; or they need requirements to graduate; or need to 
develop stronger writing or math skills; these are all variables that need to be included in the 
mix. Another variable is what is Jim interested in teaching and what are his capacities, based 
on his content knowledge or his network—who he can bring in to co-teach with. Another 
variable would be his students, what interests them and what they want to study, as well as 
how they want to study.  
 
What gets taught might also emerge from the class’s experiences; you might go in thinking 
you want to study water quality in the conservancy, then end up meeting some birders, so 
being immersed in that place affects what is studied. Being aware of what students are 
interested in helps Jim know what should be taught. 
 
00:14:50  
In the short term, Jim’s deepest hope for his students is that they come into a 
school where they feel safe—more than feeling welcome, they should feel they are part of the 
fabric of the school. He would like them to see themselves as having agency and capacity for 
setting and meeting their own vision for their future selves. So they feel they have some 
control over becoming a better person, reaching the goals that they set for themselves. He 
wants to have an environment where students can push themselves but also laugh and have 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
2
joy. To connect his students to the world outside of school, Jim tries to learn more about their 
interests outside of school and their needs and passions are, then he tries to figure out ways 
to integrate that into the curriculum. So if a student is very interested in fishing, or has family 
involved in farming, he recognizes their expertise in that area.  
 
Often school doesn’t respond to kids’ lives outside of school, so Jim ties to recognize their lives 
outside of school, bring it in, and amplify it in school. Another way is to take a curriculum and 
ask ‘what are the local things that can be found for this curriculum?’ So, it’s not just reading a 
book, or bringing in experts to talk about things, but kids are going out into the community to 
do original research projects. From that, over time, it becomes easier to do that kind of work 
because you build up a network, practices, expectations. For Jim it’s important because it’s a 
way to move from abstract ideas to concrete examples that make sense. 
 
00:19:05  
Historically, Jim used to run a school-based studio production outfit; it wasn’t 
really a company but they did raise money. Students studied video production and visual 
communication, such as page layout, then would connect with local non-profits or businesses 
to make media products for them. For example, they worked with the local conservancy to 
make a video about how people could use the conservancy. Made a video with the Pleasant 
Company who make dolls. That way they could be paid to made the product or have grant 
support; it taught professional practices.  
 
Another example is Jim’s work with local foodways, looking at local food systems. Students 
picked topics based on brainstorming. Then looked at local places that might help students 
understand concepts. So, a student who wants to study community gardens can look for local 
community gardens and make contacts there. A student interested in smaller, family-owned 
dairy farms can read about it, but also go out and ask people about their experiences, so that 
when they are reading they can dig deeper because they have seen this thing and interacted 
with it in some other way.  
 
When Jim works with students, he wants them to do the same kind of work they would do in 
the real world. They should do science the way scientists do, not just read about it in a book. 
They should do authentic work, and engage in actual practices that would be used in the real 
world, and deal with real world audiences. For example, students learning about exhibit 
design; they wouldn’t just be doing it for the school but actually be working with a local 
museum to create an exhibit and learning about that profession. 
 
00:24:38  
One reason Jim has been working with the same group of people in the same 
district for 20 years is because the culture they have cultivated is one of collaboration. Similar 
to students, it is important to create an environment where teachers feel safe, experimenting, 
trying out ideas, talking to people about it. In Jim’s work, collaboration has been really 
important. They do try to have teachers collaborating in the same classrooms at the same 
time, but one of the challenges in their school structure is that isn’t always possible.  
 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
3
One of the greatest ways to collaborate is to team teach and co-design curriculum. One step 
down from that is to co-design curriculum, but teachers not necessarily co-teaching. By a step 
down, Jim means not as rich an experience. Another step down is having teachers give 
feedback on something Jim has already designed. That is curriculum collaboration; there is a 
whole other kind, which is collaborating on students, talking about the needs of particular 
students, and discussing problem-solving. One of the problems of teaching is that it is very 
easy for a teacher to get isolated in their own classroom; some people select to do that. If that 
culture becomes the norm, it can actually hurt the community and richness of experience, as 
opposed to a model where they agree they have shared responsibility for the successes and 
challenges we are facing so we must work together. Jim feels lucky because his group has that 
disposition and feels they need to work together to be healthy and successful.  
 
Jim as an individual teacher has been strongly supported to teach outside the box, to 
experiment with things, from the administration and from other teachers. Jim’s hope, actually, 
is that if he makes a choice to teach outside the norm, someone would challenge him so that 
they could assess the impact it might have on the rest of the school, or whatever the issues 
might be. The difference is that there is a conversation rather than being told point-blank “you 
can’t do this.” If you do go outside the norms, you have a responsibility to loop back in and 
have a conversation with the rest of the team. 
 
00:30:35  
Jim does have partners outside the school if there is a longer-term trajectory to 
make that happen. When adults from the community come in, there still can be a sort of 
perception that they are outsiders, so those relationships have to be nurtured. When Jim 
thinks of successful relationships with a community member, it is because that person knows 
the kids really well and isn’t holding their tongue and waiting for Jim to give direction, but are 
actually part of the mix. Part of it might be their own comfort level, but also it is that you 
develop relationships over time. Also important to have clear communication about 
expectations, and to have community partners have meaningful work, so not just coming in to 
give a talk, or work with one student to do something. 
 
00:33:00  
Some of the stories Jim and his colleagues tell each other are the classics, the 
legends. Very often they are student oriented. For example, something happens on a 
particular day and it reminds you of a past event. The stories are very humor-driven, trying to 
lighten the load. While the stories don’t always make the student look good, they aren’t 
meant to harm the student. Some of the stories have a long history because some of the staff 
have been around for a long time. And then for new staff, you tell those old stories to help 
inculcate them.  
 
At Jim’s school, they try to bring out the stories, so they will have staff meetings where they 
will ask people to share something because it’s a good way to highlight and share challenges 
and successes. They try to get each other to tell stories about successes because it’s very easy 
to fall into patterns of telling about things that didn’t work, things not going well, because 
those things stress us out. Or might tell stories about anxieties, so that if struggling to convey 
a concept or something, Jim might tell a colleague to help explain his perspective on 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
4
something. Jim doesn’t want to go into a meeting or space with other staff if all the time is 
spent talking about students, particularly if it’s negative stuff; it’s healthier to share stories of 
their lives with each other, to build relationships and understand the flow of people’s lives 
outside of school.  
 
One way this happens is through co-planning, as they look for resources to help them with 
curriculum; they share their personal networks. If Jim is developing a course on local 
nonprofits, because students might want to do service learning, as he explains that course to 
the team of teachers, they reveal what their networks are and who they know. There are also 
Monday morning water cooler conversations about their weekends. Jim feels that in schools in 
general, the flow of the day doesn’t allow for that kind of conversation very often because of 
the speed of things in schools. 
 
00:38:48  
Outside of school, Jim tells worst-case scenario stories to family and friends: “I 
can’t believe what happened…” Many of Jim’s stories tend to be about students doing 
community work, in part because he feels lucky to be involved in this since it isn’t always 
something he has expertise in. He loves community-based education because he is learning 
alongside students, as opposed to a traditional classroom where he is coming across as the 
expert. Community-based education is about having lines of inquiry that he doesn’t have the 
answers to. So his stories won’t be about his teaching but about something he encountered 
while he was out in the community with his students.  
 
Another type of story he might tell to people interested in education would be about the kinds 
of things they do at their school. At Jim’s school, he feels treated like a professional, rather 
than being treated as a teacher or instructor who has other people making decisions for him 
and telling him what to do. He feels that as a professional, his time, interests and perspectives 
are not only considered but sought out. He feels that at his school they work as a team, and 
trust each other to be doing what they think is in the best interest of students, that they care 
about the outcomes. In terms of their mission, Jim thinks there is definitely common ground, 
but like any healthy community, there are different perspectives and strategies. Something 
they have really worked on is how do they encourage conversations about those different 
perspectives. 
 
00:43:45  
Some things are done intentionally to build community. In terms of staff 
development, they try to strike a balance between what are someone’s personal interests vs. 
what are common needs for the whole school. In many schools, teachers don’t have that 
much autonomy in terms of what their training will look like, during school hours. You have 
more control outside of school. The way Jim’s school runs its staff meetings, a democratic 
model, the way they make decisions is unique. All the teachers there feel they have a very 
strong voice in what happens in the school. They are trying to broaden that to include parents 
and community members, but Jim thinks even having it at the teacher level is unique. Also, in 
terms of professional development, the teachers cluster informally around ideas and then 
work together on those ideas. They might read books together, go to conferences, have 
informal conversations around those topics. 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
5
 
00:46:39 
Jim thinks there are definitely stereotypes of teachers. He is most familiar with 
the stereotypes portrayed in mainstream media; currently in Wisconsin, we are talking about 
Act 10 and budget debates and contracts and such; one of the prominent stereotypes is that 
teachers don’t work hard and take advantage of state resources to the detriment of other 
people. People have all gone to school or had interaction with formal school settings so they 
think they know what it’s all about. They generalize those experiences; some people don’t 
want to look at the issues in a complex way.  
 
Like any profession, Jim could look at some teachers and think they are not representing the 
profession well, but that is not at all the majority. People work hard, care about the quality of 
their work, care for their students. Jim thinks he works with really creative teachers who put in 
many, many more hours than the general public would realize. The general public doesn’t 
know how stressful it can be to work with kids, even when things are going really well; by the 
end of the school day you can feel really exhausted, but then you have to go home and do 
additional work on evenings and weekends at the cost of personal commitments. So the 
stereotypes are very uninformed.  
 
Stereotypes are also often linked to other rhetoric, around taxation and other things, so those 
stereotypes get abused to forward other ideologies. The profession of teaching has changed in 
a couple of ways. In terms of professional development, there has been a trend in letting 
teachers have more autonomy, like having professional learning communities getting together 
to work on things, vs. professional development being delivered from a higher authority 
making decisions about what it looks like. The movement toward higher-stakes testing has 
changed the profession. In current debates in Wisconsin, teachers’ morale has greatly 
decreased. Teachers don’t feel valued by the community; that has been damaged by the 
changes to contracts and teacher contributions to retirement funds. 
 
 The current conversations among teachers about where they want to be ten years from now 
are definitely a change; those conversations didn’t exist ten years ago. Teachers that have 
been teaching for a long time are now asking if this is what they want to do any more. It’s 
tragic; people with a lot of experience are leaving the profession and much younger people 
without experience are entering; Jim thinks there will be a long term impact on the quality of 
education and the services provided in schools. One of the key things in the profession is the 
movement from being a beginning teacher to being an expert; you need mentors for that, you 
need to have someone around who can champion things. Young people don’t have the 
expertise, political standing or experience to have some of those fights. 
 
00:52:45  
There has been a move toward standardization in other professions as well; 
that you can produce workbooks and lay them down and the kids can do them. Jim wouldn’t 
call that teaching. Jim speculates that people don’t have a nuanced understanding of what 
good teaching and learning really looks like, and we are limited by not having that so we settle 
for something less. Jim thinks he can recognize good learning more than he can good teaching. 
He could teach something, and some kids could learn from him but others wouldn’t.  
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
6
 
From the student perspective, Jim looks to see if there is engagement and if the students are 
learning something. He knows we can create environments that make for good learning, and 
he knows there is a connection between teaching and learning, but he likes to look at students 
and see if they are engaged in doing something, not to get a grade but because they are 
immersed in it. There is a joy and playfulness in it. It’s challenging; it’s not easy to do and 
students and teachers have to stick to it to solve a complex problem. There is a sense of risk 
taking, pushing outside your comfort zone. Students are sticking around afterward, talking 
about their work outside the classroom. There is much more of a buzz, there is an aliveness.  
 
Jim can think of a number of examples of himself as a learner who wanted to increase his 
capacities to teach. For example, if Jim has a student who comes in who has an Individual 
Education Plan, an autistic student, and Jim doesn’t have a good understanding of that, he will 
work to learn to support that student. In a longer trajectory, he might become interested in a 
concept, such as democratic education and so he sets out a longer trajectory of what he would 
like his practice to be in a year or three years and what will it take in order to get there—
reading books, conferences, whatever he needs to get there.  
 
He likes to think of trajectories of one year, three years, five years because we sometimes put 
too much pressure on learning something too quickly or learning too many things too quickly. 
Mindfulness is another concept Jim and his school have been involved in; getting kids to be 
more involved in making decisions about how the school is run. Place-based education has 
been a longer-term trajectory because Jim is deeply interested in it. 
 
00:59:05  
When people outside Jim’s school have asked him to work with them, often it 
has been around place-based learning and they want him to show them how to build the 
capacity to use the local community and get students involved in studying ecosystems and 
issues in their own communities. There are a lot of institutional constraints and practice 
issues. People also ask him to work with them on design-based education, the idea of getting 
young people to design things as a way to understand them. Science is much better at that. 
Robotics, building bridges, doing that in labs for students to see concepts. People ask him to 
do design around digital media. He also works with mobile learning, particularly around 
mobile-based stories and games.  
 
A new thing emerging, based on Jim’s experience with Clark Street School, is student-centered 
learning and individualized learning based on their own trajectories, so people ask him ‘how 
do you develop systems and tools that support students along those trajectories.’ Because it’s 
different from what education looks like for most kids, where teachers carry the cognitive load 
and students are passive riders on that train or roller coaster; at Clark Street they are 
interested in asking how to get students to take on more of that cognitive load themselves, 
and what challenges and opportunities arise with that.  
 
Based on Jim’s work as a researcher and as a teacher in the classroom, he brings a unique 
perspective to that. Jim thinks we are in exciting times for education—a move toward 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
7
individualized learning, the explosion of the web, lots of resources in the community for young 
people to grab onto—lots of rhetoric right now about how challenged schools are going to be 
because they are falling behind the curve of other opportunities for students and families to 
engage in more formal educational settings. Jim doesn’t agree with that; he thinks schools are 
more essential now because all those opportunities sort of emphasize all the divisions that we 
have. Kids from involved families with resources can more easily get involved in this new 
landscape than families who don’t have time and resources. So it’s really important for schools 
to meet those needs and ideals. Like any epic adventure, when you look at educational 
reform, there is such a gravitational pull back to the way things used to be; we have to stay 
involved in that fight and involve people from outside education as well.  
 
For Jim, teaching is very positive; he wouldn’t have done it for 20 years if not. 
 
01:04:30  
End of interview. 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
8