Lou Vest Clip 1 / recording part 1 
 
[4:30]  So I put in an application and, and as I got to know some of the pilots, I got 
some support. I got voted in in 1986. They asked me to join the Pilots Association. 
And I was a very happy camper. I guess I can put it on here. In the maritime 
industry, being a pilot is like, like being invited to be in the major leagues. If you’re a 
minor league player and you get to be a pilot, that’s the big leagues, and it’s like 
being invited to play for the – you know, for the St. Louis Cardinals, or something 
like that. And I was very pleased. For several reasons. Houston is a very good pilot 
association. And I was always impressed by the professionalism of the, of the pilots 
there. And it’s a very busy port, and I frankly liked the pilots I knew from, from 
Houston.  
 
[5:24] So I was very pleased. I found out that I’d gotten in. I’d taken a barge down to 
Entafagasta, Chile. A big barge of grain. We’d traveled all the way down, down to 
Chile, and we offloaded the grain, and I was about ready to leave, and I called my 
wife from, from – they had a big telephone exchange downtown. You had to walk 
downtown. And so I called my wife, and she said, “Well, are you sitting down?” And I 
said, “Well, yeah, I am.” 
 
She said, “Well, I found out yesterday, you got in the Pilots Association.” And I was 
so happy. I thought, you know, I’d just won the lottery. And all the way home, all the 
way back to the boat – I had to walk, you know, a couple miles back to the boat, and I 
thought, “My God. I’m going to get run over by a dump truck or something. 
[laughing] I’ve used up all the luck I’ve had in the world. And one of these damn 
dump trucks is going to run me over here.” I was really careful walking back to the, 
back to the boat. And it really has been – it’s been a good career. I’ve enjoyed it. I’ve 
been here since ’86. It’s 2011 now, and I’ve never regretted it. It’s, it’s been a good 
association. And I like the Pilots Association very much. 
 
Lou Vest / Clip 2 / recording Part II 
 
[40:36] Oh. It was my early days when I was a pilot. You were asking about going to 
sea earlier, and the romance of going to sea versus the romance of being in a port. 
Did I miss that, or – I think you can substitute. It’s a different sort of thing altogether. 
And I had a job where I finished up about three in the morning, and I had to walk 
about a mile to get to my car, down in the docks. And it was, like I said, three in the 
morning. It was absolutely calm. There was a light rain falling. And the reflections of 
light in the water, the raindrops hitting the water, with the concentric splashes, and 
I’m walking down there, and there’s all these ships, just ship after ship, and they’re 
registered in Bombay and Bahamas and Cypress and Vanuatu and they all have 
exotic names of one kind or another, and I thought, “Wow, you know, I could write a 
poem about this. I could use the names of these – exotic names of the ships. I even 
thought about writing down the names of the ships that day, but then I thought, “Ah, 
you could pick any day, you know, and it was really, it was really kind of a moving 
experience. There I am with the romance of going to sea and the romance – it was 
like Conrad, Kipling, you know, and I really enjoyed the moment. And that was 
before I started taking photos, but I – I had been a photographer before. Amateur. 
You know, when I was real young, and I started thinking then about starting to carry 
a camera with me again. And … to capture that moment. It was really a –  
 
[42:17]  
 
 
Lou Vest Clip 3a / Recording Part III 
 
[Fantastic] 
 
[18:37] So I usually start off with this photo, and it’s a photo of the America flag in 
sort of an arch over a container ship in the background. And I took it when I was 
getting off a ship one night. I saw that and I said, “Yeah, that might be a nice photo,” 
and I didn’t really plan on it. I took about ten photos but this particular one with the 
arch over the top. And then a couple weeks later they had some show on television 
called “America’s Port,” and it was all about Los Angeles. And I thought, what a 
bunch of bullshit. They don’t do even a third as many ships as Houston does, you 
know. And Los Angeles is a Hollywood city. I mean here is a nice working class city, 
the Port is central to our economy. Houston’s America’s port. 
 
So that’s what I start my thing with, with the American flag and the ship and the 
container docks. Houston’s America’s port. And I introduce people to the idea that 
Houston is the biggest port in the country. You know, I was talking to a captain of 
the port at a function for the Maritime Museum. We, we got to talking about this, 
about Houston, how much traffic they do, and he said, “Well, I was at a meeting last 
month, and we had a consultant come in to talk to us about different ports and how 
we manage traffic and some of the problems we’re having, and they – and the 
consultant had this big dry erase board, and he starts writing up there, puts a big 
circle, and he says, “Okay, this is Houston, we’re going to put this off here by itself 
for a while, and then we’re going to talk about all these other ports.” And he writes 
down New York, New Orleans, Los Angeles. And the guy from Los Angeles, he goes, 
“Well, how come Houston’s separate?” And he said, “Well, it’s just a different case 
altogether.” And he starts to – “No, really. What’s so special about Houston?” And e 
said, “Well, how many ships do you do a day over there in Los Angeles?” He said, 
“Well, fifteen, twenty.” He said, “They’re doing seventy ships a day over here.” And 
he goes, “Really?” “Yeah.” He says, “A different case, altogether.” 
 
[20:39]  
 
[21:10] The other question I get is, “How do you all get on and off them ships?” so 
this picture is how we get on and off the ships, with the ladder dangling down there. 
This big old hull, and then they got the gangway, so the next few pictures are about 
getting on and off ships. People are always curious about that for some reason. 
 
There’s a guy jumping off on to the pilot boat off the gangway. I have to say, and I 
want to say this for public record, pilot boat drivers are some of the best boat 
drivers in the world. You won’t find better ship handlers, better boat handlers 
anywhere. I’m talking about tugboat guys, I’m talking about anybody, even pilots – 
than the pilot boat operators. They’re very, very good. And you can see in this 
picture, there’s rough sea – and they have to bring the pilot boat in next to this 
ladder, and hold it there safely while the guy gets on and off. And, you know, they’ve 
done it so many times. We do seventeen thousand, eighteen thousand jobs a year, 
and these guys are out there bringing these little boats out alongside these ships 
seventeen, eighteen thousand times a year, and I’ve seen them just come up just as 
smooth as you could imagine and put the ladder right next – within six inches of that 
gangway there, and you just step across, and they treat it like, “This is what I do 
every day.” And they’re good. They’re very good. And they should get a lot more 
credit that they do. 
 
 
[You’ve got very high water …] 
 
Oh, this is out in the Gulf of Mexico 
 
 
[… Galveston Island] 
 
Oh, we take ships – we go out past the jetties at Galveston; we take ships four or five 
miles past there. And sometimes we board even further – if they’re real deep draft 
we have to go out pretty far, maybe as much as seven or eight miles. I haven’t 
measured it. 
 
And that’s that. 
 
Lou Vest Clip 3b / recording part III 
 
This is a picture that I think is – how do I want to say it? It’s a metaphor for being a 
pilot, you know. It’s in the middle of the night, and this guy’s probably just been 
woken up about ten minutes before, and he climbs up the ladder, and you can see 
this stairway going way up there towards the ship, and it’s dark at the top. You don’t 
know what’s up there. And here’s this guy. He probably got up there and they said, 
“Okay, you’ve got your ship coming up and you’re going to oil tank in six.” And he 
goes, “Uh, Port Side two or starboard side two?” And they say, “Starboard side two.” 
And he says, “Okay.” And he goes up there, you know. He doesn’t know what kind of 
crew is up there. He doesn’t know if, if the ship is all in one piece, or not. If the 
engine works right. Is it going to steer well or not. You know, he just goes up there 
into the darkness and that’s, that’s a very good metaphor for a pilot’s life. In fact, I’ll 
probably put that in the exhibition. 
 
 
Lou Vest Clip 4 / recording part IV 
 
[8:05] Now this series I call industrial landscapes. And, and the idea for this series of 
photos was that it’s an industrial area, but it’s not necessarily ugly. I don’t think. You 
know, I always thought I was kind of crazy, because when I was a kid, I remember 
outside the small town where my grandfather had a ranch, they built a power 
station, and you could see that, that power station, you know – what do you call it – 
a power generating plant. And you could see it for miles across the planes in south 
Texas. And it always looked like a fairy castle to me, with all the lights and the 
catwalks and the towers, and I, I thought, that’s, that’s kind of cool, you know, and 
when I grew up, I still had that in my mind. 
 
And of course, the Houston Ship Channel, that’s all it is – towers and lights and – I 
had two nephews from Colombia, and they came up, and they were, they were from 
a small town in Colombia, and they came up, and they were – we picked them up at 
the airport. And they were like eight or ten years old, and we’re driving over the 
Beltway 8 bridge, and they’re standing up in the car going, “Wow, look at all the 
Christmas lights.” You know, and it wasn’t. It was just the Port of Houston. The 
petrochemical complex. But they thought it was beautiful. They thought it was like a 
crystal palace or something. 
 
So to look at it from – with those eyes is, is different. So I’m not going to be all 
Polyanna-ish about it. I mean there’s some serious things they do they should 
probably correct, but they try. 
 
And my experience has been that nobody pollutes deliberately, on the Ship Channel, 
that I know of, you know. People make a real effort to keep things clean. When I first 
started working, as a young man, I think the first port I went to – was – where was it 
– Norfolk, maybe. In the Navy, as a midshipman, in the Navy. And it was horrible. I 
mean the, the banks of it were like black Crisco, with, with embedded eggshells and 
tires, and, and everything else. And you don’t see that anymore. I mean, there’s 
definitely a high tide line and a low tide line, but I think that’s as much algae as 
anything else. It’s not – you don’t see stuff in the water.  
 
Now, you will see stuff after a heavy rain. But that’s stuff that washes down from 
Houston. When, when you see – we see islands of trash wash down the Channel 
from Houston, and it’s, it’s plastic water bottles, and tennis balls, and abandoned 
tennis shoes and tires. And disposable lighters and – I mean, especially Styrofoam 
cups. I mean acres and acres of Styrofoam cups and stuff. And you see, all that stuff 
washes down, but that’s not thrown overboard by sailors. I’m sure that sailors are 
not a hundred percent innocent of this, but for the most part, they, they put their 
trash away. They try not to spill oil. They’re, they’re very severe penalties for it. You 
can go to jail for spilling oil. And – so, anyway, this is my industrial landscapes. 
 
[11:21] And these were all taken in, in periods either before or after the fog, and 
there’s a lot of moisture in the air, so anything that gives off heat’s going to put off a 
lot of vapors, so it makes them more dramatic than they are normally. 
 
That’s the turning basin, at the end of the channel. Now, that’s one of those pictures 
where the sky is so beautiful you can put any damn thing in front of it that makes it 
look good, you know, so – people say, “Oh, wow, what a beautiful picture of the 
Port!” But it’s not. It’s a beautiful picture of a cloud, and the port just happens to be 
there. You could take a picture of a rusty Coca Cola can, and it would look really 
great. Everybody would say, “What a beautiful picture of a rusty Coca Cola can!” But 
it’s not. It’s the sky that makes it. 
 
Same thing. Beautiful cl – beautiful sky. 
 
Petrochemical complex – dwarfed by this beautiful cloud in the morning. And 
there’s a black and white of the new docks up at, at Bayport. That’s coming down 
from Peggy’s Lake, looking at Exxon. That’s the biggest refinery – I think it might be 
the biggest refinery in the United States. I’m not sure. Maybe Baton Rouge. But 
Exxon is big. 
 
[12:47] It got built up during World War II. Another refinery. Same thing. Those are 
 
 
 
LOU VEST clip 5 / recording PART IV / 
 
28:36] The car carrier. 
 
 
[That’s an amazing thing – ] 
 
They’re really ugly, aren’t they? 
 
 
[Yeah. It looks completely unsustainable as any kind of structure] 
 
It does. It does. They’re just unbelievable. 
 
That’s – you know, when we were talking about the Cajun Radar. That’s it? 
 
 
[search light; that’s a great shot too] 
 
This one? 
 
 
[xxxxx] 
 
Well, there’s a story behind this one. Do you know anything about Greek culture or 
anything? 
 
 
[Well, I know – it reminds me of Turkish coffee, which I assume is the same in 
Greece, with all the grounds at the bottom] 
 
Right, right. And so there’s a thing with, with Greek coffee. If you’re on a Greek ship, 
it’s Greek coffee. If you’re on a Turkish ship, it’s Turkish coffee. It’s the same stuff. 
But if you take the cup after you finished it and turn it upside down in the saucer, 
you, you heard about that –  
 
 
[to read the grounds, I mean, to] 
 
no, you take it up and you read the side of the – you know. But it always looks like – 
what does that look like? It looks like a ship that’s sinking and burning, right? 
 
 
[laughter] 
 
It does. I mean, it always looks like that. So every time I get in a Greek ship, I would, I 
would take that and turn it over to the captain and he’d go – wuh. [laughs] You 
know, they’d look – you know, and so they’d say, “Pilot, you know, you know how to 
read that?” And I’d say, “Well, a little bit, you know.” I’d turn it over, and I’d say, 
“That’s not good.” And he says, “Well, what do you see.” I say, “Well, a ship that’s 
sinking and burning. It’s probably not your ship, Captain. It’s probably some ship I’m 
on, I guess.” You know. [laughing]. And then – so, I don’t know – I stopped doing 
that. I – you know. It might be some guy get really suspicious. But that’s what it 
looks like. it looks like a ship on fire, doesn’t it? 
 
 
[It does – that’s a fantastic story….] 
 
[30:20] Anyway. That’s some weather. Big old thundercloud out there.  
 
 
[sure ….] 
 
 
 
 
Lou Vest / Clip 6, recording part IV 
 
[32:41] Yeah, we could do it later. 
 
 
[Might as well use the card up [laughing]] 
 
You know, I don’t have anything really prepared to say. It’s just the – I think Port of 
Houston’s a great place. It’s been a very exciting place to work – in the best sense, 
you know. Not that somebody-screwed-up sort of exciting, but – and it has been 
very good to me. And I, I think what’s interesting is I’ve been impressed by the 
organic nature of it. How it all works together. All these independent people and 
agencies – the steam ship agents, and the terminals. There must be 200 different 
docks, and a couple hundred steam ships agents, and the Coast Guard, and the Pilots, 
and the linemen, and the tugboats. And somehow it all comes together to make a big, 
organic entity. And – like that ship that – that had that captain and the crew that 
were smiling. Basically, Houston is like that. I mean, there are days when it doesn’t 
function so well, and people get kind of crabby, but thus far it’s a well-run, well 
organized, happy thing that’s trying to do the right – the right thing for the city and 
the port. And I think they deserve recognition: the people who go out to these 
meetings, and talk about safety, and how to do things better, and how to clean up, 
and how to prevent accidents. You know, they, they really seriously try – and the 
thing organically works very well.  
 
[34:12] I mean, I went to a meeting a few years ago, when we were talking about 
putting the computer program out and making it available. And there was a banker. 
And he was on the board of directors for one of these things. And he was sort of 
there, but an outsider. And after the meeting he came up to me and said, “So, the 
way I understand it, if this program is successful, all these chemical ships will know 
what docks they’re going to a little bit better, and it will be a lot more efficient for 
the chemical ships.  
 
And I said, “Yeah, it will be. Because they spend a lot of time going all the way out to 
sea, coming back to the next dock, that might be only a few hundred yards away. You 
know, but they made a journey of twenty, thirty miles, because they didn’t know 
when that berth was going to be open, and all this.”  
 
And he said, “So, isn’t that good for the pilots? Don’t you make more money that 
way?” And I said, “Yeah, I guess so.” 
 
He says, “So, so what’s your interest? Why would you want to make it more 
efficient?” And I – well, I mean that’s just what we do. I mean it’s – it would be sort of 
bad form not to. But, besides that, I mean anything that’s good for the port, 
ultimately is good for us. And so, so we actually try to –  
 
[35:17] He shook his head and he said, “Well, okay,” and walked away. And, and you 
could see the wheels turning. But it, it’s true. I mean we really do try to make things 
better for everybody. And I think that’s true of the other parties, for the most part, in 
the port of Houston. That’s what I’d like to finish by saying. In this day and age. 
 
[That’s a fantastic observation.