Back of House: Kitchen Workers in Central Ohio
Archie Green Fellows Project, 2017 
Occupational Folklife Project || American Folklife Center 
Interviewee: Jacob Warren Reece Holler (Jake) [Kitchen Worker/Bagel Maker/Artist] 
Interviewer: Jess Lamar Reece Holler 
Date of Interview: Sunday, August 6th, 2017 
Location: Old North, Columbus, Ohio 
SOUND QUALITY NOTE: The interviewer and interviewee’s dogs, Gertie and Isaly, are present during 
the interview; and the recording is paused several times as Jake’s roommates/houseguests arrive home.
INTERVIEW NOTE: The interviewer and interviewee are siblings; as such, they share signiﬁcant 
biographical context; eﬀorts have been made to clarify contexts as if they were being shared with someone less 
intimate with Jake’s family and life history and trajectory.
Interview Index 
00:00:00 -- Introductory Slate // Interview Lede 
00:01:20 -- Early Life & Childhood: Westerville, Ohio // Early Family Foodways + Food 
Exposures 
●
Born outside of Westerville, Ohio, in 1990
●
Growing up on a ﬂag-lot on 5-acres in an 1800’s house
●
Family foodways: family garden; “all-American foods”; eating out occasionally
●
00:04:18 -- discussion of father being a picky eater; discussion of speciﬁc childhood dishes: 
“very bad vegetables out of cans … fruit cups, that were in simple syrup … Pillsbury 
cinnamon orange-frosting cinnamon rolls; those were a big one!”; some homemade blueberry 
muﬃns
●
00:05:23 -- learning to prepare food: “a little late”; interest in making food came in college; 
inﬂuence of his mother’s development of food allergies -- “I was introduced to diﬀerent 
types of food and diﬀerent types of cooking probably in high school; but college was when I 
started cooking for myself.”
●
00:06:28 -- Connections between food and health; “never thought about it” until a traumatic 
event happened; began to worry about death, and subsequently became interested in cooking 
for himself, alongside “farming, and learning about the food system … you know: taking that 
back for myself, from the hands of large distributors”
●
Inﬂuence of growing up in the country, “having a relationship with nature in a certain type of 
way”; interest in being outdoors and “using your hands, creating a new thing each thing”
●
00:09:00 -- Early impressions of kitchen work; no early awareness -- “I was really so 
disconnected, with work, in general; all that I knew was that my dad would come home from 
work at night … but I didn’t think about what he had to do at work. I just remember he 
wouldn’t be there ‘til a certain time … and then he’d come home.” Discussion of inﬂuence of 
his mom’s being a stay-at-home mom.
00:10:20 -- First Work in the Food Service Industry: Donato’s Pizza & City Barbeque 
●
Discussion of early food industry jobs, before Jake began to think of kitchen work as a 
career; worked at Donato’s at sixteen, but was too young to use a knife; and then worked at a 
City Barbeque (Gahanna) that his cousin managed
●
00:11:40 -- High school job at Donato’s [pizza]; details of job culture -- “we just folded boxes, 
and took orders for the drive-through, on the phone”
●
00:12:00 -- City Barbeque job: started out as a dishwasher, and then expressed interest in 
working on the line cutting meat; “worked my way up into a semi-prestigious position … for 
City Barbeque. I wasn’t pit-master or anything.” Discussion of Jake’s interest in working the 
line. Discussion of the diﬀerent “positions” in a kitchen -- cold station (salad), sautée (4-8 
burners, cooking hot dishes with skillets), expo (plating & checking the food before service) 
-- and the skill and prestige associated with each position. 
●
00:14:00 -- Dish work was “hot, and repetitive, and it made me sleepy”; Jake naturally was 
good at picking up skills, and pitched to his cousin/manager, Alicia, that he might start 
working at the hot station and cutting meats; description of learning how to move onto the 
line -- “I remember, in the morning, I would have to cut and blanche a ton of fries”; 
discussion of wrapping meat under high-pressure sodium lights; temperature of the meat. 
●
“It was a position I got pretty good at pretty quick.”
●
00:15:30 -- Childhood exposure to meats; wasn’t especially concerned about meat; eating 
meat sandwiches for every shift meal
●
00:17:23 -- Back-of-house culture at City Barbeque; “camaraderie,” and kitchen worker house 
parties; underage parties; description of his high-school co-workers; diversity in the kitchen; 
discussion of management styles// Alicia Balboa’s management styles; “... it all felt good … I 
didn’t feel like I was being advantage of at all …”
●
00:19:00 -- Why the job felt good; “the positions were deﬁned enough to allow a person to 
succeed in what they do …” [Interview pause to stop a dog from licking something]; importance of 
a clear management style and expectations; “ … some jobs after that, I did have problems 
with management and that expectation; and it made it harder for me to succeed …”; 
description of the maintenance of a relaxed environment at City BBQ -- gooﬁng around/but 
also working hard; “... and that allowed us to support each other, and become friends”
●
00:22:16 -- Skill/excellence at City BBQ; ﬁguring out “doing good work” in the back-of-house 
on the barbeque line; “... we were trained to do something a certain way, and we did it, and 
that was the expectation … and that is what it took to succeed at the job … this was like a 
standardized kitchen … you weighed out how much meat would go on a sandwich; you had 
scoops for how much coleslaw would go on a sandwich … even down to the sauce you’re 
putting on some of the things … it was like: they wrote a business plan for their business. 
Which is very obvious … but I think, as you’ll see, some of the restaurants I’ve worked in 
since, there isn’t that kind of consideration …” 
00:25:50 -- Kitchen Work in High School/College vis-a-vis Other Interests/Career 
Aspirations 
●
Jake describes never dreading going to work with City BBQ; “I remember that I had a time I 
had to work, and I would be there, and it was OK”; but no special interest in starting a career 
in food at that point
●
High-school and college interests were in skateboarding, and art (and photography); 
eventually went to art school; “I was more centrally-focused on making art … I think I was 
just interested in painting, at that time.”
●
00:25:50 -- Connections/lack of connections with the wider Columbus food community in 
high school, while living in Westerville/New Albany; not nearly as connected as when he 
moved downtown for college and got exposed to “the hip restaurants” and food magazines; 
“I think I went to Banana Leaf once … and that was probably about it … I used to go to 
Wendy’s.”
●
00:27:20 -- Attending Columbus College of Art and Design (CCAD); eating oﬀ the meal plan 
in dorms-on-campus, “where they were serving basically the same thing I had eaten for lunch 
in high-school and middle school … curly fries … really old iceberg salads with ranch 
dressing”; “still eating out alot” -- formative experience getting food poisoning from eating 
Taco Bell [recording pause as Jake’s roommate comes home]; “I didn’t have a relationship with food 
at that point, other than that it nourished me enough to get me by”
●
00:28:50 -- Friends at CCAD and exposure to food culture; befriended one of his professors, 
who would bake regularly; began to eat at Northstar Café -- “... [a] higher-end fast-casual 
restaurant with, I guess, healthier options … so, I guess there was a level of consciousness 
with that … [and] I think around that time, I was trying to eat protein bars and Cliﬀ bars, 
because I thought … Cliﬀ bars were the healthier choice for me; so, there was an awareness 
of food and health at the time; but it was nothing to the eﬀect that it is now …” [recording 
pause again as Jake’s roommate enters the house]
00:30:00 -- Becoming Food-Aware & Learning to Cook // Working on Columbus Food 
Trucks 
●
00:30:00 -- Food awakenings: close friend passed away in college; doctor felt a node in Jake’s 
neck and recommended that he get it checked out -- he didn’t; but decided that “it was a 
thing that was killing me … and if I ate healthier, it would go away; it’s pretty weird.” 
Discussion of spiritual/”nonsensical” dynamics of Jake’s turn to healthy eating as “a way of 
cooking … something I could latch onto and take control of; something that was within my 
own means”
●
00:32:00 -- Making changes in his personal food system; working at the Greener Grocer at 
the North Market; collecting cookbooks and getting interested in Indian cuisine
●
Throughout college, had started working on various food trucks; the ﬁrst one was The 
Cheesy Truck (grilled cheese truck) // description of exterior of the truck, “wrapped in this 
decoration”; discussion of owner Rick’s entrepreneurial spirit and introducing Columbus to 
the culture of the food truck; catering parties for very rich people, “who would serve us 
alcohol & tip us very well”; discussion of 2008-2009 as the very beginning of food truck 
culture in Columbus -- “it was the Cheesy Truck, and Paddy Wagon, and Tato Heads … and 
then, I think, Pita-bilities came; and then it really branched out from there ... “; discussion of 
shared food-truck commissary space in German Village (before ECDI, and the Commissary)
●
00:35:50 -- Story of Jake’s original connections to the food truck world, via (fellow project 
interviewee) Jack Dale Bennett Jr., who was one of Rick’s ﬁrst employees on the Cheesy 
Truck; “... it was deﬁnitely a novelty job. It was something completely new to me, as an idea, 
and as a way to serve food to people. It was interesting.”
●
Discussion of back-of-house experience on the food truck; comparison to working back-of-
house in a standard kitchen, like at City BBQ
●
“Let’s see … a food truck essentially is 8x10 box that has a grill, a hood unit that sucks out all 
the smoke, deep-fryers, a little window where you serve the food, and a little back door 
where you walk out … the space is hugely diﬀerent than working in a kitchen … but, I think 
the novelty sort of came from being able to be in diﬀerent locations, around diﬀerent types 
of people, every single time … we would do diﬀerent sorts of festivals, and that would be one 
sort of experience; and then we would do a private event … it was always a new space, which 
was a little captivating to me, I think, at the time.” (00:36:00-00:38:00)
●
Comparison of back-of-house skills across brick-and-mortar and food-truck kitchen; Jake 
says the only real skill diﬀerence required was in “what we were producing”; discussion of 
making grilled cheese on Cheesy Truck; learning curve of that job -- “you just had to get 
familiar with the space”
●
Did work at City Barbeque help Jake get the Cheesy Truck job? Transfer of skills? Jake argues 
that it’s all about who you know; Jack was able to “vouch for me … that I would be able to 
meet the expectations … and that I was a good worker … even though we fooled around on 
the truck alot. You had to be able to produce a good product, and a consistent product.”
●
00:40:30 -- Discussion of inﬂuence of continued kitchen work on Jake’s home eating 
cultures; transitioning to “healthier” microwaved meals; narrative about cooking an Indian 
food meal for a group of friends towards the end of college
00:41:30 -- Building a Personal Food Repertoire // Working with Cookbooks // Interest in 
Indian Cuisine // Work and Inﬂuence of the North Market // Graduating College 
●
Late-college interest in cookbooks; “just to understand how recipes were made … what went 
into them, and how I could re-create that in my home kitchen”; discussion of “developing a 
palette” and learning how to ﬁgure out/nail down “what makes it amazing”
●
00:43:40 -- inﬂuence of working at the Greener Grocer at the North Market; taking home 
seconds from unusable produce; making $8-9/hour and living in a place with expensive rent, 
so cooking for himself was something he could aﬀord; “it was food that was accessible to me”
●
Interest in Indian food; eating at A Taste of India at the North Market; “... it’s funny … I 
think the North Market exposed me to diﬀerent … foods from around the world”
●
00:44:45 -- Description of the North Market and North Market transitions; becoming a food 
court and losing some of the produce and meat vendors; description of other stalls at the 
North Market during his tenure there
●
00:45:30 -- Got the job at the Greener Grocer during his senior year of college, when he also 
started cooking for himself 
●
00:46:00 -- Senior year at art school; loss of his best friend; creating an art thesis; “thinking I 
was going to die … and also neglecting classes … I wasn’t concerned about what I was going 
to do after college. It was more about just trying to get by, and through, the day-to-day … 
even after I graduated, it wasn’t concerning for me … to know what I was going to do. I 
wasn’t worried about being out of college. I just wasn’t. The fear/concern wasn’t there for me. 
I was mostly just excited to be out in the world, meeting people and doing things.”
00:47:18 -- Post-College: More Food Trucks -- Tatoheads, Challah!; Working at The Table 
// The “Underside” of the Restaurant Industry in Columbus 
●
Working on more food trucks: the Cheesy Truck; Tatoheads; Challah! (Jewish-inspired 
foods); “Challah! was the food truck where I learned the most, up until that point … she 
taught me about how to pickle things, and how to cure meats, and wet brines, and dry salt 
cures … she had a dish that … had cow’s tongue on it, you know? So, that was pretty exciting 
for me. To be around all of that.”
●
00:48:30 -- Connecting with Challah! food truck; “... at that point, I was excited to … learn 
how to cook new things”; Jake sought out these jobs as ways to learn how to cook, “...taking 
home this information I could use in my day-to-day life … like meal-planning, cooking for 
friends … and I don’t remember dreading work on a food truck or in a kitchen then, either.”
●
Discussion of learning/educational experiences and expectations around learning in the food 
truck scene and in kitchens; was this built-in to the experiences? Or something Jake had to 
seek out?
●
Work at The Table, “... which was advertised as a farm-to-table restaurant, essentially”; 
connection with a line-cook there named Carly who was also working at Challah!; “Challah! 
was appealing for me just like the Table was appealing for me … as an idea that I would be 
preparing all of those foods … and those foods were coming from ethical places.”
●
00:50:40 -- Management style and workplace culture on Challah! food truck; laid-back, and 
expectations of having fun
●
00:51:20 -- Culture at The Table; exposure to “... the part of kitchen life that was new to me 
… which is what you would do after work”; discussion of drinking culture in the restaurant 
industry; “... it was new to me, and I felt that I had to, in some ways, prove myself … to 
spend time with these people, and do what they did”
●
Kitchen work as “an extreme lifestyle”; arriving at The Table at 7am for prep and opening up 
for breakfast service; getting oﬀ work and going out with friends; “falling in love with a girl … 
it was an extreme time in my life, because we would go on all these adventures, and stay up 
really late … so, I was going to bed at 4, and waking up at 7 … and that didn’t really have to 
do with restaurant culture … but it all blended together really perfectly”; being moved up to 
dinner service, at which point Jake started going out at night with other co-workers
●
More on going-out/drinking culture after kitchen close; “... it’s almost like you’re in an 
alternative state [after a big service] … once it slows down, you’re still … in that state; … 
there’s the adrenaline, and the things that keep you awake; and you’re really excited and you 
want to talk about that service, and how everyone else felt … and so you do that afterwards, 
at a bar.”
●
00:55:40 -- Introduction to the “underworld” of the restaurant scene; “it became shrouded in 
darkness … I saw the darkness of the industry, and just, the whole scene … and that started 
to show itself, three months into working at the Table”; narrative about diﬃculties in 
management: sous-chef, and a chef-owner; “the owner … she never cooked, in the kitchen. 
And she never had restaurant experience. And she would direct us, and do these roll-outs on 
the menu … and then we’d have the sous-chef take over, and tell us about them … the sous-
chef, I think, didn’t have enough skill to be able to teach us and guide us in the right ways … 
things just started to get a little sloppy; … I think the hardest part for me was, I would take 
the information I learned home, and try to use it … and I would look around, and everyone 
else I was working with at The Table … they weren’t doing these things … and it was hard for 
me to see people who would describe this as their passion in life not carry that over into 
their life outside of work. And I started to wonder if I had the same ambition and goals as 
the people I was working with. Which sort of created a separation … I remember, there was 
a deﬁning point when I was like: I’m not going out with you guys anymore. I’d rather do 
other things. Or wake up early. And enjoy my day the next day. And that was a big point for 
me … it was distasteful for me; and it kind of caused me to feel separate from the industry. 
[Brief pause]
●
00:58:44 -- On implications of choosing not to go out with co-workers at night anymore; 
continuing to read cookbooks and learn skills “on my own”; “surpassing” the skill-set 
required at work; “... The Table started to get less glamorous for me … and I didn’t seem to 
share the same camaraderie, afterwards … I think I was just ready to move on.”
●
Expectations of career paths within the industry: moving up, becoming a sous-chef, opening 
a brick-and-mortar? Jake discusses, at the Table, feeling like being taken advantage of; “... 
feeling like I wasn’t being appreciated, for what I did.”
●
01:00:00 -- Narrative about a conversation with the chef-owner, who entered the restaurant, 
walked up to him, and asked him to cut mirepoix faster; “... it sort of stuck with me … it 
still’s sort of stuck with me, as a deﬁning moment of my experience at that place”; Jake 
describes the “down-putting” attitude
●
Discussion of the Table’s “Letters to a Young Chef” (via Rilke’s Letter to a Young Poet), which 
was handed out at The Table: “... there were all these things I thought were … exploitative. I 
was like: why can’t you ask for a raise? Like, why do you have to just give all your time to this 
place? Like, why are you … it was like … ‘it’s not about how much you get paid; it’s about your 
dedication to the job, and you doing the best you can.’ Or, it was like … ‘sometimes, you’re 
going to get cut early, and that’s just going to be your shift. And you just have to accept this.’ 
And just, all of this information that I felt wasn’t very helpful to me. And it wasn’t very 
encouraging to me. It sort of helped me sum up what the industry was like, and I wasn’t into 
it. I wasn’t interested in that.” Was in a magazine; and had been scanned/copied by the 
manager and distributed to everyone at the Table as an “encouraging document … but it just 
didn’t feel right. It felt really wrong.” 
01:04:00 -- False Advertising, “Farm to Table,” and Restaurant Ethics: From Sourcing to 
Wages 
●
Discussion of dissatisfaction with the chef-owner not working; “I didn’t feel the camaraderie 
like I did at other places”; problems with deﬁning roles and not really supporting local 
agriculture for the ﬁrst year of the restaurant
●
False advertising around “farm-to-table”; Jake’s frustration with the lack of consideration of 
seasonality or preserving food when it’s actually in bounty; “... and that’s when I also realized 
that marketing, and those sorts of catch-words … what you’re selling to a person, could 
potentially be a lie. Like ‘farm-to-table.’ Or ‘local.’ Or ‘sourced ethically.’”
●
01:05:00 -- Discussion of the cachet of “farm-to-table” in the Columbus restaurant industry, 
c. 2012-2013; novelty of the idea on the Columbus market at the time; “I think even 
Northstar, that had been around when I was in college … they would source locally”; 
discussion of the Table’s “fork responsibly” slogan
●
01:06:28 -- “It was really in your face: like: we are trying to be as ethical as we can in sourcing, 
and in creating the best dishes for you, and in supporting farmers … it just didn’t happen, 
when I was there.”
●
01:07:20 -- Wages at The Table; making over $10/hour; “... what’s funny is, the other places 
where I worked … I never made more than that.” Jake discusses how, even at Alana’s Fine 
Dining (“the truest farm-to-table restaurant,”) he made only $9.50. 
●
“It soon became apparent to me, to make a livable wage in the restaurant industry … I think 
you can work hard, and I think you can do it, you know -- if you’re willing to commit all of 
your time to that thing … by doing more hours, and just being there; it’s a lifestyle. 
●
01:08:40 -- Valuing diﬀerent things than other people in the restaurant industry; interest in 
art and in farming; working farming gig at Jorgensen Farms
01:10:20 -- Characters in the Kitchen Industry: Skills, Trainings, and Kitchen Work as 
Career //  
“Day in the Life” on the Line at The Table // Good Kitchen Management Styles 
●
01:10:20 -- Backgrounds of co-workers at The Table // various paths to kitchen work: veterans 
in the industry; chefs/cooks from culinary school, “... hungry to make as much money and 
show oﬀ their skills, as much as they could”; discussion of diﬀerent types of cooks
●
Jake discusses bad experiences with culinary school-trained chefs; met very few cooks and 
chefs who would cook outside of the restaurant industry
●
01:12:40 -- Skills and duties at the Table; “life of a shift” at the Table
●
01:14:00 -- Transferring kitchen skills from the restaurant to home cooking; Jake shares 
narrative about cooking his girlfriend multi-course meals; preparing/serving great food as a 
“gift” to his friends; “... but, one of the things I learned: when you introduce money into it … 
it starts to make it feel like it’s less valuable, for those people. I don’t feel as happy, giving 
food to people who pay for it, than I do for close friends and people I know.”
●
01:16:00 -- Skill/excellence on the line; discussion of speed and what makes a good line cook
●
01:17:00 -- Good management in back-of-house settings; cultivating camaraderie; bad 
management styles as “one of the things that impacts me the most”
01:17:30 -- Alana’s Fine Dining: Aggressive Kitchen Cultures & Cultures of Excellence 
●
01:17:40 -- Discussion of work at Alana’s Fine Dining; “truly a farm-to-table restaurant”; 
discussion of “aggressive” and “inconsiderate” restaurant culture -- “insensitivity to things 
like race, to gender … the down-putting attitudes in the kitchen … it was, by far, the most 
negative environment I have put myself in, thus far. But it was also where I learned the most. 
Because the expectation and the responsibility was so high.”
●
01:18:00 -- Job duties, expectations, cultures of excellence and high standards at Alana’s; 
what constitutes a good learning environment in kitchen work; discussion of improvisation; 
preparing dishes for Alana at the end of the night
●
01:20:00 -- Narrative about Jake’s ﬁrst “stage” (unpaid, try-out) shift at Alana’s; manning his 
own station and having to make sauces from-scratch; searing ﬁsh and moving things out of 
the kitchen quickly; “... this intensity … it’s just so intense. It was so intense. Words of 
encouragement were not used very much … there was a period of time where she did work 
with me, on learning wines … that was really nice … [but] I think it’s just how a person gets 
programmed, from working in the industry.”
●
Discussion of “aggressive,” “masculine” kitchen culture; not showing weakness; “ﬁghting” 
attitude; “... it was super violent; and I think it was self-harming. You wonder why chefs get 
oﬀ, and they drink themselves … they drink away their whole paychecks. It might have 
something to do with it.”
●
01:22:00 -- Jake discusses how important “word of mouth” is to rising in the ranks of the 
Columbus kitchen scene; getting into Alana’s through his friend/fellow chef Jack Dale 
Bennett Jr.
●
01:23:20 -- Discussion of the stations/roles at Alana’s; “such a small kitchen”; had to be word-
of-mouth-hiring and commitment from someone else who worked there
01:24:00 -- “The Supper Club”: Foundations of Gourmet Picnic, an Underground Supper 
Club Showcasing Columbus Line Cooks (2014-2015) 
●
Jake discusses the origins of his Gourmet Picnic supper club
●
“I wanted to allow line cooks to grow and develop by having the opportunity to cook for a 
group of people”; about creating exposure and allowing creativity for Columbus’ up-and-
coming line cooks; “line cooks don’t generally have the opportunity to make a four-course 
meal, and plan that, and serve it to people, and talk about it … and have them be recognized 
for it; … so I thought that would be sort of a fun spin on a regular summer club.”
●
01:25:20 -- Narrative about the ﬁrst “Gourmet Picnic” supper club; vegan; Jake cooked; $5
●
[Quick pause in recording]  Discussion of underground supper club culture in Columbus
●
01:27:00 -- Partnering with friends (pastry chef friend; friend Sarah, who wanted to make 
cocktails and drinks); drawbacks -- “I was the primary person doing it; and it was hard … 
getting [other people] to follow through, and do the things they needed to do on time … all 
the responsibility was on me, especially the further and further it go …”
●
01:28:00 -- Discussion of change in culture and responsibilities by the 5th pop-up; “we had 
been written up by a magazine; and people outside of our group had heard about what we 
were doing; and people outside of our group were buying tickets to eat at our … at our now-
known supper club, to the world; and it just made a diﬀerent environment … there were 
people who came into it with an expectation: maybe ﬁne dining; or maybe that it was going 
to be something more than what it was … and its charms started to go from there. But, in its 
infancy, it was like we were all there, doing our thing, having fun. Having fun was like a big 
part of it.”
●
Total span of the Gourmet Picnic events; “we did around ﬁve or six.” Discussion of why it 
got hard: (1) ﬁnding chefs who had the time and could commit to doing an event; (2) ﬁnding 
people and communicating that they were supper club; “... that was one of the hardest 
things, too; and sometimes it didn’t work. I had to cancel one of the supper clubs I was going 
to do a couple of times; because we weren’t selling tickets … it was becoming sort of a 
burden, for Adele and I. And so, … we just sort of ended it, after that.”
●
Expectations of what Gourmet Picnic would do for the featured chefs; discussion of 
Columbus “celebrity culture” about local chefs in Columbus foodie magazine culture; “... it 
kind of becomes one of those celebrity magazines … it’s about making celebrities out of 
chefs … and a part of me bought into it … but there was also this big expectation that came 
from it; and also, it didn’t seem fair for me to take credit for the event, because there were so 
many people behind it. I think I was getting alot of friends from the restaurant industry, who 
were putting on meals, and we were just friends and we were having fun … I don’t think we 
were considering that it could be used as a vehicle to grow our own business or brand 
…” (01:32:00)
●
01:32:40 -- Working with friends in his home kitchen (for Gourmet Picnic); not having a boss
●
01:33:00 -- Jake’s schedule at the time: working AmeriCorps during the day; working at 
Alana’s on the evening and on the weekend; and then ﬁtting in Gourmet Picnic supper clubs 
on top of it; “organizing those events was too much for us … it was stressful. As a person who 
‘founded’ it and was expected to be the leader … that made it just more stressful …”: 
discussion of having to communicate with cooks/chefs, work with customers, etc.; discussion 
of Jake’s foray into management of other chefs/cooks; “... it was alot of stress. That’s about 
it.”
●
01:34:00 -- Gourmet Picnic as groundwork for future food entrepreneurship
01:35:00 -- Launch of Companion Bagels: Small-Batch Scratch Sourdough Bagelry 
(Summer 2015-2016) // Becoming a Food Entrepreneur // Making Seasonal-Local Baked 
Goods 
●
01:35:00 -- Jake discusses the rise of Companion Bagels, a scratch sourdough bagel bakery 
with his sister (the interviewer, Jess Lamar Reece Holler); getting accepted to sell bagels at 
the Clintonville Farmers’ Market; developing a press kit and trying to get ready for market 
with a home-proportion Kitchen-Aide mixer; the “Oh Shit Moment”
●
01:36:00 -- Getting connected to Just Pies, a local pie bakery/facility through a friend at The 
Table; using this set-up “... just, the perfect set-up to make authentic New York bagels”; 
partnering with the space as an opportunity; “... it just kind-of all worked. After the supper 
club, that’s where I worked and what I started doing.”
●
Jake had been working at Alana’s during the same time
●
Why want to have your own bagel business? Discussion of Jake’s interest in sourdoughs and 
“natural fermentations” and beginning baking bread, “... as a healthier alternative to bread”; 
seeing a market opportunity for bagels: “we only have one grade of bagel in Columbus that 
sells at a large-scale … even at a small scale, I didn’t see a high-quality product being sold. So, 
it seemed like there was a niche market for specialty sourdough bagels … sourdough was a 
little thing that set us apart in the market; and we also sort of came to market with foraged 
bialys and really special, interesting blends and mixes that we would put on the bagels … we 
had an activated charcoal bagel, that still blows my mind, because it’s still coming in as a 
trend …”
●
Discussion of branding, making business cards, making a website and running cohesive 
marketing campaigns; “I still think back about it, and think, ‘Hey, that was a really fun thing. 
And I bet it seemed really fun to everyone else.’”
●
01:40:00 -- discussion of Jake’s “dancing bagel” icons; “anthropomorphized bagel, who had 
legs … they were just weird and quirky and colorful. It was fun.”
●
Discussion of Companion Bagel menu/roster and signature ﬂavors: date-serrano bagel; “it 
was a good bagel -- it was spicy, and it was sweet”; discussion of the learning curve of making 
bagels for market (Jake feels like the early bagels were “very, very bad … they were frozen, 
and reheated in my oven …”); “...it was like a makeshift nightmare”; discussion of conﬂicts 
about the market display. Other ﬂavors: sweet potato/maple syrup (discussion of marketing 
image)
●
“I was doing stuﬀ I thought was funny … and the reception, I think, was positive, at the 
market.”
●
Discussion of seasonal ﬂavors: serviceberries; bialys as showcase for local/seasonal ﬂavors; 
some bialy ﬂavors included: chicken-of-the-woods mushrooms; spring onion pesto. 
●
Discussion of sourcing for produce/ingredients from Companion Bagel; trading bagels with 
farmers at the Clintonville Farmers’ Market for local produce; this produce then appeared in 
the bagels at the end; “... it was like a free system, to get local produce that I could then 
showcase, and talk about”; cross-promoting fellow farmers; Jake discusses the ethics of 
bartering goods for free produce: “... it wasn’t supporting them ﬁnancially, which I still sort 
of feel bad about”
●
Discussion of sourcing of local/organic Ohio ﬂour; Ohio ﬂour doesn’t have high-enough 
gluten quality to make bagels; and sourced the rest of the ingredients with General Mills 
ﬂour; all-organic ﬂour would have made the cost 10x higher; “... it only made sense for me to 
cut out one of those ﬁnancial variables, so that we could make a decent living doing it … and 
still try to hold and showcase our values with the local ﬂour … it was a compromise; but in a 
perfect world, I wouldn’t make compromises. And it was hard, to kind of settle on that … 
and to be like: I’m feeding this to someone … and … I’m not talking about it.” 25% of 
Companion Bagel picnic came from Stutzman (local, organic) ﬂour. Primary company 
mission was to source from Ohio.
●
Everything spice blend, custom-made by North Market spices; secret ingredient was nigella 
01:48:30 -- From Back-of-House to Front-of-House: Working the Farmers’ Markets // 
Farmers’ Market Culture // Food Entrepreneurship // Desire to Leave the Kitchen 
Industry // Low Wages 
●
“I think owning my own business really screwed me up … I pretty much ran Companion 
Baking, and did nothing else, for about a year and a half.” 
●
Taking winters oﬀ and, originally, working for a couple of months as a manager at Dough 
Mama, his friend’s pie-and-pastry shop. “For the most part, I was on my own, making my 
own product, selling my own product, and talking to people about it. And it was great. And I 
made really good money for what I did. But I also wasn’t paying commissary space … there 
was sort of a mutual agreement, that I could use the [baking facility] space for the ﬁrst 
couple of years to start up; and I wouldn’t have to pay rent … I was making a good amount of 
money because of that. And, I think from not working for so long … I think I had the idea 
that, if I did my own projects, it would set me apart on my resume … I could learn more 
about food … and I didn’t really  see that take eﬀect. I don’t know how seriously anyone took 
my resume when I was applying for jobs outside the restaurant industry …” 
●
Jake describes diﬃculty getting respect in the broader (beyond-restaurant) industry for 
starting his own business and running branding and marketing in the wider marketing/
graphic design world; “I think it’s something that people dismiss, because, one, it’s a self-
started business, and there’s no-one to really vouch for what you did there; and then, two, I 
think it’s …. that there isn’t a name attached to where you’re working. Because it’s self-
started.”
●
01:52:00 -- Jake describes no longer being excited about cooking, and Companion Bagel 
being a path he tried to create outside of the industry; made an oath to “protest work that 
didn’t pay me a livable wage … I was sick of just getting by.” 
●
Discussion of rejection of oﬃce culture; “... where I invest my time is ultimately what I 
become.” Also, a discussion of Jake’s dissatisfaction with the drinking culture of the kitchen 
industry.
●
“I’m fed up with this culture … and I felt like it didn’t ﬁt the world I wanted to immerse 
myself in … so I tried to make it work for me, and to use the skills I already had learned to 
branch out.”
●
01:55:20 -- Jake discusses enjoying working in groups and collaborating with people; and art
●
01:56:00 -- “I decided that, if I couldn’t ﬁnd another job, I would protest work.”
●
Wages: discussion of insecurity of living paycheck-to-paycheck; thinking about owning a 
house; and how impossible that seemed on $9-10/hour in a restaurant industry job
●
Feeling like he had learned enough in the restaurant industry; becoming a good cook: “I 
know how to cook now. And I think that was kind of the Eureka moment … where is the end 
in this, and what was the goal in doing it? And it wasn’t to be a career. It was to learn how to 
cook. And I did that. And I don’t need to do it anymore. I’m at the point where I have this 
… I’ll have it the rest of my life; I’ll take it with me; I still appreciate it … but, I don’t think I 
want to be in it, you know?”]
01:58:30 -- Wages and Economic Injustice in the Food System: “Razor-Thin Margins,” 
From Farm to Table, and Trickle-Down Effect for Wages of Kitchen Workers 
●
01:58:40 -- Discussion of wages and collective bargaining in the restaurant industry; diﬃculty 
of providing fair wages in the restaurant industry, when owners need to meet their bottom 
line. Jake reﬂects on undercutting certain things in his own bagel business, to make a higher 
proﬁt margin; “I think that’s how some people look at workers … the margins are so slim 
already, that an owner doesn’t look at a worker as a human and an individual who like, goes 
home and has a family and things they need to support in their life; I think they look at it as 
wages … like: money. Like: ‘I could pay you $15/ an hour. But I wouldn’t make as much money 
… and I know the general expectation is that kitchen workers don’t get paid much. So I’m 
just going to continue that … it’s going to be a continuation of that.”
●
Discussion of the fact that, in small businesses, that there isn’t much room to grow; unless 
you open more and more restaurants; “but these small restaurants I worked in, these singles 
-- not franchises, or chains -- there’s only so far you can go, you know? You can’t expect to 
make alot of money at places like that.”
●
Discussion of persistent culture of low wages in kitchens; why? “I guess you could say … you 
could go get a restaurant job in a pinch, you know? You could go get a job 
tomorrow.” (02:01:30); other ﬁelds, like engineering, has “requirements”; in kitchen work, 
you can just work your way up; comparison of low wages and low societal value in the 
restaurant industry and in the farming industry 
●
Discussion of negotiating wages in the back-of-house industry; Jake describes accepting 
lower wages to work at higher-proﬁle places, like Alana’s, with higher promise of learning 
[End of ﬁrst recording; recording rolls over to Pt. 2 of audio]
●
00:00:00 (Pt. 2) -- On requesting a raise or threatening to leave; description of the 
discomfort of having to ask for raises; empathy with the business owners, who operate with 
such slim margins; and discussion of economic ties to the farming industry and inﬂuence of 
subsidization of corn and soy and low pay of farming workforce; “artiﬁcial cost of goods … 
that then just trickles over into the restaurant industry.” 
●
00:02:36 -- Shift from ﬁne-dining to fast-casual; “because ﬁne dining is dying, it’s making it 
even harder to introduce a true farm-to-table restaurant; you’ve got people who are willing to 
cut corners, and use, like, organic or local as a guise for proﬁts; and it just makes sense for 
them to do that … from a ﬁnancial perspective; it’s just a word, right?”
00:03:00 (Pt. 2) -- Kitchen Work Transitions: Shutting Down Companion Bagel, & New 
Directions 
●
00:03:35 -- Ending Companion Bagels // Companion Baking; increasingly diﬃcult/eroding 
relationships with the owner of his commissary space; culture clashes in the baking facility
●
00:05:40 -- Narrative, on being recognized as “the bagel guy,” by long-term companion 
customers; 00:05:55 -- “I would have people come up to me and say: ‘Hey! You’re the bagel 
guy! You’re the guy that makes bagels!’ And, having someone say that to you, it’s like: ‘That’s 
not what I do.’ You know? Your immediate reaction is like -- or at least my immediate 
reaction is like: ‘That’s not what I do. Like: you don’t know what I do. Like: I’m not the 
bagel guy. I make painting; and, like: I mushroom forage, and I do all these things. I’m not 
the bagel guy. Like, I can’t be the bagel guy.’ And -- I really stewed on that. And I said, if I’m 
going to be known for something, it’s not going to be for being the bagel guy. I’m not the 
bagel guy. I can’t be the bagel guy. So: I had to end it.”
●
00:07:00 -- Reconsidering his training in art and art history; interest in painting; dealing 
with the “crutch” of the contemporary art world and commercialism/”trend-based.”
●
00:07:50 -- Mother’s illness // change of travel plans; confusion on new directions since 
closing down Companion Bagel
●
00:09:15 -- Compromise: working front-of-house; making more money -- working Friday and 
Saturday at a wood-ﬁred pizza shop [Gore Made Pizza]; “... it’s really the last cord to cut, 
before I’m done with the industry forever”
●
00:10:20 -- New gig: contingent art handling work at Columbus College of Art and Design 
and the Wexner Center, doing exhibit/gallery installs and de-stalls; “I love the work”
●
00:10:40 -- On transitioning away from food as his work to food as something in his home 
life; discussion of his ongoing home cooking practice; “I’m not interested in French cuisine 
… I’m more interested in minimal meat …” // Home foodways, as of the time of the interview 
●
“In some ways, I’m rejecting alot of what I was taught as a cook …”
●
00:14:50 -- On being “confused”; but spending more time doing the things he enjoys
00:15:00 (Pt. 2)-- Reﬂecting on Changes in the Columbus Food Scene // Kitchen Cultures 
in Columbus; and Gentriﬁcation // Changes in Columbus as a Whole 
●
“The impression I had when I ﬁrst started cooking, is not the impression that I have now …”
●
00:16:00 -- On disillusionment about the Columbus restaurant industry; understanding the 
realities of unethical wages and unethical/chemical/non-local food sourcing 
●
Viewing restaurants as brands and trends; “and trying to interpret them through that”
●
00:17:00 -- Gravitation towards non-celebrity-chef restaurants; “just, hole-in-the-wall … 
Mexican food trucks, that are owned by Latino people who are just trying to live; or I’ll go 
on Morse Road, and eat at an Indian food restaurant; but I don’t really buy in … because I 
believe those places. I believe that they’re working, and they’re making a living oﬀ it, and it’s 
they’re job; it’s not just a hype machine … and I tip well. And I want to spend my money 
there.”
●
00:18:00 -- “They’re not real people”: on the celebrity chef machine in Columbus; narrative 
on interactions with envious corporate people at farmers’ markets
●
00:18:54 -- “At the end of the day, if I’m going to work a miserable job, I’m going to work a 
miserable job that pays me well. I’m not going to work a miserable job that doesn’t pay me 
well, and that just doesn’t oﬀer me … anything, of security, health, beneﬁts. Nothing … 
maybe I just wasn’t cut out for the work. And it just didn’t make me happy. I’m just now 
realizing that.”
●
00:19:50 -- On cachet in the Columbus restaurant industry // jadedness; & refusing fame; 
narrative about working with a cook at Alana’s; “... every night, we’d ﬂip through a Columbus 
Alive; and we’d just laugh at everyone … this is all bullshit. And you know it. It’s so sad. And it’s 
discouraging …”
●
00:22:14 -- On the social world Jake cultivated from his time in the kitchen industry (or 
didn’t)
●
00:23:19 -- “I’m super young -- I’m twenty-six. And I’ve been out of school for four years. 
And I feel like that’s four years I could’ve put towards a career … and that’s four years I did 
put towards a career … which I realize I didn’t want to be in. At all. That … isn’t my career. 
And just: making up for lost time, has been pretty stressful for me.” 
●
Narrative about talking with his friend Terry about not traveling; feeling like he lost that 
time; “... and I’m still in the same place.” 
●
00:25:00 -- Back-of-house kitchen work as wasted time; “... I think, after a certain point, for 
me, I learned the skills I needed to cook for myself, and I stayed on. And I shouldn’t have.”
●
On the sticking power of the restaurant industry; why people stay in the industry (00:26:00)
●
00:27:00 -- On kitchen work culture in Columbus; discussion of changes in aﬀordable living: 
“... that’s what made Columbus interesting. It’s just a shame to see it all turn into, just … you 
read a Columbus Alive or a 614, and you’re not so shocked in the way Columbus is moving. It’s 
all hype … and about pretending to be something. It seems like … I like the things that don’t 
talk about themselves … and just do what they do, and exist, authentically. And I think 
Columbus did that at one point: when it wasn’t a place; it was just … it wasn’t known as a 
place. It was just here. And it was a gem. And it was enjoyable. But, you know: … it’s about 
money.”
●
00:29:50 -- Diﬀerent experiences of Columbus; and relating to the city four-years out of 
college; “I think I’m just growing out of those sorts of things … and seeing things in a 
diﬀerent way.”
●
00:30:30 -- Discussion of disappointments in Columbus planning; grant for self-driving cars, 
lack of investment in public transportation, and gentriﬁcation of neighborhoods // 
destruction of aﬀordable housing 
●
Reﬂections on travel [pause for dog drinking water] and imagining places elsewhere
●
00:34:00 -- Living and working for all of his life in the place he is from; “... it was accessible 
to me … and I didn’t really push for anything else; or things didn’t work out.”
00:35:00 (Pt. 2) -- Final Reﬂections on 10 Years in the Food Industry: Affordances, 
Resentment, Takeaways 
●
00:35:15 -- Changes Jake would like to see in the food system; “... the foundation is just upside 
down”; discussion of problems in the food system, rooted in the agriculture system
●
00:37:30 -- Capitalism and kitchen culture; consideration of cooperatives and hierarchies in 
the kitchen; how management styles/hierarchies impact work expectations, clear roles/
duties, and satisfaction; discussion of the pros/cons of assembly-line style kitchens
●
00:39:50 -- Discussion of the “bluntness” of kitchen culture; “you have ten seconds to make a 
dish … go! There’s that immediacy of it, that is enjoyable.” But also: damages of that work on 
trying to seek out more contemplative work as a next career move (like design work); being 
active; knife skills and the visceral experience of kitchen work
●
00:43:00 -- “Luminous moments”: favorite memory in the kitchen industry? 
●
Narrative about the best kitchen experience (until 00:44:40): “... it’s when the restaurant is 
just completely full; and you’re riding the cusp of disorganization … of complete anarchy; and 
you’re riding that line, for, like: hours. And you’re just shooting out food, and it’s going out, 
and it’s good, and you have a rhythm; and you have a technique, and you’re communicating, 
like non-verbally, with the people you’re working with; and you know how they move; and it’s 
almost like being an ant colony … where all the ants are like, ‘I know how to pick up this 
thing together! And I know how to take it to the hive, where the … whatever it is.’ It’s kind 
of like that. And, New Year’s Eve at the Table, we had one of those days like that. And 
everyone was there ‘til midnight, celebrating New Years’ Eve; … and we popped a bottle of 
champagne; and after that, we went out and drank some beers; and it was total camaraderie, 
and we were all on the same page; and the business had just opened, and we were all hopeful 
and positive and excited to be there; and … it was a memorable night. It was good service.”
●
00:44:50 -- Reﬂections on baking bread and learning about time-management; 
“communicating about this yeast-body-bread, that chooses to do whatever it wants in certain 
temperatures and situations”; discussion of the “intimacy” of baking
●
Jake and Jess’s reﬂections -- end of an era, for an older Columbus? Or maybe we’re just 
getting old. Jake’s parable about going to Lavash (00:47:35).
●
00:48:06: Last words? -- “I’ll stay in my own kitchen.”
00:48:32 (Pt. 2) -- Concluding Slate, Thanks & Goodbyes