Washington State Works: Archie Green Fellows Project, 2012-2013 
Kevin Catherine Castle interview, 2012-09-12 : interview conducted by 
Deborah Fant 
Interview ID: afc2012032_00495 
Date: September 12, 2012 
Duration: 1:20:18 
 
0:00:06.1 Debbie Fant interviewing Kevin Castle at her home in Seattle, 
Washington, on September 19, 2012.  
 
0:00:25.9 Kevin identifies "dockworker" and "longshoreman" as 
occupations.  
 
0:00:49.3 Father was a longshoreman. Her father, during the summers while 
she was in college, let her know when there was extra work that the union 
people couldn’t cover. When she graduated from the University of 
Washington with a history degree and no prospects for a job, the 
longshore union opened up for general hiring. That was 1979, the first 
time that women were hired in the industry. There were 12 women hired.  
 
0:02:40.2 They were hired into a pool of workers. There wasn’t an 
apprenticeship at that time. They were registered with the employer, but 
not union members. After five years, they were elevated to full union 
status.  
 
0:03:15.0 First day on the job was confusing. She had no idea what she 
was doing. She was using tools shed never seen before, using techniques 
of transporting cargo that she’d never done before. She was hired with 
about 140 men and 12 women, and they were all new to the work.  
 
0:04:05.3 Women were mixed in with the men. The system is a strict 
rotation so that the work is distributed equally. She would peg in in the 
morning to let management know she was ready for work. Then the managers 
would go down the pegboard until the work ran out.  
 
0:04:52.5 Kevin learned what she needed to learn through "on the job 
training." You were thrown into the lion’s den to figure it out on your 
own, from watching people, from listening to the foreman. Women were not 
treated very well at that point. They were not given the instruction or 
help to learn that the men were given.  
 
0:06:01.5 That affected Kevin profoundly. It was hard to be in a 
situation where you didn’t know your way around and have people harassing 
you and jeering at you. She had never felt so vulnerable, with no 
support. Longshore work has many skills that you need to learn in order 
to be safe, to do the job effectively. It was hard.  
 
0:07:30.0 Early on Kevin suggested that the women have spaghetti dinners 
where they would get together and support one another, air their 
grievances. They did that one time, and the men went crazy when they 
heard about it. From then on, the women didn’t want to get together. If 
they were together, they’d make a target. Each woman individually was not 
as threatening. She later learned that the men were acting the way they 
did because they felt threatened. Kevin thinks that their image of 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
1
themselves as big, burly longshoremen from "On the Waterfront," the 
movie, was hard to maintain when next to you was a woman who was 5’3" in 
the same job.  
 
0:09:13.1 Many skills involved. The formal categories are trucker, bull 
driver (forklift and semi driver, together), stevedore (people that work 
on the ship), crane operator.  
 
0:10:08.8 Theoretically you could transfer back and forth between 
categories so that everybody had a chance to do something. She never did 
semi driving. Just depended on what you wanted to do, if you got to a 
level where you could do the job, you could go on that pegboard. She did 
forklift driving, crane operating, stevedoring, and trucking.  
 
0:10:59.1 She thought operating a crane would be a challenge and a lot of 
fun. It would be a job she could do without any disadvantage
don’t need 
strength to be a crane operator.  
 
0:11:33.3 She trained for two weeks, and during that time she never 
worked on a ship because they couldn’t take the risk of any damage. As a 
result, you came out of that training without much in the way of a skill.  
 
0:12:05.0 She sought out people to help her, but no one was a consistent 
mentor. Had to learn through trial and error. Times when she did some 
damage, other times when she drove really well. By the end, she was able 
to make about 39 moves an hour, moving a container from the dock onto the 
ship, getting it to fit on the box down below in less than two minutes. 
There are people who are faster. They say it’s only after about five 
years when you start to really get the job down. It’s the most skilled 
job on the waterfront.  
 
0:13:25.1 For crane operating, Kevin would wear casual jeans and a top or 
jacket. When she first started, she had to take a staircase that went 150 
feet up the side of the crane, doing switchbacks all the way. Then you’d 
get into the cab, a glass encased bubble, and turn on the crane. When the 
shift began, the foreman would tell her to go to the dock and load 
containers in a hatch, and shed go back to the shore, pick up a 
container, make an arc over the ship and then put the container below 
deck or stack it on the deck. She’d do that as fast as she could, as many 
times as she could per hour. The shifts stopped at four hours, because it 
was so intense they didn’t want you to work more than four hours.  
 
0:15:32.8 There’s no bathroom! You have to wait until there’s a half hour 
coffee break. The men could piss over the side of the crane, but that 
wasn’t an option for the women.  
 
0:16:18.4 You’d be moving pretty fast to get all of that done. They did 
finally equip the cranes with elevators, so that helped a lot. All of the 
cranes now have elevators, which is good because the cranes now are twice 
as big.  
 
0:16:56.0 All of the new cranes are really huge. As one smaller crane 
stops working, it’s replaced with one of the big ones. The bigger cranes 
are harder to operate because you’re up so much higher, and you cannot 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
2
see. A lot of it was feel. It’s kind of like a blind man negotiating his 
way down the street
the more you do it, the better you get.  
 
0:20:02.2 There were 13 women in the beginning, one dropped out. The rest 
stayed, which was a testament to how good the working conditions were, 
despite it being a heavy, dirty, difficult job. Things were as fair as 
they could be in terms of the distribution of work. The pay and benefits 
were fabulous. Kevin has a pension that allows her to keep a normal 
lifestyle. She doesn’t have to cut back at all. So the union made it a 
better job than it would have been otherwise. The women didn’t have to 
deal with a lot of the things that they’d have to if the union hadn’t 
been there. The job was steady, fair, and regular. All of that meant that 
the trade off was in favor of staying on the job. The women gritted their 
teeth and stuck it out. Kevin started in 1980. She worked 25 years.  
 
0:22:43.6 When she first started out, cranes were used to lift containers 
full of cargo to about 40 60 tons. Within 1 2 minutes she could lift 60 
tons to a ship. In the old way of doing things, a gang might load 5 tons 
in a whole day. A lot of people had worked in the old way when she first 
started out, so she’d hear about the contrast. It always sounded more 
interesting to Kevin because you could see the cargo, you could feel it, 
you could smell it, you knew where it came from, where it was going. But 
on a container job, it was all anonymous. Behind steel walls in a steel 
box, you didn’t know where it was going, where it had come from, what it 
looked like. In the old days it was backbreaking work. Kevin got a small 
taste of what that work was like. It was more meaningful than the 
containerized work, but far less streamlined and efficient.  
 
0:25:28.3 The different colors of containers signify the different 
shipping companies. They didn’t have any control over how things were 
stacked on board or on the dock. On the dock it would be according to the 
cargo going on the next ship, in very strict order depending on what port 
it was going to.  
 
0:26:31.6 All containers were a uniform size, but different colors. 
That’s what makes it so boring. Not only is kind of anonymous and 
alienated because of that, but it is incredibly boring.  
 
0:26:57.0 The ships were pretty uniform. There were cells down below 
deck. You might load 8 containers high below deck. Forty feet long and 
four corners. No variation at all. That’s the genius of it, to make it so 
uniform with everything being the exact same size. It makes it easier and 
faster to load a ship. In the old days, the stevedores would have to take 
cargo of all different shapes and sizes down below and figure out how to 
fit it into the hold so that it wouldn’t fall down mid ocean. Like a 
jigsaw puzzle.  
 
0:28:28.8 Some people combatted the boredom with drugs. She didn’t. She 
would be working, and her mind, as much as possible, was elsewhere. She 
had to be careful because it was dangerous. That was part of the downside 
of it, you had to concentrate at the same time you were completely bored 
with the redundancy of it. She also worked part time the whole time she 
was on the docks. She had a parallel life outside of the docks that was 
more stimulating.  
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
3
 
0:29:38.7 She didn’t keep track of the containers loaded as a stevedore, 
because basically you were sitting "under the hook," under the crane, and 
you had a gang of 6 semi drivers. They’d pick up a container on the dock, 
come around under the hook. You’d unlock the container from the chassis, 
it would be picked up, and then the next one would come. You were just 
doing this one motion. Very routinized. As stevedores, they didn’t take a 
whole lot of pride in how many containers had been loaded because they 
didn’t do much to make that happen. The crane operator could take some 
pride in how many they’d put on. That was one of the things that 
attracted her to the crane job, the difference that you had made.  
 
0:31:04.9 Stevedores were the lowest level of working on the ship or in 
the hold or on the dock, specifically work that was related to loading or 
unloading the cargo. The crane operators were at the top of the 
hierarchy. Then bull drivers, and it would go down from there with 
truckers being the lowest. They were the ones who would load cargo into 
the containers or unload the containers in warehouses. The truckers would 
come onsite, the stevedores would take care of it from there.  
 
0:32:01.0 Bull driver was one nickname. That was the forklift driver, 
with the two forks being the bull’s horns. So that was the only category 
that really had a nickname. Kevin heard stevedores referred to as "steve
a whores.  
 
0:32:59.1 To move up, people would make an effort during their lunch 
hour, like her sister, who also worked on the docks. She wanted to be a 
semi driver. She’d go out on her lunch hour with a semi driver and 
practice doing the job when no work was being done on the docks and it 
was safe. Then she didn’t have to prove that she knew how to do the job, 
she’d just peg onto that board, then drive. With crane operating, there 
was a regular training program and you had to be certified in order to 
drive.  
 
0:34:28.7 Women were hazed. You’d be trying to learn to drive a forklift, 
trying to fit your forks under a pallet, your forks might be uneven. 
You’d have to know how to work with that imperfection. At the same time, 
you’d have men making fun of you. "Oh, come on, Castle! What’re you 
doing? What’s the holdup? What’s taking so long?" That was the main form 
that harassment took. Mainly verbal.  
 
0:35:36.5 Kevin was grabbed one time on the job on her breast. She didn’t 
hear of other women having gone through that. There was less physical and 
more psychological harassment. Initially she didn’t fight back because 
she didn’t want to fuel any more harassment. She was in a situation where 
she had no support, so she withdrew. Later, she learned how to cut 
someone in half verbally. She started fighting back by being very good at 
putting someone in their place. But that was ten years into it.  
 
0:37:31.5 The women were divided by a strong desire to get "in" with the 
guys. You didn’t want the harassment to continue on an intense level. It 
was "survival of the fittest." The women tried to individually better 
their own conditions. Kevin was in a unique position because her father 
had been an officer in the union at a time when the left wing ran the 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
4
local union. When she arrived in 1980, it was the zenith of right wing 
politics with Ronald Reagan. And that was reflected in the leadership of 
the union. She was known as a left winger, as a communist and a feminist. 
The women wanted to distance themselves from her.  
 
0:39:03.0 Kevin’s father got caught up in the idea of Kevin being a 
pioneer, which also meant that he was far less understanding of the 
struggles that she was going through. Often she’d complain about the 
harassment and say that she’d leave, and he felt such an investment in 
her remaining there and carrying on the banner of unionism and being a 
pioneer that he didn’t want to see that change. So he wasn’t sympathetic. 
"Its fine, you’re not really suffering as much as you say you are." Then 
at the worst point, he called Kevin "anti union" because of her 
complaints about the harassment. It was very painful.  
 
0:40:29.9 What kept her in the union? She’s asked that question of 
herself a hundred times. She thinks it was what kept the other women in, 
the working conditions were so good. She could deal with the harassment 
and alienation by cutting down the amount of time she actually worked. So 
she’d work 3 days a week. The waterfront is open 7 days a week, 24 hours 
a day. You could pick the shift that you wanted. There was so much 
flexibility and freedom that she could do something else that was more 
satisfying, and that tended to balance out how alienating it was. But it 
never was a good fit for her. She was left wing and a feminist, she was 
college educated, so she did not fit in on the docks. She was a loner up 
until the end of the time that she was working there.  
 
0:41:58.9 Kevin usually stuck with day shift, but they had one shift 
called a "hoot owl," where you could work five hours, from 3am to 8am, 
and get paid for 8 hours. You could hide out. There weren’t many people 
around, it was the early hours of the morning. It was one place you could 
escape to if you wanted to. Occasionally she worked nights, which were 
mellower than the daytime.  
 
0:42:48.8 Meals: By the end of the time she was there, she was eating out 
in Pioneer Square. She brought food for break time, usually something 
like cheese, a pear, some crackers. She tried to make it as healthy as 
she could. That was another way in which she differed from so many of the 
people. Occasionally shed work off the coffee truck that would come 
around, and that had donuts, coffee, snacks. Mostly she brought her own, 
and mostly other people got donuts. But going out offered her a respite 
from the work, so she really enjoyed that time. And she could afford to 
do it.  
 
0:44:32.5 A regular day’s schedule: Every day begins with going to the 
hiring hall. There were two times for the dispatching of work. One was at 
7 am in the morning, the other was at 5 pm in the evening. It was at 5 in 
the evening that you’d get a hoot owl job. You’d be assigned that job or 
you would peg in to get that job. You’d go home and try to sleep until 2 
am, then show up a little before 3 am. Most of the time she worked days 
and would arrive at the hiring hall a couple minutes before 7 am. The 
hiring hall was an amazing experience. It would be like a social scene, 
like a cocktail party. People standing around in little groups, 
discussing the job they’d had the day before, what they wanted to get 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
5
that day, what they knew about the ships that were in port. "Oh, there’s 
going to be a Hanjin ship in next and it looks like it’ll be an early 
day," which meant that there would be only 100 moves on that ship that 
you’d have to complete. That was always what people were looking for—"the 
gravy." The job where you worked the least amount and got the full day’s 
pay. That was another union condition. You got a full day’s pay 
regardless of when you left the job, if the job were complete. There 
would be this scene, originally, there were all these people smoking, 
laughing, joking, discussing serious things about where the work was, all 
at 7 in the morning! The only thing that was missing was a cocktail! But 
it was boisterous, you’d walk into the hall and the sound of a hundred 
voices and laughter. . .very lively! 
 
0:47:08.8 First time she went in the union hall: Very intimidating.  
 
0:48:03.6 Learning how to choose the good jobs would take a while. She 
just went for the safe, secure choices on the work. Rather than generally 
making that big calculation. But it was true that being a kind of a 
loner, she didn’t get a lot of that information. All the work was easy 
for the most part, so it didn’t matter a huge amount.  
 
0:48:48.3 Difference in union hall at 5pm from 7am: It differed only in 
that it dispatched work for that day shift. There was a little bit 
different flavor to the scene in the afternoon. It was more laid back. 
People were not bright eyed and bushy tailed. They had spent their day 
usually taking it easy because they knew they’d be working from 6pm until 
2 or 3 in the morning. So it just had a more laid back feel to it.  
 
0:49:46.0 The appearance of the port: It was beautiful! Because she had 
one of the most amazing views of the mountains and the water. She would 
go during her lunch hour or break, drive to the very end of the pier. It 
was an incredible feeling to be out there. There were times it was so 
foggy that you felt like you were floating. That was one of the things 
that appealed to her about the work, was how pretty the surroundings 
were. She became a "birder" while she worked on the docks, so shed take 
her binoculars and watch the birds on the docks. They had snowy owls 
roost on the end of the pier. There was a lot of beautiful scenery.  
 
0:51:22.0 DF: Tell me about one of the most dangerous days that you had. 
Was there every something that happened that made the job particularly 
dangerous? I know there’s a lot of danger inherent in the work itself 
because you’re working around heavy machinery. You’d have to be mindful.  
 
0:51:56.3 Yeah, you have to be mindful. If you’re being harassed, a lot 
of times you’re not very mindful. The worst danger she was in, there were 
two times. One where she walked into the field where the container was 
coming down off the ship. It was on top of her, and if somebody hadn’t 
said something, she didn’t know what would have happened. Because even if 
she hadn’t been squashed, she would have been knocked out. That was a 
scary experience. (Did he
the crane operator
simply not see you?) 
Right. He didn’t see me. They’re focusing on other things. I can’t 
remember the other thing right now
I’ll have to get back to you on it. 
But that was one thing my Dad told me, you learned to look where your 
feet are to see that you aren’t going to step in something. That’s very 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
6
common
to look down. People don’t think about looking UP. And you really 
have to do that. They have a term for that, which is "Heads Up!" Look up. 
When you were working in the hold, you had a winch driver who was working 
the crane that was on the ship. He would bring in cargo from the dock 
into the hold of the ship. You often were right near where he was coming 
down, so you had to really be mindful in that situation. 
 
0:54:22.1 Nicknames: I can tell you some nicknames of people down there. 
That was very common. There was a guy called Ugliss. His nickname became 
"Useless." Then there was a guy who came into the industry at the age of 
55, so he was older than all of us. He was a scrawny Irish guy. His name 
was 
 Flannery. People called him "Flannery Will Get You Nowhere." (DF: 
Did you have a nickname?) No, not that I heard. "Katerina" was what 
they’d call me, with reference to Russian communist, or "Castelina."  
 
0:56:09.6 Any joking because Kevin is usually a man’s name? Not that she 
was aware of. People generally asked what people asked everywhere else, 
which was "Did your father want a boy?" Kevin was named after an Irish 
freedom fighter, a ballad called "The Ballad of Kevin Berry." And her 
mother really loved that ballad. It’s a unique name, but one that also 
builds character! She got assigned to boy’s gym in junior high
things 
like that would happen.  
 
0:57:16.9 Sexual harassment: Well, this is gonna be pretty raunchy. Is 
that okay? There was a guy named 
 who worked down there. He was 
a tall guy, dark, almost had a baby face. But he had a really vicious 
wit. And he would use it against everybody, but he especially targeted 
me. So one time I was working on an apple ship, and it was break time. 
There was kind of a loose circle of workers. I was sitting down on a 
railing and eating my break food, looking down, minding my business. And 
I hear Bob saying, "Hey, Castle!" And so I looked up and said, "Yes?" And 
he said, "Have you ever forgotten to take your tampax out?" So, of 
course, there’s no "right" answer to that question! He said, "Because, I 
was eating my girlfriend last night, and she had forgotten to take her 
tampax out." And meanwhile, everybody is laughing uproariously, and I’m 
sitting there not wanting, not able, to say anything. There were no other 
women on the job, I was the only woman. All these men, all of them 
looking to see how I would react. And, he said, "So she had forgotten to 
take her tampax out, and now I think I’m suffering from Toxic Shock 
Syndrome," to all kinds of laughter. That totally ruined my morning. And 
he was working in the same hatch with me, luckily on the other side of 
the hatch. The gangs would be divided into two, and one would take the 
after end of the hatch, and one would take the forward end of the hatch. 
So, I was the pallet driver, and every time Bob got a chance, he asked 
me, "So, who’s Mr. Right? Who’s your man? Surely you must have a 
boyfriend, if not a husband." And I, again, didn’t say anything. But he 
kept at it, kept at it, "Who’s Mr. Right?" So finally, I just got so mad. 
We were working with apple boxes and one corner hit my arm in such a way 
that I really got bruised. That made me angry. So Bob, once again, says, 
"Aren’t you going to tell us, Castle, who’s Mr. Right?" And I turned to 
him and I say, "Bob, you want to know who Mr. Right is?" He says, yeah. I 
said, "You’re Mr. Right." And he didn’t know what to say! And I said, 
"Yeah, I’ve been thinking about you all this time, I was thinking that 
maybe you and I could get together and go to lunch." And he’s trying not 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
7
= 
to, he’s got his back turned, and as I’m baiting him, there’s a shift, 
where the other men, instead of laughing at what he was saying, they 
start to laugh at what I’m saying. And one of the guys says, "What’s the 
matter? She’s asking you out to lunch!" So the foreman leaned over the 
railing, and said Hey, time for lunch." And Bob was the first person who 
went up that ladder. That was where I started to learn that I could turn 
the tables on these guys if I wanted to. Any time after that, when he 
would start to bother me, I’d say, "Bob, you broke my heart, man. I 
wanted to take you out to lunch, I wanted to get together with you" and 
like that. It would usually stop the harassment.  
 
1:02:58.9 The worst time was when Kevin was grabbed by a foreman on the 
breast. That was really shocking. She mounted a campaign of trying to 
turn that whole situation around where she went to the Executive Board 
and asked that there be fines for sexual assault. That had never come up 
because there hadn’t been women. She told the Executive Board what 
happened, told them she was accosted on the job, and there should be 
fines for that because there were fines for assault. So the Executive 
Board agreed, but any motion that passed the Executive Board had to go to 
the membership to be voted on. This was the way in which the democracy 
that ruled the waterfront worked against any progressive or forward
thinking ideas. It didn’t pass the membership. The employer wasn’t 
exerting any pressure to the union or to the men on the job to stop 
harassing. The union was sexist leadership at that time. And the 
membership was sexist. But they had ideal working conditions: the union 
was protecting them as workers but not as women.  
 
1:05:26.4 Kevin got involved in union politics as a way to make the work 
more interesting. She had some experience in organizing. But that was 
really threatening to the men. The idea that this communist feminist was 
going to come in and have influence over the landscape was apparently 
intolerable to the men. There were so many obstacles to getting anything 
done that it became totally counter productive. It took her a year, for 
example, to get a banner made for the union. At that time they were going 
to rallies that would involve many different unions, and all the other 
unions had banners. So it seemed like a very innocent project. It took a 
year to get that done. It was at that point that she said, This is just 
too much.  
 
1:07:27.7 A lot of this sounds like ‘woe is me. And I have to say that 
the work offered me a very rich life, not just in the wages but also in 
the flexibility of it and the time I could take off. And the fact that I 
could be independent financially was a real boost to my self esteem. 
Prior to working there Id had minimum wage jobs. So to be free of my 
parents, to be independent of any man, was a tremendous experience for 
me. I don’t know whether I ever would have gained that were it not for 
being down there.  
 
1:08:51.1 Kevin can drive a fork lift, drive a jack, tie a variety of 
knots, work with a turnbuckle. That’s in fact one of the other dangerous 
jobs. In order to lash the containers to the ship, you have to take a 
long metal pole that is made of steel, a 24 foot steel rod, and you have 
to take it up and hook it into the pocket of the container that you’re 
working on. The way they’re lashed is that the cross. Then they’re 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
8
attached to the deck with a turnbuckle. But to pick up a steel pole 
that’s 24 feet long, and try to maneuver it to hook into the pocket of 
the container, was difficult for Kevin because her body weight was not 
sufficient to do that safely. She’d be underneath and literally could get 
knocked. That was one of the more dangerous jobs on the dock, called 
"lashing." Holding up one of those poles and almost falling over from the 
weight of it.  
 
1:11:15.4 She gained better spatial orientation: She can tell you what a 
20 foot length looks like, can identify a 40 foot length mainly because 
she worked with those containers. Most women don’t have that experience 
of learning spatial relationships. The other thing she knows how to do is 
"banding," where you take whatever the cargo is, usually lumber, and you 
stack it up into a block and put banding around it, and operate a banding 
machine. The crane operating involves so many skills that it’s hard to 
separate them out. Some are kinesthetic, where you just have to work, 
create a rhythm and deal with all the levers while you’re moving. You 
have to take a container up and set it down right on top of a container 
underneath it. And you have to have all four corners lined up. You have 
to be able to get it so that it fits into the pockets of the other one. 
So that’s where the spatial relationships and the kinesthetic. . .You’re 
driving blind, so you have to learn how it feels when the rack is down. 
It’s really a jack of all trades kind of job.  
 
1:13:18.2 She had the experience, one time, of sitting on a couch after 
working on the crane. She was talking with someone on the phone, and all 
of a sudden she began to feel like she was moving, swaying back and 
forth, and it was like somebody getting their sea legs onboard a ship and 
its moving. It was from the movement of the crane back and forth. She got 
used to it after a while, but it was disorienting.  
 
1:14:10.0 Life besides longshore work: Kevin was politically active, did 
community organizing. One of the biggest campaigns she worked on involved 
environmental and union interests. Around 1987, 1988, the Navy wanted to 
locate its home port at Pier 91. The Queen Anne Community Council 
(neighborhood community council) didn’t want the noise of a home port or 
the traffic that it would involve. The union didn’t want to lose those 
piers with all the apple operations. Environmental groups didn’t want a 
nuclear navy in Puget Sound. Kevin got all those people together and 
forged a successful campaign to keep it from happening. She would work on 
projects like that. She was also a writer
still is a writer. She would 
travel.  
 
1:16:02.0 Kevin says that she’s a longshore worker. Where that term comes 
from is, in the old days a ship would come into port. There would 
literally be men lined up on the shore in anticipation of the ship coming 
in, to get hired. They were called "men along the shore." That became 
longshore workers or longshoremen. These days, she mainly identifies 
herself as a retired crane operator. That was the job she identified most 
with.  
 
1:17:02.0 The other thing about driving crane is that there’s nobody next 
to you giving you a hard time. You’re up there all by yourself. The only 
person you deal with is the foreman, over the radio. You’re in control of 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
9
the job. You set the pace, determine when everybody gets to go home by 
how fast you’ve driven. So you have an immense amount of control, and 
you’ve above it all! So it was quite nice. And you’re engrossed in a way 
that you’re not on the dock, unlocking chassis.  
 
1:18:31.5 I would do the crane operating again. And some things about the 
experience have been positive. But I can’t help wondering what I would’ve 
been if I wasn’t on the waterfront. It took its toll. For all the women, 
not just me. There was a balance of benefits and costs. On balance, I 
guess it was the best choice for me.  
 
1:19:25.4 Kevin was 5’3" and about 125 pounds. "You don’t need to be 
tall, but there were times when her feet were kind of dangling. There was 
a crane operator who was shorter than I was. He brought blocks in and 
attached them to the bottom of his shoes and was able to drive.” 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
10