1 
 
Gina Ilemangit Bi-Lingual Questionnaires  
 
Interview Location: Tumon, Guam 
Age of Interviewee: 40 years 
Island of Birth: 
Lamotrek Atoll 
Audio Language: 
Woleaian (Lamotrekese Dialect) 
Recording afc2022011_021_sr001 
00:01 Question 1 
1.   Thinking back, what are your very earliest memories of, or about, weaving? 
A. Woleaian: Hare hobwe liwaney tefaliy igawe mmwal yamw kabung teor iwe nge metta 
menne ho shuiyel mangiy me reli wonunul yam kabung tog me giula teor? 
 
Interviewee in Woleaian: 00:15 Iy shuiyel mangiy wonunul shapetagel yai bwe kabung 
teor. Iy kabung bugubug, me buloigela ye gale gilgil, 
mwoimwoi me iyang. Iy mato tiw pipiy siley, mekela ye fori, iy 
ya kekabung ngaliyei. Ila menne ye farigit pilal ibwe komwal 
giula, bugubug. 
 
Interviewee in English: 
I still remember how I began learning how to weave. I learned 
to tie the local fibers and threads together, where one thread 
ends and the next begins. I would sit with my mother and 
watch her, and watch what she did, and she was teaching me 
in the process. The very first of many processes of weaving is 
to learn to tie the fibers and threads, and that is the important 
thing I first learned to do before proceeding further. 
 
 
00:50 Question 2 
2.   In your mind, who is the one person you most associate with weaving in your life and 
why? 
A. Woleaian: Lan yamw niniwan nge iteoiu semal ye kail yamw fil ngali reli yamw 
kabung/fefortog teor? Iwe nge yebwe mwel hobwe hamatefa fal? 
Interviewee in Woleaian: 01:05 Mmwal yai kabung nge e fil ngali siley bwe iye menne iy fil 
ibwe hasiy ngali mekela itagiula, wonunul haforil teor, iwe siley 
menne iy hasiy ngali. 
 
Interviewee in English: 
When I started learning to weave, I felt most comfortable 
learning with and from my mother. My mother is who I felt most 
comfortable with, and I was able to ask her what I did not know 
or understand in the process of making lavalava, so my mother 
is who I asked when I was unsure about something as I was 
learning to weave. 
 
 
01:40 Question 3 
3.   Why is weaving so important to you? 
2 
 
A.   Woleaian: Metta menne teor ye kail yal farigit pilal ngalug iyang? 
Interviewee in Woleaian: 01:45 Farikitgit pilal teor ngaliyei/ngaligish bwe ila menne 
mwengagush, me sew faurimil iye si yang wol. Si yatemagiliy 
bwe yebwe yor teor, hare gangiu e yatemagiliy yebwe yor yai 
teor bwe yebwe yor maas, me hariya, yai liffang ngali yaremat, 
02:16 nge teor menne ibwe fang. Me rei ngo halongal faikitgit 
pilal menne teor. 
 
Interviewee in English: 
Weaving is important because that is our clothing. It is what we 
wear, and it is something that we use in many instances, as it 
also has monetary value in the traditional sense. We use it as 
burial shrouds and such at funerals, we use it to give in 
exchange for pardons if and when there is a disagreement or 
fight between people or families, and I also use it as gifts for 
friends and people I know and wish to give gifts of lavalava to. 
In my opinion, weaving and the products of weaving are 
essential in the society I live in, and it is most valuable to me. 
 
 
02:28  Question 4 
4.   How has weaving or woven skirts changed over your lifetime, or since the lifetime of 
those who taught you? 
A.   Woleaian: Ifa senegal yal teor me kabungul teor niniwel tog reli yamw giula me 
kabungtog ye holatog igela? Hare ya liwe tangi yatokawe ho kabung me yatol malewar me 
lan malewar reshokela ho kabung tangier. 
 
Interviewee in Woleaian: 02:49 Ununnul yal liwel, menne gang e giula nge yatoye ila 
kabung teor iwe nge siley ye haingaliyei bwe ir re gogo nge 
minal faluiyas. Re spegil hafori gilifeo me wiish. 03:12 Ra log tog 
ya yor tog teres, ra gogo teres nge yetai towlap matemetal 
color ye butog bwe black and white menne ir re gogo. 03:30 Iwe 
ununnul yal liwel, me rei gang nge e sor bwe ya masherag bwe 
ya towlap matemetal color ka ya yor resh. 
   
Interviewee in English: 
My mother has told me of the changes in weaving and in 
lavalava in her lifetime. I’ve seen some of these changes, and 
others I’ve heard about. My mother’s generation prepared, 
wove, and wore lavalava made only of local fibers, which were 
from certain kinds of banana and hibiscus specifically planted 
for use in weaving. The introduction of thread came, and so 
they started making lavalava using thread, although at the time 
they only had black and white, and so it is what they wove and 
wore and alternated with their banana and hibiscus fiber 
lavalava. The changes that I have witnessed and saw over 
time, I would say it has become easier today as we do not 
have to cut hibiscus and bananas and process them, and 
instead we have thread in various colors which we use today 
to make lavalava. 
 
 
 
3 
 
03:50 Question 5  
5.    If you could talk to your great-granddaughter about weaving, what would you want to tell 
her? 
A.   Woleaian: Hare iga hobwe haingali laiun laiul laum sari shobut kofal teor/foril teor, metta 
menne ho tipeli hobwe haingali? 
Interviewee in Woleaian: 04:02 Ibwe haingali me haskula ngali mekela gangiu e fasiul fori. 
Yebwe kabung haforil teor bwe ila yebwe fasiul log lago bwe 
rer shobut yebwe gogo teor. Ilal menne yash yengang shobut, 
teor. 04:28 Ir rebwe fasiul giula bwe yor mekela yebwe wel nge 
ikela meka ir rebwe yang wol, bwe teor ye farikitgit pilal 
ngaligish shobut bwe sibwe giula foril. Ila fal menne sibwe 
haskula ngalir laiush me laiun laiush. 
 
 
Interviewee in English: 
I would tell her and teach her the way I learned, and teach her 
how I make my lavalava. I would teach her so she knows how 
to weave and produce lavalava because it is expected that all 
island women wear lavalava, and she will wear hers when she 
reaches adolescence. Weaving and producing lavalava, or 
“teor”, is a woman’s task.