AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
Civil Rights History Project 
Interview completed by the Southern Oral History Program 
under contract to the 
American Folklife Center, Library of Congress, 2016 
Interviewee: Roberta Alexander 
Interview Date: June 29, 2016 
Location: San Diego, CA 
Interviewer: David Cline 
Videographer: John Bishop 
Length: approximately 2 hours, 10 minutes 
START OF RECORDING 
DAVID CLINE: Two. Are you ready? Okay. Good morning. It is June 29th, 
2016. This is David Cline of the History Department at Virginia Tech and also working with 
the Southern Oral History Program at UNC in Chapel Hill. This morning we are recording for 
the Civil Rights History Project, and we're in San Diego, California. This project is sponsored 
by the Library of Congress and also the Smithsonian's National Museum of African American 
History and Culture. Behind the camera today we have John Bishop of Media Generation and 
UCLA. We're also joined behind the camera by Guha Shankar of the Library of Congress and 
Jessica Joliet of Pillars of the Community, which is a local organization we’ll hear a little bit 
more about, here in San Diego. So we are incredibly honored to be able to be able to spend 
1 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
some time this morning with Roberta Alexander. This is the one time I'll coach you at all in our 
entire conversation, but if you could introduce yourself with a full sentence, “I am” or “My 
name is ...” and your name and where and when you were born and then we'll talk. 
ROBERTA ALEXANDER: I'm Roberta Alexander, and I was born in December 
nineteen forty six, in Berkeley, California. 
DC: Great, so Roberta, I'd love to start with you telling us a little bit about your 
family background and how that may have influenced you as you grew up. 
RA: My family background definitely influenced me and my brother and sister very, 
very much. My great - no, not my great grandfather — my grandfather was a slave, and that 
seems hard to imagine if you try to do the math, but he was bom in 1842, and he died in 1942. 
And.. .the article that was written about him in a Omaha newspaper said, wrote about his 
having been a slave, and my father had known he had been a slave, and also wrote about him 
having participated in the Pony Express. 
My father grew up on the, between the Omaha Indian Reservation and Sioux City, Iowa. 
So most of his life, he — his younger life, he identified as not a member of the tribe, because he 
knew he wasn't a member of a tribe, but all of his friends were kids from the reservation or the 
kids in Sioux City, Iowa, who were like the children of packing house workers, because his 
mother would go there to work in the packing houses at that time. 
DC: How did he come to be associated with the reservation? 
RA: Because of his father. His father actually spoke- my grandfather spoke 
Winnebago, Omaha and Sioux and according to my dad, Sioux and Omaha are closely related 
languages and Winnebago is more different. And according to family lore is he got this job on 
the Pony Express, which would not have lasted very long, because the Pony Express was only 
2 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
in existence for about a year and a half. But, because he could speak the Indian languages and 
could go through some areas where other people couldn't go - and he did it on the condition that 
he would tell the white people nothing about what the Indians were doing. 
DC: So they ended up living there? 
RA: So yes, so they ended up living there, but it was mostly my grandmother who 
was home. My grandfather was... did lots of different things. He was an itinerant musician, 
actually, and he played the Jew's harp, and he travelled with a guy named Giles who played the 
twelve string guitar. He also was a bootlegger for a period of time. He also rustled cattle and 
sold cattle. So he was not home very often, but he did manage to have ten children! And my 
grandmother was a little Scot Irish lady who ended up on, living mostly on the reservation. 
DC: Amazing family background. And so... and then your own father and his 
siblings? 
RA: So my father was bom in nineteen fourteen. So if you do the math his father 
was pretty old when he was born. My father had nine siblings, five girls and five boys [total] 
and three of the girls died of different things. One of the flu - the flu pandemic, another of 
tuberculosis and the third one in a fire, when they were home because they were often home 
alone [05:00] when she was working in the packing houses in Sioux City, Iowa, and I think she 
was ironing or something and there was a fire. So she died in that. 
DC: And did he stay, your father, in that area? 
RA: Well, that's an interesting question, because - no, in the end he came to 
California. But growing up, he... at one point we did an oral history with my dad, and at one 
point he said, “home, what was home? We were always staying with different people.” So if 
you think about it his mother also died fairly early because she had tuberculosis. She died when 
3 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
he was fifteen, but growing up, he was sometimes in Sioux City, Iowa, with his mother. He 
was sometimes on the reservation, with his mother. At other times, he was with his brother, 
Earl Alexander, and at another time he was in Flint, Michigan, with another brother, Mark 
Alexander, who worked in the automobile plants and was very religious, and my father sort of 
ran away from there, but he worked as a bellhop in Flint, Michigan. So, between the years of 
ten and fifteen, he must have lived in ten or fifteen different places and done just as many jobs. 
Urn, there's one [job] in particular that I would like to tell you about: When he was about 
twelve, he decided to work — to ride the rails and get work in the harvest in Minnesota. And 
when we had the reunion for our family on the reservation, we could see that the rail lines go 
right through the reservation. It would have been easy for him to hop on, so he did, twelve year 
old, twelve — thirteen years old, he goes to Minnesota riding the rails. He gets off someplace, 
and he asks around, “Does anybody need any help doing the harvest?” So he finds this farmer 
and the guy says, “Yeah, I need some help and this is where I live and come out at six o'clock,” 
or something like that, and I'll get you set up. And he gave my dad some money to buy some 
food, but he didn't give him any money to get out to the farm. The farm was about five miles 
out, or he didn't offer him a ride, I should say. And my dad gets out there and the farmer’s 
doing chores. So my dad helps him do the chores with different animals, you know, the 
chickens and milking all the cows and everything. Then he goes into the bunkhouse and the 
farmer's wife brings him food. He always talks about food, because that was really important, 
because he said he was hungry ninety-nine percent of the time. So he says, “She brought me 
sandwiches and some milk, and I thought, ‘Oh, this is cool,’ and the farmer offered to pay me 
fifty cents a day, and that's terrific.” So he notices that in the bunkhouse, there's a bunch of all 
grown men, and they're all white, of course. So anyway, one of them comes up to him and he 
4 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
says, “So what are you doing here, coon?” or some kind of, you know, derogatory term really, 
my dad would say he didn't know what that meant, at that stage, and he says, “Well, I'm here to 
work the harvest.” And the guy says, “Really, you’re here to work the harvest?” “Yeah.” 
“What’s he paying you?” “Fifty cents a day.” And the guy says, “Fifty cents a day and you're 
doing chores on top of it?!” He says, “Yeah,” ‘cause he's so proud of himself and the guy says 
to him - they’re Scandinavian, by the way, my father said, they're Swedes, Norwegians and so 
forth - and the guy says, “You can't work for fifty cents a day, you're a worker, just like we are. 
You have to get a dollar a day, just like we do.” Then my dad says, “Oh, oh, oh, this is 
terrific!” you know? But he's kind of nervous because the guy was calling him a “shine” and a 
“coon” and all of these things. So, next morning at breakfast... my dad explains his breakfast 
[was] sausage, biscuits, gravy, pancakes, bacon, eggs! And he says, in the middle of all of this 
feast, this guy stands up and tells the farmer, “We understand you’re hiring this boy for fifty 
cents a day?” The farmer says, “That's right, “and he [the farm hand] says, “No, you can't do 
that. Either you fire him or you give him a dollar a day,” and then the guy [farmer] says, “Well, 
I don't know what to do,” .. .he [the farm hand] says “No, actually, you give him a dollar a day 
or we strike.” [laughter] 
My dad's going, “Strike! He's going to strike! I barely finished my breakfast!” because 
he knew what a strike was. He had lived in Sioux City, Iowa, with his mother in the late teens 
and in the early twenties, and there were strikes at the packing house, and he would describe all 
of the people who were on strike. And it was amazing, ‘cause he listed [10:00] Mexicans, 
Syrians and Poles and Russians, as well as a few black folks and a few Indians. And at that 
time there was a real campaign of terror against the strikers. So, for example, my dad would 
never sit at night in front of a window that was not covered. Ku Klux Klan would march down 
5 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
the street, and he felt they targeted his mom, but then he's, because she had these black kids, but 
then he said, “No, they targeted everybody, and they would throw rocks in the windows and 
terrorize folks.” 
So, back to the breakfast. He says, “Strike! We can't go on strike. I have barely 
finished my breakfast!” and the guy says, “Nope, we're going to do this.” So, the owner says, 
“Well, okay, but he's got to carry his weight.” So, my dad starts working with them and he's 
running as fast as he can. It was what they called “shocking grain,” so the grain would be cut, 
and then they would pick it up and tie it up and pile it in piles [shocks]. So he was running. So, 
the guy says to him, “What you doing running like that? You're not supposed to be setting the 
pace! You see him [another worker]? You go as fast as he goes and you don't go any faster.” 
He says, “OK, I'm just trying to prove—” [coughs] excuse me, “I'm just trying prove that I can 
keep up my — keep up with everybody else.” So the long story short, he works there for about 
a month, he makes about thirty dollars, and he's so happy, he's getting ready to go home. And 
the guy says, “Okay, so now you understand we’re the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW), 
and you need to join [us], and so you can get a membership for ten cents a month, and here's 
your card.” And so my dad gave the guy thirty cents and he had a little red card for being a 
member of the IWW and at that time, I guess he might have been the youngest one, and also he 
was a black kid up in the Midwest. And so it was a pretty, it was a pretty special designation. 
DC: What an amazing story! [laughter in the background] 
RA: So that's just one story! 
DC: We’ve just started! I can't wait, can’t wait for the rest of this. Fantastic! Yes, 
thank you! 
6 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
RA: I think, I think that story is very important because he had — although his mother 
was white, he was always around the Native Americans and the African Americans who 
were living in Sioux City, and he said he didn't know very many white people. And yet, 
he had this experience where these grown white guys, you know, stood up for his rights. 
He was a little scared, because they were known for, like, they would burn somebody's 
field down, you know. They were anarchists, I guess, in part. And, you know, he was 
frightened by the whole thing, and he was also confused, and he spoke up when they, he 
spoke up to the guy, he says, “You know, you guys are calling me shine and coon and 
all those — that makes me feel kind of funny. I would prefer you just call me by my 
name,” and that was kind of interesting, and most of them did, but they would forget 
and call him those, those names anyway. But, I think that was a very formative moment 
for him, as well as having experienced - as a child - his mother's work in the packing 
house and the strikes — strikes there, which were very multiracial, multiethnic. 
DC: Now, did he tell you these stories when you were growing up? Did you know 
these stories of the unions? 
RA: I only knew some of these stories. I didn't really get any of the details until we 
did an oral history on him in nineteen seventy-five. I knew about the Indians because they 
showed up in Los Angeles once. A whole family, didn't tell anybody [they were coming] and 
they just arrived, and we took care of them. Half of them - half my cousins had TB, and they 
were put in sanitariums. But we had other cousins who would stay at different, different 
brothers’ houses in L.A. So I knew about that, and we would do stuff like the squaw dance and 
things like that. And we would eat fry bread when they came. Yeah. 
DC: So, you, you had some awareness of this heritage. 
7 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
RA: Oh, yes, I did have awareness. Yes, I did. 
DC: So how about... you say, your father eventually ended up in California, but can 
you tell us a bit about your mother? 
RA: Okay. Can I tell you a little more about my grandmother? 
DC: Absolutely. 
RA: So, my father only went to about the fifth grade, and my grandmother was a real 
fighter from — and this is another part of making my dad who he was. For example, he loved 
school. He even talked about how he liked his teachers. [15:00] This is when he would have 
been in Sioux City. And they had a substitute one day, and the substitute was mean! And she 
was hitting the kids on their fingers with a ruler. So he got hit once, and then I don't know what 
he did. He doesn't even remember what he did. But he came back... she came back and hit him 
again. And he said to himself, “She's not gonna hit me no more.” And she took — he snatched 
the ruler out of her hand, broke it in half and threw it out the window. Well, this substitute 
teacher kind of had a fit after that happened. Very upset and was kicking him out of school. He 
went home and told his mother what happened. His mother came back [to the school] and, you 
know, they had inkwells at that time and she just picked up the inkwell... .she told off this 
woman for treating the children badly, and she threw the ink at this teacher. And then they 
marched away! Another time they were trying to get enrolled in school and they didn't have 
shoes. And they [the school] said, “You can't [be in school and not] have shoes,” so Mother 
said, “Well, let's just go,” they left and he needed to find work anywhere, anyway. And that's 
when his education stopped. So imagine, Sioux City, Iowa, and you don't have shoes. 
So my mother's family — that's another story. 
8 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
My grandmother comes from Vilna, which is Lithuania. We grew up understanding that it was 
sometimes [part of] Russia and it was sometimes [part of] Poland, and they were Jewish and 
they emigrated. Well, the family was very, was revolutionary. They were anti-Czar, and the 
family back there [in Vilna] was Orthodox Jew - the family that she grew up in, but she and all 
of her, almost all of her siblings eventually came to the United States after nineteen oh five 
revolution. 
And my grandfather was Russian, and I don't know where he was from, but [a] Russian 
Jew. But, he was a very angry, bitter, mean man. He had a shoe repair store in St. Louis, and 
when my mother later met my father in California, he disowned her, my mother, because my 
father was black. Well, we said Negro at that time, and so my grandmother decided to leave 
him because she was not going to disown her daughter. 
DC: Wow! 
RA: Yeah! And this whole — all of her siblings — they did not practice Judaism as a 
religion, really. But they spoke Yiddish, that was their main language; they were culturally 
Jewish and they were all very, very progressive and involved in the movement in some way or 
another. My grandmother worked in the garment industry, [pause] 
My grandmother was very upset with the Jewish religion because, for example, the boys 
could go to school and she couldn't, so my grandmother was essentially illiterate. She could 
read a little bit of Yiddish, and she could, and very little bit of English her whole life. But they 
were always very, very progressive. And my parents met because at some young Communist 
League party in Los Angeles. I have a lot of stories about how my father decided to become a 
Communist, I don't know if you have time for them? 
DC: How about one or two? 
9 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
RA: One or two! So my father, when he was maybe twelve, did a short job in the — in 
the packing house, which was, and [it] just involved opening the door so somebody else 
carrying a big hunk of meat could get through. And he worked as a shoeshine boy at different 
places for a lot of his life, at that age and as a shoeshine boy, somebody came by. Some young 
woman, he said, came by got a shoeshine and then left him a copy of the Communist 
Manifesto. So he's trying to read the Communist Manifesto because he's kind of impressed. 
Nobody ever gave a book before or anything, but he didn't have the skills to do it. So he asked 
his boss and his boss says, “That's terrible! That's terrible stuff!“ He [my father] says “OK,” 
and he throws it away, [20:00] and then when his boss is not there, he picks it up again. And he 
had a very good relationship with the banker in town and even figured out how to borrow fifty 
dollars from the banker for his brother to buy a truck. He had this nice relationship, so he 
figured the banker could help him. So he shows the banker his copy of the Communist 
Manifesto [laughter] and the banker says, “That's terrible revolutionary crap, terrible, terrible!” 
So my father throws it away again. But, then he starts thinking, “Well, this is kind of an 
interesting book,” and he keeps trying, but he really can't read it. And at some point, this young 
woman comes back and she says, “How are you doing with the book?” And he says, “Actually, 
I can't read it, I can't read well enough. I'd be happy to talk to you about it, but I can't read.” 
And then he was invited to a party and was rather amazed, you know, that the party was all 
white people. And he mentioned Jews and Russians and Scandinavians and things like that at 
the party. But everybody was nice to him and inclusive, and they started, when they heard his 
stories, they could not believe his background and that they were very friendly, and that's how 
he started to get involved. 
10 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
And then later on working in the packing house, because he then got a real job in the 
packing house when he was sixteen or seventeen. And I guess he was talking to these folks [the 
Communist League] at the time and talking to the workers in the packing house, and packing 
houses actually haven't changed that much. He said we would be in a foot of manure and there 
would be blood everywhere, and your hands would be very slippery and it was extremely 
dangerous. And there were always people at the doors ready to take your place, and they were 
always training new people. And they worked ten to thirteen hour days, and they had twenty 
minutes for a lunch break, and he talked about how they would drink blood just to keep 
themselves going. Some positions were not on a conveyor belt, but other positions were, and 
they would start at two hundred and fifty goats — not goats, sheep going by in the morning and 
|then they would gradually increase it, and sometimes it got up to three hundred and fifty. And 
so he talked to the guys and said, “Well, what we gonna do about this cause it's so dangerous 
when it gets” because people would cut, you know, cut themselves very seriously — no brakes. 
And he says, “What are we going to do?” And somebody said, “Well, if they go over three 
hundred and fifty, let's strike.” My dad said,” Okay.” Maybe he was the guy who said, “Let's 
strike.” Anyway, of course, they went over three hundred and fifty. My dad said, “Hold the 
line,” and they all walked out. So it was a wildcat strike. He got fired and blacklisted, and 
everybody else went back to work. 
But, what's really interesting about that story is, if you read the book “Fast Food Nation” 
very little has changed. In fact, I mean, these packing houses are larger, but the jobs are very 
close to being as dangerous, and they talk about the speed of the line, exactly the same stuff, 
[but] mostly immigrant workers now. 
DC: And this was in Los Angeles, right? 
11 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
RA: So the packing house was in Sioux City and then [he was] in Omaha. And, then 
the Depression was very, very difficult, and after he got blacklisted, though, that's when he 
came to California. Yeah. 
[recording paused] 
DC: So perhaps, talking about California and how your parents met and then your 
own childhood? 
RA: Okay, so my parents met in the young Communists League movement as well. 
DC: And how old were they? 
RA: They were probably in their young twenties, and it was — interracial couples was 
illegal at that time, so they had a common-law marriage. And my mother was kind of the person 
who kept my dad going, but she wasn't the person with the big stories who gave the speeches 
and things like that. He worked in California, all up and down the Central Valley with cotton 
compress workers organizing for the CIO [Congress of Industrial Organizations], And he also 
worked with the ILWU [International Labor Workers Union] organizing African American 
workers. And, I think, especially interesting for this project was that in the late forties and early 
fifties he was the director of the Civil Rights Congress in Oakland, California. And they 
worked on police brutality, housing rights, and they were attacked by the Oakland Tribune- 
Noland newspapers. 
DC: They talked about lynching is genocide. This is a very [25:00] important and 
little known organization. 
RA: Yes! Yes! And what I think what's really important is yes, he did identify as a 
Communist, but what the Communists did was organize for people's rights, for decent wages, 
for a place to live, against police brutality, really basic people's rights. They weren't armed and 
12 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
going out to shoot people to have a revolution. .Their idea was, let's help the people where we 
are now and that's part of the organizing effort for the Congress of Industrial Organizations, the 
CIO, was to be much more inclusive, in terms of who was able to who was unionized in an 
official way, yeah. 
DC: And your parents had met as young Communists. Did your mother retain those 
politics as well? 
RA: Well, she did. They didn’t retain those politics. I mean, they both quit, probably 
in the very early sixties ‘cause of lots of different issues that were going on. She did a lot of 
support stuff. Like I remember as a child going door to door selling People's World and going 
to a few demonstrations, like about the Rosenbergs [Julius and Ethel, executed for espionage in 
1953 during the Cold War era]. It seems, too, I would have been pretty small. And my dad, 
even after he stopped working as an organizer for unions and became a shoe repairman, he 
would go hang out at the laborers local in Los Angeles — which was kind of a sold-out local — 
and [he] then organized the workers to sort of struggle within the union to change. And he 
organized an organization called the Laborers Fraternal Order. And they had a logo, you know, 
they had these buttons, and they had a logo with a brown arm, a white arm, and a black arm. In 
fact, I have a brochure that shows you that. 
DC: Again, that was called the Laborers Fraternal Organization? 
RA: Laborers Fraternal Order, I think, yeah. And it was a support group. They had, 
they had a baseball team. It was community, little bit like pillars of the community. 
DC: So can you tell us a little bit about your own... obviously, just a very typical 
childhood [laughter]! Tell us a little bit about your childhood. 
13 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
RA: Yeah, well, my childhood was kind of interesting because I was the youngest. 
And so my brother and sister remember suffering more than I did. Some of my earliest 
memories when my father, my father went underground, he kind of, he disappeared during the 
McCarthy era. And, of course, I didn't really know what that was about. But we lived with my 
Uncle Mark in Perris, California. P-E-R RI-S, which one was one of the few places where 
black people could buy land in the thirties and the forties. 
DC: Whereabouts is that? 
RA: It's off [Highway] 15.. .or is it off the [Highway] 163? Not too far from 
Riverside, south of — southwest of Riverside. So it's a dry, rocky area, very hard. You wouldn't 
make a living off the farm. And so we were country, you know, we were country. Country 
kids, and we looked like it in a couple of photographs that we have. My brother, at the age of 
twelve dug a well, this’ll give you an idea. He dug the well. He still had the share before he 
died to show us what he had done. And everybody in that family worked very, we worked very 
hard. I was like the assistant. So “Bertie, go get this - Bertie, go get that,” you know. I was that 
person because, you know, he needed somebody. My sister worked very hard and they were 
very frugal. The family was very frugal. 
I didn't feel like I suffered at all, right? I felt... I thought everything was fine. But, once 
a week we would go to the grocery store with my uncle's truck and take everything that they 
were throwing away. And we would bring that food back to our little farm — it was a five acre 
farm — to our little farm and sort through it and decide what we could keep to eat and what 
would go to the pigs. And we kind of did that, you know. My uncle also worked as a custodian 
on Camp Pendleton, and he got fired. And he got fired because he was my father's brother. 
Period! This particular uncle was not political and they were very religious. [They attended] 
14 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
one of these sort of, it's a church of God and Christ... [30:00] what do they call them? They 
would sing, they would find the Holy Ghost, they would kind of like have fits and stuff and 
speak in tongues and everything. 
GUHA SHANKAR: Pentecostal? 
RA: I don't know. I don't know. Technically, there's a couple of words for them. 
Anyhow, they had this rusty, dusty little church with benches that had splinters and everything. 
And according to my brother sister, we went like three times a week, not just on Sunday, but 
during the week. I don't remember so much about it, except I did have nightmares for about 
three years of the devil chasing me. 
What else did I want to tell you about this period? Oh, yes, we were followed. We were 
followed - my brother, my sister and my uncle would be often followed when we were driving 
around, because the FBI would be in some white, not white, black, Ford or Chevrolet. And 
they would follow my uncle - like we were doing anything! And so my uncle decided one day - 
he wasn't political, but still he wanted to mess with these guys. So he.. .he went and parked in a 
cul-de-sac. It's country, but it was like a dead end, under a tree, and then just stayed there. So 
they [the FBI] have to be in the sun, and this would be a hundred degrees [laughter],. .in Perris, 
California. Then sometimes he’d go out and say, “What’re you guys following us around for?” 
So I remember that, and then we did eventually move. We moved to Venice Beach, actually, 
‘cause my mother.. .my grandmother, lived near. And so my mother took us off the farm and 
we moved to Venice Beach, and that was kind of a nice period. It was the one time I saw my 
grandfather — one time, I only saw him one time — because my uncle came to town. He called 
his father and he said, “If you want to see me, you have to see Etty also and the kids. “ And so 
they came.. .he came and that was only time that I saw him. But I also knew that I was missing 
15 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
my father so much I decided to run away. I was like five, or four, and I filled up a pillow with 
all of my necessities, and my mom said, “Okay,” and then I ran away. I maybe made a block 
and a half! I don't remember how it ended, but I didn't get very far. 
So, as I was growing up... eventually my father had a heart attack, and so he came and 
lived with the family, and he learned how to be a shoe repairman just by apprenticing himself 
for free with a shoe repair fellow who taught him the trade. And we got a little shop, and we all 
worked in that shop, all five of us. Of course, I was still kind of young, so sometimes I would 
be in the back reading my books, you know? And then sometimes I'd be on the cash register. 
And, eventually, by the time I got to high school, I knew how to do some repair. I could put the 
heels on, and I could sand them on the machines, do a lot of that [kind of work]. So we spent a 
lot of time, a lot of time there. 
DC: And where was the shoe shop? 
RA: Well, the first one - well, we had one on Denker St. [sic, Denker Avenue], but 
then we had one on 39th and Western... on Western, and then the last one was across street 
from the City Hall. And one day, I don't remember the year, my father's name appeared in the 
Los Angeles Times, because he was being called before HU AC - House Un-American 
Activities Committee. And a few months later that shoe repair shop got shot into, during the 
night. And the other thing that happened is we had been going to this camp called Anytown, 
and it was a very nice camp. It was organized by the National Conference of Christians and 
Jews - NCCJ. And my sister — it was very nice — my sister was elected the mayor of Anytown 
and she was very proud of that. And there were kids from all different high school, so it was a 
real mixture of people. And the director of that program called her in and she asked her, “Is 
that your dad?” My sister said, “Yes.” She said, “You can't be the mayor of this organization 
16 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
anymore.” So that was devastating for my sister, and my sister remembers everything as we 
were poor, we didn't have stuff, I had to... she had to run the shoe shop for a whole week once 
when my parents were ill, and she, you know, she was like in the eleventh grade or something. 
She held down the entire fort, but she felt she suffered a lot behind that. 
So also in these years, I started to demonstrate in the civil rights demonstrations. 
[35:00] But, before we get to those demonstrations... like probably everybody you're 
interviewing who’s my age, the first conversation that my father officially had with me about 
politics was when Emmett Till was murdered, because we saw the Jet [magazine]. He showed 
me [the photographs of Till’s body in the magazine] he says, “Bertie,” — that was my nickname 
— “you have to understand what this whole country is like.” And we had the Jet magazine and 
the pictures and everything. That's my first political conversation that I remember ever having. 
DC: Do you remember your reaction to seeing the pictures or to your father talking to 
you about it? 
RA: I was horrified! He said, “You know, things are not the way you may think they 
are. And I want you to know this is something that has... has just happened.” I was just 
absolutely horrified. I knew I felt different because I... we moved around a lot and sometimes, 
when I was quite young, I was in schools with all white kids, and I felt somehow different. I 
ended up making good friends with the other black girl in the third grade and she was also tall 
because that made it... [laughs] I was very tall for my age! But I was not aware of that kind of 
violence. And my father, there’s another thing he had done. He, of course, was very aware 
[because] when he was thirteen or fourteen, a friend of his, a good friend of his brother, was 
murdered by the police in custody, beat up and murdered. And nobody wanted to do anything 
about this. And my father collected money for the funeral, tried to get up a church. The 
17 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
churches were intimidated and would not allow the funeral to be at the church. And they 
managed to do it — I don't remember where. And something [else] he pointed out: He says, 
“You know, the prostitutes were really good. They really contributed a lot of money,” because 
they understood what that kind of hardship was and that kind of brutality. So that's when I 
started hearing some of those stories from my dad. But that was the first conversation... 
Emmitt Till. 
DC: And did your dad... 
JB: I’m going to pause. 
[Recording pauses] 
DC : I have to remind you where we are... 
RA: Emmitt Till. 
DC: Emmitt Till, yes. 
RA: Right... something else that affected our childhood a lot was our parents 
interracial marriage, because that was very unusual and people would stare at us, and then we 
would smile back and stuff, but we were very aware of that. And my brother actually looks 
kind of like just a Jewish guy, and he would get into fights with people, saying, “No, I'm 
Negro!” He would actually get into fist-fights with them [laughs]! I don't know if these were 
black or white kids, but my father said that his mother always told them, “You’re Negro, don't 
let anybody tell you that you're anything else,” and that's pretty much what my father told us as 
well. 
DC: Do you have a single memory of that? Or that was just something? 
RA: That was just a recurring theme. It’s particularly interesting because I'm the 
darkest of the siblings. So my sister could conceivably pass, and my brother very easily would 
18 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
pass. I mean, he would fight not to pass as white, so that was very important. And then I went 
to a lot of different schools. But then I started going to Berendo Junior High School and 
Berendo Junior High and then to Los Angeles High. And our neighborhood, we eventually 
moved to an area of Los Angeles, which is like Adams and Vermont, and it had been primarily 
African American neighborhood but it rapidly changed into an immigrant neighborhood, 
mostly Central Americans. So, I learned Spanish! So when I took Spanish in school, I talked 
to — I talked to my neighbors and made friends with them, and at LA High I was in very, very 
mixed classes. There were a lot of Jewish kids coming from, you know, like the Fairfax area, 
there were a lot of Japanese kids, some of whom had been bom in the internment camps, and 
lot of — there were a lot of African American kids, and we all we got along pretty well. I mean, 
there would be a fight in that school once every couple of months nothing like you see today. 
But of course, we weren't very tracked and in junior high and part of high school, that's when I 
started to — to do dancing. And it was through the dancing that I met some wonderful people 
who also were very involved in folk music, and I just was kind of like a weirdo, you know, 
cause I like this old-time folk music and all of this stuff. [40:00] 
My brother... my brother and sister, they were kind of like listening to Motown, but I 
was doing my own thing and eventually learned to play the guitar and the banjo. I like different 
kinds of music, and I'm so happy to realize that my, I had an Uncle Earl who was a fiddler and 
played old-time music way back in the early nineteen hundreds. He probably had a better ear 
than I have, but it's okay. 
DC: So this is... so what year did you graduate high school? 
RA: So I graduated... so I was involved in some of the demonstrations in Los 
Angeles at Woolworth's and some of those kinds of things, and I decided I wanted to go to 
19 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
Berkeley, and I graduated in nineteen — in nineteen sixty-four. So I arrive in Berkeley in the 
fall of nineteen sixty-four. 
DC: Can I back you up just a little bit then to your early high school and you and 
your family's reaction to, well, we talked about Emmitt Till, but back in ’55, and Montgomery 
or in, you know, ‘60 when the sit-in movement really starts to go throughout the South, were 
you tracking that in Los Angeles? Were you getting news? 
RA: You know, basically we were constantly looking at all of this happening on the 
news, but that's the extent of it. You know, we were just very excited about it all and watching 
it on the news and seeing how all of this was progressing. 
DC: Okay, Okay. So sorry to interrupt, but sixty four... Berkeley. 
RA: Sixty-four. Because I had seen that there had been demonstrations at the 
Sheraton Palace to, I think it was to integrate the staff there and all kinds of things had been 
happening at Berkeley, so I figured that was the place to go, and I managed to get in. They 
accepted me late because my grades weren't as good as they were supposed to be. But they got 
good enough because they saw my senior grades, and I went to Berkeley. So when I had got 
accepted, all of — all of the, like dorms and the co-ops and all of that, they were full. So my 
dad drove up with me and introduced me to different people that he knew from the movement 
in Berkeley and the first student at Berkeley to really befriend me and helped me was Bettina 
Aptheker. And she was, like, maybe she was a junior, maybe she was a sophomore, but she 
invited me to her house and she introduced me — introduced me to a couple of people. And her 
father [Herbert Aptheker], of course, is like a renowned Communist scholar, member of the 
Communist Party back then and did a lot of African American history work. And I had heard 
of him, and I kind of knew that, you know, these were established people, but anyway, she was 
20 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
very friendly. She had me over for dinner and helped me plan my classes, and [told me] who 
the TA’s were, and who/what I should do. And that made all the difference in the world. I 
think if you were walking into that school and you didn't know anybody or you didn't have a 
group to associate with, you would really be lost. And so Bettina got me started and I met a lot 
of very interesting people. 
DC: And did you just happen to meet her or is that through your father's connections? 
RA: No. Somehow, it wasn't “just happened.” It was through my father's 
connections, although he didn't introduce me to her directly, he introduced me to his friends, 
which were people like Jessica Mitford [author and civil rights activist] and, I don't know, 
Roscoe Proctor [co- founded the National Welfare Rights Organization] and a lot of activists 
from the Bay Area at that time. 
DC: Okay, so you really followed through your father's tracks. 
RA: It was through my parents. It was through my parents. So I met people who 
were in the Dubois Club and also in the Communist Party at that time at UC-Berkeley. So what 
happens at UC-Berkeley in the fall of 1964 is the Free Speech Movement, and the Free Speech 
Movement is largely because students at Berkeley were mobilizing in support of the civil rights 
movement in Oakland and San Francisco at the time. And... and some of the people I met 
actually had been Freedom Riders the summer previous and so when they tried to take down 
our tables and violate our right to free speech, we had a pretty massive movement, and I got 
arrested in Sproul Hall. And I was seventeen at the time, but I told them I was eighteen so that I 
wouldn't go off all by myself to Juvenile Hall or something. I just gave them a different year, 
and my parents wouldn't have to come up to the Bay Area. So I participated in that, [45:00] and 
that was very exciting. Very, very exciting moment. 
21 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
Then, the next thing... the next major thing that happened at Berkeley is I decided I 
wanted to study abroad in Spain in 1966 and 1967. Of course, during this period, we were 
demonstrating against the war in Vietnam, we were demonstrating for civil rights. Very, very 
active. It was a very, very, very active period. So, I decided I wanted to study in Spain. I was a 
Spanish major, by the way, which was rather an odd thing to be, but it was because of where I 
grew up. Is there a problem? 
DC : Let’s take a quick break. 
[Recording pauses] 
RA: Well... through the eyes of seventeen year old. I was ready for all of this. In 
many ways, this is why I went to Berkeley. I was very excited about the demonstrations. I was 
always out there passing out leaflets as a member of the W.E.B. DuBois Club. And it was 
pretty early in the semester that the Free Speech Movement started... well, got started, because 
it got started really quick. All it took was them to try to stop us setting up the tables, and I don't 
know what they wanted to do that for, because we really organized behind it. And so, of 
course, Mario Savio was one of the key figures, and we had rallies just about every day. 
Bettina Aptheker also spoke. I spoke once, as well, started to get my feet wet a little bit with, 
you know, giving speeches and things like that. And it was mainly, it was mainly the Free 
Speech Movement in ’66 - not 66, in ‘64, of course, that I remember. And exactly what 
happened between then and going to Spain, I actually can't remember all of the things that we 
were involved in, but [I was] constantly involved, constantly doing things. So when I 
interviewed to go to Spain, they said, “Well, you got arrested in the Free Speech Movement and 
you're going to a country that is a dictatorship.” And I said my purpose is to go study. So I go, 
and I get to Spain, and to Madrid and it truly was a repressive regime. You saw there were so 
22 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
many different kinds of police and there were these police that you called the grises because 
they wore grey, and they would be standing on corners with sub-machine guns. You didn't 
easily meet other political people at — we studied in what they call the Facultad de Letras y 
Filosofía... [Filosofía y Letras in the Universidad Autónoma de Madrid], 
DC: Did the Berkeley folks warn you at all? Like, be cool [laughs]? 
RA: No, they asked the question, but I answered it to their satisfaction. Okay, so I 
would find out there was a demonstration a day later, because the way the Spanish students 
organized things is they would throw out leaflets. The demonstration would happen, and it’d be 
over because it's not something that you, you know, you wait at the front of the campus and you 
pass out leaflets — that was not happening. And mostly they were demonstrating against the 
Franco, the Franco regime, and against the dictatorship. And I did eventually meet some 
Spaniards who were progressive and involved in some of this. And I says, “Well, what should I 
do?” And they said, “Well, you should work with the American students because we're working 
with the Spanish ones.” So, okay. So what do we do? We set up a table, [laughs] and we put it 
up in the Facultad de Filosofía y Letras. And we took signatures of people who were opposed 
the war in Vietnam because we figured we better not touch Franco’s Spain. And I do believe 
that the purpose of collecting those signatures was to take them to the [US] embassy, and that 
was naive on our part. But what was very interesting was with our little table there - and I don't 
even remember how many days we were there - the press came, different people from the press. 
And they said let us know if you ever get ready to do anything, because they wanted to be 
present, right? We say okay, fine, we’ll let you know. So I was really mostly depressed most of 
the time that I was in Spain. I didn't, you know, find a boyfriend, and I unfortunately didn't 
study flamenco guitar.. .whatever! But eventually, by the spring, I had quite a few progressive 
23 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
friends. Well, they're revolution, considered revolutionary at that time, and that was getting to 
be more and more fun. So they were planning to have big demonstrations [50:00] against the 
war in Vietnam on April 28, 1967 and they asked me if I would give a speech and I said, “I 
don't know, maybe I'll write a letter and you can read the letter.” 
So the director of our program was Carlos Blanco Aguinaga, and he actually left Spain 
in the thirties as a refugee, as a child of Spaniards, when the war was lost and he lived in 
refugee camps in southern Spain and he became a very prestigious professor in the University 
of California system. And Spain didn't even want to accept him as the director of our study 
abroad program. But UC actually insisted that he be accepted, so he actually, he, when he 
found out that I was some kind of an activist, cause I avoided all authority, I didn't go anywhere 
near him, he called me into his office like in October. And he says, “Roberta, Ronald Reagan is 
coming to town and you could go over to the airport.” And he starts drawing me a diagram of 
the airport [laughter], and he says, “And you can put a sign up under your — you can put up a 
sign under your coat, and then when he gets there, you can open up your sign against the war in 
Vietnam and against Ronald Reagan!” I know: “Man, this guy's crazy!” Fortunately, Ronald 
Reagan didn't come because I think I might have gotten home sooner [laughter] if he had 
actually come. 
But anyway, Carlos Blanco had a separate meeting with the — with the American 
Embassy, because they didn't meet with him with the rest of the directors. They met with him 
separately, and they basically told the directors of the programs, “We can't protect your kids if 
they get involved in these demonstrations. So you need to tell them to stay out of the 
demonstrations.” So Blanco has this meeting with all of us, and he tells us the same thing. And 
then afterwards, I tell him, “Well, you know, they've asked me to give a speech,” and he says, 
24 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
“Roberta, I know you'll do the right thing.” He didn't tell me, “Don't give the speech.” So the 
day of this event, I go and they've taken over a whole building and they have a sign, [hanging] 
like from the fifth floor to the second floor, you know, “Yanquis fuera del Vietnam [Yankees 
out of Vietnam]”. Mind you this is 1967 and in Europe people were burning little American 
flags and things like that. So I go into the room where it's supposed to happen - the room is 
packed, the sound system doesn't work. But they say, “Don't worry, they'll get quiet.” 
There's a person before me, nobody was listening to everybody, it was just chaos. And 
the reporters were asking me, “What are they saying?” This is Spanish, you know? And the 
international reporters are asking me to translate for them. So it's my turn to speak — I wish I 
had saved that speech! But, as soon as I get up there, I get the standing ovation and then I make 
my points. Oh, they got quiet, of course! And I get all of these, all of this applause, and 
everything's just great, I'm so popular because I'm just like revolutionary student from the 
United States. And then it's over, and like five students come up to me, and they say, “Okay, 
now we have to run out the back way through this little forest where we have a taxi, take — 
waiting for you and that taxi — what you want to do is go to the train station, go straight to 
Andalusia, so that you don't stay away for a couple of weeks, so this whole thing will cool 
down, and then they'll forget about you.” And I'm going: I am five feet ten inches. I am this 
color. I had also gained a few pounds, like I was so depressed I was just eating at all hours. I 
know! Hmm, okay, let me think about it, and I go back to my apartment. I do take the taxi back 
to my little apartment, and I wasn't supposed to be living in an apartment, I was supposed to be 
living in a pension, because I broke all the rules. And I found my friend who lived in a pension 
a couple of blocks away, and she came over and she said, “You know what? When... when I got 
back to my pension, the woman who runs the pension said that the police had been there 
25 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
looking for me, and this woman was a Franco sympathizer, but she told them to come 
back. ”Oh, she'll be back in four hours,” knowing that she would probably be back sooner. So 
she alerted us that the police were looking for us. So we say, “Oh, the police are looking for us, 
oh, what’re we going to do?!” And so we call Carlos Blanco Aguinaga and he says, “Come to 
our house.” 
And so we pack up our suitcases and it's at an hour in Madrid where there aren't very 
many taxis. So we take this special kind of taxi and we have suitcases. And my friend, who is 
with me was blond, and then there's me, [55:00] and there was a third person on the list who is 
Carol Watanabe, a Japanese girl from Hawaii, because she had done a few things with us. So 
we're in the cab going to the director's office and with our suitcases in the back, and the guy is 
listening to the radio and he heard the announcement comes on: “El gobierno de España esta 
buscando estas mujeres - una chica de color, una Japonesa, y una rubia,” you know. And so he 
looks- the chica de color is particularly exotic for Spain at that time - it was very provincial - so 
he looks in his rearview mirror [laughter]. He doesn't say anything, but he drops us off. And so 
there we are at the director’s house, and we probably stayed there two or three days. It was 
very clear nobody's going to forget about us. Because they were making enquiries at the 
university. There were different levels of sort of spies at the university - repeatedly. And the 
American Embassy as well was making enquiries, “Where are they?” 
So we say, OK, let's just face the music. So we went back to our apartments. Well, she 
[my friend] was in a pension, and I was an apartment. So I get to my apartment and I'll leave out 
the story about eating my yogurt, walking past these people downstairs and all of that. There 
were some guys, and I just walked past them a couple of time and then eventually they come up 
and they say... knock, knock, you know, “Are you Roberta Alexander?” [they are in] 
26 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
plainclothes... I say “yes,” And they say, “Well, we’re the plainclothes police and we're supposed 
to take you in.” I say, “Okay,” and then we walk from my apartment to the Puerta del Sol, and 
we stopped for coffee. From my apartment to the Puerta del Sol which was mostly downhill, and 
it was a central jail. And at the Puerta del Sol, at the jail there, you go downstairs, its like a 
dungeon, and I'm down there... I’m down there by myself because my friend hadn't gotten there 
yet. And somehow they had figured out, the other prisoners, ‘cause they had arrested a number 
of people because they were doing it before the May Day demonstrations, so they did it 
preemptively. So, there were a lot of people in the jail and they figured out that I was from the 
United States. I tried to pretend like I didn't speak Spanish. That didn't go anywhere, though, 
and they started singing. “We shall overcome!” So to make that long story a little bit shorter: I 
was deported, but I think it was more like I was kidnapped by the Spanish state under the orders 
of the American State Department. Because everybody we asked said — I said, “Why are you 
arresting me?” “We don't know. The American Embassy wants us to do it.” They said that.. .they 
said that at every level: “We don't know, we don't have anything to do with this.” And we were 
put on a train [on which] there was a row of police with their - my friend, obviously, eventually 
showed up — with their machine guns. At every stop, at every stop, there would be Guardia Civil, 
the guys who wore the funny hats, right outside our car. I mean, we were twenty, and, they took 
us to Irun. We crossed the border to Hendaye, and Carlos Blanco was there waiting for us. He 
had made that trip. He had driven up to give us money and to... to set us up. 
So there's a little more to the story. We take the train to Paris, and there were some 
immigrant workers, like from Morocco, and we're trying to tell them what happened to us and 
we're sharing food, and there were some newspaper articles, and we were trying to show them, 
and we get to Paris and I say, “Okay, everybody, you hand me your... hand me your bags 
27 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
because we don't have money to pay anybody to help us,” and there's a whole bunch of people 
gathered around. Guy comes up and he says, “Are you Roberta Alexander, Carol Watanabe 
and Karen Winn?” We said, “Yes.” And he says, “I'm from CBS and we have a limousine to 
take you to the Hotel George Cinq” - which is the fanciest hotel in Paris - “but what we need 
you to do is give us an interview tomorrow morning at five-thirty so that we can have it in the 
States for the... for the evening news.” Then we say “Okay” [laughter] so then we are taken off 
to the Hotel George Cinq. 
DC : That’s a nice hotel ! 
RA: Yes, we were so fancy, we got to eat and all of that! And, the one unfortunate 
thing is my parents — [1:00:00] somehow a radio station got through to me. A Los Angeles 
radio station got through to me when I was under house arrest [in Spain] during this whole bit, 
because they took us out of jail and put us in house arrest. And I gave them an interview and 
my parents heard it ‘cause I hadn't been able to get hold of my parents and then, of course, they 
see this. Well, then, when I got to Paris, I called them and they see this interview on CBS and 
they were very proud. But there was reason to be afraid. Had it been Latin America it may not 
have turned out the same way. So, they gave us a very, kind of, like, human interest interview, a 
very friendly interview. And we got to New York and we came back. We got back and went 
straight back to Berkeley. 
DC: How is that your reception at Berkeley? Students following this? 
RA: Some people followed it. I was very disappointed in the people around the Duke 
Boys Club in the Communist Party because they were not — they were kind of like, 
disinterested. I didn't see the — I didn't see the fervor. It's about when I left. I was — 
subsequently I went around and talked to Abraham Lincoln Brigade people. My uncle was in 
28 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
the Abraham Lincoln brigade, actually. And so I talked to them, and so then, I don't know, they 
invited me to go to a celebration of the fall of the Nazis in Germany, and they wanted each 
delegation to have one older person and a youth. And so these Abraham Brigadistas said, 
would you like to be the youth? So I went to this thing in East Germany to speak at like 
something before, you know, three quarters of a million people. But, it was a very, very, very 
interesting trip because what they did is, they fed us wonderful food. We had translators, but 
there was no — there was no good political conversation. It was just kind of... dead. The only 
time I really had a good time was when I ran into some printers from Cuba, people who were 
studying printing in East Germany and they were from Cuba. Well, I could talk to them by 
myself, for one, and they were, like, full of the, you know, this was sixty — sixty-seven, and 
they were very enthusiastic and interested in talking about all of these ideas, but I got an idea of 
kind of what the Soviet bloc was like, and it wasn't looking too good to me. Then I spoke in 
front of a crowd... these Germans, you know, they timed everything, you know, your talk, can 
be seventy -five seconds, but don't sit down until the interpreter finishes because they're 
simultaneous. Yeah, it's like simultaneous, but it's not exactly so. The German... German 
takes much longer to say anything, and so the simultaneous interpreter would take a couple 
sentences longer. When I finished, I forgot and I sat down. The Soviet youth was about fifty 
years old, you know [laughter], and it was just all not looking too good to me. So it changed 
my attitude toward that whole deal, so I came back to Berkeley. 
JB: Em going to pause. 
[Recording paused] 
JB: We’re rolling again 
DC: 1967... .back to Berkeley. 
29 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
RA: Okay, okay. 1967, back to Berkeley. I completed. I quit my associations with 
the Duke Boys Club and sort of the Communist Party group and I got involved with an 
incredibly sectarian, revolutionary quasi-revolutionary intellectuals group for a little while. That 
didn't last. And, I found out, and then I got into another one of those groups and the other one 
of those groups which wasn't quite as narrow. They says, “Well, we don't take black people. 
Black people have to join the Black Panther Party.” That was the Revolutionary Union. Bob 
Avakian, he was the leader. And that's probably just as well, was just a good thing. I had much 
better feelings at this point about the Black Panther Party than I had had previously, because 
they'd started doing the community programs. They started doing breakfast for school children 
and all of those kinds of programs. And I liked the ten-point platform. I thought it was 
relevant, still relevant today. 
DC: What was your initial impression? You said that it wasn't as positive at first. 
RA: Well, I just thought at first, and this is really colored by [1:05:00] a sort of 
narrow view of what's correct. I was just — was not impressed by what I had heard Bobby 
Seale speak. And I was thinking about today, we want our share of the pie or something like 
that and I thought, “Well, I'm a socialist. I want to divide up the pie between everybody.” But 
actually, you know, our piece of the pie maybe wasn't that wrong. In retrospect, I mean, I just 
didn't respond to it. So, I started to be involved in the Black Panther Party by first going to the 
breakfast for school children program. And it was at a church in Oakland, and it was at the 
church where’s there a famous photo of Charles Bursey, you know, serving people. Charles 
Bursey, I think, serving people eggs and bacon and we worked really hard. And that was a lot 
of fun doing that, you know, getting up, cooking the food, and then we also would go around 
asking for donations of the food. But the leadership of the party at that time, they were pretty — 
30 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
they were pretty sharp and they found out pretty quick play that I could spell. I could type fast 
you know, and I was pretty well educated. And so they assigned me to work on the Black 
Panther newspaper. So I was in the office. I think it was Shattuck. I think it was Berkeley 
was. But I was in the national office and it was technically Berkeley, but I think it was 
considered the Oakland National Office, it was South Berkeley. And so that's where I met Big 
Man [Elbert Howard, BPP founding member] because he was the editor of the newspaper. And 
that's where I spent a lot of time. 
Now, if you're a Black Panther, it's not like I go to a meeting a couple times a week. It was full 
time, we pretty much gave our entire life. We’d show up in the morning, or people would have 
slept there all night and we get your assignments from the officer of the day, who could have 
been a seventeen year old, you know, deciding. There was a woman named Marsha and I'm 
sure she was seventeen when she was telling people, “You go here, you go sell newspapers. 
You do this; you do that.” So I did a little bit of everything. I sold newspapers. I did 
everything, but basically I ended up working on the paper. And so Big Man would pick the 
articles, and I would type them into the adjuster writer, which was this old machine that would 
line it up. And I would correct the spelling and put in a few periods, that kind of thing. And 
then about — not about once a week we would go to the printer's, which was in San Francisco. 
DC : And what was that? 
RA: It was the Tenderloin district, and we would spend maybe twenty-four hours 
there laying out the paper, you know, because you have your copy and then you'd run it through 
this wax machine and then you could put it down and then you do your headlines, and then 
Emory Douglas [BPP Minister of Culture] would show up, who's the artist for the party. I hope 
you're interviewing him. You are? 
31 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
DC: Now we are! 
RA: The artist for the party. All of that art was Emory Douglas, and he'd come in 
with different art things. And he had a better eye, of course, for how to lay things out. And 
then we'd on. Then we'd go home exhausted. And for some of that time, I lived in North 
Richmond behind a church [laughter]. And for some of that time I lived in another area of 
North Richmond. Now, the reason I ended up in Richmond, part of the reason was one of the 
problems that I had in the Black Panther Party was being harassed by the guys. It was, just 
being harassed, you know, it was kind of the thing, like “we're all revolutionaries and 
everything belongs to everybody including, you know, you should be doing some, you know, 
revolutionary sexual favors for me.” I did not buy that. And I got into a relationship with a nice 
guy, but in some ways it protected me as well. Well, so you know, I liked him, but there was 
also some protection. His name was Bobby Bowling, and he was from the Richmond area. 
So... 
DC: Can we talk a little bit more about the gender relationships? We've got a few 
hours. 
RA: Everybody's story will be different depending on where you were and when you 
were there. So I was there in 1969. Eldridge Cleaver was already gone, and I had... I 
wasn't impressed by his book, Soul on Ice. Somehow, raping white women didn't seem 
like a revolutionary act to me. Although I could see that he was brilliant. I had worked 
as an overseas operator for a while because I was working, you know, I worked in 
canneries and stuff because I was [1:10:00] gonna organize the industrial proletariat for 
a while. I worked as an operator, and he had — he had those kind of phones that you 
have on a boat, and he was rude to us. And you, you knew it was Eldridge Cleaver, 
32 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
because who else is going to have a black accent, you know, with this “over and out” 
phone. And all of the leadership when I was there, they were men. And Huey was in 
jail, too. So the people who were the leaders were Bobby Seale, David Hilliard - 
“Masai” (very important person), Hewitt, Ray Hewitt and... it was the three of them, 
above all, and Big Man was like the next tier, but it was like this group, and then there 
might be one or another coming in and they made the decisions, so they were smart. 
They were very smart, they had lots of interesting ideas, so they called the shots. But 
there was like a class division. They were up there drinking, I don't know, Chivas 
Regal, and we were drinking Bitter Dog, which was, I'm sure you all know, tawny port 
and lemon juice, and there wasn't — it actually tasted pretty good, it's probably gut rot, 
but we were drinking it... they’re drinking Chivas Regal and we were drinking tawny 
port and lemon juice! That was one item. 
And.. .they all hit on me one or another time. But David Hilliard was very 
persistent, and I had a real problem with him. I was told to drive him home. Yeah, it 
was David, I was told to drive him home from something one night, and he says, “Well, 
let's stop by your house,” and I foolishly kind of did, and I was supposed to be getting 
ribs ready for a picnic the next day. One problem, though, is I didn't know how to do it. 
Forget my mom's white, right? Moms was Jewish, and my dad may have known how to 
do it, but I didn't know. So he makes this a big deal, makes fun of me, whatever. We 
get the ribs in the oven, because you get them cooked, and then later you put them on 
the barbecue, you don't cook them on the barbeque. And then he starts looking, and 
then he's just - it’s very, very uncomfortable, and he makes a lot of advances. I say, 
“No, no, no, no, no.” And he doesn't force it, so I drive him back to his mother's house 
33 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
in West Oakland. And I go to the party to the picnic the next morning. And all these 
people come up and say, “Where is the chairman?” Because everybody knew that he 
had gone home with me, and I... lam inferring that everybody assumed that I had slept 
with him and he was coming back, you know, with me. No! I held... I held the line on 
that. And I have subsequently been told that we saw we had agency with you, Roberta. 
Course I didn't know what they meant by agency, but, I mean, this is far, subsequently, 
what do you mean by agency? Well, you have some control over what you do. So that 
kind of stuff really bothered me, but it stopped once I got into a relationship. 
Okay, So okay, then there's the big united front against fascism in nineteen... it's 
in the summer of nineteen sixty-nine because I was in the party only in nineteen sixty- 
nine. They had figured out that I could give a pretty good speech, I guess. They had me 
doing political education classes and they asked me to speak at this event and it was in a 
big park and there were... people came from all over the country. I thought it might be 
a little premature to say it was a fascist country, but it's okay. So I gave a speech about 
women at the United Front against Fascism, and Eldridge had come out with women are 
our other half, not our lesser half, but our other half, so that all sounded very good. But 
I talked some about— 
DC: A little bit better than what he had been saying earlier, perhaps. 
RA: Saying and doing. So I use that. And I, I think I talked about relationships 
evolving. And yes, there's problems, but with the brothers, because part of the issue was there 
was the Women's liberation movement. And then there was questions whether or not women 
should be in the Black Panthers or should they be in the Women's liberation movement, 
because, clearly, you know, there were all of these issues in the Black Panthers and I... I 
34 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
believed at that time that the right place to be was in the Black Panther Party. So I gave the 
speech after his speech. Angela Davis came up and introduced herself to me 
[1:15:00] because she hadn't yet hit headlines. And it was the strangest thing, that somebody's a 
PhD student at UCSD. It was just like, so strange. But she told me Carlos Blanco Aguinaga 
told her to introduce herself to me [laughter], but after that they decided at some point that Big 
Man and I would go to Japan together. There was an invitation from the Zengakuren [league of 
communist and anarchist students founded in 1948] Cordon and there were tickets, so they 
decided to do this. And I talked to Masai and I said, “Look, Masai, I'm not going to talk 
straight nationalism,” because sometimes the Panthers would be more nationalistic than other 
times. Most of the documents are international, very, very international. But that wasn't always 
how everybody saw things. And he said fine. So I'm sort of the tag team with Big Man, you 
know, and so sometimes I'd say “Now, Big Man, we have to do it this way or we have to do it 
that way.” So, but before that happened, we get to the airport in Tokyo and there's like, some 
kind of cloak and dagger scene going on that we can't possibly understand. But one group 
comes, and they pick us up and “Hey, we have to get out of here fast and we get on. We get in 
some car and they're driving. Then, this is Big Man's memory, mostly said, driving so fast in 
this kind of scary but anyway, we find out a few days later that these people are misinterpreting 
what we were saying and that they were the Red Army. And I don't know if you remember, but 
the Red Army did stuff like blow up railroad tracks and that kind of stuff and the Black Panther 
Party was not doing that kind of thing, and so we had to disassociate ourselves from them. And 
it's very hard, you can't read anything in Japan, and you can't hear any words that you might 
understand, you know, because it's a European language. And so we got set up with a group 
that did films for the left. It was called Ogawa Productions, and they had relationships with 
35 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
everybody on the left. And the left was very divided in Japan at the time. Their universities 
were occupied, and then somebody be thrown off the fifth story or something like that. But 
with these people, we got around. We also found out, I don't know, in my mind, we realized 
that we should have known, we only had one-way tickets, so we had to figure out a way to 
make some money. So we tried to do that, we did that by charging for interviews. 
DC: So what did you understand as your mission? I mean, what was you know, the 
point of the trip? 
RA: That's a very good question. Our mission was, that's very interesting. We saw 
our mission as to get out the story of the Black Panther Party. And I think we also sought to 
learn about whaf s happening in Japan and come back and... and share it. And there are a lot of 
things happening Japan that we were very unaware of. 
DC: Were there are others going to other countries. Or was this the major... ? 
RA: Well, this was an accident. See, they somehow contacted the Black Panther 
Party national headquarters. And so we have a ticket. And a lot of things I think happened like 
that. Nineteen sixty-nine was a particularly chaotic year. The Panther Party had already grown 
so much. Something that I have not mentioned is that it was clearly infiltrated. Urn, there was 
provocateurs going on. People will show up, “Oh, I just got out of prison. I want to join the 
party.” And in Richmond, this guy came up to me. I was driving mind you, a little white 
Rambler. You know, these were legal, square, innocent looking cars, and he says, “I want to 
put some knives in the trunk of your car for now.” And I said no. And do you know the next 
morning on my way from North Richmond in this area, it's completely abandoned before you 
can get onto the freeway going towards Berkeley, in Oakland I hear a siren. I pull over, and 
within thirty seconds there were seven or eight [police] cars there screeching in, you know, like 
36 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
and they searched everything. And I don't think it was a coincidence that it happened the day 
after this guy wanted to put stuff, wanted to get in my trunk, put whatever he wanted in my 
trunk. I think I was pretty lucky to get out of that one. So, they got an invitation to Japan, so 
we go to Japan. It happens to be that this journalist from Denmark [1:20:00] comes and gets to 
know the Black Panthers, and then they have a trip to Scandinavia, and they're going... in the... 
in the reunion they're going to have a panel on foreign relations. Now there was other stuff that 
was much more official. When they go to China, they really met, you know, leaders in China 
and I guess, in Algeria, they were recognized. Well, you know, while Eldridge was still part of 
the Panthers before the... before the split, so yeah, so we just. “Okay, you're going to go to 
Japan now.” It wasn't like, “Okay, we want you to do this, this and that,” you know. And I think 
that there, maybe at one time they would have been that organized, but not in 1969. So what 
we did is we wanted to spread the message of what was happening with the Black Panther 
Party. We wanted to support the movements in Japan to the degree that we could figure out 
who's who and... and then we had to earn our keep, earn our tickets. And so we actually had 
some very interesting trips. We met with little old women who are probably half my age now, 
who were sitting in and sleeping in on American airport strips, military base airport strips. We 
met the second and third sons of farmers because the system for inheriting land was the first son 
inherits land. Second and third [sons] then are pretty much a separate caste, actually. And they 
would go to the cities and do construction work, people wouldn't marry them. It was very much 
a caste-like system. And we met with the Korean immigrants and workers in Japan and had no 
idea that there were all of these things going on. The one place... and this was thanks to these 
film, this film production company, they had relationships with all these people, and they help 
set it up. We were followed the entire time, except in my memory when we were with one 
37 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
particular interpreter. I mean, they were these Japanese guys, and they were out there waiting. 
We’d catch a cab and they would follow us. And once the cab wanted to tell us, he didn't know 
where it was, we thought it was being racist, and we insisted because you would write down 
what it was. And he was all up someplace, and he stopped and asked and in the car behind 
stopped and asked, you know where they're going and they just followed us. Everything we did 
was public. But whatever! We just followed. The one thing that everybody was united on it 
that time was... was to fight the construction of the new airport, because it was on wonderful 
farming land and there were already enough air bases that that could have been accommodated 
with some of these U.S. airbases. And there would be, there were demonstrations of hundreds 
of thousands of people. And ... and we spoke at that, too. And it was really interesting 
because in their demonstrations, you know, the Japanese, they lock arms and they tend to run. 
But not everybody. There's a role for everybody. So for the old folks, they would collect night 
soil. You know what night soil is? They would collect night soil and the cops would run. They 
would have a net over them to try to protect themselves from rocks and stuff. But it didn't 
protect them from the night soil, so they would be throwing this shit. It would go through; 
there would be a real problem. And other people would be running, and I can't remember. But 
when your demonstration is over, since you're running most of time, you feel pretty good, you 
know [laughter], I don't know how much was accomplished where they were massive 
demonstrations. And... and we spoke there. We also met with farmers, peasant, peasant 
farmers. And we saw a lot. We saw a lot of amazing things in Japan when I got back. 
DC: So how long did you end up staying? 
RA: You know, I think we were there at least a month, maybe five weeks. I have the 
notes someplace, some notes, just where we had gone. And Big Man didn't come back with me. 
38 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
Big man had to go to — he went to Europe. There was something he was supposed to do or tell. 
I don't know. There was something he was supposed to do. He didn't come back to me, with 
me. I get back and then, of course, they have a separate customs just for me with a Japanese 
guy there, and they ask for my telephone book. And I said, “No, you can't see my telephone 
book.” And so whatever, I got, I got past, [1:25:00] got past it. And so that was really the last 
big thing that I did in the party. I quit not too long after it, and... 
DC: Was it easy to get out? 
RA: You just walked away. 
DC: Okay. 
RA: Now, but this is... this is what happened the whole time. But first of all, there 
were levels of activities that I wasn't involved in, in the Panthers. The office was metal plated 
and there were sandbags in the office, so I kind of and I want to remember that I'm kind of 
oblivious to all of this. And then there were other stuff. There was gun stuff going on, and I 
was not part of it. They sent me to be trained... to the shooting range or something. I shot 
a .357 Magnum, one time. I thought my arm was gonna fall off. And I shot an F-sixteen. Does 
that sound right? One time, and I thought my shoulder was gonna fall off, and it was noisy. I 
didn't want to have anything else to do with it, and I did not. So I'm sure some of the people 
you're going to be talking to know much more about all of that, but I, really, in a naive way, 
didn’t. But what I did notice is about once every two weeks there would be fire engines on 
each side of our block. One here, one there, and that was kind of weird. What's the fire engines 
there for? And then a newspaper, it was not the Berkeley Barb, but another one - I don't 
remember the name, but I have it somewhere. A Berkeley newspaper found the Berkeley police 
plan for how they would vamp on the office. And one of the things that I remember, actually, 
39 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
you could find that on the Internet now... I think that's where I found it. One of the things that 
I remember, is that they would have the fire engines there because somehow they would blast 
their way into downstairs. And then they would take these machine guns or whatever they are, 
and they’d go like that. And then the upstairs would be on fire, and I'd be up there, typing that 
shit, you know, on my little AdjustWrite, and so I go, “Whoa!” you know, I kind of saw, you 
know, this is this really is... I mean, I had been writing. Fred Hampton hadn't been killed yet, 
but so many people had been arrested that year. So many offices had been vamped on, I don't 
know, but reading this made it really come home. And so, one, I did not want to die for the 
Black Panther Party... one. Two... I felt the party was infiltrated, and a lot of times, you know, 
those infiltrators are the ones that bring you the guns and encourage or even carry out some of 
the crazier activities. I never had in my mind a way to have a revolution that we could shoot 
our way into, in this country, that could be done through violence. Even though I got 
revolutionary terms and all that, that violence part of it, I never, you know, I can't even shoot a 
gun! And third, I was pregnant, and I did not... was not ready to take the responsibility of 
having a child. And so for those three reasons, I told them I'm going to go visit my parents, but 
I didn't come back. Subsequently, David Hilliard figured out where... who had my, all my 
books, because I had this huge library, you know, Mao, Lenin, all the revolution, Marx and 
stuff. And he came in, intimidated those folks and took all my books [laughter]. So the one 
thing is, I think this was a period in the party where there was, like, a purge kind of thing going 
on, so somebody would leave and they call them a “running dog lackey,” several other words. 
They never published anything like that about me. I sent them everything I had from the Japan 
trip, and I was sorry that I did that. But, somehow subsequently, a lot of that's been recovered 
because we had a woman who was doing research on that project for us, and she... she found 
40 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
out a lot of that information. So then I was back in the United States and with my parents. I 
lived there for a year, and I talked to Carlos Blanco because I... I was doing a typing job at that 
point, and he says, “Come down to San Diego, because we're starting Third College.” Can we 
stop for a minute? 
DC: Sure. 
[Recording paused] 
DC: Bring you back to where we stopped, which was Third College in San Diego. 
RA: Okay, so I gave you the wrong name. It was Lumumba Zapata College. Okay. 
So what had happened, in fall of ’68 and ’69, is students at that college, including Angela 
Davis, and African American students and the Chicano students - they got together, and they 
said we want a college that represents, will teach us our history, as well as white students that 
were involved in it as well. 
DC: And these were students who originally at San Diego State? 
RA: They were already at UCSD... UCSD. Because the way they were developing 
UCSD was to have colleges, so that the university wouldn't feel so inhumane or you know, 
there would be an intimate touch. And they actually... and this is when there was a lot of 
organizing going around all over for ethnic studies departments and all of that, and I went to a 
lot of those demonstrations. I do remember those. And they were granted Lumumba Zapata 
college, but that was the temporary name. So the university called it Third College. So when I 
called Carlos Blanco, he says, “Come down. We can get you a job at Third College.” So what 
am I, twenty three? ! They have me interview for the Resident Dean position and the people on 
the interviewing committee are students and a couple of other people. And they give me the 
job of Resident Dean [laughter] of Third College the first year of its existence! 
41 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
DC: Start at the top, like it! 
RA: Yeah, so okay, so to be Resident Dean, one of the perks is you have this house 
and around the house, which is, you know, like a seventies kind of, you know, flat house thing 
and all around the house are the big dorms. Okay. And they've been doing recruiting of 
students to come to Third College at all levels, but especially the freshman level and recruiting 
faculty and staff and administrators. Okay, so far, so good. But from the very beginning, this 
effort was infiltrated, so that there were a couple of administrators who the university insisted 
be hired, even though the committee, the so called, you know, committee led by students, 
faculty and staff didn't want that person to be hired, they [administration] insisted some of these 
people be hired. And this individual stood up at the very first meeting and started talking about 
the black people don't have the same... you know, this is not serving black people, this is just 
serving you whites and Chicanos. And so it was very divisive from the very beginning. 
And, here I am in this fish bowl with the students around, and amongst the student body the 
same thing had already happened. In fact, there were guys kind of very similar to some of them 
who showed up in the Black Panther Party. “I'm out of prison,” you know, the kind who stare 
at you and they never take their eye away, because that's how they've learned to behave, you 
know, to intimidate, to be the alpha individual. There were... there were those, and I very early 
on was attacked because look at my background, you know, I grew up in a Latino area, been in 
the Black Panther Party, I've been to Spain, I dance with my progressive friends, I even sing 
folk music, you know? ! And I was attacked for having relationships with everybody. I was 
even told at a B SU meeting - Black Student Union meeting, “Roberta, as far as we know, you 
like Chicanos better than you like black people,” you know, it was that kind of thing. It was 
extremely divisive. And we had courses like Third World Studies, we had some fabulous 
42 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
professors, and I don't think there was a university in this country that had - to the degree that 
we had it - that amount of control, had that potential to be something fabulous. But, I'm quite 
sure it [the disruption] was probably part of the COINTELRO [COunter INTELligence 
PROgram] - an FBI illegal surveillance program] just like the Panthers had suffered from the 
COINTELPRO program. There was no doubt about it, and it turned into like — I have a 
tendency when things are really bad, to forget. But I was threatened one night, at one night at 
gunpoint and I left and I went to Carlos Blanco’s house. He just keeps coming up, you know 
[laughter]? [1:35:00] And they go, “Roberta, don't you remember? This is what they said. This 
is what they did. They said they're going to get you and stuff. And that's why you... you 
know?” Okay, yeah. And so it was very... it was a very, very difficult time, so I quit after nine 
months because among other things, I was not a good Resident Dean. I was supposed to be 
putting on dances and things, and I was supposed to say, “Oh, you broke a window. Okay, your 
family's gonna have to pay for it,” and all that kind of stuff. And I was awful... it was 
absolutely awful, it was the wrong job, I didn't like it. I actually probably quit before I was 
going to get fired. 
So I quit, and I applied to two places for graduate school. I applied to the School of Education 
at Harvard because they had sent me some advertisement when I was a senior at Berkeley and I 
applied to literature department at UCSD. Well, Harvard offered me a full scholarship to be in 
their Masters program, and I figured that wasn't going to make it because it was cold back there, 
and I was a little insulted. And so I did the program at UCSD. I got a PhD in Comparative 
Literature. 
DC: Let me ask you, one quick question just going back for just a second. Did 
your.. .because you were talking about folks challenging you, sort of, on the variety of your 
43 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
interests and your background while at Third college but did this - did this come up in the Black 
Panther Party as well at all?. 
RA: You know, not so much, but it came up around food. Okay, so you heard my 
story about the ribs. So in the in the— no, there were a lot of light skin, there were a number of 
light-skinned people. There is antagonism based on skin color in the black community, and 
people who are lighter-skinned are seen as, you know, more privileged. And some people find 
it more attractive or all that kind of stuff, and there's a long history of that in this country. That 
didn't make itself apparent to me while I was in the Black Panther Party. But, having been 
raised by a Jewish mom who wasn't even that good a cook we once in a while had to cook for 
everybody. So me and this other girl and her name was, I want to say, Shelly, her name was 
Shelly! And she was very light-skinned and her— clearly her mom was white too — it was one 
of those things, and we had to cook. So I had a specialty, which was tuna casserole that comes 
out of the Joy of Cooking book with Kellogg's Frost, not Frosted, but flakes, that you put on top 
to give it that little crunch and probably cream of mushroom soup. No... [laughter] that did not 
go over. Me and Shelly were the only people eating that thing, nobody. We heard about it later 
[laughter], I did my best! 
DC: What's this - mayonnaise?! 
RA: But you know. The other contradiction for me, I'll be honest, you know, is very 
often there were so many times when African American men would be with white women, 
especially in the educated zone, you know, that I would kind of like.. .ummm! And, but that it's 
kind of hard because my mom's white, you know, so there is that it's a very, very, very 
complicated dynamic. And working on the project that I've been working on recently, I hear a 
44 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
little bit about it, sometimes. It’s not hostile, but, you know, that's a dynamic and it's out 
there... status based on skin color. 
DC: Right? Well, thank you for answering that. So back, to... so starting your 
graduate program. 
RA: Right! So that was just a lot of fun. You know, the graduate program at that 
time - there were grants. I got a Ford Grant which, you know, if you read Naomi Klein, it was 
a lot dirtier than I may have thought of, but it didn't... they didn't influence what I was doing, 
and I got a PhD in Comparative Literature. But I probably was in the wrong area because my... 
my dissertation was the fictional portrayal of popular movements. So I read these different 
books, you know, about Haiti and Cuba and Mexico and the United States, about slave 
rebellions and revolutions, and that's what I wrote about. But then after I got that degree, I only 
applied to one college, and I recognize that I didn't want to be in the academy, you know, I 
didn't want to have that “publish or perish” and the kind of competition that I saw 
[1:40:00] within faculty members and, you know, that whole process. 
So I actually started teaching adult school for a while. I taught adult school, mostly 
ESL for a lot of refugees from Vietnam for about twelve years. And that was interesting, too, 
to hear their stories, because that forced me to see things in a little more complex way. 
And then, fortunately, I was recruited to organize the ESL program at City College, and that's 
where I was the last twenty-five years, and I feel like at City College, my contribution was 
primarily becoming the department Chair, and I was there at the time, for the English 
department, and I was there at a time when I could really turn around the composition of the 
faculty. So that we have increasingly diverse faculty, progressive faculty, a very dedicated 
faculty, and the department functions well, and that's quite a good legacy, because there's a lot 
45 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
of non-functioning, dysfunctional English departments out there and every other kind of 
department. So that was good. But also at City College, I also was responsible for about four 
or five years for the labor studies program. It was... it was a program that was floundering for 
a while. It's always a difficult program to make successful in San Diego. And so we offered an 
AA - an associate's degree — in labor studies, and so it would be a class in the history of labor. 
And now there is a class that I wasn't involved with that in organizing. And then there's lots of 
classes like worker's compensation and disability and a lot of things about law, you know, and 
how to be... as well as leadership classes. And I introduced the occupational safety and health 
classes, and those are very important, and we got a bigger variety of people to come to those 
classes, and we worked with people from the UCLA labor program to organize those and 
people from up there came down to teach a number of those classes. One of the reasons I think 
its difficult is because I'm not sure the leadership of all the unions really want to develop the 
next generation to take their place. That's one. Now, that would be different for different locals 
and different leaders. Another one is, is many of them have their built-in classes that they give 
for shop stewards or whatever, so there's some, you know, overlap or redundancy. Yeah! 
So that is... that is one of the one of the struggles. I used to go to the meetings of the Central 
Labor Council regularly, and they would say, “This is good, this is good, this is good. This is 
good.” But then they didn't send the people to the classes. So it's always a struggle to keep 
your classes, classes is full. Now there is a labor studies program in Los Angeles - LA trade 
tech, I believe, which is very successful. Y’know, we're trying to follow some of his examples, 
but it hasn't taken off, so any time there's a fall in enrollment, we have a fall there. However, 
they are doing some very interesting things now. They're developing internships for people, and 
they're working with CPI - Center... what does it stand for? 
46 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
JESSICA JOLLET: Center for Policy Initiatives 
RA: Yeah, it's... it's a local Center for Policy Initiatives. And so they're getting a lot 
of really good hands-on experience and they're getting paid for doing it as well, so there is a 
pretty good cohort of people who are going through that. So those you know, that covers 
twenty five years of my life, but there was a lot of work, and I felt it was I was able to do 
productive, really good things there. I also start— I also taught in the Chicano Studies program, 
and there was a little bit of, you know, there was a little bit of conflict! But, yeah, yeah, some 
people wanted to keep me out, but she had no reason, that administrator, to do so. I says, if you 
don't want me to do it because I'm not Chicano, just say that and I won't do it, you know, 
because, you know, but that wasn't it. Oops, Ed I mess something that. You know, it didn't turn 
out to be a problem. Actually, that was one of my favorite places. Black studies I would have 
liked to have taught, but it just didn't work out...just didn't work out because I was “Big English 
Person”. 
DC: Did Third College survive? 
RA: Yes, [1:45:00] in a sense. It's now called Thurgood Marshall. And I think most 
of the curriculum, you know, there's some, still, there are still some elements from Third 
College, but it certainly is not the revolution experiment... the revolutionary experiment that it 
started out to be. 
DC: It’s not “Lumumba Zapata.” 
RA: It’s not Lumumba Zapata. I don't know that it's serving Latino, African 
American and poor folks population in the same sense. Yeah, I mean, look at the— when I went 
to Berkeley, there was not even one percent African American [student population], right? I 
think we're getting close to that, too on the UCSD campuses, I mean, it's very, very low. 
47 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
DC: It was up and falling... has fallen? Was it up higher? 
RA: Yeah, for a while it was up higher. Well, with Third College and with 
affirmative action, but that has fallen to as low as it was in 1964. On some of these campuses, 
[they] have a lot of Asian [students], but yeah, they do not have that kind of representation. 
It’s... they do have quite a lot more Latino and Chicano, but see college is very mixed. It's still 
much more heavily Latino now, because that's what's happening with the demographic. But 
yeah, no, we've gone back, we’ve gone back. I mean, to think that the packing houses are in 
many respects just as bad as they were when my father was working there in nineteen thirty two 
or something. And not [up] in unions. To look at the police brutality that we have now and the 
murders just as... 
Well, I... I don't have off the tip of my tongue what’s happening in the South, but in 
Oakland, California, it's similar to where we are now. Not very cheery, but there is some good 
stuff! Okay, alright. There's some good stuff that I think is very important. And I don't think 
it's just unique to San Diego, but it... it is a little bit unique to San Diego. There isa... there is 
a community organization called Pillars of the Community and I’m now relatively active in at 
least one aspect of that organization. It's a faith based organization but you... Muslim ... see 
my family, we got the black, we got the Jewish and pretty much the only thing that was left that 
people would be mad at, would be the Muslim [laughter]. So my son decided to fix that, and he 
converted to Islam a long time ago... twenty years ago. So now I got the Muslim thing, and so 
I got grandsons whose mother’s from Gujarat. Gujarat [India] is an interesting place to be 
Muslim. So I got Urdu-speaking grandsons who wear their knffiyah. Then I've been to 
weddings with theyarmulke. We got it all covered! 
DC: To the reservation... back to the Indian reservation!? 
48 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
RA: Yeah, that's right, the Native American stuff. Yeah! So our family kind of just 
happened that way. So it's a faith-based organization [Pillars of the Community], but there's a 
lot of people who are not Muslim who are served by the organization and also work within... 
within it. They have a storefront in Encanto in southeast San Diego, which is not unlike the 
Black Panther storefronts that we used to have, except this one doesn't have two stories, and 
there's a lot of community activities that... that take place, just probably more prepared to go 
through all of them. But one of the emphasis is helping people who get out of prison adjust and 
succeed in life outside of prison. Other things that they're doing is they're organizing within the 
community to get people more politically active. A major thrust — a campaign now — is the 
San Diego Thirty Three campaign, and that's because in the whole state of California — I'm not 
sure the whole state of California is aware of this — there's a penal code — penal code 182.5, 
and that penal code is the gang documentation and is based on one of these California 
initiatives that got passed in the early 2000’s. And it says, if you have... if they can 
demonstrate that you've done two or three things, then they can say you are a gang member. So 
those two or three things can be, if you happen to be wearing the color green, if you happen to 
be standing [1:50:00] in your neighborhood in front of your grandmother's house - which 
somebody decided is a gang house, if you happen to be talking to a gang member, which could 
be your neighbor, right, that's enough! And God forbid, you do rap and put it on the Internet, 
right? That's enough. You're a documented gang member, but you don't know that and the 
documented gang members are from the ages of eight— 
JJ: Nine. 
RA: Ages of nine up, and there's thousands of them in the state of California. And so 
the District Attorney in San Diego got it in her head that she's going to test this out. So she 
49 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
arrests thirty-three African American men about two years ago, including Aaron Harvey and 
Brandon... Brandon Duncan. Aaron Harvey at the time was in Las Vegas, getting ready to 
study real estate and become a rich guy selling his real estate. And he hears all these 
helicopters and shit and they land, and the machine guns and SWAT. And he goes out and he 
says, “You guys making too much noise [laughter]. You must have lost your guy by now. 
Whoever you're looking for is long gone.” And then it turned out they were looking for him. 
And [he asks] “What am I charged with?” And there's this whole series of violent and... events 
in San Diego, you're charged with all this. He says “I wasn't even in San Diego.” 
“We know you weren't in San Diego, but you're a documented gang member and a gang carried 
it out, and we're gonna put you in jail, and we're charging you with all of these things.” Did it 
include murder? 
JJ: Not in that case, just shootings. 
RA: Shootings. [He’s put] in jail for seven months. They know perfectly well he had 
nothing to do with it and didn't have... and didn't even know about it. And he says, “Well, what 
do I get out of it? Why me?” he says. “Because your reputation went up with these, you know, 
with this violence or whatever, your street cred or whatever.” And he's not even living in San 
Diego. So I don't know why they wanted to mess with him because his family came together, 
and they joined forces with the Pillars of the Community and Reclaiming the Community, 
another project which is broader than Pillars in San Diego, and did not just let him be stuck in 
jail. Because what most people do, they do not have legal resources and they make a plea 
bargain because they're facing fifty years in jail, in prison. And they say, “Well, you just say 
you're guilty and we’ll give you eight [year sentence] or whatever.” 
DC: So they admit to something that they did not do?! 
50 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
RA: People admit to it because they're terrified! 
JJ: There’s one young man that was 19 years old. He was the same exact case as 
Aaron’s, [unintelligible] He was documented off Facebook posts. He signed a twenty year 
deal, so he’s serving twenty years now. 
RA: And he didn't have connections. So, between the family community and their 
own good sense, they [the Harvey family] didn't sign a deal, and they spent seven months in jail 
being shackled, being handcuffed, going back and forth, you know, to jury cases and so forth, 
and finally being freed. But as a consequence of that, there's a pretty decent movement in San 
Diego now addressing these police activities. So Pillars of the Community is involved in that. 
They also do things like workshops. [They address issues like] what are your rights if you get 
stopped, what can you do? What should you not do? What you don't have to do and all of that 
and what the consequences are. And two years ago — was it two years ago? That my son, the 
Muslim, came up with the idea to do a rap CD, because he's of the brand that doesn't even listen 
to music, let alone rap. And they... they have connections, with so many relationships with so 
many community folks that they got major rappers from San Diego to put together a rap album 
— that was a meaningful rap album — to speak to the people in the streets who like listening to 
rap. Now when I put it on, you know, still rapping is kind of hard to listen to [for me], but it's a 
community activity. So then where I'm involved is... wasn't the rap album [laughter] .. .the 
sound technician or anything. But another program we started last summer was just getting 
people together [1:55:00] to write their story, any aspect of their own story that they want to do, 
but make it a story, not your whole long life. And we... and then, the goal of doing that would 
be [that] we would invite your family and some friends, small gathering (we weren't looking at 
five hundred people, didn't want that) and friends, and you would read it to them. And we've 
51 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
done that three different times with three different groups, and it is an amazing process to go 
through, absolutely amazing, because these people, we didn't ask them to, but they all found 
sometimes their most traumatic incident in their life, and sometimes their most, moment of 
achievement and an awareness of where they had been. And so coincidentally, not exactly on 
purpose, it’s all people of color, more or less ... it's all African American, it's Chicano and we 
work together. But we work together and you have to trust [each other] because you're trying to 
write and you read it to somebody else and somebody else tells you what they think, and maybe 
you can, you know, make this a letter... it'll work. 
And so there are all kinds of stories. Some of them are neglect; some of them are seeing 
your mother murdered in front of you. Well, one of them is that. Some is being bussed to 
another school system and what that does to your morale, you know, if you get bussed to like a 
white school, education things. One was an incredible [story of] educational achievement. The 
guy had a background in prison and breaking the law and all kinds of stuff. Aaron Harvey, one 
of the important people, important in that he's gone so public and brought the issue public for 
the San Diego Thirty Three, wrote a story about visiting his uncle in jail. And then he'd gone 
with his mother, and then the second part of the story, it's him who's in jail, pretty much the 
same scenario. People with some serious prison experiences. I mean, I learned, I had to say, 
you know, I don't know what it's like to live in a family where your parents are drug addicts and 
[so I asked them to say] what did that look like? What was it like when you guys came home, 
you know? So I learned so much and at the same time, these are people who are thriving and 
struggling to thrive. I mean, they're struggling with life now, it's not easy. Coincidentally, at 
least half of them are related to City College in one way or another. I have a Palestinian 
colleague who was actually, helped start that program. And she just gave a story about how 
52 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
well, if people say where are you from, she says, “I'm from Detroit”. [And they respond] “NO! 
Where are you really from?!” You know? And then ... then how she's gotten stereotyped and 
sort of branded and how... how that's an issue for folks — how to identify yourself. So it's a 
wide variety. So okay, so these people read their stories, and that was very successful. And 
then we've gotten the opportunity because here we have a press called City Works Press, and 
it's an independent press. And now those stories, they're going to get published. 
DC: Great, fantastic. 
RA: Yeah! And Ericka [Huggins], I'm not sure if she's going to get it in on time 
because we have to get it. They said she would write a blurb. Big Man wrote a wonderful blurb 
about it and how important it is to get these stories out. And, I don't know if you know Jimmy 
Santiago Baca, Luis Rodriguez? Both of them, they're very important Chicano writers, but one 
of them had experience with gangs. The other one, a lot of experience with prisons and stuff, 
and that's what they wrote about. You know, we teach them a lot in our classes, and so if s... 
it's really an exciting project. We're gonna pick it up again and see where it goes. So it's 
modest but altogether, we included everybody who wanted to be included in the publishing 
part. We included everybody, nineteen authors. 
DC: So there's... there's one very explicit connection there. You’re talking about the 
blurbs with the Black Panther Party. But can you tell me about, have there been other 
opportunities for sort of bringing in lessons of your own experience with the Black Panther 
Party to the work that's going on in San Diego now? 
RA: Now, you know, I've gone to classes pretty much. I've gone to classes and then 
last year, and I've talked to classes and given presentations. I'm being asked to be involved in a 
53 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
panel at San Diego State. I’ve spoken twice at UCSD, [2:00:00] and it was usually at times 
when there was organization going on. Once, shortly after there were some awful incidents at 
UCSD. I don't know if you're familiar with them, but there was like, I don't know, effigies of 
like Ku Klux, no, not effigies, Ku Klux Klan, but very threatening kinds of stuff. Do you 
remember what it is? 
JJ: Well, first they had the “Compton Cookout” [racially-themed, racist party held 
by UCSD students, including members of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity] 
RA: Yeah, they had this so-called “Compton Cookout”. 
JJ: They had nooses [unintelligible], 
RA: Nooses on the campus. Yeah, and then graffiti, you know, anti-black graffiti. So 
I've spoken to UCSD a few times, and I have those things coming up. When “Big Man” came 
down, I presented him and spoke to those and yeah, that's pretty much the extent. I'm not a star. 
I, you know, I just happened to be in a lot of places. 
JJ : [laughter] Sorry, you did this huge amazing thing and you... 
RA: No, I'm not a star! I’ve just been in some places. I've done things my life where 
I didn't know what the risks were, always. Yeah, I was in the Panthers for a year, a serious year. 
And I met some people who I respect very, very much. But I did not establish the ongoing 
relationships, particularly with women. Part of the problem with the Panthers, one of the 
problems — we didn't take care of ourselves, you're going to hear this Ericka Huggins: We did 
not take care of ourselves. We were just running all the time. And some of that included 
54 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
personal relations. And I'm talking only about my year, 1969, in Oakland headquarters. I 
cannot speak for what was going on every place else, and later. 
DC: So how did that manifest when you said not taking care of yourself? 
RA: Well, part of what I was thinking about is not taking care of resources, for me 
anyway, having good relationships with other women in the party. There just wasn't any time. 
You're just running around all the time, or you go home and sleep if you had your own home or 
you'd sleep there. We were always doing something. So for example, I don't think I spoke to 
anybody else about the sexual harassment. Now, that seems a little silly. You know that's, it 
shouldn't have been that way. 
DC: What about the stress or mental health repercussions of being in high stress, life 
situation? 
RA: You know, I never thought about it. I think my way to deal with high stress is to 
forget, like, the details. I think my highest stress was actually Third College, believe it or not, 
and I've forgotten the details. I'd forgotten. I can just tell you, you know, Carlos Blanco and his 
entire family tells me that I was threatened by guns. I would not have said. I would say, 
“Somebody was intimidating me and I left,” but I didn't remember the guns and everybody else 
did, you know? So it's kind of like, yeah, there's... there's an emotional toll, but I think I just 
sort of suppressed that emotional toll and keep on keeping on. There's an emotional toll also. 
You know, I always said well, those people who say— I had a teacher in high school and he said 
— it was like some stupid class like, I don’t know, social adjustment or something. This was a 
light skinned black guy. He wore a, some kind of toupee. It looked like shoe polish to us on the 
back of his head. And one day, he said, “The kids who are worst adjusted are the ones who are 
55 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
bom out of wedlock.” Well, for sure, I was bom out of wedlock because it was illegal [for my 
parents] to be married and mixed race. And I said, “Oh, he's crazy because I have the 
advantage of being both,” and the bom out of wedlock, well, that never gave me trouble. But 
being mixed-race in a time of identity politics is a problem. And I have to be really honest, I got 
a lot of Jewish in me. I was very close to my grandmother. You know, I walk through the 
world as African American, I’m fine with that. My grandmother even would ask me. I says, “I 
got a boyfriend.” She would say, “Is he Jewish?!” [laughter] You know, it's just there, so when 
we're talking about Israel and Palestine, yes, I agree. And my grandmother was very upset with 
Israeli policies regarding Palestine, very upset, and she would be in arguments with all her 
Jewish old lady friends all the time about that. But then I'm... I don't want to hear anything that 
sounds a little bit like anti-Semitic, you know, even though I might even be getting kidded 
[2:05:00] like by my Muslim grandkids or whatever. “No, what’re you talking about?! You’ve 
got to understand the history of the Jews,” and “Yes, what their... what large aspects of the 
government is doing now is really bad. But, don't forget, there's people in Israel who don't 
agree, and they have to be pretty brave if they're fighting against this mainstream.” 
So this is what, I'm always navigating that. I do not like to go to anything that's strictly 
racial based. I don't go to the African American faculty staff meetings — so kind of over that — 
and I don't go to the one hundred percent Chicano things. And I'm always invited... I'm always 
invited to those things. It's probably stupid of me not to go, but I don't want to go to anything 
that's so racially, that's so racially-based. That's just, you know, I think that's, that's not the Pant 
- well part of it, you know, the Panthers — what’s interesting about the Panthers is they did 
reach out to other groups. It was, “Yes, we want to be a black group, but we want to reach out 
to other groups, not, you know, attack them and fight over the crumbs,” and I think that's very, 
56 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
that... that's very important and they did do that. And, you know, once in a while nationalism 
would come in, but, but there's reasons for black people to have a chip on their shoulder. You 
know, it's [you] have to discuss why that's there... if chip on the shoulder is the right 
expression, [actually] it's not! 
DC: Well... 
RA: I think I got most of it. 
DC: I think we could talk for hours more and would love to do that. But we should 
probably start to wrap up. Is there something that... is there anything that you thought I was 
going to ask that I didn't ask, that I should have asked today in the conversation? 
RA: I'll think of that, tonight for sure, [pause] We covered a lot of territory. I would 
just like to add that my sister also is pretty much dedicated her life to health care for the 
African American community and has organized a lot of things. My brother, because 
she became a medical doctor and neither of our parents had gone to college, my brother 
became — he actually suffered the most in the McCarthy period, because the FBI even 
came and visited him in San Luis Obispo when he was in college and everything. So he 
kind of stayed away from that activist kind of thing. But he became the CEO of no, the 
chief medical officer of Kaiser [Permanente] of... of a whole section of Kaiser in Los 
Angeles and I think he actually changed the culture of the hospital. At least that's how 
people talked. And they... they used, and they’d talk, “When Dr. Alex...” because he 
had a relationship with the staff, with the custodians, with the nurses and the doctors, 
okay. But they says, “When Dr. Alexander first came we used to talk amongst ourselves 
and we say, ‘Is he a brother... or what? ! Then they figured it out... yes, yes, yes! He 
57 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0142 
Roberta Alexander 
was, you know, in his heart, above all, you know, and in his allegiances and who he 
thought was, you know, was important. And that's the legacy of the family. And my 
other regret is that I didn't— I interviewed my aunt. I interviewed my brother, 
interviewed my sister. This is after my father's death and after my mother's death, and I 
interviewed some cousins, but I never interviewed my mother. And that was a big 
mistake because I think she was the solid rock behind that whole operation, holding the 
family together, going to a Holiness Church in Perris, California. She had to go too, you 
know, with my uncle and aunt. And how did she do it for life? ! 
DC: You’ve carried her with you, though. 
RA: Yeah, it's that quiet part. That quiet strength that she had. 
DC: Well, thank you so much. Thank you for everything you've done. And 
obviously, but also for spending time with us today and telling this incredibly important story. 
Thank you. Fascinating story. 
RA: Yeah. Thank you. And I want to pick your brains about what to do with my all 
my stuff. I got more. 
[END] 
58