Mark Hancock Interview Log  
Time Code  Content 
  
  
00:00:00 
Introduction. Mark Hancock, Utah Bookbinding Company, Salt Lake City, UT. 
Interviewed June 3, 2017, at the Roslyn Hotel, Roslyn, New York. Interviewed by 
Whitney Pape, librarian. 
  
  
00:00:28 
History: Owns Utah Bookbinding Company, a family business established in 1952.  The 
Library of Congress had advised Mark's father against opening another bindery in Salt 
Lake City, because the advance of technology had decreased the demand.  His father had 
worked for Hiller Bookbinding Company after World War II, until some employees 
decided to found their own bindery.  Five individuals contributed about $2000 apiece to 
found company, but three dropped out within a year.  Mark's father managed production, 
his remaining partner Don Hyrum Smith was the salesman.  In the early 1960s, the work 
was drying up and Don Hyrum Smith offered to buy Mark's father out.  Mark's father 
refused, but offered to buy Mr. Smith out for $14,000, with a down payment and then 
quarterly payments.  Mr. Smith died in a plane crash not long after this agreement was 
made, but Mark's father continued to make payments to Smith's widow until he paid the 
amount in full, one of the lessons of integrity Mark learned from his father.   
  
  
00:04:47 
Career: Mark never intended to work in the bindery, studied carpentry and built houses.  
He went to work for a construction company after high school, and had the opportunity to 
work with a Master Carpenter, which Mark loved.  Then he was assigned fork lift duty, 
delivering supplies, and hated it.  His father offered him a job at the bindery making more 
money, and Mark figured he'd do the job "for a little while."  Two brothers also were in 
the industry at that time, but Mark is currently the sole owner. 
  
  
00:07:24 
Interesting Projects: Covenant Recordings, based in Salt Lake City, had produced an LP 
record of The Book of Mormon that was gold colored.  The bindery created the album 
cover, a post binding with stubbing at the binding side to compensate for the thickness of 
the records. 
  
  
00:09:10  
Interest in Industry: Mark thinks his father's motivation to get into the industry was that 
he was recently married, needed a job, and the job paid a reasonable salary.  It turned out 
that he enjoyed the work, and then as the owner of the company, he was motivated to 
make a success of the business for his family and the employees.  Mark has taken that 
responsibility on now that his father is not part of the company. 
  
  
00:11:31 
Changes in Business over Time: In 2010, the company closed the library binding 
division.  Their market doesn't have the density of universities and schools that the East 
Coast does.  The market for self-published family histories has increased greatly; printing 
and binding these publications is approximately one third of their business.   
  
  
00:14:14 
Mentors: Mark learned the business from his father and some of the people who worked 
for him.  The company had extremely loyal employees, including a woman who recently 
retired after working for the company for 46 years. 
  
  
00:15:09 
Business: The company had a one-month turn-around time for library binding, but Mark 
realized that for a lot of that time, the books were sitting on pallets, waiting to be bound.  
He inquired with his customers about how they'd feel about a one-week turn-around time, 
and they were enthusiastic.  Mark's older brother didn't feel they could meet that 
commitment, though, and was dead set against trying.  So Mark waited until his brother 
went on vacation and they successfully implemented the one-week turn-around in his 
absence!  They also developed a batched production system to increase efficiency.  
Employees were compensated for a full day's work once they completed the batch of 
work for the day, but could leave early if they finished early.  They were able to pare 
production down to a four-day work week, and were 15% more productive in 20% less 
time.  Compensation was based on sales and profitability, so sometimes it was double 
their base pay.  Their error rate was less than 1/10th of 1%. 
 
 
00:18:24 
Roles: Mark started in the bindery doing foil stamping.  Instead of keeping "rubs"--spine 
information for serial titles formatted so their spines matched on the shelf—Mark's father 
divided the spine into sections with certain information assigned to each section.  As long 
as the height of the book didn't change, the information would line up automatically.  
Mark also did lining.  He was very happy once the automated stamping machines became 
available.  Mark then evolved into management through taking care of everything 
everybody else didn't want to handle.  Mark had the idea to share the stamping machine 
software with his customers so that the data didn't have to be entered at the library and 
then again at the bindery, and that led to them developing software for spine information 
entry and tracking called Easy Title.  They were able to retain the barcode information so 
the library didn't have to update that when the shipments were returned, and always 
stamped the month and year of the binding in the books. 
 
 
00:25:48 
Regrets: Should have delegated more.  They weren't able to take advantage of offers to 
sell the company because the operation depended on Mark and his brother's work at the 
company.   
 
 
00:27:10 
Goals: When he started in bookbinding, Mark was too young for long-term goals.  He 
wanted a job to make money to support his family.  Now he wants to make the company 
viable for someone else to carry on into the future. 
 
 
00:29:24 
Regrets: Losing touch with library binders, going to meetings.  If he were to do things 
differently, he would have gone into something more profitable like the medical field or 
finance.  His richness comes from his family.  No missed opportunities; he opted for 
different ones. 
 
 
00:30:47 
Greatest Accomplishment: Their innovations, including Easy Title, and their ability to 
innovate in spite of their limited resources.  Managing to succeed for 65 years is a big 
accomplishment. 
 
 
00:31:50 
Building and Plant: When Mark started working for the company, they were in a couple 
thousand square foot building at 85 W. Louise Ave.  When they outgrew that building, 
they moved to another location nearby that had 5000 square feet, and they stayed there 
until 2005.  Used many roller tables to move materials through the space efficiently.  
Moved to a new building of 16,000 square feet to accommodate the addition of printing 
services.  The building was built as a warehouse, but they painted the ceiling white, the 
walls a light cream, they epoxied the floors, and installed high bay sodium lights to create 
a bright, clean, pleasant work area.  They also installed refrigerated air conditioning 
throughout the facility for better humidity control.  Now they're downsizing again 
because they've stopped library bookbinding.  Their clients were referred to other 
binders, many from the eastern United States. 
 
 
00:39:43 
Employees: The employees felt that they had a stake in the success of the company.  
Many long-term employees with little turnover.  Even when he had to reduces hours and 
wages by 25%, most people stayed. 
 
 
00:43:12 
Interesting Projects: Their efficiency efforts, and some of the technological innovations 
and programming projects. 
 
 
00:45:10 
Changes to Industry:  The work was very physical when Mark started, and automation 
relieved much of that.  The amount of work available has declined, mainly due to the 
electronic delivery of periodicals. 
 
 
00:47:39 
Advice to Next Generation: Mark was recently surprised to see a new face at an Library 
Binding Institute meeting about four or five years ago, someone who had just gotten into 
the business.  He wouldn't recommend that someone try to start a business at this time; 
most businesses are consolidating.   
 
 
 00:53:53 
End of interview.