Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
1 
2020012 
Project: Nursing America's Veterans 
Name of person interviewed: Joan Victoria [JV] 
Facts about this person: 
Sex: Female 
Occupation: Registered Nurse 
Residence: New Ipswitch, NH 
Interviewer: Alana Glaser [AG] 
Transcriber: Sara Cohen [SC] 
Interview location: remote  
Date of interview: 4/9/21 
KEY WORDS 
VA, veterans, ER, nursing, Registered Nurse (RN), MSA, ER nurse, EMT, domestic violence, 
COVID-19, pandemic, Care in the Community, Manchester, New Hampshire, burnout, substance 
abuse, mental health, ADN, per diem, health care providers, consult, gratitude, job satisfaction, 
accountability, teamwork, herd immunity, vaccines 
Abstract 
In this interview, Joan Victoria discusses how her early life experiences and her current marriage 
influenced her nursing career. She recounts her experience working in the emergency room and 
the challenges of balancing the ER and her work at the Veterans Administration (VA), while 
highlighting the immense satisfaction she feels in both roles. Joan also shares the impact that 
COVID-19 has had on her work and on the VA in particular. Joan closes with a discussion on 
her team at the VA and how her sense of humor has helped her connect with veterans. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
2 
2020012 
Index 
[0:00] Joan shares a bit about her family background, where she grew up, where Joan’s parents 
grew up and her mother’s career, the lessons Joan learned from her mother. 
[3:02] Joan explains what led her into a career in nursing, Joan’s life after high school, Joan’s 
first and second marriages and her children, Joan’s current marriage, Joan’s work prior to 
becoming an ER nurse, Joan’s experience as an ER nurse during COVID, a brief discussion of 
her current role at the VA. 
[8:57] Joan talks about her experiences growing up and how they shaped her strong desire to 
work in the emergency room, the schooling Jane completed for her nursing role, Jane’s favorite 
subject in school, what led Joan to work for the VA, the challenges of working for both the VA 
and in the ER, especially during the COVID pandemic. 
[13:18] Joan describes her role working for Care in the Community and the job satisfaction she 
has experienced, the loss of specialist doctors at the VA and the impact of this loss on the 
veterans, Joan outlines a typical shift and lists some of the common diagnoses she sees at the 
VA, the gratitude of the veterans for the care they receive. 
[18:25] Joan shares a typical patient interaction, Joan’s work with MSAs, the challenges faced in 
working as part of a team, the material job support she’s received from the VA, Joan’s feelings 
on working from home and her work in the ER. 
[23:16] Joan talks about the most difficult aspect of working at the VA and how she copes with 
working so closely with people who are experiencing so much emotional distress, the rewarding 
aspects of working at the VA. 
[28:00] Joan describes water therapy, the ways in which COVID-19 has affected her experiences 
on the job. 
[32:18] Joan recounts the overall impact of COVID-19 on the VA, the resilience of the VA 
during the COVID pandemic, Joan’s experience working as a COVID nurse. 
[36:47] Joan shares the lessons she’s taking forward from the experiences of the pandemic, her 
volunteer work vaccinating veterans and their families, herd immunity. 
[40:35] Joan describes her role in providing patient care, the job satisfaction she has experienced 
working at the VA, the impact of her early life experience and the support from her family on 
Joan’s career, the ways in which nursing has changed over the course of Joan’s career. 
[45:01] Joan talks about self-care and the support her team members provide to each other, how 
Joan’s sense of humor helps her connect with the veterans. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2020012 
 
[0:00] AG: Hi, Joan, thank you so much for participating in these Library of Congress oral 
history interviews. Can I begin by asking you to introduce yourself, please? 
  
JV: Sure. My name is Joan Victoria. I am an RN and I am currently working for the VA in 
Manchester, New Hampshire [laughs]. 
  
AG: Can you tell us a bit about your family background? 
  
JV: I was obviously born in San Juan, Puerto Rico. My dad was down there on construction. 
Four of the five of us kids were born there. We moved up here when I was, I think, around three 
or four. We moved to the town that I'm living in right now, which is New Ipswich, New 
Hampshire. I grew up here until my high school years, and we moved next town over, which was 
Massachusetts [laughs], and I went to high school, my four years there. That's about that, for the 
beginning years anyways [chuckles]. 
  
AG: Where did your parents grow up? 
  
JV: They were both born in Woburn, Mass. My dad was always in construction. He perfected the 
drywall [chuckles], which most people hate to do, so he was very needed, and just did a really 
great job. My parents were divorced when I was probably about, I want to say, fourth grade, 
which, honestly, was a good thing [chuckles]. My mom had remarried, but in the meantime, she 
had been a secretary for a real estate agent in Leominster, Massachusetts. That's how she 
supported us, the five kids, and she [chuckles] worked hard. Later years, when she met my 
stepdad, it's amazing. He was working for that real estate agent, and they got together, they got 
married, and then, maybe two years later, they started their own real estate agent. They did 
wonderful. They sold real estate during the 80s. They really did a great job, really great. I can't 
speak enough for my mom and her strength and the things that she taught us as kids to just never, 
ever give up, no matter what. Never. There's always something better out there and just keep 
striving for it, you'll get it. I feel very fortunate to have been raised by her. 
  
AG: Do you recall what led you into a career in nursing? 
  
[3:02] JV: It's funny because all of my life, I wanted to be an ER nurse. That was my life's dream 
since I probably was six or seven years old. That really was my whole life goal. After high 
school, probably two years later, I got married. I had two little girls. They're wonderful. They're 
not so little anymore [laughs]. I just was a stay at home mom for a while. We ended up getting 
divorced, because that's what happens when you get married at 19 years old [laughs]. It seemed 
good at the time [laughs]. From there, believe it or not, I lived in Spencer, Mass. on a dairy farm 
for a while.The girls had the opportunity to be with the livestock and feeding baby cows and just 
the whole thing. It was wonderful. That was amazing for them. I probably couldn't have asked 
for anything better. Then from there, I ended up getting married to one of the guys who works on 
the farm and we have two boys together. Unfortunately, he lost his mom early on in our marriage 
and just never dealt with it well. He turned to alcohol, which of course was what I knew my 
whole-- Before my mom got divorced, that's what my dad did. He was an alcoholic and he just 
beat her. So, it was familiar to me anyway [laughs]. We were married for probably about 15 
years and then I just-- when the physical stuff started, I'm like, "I'm done. I really just can't do 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2020012 
 
this anymore". I didn't want my kids raised like that either. We ended up getting a divorce sadly. 
I met my current husband [laughs]--. He encouraged me to do what I wanted to do: “If you want 
to be a nurse, be a nurse”. I'm like, you know what, by that point in my life, I just didn't think I 
had it in me. I didn't think I could do it. I just didn't. He never gave up on me. He just continued 
to encourage me, encouraged me. I graduated nursing school in 2010 or 11. I graduated with 
honors [chuckles], and I graduated college with my youngest son. That was really a special thing. 
We got to walk across the stage together. It was wonderful. Prior to becoming an ER nurse, I had 
worked as an EMT. I had done that for 15 years. Really, for me, the next step really was not just 
nursing, but the ER that I had always wanted. Having been the EMT for all those years, I made a 
lot of connections. I made a lot of friends with docs, with nurses. It just all flowed very nicely. I 
think that my first nursing job, though, was, like probably everybody else's, the nursing home, 
where you learn, you know, your medications, how to push them and that kind of thing. It was 
just shortly after that that I really was blessed. I was able to get into the ER. I've been an ER 
nurse for 10 years. It was incredible. It was really, really good. COVID hit, as we all know, last 
March. Being in the ER with COVID was tough, really tough, but you know what? It was like, 
we got this. This is what we do [laughs]. This is what we're made for. I did it for a long time and 
I got burnt. I was fried. We worked 12-hour shifts, and we had what we called our "COVID 
pod". Many, many times, I was the COVID nurse for 12 hours. It was just too much. By July, I 
had given my notice. I'm still there per diem because I love that job. I will probably never give 
that job up. I'll probably die there [laughs]. But, I was offered this position at the VA, and my 
boss now, Walter, called me and he said, "Look, I'd really appreciate if you take the position. I 
think you'd be a great addition to our team". So, I thought, "You know, okay", and I said, "What 
else you got? [laughs] I'm looking for something here to just be that over the top. Give me 
something". He said, "Well, you don't really have to face-to-face any patients anymore. You're 
not on the floor anymore". I'm like [laughs], "Where am I signing? I don't care what you pay me. 
Where am I signing?" [laughs]. I have been full time here at the VA since July. Honestly, I don't 
know how I got this job, but I can't be more thankful than I am. Honestly, I get to still be in my 
dream job of the ER when I can, and I got this fantastic job where I work from home [laughs]. 
  
[8:57] AG: Do you think that your own experiences growing up shaped your strong desire to 
work in the emergency room? 
  
JV: When I was young, really young, there was a lot of abuse in the house. From that age, I knew 
I wanted to do something to help people. I knew I couldn't help my mom. I couldn't help. I 
couldn't stop the beatings. I couldn't stop any of that. But, I figured at some point in my life, if I 
actually dedicated it to being used to maybe help people who could, that it could help, that if they 
came into the ER, I could give them resources. I could tell them they don't have to live like this, 
that there's a better life out there. I really believe that's what drove me. 
  
AG: What kind of schooling did you have to complete for your nursing role? 
  
JV: Well, actually, what I did is, because I was working still, I was an EMT still working, so, I 
had to do all my prereqs, and then, actually, it's only an ADN. So, I have just my two-year 
nursing with three years, four years of prereqs [laughs]. 
  
AG: What was your favorite subject in school? 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2020012 
 
  
JV: People would totally deny this, but I think microbiology was my favorite. I [laughs] just 
remember seeing this film they had of these [unintelligible] going after these other diseases, and 
you could actually see [laughs]-- It was like PAC-MAN almost [laughs]. I just remember 
thinking, "Oh, they're gonna get 'em. They're gonna kill 'em" [laughs]. I can't help but, I don't 
know [laughs]. Really and truly, I thought it was fun. It was great growing all those different 
things. It was a good eye-opener. 
  
AG: What led you to work for the VA in particular? 
  
JV: I have always had a soft spot for our veterans. My brother was one, my dad was one, my 
stepdad was one. You hear these horror stories of these poor men and women out there that are 
coming back to the States and they're just lost. They don't know how to live life normal again. 
It's heart wrenching. I guess maybe it's just this thing in my heart that I feel I gotta help 'em. I 
don't know how I can, but I will do what I can. That was my thought. I don't know what this job 
is, but, somehow, it's gonna help somebody. That's why I took it. 
  
AG: It sounds like it must have been difficult to work for both the VA and in an emergency 
room. 
  
JV: Yeah, it's true. We had a huge increase in psych patients just due to the COVID. Nobody can 
go anywhere, nobody can do anything, and I don't think anybody saw that one comin' [laughs]. 
We just had a lot of patients in no rooms. We had no place to put these people. It took a toll on 
them. It took a toll on us, on the administration, just all the way up. It was just really hard. Then, 
I’m like 58 or 57 then. It's like, you know what, I will keep this job per diem, but I don't want to 
do this full time anymore. It's crazy. If I can do something to help somewhere else, I'll do it. In 
our ER, we require at least 16 hours a month, which is not bad. I always did more [chuckles] just 
because. I would finish my job here at 3:30 and head over there and do 4:30 to nine or something 
like that, just to keep my shoes. Again, it was my dream. It is my dream still, but in a much laid-
back definition. I don't have to be there [laughs]. 
  
AG: What unit are you currently working for at the VA? 
  
[13:18] JV: It's called Care in the Community. I don't know if Matthew knows what that is. What 
we do is we allow the veterans, if they don't want to be seen in Manchester VA, if they want to 
go out and go see a different doctor that our insurance covers, then we do that for them. We find 
the providers for them, we set them up with services. First call 'em and make sure, "Where do 
you want to go? Do you have some place?" because a lot of them do already. They already know 
where they want to go. That's what we do. We provide all of that. Then we have to go through 
the consult and make sure that the providers have actually put in the correct consult. We go 
through the consult to make sure the providers have put in the correct information. Yep, make 
sure that this veteran is gonna get everything they need and not part of what they need, but 
everything they need. If they need a ride to that appointment, can we get them that? Just 
everything, you know. If they need x-rays prior to it, we make sure that all of that gets sent with 
the consult. It's amazing. I didn't think at first when I took this job that it was gonna be enough. I 
didn't think that I was gonna be doing enough for these guys and girls, and I was wrong 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2020012 
 
[chuckles]. A lot of 'em are so thankful that somebody cares enough to even call them to say, 
"Hey, where do you want to go? You don't have to be stuck at the VA. We can treat you 
someplace else or you could go where you want to go". The responses that I've gotten have been 
really positive. They're just very grateful. 
  
AG: Do patients request Care in the Community services or are they provided them without 
having to ask? 
  
JV: Yeah, as far as over at the [unintelligible], I'm not sure if they actually offer that or not, if 
they openly say [laughs], because they want to obviously keep the vets in the VA. Within our 
VA even itself, we're losing our pain doctor. Now they're all being shipped out to the-- we're also 
losing, I think, one of our pulmonary docs. They unfortunately-- if they didn't want to go out in 
the community, they now have to. That's the only bad downfall, that there are some veterans that 
don't want to go in the community. They want to stay. They like their doctor in the VA and they 
want to stay with them. That's understandable, you know, to keep that consistent care. 
  
AG: What's your typical shift like or your typical week like? 
  
JV: On a day to day basis, it's different. It depends on what the VA sends over to us for consult. I 
was doing orthopedics and physical therapy and that whole grouping there, which was probably 
one of the biggest for numbers. I used to put through 35 consults a day, which is a lot [laughs]. 
It's a lot of phone calls, and it's a lot of, "Please call me back" [laughs]. Since I've switched my 
grouping again to pain, pulmonary and PFT, that kind of thing, so my day to day numbers have 
changed. They've come down. If I do 20 a day, that's a lot. It gives me more time on the phone 
with the veterans [laughs]. That part I like. 
  
AG: What are some of the common diagnoses that you see at the VA? 
  
JV: I guess it's no different from the VA than it is from the outside world. Everybody has COPD 
if you've been smoking forever [laughs]. You have CHF. Those are things you're just gonna 
have. I don't think it's really-- as far as what we're seeing, it's no different than what we see come 
in the ER kind of thing. It's all the same. But, I will tell you interacting-- 99.9% of 'em are just so 
thankful that you've called them. They're thankful that somebody took the time to bother with 
them. Our Care in the Community group is really-- we have a lot of very positive, good 
feedback, which just makes you happy to be part of that team, that we're doing something good. 
All of us are, it's not just a few of us. I love that. It's being held accountable for what we're 
supposed to be doing. It's good. 
  
AG: Can you describe a typical patient interaction? 
  
[18:25] JV: You just call 'em up: "Mr. Smith, this is So-and-So from Care in the Community 
here at the VA. I have your consult for whatever it is, and I'm just calling to see if-- which 
provider you would like to see in the community. Or, would you like me to suggest and I can tell 
you what we have in the area?" Again, they're just like, "Oh, I don't really know where but what 
you got?" You talk with them a little bit and you tell 'em what's available to them. Some of ‘em 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2020012 
 
are like, "Oh, I wouldn't go there. They killed So-and-So," [laughs] and others are just like, "Oh, 
I love that place. Thank you so much" [laughs]. 
  
AG: Are you currently working as part of a multidisciplinary team at the VA? 
  
JV: Yeah. My job is to basically get the information, find out where they want to go, the 
provider, and then what I do is-- we have what's called MSAs that work with us as a team, and 
they put together the packets, all the information. If there are x-rays that are needed, if there's 
doctor's notes that need to go along with this, they put together that whole packet and then fax it 
right to the doctor's office for us. Then what will happen is the doctor's office will reach out to 
the veteran and say, "Hey, I got your information. These are the dates we have available for an 
appointment. When would you like to come?" 
  
AG: What do you think the hardest part of working as part of a team is? 
  
JV: For the most part, I have found most of it very positive. The only bad thing is we're all 
humans and we don't all get along [laughs]. Unfortunately if you have a team of MSAs that don't 
interact very well together or with you, it makes the job hard. But that's about it. 
  
AG: What is an MSA? 
  
JV: I knew you were gonna ask me that [laughs]. Believe it or not, it's nothing medical. If you 
can turn on a computer, you can work as an MSA. That's it. When you interview Mary, she'll 
have this information for you [laughs]. 
  
AG: Do you supervise the MSAs in your role? 
  
JV: We work under a physician so we answer to him, the nurses do. We have our own manager, 
nurse manager, that we work with under, and then the MSAs are in there. They have their own 
MSA manager. We all have somebody to answer to, which makes it good. It's accountability. 
Everybody needs it. 
  
AG: Do you feel like you have all of the necessary equipment and supplies to do your job 
successfully? 
  
JV: Yeah, no more pen and paper, thank god. When I first started in the ER, we were all pen and 
paper [laughs]. No, actually, the VA sets you up quite nicely. They give you a computer with 
two screens, the headset, everything you need to be able to do-- the Cisco phones where you can 
call. It's amazing. This is the first job that I've ever had where you can actually call through the 
computer [laughs]. I was blown away. What do you mean, I can call through the computer? 
[laughs]. It is wonderful. 
  
AG: Do you enjoy working from home? 
  
JV: I do. I didn't at first because I'm very much a people person, but then I realized you can just 
hold those guys on the phone longer [laughs]: "So, let me tell you something" [laughs]. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2020012 
 
  
AG: And you're still at the ER as well. 
  
JV: That's probably why I keep it per diem [laughs]. It just gives me what I need. It was the 
funniest thing. I was actually talking to my mom about it today, and she's like, "You know, I 
think you're so lucky to have that job". And I said, "You know, I do too. [unintelligible] mom". 
Then, 25 years, between EMS and ER nursing, that I have worked three days a week, three 12-
hour shifts. So, for me, working five days a week, am I done now? [laughs]. What do you mean I 
have to go back to work tomorrow? [laughs]. That's hard. It's still hard, believe it or not. 
  
AG: What is the most difficult part, in your experience, of working at the VA? 
  
[23:16] JV: Isolation doesn't help, but I think as far as the job itself, I think it's hard when you get 
a veteran that you see him heading for that slippery slope and you can't help them. You can offer 
‘em an olive branch, but you can't do much more. Sometimes they'll really open up, and we'll 
just start talking about different things, “Since I have you on the phone,” kind of thing. Some of 
'em don't have anyone else to talk to. When you call to set up that appointment or the consult, 
they just grab right onto it. That's okay with me. I think that's wonderful. There have been times 
I've had to talk a veteran off the ledge, and when I felt I couldn't do it, I had to get our team on 
and I did and it was great. It worked out well for him, which was wonderful. He got the help he 
needed, but that's scary. 
  
AG: On the phone, do substance abuse and mental health issues come up? 
  
JV: Sometimes. Certainly not the substance abuse but the depression, the "I have no reason to 
live". Going down that line is just like... 
  
AG: I'm wondering how you deal with being so close to people in such a great deal of emotional 
distress. 
  
JV: I'm trying to think, the last one that I had, just a sweetheart of a man, just a sweet guy. He 
was very lonely. His whole family had died, including his kids. He was literally alone. He had no 
brothers and sisters left, and his wife had passed, and his kids had passed I think a year prior. He 
was funny. He says, "And I hate my neighbors" [laughs]. So, we just started talking. I just asked 
him, "Do you have any plans to hurt yourself? Do you have any guns in the house?", that kind of 
thing. You just have to go down the line. You gotta know what to ask. You just kinda ask the 
questions, and if you're not comfortable when you're done, by all means, which is what I did. I 
called in our group and they had a conversation with him. We ended up sending out to do a 
wellness check on him. It turned out he was okay. He just needed someone to talk to. I would 
much rather know that was the case, then for it to have gone the other way. 
  
AG: What is the most rewarding aspect of working for the VA? 
  
JV: Boy, I don't know. We have a lot of 'em. I gotta be honest with you. When you're talking to 
the veteran and they're very thankful, and they are just happy, again, like I've said, that 
somebody called out, and they called them and talked to 'em and actually asked them what they 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2020012 
 
wanted. You know how important that is? I mean, that's just a-- I don't know. That's a human 
courtesy that just really blows my mind, that there are people out there who are just thankful for 
that. That's wonderful. It really is amazing. Then when you get the kudo calls and the main 
people who answer the phones up there, and they're like, "Thanks to Care in the Community," 
veterans call back and said they're just so grateful. They're so thankful. It's not really about one 
person or anything. It is a team effort. When your whole team is doing such a great job that 
you're making the veterans happy, that's our job. That means we're doing it right and we're doing 
it the way it should be done. They more than deserve that, and more. Actually, it's really 
wonderful. We are expanding on some of our things. I know when I was getting out of the 
physical therapy, we were doing the water therapy, and that kind of thing, which hadn't been 
something that was offered. In my opinion, if you offer it to anybody, they're the first ones it 
should have been offered to. If there's a service out there that you can go to normally if you have 
a different insurance, then they should be able to go, and they should be able to have all of that 
and more. I mean, that's just how I feel. 
  
[28:00] AG: Can you explain what water therapy is? 
  
JV: Yeah, it's really neat. It's obviously, you know, just from what I've seen, it's just like a walk-
in pool. If you have leg issues, arm issues, whatever, you can do the aqua therapy without putting 
all the stress on your legs, on your muscles, on your bones. That's a really great thing. It feels 
good. I push people for that: "Hey, you know what you can do? You're gonna love this". They 
were thankful that they-- "Oh, I didn't know I could do that". "Absolutely, you can". 
  
AG: How would you say that COVID-19 affected your day to day experiences on the job? 
  
JV: For us in the ER, I think for all of America, but certainly in these positions, ICU, ER, 
literally things are changing by the minute. As you're going through your day, what we were 
doing 15 minutes ago we're not now doing. Now, not only are you gonna gown up, you're gonna 
put the boots on, you're gonna put-- first it was the N95 and then they took the N95 away and 
literally, somewhere in here I have a gas mask, which is what we were using. Then it was how 
you wash your hands, when you disrobe. This is how we used to do it. Now with the COVID, 
this is how we're gonna do it. It was hard. Patients that would come in that you knew they just 
wanted a COVID test, and instead of being able to do that, we had to literally treat them as they 
were a COVID patient. What made that hard was once you put them into our COVID, as we 
called the area there that was all blocked off,  if there was a patient in there that was COVID 
positive, you've now just taken this patient that all they want is a test and you put them in with a 
COVID patient who's positive. That's what we knew. That's what they told us to do. We had to. 
We didn't have a choice in it. It was hard. You can't say you don't want to test. No, if you don't 
want to just don't come in here [laughs]. Oh, it was hard. People were bringing their little kids in. 
It's like, oh, please don't. Go back. Don't do it. It's not worth it. If you start to get sick, then by all 
means there's that, but at that point, there were walk-ins that were doing the COVID testing. Go 
there, but don't come here, because if you don't have it, you don't want it, you just don't. Then it 
was really devastating too that I had one older gentleman that had-- he was positive, but he had a 
lot of comorbidities going on. He had the COPD, he had-- a very, very obese man. His wife 
couldn't stay with him, because in the ER you had no visitors. It was heartbreaking. It was my 
patient and I had to tell her, "You can't stay," and she said, "But I live with him. I've been with 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2020012 
 
him this whole time. Why now can't I stay?" You know what, I agree with you, I wholeheartedly 
agree with you, and you're right. If it were up to me, you could stay in a heartbeat, because that's 
only going to help him too. He's sick. He needs that-- somebody in there with him. But I had no 
choice. I had to send her out and she was crying. I was crying [laughs]. He was out of bed 'cause 
he was so sick. But he was awful. It was just day-to-day, day in and day out of-- That was really 
hard, you know. It wasn't just the patient. It was the families. It was hard. 
  
AG: How do you think that COVID-19 affected the VA overall? 
  
[32:18] JV: It's kind of funny because we had built a brand new ER, and it's only maybe three 
years old now. So, what we did is, in our old ER, we had a hard time with our psych patients. We 
had really no place to put them. So, we built this whole psych pod and there were six rooms in it, 
and then we had a separate room that was pressure negative already off to the side. But, so what 
we did is we took that psych pod and turned it into our COVID pod. They came in and made the 
rooms negative pressure, that kind of thing, so that it was safe for that. Usually, if you were in 
there, it was just easier to keep you in there, and just go from patient to patient to patient, and 
you had to call out and ask for meds and call out and ask for things. It was hard. It was very 
stressful when you were the COVID nurse. 
  
AG: Were the shifts on the COVID floor 12 hours each? 
  
JV: They tried not to do that, just because it's so stressful, and you don't get breaks. There's no 
peeing, there's no lunch, there's no anything. You're in there, you're in there. They really tried to 
break it up, like in four-hour kind of increments so that one person wasn't going crazy, could 
empty their bladder. 
  
AG: Do you think that the VA was especially hard hit by COVID-19 in your experience? 
  
JV: For a little hospital, I really think we did a good job. I think what did us in on this, though, 
was when the psych population started to increase, because now we had no place to put 'em 
again, so, we were right back to all of that. Now you have the very, very sick COVID patients 
and you've got the psych patients and you can't be everywhere, and there wasn't enough security 
in the hospital. There couldn't have been enough security. So, you know, it was constantly trying 
to look for outside sources. PD, can you help us out here? Anything in anything-- everything that 
we could grab, we did. We were laughing about it, actually, one day at the nurses’ station. We're 
like, "Hey, we haven't seen So-and-So. Hey, wait a minute. We haven't seen that one either". I 
think what happened is people got scared, and a lot of them didn't want to come to the ER. They 
just didn't, which was smart. We tried very hard. You really don't want to be here. Be here if you 
have to, but that's about it. What I think was hard, [unintelligible] like nationwide, I think one of 
the biggest mistakes that was made - this is just my personal opinion - is when people had 
COVID, they were sending them home and said, "Don't come back unless you can't breathe". 
Well, I think what they found out later on with COVID is you can't do that. Once you can't 
breathe, it's too late. When we'd have a patient come in knowing they were COVID positive and 
they couldn't breathe, it was like, you know, "Let's get [unintelligible] out here, because we're 
not keeping this one". 
  
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2020012 
 
AG: Did you help veterans get tested and treatment for COVID-19 in your role? 
  
JV: No, not really. We didn't do a lot of that. But it's really funny. There were four of us nurses 
that were hired at the same time in Care in the Community. Walter actually brought us on as 
COVID nurses. If and when COVID hit Manchester VA, we would be in there to give 'em a 
hand. We would be their nurses to help out. Well, COVID never hit Manchester VA, so-- 
certainly not like they thought it was going to, so, what happened is because Care in the 
Community was down on their nurses, he took-- grabbed the four of us and said, "Hey, have I 
got a job for you." 
  
AG: Are there any lessons that you're taking forward from the experiences of the pandemic? 
  
[36:47] JV: Well, I think actually, Manchester did a really good job. They hit lockdown fast and 
hard and very early. Therefore, they really had nothing in their group. So, I mean, it was just 
phenomenal. You just didn't hear of that anywhere. That's what Walter was saying, you know: 
“We're very proud of the fact that we were on top of this and that we were ready”. He's right. 
They really did a good job. Then, of course, like recently, with the new COVID vaccines that 
have come out, all of us in the VA, in Care in the Community, volunteer to go over and get the 
COVID shots. That's nice, too. We've vaccinated a lot of our veterans, if not almost all of them. 
Now, we are outreaching to the family and the caregivers for them to get their shots as well. 
  
AG: How often are you volunteering to vaccinate people? 
  
JV: So yeah, the vaccines, they're actually doing them seven days a week now. And you can go 
in for the weekend, if you want. If you want to put in four hours, you know, they'll allow you 
four hours, four hours on Saturday or Sunday, so you can do that. After you're done with your 
seven to 3:30, if you wanted to go into the office and work that day, and then just go right to the 
VA and get the vaccines. A lot of us do that. 
  
AG: Where do they administer the vaccines? 
  
JV: It is inside the VA. They've blocked off this whole area. It's really good. They have it set up 
very well. They're prepared for pretty much anything. 
  
AG: How many vaccines would you say you administer on a typical volunteer shift? 
  
JV: You'd be surprised. I'm trying to think. The last one I did I think I had maybe anywhere 
between 30, 40. That's a good amount in four hours [chuckles], 'cause you got to get all their 
information. I mean, you gotta do it all. So, it's a lot. 
  
AG: Looking back, what do you think the legacy or the impact ongoing of COVID-19 might be? 
  
JV: I gotta be honest with you. It's funny when you see an old commercial or something airing 
and you're thinking, "Oh, they just touched that. Oh, did we used to do that?" And then you 
compare it to the new commercials and you got the little boy who washes his hands all the time 
and, you know, it's amazing. And thankfully, because of what they have, advertising, make sure 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2020012 
 
you wash your hands, make sure you distance and-- and that kind of thing, we saw really nothing 
for the flu. With the masks and all that just-- I have to tell you, I don't know if I should go on 
saying this [laughs], but I also believe in herd immunity. You need to be clean, you have to wash 
your hands, you gotta put that mask on. I'm gonna leave that one right there [laughs]. 
  
AG: Herd immunity means developing, like, group immunity to a disease. Is that right? 
  
JV: Right, right. They build up the immunity. 
  
AG: Switching gears, what do you think your role is in providing patient care? 
  
[40:35] JV: I have truly, truly been blessed that I've been able to be an ER nurse, and I will say 
that 100 million times, and the capacity to-- the way that we're able to help people, the effect we 
have on people's lives. You hear so many negative things, but there's also a lot of very good 
positive things as well. You got a lot of life and death there. It's a privilege. That's how I feel. 
I've always felt that way. I will always feel that way to be a part of whichever it is. As far as my 
role in the VA and helping them, I just can't even tell you-- the phone calls, and it just really 
blows your mind. It's me who should be saying, "I'm grateful to you". You don't need to be 
grateful to me. I'm only making a phone call, but you gave your life. You were willing to give 
your life. I can't even put into words. I'm thankful, beyond thankful. 
  
AG: Is there anyone in your life who you think of as your professional mentor? 
  
JV: I don't know about mentoring so much, but again, I think watching my mom going through 
what she went through and just never giving up, and knowing that there was something better for 
her out there, it just really, without a doubt, that was my drive, to know that I could do it. I kind 
of gave up on myself for a while. Then my husband just really, really helped me, helped me to 
believe in myself, that I could do what I wanted to do. My sister, one of my sisters, is also a 
nurse, but she works in allergy and immunology and things like that. I've actually learned a lot 
from her. She's been a nurse for 30 years. For her, she'll be retiring soon. But I think those really 
were the two people that I could say that helped me. Mostly my mom, though. She's just 
unbelievable. 
  
AG: It sounds like nursing has changed quite a bit over the course of your career. Is that right? 
  
JV: It's funny. I'll just share this real quick. In EMS, when I started way back in 98, 99, 
somewhere in there, it was always, "What happened in the truck stayed in the truck," [laughs] 
because sometimes you weren't always able to go by the book to get people out of the cars, or 
[laughs] do what you needed to do to save their life. Even in EMS, this whole group of people 
came into it, and they just weren't, I don't know. I don't know if their hearts just weren't in it or 
what, but the attitudes were totally different. Honestly, I've found the same thing in nursing. One 
of the reasons that I've stayed in the hospital that I'm in is because we are a team. Honestly, I'm 
not bragging on myself at all, 'cause it's not. It's teamwork. We are an amazing team. When 
something comes in, not a word has to be spoken. We all know what needs to be done. We all do 
our thing, and we're there to help the patient. The new nurses coming in, some of 'em, you could 
say this, but some of them I think got into nursing for the money. There's no place for that, at 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2020012 
 
least not in my opinion. In nursing there's no place for that. If you didn't get in it because you 
want to help people and because you want to try to make somebody's life better, then you're in it 
for the wrong reason, the absolute way wrong reason. 
  
AG: I'm wondering, is there anything that you do to take care of yourself. 
  
[45:01] JV: Probably not so much self-care. I usually come home, take a steaming hot shower. 
Then of course, there's the sick sense of humor, where you have to develop that or you probably 
won't make it. Again, with the team, we're always able to-- if it was really a tough one, like a 
younger person or just the whole situation was tough, we've always had each other to lean on. 
We would reach out. If you saw that one of the other nurses maybe took a call really hard, you 
would go up to them and you would say, "Hey, I'm here. Maybe we can just go outside and talk 
or whatever you want to do, but you need to get this off your chest. You need to talk about this". 
Again, it is why I stay there. We are amazing, just to each other and as a team. Not as 
individually. Like I said, I'm not all that wonderful. It's that we are as a team. What makes us 
great as a team is that we take care of each other and we're able to help the patients. 
  
AG: Do you think that your sense of humor allows you to connect better with the veterans, that 
kind of dark sense of humor? 
  
JV: I absolutely do. Absolutely, 'cause there are some people-- And I have to laugh, because 
some of our MSAs again, they're not medical, and I can hear when we were all in the office and 
stuff, I'd hear 'em maybe take something offensive and it's like, "No, don't do that. That's not 
what they mean [laughs]. Here, give me the phone. I'll talk to him. I got this one". So yeah, I 
really do think it has helped tremendously. They're great. I love it when that sense of humor 
comes out. 
  
AG: Thank you so much, Joan, for participating in these Library Congress of interviews. We've 
been so thrilled to speak with you. Is there anything you would like to add? 
  
JV: I don't think so. Just, thank you for this opportunity. It just reminds me just how blessed I 
am. So, thank you [laughs]. 
  
[47:21] End of recording.