Civil Rights History Project 
Interview completed by the Southern Oral History Program 
under contract to the 
Smithsonian Institution’s National Museum of African American History & Culture 
and the Library of Congress, 2013 
 
 
Interviewee:  
 
Reverend Doctor Amos C. Brown 
Interview Date: 
 
March 2, 2013 
Location: 
San Francisco, California 
Interviewer: 
 
 
Dr. David P. Cline 
Videographer:  
 
John Bishop 
Length: 
 
 
01:58:48 
 
Reverend Amos Brown: Last week I was honored by the Samuel DeWitt Proctor 
Institute, and he was there. He was honored some years ago, and his wife and my wife’s sister 
are very close friends. My wife’s from Richmond, Virginia, and Dr. Forbes used to pastor St. 
John’s Holiness Church in Richmond. 
David Cline: Yep, yep. 
AB: Yeah, I know Jim. 
DC: He’s a—for my doctoral dissertation project, he’s a central character. 
AB: Oh, really? 
DC: And so, I got to know him quite well. 
AB: Oh! Let me make sure I get this here on, because I’d like to, if you don’t mind— 
DC: Of course. 
AB: Record this. 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
2 
John Bishop: Eventually, they’ll send you a DVD. 
DC: Yeah, we’ll send you a recording as well and a transcript. 
AB: Okay. 
DC: So, let me just make sure I know—today is March second, right? Okay. [Pause] 
JB: Okay. 
DC: Okay? I’m just going to introduce you— 
AB: Sure. 
DC: Just for the beginning of the tape so we know where we are. This is David Cline for 
the Smithsonian African American History and Culture Museum and the Library of Congress 
Civil Rights History Project. Today is Saturday, March the second, 2013, and I’m in the city of 
San Francisco, California, with the Reverend Doctor Amos C. Brown. Good afternoon. 
AB: Good afternoon. 
DC: Thank you so much for joining us and sharing your story with us today. 
AB: It’s my pleasure and a great privilege to share with you. 
DC: And I am on Channel 2, and Reverend Brown is on Channel 1. 
JB: Okay, now we’ve got it all covered. 
DC: Okay! So, Reverend Brown, if we could just start, if you could tell us a little bit 
about where you were born, and your family, your people, and how that informed you growing 
up as a young person. 
AB: I was born in Jackson, Mississippi, February 20th, 1941. And according to the U.S. 
Census, my great-great grandfather, Patrick Brown, was born a slave in Franklin County, 
Mississippi, in a community called Hamburg. It’s east of Natchez, and that area was one great 
dropping off point for slaves from about 1820 to 1845-50. In fact, there was a terrific cholera 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
3 
epidemic there around 1830 in Natchez, and these slaves who were shipped down the river, were 
quarantined out of a place called Forks in the Road, and that’s east of Natchez. So, it was from 
that area that my great-great grandfather was a slave. And I have had that sense of history when I 
had occasion of my aunt, my father’s sister, sharing this information with me. 
Naturally, I was born in a segregated, apartheid South, [laughs] in Mississippi, when 
things were really difficult. In fact, it was commonplace for me to hear of the tales of lynchings, 
of blacks being mysteriously unaccounted for in the Mississippi Delta, where my father pastored 
rural churches. In fact, my father succeeded Reverend George Lee in Holmes County, 
Mississippi, in a Baptist church. Reverend George Lee was murdered in 1955, the month of 
April, the same year that Emmett Till was murdered. His body was found on August 28, 1955. 
[0:05:00] 
And I remember the instance in which a man named Eddie Noel, a sharpshooter who 
confronted a white man for having an affair with his wife, went to this honky-tonk and restaurant 
in Holmes County, Mississippi, to tell his wife that she had to come home and not work there 
anymore. And when this white man jumped him and beat him up, this 28-year-old man, a World 
War II veteran, went to his car, came back with his .22 rifle, and shot this white man dead with 
that .22 rifle. He fled from the scene of his wife, and for eighteen days, he was on the run. And 
about three to four hundred white men, some of them were drunk from moon shine liquor, this 
posse, tried to apprehend him. They couldn’t find him. 
But it was a woman named Arenia Mallory who was the first principal of the Saints 
Industrial School in Lexington, Mississippi. That was a school started as a high school sponsored 
by the Church of God in Christ. The Church of God in Christ was founded by Charles Mason at 
the turn of the last century, about 1906, after he had gone down to Los Angeles to witness the 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
4 
Azusa Street Revivals. My point being, by giving all this background and history, is that this 
woman was so influential, and was the vice president of the National Council of Negro Women, 
that group that was founded by the great woman, Mary McLeod Bethune. Well, Dr. Mallory 
went to Eddie Noel and convinced him that he should turn himself in. 
But before she met with him, she had learned that he had killed two other deputy sheriffs, 
and that meant that this black man murdered three white men and was on the run and did not turn 
himself in until this black woman convinced him to give up. The long-short of it is that when he 
went to court, the judge I’m sure in his mind felt that [laughs] any Negro who would kill three 
white men in Mississippi must have been crazy. So, he had an order for him to be examined over 
at the Whitfield mental institution. And the record is that he was never tried and convicted. 
He was released later, and it was found out that he was [laughs] a descendant, a child of 
one of the governors of Mississippi from 1909 to 1913, Governor Noel. And I don’t know if that 
had anything to do with his getting off, but he was never sent to trial and convicted. He died a 
natural death in Fort Wayne, Indiana. But I remember as a child the excitement, the serial reports 
of Eddie Noel killing these white men and what would happen if they caught him. 
DC: How did you react to his story? 
AB: Well, that story definitely was of great interest to me as a child. And another story 
that impacted me was the murder of Emmett Till, both happening around the same time. And 
then— 
DC: And you would have been about eleven—? 
AB: Yes. 
DC: At that time, so— 
AB: Sure. 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
5 
DC: And here was a boy not much older than you— 
AB: Yes, that’s right. 
DC: And so, how did you react to that story or—? [0:10:00] 
AB: Well, I’ll tell you how I reacted to those stories. My Sunday School teacher, Miss 
Essie Randall [Note: later identified as Miss Essie Collins], who was treasurer of the Jackson 
branch of the NAACP over thirty years, one Sunday morning at the Farish Street Baptist Church, 
which was one of the few churches that opened its doors to any civil rights activity— 
DC: What’s the name of it again? 
AB: Farish, F-A-R-I-S-H, Farish Street Baptist Church. One Sunday morning, she asked 
me did I know what my name meant. I was eight years old then and I told her, “No.” She said, 
“Your name means Amos. That’s a Hebrew word, and it means ‘the prophet who bears the 
burdens of the people.’” I never forgot that. So that when I became aware of Eddie Noel, I 
became aware of the lynching of Emmett Till and the Reverend George Lee, and when I became 
aware of a meeting that was held in Dallas, Texas, in 1954 that my sister attended, along with 
Medgar Evers. It was at that meeting in 1954 that Channing H. Tobias, who was chairman of the 
board of NAACP, coined the phrase “free by 1963.” 
And when Gloria came back from that meeting with Mr. Evers, and I heard her telling 
what happened, I was all intrigued about this conversation that I had with her. And she said, 
“You know, in 1963 there’ll be no more segregation. We’ll be able to vote. We won’t have to sit 
at the back of the bus. But we’re going to have to work to make sure that it really happens.” And 
I was excited about this change that was going to come because of what this man said in Dallas 
that I got involved, and I organized the first youth council of NAACP in 1955. 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
6 
And after I organized that youth council, that spring of 1956, Mr. Evers asked my mother 
if I could travel with him to San Francisco to the national convention of the NAACP, where I 
would have exposure with other young people from across the country who were in civil rights 
activity under the umbrella of the NAACP Youth Movement. That was my first time out west. 
Mr. Evers had just bought an old 1955 Oldsmobile. We called it the Blue Goose. It didn’t have 
air conditioning in that day. In fact, you had use ice packs, bags of ice, to put on the hood of the 
car to cool the engine as you went through the desert coming westward. 
So, that summer of 1956, the month of July, we came to San Francisco. I never shall 
forget when we approached that Bay Bridge, and I saw all of this water after we had come up 
through the Valley, you know, up to San Francisco. And I came to this great meeting. I didn’t 
have money to stay in hotels. I stayed with a family who were friends of my mother, and their 
name is Hutchinson. They lived up on Fulton Street, near Fulton and Divisadero. And I walked 
from Fulton and Divisadero every day to the meetings, to the nightly-held mass meetings. And it 
was my fortune to first hear Martin Luther King on Youth Night. He had just won the victory in 
Montgomery. 
DC: Right. 
AB: And when he gave his panoramic treatment of history, you know, and talking about 
the times of the Greeks and Egyptians and all that good stuff, and he said, “But this is the 
greatest time for me and for all of us to be alive,” and he spoke about the hope that he had for 
America and the eradication of racism. I never shall forget. He ended that great speech that night 
by saying, “I have a dream that the day will come when all of God’s children [0:15:00], from 
bass black to treble white, will be significant on the Constitution’s keyboard.” And I have a copy 
of that speech in my possession now that I heard him deliver. 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
7 
And on that Sunday morning of the convention, believe it or not, I worshipped at this 
church. 
DC: Oh, you did? This very church? 
AB: That I came back to be pastor of, little did I know. 
DC: And the name of this church just— 
AB: Third Baptist Church, which is the oldest predominately African American Baptist 
church in the western United States. It was founded in August, August the first of 1852, which 
was the centennial of the abolition of slavery in the Caribbean Islands. So, this church also had a 
great confluence with history. That’s the same year that Harriet Beecher Stowe’s book, Uncle 
Tom’s Cabin, was published. And I’m confident that there was agitation in the air, a move for 
self-determination on the part of blacks before the Civil War here in the West, and that’s why 
Eliza Davis and her husband William and others moved out of White First Baptist. White First 
Baptist was founded in 1849. They moved out because they met discrimination in the church, 
and they decided that they wanted to worship God in dignity and not in humiliation. 
And I’ve been pastor of this church since 1976. Now, how did I get here? I had some 
intermittent stops. 
JB: One second. The Library of Congress don’t like the files to get too big. 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB: Okay. 
DC: While we do have a pause, I’ll go back and ask one question. 
AB: Yeah. 
DC: … Mr. Evers as well, and your father was a pastor, and I’m wondering if you could 
talk a little bit about being raised in that family. Earlier before when we were talking, you talked 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
8 
about books on your father’s bookshelves, and I’m wondering if you could talk about how your 
family talked with you about race or race consciousness or involvement in movement to better 
the place of African Americans. 
AB: Actually, I had very little conversation with my father, because he was very busy. He 
was a country itinerant preacher and he worked as a janitor. He was aware of the Movement. He 
was definitely aware of discrimination. But in terms of his telling me, “You must get involved 
and do this,” he didn’t operate that way. It was my choice and because of my exposure to people 
like Medgar Evers; John W. Dixon, who was superintendent of the Sunday School in Farish 
Street Baptist Church there in Jackson; Miss Essie Collins, as I mentioned earlier, who was the 
treasurer of the Jackson branch; Miss Mary Cox, who [0:18:38], never rode a bus—she walked 
every place she went because she said she would not ride any bus in segregated humiliation; and 
Carsey Hall, a letter carrier and was an attorney, went to night school and became an attorney. 
Samuel Bailey was the advisor of our youth council; he was a member of the College Hill 
Baptist Church. 
Let me say parenthetically, back in the day, there were only about three or four churches 
that embraced the Civil Rights Movement. The other pastors and churches were A) theologically 
conservative and didn’t want to become involved. They were only concerned about the saving of 
souls and getting people ready for heaven. Alright. However, there were these churches: Farish 
Street that I was reared in, baptized there by Reverend Chester Arthur Greer from Fort Worth, 
Texas. There was Pearl Street African Methodist Episcopal Church [0:20:00] pastored by 
Reverend G. R. Horton. There was College Hill Baptist Church pastored by Reverend W. L. 
Jones. And later, the New Mount Zion Baptist Church that Reverend Bell became pastor of 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
9 
during the height of the student demonstrations of the ’60s. Those were the only churches that 
would open their doors. 
DC: Out of how many in Jackson? 
AB: Oh, my God! Whew! We must have had about a hundred or more churches. People 
were afraid, you know.  We were mavericks. And little did I know, also, that the State 
Sovereignty Commission, that watchdog spying group on all civil rights workers, had a ten-page 
file on me. When that file was opened in the 1980s, we knew that we were being watched, but 
we didn’t think that they were that serious, in terms of spending money to spy on teenagers, kids. 
But they even had a report in that file, and I will give you a copy of it, in which it was 
reported that I had opened a bank account at the Deposit Guaranty Bank. One of the vice-
presidents broke the law, broke confidentiality, and reported to Mayor Thompson and to the 
chief of police that I had opened this bank account and the amount of money that we deposited. 
And it was a notation there that this name must be kept confidential, and they had blotted out the 
name. His name was Latham, L-A-T-H-A-M. I don’t know if he’s still alive or not, but he was a 
vice-president of the Deposit Guaranty Bank of Jackson. 
They also had on file there any place that I spoke as president of the youth council or as, 
later, state president of youth councils in Mississippi, any conventions that I went to. In fact, it 
was in 1958, again with Mr. Evers, and Mr. Joseph Broadwater, who was a member of our 
branch—we went to the convention in Cleveland. That was the year that the Little Rock Nine 
won the Nobel Peace Prize. And I was in an interview with the Cleveland Plain Dealer paper 
about conditions of blacks in Mississippi and the double system of education we had, the fact 
that black teachers were not receiving salaries equal to whites. 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
10 
And someone—I can give you a copy of that document—someone sent to the 
superintendent, the white superintendent, Mr. Kirby Walker, Kirby P. Walker, that article. And I 
was told when I got back home to enter school that fall, going into my senior year in 1959 at Jim 
Hill High School, that segregated school, I was told by my principal, Mr. Luther Marshall, that 
he had gotten orders from the white superintendent and the black superintendent of schools that I 
was to not be permitted to re-enroll in Jim Hill High School, because I didn’t know how to keep 
my mouth shut and I was creating too much trouble. 
Well, when Medgar Evers, again, my mentor, heard about this, he got with my mother 
and later contacted my father, who was by the way at the National Baptist Convention. It was the 
month of September when school opened up, and we threatened to file a lawsuit for the 
desegregation of Provine High School. It’s a white high school near my home. [0:25:00] And all 
of this is written up in Mr. Evers’ biography, that book by Manning Marable, The Autobiography 
of Medgar Evers. Well, all of this is documented in that book. 
And when Mr. Evers threatened to sue, they really started moving then. They didn’t want 
to integrate the schools, and so, they rescinded my being prohibited from going to Jim Hill. They 
let me back in. But they abolished the student council that I was also president of, in order to 
break my influence. However, the students later elected me president of the senior class. Well, 
they withheld my holding that position. And I was valedictorian, but, again to break my spirit, 
they denied me that honor and only let me be salutatorian. 
DC: Now, was your principal—were these his decisions, or was he being told what to do? 
AB: He was being told. In fact, years later, after I had gone and finished Morehouse, 
Crozer Seminary, and become an accomplished pastor, I went back home. And he saw me and he 
broke down and started crying. He said to me, “Brown, you were a kid then and you didn’t 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
11 
understand that we were under a lot of pressure, under a lot of threats, and we were afraid of 
losing our jobs.” He said, “I didn’t mean any personal harm against you.” He said, “But I had to 
do what the people told me to do.” 
And it was that kind of an atmosphere in Mississippi back then. In fact, in that State 
Sovereignty Commission report, there was an indication of how they had spies who would go to 
any mass meeting and would take down the license plate numbers of anybody’s car who was 
parked around the church. And they would find out who the car belonged to, and the next week, 
they would research where you worked, and you would get a notice that you were fired for being 
involved with civil rights activity. 
I continued my involvement in the NAACP Youth Movement and was elected national 
chairman of the Youth Work Committee in 1959 in New York City. Again, Dr. King was at that 
meeting, and it was there that picture was taken of Roy Wilkins, then the executive secretary, 
and Dr. King, and myself, as chairman of the National Youth Work Committee. And it was at 
that meeting that I presided over the reportings of all youth units in the nation. And I was 
privileged to receive the report from Clara Luper, who was the advisor of the Oklahoma City 
Youth Council, and Barbara Posey, who was the president of the Youth Council in Oklahoma 
City, these two persons reporting on their successes in Oklahoma City, again that magic number, 
August 28. 
August 28, 1958, was when there was the first sit-down movement in an organized mass 
way by young blacks under the umbrella of NAACP. You see, in this country, we have 
romanticized the student sit-in movement, or mis-stated it. The student sit-in movement did not 
begin in Greensboro, 1960. It started in Oklahoma City, August 28, 1958. 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
12 
And at that meeting, back to my point about my presiding in New York: In 1959, 
according to the report of the credentials committee of the NAACP that’s on record at the 
Library of Congress, there was a young man named Ezella Blair [0:30:00] who was an alternate 
youth delegate to the convention. He heard Barbara Posey and Clara Luper reporting about what 
they had done in Oklahoma City. And when he went back to Greensboro that fall of 1959, 
entering as a freshman at A&T College, he started telling his fellow classmates about this 
movement. And no one would move with him during the fall, but he got three others to go with 
him and sit down on February the first, 1960. And then, the movement began to spread like 
wildfire across the South to Nashville, to Tallahassee, to Baton Rouge, to Atlanta. 
And that’s the real accurate story. I’m working now to write a book entitled Before 1960 
to put it all in accurate historical perspective of when, what was then-called the student sit-
down—it wasn’t called sit-in—it was called sit-down movement. And this movement of 1958 
was also replicated in Wichita, Kansas, Louisville, Kentucky—all youth units of NAACP. And 
we had laid, by the way, the groundwork for this here in San Francisco in 1956 under the 
leadership of Herbert Wright, who was then the national youth secretary. He’s still alive; he lives 
up in Connecticut. He was reared in the Houston, Texas, branch, and he got us engaged in 
student youth activism. And this was written up in the Tokyo Times, the London Times, the New 
York Times, all the major papers around the world, but the American press sat on what happened 
and tried to wipe it out, forget about it, in 1958. 
DC: I think it’s such an important part of the story is that NAACP youth training that the 
Greensboro guys had. 
AB: Yes. 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
13 
DC: Also, that, you know, that Rosa Parks was—the training that Rosa Parks had. People 
get that story— 
AB: Here’s the thing about it, too. Ms. Parks worked as secretary of the Montgomery 
NAACP and she was advisor to the Youth Council. Now, here was the connection that brought 
me into the loop. I met Dr. King here in San Francisco in 1956. That was the year of the victory 
of the Montgomery movement. There were delegates from the Montgomery branch. But what 
happened? In 1956, the state of Alabama sought to wipe out the NAACP, and they made it 
illegal for the NAACP to function in Alabama. And that’s why Dr. King and others had to 
organize the Southern Christian Leadership Conference. So, they went under the umbrella of the 
faith community. They were smart enough to say, “If you won’t let us function as a civil rights 
advocacy organization in Alabama, you can’t mess with our churches and our religion.” And 
that’s exactly how the Southern Christian Leadership Conference came into being. 
But back to your point about Rosa Parks, her being involved was started under the 
umbrella of NAACP and serving as an advisor to the Youth Council in Montgomery, Alabama. 
DC: Okay. Just a quick pause. 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB: Okay, we’re rolling again. 
DC: Okay. Could you tell us how you first got to know Mr. Evers and developed this 
relationship with him? 
AB: As I alluded to earlier, I became aware of who he was through my sister, Gloria 
Holliday, who is still living. She lives in Denver, Colorado. [0:35:00] And Mr. Evers was a very 
humble, warm, engaging man. And he discovered my interests, my talents, and my ability, even 
as a lad. He encouraged me. He sort of was my surrogate father, [laughs] elder brother, and he 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
14 
made sure that I had opportunities to go to meetings, wherever they were. And my mother, who 
was principally responsible for me, because my father, as I said, traveled a lot, but she never 
questioned Mr. Evers. She never expressed, if she did have any fear, she never expressed it. She 
would always say, “Well, if that’s what you want to do, go ahead. I’m with you.” And Mr. Evers 
took me to all these meetings. We even went up the Mississippi Delta. And there were points 
when we disguised ourselves as sharecroppers to hold mass meetings or to investigate cases. We 
were all over that state. 
DC: You mentioned fear. Did you experience fear in situations like that? 
AB: Not really. I guess I was too young or maybe too daring or too naive. I wasn’t scared 
at all. But as I look back on what I know about what the State Sovereignty Commission was 
doing, my life was really in harm’s way. The State Sovereignty Commission, in that file that I 
mentioned, gave a summation report after they had all of these details and documentation of 
what I had done: Amos Brown is a full-fledged agitator, and this is the report on him that we 
must keep active. Wherever I was arrested, they had a record of that, whether it was in Atlanta or 
Savannah, Georgia; I led a wade-in at Tybee Beach there. Also, I desegregated the First Baptist 
Church of Atlanta. Dr. Benjamin Mays wrote about that in his writings. That church is now 
pastored by Reverend Charles Stanley. Back in 1961, they did not admit black people there. 
In fact, that’s where I met my wife. She was a student at Spelman. Students at Spelman, 
white students at Georgia Tech, Morehouse students led a kneel-in one Sunday morning. And at 
that church, deacons and trustees literally picked up these students and threw them out of that 
church. And after the service was over, I saw my wife outside on the steps with a number of 
other—wives-to-be, that is—a number of other students from Spelman. So, every kind of 
demonstration [laughs] to break down barriers, I was a part of. 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
15 
DC: And you were a Morehouse student then? You had graduated from high school and 
gone on to Morehouse. 
AB: Yes. Yes, and I was a part of the leadership contingency of the sit-in movement in 
Atlanta, along with Marian Wright Edelman, who now is over the Children’s Defense Fund. In 
fact, she wrote a book entitled Lanterns, and in that book, there is a chapter where she mentions 
me. She said there was a young bright NAACPer named Amos Brown in the room when we met 
with the college presidents to let them know that we were going to sit in. 
You see, when we decided to get involved in the Movement, all the college presidents of 
those black schools called us in, because they knew we were going to join with the other students 
throughout the South. And they said, “We’re not going to try and discourage you or to block 
your activity. But [0:40:00] you ought to let the world know why you’re doing what you’re 
doing.” 
And it was Dr. Rufus Clement and Dr. Mays who suggested that we would write a 
document explaining why, our raison d’être for what we were doing. And they said, “We will 
raise the money to pay for your document to be published in the Atlanta Journal Constitution.” 
And I was a part of that committee. I was the youngest one in the room. The other persons in the 
room were Lonnie King, who is still alive; Charles Black, who is still alive; Herschelle Sullivan; 
Julian Bond; Marian Wright Edelman— 
DC: [Laughs] That’s quite a group. 
AB: Don Clarke, AU, among others. We were in that room. And after we wrote that 
document—it was entitled “The Committee on Appeal for Human Rights.” After it was 
published in the Journal, we sat in. And I spent time in jail with Dr. Martin Luther King; his 
brother A. D.; Otis Moss, who is still alive, pastor emeritus of the Olivet Baptist Church of 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
16 
Cleveland, Ohio; and Lonnie King; and David Satcher—David Satcher, the former Surgeon 
General of the United States. We were schoolmates at Morehouse. In fact, we lived in the same 
dorm our junior year, Mays Hall. We entered Morehouse at the same time, too. So, that was my 
experience. 
But my experience was not just relegated to civil rights in America. I became aware of 
world affairs. In 1957, when I met Rajmohan Gandhi, Mahatma Gandhi’s grandson, he was here 
in the United States with an organization called Moral Re-Armament. It was founded by Dr. 
Buchman in England. It was called the Oxford Movement back in the ’40s. And they had the—
what I considered to be a bit naive, that the world would be made better if people would just 
commit themselves to some absolutes: absolute honesty, absolute purity, absolute [0:43:05], all 
this. Well, I listened to it and I saw some good in it. But I felt, back then, that you needed some 
realistic legislative action to change the legal underpinnings of discrimination in this country, in 
addition to calling on the individual to change one’s heart and try to live a higher standard of 
living. 
And later, after I went to that World Affairs meeting up at Mackinac Island, Michigan, 
Mr. Gandhi invited me to be his guest. And there were about 87 countries represented there from 
around the world. That was the same year that Martin Luther King won the Spingarn Medal, 
which is the highest medal that can be bestowed upon an African American for achievement in 
previous years or in that particular calendar year, and Mr. Gandhi was there to be a part of that 
ceremony. 
And then, from that international exposure, I also was invited in 1958 by the Quakers to 
attend a World Affairs camp up at Camp Danby near Cornell University. I spent a whole summer 
there. Here I was, a kid out of Mississippi. My parents weren’t that affluent. Although we were 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
17 
poor in things, we were rich [0:45:00] in ideas and academic pursuits and in commitment to 
social engineering and social justice. So, that’s been basically a principle of my career, and since 
then, this has been my passion. I was given a scholarship when I finished Morehouse in 1964 to 
go to Africa. That was my first trip to Africa. 
DC: 1950—? 
AB: 1964. 
DC: ’64, yeah. 
JB: Hold on just a second. 
DC: Okay. 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB: We’re back. 
AB: So, that was the year that I finished Morehouse and also the year of being admitted 
to Crozer Theological Seminary for my theological training. And by the way, one of my letters 
of recommendation was written by Dr. King. 
DC: You actually studied with Dr. King at Morehouse, didn’t you? 
AB: Yes, I did, but when I went to graduate school, he wrote one of my letters of 
recommendation. He went to Crozer back in 1948. In fact, I have a picture of him at the Calvary 
Baptist Church with the church officers when he was nineteen years old when he entered Crozer. 
See, his father was a very close friend of Dr. J. Pius Barbour. Dr. Barbour was editor of the 
National Baptist Voice, a graduate of Morehouse, a native of Galveston, Texas. His father was a 
preacher there in Galveston, too. And he finished Morehouse around 1911 and he went to Crozer 
as the second black student to finish there. 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
18 
And from the time that he finished, he was the unofficial dean of all black students at 
Crozer, and we spent many nights in his parlor, discussing politics, theology, you name it. And 
he was a mentor for many great preachers who were of the prophetic liberal tradition, such as 
William Augustus Jones from Kentucky. He’s now deceased. He was the pastor of that great 
church in Brooklyn, New York, Bethany Baptist; Dr. Samuel DeWitt Proctor, who went to 
Crozer. Dr. Harold Carter, who is still alive; he’s in Baltimore, Maryland. Dr. B. J. Whipper; 
he’s from Alabama. Dr. Charles Booth is in Columbus, Ohio. Dr. Jesse Wendell Mapson is 
pastoring in Philadelphia. Reverend Doctor Archie LeMone, who served with the World Council 
of Churches in Geneva, Switzerland, with his having finished seminary. 
And this tradition is what created African American preachers, prophets, who were on the 
cutting edge and never bifurcated the Gospel. It was never “either-or,” personal salvation or 
social salvation. It was always “both-and.” We could not see at all how one could talk about 
saving a soul and not dealing with a society that made it difficult for the soul to be honorable, 
just, and fair. You had to deal with both. 
And that’s why we got the blessing and the gift of Mordecai Wyatt Johnson. He, too, 
finished Morehouse College and went to Colgate Rochester, the sister school of Crozer. Dr. 
Mordecai Johnson, born in Paris, Tennessee. He studied at Harvard. He went to Chicago. But he 
was pastor of the First Baptist Church in Charleston, West Virginia, in 1926. [0:50:00] 
Before 1926, the board of trustees did not have the confidence in any black who could be 
president of that school, but they decided that they would give an African American an 
opportunity. And when they sent out the search committee of people like Ralph Bunche, Sterling 
Brown, and others, they felt that they were scholars and they should have been considered. But 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
19 
the prevailing wisdom was that they needed a personality like Dr. Mordecai Johnson to lead that 
school and take it to its next level. He was elected president in 1926. 
When he got there, his first agenda item was to discover what could be done to bring that 
law school to first-class status. It was a night school when he got there. What did he do? He 
called on Justice Louis Brandeis, who was serving on the Supreme Court, and he asked him, “If 
you were to build a first-class law school, what would you advise the builder to do?” And on the 
condition that Justice—that Rev. Dr. Johnson would not tell anyone what he said until he died, 
he told him, “I wouldn’t build a law school that would teach young black lawyers how to become 
corporate lawyers to make money for themselves or even criminal lawyers.” He said, “I would 
build a great school that would teach young black minds how to master the art of constitutional 
law.” 
And from that conversation, Dr. Johnson sought out Charles Hamilton Houston and gave 
him the green light to build that law school and make it first class. And in Charles Hamilton 
Houston’s first class, there were three young men: Thurgood Marshall from Baltimore, 
Maryland, who had been denied admission to the University of Maryland Law School; Oliver 
Hill from Richmond, Virginia; Robert Carter from Montclair, New Jersey. And there was the 
counsel and the mentorship of one James Nabritt. It was that team that went before the Supreme 
Court, beginning in 1953, got involved in developing the briefs, and they went and argued so 
persuasively against the backdrop and the buttress of the Fourteenth Amendment, equal 
protection under the law, making the case that segregated public education was not equal, and it 
denied black children equal protection under the law. That amendment brought us over and 
broke down the legal barriers for discrimination in this country, and it reversed Plessy v. 
Ferguson. 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
20 
So, we owe it to Dr. Johnson and the foundation of the black church for all that we have 
achieved, not the total church, because not everybody was involved in the Movement. In fact, the 
Joint Center for Political Studies came out with a report some time ago that only about three 
percent of the black preachers were involved in the Civil Rights Movement. It is a romanticized 
statement to say that everybody was with Dr. King. They were not. For, as I mentioned to you 
earlier, there were only about three or four churches in my hometown of Jackson, Mississippi, 
who became in the Movement. And Dr. King was a remnant of this group. They were a new 
breed, just a handful. And in Florida, there was C. K. Steele [0:55:00] in Tallahassee; in Miami, 
Father Gibson; in Tampa, A. Leon Lowry. And in, of course, Tennessee, you had Benjamin 
Lawson Hooks and Dr. Owen at Metropolitan. In Georgia, you had Samuel Woodrow Williams, 
who was college minister, and he co-team taught that course, that seminar in social philosophy 
with Dr. King that I mentioned earlier. He was college minister at Morehouse and was pastor of 
the oldest black Baptist church in Atlanta, Friendship Baptist. 
DC: Can you talk a little bit more about that class that you were in with them? 
AB: Oh, that was an exciting class! It was small, only eight of us. And Dr. King was very 
down to earth. There was nothing arrogant about him. He was a regular brother, though he was a 
brilliant man. And it was just an incredible experience to sit at his feet. 
And one thing I remember about that class is his talking about the theory of personalism 
that he acquired from Brightman at Boston University, when he was studying his Ph.D. degree 
where he got his Ph.D., we all know, in systematic theology. Personalism: that every human 
being is imbued with dignity and worth, and we should respect that worth and dignity, and not 
rate, not measure or judge people on the basis of where one was born, what was one’s color, 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
21 
what one’s religion was. But we should respect every person, in spite of our uniquenesses and 
differences. 
And that’s why, even in my own time, it was not difficult for me to embrace women 
preachers, though about ninety-eight percent of black preachers, who are against white 
oppression, have been against women. In my church, I have women preachers. I ordained and 
licensed the first woman preacher in this city in this church in 1984. We have women deacons 
and women involved throughout the leadership team of this church. And when the issue came up 
regarding gay rights, I didn’t have any problems, because I knew what my teacher would do if he 
were here today. And I felt that it was wrong for us to codify one’s rights, the rights of a people 
who have been marginalized, for they too deserve equal protection under the law. 
DC: Yet so many other churches didn’t feel that way. 
AB: They did not! They did not because they did not understand Dr. King and they do 
not know how we got over. You see, John Mercer Langston, back in 1866—this is the great-
uncle of Langston Hughes—who was the first black to serve in Congress during Reconstruction 
in Virginia, and he and Charles Satchell, the first black pastor of Third Baptist, were in the 
leadership of the Abolitionist Movement in Ohio before 1850. 
But back to my point, I have a copy of a speech that John Mercer Langston delivered in 
St. Louis, Missouri, in 1866, and do you know what the title of that speech was? “Equal 
Protection Before the Law.” And he was fighting and arguing for blacks to have the right to vote 
back then. And he said, among other things, “If you feel that black folks must be educated, must 
be learned, know how to read and write, make sure that all white folks are required to do the 
same, because there are many of them who are enfranchised, who are voting.” [1:00:00] And that 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
22 
was something that really shook me, that way back then, here was this man, a preacher and a 
lawyer who labored along with my predecessor, Charles Satchell, for equality of opportunity. 
So, I told all of my brothers who were not aware of this kind of history, who were not 
aware of this kind of reasoning, you know, you must not become that which you hate. And if you 
hate, just like the fact that white folks discriminated against you because of the color of your 
skin, don’t discriminate against gay, lesbian, transgender or bisexual people because they’re 
different. And I pushed that idea and that notion that we’re all different. As long as we’re not 
violating the law or doing injury or harm to anyone, we should not legislate how people are to 
experience their own life, liberty and pursuit of happiness. And tried to impact upon them the 
fact that, impress upon them rather, that I’m a heterosexual. That’s who I am. Gays and lesbians, 
transgender and bisexual people, that’s who they are. And we must not generalize on them. 
And I remind them often that the divorce rate in America is the highest, not in California, 
not in New England, where the Unitarians are and the liberals, not out here where they think 
we’re kooky and crazy, but the divorce rate in America is the highest in the Bible Belt, where we 
sing the most, shout the most, preach the most, go to church the most. And I always raise the 
relevant question to them: How can you blame other people for not being able to keep your own 
relationship together? I say, “Why is it that in Alabama, Mississippi, Georgia, Florida, 
Tennessee, South Carolina, North Carolina, and up into Oklahoma the divorce rate in this nation 
is the highest amongst religious, church-going people?” Can’t explain it. 
And then, I remind them also, in terms of the worth and the dignity of all people, that 
King James, who gave us the King James translation of the Bible that many of them love to hear, 
the thees and the thous, the old Chaucerian English, you know—I said, “Did you know that King 
James was gay?” And I really had them then. [Laughter] They didn’t know which way to run. I 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
23 
said, “Now, because he was gay and he made this contribution, are you going to burn up all of 
the Bibles?” I think we should be aware. I said, “Now, that does not mean that you are not 
entitled to decide what you’re going to do about marriage equality in the context of your 
religious rites, R-I-T-E-S.” There’s a difference between religious rites and the rights that we are 
guaranteed under the Constitution and the laws of the state. And I said, “You cannot discriminate 
against people.” 
And I reminded them also that we would not be Baptists if we did not have the freedom 
to interpret the Bible in the way that we are led to do. Because Roger Williams in 1638 was run 
out of the Massachusetts Bay Colony because the Puritans and the Congregationalists said, 
“We’re going to have a state church. We’re going to tell people what to believe.” And he said, 
“Oh, no. I’m going to have freedom of conscience. There’ll be separation of church and state, 
autonomy of the local congregation.” And I said, “Are you going to deny or are you going to spit 
on the principles that enable you to be a Baptist?” 
I said, “We must not deny those persons, those congregations the right to perform same-
sex marriage if they want to.” I said, “That may not be a part of my tradition, and I have that 
right as one living in a democratic society to follow the tradition that speaks to me.” And I said, 
“I do not perform same-sex marriage because of the tradition that I’m exposed to, where I am, 
here and now. But it is wrong, it is not just, it does not provide equal protection under the law, 
for you to go out and join with forces, whether it is the Catholic Church or the Mormons, to say 
we’re going to deny these persons equal protection [1:05:00] under the law by imposing our 
private religious persuasions and doctrines on them. This is a free country. It is not a theocracy. 
It is a democracy, government by the people, of the people, and for the people. And of those 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
24 
people are gay and straight people, black and white, brown, yellow, red. We’re all persons in 
God’s sight.” 
And that’s what I’ve stood on. And many didn’t want to hear it, even some in this church. 
Finally they came around. One Sunday morning, a young man, who finally had to apologize to 
me and the whole church, tried to come up and take over the pulpit one Sunday morning when I 
said that I was not going to support Proposition 8. And right now, I believe I’m on the way to 
being vindicated because I think the change has come. And with even the position that Mr. 
Obama, the President, is taking, here again I was a prophet, as my Sunday School teacher told 
me to be, who bore the burdens of the people. And I think that I have humbly borne those 
burdens, not just for black people, not just for women, but also for gay people. 
DC: You mentioned earlier the idea of not only civil rights but human rights. 
AB: Yes. 
DC: Can you talk about that in the context of what you’re saying? 
AB: In terms of human rights, it takes us into the global picture. I think we must see that 
in our Christian tradition at its best, the notion is there that Christ died for the world, not for 
America, but for the world. And in that world, there are people of different cultures, different 
backgrounds, different religions. So that I must be careful about my economics, my politics here 
at home, in terms of seeing how they impact people who are in Bangladesh, Central America, 
South America, Africa, poor people. 
You see, we’re about four percent of the—at one time, we were six, but maybe about four 
percent of the world’s population—but we consume forty-five to fifty percent of the world’s 
goods and resources. And yet, the Bible says, “The earth is the Lord’s, the fullness thereof, the 
world and they that dwell therein.” So, it’s not fair for me to support industries that are paying 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
25 
these horrible wages to people in China or these other so-called Third World nations, who are 
working cheap labor to support our standard of living. What happens over in these countries does 
come back to impact us. 
Dr. King also said, “Injustice anywhere gets around to affecting all of us everywhere.” 
And that’s the reason why he wrote the “Letter from a Birmingham Jail.” Remember the white 
clergy of Birmingham said, “You don’t need to be coming here stirring up trouble. You don’t 
live here. You don’t pay taxes here. Get out of town, Dr. King! Stay in your own pulpit up there 
in Atlanta!” And he wrote that letter to let them know that we are in this garment, mutually 
impacted, and what affects one gets around to impacting us all throughout the world. That’s why 
we have to take this issue beyond just civil rights for us in America and look at the human rights 
of all peoples on the face of this earth. 
And when you really go way, way back, get technical, we are members of the same 
family. According to Leakey, the paleontologist, our first home was in Africa [1:10:00] in the 
Rift Valley. And I tell many people when we’re unkind to people of different races, we’re 
messing with our kinfolk. And the only reason why we’ve got these distinctions, you know, in 
terms of human features, is because we migrated from one place to the other and we adjusted to 
the environmental conditions, where we must remember what my mother told me when I left 
home: “Amos, behave!” 
Unfortunately, when we left our home in Africa, we failed to behave. Wherever we 
established cultures and civilizations, we became arrogant and developed this dichotomy of 
“them against us, us against them,” instead of getting that one little pronoun, “we.” We are 
family. We are part of this world community. And we are going to share this earth’s resources 
and not be greedy and hoard unto us over our fair share of the world’s resources. 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
26 
JB: You know, if I had some time and could use these tapes, I’d put that on YouTube this 
afternoon. [Laughter] Could I just—I found this extremely moving. But another thing that was 
very moving was seeing and hearing you talk to the youth when we were first here waiting. 
Could you say something about what message—what you’re trying to convey to young people 
now in these times? 
AB: Well, this was a group of young men and students at Stanford, at UC-Berkeley, the 
University of San Francisco, UCLA, who were pledging to be members of the Alpha Phi Alpha 
fraternity. That’s also the fraternity of Dr. King. It’s my fraternity, too, and W. E. B. Du Bois, 
and Andrew Young, Joseph Lowery, and others. Well, I was trying to impress upon them that, in 
the spirit of Alpha, we would be men of scholarship, manly deeds, and love for all humankind. 
And this is what Dr. King epitomized. 
First of all, he was a scholar. He entered Morehouse at the age of fifteen, an early 
admission student, though at Morehouse his average, and I have a copy of his transcript, he was a 
C-plus student. However, at Morehouse, those professors were hard taskmasters. When he 
finished Morehouse, he went on to Crozer, and he was an A student. He was president of the 
student body. He went on to Boston University and got his Ph.D. degree. He was a scholar, and 
that’s the reason why I worked here in my ministry to clone, to create more young King 
Scholars. 
Right now, we are involved in a program over at Martin Luther King Middle School 
called Students of Promise. We’re working with Latino and African American males who are 
underachieving. You see, the mean average for all black students at the middle and high school 
levels in this city, believe it or not, is D-plus. And only thirty percent of black students in this 
school district finish—thirty percent finish high school. And when you look at the higher 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
27 
education level, the same percentage obtain. Of those who enter school, for whatever reasons, 
drop out; only about thirty to forty percent finish. That’s tragic. 
So, I was trying to let these young men know, I repeat, that they have a responsibility that 
once they get their sheepskin, don’t forget that Mary McLeod Bethune said, “When you become 
the first black here, or the first black there, and the first black there, you know, make sure you 
are not the last one. And as you climb up, reach back and pull someone along with you.” And I 
was challenging them to really work to be role models [1:15:00] or models for young men in 
inner city communities. 
Secondly, I was appealing to them to be involved in the culture and the communities of 
the black people, for many times middle-class blacks go unto themselves and forget about the 
community. I was reminding them that they were needed now to be what W. E. B. Du Bois 
called “missionaries of culture and self-help.” 
And then, thirdly, I was trying to remind them that they need to be world citizens and not 
be provincial, the same as I was tutored and taught to do so through the experiences that I had 
with Operation Crossroads Africa when I first went to Africa in 1964. The other thing that I did I 
mentioned earlier is that that program was started by a black Presbyterian pastor named James 
Robinson, who was pastor of the Church of the Master in Harlem, in 1958, the same year I got in 
trouble with that article in the Cleveland Plain Dealer about conditions of education in 
Mississippi. Dr. Robinson started this program, and what was the program about? Engaging 
American and African students in summer programs of study, travel, and community 
development programs. This is where John Kennedy got the idea of the Peace Corps from. 
DC: Right. And where did you go? 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
28 
AB: I went to Liberia, Sierra Leone, Senegal, and Ghana. I spent two and a half months 
on the west coast of Africa. That was my first exposure, I repeat, to Africa, and I’ve been to 
Africa since then, oh, twenty-two times, all over. And I was one of the founders, along with Dr. 
Leon Howard Sullivan of that program called the African-African American Summit. The first 
Summit was held in Côte d’Ivoire, in Abidjan, Ivory Coast, back in the ’90s, ’91, I believe it 
was. And I never shall forget that night that we met in the home of Dr. Sullivan in 1990, and he 
shared with us this vision of pulling African American leaders and scholars and businesspersons 
together to build relationships across the Atlantic, so to speak, to really help Africa go to the next 
level in terms of development in areas of education, economic empowerment, and community 
development. I went to many of the Summits. 
DC: How influential do you think that first experience with Operation Crossroads Africa 
was for you in how you view the world and your career path? 
AB: Well, it gave me a practical experience of putting into action what I learned in 1958 
at Camp Danby up at Cornell University. You know, Tennyson was right in his work, “Ulysses,” 
when he said, “I am a part of all that I have met.” We become what we’ve met. Our environment, 
our exposure, does create for us impressions, mirrors—to use the words of Charles Cooley, 
sociologist, “looking-glass selves.” Our young people need more reflections in the mirror of 
them doing, achieving—seeing their counterparts doing, achieving. And unfortunately, in many 
of our inner city communities, we don’t have enough of those models. And Crossroads was that 
exposure, that reflection, [1:20:00] that I began to put into action in later years with Dr. Sullivan. 
And then, here recently, in the 1970s, when there was a great carnage and war going on 
in Ethiopia and Eritrea, and there were a lot of refugees from that country, and the United States 
government was not fair in terms of admitting African refugees here, even though fifty percent of 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
29 
the world’s refugee population was on the continent of Africa. But back then, the quota for all of 
Africa was 790. But for other countries, you’re talking about a minimum of at least 10,000, and 
later on, it mushroomed into about 50,000 for Soviet immigrants/Jewish immigrants, 125,000 for 
Cubans, another 45,000 Southeast Asians. So, our immigration department was not just and fair, 
in terms of Africa. But when they were challenged on it, they said, “Oh, we don’t want to cause a 
brain drain on Africa.” But they didn’t say that about India. They didn’t say it about these other 
countries. They admitted them to the country. 
So, I was involved in that effort, and this congregation, through my leadership, sponsored 
about 3,000 refugees from Africa and the Caribbean Islands. In fact, the first home or haven that 
they received when other churches, even black churches, wouldn’t receive them from Ethiopia or 
Eritrea, was my home. My wife and I took them into our house and turned our family room into 
a room for refugees until we were able to get some funds to lease a two-flat Victorian house four 
blocks away from the church—four doors, rather. And then later, we turned it into a resettlement 
program. So, here again, because of the exposure through World Affairs Camp and Crossroads, 
when they needed somebody to advocate for African refugees, I was there and did what I could 
to work for their betterment and good. 
And here, recently, I happened to have been invited to the fiftieth anniversary of the 
independence of Ghana. And while I was there in Accra, on the last night of their celebration, 
just before Stevie Wonder came on the stage to perform, there was a young kid who performed, 
who was thirteen years old then, at the keyboard. And, boy, he really got the house, as they say. 
And after his rendition, I asked one of the ushers to point out the parents or the sponsor of this 
young man. And I met his mentor and I told her, “This young man needs to come to the United 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
30 
States and finish high school, because somebody who is that gifted needs to have greater 
exposure.” 
And she said, “Well, he had been on tour with other groups and gone to Juilliard School 
of Music and Peabody School of Music, and everybody that heard him, they said, ‘Without a 
question, he’s a genius.’ They made all kinds of promises,” she said, “but they didn’t follow 
through to give him an opportunity to come to America.” I said, “Don’t you worry. You let me 
get back home and give me about a month or two months, and we’re going to work something 
out to get this young man here.” 
So, I came back, went to the headmaster at the Stuart Hall High School, this upscale 
school, Catholic school here, and told him about this young man. And I convinced him to give 
Kofi Vordzorgbe a scholarship, eighty percent scholarship. And he maintained a straight-A 
average. And he was, two years ago, going on two years now, after he finished Stuart Hall, 
admitted to Morehouse, and he’s maintained a straight-A average there. And here at the 
Conservatory of Music, he never made under A or A-plus. He just mesmerized the teachers 
there. He has written himself, composed himself, nine symphonies, seven or eight sonatas, 
[1:25:00] two operas, and believe it or not, he’s interested in going into medicine and not music 
as his major. So, here we have, out of Africa, a Mozart, another Albert Schweitzer, if you please. 
Schweitzer was a master on Bach and a medical missionary to Africa. 
And since I brought him here, made him a part of our family, treated him as if he were 
one of our own children, we have been very pleased that he’s been a blessing to himself and to 
others and has shown that if a child is exposed to great things and utilizes his innate gifts, there’s 
no telling what that person can become. And Kofi is a great testament to that. He came here for 
the Christmas break and he played one of Chopin’s pieces and just, I mean, wrecked the house. 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
31 
No music! He’s got it! And writes music on the computer, you know, he’ll be riding, or wherever 
he is. And another thing that’s great: he’s well-balanced. He plays soccer, basketball. We never 
had one problem out of him the four years that he was here in our home when he was in high 
school; the same thing down at Morehouse. 
So, this is rewarding: to just be of help, asking for nothing back. But as Dr. Mays often 
said to me at Morehouse, and many of the students, but it haunts me that he said to me one day, 
“Mr. Brown, I’ve had many breaks in my life. Many awards and honors have come my way. I 
didn’t deserve it all.” He said, “I can’t pay those people back. However, the least that I can do is 
just pass it on to somebody else.” So, whatever I do is a matter, is an exercise of passing it on to 
show my gratitude to God and to others for what they did for me. 
For when I went to Morehouse in 1959, I had only eighty-seven dollars in my pocket, and 
room and board back then cost about eight hundred and ninety-five dollars then. But I met 
friends along the way. My home church sent me money. I stayed with Dr. Mays and did 
housework and chauffeured. I worked for Dr. Rufus Clement, the president of Atlanta 
University. His wife was from Mississippi, Mrs. Pearl Johnson Clement; took a liking to me, I’m 
sure because I was from Mississippi. But those people were kind to me. In fact, it was at Dr. 
Clement’s house that I first laid eyes on Eleanor Roosevelt, when she spoke for the graduation of 
Atlanta University back in the ’60s. And these experiences have come my way because I hung 
out with people who were great models and who were just a terrific inspiration for me and many 
young people. 
DC: In many ways that began with your relationship with Medgar Evers? 
AB: That was it! 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
32 
DC: Yeah. And can you—can I ask you about the loss of Medgar Evers and how you 
experienced that? 
AB: You know, at Morehouse, they often teased me because I was from Mississippi, and 
they always reminded me that I was from a foreign country. [Laughter] And they would say to 
me at break time, “Well, Amos, you better go and apply for your visa to get back to Mississippi 
[1:30:00], because you’re going back to a different country. You’re going back down there.” 
And it was that summer of 1963 that I was in summer school. See, I missed a semester 
because I was out in the student demonstrations, the Civil Rights Movement, you know, and I 
had to do these courses so I’d make sure that I finished my work in ’64. And this brother from 
Alabama said to me, “Amos, you better not go apply for your visa this time. You better stay here, 
because things are getting rough down there in Mississippi.” I said, “What are you talking 
about?” He said, “I heard on the news this morning that a civil rights worker was killed in 
Jackson.” 
And when he said that I knew it was Medgar. And I had just spoken with him a few days 
before, asking me if I would come and work that summer again, as I had done previous summers, 
doing organizing and youth work. But I told him that I would have to pass because I wanted to 
finish school on time and I would catch him later, you know. But I was not shocked because I 
realized how tense it was. 
And he—I don’t know. He had this premonition that something would happen, because 
he was too vocal and people were rallying around the cause. There was great protest with 
students from Tougaloo College and Jackson State, and then the Freedom Riders were coming 
later, including myself. The previous summer in 1961, though I was not with the group that went 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
33 
to Montgomery, I went on myself on my way to Jackson and did my protest. And I joined up 
with them there, but they had sent most of them up to Parchman, to the prison there. 
And so, when I got there, Medgar told me that since they had already gone up to 
Parchman, for me to just stay and engage the young people in protest for some of the public 
facilities there in Jackson. And the one that we chose was the Municipal Park. You couldn’t sit 
on the same bench and look at the monkeys or the elephants together with whites. And I was 
arrested at the Livingston Zoo, along with several other members of the Youth Movement of the 
NAACP. 
And that same summer, I was arrested because I insisted that a young doctor would not 
call my 85-year-old neighbor “boy” when I took him to the University of Mississippi Hospital. 
And they knew who I was, because I had already been involved in demonstrations, including the 
Livingston and Freedom Rides, you know. And when Chief Ray came out there and saw [laughs] 
it was Amos Brown again, and the doctor told him that I had taken him on because he called my 
neighbor “boy,” and not a man or by his name, he said, “Well, what are we going to get him on 
now?” 
And one of his lieutenants said, “Well, we’ll arrest him on using profane language in 
public.” And I spent two nights in jail until Medgar bailed me out. And there’s an article that 
ended up in the Pittsburgh Courier, in which Mr. Evers said that all you have to do is open your 
mouth in Mississippi, and it’s profane. That is in that State Sovereignty Commission report. 
So, that was my connection with Mr. Evers during his final days, and I really was 
touched by it. I was at the funeral. And I remember after the funeral was over [1:35:00], there 
was a march, and we were marching about two or three abreast behind the body before it was 
shipped up to Washington for burial at Arlington. And these whites were so infuriated over the 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
34 
fact that we were there in such large numbers, with Medgar Evers and Roy Wilkins and others, 
that these police officers were using billy clubs, hitting children and women, and horses were 
galloping over people— 
DC: At the funeral? 
AB: Yes, at the funeral! At the funeral! And you were just defenseless. You couldn’t do 
anything. If you raised a hand to do anything, they would have struck you down. But that was a 
horrifying experience that day there in Jackson. So, I’ve kept in touch with Mrs. Evers. In fact, I 
saw her two weeks ago in New York at the National Board Meeting of NAACP. I’m still on the 
National Board. And I will be speaking this May, on May the eleventh, in Jackson for the 
Freedom Fund dinner of the Jackson branch, and also for the commemorative service in Jackson 
marking the fiftieth year of the assassination of Medgar Evers. 
DC: So, was that a moment of despair for you, or quickly translated into galvanizing you 
to carry forward? 
AB: Well, I never had these moments of despair. If anything, these detours made me 
more determined to continue the fight. And Mr. Evers would not want me to stop or to be 
dejected, but to get up, move on, and that’s what we must do. For this problem of race in 
America is still with us. And as one scholar, Cornel West, said, “Race matters.” It really does, 
still, unfortunately. And we have built a nation over an “ism” that should not be. 
As we well know, whatever is in your DNA, unless you accept treatment or therapy or 
change your lifestyle, can cause your discomfort or your demise. The same thing obtains for 
America in a sense. If we don’t come to deal with this issue of race, we’re going to destroy this 
nation. And we ought to move to get over it. We ought to go through the therapeutic process. 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
35 
President Bill Clinton tried to do it with his Commission on Race that Dr. John Hope 
Franklin was chair of, but that commission was derailed. People didn’t want to talk about it. And 
even though we have Mr. Barack Obama, the first African American to be President, we’re not 
in a post-racial society at all. It’s still here. A case in point—let me say this right so that I won’t 
appear to be heartless, but I must state the facts. Black youth and children have lived every day 
in a climate of violence. There’s more violence for an African American male between fifteen 
and thirty than there was for a soldier in the Desert Storm, the Persian Gulf, or in Afghanistan, or 
Vietnam. At this church, I’m leading funerals practically every month, sometimes, for young 
African American males. It’s not happening [1:40:00] in other communities at all, as often as 
happens for us per capita.  
However, we did not get that excited about this issue of guns until twenty, unfortunately, 
babies who happened to have been principally white—one was biracial, the little Latina-black 
girl, Ana Greene. There was on CNN a clip of her sitting at the piano with her little brother, 
because her parents said they wanted the world to remember her as she was, a bright child with 
hope and possibilities. And do you know what that little girl was singing and her brother was 
playing? Neither one missed a note. “Come Thou, Almighty King. Help us Thy name to sing. 
Father, all glorious, over all victorious, come and reign over us, Ancient of Days.” 
If we were to take to heart the lyrics of that song, we would see that in this nation there 
should reign supreme a universal spirit and practice that whether a child is in violence in 
Newtown, my town, or whatever town, we should show concern and show as great passion for 
all as we do for one. And I think that, though Newtown maybe was the tipping point, we have the 
occasion now to deal with this culture of violence in America. 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
36 
I just got back from a meeting on Friday with the senior staff, the chief of staff of Vice 
President Biden, with Franklin Graham and Richard Land of the Southern Baptist Convention, 
who is over the Public Policy and Social Justice Commission of the Southern Baptists. That’s the 
largest Protestant denomination in the nation. 
Out of that meeting, it was the agreement that we’re going to call faith leaders together at 
the White House, possibly around the time of the anniversary of the assassination of Dr. King, 
April the fourth—evangelicals of the white community, traditional civil rights leaders, black 
faith leaders, people of all faith communities—to pledge our support for this president as he 
seeks to come up with sensible measures to get us beyond this culture of violence. And already 
we’ve agreed upon universal background checks, expansion of the mental health programs, 
addressing the issue of the exposure of children to this culture of violence that’s in these video 
games and many of these real violent movies that are coming out of Hollywood. 
So, I think that’s a beginning point, even though we still have miles to go and more to do 
and promises to keep to address the semiautomatic weapons. But I feel that we’re on our way, 
for it’s ridiculous that we have 11-12,000 homicides a year in this country, and other countries, 
you know, thirty or forty, maybe fifty. We’re a violent culture, and it should not be, with all the 
power and all the money that we have and all of the greatness that we brag about. [1:45:00] I feel 
that we must check ourselves and raise the question: Is this really America at its best? 
And I hope that is not a fallacious assumption that we’ve got to arm ourselves, to re-do, 
re-enact the Civil War. Remember, if you look at the demographics, the states where they’re 
talking the loudest and shouting the loudest about wanting to have their guns, it’s the old red 
states, the Confederacy, and those up in Idaho and Montana, those who left the South, where 
they’re commiserating with themselves up there. And basically it is Republicans who are 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
37 
pushing this agenda of having these guns. Who are we afraid of? What boogeyman are we 
fighting? This ought to be one nation, under God, with liberty and justice for all. 
And John Winthrop, in that sermon that he preached from that ship, Arbella, in which he 
envisioned that city on the hill, remember he pushed the notion that this was to be a community 
of mutual responsibility and mutual help, and that we should look out for each other and be an 
example to the world of how you can maintain a new and democratic society. We must not 
forfeit that vision. We can’t fulfill it by being against each other. We must not turn on each other. 
We must turn to each other and create what Dr. King envisioned, a beloved community, a 
community in which we would recognize and respect our differences, one where we have respect 
for each other and see that out of one comes many, and not the other way around, many creating 
one. 
We talk about making America the melting pot, but in a melting pot, the ingredients lose 
their distinctions or uniquenesses. But in a salad bowl, a salad bowl, the entities, the ingredients, 
are still visible, but it’s more nutritious. We are told that a salad can be more nutritious than just 
eating meat or a pot of stew. And I think that America will be healthier when we become one 
nation, but in our oneness, see that there are many strands, many cultures, and to be a 
multicultural, multiethnic nation doesn’t mean that we are deficient. It means that we are more 
enriched. 
And when we’re enriched, we’ll be able to say: I’m black and I’m proud, I’m yellow and 
I’m mellow, I’m red but I ain’t dead, I’m brown and I’m sound, I’m white and I’m alright, I am 
gay but I’m godly, I’m straight but I’m sensible. That’s the kind of antiphonal united chorus that 
ought to be coming from America, and not this dissonance of hate, of division [1:50:00] and 
destruction of human life. 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
38 
DC: Thank you. 
JB: I think we could put a line under that. 
DC: Yeah, I think so, too, and I’m tempted to just end there it’s so beautiful, but I— 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB: Okay. 
AB: I would hope that as we tell the story of the Movement that there will be a support 
system and resources provided for a treatment of the many, many unsung heroes and she-roes 
whose names never got into the paper, but who worked in the heat of the day, who went through 
great challenge, hardship, and tragic moments. Case in point: In Mississippi, Mr. C. C. Bryant, a 
railroad man in McComb, was a great warrior, peaceful warrior. Doc Owens, also in McComb, 
Amzie Moore in Clarksdale, Mary Pigee, Dr. B. E. Murph, Samuel Bailey, Joseph Broadwater, 
Carsey Hall, Randolph Darden from Meridian, J. A. Noel, Reverend William A. Bender, who 
really laid the groundwork for the Student Movement and the Civil Rights Movement in 
Mississippi in the ’50s. 
Back in 1946, Reverend Bender, who was college pastor at Tougaloo College, that 
congregational related school, wrote letters to Walter White—these letters are on file—about his 
efforts to get equal pay for black teachers in Mississippi. And he also fought the white primaries 
in Mississippi. This is before Fannie Lou Hamer in Atlantic City. This man, who was 
courageous, he walked all over Jackson. Everywhere he went, whether it was rain, shine, sleet or 
snow, he had an umbrella under his arm. 
And here again, it goes back to this thing of exposure, in terms of what it does to make us 
who we are. His daughter, Luella Bender, was one of the persons who was in that car with me in 
1956, and Mr. Evers, and Miss Della Irving, who was the advisor to the Grambling College 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
39 
chapter in Grambling, Louisiana. When we came west in 1956, we left Jackson and went to 
Grambling and picked her up, and we came out here together. But it was her father who 
pioneered. He was a pioneer in Mississippi, another preacher who was a new breed, who even 
many times walked alone. 
And there also was Gladys Bates, who filed the first suit, along with her husband, John 
Bates. And her father, Mr. Noel, was another champion. You see, the people who were in the 
vanguard of the Movement were independent, because they worked for the U.S. Government as 
postal workers, [1:55:00] or they were insurance sales persons. Any other black who had to 
depend on whites for their livelihood would have be done in immediately. 
DC: Or barbershop owners. 
AB: Barbers, yes. 
DC: Or funeral parlor directors. 
AB: Funeral parlors, yes. That’s right. And another person was Reverend R. L. T. Smith. 
He was one of the first blacks to run for Congress. He lived right down the street from my home 
house. He owned a grocery store and was a letter carrier. Reverend L. C. Wilcher, he also came 
to this meeting in 1956 in San Francisco, at the National Convention. He was a letter carrier. 
Carsey Hall, the attorney that I mentioned earlier, was a letter carrier. John W. Dixon was a letter 
carrier. 
So, you see, many segregationists in the South talk about maintaining their state’s rights 
because they knew that they could do whatever they wanted to do to do blacks in and to oppress 
black people and keep them down. And when they talk about, “We don’t want the government 
interfering,” what government are they talking about? The U.S. government, the federal 
government. And it’s another coded message of being against blacks when they say, “We’ve got 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
40 
to protect ourselves against the tyranny of the government.” When they’re referring to the 
government, it’s not about their state government. It’s not about the state government of 
Mississippi, or like South Carolina, where they still want to hoist the Confederate flag. They’re 
talking about the federal government, because they don’t want to do right. They don’t want equal 
protection under the law and they don’t want justice for everybody. They want to maintain their 
old Southern way of life. 
JB: Can I ask you a question? I saw an article that came out with Truthout that argued 
with a lot of citations and quotations from the Constitutional Convention that the Second 
Amendment is in the Constitution because they were protecting the paddyrollers and the 
Southern militias that kept slaves suppressed, and it was a revelation to me. And I would think 
you could argue that. 
AB: Sure! Definitely. They needed these guns to go after us. Even Abraham Lincoln 
mentioned—there’s a book. You know the fellow up at—I think it’s at Columbia—Andrew 
Delbanco. You should read it. It’s called The Real American Dream: Meditations on Hope. And 
he cites how even President Lincoln mentions how blacks were hounded and how we were kept 
from escaping the cruelty of slavery because of the weapons and the bounty hunters, to go back 
to your point. 
DC: Um-hmm. 
AB: And that’s what came out in that movie, Django. 
DC: Right. 
AB: Alright. Okay. 
DC: Thank you so much. 
AB: Let me run down here. 
Reverend Amos C. Brown, March 2, 2013 
41 
 
END OF INTERVIEW 
[Recording ends at 1:58:49] 
Transcribed by Sally C. Council