HERNANDEZ, JULIE 
Interviewed by Chris Sims 
February 17, 2018 
 
 
SIMS [00:00:00]: So, if we could start off. Could you say and 
spell your name, please? 
 
HERNANDEZ: Julie Hernandez. J-U-L-I-E H-E-R-N-A-N-D-E-Z 
 
SIMS: And could you tell us, tell me, a little bit about where 
you grew up? 
 
HERNANDEZ: I grew up in Grant Parish, right there in Central 
Louisiana. Dry Prong, actually, is where I grew up. It’s just a 
little, rural community.  No name town, really. Nothing ever 
happens. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. And what type of work did your parents do? 
 
HERNANDEZ [00:00:44]: My mom was a—just a stay at home mother. 
And my dad worked at a paper mill. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. And- 
 
HERNANDEZ: He was a crew leader out there at the paper mill. 
 
SIMS: So, about how far is that from Fort Polk? 
 
HERNANDEZ: It’s right around 25 miles north of Alexandria, so- 
 
SIMS: Okay. 
 
HERNANDEZ: I had to drive about an hour and 15 minutes or so to 
get to Fort Polk. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. And did you have any family connections to the 
military? 
 
HERNANDEZ: I do. At the time, I, I had a nephew who had joined 
the Marines. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. And what, what did you hear of—hear about Fort Polk 
when you were growing up? And if you could tell me like what, 
like what years that would’ve been. 
 
HERNANDEZ: I really didn’t hear anything about Fort Polk when I 
was growing up. I didn’t know anything about them until I was 
grown. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. And so, how did you—did you move to Leesville? 
 
HERNANDEZ: No—well, I did after I started working there. 
 
SIMS: Okay. So, could you tell me a little bit about basically 
how you found out about the job? And maybe what you—what type of 
work you did before you did that work? 
 
HERNANDEZ [0:02:11]: Oh, sure. I was a service writer with 
Saternet Alexandria and the secretary from JROTC there at—well, 
at role play, came in for work on her daughter’s car. And she 
had her uniform on, you know, that tan uniform. And I asked her 
what in the world she did for a living that she had to wear a 
uniform like that. So, she told me all about everything at role 
play and that they happen to be hiring. And it sounded amazing 
to me. So, she brought me an application, and I filled it out. 
And she turned it in for me and everything and—her name is 
Sharon Lambert, by the way. I don’t know if you’ve spoken with 
her or not. 
 
SIMS: Not yet.  
 
HERNANDEZ: Okay. 
 
SIMS [0:02:58]: So was this this like a military uniform? Or 
what the- 
 
HERNANDEZ: You’ve seen what the shift leaders wear at role play? 
 
SIMS: Yeah. So, it’s- 
 
HERNANDEZ: It’s that tan uniform with the green hat.  
 
SIMS: Okay.  
 
HERNANDEZ: Yeah. 
 
SIMS: And—so at this time, you were living like north of 
Alexandria still? 
 
HERNANDEZ: Right. That’s right. 
 
SIMS: And had you met your husband at this point? 
 
HERNANDEZ: I had not. I met him working at role play. 
 
SIMS: Oh, okay. So, I want to get to that in a little bit. 
 
HERNANDEZ: Okay. 
 
SIMS [0:03:35]: So, basically how, how long did you work at role 
play before you moved closer to the, to base? 
 
HERNANDEZ: Oh, probably about six months. Six or eight months, I 
think.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. And I’m guessing, since the hours at role play are so 
long, and that’s such, such a long drive. 
 
HERNANDEZ: Exactly. 
 
SIMS: Such a long drive, that was probably pretty good reason to 
move. 
 
HERNANDEZ: Yeah. I was getting about four or five hours of sleep 
per night. So yeah, it was taxing.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. Was there any skills from like the other work that 
you’ve had before that was useful in role play? Or was it 
something that was pretty different? 
 
HERNANDEZ: Nope. It’s different from anything I ever, ever came 
across in my life. I don’t, I don’t think anything prepared me 
for my job at, at role play.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. Can you tell me about the, I guess like the interview 
process and orientation? Was it—I mean I guess it’s sort of hard 
to know what it’s like until you actually see it. Did you get a 
sense early on about what the work was like? 
 
HERNANDEZ [0:04:47]: Not really. It just sounded like the most 
fun you’ve ever had in your life. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
HERNANDEZ: You know, I mean from what I was told, you just went 
out there and got all bloody and, and acted, you know. You 
screamed and hollered. And that just sounded like so much fun to 
me. So—I was going, “I like bloody stuff. Let’s do that.” 
[Laughing] So, anyhow- 
 
SIMS: Did you ever do any theater in high school or anything? 
 
HERNANDEZ: I tried. And when—my, my teacher, who supported our 
drama club, was just overwhelmed. And we never did get anything 
done. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
HERNANDEZ: No, I was never into any artsy stuff like that. I 
tried, but it failed. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. Tell me about your first day, maybe going into the 
box and what you remember about that? 
 
HERNANDEZ [0:05:38]: First day in the box was during 
orientation. They brought us out on a bus and drove us around to 
the different villages to just show us what it looked like out 
there and kind of let us get a feel for it. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
HERNANDEZ: It was amazing to me, just the, the structure of the 
buildings and things. It was like a whole ‘nother world to me. I 
mean I’d never seen what it looked like in other—you know, the 
Middle East. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
HERNANDEZ: And stuff like that. I didn’t know what their houses 
looked like. And so, it was—it was really, really mind blowing 
to me.  
 
SIMS [0:06:15]: So, what year was this during—when you started? 
 
HERNANDEZ: That was 2009. 
 
SIMS: Okay. And can you tell me about the different roles that 
you had? Like the different characters? 
 
HERNANDEZ: Well, the first one that wasn’t just a generic 
character, was—I played an, a school teacher who got an acid 
burn to the face. 
 
SIMS: And what- 
 
HERNANDEZ: What do you want to know about her? 
 
SIMS: So, do you remember what village that was in? 
 
HERNANDEZ: That was in East Sangan.  
 
SIMS: And did you actually have a school? 
 
HERNANDEZ: I had a school, yeah. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. Can you describe the school for me? Like how it 
looked in the outside and inside? 
 
HERNANDEZ: Well, it was actually part of a larger structure. So, 
it, it was pretty big. I don’t really know how to explain it 
other than telling you it was inside a compound, goodness 
gracious. I mean, it was just a small school room inside a large 
compound. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
HERNANDEZ [0:07:30]: It had about six or eight desks inside the, 
the room. I didn’t actually use the building until after the 
burn and everything, you know. They, they made that a point to 
have the school re-opening after my burn, you know, to show how 
I was bouncing back. And-  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
HERNANDEZ: You know, taking control and all that kind of stuff 
[laughing]. 
 
SIMS: Was there stuff like up on the walls in the school room? 
 
HERNANDEZ: No, there wasn’t anything on the walls. 
 
SIMS: I mean, could you- 
 
HERNANDEZ: No. I mean we had some dry erase boards on the walls. 
So, we had some of the CRP’s write some things. You know, so 
that it would be in their language, because we didn’t know how 
to write any of that.  
 
SIMS: Right.  
 
HERNANDEZ: That way it would look more real. 
 
SIMS: So, what was the scenario? Did they actually show you 
getting and—like being acid attacked in front of troops? 
 
HERNANDEZ: No, no. 
 
SIMS: No. 
 
HERNANDEZ: Not—the attack was not in front of the troops. I just 
arrived with some villagers coming behind me. I arrived and 
begged for their help. You know, screaming and hollering as the 
acid was burning me already.  
 
SIMS [0:08:45]: And so, did they—did you have like, I don’t know 
if it’s moulage in that case, but-  
 
HERNANDEZ: Right. It was.  
 
SIMS: Some, like—can you describe like what they actually did to 
simulate that? 
 
HERNANDEZ: They got some latex—liquid latex. And pretty much 
painted the area of my face and part of my ear and stuff—a 
little on my neck where they wanted that to be. And then painted 
it in, you know, with the different colored paints to make it 
look real. 
 
SIMS: Right. That’s like a purple colors, or- 
 
HERNANDEZ: Well, really, they used a range of colors. And it 
depended on who was doing the, the moulage that day.  
 
SIMS: Uh-huh. 
 
HERNANDEZ: Sometimes I had more browns and reds and sometimes it 
was more purples and reds. There was always reds, of course, 
because you’ve got to have some blood in there. And, but it 
really was a range. 
 
SIMS: And did they- 
 
HERNANDEZ: I never did that to myself, you know. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
HERNANDEZ: I never did that particular moulage myself, so hard 
to tell. I never really got to see in the mirror that much 
[laughing]. 
 
SIMS [0:09:53]: Did they like tell you what the story was? Like 
why the school teacher was attacked and who attacked you? 
 
HERNANDEZ: I was attacked by the Taliban, because I was teaching 
the children at all. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
HERNANDEZ: They didn’t want them to be educated.  
 
SIMS: And so, this—were these always Afghan when you were that 
victim? It was always Afghan? 
 
HERNANDEZ: Yeah. That was always an Afghan scenario. I didn’t 
get to see much of the Iraqi at all. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
HERNANDEZ: By the time I came in, I, I think we only had two or 
three Iraqi rotations once I started.  
 
SIMS: And so how would the—basically, if you could describe what 
happens. Like you would go with some of your family or friends 
to, you know, a convoy or soldiers that were coming through. And 
you would, you ask for their help? Is that- 
 
HERNANDEZ: We always came to their compound. To the, to the FOB. 
 
SIMS: Okay. 
 
HERNANDEZ: Yeah, in that scenario. 
 
SIMS: And what type of reactions, or responses, did you get?   
 
HERNANDEZ [0:10:57]: That, that’s quite a range as well, you 
know. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
HERNANDEZ: Sometimes you’d get the soldiers that just wanted to 
laugh—didn’t think it was funny, of course. They got put in 
their place pretty quickly by their higher ups, and changed the 
way they acted. But a lot of the time, in fact most of the time, 
it was a look of horror and oh my god, what do I do to fix this? 
You know [laughing]? 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
HERNANDEZ: I had a ton of them just pour water on my face—that 
was going to fix it, you know. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
HERNANDEZ: They just had to do something, and that—that was 
their only reaction. They didn’t really know what else to do. 
 
SIMS [0:11:33]: So, the one- 
 
HERNANDEZ: Which of course didn’t help the burn at all 
[laughing]. 
 
SIMS: Right. So, the ones who were laughing. Was it more a sense 
of we all know that we’re acting and that looks sort of strange? 
They- 
 
HERNANDEZ: Exactly. Exactly. Yeah. 
 
SIMS: But you can’t really like sort of break character.  
 
HERNANDEZ: No. 
 
SIMS: You just sort of have to be in pain, or whatever. 
 
HERNANDEZ: Just have to be persistent, and yeah. This—this is 
killing me. [To child]: What baby? Oh, thank you.  
 
[baby’s voice mumbling] 
 
HERNANDEZ: [To Sims] Aw, so much for that Lego car.  
 
SIMS: [Laughing] 
 
HERNANDEZ: [To child] I’ll help you with it when I’m finished, 
okay? Yeah. You can do it. [To Sims] Sorry about that. 
 
SIMS: Oh, no problem. Of course, I remember those days a lot. 
 
HERNANDEZ: Oh yeah. 
 
SIMS: They last a while [laughing].  
 
HERNANDEZ: Mhm. 
 
SIMS [0:12:53]: So, the—what is the proper way to respond to, 
like an acid burn? 
 
HERNANDEZ: From what I understand, vinegar is what I’ve been 
told—to neutralize the acid. I don’t know how true that is 
myself. But that’s what I was told. If they bring out the 
vinegar, that helped. And I was told, eventually, even when they 
used the water. If they were trying hard enough—if they were 
acting like they truly cared, and you know, they’re doing the 
best they can. Eventually, the—whatever they tried to do helped 
me.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
HERNANDEZ: And it was time to calm down and you know, let ‘em 
move on. Cause, you know, you can’t just be there dying forever. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
HERNANDEZ: But- 
 
SIMS: Did they let you in the compound? Or was this always on 
the outside? 
 
HERNANDEZ: Oh, yeah. They always let me in the FOB, every time.  
 
SIMS [0:13:51]: And then, can you talk a little bit about like 
how soon afterwards did they like re-open the school and sort of 
orchestrate that? And sort of what was the thinking behind that? 
Like the soldiers would help do that to show that they helped 
you? 
 
HERNANDEZ: Yeah. They would come and pull security. And it would 
always be two or three days after the initial burn, because of 
course, one day signified—I don’t know a week, or three weeks, 
or whatever.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
HERNANDEZ: At any rate, two or three days later they would come 
do that. And they would come pull security for the school 
opening. And you know, they would—our higher ups would come and 
you know, shake the school teachers hand. And thank me for being 
so brave. A 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
HERNANDEZ: And you know, things like that. 
 
SIMS: And would the Taliban, or the 509, ever try to disrupt 
that or come back later?  
 
HERNANDEZ: They always, always tried to attack the school 
opening.  
 
SIMS: Uh-huh. 
 
HERNANDEZ: It was sometimes successful, sometimes not, you know. 
But they, they did always at least try to attack. 
 
SIMS [0:15:02]: And if it were successful, like what happened? 
 
HERNANDEZ: Really it was just a shoot up between them and the 
military. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
HERNANDEZ: It never involved me any further. 
 
SIMS: Right. And they don’t—there’s not like actual kids there, 
right? Because- 
 
HERNANDEZ: Oh no. No. We never, we’ve never had kids. No. That’s 
not legal. 
 
SIMS: Right [laughing]. 
 
HERNANDEZ: Yeah [laughing]. You have to be 18. 
 
SIMS [0:15:29]: Can you tell me about when you—sort of where you 
met your husband? And was he role playing as well?  
 
HERNANDEZ: He was role playing as well. We actually met at roll 
call for the village of East Sangan.  
 
SIMS: Uh-huh. 
 
HERNANDEZ: And we just were friends. We became best friends just 
working, you know. Doing a lot of moulage together and different 
things in role play. And finally, we started dating. And next 
thing you know, we were married. 
 
SIMS: Wow. So how, like—how long after you met did you all get 
married? 
 
HERNANDEZ: Let’s see. We met in February of 2010. We got married 
in October of 2011.  
 
SIMS [0:16:23]: And did—were you, you weren’t always in the—they 
mix it around, right? 
 
HERNANDEZ: Oh, yeah. 
 
SIMS: You’re with different people at different times. 
 
HERNANDEZ: Right. Right.  
 
SIMS: Uh-huh. 
 
HERNANDEZ: Different villages and different roles. 
 
SIMS: So, I guess there’s no—you can’t really date in the box, 
right? Like there’s no- 
 
HERNANDEZ: Well, no-  
 
SIMS: [Laughing] Movies to go to. 
 
HERNANDEZ: I don’t think so. It, it was funny. At one point when 
I played a CI source, my husband was playing Taliban. 
 
SIMS: Uh-huh. 
 
HERNANDEZ: And I had intel on him. And we have matching tattoos 
on the insides of our wrists. And I was trying to describe to 
him, or you know to my, to my source. You know, who this, this 
man was and what he looked like and everything. And I found 
myself trying so hard not to say, “Look at my hands. Do you see 
these, these stars on my wrist? He’s got this exact same star. 
All you’ve got to do is find it on his wrist.”  
 
SIMS: [Laughing] Wow.  
 
HERNANDEZ: It was funny though. That was so hard not to say. 
 
SIMS [0:17:28]: Mhm. Did most people know that you all were 
dating? Or was it something that- 
 
HERNANDEZ: Actually, no. For a long time, they didn’t know we 
were dating. We hid that for a long time, because we just really 
didn’t want it to interfere with work at all. 
 
SIMS: Right.  
 
HERNANDEZ: And finally, I don’t know. We just decided it was 
time for everybody to know about it. And you know, we just 
didn’t hide it anymore. But I mean, our relationship at work 
didn’t change at all anyway. We, we were best friends anyway, so 
you know.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
HERNANDEZ: We were just not big on public display of affection 
anyway anyhow. So, it really didn’t matter when it came down to 
it. 
 
SIMS: Were there—I’ve heard one or two other couples who sort of 
met that way. 
 
HERNANDEZ: Really? 
 
SIMS: Yeah. I don’t remember the names off hand, but did, was 
that—had you heard of other instances as well? 
 
HERNANDEZ: I didn’t, no. 
 
SIMS: No. 
 
HERNANDEZ: Not that I can think of. 
 
SIMS: I mean I guess it’s not all that surprising given the 
amount of time people spend together, right? 
 
HERNANDEZ: You spend so much time together. And it’s all times 
of the day or night. And you know, you, you may have to ask 
people for—it’s the situations you end up in. You don’t always 
have a bathroom.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
HERNANDEZ: Things like that. So, you’ve got to ask somebody to 
watch for you so you can use the bathroom behind that tree over 
there a [laughing]. You just end up in such situations with 
people. And there’s really no boundaries, you know, ‘cause- 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
HERNANDEZ: Pretty funny. You get real close to your friends and 
everything.  
 
SIMS [0:19:02]: Did you feel like most people got along? Or were 
there like, kind of like anywhere else, there were friction 
between certain folks? 
 
HERNANDEZ: Most people got along, but there was—there was 
friction between certain ones. You know, you’ve got cliques 
anywhere you go. 
 
SIMS: Mhm.  
 
HERNANDEZ: And it was different there. 
 
SIMS: And what about between the kind of local role players and 
the cultural role players. How did those groups interact? 
 
HERNANDEZ [0:19:31]: To me, they always got along really well. I 
didn’t see any friction between the two groups that way. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. Did you get to know any of the cultural role players 
well? 
 
HERNANDEZ: A few of them. Not well enough to stay in touch over 
the years. Just well enough when we saw them rotation to 
rotation, you know, I’d know their names and they’d know mine. 
We’d hug. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
HERNANDEZ: And you know, “Hey, how’s the family?” and all that. 
I didn’t get terribly close. Closer to some than others.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
HERNANDEZ: Can’t remember any of their names now. 
 
SIMS: Was it different between the Iraqi’s and the Afghans? Or 
were- 
 
HERNANDEZ: The Iraqi’s were more friendly. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
HERNANDEZ: They’re definitely more friendly. More outgoing I’ll 
say, not more friendly. But definitely more outgoing. I think 
the Afghans are actually the, the more generous people—the nicer 
people from what I gather. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
HERNANDEZ: But they’re just not as outspoken- 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
HERNANDEZ: As the Iraqis.  
 
SIMS [0:20:39]: Mhm. What are, besides the school teacher, what 
are some of the other roles that you played? 
 
HERNANDEZ: Well, like I said, I played a, a CI source for a 
while.  
 
SIMS: Uh-huh. 
 
HERNANDEZ: Really enjoyed that role. That was a lot of fun. 
 
SIMS: And what—so you were, you gave information to the U.S 
Military in that role. Is that right? 
 
HERNANDEZ: Correct, yep. 
 
SIMS: Okay. And like what type of information would you have to 
give them? 
 
HERNANDEZ: Generally, it would be a description of someone, like 
I said with my husband prior. You know, maybe I overheard 
something while I was at the café, you know, so-and-so saw so-
and-so doing this or that, or you know. It would be things like 
that—things of that nature. 
 
SIMS [0:21:30]: And so- 
 
HERNANDEZ: It was never anything real specific.  
 
SIMS: Would you get actually fed that information and told 
that’s what you’re supposed to say? Or would you actually sort 
of like be a detective and figure out- 
 
HERNANDEZ: Oh, no. I was fed that. I was never allowed to make 
up anything. 
 
SIMS: Uh-huh. 
 
HERNANDEZ: Or find out by myself, or anything like that. I’d—if 
I did find something out, I’d have to run it by my uppers and 
you know, generally they’d say, “Oh no. We don’t want to help 
them that much. Let ‘em figure it out themselves.” 
 
SIMS [0:22:00]: And where would you, like where would the 
meetings happen? Were they sort of secretive out of the way? Or- 
 
HERNANDEZ: They were generally in the school in Baracka.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. So not—people wouldn’t necessarily see you talking 
with the soldiers.  
 
HERNANDEZ: Oh no. No. No. We tried not to make it that way. I 
mean sometimes it would end up that way. It all depended on how 
the soldiers did it. If they didn’t try to protect my anonymity- 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
HERNANDEZ: Then we went ahead and let ‘em do it more publicly. 
That way it would teach them a lesson. And I might be put in 
danger later, because of them not trying to protect me. So, if 
they just wanted to meet say in the street of Margoz. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
HERNANDEZ: I might feed them a little bit, you know. I really 
don’t want to be seen, you know, out in public talking to you. 
So, they’d go oh, oh okay. Well can we go in the school over 
here or something, you know. Oh sure, that’s fine. They always 
wanted to meet in the same place at the same time and things 
like that. They, they were never crafty with it. I’ll give them 
that. They were never crafty with meeting. They, they would 
really rather you come on the FOB to meet them. But, I, I was 
never really—never really pushed that direction. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
HERNANDEZ: I was always told to try to get ‘em to come to me. 
 
SIMS [0:23:30]: And are you speaking in English or are there 
translators? 
 
HERNANDEZ: They didn’t allow translators in the CI Force 
meetings because that, that was secret. They didn’t want what we 
were—well, not what we were talking about ‘cause it was all 
acting. But the way that the questioning is done and all that, 
they didn’t want the CRP’s to witness that. So, they weren’t 
allowed in those meetings. So, it was all English.  
 
SIMS: Uh-huh. And can you tell me a little bit about like, say, 
when you were the school teacher, what your—how you were 
dressed? Like- 
 
HERNANDEZ: I generally wore—oh, I can’t even remember what it’s 
called. It’s basically like a really like a long dress—or really 
baggy, long dress is generally what I wore, because that’s what 
I had at the time. I ended up buying more outfits—I can’t 
remember what they’re called either. But, you know the big baggy 
pants with the tunic that goes over it? 
 
SIMS: Yeah. 
 
HERNANDEZ: Yeah. I can’t remember what that’s called, but I 
ended up wearing those towards the end of, of my working. 
 
SIMS [0:24:35]: So, you would—do you buy those yourself with 
your own money? 
 
HERNANDEZ: Oh, yeah. Absolutely. Role play supplied really big, 
baggy things and everybody looked exactly the same. And I just, 
I wanted to look more realistic. So, I found some on Ebay and, 
and bought ‘em. 
 
SIMS: So, you would—what did you, what do you type in to find 
it? 
 
HERNANDEZ: It’s “soware camis” I think.  
 
SIMS: Uh-huh. Oh wow.  
 
HERNANDEZ: I believe that’s what it’s called. 
 
SIMS: So, did you- 
 
HERNANDEZ: I figured out the real name for it. Like I Googled 
what the name of that clothing was and typed it in, you know, on 
Ebay. And that’s how I found it.  
 
SIMS: And did a lot of people do that? Or, did they usually use 
what they were provided from-? 
 
HERNANDEZ: Well, everyone wore what they were provided. But it, 
it got to where a lot of people would buy them from—the CRP’s 
would bring them to sell.  
 
SIMS: Uh-huh. 
 
HERNANDEZ: And I never could find my size in a style that I 
liked. That’s why I went to Ebay instead. But, a lot of people 
bought ‘em from the CRP’s right there at, you know, in the 
villages. 
 
SIMS [0:25:45]: Mhm. Did you buy anything else besides clothes 
to make your character, you know, seem more realistic? Or just 
to decorate the space? 
 
HERNANDEZ: Well, you know, like a clipboard. And I bought like 
a—you know, like a gray book. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
HERNANDEZ: You know like a teacher would have a gray book. I 
bought that. You know, just little things like that. Pins and 
highlighters. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
HERNANDEZ: You know, just average things that a teacher would 
have laying around. 
 
SIMS: Yeah, I guess it’s like real life teachers, right, who 
have to buy a lot of their own school supplies [laughing]. 
 
HERNANDEZ: I had to have something, and they didn’t—they just 
didn’t have, have a ton of things, you know. Role play didn’t 
have a ton for that particular role, I guess. They probably had 
more for other roles. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
HERNANDEZ: [talks to child for one minute]  
 
SIMS [0:28:20]: No, no problem. Don’t apologize. I just have 
actually a couple more questions. Do you have any sort of 
strange, or unusual, funny stories that you remember from role 
play? 
 
HERNANDEZ: The funniest thing I can think of is probably when I 
was playing a CI source, and I was very, very shy, and I didn’t 
want to talk to the little girl. I don’t remember anything but 
her last name. Her last name was Socks. And, anyhow, she was 
trying to get me to talk to her. And finally, I told her maybe 
if she sang me a song that would make me feel a little bit 
better [laughing]. So, she sang me “Twinkle Twinkle Little Star” 
to make me feel better. And that—that just really—I could not. 
Oh my god. It was all I could do not to bust out laughing, 
because I just had to look at her and smile and be so cheery.  
 
SIMS: Right [laughing]. 
 
HERNANDEZ: I’m like wow, this is such an awesome song 
[laughing].  
 
SIMS: [Laughing] 
 
HERNANDEZ: That was amazing. She was by far the most fun- 
 
SIMS: uh-huh. Wow. 
 
HERNANDEZ: As far as my, my source job went. That, that was 
golden. It was fantastic. 
 
SIMS [0:29:45]: Yeah, that’s a useful skill for when you have a 
two-year-old, right? 
 
HERNANDEZ: Oh well, yeah. 
 
SIMS: Is there any other ones that you remember? 
 
HERNANDEZ: Funny stories, funny stories. There wasn’t a ton of 
funny happening in my line of work out there [laughing]. 
Everything was so serious all the time. It was a lot of, you 
know—all that time I had the baby was kind of funny. But, it 
seems like that’d be pretty funny any time anybody had the baby 
at the FOB, because it’s just so— 
 
SIMS: Oh, when you would give birth. 
 
HERNANDEZ: So, awkward. Right.  
 
SIMS [0:30:29]: Right. So, did you have—how did they do it? Do 
they actually like put a baby under your dress? And then- 
 
HERNANDEZ: They actually put a garbage bag, a clear garbage bag, 
with KY Jelly and fake blood and a baby. 
 
SIMS: Wow. 
 
HERNANDEZ: Yeah, it’s, it’s a process. There’s actually a 
contraption that you wear. Have you spoken to Tina History yet? 
 
SIMS: No.  
 
HERNANDEZ: You need to. She built a—basically a vagina that you 
wear for the birthing process. 
 
SIMS: [Laughing] Wow. 
 
HERNANDEZ: It’s spectacular. In fact, she said we couldn’t use 
it anymore because it was too realistic. It was that real. 
 
SIMS: [Laughing] She was another role player? 
 
HERNANDEZ: Yeah. She’s a role player—in fact, currently. 
 
SIMS: Uh-huh. 
 
HERNANDEZ: She’s been there forever. And she is fantastic. She’s 
the person that I wanted to be like when I started working out 
there after watching her role play. She was my idol. At any 
rate, Tina built this thing, and what you do is there’s two 
layers in the bag. And you’re supposed to pop the first layer 
that just has the KY Jelly and the blood and water in it, just 
to signify your water breaking. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
HERNANDEZ [0:31:44]: And then when it’s time for you to have the 
baby, whoever’s going to take the baby for you, whoever is with 
you—you know, that’s playing your mother or husband or whatever. 
Gets down there and tears open the other bag that has the baby, 
with all the other bloody, yucky stuff in it. 
 
SIMS: Wow. 
 
HERNANDEZ: You haven’t seen any video of that or— 
 
SIMS: No. I haven’t.  
 
HERNANDEZ: Wow.  
 
SIMS: I’ve seen like some babies, like— 
 
HERNANDEZ: Yeah. 
 
SIMS: There’s one that’s like a burn baby, that- 
 
HERNANDEZ: Yeah. 
 
SIMS: Velma Stoneburner— do you know her? 
 
HERNANDEZ: Yeah. 
 
SIMS: She had. And I’ve heard of them giving birth, but I don’t 
think I’ve like heard that detail.  
 
HERNANDEZ: I hate you missed that. It’s pretty fantastic. It’s, 
it’s very, very cool to watch, because it’s very realistic. 
 
SIMS [0:32:32]: So, what would then happen? They sort of hand 
you the baby and you would go back to your village?  
 
HERNANDEZ: Well, what you’re hoping for is that they’d let you 
in and give you medical care, and they’d birth the baby for you.  
 
SIMS: Uh-huh. 
 
HERNANDEZ: But, more often than not, you’d end up birthing the 
baby right there at the gate.  
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
HERNANDEZ: And yeah, they’d send you off to your village. That’s 
what happened to me. I was sent off to my village. In fact, 
Velma’s husband, Josh, was playing my husband at the time. The 
one time I did give birth, Josh was with me.  
 
SIMS [0:33:10]: Mhm, oh. So, you all are in, is it Arkansas or 
Texas now? 
 
HERNANDEZ: No, we’re in Texas.  
 
SIMS: In Texas. 
 
HERNANDEZ: Mhm. 
 
SIMS: So, did you all leave for another job? Or- 
 
HERNANDEZ: Yeah. My husband left for another job when I got 
pregnant. 
 
SIMS: Uh-huh.  
 
HERNANDEZ: You know, it just wasn’t steady enough—it wasn’t 
stable enough at role play, because you don’t work every month 
necessarily.  
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
HERNANDEZ: With the baby coming, we were really worried about 
consistency and stability, obviously [Indistinct baby noises]. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
HERNANDEZ: So, my husband took another job, and then I just 
didn’t go back to work after, you know, we moved and everything. 
I miss the job. I dream about role play because I miss it. It’s 
the best job, ever [indistinct baby noises]. 
 
SIMS [0:34:00]: Yeah. It seems like, even for a lot of retired 
people too, it was kind of a perfect job. 
 
HERNANDEZ: Oh, yeah. Everybody loves it. I’ve never met anybody 
that worked out there that said they didn’t like the job.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
HERNANDEZ: I mean, I’m sure some people don’t—maybe it’s not 
their cup of team. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
HERNANDEZ: But, I never met ‘em.  
 
SIMS [0:34:28]: Is there anything that we didn’t cover that you 
think would be important for people to know about the job or 
your experiences there? 
 
HERNANDEZ: Not really, unless it just—how much the people who 
work there love our military.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
HERNANDEZ: That’s just—that’s really all I can really say about 
it, because it, it is a labor of love to work there. It truly 
is. I mean, yeah, it’s fun. But nobody works 18 hour shifts 
unless they love it. 
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
HERNANDEZ: And love the people that they’re helping, you know? 
 
SIMS: Mhm. Yeah, a lot of people have told me that.  
 
HERNANDEZ: Yeah. That’s, that’s really all I can have you take 
away from that that you don’t already know.  
 
SIMS: Mhm. 
 
HERNANDEZ: Well, you already knew. But, I wanted to make sure 
you had that tid-bit.  
 
SIMS [0:35:17]: Alright, well I appreciate that and, and your 
time. I know it’s always difficult, you know, with someone at 
your feet.  
 
HERNANDEZ: [Laughing] Yeah. 
 
SIMS: But, thank you. I— 
 
[INTERVIEW ENDS 35:39]