GILDA RAMIREZ 
 
SUMMARY: Gilda Ramirez talks to Pat Jasper about her life and influences, her journey 
from being adopted and brought up by her grandparents to living in Magnolia Park and 
watching the Port while she grew up only to eventually work there. Gilda explains how 
everyone living in Magnolia Park is linked to the ship channel and how in turn the ship 
channel is a giant economic engine.  
 
 
PORT OF HOUSTON AUTHORITY 
JUNE 19, 2012 
 
 
00:00:00 
Native Houstonian. Was born out of wedlock. Father was away at college "was referred 
to as prison for those people whose father or parents are not with them." Adopted by 
grandparents. Grandfather worked at the docks. Had 9 children of their own. Adopted 
sister also. Often go back to the old house to feel rooted and be reminded of background. 
Had a very caring and loving childhood. Had exposure to the port authority early on. 
Earliest memory was going to customs to pick up uncles or brothers when they were 
clearing customs when they came through on a ship. A lot of family members involved 
with the port. Lot of memories associated with the port. Got gifts from all over the world. 
Have got Dutch wooden shoes, masks form Africa, horse hair bracelet. Proud to be part 
of the history of Magnolia. Was amazed at all the different things that come through the 
port. Proud that family was so involved with the port. Remember grandfather having 
union meetings at home. Strategies, how they were going to vote. Recognized the 
importance of union and labor and what that meant to families with jobs. Families in 
Magnolia park are somehow related to the port authority because the port is the economic 
engine of the region. Knew that as a child.  
 
00:08:14 
Do remember father being a member of the ILA. Would engage and invite others to 
participate. Were concerned about hourly rates, pensions. Wanted to make sure that they 
would be paid fairly. Made sure Workers right were addressed and there was a safe place 
to work. Before containerization, people could legally bring home goods that were 
busted. Can remember stories about how food was stretched with those goods. 
Brother/uncles also worked on the port. One in merchant marine. Once well enough to 
own property, always rented to migrant workers. rented at lower than market value. 
Father was very proud of the fact that he was part of the ILA. Went back even after 
retirement. POrt was exposure to a much larger world.  
 
00:14:40 
 
 
Grandfather was born on the King ranch  near the valley. His parents worked that ranch. 
Parents/grandparents met and married in Austin. Moved to Magnolia Park because of the 
port and because they heard that there were jobs. Oldest sister worked on an assembly 
line during Depression when it was unusual for women to work. "Hustle and bustle" 
along the waterfront. Were warned not to go there. Prostitution existed. Other illegal 
activities. Would like to see the area revitalized. 
 
00:19:56 
Remember one brother working for Caterpillar. Lot of the pieces of equipment came 
from the docks. Remember associating the smell of oil with money. Brothers always had 
a roll of money on Fridays. neighbors also had the smell and the wad of money, Able to 
run the small business development program at job at the Port. Would love to see the 
same opportunities given to others. To have the port in the backyard as an economic 
engine is very important to the city. Everyone living in Magnolia Park is somehow linked 
to the port.  
 
00:26:14 
Mother had to give me away. She also lived a very colorful life. Raised by grandparents, 
Sister was also a huge influence. Had an entrepreneurial streak since childhood. Wanted 
to do something that involved traveling and seeing the world. At 14 sister and her 
husband moved back to Houston from California and opened a jewelry store. Worked 
with sister and brother in law, counting silver. Hands get all dirty and messy. Learnt very 
quickly that couldn't have a dirty job. Was available to do other things around the office. 
Worked there through high school. Were not good at manual labor. Both went to college. 
South West Texas University. grandfather passed away when she was 14, biological 
father at 15. Came back to Houston in the summer and started working at Metro as a 
receptionist Made $16,000 a year and was very happy. Was able to finish school at night. 
Father's interest in the union caught on. Watched him campaign and strategize. yard signs 
were always about support the local union. Drove her to love government relations and 
get involved in politics. Majored in public admin. Worked in the community relations 
group in POrt Authority. before that was a receptionist at Metro, customer service, 
supervisor, business development, director of govt. affairs and community relations. 
Opportunity to start a small business prog from the beginning. Want to continue to grow.  
 
Small business development prog has been very successful. Have a port university for 
small business, offer them training In addition to the contracts they are able to get, look 
for creative ways to give back to the community. Also have a maritime academy prog. 
Get to go back to the high school and have about 500 kids in the maritime academy prog. 
Reach is beyond La Porte, Deer park etc. Work closely with HCC and San Jacinto 
college. Negotiated with San Jacinto and building a Maritime building in the campus. 
 
00:43:13 
 
 
When first started the program did a lot of outreach. Get a lot of people interested in 
doing business with the port authority. Think of the port as a city within a city, go out and 
procure all the needs. Everything from designing a building to constructing to interiors 
and transporting goods and services - there are all these opportunities at the port. Have 
monthly forums for the small businesses. Explain processes - procurement, advertising, 
speech writers - all kinds of resources are available for small businesses. Can help small 
businesses realize that just by being in the program doesn't necessarily mean the port 
authority will want to do business with them but can get good contacts and network. Do 
have a large directory of the 150 tenants along the ship channel.  
 
00:48:48 
Have a mentoring program where small businesses are paired with similar business that 
are large prime contractors. Provide the directory and introducing them to contacts,that is 
the purview. Encourage all small business to attend pre proposal meetings so they can 
meet and pair with another firm that is submitting a proposal for a particular job. Work 
very closely with chambers of commerce. Help with economic developments. Help us 
reach their membership.  
 
00:52:05 
Small business participation. Since inception in 2002, program has generated and given 
back to the community $344 million  or 41% of all eligible spent going back to the local 
community. Program is race and gender neutral. Anyone who meets the SBA size 
standards can participate.  
 
00:53:39 
Believe parents had fled Mexico because of the turmoil and had moved to a better life in 
US. He was adopted and raised by his aunt so not much info available. Originally from 
Mexico but don't know how many generations back.  
 
00:57:11 
Growing up as Catholic, importance of religion was always instilled. Bar on Navigation 
called Coco Loco. Would walk to Sears. There were some very early Hispanic business 
owners. Fondest memories as a child, is spending Easter in Mason Park with al the 
families and the Easter Egg hunt. Small family things associated with celebration and 
with the port. Family did many things that were tied directly to the port.  
 
01:02:19 
Fundraisers for the seamen. Wrap christmas gifts for seamen so they would have 
something to open on Christmas day. Fr. Patout has been very involved in seamen church 
and opportunities for them.  
 
01:04:33 
 
 
As a child just watched father and a couple of colleagues at the house and because it was 
predominantly Hispanic, don't remember seeing any segregation.  
 
01:06:53 
Cant live very far away from Magnolia Park. Keep coming back. Ability to connect 
people with others, have those friendships and to be able to have a job that aids in doing 
that.  
 
01:10:37 
 IDlewood neighborhood was predominantly white. Older homes. Always been very 
industrious and resourceful. The deed restrictions still said non Hispanics (Mexicans), 
non caucasians were not allowed to live in that neighborhood. Took it to the civic club 
and got it changed in 92-94. Predominantly anglo.  
 
All the family members have worked in social services. All give back to the community 
mainly because of how they were raised. Been blessed to have been raised by 
grandparents. Have experienced unique opportunities and exposure at the Port Authority.