Taking Care--Documenting the Occupational Culture of Home Care Workers 
Archie Green Fellows Project, 2014-2015
(AFC 2014/021: 01580)
Archive of Folk Culture, American Folklife Center, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C.
Bobbie Sotin interview, 2015-01-21 : interview conducted by Nathan J. Moore
and Donald Eugene Stacy
INTERVIEW LOG
Additional Notes: Bobbie refers to the people for whom she cares as both consumers and clients. 
Time coded logs for audio file afc2014021_01580_sr01
00:00:00 Introductions, audio and video set-up, signing of release forms.  
00:02:49 Name is Bobbie Sotin.  Born December 12, 1963, in Crescent City, California.  
00:04:43 Been a home care worker since 2001.  
00:04:52 Previous jobs – stay-at-home mother for 17 years.  Went back to college and earned 
GED (General Educational Development) certificate. Worked at 7-11, which was awful.  Also 
worked retail in a myrtle wood shop, then started another job at a call center with medical 
benefits.  Wanted to choose her own hours.  Put in application at senior services and became a 
home care worker.  
00:06:07 Works with clients with disabilities.  
00:06:30 How is caregiving different from previous work?  Hard but rewarding.  Has been a 
caregiver her whole life.  Cared for grandparents and mother.  “It was just a natural thing for 
me.”  Was stressed at the call center job, but there was no reward for the work.  Likes working 
with people who appreciate her.  Also likes knowing that clients' lives are better because she is 
there.  
00:07:21 Currently has three clients.  Two seniors and one middle-aged client.  Works 24 per 
month with each client.  Doesn't work for the money because husband has a good job.  Does a lot
of union work so that other home care providers can get raises and pay their bills.   
00:08:37 Can anyone do this job?  No.  You have to be able to cope with stress and different 
types of personalities.  Has quit a few jobs due to the situation, but that has been rare.  Has 
1
worked with over 30 clients.  Worked for one client for three and a half years.  Sometimes you 
just don't mesh with a person.  You can't make someone else change.  If you can't deal with a 
client's personality, then you shouldn't be in that job.  Decided to quit a job because the client 
was racist.  It's not easy to quit a job.  Had to quit another job when one client was diagnosed 
with cancer and needed more care.
00:11:50 Has worked with several clients who passed away.  It can be very hard, but it's part of 
the job when you take care of people who are elderly and sick.  
00:13:03 Mother and father were caregivers, but both had to retire.  Two of her nieces were also 
home care workers.  One is now training to become a nurse and the other is going to be a 
pharmacist.  Daughter and sister are both foster parents.  Caregiving comes natural to her family. 
Parents were union members too.  
00:14:32 There are over 20 trainings provided by the Home Care Commission.  Has taken all the 
trainings many times.  Every time you're in a room with another person, you can learn something
new.  Some trainings should be paid for before workers even start, especially “Preventing 
Disease Transmission.”  She is working to get home care workers paid for certain trainings 
before they start working with clients.     
00:17:30 Is there a typical day in your field?  Yes.  Cleans, makes food, and manages meds for 
one client.  The shift passes quickly.  Has one client who is doing more for herself now.  
Acknowledging clients' improvements can be tricky; they might think they will lose their home 
care worker.  Usually tries to be upfront and encourage them.  The state will sometimes reduce 
the hours of care a client needs when they still need them.  Home care workers can talk to case 
managers about this, but change often comes from family members.
   
00:22:16 Relationships with clients – you can't help but get close to them.  Has become so 
comfortable with clients that she had to quit.  When you start saying things that you would say to
a family member instead of a boss, it's time to move on.  She usually recognizes this and explain 
it to clients.  
00:24:20 She got one of her jobs because she was filling in for another caregiver.  The client 
liked her better.  Doesn't like it when that happens.  When she fills in for others, she tries to make
sure that clients understand that she is just a substitute.
00:25:16 Impossible not to have clients become like family.  The longer you're with them, the 
more it happens.  
00:25:44 How do you deal with getting too close to clients?  Sometimes have to back peddle.  
Has talked to clients about the situation.  Usually clients are happy as long as needs are filled.
2
00:27:03 Decided not to work with a couple; her parents took the job instead.  Bobbie's father 
got them to take their meds and stop calling 9-1-1 every day.  Sometimes it just takes guidance 
and somebody who cares.  Previous caregiver had told them that they didn't have to take their 
medication.  Not the right thing to do.  Home care workers should encourage clients to follow the
doctor's instructions.  
00:29:13 Did you ever “talk shop” with your parents?  Yes.  Shared helpful advice.  The same 
thing happens at union meetings.  
00:29:41 The registry helps a lot with finding the right caregiver for a client.  Clients answer 
questions and the registry matches them up with an appropriate caregiver.  There's different work
associated with each client.  You don't have to know how to do everything.  Some clients have 
more difficult situations (feeding tubes, wheelchairs, etc.).    
00:30:56 Specific stories that illustrate the work?  Yes.  Worked for a gentleman who had 88 
hours of care per month.  His case was re-evaluated and he was knocked down to 20 hours per 
month.  He had to go through an appeal and was worried.  Request for more hours denied.  He 
had a stroke and became paralyzed on one side.  He had to get a ramp put in his house, but the 
state chose lowest bidder.  Ramp wasn't put in properly.  Sees this as neglect on the part of the 
state.  Home care workers notice these situations.    
00:35:05 Current clients all receive twenty hours of care.  One of them should have “mileage” in 
her plan due to physical disabilities.  Expected to get on bus and haul groceries home by herself. 
State should help her with this.  Transportation is an issue—clients have to walk in rain from 
doctors' offices to the bus stop.  Clients should be let off at the office and helped into the office.  
Bobbie's goal is to get extra help for people who need some variation in their care plans.  
00:38:18 Home care workers and clients cannot exchange money.  If they need to pay for 
transportation, clients have to go through complicated systems involving prepaid cards.  
00:40:02 Comment by Don Stacy: money can't be exchanged between clients and home care 
workers due to incidents of financial abuse.  Some consumers also felt the need to buy gifts for 
staff.  Bobbie agrees with the law.  Notes that home care workers previously received checks for 
situations that now involve transferring money to prepaid cards.  Not easy for people who 
already lack transportation.  Bobbie often ends up providing transportation for free.  “A home 
care worker's gonna do what needs to be done whether they're getting paid for it or not.  It comes
with the territory because the plans that the state has don't always fit the person.”  
00:42:33 Has lobbied at the State Capitol many times.  Wears purple union colors.  Government 
takes a long time to change.  Current clients might be interested in participating in lobby days, 
3
but previous clients have not been able to go due to physical disabilities.  Has taken a consumer 
from town who is not her client.        
Time coded logs for audio file afc2014021_01580_sr02
00:00:06: Chants are part of union activities on lobby days.  Doesn't remember specific chants, 
but there are a lot.  Union members sing as well.  Mentions Paul McKenna (Research Director, 
SEIU 503) who writes chants and songs.  
00:00:40 How has the union affected your job?  It has given home care workers a route to 
improving consumers' lives.  Home care workers lobby for more money in the state budget for 
services.  They have also given money from their contracts to pay for senior services.   
00:02:49 Thinks that many community members don't know that home care workers exist.  They 
don't have a clue until something happens to them or a family member.  Once in awhile, people 
hear about home care workers who steal from clients, but they don't hear the good stories.  
Example of a good story: the Home Care Commission recently recognized a worker who 
recovered a client's stolen purse.    
00:03:58 Doesn't know what to call clients anymore.  They've been consumers, clients, 
customers.  Tries to call them “client-employers.”  
00:04:30 Union helps home care workers to network with each other.  This makes it better for 
everyone, including case managers.  Case managers learn a lot now from home care workers.  In 
the past, they've only heard from clients.  Discusses importance of home care workers attending 
doctor's visits.  Consumers forget to tell doctors important information.  
00:07:33 Tremendously important to have a sense of humor on the job.  If you don't laugh at life,
you're not going to make it.  Clients joke with home care workers too.  People who have 
dementia are hard to care for, though, because hey forget who you are.  Home care workers need 
to have very thick skins.  
00:10:00 Clients know when something is going on in your personal life.  They want to help.  
You have to be careful about what you say.  Gives example of breaking cake pan; client wanted 
to buy one for her.  
00:12:14 Hobbies?  Enjoying new grandchildren.  Likes to ride Harley with husband and play 
Bingo.  Also likes her “alone time,” which can be hard to find.  
00:15:28 Works with both men and women.  Prefers not to work with smokers, but isn't always 
possible.  Discusses the problems of “third hand smoke.”  
4
00:17:41 Talks about the occupational hazards of handling pills.  Home care workers have to 
wear gloves to touch certain medications.  
00:18:20 Discussion between Don Stacy and Bobbie Sotin about wearing gloves on the job.  
Bobbie: “It took us forever to get the State to provide us gloves.” 
00:19:49 “Preventing Disease Transmission” class provides home care workers with trainings on 
universal precautions.  Wants home care workers to have to attend class before starting the job.
00:21:08 Discussion between Don Stacy and Bobbie Sotin about OSHA rules.  
00:23:30 Hopes for the profession: sufficient funds that provide for the consumers.  Baby 
Boomers are retiring and some will need care providers.  Doesn't think we have enough home 
care workers right now to supply the demand.  
00:24:31 Thinks trainings and union meetings should be required.  Home care workers need to 
be educated about the union.  
00:24:54 Has been on the last four bargaining committees during contract negotiations.  It is a lot
of work.  “It doesn't seem like the State gets their cookies, or ducks, in a row until the last five 
minutes of the race.”  Very frustrating.  Thinks the other side should be happy that home care 
workers are saving the state of Oregon a lot of money.  Home care will be around for as long the 
state provides funding. 
00:28:11 A lot of home care workers are older; thinks the average age is fifty-five.  Her mother 
was on the job when she had a stroke.  
00:29:47 How to recruit new home care workers?  “Having a wage you can live off.”  Home care
workers are now making $13.75 per hour.  It took six years to get beyond $10.20 per hour, which
didn't encourage people to go into home care.  Home care workers now only have to work 40 
hours per month to be eligible for the union health insurance.  Bobbie usually works fifty to 55 
hours per month.  Doesn't always use up the allotted hours for each client.  
00:32:35 You can't work over the allotted hours for each client and get paid.  If consumers need 
more help, they have to contact case managers.  Hard for clients to call case managers because 
they don't always receive a call back.  Case managers are overloaded.  
00:35:16 End of interview
  
5
 
6