1 
 
Alodia Paul Bi-Lingual Questionnaires  
 
Interview Location: Talguw, Yap 
Age of Interviewee: 73 years 
Island of Birth: 
Lothow Island, Ulithi Atoll 
Audio Language:  
Ulithian 
Recording afc2022011_004_sr001 
00:14 Question 1 
1.   Thinking back, what are your very earliest memories of, or about, weaving? 
A. Ulithian:  Hobe luluwal tefal ngo mada mele hochil mem’mangi hare gulayem mo irel yam 
la Kai mo gula doh deur? 
Interviewee in Ulithian:   
0:27 Mada mele ichil memmangi irel yai kai deur hare? 
 
Interviewee in English: 
What do I still remember from learning how to weave? 
 
Interviewer in Ulithian:  
0:32 Yam kai doh deur wulul yam gula deur yal bubudoh yal 
yarmat ffeur deur. 
 
Interviewer in English: 
Yes, how you learn weaving, how you see or know people 
doing weaving those days to date? 
 
Interviewee in Ulithian:  
0:38 Wulul yai kai deur le, yathwe mulwe sichil wechich ngo 
sima komahoi wulyetigich, yarmat mo wulyetigimi irel dedeur.  
0:50 Ngo yir rebele faru deur kala… yor makla rebele taptap 
ahh… mada mulwe, rebele faru wulul deur le yar yalwich kai. 
Sangsangal wulul makla sisor bo wulul kai le rebe kangalur 
yalwich. 1:11 Tapel igegel pitgil deur. Pap, ahh… meka pitgil 
deur, idal meka pitgil deur, ikla meka matamol le hobe kai. 
Maliyel wululul yam be chow irel yothla hochil, ahh… mada 
mulwe. Yothla hoted, ahhh… widyei bo itai gula sangal le 
ibesor. 1:49  Wolmol mala hobe faru sew deur, meka holngol 
deur ngo ikla meka hobe chapi dah yam hobe kai iyang.  Be ifa 
sangal le sibe sor mala.  
 
Interviewee in English: 
When we were still young, I learned weaving by watching and 
observing my parents and the ladies when they wove lavalava.  
Our parents made mini looms as our toys, and that’s how we 
learned the weaving and the names of loom parts.  They would 
show you how to use the warping board. Those are the first 
things that we needed to learn before we could do real 
lavalava weaving.   
 
 
Interviewer in Ulithian:  
2:01 Yathla mala hochil tarfefel?  Hote yaya gow? Mokawe rema 
faru bo mil yar tapel pathul deur kawe? Bo ila mala yalwich 
rebe kokom iyang ngo rekai iyang? 
 
Interviewer in English: 
When you were still a little girl? Not wearing lavalava yet?  
Those mini looms made out of coconut leaves for the little girls 
to play with and learn from? 
 
2 
 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
2:13 Ngo, rekai iyang iwe ngo rekai irel makla pitgel deur kala. 
Pap mo Maliyel kala. 2:19 Bo bala hola yathla mala rebele faru 
mala holngol deur la ngo resa fasul gula idel makla pitgil deur.  
2:29 Tapang, ngung, pap, mililel maliyal.  Iwe mo mada. 2:38 Iwe 
hobele la, yathla hobele tareng ngo ila mele sibe sor bo bele 
chap yam faru mekla holngol deur. Bele chogu sew deur le be. 
2:53 Motamol mala hobe chow ngo hobe halaplap mo yangtam 
yela lap ngo hosa chow, ngo hosa deurngu.  3:06 Wolmol mala 
hobe yaya gow ngo hobe complete igle sew deur le be gel 
chog le hobe halpa ngo hosa chogu hosa deurngu. Hobala 
yaya chog gow ngo pangal makla ngo gel chog wol holngom 
ngo bele mol hobe faru. 3:30 Sibe sor bo ila mala aim irel mala 
… mada mulwe, rema kangalu taper chokla bo rebe yathmagel 
rebe gula bo rebetugla ilang tor mele rebe yaya iyang. Iwe ila 
sangal ngang wulul yai kai doh deur.  Deur le ye musla loh, 
meka, te mil chog meka yar yarmat yaya..fafel mele hobe kai 
bo your guluch le yar mal le gel hobe wol kai farul. 
 
Interviewee in English: 
Yes. They would learn from the mini toy looms and warping 
boards, and by the time they were ready to do the real one, 
they already know the names and the idea of how to weave.  
So, when you first reach your menstrual cycle, that’s when you 
will weave a regular lavalava. First, you will make enough 
fibers for one lavalava. Then, you will do the warping (that’s 
putting together the colors on a warping board). Then, you 
weave on the loom. The aim here is by the time they make you 
wear lavalava, you will be able to weave your own lavalava.  
So, that’s how I learned how to weave. We learned to not only 
weave for women’s lavalava, but we learned to weave for 
men’s lavalava (Guluch), too. 
 
04:19 Question 2 
2.   In your mind, who is the one person you most associate with weaving in your life and 
why? 
A. Ulithian:  Lol yam luluwal, itei semal le ye kael yam fel ngali irel yam fefaru doh deur hare 
yam deduer doh?  Bo mada fal? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
04:35  Ngang isor bo mala wulyetigiy mele isor bo ye kal yai 
felngali bo yimele matamol yal kangaliey milel deur. Iwe isa kai 
makla.  04:48 Iwe ye kangal yei ngo hare wochog mulwe ralkawe 
sima yor yach ipol le simabithiy iwe ngo hare wochog mulwe 
bele la yor sew deur ngo taiyor… yor yai question hare mada, 
ilang ngo rechokala harol mel sew 05:01 ipol mele ibele kasiyor 
hare rebe tipingiyei irel sew formel le hare ngang itugla. 
 
Interviewee in English:   My parent (mother) was the one I more associated with 
weaving because she was the first person that I learned 
weaving from. Back in the days that we still went down to the 
women’s house for the duration of our menstrual cycle, the 
women there are the ones I associated with. When there’s 
3 
 
something wrong with my weaving, they are the ones I turned 
to for help. 
 
05:23 Question 3 
3.   Why is weaving so important to you? 
A.   Ulithi: Mada mele dedeur ye kael yal palengpelal ngalug iyang? 
Interviewee in Ulithian:  
05:38 Deur le ye paling pelal bo yikala meka sima yaya iyang. 
Yach… sibe sor bo mengaguch gich reulithi.  Iwe ngo sima wol 
taptap irel yach hadugdug irel mas.  06:07 Iwe mo tapel makla 
bala budoh sew formel wagaga lufulyem le lom hare rebugtam 
sa hateikofa depal sibi yarmat ngo ikala meka sima taptap 
sibla hamommayi lol depar. 06:33 Ngo hare wochochog mulwe 
sawas lol semal, sa buyoi cha mo wol semal, Iwe ngo sima wol 
taptap le sima sor bo chaal metal yarmat.  06:45 Iwe ngo tapel 
rochoka sima sor bo tareng, gich le… le rebele moch inter igli 
sew… reble mel… rebele fafel, ngo ikla makla sible taptap le 
hagilar le resa, rebele moch rebele yaya gow.  07:14 Iwe ngo 
hare yor lom tarmal le bele riri iwe ngo sible kaflel chalif. Hoble 
chalfi mulwe ril mulwe lom bo be mommai depal bo be fang 
yarmatal bugtam iwe ngo ye hamale bugtam.  07:58 Lom le tapel 
mulwe rebe riri ngo resa loluy ngo hobe fang tapel mulwe sima 
sor bo dugdug siyal yarmat.  Mustangi chalif.  Chalif le 
matomal mala rebe riri le ted yor layur ngo hosa chalfir ngal 
gow.  08:31 Bala budoh le be loh semal luguleng, iwe ngo ikla 
meka simafang bo dugdugur le rebe hasi.  09:00 Le ila fal le 
yepaling pelal le sibe kai deur iyang bo pangal time ngo madal 
bo your deur le hobe holu bo bala wel doh sew formel ngo yor 
mele hobe fang.  Hare your mangal tomom le moch budoh 
mosulbos, ngo sima sor bo hachuiyelloi le hobla ngalei sew 
deur bo be hadiyo le hare moch bala budoh mo sulbos. Iwe 
ikala chog makla ngang iluwalei le yor fal le sibe gula deur ngo 
si faerr deur. 
 
Interviewee in English:   Weaving is very important because when you weave then you 
have lavalava. That was our clothing for both men and women 
those days. It’s also very important because we use it for our 
deaths. We also use it when there is an offense involving your 
family members that may cause others to be mad, if your 
family member hurts someone, or even kills somebody.  
Lavalava is given for making peace between families or clans. 
Moreover, lavalava is used when your son gets married. You 
give lavalava to your son’s wife as a gift that represents that 
you are pleading with her to have children for your land and to 
help clean your land. This event is called “Chalif”.  Once your 
daughter in-law is pregnant with her first child, you again give 
her lavalava as a gift. Furthermore, when your daughter 
reaches maturity and can weave on her own, it’s a special 
event when you first make your daughter wear lavalava. Her 
paternal aunties will gather with her mom to give her lavalava 
to wear for the first time. When your relatives travel afar, it’s 
the culture that you give a lavalava to them. If your paternal 
4 
 
aunt just came from traveling, you would give her a lavalava to 
change into it. That’s why weaving to have lavalava is very 
important. 
09:55 Question 4 
4.   How has weaving or woven skirts changed over your lifetime, or since the lifetime of 
those who taught you? 
A.   Ulithi:  Ifa sangal yal deur mo dedeur susuwel doh irel yam bubudoh yesa holadoh igla? 
Hare sa change tangi yathkawe ho k’kai mor irel sensei kala yam? 
Interviewee in Ulithian:   
10:18 Deur ila la liwel ila, wulul deur le ila kai doh le gur le ma 
fusuw ngo pad ila ma wolow. 10:30 Ila sangal wuwlu yai kai 
deur. Gulfei mo guluch ngo ila sangal. Sa hasigsig ye la mada 
mulwe… maredoh ketot ngo sa sar change loh wululul deur bo 
siya wiri samat le yar ahh… itugla hare yar sibi irel number, irel 
lapal mele sima sor bo gur mo lapal pad. 11:05 le sa change sa 
bidah 7 hare mada gur hare 8 gur hare 7 pad ikla igegel makla 
sa change. 11:14 Iwe mo color. Color bo sa budoh mol, sa 
cholop color kamoch budoh sa different color. Ikla makala iwiri 
le design le sa change igla. Different ahh… design irel deur. 
11:49  Resa taptap color kala sitema fasol taptap ralkawe le tor 
yach ralkawe igla sa yor.  11:56  Ralkawe le irel meka milfulyach 
le bala cholop yal semal deur le luwul fau hare mada.  Mil mala 
yewares hafarul deur ralkawe. Bala cholop yal semal le luwul 
suluw hare fau.  12:22 Igla ila milel mele sayor mol ka yarmat 
resa taptap le sa cholop yal ahh semal.   Sa tir wulul yal 
dedeur yarmat. 
 
Interviewee in English:   When I first learned how to weave, I knew that lavalava always 
had 7 of the bigger stripes called “gur” and 6 of the smaller 
stipes called “pad”.  In the old days, weaving the local fibers 
made from hibiscus and bananas always had 7 gur and 6 pad.  
Nowadays, I’ve started seeing lavalava with 8 gur and 7 pad.  
Back in the days when I was still young, we only had a few 
colors.  Now that we have thread with different kinds of colors, 
people come up with different colors and designs of lavalava. 
In the old days, when weaving the hibiscus and banana fibers, 
people only had about four lavalava to wear. Compare that to 
these days, now that we have thread, people have more 
lavalava because it’s much faster to make lavalava with 
thread. 
 
12:57 Question 5  
5.    If you could talk to your great-granddaughter about weaving, what would you want to tell 
her? 
A.   Ulithian:  Hare wochog bo hobe malili ngal lol lom tarfefel irel deur, mada mele hobe 
kangalur hare hodipli hobe kangalur? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
13:15 Mla idipli ibe kangalur ila, yepaling pelal le yir rebe gula 
wulul mekla, Yar meka yach chapdoh le sima faru.  13:34 Rebe 
5 
 
gula fal yal paling pelal deur iyang.  Iwe ngo yekal yal 
important le rebe gula. 13:49 Igla change bo hare wochog mulwe 
gel semal le yor lom salpiy, ngo be mol le hobe la chuway deur 
mo irel semal bo yam. Ngo hare be tor salpiy, ilang paling pelal 
le gel hobe gula farul yimakla. 14:26 Ngang iwe isor bo wol 
paling pelal lerebe gula bo rebegula wululul yam 14:33 Chapdoh, 
lobos la hobudoh mo iyang mo wululul makala… wululul 
yarmat yar bubudoh yela holar yir.  Ila mala ngang isor bo 
paling pelal le rebe gula.  14:55  le Ila fal le ye paling pelal le 
rebe kai makla bo rebe gula. Bo hare yir retai… sa roprop layur 
salpiy le re tai need le rebe faru ngal payur, ngo at least le yir 
rebe gula sangal farul makla. 
 
Interviewee in English:   I would like to tell them how important weaving is and that they 
need to know how to weave. It’s our culture that we do need to 
know how to weave. Nowadays, it’s a little different than before 
because if you have money, then you can buy your lavalava.  
But if you don’t have money, you need to know how to weave.  
It also symbolizes who we are and where we come from.  If 
you have plenty of money, you don’t need to weave, but at 
least you know how to do it.