Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
1 
Client:  
Interviewer: Greg Sharrow 
Interviewee: Cynthia Larson 
Interviewee Contact:  
Location: Wells  
Date: June 9, 2015 
Length: 01:11:25 
Recording Format: 16/44.1 WAV 
Accession: AU2015-2026 
Collection: VFC2014-0005 
Indexer: Marty Dewees 
 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
00:00 – 05:23 
Grew up in Norwich, Conn. suburb. Father was an immigrant from near t he 
Polish-Russian border and mother an immigrant from Scotland. Met in the 
“great mixing bowl of the war.”[0:40 ]. They married, father became a 
policeman and always wanted to be a farmer. Father took her to a dairy 
farm on her birthday and a calf was named after her. Even with no 
background and no experience she knew she wanted to farm.  As a young 
teen she went with her parents to Vermont in the fall and she knew she 
wanted to have a farm in Vermont.  Meanwhile was involved with horses 
and went University of Connecticut in the college of agriculture with an 
emphasis in equine studies. Very soon though she knew it was dairy she 
wanted to do. Met her husband Rich, there who grew up on a dairy farm in 
Conn.  His family was Swedish and they were dairy farmers as long as they 
can trace back. His family was innovative in farming.  They thought they 
would farm with his father but that didn’t work out. The farm was near 
Boston and became very valuable. Now it’s two or three estates. They came 
to Vermont on their honeymoon but her husband thought they needed to 
find land in Mew York. She suggested they just drive down the valley and 
 
background 
 
 
college 
 
 
 
 
finding Vermont 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
2 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
they ended up in Manchester. He said they could farm there. Tried to get 
financing and were told to get equity (a degree wasn’t enough). She left her 
name and address to the PCA lending man. Got a call from Harold Billings, 
who was in the legislature, and had a dairy farm in Clarendon on Otter 
Creek and wanted a good herdsman because he was away several months a 
year. They made a proposal that was important—he cosigned a note for 
$15,000 with the stipulation that they buy cattle which would stay on the 
farm. They carefully computed their expenses and income. Every month 
they had an accounting. A year later she got a job as herds person in West 
Rutland. Then rented that farm 
 
 
 
 
 
Farming near Rutland 
05:23 – 10:00 
That farmer sold his cattle and equipment. Two years later bought their 
current farm in Dec., 1977 which they got because no one else wanted it, it 
was in such bad condition. Soils were badly eroded and had to fill in area 
before they could plant. The records they had kept earlier came in handy as 
banks like them and they were able to get a loan. Her father gave them the 
down payment and Proctor Trust financed them. Had some horrible years. 
Took several years to get into shape. Interesting life. Rented land all over. 
Started out with corn silage and buying grain. Their degrees had taught 
them about chemicals and standard procedures of the day. They came with 
a head start interest in conservation, easements and soil conservation. Had 
seen agriculture in Conn. die for lack of planning ahead. Important for 
farmers to retain equity of their land. Were first in line with Vermont Land 
Trust for conservation easements and did a sale with them in 1990. And 
they renovated the barn. Raised their 8 children here and home schooled 
them.  Free stall in bad condition so put in comfort stalls so that kids could 
be involved. Wanted to do a better job with fewer cows. Children grew, but 
economics went down for farms. They decided in late 90s to sell the cows. 
Not a happy day.   
Current farm 
 
 
 
 
Development 
 
 
 
 
 
Farm declines 
 
 
 
Selling the cows. 
10:00 – 16:23 
Meanwhile Rich started another business that has been interesting: farm 
 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
3 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
real estate appraiser. Most interested in conservation. Provided 
supplemental income but she still had young children and was convinced 
that pasteurized milk was inferior to raw milk so bought herself a Jersey 
cow. No fences and tied her cow to the Saab and moved it everyday. Then 
they added a cow and another and bought a milking machine, put in stalls 
and began selling raw milk to their neighbors.  They have a passion for 
small dairies. Likes to think it’s still possible to make a living that way. Then 
were asked to provide milk to neighbor doing cheese so upgraded to 40 
cows and sold the milk 7 miles from there, but financial struggle. Doubled 
herd at their request from 20 to 40 cows and then dropped them a few 
months later. Was a financial disaster. Sold half the herd but needed 
another model—advertised for raw milk. Test their milk, and fine with 
inspections, but kept putting obstructions. But working with Rural Vermont 
to change slowly. Puts a yogurt container out for money and people can do 
self serve all daylight hours.  Now legal to deliver milk at farmers’ markets. 
Got to Rutland and Dorset markets. Growth is slow and irregular.  Weekend 
milk sells but what to do with Monday and Tuesday milk. Did a business 
plan for small creamery making butter, yogurt, cheeses that includes 
pasteurizing so is willing to bend. Dairy in Vermont has gone downhill 
because cheaper to bring it in from elsewhere. If companies were not 
allowed to externalize costs by pollution, paying poor wages, etc., then they 
could compete. No government help. 
Husband started farm real 
estate appraisal business 
 
 
 
Jersey cow 
 
 
 
Selling raw milk 
 
 
 
Developing small creamery 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
16:23 – 21:10 
Education about good food choices is another passion besides producing 
healthy food for the earth. Especially interested in education about soils.  
They have a newsletter they use to educate and they’ve made an effort to 
remineralize their soils.  Do a lot of testing and measurements. They’re 
more grass farmers. Need an appreciation for sod and grass—educate 
people on that and analysis of milk. Don’t use grain anymore. Shows in milk 
analysis. Grain is unnatural for bovines.  Working on genetic profile also. 
Passions re: farming 
 
 
Weaning off grain to full 
grass diet 
 
 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
4 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
Cows have been bred to eat grain and stay inside for greatest quantity of 
milk. Have to be careful in changing diets. Have been breeding to New 
Zealand bulls who have been grass fed for generations. Increasing quality of 
forage, monitor body condition and breeding efficiency, two places where 
stress from no grain shows up. Have begun to see the farm as a whole, the 
cycle of soil, and water and topography, genetics of cattle, their social 
involvement as a herd, and the management. Have to be their own 
experts—get advice when they need it but they’re the experts on their farm 
and their cows. 
 
Viewing farm as a whole 
21:12 – 26:34 
Won’t stop learning but take more responsibility themselves. Greg asked 
about others farmers. They’ve learned a lot from others, haven’t been the 
first.  Especially Ian Savory on wholistic management. Hi premise is that 
grassland and undalents go together, learned to move cattle over the 
grasslands in small groups. “Mob grazing.” Can increase quality of forage, 
cattle eat everything and move on. Early on in 18 days the grasses would 
reproduce (before solstice) ; after solstice 30 to 45 days more until they’re 
ready for grazing again. Soils and aeration better. Many people are doing. 
Ian Mitchell Innes has done this too. They’ve also learned from NOFA Mass. 
Just beginning to reap the benefits. Believes the world could easily be fed 
organically if there was the will. Lack of distribution and attention to soils 
and the propensity to externalize costs. Big companies and even land grant 
universities haven’t always been on the right side of soil conservation. 
Although NRCS doing good work. 
Grasslands and undalents 
 
Mob grazing. 
 
 
 
Possibility of feeding the 
world organically 
26:34 – 33:26 
Greg asked if Vermont extension service and other were “fellow travelers.” 
She believes they are, some conventional sort and also more innovative 
ones who are more concerned about quality. UVM Extension Service has 
some good programs to support local food. Have small grant from national 
service. Grants to help exclude cattle from water ways and build fencing for 
pasturing, which makes soils healthier and waters cleaner. NOFA and others 
Vermonters and supports 
for soil conservation 
 
 
 
 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
5 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
collaborate with UVM and individuals. Pasture walks to see what other 
farmers have done, what’s worked and what hasn’t really helps. Greg asked 
to talk more about developing local food systems. Around Rutland, people 
growing sweet potatoes, vineyards, etc. Rutland farmers market and food 
co-op and Rutland Food Center with winter market, plans for processing, 
etc. like the processing of imperfect looking food can make wonderful 
frozen food. Many innovative farmers. Roadside vegetable carts powered by 
horses. Whiskey people too, and she is undecided about that, about how 
healthy it is but thinks any time small business is encouraged it’s good for 
our communities and ultimately the entire culture. RAFL helps provide 
guides, organized intern system visits, classes, individual interview for 
business plans, etc. 
 
 
 
Resources in Rutland area 
 
 
 
 
 
33:26 – 40:52 
Greg asked about “dairy community” which is largely gone, asked about 
organic—more geographically arranged now. Pasture walk people are a 
consistent community and write to each other, consult on things like udder 
sore not responding, even included organic vet. Have to do farmers’ market 
which she was hoping to avoid but fell to her and will help keep the area 
from further gentrification in which owners play at farming and don’t care if 
they lose money. Careful not to undercut their competition—want an equal 
playing field. Have face to face contact now. In old commercial dairy days, 
milk was piped into tank and went away. Feel as if they’re re-inventing 
retail. Keep selling eggs even though not a money maker to encourage 
people to buy from a farm—more concerned about meats and such. Meeting 
people in this farm world is very different. Much more complete to know 
your customer and more accountable. Great stories from customers. 
Farmers’ market is her new social group as her children are leaving. All 
ages, selling all kinds of goods. Has a great time. A farmer doing her sales for 
her by proclaiming advantages of raw fresh milk. Farms produce 
infrastructures. 
Dynamics of gentrification 
 
 
Dynamics of face to face 
local food distribution 
 
 
 
 
Social group dimensions of 
farmers’ markets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
6 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
40:52 – 46:40 
There needs to be mechanics, vets, parts sales people, fuel companies, 
workers, --and the money flows. Much of that infrastructure  is gone now. 
Greg asked what it would take to forge viable local food system again. Will 
take people changing their minds. People conscious of what food costs but 
don’t think much about quality. Large corporations have to be forced to 
clean up their own messes. People have to vote with their dollar. Need to be 
aware of GMOs, loss of soils, use of chemicals, inhuman animal treatment, 
illness issues, etc. and budget money for quality food. We still pay lower 
percentage for food than most Europeans. We need education. We need 
motivation too. Wants to make farm viable enough to support living for the 
next generation. They hope to get funding for the creamery. To be profitable 
they #1 have to direct market everything and #2 they hope that people will 
be changing their minds about food. Difficult to make any profit selling food 
in Vermont.  Feels awareness growing. Can sometimes foresee a collapse in 
cheap food from California. Looking for perfect human scale. Doesn’t know 
what it is. 
Infrastructure production 
by farms 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What it will take to make 
the shift 
 46:40 – 52:17 
She’s optimistic in such a beautiful world. “We’re growing in 
consciousness,”[47:23] just hopes we grow fast enough before we destroy 
the earth. Concepts are growing.  Believes it can’t be just for the elite—it’s 
about physical health. Greg asked about her 8 children. She wishes some 
would return here. First 7 are clear they won’t. Oldest son is Harvard 
educated lawyer and knows he couldn’t make enough money doing it. They 
love the farm, love to visit, but have other interests. One is a counselor, one 
just finished med school, one in computers. But youngest, Mercy, is 19 and 
is running their farm. She milks the cows, she’s learning everything from 
her father. She’s not committed to being on the farm but needs to spread 
her wings a little and perhaps come back. They are all responsible eaters 
though. They care about food systems. There are lots of young people who 
will come along. There are 3 houses on the land so could have a layered 
Optimism about awareness 
growth among people 
 
 
 
 
 
Has a vision for layered 
farm  
 
 
Resources on the farm 
 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
7 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
farm with three farmers  and lots of options like vegetables, a goat 
creamery, poultry, etc. And what she consider “a national treasure” Rich has 
40 years of experience fixing broken stuff’[52:03]—really important on a 
farm and more and more rare. Likes doing in kind arrangement like 
allowing people to use their vegetable land in exchange for the vegetables 
that don’t sell at the market. They also have a 50 tree orchard no one is 
really managing. 
Possibilities for future use 
 
 
Like to share the resources 
 
 
 
52:16 – 1:00 
Thinks individual land ownership will diminish in importance as sharing 
and enterprise stacking take hold. Could market things together also. Would 
like to see farms as a community centers with classes, walks, soil pits work, 
etc. Also will turn the other side of their house as a “B & K”  (kitchen) and 
have a farm experience. Want to do gelato or frozen yogurt also. People 
seem to mind paying for food but not recreation. Looking into a pizza oven 
and have pizza night and gelato and have farm night. A long way from 
thinking about a cow as a production unit.  Greg asked two questions: how 
many cows (20) and products (raw milk for human consumption and for 
pasteurization). 30-cow Devon beef herd which they sell to a co-op or 
individuals at farm store, quarter sales in the fall, and eggs. Still a ways to go 
about raw milk. They think testing is good. Barriers from legislative view 
means they can only deliver to farmers markets, not sell there, so it has to 
be pre-ordered which ends up to be chaotic. We’ve created a great 
distribution center in the grocery store. Also a mandated sign about danger 
of raw milk. Inspected only once a year. Good relationship with inspectors. 
She would increase them and then stop putting up barriers to trade. 
Quantities are still restricted even when standards met. 
Creative Ideas for the farm 
 
 
 
 
 
Current products 
 
 
 
 
 
Current legislative barriers 
1:00:00 -- 
1:11:24 
Tend to over regulate, people using fear. Inappropriate regulation. One has 
to advocate for appropriate regulation. We utilize face to face 
accountability. Milk isn’t mixed in—behooves us to produce good. Would 
like choice expanded. They are just beginning to explore the value of 
Perspective on regulation 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
8 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
grasslands. They sequester carbon here. Need to value the value of 
grasslands. Greg acknowledged this project makes him hopeful. He’s looked 
for leadership—it’s on a grass roots level. She does have a weakening sense 
of confidence in national leadership. Fears difficult times, sees this as a race 
between innovation and destruction. Dinosaurs died but the little rodents 
didn’t. At that level, we can survive.