1 
 
Transcript of Interview with Kisha Sibert, November 10, 2020 
By Ethan Sharp 
Ethan (00:01): 
All right. All right. I'm Ethan Sharp. It's November the 10th, 2020. I'm here in Lexington, Kentucky. And I'm 
here with Kisha Sibert. Is that right? And she is in Manchester, Kentucky. And to, to get us started Kisha, 
could you tell us a little bit about your background, where you were born, and where you grew up, and a 
little bit about, you know, your experience with your personal, sort of your personal journey through 
recovery? 
Kisha (00:40): 
Sure. My name is Kisha Sibert. And Ethan, I just wanted to thank you for giving me this opportunity to 
speak about my experience not only with my journey in addiction, but also with recovery and being a peer 
support specialist. But I'll begin with, I grew up here in Manchester, Kentucky. I have one sibling who is, I 
have a sister, and I was actually raised by my father. My mother was killed in a car wreck when I was 10. 
So the reason that I said that about my sibling is because she was actually like a mother figure in my life. 
And then, let's see, my father and I, we moved around a little bit. We moved to Sandusky, Ohio. We came 
back. We moved to Indiana. We came back. And so you know, from a young age, like I had a lot of anxiety, 
and I think that moving around contributed to that. 
Kisha (01:45): 
So, we came back to Manchester when I'm going into the seventh grade, and that's when I was first 
introduced to drugs. Of course, I didn't start in the seventh grade. I began using drugs when I was a 
freshman in high school. And I would like to say that I grew out of that quickly, but I did not. That actually 
was a part of my life for the next 20 years. You know, there's a--I could sit and share all the terrible details, 
but that's, I don't think that's relevant. I sought treatment when I was 33 years old, and the, the turning 
point for me was, my sister, who I had mentioned was a mother figure, she, she went in front of a judge, 
and she got temporary custody of my daughter, who was actually like five at the time. And so I was tired 
of living that way, but, you know, I had become accustomed to that. 
Kisha (02:47): 
Anything different than living in addiction was scary to me, but whenever my sister filed for temporary 
custody of my daughter, that motivated me to change. So I went to treatment. I actually went to treatment 
at Karen's Place through Addiction Recovery Care in Louisa, Kentucky, and I was there for a year. And, you 
know, I didn't want to talk about staying that long at the time. But as I was there, I realized that I actually 
needed to stay longer because you can't fix a 20 year addiction within a month or so. So, I completed 
treatment there, and I was actually offered a job through Addiction Recovery Care at Beth's Blessing, 
which was in the county right next to Manchester. And you know, I ended up continuing my recovery 
through there, helping other people. And I worked there for four years prior to coming to Volunteers of 
America. So I have been a person in recovery for six and a half years, and life is just, it's amazing. I mean, 
who would have thought there was more to life than just getting high and experiencing heartache and 
loss. 
Ethan (04:07): 
Yeah. Yeah. And did you do your, your training for the peer support then at ARC? 
2 
 
Kisha (04:15): 
I actually did. I became a certified peer support. I think I was in the second class that they had. And so for 
two years working for ARC, I was actually providing peer support groups to the clients. 
Ethan (04:30): 
Okay. So did you do that during your first year there at Karen's place? 
Kisha (04:38): 
It was probably, I guess I'd been there about two years. 
Ethan (04:43): 
Okay. Okay. So can you talk, I know that ARC has an interesting training program. Can you talk a little bit 
about what their training is like, and what you know, what really impacted you there with the training 
they had? 
Kisha (04:59): 
Whenever they broke out the peer support training, it was new, and I think Addiction Recovery Care was 
probably the first to offer that. We attended a 30 hour training. 
Ethan (05:19): 
It was one week--one continuous week? 
Kisha (05:26): 
Yes, one week. 
Ethan (05:26): 
But they offered it there at, at Addiction Recovery Care? 
Kisha (05:31): 
They did. And then probably a year later, they rolled out another training, which was called a Peer Support 
Academy. 
Ethan (05:42): 
Okay. So you didn't, you didn't do the academy, you did the other program before that? 
Kisha (05:51): 
Right. 
Ethan (05:51): 
So could you, could we talk then a little bit about what your work is like there at Volunteers of America, 
but also I'd like to know if, if you could talk a little bit about your experience working at Beth's Blessing. 
Kisha (06:07): 
3 
 
Okay. As a peer support specialist. A typical day at Beth's Blessing, I was providing groups to the clients, 
and we would do four hours of peer support groups a day. I would research different topics. I would use 
the matrix model, and it was actually very helpful to me as well because, you know, I was in recovery. So 
I would, I would learn just as much as the clients would. I would spend time preparing for the groups, 
gathering up information, different activities, ice-breakers, things like that, that will get the client 
engaged. And we would do group, let's see, from nine to 12, and then we would break for lunch from one 
to two, and after that concluded, then I would spend the rest of my day doing the notes, documenting. 
Ethan (07:09): 
Okay. Okay. Yeah. So documenting what happened and how each person did in the session? Okay. Okay. 
Yeah. So does that take a lot of time doing that? You know, the documentation. 
Kisha (07:26): 
It does, but you know, I was completely new to this. No one really knows what to, how to tell me to do it. 
We had training and things, but because it was fairly new, it was frustrating because I had to figure that 
part out on my own. 
Ethan (07:44): 
Yeah. But those notes, you then shared with the therapist and the rest of the team, that's how that works? 
Kisha (07:55): 
Yes. 
Ethan (07:55): 
So when you started at Beth's Blessing, were there other peer support specialists there too, or was it sort 
of a really new kind of thing for you, for them and for you? 
Kisha (08:06): 
It was really new, you know, prior to that, the therapist was the one that was doing the groups, but things 
are always changing. So another lady that I worked with, she and I both became certified, but I was the 
primary peer support specialist that done the groups. 
Ethan (08:23): 
Okay. Okay. Okay. And so you did, so that was sort of your main focus, the groups for those four years 
that were you were there. And do you also, did you also, when you were there have one-on-one sessions 
sometimes with, with the women that were there? Was that just sort of on an as needed basis? 
Kisha (08:48): 
Absolutely. And those were far less, you know, I didn't do many of those, but if needed, we would do 
those. 
Ethan (08:58): 
Yeah. Is there anything about that those years at Beth's Blessing that really stuck with you? You know, as 
you moved into your new position, anything that you really, you know, something, some key lesson that 
you learned or some success story you'd like to share? 
4 
 
Kisha (09:18): 
Well, what really stands out is when I was hired for Volunteers of America, I had the mindset that it was 
going to be like residential teaching groups and, you know, things of that nature. And it was absolutely 
different. Like this, this part of my, my position now, it's not, it's not about doing residential groups. It's 
more one-on-one. It's just a totally different environment. So I was a little confused with that at first. And 
we do hope to eventually start offering groups, but right now it's more one-on-one. And we do recovery 
coaching. We do have groups. We have meetings, but those are like AA, NA, things like that. 
Ethan (10:12): 
And someone else runs those. So could, could you tell us a little bit more about your work week there at 
Volunteers of America? What's that like? 
Kisha (10:25): 
Sure. So right now, because of the pandemic, things are a little different, you know, But prior to that, prior 
to the pandemic happening, the recovery community center, it's a really relaxed environment. People, 
people who come in here, they're ready for something different. They're actually, most of them are 
seeking help, they're wanting help. So that's different. Because by that point, they're, they're willing to 
accept it. So a typical week here includes: we have meetings, as I mentioned before, we have AlAnon, 
Alcoholics Anonymous, Narcotics Anonymous, and we have those six days a week. Right now, all of that 
is online. But before we had people coming in. We also have a meeting daily called a recovery round table, 
where the topics are different each day. 
Ethan (11:26): 
Oh, really? Okay. I didn't know about that. 
Kisha (11:28): 
And people are welcome to Zoom in. Let's see, we do referrals to treatment, you know, people around 
here that are seeking treatment. We try to point them in the right direction. We'll do a referral. If we can't 
get them into treatment at Volunteers of America's Freedom House, then we'll refer them somewhere 
else. So that's a big part of our, our day. Prior to the pandemic, we were going into the jail and talking 
with the ladies and just letting them know that, that we do have the recovery community center here 
now. And when they get out, you know, cause a lot of times when they get out of jail, they go back to the 
same thing. A lot of people don't have sober support, or you know, support, so we want them to know 
that we're here and we want to help them. You know, that there is hope, like they don't have to do it 
alone. And that's huge because, you know, like I said, a lot of people don't have that. 
Ethan (12:38): 
And these are women in the drug court program, or are they in just-- 
Kisha (12:42): 
They're just in a detention center. We really don't have a lot of people that are court ordered to come 
here at the moment, but we're hoping to establish that relationship with them later. I know here in the 
last week I've had a couple phone calls of people that are, in fact, court ordered, and they're ordered to 
meetings. So they've inquired about our meetings schedule. Before though, there was an outpatient clinic 
5 
 
here in Manchester called New Hope. Before the pandemic, they were bringing their people down here 
and we was able to do a couple of groups with them weekly. 
Ethan (13:27): 
For the groups. Yeah. Yeah. 
Kisha (13:30): 
And I'm, I'm sure I'm all over the place, and I apologize. 
Ethan (13:36): 
No, you're, you're fine. Was there anything else that we didn't touch on that, that you do there at the 
center? 
Kisha (13:46): 
Yes, there is. We also do assessments, such as a GPRA. And that, people who qualify for this assessment 
are persons with an opioid addiction, either now or in the past, and this helps with research and funding 
for the recovery community. 
Ethan (14:11): 
What does that stand for? I'm sorry. 
Kisha (14:15): 
Well, you're okay. And I wish that I could tell you that. 
Ethan (14:18): 
I can look it up. We can look it up. 
Kisha (14:22): 
And we also do a recovery capital. And this is, let's see, a recovery capital scale. We do that with new 
people coming in, and this helps us to assess their needs and see what areas in their recovery that they 
could use some help, whether that's sober support, housing, employment, things like that. And we also 
like to revisit that within six months of them being here to see here how far you've come. Let's see, we 
work with the, the community to connect our peers with, you know, partners such as [inaudible] and 
helping them get their GED, things like that. And Fridays, which this is my favorite thing to do, on Fridays, 
the Cumberland Valley Health Department allows us to tag along with them, and we get to participate in 
the needle exchange. So while we're there, we get to tell them, you know, share some of our experience 
with addiction, as well as our recovery. And just to give them hope that if they ever get tired of that life, 
you know, we can help them. 
Ethan (15:42): 
And with that, they travel around the county or, or, or is it, where do they go? Where are the needle 
exchanges? 
Kisha (15:49): 
6 
 
Well, there's actually a place over in Leslie County. That's just right across the county line, and it's called 
Jack's Creek. But like I said, before the pandemic, they were going to other areas of the county. 
Ethan (16:03): 
I see. I see. Yeah. Yeah. I think that's awesome that you, you all do that, you reach out in, in that way. Was 
there anything else you wanted to add that we forgot on that? 
Kisha (16:21): 
I don't think so. I think that pretty much covers everything, you know, and then sometimes we just have 
people come in that just want to have a cup of coffee, and they just want someone to talk to and, you 
know, we're there to talk. 
Ethan (16:34): 
Yeah. Yeah. And I love your space. You have lots of, it's just very inviting. You seem to have like, you know, 
once the pandemic is over, I'm sure you'll be using it a lot more, but it seems like you've got a lot of, you 
know, it's just a nice place to hang out, I think. 
Kisha (16:48): 
It is. Which leads me to also tell you about our activities that we have prior to everything being shut down. 
Like we have cookouts, corn hole, things like that, just to show people that you can have fun in recovery. 
Ethan (17:05): 
Yeah, yeah. So you would have cookouts like on the weekend? 
Kisha (17:12): 
Yes. 
Ethan (17:12): 
Okay, good. Could we come back to recovery round table, could you give us an example of like topics that 
people might bring for discussion for that round table? 
Kisha (17:24): 
We just started having this again last week, but thus far, some topics that we've discussed was them 
staying connected during quarantine. Cause that's huge. We discussed triggers one day. Saturday, you 
know, the weekend's more laid back, so we just had a small talk, just a chit chat. 
Ethan (17:51): 
So it just kind of, it's just kind of, you have a topic and everybody kind of, kind of pitches in, is that how 
that works? 
Kisha (18:00): 
Yes. And we also discussed self-care one day, which is really important. 
Ethan (18:04): 
7 
 
Absolutely. Especially now. Well, I did want to ask you about, about, a little bit more about that transition 
from Beth's Blessing to Volunteers of America. Was that, was that something that you were looking for? 
Were you looking for a different kind of way, a different kind of job, a way of serving the community? 
Kisha (18:32): 
I was. Whenever I left Beth's Blessing, I was actually the director over the facility, and that took up a lot 
of family time. It was just twenty-four seven. It was very stressful. I needed something different. 
Ethan (18:51): 
Okay. Well, yeah. So you were the director of it. So you were doing that for, for, for how long? 
Kisha (18:59): 
Approximately a year. 
Ethan (19:01): 
Okay. Okay. Yeah. So that was a lot of responsibility, I can imagine. How many women do they usually 
have over there? 
Kisha (19:12): 
When I was there, I guess average was around 18 to 20 girls. 
Ethan (19:17): 
Okay. Yeah. And I did want to ask you, you talked a little bit about starting at Volunteers of America and 
how that's been different. Could you, could you talk about how the recovery center idea is new, and how 
it takes, you know, obviously it takes some time for people to get used to, but can you talk about that? 
Kisha (19:44): 
Yeah, I can. It's been a slow process, I think. I'm not sure of that now, but when we opened up, I think we 
were maybe one of five recovery community centers in Kentucky. So not only did people in the community 
not really know what we were doing, we, we really didn't have an idea either. It was just new, and we had 
to feel our way. But since then it has grown tremendously, and it's become a huge asset to the community. 
Just you know, I, I'm thinking of one person in particular, she got out of prison, and she was in the halfway 
house, and she got hooked up with us and started coming down and being a part of the, the meetings. 
And she actually is now employed through Volunteers of America at the Freedom house. So she's been 
very successful, and she just got connected, you know. That's just one example of a success story. 
Ethan (20:53): 
Yeah, and so you, do you all, you do work closely with Freedom House because you're part of the 
Volunteers of America. 
Kisha (21:02): 
Yes. 
Ethan (21:02): 
8 
 
And, and is it, does it also make a, just out of curiosity, so you're still living in Manchester, so probably you 
had to drive over to Beth's Blessing. It's probably an easier drive for you. 
Kisha (21:14): 
Oh, yes, it is. 
Ethan (21:18): 
Yeah. That's good. Well, let's, let's talk about your personal experience. How do you draw on that in your, 
how did you draw on that? How do you draw on it now? Or how do you draw, how did you use it in your, 
at, at Beth's Blessing? 
Kisha (21:37): 
Okay. Well, my personal experience, it reminds me of barriers that I had to overcome, you know, 
whenever I was first in recovery. Or even ambivalent about wanting to be in recovery. Cause you know, it 
takes, it's difficult. It takes a lot of courage to decide one day that you're going to change, you know,. To 
think that the life that you were used to, that you're willing to give that up and try something new, it's just 
scary. But you know, I'll share my experience with others of how I overcame that. And just, I use my 
experience to tell my peers, you know, the things that are important in recovery, such as getting a good 
support system, maybe having a safe place to live, you know, where it's drug-free, with employment and 
just letting them know the resources that's available to help them. 
Ethan (22:52): 
Right, right. Your, your, your position there at volunteers of America is what is, what is your role there? 
Do you coordinate the peer support specialists or how-- 
Kisha (23:07): 
Well, I am a peer support specialist. That's my job title, yes. 
Ethan (23:12): 
Okay. Okay. Okay. I just wanted to clarify that. I didn't know if you supervise other folks or no. 
Kisha (23:23): 
No. 
Ethan (23:23): 
Okay. Okay. When you were doing the meetings at Beth's Blessing, that's when you would have that 
opportunity to talk about your personal experience, right? Like the ambivalence that you were talking 
about. 
Kisha (23:42): 
Yes. 
Ethan (23:43): 
9 
 
That's when you would have that chance to really, to really share. Right. What about that other question 
about research training, or other resources that have helped you in your work? 
Kisha (24:04): 
Let's see, monthly, we have supervision with an LPCA, and she just coaches us on peer support. We, we 
went through trainings with the department for behavioral health. We've just recently done a recovering 
your finances training, and we've not had the opportunity to share that with any of our peers, but we're 
hoping to maybe start that on a recovery round table meeting. And then just continuing education classes 
that keeps us compliant. 
Ethan (24:42): 
Yeah. Was there any one of those that really stood out to you, that really had an impact on you? One of 
those training? 
Kisha (24:59): 
All of them, really. It not only trains me to do my job effectively, but it also helps me in my personal life as 
well. 
Ethan (25:05): 
Right, right. When you say just a quick, another clarification, when you say, when you provide that 
information to your peers, you mean the folks who come in the center, right? 
Kisha (25:21): 
Yes. 
Ethan (25:21): 
Okay. I just want to be sure what you meant by that. Okay. Well, we can move on to the other question. 
How has your work helped you understand treatment and recovery better? I don't know if you thought 
about that one too. You had notes on that. 
Kisha (25:44): 
Well, I do. Well, let's see--how has your work contributed to a better understanding? It's, it's actually 
helped me to realize all the resources that are available to people. It helps me to coach my peers to 
identify their needs and to access those resources based on [inaudible]. It also helps me to advocate for 
them. 
Ethan (26:14): 
Yeah. And when you were, when you were looking for treatment, I assume there wasn't as much available 
then as there is now? Has it changed? 
Kisha (26:27): 
There was probably, you know, treatment options available, but like as far as having a recovery 
community center available for support when I came home from treatment, we didn't have that. 
Ethan (26:41): 
10 
 
Yeah. Yeah. And do you in, I don't remember in Clay County, do you have a sober living now? 
Kisha (26:53): 
We do now. It opened up. 
Ethan (26:53): 
That's a new, relatively new. Okay. Okay. Well, we can move on to, I mean, I'd probably have a lot of 
questions about the next one. But maybe before we come to talk about challenges, what are some things 
that you really, that you find really rewarding or really special about being a peer support specialist? 
Kisha (27:21): 
Okay. Some challenges that I have personally encountered would be, for one, setting boundaries with 
people that I work with. I mean, that's huge. The environment here at the recovery community center is 
more laid back. You know, you almost feel like you're on a friend-to-friend level. We have to keep in mind 
that, you know, to be professional at the same time. So setting boundaries, cause a lot of people that we 
work with, you know, we've either grown up with them or they're a friend of the family or something. 
And the other one that's really huge. It was huge when I was a peer support specialist at Beth's Blessing, 
as well as now, is avoiding burnout. 
Ethan (28:11): 
Yeah. 
Kisha (28:12): 
You know, cause after all I am in recovery myself, and I have to take care of my mental state. And so, that's 
huge. And always making time for self-care. That's not always easy to do. And then lastly, probably 
knowing when to disclose to the peer my personal experience or when not to. 
Ethan (28:36): 
Yeah. Yeah. That's, that's part of, part of the boundaries issue. What are some things that contribute to 
burnout? Can you talk a little bit more about that? 
Kisha (28:50): 
Probably, for instance, becoming overly invested in a person, like wanting their recovery more than they 
do, or seeing what they're doing wrong, but yet, you know, it's not my place to tell them that. Or just 
knowing from my own experience that something didn't work for me, and they're doing the same thing, 
you know, who am I to tell them. 
Ethan (29:15): 
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I know that can be difficult. And then just probably working long hours-- 
Kisha (29:24): 
Working long hours, yeah. 
Ethan (29:25): 
11 
 
And, and, and the stress of, of all of that, I'm sure. 
Kisha (29:34): 
What about the issue of, I often ask this, what about making those distinctions between being a sponsor 
and being a peer support specialist? Is that something that you, is it a challenge? 
Kisha (29:54): 
That is a challenge. It really is. Because, you know, when we work one-on-one with someone, they, a lot 
of times, feel like, "Hey, you would be great as my sponsor," but we're not able to do that. There's another 
lady that works here with me. She's also a peer support specialist, and you know, people--because like I 
said, it's a small town, and we know everybody--so if it's someone that she's close to or that she, that she 
is their sponsor, then she can't work with them as the peer support specialist and vice versa. 
Ethan (30:32): 
Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. So they would have to, they have to find someone else basically. 
Kisha (30:42): 
Right. Yes. 
Ethan (30:42): 
Well, what do you do for your own? You know, obviously self-care is important and making sure you don't 
burn out, what, what do you do for your own personal recovery to keep that strong outside of your work? 
Kisha (31:01): 
Well, I like to spend a lot of time with my family. We enjoy four-wheeling, and in summer, we enjoy going 
to the lake. You know, just one thing I enjoy about this job is when I go home, I can leave this here. You 
know, I can actually stop and spend time with my family. That alone is huge. 
Ethan (31:25): 
Yeah. Yeah. And it wasn't like that at Beth's Blessing when you were director? 
Kisha (31:34): 
No it was not. It was twenty-four seven. 
Ethan (31:34): 
They were calling you at all times. Well, what about something that you really love about being a peer 
support specialist, something that you think, you know, that you really value about it? 
Kisha (31:54): 
Well, what I value about it the most is that my 20 years of addiction, you know, all the hell and misery 
that not only did I cause myself, but my family as well, that is used for something good. And that's just, 
that's huge. 
Ethan (32:11): 
12 
 
Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, you know, taking into account the benefits of being a peer support specialist and 
the challenges, where do you, how do you see the future, or how do you see the role of peer support 
specialists changing in the future? That was the last question that we asked there. 
Kisha (32:39): 
I see in the future there being a greater demand for peer support specialist. I just see it being implemented 
in a wider variety of surfaces, hospitals, not only for recovery centers, jails, criminal justice systems, things 
like that. 
Ethan (33:01): 
Yeah. And how do you see there in, in Clay County? Is there a need for more peer support specialists? 
Kisha (33:09): 
I think so. Yes, there is. 
Ethan (33:11): 
What are some of the needs in the Manchester area that, that you see that really need to be addressed 
in the, in the recovery field? 
Kisha (33:23): 
In the recovery field? Do you mean like-- 
Ethan (33:27): 
Well, we talked about sober living, and I know, I know that that's something that had come up before as 
being something that's really needed. And now you have the recovery community center. What else, what 
else is out there that's kind of missing to really help people? 
Kisha (33:44): 
There's a lot of homelessness here in Manchester. 
Ethan (33:47): 
Okay. Okay. So there would probably be a need for more sober living and other kinds of housing options. 
Kisha (33:57): 
Yes, I think so. 
Ethan (33:57): 
Yeah. Well, anything else that we didn't address that you would like to, to bring up? 
Kisha (34:14): 
I don't think so. I think that basically covers it all. 
Ethan (34:18): 
Yeah. I'm just going over my notes here. 
13 
 
Kisha (34:22): 
Okay. Take your time. You're fine. 
Ethan (34:33): 
Yeah. I think, I think we did cover it. We did it, we did it pretty quickly, but that's good. We were, we were 
efficient. But if there, you know, if you think of anything else that you'd like to add, you can, you can let 
me know. 
Kisha (34:48): 
Okay. Well, thank you. I thank you again for this opportunity. 
Ethan (34:53): 
Thank you, Kisha. And I will send you those forms by email, the release forms for you to sign so, so that 
they can have access to your, to the interview. I'll be in touch by email. Thank you. Have a good day. 
Kisha (35:07): 
You too. Bye bye.