STEVE LANDRY 
 
INTERVIEWER:   
 
Candacy Taylor   
INTERVIEWEE:   
 
Steve Landry 
DATE & TIME:    
September 4, 2012   11am 
LOCATION:  
 
 
Ozuki Salon - 1025 Thomas Jefferson NW Suite 155, 
                     
 
 
Washington, DC 20007 
RECORDER:   
 
Marantz 661 – 24/96 
LENGTH:  
 
 
00:04:06 
KEY:   
 
 
CT – Candacy Taylor (Interviewer) 
 
 
 
 
SL — Steven Landry (Interviewee) 
 
 
SL: My name is Steve Landry. I’ve been at Ozuki for about 12 years and I came before 
they became a Japanese salon. It’s been a great experience for me because everybody 
that works here is definitely different. They’re Japanese but each person is totally 
different in age and sort of how they do hair. It’s been really nice for me because I’m not 
really good at working at an evil salon. Everybody gets along really well. There’s never 
contention. When it happened it wasn’t a big deal to me. Everything worked out really 
well. Liz and Iku have been great. I thought it was a great marketing strategy and she’s 
always on the lookout for another Japanese hairdresser. 
 
CT: Do you feel like you can do those precision cuts? 
 
SL: Well most of the Japanese cuts or Asian cuts are not precision. When you say “razor 
cuts” they do slide cutting with the scissors and thinning. So the thinning is done so that 
you don’t really see it. And I do [feel comfortable with those cuts] some of my clients 
have hair exactly like that, even if they have blonde hair. So I’ve learned a lot of stuff 
from the, which is cool. 
 
CT: So you use those techniques on Caucasian hair? 
 
SL: Definitely. And I think a lot of the Japanese experience here, for people, Japanese, 
Asian is the comfort level of getting their hair done by somebody Asian, looking around, 
seeing that there are other Asian people here so it must be okay, just like in a black 
salon, you know. So I think it is just a comfort level. They all cut hair, just like anybody 
else, but a little bit differently. Some of my clients are about the same age, same type of 
hair. But it’s been really interesting, like Liz said, finding the products and finding out 
what’s really important to Japanese people. And there is the shampoo [technique], and 
once again, that’s a comfort thing and they think oh, this is just like home. Those things 
are super-important. A lot of people who come here are Asian but they don’t necessarily 
identify first as Asian, but they want the experience as an Asian person. It’s fun to watch 
after 35 years of doing hair and then working in salons with all kinds of people. It’s a 
happy salon. People are cool, it’s calm. And I find that most of the clients that come in 
here, especially if they come in cold, you know, not off the street but if they come in for 
the first time, by the time they leave they are definitely comfortable, they see the 
program and it’s cool.