AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
Civil Rights History Project 
Interview completed by the Southern Oral History Program 
under contract to the 
Smithsonian Institution ’s National Museum of African American History & Culture 
and the Library of Congress, 2015 
Interviewees: Glenda Funchess 
Interview Date: December 2, 2015 
Location: Hattiesburg, Mississippi 
Interviewer: Emilye Crosby 
Videographer: John Bishop 
Length: approximately 1 hour, 23 minutes 
START OF RECORDING 
Female 1 : From the Library of Congress and the Smithsonian National 
Museum of African American History and Culture 
EMILYE CROSBY : Fm Emilye Crosby, and we’re here in the 
Hattiesburg Public Library with Ms. Glenda Funchess on December 2, 2015, and we’re 
here with the Civil Rights History Project, which is cosponsored by the Library of 
Congress and the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and 
Culture. And also with us is John Bishop and Guha Shankar might be joining us later. 
Thank you, Ms. Funchess, for doing the interview with us. 
GLENDA FUNCHESS : Okay, welcome. 
EC: Could you tell me when and where you were bom? 
GF: I was born here in Hattiesburg, Mississippi, on August 17, 1954, which I 
always say three months after the decision of Brown v. Board of Education. [Laughs] 
EC: How long did it take you to realize that? How old did you get to be? 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
GF : Well, I think I probably realized that after I got in college, it was exactly 
three months, so. 
EC: Yeah. Can you tell us about your family? 
GF: Well, I come from a family of twelve children. My mother is originally 
from Alabama, and my father is originally from Jefferson Davis County, Mississippi; 
Prentiss, Mississippi. 
EC: What did they do for a living? 
GF : My mother ended her working career working with the Department of 
Human Services. She was one of the first homemakers, which was like a social worker 
aide. And my father, he was a chef at the University of Southern Mississippi. He likes to 
brag that he worked for about four or five presidents. 
EC: [Laughter] 
GF : They gave him a reception when he retired, so. 
EC: Really, yeah. Was your mother doing that work when you were young? 
GF: Well basically, she did like nursing, sitting with, I guess, ill people, she 
was doing that. 
EC: She would sit with them? 
GF : Sick people, yes. 
EC: Where did you fall in the twelve children? 
GF: I am a middle child. There are six under me, so Fm number six. 
EC: So, you must be used to having a lot of people around? 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
GF: Well, actually, my oldest sister finished high school by the time I went 
into first grade. Then she moved to Cleveland, what they call the “great migration 
north,” she moved up to Cleveland, Ohio. 
EC: So, was she almost like an auntie or something for you? 
GF: Oh, well, she’s like a second mother, I guess you could say. [Laughter] 
EC: So, what was your community like in Hattiesburg growing up? 
GF : I had the opportunity to see a segregated community. And there were 
black businesses that were thriving. We had cafes, and cleaners, nightclubs, and we had 
hotels. So, I had a chance to see the separate society that basically African Americans 
were subjected to in the [19]50s and [19]60s. 
EC: Were you aware of that as a kid? How did it seem to you then? 
GF : Well, I think I became more aware after Freedom Summer, because I was 
nine, going to Summer, Freedom Summer. And I knew we lived in separate society. We 
would see whites on the bus, but I think the students with SNCC kind of opened our eyes 
that we had certain rights, [Laughter] that we were not exercising. 
EC: Yeah. 
GF : Like the public library for one, and public zoo. And those things like that. 
EC: Yeah. Where did you go to school? 
GF: Well I started, actually in kindergarten with Ms. Maddie Townsend’s 
Kiddie Nook. And Ms. Maddie Townsend was a civil rights activist. Actually, she was 
one of the first females that Theron Lynd, who was the circuit clerk in the [19]60s, 
registered to vote. I went to her kindergarten up until the age of six, and then went to 
Mary Bethune Elementary School, which was in my neigh—what then my neighborhood, 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
was then the neighborhood, I should have said. And from there I went to Lillie Burnie. 
That was the year that we started to dismantle the dual school system. Hattiesburg did 
what was called the stair-step approach level, and so, in [19]65-[19]66 [5:00] they did 
grade one through four. And then added four more in [19]66-[19]67. And then in 
[19]67-[19]68, the last four grades were added. And that’s—all twelve grades were 
desegregated. 
EC: Was that desegregated with Freedom of Choice? 
GF : Freedom of Choice, compliance by—. 
EC: But it was still sort of—. 
GF: Yeah, different—. 
EC: Separate systems? 
GF : It was separate system. You had to opt out going to the African American 
school, and I was asked in 1967-[19]68 to go to Thames Junior High because it was 
somewhat distant from the African American community, and they did not have as many 
blacks at that school. There were about four or five that went that first year, and that 
would have been [19]66-[19]67. So, Ms. Earl ene Boyd, who served in the Education 
Committee, requested from our parents that we be allowed, my sister and I, to go to 
Thames. 
EC: Was, Ms. Boyd, was that the Education Committee with the NAACP? 
GF : With the NAACP, she was. 
EC: OK. And what did your parents say? 
GF : Well, they agreed. I think what the NAACP was looking for students who 
had pretty good grades, because they knew going into a hostile education environment 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
that your grades had to be pretty good, because they’re going to suffer some. So, my 
mother agreed. Actually, my mother was working for a family, the guy was paralyzed. 
And she was his nurse, and we went to the same school as his son. Now the wife had no 
problem with it, but the man who was paralyzed wanted to know what did the NAACP 
give her to send her kids to Thames. 
EC: What did she say? 
GF: She told him, “Nothing.” Nothing. So, my sister, Thames was a junior 
high, and it also had elementary school. So, his son was in the elementary school, and 
my sister, two years younger than me, she was in elementary school, and I was in junior 
high. 
EC: So, did they interact? 
GF : I don’t think so, no. 
EC: Yeah. 
GF : Because she was in the sixth grade. And I think he was maybe about 
third. 
EC: Yeah. So, when they asked your parents, and your mother agreed, did 
they talk to you all about whether you wanted to, or did they just make the decision for 
you? 
GF : Well, my next-door neighbor, Gwen Bundt, she had gone that first year to 
Hawkins, and every day we would wait for Gwen to get off the bus, and brief us on what 
happened. So, we were of the opinion that, okay, Hawkins was where the poor whites, 
middle-class, and we would be going to Thames where the more affluent [whites went], 
and from Freedom Summer, we thought that the—. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
EC: [Laughter] 
GF: —more affluent whites would embrace integration. So, we felt like we 
were not going to have the problem that Gwen had, but we found out. 
EC: Then you hit reality. 
GF : Reality hit, yeah. 
EC: So, Freedom Summer led you to believe that you would have an easier 
time? 
GF : With the rich whites. 
EC: With the rich whites? 
GF: Yeah. 
EC: Was that because you associated them with the volunteers? 
GF : Right, the volunteers were rich. The middle-class, rich kids coming south. 
So, you just figured, you hear about the poor whites. 
EC: Yeah. 
GF : And gravitating towards the Klansmen and all that. So, we just knew that, 
well, hopefully we won’t have that problem with the rich whites. [Laughter] 
EC: And how did that work out for you? [Laughter] 
GF : It was a nightmare. [Laughter] I would pinch myself to make sure I 
wasn’t—we were basically—it was a hostile school environment. We went the whole day 
without anyone talking to us. I think the administrator, the principals set the tone, and I 
think if he would have instructed the teachers that these children coming into the 
environment, I want to make sure that they feel like they’re part of the school. I was 
going nine months and no one eating with you, I put my tray down, and they would jump 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
up. And quite recently, five years ago, I received a letter from Delaware from a young 
lady who had gone to Thames, a white lady, who was a student back then, and she was 
apologizing to me. She recalled me—. 
EC: Really? 
GF : —me putting my tray down, and she jumping up. And my response to her, 
I sent a letter back accepting her apology. But I don’t recall who jumped up because it 
happened nine months—. [Laughter] 
EC: It was like everybody, right? [Laughter] 
GF : So, after nine months, if you don’t pay attention to people, you just 
knowyou go through that scenario, putting your tray down, and they [are] going to jump 
up. But I think the teacher probably could have made it better if she would have came 
with us and said, okay, so I’m going to eat with you today. But that didn’t happen. 
EC: Did the woman who wrote you the apology, did she explain? [10:00] I 
mean, did she say why she was apologizing? 
GF : She said she was not a racist, but she just didn’t have the—she was just not 
brave enough to buck the—race system. And I’m sure she would have suffered some type 
of repercussion if she would have done that. She tried to say that she did it because, peer 
pressure, I guess. 
EC: Do you know what prompted her at that particular moment to—? 
GF : Well, we had done an article, it was on Martin Luther King’s birthday, and 
Martin Luther King had visited my church two weeks before his death. And I had given 
a civil rights marker in 1999,1 think the first one in the state, and—[laughter]—they had 
ran a big article on that, two-page article. And she was home visiting her mother and she 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
saw it. So, she said she looked me up on the internet and found my address. The letter 
went to my workplace, not to my home. 
EC: [Laughter] On purpose, right? I mean, you—. 
GF: Well I invited her next time she come, we’d get together, maybe we have 
lunch. I haven’t heard from her, I don’t know she called my home number or what, but I 
have not heard from her. 
EC: Yeah, yeah. What was it like in the classroom? 
GF : Well, in the classroom, like I said, from the first day, we were briefed by 
the principal, if we had any problems, to report to Mr. Manguno, who was the assistant 
principal. So, I was a little late getting into the class, so I walked in and took a seat. And 
immediately the science teacher told me, “Oh no, we don’t let little girls and boys sit 
together,” so she moved me to a table in the front of the classroom on the right-hand side, 
and there I sat for the entire school by myself. A table with two chairs. 
EC: Yes. 
GF : Right, right. 
EC: And was that true? Was it only girls sitting with girls, and boys—? 
GF : I think, yeah, it probably was. 
EC: Yeah, yeah. 
GF: Yeah. 
EC: So, you sat there by yourself the whole—. 
GF : Yeah, and one day she finally got the nerve to ask me why did I come. 
And I told her because I had the right to. [Laughter], 
EC: [Laughter], 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
GF: So, there was incidents all throughout the semester. I did this paper on 
Martin Luther King, because I was there when he spoke about the Poor People’s March 
two weeks before his death. He was here in Hattiesburg on March 19, at Mount Zion 
Church. And so, we had to do a history paper. That’s okay, I love history. But all the 
articles after his death, and with the pamphlets I had, I did it on Martin Luther King. So, 
one day, the history teacher said, “Glenda, I need to speak to you.” Outside of class, she 
said, “Some of the students got ahold of your paper, and they cut it up. But you got an A 
on it.” So, it was one incident after another. 
EC: Yeah. Did you have much support? Did you talk to other students who 
were going through it in different grades, or schools? 
GF : Well actually, we rode a van to school. My next-door neighbor had a 
Volkswagen van, and she picked up about, asked me how fifteen, about fifteen kids got 
on that van. 
EC: [Laughter] 
GF: It’s elementary school age kids, and junior high. And so, we would 
confer. I guess she was our therapist. 
EC: Yeah. 
GF : And really truly, they should have provided some type of counseling, 
because Mississippi had resisted integration for so long. With the White Citizens’ 
Council, and then the Sovereign Commission, and I think that they dropped the ball in 
not providing counseling for us. 
I was in court with an attorney from Hattiesburg, up in Jefferson Davis County 
about two years ago, and he was telling me about an incident that happened with a young 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
man, an African American guy, who was there during the time I was there. That 
someone took their shoe and slapped him in the face with—and the coach said “We’re 
going to sit here until I find out who did this.” So, he was interested in knowing where 
this young man was, and actually we just found out two days ago that he died. He was 
living in Louisiana. 
But it was all type of incidents that took place. I love choral music, and I took my 
choral music third period. And for some reason, Ms. Kelly, who was the choral music 
teacher, always selected the third period class to sing. And so, we had to sing at the 
ninth-grade class program. It’s like a commencement program for them. And we were 
practicing on the song—we had two days to memorize this song, “To Dream the 
Impossible Dream.” And so all of a sudden, this young lady started [15:00] crying, and 
everybody wanted to know, why was she crying? She said, “My parents are coming, and 
they’re going to see me standing next to Glenda.” And for her that was very—she didn’t 
want her parents to see her standing with the second soprano next to—. [Laughter] So, 
she was moved, somebody was moved. We were not at the program, we were not 
standing next to each other. 
EC: Did you have a sense that she had trouble before that? Was there—did she 
mess with you? 
GF: No, she didn’t, and not in choral music. There’s guys who would say little 
things like, we sung a negro spiritual, “Fm Gonna Ride the Chariot.” “You want us to 
sing like,” you know, the n-word. And so, they used that quite frequently, at hymns. 
EC: Was that unusual for a white choral group to be singing negro spirituals? 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
GF : I think it was the teacher. She was—I like—Ms. Kelly was really good, so 
she incorporated two, I remember, “Fm Gonna Ride the Chariot in the Morning Lord,” 
and then, “Dem Bones, Dem Bones, Dem Dry Bones.” 
EC: [Laughter], 
GF: Which, “Disconnect those, dem dry bones.” 
EC: Yeah. 
GF : So, although it was unusual, but then, she did them. 
EC: Well that’s interesting, yeah, that she was able to—. 
GF: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm. 
EC: So, I guess it was just horrible that her parents would see her singing next 
to you? 
GF : Right, right. She was a ninth grader, so she knew her parents were 
coming, and I don’t know what type of repercussions she was going to suffer as a result. 
But I guess she knew her parents better than I. But then once—and like I said, Ms. Kelly 
always selected the third period. I had a friend in the fourth period, another African 
American, we were the only two eighth graders. But our schedules were identical—the 
classes—but they put her in class by herself. If I went to choral music third period, she 
went fourth period. If I went to home economics fifth period, she went sixth period. But 
they did put us in the same homeroom, twenty minutes a day. So, that’s the only time I 
got a chance to—other than choral music, to kind of exercise my jaws. We got together 
for that twenty minutes a day. [Laughter] 
But we had to go to a nursing home, and so I worried, “Oh boy, how am I going 
to get to this nursing home, with the—.” 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
EC: With the choral? 
GF: —with the choral music, and this lady, her daughter sung, and she was so 
nice, that I rode with her. And then once we got to performing, they said, “Walk around 
and shake—.” [Laughter] “Shake the people’s hands.” 
EC: Oh. 
GF : And these people were born right after the Civil War. 
EC: [Laughter] 
GF : They probably, “Why is she here?” So, I had to go through that trauma. 
Okay, do I walk around shaking hands when I know they really don’t want to shake my 
hand? So, it was one worry after another. 
EC: And, did you continue? 
GF : That school, I left that school because it was quite obvious that if I would 
have stayed, that my grade was going to drop. And my next-door neighbor got her arm 
broke. They met us every morning, the football player, and would charge into us like we 
were on the football field, little girls. And that’s my story. I don’t know about the four 
people who went there the year before. But they—so I transferred to the school on the 
other side of town, where the poor whites—. 
EC: [Laughter] The ones that were the problem? 
GF : No, I didn’t have that problem, because we had a good school 
administrator, Mr. Rogers. And I was just amazed. And that year, I was a ninth grader, 
and they had an African American female to cohost with a white male, and this young 
lady, now, they call her “The Queen of Talk” up in Detroit, and every time I see her, I 
remind her of that. We ended up going to Texas Southern University together, but 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
Mildred Gaddis is known as “The Queen of Talk” in the Detroit area. But, I was just 
amazed, but I think he set the tone that he was not going to. 
EC: So, the leadership made a big deal—. 
GF : I think so. I think it was all with the leadership, the administrators. 
EC: When, the first year or the second, or when you continued, did you talk to 
your parents about it, did you—at home? 
GF: Well, we would get calls. I would get calls at home, and I knew it was 
from, when I was at Thames with the affluent whites, I would get these telephone calls, 
“May I speak to Glenda Faye,” nobody called me “Glenda Faye,” but the people at 
Thames, they do. And they would call, they would make little remarks and comments 
and stuff like that. 
EC: But did your parents talk to you about what you were going through, and— 
? 
GF : Well basically, we talked on the bus, and we talked to our younger 
siblings. [20:00] We educated them with what we were going through. We never let 
them forget what we went through! [Laughter] 
EC: And then they’re like, “We’re not doing this!” [Laughter] 
GF: [Laughter] Well then, my sister says—she left, after sixth grade. And she 
told me, over the Thanksgiving holiday, that we just celebrated the fifth anniversary—we 
had a program—that they were not going to use her as a guinea pig. [Laughter], So, she 
went back to the African American school, and there she stayed. But I tried Hawkins, 
and then I went back to Rowan because I wanted to graduate from Rowan, it was the 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
African American high school. So, I went back after my ninth grade to an African 
American school because that’s where I was. 
EC: So, you were like, “Okay, I’ve done one school, and I’ve done another 
school, and now I’m going home.” [Laughter] 
GF : I went back, one year, under Freedom of Choice, back to the African 
American high school. The second year they came up with another plan, my eleventh- 
grade year called “zoning.” So, we had two high schools in the city. We had Hattiesburg 
High School and then we had Rowan, and so the white kids on a certain side of the 
railroad track had to come to Rowan, but there were only five or six that came. And we 
had a program not too long ago, we recognized Dr. Noonkester, who was the president at 
William Carey College, now William Carey University. His son was the only white that 
went to Lillie Burney Junior High School. 
And then there were a few at Rowan, maybe about five, so we did a black history 
program—a Martin Luther King program, and we recognized two of them. Because 
actually, they integrated the African American schools because lots of those kids had—opt 
out, not to come to a white school. So, but for them, going into the African American 
school, lots of them may not have gone to school. And see, my last year in high school, 
they came up with a third plan where they made the African American high school, all 
tenth grade, and all the eleventh and twelfth graders went to Hattiesburg High School. 
So, I was in the first fully integrated class. 
EC: So, what’s the—do you know what the racial makeup of the—was it a 
county system, or a city system? 
GF : It was city. It was city. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
EC: Do you know what the racial makeup was of the city at that time, like 
what the percentage—? 
GF: Well, voting-wise I do, but Fm thinking somewhere like thirty or forty 
percent, about thirty-five percent African American. 
EC: Okay. And when they finally consolidated the two systems—. 
GF: Mm-hmm. 
EC: —did most whites stay, or did they go? 
GF : They stayed the first year, because it was kind of a surprise that the court 
decision came down that summer. 
EC: Was that the Holmes County case, like, Holmes v. Alexander! 
GF : Yeah, I think it was a group of cases that went before. And so, the news 
came out that summer, and so that class of 1972,1 guess it was basically half and half. 
And then, they had setup this academy in 1965 called “Beeson Academy.” 
EC: How do you spell it? 
GF : I think it’s B-E-E-S-O-N. They set it up the first year that they started 
desegregating the Hattiesburg public school. And the first group of kids were elementary 
kids, but then they started increasing, as they increased the level approach. And so, that 
was the option that some of them chose to go there, as opposed to—but I think it was one 
of those “wait and see” that first year. 
EC: Yeah, we’ll see how this goes. 
GF : Right, right, right, right. And see, we put the first African American 
homecoming queen in. [Laughter] They didn’t know we had a mass meeting. And they 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
ran several candidates, and we said, “Oh, we’re just going to run one, and we’ll just put 
all our votes.” 
EC: [Laughter.] 
GF : The homecoming in 1971 was the first year that an African American 
served as homecoming queen. 
EC: The administration didn’t try to manipulate it or anything, they just let it 
go through that she won? 
GF : I think they did. I think the principal refused to crown her, but they let it 
go through because they knew. And we made demands, and we don’t—when we left 
Rowan, we had African American cheerleaders, and we wanted the same in Hattiesburg 
High. And then football team, I understand, understood—the African American players 
said they weren’t going to play unless they had some. So, we went over there with our 
demands, “Okay, we had cheerleaders here at Rowan, and we’re not going to give up— 
we’re not going to give up this, and we’re not going to give up that.” 
EC: And they were receptive to that? 
GF : I think they were, because they knew they had to—their money was tied 
into—that this was the system they came up with. And they used that for a number of 
years. All the tenth graders went to the African American high school, and then the 
eleventh and twelfth graders went to—. [25:00] 
EC: And that was probably a new high school. 
GF : The African—no, actually, Mr. Burger was ahead of his time. 
EC: Yeah. 
GF : And he had the school built in 1950. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
EC: Oh, before Brown—well—. 
GF : Yeah, before Brown, Brown [19]54, and when they went to Mr. Burger 
and a couple of other administrators to try to get them to talk about Clyde Kennard not 
going to USM. They were trying to get a junior college, African American junior 
college, and they knew something was up because every one of the black professors they 
talked to were saying the same thing, a black junior college, “If we had a black junior 
college here...” so yeah. He was ahead of his time. We just celebrated the Eureka group, 
and so the last class at Eureka was 1950, and the first class at Royal Street—it changed to 
Rowan. They named it after the President of Alcorn. 
EC: Yeah, yeah. 
GF : L. J. Rowan, because they had lots of alumni here. 
EC: Somebody was telling me that Hattiesburg was a big feeder for Alcorn. 
GF : It was. They had a big support system. I think Jackson State has given 
them kind of—. [Laughter] 
EC: I don’t want to hear. [Laughter] 
GF : I went to Texas Southern, so Fm not in that fight. [Laughter] I’m not in 
that fight, but yeah, they being, back in the day, the—one of the doctors. Well actually, 
before they built Eureka, that’s where they went to the high school at Alcorn. They also 
have family of Dr. Hammond Smith and his brother, Charles Smith, they left here after 
the eighth grade, and went to Alcorn, and completed their high school. 
EC: So, was there any high school here at the time, or was the only option? 
GF : Not—well, it was the only option until they built Eureka in the [19]20s. 
EC: Okay. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
GF : Nineteen-twenties, and then, people started coming to Eureka from 
different counties. But they went to Alcorn, and from there, they went to Meharry 
Medical School, four doctors in one family—three doctors and one pharmacist. 
EC: That’s amazing. And did they all come back to Hattiesburg? 
GF: Well, three of them came back. The pharmacist, he opened up his 
drugstore around 1925, and that’s where he allowed black men to meet. He was part of 
that lawsuit in 1950 for the right to vote. He was, and his brother, Charles Smith, who 
was a doctor. But that’s where they met. And that’s where I’m trying to get the 
historical marker stating the birthplace of the voting rights movement based on that case 
they filed in federal court. 
EC : What year did they file that? 
GF: It was in April, 1950. 
EC: And so, that’s even before the Civil Rights Act of [19]57, which—. 
GF: Before [19]57. 
EC: —which helped a little. 
GF: Right. As I said, we got the civil rights lawyers here, in that US. v. 
Theron Lynd. We had one of the top attorneys here working on that case. 
EC: John Doar? 
GF: John Doar. Mm-hmm. 
EC: Yeah. So, I want to ask you about some of the history, but I want to ask 
you about your personal experiences first, too. When you were part of the Freedom of 
Choice and going to the different white schools, did you have a sense of that being part of 
the movement? 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
GF: Oh, yeah. I felt like it was a mission for Ms. Boyd to come to us and ask 
us to go. It was like going on a mission for freedom. So, that’s why I didn’t—I could 
have opt out and left mid-semester, the first semester. Because there’s just so many times 
you want to hear the n-word, but I stayed for nine months, you know what I’m saying? 
EC: Yeah. 
GF : I saw it as a mission. 
EC: Yeah. You talked about the harassment, and you talked about the 
difference in leadership in the two schools, and you said there were calls at your house. 
Was there any sort of systematic white effort to keep black students from going to the 
white schools, or was it this...? 
GF : I don’t think there was any systematic effort, but I did notice that lots of 
the teachers sent their children. And that Hattiesburg, unlike other counties, the teachers 
had no problem being at the forefront of the civil rights movement, especially voting 
rights. 
EC: Do you have any sense of what made that possible? 
GF : I don’t know if there was a—I don’t know if they had a conversation with 
the superintendent, preferred their kids, as if he would have more control. But the 
teachers were the one who testified [30:00] in the US. vs. Theron Lynd case too, lots of 
them. Because, according to John Doar, they were the perfect witness because they had 
master’s degrees, and what he did, he went out and got people in Rawls Springs and 
Brooklyn who were illiterate, and he had to read the transcript. [Laughter] So, that’s what 
made his argument real strong before the Fifth Circuit. We had these people here—and 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
see, Mississippi paid teachers to go out of state to get their master’s, because they did not 
want to desegregate their— 
EC: Because they paid African American teachers— 
GF: African American teachers, not white teachers, African American because 
they—so they went to New York University, Columbia University, University of West 
Virginia. So, they came back with these degrees, and Mr. Burger recruited lots of these 
teachers who had these master’s degrees, and he urged them to go during the 
summertime. 
EC: Yeah, that’s one of the ironies, right, that Mississippi— 
GF : Right. 
EC: —because they didn’t have parallel professional programs, yeah. What 
was I just going to ask you? 
GF : We had great schools here, because, I always said, we produced two major 
college university presidents out of a segregated system: one from Rowan High School, 
Dr. Walter Massey, president of Morehouse University. And actually, he didn’t graduate, 
because he was so smart, he went on to Morehouse, I think after the eleventh grade. And 
then we had Dr. Joyce Ladner, Doric Ladner’s sister, who was interim president at 
Howard University. She was in the County school, Travillion, but all those schools 
evolved out of Eureka, because the principal, first principal, Earl Travillion was a teacher 
at Eureka High School. 
EC: You just mentioned that the African American schools were very strong in 
the area. Can you describe your experience in those schools, or what the schools were 
like generally? 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
GF : Well, first grade, we had everything from rhythm bands to theatrical 
programs. We—they wrote it all into the schools, so we were—we didn’t lack anything 
culturally, you know what I mean? It was there. And so, we had good teachers. You 
know, they used corporal punishment, but—. 
EC: [Laughter] 
GF : —you know, they exposed us to a lot—classical music. And so, we did a 
lot. 
EC: I meant to ask, so when you saw that you were desegregating the school as 
a mission, were you going to mass meetings at the time? 
GF : Oh, I loved to go to mass meeting. 
EC: Yeah. 
GF : I would go sometimes by myself if I heard a mass meeting was going to 
take place. But I loved mass meeting, the songs, and just seeing people get up and talk 
about freedom. But yeah, I loved mass meetings. 
EC: So, were the students ever recognized at the mass meetings? Did you get 
support there? 
GF : Well, I don’t recall going to mass meeting during—because we had just got 
through with a bus boycott in [19]67, right before I went to Thames. And so, I was—and 
so, that’s when all the mass meetings were taking place that summer. We boycotted 
downtown, and we boycotted the bus to get buses—black bus drivers, and to get black 
clerks. And so, we had just finished a very successful—completed a very successful 
boycott here. 
EC: Was that led by the NAACP? 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
GF : It was, Dr. Smith, Charles Smith. 
EC: Was Charles Evers in and out of town at that time? 
GF : I don’t recall. I think—I saw a picture, he was here with Vernon Dahmer, 
he led some watches, but I don’t recall him being at those meetings. Because you had 
Reverend Killingsworth. [Laughter] He was a leader himself. Reverend Killingsworth 
was one of the ones at the forefront of the boycott, and then you had Reverend Grimmett, 
who was United Meth—well, he was a Methodist minister. And he was another one, and 
he wrote a letter to the Hattiesburg American. But you had different people. You had 
Dr. Smith, who was the president. He was a local physician that came—moved to 
Hattiesburg after he finished Meharry. 
EC: One of the brothers? 
GF : He wasn’t—no, he was a different—. 
EC: He wasn’t one of the brothers? 
GF : No, there was two Smiths. 
EC: Two, all right. 
GF : Charles Smith. He was—I don’t know where he was originally from, but 
he was another set of Smiths. 
EC: OK. Can you tell us about “Da Spirit”? 
GF: Well, we knew Da Spirit when we had the boycott [35:00], People would 
think they were above boycotting downtown, like a certain family. And they would go 
shopping. Like, at Bilts, the people would see them, they would report them, and that 
night, Da Spirit would visit their home. I remember one lady who went, and Da Spirit 
visited her home, she had this big old picture window, had a two-story house. And we 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
broke that. And so, it was just a way of keeping people in line just to make sure they 
adhered to the boycott. 
EC: So, were you aware of that as a child? 
GF: Well aware. I was also aware that they protected the community too. 
Because we were here, speeding through—I don’t know if they were chasing people out 
the community or what, but they served as a protector of the community too. 
EC: Was there protection all the way through the movement from when SNCC 
first came in? I mean, did people guard the churches, or help out? I know that 
individuals were protecting their homes. 
GF: Mm-hmm. 
EC: Was there an organized...? 
GF : I think it was organized, even the night Dr. King came here. Before we 
had choir rehearsal that night at five, that we were through by six, and his visit’s 
supposed to have started at seven, but he didn’t get here until after eleven o’clock. But 
there were men who took position on top of the roof of the church with their rifles. They 
knew that the church could be targeted. And they had seen Vernon Dahmer’s home was 
firebombed in [19]66, and then I think Dr. Smith who was over at the NAACP had 
experienced a problem at his home. And Ms. Boyd, who recruited me to go to Thames, 
somebody had placed a bomb on her porch, so. But you know, sporadic cases of 
violence, and we had witnessed this white man walking to the church with a rifle, looking 
for someone. I can’t recall if we were having regular service, or mass meeting, but he 
came in there with a rifle. 
EC: He came into the church? 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
GF: With a rifle. 
EC: What happened? 
GF : He came in to say he was looking for someone. They got him out, but you 
know. 
EC: Yeah. What was your first awareness of race, or of prejudice? 
GF : Probably, like I said, we lived in a pretty protective community. And I 
can’t recall anything happening before Freedom Summer. So, Freedom Summer was like 
an awakening period for us—a turning point. Because we were okay because we had 
everything. [Laughter] Until they brought in—well, we had read some black books, but 
they brought in and established black libraries in all the churches that they used. And so- 
EC: Was there a public library for African Americans? 
GF: Yeah. It’s still here; it’s downtown. This one replaced the one, it’s the 
culture center now. And there was an attempt during that summer to desegregate—like, 
integrate that, as long—also, the public zoo. And they closed the library. It was a group 
from Palmer’s Crossing Freedom School that I guess the Freedom School teachers would 
get together and say, we’re going to do this, and we’re going to do this. And there was a 
group from Mount Zion church that tried to go to the zoo. And we were—of course they 
were older kids; they wouldn’t take little small kids, because they taught us how to 
protect ourselves if we were attacked. Self—I guess you call “self-defense.” And so, we 
were excited about them going to the zoo. Because it was off-limits to us. We heard 
about the elephant that was there, Miss Hattie and all that, but—. 
EC: Miss Hattie? 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
GF: Right. [Laughter] We didn’t get a chance to see Miss Hattie. 
EC: What a good name for an elephant. [Laughter] 
GF : I think we all got excited, but some animal was supposed to have escaped 
from the zoo. 
EC: [Laughter] 
GF : Probably not, by the time we got a chance to see. But yeah, and so the 
mayor shut down the library for inventory when they went in that day. 
EC: [Laughter] That was interesting timing. What a coincidence. Was 
Freedom Summer your first awareness of the movement? Did you know about it before 
that? 
GF : I think Freedom Summer was, yeah, the turning point for us. Yeah. 
EC: Yeah. And you went to Freedom School? 
GF : At Mount Zion Church. 
EC: How did you get involved in Freedom School? 
GF : My pastor. My pastor lived in Jackson, so you know, the movement, full 
force in Jackson. So, he urged us to get involved in—so they opened up the church doors 
for Freedom School, so being a member then, I went. 
EC: Was that something you talked about with your parents, or you did on 
your own, or...? 
GF : Oh no, our parents sent us. 
EC: Yeah. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
GF : Everybody on our block went, except one family. [40:00] But the irony of 
that, that one family, they didn’t go. But now, one of the persons in that family has been 
on national board of the NAACP, very much involved. 
EC: Interesting. 
GF : Uh-huh. But we all went because—we all went to Mount Zion Church, 
and our pastor would urge us to get involved. 
EC: Did the Freedom School meet at the church? 
GF: It did. 
EC: Yeah. And so, do you think it would have been the same kind of response 
if it didn’t meet at the church, or was that just—was it a vehicle for communication, or 
was it also because it was at the church? 
GF : Well I think our church was, as I like to say, Freedom, Civil Rights 
Church. And then our sister church was quite the opposite. It was anti-civil rights. The 
pastor was known to report to—more of an informant, and he kind of urged his 
congregation not to get involved. But we were sister churches. We had church on the 
first and third and fifth Sunday; they had church on the second, fourth, and fifth Sunday. 
So, when we were having church, and they were not, their members would come over 
and worship with us, but it was just our pastor. And he was from Prentiss. And Prentiss 
was a little bit more advanced when it came to voting registration. When we only had 
twelve registered here, they had about 1500. 
EC: Yeah. 
GF: They had that Mt. Carmel community there. Plus, they had Prentiss 
Institute. So, he—his roots was out of Prentiss, Mississippi, but he lived in Jackson. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
EC: And you think that helped shaped his approach too? 
GF : I think so, because every Sunday that we had church, he would urge us to 
register to vote. Now this was after the Voting Rights Act was passed, but he opened up 
the doors, and he had to commute from Hattiesburg to Jackson, so he could have been a 
sitting duck. 
EC: Yeah. 
GF: Yeah. 
EC : Did your parents try to register to vote? 
GF : I don’t think so. All the documents Fd seen, I hadn’t seen anything where 
they may have, but they may have. 
EC: Did they—. 
GF : But she was on the picket line, she got arrested, when we were boycotting 
the store. 
EC: Oh yeah? 
GF: Yeah. 
EC: Tell us about that. 
GF : Well she and my next door neighbor, Ms. Arleigh Barnes, were picketing 
the store in the neighborhood that was owned by the white man they call Steelman 
Grocery. And they were picketing, so the police picked them up, and the police got—took 
‘cm to jail, got kind of disrespectful to Ms. Arleigh. Told her if she didn’t shut up, he 
was going to do such-and-such to her, but she believed in the Civil Rights—all she could 
do—she sent us on the mission to the—. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
EC: Yeah. Were you worried about her being arrested, I mean, when she was 
arrested? 
GF: Well we didn’t know until after they came back. [Laughter] And she told 
us they had taken them to jail, but they had people in place to get them out. Because that 
was quite common. 
EC: Yeah. What about your father? 
GF : He was kind of laid back. He wasn’t a—no. 
EC: I know you were a child, but did you have any sense of whether men or 
women were more likely to be out at the mass meetings, or picketing, or doing voter 
registration work? 
GF: To me, when I went to the mass meeting, it was an equal number. 
Because you had people like Mr. B. F. Barnes and lots of people may have owned their 
own businesses, and Mr. B. F. Barnes was part of that lawsuit too. But you had Mr. J. C. 
Fairley, different people like that, so the men were very much involved just like the ladies 
were. 
EC: Yeah. 
GF : And on the night Dr. King—. They did a fundraiser. That’s when he 
sneaked out. But to see them standing up, volunteering to give a hundred dollars towards 
the Poor People’s Campaign, I was very much—it was very amazing to me. 
EC: Tell us about—you said that you were at the church for choir practice, and 
you decided you were going to stay—. 
GF : I think I came over to—I said, we keep our seat, then we’ll be right here by 
the Poor People when Dr. King speaks. So, choir rehearsal was over at six o’clock, so 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
Mr. Redhom said the benediction, we sat there, and that—. We figured we only had an 
hour. Back then—. 
EC: [Laughter] 
GF : —Now if you said Dr. King was coming, or anyone of that caliber was 
coming, people would be lined up. But they came in, drifted in around seven o’clock. 
But after a while, the people waited, and we saw a mass meeting where someone said he 
was not going to come, some left. But we stayed right there in that choir, and then he 
came in with his entourage, [45:00] like Hosca Williams and all those people were with 
him. And he gave a speech, you could tell he was tired, and he—. 
EC: What did you say, it was eleven o’clock at night? 
GF : It was past eleven o’clock. He got there—. 
EC: You were like there for five hours—. 
GF : Yeah, we were waiting, yeah. Yeah, we were going to wait to see Dr. 
King, and he had this young lady, she was a cousin of Vernon Dahmer. She was our 
church organist. Her name was Wilma Baxter. And he asked her to sing “Precious Lord, 
Take My Hand.” But he was talking about the Poor People’s March, how he was going 
to take the plate, and I guess Mississippi had been a fertile ground since we were poor to 
go get up there, so it was amazing. But somehow, he got out of there, where they were 
raising their money. 
EC: So, they were trying to—do you know if there were actual threats against 
him, or did people just assume that there would be a problem? 
GF : Well, I heard they diverted his flight to Laurel, of all places. 
EC: Really? 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
GF : This was when, Sam Bowers and the Klansmen came over for Mr. 
Dahmer, but he did make a cameo visit at a church there in Laurel before he came to 
Hattiesburg. But his mission was to come to Hattiesburg—I think he stopped by as this 
congregation was there, and that probably delayed him. And Fd heard rumors from the 
Catholic church, we had a Catholic priest, Father Quinn, who was very much involved in 
the civil rights movement. He has since died, but some people said he took a nap over 
there. I don’t know if he did over at the church, but I don’t know. 
EC: So, was it exciting? 
GF : It was. It was very much exciting. It was exciting not only for me, but the 
students at Thames, because I could hear them saying, “The Martin Luther King 
coming?” [Laughter] 
EC: And they wanted to sneak over to the church? 
GF : I don’t know, but after he was killed, we went to school that Friday. He 
was killed on Thurs—we went there Friday, and I recall this guy bringing this butcher 
knife to school. He said, “Ms.—I’m gonna cut ‘cm.” But we decided the next week to 
boycott school. And they had one of the biggest marches here, about 1,500 people. But 
we stayed out a whole week out of school. 
EC: Yeah, how did you—what was it like to see him one week, and then—. 
GF : Well I think that it was so shocking, because, we had just seen him on 
March 19, and then hear April 4—, 
EC: A couple of weeks? 
GF : And I remember that night, the news, and we couldn’t believe it. My 
sister, the one that was in the sixth grade at Thames, wrote his daughter a letter telling her 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
that she had seen her father. And we were shocked when she received a letter back from 
Yolanda. 
EC: She got a letter back? 
GF: Yeah. 
EC: Wow. 
GF : And she was saying that she hoped to travel like her father. My mother 
kept that letter, and when my sister went to Tuskegee, she gave it to her. And so we still 
had that letter, from Yolanda, and she said she wanted to get into theater, which she did. 
But I guess her mother had her to write—it was typed. Her mother had her to write 
everybody who had written her. I thought that was a nice—. 
EC: That is. That’s really interesting. Do you know what made your sister 
think to do that? 
GF : She was there that night. I guess she was in disbelief like everybody else 
about his death, just having seen—so she wrote—we didn’t think that she would write 
back. But sometime in September, she got this letter back. 
EC: Wow. What was Freedom School like for you? 
GF: Well Freedom School, I loved Freedom School, because the Freedom 
songs. As you can tell, I love music. 
EC: Yeah. 
GF : But the Freedom songs, I love the Freedom songs. And there were a 
couple of people there like Dick Kelly. Dick was not my teacher, but he was everybody’s 
teacher. He had this bubbling personality. 
EC: Yeah. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
GF : He came back for the first reunion, and they sent the buses back to the 
different cities, and he was on the bus. And when I saw it in the paper that they were 
coming and his name was there, I called, I think, I gathered up some of the people from 
the Mount Zion Freedom School. And I just did black art shows, and I had this picture 
called, “The Turning Point,” and some people called it “The Funeral Processional”, some 
people called it the [inaudible], I didn’t know that the theme of the conference was “The 
Turning Point.” So, we presented him with that and a proclamation from the mayor’s 
office, and they refused to give me a key, so my next-door neighbor—. 
EC: [Laughter] 
GF : —used her brother’s name, and the morning of their coming, I went to the 
mayor’s office and picked up a key to the city. 
EC: [Laughter] You’re kidding me. 
GF: We presented him with a key to the city that [50:00] we did—this was tour 
Freedom School teachers, not—Lawrence Guyot was there, but Lawrence Guyot—we 
didn’t know him like we knew Dick. Because he was in—. 
EC: He wasn’t from your school? 
GF : Right. So, he was like a—Lawrence, I know he was one of the SNCC’s 
workers, but we knew Dick, he went in school with us. [Laughter], So, we gave him 
everything, and we sung a couple of Freedom songs, so we were the only Freedom 
School that really showed up. And he was—we made front-page news, you know what I 
mean? And I had written this; I had written an article I was going to send to Unsolved 
Mysteries that we had been chatting some of the people from our Freedom School, what 
happened to those people? So, I submitted it to the Hattiesburg American newspaper, 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
and they ran it that same weekend. But I was going to send it to Unsolved Mysteries to 
find out what happened to those young people who came—so it was already written, so all 
they had to do was shoot it over to the Hattiesburg American and they ran it that Sunday 
in the newspaper, along with that. 
EC: Have you connected with more people since then? 
GF: Well, Dick’s family, he died, and they contacted the library here, and there 
was a young lady, Valmina Blackmon, Smith-Blackman, actually Valmina was one of the 
first twenty-six students that integrated the school. She came knocking on my door, and 
she said that family member, Dick always talked about Hattiesburg and how it changed 
his life. So, I had to gather some stuff, and I expressed it up there for his viewing, 
because they wanted something. He said he could never really get back on track after he 
left. He stayed an extra year, and he went to a meeting, I read, he went to a meeting with 
the White Citizens’ Council, and they found out who he was, and they threw a chair in, 
but he stayed over. Dick had that bubbling personality, he was from Chicago. And he 
stayed—everybody knew him. 
EC: Did he continue the Freedom School that whole year, or—. 
GF: Um-mm. 
EC: —was he doing different kinds of work? 
GF : Voter registration, stuff like that. 
EC: Yeah, yeah. I know that a few Freedom Schools continued once school 
started like, maybe meeting on the weekends, or the evenings, did—yours didn’t do that? 
GF: Mm-hmm. 
EC: I don’t know how many across the state, I just know that at least a few— 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
GF : They may have did it with the adults, getting them ready for the—to 
register to vote, necessary. 
EC: The citizenship schools? 
GF: Mm-hmm. 
EC: What else do you remember about the Freedom School? 
GF : Well, we had plays and debates. 
EC: Yeah, yeah. 
GF : I liked the debates. Now, we would sometimes go over to—I remember 
going over to St. Paul Church, for—I was always amazed, they had a basement. We 
didn’t have a basement in our church. And we had the debates, and they had the plays, 
and stuff like that. 
EC: Yeah. 
GF : I remember one play, dealing with his little white girl telling a little black 
girl to put down the book. “You can’t read. Books are made for—.” 
EC: [Laughter] 
GF : So, you remember those things like that. 
EC: Yeah. Did it change how you felt about school in any way? 
GF : No, we loved school, but it changed my view that summer, decided I 
wanted to be a civil rights attorney. 
EC: Did you? 
GF : Uh-huh, because they had to bring the attorneys in to get people out of jail. 
And I felt like civil rights attorneys had lots of power. So, I went back to school, fifth 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
grade, and told everybody I wanted—I know what I want to be. I want to be a civil rights 
attorney. 
EC: What’d they say? That it’s a good thing? 
GF: Mm-hmm. 
EC: So, and what kind of law do you practice? Is that what you do? 
GF: Well, I was blessed my first job, I didn’t have to go looking for it; it came 
to me. I was working in the University of Tennessee graduate library, and this young 
man would come in, and he had gone to Howard University Law School, and I just said, 
“What pointers would you give a recent graduating law student?” He said, “Actually, 
we’re looking for some people with TVA, Tennessee Valley Authority.” He worked with 
their Equal Employment Office, and I always wanted to do EOC work, so I got on with 
them. I graduated in August, and I started working with them in December, writing final 
agency decision on discrimination for TVA. 
EC: So, is that like if somebody applied to work there, or if somebody was 
working there and then experienced discrimination? 
GF: Yeah, discrimination of any kind, and we could overturn the EOC decision 
too, if they went before hearing, and we didn’t agree with the ju—hearing—well, hearing 
judge, we could overturn their decision. 
EC: Was that because TVA was a federal—. 
GF: It’s a federal corporation. It’s not an agency, though. But it had, you 
know. It has [55:00] nuclear power plants, fossil plants in seven states. They provide 
nuclear—I mean, power for seven states. 
EC : Did you enj oy that work? 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
GF : I did. I did. It was good, until we got the Inspector General in, I guess he 
felt like he was in competition with us. 
EC: [Laughter] 
GF : And they said we could save the agency money if we found no 
discrimination. I said, okay, this—. 
EC : What’s the point of being—. [Laughter] 
GF : Right, right, right. 
EC: —if you just— 
GF : Right. We’re going to save the agency money and violate these people’s 
rights—. 
EC: Yeah. 
GF : —at the same time? No, no, no. 
EC: I guess they’re letting you know exactly what they—. 
GF : Yeah, what they wanted to—yeah, EOC. Yeah, it was good. And then I 
only took one bar exam, so I took the Mississippi bar, so I came back. 
EC: What are you doing now? 
GF : I work with legal services, so it’s the closest thing to civil rights work with 
indigent clients, providing representation to them, in eleven counties. 
EC: Wow, that’s a—that sounds like a challenging job. 
GF : Eleven counties, yeah. 
EC: Yeah, you have a lot of—do you travel to the different counties? 
GF : Yeah. One day I was in court in Mendenhall. It was the Jefferson Davis 
County case where I had to sue a school district for expelling students, black boys for a 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
whole year for fighting. When the statute was saying they had the right to go to an 
alternative school if they didn’t use a weapon of any kind. 
EC: Yeah. 
GF : But they were just sending the kids home to sit up at home for a whole 
year. 
EC: That’s criminal. 
GF : And then yesterday, I was in Jones County, all the case dealing with a 
baby, custody of a baby, so it varies from time—. 
EC: I was going to say, you must see a lot of different kinds of things in a day. 
GF : I do, yeah, I do. 
EC: Yeah. And isn’t—I know that like, isn’t Meridian under a justice 
department? 
GF : They were, they had that pipeline, from school to prison. 
EC: Yeah. 
GF : And I was telling Jefferson Davis County, they don’t want the Southern 
Poverty Law Center. We can’t do class action, but I can bring them in, because there’s 
four or five other kids who were impacted in the same way. The judge told them, 
yesterday now, if those kids come in, I’m putting them back in school, because you got to 
comply with the statute. Those kids have a right to have an education without it being 
interrupted. So, those type of cases. 
EC: I imagine that must be interesting, at least some of the time. 
GF : Yeah, it is, some of the time. 
EC: Very interesting. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
GF : But Fm ready for a career change. 
EC: Are you? 
GF : They’re building a civil rights museum here, that old Eureka school. 
Actually, it’s supposed to be about Freedom School. The guy who’s doing it kind of left 
the community out. It’s like he’s doing this on his own. He came to a meeting, and he 
said, “Well, the museum’s going to be about Freedom Summer, Freedom School, because 
it’s what you’re all known for.” And I raised my hand, I said, “No, that’s not what we’re 
known for. We’re known for our fight for the ballot.” 
EC: Yeah. 
GF : “That’s just one chapter in a long fight.” 
EC: I was going to say, Hattiesburg has a very strong, rich history that’s 
buried. 
GF : Right, because—. 
EC: Could cover a lot of territory. 
GF : Yeah, because I think we have one of the first Freedom Day March. 
EC: Yeah, I think the first one was in Mississippi; first one was in Selma, and 
then Hattiesburg. 
GF : Because I know—well, it was not the type of brutality in McComb, and up 
in Greenwood. 
EC: Yeah. Did you remember, were you aware of the Freedom March, I mean 
the Freedom Day? 
GF : I don’t—you kind of replace things with—. 
EC: Yeah. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
GF : I think, maybe the Dr. King visit, and some other things—. 
EC: All things come together. 
GF: Right, maybe I overshadowed that. 
EC: Yeah, yeah. 
GF : But Fm sure I was aware, but then I probably just, got to push that back in 
the back of my mind, because it went on for not one day, but almost four or five days that 
it went on for. 
EC: Yeah. You mentioned earlier about sort of being—having your eyes 
opened by the SNCC people, and then you mentioned Guyot. Did you have much 
interaction with any of the SNCC people? I mean, there was a Freedom School and the 
volunteers, but any of the SNCC staff? 
GF : Not with SNCC staff—I would say Victoria Gray Adams walked around 
the comer, her father lived around the comer from my church. 
EC: OK. 
GF : I would see her walk around to her father’s house, but no. 
EC: You didn’t know her at all? 
GF : Just with the volunteer—I didn’t know her. I just knew she was the lady 
with the pretty little afro, her daddy lived around the corner. 
EC: Yeah. 
GF : I didn’t know of her involvement. 
EC: Did you—no you didn’t? 
GF: Um-mm. Mm-mm. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
EC: OK. What was it like as a child hearing about the firebombing of Mr. 
Dahmer’s? 
GF : Well, I heard about it—I think that actually happened at night, but I heard 
about it after I arrived home for school. [1:00:00] My next-door neighbor, Mr. James 
Bowen and Mr. Dahmer were friends. Mr. Dahmer, Mr. Bowen had his own business, he 
did that, logging, and they were friends, and so it was kind of devastating. But, I knew he 
had a daughter and son about my age, I think I had seen Betty and her brother, Dennis. 
But I did get a chance to go to the trial, the last trial in [19]98,1 did. 
EC : What was that like? 
GF : It was interesting. I had just started this job. I couldn’t stay away from 
the courthouse. I think the most interesting thing about the trial was that, Mr. Bower’s 
attorney, who has since died, he was asking the witness, Billy Joe [Roy] Pitts, who had 
turned state evidence, he had left his gun. He’s the one who kind of—. 
EC: Broke? 
GF : —broke the case open. Who was there at the time that they were planning 
the raid on Mr. Dahmer’s home, and he named some people. And then he said, “And you 
were there.” And then he said, “Objection, your honor, objection!” “I don’t know how to 
carry this!” Okay, it was common knowledge that there were attorneys in Jones County 
who were part of that. And I saw one walk through the courtroom. I have much 
admiration for his son, but—he didn’t testify, but that was eye-opening there. Because I 
do practice over in Jones County sometimes, too. But—. 
EC: And so, what happened with—you said you had—tell me about again, don’t 
you live in Jones County? 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
GF : I practice law over in Jones County. 
EC: Yeah. And you said, one of the Klansman saw—? 
GF : Well, I said one of the attorneys, he was there in court, he didn’t testify. 
But his son is a nice person. [Laughter] 
EC: So, one of the Klan attorneys was there? 
GF : Well I don’t know who it was, I don’t know if he was subpoenaed, and he 
was supposed to have testified, or was he putting forward—I never opened up that jar. 
[Laughter] I knew his son. His son worked with us. 
EC: Oh, okay. 
GF : And he’s a nice guy. 
EC: Oh, that’s interesting, yeah, yeah. 
GF : Yeah, he can walk through the courtroom, so I was wondering, what was 
his involvement? You know what I mean? So, yeah. 
EC: What did it mean for the community to finally get a conviction of Sam 
Bowers? 
GF : I think the community had waited on it. I was out of town when they 
arrested them. But I think it was a victory for the community to see justice finally. 
EC: Yeah. 
GF : Because Sam Bowers walked around like—he was a free man. And my 
understanding, we have an office over in Jones County. He was a good friend with one 
of the legal services attorneys there, Mr. Ford. And he would come in and out, in and out 
all the time. And then Mr. Ford was there at the table representing him, along with the 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
attorney who, Billy Joe [Roy] Pitts, older attorney, I think I can remember his name, I 
think it was [Travis] Buckley, or something like that. 
EC: That sounds familiar. Yeah, did he—did her represents Killins too? 
GF : I don’t know about Killins, because this is up around Philadelphia. 
EC: The name sounds familiar. 
GF: He could have. He was there. He was—Mr. Ford and Mr. Buckley, I think 
that’s his name. I have to check now, but he was an older attorney. And then there was 
another attorney who wanted a piece of the action, Mr. [Lawrence] Arrington, but I don’t 
know, did he actually do any representation? 
EC: Yeah, okay. What got you interested in the local—I mean, studying the 
Civil Rights Movement, or working on the history of the Civil Rights Movement? 
GF : I tell you, I started writing my first paper at ten of Dr. King, so maybe it 
was that shredding and tearing up my paper—. 
EC: [Laughter] You’re not going to let them shred yours. 
GF : But then I worked four years in the history department of Texas Southern 
University. That was my work-study job. So, I worked—Texas Southern University is an 
African American HBCU. And I worked with these historians for four years, and they 
were always telling a story. So, I always loved history, and so it’s just a point of my life, 
I just love history, yeah. 
EC: Yeah. So, what are some of the projects, or things that you’re working on 
around the history? 
GF : Well, I’ve done quite a bit. And like I told you, the historical marker. 
One of the first in the state, civil rights site, because I was surprised when the Freedom 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
Riders had theirs, that Medgar Evers’s home did not get one until they had their reunion 
in 2002. But in 1999, we did the civil rights marker. But even before then in [19]94, 
when they came back to [1:05:00] organize the reunion, and donated pictures and stuff 
like that to Dick Kelly. But then we also hosted a reception. They did another reunion in 
conjunction with USM, those pictures, that the photographer gave USM—. 
EC: Herbert Randall? 
GF: —Herbert Randall. So, I had just gotten back from Jamaica, next day, we 
did a reception for all of them at Mount Zion Church. But I’ve done lots of projects. We 
did a Freedom School, for high school and junior high school kids, on the fortieth 
anniversary of Freedom Summer. I was actually recovering from knee surgery, and Sally 
Brooks, this lady had written about the civil rights movement. I said, what a good idea. 
Let’s do that for the fortieth. So, I called some friends, and we got together. And so, we 
actually for eight weeks talked to them about the civil rights movement, and we took 
them to Memphis, to the civil rights site. And then we took them to Birmingham, Selma, 
Montgomery, Atlanta. They had a graduation, and then we did part of this project, we 
did a marker for Vernon Dahmer that sits in front of his home. 
EC: Is that the—okay, we saw that. 
GF : Congressman Bennie Thompson came, in February. We went, and he was 
the keynote speaker at Shady Grove Church, where Mr. Dahmer is buried. 
EC: Yeah. That must have been a great experience for those students. 
GF : It was, and I had to tell the teachers, this is their—they were going to be the 
one who served on the program, not the adults. This is their program. And so, they did 
everything from—on the program. So, we did two classes. We did another one in 2006. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
These kids went up to Little Rock when we went first in the Bill Clinton Library, 
Presidential Library. And then we came back to Memphis, and then they did the same. 
But the first class had the opportunity to have a private book signing by the author of the 
book, one of their book[s], met us in Atlanta at the Black Holocaust Museum, and she did 
a personal book signing for them. 
EC: Oh cool. Which book was that? 
GF : Let me see. We Shall Not Be Moved. And it has—the author’s from 
Atlanta. She wrote several very nice books, and she has little documents inserted in 
there, so they can put—. 
EC: Oh yeah, I think I—. 
GF : I can’t remember her name right offhand, but—. 
EC: Is this like a young adult book? 
GF: Yeah, mm-hmm. 
EC: I don’t think I’ve seen that one. 
GF: And then—. 
EC : There’s, I think another one with a similar name, We Shall Not Be Moved 
that’s about—centered around a photograph of the Jackson sit-in. 
GF : Okay. 
EC: So, you when you first said it, that was what I was thinking of. 
GF : But she met us when we left Birmingham. We went on to Atlanta, came 
back through Selma, Montgomery and Selma. 
EC: How old were the children doing this? 
GF : They were from seventh grade through twelfth grade. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
EC: Yeah. 
GF: Yup. They had a grad—. 
EC: Are you going to continue that tradition? 
GF : I enjoyed doing that. If I can do it in conjunction to the museum—. I did, 
and there were adults that traveled with us, and the first class, when we got to Selma, they 
got on the Edmund Pettus Bridge, and they started singing, “Ain’t Gonna Let Nobody 
Turn Me Around.” Now, there were no cameras there. And so, I went over for the 
anniversary of Blood Sunday this past year. 
EC: How was it? 
GF : It was nice. It was nice. I had just gone through a Black Heritage parade. 
I was kind of exhausted, but my sister insisted on us—I had gone twice with a student, 
President Obama spoke. But, I think seeing those students march across that bridge 
singing “Ain’t Gonna Let—” on that Sunday, where there were no cameras, meant more 
to me than hearing President Obama speak. 
EC: Yeah, yeah. It was so crowded. 
GF : It was. And then at Sunday, they—. 
EC: You couldn’t go across. 
GF : Well we did. We made it across. I think they thought they were going to 
wait on them to get through with the program, but the people said no, we’re going on, got 
to go on with your program. 
EC: Yeah, that’s what they were doing at first, and it just was like, wall-to- 
wall—. 
GF : It was. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
EC: Yeah. It was a great, big, big crowd. 
GF : It was, a big crowd. 
EC: So, what are your hopes for the museum? What would you like to see? 
GF : I shared with him. I certainly don’t want to sugarcoat, and I don’t think 
he’s brave enough to call names like White Citizens’ Council. There was an attorney 
here who headed up that, White Citizens’ Council. And even attorney M. M. Roberts, 
[1:10:00] who they named the stadium, stood in the door, he was the county attorney for 
Forrest County during the time that the lawsuit in April 1950 was filed. He was the 
county attorney when John Doar came here with US. v. Theron Lynd, when they brought 
contempt action against him for stopping so many African Americans from voting. And 
so, you got to tell the true story. And I think he should step aside and let somebody who 
don’t mind taking the hit tell the true story, because people want to know the truth. 
And if you’re going to sugarcoat, because see, there was another attorney here 
also, he has two sons that practiced law, Zachary, Francis Zachary also stood with M. M. 
Roberts. And, with the U.S. v. Theron Lynd case. But, there was lots of people who 
stood up, the employees, men at Hercules, they were a group that stood up. The teachers 
were a group that stood up. And so, for him to just ignore the African American 
community who was part of that, I had to bankroll Freedom Summer last year because 
there was a concerted effort to take the celebration from the churches that had opened 
their doors, there were about six churches, where they had Freedom School, and nothing 
was planned. Even my classmate, who’s the mayor-had to get on him. We finished 
high school together. Everything was moved to the library down to a USM campus. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
And my contention is when you take—you’re taking the heart and soul out of the 
community when you do that, and you’re telling a lie. These churches were the one that 
risked being firebombed. And they need to—so we—I made sure each month, we went to 
one of those churches, and had some type of program. And then when we celebrated 
Doric Ladner, honored her, I presented plaques to each one of those churches, on the 
fiftieth anniversary. And including Mr. Magee’s church. 
So, that’s the problem with saying like, if it happened, it happened in my 
pocketbook. [Laughter], Just like Freedom—we just got through with the fiftieth 
anniversary. So, we had to do something. First, we released twenty-six balloons in 
honor of those twenty-six young kids. And then we had a reception where we had the 
older kids, and I know we’re not going to go back every year. Okay, this group came in 
this year, so we’re going to celebrate, so let’s just celebrate with the first group. So, we 
did that quite recently. Sunday was a week ago, so this Sunday will be two weeks. 
November 22. 
EC: Did the kids get really interested? 
GF: There was not many children that should have been there, more adults that 
were there. And then we brought back some of the people more locally. There were a 
few that came from out of town to commemorate that period of time. 
EC: Yeah, yeah. What are some of the things you hope people take away from 
the programs on the Civil Rights Movement? 
GF : Well, I think the civil rights movement is history that we have to 
incorporate. There was supposed to have been an effort to teach civil rights history in the 
public schools, but I don’t know how well that has advanced. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
EC : I was going to ask your opinions. 
GF : And, so I hope—and we were just blessed, because back then, people did 
not have cameras. But the lead photographer for the Hattiesburg American newspaper 
gave his negatives to Mississippi Department Archives in History. And he captured most 
of the marches—. 
EC: Wow. 
GF : —that were front-page news, so you can go up in the Mississippi 
Department Archives in History, in the digital collection, and his name was Moncrief, 
and—. 
EC: Are they online? 
GF: They’re online, they’re online, “Moncrief Collection,” and you can see 
even the firebombing of Vernon Dahmer’s home the next morning. And I took fifty of 
his photos and put them on exhibit at the old public library—I blew them up and put them 
on exhibit. Like I said, I love art, like I love music. So, for a whole week, we had that on 
display. But, that way we see history, even the Freedom Day March. Some people- 
somebody tried to say John Lewis was not there, but in the photo, John Lewis, standing 
across from the courthouse, watching Fannie Lou Hamer and the others. 
EC: He was there? 
GF : He was there. 
EC: I didn’t realize John Lewis was there. 
GF : He was there. You can see him in some of those photos. 
EC: I’ll look, I’ll look, yeah. I mean, there’s one of those photos that I just 
absolutely love. It’s a group shot on the steps. You can tell it’s raining, and I don’t 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
know, [1:15:00] Ijust, I have it on my computer, but it’s just one of those shots from the 
Freedom Day, and I think it’s the group. And then—. 
GF: Yeah. And then the police officers in their rain gear. 
EC: The one Fm looking at, I can’t remember. I don’t remember if the police 
are in that one or not. But, you can definitely tell it’s raining, but people are just so 
determined. 
GF : He has about twenty or twenty-five of those pictures. Even one lady 
showed up with her big Bible, Dis Nelsing, she was basically against the Freedom Day 
March, and had on a robe, and her big bible preaching from the step, against the 
marchers. 
EC: Fm sorry? 
GF : She was there in opposition of the Freedom Day March. 
EC: Was she was a white woman, or—. 
GF : She’s a black lady from Palmers Crossing. 
EC: What was her rationale, did you know? 
GF : I don’t know, she had the Bible, I guess something from the scripture. 
EC : She thought that was—. [Laughter] 
GF : She had a big Bible. She was there to denounce. 
EC: Yeah, yeah. So, with all of these fifty-year anniversaries, how would you 
assess what the movement’s accomplished, and what still remains? 
GF : Oh, there’s still work that remains, you don’t have the Thurgood Marshall 
or William Brennan on the court like you had before. But you—. 
EC: [Laughter] You can say that again. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
GF : But you—I have attended quite a few of them, from the Freedom Riders, 
they had theirs up in Jackson. And then the next year, March on Washington. Then 
Freedom Summer, and then—so, I think the message has to get out to the younger 
generation, because I don’t think they’re connecting the dots about voter—voting, and 
fifty years is not a long time for people, the voting apathy that we have now. [Laughter] 
So, I think we need to connect the dots. We need to teach history more so people can see, 
just like the Holocaust. I love—I went back to Washington. I didn’t complete the touring 
the first time I went. You can’t do it in a few hours; you really need two or three days to 
read everything. And that’s what I hope the story be told. 
EC: Yeah. 
GF : They say “never again,” and I said, we have to keep telling. 
EC: How do you think that the current Black Lives Matter movement and 
some of the protests on campuses, do you think that would make people more interested? 
GF : I think so. I always say “All Lives Matter.” We did a “Peace and Unity 
Healing March” on Martin Luther King’s Birthday, the first one—I coordinated that, and I 
couldn’t bring myself to just say “Black Lives,” because “All Lives Matter.” We just lost 
two police officers that was gunned down here, not too far from here, last—a couple of 
months back, and so, every life is precious. So, you just can’t put black, red, yellow, 
white. It was all lives, so we have to cherish all lives. And I know that’s a movement, 
“Black Lives Matter,” and black lives do matter. Certainly, we do need to look at the 
disproportionate number of African Americans who are being killed by police officers, 
and et cetera. But we also have to keep the message that all lives matter. 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
EC: Common humanity, yeah. Are there things that you think are important 
that I haven’t asked you about? 
GF : I think you asked me basically—we talked about, I went to different, two 
schools, and the only thing I can think of at the school with the poor—more poor whites 
that I had one teacher who was teaching Mississippi history. And the only place that 
blacks were mentioned was under slavery, but she couldn’t—had a problem pronouncing 
“negro.” 
EC: [Laughter] 
GF: She said “nigra.” And then I said, did I hear her correctly? And I raised 
my hand. But, I had told her that’s not the way. And she said—. 
EC: [Laughter] 
GF : I tol d her, y ou can ’ t—. 
EC: You were spunky. [Laughter] 
GF: Right. I said, “The word is not ‘nigra,’ it’s ‘negro.’ And if you can’t say 
that, please say ‘black.’“ And she got real nervous; she said this friend who had gone to 
Thames with me, we both had tran—told her how to pronounce the words, no she didn’t. 
EC: [Laughter] 
GF : And so, after class, this young lady said, well—. 
EC : She’s trying to tell you that another student—. 
GF : Told her, right. And I knew that student, because she was the one who I 
had homeroom with at Thames, and no she didn’t. [1:20:00] 
EC: [Laughter] 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
GF : And so, after class, there were about six blacks in that class, one of my 
friends walked up to me and said, “Oh, I thought she was going to send you to the 
office.” And I said, “Well, I wish she would have,” because I had so much confidence in 
the principal being fair that he would have reprimanded her, not me. 
EC: Well that’s good. 
GF : Yeah, he was fair; I felt like he would have—. 
EC: That must have been a good feeling. 
GF : Yeah, yeah, compared to the principal where I had left. 
EC: Right, yeah. 
GF : Right. But I guess it was hard for him, too. You got all these doctors’ and 
lawyers’ kids going to this rich, white— 
EC: So, going to the wealthy school—. 
GF : Right. 
EC: —turned out to not be the—. 
GF : Right. Yeah, how are you going to go in and say—I guess he was afraid 
for his job, so I guess you have to look at things from that perspective. But then—I still 
think, Mr. Rogers—if the poor white kids had the blueprint that they should have been— 
[Laughter] 
EC: Too bad, right? 
GF : Right, right, yeah. 
EC: It’s interesting that your first example—your first perspective wasn’t— 
trying to think if I had any other questions. Can you think of anything else? 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
GF: No, Fm just trying to keep busy doing the—I guess, showcasing the history 
of the civil rights movement. People tend to forget, and sometimes you have to research, 
because it can sometimes be off. But, it’s out there. It’s just a matter of digging, and lots 
of people didn’t know about these fifteen African American men. And I think they went 
to their grave thinking they were a failure, because out of the fifteen, only one was 
registered to vote. He was registered in 1954. He went in with this young man who went 
to my church, and for some reason, they did not do anything—he registered, the 
pharmacist. But he told the man, Milton Barnes, to get out of his office, because Milton 
had signed a petition with his full name. And Hammond Smith had signed his, “H. E. 
Smith.” 
EC: That’s a little more obscure. 
GF : Right, so, quite a few of them just used their first initials, and there were a 
few that used their full name. But some of those same petitioners, plaintiffs, testified 
years later in the US. v. Theron Lynd, including Hammond Smith. 
EC: That’s interesting. F m sure that was probably an important part of the 
case to show how long-standing the—and to have evidence of people really trying to 
register to vote—. 
GF : Right. 
EC: —instead of that argument of apathy, I think. Yeah. 
GF: Mm-hmm, yeah, it’s interesting civil rights history here, yeah. 
EC: Yeah, very interesting. Anything else? 
GF : It wasn’t—Hollis Watkins was one of the first SNCC workers that came 
here, from McComb. He didn’t stay here that long, because he was surprised that 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0116 
Glenda Funchess 
Hattiesburg, unlike the other—the professional people were at the forefront of the 
movement, so I think that story needs to be told. Lots of times you find doctors, lawyers, 
teachers kind of backing away from Civil Rights activity and that was not the case here. 
EC: Yeah, that seems like there was a really strong professional community 
here. It actually seems like a very strong cross-section of people. 
GF : It was. 
EC: The professional group, and—. 
GF : You’re right, they worked together. 
EC: —people with their small businesses, and farmers, and yeah. Yeah, I’ve 
heard Hollis talk about staying out on Mr. Dahmer’s farm and working real hard. 
[Laughter] 
GF: Yeah, I’m sure he’ll be here for the celebration, yeah, I’m sure. 
EC: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well thank you very much for participating in the 
interview project. 
GF : Yeah, you’re so welcome. 
F1 : This has been a presentation of the Library of Congress and the 
Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture. 
END OF INTERVIEW 
Transcribed by: The Audio Transcription Center 
Transcription date: March 20, 2017