Harold Garcia 
Speaker 1: 
Harry Garcia: 
Speaker 1: 
Harry Garcia: 
Speaker 1: 
Harry Garcia: 
Speaker 1: 
Harry Garcia: 
Speaker 1: 
Harry Garcia: 
Aii right, Harry G. 
So as you charge up, let's give you a little low down of the little spiel that I got 
going on over here. All right? 
Sure. 
This project is based off of something that I always dreamed about doing as a 
young apprentice. I thought about going [00:00:30] from job to job as almost 
like a journalist and recording conversations with journey men and women. 
Those stories, when you have conversations on the job with your journeymen, 
they get real deep and they talk to you about all different kinds of things. I 
always wanted to record that stuff because I always felt like it got lost. 
Mm-hmm (affirmative). 
You can never [00:01:00] go back to those words or that emotion. This archive is 
like a piece of that or trying to recreate a piece of what happens on that job 
between workers and have workers tell their own story. 
Mm-hmm (affirmative). 
So, I'm going to ask you a few questions. 
Sure. 
And we can start off by if you would please tell us your name and your job title 
and where you currently live. 
My name is Harold [00:01:30] Garcia. I'm known in the business as Harry. My 
job title is, I am an A Journeyman Inside Wi reman for Local 3 International 
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. And I live in a neighborhood that was built 
by Local 3 in an area of Queens known as Fresh Meadows, borderline Flushing, 
called Electchester. They took the [00:02:00] word "elect" from "electric" and 
added the "Chester" to make Electchester. The neighborhood, if you fly 
overhead, the buildings, they form a journeyman bending a piece of pipe, which 
is incredibly creative going back to 1950s or whenever they designed it. That's 
where I live. 
Okay. A lot of the people ... You did a great job explaining where Electchester is, 
but a lot of people that are going [00:02:30] to be listening to this may not be 
electricians or may not know the exact terms or what you're speaking about, so 
1 
Speaker 1: 
Harry Garcia: 
Speaker 1: 
Harry Garcia: 
Speaker 1: 
Harry Garcia: 
when we speak about certain things, maybe you can elaborate a little bit on the 
definition of certain terms? 
Sure. 
That would be great. 
Sure. 
Maybe we can come back to Electchester a little bit later. As for now, can you 
tell us about your background and where you were born, where your parents 
are from? 
Sure. My parents, my [00:03:00] mother was born in Puerto Rico in 1930. My 
father was born in New York and then at four years old, was sent to Puerto Rico 
and he was there until he was 18. He was born in 1932. They both came here 
around 1950. Prior to the start of the Korean War, my father signed [00:03:30] 
up and fought in the Korean War and the role that the generation that my 
father came from where my mother, his wife, was concerned, was to wait for 
him to come home and alive in one piece and to start a family and start the 
process of a life as a married couple with children and raising those children 
[00:04:00] and getting them the best that they could possibly get them, of 
which I'm one of the recipients of that effort. In a time, historically, when the 
focus of a lot of the policies that the United States had, were to engender 
growth for working class people and to give them the opportunity to move 
forward and to make things accessible and feasible and reachable. 
[00:04:30] To that end, my father worked in various factories and manufacturing 
jobs here in the New York City area but it wasn't until a very good friend of his 
suggested that he come to work for one of the ... a manufacturing 
establishments that had an agreement with a union. [00:05:00] It wasn't until 
that time that my father really understood the tremendous impact that that 
would have on his life with his wife and for his children. The important thing, as 
relates to my background, about my parents' background is that that moment in 
which my father went to work in ... I believe the name of the shop was called 
[Gotham 00:05:29] Lighting and it was in [00:05:30] Astoria. 
The critical part of that was, because Gotham Lighting had a working agreement 
with Local Union #3, that means that my father and many of the workers that 
were there, which at the time were Puerto Ricans, Italians, Irish, African 
Americans, Jewish Americans, was the predominant mix we had in New York at 
that time. But for them, it really meant [00:06:00] that they can secure 
consistent wages, medical benefits, and the things they would need to raise a 
family and help them have more so they could participate more fully and nicer 
communities and educational endeavors and hopefully have the children move 
to another level that my father's generation couldn't. That, specifically, meant 
college. 
Harold Garcia (1) 
Page 2 of 16 
As [00:06:30] one of those children, I was able to grow up in this neighborhood. 
Again, my father, as he became more aware of all the things that Harry Van 
Arsdale and Local 3 had put together for working people, he came to know 
about the neighborhood called Electchester that I mentioned earlier. He was 
able to move into Electchester in the [00:07:00] mid 60s. That was a 
tremendous, tremendous opportunity for my father and many, many people 
who were working class people. Electchester represented, truly, an opportunity 
to be in a great, safe community with great schools and it felt very much like 
you were in the suburbs. The important thing about that vision, as [00:07:30] 
was the case for Harry Van Arsdale and Local Union #3, was that this was 
becoming something that was being done by different unions and being copied 
around the world, which is to create working class communities built, owned, 
managed, and maintained by those workers and their labor organizations. 
Electchester for me, as a kid now growing up, was [00:08:00] tremendously 
impactful because it took my father out of being in East Harlem, which had a 
specific type of... had a certain set of challenges in the 60s for a young family. A 
man and a wife with young children in the 60s in East Harlem, there were a lot 
of challenges. They're typical things. We had the Civil Rights Movement going 
on, but the economics of living in East [00:08:30] Harlem put my parents in a 
very precarious scenario to protect their offspring from the dangers and the 
things that happened. Electchester took all of that risk, all of that danger, all of 
those worries, away. That was a huge, huge release, psychological burden they 
didn't have to deal with. The beautiful thing a bout that is that that really 
created a tremendous [00:09:00] sense of loyalty. The people that came 
through in that time had all of their prayers answered by Local 3 because they 
were able to, in many cases, have a better standard of living, have a great place 
to raise their kids, and have a great retirement package. 
Those things are relevant today. It is just as relevant [00:09:30] today as it was 
in the 50s. I grew up under the beautiful happiness of the love of my mother 
and my father living in Electchester and they were so fulfilled and happy that 
they could be there and do this for their children. Those were impactful things 
for me as a child growing up because the way in which I was introduced into 
what [00:10:00] the world of a labor organization is, to a young child, was really 
by my father's dinner table discussions when we were kids about some of the 
battles that the union was taking on to improve the working conditions of men 
and women in New York City, as we were the recipients of the work he had 
done by living in Electchester. 
So, he had this tremendous kind of [circum 00:10:30] [00:10:30] vitae of 
accomplishments. At the time that I come into this ... I'm born in 1961. I'm 
coming into the history of this after a lot of the legacy battles were fought and 
won. It wasn't until Roosevelt that the National Labor Relations Act was passed. 
That gave unions the right to bargain collectively. [00:11:00] My father doesn't 
come into it until the 50s, coming back from the Korean War and now I'm a kid 
in the 60s. So, 30 years before I'm born, there's all this history of all these great 
men who were fighting for 30 years later. Now I'm the young kid and receiving 
Harold Garcia (1) 
Page 3 of 16 
the fruits of those battles that they fought. There were many great la bor battles 
with [00:11:30] great, great, distinctive and genuine labor leaders who were 
able to vocalize to the United States and its capitalist passion and intoxication 
that there's got to be a way for working people to move up and move on and 
that the treatment of workers that was demonstrated was not healthy at all. 
I often say, [00:12:00] if industry, if capital, if titans of industry, would have 
treated working people the right way, would have provided for their future, 
provided for their healthcare, provided for them to have great places to live, to 
change the working conditions so that they were safe and they had a certain 
number of hours and there was overtime and children were safe, there would 
never have been a labor movement. It's always the behavior of industry 
[00:12:30] unwatched, unfettered, that creates a scenario where the bottom 
line and things relevant to revenue supersede the conditions and the quality 
that we give the people doing the work. 
Prior to me coming into my life in Electchester, all of those battles ... And they 
were bloody battles ... were fought and they were fought before 1932. 1932 is 
the point at which [00:13:00] it gets signed into law by Roosevelt. So, there's a 
long, long standing argument, philosophical debate, with the premise of what 
capitalism provides in terms of free markets and allowing people to manifest 
themselves freely. At the same time, capitalism has a dark side. The dark side is 
countered [00:13:30] by the labor movement. Whether people like it or not, you 
have to really go back in history to see how industry was treating working 
people, not only here in the United States, but because I'm an American, I'm 
talking about it in that context. There's a lot to discover in different parts of the 
world. 
So, all of those things are relevant in shaping my background and who I am and 
the tone and tenor of my voice because I'm also a person of color. [00:14:00] 
I'm a Puerto Rican-American. That might be redundant because if you're born in 
Puerto Rico, Puerto Rico is a property of the United States. It's a 
commonwealth. I'm not going to get into that history so much. But more 
important that my father's participation, my participation here in New York and 
the United States, comes with the understanding that the United States was 
having issues with people of color internally and their [00:14:30] treatment of 
African Americans. That history, as we all know, Medgar Evers, Malcolm X, 
Martin Luther King, we can go through the list, but the labor movement was in 
lockstep with the philosophical argument that the Civil Rights Movement was 
making and the argument about the quality of life that we provide for our 
American [00:15:00] people, was what the 60s were saying in the face of what 
was a very deeply divided black and white historical relationship, which the 
labor movement, at that time, was able to perfectly embrace people of color. 
Way back then. 
My father was a beneficiary of that vision, that openness, that insight. They 
made it possible for people [00:15:30] to move up and to excel and to grow and 
to become and to speak and to have knowledge and to participate and to be 
Harold Garcia (1) 
Page 4 of 16 
included and to have a voice that resonates with all the other voices, whether 
they're in opposition to the argument at the moment or whether they're in sync 
with the argument at the moment. All people, at that time, said, "Hey, I exist. 
It's not 300 years ago. We're here now [00:16:00] and we have to take a stand." 
That's why my childhood was very, very, very, very affected by the tone of those 
things. I grew up watching... Even though I was a little kid ... watching the Civil 
Rights Movement. I grew up watching labor speeches. I grew up watching young 
people in colleges argue about what was right and what was wrong. I grew up 
watching the Black Panther Party. [00:16:30] I grew up watching the Young 
Lords. 
I read lots of books at a very young age. There was an author named Piri 
Thomas. He wrote a book called Down These Mean Streets where he chronicles 
the story of Puerto Ricans in New York in the 50s, 60s, and early 70s. So, for me, 
the philosophy of what the labor movement was about was completely in the 
center of who I was. I believed in what labor was arguing and I believed in the 
leaders that came before it [00:17:00] because, essentially, they were saying, 
"Hey. You can't have something that's built on a constitution that elicits a 
framework for what we're doing here, in this country, because of what wasn't 
done in another country. And in the same breath, do the very wrong thing 
around that framework, which was to not allow people to participate." 
So, the labor movement, [00:17:30] for me as a kid, I was very, very 
emboldened by standing up in a room with a group of people who were making 
the argument that we need better wages, hours, working conditions, and we 
need to negotiate in a collective bargaining agreement that our voice is 
important and how you consider us, our consideration, the good-will for us, has 
[00:18:00] to be discussed equally. And we have to have this process exist and 
flourish and grow and that's important for the balance. Growing up, I had a 
tremendous experience watching the young men, in Local 3, who were part of 
an organization called the Santiago Iglesias Educational Society, which is a 
working men's organization [00:18:30] predominantly populated by Puerto 
Rican men, but there were other men from the Dominican Republic, Cuba, and 
various parts of Latin America, but at the time, the predominant population 
were Puerto Ricans. I watched these young men who had families, grow this 
organization, develop the intellectual capacity to argue for things based on the 
leadership provided them by the great Local 3 and their example and [00:19:00] 
all the accomplishments that they had, which that was led by Harry Van Arsdale. 
So, here you have a group of hard-working Puerto Rican men and Latino men 
and African Americans in Local 3 who are following this great man, Harry Van 
Arsdale, in the middle of the Civil Rights Movement. That was impressive 
because the truth of what was being said was the bottom line. [00:19:30] The 
results that were being delivered to families, again, of which I was a recipient, is 
the bottom line. So the reverence to, as people call it, the union, which is really 
the wrong word ... People say, "I developed the reverence for the arguments 
that made sense for the advancement of working people by Local 3 and Harry 
Van Arsdale and all of the people that [00:20:00] were on board with that 
Harold Garcia (1) 
Page 5 of 16 
Speaker 1: 
Harry Garcia: 
Speaker 1: 
Harry Garcia: 
argument." It was a beautiful, beautiful thing growing up because everybody in 
that neighborhood had an association with Local 3. 
Mm-hmm (affirmative) 
It was a unique childhood. 
Mm-hmm (affirmative) 
There was this very, very distinctive quality about that childhood and one of the 
things that I loved, which was one of the traditions [00:20:30] that I got to 
witness was that on Sunday morning, you would see ... I would see and I 
witnessed and many times, I rode with them, the head of the labor organization, 
Local 3, Harry Van Arsdale, get on the bus on Sunday, take the bus and go to 
church. We would all get on that bus. And he would ride the bus. He didn't have 
to ride the bus, but, I'm a little kid and I [00:21:00] hear my father throughout 
my whole life talk about Harry Van Arsdale, the great accomplishments, and the 
argument that we're making as workers and the advancement of workers. He 
became like legend to me, the same way you think of a baseball player or 
president or anyone who has that charismatic but accomplished history. 
I'd go down to the corner, there he'd be waiting for the bus. We would be lined 
up, on line for the bus like, "Oh my God, Mr. Van Arsdale's on [00:21:30] line 
with the bus," him and his wife, Margaret. It was amazing as a kid. It's like 
seeing the CEO get on the bus with you. What a statement. 
This was impactful to me. He said, "I am just like you. I'm going to ride the bus. 
You ride the bus, I ride the bus and we're all going to church. And this is our 
neighborhood." I don't know that you can really quantify on a young person's 
mind ... You got [00:22:00] to imagine, now I'm 7, 8, 9,10 years old, seeing this 
every Sunday ... mostly every Sunday ... the impact of that on a young mind. It 
taught me something phenomenal about leadership. And it was more that it 
wasn't an egalitarian position. It was a position of humility to be a leader of 
workers, which is in so much contrast to what we're seeingtoday, not in a labor 
movement, but in the private sector with CEOs. 
I [00:22:30] really developed a philosophy, as I got older of inclusion. I really 
developed a philosophy of equality. I really developed a philosophy that 
everybody should participate in whatever, everybody has a voice and that, 
essentially, it's not in every case that you're going to agree on things. 
Somebody's going to have a different opinion about a way you're going to do 
something and you're going to have a different [00:23:00] opinion based on how 
you hear and see things. I walked into the world, from all of these childhood 
impressions that were made on me, being this type of person. I know that I 
looked at the concept that the neighborhood, the conversations at dinnertime, 
my father's fierce loyalty and allegiance to the truth [00:23:30] of what this 
man's life was and that I live there. I kind of felt like I was in the minor leagues. 
Harold Garcia (1) 
Page 6 of 16 
Like Electchester was the minor leagues for Local 3 and the concept was, if we 
raised them and teach them right, they will be great union people and we 
cultivate them here. I was one of those kids. There were many of us. 
But these weren't brainwashing tactics. It's nothing [00:24:00] like a speaker 
would come on in our house and Harry was up in his office and it was going 
through all our apartments. It wasn't anything like that at all. It was the results 
that my fatherwas getting and those results were measured in Christmases and 
things purchased and in vacations had and private lessons that I could take to 
study music. And my mother was able to go back to school and accomplish a 
master's degree because there were benefits in the union [00:24:30] that we 
were able to take advantage of for her to get her education. That's how those 
things were measured. 
From the time I'm born in 1961 to the time we leave East Harlem and I'm in 
Electchester, I'm 7 years old so it's 1968, both the Kennedy's had already been 
assassinated, Martin Luther King was a bout to be assassinated. I'm 8 years old, 
we had the Apollo, the first [00:25:00] rocket to the moon happening, we have 
tremendous chaos but tremendous accomplishment. Then we have tremendous 
failure because we had Watergate with Nixon in 1970, 71. Then we had the gas 
crisis. I'm a kid growing up and I'm watching all of this. The music changed from 
jazz in the 50s, the Beatles came and it was what the college kids did, which was 
rock and roll [00:25:30] through the 60s. But at the same time, we had 
tremendous fusion. Latin music was fused into rock and roll and Latin music was 
fused into jazz. Culturally, I was able to swim in all of these different things that 
were happening at that time. The history of which there's documentaries and 
stories that you can find online about it. 
But my impression is these radical changes, these upheavals, social [00:26:00] 
upheavals, political upheavals, musical upheavals from jazz to rock and roll, 
tremendous accomplishment, the launch to the moon, the Apollo moon 
landings, tremendous failure, Nixon with Watergate, tremendous chaos, Martin 
Luther King getting shot, all of those things were from the time I'm born to the 
time I'm 11 years old and watching the Vietnam War on TV. But I'm in 
Electchester and my father [00:26:30] has a good job and we have a TV and we 
have a really nice community and a nice life. 
Moving forward from that time, as I move into the 70s and high school, the 
most important moment that I recall moving forward from there is in 1980 
when Ronald Reagan decided that he was going to use federal employees 
[00:27:00] to replace the air traffic controllers. That's in 1980. At that time, I'm a 
first-year apprentice. I'm finally now ... I've come into Local 3 and the first sonic 
boom that hits, for me as a member of Local 3 and as a trade unionist, is the 
PATCO strike. This has a massive impact, not only on myself, but on the entire 
labor movement because never before had something [00:27:30] like this 
happened. 
Harold Garcia (1) 
Page 7 of 16 
Speaker 1: 
I'm working, at that time, as a first-year apprentice at the Eastern Air Lines 
Shuttle terminal at LaGuardia Airport. All of this activities beginning to fester 
and bubble and turn into something prior to Reagan actually laying down that 
edict. I see Harry Van Arsdale walking with what are his staff and a variety of 
politicians and people in favor of arguing against Reagan. I see [00:28:00] them 
walking through the airport and all I could ... Where I was doing a construction 
job. I'm an apprentice at that time. All I can tell you about this moment is that it 
is permanently burned in my head that this issue took place, there was a debate 
about which way this was going to go and I saw Harry with his staff, [00:28:30] 
about to get on a plane to go argue this. It was an incredible thing for me 
because I realized the power of what the labor movement is about. 
This is now not something that is just a little clip that you see on the news about 
politicians going through the airport. For me, it's far more involved because I 
grew up in Electchester, because my father [00:29:00] was reverent to Harry 
Van Arsdale because he provided opportunity for all of us, Puerto Ricans, 
African Americans, people of color, he embraced us. And that I became an 
electrician, as well. Now I'm on the job and here comes Harry with his group to 
go deal with this issue, which is a national issue. It was really impactful as a 
young person. Now, I'm 19 years old and now we're talking 1980. [00:29:30] I 
know that the outcome of that was not favorable to the labor movement and it 
created a ripple effect that resonates today, but I think, in reading back some 
articles that summarize the impact of that, what's being said is that Ronald 
Reagan never would have thought that that decision he made would have such 
a negative impact [00:30:00] today. And he probably would not have wanted it 
to turn into what it's turned into. 
Moving forward from 1980 to today, as I've now been working from 1980 to 
now, 36 years, my life as a worker has seen the ability for labor to effect an 
argument that was received and was [00:30:30] properly tabled and decisions 
were made accordingly, whereas today, it seems like it's a much, much more 
rigid set of exercises that capital has with labor. There's almost a preset, 
predetermined, set of methods in which they decide to deal with labor. It's a 
much, much tougher accomplishment. I'm extremely [00:31:00] fortunate to be 
here 35, 36 years later, seeing how corporations have grown, how the labor 
movement in the eyes of the corporate sector represents something that they 
don't want to support in a world that has so much more abundance than it's 
ever had, in a world where working people have so much more need because 
they've inflated the price of the core things for life. 
[00:31:30] Going back to my father, as I've said in the beginning, in the 50s, the 
policies were to help people move up. Today, food, clothing, shelter, health 
care, education are luxury items for people. If you have all of that, that's a 
luxury item, life that you're living as a working person, which it shouldn't be that 
way. 
Mm-hmm (affirmative). Right. 
Harold Garcia (1) 
Page 8 of 16 
Harry Garcia: 
So, I'm struck with the philosophical failure of what is [00:32:00] American 
capital to really not embrace the American worker and to really take a shot at 
the premise that some of the arguments that they have made about 
productivity and wages and similar things, which essentially, are an excuse to go 
abroad because there's a tax incentive and there's a cheaper labor rate in many 
cases where corporations [00:32:30] are manufacturing products. There are 
more details about those things, but certainly, I never thought... and this is my 
point... that the very, very America that I grew up in that I love so much, that 
my father fought for... My father put on the uniform, went to the Korean War 
and he fought for this country, took bullets for it... that they would turn on us in 
the way that they've turned on us. Coming out of the great accomplishments of 
what was [00:33:00] done before, the NLRA, coming into the 60s and up until 
today. It's really, really a statement of the failure of capitalism ... where working 
people are concerned, from a philosophical standpoint and from the exercise of 
how managers in corporations view us. 
It's a failed leadership, to me, because with anything that involves people who 
are willing, [00:33:30] it's a question of how you lead people. I feel very strongly 
that the labor movement has to continue to shout, to shout about it, to scream, 
to make a loud noise about it and to continue to implant the philosophical 
premise of what American workers are about, is something that American 
corporations need [00:34:00] to hold in a higher regard because it's not all 
about profits and revenue in a world where there is an incredible amount of 
abundance today, more so, than ever before. I don't want to get into the 
deregulation of the banks and all of the legal things, maneuvers, that have been 
made. New York City, itself, was bailed out by Local 3. We had a tremendous 
fiscal failure here. Union money bailed the city out. In that, [00:34:30] there 
were many tax brea ks that were given to the real estate developers. They're 
taking advantage of that today. There's lots of housing being built that is not for 
working people. That generates tremendous revenue in very complex legal ways 
for that. 
Again, the intoxication of capital as it had been prior to the passage of the NLRA, 
mistreatment, misdirected ideas about working people, the core concepts 
[00:35:00] that they need, food, clothing, shelter, education, transportation, we 
had to fight for that in a way that really put capitalists on alert that the United 
States might possibly become a socialist or communist country if they didn't 
pass things that gave workers a chance to move up. Here we are again, knocking 
on the door of that same type of sentiment. It's incumbent upon those of us 
who have ridden this historical timeline [00:35:30] to express the danger of the 
behavior of capitalists. I am all for capitalism. I am not for the behavior that is 
exhibited by capitalists who do not regard working people as important in the 
equation. 
I think [00:36:00] I'm a very proud brown-skinned, Puerto Rican man, raised in a 
beautiful community. The community comes from an idea that somebody had a 
longtime ago that working people deserve a better way than what was being 
issued then. I'm very proud when I tell people I come from a union and my 
Harold Garcia (1) 
Page 9 of 16 
Speaker 1: 
Harry Garcia: 
father was in a union [00:36:30] and I was raised in a union community and I will 
die knowing the greatness of that because of the types of work and things that 
I've been able to accomplish in my life because of it. 
Did you want more on that? 
No, I think that you're segueing yourself into the next thing. Can you elaborate a 
little bit on what you've done in your career work-wise and how you feel about 
[00:37:00] the things you've been able to accomplish? 
The things I've accomplished and how I feel? As I said earlier, I had a unique kind 
of signature, philosophically, that evolved in me and I became very sensitized to 
things and the ability to express things through words and through [00:37:30] 
pictures and through film and through music captured me as a young man. I 
came into Local 3 and I became an A journeyman electrician. I started in 1980. 
1985,1 had gotten what's called the A Journeyman Inside Wire man card. It's a 
five and a half year process. I began to work in the construction of buildings 
here in New York. But I had also studied [00:38:00] music as a young person and 
I was blessed to listen to Miles Davis, John Coltrane, Charlie Parker, Sonny Stitt, 
as well as all the greats in Latin music, Tito Puente, Mario Bauza, all the great 
Cuban musicians, all the great Afro-Cuban musicians' music [inaudible 
00:38:21], the cultural musics of Puerto Rico, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, as 
well as all of the great American music, whether it was country music, 
[00:38:30] folk music, rock and roll, and all the fusions that came from that. 
So I always had this tremendous passion, as I was an electrician, for the arts. It 
was around about 1988,1 was given an opportunity to audition fora ... what's 
called a commercial... that [00:39:00] was being sponsored by the McDonald's 
corporation. The way that audition happened, they sent out a PR blast to all the 
unions and they were looking for individuals to talk about being an electrician. It 
got to me through one of the working organizations. I went down to the 
audition. I met with the production company and I expressed to them that if this 
commercial is geared toward young people who are watching cartoons on 
Saturday morning, that [00:39:30] it would be great to get them excited about 
things that they don't know electricians do. For me, that was turning on the 
lights in the ballpark or turning the power on to a sound system at a rock 
concert or, in film, the guys who set up all the lighting and create sets. 
When I discussed this with the production company, they really embraced the 
idea and thought it was great and asked if we could do something at one 
[00:40:00] of the ballparks. Fortunately, my union leaders, my business 
representatives, the business manager, the people managing the organization, 
were able to get involved in this conversation and we were able to green light 
shooting the spot at Shea Stadium. As a result of shooting that spot... which 
was very successful. The spot ran for some ten years ... I was able [00:40:30] to 
work in a very unique field that Local 3 had a contract with. That work was to 
work in what is called ... the scoreboard control room. 
Harold Garcia (1) 
Page 10 of 16 
Speaker 1: 
Harry Garcia: 
Speaker 1: 
Harry Garcia: 
Before you go farther, can you express what happened in the commercial? 
Oh, yeah. Yeah. The commercial was aptly titled, When I Grow U p. It might be 
on YouTube or something. I haven't looked. In that commercial, [00:41:00] the 
audience is taken into a job site and I'm on a construction site. At first, we're 
standing with some blueprints and I'm discussing reading blueprints and 
understanding how these blueprints affect the installation of conduit and wiring 
and that you have to understand how to do these things and math and science 
are important. The reason that's [00:41:30] all important is ... And then we're at 
the ballpark and I said, "Because when you turn the lights on in the ballpark," 
and the lights come on. You see a wide shot of all the lights coming on. Then I 
say something, "It's all of that hard work and dedication that makes it all worth 
it." I'm paraphrasing. I can't remember the exact script. 
It's basically two scenes and those are the two scenes, the stadium and at the 
job site. Then we did. We did. We went into the switch gear room. We loosened 
[00:42:00] up one of the switch gear levers and I pulled it back and you hear a 
sound effect. Then the next scene I'm outside and the lights come on in a dark 
stadium. There's nobody in there but... And the light come on. It's dramatic. 
Yeah. I'm sure. 
It was like, "Wow. It's great to be an electrician. Look what this guy does." So, it 
was a beautiful, again, moment for me to tap into my creative side by [00:42:30] 
sharing concept, which is part of who I am. But I also knew that it was important 
for me to make sure that when they are photographing me, that I have a shirt 
on that says Local 3 IBEW, from my upbringing. Because what I didn't want was 
to have the commercial be shot and we're not saying that I'm a union member. 
We want young [00:43:00] people to become union members because to the 
importance of collective bargaining. Those two things happened and it was 
fantastic and everybody was very happy on both sides of it. It set me in a 
trajectory. 
I started out, I was working construction. I got the opportunity to work for the 
New York Mets back in 1989, was when I started, in their scoreboard control 
room. The reason the timing for that was [00:43:30] critical where I was 
concerned, essentially, was because the beginning, the introduction of 
computer systems, was at that time. It was the first time they were using 
computers to turn light bulbs on and off because the scoreboards in 1989 were 
all, essentially, light bulbs. We were then using an industrial real-time software 
that's used [00:44:00] for robotics to tell robots, "Go here. Grab this, move it 
over, drop it down." We were using that software to tell light bulbs, "Turn on. 
Turn off." 
The nature of how that software worked is they were able to create a matrix 
and maps and create cross points that you can technically go in and type in 
block fonts and you can scan some images to make some [00:44:30] animations. 
It was radical that the time. The name of the company at the time was White 
Harold Garcia (1) 
Page 11 of 16 
Way Sign ... They were out of Chicago ... and they had that software. The reason 
they were called White Way Sign was because they used to do all the signs on 
Broadway, which was called the Great White Way because of all the lights. 
Interesting history there. 
When I got into that control room, I remember being walked up into a control 
room and seeing what was [00:45:00] lots of equipment that I didn't understand 
fully but I knew I was excited, I was alive, the part of me that was creative and 
that was full of energy to participate and to show what I could do ... I always feel 
young people just want to show what they can do ... That that part of me really 
came alive. I went into that control room and I worked there from 1989, 
[00:45:30] just during baseball season, until now. I'm still there, working for the 
Mets, in 2017. 
So, my career took a completely different path. The reason that's important is 
because from 1989 to 2017,1 happened to ride the transition from the world of 
analogic the world of digital and the proliferation of what happens to become 
the transition from what was the analog world for all [00:46:00] things to the 
digital world. I learned every step of the way, as the equipment changed, as we 
went from ... when we finally got to HD and when we began to completely dive 
into the world of all things digital from an operational standpoint. 
The knowledge that I received from the years of doing that, I was able to 
transfer to another [00:46:30] venue that Local 3 has a contract with, which is 
our convention center here in New York, the Jacob Javits Convention Center. For 
the last maybe 22 years, I've worked there as well. In there I have a double role. 
I have two roles. Many times I am an electrician installing branch wiringforthe 
various setups, building structures that have [00:47:00] an electrical component 
to them alongside carpenters, but a lot of the time, I'm working as what they 
call a Lead Video Systems Integrator. In that capacity, all the knowledge I 
acquired is now useful for the electrical department because it's all the same 
digital equipment that I've been working on over the years at the Mets. 
So, I am the most non-electrician electrician you've probably ever met because 
my life not only consists of working exclusively [00:47:30] in these two venues, 
convention center and a baseball stadium. I've been doing that now for some 25 
years between the two places. It's been fascinating, very exciting. I've met lots 
of people and I've learned a tremendous amount. It's taken me to work in other 
places. I was able to be a video director for a DVD called Rough Around the 
Edges, which was a production done at Madison Square Garden [00:48:00] by a 
comedian na med Dane Cook. If you look on the credits, you'll see that I'm the 
video director on the DVD, which they don't use DVDs anymore. And I've done 
lots and lots of great productions at the Javits Center, concerts and the like. I've 
been able to teach and share knowledge and make customers comfortable and 
make everyone [00:48:30] involved in the process feel really, really good that 
we can accomplish something a little bit more sophisticated, a little bit more of 
an engineering kind of platform that's not typical in the world of what 
electricians do where video integration's concerned. 
Harold Garcia (1) 
Page 12 of 16 
Speaker 1: 
Harry Garcia: 
Speaker 1: 
Harry Garcia: 
It's been a beautiful, beautiful experience. Again, as I said earlier, I've been a 
person from my childhood, my formative years, understanding [00:49:00] the 
labor movement and the Civil Rights Movement and all those things, that gave 
me a voice that said, "Hey, let's all work together." So when I'm doing these 
types of integrations, I love to show somebody what to do. I love to take 
somebody who perhaps doesn't have as much experience or knowledge, show 
him how it's done, connect with the head engineer, look at what we have to 
build, accomplish it, work together so that the premise is more, look at the 
experience, the knowledge, and the togetherness as [00:49:30] opposed to 
something that could be less effective. 
It's been wonderful. I didn't mention it but I grew up studying the flute and 
playing mostly jazz and popular music and Latin music. I studied classical music, 
because a flute is a classical instrument, for a short time. I did get to play at 
Carnegie Hall and the Lincoln Center here when I was in junior high [00:50:00] 
school and high school. I still play music. I'm a very, very avid proponent of the 
classics in the world of jazz and Latin jazz a nd music that is not necessarily 
contrived. I, personally, just get a lot from it, listening to great improvisers. That, 
honestly, it helps me at work. Sometimes I improvise howto do something at 
work. Sometimes I take a solo [00:50:30] to work on a system's integration. 
Those are the key things. Those are really the three key things. 
People will say, "Why does this guy practice his flute at lunch every day?" I still 
do that, too. 
Mm-hmm (affirmative). 
Yeah. So, those are the things today. 
All right, Garcia, can I ask you, what is your title at the Mets, at Citi Field and 
what are some of the [00:51:00] responsibilities of that role? 
At Citi Field, the new stadium construction happened in 2009 and from 2009 to 
2017, I've been there at Citi Field and the capacity and title of Technical 
Director. The technical director in the world of broadcasting is the person 
responsible A, for making sure all of the [00:51:30] crew who's operating 
equipment has had the proper time to check in all their equipment, make sure 
it's all working, make sure everybody's there, make sure everybody's 100% 
ready to go. You're kind of the lead for all the operators. And then, from an 
actual work standpoint, I'm operating something called a switcher. The switcher 
is the piece of equipment which has all of the other sources tied into it. 
Cameras, [00:52:00] replay machines, graphics machines, all of the various 
elements that you visually see, they all go into the switcher because that's what 
the switcher does. It switches those sources. 
There's a director who is, what we say, he's callingthe show. I'm on headset as 
the technical director, making sure all the crew is set, ready to go. The director 
Harold Garcia (1) 
Page 13 of 16 
Speaker 1: 
Harry Garcia: 
Speaker 1: 
Harry Garcia: 
gets on, he begins to call the show and it's a variety of calling cameras and 
replays [00:52:30] and all the things you see when you watch any sports 
broadcast on TV. It is different, though, than on TV in the sense that we're 
broadcasting it just in the stadium. But we're using pretty much all the same 
technology that they use for TV. It's become very, very, very, very sophisticated 
over the years. It's all networking and internet protocol and it's all file-based 
and file transfer systems. All the things of the digital [00:53:00] world are 
involved in how this gets done, which is, for me, a fascinating journey because I 
got to watch that entire transition. 
I love it. I love what I do. I enjoy the technical challenges ... and there are a lot... 
to make all that stuff work. And then I love doing the live show. I personally get 
something from doing a live show to a full stadium and event. It's a thing. 
[00:53:30] It's definitely a thing. 
Is there anything about the changes that you dislike? Of the evolution that you 
might not appreciate? 
I think what I don't like is that I never know what the next shift is coming from 
the manufacturers. They're back in their labs, coming up with new things and 
we never get a heads up on what's coming. Then these things roll out [00:54:00] 
and they begin to show up. It's become the culture that you have to learn 
whatever they engineered and know how to implement it but also understand 
the subsystem of how to network it, how to design whatever it's supposed to 
do, figure out some of the technical drawbacks based on how your facility 
works. That's always like an "uh oh" moment, like, "By the way, we're getting 
this new piece of equipment." [00:54:30] Those things have just become that 
way. That's the way new equipment rolls out in the broadcast world. 
So, yeah. I always kind of felt like that's not fun. 
In the future, do you think your children or members of your community would 
do the same type of work that you're doing today? 
Yeah. Yeah. I think so. I mean, we're in the age now of automation and machine 
learning and big [00:55:00] data. The world is connected and it's a global 
scenario. We're in the world of 3-D printing and apps. We're in the world of 
remotely controlling and operating things. But it doesn't take away certain 
legacy things that still have to be done and would require hands-on. The work 
that is specific to my life is being an electrician and while the installation of 
systems [00:55:30] can be automated, you still need electricians to get the wires 
off the truck, make sure the wires are right, get them pulled through conduits, 
get the network rooms built and patched in and tested, and do all the branch 
circuiting. All of those things ... Unless we get to the point where we're doing 
wireless power transmission, I still see a very robust future for this industry and 
people who want to follow and continue [00:56:00] in this path. I don't see it 
going away any time soon. 
Harold Garcia (1) 
Page 14 of 16 
Speaker 1: 
Harry Garcia: 
Speaker 1: 
Harry Garcia: 
Speaker 1: 
Harry Garcia: 
Speaker 1: 
Harry Garcia: 
A final question that I have for you, in the essence of time, is what inspires you? 
I've heard about what were things that have inspired you in the past, but what 
inspires you today? 
To me, I'm inspired to ... What inspires me today is to get to observe people 
who spend their entire life mastering one thing. [00:56:30] That's why I love the 
Olympics. That's why I love great virtuoso musicians or any person, for that 
matter, that has the foresight at a very early age to discover the thing he's 
passionate about and get the maximum education for his entire life until he gets 
to the point where he can execute that thing. To me, that's always very 
inspirational because we all have a champion inside of us. We all want 
[00:57:00] greatness in what we do. To be able to witness people who take that 
greatness to that ultimate level, for me, is always inspiring, almost emotional for 
me. 
I can name athletes and musicians and people who have given me that feeling. 
For some very, I guess, specific reason I have been sensitive to that particular 
thing. [00:57:30] There's nothing greater than seeing a guy in the Olympics cross 
the finish line and win the gold because you know he spent his life trying to 
accomplish it. He finally did. He got there. That's always inspiring to me. And it 
could be in any category. It's the journey, discovering the passion, maximizing 
the education, then being on stage to do your thing. Those things inspire me. 
Is there anything else that you want to add [00:58:00] to this awesome 
interview or anything that you want to ask me or anything that we missed? 
I really am curious about some things. I do have some thoughts of my own 
philosophical things that I would like to add. Those things really relate to the 
future. I [00:58:30] really wonder what the next hundred years will be like. A 
hundred years from now will be the year 2117, right? 
Mm-hmm (affirmative). 
And I think a hundred years back was the year 1917. The thing that I would like 
to add is that we don't think of the people of 1917. We don't think of their 
worries, their arguments, their concerns, [00:59:00] their failures, their 
successes, because they're not here. But yet, all of those people from 1917 
affected today, in 2017. I would hope that what I'm doing and other people in 
this particular time in history and our life, affects the people a hundred years 
from now in a way, even though they will not know that I ever existed and they 
will not know who I am. But [00:59:30] there is a positive, huge paradigm shift in 
how we view, care for, treat, and enable working people in this country and 
around the world. 
Thank you so much, Harry G. 
You're welcome. My pleasure. 
Harold Garcia (1) 
Page 15 of 16 
Speaker 1: 
It's been a pleasure to have you here. 
Harry Garcia: 
My pleasure. Thank you for having me. 
How did we do? 
☆☆☆☆☆ 
If you rate this transcript 3 or below, this agent will not work on your 
future orders 
Harold Garcia (1) 
Page 16 of 16