BATON ROUGE FOLKLIFE SURVEY 
AUDIO RECORDING LOG 
 
 Audio Log # 
  
 Photo Log # 
  
 I.D. Form # 
 
 
 Interviewer(s) 
 Maria Zeringue 
Date & Time 
06/24/14 
10am 
 Recording Title (informant or event)                                                               
Michael Thai, owner of Vinh Phat  
 Location of Interviews 
Vinh Phat 
12351 Florida Blvd 
Baton Rouge, LA 70815 
 Recording Equipment                                                    
 Olympus Digital Recorder DS-4000 
 Format 
WAV. 
 Length of Interviews 
55m 48s 
 
 Note: The interview took place in Michael’s store. Light background noise can be 
heard.  
 
 
 
0 BTime 
1 BSubject 
2 BInterviewee 
Part I 
 
Michael Thai 
0:22 
Michael introduces himself and talks about his family 
history in China, Vietnam and then coming to Louisiana. 
His family has been in Louisiana for about 30 years.  
 
1:45 
 
Michael talks about why people from Vietnam may have 
chosen to live in Louisiana (environment, landscape, 
weather). 
 
3:05 
When Michael’s family first came to Baton Rouge, the 
city was very small and the Asian community was not 
as big as it is today. Michael discusses the “Far East” 
neighborhood of Baton Rouge. 
 
0 BTime 
1 BSubject 
2 BInterviewee 
4:07 
Michael’s parents opened the store in December 1984. 
He discusses the demographics of the area around 
Florida Blvd around the time they opened the store. 
Michael also talks about the beginnings of the family’s 
life in Louisiana and how they came to open the 
business.  
 
7:24 
Michael talks about the building space that has been 
home to Vinh Phat for over thirty years and why they 
are looking for a new place to house the store. 
 
8:29 
Michael talks about the financial risk that his family took 
in opening the business because at the time there was 
not a great need for an Asian store in the city. He also 
discusses the difficulties that his family faced in the first 
few years of Vinh Phat. 
 
10:15 
Michael discusses the Asian community (Vietnamese, 
Chinese and Filipino populations) in Baton Rouge and 
how the demographics has grown and changed over 
the years especially due to Hurricane Katrina and 
foreign students who study at LSU.  
 
11:54 
Michael talks about the period when his family started to 
make financial gains from the business. 
 
12:29 
Michael discusses the impact of Hurricane Katrina on 
the business and how competition has increased due to 
more families moving to the city after the hurricane. 
There now are 5 Asian markets in Baton Rouge. 
 
14:20 
Michael talks about the LSU student customer base and 
then goes on to talk about the diversity of his current 
clientele and the products that he sells to cater to all of 
his customers such as the African and Hispanic 
shoppers. 
 
17:05 
Michael explains how they can order items that his 
customers request; especially hard to find items that he 
is not too familiar with like products from Latin America 
or Africa. He gives an example of buying and selling 
exotic fruits. 
 
19:03 
Michael talks about his suppliers and where they are 
located in the US (Houston, Atlanta, Florida and 
Hawaii). He also talks about the regulations on spinach 
and seafood in Louisiana and how they learned about 
those regulations the hard way. 
 
0 BTime 
1 BSubject 
2 BInterviewee 
23:30 
Michael talks about the community bulletin board space 
right outside the store: who posts and what people post. 
 
25:15 
Michael talks about the specialty products that the store 
carries during holidays like New Year’s, Christmas and 
The Moon (Autumn) Festival. He gives the example of 
moon cakes that are sold for the Moon Festival. “It’s 
kind of like Christmas except, you know, it’s not Christ.” 
He also gives a description of a moon cake. 
 
29:21 
Michael continues his discussion about the products 
that he sells (requests, ordering, and unpopular items) 
and the Hispanic customer boom of the past five years.  
 
30:44 
Michael talks about the meat products that he sells at 
the meat counter that cater to Asian customers (Pork 
blood, ox tail and chicken feet are examples.) He also 
talks about the meat used in Pho. 
 
32:32 
Michael discusses supplying to restaurants (not 
wholesale), packaging produce at the store, and cutting 
meat in a way that caters to Asian customers (pork feet 
is an example). He also lists the types of fresh and 
frozen seafood that Vinh Phat sells. 
 
35:16 
Michael talks about the dry products they get from 
suppliers from California and the ways they can save 
money by cutting out the middle man. However, Michael 
says: “The middle man helps a lot when we are short on 
supply…” 
 
36:58 
Michael describes a typical day in the store and the 
preparations involved for receiving inventory on a daily 
basis. They are open and get deliveries seven days a 
week.  
 
40:09 
Michael talks about the most popular items in the store: 
fresh produce and snacks. Korean and Japanese items 
have gotten popular in the last few years. 
 
41:31 
Michael discusses the pastries and bread items from 
Houston, New Orleans and California that he sells in the 
store and the advantages that come with being a well-
established grocery store. 
 
0 BTime 
1 BSubject 
2 BInterviewee 
43:28 
Michael talks about working with his parents seven days 
a week: “We all have our family problems, you know, 
but most of the time it’s a good environment, a happy 
environment.” He also discusses his brothers, sisters 
and relatives who all work outside of the store. He is 
one of seven and the only one of his siblings who works 
at the store. (There are some great quotes here.)  
 
48:00 
The store employs 5 people including Michael and his 
parents. There are two part-time cashiers who work at 
the store.  
 
48:39 
Michael discusses the difficulty of keeping prices low 
due to gas prices (starting from the Gulf War). This is a 
business that relies heavily on deliveries since a lot of 
the items are imported from abroad and then shipped to 
the store from all over the US.  
 
50:37 
The busiest times for the store are difficult to pin point 
because each day can be different. Michael says that 
the week-ends are usually busy. Rain is a deterrent to 
business, he says. 
 
52:06 
Michael talks about doing business in Baton Rouge and 
the open-mindedness of his customer base now.  
 
53:36 
For the future of the store, Michael hopes that his family 
can buy a bigger store instead of renting the space. He 
also discusses how to have a successful business in 
Baton Rouge. 
 
55:48 
End of Interview.