Oral History Interview 
 
with 
 
Dudley Hamilton 
 
 
 
 
 
Interview Conducted by 
Juliana Nykolaiszyn and Tanya Finchum 
June 30, 2011 
 
 
The “Big Top” Show Goes On:  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oklahoma Oral History Research Program 
Edmon Low Library ● Oklahoma State University 
© 2011 
 
 
2
The “Big Top” Show Goes On  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
Interview History 
 
 
Interviewers: Juliana Nykolaiszyn, Tanya Finchum 
Transcriber: 
Amy Graham 
Editors: 
Miranda Mackey, Tanya Finchum, Juliana Nykolaiszyn 
 
The recording and transcript of this interview were processed at the Oklahoma State 
University Library in Stillwater, Oklahoma. 
 
Project Detail 
 
The “Big Top” Show Goes On: An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the 
Canvas Circus Tent aims to preserve the voices and experiences of those involved with the 
work culture associated with Hugo, Oklahoma’s tent circus tradition.  
 
Funding for this project was made possible by the Library of Congress American Folklife 
Center as part of a 2011 Archie Green Fellowship awarded to researchers Tanya Finchum 
and Juliana Nykolaiszyn with the Oklahoma Oral History Research Program at the OSU 
Library. 
 
This project was approved by the Oklahoma State University Institutional Review Board on 
May 6, 2011. 
 
Legal Status 
 
Scholarly use of the recordings and transcripts of the interview with Dudley Hamilton is 
unrestricted. The interview agreement was signed on June 30, 2011. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
The “Big Top” Show Goes On  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
About Dudley Hamilton… 
 
Dudley Hamilton, born in 1929 in Texas, ‘joined’ the circus in 1982 and continues to be 
involved with the circus as superintendent of the Kelly Miller Circus winter quarters in 
Hugo, Oklahoma. He truly has circus in his blood. 
 
Prior to coming to the circus industry, Dudley was involved in various careers. For a time he 
was a Texas highway patrolman and he also raised and showed collies. Following a few life 
changes, Dudley made a trip to Sarasota, Florida where he toured the Circus Hall of Fame 
and the Ringling mansion. The experience fed his interest in the circus. 
 
As luck, or fate, would have it, while he was in his seventeenth year working a bread route 
for Mrs. Baird’s Bakery in Texas, he was presented with the opportunity to begin working 
for Carson and Barnes Circus based in Hugo, Oklahoma. Mr. D.R. Miller hired Dudley to be 
a booking agent for the circus and Mr. Jesse Jessen, a well-known circus booking agent, 
trained him. Dudley would go on to train approximately twenty-five to thirty booking 
agents. 
 
After working as a booking agent for several years, Dudley moved over into the position of 
press agent, yet continued to train booking agents. Then following some health issues, rather 
than being on the road as press agent, he was offered the opportunity to manage the pie car. 
When the need for someone to watch over the winter quarters for the Kelly Miller Circus 
came about, Dudley accepted the position and continues to serve in this role today. 
 
Dudley is very well-versed in circus history, especially as it relates to the town of Hugo. 
Like a true showman, he enthusiastically shares what he knows with those who ask. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
The “Big Top” Show Goes On  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
Dudley Hamilton 
 
Oral History Interview 
 
Interviewed by Juliana Nykolaiszyn  
& Tanya Finchum 
July 1, 2011 
Hugo, Oklahoma 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
 
 
 
Hamilton 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
 
Hamilton 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
My name is Juliana Nykolaiszyn and also with me is Tanya Finchum. 
We’re with the Oklahoma Oral History Research Program at the OSU 
Library. Today is Thursday, June 30, 2011, and we’re in Hugo, 
Oklahoma, interviewing Dudley Hamilton. Dudley, thank you for joining 
us today. 
 
You’re quite welcome. 
 
Well, we’d like to begin by learning a little bit more about you. Could 
you tell us what year you were born and where, and a little bit about 
your early life. 
 
All right. I’m old. I was born in 1929, the same year as the Great 
Depression got here. We both hit the earth about the same time. My 
parents were farmers in northwest Texas, and my daddy was killed about 
two months before I was born so I never saw my daddy. But, I had a 
good upbringing. Our mother had five children (cat meows) and I was 
the baby, of course, since Papa got killed. There’s my wife (referring to 
the cat), my constant companion. I went to high school. I never did go to 
college. Back in those days, if you went to college, you laid down cash 
money. There weren’t all the student loans and opportunities like there is 
now. I never really wanted to. I never did like school. I have done an 
assortment of different kinds of work. I’m a hard worker, I love to work.  
I work hard, diligently. I’m a good employee always, I’ll brag on myself 
a little. I never have been interested in making a lot of money. I just 
always wanted to do what excited me. 
 
I’ll tell you two or three things that did excite me and I did all of them. I 
never have gotten all the way through the list yet, but I’m too old now. 
When I was in high school, I fell in love with collie dogs. That was 
about the time the Lassie book came out, and they made a movie and I 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
just went nuts over that. There was another man, and I have three or four 
of his books down there, he wrote books. He was a collie breeder and he 
lived up in New Jersey, Albert Payson Terhune. He was kind of a 
gentlemanly New Englander. Over a period of time, I read all those 
books. He was such a booster for the collie breed of dogs. I’m not 
talking about Border Collies. Get that picture of that dog right there. 
That’s one of my dogs.  
 
I was married. I decided, when I was a kid, I was going to raise collie 
dogs—and good ones, really good ones. You can tell there (gestures to a 
photograph), I had them. That was one of my firsts. My wife and I 
showed dogs, showed our dogs. We put championships on several dogs. 
I studied from the time I’d get home from work until we’d go to bed at 
night. I was reading about dogs and how to take care of them and how to 
groom them. We worked hard at it and we were very successful. We 
finished championships on several dogs. We used to show dogs from 
New Mexico to the east coast. We were very successful so that satisfied 
that wish. 
 
When I was young, we lived in Texas. I’m a native born Texan. I always 
admired the highway patrolmen down there. I always wanted to do that. 
When I was a little kid, they’d come through our little town, and I just 
thought they looked so sharp, clean, and neat, and they had those pretty 
uniforms on. Everybody was respectful towards them and I thought, “I 
want to do that.” Well, I saw a little article in the Abilene Reporter-
News, a newspaper. They were going to give examinations for the 
highway patrol so I went down and took that examination. They tested 
something over eight hundred men. That was before women were 
accepted. They tested over eight hundred men and they chose fifty out of 
that eight hundred and something, to go to the academy and fortunately, 
I was one of the fifty. I don’t know if you know anything about that kind 
of work or not, but boot camp in the military is a breeze after going to 
the highway patrol academy in any state, particularly in Texas. It’s hard, 
it is really hard, and unless you want to do that so very badly—you can 
go home anytime you want to with, “I give up, this is it.”  
 
We’d wake up every morning. It’s like a big, old open bay dormitory. 
Every morning there would be another empty bed. You have to take an 
examination every Saturday on what you studied all that week, and if 
you flunked that exam on Saturday morning, you’re out. It keeps you 
sharp. Several guys got busted out that way. Most of them just quit, just 
went home. We ended up, out of fifty people that started the academy, 
we ended up graduating twenty-four, and I was one of them. I’ve always 
told my friends, “Unless you absolutely wanted, very badly, to be a 
Texas highway patrolman, you wouldn’t do it.” If you ever see those 
guys, you can just tell yourself, “There is a man that wanted that job so 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
bad,” because you go through all kinds of misery. 
 
They used to put boxing gloves on us. We’d have a physical ed class 
every day, an hour or two hours, and they’d match up by weight. I was a 
big, old, dumb kid. I think I was twenty-one, maybe twenty-two years 
old then. There was a Mexican boy from El Paso who was deputy sheriff 
out there. He had applied and got accepted. Unfortunately, we weighed 
the same, and they’d put the boxing gloves on me and him and put us 
out there. That old kid nearly beat me to death before I got out of that 
school. (Laughs) But he had been working as deputy sheriff in El Paso. 
He was used to fighting the drunks. Well, I’d never had a fight in my life 
and he beat me unmercifully, but like a good trooper, I kept trooping. 
 
Later on, I always wanted to learn to fly an airplane so I started taking 
flying lessons, and did that. (Laughs) I’ve got five or six, maybe seven 
hours of solo time. The guy that owned the airplane quit, he left the 
country so that ended my airplane [flying], but I got to do it. There were 
a few other little things I wanted to do and did, that aren’t too important. 
 
I was always fascinated by circus, and I was fifty-two, maybe fifty-four 
years old, working hard. I was running bread routes down there, in 
Texas, and that was hard work—nine, ten hours a day out in the weather, 
six days a week. I was single, living by myself. I was divorced. My 
children were gone. I decided to go down to Sarasota, Florida. That’s 
where the Ringling brothers had their winter quarters. That is the circus 
city. We call ourselves “Circus City” here and we are sort of, but in 
Sarasota, there have been countless circuses down there. 
 
I took vacation and went down there and that just did it. They had the 
Circus Hall of Fame down there and I went through that and went 
through the old Ringling mansion and all of that kind of stuff. It wasn’t 
long after that when that young lady came through San Angelo and she 
called me, trying to get me to go to work for the circus so I did. That was 
the best move I ever made in my life. I was working for Mrs. Baird’s 
Bakery. It had been seventeen years. I had moved up in the company. 
They offer a lot of perks; free health insurance, free vacation, free 
retirement plan, everything is paid for, and I was getting three weeks of 
vacation every year, as long as you were working. I was only about two 
years away from getting four weeks of vacation. I really was sort of 
scared to quit that job, but I did. And I’m so proud I did. I started 
working for the circus and of course, [Jesse] Jessen said, “I’m going to 
send you to California”—he was in California. They were short on 
booking agents. That’s one of the hardest jobs on the circus there is to 
fill, because you’re always out there by yourself. You can take your wife 
or girlfriend with you if you want to, but who wants to sit in a hotel 
room all day while I’m out working? 
 
 
7
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Hamilton 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Hamilton 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Hamilton 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What was the name of the circus, your first circus? 
 
Carson and Barnes.  
 
Oh, okay. 
 
And they winter right up the street. 
 
Okay. 
 
At that time, they were the largest tent circus in the world; five rings, 
twenty-three elephants every day, and on and on and on. It’s a little bit 
frightening to know. They’ve got about two hundred people on that 
show—or did then. I don’t know what it was valued at, probably five 
million dollars. We had to stay in motels booking the circus, but 
sometimes I’d lie in bed at night and get scared thinking about it. Mr. 
Miller and his family have got four or five million dollars tied up in that 
thing, depending on me and the other agents to put them in good spots 
out there. Two hundred people and their families depended on me for the 
same thing. That’s a pretty big responsibility. That was part of an 
adrenaline rush and the fright that I experienced. (Laughs)  
 
I worked hard at that, and Mr. Jessen was a general agent. He’s the man 
that I met in Little Rock and fortunately, for me, Jesse liked me. He 
spent a lot time working with me. He taught me a lot about the circus 
business. Jesse was an interesting person himself. He retired from the 
Marine Corps as a captain. After he retired, he started working for the 
state of California, in the sales tax department. He moved way up in that 
job and retired from the state of California. He and his wife had a little 
travel trailer and they were just knocking around the country fulltime, 
the RV people they call them. He got started working for Carson and 
Barnes, himself. He moved straight to the top, though. He was executive 
vice president of that company. He not only handled a lot of the circus 
business, but he handled a lot of Mr. Miller’s private investments. I was 
very fortunate. 
 
Booking agents go from town to town. They usually suggest what town 
they want you to go to, the general agent. It works a number of different 
ways with different shows. But for most circuses, the agent will go into a 
town and explore the possibility to bring their circus there. We always 
play under the auspices of some of what we call the “knife and fork” 
clubs, the Lion’s Club, the Kiwanis, all of those and numerous others, 
for a share of the money. You get on the telephone, you call them and 
you ask if you can come by this afternoon. You explain to him what 
we’re doing and how it works. Usually, you’re talking to the president. I 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
always went to the chamber of commerce when I first got into a town. 
The chambers all have a list of the clubs and organizations in the town—
you guys are familiar with it, I can see. So, usually, those lists are a year 
or two or three out of date, but at least that’s a starting place. 
 
You’re calling people and what I learned to do is don’t tell them 
anymore on the telephone than you have to. I want to sit down with 
them, like we are here. If you talk to them on the telephone, you don’t 
know how stressed out they are or how busy they are at their desk. You 
may not have their full attention, that’s the reason I liked to ask them if I 
could come by in the morning and visit with them briefly about the 
circus. They’re always interested in their club, wanting to make a little 
money. So I’d go back. And what you’d do, or what a smart agent does, 
is try to sell that person on the idea. They’re always going to tell you, 
“Well, I can’t make that decision myself. I’m going to have to get most 
of the members or the board of directors.” Two things happen when 
you’re a booking agent on a circus. You are always trying to rush this 
deal through so you can get your commission check and get on to the 
next town. They, the prospects, are always trying to slow you up and put 
you off. Used to, when I’d train new agents, I’d tell them, “It’s kind of a 
game between you and those prospects. You’re going to be trying to 
speed them up. They’re going to be trying to slow you up.” And that’s 
the way it works.  
 
Mr. Jessen trained me and I think I was the last agent that he ever 
trained. After he trained me, he would send all the trainees to me and I 
had to do that at no extra pay. I’d be on the road, no telling where, but 
he’d send them to me and we’d get them a motel room. We’d do 
classroom work during most of the day, and I would be setting 
appointments to go to the club meetings. When I’d go to the Lion’s Club 
meeting or wherever to do a presentation, I’d take the trainee with me 
and let them sit there and see how I did it, what I told them, what I didn’t 
tell them. I had a nephew, a real smart kid. We hired him. He told me 
one time, he said, “Uncle, when you do this job, there is a time to talk 
and there is a time to shut up and listen,” and he is so right. What a good 
agent’s got to do is recognize that time when it rolls around. Anyway, 
I’d keep those trainees about a week or ten days and I would call Jesse 
and say, “I believe this old boy is ready, or this girl is ready.”  
 
I loved to train women. They make such good agents. I think one reason 
they do is because they run a little bit scared. They know they’re 
competing with the men out there and they will leave no stone unturned, 
and it pays off. One of the best people that I ever trained was a young, 
single girl. She had a college degree. I don’t know what they call that, 
but what she learned to do in college was design women’s clothing. The 
kid was smart. She worked at a western wear store for a while and ended 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Hamilton 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
up booking circuses, but she was good. We were down in Louisiana 
when Jesse sent her to me. We had gone through some little town getting 
to our target town. I always liked to take a little nap after lunch every 
day, back in those days. We did her classroom work early and I told 
her—what I was trying to do was just get her out of there, where I could 
go to sleep. I said, “Why don’t you get in your car and go over there to 
that little town,”—it was just twenty miles away—“drive over there and 
see if you can find a vacant lot big enough to put the circus on. See how 
prosperous the town was”—we always liked to go to the schoolhouse. 
You’d learn a lot going to schools sometimes, looking at them, 
especially when parents come to pick the kids up. Little old Honey 
Grove, tiny little town over here, I was over there one day. The parents 
were bringing school kids out and I never saw so many new cars in my 
life as there is down at old Honey Grove. That says good prosperity so 
you learn to look for things like that. Anyway, I lost the thread of my 
story.  
 
Well, you send her down to that town… 
 
Oh, yes. I said, “Go over there and just look around and see what you 
think.” It was about this time of day (about four o’clock) when I sent 
that kid over there and it started getting close to night and I started 
getting scared. I thought, “Oh, my.” In Louisiana, I’m kind of scared 
down there anyway, in some of those little towns. It was pitch dark 
before that kid knocked on my door, and she came in waving a contract 
in her hand. I had that happen to me twice. She had went over there and 
went in and talked to somebody and sold them the circus—good agent. 
She just did a good job.  
 
I got another deal like that one time. We hired my nephew, I mentioned. 
Mr. Jessen sent him to me. The old boy’s smart as he could be, but he’s 
lazy. He came in and I was trying to make a deal with the mall. We were 
going to put the circus on their parking lot and the guy put me off, then I 
sort of had him on hold. The same situation—we did our classroom 
work in the morning. Come my naptime, I said, “Joe, why don’t you”—
there were two or three ladies that had some kind of little club. It was 
some little off the wall thing you’d never heard of before. They 
expressed a little bit of interest. I said, “Why don’t you go out there and 
talk to those girls. See what they say.” Well, he did the same thing. 
While he was gone, my phone rang and it was the mall manager. He 
said, “I decided to go with you on that deal.” I rushed down there right 
quick, and he and I signed a contract. About an hour later, my nephew 
walked in. He was waving a contract and had booked the same day in 
the same town and we were in deep dookie. Oh, man!  
 
So I called the boss and I said, “Jesse, you’re not going to like what I’m 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
going to tell you.” That old man blew up. He said, “What in the world?!” 
I said, “Well, you always told me”—we used to get, I think, three 
hundred and ninety dollars front money when we signed the agreement 
with them. Jesse always told me, he said, “Whoever signs that contract 
and gives you a check for three hundred and ninety dollars is the person 
that gets the circus. I don’t care if you talk to half a dozen people.” And 
that’s what I did. I said, “Jesse, you know what you always told me.” He 
said, “Yeah.” I said, “Well, that man just handed me a check and signed 
a contract.” Now we had to go back and explain to the ladies. I knew, 
that mall, in the first place, that was our lot. If we booked a show with 
those girls, we’d have to find a lot and that show’s big. It takes seven 
acres to put that thing up. That’s always a problem with the big show.  
 
I just love circus and I’ve done several jobs with the circus since then. 
They started this little show, Kelly Miller, I think, the first year I worked 
at Carson and Barnes. David Rawls came down here. It was a three-way 
partnership, the show was. He was the manager and made all the 
decisions. Mr. Jessen, the man that was my boss up there, was one of the 
partners in this show, and Mr. Miller, the old gentleman that owned 
Carson and Barnes Circus. But a lot of the good people at Carson and 
Barnes come down here. Just like David Rawls, he had the concessions 
on that show up there and that was big, big income. He was probably 
making fifty or maybe close to a hundred thousand dollars a year on 
concessions on that show, but he quit. Of course, he owned part of this 
one, but a lot of good people come down here. One that wasn’t so good, 
that was me.  
 
On circus, everybody always wants to be on the show. There are a lot of 
jobs that you do where you’re not on that show. Like in this office up 
here, we’ve got probably six or seven, maybe nine people working in 
that office and I work here. There are all kinds of people, like booking 
agents, they’re not on that show every day. We’ve got press agents out 
there, that aren’t on the show. The school clown is not on the show, 
twenty-four hour man’s not on the show. What we call the paper-
hangers, the people who put up the posters, they’re not on the show. 
Circuses have a lot of employees that are invisible. You never see them. 
Those are the jobs that are hard to fill, because everybody wants to be on 
the show. Those jobs that I mentioned are what, on circus, we call the 
front-end jobs. They all are involved in marketing, and it’s a lonely job. 
You’re out there by yourself.  
 
I used to go several months at a time and never see a person that I knew 
where you could sit down and just kick back and visit. It’s pretty tough. 
If you’re just a fair booking agent, there’s always a job out there for you. 
You can work for just about any circus you want to work for. But that’s 
the way I got into this racket and I love it. It’s different. You don’t have 
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Hamilton 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
all that talk and hooey to put up with. You don’t have a whole string of 
superiors. If you have problems, you can go straight to the owner or the 
manager. If they say, “Yes,” or “No,” that’s it, it’s over with, instead of 
all this climbing the ladder and backstabbing. I like it.  
 
People that work for a circus are there because they love it. Circus work 
is not at all big pay. There are no perks to speak of, no insurance, there’s 
no vacation time, there are no sick days, there’s no nothing. You just get 
paid every Sunday morning and that’s it. This little, old job I’ve got 
here—and what I do now is mow the grass and trim the trees, keep the 
street fixed—this is about as close to retirement on a circus as you’ll 
ever get. Most of these old shows have some old man about like me. 
They always usually call him “Uncle.” Pretty decent old guys, a lot of 
them are pretty crusty, stubborn, hateful old men. (Phone rings) I’ll just 
let it ring. That’ll be some circus fan and they’ll talk forever. (Laughter) 
Just excuse me. 
 
That’s fine. 
 
That’s an old girl I used to work with on the circus. She used to be our 
schoolteacher on the show…And she was good, the kids loved her. But 
we always had a schoolteacher on this show [Kelly Miller]. Carson and 
Barnes had a schoolteacher. She’s a college graduate and has her 
teaching certificate and all that. She was born and raised on a circus lot. 
We usually have four or five, maybe six or eight kids. They have school 
in the cookhouse. The way our circus is, the kitchen for the cookhouse is 
in a semi-trailer. We’d have a complete kitchen in there, freezers and 
everything. Then they’ll hang canvas in the top of that thing and slant it 
out like that (gestures at an angle). They’ll put about five picnic tables in 
there for the circus people to sit down and eat. It’s got a sidewall around 
it, to give you some privacy. The kids gather in there about ten o’clock 
every morning and have school.  
 
It’s good for the kids. They’ve got some kind of program with the Hugo 
school system. We close every year about Halloween and the show 
comes in and all the kids enroll in the local school, and they are always 
right up even with the other kids with their work. A lot of them go on to 
college and do well so it’s good. One good thing about it, when we get 
into an interesting town, like we did this in Niagara Falls, and we used to 
every year we’d play around Washington, D.C. for about two or three 
weeks. When we get in a spot like that, Grand Canyon or wherever, and 
there’s something interesting, we have a van on the show and the teacher 
would load those kids on the van and take them out there to see 
whatever. Instead of studying about it in a book, they’d go look at it. 
They usually take them to the Smithsonian every year and that’s good. 
Those little kids come back and tell their friends about it. 
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Hamilton 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Hamilton 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Hamilton 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I have two grandkids. My son used to work for the circus. He was the 
head mechanic on this show [Kelly Miller] and he had two little kids that 
went to the circus school. When they moved back to our little town, 
down home, and told the other kids that they used to go to circus school, 
the kids wouldn’t believe it. They’d say, “Yeah, right, you sure did!” 
(Laughs) But they did. One of them, my little grandson, he was crazy 
about this little girl [school teacher] here. He’d go over to her house and 
just hang around.  
 
Now, I want to actually go back to your booking days.  
 
Okay. 
 
How did your season run? I mean, are you a couple of weeks ahead or 
behind? 
 
Oh, no. 
 
How was your time frame? 
 
The time frame is if you’re not further away, more than two months, 
you’re in trouble. When you start running out of time and go into town 
and try to get it put together real quick, it can be done easily, if you can 
convince your sponsors to do it. They always want to have time and 
have little meetings, and blah, blah. But if you just jump in with all four 
feet, you could do it in two or three days’ time. But clubs don’t work 
that way. Those club members, they usually go to some restaurant on 
club meeting days. They eat and have a little program. They go back in 
their stores or job or whatever, and forget all about that circus that 
they’re supposed to be getting ready for.  
 
We’ll run anywhere from two months to a full year ahead of the circus. 
We have a fantastic reputation in this industry. There are three circuses 
in Hugo. All three of them have excellent reputations so once you play 
in a town, they’ll usually want you back again. Now, Carson and Barnes 
would wait about three or four years, sometimes five years, before 
they’d go back into a town again. When you do that, it’s just like a 
whole new deal because that president that hired you has already been 
out for three or four terms. It’s a whole new set of people. This little 
show [Kelly Miller] comes back about every other year. If a town is 
successful, we go back about every other year and play for them. 
They’re always glad to have us back. Sometimes, I have seen some that 
wouldn’t make any money, but they’d be so happy with the circus.  
 
All three of the Hugo shows, the two smaller ones particularly, play in 
 
 
13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Hamilton 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
small towns, and small towns don’t get any live entertainment, zero, 
none. You go into some little town, where there hasn’t been a circus—
occasionally, you’ll put that thing in a town that has never had a circus, 
and everybody in there, might not be but a thousand people in town, but 
all thousand of them, pretty well, show up to see the circus. It just thrills 
them to death. It’s rewarding that way. What breaks your heart, our 
contract—I always taught my trainees, “Don’t call this a contract to your 
prospect. Call it the agreement that we signed with you.” It’s the same 
thing, but when you start talking contract and all that legal hooey, people 
get scared, a lot of them do. I just always tell them, “Now, this 
agreement that we’re going to sign with you says that you people should 
do blah, blah…”  
 
But, I forgot what I was going to tell you. Oh! What breaks your heart, 
we ask them to put up posters, try to get some of the street signs—these 
sign boards with the yellow backgrounds—good advertisement. If you 
can get two or three of those in a small town, that’s great advertisement. 
It’ll not cost you a penny, it doesn’t cost the show. But some sponsors 
do those things, some of them do nothing. I used to be a Jaycee in my 
youth. They are the worst sponsors out there. Those people are young 
and they’re making job changes, and changing girlfriends, boyfriends.  
You go to their meeting, and oh, they get enthusiastic. Just all fired up, 
“Yes, yes, yes, you bet!” but when you leave, so many of them just don’t 
do anything. Occasionally, you’ll get a good Jaycee group. 
 
Do you remember the first town you booked? 
 
Yes, it was in California and I was scared to death. Fortunately, I booked 
the first club that I ever went in to talk to. I guess I worked so hard, I 
probably looked so pitiful. I don’t remember what kind of group it was. 
The best date that I ever booked was in Missouri and it was near—I 
forget. What’s the capital city of Missouri? Anyway, it’s about thirty or 
forty miles from there, and we played three or four spots around the 
capital, the city, and there was a little TV station. We advertised that 
thing on TV. We gave the dates where we were going to be in different 
towns. But I went in and it was a small town—any other time I could tell 
you the name of it, but anyway, there’s a college there.  
 
There’s an old building, an old church building that was in London and 
it was bombed during World War II. They dismantled that thing stone by 
stone and every piece of wood, marked it, cataloged it, and sent it to that 
little town in Missouri and rebuilt that thing on that college campus 
there. When they dedicated that thing, they invited Winston Churchill to 
come over and speak at that dedication program. You girls may be too 
young to remember, but during the war years, they had what they called 
the Iron Curtain. Those were the communist countries. You couldn’t 
 
 
14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
 
 
Hamilton 
find out anything about was going on behind the Iron Curtain. That’s the 
first time that term, the Iron Curtain, was ever used. Mr. Churchill made 
some reference to the Iron Curtain in his speech there at that dedication 
program.  
 
But anyway, I got into that little town. The first thing we always looked 
for was a lot big enough to put that thing on. A sponsor won’t do you 
any good if you can’t get a lot. The only place there big enough was the 
fairgrounds, which was owned by the Jaycee club. The Jaycee’s were 
usually one of the last ones that I always talked to. They’re easy to get 
them to agree to do it, but nothing much happens afterwards. I got plum 
to the bottom of the list. I just talked to everybody there and struck out—
band boosters, high school band boosters. I called the man, I called a 
number, and the contact person for the band boosters was one of the 
professors down at that little college. I guess he had children in high 
school. I talked with him, a real nice man, and he liked the idea. I said, 
“Well, we’re going to have to try to deal with the Jaycees.” He called 
down and called the Jaycees.  
 
I had a meeting set. I have given up on everybody and the Jaycees 
wanted it. I was going to their meeting that night. I know, within reason, 
they were going to sign a contract. That man called me up at the hotel 
and he said, “I’ve got a place I want you to go look at and see if it’s big 
enough to put the circus on.” He come by and picked me up and we 
went out on the edge of town to a farm out there of some elderly couple, 
old man and a little old lady. It was a big, slow-rise hill out behind their 
barns and pens. The man I’d been talking to, he said, “Could we put that 
thing up there on top of that hill?” I said, “Yes, it’s beautiful. You can 
see it from all over town from there.” I thought, “Boy, that’s going to 
look good.” But to get up there on top of that hill, you had to drive 
through their driveway and then among all their barns and henhouses 
and stuff, twist and turn. With all those big, old semi-trucks, I knew it 
would be hard to do, but it was doable. It just thrilled that old man and 
lady to death. They thought that was the neatest thing in the world, to 
have that big, old, huge circus out, virtually, in their backyard. Those 
sponsors, the band booster group, worked hard. They did everything that 
we suggested to them. This was thirty years ago, probably, and we 
made, for their part, something over seven thousand dollars on that 
thing. That was the best date I ever booked. 
 
Well, you look for a big enough lot, you look for a sponsor, you’re 
looking for key things—you mentioned the schools. What else are you 
looking for? What are you trying to key in to see if this would be a good 
place? 
 
Well, I always liked to drive by and look at the schools, I mentioned that 
 
 
15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Hamilton 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
earlier. Just a little town that looked like it had some life in it instead of 
just—sometimes, you’re desperate and you have to do things you don’t 
really want to do. That gets to be habit forming. Some agents say, “Well, 
at least I found a place to put it.” You’ve got to put it somewhere 
because daylight, they’re going to the highway, going to wherever it is 
you’re going to put it. Too many agents will do that and feel satisfaction 
because they got it spotted for the day, but that’s not good enough. 
We’ve got to make some money with that thing. A sponsor expects to 
make something out of it. The people that own the show darn sure 
expect to make some money out of it, because they’ve got to payroll. 
 
You wouldn’t believe the regulations that circuses have. You pull into 
town and pretty much every day, here come the inspectors. They’re all 
government workers and, I guess, feel like they’ve got to do something 
to earn their keep. “Well, the circus is in town. We’ll go out and inspect 
all their electrical stuff.” And it’s every day. If you play Hugo today, 
here they come. Tomorrow, we play in Durant, they have their 
inspectors that do it all over again. Some of them want to inspect your 
cookhouse and the food items that you’re selling. Some of them electric, 
some of them fire inspection, then the USDA [United States Department 
of Agriculture] people come along, they want to look at the animals. It is 
constant—constant, every day. 
 
When is the booking agent’s season over? Do you have off time after? 
 
For a real booking agent, there aren’t. I don’t know but one real, sure 
enough, bonafide booking agent—I’ll tell you what happened in a 
minute—the season never ends for a booking agent. They just keep 
working year around. Opening day and closing day means nothing to 
them. They just keep working right through the winter. That gives them 
four months in there where they can be gaining ground, getting some 
contracts. That booking, I already explained it to you, it’s difficult. It’s a 
straight commission job. Most people are scared of that, most people 
want a salary. It’s hard to do and there are fewer and fewer people that 
do that fulltime. We had four fulltime booking agents, but I only know 
one, now. This little Culpepper and Merriweather Circus, they have one 
man that books their entire season and he is a wiz. He is the most 
effective agent I have ever seen, but there aren’t any more.  
 
What they do now, in the wintertime, there will be a few people on the 
show who want to go out and book and make a little extra money. A lot 
of circus fans that live all over the U.S. will want to book around in their 
area, but none of that, really, is good. Those people don’t have the 
expertise or the interest, really. They’re not that concerned. A lot of 
agents, the ones that aren’t so good, all they want to do is get the 
signature on a contract and they feel like their work is done. Well, it 
 
 
16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
isn’t. Again, we’ve got to make some money at that thing. Those kind of 
people don’t know really—I’m not putting them down, they’re good 
people—but they will invariably say the wrong things when you get up 
to talk to those groups. They don’t really understand it that well.  
 
Circus fans, when they want to book, sometimes they’ll work on a town 
a full year, from this year to next year, to write one contract. They’ll just 
worry with it and go to countless meetings with those people. Well, an 
agent can’t do that. You’ve got to get in there and get that thing zipped 
up and move on—to make a living, you do. But they’re always trying to 
put you off. They’ll say, “Well, we’ll meet a week from tonight and 
we’ll give you an answer then.” Mr. Jessen would not let us—he was 
strict. A lot of circuses will get a deal like that and they’ll let those 
agents move on up and start setting other dates. Then a week from now, 
you go back and meet with that club. If they tell you no, then you have 
created a hole in that route and that’s the hardest thing in the world to do 
is to fill a hole in the route. Mr. Jessen would not let us do that.  
 
We’d get into a town, we’d milk it dry or get a contract. After you did 
everything you could think of—like the little town in Missouri that I was 
telling you about—then he’d let you move on. But that show is so big, 
another problem was skipping up ahead like that. Sometimes you have 
to back track your circus. That Carson and Barnes is a huge show. It was 
two hundred, approximately, then. See, it’s not that big now, they’re 
down to one ring now, but had approximately two hundred employees. 
We gave each one of them a vehicle to pull their trailer and gave them a 
gas allowance every day. Then we had probably twelve or fifteen big, 
old semi-trucks and countless smaller, one-ton trucks. I figured up one 
time, and this was thirty years ago, I figured it up and it cost us fifty 
dollars a mile to move that circus down the highway, with gas and all of 
it, whatever, flats and tires. 
 
If we go, say, in the morning we play in Hugo today, and tomorrow 
we’re going to Durant so we go to Durant and play that day. If you’ve 
got some agent that’s created that hole, it might be that the next town he 
books after Durant is back over here. So you’ve got to come right back 
down that same fifty miles between here and Durant again, right back 
through Hugo, again. Now, you’ve driven a hundred miles, times fifty a 
mile, which is five thousand dollars that you’ve spent on fuel and new 
tires and what have you. Jesse would not let us double up, except one 
time he let me double back like that about twelve miles, and I thought I 
had really accomplished something. Work, work, work—it was up in 
Colorado. Worked, worked with the sponsor and just never could get the 
deal finished. I gave up and went on and booked another little town and 
sure enough, that guy back here called and he was ready. I knew we 
were going to have to double back. I called Jessen and he said, “Well, go 
 
 
17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Hamilton 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Hamilton 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ahead and do it.” That’s the only time that old fellow ever let me double 
back on our route. A lot of those small shows do it all the time, 
constantly. And those circus fans, we call them forty-milers because 
they don’t like to get more than forty miles away from where they live to 
do their booking, that doesn’t mean anything to them. They don’t worry 
about it. They don’t even give it a thought, whether you’re going to have 
to double back through there.  
 
There are all sorts of things out there for you to compete with, like 
county fairs and these once a year things that villages do, I forget what 
they’re called—festivals, they’ll kill you, kill you dead. A carnival in 
town will kill you. People will go to a carnival before they will a circus, 
because they can get out there and walk around and eat their popcorn 
and watch the rides and everything, and they’re moving around. Well, 
that’s more enjoyable than just sitting down there for an hour and a half. 
You sure have to be careful about those kinds of things. A smart agent 
will never put his show in a town where there’s going to be a carnival. 
Those festivals will try to do that. They usually have a little carnival, but 
they would love it if they could get a circus to come in there, too. 
They’ll try to get you to do it, but there won’t be too many people that 
come to see the circus except the carnival people and we let them in free. 
What else would you like to talk about? 
 
Well, we’ve learned about your life as an advance man, a booking agent, 
what was your next job? 
 
On the circus? 
 
On the circus. 
 
Press agent. Press agent is the person that can be very valuable to a 
circus, if you’re a good one. You can still be good for the show, even if 
you’re not that good. What they do is go about two weeks before the 
circus gets into a town and they go into that town to see how the sponsor 
is doing, or is that sponsor doing the things they’re supposed to be doing 
and if not, why not. We always get up with the circus chairman and try 
to get them motivated and excited about the thing. There’s sometimes 
you can put together the promotions that are really advantageous to the 
circus. For instance, somewhere in Arkansas I think it was, a little town 
that we were going to have a circus in, I found out one of the local car 
dealers. I don’t remember, Ford or Chevrolet, or who had the deal. It 
used to be, when a new model of car was coming out everybody would 
go down to look at those new cars. There wouldn’t be that anymore. 
They all look just alike [now].  
 
He was going to have kind of a blowout that same day we had the circus 
 
 
18
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in town. He was going to show his new model cars so I went by there 
and worked out a deal with him. In his newspaper and radio 
advertisements, he was going to put in a word about the circus going to 
be there, to encourage people to make a day of it, go to the circus and 
come down and look at the new Fords, blah, blah, blah. We gave him a 
few free passes to hand out and stuff like that. On the circus morning, I 
made arrangements to have some of the performers go down and they 
were doing live radio, remote they called it. I took one of the clowns 
down and maybe one of the aerialists, maybe the elephant, I don’t 
remember, two or three of them down there for radio interviews. The 
clowns, they’d always go down in their wardrobe and grease paint. It 
made a good day for the car dealer and the circus. You can work out 
little old deals like that.  
 
The press agent’s main job, really, is to be sure that everything is on 
track. We ask our sponsors to do a great deal. They get a share of the 
money, but that’s not free money. We ask them to do a number of things 
for us. We ask them to put window cards in the various stores, to 
advertise the circus in some manner. We don’t specify how or what 
amount to spend, but we do expect them to advertise the circus. They 
provide the dumpster, a good sized dumpster that we need every day. 
They provide the lot. They also provide any permits that are required. 
Usually, a town, if you’re doing a circus for, say, an Optimist Club, 
they’ll give you the permits, and we ask them to sell advanced tickets for 
us. The press agent checks on all of that while he’s in there, and you can 
tell right away if they’re working or not working. The ones that make 
money are the ones that follow our suggestions. The ones that just sit 
back and don’t do anything don’t make any money. They never blame 
themselves. They blame the circus when they don’t make money.  
 
Again, I just naturally like women. I love to work with female sponsor 
groups, they work so hard. I had one group I worked with one time, it 
was ladies, I don’t remember what it was, but it was a club of ladies. We 
send out what we call a circus chairman’s planning guide. It has got 
every kind of suggestion in the world in there that you could do. Nobody 
ever does them all, but there are so many things you can do, all different 
kinds of contests, be honorary ringmaster for a day, and all this blah, 
blah, that sponsors could do to promote the circus. I had one club, when 
I was working press, I was talking to the circus chairman lady and she 
said, “We’ve done everything on that list.” (Laughs) And I said, “You 
what?” She said, “We’ve done all of it. Now, what else can we do?” 
Well, that’s what you like to hear. I’m sure they had a good day, I don’t 
remember, but I like to work with women on those things. They work 
harder. Men, I guess they’re worried to death with other things, but 
women, you can put them on a committee like that or say, “All right, 
Sue, you’re the show chairman.” They take it seriously and they sure do 
 
 
19
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Hamilton 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Hamilton 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Hamilton 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Hamilton 
 
 
 
 
 
 
good, good work. I like to work with them. 
 
Well, outside of press agent, did you do anything else? 
 
Yes. (Laughs) 
 
I’m just running down your career in the circus.  (Laughs) 
 
That’s all right, that’s okay. One year, the first year I worked on this 
show [Kelly Miller], I was just David Rawls’ yes man, or gopher. I just 
kind of followed him around and worked with our booking agents 
somewhat. I’d go to town everyday and call all the agents, which I 
learned that from Mr. Jessen. He used to call every one of his agents 
every day, a lot of times at six o’clock in the morning. He used to call at 
six and if I was in the motel room it would ring, ring, and ring—I’d just 
keep sleeping. I knew who it was. After a while, he’d call back. He’d 
say, “I tried to call you earlier.” I’d say, “Well, I was probably down at 
the coffee shop or something,” and I was laying there asleep. See, I’m 
telling on myself. (Laughter)  
 
I worked for David that year just sort of following him around and 
trained all the agents. I think I mentioned earlier that I was the last agent 
that Mr. Jessen trained. After that, he’d send them all to me. I worked 
two or three years at Carson and Barnes and trained every new agent 
they had. Well, when I came down there, I thought, “I’ll get away from 
that.” You don’t get away from a job at the circus. They find out you can 
do something and that’s your job forever. I got down here, every time 
they’d hire a new agent, they’d send him to me. I didn’t care. We’d do 
the same thing, except I didn’t go out to the meetings and things because 
I was not on the show, but we’d still do the classroom stuff. I worked 
press and I really enjoyed that more than I did booking. It’s not as 
stressful with the circus.  
 
And I guess you’re not on commission as a press agent?   
 
No, that’s salary. 
 
Okay. 
 
I kind of liked that, too. I always made it okay. One year, I came down 
with colon cancer and was supposed to die, but didn’t. I guess that 
disappointed the funeral home man. (Laughter) But I beat the thing and 
that’s been, I guess, nineteen or twenty years ago. I wasn’t really able to 
get out there and really work hard, like I did on press or as an agent. A 
lot of shows have what they call a pie car. Pie is short for privilege. It’s a 
little canteen where you serve coffee, cold drinks, hamburgers, 
 
 
20
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cheeseburgers, French fries, but it’s just for the circus employees. It’s 
not out front for the public. It’s in what we call the back yard. When I 
recuperated, David asked me if I’d like to run the pie car so I said, “Yes, 
I’ll do that.” I had a little Class-C motor home. Class-C, if you all don’t 
know it, was the one with the bed built out over the cab, a smaller motor 
home. I didn’t want to do that cooking in there and get grease popped all 
over it. I’d bought it new so I borrowed a little old single-axel house 
trailer, a tiny little thing, about ten feet long, maybe twelve. I gutted the 
thing and built me a kitchen. I put a refrigerator in there and got me a 
little griddle. 
 
I ran the pie car for two or three years and did real good. I pulled that 
thing behind my motor home. We’d make a jump every morning and as 
soon as I’d get on the lot, I’d set that thing up and open up the pie car 
and sell breakfast. One or two eggs and toast and whatever, and did 
pretty good with it. We let the guys, the working guys—the laborers on 
circus are always called working guys. They’re the old unkempt looking 
guys you see around the circus. They’re good. I admire them because 
they’re working. They’re not sitting around on welfare, drawing money 
from the government. They’re working so I respect them. But we’d let 
them buy stuff on credit and I’d keep up with it. Payday on this show 
was always Sunday morning and I’d add it all up on Saturday night, how 
much the different guys would owe. I’d turn it into the office and the 
office would just hold that much out of their paycheck. I’d go by later 
and they’d hand me the money. It worked beautifully. I knew I was 
going to get my money and it worked. The guys liked it because a lot of 
them would spend all their money the first day they had it to buy beer 
and cigarettes and whatever. I did that for two or three years.  
 
One year, this campground wasn’t here then, someone came in here 
when the show was on the road and took a piece of the metal off the 
back of one of these buildings. People on the show put their vehicles in 
these barns when they go on the road. Those barns that are out there 
now, they’re always full of cars and pickups and trailer houses. 
Somebody got in there and stripped everything in there. They took all 
the radios out, the tape decks. They even took the air conditioners off the 
tops of the motor homes. We didn’t know anything about it until the 
show came in. They took tires, starters, just stripped that stuff. It was 
probably days in there, and all this back here was grown up in weeds 
then. There never was anybody around winter quarters at that time. Our 
office, then, was downtown. We’ve got the office now right here on the 
property. There was nobody out there.  
 
David Rawls decided he wanted someone to live here and I was getting 
older. He asked me if I’d like to do this. He said, “All I want you to do, 
(we’ll talk about this thing), you can put a little trailer out there and you 
 
 
21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Hamilton 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
can live in it. It won’t cost you anything. I think we’ll give you one 
hundred dollars a month or something just to be here.” Well, I said, 
“That sounds good to me,” so I took him up on it. I had some old guy 
come and mow the grass about once every two months, but it was 
always like this (gestures about three feet high). It was so bad that I told 
David, I said, “If you’ll buy me a good lawnmower and some 
equipment, I’ll keep that grass mowed out there.” So he did. The job sort 
of evolved into what I’m doing here now. I ended up being, fancy name, 
night winter quarter superintendent. What that means is you mow the 
grass and trim the trees. (Laughter) But it’s interesting.  
 
I love the circus. The people that work for circuses are not there because 
it’s a good paying job, because it’s not a good paying job. They’re there, 
usually, because they were born in the circus and that’s all they know or 
they love it, because if you don’t love it, you won’t do it. I always 
admired the women on the circus, because it’s pretty tough. Women like 
to have all their little trinkets and everything in their house. You can’t do 
that when you live in a trailer and move every day. Some of those girls, 
they’ve got these old, huge pickup trucks now, two seats, big, long 
things, and house trailers that are huge. A lot of the wives and girlfriends 
drive those pickups and those trailers. Their husbands or boyfriends 
drive the semi-truck. You can see them pull onto the lot with a big, old, 
huge rig, jump that concrete curb and it would be a girl driving that 
thing. And they just do it. I do love it. They just do a good job of it.  
 
Well, going back to your early years, tell me about the first time you met 
Mr. Miller. 
 
I don’t really remember. Really, to talk with him, was after I told him I’d 
take the job. The show was somewhere a hundred miles from wherever I 
lived so I went to see the show before I went on to California to start 
working. I introduced myself to Mr. Miller and I loved that old man. He 
was fantastic. He and Mrs. Miller both were such good people. He just 
treated me like I was one of his kids. He took me all over that lot and 
introduced me to everybody. I got to feel important there. I didn’t know 
what I was in for! (Laughs) But he’s such a nice, old fellow. A year or 
two later, it was wintertime and the show was in. That thing is 
impressive when all that junk is up there, it’s big. And I stopped by there 
and D.R. had a golf cart. He said, “Get on here and I’ll go show you 
everything.” We went in every building up there, and he pulled out 
every drawer and showed me what was in it. I really enjoyed that. He’s a 
good, old man.  
 
When we had D.R.’s funeral, I guess that’s the biggest thing that ever 
happened in Hugo. He died a couple of months before the end of the 
circus season and they froze him, or refrigerated him, whatever, because 
 
 
22
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Hamilton 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Hamilton 
they wanted all the circus people to go to the funeral. They waited until 
most of the shows were off the road and announced the funeral. This 
little old town of Hugo was the who’s who of circus people—the night 
before that funeral. Show people from all over the United States came 
here to see it. That old man was very well known and most of the people 
that were coming here had worked for D.R. That’s one thing about that 
old man that always impresses me is you meet showmen on other shows 
and at some time or another, they’ve all worked for D.R. Miller. He’s 
good.  
 
He and Mrs. Miller—she was just a kid when they married. She was 
from Kansas. She wasn’t circus. She had come from a large family, a 
farm family, in Kansas. They played somewhere up there and I think 
D.R. went to a dance somewhere and met Isla. Of course, whatever 
show he was working for would move and get farther away every day. 
Well, he went back and forth two or three days and finally got to where 
he just couldn’t do it anymore so they got married and lived in a little 
pup tent. D.R. told me one time—I forget the name of that old circus 
they worked for. One of their old trucks is in the museum up in Baraboo, 
Wisconsin, the circus museum. But he said that he and Isla would ride 
on top of that truck on the morning jump. They’d set that little pup tent 
up and that’s where they lived. Hard working, honest people that worked 
hard, worked like dogs. They did without and they saved their money. 
They had a goal and they were to become very wealthy people.  
 
Nobody gave them anything. They earned every penny. They’ve got a 
big, old, pretty home up there. He used to drive Lincolns around and 
bought him an airplane—he’d fly—I doubt that the old man ever had a 
pilot’s license, but he used to fly. They tell me it was kind of frightening. 
(Laughter) I’ve heard people criticize them because they had wealth, but 
I’ll tell you one thing, those poor, old people earned every penny of it. I 
loved them both. They’re such good people. Isla used to come down this 
road out here and if anybody was walking across the lot, it didn’t make 
any difference if it was the lowliest guy on this crew, she’d always honk 
and just wave. Show people are kind of that way. They sure stick 
together. You know how a lot of people are kind of wary of show 
people? Well, that works both ways. (Laughs) 
 
It’s true. 
 
Show people don’t fully trust town people. We call them townies or 
towners. They just don’t. (Laughs) 
 
Even in Hugo? 
 
Well, Hugo is unique. Towns where a lot of circuses are headquartered 
 
 
23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Hamilton 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Hamilton 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Hamilton 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
don’t appreciate the circuses, but Hugo loves us. It’s a big part of the 
economy here. Down through the years, there have been probably 
twenty or more circuses headquartered in this town. A lot of those 
people, just like I have, myself, have stayed here. They spend a lot of 
money in Hugo. I know that the first year this little show was on the 
road, they bought seven or maybe ten brand new one-ton Ford trucks. 
When the show came in, they had them all lined up down at the fence up 
here. We bought them down here at the local Ford dealer. That’s a pretty 
good lick for a town this size, to sell six or ten or whatever. There are a 
lot of those kinds of stories. This town, they love the circus. They love 
circus people. We’re just welcome.  
 
Rosebud (the cat), that’s her name. That was the tackiest thing I could 
think of when I got that cat. (Laughter) I listened to those old-time radio 
programs. The old Lum and Abner program, are you familiar with that? 
 
Yes. 
 
Abner had his milk cow. Her name was Rosebud and I thought that was 
the corniest thing I ever heard. Of course, they were trying to make it 
corny so that’s what I named that cat.  
 
Well, I know you’re going to show us a little something about 
Showmen’s Rest but… 
 
I’ve got that tape. 
 
Can you just give us a little background on Showmen’s Rest? 
 
Yes, yes I can. Back, I don’t know what year, but back a good many 
years ago, there was a pretty large area out there in the cemetery that 
was blank. One of, I think it was, Mr. Miller’s brothers died and they 
buried him in that area and they just bought that whole block in there. 
Along about that time, we had an old elephant hand up there. He was 
just an old circus bum, old nasty, unkempt guy. I don’t guess he had any 
family. He died and that old man had a little money, I guess his life 
savings, and he left it to Mr. and Mrs. Miller. They needed a little more 
money like a hole in the head. They didn’t know what to do with it so 
they established a trust fund. When a show person dies, if they can’t 
afford to buy their lot, the trust fund will buy it for them and they’ll put a 
little stone up there. It won’t be anything elaborate, but something small 
like you saw out there, just nice. They were that way. They’ll pay for it 
with the trust fund, and there’s a tall stone out there where that old 
elephant hand is buried.  
 
He started Showmen’s Rest Trust Fund—or Mr. Miller started it with 
 
 
24
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Hamilton 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Hamilton 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
 
Hamilton 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Hamilton 
 
Finchum 
 
Hamilton 
 
Finchum 
 
Hamilton 
 
 
the money that he left to them. There are a lot of big names buried out 
there. I told someone one day if all those people could be resurrected 
overnight and we put on a show it would be one whale of a circus, 
because everything in the world is buried out there. (Laughs) We’ve got 
wire walkers, trapeze people, elephant men, circus owners, show girls, 
snake handlers, they’re all there. I’ve got my stone out there already. 
We’ve run out of room out there. There are still some blank spaces out 
there, but they’re bought. About ten years ago, people started buying 
those spaces six or seven or eight at a time, for families. They go quick 
when you do that. I understand there’s nothing out there anymore for 
sale.  
 
Well, you’ve been to many places throughout your life, you’ve seen 
many different towns and… 
 
You know that old song “I’ve Been Everywhere”? 
 
That’s right. (Laughs) 
 
That’s me. (Laughter) 
 
And I know you’ve had opportunities here with the circus, but why do 
you plan on coming back—you’ve come back to Hugo, you’ve made 
your home here. Why did you decide Hugo, of all places? 
 
Well, I don’t even really know when I officially started doing it here. I 
used to come in here every winter for a while, but I don’t know. I just 
like this little town. The people here are friendly and they’re especially 
friendly to circus people. I started going to church here and kind of got 
involved in that way. I’ve gotten to know people at the coffee shops. It’s 
just home for me. I intend to be here until they put me out there in 
Showmen’s Rest. 
 
And you came in 1954, is that right? About 1954? 
 
No, it was about, I think, ’82. 
 
Oh, what was I thinking? 
 
I was about fifty-four years old.  
 
Okay. 
 
Fifty-two or fifty-four, and I don’t remember which. I’m eighty-two 
now. But I just love it. I look forward to them coming in every year and 
I look just as much forward to them going back out with all the crying 
 
 
25
 
 
Finchum 
 
Hamilton 
 
Finchum 
 
Hamilton 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Hamilton 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Hamilton 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Hamilton 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
babies, the barking dogs… (Laughter) 
 
How many agents do you think you’ve trained? Booking agents? 
 
Oh, I don’t know. 
 
If you had to guess. 
 
I don’t know, maybe twenty or thirty. I never thought that I was that 
good at booking the circus. I’ve got everybody fooled, really. 
 
It’s hard work. It’s all about hard work—working hard. 
 
There’s one guy—he’s dead now—a great, big fat man. He’s this big 
around (gesturing with arms open wide). He’s a circus producer, and my 
son worked on this show for, I think, nine years. He was the head 
mechanic. He was talking to that guy one time. I know the man, but I 
never did work with him or for him. He told Keith, he said, “Your daddy 
is the best booking agent I’ve ever known.” I thought, “Wow!” And 
Keith, after meeting him, he came back home and told me that so I’ve 
got them fooled. (Laughs)  
 
David Rawls, he embarrassed me once. He has an uncle, Mary’s brother, 
born in this business, has managed circuses, has owned—I think a time 
or two, he owned little, old shows. It’s all he’s ever done. He decided to 
book some dates but David said, “I want you to go down there and let 
Uncle Dudley talk to you before you go out.” I felt like an idiot sitting in 
here trying to tell this guy, “Probably what you want to do is this and 
that.” It was embarrassing. (Laughs) 
 
It’s a compliment. 
 
But anyway… 
 
Well, the circus has undergone many changes through the years. Where 
do you think it’s headed within the next ten to twenty years? 
 
Well, it’s frightening to think. Someone asked Mr. Miller that and his 
opinion is worth much more than mine. What he said was, he said, “I 
think there will always be a circus, but it’s going to be different.” And I 
have remembered that and since then, I have seen so many changes in 
the circus business. And it is a changing business. For instance, used to, 
there weren’t any indoor shows, but now that’s the big thing. The 
Shriners usually do theirs in the cities. They always do an indoor thing. 
Ringling does. Ringling quit using a tent, I don’t remember what year it 
was, but it’s not the same.  
 
 
26
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Hamilton 
 
 
 
I used to tell sponsor groups when I’d make a presentation, I’d say, 
“Indoor circuses put on good shows. Maybe better than the rest of us, I 
don’t know. You can take your family, wife, and little kids to an indoor 
show and sit there in that air conditioned coliseum and see the show, but 
when you get home, you don’t feel like you’ve been to the circus. If you 
go to one of these things in a tent, and you’re up close enough you can 
small the elephants”—and elephants have a strong odor. I don’t know if 
you all know that or not. But, I used to tell sponsor groups, I said, 
“Going to an indoor circus is just like if you have a picnic planned and it 
starts raining, what do we do now? Well, you go get in the high school 
gymnasium. You eat the same food you’d eat at that picnic and play the 
same games, but when you go home that night, you don’t feel like 
you’ve been on a picnic.” I said, “Going to an indoor circus is the same 
way,” and I’m that hardheaded about it.  
 
There’s an old fellow, Mr. Loyal. In his youth he was a part of the Loyal 
Repensky Bareback Riding Act that John Ringling North brought over 
from Europe right after the war, or just before the war. One of the young 
men in that family, Alfonso  Loyal—I think they’re Italian—lived here. 
They ended up working for Carson and Barnes Circus. The Loyal 
Repensky troupe was one of the three top bareback acts in the world, I 
guess. They were good. But anyway, the little, old man spoke in kind of 
a broken English, and I heard him talking—I think it was a reporter that 
he was talking to or someone that was interviewing him, and they asked 
him about the indoor circus. Old Alfonso said, “If you don’t got no tent, 
you don’t got no circus.” (Laughter)  
 
But, back to your question, used to, on circus day, the circus would go to 
town and they would do a parade. You get to see that in that movie, 
Greatest Show on Earth. You might not remember that, but they did 
that. Well, they don’t do that anymore. Everything is in trucks instead of 
horse-drawn wagons so we lost that. The music at circuses—what we 
call traditional music was written especially for circus acts. Most of that 
old circus music was written by circus bandmasters. For instance, the 
flying trapeze acts all, used to, always played waltz music because 
you’re on that trapeze, you’re kind of swinging slow and the waltz music 
just works beautifully. But now, the new generation will play that old 
hip hop and the guy on those drums just bang, clash, boom while those 
people are slowing swinging on the trapeze. It’s just… 
 
It’s different. 
 
They have quit using traditional music and what they’re trying to do is 
appeal to young adults. I guess that’s all right, but it makes me angry. 
Music has always been a big part of the circus. Merle Evans was the 
 
 
27
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
band director on the old Ringling show when they were under canvas, 
when it was a real circus. He had about a thirty-something piece band 
and boy, they were good. There are very few bands in circuses anymore. 
They use taped music now. Some of the tapes are good, some of them 
are terrible. But that’s another big change. I wrote a tacky letter to the 
editor of one of the circus publications about the music and I said, “Why 
is it when you see on television an advertisement for a circus that’s 
going to be in town or a radio spot, they always have background circus 
music?” And it’ll be old, traditional circus music every time. The circus 
comes to town, that circus, you go down and buy a ticket and go to the 
show to hear that good band music, and they’re playing orchestra.  
 
I knew I was in trouble one time when I went to see the Clyde Beatty-
Cole Brothers Circus. Saw it once and they had a good band that played 
traditional music. Several years later, I drove a long, long way out in 
Texas to see the Clyde Beatty Circus again. At the very beginning of the 
circus, they introduced the band director and I knew I was in trouble. 
The ringmaster said, “Directing our orchestra today is Joe Blow,” or 
whoever, and I thought, “Uh, oh.” Sure enough, it was all pop music. 
But it’s just—that’s where you get a lot of the atmosphere so that’s 
another change that we’ve seen.  
 
This Cirque du Soleil outfit has come along and I’m not at all in tune 
with that. But, very few of them come from circus. They’re show 
people, they’re actors or performers or gymnastic-type people. When 
that thing first started—that’s a Canadian company, it was originally, 
and the Canadian government underwrote that thing. It wasn’t some 
poor guy out there that put his own million dollars up.  But anyway, the 
first one or two [years] of Soleil, the acts were just pretty ordinary. 
About like stuff you see on our show. But since then, it has improved 
greatly, but I don’t like them. What has happened, that thing has been so 
successful, that all the other circus owners were copying that thing there. 
Even Ringling! Ringling has always been the trendsetter in this 
industry—lo and behold—even Ringling is doing stuff the Soleil way 
now. Kenneth Feld, who owns Ringling, he’s got a daughter about the 
age of you girls. He has turned most of that circus stuff over to her. I 
guess she thinks like younger people. I don’t know.  
 
There’s another very successful show, the Big Apple Circus in New 
York. It used to sure be a top-notch circus. It still is, really, but a lot of 
circuses now, they want to have a theme for the entire program, which I 
don’t go along with that either. I think, “Get in there, do the act, get 
out,” but every act in some of these circuses now is supposed to tell a 
story, blah, blah. Like what did the Russians call their flying trapeze act? 
The Flying Eagles or some such hooey—the Flying Swans and they’re 
supposed to look like swans floating around out there. Well, good gosh, 
 
 
28
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Hamilton 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
give me a break! Introduce them, let them do their act, and get them out 
of there, put somebody else on. But anyway, that’s another change that’s 
come about. 
 
Well, what’s your favorite part about the circus? 
 
My favorite part is something else that has changed. We used to do—all 
circuses, the bigger they were, the more impressive this was—would do 
what they called a spec, s-p-e-c, which is short for spectacular. At some 
point in the circus, they would do this parade around what we called the 
hippodrome track, a wide track, all the way around the rings. Every 
performer was required to make spec. You had to be in it. You not only 
had to be in it, but you had to smile and look happy and wave at the 
crowd and all that. Management people used to hide themselves around 
the audience to check and see who’s—a lot of them, especially the 
young kids, fifteen, twenty years old, expect to walk along like they 
were bored to death, just looking at the ground as they’re walking 
instead of smiling and waving. They’re supposed to act like they’re as 
excited as the people in the audience are. Of course, they do that two 
times a day, seven days a week.  
 
But anyway, spec has always been my favorite part of any circus. The 
bigger and better the show is, the bigger and better spec is. You see a lot 
of pretty wardrobe in spec, and it’s just good. We started doing spec on 
this show a number of years ago. We had a pretty good, little old spec. 
You come in the back door and get on the track and go around. One of 
the ways you can judge spec, if they’re still coming in when the first 
ones are going out the door, that’s pretty good. And we did that on this 
little show. We had some miniature donkeys about—they don’t get but 
maybe that big (gestures about four feet) and David Rawls had guys in 
the shop to build a little, two-wheeled cart. We have three or four little 
Mexican kids about this big (gestures about three feet). Their mommas 
fixed little costumes for them, real circusey stuff. We put them on that 
thing, and one of the working guys would lead that donkey in spec.  
 
They always have the elephants in there with pretty blankets on them. I 
just love spec. It’s exciting, to me it is. On the circus, there is a great 
deal of thought that goes into what act follows the next act and the next 
one and the next one. What you do—it’s difficult—most shows have 
gone to one ring and it’s difficult because used to, they’d use ring one 
and three while they were setting up the center ring and then when one 
and three would finish their act, then the next act would be center ring, 
and then they were changing props in one and three. But when you’re 
one ring, it creates problems. You can do several things to get around 
that. You can send clowns in, over to one side doing their foolishness 
while the prop guys were getting things ready. But you kind of mix the 
 
 
29
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Hamilton 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Hamilton 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Hamilton 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Hamilton 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
acts. You do a ground act, then you follow that with an aerial act. After 
three or four acts, then you throw in an animal act of some kind and you 
mix that. You don’t want too many aerial acts in a row, and you don’t 
want too many ground acts in a row, and you’d like to throw some pretty 
wardrobe in there occasionally, that’s usually the girls. A lot of thought 
goes into all that.  
 
A lot of thought.  
 
Well, you’re quite the student of the circus. 
 
Well, I just love it. I told you all those other things that I had interest in, 
but when I started working for the circus, that was it. It’s just the most 
enjoyable thing I’ve ever done in my life. It’s all I want to do. And I’m 
happy just to be here in this shack, right in the middle of everything. I’m 
always glad to see them come in and glad to see them go out. Some of 
them call you, like this old girl that called me, old Sue, a while ago. You 
make a lot of friends in this business. After you’ve worked on the circus 
for several years, you can walk on any circus lot, wherever, whatever 
show it is, and there will be somebody there that you know, that, usually, 
you’ve worked with. It makes it fun. You never know, you hear about 
one that’s going to be in Paris, Texas. You drive up and, sure enough, 
there will old whoever. 
 
It’s family. 
 
Yes, exactly, exactly. 
 
Well, as we wind down, is there anything else that you’d like to tell us 
that we haven’t asked you about? 
 
We’re trying to get a circus museum. I hate to say it, but with the 
economy being the way it is, I don’t think we can ever—I can’t see that 
happening. 
 
It takes time. 
 
Yes. We bought an old house and we were going to try to redo it and put 
the museum in that, but we decided the thing is too rotten so we’re in the 
process of tearing it down. We’re right across the street from the library. 
It’s a good location, but I’m interested in that. We’ve got the 
Showmen’s Club here. There’s always something.  
 
Well, is there anything else that we haven’t asked you about that you’d 
like to add? 
 
 
 
30
Hamilton 
 
Finchum 
 
Hamilton 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Hamilton 
Well, I don’t know. Not offhand.  
 
If you could be a performer, which one would you be? 
 
Well, that’s a good question. I have always liked the high wire, but most 
people say trapeze, the flying trapeze. There’s a difference. There’s 
flying trapeze and there is trapeze. Trapeze is single trapeze, you would 
call single trap, a big difference. That’s the one, usually, with girls, 
sometimes men do single trap. It’s mostly just striking various pretty 
poses. They do a little bit of acrobatic stuff on there. But flying trapeze, 
that’s the one where they leap through the air and that’s what most 
people like, flying trapeze. But I just love high wire. To me, that’s very 
dangerous, very dangerous. That’s what I like. 
 
Well, we appreciate your time today. 
 
Well, I’ve enjoyed it.  
 
------- End of interview -------