1 
 
K. Catherine Castle 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONFETTI 
 
 
 
 
 
    Each stair she climbs is a latticework of steel with a view to the dock and water below. 
As she pulls herself up the ladders and steps, the sounds of semi’s and strads charging to 
life are farther and farther away. The grumble of gears changing, the smell of diesel 
fumes and the blue clouds that spew forth don’t reach her. More and more distant is the 
lunchroom where men slap their work slips on the tables for the bosses and tilt their 
Styrofoam cups full of bitter coffee. She can’t hear their laughs, their hollers, their lewd 
asides, or the thud of steel toes against the floors that lead out the door. She can’t see the 
hoodies pulled tight over heads bowed to the wind, the hands shoved into greasy gloves, 
 
2 
the devastating orange of safety vests. Here, now, at the top of this machine, where she 
pulls the air into her lungs, they are specks of confetti. 
       
    She enters the cab and smells last night’s driver. The Old Spice, the sweat. Cigarette 
ashes swirl inside the glass gondola as she pushes the steel door closed, folds herself into 
the hard cup of the seat and prepares to boot up the machine that crouches at the edge 
of the bay. 
    Beneath her forearms, polished steel panels studded with buttons, blinking domes 
and switches await her fingers. A large lever rises from either side, topped by the 
handles she’ll clutch until day’s end.  
    She bends forward, her feet planted on the glass floor, torso resting against her thighs, 
knees wide, straining over them as if to polish her toenails. The seatbelt slices her in 
half, a thread between her, the glass envelope of her workplace and the blacktop fifteen 
stories below. 
 
    She lets out the cable, drops her rack and aims for the forty- foot box that appears in 
miniature beneath her. She guesses the edges and corners below her cab as she lets 
down fast to cap the container with her forty- foot rack and lock onto forty tons of cargo. 
It used to be like groping for light. Now she can feel where the container is.  
    Hoisting the load up she leans one lever toward the ship. The cab surges forward on 
its horizontal boom. It crosses the dock apron, clears the ship’s rail and hovers as she 
aims before sliding the can into a cell below deck. It is the arc she travels as she races 
from ship to shore, loading and discharging containers thirty times each hour.  
 
3 
    Her slams resound above the din of the semis and strads with each push into the tight 
cells that swallow the boxes, steel eating steel. She forgets to breathe, pants instead as 
she squeezes the cans inside the dark holes, fingers cramped, knees burning, repressing 
the desire to view the mountains, the sun as it glints off the water because it is up to her 
when the ship sails, when everyone goes home.