Jack Fairfield Interview Log  
Time Code  Content 
  
  
00:00:01 
Introduction. Jack Fairfield, HF Group, Chesterland, OH. Interviewed June 3, 2017, at 
the Roslyn Hotel, Roslyn, New York. Interviewed by Jeanne Drewes, librarian. 
  
  
00:00:45 
Career: Jack started in the binding business in 1964.  Worked for 16 years at Hertzberg-
New Method in Jacksonville, IL.  In 1980 became an owner of the Library Binding 
Company of Pennsylvania with Steve Roberts and Lee Ogden.  Through a series of 
mergers and acquisitions, this has become the HF Group, five binderies in five different 
states.  Jack got into the binding business through a chance encounter at a swimming pool 
with Fritz James, part owner of Hertzberg-New Method.  His son Jay started his binding 
career at the Library Binding Company of Pennsylvania and then became the general 
operating manager at General Bookbinding in Chesterland, OH, a bindery acquired by the 
partners.  His son Eric started his career in binding in sales for Southeast Library Bindery 
in Greensboro, NC, another acquisition. 
  
  
00:05:04 
Interest in Industry: Jack's mother had been a collator at Hertzberg-New Method when 
he was in college, helping to pay his tuition, so he was familiar with the bindery.  His 
mentor at his job at General Telephone Company had just left, and he was wondering 
what his future would be at the company.  Laurence Hertzberg and Fritz James convinced 
him that managing production at a bindery would be a great opportunity. 
  
  
00:06:03 
Mentors: Laurence Hertzberg, Fritz James, and Jim Orr at Hertzberg-New Method. 
  
  
00:07:09  
Changes to Industry: When Jack started, binderies performed page by page collation, 
80-90% of the binding was oversewing, 80-90% fully trimmed textblocks, cases were 
made by hand, and lettering was done with linotype slugs, very different from today.  
Jack feels that the changes started with specifications developed by Don Etherington and 
Peter Waters for the Library of Congress.  Binderies had to meet those specifications to 
be able to bid on the contract.  The bindery started doing more sew-through-the-fold 
binding and double-fan adhesive binding in response to these specifications.  The balance 
of work was roughly 65% periodicals and 35% monographs; today, it's probably about 
80% monographs and 20% periodicals.  The special libraries—law libraries, 
pharmaceutical companies, etc. that was comprised a good portion of the business no 
longer bind today because of online access to journals.  The turn-around time shortened 
from a four-week standard to a two-week standard. 
  
  
00:10:49 
Fairfield describes Rounding and Backing vs. Flatback Binding.  When they acquired 
General Bookbinding, there was the practice of a flat-back, wide-hinged binding adopted 
from elsewhere.  General's existing customers liked the product and expressed to the new 
owners that they hoped they would keep the same binding style.  When performance 
tested, the flat-back bindings performed well, and the style was adopted in other 
binderies, but rounding and backing remained available also. 
  
  
00:13:53 
Impact of Technology: First important automation was stamping by Flesher and 
Mekatronics.  Double-fan adhesive binding was made possible in part by the change from 
hot animal glue to cold polyvinyl adhesives.  Jan Merrill-Oldham at the University of 
Connecticut advocated for double-fan adhesive binding instead of oversewing, and this 
was reflected in the Library Binding Standard. 
  
  
00:17:29 
Regrets: Jack may have retired too early.  He feels that he wasn't able to communicate to 
his fellow bookbinders effectively about different binding techniques and their 
advantages.  Overall, not too many missed opportunities.  They have kept binderies 
viable and 350-400 people employed. 
 
 
00:18:56 
Greatest Accomplishment: Having two sons in the business.  Jay understood 
immediately the need to diversify from library binding to keep the business viable.  Jack 
is also proud of his relationships with his employees.  Establishing good managers in 
different locations and seeing them contribute to the company. 
 
 
00:20:07 
Employees: The Babka sisters, Rita and Doris, identical twins, who worked at General 
Bookbinding for 50 years, stand out in Jack's mind.  Bob Coyle worked for Jack at 
Hertzberg-New Method, in Greensboro, North Carolina, and at the Library Binding 
Company of Pennsylvania.  Terry Hymas, operating manager in Walla Walla, WA, also 
stands out as an excellent reliable employee. 
 
 
00:21:52 
Building and Plant: They started in Philadelphia at the Library Binding Company of 
Pennsylvania.  When the acquired the Ruzicka bindery in Baltimore, they kept it in 
operation for a short time, but consolidated the work into Philadelphia.  The Ruzicka 
plant was in an undesirable building ill-suited to library binding.  When they acquired the 
Greensboro, NC Ruzicka bindery, they were able to build their own plant for the first 
time.  The acquisition of General Bookbinding came with the plant which was used as the 
model for other operations.  In Walla Walla, WA, they purchased College Place Bindery 
the from Walla Walla University, who wanted the space for other purposes, so they were 
able to build a new facility, modeled after General Bookbinding.  Operations were 
purchased in Kansas and Oklahoma, consolidated to the Oklahoma plant, and Petersburg, 
VA moved to a new plant.  
 
 
00:25:00 
Greatest Accomplishment: Two major accomplishments were the merger with the 
Heckman Bindery and the merger with Acme Bookbinding, key to the HF Group. 
 
 
00:26:22 
Changes in Business over Time: Software services for commercial operations, primarily 
the pharmaceutical industry, proposed by an employee at General Bookbinding.  The 
company, Trion Technologies, was sold off and provided capital for the business.  The 
same employee had another idea for a business providing climate controlled storage for 
research materials, AssureVault.  In 1985-86, established the Etherington Conservation 
Center with Don Etherington, 12-14 conservators working on materials for a variety of 
clients.   
 
 
00:30:28 
Mentors: Don Etherington, Jan Merrill-Oldham were influences in the library binding 
realm.  Guy Arthur was a great influence on the company's management style.  Dennis 
Tallerico, the software genius from General Bookbinding who had the ideas for the Trion 
Technologies and AssureVault enterprises.  Fred Alpers and his family, from whom the 
company bought General Bookbinding. 
 
 
00:31:57 
Interesting Projects: They worked on full sets of Audubon prints twice, before the 
advent of the Etherington Conservation Center, cleaning them, primarily.  The charter 
from the King of England for the Carolinas owned by the North Carolina state archives in 
Raleigh, which could not be left in the facility overnight.  The document was escorted 
everyday by two State Troopers who waited while it was worked on and brought it back 
to Raleigh each night for six weeks. 
 
 
00:35:12 
Fairfield describes the Etherington Conservation Center.  Attending American Library 
Association conferences made Jack aware that libraries needed services beyond 
traditional library binding; Don Etherington felt that there was a market for conservation 
work and was willing to move to North Carolina and establish the conservation center.  
The conservators hired were trained by Don Etherington personally. 
 
 
00:37:42 
Changes to Industry: The library binding market continues to decline.  In 1980, the 
revenues exceeded $120 million/year.  Today, it's around $30 million.  Important to focus 
on where there's possible growth through diversification.  Edition binding and Print on 
Demand have been touted as diversification from library binding for 25 years, but edition 
binding is highly competitive and also declining.  Print on Demand has been slow to 
grow, slower than expected. 
 
 
 00:42:18 
Advice to Future Generations: Be flexible.  Search constantly for ways to diversify 
work.  Don't forget the people who help you get the work done.  Understand what your 
customers want and need; provide it if you can do it properly. 
 
 
00:45:09 
End of interview. Part I. 
 
 
00:45:12 
Introduction. Part II.  June 4, 2017. 
 
 
00:45:25 
Technological Advances: Huge advances in software for record keeping, for binding 
preparation, and stamping software.  From the beginning, it was a collaborative project, 
between binders and between the binderies and their customers. 
 
 
00:50:29 
Associations:  Fairfield describes being a member of Library Binding Institute.  
Excellent trade association, managed by Dudley Weiss as the first executive director, 
with two conferences per year that were incredibly helpful.  An important tool and 
activity for binders.  Members toured binderies, buckram manufacturers, special 
collections libraries.  Guest speakers on conservation, finance, selling tools, marketing 
and diversification. 
 
 
00:57:05 
Fairfield describes the difference between Rounding and Backing vs. Flatback Binding.  
More complicated that just rounding vs. not rounding.  The hinge and endpapers are 
different for the two methods.  This was not a new method.  The greatest barrier to 
acceptance was that it looked different.  Performance was not an issue. 
 
 
00:59:11 
End of interview. Part II.