Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
afc2013/017 
1 
 
 
Joan Shahrani Interview Index 
 
00:00:05  
April 29, 2015, Ruth Olsen talking with Joanie Shahrani at Cherokee Middle 
School in Madison, Wisconsin.  
 
Born in Green Bay. Five siblings. Fourth of five. Four girls and one brother. Came from 
German and Dutch background; father spoke of it quite often. They didn’t understand any 
German, knew their heritage and could trace back to a specific city in Germany but other than 
that, didn’t know a whole lot. Her father was her biggest influence. He didn’t’ go to college and 
his dream was that his children would. One of his sayings was “Books are a treasure.” He 
wouldn’t allow them to leave a book open, because that would break the spine. They had to use a 
bookmark and close it. The other day, Joan’s son told her that he couldn’t write in textbooks 
because she always says books are a treasure. Her father influenced her to go to college to 
become a teacher because he also believed in working in communities and with as many 
different types of people as possible, and to be of service. She attended UW-Madison. She 
thought she would specialize in Special Education, but when she looked at the classes she 
decided to specialize in General Education, grades 1-8. Graduated in 1985. Social Studies is her 
area of concentration.  
 
After graduating, she got a job in Prairie View, half an hour outside La Crosse, teaching 
6th grade in a little school that was 1-6. She was there one year, and then left and came to 
Madison because she was very close to being engaged at the time, so she subbed for a year, and 
then was hired full time at Sennett Middle School. Since then, was at Cesar Chavez for one year, 
one year at Tokey Middle School, and since then at Cherokee. Has been teaching for 27 years. 
During that time, she spent one year teaching 4th/5th grade but otherwise all middle school. It’s a 
hard group to teach but Joan loves them. She used to say that they understood her jokes. She 
uses sarcasm, but in a good way. In elementary, they don’t get her jokes. She thinks she would 
love teaching high school but just hasn’t gotten that certification. 
 
00:06:05  
A typical day: she arrives as early as she can, usually about 6:45 am. Students 
show up around 7:30. She likes to have a quiet classroom for 20-30 minutes to pull together any 
materials she needs to teach that day, and to check email and get set up. Attendance is set up on 
computer, so she has to get that set up. She has a lot of PowerPoints on her presentation station 
so she has to be sure that is up and ready. And she has to connect with the staff she works with. 
At that time of day, everyone aware there are no students there, so that is the time to check in 
with each other, whether just to say hi, or what’s going on in the classroom, or gossip. Could be 
anybody in the building, but predominantly the team she works with, the other 8th grade teachers. 
On Joan’s team there are 9 altogether, including the special ed teachers and the ESL teacher. 
Joan’s day begins with home room time. Each one of them has homeroom. They meet for about 
15-20 minutes. It’s check in time, which offers stability.  
 
Each student has a homeroom teacher. Hasn’t always been that way at Madison. It’s attendance 
time, checking their schedules. After home room she doesn’t see kids for about two hours—
that’s her planning time. That time is totally filled. She has had a lot of student teachers; she 
thinks that is part of teaching. She’s not only there to work with the students, also there to impart 
her knowledge and wisdom to new teachers. So during that time she is working with student 
teachers, team members, putting things together in the classroom. Parents will also utilize that 
time to come in to talk. Grading doesn’t get done during planning time; that happens at home, 
after hours. Cherokee is unique in that it has an eight-period day. Most Madison middle schools 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
afc2013/017 
2 
 
 
have a seven period day. Cherokee made that decision before Joan started there; they decided on 
an eight-period day so they could infuse reading and math classes, meant to help students who 
are lagging behind during the year. Periods are about 45 minutes long. Joan teaches six periods, 
six different groups of students. The smallest class is in the lower 20s and the highest is almost 
30. 
 
00:11:00  
8th grade tries to model high school. So she is lucky, she only has one prep, which 
is Social Studies. For 8th grade, Social Studies is American History. She has to cover from 
European exploration to the Civil War. It’s the same material for each of the six classes, but for 
example, one of the classes is heavily ESL students so there are a lot of modifications. One class 
is heavier in special education students. In the past, she has had an ESL teacher in the classroom 
with her, and a special ed teacher in the classroom with her. This year she doesn’t have an ESL 
teacher in the class. That’s based on need—their numbers are so high this year that the ESL 
teacher has to go where she feels the greatest impact will be. Joan is working with Level 3 and 4 
ESL students (with 1 being no English and 6 being out of the program), so she is working with 
middle-of-the-road students, which in her mind is just as challenging because their 
conversational English is good but reading and writing is just as difficult.  
 
The text book she is using has a lot of PowerPoints, but she puts together her own as well. She 
finds that having a visual is really important, whether it’s a special ed student, an ESL student or 
a regular student. She tries to vary how she teaches and what she uses. Kids are like adults, they 
get bored if it’s the same thing over and over. Twelve minutes of lecture would be too long for 
middle school.  
 
Students are out of school at 2:37; for students, it starts at 7:35. Joan doesn’t have to take a role 
with lunch supervision. She could if she chose to, a voluntary thing. Right now, in most middle 
schools in Madison, administration is who is supervising during lunch time. If they need more 
help they would ask, and it would be a voluntary thing. Teachers are entitled to a duty-free 27 
minute lunch. It may say 30 in the contract, but it’s pretty much 27 minutes. Bathroom breaks 
can be difficult. Joan has been lucky in that she knows when she has a teacher in her room, and 
so she knows when she can plan her bathroom breaks—when you have another adult in the 
room. Otherwise, it doesn’t happen. [Lights go out in room and Joan laughs and explains that if 
you don’t move around enough the lights go out.] 
 
00:15:10  
Staff meetings vary school by school. One thing that is district-wide is PCT days, 
Professional Collaboration Time, almost every Monday. Kids are let out at 1:37, and then 
teachers can work together in their grade-level teams or as whole staff. At Cherokee, SBLTs 
(School-Based Learning Teams) try to determine what the topics are for that time. Very few after 
school staff meetings, only as needed. PCT takes care of a lot of topics that would be covered in 
staff meetings. Also have team meetings where announcements can be addressed, once a week. 
The facilitator is someone from Resource staff, currently it’s the social worker, who is aware of 
anything the principal wants them to know. Sometimes the principal or vice principal comes to 
those meetings. Joan wouldn’t miss the meetings if they didn’t have them, although there are a 
lot of good ideas there. Teachers are living in a world where there are a lot of mandates coming 
down, and these meetings are where those get taken care of. Right now, lot of emphasis on SLOs 
(Student Learning Objectives) and more acronyms, and the teachers are being taught how to 
provide evidence for all of that. They understand the significance of the terminology but also 
laugh at it because there is so much of it right now. Joan thinks there is too much attention paid 
to it right now in PCT, and not enough attention to other things. There needs to be a balance. 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
afc2013/017 
3 
 
 
Right now in education it’s all data, data, data. And data is important but it’s not the end-all. Any 
enjoyable things in the meeting? Yes, there is food and refreshment, which Joan thinks of as “old 
school.” On professional development days, which are all day, Cherokee does a nice job of 
bringing in coffee, kringles, donuts, stuff like that. And at every meeting there is at least one 
person who throws out some candy bars or something like that. So food is remembered. The part 
Joan feels is lacking is that they don’t really have nuts-and-bolts meetings any more, like 
announcements about the school, or “how ya doing?” or what they used to call “touching base.” 
Just too busy. If people found out that was all the meeting was, they would probably blow it off 
because they are just too busy. 
 
00:20:15 Are there any patterns that you see? At the beginning of school year, it’s usually full of 
excitement on everyone’s part. In the fall and to December, there are enough breaks that kids are 
doing well. The kids have enough breaks, but not the teachers. They used to have the state 
teachers convention--that is gone, but they still have professional development days. It has 
changed how school feels. Lost the state convention around 2012. After Act 10, when the union 
couldn’t negotiate with the districts, the convention was one of the first things to go. Back to the 
kids—the first part of the school year has a good feel. Joan loves the fall, and then with the 
holidays in fall and early winter, that makes it a good thing. The very difficult time of the year is 
the winter.  
 
A pattern shows in grading: first quarter is usually so-so; second quarter is usually pretty good 
because students have developed a routine; third quarter you see a slump which Joan attributes to 
winter, and things dragging on—there is a certain term for February which Joan won’t repeat in 
this interview. February and early March are the hardest time of year for students and staff to get 
through. And for grades, fourth quarter is a surge, as kids and staff realize that they are getting 
close to the end of the tunnel. The weather gets better, there are a lot of factors. Teaching 8th 
grade, there are a lot of milestones that tap into the kids. At the end of the year, they are leaving 
the school and going on to high school. They don’t call it a graduation ceremony any more, they 
call it a “farewell” ceremony. There’s a dance, a diploma, the high school comes over and talks 
to them and they sign up for classes. Teachers reflect this same pattern; as a teacher, you have to 
let the students know you’re human but you have to hide a lot of stuff, just like a parent. It serves 
no purpose for everyone to act depressed all together. 
 
00:25:14  
Joan takes work home with her. Most people don’t understand how much work is 
involved in teaching. Joan has been teaching 27 years. She taught 6th-7th-8th grade at Sennett in a 
multi-age classroom. She is very familiar with the curriculum for all three grades. She has been 
teaching 8th grade at Cherokee for two years and even though she knows the curriculum very 
well, she stays at school until 4:30 to plan, to look over what’s happening the next day, to consult 
with people. She is on a number of different committees. She leaves school at 4:30, has an hour 
to exercise because she needs some down time, then goes home to eat and talk with her husband. 
After eating, she pulls out her school bag and is either planning, reviewing or correcting. On a 
good night, she is done before 10. It’s beautiful when she can pack it in by 9:30—that’s a really 
good night. And when she doesn’t have to bring anything home—that’s a mini-vacation. She 
typically tries to keep Saturday free of school but that doesn’t always happen. Sundays there is a 
minimum of two hours’ of work. Joan is on the SBLT committee (Student Based Learning 
Team), which is supposed to be made up of a good cross-section of staff so that there are many 
opinions to represent the staff. Principal or vice principal is there, as well as someone from 
“downtown” (the district administration) who guides them as they discuss topics. They try to 
follow the SIP (School Improvement Plan). Each school comes up with what their areas of 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
afc2013/017 
4 
 
 
development will be, what they are working to improve. That meets once a month, 2 hours. Joan 
was just asked to be on the PBIS team (Positive Behavior Support Group) which looks at 
behavior in the school and meets once a month. Plus she does other things, like National History 
Day competition and African American History Bowl with students. Joan chooses to do this. She 
also leads the 8th grade trip to Washington D.C. the week after school is out. All of these 
activities are volunteer. Joan thinks that there are some teachers who don’t volunteer to do any of 
these activities. 
 
00:29:50  
Tools and techniques: what is most effective in this physical place? Joan says Me. 
She says others may talk about Twitter, social media, phones—you name it. It’s not that she 
doesn’t use those tools, she does. She says this to student teachers. You can give the same 
curriculum to ten different teachers and it will be taught ten different ways. The personality and 
presentation that you put into the curriculum is what makes the curriculum. The curriculum has 
to be good, for sure, but how you present it and the relationships you build with the students is 
number one. Joan considers herself somewhat of a dinosaur. She does use a presentation station, 
a computer, power points, uses a lot of tools. She makes a point to learn new stuff as it comes 
out to use in her classroom. But the student population at Cherokee is challenging, and she can 
keep them listening, motivated and producing without all the bells and whistles most of the time.  
 
You can’t do the same thing every day, you have to mix it up for different kinds of learners. Joan 
always makes sure she has a visual, always makes sure she has a model, a rubric, something for 
them to follow so they can spring off it and produce their own. But she thinks it is the 
personality of the teacher that is the main focus. The floor in Joan’s classroom is a map, with the 
states named. She makes learning interactive. She mixes up her classroom quite often—
sometimes it is in rows, right now it’s in a huge oval with a map on the floor. The class acts 
learning out sometimes. Joan has a huge rack of hats in the room so students can act out different 
characters. She tries to get the kids doing different things—not always easy, not always easy for 
the kids. “They walk into this room and go ‘Whoa!’” For students with high anxiety, with low 
learning, with emotional difficulties, it freaks them out and Joan has to work with them and 
reassure them that it’s okay and safe. And then it will change again. She tries to do a different 
seating chart every two weeks. There are a lot of things you have to do to keep them engaged. 
That is one of the key things to keep them learning. 
 
00:34:00  
Types of language that teachers use. Jargon with the testing for the students. Used 
to have the WKCE, that has phased out to Smarter Balance, which they call the Badger…Badger 
Exam (it’s new, so she is searching for the term). The kids are aware of a lot of the language. 
There is a program called “Avid” which is for kids in the middle, not failing but not doing the 
best they can. Along with that, the Cornell Notes. Also verbiage for the behavior plans. There are 
certain things that you try to be sure that the kids understand, and then there is a slew of it for the 
educators themselves. Joan doesn’t discount it, but whittles it down to what she needs to know 
because it can weigh you down. She knows what she needs to know to be successful and for her 
kids to be successful. Terms always changing. She heard that when she began teaching, ‘Same 
idea, new word.’ ‘New program, a new package.’ “And it’s true. Because we are dealing with 
humans, and there is no science to it but we keep trying to make it a science. And there is a way- 
-but there are so many different ways to reach kids and to teach kids. To try to package it in one 
is just so….” For her team of 9 teachers, the 27 minute lunch can provide a time to check in with 
each other. It’s interesting because some of those dynamics just happen, it isn’t planned. The 
team itself hardly ever sits down, all 9, in one spot. There is a teacher’s lounge, but Joan hardly 
ever uses it. When she started teaching at Sennett, she would go in the lounge. But what she saw 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
afc2013/017 
5 
 
 
gradually over the years, is pockets of teachers. So, there is a pocket that sits in the lounge, there 
is a pocket of teachers that eat lunch together in a teacher’s classroom, but it changes day-to-day.  
Some teachers have students who come in to the classroom to eat with them. But some days the 
teacher will come to the lounge and say ‘I just need adults right now. For 27 minutes I don’t 
want any kids.’ And they are welcomed. You need some down time. Just like in the morning 
before school, you need to check in and share some of the good and some of the bad things. 
Joan’s allies, the people with whom she couldn’t do her job, have changed with the buildings she 
has been in. “It becomes people specific, not job specific.” Whoever makes you feel the best that 
you can feel. Joan has been in buildings where she has been ignored by administration, not 
because she was trying to be difficult but because they just didn’t have the resources, so she 
didn’t connect with them. But in her first building, Sennett, her principal was the best mentor 
ever and Joan told her at her retirement that if she could ever be all the things her principal was, 
Joan would consider her profession to be complete. Here at Cherokee, Joan definitely has 
creative allies and does have people she considers support. It’s interesting because it isn’t just her 
team; it stems out into other grade levels and other positions within the school. You have to find 
those things—or people find you. This is only her second year at Cherokee—last year it was 
quiet in her room, but this year, not so quiet. It’s a nice traffic that comes through here, and Joan 
does the same to other classrooms. You have to get to know people. You have to have allies. She 
could just come here and shut her door and teach because there is that autonomy in teaching, but 
that would be awful. 
 
00:39:50  
Joan does things outside of school with her colleagues. If she didn’t, she would 
feel something was missing. Every school she has been, she has had friendships outside of the 
school as well as in the school. Lots of social situations: go out to dinner, go out for drinks, go to 
people’s homes, go to movies. When she was at Sennett, for about 15 years, most of her 
colleagues were her age, so their families grew up together. They all did many more things 
outside of school as well as in school. Joan came to Cherokee because she was at another school 
where the principal has decided she was going to move her to a 7th grade position where Joan 
was only going to be allowed to teach one section of social studies. Joan wasn’t happy with that, 
and thought as long as she was going to have to change she might as well look across the district. 
She was very happy to see that Cherokee had a full time position in social studies. At the 
previous school, in 7th grade position, she would have had language arts, a reading class and on 
social studies class. Three preps. That’s very common. To only have one prep is a dream. 
Cherokee is a positive environment for work, in terms of the staff. But the students are very 
challenging, the behavior issues and the mental issues the staff have to deal with are amazing, 
not in a good way.  
 
This year has been better than last year but what she hears from the 7th grade teachers is that the 
students coming up next year will be as challenging as last year’s. So if she didn’t have staff to 
vent to and discuss problems, it would be very difficult. The district is under a new behavior 
plan, in which basically nothing is done about behaviors, or a lot less than it used to be. And a lot 
more has to be done in the classroom. There were a lot of days last year where she had to be 
very calm, very patient, and take a lot of crap. Students gave verbal crap, didn’t do work, walked 
in and out of classrooms, the hallways were full of kids. Because of the new behavior plan Joan 
feels there weren’t any consequences; they set up a tier program but there are no resources for it, 
so no positions to handle that. A budget cut coming up, so again less people, less resources, but 
nothing has changed as far as who we are servicing. With the new behavior plan, there are clear 
guidelines for what it takes for a student to be expelled, but if there is a major behavior issue in 
the classroom, the student first gets a warning, a tab out of the room. If bad behavior not 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
afc2013/017 
6 
 
 
resolved, then a tab out to another teacher’s room. If the behavior doesn’t get better, then you 
can call for the administration’s help. Even at that point, they might just get talked to for five 
minutes and then they are back in the classroom.  
 
The reason behind the new policy is to address academic achievement. A lot of the students who 
were behavior problems were out of the classroom too much, so they were further behind so 
administration wanted to be sure they were in the classroom more. That’s well and good, but we 
have to think about the whole class, not just the individuals who were being disruptive. 
Unfortunately, everyone is suffering at this point. The board is aware of it, a lot of teachers have 
gone to the board. This plan was implemented without many resources and without much 
planning with staff. 
 
00:46:00  
Stereotypes of teachers? Absolutely. There is a lot of negativity about teachers. 
Joan remembers when it started; she remembers reading in the Wisconsin State Journal about 
taking away mediation from teachers. Even teachers didn’t understand the full implication of 
that. At that point she seriously considered a different career, and now it is much worse than it 
was then. She remembers reading and thinking “This is my state newspaper, and I am not 
reading anything nice about me, and yet I think I am doing a really good job and no one is 
paying attention.” Other stereotypes: in the summer, teachers have it easy. Teachers get a great 
retirement package. They get to retire early. Summers they just bum around and travel and have 
lots of money to spend. 
 
That’s not the truth. Joan has two sons. One with an undergraduate degree is already 
making a salary that is the same amount that she is making after 27 years of experience and a 
masters degree. She is very happy for him, but it highlights where teachers are at. Here in 
Madison, we live in a bubble. Joan feels very supported by all the Act 10 activity that went on 
here. But it’s a different story elsewhere. When she goes up to Green Bay, it’s a very different 
feel. Joan is sorry to focus on the negative but that is where the focus is right now. Nationally as 
well as locally.  
 
What kinds of stories do teachers tell each other? Joan says that teachers always say ‘I 
should write a book.’ Except for with spouses and significant others, you can’t talk about the 
things that happen during the day because those are confidential things. The students can talk 
about it, but a teacher can’t go out into the community and say ‘so-and-so did this.’ Not okay. 
Within the environment of other teachers and especially if you have the same students, you do 
complain about some kids. Not that you hate them, but that you don’t like what they are doing 
when their behavior is out of whack. Teachers do share and do act out what happens in their 
lives; it’s not mean, it’s therapeutic. There are times you laugh and times you cry. “In teaching, 
what we do is so public, in front of our kids all the time, that you need to just—whether it’s a 
happy moment or a sad moment—you need to find someone else to just share that with 
sometimes, because you can’t do that with the kids. I mean, you have to be honest with your 
students but you can’t be brutally honest.” 
 
00:51:15  
Other characters feature in teacher stories. Everyone is fair game, whether the 
media, administrators, colleagues, parents. Joan is sure that parents probably act out their 
meetings with teachers. Joan has had students come in and imitate other teachers, and it’s 
sometimes funny and sometimes not okay. Joan will label it, and often say to them, ‘What do you 
say about me when I’m not around?’ We all do that to some extent. She loves when students do 
impressions of her because then she knows what she looks like: ‘Do I say that a lot? I should 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
afc2013/017 
7 
 
 
probably stop doing that.’ So for teachers telling stories, it might start as a way to vent but often 
becomes a way to collaborate. One teacher tells what happened in her classroom and another 
makes connections to something that happened in a hallway, or her own classroom, and if it 
manifested itself somewhere else. So there are lots of good reasons to tell stories. “We should 
never be isolated, we should always be telling stories about what’s happening.” If Joan hears a 
weird noise in the hall, she opens her door to check, and will see Mike opening his door to 
check—they are all looking out for each other. They are good neighbors because this hallway is 
their neighborhood. 
 
00:53:35 Joan has done projects that involve local culture, especially the curriculum she 
developed about world religions. Debbie [Kmetz] helped her to verbalize the idea she had. One 
year Joan was a participant in the Wisconsin Teachers of Local Culture “Here at Home” tour of 
Wisconsin and had just listened to an Islamic gentleman, and Joan’s husband is Islamic. [The 
tour had a panel that included Jewish, Islamic, and Catholic practitioners.] Joan reflected to 
Debbie that whenever someone teaches social studies, they can’t do it without bringing in belief. 
Every time Joan tried to tackle the topic of religion in the classroom, she had speakers come in 
and it’s always a hit or miss, and it typically didn’t work. Joan was teaching 6th grade, and 
teaching Ancient Civs. Obviously, with Ancient Civilizations you have to bring in world 
religions. Joan is aware that in high school there is a class on world religions, but she felt it 
should be done earlier. In 6th grade they are still very open. Joan’s classroom was very diverse in 
their religions. She wanted to tie world religions to their own religions, but she wanted to take 
them to these places of worship. She didn’t want to keep talking about them and maybe showing 
some pictures; she wanted to show it in action. Debbie directed Joan to the Wisconsin 
Humanities Council and they were able to give her a grant and purchase curriculum for her. Joan 
decided to start with TCI [textbook company out of Texas, Teachers Curriculum Institute]; they 
had a good curriculum and Joan built off from it. In teaching this is how it happens, you start 
with a base and then start deleting and adding. After 4-5 years, she had binders of added 
material. She and Debbie planned the places they could visit. Joan tied it to the students: some 
were Catholic, some were Jewish—Joan made great connections with places of worship around 
Madison.  
 
They did Hmong traditional religion. Like everything else, at first you don’t know where to go 
and then you make more and more connections. Some of the parents in Joan’s classroom were 
shamans who came in to talk. The Hindu religion—a woman came in with her two 
granddaughters to do puja. They went out to the Buddhist Center and Joan still goes out there. 
The Greek Orthodox Church, Father Michael. The kids really got it, they understood, “this is my 
world, this is Madison. I’m reading about ancient civ and the development of Hinduism in 
India—it’s right here!” On one Saturday, she took kids to the Festival of Lights. It depended on 
the year, it depended on the kids, sometimes it extended beyond the curriculum. Parent 
involvement was beautiful because Joan told them they were all invited to any of the visits they 
went on.  
 
The Buddhist Center was always very popular. Joan had one set of parents who were very 
worried about their daughter being exposed to all these religions, so they came on every visit. 
They were just like the kids, asking great questions, had a good time, weren’t intimidated. Joan 
told the kids, “Fear is because you don’t know. And I’m here to help you know.” Once we don’t 
have fear, we have friendship and understanding. You don’t have to believe what they believe, 
you just have to know what they believe and then it’s not scary any more. Always did all the 
field trips at the end of the year to be sure to have good weather. Covered the curriculum all 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
afc2013/017 
8 
 
 
through the year, but field trips for two or three weeks in the spring. Also did Native American 
beliefs by visiting the mounds. They loved the mounds because they understood how it fit in and 
the meaning behind the formation of the mounds, and why they were the animals they were. 
 
01:02:06 End of recording