Fletcher Powell interviewing Mary Rush, June 3, 2013, at Mary’s house in south 
Wichita. 
 
Let me have you start by saying your name and tell us what you do now. 
 
Well, my name’s Mary Rush and I own my own company, real estate management 
and paint contracting company. And during my time in Wichita, before we left in 
2003, I worked solely in real estate management while Terry was at Boeing, but 
that’s what I do now, I have my own business. 
 
Ok. Great. So, uh, we interviewed your husband Terry a little while back, about his time 
working for Boeing. We’ll get to that in just a second, but first of all, tell me—did you 
grow up in Wichita? Are you from Wichita? 
 
No, I’m not from Wichita, I grew up in the northern part of the country, Michigan, 
Ohio, um, but we came to Wichita in the late 1980s, and we were hear for, uh, 17 
years before we left. So, it was the longest that I’d lived anywhere, we moved around 
a lot when I was a kid. So Wichita certainly feels like home to me. And we returned 
after a seven-year, uh, time away, and, uh, now we’re back home and I think we’ll be 
staying. 
 
Where did you first meet Terry? 
 
I met Terry in North Carolina. We were both working for a wholesale distributor of 
natural foods. Back in 1977-ish. And, um, we married and came this way, and we—
via a few other places, but then arrived in Wichita in, like I said, the late 1980s. 
 
What brought you here? 
 
Um, work brought us here. Um, I’d started my career in real estate management in 
Tulsa, had an opportunity to work at a property here in Wichita, and Terry was also 
given a position at that same property, so I managed and did the administrative 
work and he did the maintenance, and that’s what brought us here, and, um, you 
know, we just, we continued on, we didn’t leave until 2003. 
 
So I think Terry said that he started working for Boeing around 1989. 
 
Yes. 
 
How did you feel about that, when he started working for them? 
 
Well, it was, uh, gosh, I think as a young family we felt like we’d hit the jackpot. Uh, 
working for Boeing was kind of the job to have in Wichita, uh, good benefits, good 
pay scale, it was a job that you could raise a family on. And, um, we had been doing 
ok, we had been, you know, struggling along as a young family does, but this gave us 
an opportunity to really, we thought, put money aside and really plan for the future 
and have some stability, um, with that company, and, um, you know, it was hard 
work, and it wasn’t—I’m not sure Terry ever felt extremely gratified by the work, 
um, but it was a great paycheck and really allowed him to provide for his family, and 
I think that’s how I viewed it at that time. 
 
So, let’s say for the first five or six years or so, did you—did your feelings about it 
basically stay the same? Or did things start to change for you? 
 
Um, no, you know, any kind of manufacturing job, for the people that are out on the 
line I think it takes a toll on you, and from a personal standpoint and your family 
there are a lot of long hours, sometimes that kept him away from doing things with 
us as family, um, but it was a sacrifice that he made and we were all really grateful 
for it. I remember, in particular, being really glad that he had insurance coverage, 
because the employer I worked for, interestingly enough, um, here in Wichita—
which, as when I started with them I would, you know, they were a smaller business 
but they certainly grew to be a primary player in the Wichita market in real estate 
management. Um, but there was an interesting thing that was never said but 
everyone discussed around the water cooler, was that this company did love 
employing people whose spouses worked at Boeing, because then they didn’t have 
to provide health insurance. And to them, that was, you know, a bonus. And now as a 
small-business owner I understand part of that, but I just remember thinking, ‘well, 
that’s really interesting that it’s, um, you know, the people that work at Boeing are 
grateful for all the benefits provided, but the, the larger community also understood 
that if you had someone in that family who worked for Boeing that was, that was 
really good, because there was a lot of stability income-wise, and benefit, health 
insurance and whatnot, um, for that family. But then, in turn, you know, in a way 
cheated me out of what I think should have, and eventually did, as the company 
grew, became part of my compensation package. But I kinda had to raise that fight a 
little bit— 
 
With your company? 
 
5:49 
 
With my company, yes. Um, for them to understand that if they wanted to retain 
really good people they had to offer more than just a paycheck, given the business 
we were in. 
 
And not rely on Boeing to give— 
 
And not rely on Boeing, because then-- as we found out after the first layoff, and 
then the roller coaster began—that, although as I mentioned, work at Boeing was 
like hitting the jackpot, the longer you were there, at least during the time that Terry 
worked for them, um, you really learned that you had to plan for these layoffs. And 
the ideology you had that this was going to be the great, stable manufacturing job 
that will provide for our family, we’ll be able to buy a modest home, we’ll be able to 
take vacations every once in a while, and just—nothing extravagant, but kinda live 
the American Dream, um, it wasn’t exactly that. And, um, that was very 
disconcerting and difficult to live through that cycle. 
 
So when did it become clear to you, uh, that that was sort of the nature of this 
business? Because I know Terry said it wasn’t clear right away, but eventually people 
told him, ‘well, yeah, you know, this is what happens, they do layoffs and that sort of 
thing and that’s just kind of the way it is. For you, when did it become clear that, you 
know, ‘oh, this isn’t exactly the stable job, and what’s coming?’ 
 
Um, it was probably after the second or even the third layoff cycle that he went 
through. I think the first one, it was hard, we maneuvered through it. I mean, my 
husband drove school buses, delivered rural route—newspaper routes, did all of 
these odd jobs to get through those layoff periods, because another interesting thing 
is that if you were a Boeing employee who was laid off and you went out into this 
Wichita market to find a job, people would not hire you because they would say, 
‘well, as soon as Boeing calls you back you’re gonna be leaving us.’ So, it was kind of 
this ‘damned if you do, damned if you don’t,’ almost, you know, kind of experience, 
to a certain degree. And, um, you know, so then when people were laid off, then 
they, you know, they picked up whatever they could do to weather through that to 
get to the next place where now you could breathe again, now the paychecks came 
in regularly. And after a couple of those, and you saw it then, for me, I began to 
realize, ‘well, we have to plan for these,’ and that became part of what you did as a 
family was to plan for that. And it was still just—it was just hard, you know? It was 
hard to be on the side of watching your spouse, you know, bring in this paycheck 
and be this provider and then go through these cycles, and it was emotionally 
draining—on him and on us as a family. You tightened the belt and the kids didn’t 
get everything, you know, that maybe they’d been used to getting. So it was a, uh—I 
don’t think we ever felt like, ‘wow, we’ve arrived and we’ve got this job and we’ll 
really be able to solidly plan’-- and we did, Terry, I mean, contributed into the 401k 
program, and the options of stock and all of that that were offered, which, you know, 
ended up not being worth a whole lot when we had to cash those in and, you know, 
life took other turns. So, yeah, it was, um, it was hard as a family to go through it, and 
yet, I mean, you didn’t really feel as though you were alone, you know, there were 
other people that, within your circle of friends, who worked there, and you kind of 
all knew this is what was gonna happen, but, um, yeah, it was… 
 
Going back to slightly before the first time he was laid off—I’ll have a question about 
that, too—but you said, um, in the first five, six years that Terry was working long 
hours and maybe didn’t get to see you guys that much, but he was making the sacrifice 
so that, you know, so the paycheck and the benefits could come in. Is that how you felt 
about it at the time, too? Or did you have any resentment? 
 
10:37 
 
Um… no, I don’t think I had resentment, I understood that this was where our family 
was, in relationship to my husband’s employment, you know, my employment, uh, 
we were definitely our entire life a two-person, you know, working family, to 
provide for our family, and, uh, so it wasn’t resentful, but it added a layer in the 
relationship, that when you really love someone, and, um, and you know that they 
are doing everything they can, uh, to provide for their family, and doing a really 
good job, too, at it—and yet, the strain of that work and the hours, and, then, as time 
went on, the uncertainty, takes its toll on someone. And those, those moments are 
not the things that always, you know, get shared or talked about, the strain it takes 
on a family. So, Terry not being available for certain events with the children, or 
working so late he would come in just exhausted, eat, and fall into bed, and get up 
the next morning and do it all over again. And that cycle, after a while, drains a 
person so that, you know, there’s, um, it takes a whole lot more energy to have 
enough energy to participate in a relationship. And, um, I mean, we weathered it, 
we’re 35 years married and we’re a strong family, um, but it was, it was very 
challenging. Yes. Very challenging. 
 
The first time he got laid off, before you had gone through that couple of times, um, 
were you anxious? Were you scared? 
 
When he first—the first time that the layoff came? Oh, um, yes. Because we’d been 
rocking along, we’d been in a good cycle—apparently, as we came to learn—uh, it 
was a good cycle, and so, and then to have that first layoff and to think, ‘oh my 
goodness,’ you know, ‘what happens next? Will they call him back?’ Not knowing, 
everyone said, ‘oh, no, you’ll get called back,’ but thinking, ‘well, we don’t know that, 
we haven’t been through that,’ so what do you do? So he goes to try and find work, 
as I mentioned earlier, at other places, and people don’t want to hire you, you know? 
And, so, you know, you just struggle through that and praying that you’ll get that 
callback notice and that callback notice, well, when is that gonna—it would be really 
good if it would come sooner rather than later, and then it does, and you go, ‘whew, 
ok, ok, we’ll be ok again, for a minute,’ you know, and you move on. And then you 
realize, ‘jeez, oh Pete, this is just part of this whole dang thing.’ And I think Boeing 
had such an awesome opportunity to really shift their whole paradigm when they 
brought in the system that Terry was so excited about, of—based on Deming’s work, 
you know? And it made so much sense, and it just jazzed those people out there on 
the line who were doing that job every day and could find ways to make it more 
productive and working that system from the bottom up. And it was at a time when I 
think Terry really needed, um, he needed to feel like, ‘ok, they really want me to be 
part of this and I’m not just here clocking in and getting a paycheck.’ And it was so 
invigorating and wonderful, and there was a shift and he was jazzed about going to 
work and would come home and tell me about these meetings and how they, you 
know, brainstormed on these ideas to make production more efficient. And after, 
you know, they were working on all of this as a team to prepare it, to put it into play, 
and then the Boeing middle management, the class system they had established 
over all the years they’d been in business here, just threw a monkey wrench in the 
whole thing. And when that was not allowed to come to fruition, I think there were a 
lot of really excellent people who just threw up their hands and said, ‘this doesn’t 
matter,’ this is not—it’s not the Boeing that was during World War II building 
airplanes, and families, and brothers, and cousins, it was family, and they took care 
of you and you took care of them and it was, it had moved beyond that into 
something that, you know, I think, well, devolved into, you know, what ended up, 
which is, you know, progressing forward, you know, which is Boeing leaving this 
community. And they have a long, long legacy and history here and it’s really, it’s 
really sad, I think. 
 
When, uh, when Terry was going through, um, the training for the new management 
style, and then after when they sort of pulled the rug out from under them, could you 
see that with him? Because he said that, for him, it just really deflated him and after 
that he pretty much just went through the motions. Could you also see that? 
 
16:25 
 
Oh, absolutely. Absolutely. I think up till that point, you know, Terry’s working out at 
Boeing it was learning the craft, the trade, and it’s a very, really skilled trade that, 
you know, the levels of error are miniscule. And so, so there was a pride in learning 
how to build airplanes and how to do it really well, and feeling as though you were 
one of the premiere aircraft manufacturers in the world. And I think that was there 
when he first went out there, and, you know, layoffs start, you get a little jaded, but 
then this new management system, you know, and you get like a breath of fresh air 
and you think, ‘ok, I think they get it, they believe in us, they believe that we really 
can bring it, because we have been doing that and we can make it even better, and 
make us a part of that.’ And when that, as you said, when they pulled the rug out 
from under them on that, it was abs—yes, it was very devastating. His attitude 
changed, he was—I think he went through some periods of depression, you know? 
And it was like, ‘I’m just going through the motions,’ yeah. ‘I’m going here to get a 
paycheck.’ And I will tell you, as a business owner, I’m coming to realize you’re only 
as good as the people you have working for you. And if you infuse them with a sense 
of ownership and importance and authority in what’s happening with the business 
then great things will happen. And I think Boeing just, oh, they just shot themselves 
in the foot, huge. They invested I don’t know how much money, huge, though, 
amounts of money, in bringing this system in and developing it with their people 
and building the teams and giving them time to work on what went into that. And it 
was so exciting, because it was what was really—it was something different, you 
know, it wasn’t just the normal, ‘we’re gonna go along building airplanes like we 
have for however many years and it’ll be good.’ And so it was exciting and these 
guys were jazzed about it and there was—yeah, it was extremely deflating, and I 
think it just left so many people feeling flat and, um, going to work and going 
through the motions. 
 
Did it—I assume he was still working long hours, uh, despite the fact that he was just 
going through the motions. Did it make it even that much harder because now it’s not 
even a fulfilling job? 
 
Well, yeah, you just, you go into a mode where, um, you don’t really talk about your 
work, you don’t—we had, we kept some social ties with people that Terry worked 
with, and so we would see them occasionally. But, um, you know, Terry would come 
home, there wasn’t conversation about work, he wanted to forget about what had 
happened. And eight hours out of, or 10, 12, you know, hours of his life, so there’s 
kind of a disconnect there and you begin to realize that this—as a family member of 
someone who worked there, in this environment, um, that it was sucking some of 
the life out of this person you loved. You were grateful for the paycheck, you were 
grateful for those insurance benefits still, you hoped, you know, they got the next 
contract so that you could keep building planes, um, but yeah, it was not—there was 
nothing that I remember Terry talking about in relationship to his job at Boeing that 
was fulfilling, that was, uh, life-affirming, it wasn’t. All it was was a paycheck. And he 
said that to me repeatedly. 
 
After the management debacle. 
 
20:45 
 
Yes, yes. Yeah. Aaand, a little bit before. I mean, it was just some of the cycle of men 
doing plant manufacturing work, you know, it—yeah. But definitely after that, it just, 
he just thought, ‘you know, I’m just a tool, I’m another tool.’ And I remember, I think 
it was at that same time or shortly thereafter, Terry began talking about Boeing, you 
know, selling their technology to the Chinese, you know, taking some of their 
manufacturing overseas. And he said that, ‘this is gonna fall apart, we can’t give 
away all the stuff we know and still expect to be able to command wages like we’ve 
received,’ um, which were good wages. But nobody, nobody came away from Boeing, 
at the level that Terry worked, a wealthy person. It was a job. It kept your family fed, 
a roof over your head, maybe you got a little bit of retirement out of it, but it 
wasn’t—nobody, I don’t ever remember talking to anyone that worked out there 
that I knew, that we socialized with, who felt any kind of loyalty to the company, 
who believed there would really be any pension available for them. You know, they 
were glad for the job, they were grateful for the job and the paycheck and the 
compensation package. But there wasn’t—it wasn’t like those families I talked to 
who had grandfathers and great-grandfathers who worked for Boeing, and there 
was this real str—like, your granddad worked there and your dad worked there, you 
could get in there, you know, it was somewhat nepotistic, but it was still you knew 
you could have a place and you could work and be proud of what you did. And that, 
you know, that didn’t continue. 
 
Your kids may have been a little older than, than it might affect them a lot, but could 
you tell if this, the ups and downs and so on, weighed on them at all? 
 
Well, I know that, um, unlike my parents’ generation, or at least my experience with 
my parents, uh, you know, they never discussed their financial situation. Uh, I think I 
found in our family that Terry and I did share more of that with Gabe and Micala, 
because we had to and we felt that was important for them to understand. And, um, 
so I know there were times, I know there were times when the kids knew that Dad’s 
laid off, and that means that things will get a little bit tight, and I hope they didn’t 
feel times of great deprivation, but I think they understood we can’t always have the 
things we would like to have or, you know, Mom and Dad are having to do these 
different jobs—I mean, Gabriel, our son, would go run these rural newspaper routes 
with his dad, you know, 3:00 in the morning as a, I’d say at that point probably 12-
year-old? You know? On the weekends. And I don’t—when I was growing up, that 
wasn’t my experience, I didn’t, you know, go help my parents work. So, yeah, I’m 
sure that there was some impact in relationship to that. Um, but I don’t know that 
it’s something that my kids have ever really shared with me, or that they felt any 
kind of, um—well, they felt a disconnect from their dad. That’s, I mean, that is true. 
There were a lot of years where it was hard for the kids to connect to Terry because 
he was just unavailable. Physically, sometimes, and then other times just 
emotionally, because he was just too drained. So, yeah, I think it did have, yes, some 
impact. I haven’t really thought about that till now, but I do, yeah, I think so. 
 
So, in ’02 or ’03, he got laid off again and pretty much decided that’s it. Uh, was that a 
joint decision between the two of you? 
 
25:28 
 
It, it was a joint decision, um, I—you know, Terry was still pretty young to retire, but 
my career and where I was with my career allowed me the opportunity to, um, look 
for other work. I really had hit the maximum of what I could make in this market 
and stay in Wichita, so it kind of forced—it didn’t kind of, it did force me to start to 
send my resume out, worked with a headhunter, you know, obtained a position, um, 
that took me out of the Wichita market, and, lo and behold, increased my salary, you 
know, substantially, almost 50 percent. And within the next few months, you know, I 
was up in the six figure salary range. That was unexpected, but I was really grateful 
for it, and during that time I told Terry, ‘I don’t want you to work. You have worked 
really hard since the time you were 12’ and his father was injured in an industrial 
paint contracting accident, uh, I said, ‘I think this is your time and I need you at 
home taking care of what, you know, needs to happen there so that I can pursue my 
career.’ So for us, um, that worked out ok, but it was definitely a conscious decision 
that at that juncture, at that point in time in our life we were not following the 
Boeing roller coaster fun ride anymore. It’s like, ‘thank you very much, it’s been a 
real deal,’ for however many years he did it, but we have to look at making some 
other decisions and moving on with our life. If we had stayed, he was 55, um, he left, 
and if he had stayed and, uh, you know, been able to hang through until full 
retirement, um we would have come out of the other side of that with much better 
pension and retirement basis for him to utilize. Um, but it was, we just weren’t 
willing to go there anymore. So it kind of pushed me out of my little nest and was 
helpful for me in that regard. So yeah, but it shifted our life in a pretty major way, 
too, it—55, and I’m, you know, eight or nine years younger than Terry, so at a point, 
at that age, you know, you’re kinda like working towards that end piece of your 
career, at least that was our vision of what it would be. Um, and we kinda did an 
interruptus, you know, there in the middle and say, ‘ok, let’s try and start something 
new again.’ 
 
So you guys moved away, but you came back to Wichita. What—just for fun, what if, 
when you had come back, Terry had said, ‘you know, I think, I think maybe I could do 
Boeing again for a few years, I could get a few more years under my belt.’ What would 
you have said? 
 
Well, it’s interesting that you mention that because that conversation actually 
happened. Yes. Um, at one point we were—we started this business, um, you know, 
things were lean and tight that first year, and Terry said he’d had some contact from 
some of the guys out at Spirit, now, they were bringing people back in, so Terry 
went through the motions, he contacted them, he gave them his information, he 
began to pursue that, and, um, and then said, ‘I can’t, I can’t do this. I cannot do this.’ 
And I said, ‘no, I don’t think you can, I don’t think it’s the right time nor place for 
this,’ and… but for him it was kinda like, ‘I can’t, I can’t go back into that 
environment again and try and be successful with that, it’s kinda like I’ve moved 
beyond.’ And yet, we were in Wichita, and here you are, having, you know, financial 
challenges starting a business, you know—and what brought us back was I, in 2008 
when the housing market started to tank, I lost two positions, high positions, within 
six months of each other, and, you know, I said, ‘we’re going home, we’re gonna go 
figure it out and we’re gonna go back to Wichita.’ So, you know, you come back—
but, so, here we are and still the mindset is, ‘well, if I can get on at Boeing then 
everything will be ok.’ And it’s, it’s just not true. It’s not true. And, um, so, yeah, so 
there was a part of me that was, like, almost sucked back into that feeling of, ‘yes, 
let’s get you back on at Boeing and then, you know, it’ll be good again.’ Um, and the 
more we talked about it and, you know, I just said, ‘no, this would not be good, I’m 
not going back to that,’ and, um—because I really knew that he would be extremely 
unhappy. That’s the sad part. Boeing in Wichita was like the place to work. And then 
something happened and then… people still worked there but I didn’t hear a whole 
lot of people talking about feeling very joyful about working there. It’s too bad. 
 
You said when he first started in ’89 or so you felt like you hit the jackpot. Coming out 
the other end, there wasn’t a lot of joy. Do you feel like—do you feel like, ultimately, 
those 13 years were worth it? 
 
32:12 
 
That’s a very good question. Were they worth it? What would have been the 
alternative? There’s the question you don’t know how to answer. So was it worth it? 
Sure. We raised two kids, we became somewhat a part of this community—not like 
people who have lived here for generations, but, you know, my father lives here and 
so we have family connection and friends. Um, was it worth it? Gosh. You know, I, I 
don’t know how to answer that, really, because we gained a certain amount of 
financial freedom, because we were able to pay our bills and buy a new car, you 
know, every four to six years, um, but was it worth it? Hmm. Well, I don’t know, 
because you never know what the other alternative may have been. So… yeah. 
 
What, uh, what kind of attitude do you have, sort of, toward Boeing now, these days? 
How do you see them? 
 
Well… I… you know, it seems kind of unfortunate, but I don’t—I mean, Boeing is 
leaving Wichita, while we, the time that we were away from Wichita apparently 
Spirit—some kind of transition happened there, um, where they came into the 
picture, so it feels kind of like, ‘eh.’ You know, it’s—I don’t know Spirit, it’s not that 
Boeing name, you know, identification. Um, when Boeing leaves, um, entirely, which 
apparently is in the works, um, I think there will be, I think there will be a certain 
amount of remorse that it’s the end of a legacy that really, I think, helped form 
Wichita. And at the same time, it’s like, you know, ‘it’s probably time for you to go. 
Because you’re not contributing to this community in a way that was impactful as it 
was back when you first came into this market.’ And I’m sad, I’m sad for the loss of 
any manufacturing jobs, and I know Spirit is still in operations and there’s 
manufacturing jobs happen, but I know absolutely nothing about Spirit, I’ve got no 
sense of connection with Spirit in Wichita at this juncture, um, like I have had with 
Boeing, you know, in the past. So I think it’ll be a little sad to see Boeing leave this 
market. 
 
Do you feel like 20, 30 years down the line, um, people will look back at Boeing with 
any particular kind of thought? How do you feel like we’ll view Boeing—a good while 
down the line? 
 
35:46 
 
I think Boeing will be viewed as a core component of, um, the Wichita economy. And 
I think people will say they did what they could do, they ran the gamut, and then 
they left. And did they leave any longstanding impact on the community? 
Undoubtedly, just based on the people, the families that were afforded a living by 
having that manufacturing work here. Um, but my exp—my experience with my 
family’s working at Boeing was—I don’t know, I don’t know that there’ll ever be a 
sense that there’s a continued legacy in Wichita that Boeing created. They were 
here, they provided jobs for people, and then they left. And I don’t know what will 
come next. I don’t know what will open up for that. Um, but I don’t know. That 
would be my family and coming into the Boeing experience in the late 1980s and 
there may be other families who’ve had experience with them for multiple 
generations that have a different sense about that. Um, but it’s almost like I feel our 
family’s entrance into the Boeing experience was kind of on the downward tail-end 
swing of what was happening with them in relationship to Wichita. And I think it’s a 
loss, and I think when Boeing announced that they were, you know, leaving Wichita, 
um, it was very sad for a lot of people. 
 
I think, yeah, your family might have been coming in toward the downslope, but I think 
there were a lot of families like yours, I’m sure you had other families that were friends 
with you that were in similar situations. 
 
Yeah, yeah. So, I, you know, I don’t know, it was an interesting run, though. It was an 
interesting run.