Civil Rights History Project 
Interview completed by the Southern Oral History Program 
under contract to the 
Smithsonian Institution’s National Museum of African American History & Culture 
and the Library of Congress, 2013 
Interviewee: 
Interview Date: 
Location: 
Interviewer: 
Videographer: 
Length: 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell 
August 23, 2013 
Dr. Thelwell’s home in Pelham, MA 
Emilye Crosby 
John Bishop 
04:15:05 
Emilye Crosby: Em Emilye Crosby with the Southern Oral History Program at 
the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and I am conducting this oral history as 
part of the Civil Rights History Project, sponsored by the Smithsonian Institution’s 
National Museum of [African] American History and Culture and the American Folklife 
Center in the Library of Congress. Today is August twenty-third, 2013 and we are with 
Ekwueme Michael Thelwell at his home in Pelham, Massachusetts this morning. And I’m 
here with John Bishop, who is the videographer. Thank you, Professor Thelwell, for 
doing the interview with us. 
Ekwueme Thelwell: Thank you, Professor Crosby. I am happy to do this 
interview, and I can’t think of an interviewer I’d be happier to do it with than yourself. 
EC: You do me honor, sir. [Laughs] 
ET: I am a humble servant of the truth, Professor, a humble servant of the truth. 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
2 
EC: Can you tell us about your family and growing up in Jamaica? 
ET: Yes I could. 
EC: Would you? 
ET : If it’s really necessary. My father as a young man came to the United States 
and spent some considerable time there and was quite a legend. As I walked through New 
York, through Harlem people would say, “You’re his son, you’re his son! And they’d tell 
me stories about my father.” He was a very dramatic figure. He had a deep, booming 
laugh, and obvious love of people. He was six foot four, 240 pounds, which in that day 
and age made him a giant, though he was built like a professional football linebacker 
today. In this country he was a motorcycle racer. Motorcycles were big back in the ’30s 
and ’40s. And a trick rider. He went back to Jamaica, entered politics, was elected in his 
constituency. He was very, very popular with the people because he was generous and 
kind. And people said if he hadn’t died at the age of 44 he probably would have been 
prime minister of the country. And there was much speculation that his death was a result 
of political conspiracies and wickedness, which is the way people tended to think. 
My mother was an amazing woman because she brought me, the three of us up, 
after my father died. Intestate, so a lot of his property was hung up in all kinds of 
litigation and bureaucracy. And she raised three children, sent us to the best school in the 
country. My brother became an engineer, went to the University of Michigan on an 
athletic scholarship. And he was six foot five and very black. And he was an excellent 
athlete. He represented the country in track and field when still a high school boy. He 
played on the national soccer team when still a high school student. And my mother, who 
was imperious—having been told that such a thing as athletic scholarships existed, she 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
3 
collected all his clippings, flew to this country, went to the University of Michigan, 
walked into the athletic director’s office with all these clippings. I’m trying to remember 
the guy’s name. And when she walked out my brother had a scholarship. 
John Bishop: Can we pause for a sec? 
[Recording stops and then resumes.] 
JB: Ok, we’re back on. 
ET: I’m trying to remember his name. It will give some verisimilitude to the story 
if I can remember the guy’s name. 
Anyway, so my brother arrives here. And he was running track for Michigan. That 
lasted one year. Didn’t last as long as a year. Because the academic advisors to the 
athletic department told him he should major in Physical Education and become a coach. 
I mean, here you had this big black guy with a Jamaican accent. Obviously, Phys. Ed. is 
the major, and you should become— He said, “No, you must be out of your mind. I came 
here to be a civil engineer.” They said, “Oh, no, no. You’ve got to major in Physical 
Education. You can’t handle civil engineering.” So he told them to kiss his behind and 
gave them back the scholarship, and stopped competing and worked his way through 
Michigan. And five years later, [00:05:00] he graduated with a bachelor’s degree in civil 
engineering, a master’s degree in sanitary engineering, and another master’s degree in 
environmental engineering. So that’s the story of my family. 
EC: And I don’t suppose the athletic department had any regrets over their 
advising program. 
ET: They should have, because he was a hell of a hurdler. Olympic-class hurdler. 
In fact, I have a picture of him as a freshman. Must have been the first hurdle because 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
4 
they are all dead even, going over the hurdles. And the two guys he were running 
against—goddamn, I’m reaching an age where— You can edit this, right? Names. They 
were his main competitors, both of them from Michigan State. Maybe one of them was 
from Ohio. Herb Adderley was one, who went on to become an All-Pro, I think Hall of 
Fame defensive back in the National Football League. Herb Adderley was one, and Lem 
Barney was the other. And there in the middle of them was my brother, hitting the first 
hurdle. Fve lost that picture. 
EC: Was he an older brother or younger? 
ET: So my brother went to Michigan and as I said, departed, broke his status with 
the athletic department because he wasn’t about to major in Phys. Ed. But I do have this 
great picture of him as a freshman running against two seniors. They were dead even so it 
had to have been the first hurdle. And on one side of him is Lem Barney, who went on to 
great fame in the National Football League. And on the other side of him is Herb 
Adderley, who also went on to become a first-rate defensive back and maybe a Hall of 
Famer. And there’s my 18 year-old brother right in the middle of them running like hell. 
EC: Did he miss it? Did he have any regrets about walking away from the 
athletics? 
ET: He never expressed any, but I can’t see how he couldn’t have. 
EC: Was he an older brother or a younger? 
ET: Younger brother. Actually, his story is really interesting because he was three 
months premature. He was born at six months and only weighed two-and-a-half pounds. 
So some members of the family are looking at this little creature, saying, “He ain't never 
going to live. Throw him away. Dash him away.” But my mother fed him with an 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
5 
eyedropper, from one of those little medicine bottles, that’s how she fed him. And he not 
only survived this three-and-a-half pound birth weight but he grew to six foot five and 
was probably the most phenomenal schoolboy athlete the country ever produced. As an 
excellent environmental engineer he went back and set up for the government, for the 
department of environmental resources and conservation in the Jamaican government, 
and was a consultant to the United Nations in that field, until he prematurely died at the 
age of about 60. 
EC: When you came to this country did you have much sense of the Civil Rights 
Movement? Was that something you were thinking about at the time? 
ET : I had some sense of the racial circumstances in the country. And I had a deep- 
seated dread of the South. One of the books that I had read in high school was John 
Oliver Killens’s Youngblood, which is a very powerful book. It had such an effect on me. 
And also the kind of romances of—who was this black guy who used to write all these 
romances, The Foxes of Harr owl Frank Yerby. So I had a serious fear and dread of the 
South. The first time I went to Louisiana and saw, what are those mosses? Spanish 
Mosses that grow on the trees. My heart fell and I became petrified with fear, just the 
image of the Spanish Moss. And the other sense of the South I got from Faulkner, and 
then in addition to which, I got to the United States, got to Howard University [00:10:00] 
in September 1959. And in the spring of 1960, the student Freedom Rides happened. So 
I’ve often claimed that I arrived in this country and touched off the student movement in 
the South. [Laughter] My arrival touched it off. 
EC: It does look like it, doesn't it? 
ET: Though people have tended to contest that. Ill-advised people. Misguided 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
6 
people have tended to contest that. 
EC: It seemed obvious. You arrived, it started. Right? 
ET: Precisely. 
EC: How did you come to Howard? 
ET: The sequential fallacy, as they say. How did I come to Howard? Ed rather not 
say. Okay. My formal answer to that question is, I wanted to go to a black school so I 
could be immersed in black culture and develop an African American perspective on the 
world. That’s my official position. The real position was, I was working for the Jamaican 
Industrial Corporation and a young economist came in. He had a master’s degree in 
Economics from Howard University. Cameron Payne. He was very elegant, a very dark 
guy. Spoke in a very affected way. And naturally I gravitated to him because here is this 
genuine intellectual, a black mind. And he said to me, “You’ve got to go to Howard 
University in Washington, D.C. There are nine women for every man, and every male 
student at Howard has at least three or four girlfriends at the same time.” I said, “That’s 
all I want to know.” That’s the real reason I went to Howard. 
EC: You needed those odds? 
ET : I beg pardon? 
EC: I said, you needed those odds? [Laughs] 
ET : No, I didn’t think I needed them but they wouldn’t hurt! 
EC: Not going to turn them down, right? 
ET: Yeah. There is an Igbo proverb which says, only the fool spits out the tender 
morsel that a kind god places between his lips. 
EC: And you weren’t that kind of fool. 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
7 
ET: No, ma’am. I’ve been called everything but a child of God and a Republican. 
Ain’t nobody ever called me a fool. 
EC: So what was Howard like for you? What was it like to— 
ET: Amazing. I mean, that is the best decision anybody ever made for the wrong 
reasons. You know, anything people want to know about the student experience at 
Howard, they can read in [Stokely] Carmichael’s book, Ready for Revolution. He was at 
Howard with us, as was Courtland Cox, as was Charlie Cobb. There was a whole host of 
us in SNCC who came through Howard, and that’s not accidental. 
The first thing is, Howard was very strategically placed. Being in the nation’s 
capital, and as you know, the only federally supported black institution in the country, 
which created interesting political problems, because the people who controlled the 
Howard University budget were also congressmen. All Dixiecrats, all white supremacists 
and segregationists. So that, for example, in the four years I was there, and a member of 
NAG [Nonviolent Action Group], NAG was never a recognized student organization. 
The NAACP was a recognized student organization. The French Club was a recognized 
student organization. The German Club was a recognized student organization. But NAG 
was not and we found that very distressing. 
But it turns out President Mordecai Johnson and later President Nabrit [James A. 
Nabrit, Jr.] knew exactly what they were doing. So when they went to get their budgets 
from Congress and people said, “All them young Negroes running around the place being 
so disruptive. Can you control them?” They said, “But, Mr. Congressman, Mr. Senator, I 
have scrutinized the student organizations at Howard University very carefully. There is 
no Nonviolent Action Group there, sir. Such an organization doesn't exist as far as our 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
8 
records show. My must be young people from Georgetown and George Washington and 
those other schools. 
EC: [Laughs] As if. 
ET: It gave us an excellent issue around which to organize, because every year we 
mounted a large campaign to get NAG recognized and in my own case, I wasn’t even 
aware of the strategy of protecting us that the university presidents were doing. So we 
thought it was an expression of Howard backwardness and reactionariness, that they 
wouldn’t recognize us. And we struggled. And even students who weren’t very politically 
active, the bourgeois fraternity, the Greek lettered students, were on our side, saying, 
“How come this Nonviolent Active Group isn’t recognized.” [00:15:00] They would turn 
out and demonstrate in our favor. The student government would make statements about 
our being recognized. But the university held very firm, and we were never recognized, 
so we didn’t formally and officially exist. 
EC: At what point did you understand what they were doing? 
ET : Long after I left. But I was astute enough to be grateful for the issue to 
organize around. We could get the school year started with a political confrontation with 
the administration. 
EC: And draw people into the organization. 
ET: Right. Precisely. You need an issue to organize around. 
EC: So NAG seems like one of the strongest of the student groups that was a 
SNCC affiliate, at least over a long period of time. Do you think that’s accurate? 
ET: Well, that depends on what you mean by strong. First of all, Howard 
University attracted students from all over the country and all over the world. It was very 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
9 
centrally placed. Part of the reason we organized NAG was that once the student sit-ins in 
the South started, we took the position that, “Look. We are here in the nation’s capital. 
We have a moral and a political obligation to support our brothers and sisters in the 
South. Therefore the seat of government is here, the White House is here, the Capitol is 
here, we can have demonstrations here to put pressure on these Southerners. And it is our 
duty and our responsibility to do it.” Then there was segregation in Maryland, there was 
segregation in Virginia. So you could drive out of the District of Columbia and have bona 
fide sit-ins. So it would be a failure of our responsibility to history if the students at 
Howard were inactive in that way. That’s number one. 
Number two, there were professors there—unfortunately there was a historian 
whose name I’m not going to remember—who gave us very contemporary readings, 
political readings. And there was a level of instruction around certain of the faculty there 
that was very focused on social issues, and very focused on educating us as to the state of 
the world. And in addition to which a healthy percentage of the African American 
students came out of the South. For example, there was Cleve Sellers, who came from 
South Carolina into NAG. And Cleve was sent to Howard by his parents because white 
folks had warned them in the community that if he continued agitating the way he was 
agitating, he was probably going to come to a very bad end. So they sent him out to 
Howard to safety and the first thing he does is jump off the bus and joins NAG and 
comes back down South. 
And that was also true of Hank Thomas, Henry Thomas. Henry Thomas came 
from Fort Augustine [St. Augustine], Florida, and he maintained a constant protest 
against the discrimination and apartheid that surrounded them there. As a matter of fact, a 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
10 
friend of his in the department, Playthell Benjamin, said he and Hank were very close 
growing up and Hank was so principled, he said the only entertainment we had in Fort 
Augustine [St. Augustine] was to go to the movies on a Saturday. But we had to sit up in 
the crow’s nest, in the segregated area. And he said from the time Hank was about 14 
years old ’til he left high school he refused to go, because he refused to pay his money 
and be discriminated against. That’s the kind of principle he had. And he was a big, burly 
guy. Still is tall, big. And had a scholarship to play defensive end, I believe, at the 
University of Wisconsin. And instead, he came to Howard, worked in the cafeteria, didn’t 
have any scholarship, didn't play ball, and joined in the movement. 
There was a mixture of young people at Howard, some of them from the Deep 
South. Láveme. I will never forget him. He was in the room next door to me. He was 
from Birmingham. He was a short, wiry little black guy who was a veteran. And he was 
the first one who told me about conditions in the deep South. Fm going to stop right here 
for a minute. 
[Recording stops and then resumes.] 
JB: We’re rolling again. 
ET: Alright, I was a freshman just off the plane and I used to talk to Láveme. See, 
you felt like a bond with my brother. “Tell me about it.” And he educated me. He told me 
about Tuskegee. He told me, he said, “Man, them niggers at Tuskegee,” [00:20:00] he 
said. “They’re making good money. They’re professors so they have new cars. But when 
they leave Tuskegee and go into the rural areas, they put on a chauffeur’s hat to drive 
their cars through because a nigger in a good car is going to have a heap of trouble from 
them crackers.” I said, “Good God almighty.” He said, “Oh, yeah, man. They all carry 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
11 
their chauffeur’s hat with them so they look like they’re driving white folks’ cars.” 
Then he said, “We got a police chief.” Now, this is 1959. September, right? So it 
predates it. And, “Man, he a mean cracker.” I say, “Yeah, what’s his name?” He said, 
“Bull.” I said, “What’s his name?” “Bull. And he only got one eye. They say some nigger 
took his eye out in a fight. And he do hate black people.” I said, “What’s his name?” He 
said, “Bull. Bull Connor.” 1963,1 would discover who he was talking about. And a lot of 
other stories he told me like that really educated me and terrified me. And he also taught 
me something about the educational policies of the South, because I didn't have much 
money. 
If you want to see cultural shock and trauma, is the first time that students from 
the Caribbean go into the cafeteria. Now, the prices in the Howard cafeteria were dirt 
cheap by American standards. When I saw them I said, “Man, did you see what it costs 
me for breakfast? It costs me $1.50.” A dollar fifty in Jamaican currency was what you’d 
eat on for a week, you know? So I had to learn to cook very quickly. So I was very broke. 
My father was dead. My mother didn't have much money, though she sent me a regular 
stipend every month, which required some sacrifice for her. I translated it into $30 a 
month. [Laughter] She sent it every month. So I had to find different things to do. I used 
to cut hair in the dorm and the head of the dorm came up and told me that the barber’s 
union in Washington, D.C. had heard about it and was taking steps to have me stopped. 
And for a while I believed him! Then I said, “They got to send their lawyers, because I 
got to eat.” 
Oh. We were talking about Láveme. Once in a while he would come and say, 
“Mike, you look hungry. I am going to buy you a steak.” And we’d go up to the grill and 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
12 
he’d buy me this t-bone steak that costs I think $2.50, which is a hell of an expenditure 
for one meal. And he says, “Mike, enjoy your steak. The great state of Alabama gives it 
to you with their compliments.” I said, “What are you talking about, Láveme?” He said, 
“Look, man, them crackers don’t want us to go to their lily-white schools so they pay me 
money to go to school out of state.” So he had both his stuff from the military and the 
stipend from the state of Alabama, which gave me a steak once a month. 
EC: So you’re grateful to the state of Alabama? 
ET : Undying gratitude. Permanent and undying gratitude. Don’t say that nobody 
ever benefitted slightly from racism. And sometimes Láveme would buy me two steaks: 
“Have another one, Mike. You still look hungry. On the state of Alabama.” 
EC: And you did your best to pay back the state of Alabama, right? 
ET: I thought I owed it to them. The other aspect at Howard. We had professors 
like—you got to pause, I got to remember their names. Well, there was Sterling Brown. 
Then there was that historian who had freckles who worked with Dr. Du Bois a lot. 
EC: It wasn’t Frazier? There were a couple historians— 
ET: Franklin Frazier was a sociologist. 
EC: A sociologist, yeah. I think I know who you’re talking about but I’m not 
remember either. 
ET: You know what I’m talking about. Look if there’s an entry there that says 
“Howard Faculty.” Look under Howard University, see what it says. 
JB: [00:25:00] Should I pause for a second? 
ET: Yeah, please. 
[Recording stops and then resumes.] 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
13 
What’s the word that means—? 
EC: Nadir? 
ET: Nadir, right. You know who I mean? 
EC: I know who you mean, Em just not remembering it either. Ell remember it 
later; we probably both will. 
ET: Well, okay. As a consequence of segregation, some truly excellent and 
politically active, like Professor Eugene Holmes, for example, who when the HU AC 
summoned him to ask, “What is your profession?” He said, “Sir, I am a hired thinker. 
What is yours?” And Eugene Holmes was good friends, or so he claimed, with Bertrand 
Russell. So on occasion, he’d come to class, he’d say, “Oh, I had a letter from Bertie 
today.” There was a host of professors, historians, and like Sterling Brown in literature 
and stuff like that, who in today’s academic climate, if they didn’t have the consciousness 
to stay at a black school, would probably be at one of the elite privates, Ivy League 
institutions, and be celebrated. But these guys stayed at Howard. E. Franklin Frazier, the 
sociologist and a host of people like that. So we had that exposure, and they had certain 
programs. Reading programs and discussion programs to really make sure that we got a 
social and political education. Not brainwashing, but in a sense— What they were really 
bestowing was a sense of the necessity for social responsibility on the part of young 
people. And those students who were attuned to that gravitated to that and soaked it up. 
Carmichael talks about it at some considerable length in his book. So there were 
people like Courtland Cox, Charlie Cobb, myself, Stokely Carmichael, Muriel 
Tillinghast. A really brilliant young mind who was head of the student government when 
I got there, a Philadelphia Negro who became a lawyer. And a Republican! Who am I 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
14 
talking about? 
EC: Tim Jenkins? 
ET: Tim Jenkins. Avery brilliant young man, Tim Jenkins, who was head of the 
student union when I got there, student government. I had gotten there and I truly wasn’t 
impressed with the quality of the bureaucrats who filled up the place. And when the head 
of the dorms talked to us I thought he was talking to us like we were schoolchildren. And 
when the Dean of Students spoke to us I thought he was an imbecile. And at this great 
orientation meeting, up gets Tim Jenkins, the head of the student government. And the 
most articulate, the most politically clear, the most mature speech that was made in that 
congregation was made by the head of the student government. So Tim Jenkins 
immediately had a big fan in me. And he was a guy who worked to set up the orientation 
session for SNCC when SNCC got started and entered into the establishment. He became 
an officer at NSA, the National Student Organization [Association], and directed a lot of 
support to SNCC. 
So there was that kind of environment, intellectual and social environment, at 
Howard. And in addition to which, and this was important to me, being in the nation’s 
capital, it was the site of embassies. And Jamaica became independent while I was at 
Howard and set up a Jamaican embassy. And Ghana had a Ghanaian embassy. So there 
were a lot of these African embassies opening, a lot of Caribbean embassies opening. So 
there was a local somewhere in the diplomatic ladder who might have in terms of world 
politics might have rated very low. But we had embassies. We had ambassadors. We 
could go visit them. And we did. 
The population at Howard was very interesting. And I only realized after I got 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
15 
there that my dentist back in Jamaica and my doctor back in Jamaica, all had been 
educated back and Howard. So Howard University had educated a lot of the medical 
professionals and architectural professionals and engineering professionals in the black 
world because it was a school that was affordable. The fees were very, very low at that 
time and it played a role across the black diaspora that was unique in American 
educational history. [00:30:00] So I think there were about 8,000 students at Howard 
when I was there. And I would say that 10 or 15 percent of them were from Africa. And 
another 15, maybe 20 percent of them were from the Caribbean. So that what you had 
there was a community of young black people, large numbers of the African Americans 
were from the South or from Chicago or New York, and a lot of young people—who was 
that Ghanaian politician who was assassinated early? He was next to Jomo Kenyatta in 
importance. 
JB: Not Lumumba. He was Congo, wasn’t he. 
ET: Not Lumumba. He was Congo. This was a handsome young lawyer man. 
Tom Mboya. Alright. The Ghanaian political leader, Tom Mboya, handsome young 
lawyer man. His brother, who looked just like him, was at Howard with us. Bayard 
Rustin brought the president of Zambia, Kenneth Kaunda, to talk to us. And Kaunda 
came in his book jacket and khaki stuff. I remember when Bayard introduced him, he 
said, “And it is said in Zambia that Kenneth Kaunda, the prime minister, met a lion in the 
forest, and the lion blinked.” That was how he was introduced. So it was an 
extraordinary, heady ambiance and you would have had to be brain dead if you weren’t 
inspired by the environment at Howard at that moment to take political action and we 
were. But we prefaced that by your saying NAG was one of the strongest groups, and I 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
16 
didn’t know what you meant by strong. But the fact is, we had any number of 
demonstrations. There was one I will tell you about, which has to do with the new men’s 
gymnasium. 
We used to go regularly to picket the White House, for example. And we secured 
some funds from the student government, we’d rent a bus, we’d bring it up over on 
campus and pick a busload of people down. Maybe have 60, 70, 100 people picketing the 
White House. We went to all the CORE demonstrations. So the mind should be very 
active. And on this particular demonstration, which concerned the new men’s 
gymnasium, which Carmichael talks about in his book, we turned out maybe 1,000 
students from Howard into the streets. We were active on the Route 40 demonstrations. 
We were active on everything that came down, because we always had a national focus 
and locus, we had reason to take to the streets, which we did. And we organized 
constantly. Like I said, it was a historical and revolutionary duty. 
EC: One of the things that I was really interested in— Oh, sorry. 
ET: You can just pick this up in the editing. So I was very amazed when I was 
working the Carmichael book, because I got to find out who the membership in NAG 
was. And it turns out that the membership in that organization in the four years I was 
there never exceeded 40 people. But, I mean, other people would come to meetings, who 
would plan programs who would do all the organizing and work. And yet those 40 people 
in the student population of some 8,000, managed to in not insignificant ways affect 
history. You had a question. 
EC: In the book— 
ET : Which book would that be? 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
17 
EC: Ready for Revolution. In Ready for Revolution, Stokely talks about coming to 
a realization of the cultural constraints or some of the challenges that women faced 
joining NAG, just because of the gendered expectations of the day. 
ET : I was wondering when you’d get to that. 
EC: Well, one of the things I found interesting is that when I talk to people who 
were part of student groups on different campuses, one of the things that they 
immediately run up against is the curfew that women faced because it made it more 
challenging to even have planning meetings, say in Nashville, and so [00:35:00] I was 
wondering if you might talk about that a little. 
ET: NAG was always in gender terms a very well integrated organization. And 
the young women in NAG were very, very faithful. Very committed. And very hard 
workers. They never really pushed for a leadership position during my years there. And 
we never thought to invite them into it. There was never any policy or attitude that said 
women couldn't be leaders. But there were some very articulate guys, and a lot of women 
said they were listening and learning. And whatever else operated in the society to teach 
women “their place,” or that certain positions, certain aspirations weren't appropriate for 
women, they had obviously, to a certain extent, accepted. But that was only in the 
positions of formal and public leadership. I mean, I don’t know any of the women who 
were shy about speaking up when we’d have our long discussions about deciding policy, 
who were shy about leading demonstrations, marching in demonstrations, who were shy 
about expressing themselves. It is almost African in the sense that there is an area of 
jurisdiction, or authority and control, which is feminine. And an area of control or 
authority in action, which is masculine. It was sort of like that. 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
18 
It is only in retrospect that I recognize the extraordinary price that our sisters paid 
for being as devoted to the struggle as they were. It meant that they weren’t into 
homecoming queen kind of activities. That they weren’t into the accepted behavior of a 
Howard lady. That they weren't into the trivia of fashion and dressing up. Though they 
were attractive women and they took care of themselves, but they weren’t the kind of 
trophy wives for the med school students and they weren’t—some of them might have 
been members of the Greek letter organizations, but most of them I suspect weren’t. So 
that they occupied a place outside the conventional social norms of the whole university 
student body. So did the men. But with men, I think, we can just say, “Kiss my black ass” 
and go on about our business. It wasn’t so clear to me that a woman could do the same 
thing. 
But, Mary Lovelace, who came from a good, bourgeois Mississippi family, whose 
father taught at Tougaloo, I believe, and had met Stokely when he came out from the 
Freedom Rides, she started to wear her hair natural and was damn near put out of the 
dorm. It was dean Patricia Harris, who was the most progressive administrator at the 
university at the time, who spoke up for her and interceded strongly on her behalf. 
Because those house mothers who thought that a young black woman who would wear 
her hair natural was “a disgrace to the race, would look like some disheveled Negro 
wench,” didn’t conform to the appearance patterns of a “Howard lady.” And they 
behaved as if it was the end of the world, as if the natural order were changing. And Mary 
was not going to straighten her hair, and she wasn't going to leave the dorm. And finally 
it got to Patricia Harris, who was the Dean of Women, I believe, or Dean of Students, 
something like that, and she intervened very strongly. 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
19 
So that was the other aspect of Howard University. When we were struggling to 
get NAG recognition, for example, Bill Mahoney, who was a member of SNCC, wrote an 
essay with the title, “Howard University: Neither Black Nor White, Merely Abject.” And 
that was [00:40:00] one part of our attitude. I mean, going to struggle with the 
administration on various issues, I never really understood that that was a struggle the 
administration had to make for public consumption. But they never expelled any of us, as 
southern universities did. And they never formally stopped us from doing what we were 
doing, though the administration of Howard University itself couldn’t formally endorse 
it. How did I get to that? 
EC: I asked you about the women in NAG, and you went to— 
ET: Right. So the price our sisters paid for being in the struggle was far more 
costly, was a far heavier burden than the men had to pay. What men heard was, “You’re 
going to get yourself a criminal record. Which white folks are going to hire you? You’re 
ruining your career. That’s not why you're here. You’re not paying attention to your 
schoolwork.” I remember there was one contemporary of ours, who always wore suits. 
Always struck me as a very unctuous Negro. Always found him, whenever he went to 
visit a professor, he was flitting from one professor’s office to another with documents in 
his hand. And clearly he was doing something that I don’t think any of us in SNCC 
thought to do: he was building a resume. And he was said to be very smart, but I can’t 
remember ever having a political conversation with this guy. So I didn’t exactly hold him 
in contempt, but I didn’t have any regard for him. Well, he went to Harvard Law School, 
of course, and if I say this I will probably identify him, but I think he was head of the 
New York Lawyers’ Association and I believe is on the Board of Governors, was on the 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
20 
Board of Governors [laughter] of Harvard University. So he went straight into the 
establishment. And, you know, all power to him. I suppose in the terms of the American 
meritocracy this is regarded as a very productive life and career. 
But on the other hand, Bill Mahoney was dropping out of school to go work in the 
South. Charlie Cobb was dropping out of school. Hank Thomas I don’t think graduated 
though he became a millionaire in the fast food industry. After he got, a big pacifist and 
CORE pacifist, Hank Thomas got drafted by the military and sent to Vietnam, and he 
went as a medic and came back. So, the price that the men paid were mostly in terms of 
upwardly mobile, careerist concerns. The price that the women paid was far more subtle 
and wide-ranging. It included that, but it also had to do with the concept of womanhood, 
and what a black woman should be and should not be, that they had to struggle against 
but we didn’t. 
EC: Muriel Tillinghast told me that when that was going on with Mary Lovelace, 
that Stokely asked her to wear her hair natural, too, as a support. 
ET: Did she? 
EC: She said she did. She said she had to figure out what it meant. 
ET: Muriel was very active, and she was head of the NAACP. And she told me at 
one point there was possibly just some foreign trip for the officers of the NAACP and the 
male students—though she was president or vice president—the male students made up 
the delegation to go on this trip and left her out. And she went to Stokely and she said, 
“Here’s what they’re doing,” and Stokely went and intervened in some forcible way, and 
she went on the trip. She told me that story. 
EC: Oh, that’s interesting. She told me that her first connection with NAG, that 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
21 
she went on a demonstration without really thinking it through, or went to a meeting or 
something, and wasn’t sure why. And before she left that meeting, Stokely had said, “We 
need you to do X, Y, or Z.” She said, “I had no idea how or what, but he walked me 
through it and I did it. That was sort of how she described the interaction.” 
ET: Women really came through. I don’t think any of us got to Howard with any 
extensive training in radical political activism. By that I mean, how do you write a press 
conference [release]? How you get the attention of the press? How do you conduct a 
nonviolent protest? [00:45:00] How do you deal with the police? How do you negotiate 
or maneuver around the administration? We didn’t come with that experience. I mean, I 
told you that Hank Thomas and Cleve Sellers came from resistant, individual private 
ways in the southern context through which they came. But who developed political skills 
very fast, and I think that was what Muriel Tillinghast was telling you about herself. 
And if you’re talking about Howard, it would be incomplete and inaccurate not to 
talk about the influence and effect of Tom Kahn. Tom Kahn was white. Tom Kahn was a 
socialist. Tom Kahn was a radical political activist from New York, from the time he 
dropped out of high school at age 15. Tom Kahn was gay. Tom Kahn was a roommate 
and I assume lover of Bayard Rustin. So he was in those political circumstances and I got 
the distinct impression—I remember as a freshman seeing him, and I walked into the 
dining common and there’s a guy in a very Italian-looking suit, he didn't look American 
at all to me, whose hair was down to his shoulders. This was 1959.1 said to myself, 
“That’s a very strange looking white boy.” I mean, first of all there weren't very many 
white boys in there. Well, that was Tom. And we got into a conversation about literature. 
About Faulkner, I guess. And here I am coming out of Jamaica, so what do I know about 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
22 
Faulkner? But he looked at me and said something like, “That’s really very perceptive. 
That’s really very perceptive of you.” I said, “Well, thank you, sir.” 
As opposed to Bill Mahoney, for example. Bill Mahoney also had hair down to 
his shoulders. He looked like an Indian, and he would have been mistaken for a white 
guy. He was working at the desk, work-study, in the new men’s residence hall, when I 
walked in. And he says to me, “Tell me, sir. Does the Kantian imperative also include 
dialectical materialism?” I said, “Are you serious?” Those are the first words that came 
out of his mouth. As freshmen. [Laughter] 
But Tom Kahn. I was thinking about Tom. And I had the distinct impression after 
I got to know him and see how he operated that it was a political decision in the socialist 
left, that said, “Okay, Tom, you should go to Howard and try to guide the movement.” 
Bayard Rustin was very active in nonviolence and in socialist politics and Tom was very 
active. And he had all the skills. He had more experience than we did, so that is what 
happened. 
EC: You know, you talked about the price that women paid in terms of their sense 
of womanhood, and that seems to come up with men and relation to nonviolence and how 
that was perceived or how people grappled with that at times. 
ET : Well, that used to raise its ugly head. I used to go work in a factory some 
summers, and I came back one fall, I was wearing this little straw cowboy hat pulled 
down this way. I was wearing my jeans, my cowboy boots with my sleeves rolled up, and 
maybe a vest, a denim vest. So it was a very macho image, though I never thought of it in 
those terms, that’s how I saw myself. And I went to my first demonstration and Tom 
jumped on me, he says, “Where the hell you think you’re going dressed like that? You 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
23 
come down here with that kind of macho posturing, you’re going to invite violence.” I 
said, “You mean my dress has to be nonviolent? What the hell are you talking about?” 
[Laughter] 
And it didn’t help much that this young blonde lady, perhaps one of the whitest 
ladies I have ever met, her name was Cynthia Toombs, now deceased. She was very pale, 
very blonde. And I apparently she had some sort of interest in me. So whenever we were 
walking along these picket lines in Virginia or Maryland, she would end up walking next 
to me. And I kept saying, “Can’t she go walk with someone else? I really don’t want to 
be lynched.” [00:50:00] But you couldn't come out and say that. And I remember she was 
walking next to me, and I’m thinking, “Goddamn it, Cynthia, go walk someplace else, 
please.” But you didn’t have too many white people in the demonstration anyway, so you 
had to be at least hospitable, right? And she started giggling. I said, “What are you 
giggling about?” She said, “Did you hear what those kids said?” I said, “No.” She said, 
“They said me and you are going to get married and have polka dot kids.” I said, 
“Married, is it?” It amused her. It didn’t much amuse me. [Laughter] 
EC: I guess not. 
ET: Give me a minute. There was something else I was trying to remember 
having to do with that. You got to edit this so I don’t look like a doddering idiot and it 
seems to have some coherence, you know? Else I am going to come looking for your ass. 
JB: I’ll give you Guha’s address. 
[Recording stops and then resumes.] 
JB: We’re back. 
ET: I’m thinking. What is it I was going to say again? Oh! You ready to go again? 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
24 
So NAG always had some white students from surrounding institutions who 
would come here and demonstrate with us. [00:51:29] was such a person. And then of 
course there was Paul Dietrich, who you must have about. Very, very interesting guy. 
And there was a day that Malcolm X came to speak at Howard. Now this had been 
organized by Bayard, as I would later discover. We couldn't bring Malcolm X. We 
organized something called Project Awareness to get a certain kind of political discourse 
going on campus. But the university administration had to deal with those rednecks on 
the budget committee, and these southern congressmen, so they couldn't allow certain 
activities, and they couldn't endorse it. So we couched Project Awareness as freedom of 
inquiry, and as educational content, and I can show you some stuff about that in a minute. 
But when you are bringing certain controversial figures, you couldn't give them a 
platform, but what could you do? If you couldn't give them a platform, what could you 
do? 
EC: Argue with them. 
ET : Present them in a debate. So you had to have the opposite position 
represented. So for example we got Herbert Aptheker, who was the chief theoretician of 
the Community Party, USA. Eve always wondered what the job description of a chief 
theoretician is. 
EC: [Laughs] “I am paid to think.” 
ET : But anyway, he came, but when we brought him it had to be a debate. So we 
brought the chairman of the Socialist Party, USA, to discuss democracy and socialism 
and that kind of stuff. So when Malcolm came, it had to be in the form of a debate. We 
couldn't just give this “renegade, racist separatist” a platform, so he had to debate Bayard. 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
25 
Though talking about it with people like Ed Brown, who recently died, and other people 
who were there, we’d never seen Bayard conduct a debate that way! He threw it. Threw 
the fight. He spoke briefly and perfunctorily about his position about integration and the 
working class, black people making alliances with the labor movement and integration of 
the society. He spoke about ten minutes, then shut up and said, “Because the minister has 
a more difficult position to argue, I will yield the rest of my time to him.” Bayard never 
gives up to anybody! [Laughter] 
So Malcolm just jumped in and said, “I come to you in the name of everything 
that is eternal: the black man.” And the whole audience are young black students from the 
West Indies, from Africa. He said, “Before you were an American, you were black 
[coughs]. Before you were a Republican, you were black.” And he launched into his 
nationalist argument. 
But the story I meant to tell about that—much later, when I went to Nigeria to 
give a talk [00:55:00] at the 60th birthday celebration for Chinua Achebe, a little guy—I 
was someplace and I needed to get to someplace else—and this little guy says to me, 
“Come, professor, I’ll give you a ride.” And then it turned out he was a professor of 
Biology at Nsukka, a little Igbo man. He says, “You don’t remember me, do you?” I said, 
“No, my brother, I really can’t say.” “I was at Howard with you. I marched with you and 
Stokely.” I don’t think he ever marched with us, but he said, “I remember when Malcolm 
came to debate Bayard Rustin.” And so that’s what I meant by the international character 
of the student body. And so all those things he remembered. 
And the reason I said I don’t think he marched with us is because foreign students 
really couldn’t take part in the political affairs of the country. There was a stringent 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
26 
regulation about their receiving that student visa that precluded them from doing so. So 
there were a lot of Caribbean people from Trinidad, British Guyana, from all over the 
other islands, and from Jamaica, who were there with me, who were equally affected by 
the winds of change. Their territories were becoming independent. They were inspired by 
the black movement in this country where black people were asserting themselves. And 
they would speak in support of it. They would even come to meetings on campus, but 
they would never go to demonstrations because they were terrified that if they did they 
would be deported. 
Now how did I get to that? 
EC: Oh, I think through Malcolm and through the story of that. 
ET: Oh, right. And so the audience, Malcolm was speaking to us, was comprised 
of this generation of black people from all over the black world. And it was an 
extraordinary performance by Malcolm. Prior to that time, some of our white allies who 
had come to the demonstrations, were very excited that Malcolm X was coming, so they 
turned up on campus. You heard that story, right? 
EC: Thn-hmm. 
ET: And myself and I know Courtland was with me. I was the editor of the 
student newspaper, I was supposed to interview Malcolm and then take him to the dinner 
and then to the lecture, to the debate. And for some reason we were supposed to meet in 
front of the girls’ dorm, the street that runs through the whole university campus. The 
dorm we couldn’t go into by the way; we would conduct our business on the pavement in 
front. So I am standing there with Courtland, waiting for Malcolm to come, and I went 
and look and there is Cynthia and two or three other white co-eds, running across, who 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
27 
had always been on the demonstrations, running up, and I said, “Oh, Jesus.” I was 
embarrassed. I was really embarrassed to see these white people. Because Malcolm was 
coming. And I was embarrassed to see them and wanted to avoid them, but I was 
embarrassed from that sentiment, by that feeling which I felt was somehow dishonorable. 
So I kind of smiled as best I could. And they said, “Is Malcolm here yet!? Is 
Malcolm here yet!?” I said, “No, I’m waiting here for him, you know?” And somehow 
they were standing in front of the dorm and I was facing them, so my back was to the 
street. And Courtland was standing behind them. And he had said to me, as they came 
running up, “You don’t want Malcolm to come and see you standing here talking to these 
devils.” And if they had been white men it wouldn't have been so bad, but you know the 
whole notion about white women and the rest of that shit, the rest of that stuff. I said, 
“Well,” I said, “What do you mean?” He said, “When Malcolm X comes, you’re talking 
to these devils?” I said, look, “Detroit Red.” I definitely called him by his street name 
because I wasn’t going to call him minister or nothing. “Detroit Red can’t come to this 
campus and tell me whom I should associate with or whom I should talk with. Who does 
Detroit Red think he is?” And I am declaiming now, on my high horse, so to say. And I 
am looking at Courtland’s eyes, and Courtland is gradually getting paler, and paler, and 
he’s saying “[murmuring].” And Courtland is normally a very dark fellow but he became 
a lighter shade of pale as he kept saying [whispers], “Look behind you.” [Laughter] 
And I turn around and there is Malcolm, [01:00:00] the sunlight glinting off his 
glasses, and just looking at her with a tight smile on his face. I said, [stammering] “Mr. 
X, Mr. X, welcome to Howard University, sir. [Laughter] I am the editor. I am supposed 
to interview you.” And he said, [frowns], looking at me like that. Well, we had a very 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
28 
good interview because I tossed up what in journalistic parlance we would call softballs. I 
mean, I said to him, “Is it true that your position is that the Negroes of this country are 
not really American citizens? Can that really be your position? After all, they are native 
to this country.” He says, “My young brother, just because a cat has kittens in an oven, 
don’t make them muffins.” And I said, “Is it your position, sir, can it really be your 
position, that black people shouldn't fight in the armed forces of the United States?” And 
he says, “Well, if I see a bunch of bears have a bunch of wolves trapped in a cave, do you 
think I am going to fight with the wolves against the bears?” I said, “Alright.” 
And he would always—and this is a very African means of communication—talk 
in terms of parables and extended metaphors and fables, just like Aesop, whom you know 
was an African. Did you know that? You know Aesop’s Fables, the animal stories. Well, 
they’re nothing but African animal tales. He happened to end up a slave, in Greece, and 
these are African animal tales. Well, Malcolm had the same facility, of speaking in 
allegories, of never addressing the problem directly, but indirect speech, as they call it. 
One time we were having a demonstration. We were marching to Robert 
Kennedy’s office, and we are carrying a coffin. And the exact occasion of that I cannot 
remember. But somebody had been murdered, some civil rights person. That’s why the 
coffin. And we are going down to place the coffin on Robert Kennedy’s desk asking for 
federal intervention. And we had a pretty nice demonstration going. I remember I was 
marching in the front arm-in-arm with Courtland—no, Courtland wasn’t there—Stokely, 
and Ed Brown, and Cleve, and Muriel, and the rest of the ladies. And we are walking 
down the road, and there is this tall, lanky fellow with his arms crossed, leaning against a 
light post, with a very cynical grin on his face. So I said, “Ain't that brother Malcolm? 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
29 
That’s Brother Malcolm!” So we left the demonstration, went running up to him. This 
was after I had interviewed him at Howard, so I knew him. And he recognized us all. We 
said, “Brother Malcolm, Brother Malcolm! How do you like our demonstration?” He 
said, “Well”—because the demonstration was integrated, a lot of liberals had come out 
for it—“if I see a line of rats and cats marching together into the same hole,” he said, “if 
the cats ask me how we’re doing, I say, ‘You’re doing fine.’ But if the mice ask me how 
you’re doing, I got a different answer to them,” which was kind of deflating. And I said, 
“C’mon, what’s your problem here, what’s your problem? Is this because we have an 
integrated demonstration?” I said, “These good white folks marching with us are doing 
the right thing.” He said, “Let me tell you something. Because you see a man throwing 
worms into the river, don’t mean he a friend to fish.” [Laughter] 
EC: Can you remember what you thought of him then? 
ET : I thought he was funny as could be. I actually was going to say, “As funny as 
a motherfucker.” That can’t go into, that can’t go into—it can? 
JB: You can say anything. 
ET: Yeah, I know, “oral history.” Hell. 
We used to like him. We used to like his militance. We used to like his 
intelligence. [01:05:00] And I perceived that he was really trapped in the Nation of Islam. 
I mean, if you want to listen carefully to him, every time he had to [phone ringing] which 
he had to do very frequently— 
[Recording stops and then resumes.] 
JB: Ok, we’re rolling again. 
ET : Malcolm was an extraordinarily attractive, enigmatic, and complex figure to 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
30 
us, but we liked his militance and we also liked his presence. I mean, Malcolm would 
dominate any room he walked into. And there was just a quality of seriousness, gravitas, 
and an element of danger to Malcolm that was very attractive to us, that masculine thing 
you were talking about. Any room that he walked into, he would dominate, which was 
quite the opposite of King. If Dr. King was in the room, you would ignore him. He had 
no physical presence to speak of, until he opened his mouth. And then once that was open 
he would dominate it, but Malcolm with his just his sheer presence would. So we liked 
that about him. But we also perceived that he really had an activist spirit. He really 
wanted to be involved in the struggle for black people, which he wasn’t permitted to do 
by the ideology and the theology of the Nation of Islam. And it became very clear to us 
that he was feeling that constraint. That is why we saw him standing by the side of the 
road looking at our demonstration and he had those funny, dismissive things to say, but 
as we walked away from him I had a sense that he looked very wistful standing there, as 
we were marching off to go confront Bobby Kennedy. 
Kennedy came out and spoke to us on the pavement in front of the Justice 
Department, as I recall. But prior to that Tom Kahn and Courtland had gone to sit in in 
his office; we had two people sitting in. [Laughter] And by the time we got to Bobby 
Kennedy’s office, two officers came out the front door pushing wheelchairs, and sitting 
in those wheelchairs was Tom and Courtland, just wheeling about. If we were in the 
South, they would probably dragged them out and beat them, but Bobby Kennedy had 
them wheeled in wheelchairs out of the office. 
EC: I wonder if that was when Louis Allen was killed. 
ET: That was probably the reason. We took any event as a reason for the 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
31 
demonstration. We noticed that when Malcolm had to recapitulate the ideology, and 
theology, and strange racial anthropology of the Nation of Islam he would always 
distance himself from it. It didn’t look like he was distancing himself; it looked like he 
was paying tribute to the leader. He said, “As the Honorable Elijah Muhammad teaches 
us, as the Honorable Elijah Muhammad teaches us.” He would preface every one of those 
remarks that way. And after a while, you hear it, you begin to say, “As the Honorable 
Elijah Muhammad teaches us, but I ain't so sure it makes no sense.” [Laughter] But that 
was the unsaid portion, you know? So Malcolm was an interesting guy. 
EC: Did you have any contact with him personally after he left the Nation? 
ET: Yeah. When I was at the Friends World College, I invited him to come there. 
Harold Taylor had this Friends World College business out on Long Island, which was a 
strange experience. I invited him to come speak, but that was when he was having his 
problems and he couldn't come, but he wrote me a very nice letter, which unfortunately I 
have lost. 
There was one politically incorrect incident. But to hell with it. Put it on the 
record. One of the reasons Malcolm was around Howard so much, around Washington so 
much, he was organizing the Washington mosque, which hadn’t existed in the Nation of 
Islam, so it gave him a reason to be there a lot. For example, that Project Awareness thing 
which I told you, we had to stage debates because we couldn't just bring people. We had 
one very important event on the responsibility of the black writer. And that influenced me 
personally a great deal [01:10:00] because John Killens, whose son was at Howard, he 
came to speak. We invited Ralph Ellison, who found it impossible to be present. Not 
surprising. But Jimmy Baldwin came, and Pnrlie Victorious, Ossie Davis came. And, 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
32 
again, it was really Tom Kahn who understood these kinds of things. He said, “Well, you 
have to”—I think Sterling Brown also spoke, and well as it’s student activities, Project 
Awareness—“you should be the moderator.” So I was up there on the platform with all 
these important people. I had never asked for that. It was Tom who was saying, you 
know, because he was thinking of the politics, you’ve got to have a student presence 
there and this kind of stuff. And as we were walking out of the room, there were two 
figures who showed up. And there was this guy with his hat kind of pulled down and he 
was trying to be anonymous, and dark glasses. And it was Courtland who said to me, 
“Hey! Ain’t that Brother Malcolm?” 
And it was indeed Malcolm X. I ran up to him, I said, “Hey, Brother Malcolm, 
what are you doing here?” And he said, “I don’t want to be recognized.” And I said, 
“What are you doing here?” He said, “Whenever Jimmy Baldwin was talking, whenever 
that little brother talks, I always come and listen.” And he was the one who told Jimmy 
one time, “If I am the warrior of this movement, you are the poet.” So he had a lot of 
respect for Jimmy and Jimmy had a lot of respect for him. 
The other person who had come just to listen was Sidney Poitier. So, Malcolm 
was around the university, around Washington a lot. That’s how come he was on the 
street by the demonstration and stuff like that. And had complained to Bayard in point of 
fact, that while he had been invited to Oxford, and he had been invited to Harvard, he had 
never been invited to Howard. So that’s why that debate was set up for him. He was 
around organizing. 
So one day, he was there in the community, around 14th St., I guess, or U Street. 
What’s that street, 14th and U. And he was talking to brothers off the street, so a group of 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
33 
us stopped by to hear. And he was talking in some kind of a room. It wasn’t a hall or 
something. And I’m not sure if it was a bar, or whatever it was, but it was some kind of 
public space, kind of thing. Or maybe it was on the street corner. Trying to remember the 
geography of it. 
But there was an old player, black hustler, obviously down on his luck. His stingy 
brim hat and various threadbare hustler’s suit, and obviously, clearly quite drunk. Older 
guy. Much older. And he was listening and listening, nodding off and listening. So as 
Malcolm is leaving, surrounded by some of his Nation of Islam, I mean, Fruit of Islam, or 
some of his supporters, the old hustler said, “Young fella, young fella. A lot of what you 
said, I agree with. A lot of what you said, I agree with. But some just don’t hit me right. 
Well, first of all, I ain't giving up my pork chops.” [Laughter] Everybody starts to laugh. 
Well, everybody was laughing but not sure how to do it in the presence of the stern 
Malcolm, you know, laughing behind their arms, stuff like that, behind their hands. “And 
one more thing.” And Malcolm is really very tolerant. And he says, “What’s that, my 
brother?” And he said, “Everything you said about the white man is true. The white man, 
he a devil. But the white woman? Pure angel.” I said, “Oh, shit.” [Laughter] So you 
obviously know what profession that brother was following. As they say in the street, 
“Pimpin’ ain't easy.” “White man, he a devil! But the white lady, she an angel.” And I 
think Malcolm cracked a smile. [Laughter] 
JB: I’m going to close the file. 
[Recording stops and then resumes.] 
JB: Ok, we’re back. 
ET: And SNCC about nonviolence. It was Charlie and Mendy Samstein who 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
34 
started that. You know that discussion? 
EC: I don’t. 
ET: Professor, why don’t you just pose— 
EC: [01:15:00] Can you tell me about nonviolence and manhood? 
ET: Well, you know, at Howard, we really did see nonviolence as a strategy, 
which was counterintuitive and opposed to our total personalities and sensibilities. First 
of all, most of the men, at least the ones I was close to, were athletes of one kind or 
another. I was a track man. I even went out for football. I didn’t last long, but I did. One 
of the only West Indians to go out for football. I lasted about two weeks. And I used to 
box with Ed Brown a lot. So we were physical. And in my own culture, just like African 
American young men, the notion that certain matters of honor, what you had to do was 
fight. So nonviolence was not in any way natural to us, or normal to us. 
And one of the biggest sticking points was if somebody came and attacked a 
sister. And it was something I worried about a lot. And it would come up in discussion, I 
would say with Tom, for example, who was a committed pacifist—I don’t know if you 
know his career. He went on to work for the labor union. Became very powerful in the 
AFL-CIO, and had a real role in Solidarity, the Polish labor union that broke 
Communism. Tom was shuffling funds back and forth, going to Poland all the time and 
carrying money for Solidarity, you know? So he was a committed labor nexus kind of 
guy. But he was also a pacifist. And he was gay. 
And I’d say, “You know, what are we going to do if some of these crackers attack 
the sisters? I mean, I don’t know if I’m going to be nonviolent.” He says, “Well, if you 
declare yourself a conscientious objector, one of the classical questions, the traditional 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
35 
questions when they interrogate you is, “What if your younger sister was attacked by a 
racist? Would you stand by and be nonviolent?” And he says, “The answer you would 
give”—which seemed to amuse him greatly—“was, ‘No, sir, I would nonviolently 
interpose my body between her and the attacker.’” And, he said, “That’s what you do if a 
sister gets attacked. You throw yourself over her, don’t attack the other person. You 
come between them and just stand there and take the blows. And so that’s what I resolved 
I would do in that circumstance. It never, ever happened to me. 
Well, the real problem I had with nonviolence was on those Washington 
demonstrations. And one has to be clear, now. The conditions which prevailed in the 
South weren't conducive to nonviolent practice. Nonviolent practice is theater. 
Nonviolent practice is psychological warfare. Bayard was an extraordinary practitioner of 
that because he was so dramatic. And what you do is you control the discourse. You 
control the behavior of your so-called attacker, even though you never attack him. Bayard 
has an essay called “Nonviolence vs. Jim Crow,” which shows you how that operates— 
the questions you ask, the things you say, the behavior you do. Even though you might be 
being beaten, there is no question who is controlling the encounter. But that requires a 
small, enclosed place. It requires witnesses. If the media is there with their cameras, so 
much the better. But on a dark country road, or if you’re sleeping in your house, there’s 
no technique of nonviolence that can protect you against a sniper or somebody coming to 
bomb the house. So you need to understand where nonviolence operates and where it 
doesn’t. 
Now in the D.C. operations, that was an arena for nonviolence. And the media 
was there in front of the White House, in front of the Capitol, in front of Howard 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
36 
University. So you behave in a certain way, and you let the mob and the rest of them 
behave in their own way, and you psychologically and politically win, just by controlling 
the image. At our demonstrations, there was one group who would invariably show up: 
the American Nazi Party. With Lincoln Rockwell in the storm trooper’s uniform walking 
around the place, smoking cigarettes in the cigarette holder. And his followers, the 
members of the master race, [01:20:00] wearing swastikas and khaki and stuff like that. 
But it used to [coughs] really annoy me, because what the cops would do is, we would 
have our picket line. And that would force them to have their own picket line. And they’d 
be walking around the place with their racist signs and their swastikas, which was 
particularly troubling if it was a CORE demonstration. And many of them were, because 
most of the CORE membership were professional people, intellectual people, white 
people. They’re a northern, essentially intellectual, pacifist group. And a great many of 
their members were Jewish. 
And the other thing that bothered the hell out of me was that these representatives 
of the master race didn’t seem to be in good physical condition. Some of them were fat, 
some of them were pot-bellied. Some of them looked like they were certifiable imbeciles. 
Looks fairly retarded. Unshaven, walking around the place talking about the master race. 
While we were relatively fit, clean-cut student types. But there’s a certain point at which 
the two lines would come fairly close. There would be a cop standing, you’d walk around 
the cop. So there would be a cop standing there, you know, five or six yards. So when 
you got there and you were turning, a member of the master race in his swastikas and 
stuff was looking at you, and, “Nigger this, and nigger the next.” And you’re saying, 
“Cracker, I am going to kick your ass,” under your breath as you turn around. And I kept 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
37 
really wanting—I said, you know, if these suckers would just—the demonstrations would 
end at the same time. I said, if they’d just hang around the place so we could meet them 
on the way back to campus, walking back to campus, then we could really see who was 
the master race. Which was a fairly naive form of machismo on my part. You can’t have 
a regular fair fight like we used to have. Not even a gang fight. These guys obviously had 
clubs, probably guns and knives and stuff. It would have been a nasty fight; it would have 
been ugly. 
Our position was, my position was, as long as we’re not in a formal 
demonstration, where we had a necessity for the discipline and the nonviolence, if I catch 
you crackers on your way back to school, we will really see who is the master. But 
fortunately it never happened. I believe they got in their cars and went back to Maryland 
or Virginia or wherever their headquarters were as soon as the demonstrations were over. 
But on the other hand, in Mississippi, where nonviolence was not—there were not 
that many demonstrations, and in the day-to-day business of organizing, the question of 
nonviolence never became that much of an issue. Except when Charlie and Mendy 
Samstein said that they were in the house of one of the local leaders. Don’t know if it 
was— Or whose house it was in. Or Mr. Miles? And they said the Klan was riding. And 
after supper, whoever’s house it was, the farmers whose house it was had a couple of 
sons. And after supper, he took down his shotguns and his rifles and he gave one to each 
of his sons and he took one, and said they were getting ready in case the Klan attacked, 
and to defend the house. And then they asked Charlie and Mendy, “Y’all want a gun?” 
And that was the conundrum they brought to the meeting. They said, “Well, why 
should we have a gun? We are supposed to be nonviolent.” “Well, if the people whose 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
38 
guests we are are defending their homes and they offer us a gun, do we take it or not?” 
EC: Yeah. 
ET: And that was one of the first discussions after I went to a SNCC meeting in 
the South. And that discussion must have lasted three, four hours. As I say, we in NAG 
were nonviolent only strategically. People from Nashville, for example, John Lewis and 
the brother from Mississippi, what’s his name? And Diane Nash and people like that 
were nonviolent. Like CORE was nonviolent— 
EC: Oh yeah. Chn-hmm. 
ET: As a religious, spiritual conviction. So that was a tension. 
EC: Bob Moses said something to me recently about Jane Stembridge and Stokely 
and a gun at the Freedom House in Greenwood. 
ET: Chn-hmm. 
EC: Do you know anything about that? 
ET : I’ve heard it indirectly. I think Stokely was sent to get the guns out. 
Somebody had some guns in there and Bob sent Stokely had to go and recover them and 
get them out of the Freedom House, [01:25:00] so they couldn't be found. 
But to cut back to the discussion in SNCC. So some of the people like Nash [said] 
“We are nonviolent, we are nonviolent. Absolutely we cannot carry guns. It’s totally 
antithetical to us.” Forgetting that when Bayard went down to Martin Luther King’s 
house in Montgomery, he almost sat down on a gun, sitting on a chair. And that they, 
especially the leadership, the activist group of the black community, and not just them, 
had a tradition of having to defend themselves since neither the law nor the state was 
going to protect them, so they had to protect each other. Like [1:25:48], “I cock my gun 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
39 
and I commence to popping! I commence to popping!” [Laughter] 
So there was a long discussion in the meeting, and finally people concluded. They 
said, look, “The organization is nonviolent. But individuals aren’t necessarily nonviolent 
all the time. If you are in somebody’s home and the home is in danger of being attacked, 
and they decide to defend their home, and you, and they offer you a weapon to do so, 
whether you take it or not is not SNCC’s business. That is a personal decision you have 
to make and if you feel comfortable sitting there and allowing other people to do your 
fighting for you, then you do that, if that’s what your nonviolence means. But SNCC has 
no position on what you do in that circumstance.” And that struck me as an eminently 
intelligent and smart way to resolve the discussion, so that impressed me a great deal 
about SNCC. 
You asked me about the first time I went South. It was to Mississippi and it was to 
a SNCC meeting in Waveland. That was an interesting story. 
EC: Ooh. That was your first time South? 
ET: Yes, ma’am. No, it was my second time south. The first time south, I drove. 
Well, I’ll tell that story, too. We were driving down. NAG car. Carmichael was doing the 
driving, as he always insisted on doing. Courtland was there. Cleve Sellers was there 
because we drove through South Carolina and stopped at Cleve’s house and his mother 
and father fixed a great feast for us. I remember Cleve was in the car. I don’t know if Len 
Holt was. Bill Mahoney was. We had several SNCC officers. Mendy who set it up. 
Remind me to tell you about that SNCC conference. And we are going on our way, we 
must have been in South Carolina, North Carolina. I forget where the hell we were. And 
it was the dead of night. And people were hungry. But they were driving past these 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
40 
roadside restaurants, like Howard Johnson and that stuff. I said, “I ain't going to take out 
no stuff in the car.” I said, and I was still my arrogant self, I said, “If you’re going to be 
free, you have to act free!” 
EC: [Laughs] 
ET: How are you driving past these damn restaurants. Let’s go in there and order 
some food.” And they said, “Shut up, Thelwell. You don’t know what you’re talking 
about.” This was my first time going south. These guys had been before. And since talk is 
cheap—I was reading a book or something like that. And every time I would look up I 
would say, “Hell, you’re driving past another restaurant. Let’s stop and get something. 
You’re going to starve yourself to death. If you’re free, act free.” All of a sudden, 
Carmichael jumped on the brakes, came screeching in the street [makes brake sound], 
drove into a parking lot. Said, “Alright, nigger. Act free.” In the dead of night. 
So I look around. Nobody will look at me. Ed Brown is starting out the window. 
Nobody will look at me. Alright. I’m going to act free. So I jump out of the car and walk 
up to the restaurant. As I approach the lights, the light seemed to get brighter and brighter 
and when I walked in there, these were Southerners. I’d never seen Southerners before. 
They were all sunburnt. They were working-class looking people, they had on khakis or 
jeans, and big hats and cowboy boots. And they might not even have looked at me, but 
there were some people who did. [01:30:00] And I had the feeling that all the 
conversation in this brightly lit restaurant had come to a stop, and that people were 
looking at me, and I was absolutely terrified. And I said, “Well, I could walk out and say 
they wouldn't serve me,” but I said, “I ain't going to do that.” So I sat down, at a booth, 
not at the—at a booth, with the window like—and nobody came to serve me. And I think 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
41 
people are looking at me, and I am getting more, and more, and more terrified. And I am 
saying, “Well I can’t walk out. I’ve got to make a stand of some kind. Am I going to 
demand service? What the hell am I going to do? Thelwell, how you get yourself into this 
goddamn situation? Why don’t you just walk out of the place?” I am sitting there 
terrified, when I happened to look at the window. There is Carmichael, grinning at me. 
And Ed Brown is next to him, and Courtland. They’re all standing there by the window to 
see what is going to happen to me. I don’t know if they were going to rush in to save me 
if shit happened. 
EC: [Laughing] They were going to rush back to the car. 
ET : But they said, come on, come on. I was very happy to get up and walk out of 
the place and go drive. I was so glad to see those guys standing there looking. They 
hadn’t totally abandoned me. The mess that my big mouth had put me in. And so we get 
to the car and there is a long silence, and I don’t really want to say, “Gee, I was so glad to 
see you guys. I am so glad you were there.” But they were all quiet, but smiling, you 
know. They said, “Are you tired of acting free now, Thelwell?” I said, “Yeah.” I shut up. 
But I was grateful to see you, you know? 
EC: Terrified of the South, and yet— 
ET: Yes, ma’am. But I remember, back to Atlanta. And when I got up that 
morning, I walked toward the black community, and there were these little houses with 
these little raised gardens, and what was amazing about it, the land was black and they 
had shells around the flowers and stuff, and some of the flowers were the exact same 
flowers I had seen around my grandmother’s house in the hills of Westmoreland. And I 
had an immense rush of nostalgia, because—and the way the beds were organized, very 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
42 
much like my grandmother’s beds. Something I hadn’t thought about for 25, 30 years. It 
just came rushing back at me. The next time I went to—my sister, I always meant to 
write and never did— The next time I went south to a SNCC meeting—I didn't have to 
drive. [James] Forman called up and said, “Thelwell, I need you down here earlier.” I 
said, “Well, I am driving down with our brothers on Thursday, the meeting’s Friday.” He 
said, “No, no, no, no. You come on Wednesday. I am going to send you a plane ticket.” I 
said, “Wow.” I had just got onto the SNCC staff. Jim was pretty much the chief 
executive. So I said, “Whoa!” I felt really important. The CEO wanted to fly me down 
there, he needs me. What the hell is going on? So I didn’t drive down. I got on a plane 
and flew down to Atlanta. [Phone rings] 
[Recording stops and then resumes.] 
[Conversation about the phone call] 
JB: You were just landing in Atlanta. 
ET: Yeah, and Forman meets me, or sends somebody to meet me and drive me to 
the SNCC office. Takes me into the office, there’s a typewriter and there’s a tape 
recorder. I am very flattered that Forman has wanted me down early. He said, “Look. 
There you have a taped history of SNCC. I need a speech for the meeting on Friday. Can 
you do that?” Obviously, someone had told him I was a writer. Very flattered. I said, “I 
would be happy to do so, Jim.” And it was an amazing tape, and it talked about when 
SNCC first was formed, and he came in as executive secretary. How he didn't have any 
money, how certain barbecue joints would feed the young women, how [01:35:00] 
certain hairdressers would do their hair for them, how the community supported them. 
How, he remembered from one of the early projects they called him and said they 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
43 
needed, a duplicating machine. And he said, there was no money to get it. And he said, “I 
stood up in the office and tears came to my eyes. In this big, rich country these young 
people need just a [01:35:21] machine and I can’t get it for them. I resolve to get it for 
them.” And the narrative was the narrative of his building up the base of support. By this 
time SNCC was really affluent, right? I mean, not the way other organizations were, but 
from that humble start. We had only one telephone in the house and that’s because 
what’s-her-name was paying for it from our YMCA grant. 
EC: Ms. Baker. 
ET: Not Ms. Baker. 
EC: Connie? 
ET: Connie Curry. Connie Curry was paying for it. When he first came to the 
office there was just one telephone, and one box with papers in there. And that telephone 
was only there because Connie Curry was paying for it out of her YMCA fellowship and 
the office was only there because SCLC gave them this one room. And now we had this 
office on Raymond Street and we were a national organization. And so the text, the 
narrative that he had put on tape was incidents from his building that, and his thoughts 
and stuff like that, and he wanted that for his speech. 
The question was, why did he want it for a speech? Because the guy who was 
married to the sister Jean Wheeler— 
EC: Frank Smith. 
ET: Frank Smith was running against him. Frank Smith had raised an insurrection 
to depose the leadership in the Atlanta office. And Jim was about to fight back and he 
wanted the speech as his kind of campaign signature. [Laughter] So, I made quite a 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
44 
lovely speech. It was very moving material, you know? Especially for that audience. The 
growth of the organization, and the heroism of the early people in it. So I fashioned it into 
quite an effective speech. And at the end, Jim had said, “One of the things we need to do, 
one of the things we owe to the movement is to take care of our health. I haven’t taken as 
good care of my health as I should have, so now I have to go to a hospital for a couple 
weeks of recuperation, but I will be back.” And he says, “I will be back in a couple 
weeks, but I know the organization will continue and flourish, continue to be a band of 
brothers and a circle of trust. May the circle be unbroken.” That’s how I ended the 
speech. 
The night before that meeting, I go into, the staff is coming in from all their 
various projects, and I really used to like, and still do, black southern culture, the oral 
tradition and the music. And people know that. They used to call me Old-funny-talking 
Mike Thelwell, “Here come Old-funny-talking Mike Thelwell,” disparaging my 
Jamaican accent. So, people used to play cards, pinochle or whatever it was they played, 
at various tables. So I’d go to all the tables of the southern staff, like I would see my good 
sister from Alabama who used to carry a gun. 
EC: Annie Pearl? 
ET: Annie Pearl. Annie Pearl Avery, and the Peacock brothers at one table. I’d go 
up and say, “You know how much I love the culture and the way you guys sing?” “Yeah 
man, yeah, yeah.” I said, “There’s a song that I just have a feeling that I want to hear. 
‘May the Circle Be Unbroken.’” They say, “You like that song, Mike?” I said, “Yeah, 
man, can you sing it for me please?” And they’d start to raise the song, and I’d sing 
along, I’d say thank you. Then sitting at another table there’d be Jessie Morris and a 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
45 
bunch of other people and I’d go over there and say, “You know, there was one of the 
songs that my brothers and sisters sing that I really love extraordinarily well: ‘May the 
Circle Be Unbroken.’ You think you can sing that for me?” And I knew how Forman’s 
speech ended, and I was kind of priming the audience for the speech, right? So I got 
about five or six tables to indulge my sentimental love of this song. I got them singing the 
night before [sings], “May the circle, be unbroken.” So I was kind priming. The only 
political meeting I’ve ever really— [01:40:00] 
So in the morning, Jim gets up, and he launches into the speech, which I had 
structured for him. And it was very moving and he talked about how they had nothing 
when they started and how they built the organization, and the alliances and contacts he 
had made. 
Oh, I forgot to tell you, because I had gone to Atlanta and worked, I didn't drive 
straight down to Waveland. Or, let me see, no, we fly down. So we got on a plane. Did 
we fly down to Waveland? I forget whether we flew. Maybe I drove down with Jim? 
However we got to Waveland, when we are driving into the parking lot, there was a 
Sojourner Fleet. Do you know how we got those? 
EC: Was it a donation from the UAW? 
ET: It was a donation, but it wasn’t—the United Auto Workers organized the auto 
industry. So that one of the things they negotiated with them was the ability to buy cars 
for cost price. Now, those cars were selling for $2,000, $2,500, $3,000, but they cost 
$500 to make. And that’s the price the UAW would pay to the autoworkers for them. So 
the UAW bought cars for us, at $500 a pop. So we had these new Impalas. They were 
really great cars. The southern staff, the organizing staff really loved them. And as we 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
46 
drove into the parking lot—now remember the text and substance of Jim’s speech was the 
poverty from which we had come. Now, he said, “Sojourner Motor Fleet, Sojourner 
Motor Fleet, Sojourner Motor Fleet,” pointing to all these cars and puffing up his chest. 
So, anyway, first day of the meeting, Jim gets up and he delivers this speech. And 
it’s a very moving speech. And he gets to the conclusion and talks about we have to 
protect our health, he’s going to the hospital but he promises he will be back. Like 
[General Douglas] MacArthur, he will return. And he says, “And SNCC will go on, a 
band of brothers, and a circle of trust. May the circle be unbroken.” And he turns away 
from the microphone like Dr. King used to do, and from all over the hall, I hear, [singing] 
“May the circle, be unbroken, by and by, Lord, by and by.” And it was so frigging 
moving that I started to cry. And I said to myself, “Thelwell, you can’t stand in the room 
and be crying in a situation that you yourself have organized and set up. You can’t be 
crying at the meeting that you rigged. So I ran out. I ran out of the room, right? 
[Laughter] To go stand up underneath a tree. And then somebody else ran out of the 
meeting and they were crying, too. And it was Frank Smith, the insurgent. And Frank 
Smith said, “Mike Thelwell, you done castrated me.” And I said, “Negro, you crying just 
like me!” 
EC: [Laughs] 
ET: That’s a story I’ve always meant to write. [Pause] It was a splendid irony: the 
same insurgent we were organizing against, he was so touched by the speech that he was 
outside of the room crying, too. I reminded Frank of that and he never denied it. 
EC: What was Frank organizing, the insurgency? 
ET: He wanted to become chair as opposed to Jim. He wanted to replace Jim from 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
47 
the chairmanship. And I don’t remember what issues he had, but he was traveling around 
to all the various projects, and talking, that kind of stuff, enough to get Jim alert and a 
little bit anxious. 
EC: You know, I’ve seen versions of that speech in the papers. Would you like a 
copy of a version of it? 
ET : Sure. Is it as moving as I recall it? 
EC: I don’t know if I’ve actually seen the speech or if I’ve seen portions of the 
larger story. The history of SNCC. But it describes those early days and what it looked 
like. I’ll send it to you and you tell me. I think I’ve seen a couple versions, so one of them 
might be the actual speech that you constructed out of it. 
ET: If there is a good narrative description of that meeting, I would like to see it. 
But that’s how I remember it, anyway. 
EC: When I was reading these, I was guessing it was from Waveland or before 
Waveland, [01:45:00] but I didn’t know. And so I’ve never heard the story. 
ET : The full context. 
EC: Yeah, the context. So Frank, he forgive you? 
ET: Yeah. I mean, he didn’t say it in an angry way. He was crying, shit. We were 
both very moved. A lot of people in that meeting were crying, actually. 
EC: That was an emotional meeting. 
ET: Um-hmm. But after Jim’s speech, I mean at the end of that speech with that 
spontaneous “Raise the Sun,” “May the Circle Be Unbroken,” I said, “Yeah!” 
EC: You primed it. 
ET : And I ran out of the meeting. 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
48 
EC: Judy says that there is another point in that meeting where it felt like things 
were just coming apart, and Jean had been teaching her a song, and asked her, he was 
like, “Come on, Judy. Now we need to sing.” 
ET : That was a different meeting. 
EC : It was a different meeting? 
ET: That was a meeting of the Summer Project. The Summer Project, when they 
broke into song and saved the meeting. 
EC: I think, well, I know what you’re talking about. 
ET: At least that was one. Maybe there is another one. 
EC: I think she said it was another one. It was a different song. Because the one at 
Oxford, that was “Freedom They Say Is a Constant Sorrow.” 
ET: “They Say Freedom Is a Constant Sorrow,” yeah, which is a very haunting 
song. 
EC: Since we’re talking about Waveland, I should probably ask you about the 
notorious Waveland—your brother Stokely’s comment. 
ET: That’s thoroughly discussed in that book. 
EC: I know it is, but unfortunately not everybody will read the book. Maybe you 
can do it for a different audience? 
ET: I will, I will, I will. [Pause] How much time do we actually got on tape? 
JB: Well, maybe we can go ten more minutes on this drive, and then I’ll put 
another drive in— 
ET: Yeah, but how much tape do we have, time-wise? 
JB: We have another two and a half hours. 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
49 
ET : No, no, how much we got, in the box, in the can? 
JB: Maybe two hours, a little less? 
ET: Alright, because there are long pauses and repetitions. If you edit it properly, 
that’s probably not more than an hour, right? 
JB: Yeah, not more than an hour. 
ET : Okay, so you want to go where now? 
EC: If you would do the Stokely in Waveland, for this audience, because even 
though it’s out in the book, it’s still distorted. 
ET: No, no, you’re right. Now, write down for me so I don’t forget: “SNCC, 
Washington conference.” 
EC: Yeah, okay. And then we also talked about the FBI and how you got to 
UMass, too. 
ET: That too. 
EC: I am sure there’s more. 
ET: There are two really important political events coming out of the Washington 
office, which wasn’t even included, whoever put the fucking program together for the 
SNCC 50th Anniversary. Somebody should have asked me to write up the Washington 
office material, you know? One of them is the Challenge vote on the day Congress 
opened in January 1965? ’64? It was January ’65. 
EC: Yeah. 
ET: Because the election was ’64, right? 
EC: Because the Summer was ’64, and the election, and then it was when 
Congress—so yes, it was January ’65. 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
50 
ET: January ’65, okay. You know what that vote was? Of course you know. 149 
voted for us, 149 members of the House voted to keep the Mississippians from sitting. 
EC: Which is extraordinary. 
ET: Of course it’s extraordinary. I organized it. I know how extraordinary it was. 
That’s what I want to tell you about. 
EC: So, why don’t we switch the drive? 
ET : I got to go pee again, but— 
JB: Okay, it’s a good time. 
ET : And I want to have some coffee. 
[Recording stops and then resumes.] 
ET: There is that. And the other thing, it wasn’t even SNCC by this time. It was 
the MFDP [Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party] Office. [01:50:00] We changed the 
content of the Voting Rights Act. Did you know that? 
EC: I didn’t. 
ET: Most people don’t. And that’s a story that needs telling fully. 
EC: It sure does. 
ET : The problem with the story, since I was the organizer during that, it looks like 
taking credit, you know? It looks self-serving. 
EC: We still need to know, though. But we still need the history. 
ET: I think when people are telling something that’s self-serving, it seems 
inflated. When you hear this you’ll see that it’s not inflated. 
[Recording stops and then resumes.] 
JB: Back up again. 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
51 
ET: No, leave it, because we’ll put it in with those other three, which have to do 
with stuff that might have been deleted from the book. But ITl tell the story anyway. 
So this—and we’ll see whether you can pick up on it, we’ll see whether you can 
pick up on it, okay, this is a cultural matter, a black thing you wouldn’t understand. So 
this speaker is speaking. And he is talking about how a black man’s future lies in Africa, 
and Africa is a rich continent, and you know, that argument about how we should 
develop it and also go home to Africa. And this hustler, just like the one who attacked 
Malcolm and said that the white ladies were angels, this hustler comes up, and he’s half 
drunk. He’s come out of a bar. And he says, “Shee-it, they ain't can’t even make matches 
in Africa. I ain't left nothing in Africa.” So the people turn, “Shut up, shut up, shut up.” 
The people are getting agitated. And the nationalist keeps talking, and the hustler, he 
comes over, he keeps talking: “Shee-it, I ain't going to change my Cadillac for no camel.” 
And he goes on and on, “Shee-it, I ain't left nothing in Africa.” So the people begin to get 
more and more agitated and they’re about to shut this guy up forcibly, attack him. 
And the speaker sees that. And every time, I’ve seen this too, every time there’d 
be a talk there’d be about two cops, standing there with their night sticks in their hand, to 
maintain order. So if the people attack this hustler, this drunken hustler, then the cops are 
going to come in swinging their clubs and the whole shebang. So the speaker has to 
obviate this. And just at that time—oh, I forget to tell you. This hustler, he’s got his coat 
over his shoulder, but his hair is conked, you know, processed. That’s an important part 
of the story I forgot, see? If I tell it again, I’ll tell it right. And just as the hustler is getting 
more and more obstreperous and disrupting the meeting, a little drizzle starts to fall. And 
the speaker looks and says, “Huh. It’s raining. My brother, you better go back inside 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
52 
because your hair is going to go back to Africa before your mind do.” 
[Laughter] 
JB: You got to be fast on your feet— 
ET: You got it, right? You got the story. She wanted to cut it. I said, “What?” She 
didn’t understand it. It was meaningless to her. She was a white American. What the fuck 
would it mean to her? I said, “No, no. Let me explain to you.” I explained it to her. She 
said, “Oh, my God.” So we left that. And the others she wanted to cut, we left, too. And 
I’ll tell you some of those stories. 
EC: So, let’s start with—you said that the SNCC conference at Howard was your 
first assignment? 
ET: You’re right. And my first political lesson. You see, when Forman decided to 
set up a SNCC office and the NAG people suggested that I should have the job, I didn’t 
have anything to do and I had just graduated, so it was great. They wanted a Washington 
representative. The impolite term for it is lobbyist. And someone who could maintain the 
interests of SNCC before the national media in Washington, and in the halls of Congress, 
and to the White House if you could get there. Said they wanted a presence in 
Washington, which is—oh Jesus, I moved. 
JB: That’s okay. 
ET: Which is what every national organization wants. And Bill Mahoney was sent 
up, from the South, to come work with me. We were both co-directors of the office. And 
I remember going [01:55:00]—I knew Bill, remember, he asked me about the Kantian 
imperative and Marxian dialectic when I first met him. So I knew he was a strange fellow 
but I didn’t know how strange until I went to meet him at the bus station and he comes 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
53 
off then bus and he has a box, a wooden box, and a little cardboard box. In the wooden 
box he had any number of philosophical textbooks. And in the cardboard box he has 
drawers, a pair of dungarees, and one shirt. That was his complete wardrobe, apart from 
what he was wearing. 
So we come in, we set up the office, right? And the first assignment was, we want 
to have a conference in Washington so the staff can learn what federal programs there are 
and what can be done, and how to access them and how they can use them in the interest 
of the communities. So, get all the people from the Department of Agriculture, you want 
the Justice Department, you want people from the Department of Housing. A whole 
range of federal bureaucrats we were supposed to get to come to these meetings, which 
we succeeded in doing. And the SNCC field staff, and the local people would come up, 
and we’d have these conferences. And it was at Howard. I don’t know what 
documentation you found on that. And this was my first chance to meet all the SNCC— 
and the northern staff was coming, too. People from New Jersey, from Massachusetts, 
from New York. So it was my first chance to be around all these SNCC people, many of 
whom I had been reading about, who were extraordinary, bright, and attractive young 
people. It was really a great congregation to be in. 
But after the first day, like all conferences the first day the room is full, everybody 
is present, and the when the federal bureaucrats started to come in and talk about these 
programs, the meetings got smaller and smaller and smaller. I was very distressed that the 
conference wasn’t being successful. And at a certain point it got very late, and people 
were tired. And Bob got up and said, “Alright, it looks like people are tired and they are 
losing attention. We need some energy. Mrs. Hamer, come and talk to the people.” That’s 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
54 
the first time I saw Fannie Lou Hamer, and she got up and talked about how she went to 
register, and they stopped the bus. They put her off the plantation, shot into her house. A 
very powerful story, and Mrs. Hamer was a powerful speaker. And then she started to 
sing, and the whole room started to sing, and it was my first real introduction to the 
southern spirit of the movement. Because Mrs. Hamer was the exemplification of 
southern black culture, and the best of it, you know? It was the first time I heard Mrs. 
Hamer and it was a very, very powerful occasion for me, which I have never forgotten. 
And that’s when I met most of the SNCC staff. Ultimately the conference was 
judged to have been very successful, and people got the information they needed. And I 
got my first political lesson from Jim, because to do this conference we have to get 
resources. So I am going around the place to all the labor unions, all the liberal political 
organizations, which really was my job. I mean most people who send lobbyists to 
Washington send them with big bankrolls, so they are giving out stuff to people. I was 
going around the place asking people for stuff. So I really recognized Black Power in 
those terms when it came. We no longer have to be supplicants. We’ve got to take 
something to the meetings. We’ve got to have something to trade. We’ve got to go into 
meetings with something, not just our hat in our hands. Because, like the meeting I told 
you about with the Catholic archbishop who told me he had just been inaugurated and the 
ceremony was expensive and his ring cost him so much. And it really was like the 
movement was going to white organizations seeking support, almost as a charitable 
dispensation. 
And I wasn’t having all that great success going to the usual suspects, as it were. 
And then I went to an unusual suspect, who was persona non gi-ata and an outsider 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
55 
organization: the Teamsters. And the Teamsters gave me $1,000, which was a lot of 
money. [02:00:00] To me, anyway. It was the first contribution Td really gotten. So I said 
to Forman, I said, “Jim, the Teamsters have said they will give us $1,000. But can I put 
their name in the program as one of the sponsors?” Because, you know, you’re not 
supposed to deal with them. He says, “Mike, you can’t sleep with them at night and 
refuse to walk down the street with them in the morning.” So the Teamsters were right at 
the top of our list of sponsors. 
EC: When you were trying to find money for that conference and you are doing 
that circuit and having those conversations, did anybody talk about the issue with the, 
well, not the founding conference but the one in October of 1960 when Bayard was 
invited and then uninvited because of AFL-CIO money? 
ET : No. Who would have talked about that? 
EC: I didn’t know if, within the organization—I mean, Jim knew about it. He 
wasn’t there for it. Julian [Bond] would have been somebody who was around for it. 
ET: Yeah. But I was asking people in Washington for funds. 
EC: So you wouldn’t have been around. 
ET: Nobody briefed me on that. But I will get back to that Washington liberal 
establishment before our business here is finished today. 
EC: You have more to say? [Laughs] So you opened that SNCC D.C. office in 
Fall ’63, then? 
ET : I would say so. 
EC: And then that conference, I know, was just after Kennedy was assassinated, 
like in Thanksgiving. 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
56 
ET : November, something like that. 
EC: I think it was over Thanksgiving. 
ET : Right. It was a Thanksgiving conference. 
EC: And at that point did you know that you were going to be working on the 
FDP Challenge? 
ET: The FDP didn’t exist. 
EC: I was going to say, they were still working out the details for the summer. 
ET: The FDP didn’t exist. One of the first other responsibilities we had was when 
Bob came to Washington, Bob Moses, and said they were planning the Summer Project. 
The Summer Project was when, ’63 or ’64? 
EC: Four. 
ET: Alright. But this was in fall of ’63, so it would have been in the spring of ’64, 
Bob came. And said they had made a decision after discussion with Robert Spike and the 
rabbis and so-and-so and they were going to inundate the states with these northern 
volunteers because the movement had come to a stalemate. And what had been 
happening. All the killings that had taken place up to that point were of local people, 
because I think there was a policy not to kill the volunteers because they had 
congressmen up north. And like Bob came with the phone number to the Justice 
Department. And besides which, the SNCC workers—the northerners, the outsiders— 
couldn't vote. So their concern was to suppress the vote, as it still is to this very day, to 
suppress the vote in the black community, and how do you do that? You kill the people 
who can vote. You kill the leaders and you intimidate the rest. So, and it was after the 
murder of Louis Allen that I think Bob decided to have a summer project and bring in 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
57 
people to break that logjam. 
So my job was to take him around the place to all these pockets of progressive 
thought and liberal influence, ADA, Americans for Democratic Action, this kind of stuff. 
That think-tank over there on Wisconsin Avenue—Policy Studies. Institute for Policy 
Studies. Right. Places like that. And I was taking Bob around. And I think this meeting 
was at the Institute, and there were a lot of progressive congressional aides, there were a 
lot of younger people, they called the people together from the Institute. I would never 
have had all those contacts. A lot of people in the labor union who were said to be 
progressive. Center of progressive thought. 
And Bob says, “Well, what we’re thinking of doing is creating a political party, 
after the freedom vote, which they had just had, called the Mississippi Freedom 
Democratic Party. And we are going to go to the convention in Atlantic City and 
challenge the regular Democrats.” People said, “Whoa! What a dramatic idea. What a 
brilliant idea. What a bold idea. But how is it going to be done? It will require incredible 
organizing. Where are the resources going to come from? [02:05:00] Can you organize 
such a party and survive?” All of these were very intelligent kinds of doubts and 
questions. “And besides which, the national Democratic Party will never tolerate you in 
Atlantic City. So it’s quixotic. It’s doomed to failure.” 
So they were going back and forth. “So maybe we would support such a thing, but 
what does Johnson—” and Johnson was the uncrowned king of the political world at that 
time, having taken over from Kennedy and done so well. “What’s LBJ going to say about 
it? What’s the Democratic Party going to say? You’ll never be seated in Atlantic City. 
It’s quixotic.” And that was the tenor of the conversation. And then Bob said, and then 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
58 
somebody said, “You know, if you really want to get a reading on this, you’d better 
discuss it with Jo Rauh.” And Bob says, “Well, I just left Joe Rauh’s office, and he said 
we could be seated.” “What!? Joe Rauh said what?” He said, “Joe Rauh said we could be 
seated. He thought we could be seated.” 
The whole mood in the meeting changed: “Well, if Joe Rauh said that, then 
maybe there’s a possibility. Maybe we have to look at this thing again.” And then people 
began to make commitments of support, just on the basis of Bob saying that Joe Rauh 
said we could have been seated, because he was a very powerful beltway politician in the 
internal politics of the Democratic Party and the liberal forces in Washington, D.C. I 
remember that very distinctly. 
And then we started organizing support for the Challenge. I mean not for the 
Challenge, for the Summer Project. And we started recruiting people. And we recruited a 
lot of people from NAG to go down in the Summer Project. Stokely and Courtland did. I 
was in the office. They came through the office. We recruited Ralph Featherstone. One of 
the other things the office used to do was to raise food and clothes for the people who 
were being kicked off the land. From the surrounding suburbs and from the supermarkets, 
we’d put the stick-up on Safeway and Stop and Shop and places like that. And we’d 
gather this food and these clothes, we’d sort the clothes, and we’d get boxes and boxes of 
food, canned food and stuff, and we’d send them down in a truck. And the Teamsters 
would send one of their truck drivers to drive the truck down for us, and they would also 
help us get the half-track to do it. So that was one of the activities of the office. 
And this was being done, and I am going to talk about the High School Friends of 
SNCC. You ever heard of the High School Friends of SNCC? You should. That woman 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
59 
who organized the anniversary conference, Sharlene Kranz, was one of the High School 
Friends of SNCC. And there were young white people who lived in the suburbs, whose 
parents were probably employees of the federal government or professional people. And 
they were a great group of high school kids. I really loved them. We had some little 
schemes that we used to work. Couldn't do that in Washington any more. So they used to 
come in—they used to collect the food and clothes, they used to help make the appeals to 
various people. We would appeal to churches, we would appeal to schools. And 
everybody would have a collection. We’d collect it, come to the office. We’d sort it, we’d 
send it. 
One of the people who shared our office was the Committee for Miners, led by a 
Scotsman named Hamish St. Clair. Their Washington representative was a young guy 
named Joel Drexler, and we gave them space in the SNCC office because they didn’t 
have nothing. And this was when in Hazard, Kentucky, there was a huge miners’ strike 
against the coal miners and stuff like that. And one day, Joel decided he was going to 
bring a group of miners, people active in the strike. And about ten or so of these 
hillbillies came. They would talk, like, “Hi, sheriff.” Like the Sheriff of Nottingham. 
Some of their language was Elizabethan, you know? And they talked about “hills and 
dales” and “down in the holler.” Sure enough Scots-Irish hillbillies. And I really liked 
those guys. They asked me to come and start the SNCC Project in Hazard, Kentucky. 
Which I took to Foreman, but he said no dice and it’s probably just as well. They were 
shooting. 
[02:10:00] And when they came in, I said, “Okay, Joel, I’ll take them to dinner. 
And there was a black restaurant, it was supposed to be the most fancy black restaurant, 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
60 
called The Keys Restaurant. Down on U St. in Washington. And I took them there, and 
we went inside to eat, and we are at the table. And I said, “You guys can have a drink on 
SNCC.” And I am sitting next to one of the guys, toothless, wizened little guy. And ITl 
never forget. He ordered, a what do you call them hamburger steaks? Hamburger steaks, 
what do you call them? 
JB: I don’t know. 
EC: Like— 
JB: Like a shish kebob? 
ET: No, like a hamburger that is cooked and they serve it like a steak. 
EC: I know what you’re saying. It’s on the tip of my tongue, which doesn't help. 
ET: Let’s pause and get this word. 
[Recording stops and then resumes.] 
ET: [To JB] Your eminence? 
JB: We are recording now. We have the word. 
ET: A good man to work with. Ok. This little guy ordered a Salisbury Steak, 
mashed potatoes, and some green peas. And his meal came. And it sat in front of him 
while he just looked at it. And a tear ran down his cheek. I looked and him, I says, I didn't 
know what was going on with the guy. “Is something wrong, sir?” He says, “Nah, it’s just 
like this is the best mess I’ve had in two year.” Best mess is what he called it, best meal 
I’ve had in two years. So when they left, I said, “Shit, the people from Mississippi won’t 
mind.” I said, “Load up their van with as much food from the drive to Mississippi as we 
can spare.” And we just loaded it up. Lots of canned beans and stuff like that and sent 
them back to Hazard, Kentucky. And they allowed us, “Oh, it would be a good thang if 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
61 
SNCC were to set up a project back there.” Well, that never went very far. 
EC: Didn’t some white workers go into Hazard a couple of years later down the 
road, working with Anne Braden, maybe? 
ET: If so, I don’t know anything about it but SNCC didn’t start a project there. 
And if we were going to start the project—at that time we didn’t have the white folks’ 
project—but if we were going to start the project that would have been how to do it. 
EC: I think eventually one of the legacies of the white folks’ project went in there, 
but I’m not sure. 
ET : That would have been some years down the road. Alright, so where are we 
now? 
EC: Did you interview potential volunteers to go into Mississippi? 
ET: Oh yeah. Oh! You got me back on the subject. So the High School Friends of 
SNCC used to come in, to sort and pack up the food and clothes to go down. But they 
were a rambunctious bunch of high school students, well meaning and I loved them all. I 
said, “Y’all get to get this shit organized.” And this black guy who was teaching school 
came in, said he wanted to see what he could do. I said, “Here’s what you can do. Take 
control of that bunch of rascals over there and get them organized to get these food and 
clothes going to Mississippi. Old people need it. And he took control and he organized 
them. And he had a way of reasoning with them, and he had a way of being firm with 
them, but he was obviously a splendid organizer with a sort of quiet authority to him. 
You know who I’m talking about right? That’s Ralph Featherstone. 
And Feather must have organized many truckloads of food and sent to 
Mississippi, and then came the Summer Project, and Feather—he was married, and he 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
62 
was a little bit older. He had been an all-city point guard, a high school player, and he had 
graduated from college and he was teaching school, I think at a middle school or 
something like that. And he said to me, “Mike, I think I want to go to Mississippi on this 
project.” I said, “Feather, ain't you married?” And unlike the rest of the SNCC people, he 
was a young man who had started his career. He had a teaching job. I said, “Let’s go 
talk.” So we went out the office and we sat on the curb, looking at the FBI car that was 
always parked across the street. And I said, “Feather, you know, there’s a hell of a good 
chance that everybody who goes down there ain't coming back.” [02:15:00] He said, 
“Well, it’s my people and it’s my people’s struggle and if that’s the way it goes, that’s the 
way it goes.” I said, “Alright, brother.” He accepted. And he left to go to the orientation 
in Oxford [Ohio], and on the way down to Mississippi after the orientation, after 
[Michael] Schwemer, [Andrew] Goodman, and [James] Chaney had disappeared, a lot of 
the cars came through Washington. 
I remember I developed a lot of respect for progressive Jewish people. Because 
one car came— Oh, after Schwerner, Goodman, and Chaney had disappeared, I walked 
into my office, that’s the SNCC Washington office, and all these very nicely dressed, 
attractive youngish-to-middle-aged women had taken over. They’re saying, “Call so-and- 
so! My husband gave him $500 for his last campaign. Call him. He will answer us. And 
call so-and-so.” And they’re calling congressmen, which is my job. So I stand up in the 
comer of the office, and nobody pays any attention to me. And I’m saying, “This is my 
office and all these people done took over.” And these are mothers from Long Island, and 
they’re all Jewish as a matter of fact. And I said, “Damn, they’re getting through to 
congresspeople I’ve never been able to speak to, so let me just stand there and watch 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
63 
them work.” 
And then one of the cars going down to Mississippi stopped to check in at the 
office, and this big, dark-haired, curly-haired, good-looking kid came walking into the 
office and he looks in the back and he says, “Mom! What are you doing here?” And she 
looked up, she says, “Abe! What are you doing here?” And he said, “I’m going down to 
Mississippi,” and she ran and hugged him and kissed him. And I said, “Damn. Because 
my mother had been burning up the telephone lines from Jamaica: ‘If you go to 
Mississippi, Mike, you will get killed.’” She didn’t know what Mississippi was but 
somebody who had known some knowledge in Jamaica must have told her. She said, “If 
you go to Mississippi, I will get the FIB after you!” 
EC: [Laughs] 
ET: I said, “You’re going to get the FIB after me, are you, mom?” I said, “But I 
am not going. It’s ok. I got to work here in Washington.” So I was very struck by that 
mother, who just kissed her son and said, “You know, go with God, God bless you,” and 
sent him off to Mississippi and seemed so proud of him. 
EC: Was it hard not to go to Mississippi? 
ET: Mm-hmm. Well, my mother was threatening to get the FIB after me, so. 
When I finally got there, I didn’t—by the time I got to Mississippi, they sent me back to 
Washington. I’ll never forget that. 
EC : What happened? 
ET : [Lawrence] Guyot met me as soon as I walked into the meeting. I said, “No, I 
am going to Mississippi.” I wanted to be a field organizer. I wanted to wear the blue jeans 
and run from the sheriff and do all the romantic kinds of things. And Kuntsler, Arthur 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
64 
Kinoy, and Bill Kuntsler, they met me. Said, “Mike, just the man we’re looking for!” I 
said, “What?” Because I had turned over the SNCC office to Jim Monsonis. “You’re 
going back to Washington.” I said, “What for?” “You’re going back to Washington to 
start the MFDP office.” I said, “Goddammit.” “We’re challenging the Mississippi 
congressmen, you’ve got to go back and start the office.” So I had to turn around and go 
all the way back to Washington. 
EC: Was that at the end of the summer? Was that after the summer? 
ET: Yeah. After the end of the summer. 
EC: So you thought you had done your turn and you could get into the field? 
JB: Em going to close the file. 
[Recording stops and then resumes.] 
ET: Oh, I didn’t finish the Feather story. 
JB: Ok, we are still rolling again. 
ET: I got distracted. So another car headed south, after the Jewish mother and her 
son had so moved me. Stopped. And who should burst in the office but Ralph, with a big 
smile on his face and his chest all puffed out. I’d never seen him so happy and so 
exhilarated and so energized. He said, “Guess what, Mike? I’m assistant director of the 
Freedom Schools.” Well, what’s interesting about that was in the short time of the 
orientation, which was about a week at the most, the people up there working had picked 
up the abilities of Ralph. And Ralph was made assistant director of the Freedom Schools. 
And he was the operative director, [02:20:00] because, what’s the name of this guy? 
EC : Staughton Lynd? 
ET: Staughton Lynd. I don’t think he was in Mississippi over the summer. He had 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
65 
helped write some of the things and write down the formulations of the committee, but it 
was Ralph who ran it. And his chest was all puffed up, he was so proud. 
And then a very good friend of mine, whom Ralph introduced me to, later on 
when I was running the MFDP office. Ralph comes into the office with this really long, 
red-haired white kid, white young man. He said, “Mike, I done brought you something.” I 
said, “What?” He said, “Here. He’s coming to work in your office. He was a volunteer in 
Neshoba County.” And Ralph was working in Neshoba County after the disappearance of 
those people. And that’s when I met my best friend. He was a very, very smart guy. He 
was a philosophy graduate student at Yale, Stuart Hampshire’s brightest student. And he 
went to Mississippi and stayed over, and he really loved Mississippi, and he was a very 
perceptive guy. His perceptions of black culture and everything. And he worked in the 
office for a while. Very funny. 
One time, we’d had some victory in the Challenge and we went out to celebrate, 
and our office was down in Southwest Washington, close to Capitol Hill. So we went to 
this little restaurant, which was really this hillbilly restaurant. And we had dinner and a 
couple of drinks, and then had a couple more drinks, and it was my friend Allen, Guyot— 
who as you know weighed 300 pounds—Jan Goodman, who would be a great person for 
you to interview. She is a very, very smart woman. She had more political experience 
certainly than I had. She used to work in presidential campaigns. And she was the 
assistant coordinator of the MFDP office for the Challenge. Jan Goodman, she’s now a 
lawyer in New York, live in the Village. So there was Allen, myself, Lawrence Guyot, 
and Jan Goodman. There was four of us. So we had dinner, and we had a drink, and we 
had another drink, and we were talking about things that were taking place in the housing 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
66 
administration committee, and we were talking about Capitol Hill gossip, things people 
inside the Beltway talk about, and we were getting quite relaxed. 
So I had two or three drinks, maybe three or four, I don’t know how many. It was 
four hours. But when the bill came, it was $45. That was a lot of money. And I felt 
downright guilty to be using that much of the movement’s money to be having three or 
four drinks in this white restaurant. It was a working-class, hillbilly restaurant. And I 
said, “Oh my God, look at the bill. How much money you got?” I might have had $6 on 
me. Allen might have had $4. And we finally got—but when we pooled our giant 
resources, the bill was like $45, and we had about $25. So I said, “Well, the only thing 
we can do is to place the $26 we have on the table, and run like hell for the door.” And 
Guyot says, “Well, Mr. Chairman, I want to associate myself with those sentiments.” And 
my friend, Allen, whom Ralph had introduced us, looked up and said, “Mr. Chairman, as 
much as you might want to embrace those sentiments, I doubt very much you’re going to 
be able to implement them.” And we all cracked up laughing, and Guyot said, “Not to 
worry about it.” And he reached into his pocket and he had been to a black church 
fundraiser, and he had an envelope of dollar bills in there, so he peeled off another $20 
and put it on there. Money was contributed to the MFDP for the Challenge, and it’s the 
only time we ever ripped off any money from the movement, that $20 to settle the bill. 
“Well, Mr. Chairman, much as you might want to associate yourself with those 
sentiments”—looking at his girth, he says—“I doubt very much you will be able to 
implement them.” [02:25:00] [Laughter] 
EC: I was thinking about Jim Farmer’s story about how he doesn’t have to be the 
fastest. He just has to be able to out run. Guyot probably would have been at the back of 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
67 
the pack. 
ET: Absolutely. So, where were we? 
JB: We’re on a roll again. 
EC: Can you talk about what it was like to work on the Atlantic City Challenge? 
Your job in D.C. and the work that summer? 
ET: Well. I left. I mean, I made initial contacts, I think. I always worked in D.C. I 
didn't travel. A lot of the organizing had to do with going to the state conventions and 
getting commitment from the Democratic delegation that they would go a certain way. 
But prior to that time, one had to make contact with the congressmen in Washington. And 
through the congressmen and through our supporters in the state we had to learn about 
who the key local activists were to go organize. But I was organizing the Congress. And 
my main job, because once the Summer Project became known, a wave of propaganda 
swept through the Beltway, and it was essentially what the Mississippi crackers were 
saying. And it was what the incipient Right, because they weren’t as well-developed as 
they are now, were saying. “It’s a totally quixotic action that was doomed to failure, and 
if it’s not doomed to failure, it’s not a good faith action. “They pretend,” they being us, 
“they pretend they’re going down there to do education, culture centers, but they’re really 
going down there to disrupt the state and to embarrass the state of Mississippi and the 
national government, like the Freedom Riders did. So it’s really a very cynical procedure 
on our part. And number three, what these cynical activists, most adventurous, trying to 
do is to get white Americans down here to get them killed. And young American students 
down there to get them killed.” Which incensed the hell out of me in the office because I 
mean all these people, my colleagues, the people I had met in my work, they were 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
68 
American students, and they were decent and well-meaning people and the last thing they 
wanted to do was kill anybody. And why instead of talking about the terrorists who are 
doing the killing, they’re talking about the potential victims? I mean it was really 
perverse. 
And people like [Rowland] Evans and [Robert] Novak were writing that. People 
like that guy who is supposed to be the Dean of Washington columnists [David Broder], 
One of them was gay. It was two brothers. Yeah, you know who I mean. And they are 
nationally syndicated. And even Drew Pearson got involved in a very curious way. And 
that’s another story that probably needs to be told. And all that propaganda started being 
put out against the Summer Project. 
EC: How did you try to combat it? 
ET: Well, as best we could. I didn’t know. I could see what the columnists were 
writing. What was the name of that other guy besides—Evans and Novak were kind of 
rabble-rousers but this guy was [coughs] austere, and had gravitas. What the fuck was his 
name? Two brothers. And their names are all over the history [Joseph and Stewart 
Alsop], 
EC: So, I’d recognize them, if you said it. 
ET: Where did I last see him? A story either about Jackie Kennedy or Eleanor 
Roosevelt, to whom he was a great advisor and confidant. That’s the level at which these 
motherfuckers moved. And came out and said flat out that he had clear proof and 
evidence that what SNCC was trying to do was to create martyrs. I was trying to lure 
people down there to get them killed to embarrass the country. 
So, [02:30:00] at the same time this is being said, there is a campaign of 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
69 
vilification taking place in Mississippi, saying the state is going to be invaded. That these 
people are disease-ridden, syphilitic people coming to infect white women with various 
sexually transmitted diseases. That they are Communists being financed by Castro and 
Cuba. And the state is passing all this draconian, absurd legislation in a special session. 
“It’s illegal to rent a room to a visiting white person traveling with a black person.” All 
kinds of—They are buying tanks and tear gas dispensers, and that blue paint that would 
paint people blue so they would know who was in a demonstration. They are stockpiling 
shotguns and machine guns. So a real crisis atmosphere is being created in the state. And 
then the Klan is burning crosses every weekend. And then the media down there, the 
radio talk shows and the print media, the Jackson Clarion-Ledger, the Jackson Daily 
News, are publishing all these very inciting comments and nothing else is appearing in 
the Mississippi media. Demonizing the volunteers, whom Tm up in Washington 
recruiting and I know them to be the best young Americans you can find. Very earnest 
and well meaning. But creating an atmosphere where if you’re just an ordinary, young 
white Mississippian boy, brought up on the rhetoric of the Lost Cause and the 
Confederate whatever-it-is, and southern patriotism, then you would conclude very 
strongly that your patriotic duty as a young white person was to kill these invaders, who 
were coming to completely disrupt the state, besmirch white womanhood, and spread 
Communism and disease. If such a person were coming to my state, I would want to off 
them, too, right? 
And then we discovered that a version of this was being circulated among liberals. 
Some young white woman at school in the Midwest sent us a letter than her father’s best 
friend sent to him when he called and said, “My daughter is thinking about going to 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
70 
Mississippi to work on voter registration and education, working at a Freedom School. It 
seems like a good thing. What do you think?” And this guy wrote and said, “That’s the 
rhetoric of what they’re saying. That’s not what they intend. They just want to get young 
white students killed.” And this person was very important in the Democratic Party. I 
can’t remember who it was, or what his exact title was, but he was a mover and a shaker 
in Washington and I said, “Damn, if the establishment is saying this shit, we need to 
counter it.” And we called press conferences, and we’d do whatever, and nobody would 
show up, or very few people would show up. Every time we called a press conference, 
the White House decided they would call a press conference, so the political press were 
like, “Are you going to the SNCC office, or are you going to go to the White House?” 
And so we were stymied in that way. 
And that is where I remember, so one of the things we started to do is say, “Look. 
All this provocative, very dangerous, incendiary rhetoric and mobilization has taken 
place inside this state, and the country is paying no attention. So we got to get some 
congressmen, some decent congressmen, maybe Adam Clayton Powell, who was a 
committee chairman or somebody. He wouldn't do it. I don't know if I got to talk to him. 
But to talk to congresspeople to see if there can be a congressional hearing on the 
circumstances in Mississippi, in which case the media would have to attend. And if they 
got the right witnesses, if they got black people to come and testify, if they got SNCC 
people to come and testify, there is no way this story can be suppressed. So that was part 
of my job, working for the Summer Project. 
EC: Is that when you wrote that letter to Lorraine Hansberry? Was that that 
hearing? 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
71 
ET: I am getting to that. 
EC: Sorry. 
ET: [02:35:00] I am getting to that. I was speaking to people like Congressman 
Ryan, a couple liberal congressmen from California. And the guy from Wisconsin— 
Kastenmeier. Bob Kastenmeier from Wisconsin. Interesting thing is, that editor I was 
talking about for the SNCC book, she married one of Kastenmeier’s sons or something 
like that. I said, “Hey, I can tell you something about your father-in-law.” But I was in his 
office—or she was engaged to him—young guy, you know. And I started to recount 
everything that was being said in the media, everything that the Klan was doing. 
Everything that the mayor of Jackson was doing, that the political leadership of the state 
was doing, and what the media was saying. And I kept saying, you know, “It seems more 
and more to me that if this continues, there is going to be killings, maybe even a 
bloodbath. There is going to be violence.” They are programming for that. And as I went 
on, just adducing evidence: and this happened, and this has been happening, and this has 
been happening. I saw Kastenmeier’s head start moving down, and moving down, and 
moving down like a burden was on his shoulders. By the time I finished the description, 
his head was lying on the desk. He was lying on the desk like this. And so I says, 
“Congressman, we’ve got to have a congressional hearing.” “We’ll never get a hearing 
through,” he said. “The White House is opposed to it. And the Democratic leadership is 
opposed to it.” 
EC: Were they opposed because of the upcoming Challenge? 
ET: There was no Challenge at this point. Oh, you mean the Challenge in Atlantic 
City. I don’t think anybody took that really real. It’s just that, business as usual and 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
72 
congressional privilege. And they were pushing out the position that, “It’s really agitators 
coming.” And also that in a great many congressional committees, Dixiecrats because of 
their longevity had senior roles in there. I mean, look. There was five Mississippi 
congressmen that we were trying to unseat, and between the five of them I think they had 
235 years seniority, or something like that. It was some unheard-of figure. Simply 
because after you won those lily-white primaries, you get elected to the office and it’s a 
lifetime job. So they were able to jam things up in the Congress. And that was why we 
said, “Okay, if we can’t get the congressional hearing, we should try and get our own 
hearing.” And that later you saw to Lorraine Hansberry. And I could go get it and read 
from it if you want it in the record. But that’s what we did. 
And what we did was, we got Bob and the people in the Mississippi Movement to 
get a bunch of local people, black people. I don’t think we found any white witnesses. 
And we rented the National Theater in Washington. And we contacted a lot of prominent 
American citizens. I remember Norman Mailer, I called him up to come, and he, you 
know, he was a very good guy. He had a Brooklyn accent. He said, “Geez, you know, I’d 
love to do that. I’d really want to do that, but maybe it’s not really in your best interest. 
My reputation ain't really so good these days.” He had just stabbed his wife. He said, “So 
my presence there might not serve your purposes.” [Laughter] I said, “Thank you. Mr. 
Mailer.” And I respected him for that. 
So what we did was, we got these people from Mississippi to testify, Mrs. Hamer 
of course being prominent among them. Hartman Turnbow being prominent among them. 
Mr. Miles, Mr. Steptoe. Mr. Steptoe’s a great story. You know the story I mean? 
EC: Um-mmm. 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
73 
ET: You know Mr. Steptoe was little, about five foot four or something like that 
and very slightly built. And the sheriff down in Amite County was this huge, big redneck. 
And this was after they killed Herbert Lee for leading voter registration in Amite County, 
Mississippi. Mr. Steptoe takes down a second group of people, black people, to go and 
register to vote. And Mr. Steptoe, again, slight, almost petite guy. But brave as a lion, as a 
group of marines. [02:40:00] He is going into the courthouse and the sheriff comes 
looming over him and puts his hand on his gun, and said, “Steptoe! State your business. 
What are you doing here?” You remember Mr. Steptoe’s answer? Mr. Steptoe says, 
“Well, Sheriff, if I live, I’m going to register to vote.” And at that point, the answer to 
that question wasn’t clear, whether Mr. Steptoe would live, right? 
EC: Yeah. 
ET: So we brought him up to testify. Anne Moody came. She brought two young 
men, two beautiful young guys, about 14 and 12 years old, who testified about being put 
in the Stockade. They were some of the best witnesses and we got these distinguished 
Americans. It was in the National Theater. And we either hired stenographers to write it 
down or we made a tape recording, one or the other. But a transcript was developed, just 
like a congressional hearing, and it was published just like a congressional hearing. The 
transcript of those hearings is something I wish I had saved a copy of. That’s the kind of 
stuff we used to do. That’s the kind of stuff we used to do in preparation for the Summer 
Project. 
EC: You said earlier that there was a memo you’d really like to have a copy of. 
ET: That’s the Voting Rights Act memo. 
EC: Okay. So I’ll hold off on that, but let me ask you. I’m stumbling over my 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
74 
questions. Ms. [Ella] Baker worked on the Atlantic City Challenge out of the Washington 
office, right? 
EC: Yes, Ms. Baker carne up. By then—I did that initial work, but when the 
summer begun I left the office, and Jim Monsonis took over, and Mrs. Baker came up 
and started doing a lot of traveling, I gather, to the various state conventions and stuff like 
that, and carrying the message in that way. Had I remained in the office I would probably 
have done some of that. But you know there is also the question of my very clear and 
evident Jamaican accent. I am not an American citizen. So it seemed like it wasn’t the 
smartest thing or the most effective thing for me to be running around to these various 
state conventions, and challenge the Mississippi delegation. I mean, “Who the hell is this 
foreigner?” Or, as my good friends in Mississippi put it, “funny talkin’ Mike Thelwell,” 
to be doing that. 
EC: So what were you doing instead? 
ET: None of your damn business. 
EC: [Laughs] Alright. 
ET: There was a lady. I was washing some clothes in a Laundromat in New York, 
and this woman, a good looking woman, with a very distinctive Russian accent, which I 
won’t attempt to imitate, asked me if I could help her fold her clothes. And I did. And we 
had a conversation, and she gave me her telephone number. And I called up the number 
and the woman who answered had a French accent. And I said, “You can’t be the person 
I am trying to call, because the lady I am calling has a distinctly Russian accent and I am 
looking for her.” And she says, “Well, is there a message and can I give her the 
message?” She says, “She will call you back.” But then the woman who called me back 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
75 
had a German accent. What is going on here? Well, it turns out she was a character 
actress and she had all these accents down pat and she had me going like hell. So I spent 
a couple months, and I exiled myself from the SNCC office. I had a picture of her 
downstairs, too, one of her big promotion pictures, with this lady of the many accents. 
EC: [Laughs] So were you around during the actual Atlantic City Challenge or 
were you exiled? 
ET : I wasn’t in Atlantic City. But I got to hear all the reports from people who 
were, SNCC people who came back. And I was very tempted to go to Atlantic City. But a 
curious sense of appropriateness and protocol—I said, “Look, Em not working in the 
SNCC office any more, Em not actually on the SNCC staff, so why would I want to push 
myself up in Atlantic City and present myself?” But in fact, with the movement’s tone in 
SNCC, you didn’t have to be on [02:45:00] staff. All kinds of people were showing up. If 
Ed gone, all my friends from NAG would have welcomed me. I said, “Why would I go 
up and make demands on SNCC resources, needing a place to stay and all the rest?” Em 
sad I didn’t have any money. I wasn’t on the SNCC payroll anymore, so I was very 
broke. So that’s why I wasn’t there. 
EC: And that’s when you started working on the congressional Challenge? 
ET: And I came back after the summer was over, after the convention Challenge 
was over and decided—there had been some offers of some literary people who wanted 
to sponsor me for a kind of literary patronage. That’s really what the fuck it was. I had 
won a couple of national prizes for short story writing and stuff like that, and one day Em 
in the dorm at Howard, and there’s this very New York, sophisticated voice on the phone, 
a woman calling. “Mr. Thelwell?” “Yes, ma’am.” Ed just won publication in one of the 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
76 
story magazines. She says, “I just read your short story. It was brilliant and I would so 
like to handle you.” I said, “You would like to handle me, Madame?” She says, “I mean, 
I mean your work. I mean your work.” So I acquired an agent who had been Richard 
Wright’s agent, and who gave me a very interesting letter that William Faulkner had 
written to Richard Wright. Very paternalistic. You want to hear about it? 
Well, it essentially said was—as soon as I read it, between the lines: Faulkner was 
the acknowledged master of representing Mississippi reality in literature, and 
representing it from a white perspective. Now along comes Richard Wright, who was 
vaguely of the left, might have been a Communist, and is writing the same experience 
from a black perspective, and the two things don’t mesh. So Faulkner was very much, 
“My son, I have read your book.” And it was very much of the rhetoric of the new 
criticism, the kind of deification of art and the artist. “I have read your work and you 
appear to have talent, and I believe one day you could be an artist. And you might 
succeed, you might just succeed in the difficult task of becoming an artist if you will 
eschew hatred,” and so on and so on. In other words, tone your goddamn message down 
and we might accept you at the high table of literary art. It went down in that vein. “But if 
you only can get away from hatred and recrimination, one day you may become an 
artist.” And she gave me a copy of that letter, which I never kept. I didn’t keep any of 
Malcolm’s letters. Fuck, you know. 
But anyway, I’d gone to a meeting. And at the meeting was the editor of the 
Southern Review, whose name I cannot recall right now, a writer for the New Yorker 
magazine, and this agent. This was a meeting in New York. In fact, the guy I was staying 
with was the editor of Crown Press, who had published my last story from this contest, 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
77 
and that was a story in which, it’s called “A Community of Victims,” and it has to do 
with a young black man at a bus stop, a white woman at the bus stop, and a drunken 
black man who comes up and starts to aggressively approach the white lady. And then the 
young black guy intercedes. He’s trying to save face with the black drunk, he’s trying to 
save him from getting into trouble with the police, but he doesn’t want to appear to be 
kissing up to the white lady either, so he’s got a problem how to handle it. And at one 
point when they sit down on the bus, the woman touches him on his knee to get his 
attention and says, “Thank you.” And I remember the editor of the Southern Review said, 
“That’s a very intimate gesture, a very intimate gesture. Get it out, right?” [Laughter] 
But anyway, I’m at this meeting and they proceed to tell me how talented I am, 
and how they really think I have a career as a writer. [02:50:00] And there was some 
talk—it really was a strategy. And I would write two or three short stories, which I would 
submit to the editor of the Southern Review and which, I guess, upon negotiation, if it 
was right, they would publish there. Which would be the basis of seeking a contract for 
me, for a novel. And then somebody had a friend who had an apartment in Venice or 
Naples, where I didn’t speak the language, so I’d have to write, that was vacant and could 
be made accessible to me, available to me. And I could do this novel right quick. At this 
point I’d been out of Jamaica for four years. I wasn’t African American by any stretch of 
the imagination. Well, they’re not saying anything. You know, “Just write a novel, you’re 
a talented writer, go write a novel.” And so obviously what I had was patrons, literary 
patrons. You know, the kind of patronage and clientilism that governed the Harlem 
Renaissance and the black literary experience. Well that seemed very discovered, you 
know these three white people taking an interest in my career, telling me how talented I 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
78 
was. 
And at the end of which, “Blues for Mr. Charlie,” [James] Baldwin’s play, had 
been on Broadway and created a great deal of controversy, and the agent said to me, said, 
“Oh by the way,” said to the group, I mean we are finished with discussion, “Okay, we 
got it. Alright, very good. Mike will write these stories, we’ll get the contract, everything 
is in place for a literary career. To change the subject, by the way, have you seen ‘Blues 
for Mr. Charlie?”’ And a couple people said they had, one maybe said they had. And she 
says, “Well, it’s just atrocious. Just awful. That James Baldwin is finished.” Well, I had a 
great deal of respect for Jimmy Baldwin. “That James Baldwin is finished. In fact, I think 
we’re ready, it’s time for a new black writer.” And they looked at me and smiled. And I 
said, “Oh, is that what’s going on?” So I left and went back to Washington and called up 
Jim Forman. I said, “I’m coming back to SNCC.” He said, “Well, come down South.” So 
that is what happened. 
EC: So where did, when he said come down South— 
ET: Well, I went down to a staff meeting that was taking place. You’re going to 
have to disconnect— 
EC: John— 
ET: [To JB] You’ve got to disconnect me, reverend! 
EC: John— 
JB: Oh, oh. 
[Recording stops and then resumes.] 
ET: We were discussing what the black writer’s responsibility were, and the sun 
was about rising in Washington, because I remember we had to go out and get liquor 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
79 
from bootleggers because the stores weren’t open. And Jimmy got to swaying a little bit, 
and said, “Well, my young brothers and sisters, here we are. I, James Baldwin, a black 
writer, must in some way represent you. Now, you didn’t elect me, and I didn't ask for it, 
but there we are. But I can promise you this. If you can promise me that you will never, 
ever accept any of the degrading and reductive definitions of yourself and your humanity, 
that this republic has prepared for you, I, James Baldwin can promise you that I shall 
never betray you.” That was the high point of that evening. I have never forgotten it. 
Stokely quotes it in his book. None of us who were there forgot it. And Jimmy never did. 
So when this woman says, you know—it’s probably not on the tape—that James 
Baldwin is finished, we’re ready for a new black writer, I knew I just had to get my ass 
out of there, you know, and not go back. I think it was when the Carmichael book came 
out, or it could have been when The Harder They Come came out, I got a phone call from 
the same lady saying, “Michael Thelwell, I thought I was your agent.” 
EC: [Laughs] 
ET: I hadn’t spoken to the lady for 20 years! 
EC: [Laughs] But she wanted a claim. 
ET: She wanted to reestablish the professional relationship, I guess. 
EC: So did you work in the South for a while, or did you immediately get sent 
back on the— 
ET: On the next plane. [02:55:00] I get to the meeting. It may have been the 
meeting. It could have been at Waveland. Or it could have been the one at the seminary 
in Atlanta, you can check which one it was. After the conventional Challenge— 
EC: After the convention Challenge? That would have been Gammon 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
80 
[Theological Seminary], 
ET: Yeah, Gammon, okay. So it was the theological seminary in Atlanta, that’s 
where it was. And as soon as I walked in, I barely had time to flirt with two or three of 
the volunteers, and Guyot and Kuntsler and Kennard came bearing down on me. “Mike, 
we’ve been looking for you, we’ve been looking for you. We need you.” I said, “What? 
What?” “You got to go back to Washington. Start an office there for the Mississippi 
Freedom Democratic Party.” Gave me $200 to start the office and sent me back to 
Washington. 
EC: Guyot wasn’t going to have you in Mississippi with him. 
ET: And I went back to Washington for the Challenge. Cut the tape. 
[Recording stops and then resumes.] 
JB: The Challenge vote. 
EC: So the congressional Challenge. 
ET: So Guyot handed me $200 in cash and said, “Go rent an office, and equip it, 
and get ready because we’re going to challenge.” Now, it’s important to understand the 
Challenge strategy. The practice of challenging seats in Congress really began with 
Reconstruction, where a lot of southern delegations were coming up, and Republicans 
were challenging them, or Republicans were coming up and Democrats would challenge 
them as to whether they truly represented the state or they truly had won legitimate 
access to the seats they were going. And to do that, a process was developed. First of all, 
that Congress is the only judge of its own legitimacy. So you couldn't challenge for a seat 
in court. You couldn’t go to a federal court and file a lawsuit and say, “I am the true 
representative.” It’s all predicated on a vote in Congress. 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
81 
Which means that ultimately it’s a political decision and it’s all predicated on who 
has the majority in the Congress. And if you’re a minority party, if your party don't 
control a majority in the House, there’s no point you going and challenging for the seat 
because they are going to out vote you. And the Democrats had a huge majority. I mean, 
in 1964, when we were doing it, ’65, Democrats had a huge majority. That’s number one. 
Number two, Congress is the only judge. And the next element is, the only person who 
can challenge the seat of any elected member or any member claiming to be elected, is 
somebody who also ran in the election and is challenging for the seat. So you had to have 
been a candidate. And then if such a candidate comes forward, the only way you can 
challenge the seat is if the Congress convenes and the speaker says, “All rise” to be 
sworn in. And as the Congress is rising, you have to have another congressperson, who 
represents your interests, rise first and say, “Mr. Chairman,” get the attention of the chair. 
And the chair would say, “Why does the gentleman rise?” He says, “I rise to challenge 
the seats of Representative Crosby of Mississippi for X and O reasons.” 
And once that protocol takes place, then the challenge goes into effect. And then 
what next follows from that, if you get the attention of the chair and you challenge the 
seating, the chair then says to the challenged congressman, “Please step aside.” Why does 
he say that? 
EC: Because he can’t take the seat until it’s investigated? 
ET: Not ’til its investigated. You can take the seat at the will of Congress, but 
there’s no Congress until they’re sworn in. They can’t do shit. So you step aside, they 
swear the body, and then the body can just turn around and vote, “He’s the 
representative,” and you sit back down. Five minutes is all the time it would take. Or the 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
82 
body might vote, “He ain’t the representative.” Or, “There’s a real challenge here,” in 
which case, a process is then put into motion. [03:00:00] The challenger gets his 
document and his evidence and is sent to the House Committee on Internal Affairs. The 
guy claiming the seat, who has been certified presumably by the party in control in that 
state, he sends his credentials and his evidence, and the House committee threshes it out 
and votes on it. They could either vote that the challenge has no validity, in which case 
the congressman who was sent forward with the credentials would be seated. That can 
happen in a week or ten days, happen very shortly. Or they can vote that the challenge 
has validity. And presumably they could vote that the challenger is entitled to the seat, 
but that’s just the committee. And when the committee makes that determination, they 
send it to the complete House, who settles the issue. But that’s the only way a seat in the 
House can be challenged. 
There is another stipulation, or another process which is involved. And that is, if 
the House doesn’t seat the challenged party, and says that the challenge should be sent to 
the House committee to be adjudicated, the challenger can go into the constituency and 
seek depositions from every election official, from every elected official, from local 
people. And those depositions, his right to seek those depositions, has the power of 
subpoena. So these people have to come, have to answer the questions, have to give 
testimony and that testimony could be then sent to the House. But that whole process is 
not triggered unless the House so votes after the challenged congresspeople have stood 
down, alright? You follow that? 
EC: Yes. 
ET : So what do you need to challenge the seating? 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
83 
JB: One congressman to stand up. 
ET: No prior to that, what do you need? 
EC: People to run. 
ET: You need people claiming. Somebody’s got to claim the seat. You’ve got to 
have challengers who had run to claim the seat. Now, in Mississippi at that time, there 
was no way any black person could get on the ballot, because you’d have to go through 
the primary, or you’d have to go through the nomination process and be accepted by the 
state to put you on the official ballot. So that was out of the question, unless, a) you won 
the Democratic primary, or you won the Republican primary and got put on the slate. 
And both of those parties were at that time lily-white. So the only way we could get 
challengers was to run people in a freedom election. Well, a freedom election has no 
official status, so what would cause the House of Representatives or anybody else to 
accept it as being a legitimate challenger? So you can see it’s a very uphill struggle. 
But after the convention Challenge in Atlantic City, which ended with incredible 
bad will and recriminations and with SNCC being abused as trying to torpedo the election 
of Lyndon Johnson, trying to destroy the Democratic Party, of not understanding politics, 
of being politically naive, or being politically sinister, whichever one you prefer. And we 
were absolutely persona non gi-ata and the pariahs of beltway politics and internal 
politics of the state. And that’s the situation in which Guyot is sending me back into 
Washington to go challenge these seatings. But Guyot, bless his heart, also had a sense of 
irony and subversiveness. Because after we left Atlantic City, being abused by every 
facet of the Democratic Party possible, and even by some of our old allies—we were 
abused by [03:05:00] Robert Speck of the National Council of Churches. He thought that 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
84 
our political acumen left a lot to be desired, or that we weren’t dependable people to 
work with politically. He wasn’t sure. He came back over at a meeting we called in 
Washington, or he invited us to a meeting and we went and he was surprised that we 
went. But to go back to Washington representing the MFDP is like to go to Tel Aviv or 
Jerusalem, say you’re representing the Nazi Party, right? I mean, it wasn’t a popular thing 
to do. 
But right after the convention when all this recrimination is being heaped on our 
head, Guyot went down to Mississippi and recruited Mrs. Hamer, Mrs. [Victoria] Gray, 
Mrs. [Annie] Divine to run in the second district, the third district, and I believe the fifth. 
And printed up all these posters that he declared, he said, “We weren't seated in Atlantic 
City, but we have undying loyalty to the Democratic Party. We have undying loyalty to 
the ticket.” And we are going to campaign in support of the ticket, which gave me a lot of 
fun. Because what is going to happen now is that the whole Democratic Party in 
Mississippi, the whole Dixiecrat party is going to support Goldwater and support the 
conservatives. And maybe the labor union down there, the AFL-CIO and a few liberals 
are supporting the Democrats. But the only people who are supporting the Democrats 
forthrightly is the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party. 
EC: Most of whom can’t vote. 
ET: Most of whom can’t vote. That’s the other thing. And second of all, to 
outrightly support the Democratic national ticket is the kiss of death in Mississippi. So 
Fll never forget. We had these posters printed up. Lyndon Johnson at the top of the 
ticket. Hubert Humphrey underneath him. And beneath him there was in the second 
district, which was Fannie Lou Hamer. MFDP candidates was what we called them. I 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
85 
remember writing a letter to the Democratic National Committee in the campaign, saying, 
you know, we understand that the president and the vice president are very busy 
campaigning all over the country, but we are the only group element of the Democratic 
Party supporting the national ticket in the state. Here are out campaign materials. Sent 
them these posters. And even if the president himself can’t come, we would be very 
encouraged in our effort to support the national ticket if Mrs. Johnson would come. We 
would sponsor her in a talk, right? For some reason we didn’t get no answer. 
EC: [Laughs] Y’all are rough. 
ET : Sad, sad, sad. But anyway, so we ran these freedom election campaigns, took 
a freedom vote, not part of the official vote, and the MFDP ticket, let by Lyndon Johnson, 
Herbert Humphrey. And in our vote Lyndon Johnson and Herbert Humphrey carried the 
state, confidently. 
EC: [Laughs] 
ET: As did Mrs. Hamer, Mrs. Gray, and Mrs. Divine. They won seats. And it was 
on then basis of this, we were going to go challenge the election. Now, Joe Rauh, who 
was the UAW’s chief attorney and also was president of Americans for Democratic 
Action, and also was co-chairman of—what’s that coalition called? [Pause] 
Coming out of the convention, the liberal organizations, the labor organizations, 
and particularly Joe, who by the way had written our brief for the convention Challenge. 
Remember I told you the story of when Joe Rauh said we can be seated and he might 
write the brief? The whole meeting turned? So he felt not without reason but quite 
wrongly that the only reason we had even got in the door at Atlantic City was because of 
his agency and patronage. Actually, we got in the door because of Goodman, Chaney, 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
86 
and Schwerner, because we took all those things to the state conventions. And all these 
northern states that had young volunteers in Mississippi in the Summer Project, who all 
we contacted them and they rushed to the state conventions [03:10:00] to talk about what 
their experiences were. So the murders of Schwerner, Goodman, and Chaney had given 
us a great deal of currency. People understood it. 
So even without Joe Rauh’s considerable influence, and his having written the 
brief, we would have still had some momentum and currency to get into the convention. 
We’d have had support in the delegations, right? Michigan, California, New York, places 
like that. And I won’t recapitulate here the whole story of the various votes on the 
credentials committee and how people’s votes were turned around. You know that. But 
they felt that we were ungrateful, apolitical, didn't understand patronage and 
responsibility, and were irresponsible. Joe Rauh felt that very strongly. I remember when 
I got back to Washington. I was in the office then. I was in the FDP office, right. I got 
this bill for maybe $1,000, which was a lot of money, for the printing of the briefs. So I 
called up Joe, who is a powerful, well-connected liberal, and said, “Mr. Rauh, I have here 
a bill for your brief which was presented in Atlantic City. And the MFDP never ordered 
any printing. I didn’t order any printing. You must have ordered it. So can I send you the 
bill? He said, “No, you're independent. It’s your brief. You pay for it.” And he hung up 
the phone. I said, “Goddamn. He knows how fucking poor we are.” 
So that wasn’t my first conversation with Joe Rauh. My first conversation with 
Joe Rauh should have taught me what Beltway politics is all about. When I was in the 
SNCC office, Bill Gregory—no it wasn’t Gregory, it was the other guy, doctor. Other 
black comedian, who was also in/, Spy as an FBI agent. Bill Cosby? Bill Cosby. 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
87 
JB: Bill Cosby was in it. 
ET: Right. Bill Cosby had agreed to do a benefit for us. Some lady knew him. 
Very attractive lady, so she might have known him in the biblical sense of the word. She 
said, “There’s this great young black comic and he’s got a TV series on ABC coming up, 
and he’s very funny. I think I can get him to do a benefit for you.” So we had Bill Cosby 
doing the benefit. And we got Cramton Auditorium at Howard. And SNCC was very 
broke, and we’d sold out all the tickets, so there was about $5,000 coming in for it, and 
we needed it very badly. And some guy calls, you know, from some branch of the 
District of Columbia government, maybe the agency that deals with charitable 
contributions and says that we are not registered as a charitable organization. We have no 
business having the concert and if we go ahead and have the concert, I will be in violation 
of the law and he’s going to go ahead and imprison me. I said, “Goddamn it. SNCC needs 
this money, the concert is going to be in three days, we have Cramton Auditorium, and 
this man is saying if we have the concert, I am going to jail. What the hell am I going to 
do?” 
And then somebody says, “Call up Joe Rauh.” I said, “Who the hell is Joe Rauh?” 
This was earlier, you know, when I was at SNCC, not MFDP. They said, “He’s the most 
powerful liberal in the District. He will be able to help you.” I don't know if that person 
who told me that was a plant, but he gave me the number. So I called it and I said, “Mr. 
Rauh, my name is Mike Thelwell. I am the coordinator of the SNCC Washington office. 
“Oh, hello, Mike, what can I do for you?” I said, “Well, sir, the organization is strapped. 
It’s broke. We have a concert coming up, a benefit by Bill Cosby. We have sold out all 
the tickets and I got a phone call from somebody in the District of Columbia’s 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
88 
government, saying that if we have the concert I am going to jail. I’ll be in violation of 
the law.” And I should have paid close attention to what Joe Rauh said to me. He said, 
“Well, Mike. I never saw a situation yet that couldn't be fixed. Let me get on it.” And 
that’s the last I [03:15:00] heard of my going to jail. We had the concert, SNCC got the 
money, and that’s the last I heard of it. 
Now, what I suspect was that this was all a fraud. That whoever called me up 
pretending to be, purporting to be from the District government, was Joe Rauh’s man. 
Whoever told me and gave me his number was Joe Rauh’s man. And what we wanted 
was patronage. He wanted me to be grateful to him. “Well, Mike. I never saw a situation 
that couldn't be fixed. I’ll take care of it.” And it disappeared, right? That’s his attitude: 
there’s no situation that can’t be fixed. I didn't understand it at the time. It was much later 
it occurs to me that that’s what happened. 
Alright. I go back to Washington. People aren’t actually spitting on me but they 
aren’t talking to me. And I have to go to the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights to 
represent MFDP. And I guess Monsonis, or whoever it is is going to represent SNCC. Or 
for some reason I was representing both organizations at the LCDC the leadership 
conference, LCCR. Now what that is, is an organization of the national representatives, 
the lead lobbyists. The chairman is always Clarence Mitchell and the general executive 
secretary is always Joe Rauh. The red haired lady who represents the UAW is always 
there. She’s a UAW lobbyist. She’s the one who brought John Conyers around to 
introduce him when he got elected that year. National Council on Religion and Race of 
the National Council of Churches. Their lobbyist is there. The Methodist Organization on 
Religion and Race. Their lobbyist is there. And a host of other organizations. There might 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
89 
have been 90 of them. All come to the meeting. Well, 30 or 40 came to the meeting every 
week, and so did I because I got to go to represent the interests of SNCC and the MFDP. 
About the only person who would say hello, greet me, and smile was the 
Episcopal bishop of Washington, D.C. Tall guy. Very dignified, WASPy guy who looked 
like a central casting version of what a bishop should look like. Who was that? Bishop 
Moore. Bishop Moore. He was always very decent, too. And after a while, Bob Spike, 
who had felt kind of betrayed because of his investment in the Summer Project. He 
started. He asked to have a meeting, Bob did. And people in the office were saying, you 
know, it’s an establishment group of people. We shouldn't go talk to them. I said, “No, he 
invited us to a meeting. We’ve got to go.” And me and Jan Goodman went to the meeting 
representing MFDP, and we walked in the door, game face on, looking for more abuse. 
And Bob Spike said, “Glad you came. Thank you very much for coming. Fve been doing 
a considerable lot of thinking about Atlantic City, and I believe I might be wrong. I 
believe I might have had some impressions which aren’t quite accurate.” And we talked 
and then he became an ally again. That was the first breakthrough we made. 
Actually, in terms of sequence—no, it’s the vote first. No, we have announced 
that we are going to run this challenge, and that the challengers, the contestants for this 
seat are Mrs. Hamer, Mrs. Gray, Mrs. Divine. Well, the NAACP, the UAW, are all at the 
leadership conference. All the activists. The Democratic guys. UAW, NAACP, most of 
all, and Joe Raub, who felt ill-used. And by the way I think he was trying to be a very 
honest broker in Atlantic City. He’s gotten bad rap from our side. But they were 
vindictive. And what they are saying to the leadership conference, and when they make 
the rounds in Congress because they are lobbyists— And what the Democratic leadership 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
90 
wanted to hear is that the so-called congressional challenge was totally fraudulent. Our 
contestants were not contestants in any legitimate election, [03:20:00] to which we 
agreed, but they couldn't be because they were—by racism. That the vote has no 
meaning. That the Mississippi delegation is solid, and legitimate. And our vote should be 
dismissed. 
These are very hard arguments to counter. And I said, “There is no way the 
Congress”—the key point—“is going to seat these three people on the basis of no 
freedom election.” To which we have to argue, “That’s absolutely correct and we are not 
claiming this, we are not asking for the seating of our candidates.” “So what are you 
asking for?” “We are asking for you to vacate the seats, not seat the white Mississippians 
because of this mountain of evidence that black people, 40 percent of the state, have been 
disfranchised. So on the day Congress opens we want you not to seat them. We want you 
to open the challenge. We don’t think that the Congress is going to finally conclude that 
Mrs. Gray, Mrs. Divine, Mrs. Hamer must be seated, but they would conclude in all 
rationality, all fairness, that the elections are fraudulent because of the disfranchisement 
of half the population. And that they will call for new elections in Mississippi under 
federal auspices.” That was our strategy. 
Well, it’s a very complicated thing to sell on the floor of the House of 
Representatives and stuff like that, especially if you don't get a chance to sell it. Now, if 
you think about the process I described to you, the only way we were going to get a 
chance to sell it is if the speaker recognizes a congressman who will get up and challenge 
the seating of the Mississippians. And the conventional wisdom in the Leadership 
Conference on Civil Rights is that we wouldn't find a single congressman to do it. That 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
91 
nobody is going to even deal with us because we are not for real. It’s bullshit. Student 
fantasies. So we can’t find a congressman. So it took us a long time to find a 
congressman. You remember who that was? 
EC: William Fitts Ryan? 
ET: William Fitts Ryan of New York. He represented the Blue Stocking district 
out there. It was a very liberal district. He was a convinced Catholic man himself, and he 
was a maverick. He never voted aligned with House leadership. And remember the guy 
Allen I told you about whom Feather introduced us to. And the reason I tell you about 
Allen, he told me incredible stories about Feather in Neshoba County. It was me and 
Allen going to go talk to Congressman Ryan. I forget who came to us and said, “There’s 
a congressman willing to stand up and challenge it.” And we’re going, and when the 
elevator stopped working we had to climb stairs, and we’re climbing and climbing toward 
the top of the House office building and [Allen] look at me, he says, “Goddamn, they 
have him up here with the pigeons.” He obviously don’t have no status. I mean, you 
couldn't even call it an office. This was a crib he had in the ceiling of the office building. 
I mean, he had absolutely no credit or credibility with the House leadership, just from the 
geography of his office. So we went to talk to him. And he said he would be happy to 
introduce this bill, he would be happy to challenge. And as we are leaving, Allen said, 
“Did you notice anything about him?” I said, “Yeah, he’s a very short guy.” He said, 
“You know, the House leader, the Speaker of the House is from South Boston.” 
Congressman—what was his name? 
JB: Tip O’Neill. 
ET: No, no, before Tip O’Neill. And I had that name on the tip of my tongue, too. 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
92 
What we learned was that Congressman Ryan was a man of small stature, sir. And for 
that whole challenge to work, it was essential that the congressman rise to challenge the 
seat and be recognized. And we knew very well that the Speaker of the House, the 
Honorable John McCormick of South Boston, and Irish ward politician of the old school, 
was perfectly capable of not seeing Wilt Chamberlain if he rose from the floor and he 
didn’t want to see him. So we knew he couldn’t see Congressman William Fitts Ryan, 
right? 
But you know that old rascal John McCormick was very funny. James Roosevelt, 
son of FDR was a congressman, and he told us a story one time because we were 
discussing the problems we were having with John McCormick and he said, “Old John is 
a fine old fellow.” Turns out the Congressman had a speaking engagement in New York, 
didn’t tell anybody, left Washington, went to New York. A vote was coming up and John 
McCormick needed his vote. He was about to take the stage and somebody handed him 
the phone and he heard this Irish brogue coming at him [03:25:00] over the phone: [Irish 
accent] “Oh, Jimmy, Jimmy, Jimmy me boy. What would your poor sainted mother say if 
she was to know you had abandoned John McCormick in his hour of need. Oh, Jimmy, 
Jimmy, Jimmy me boy! Curse the day. What would your poor sainted mother say?” 
Congressman Roosevelt said he caught the next shuttle back to Washington and cast his 
vote. 
So we knew we had to do something. We had to get some congressman to support 
William Fitts Ryan. All the time, Mitchell and Raub and everybody: “We don't have a 
single congressman.” I remember the day in the leadership conference, and I was trying 
to talk up the Challenge, they said, “Do you even have a congressman to challenge?” And 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
93 
I said, “Yes, we do.” And their jaws dropped, and they said, “Who? Who? Who?” I said, 
“William Fitts Ryan.” They said, “Ho, ho, ho, ho, ho.” And they laughed. 
So what we decided to do, we didn’t know how to even get the challenge 
recognized, right? And the administration was saying, and the Mississippi delegation was 
saying it was a totally farcical challenge without merit, it couldn't be recognized, it 
wouldn’t go anywhere. And the public in Mississippi was believing that. But remember 
that Lyndon Johnson now had very broad coattails and he had brought in 46 freshmen 
congressmen in the landslide against Goldwater and his A-bomb monger himself. Or at 
least that very cynical advertisement with the mushroom cloud. So, there was 47 or so 
freshmen congressmen who were indebted to Lyndon Johnson. But the thing is, they had 
to be oriented because they don’t know how Washington works. So we got a program for 
the orientation of these freshmen Democrats and we saw that they were having an 
orientation meeting at four o’clock one evening in some hotel downtown, I forget which 
hotel it was. 
So we scraped together the money and rented a little room next door for six 
o’clock that evening. And myself and Jan and some other volunteers stood outside the 
door as these freshmen were going in and handed them this very well-developed little 
invitation: “You’re invited by the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party to attend an 
orientation meeting next door at six o’clock.” Of the 47 of them, about 15 came. I 
remember who they were. One was John Conyers from Michigan. One was Patsy Mink, 
Democrat of Hawaii. And the other one, whose name I don’t remember, was the best of 
them all. A tall, saturnine fellow in a black suit, who as it turned out was in fact a local 
undertaker from upstate New York. So these guys came in and we thanked them for 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
94 
coming and said we would like you to hear why we invited you here. And we told them 
our version of the Challenge. They knew about Schwemer, Goodman, and Chaney. And 
we were asking them simply to rise with Congressman Ryan when Congress convened. 
And there was this long silence. Then the tall, saturnine, very pale WASPy guy 
from upstate New York said, “Aw, shucks,” he said, “the seat I am in has been occupied 
by a Republican for the past 80 years. I am the first Democrat who ever got elected to 
that seat in 80 years,” or maybe it was 50 years, “and I figure I got two years to be in 
Washington before I be unelected again. So I might as well do something good while Tm 
here. You got me.” I said, “Thank you cap’n.” And then Patsy Mink says, “I don’t see 
how I could do otherwise.” I says, “Thank you, Congresswoman Mink.” John Conyers 
came to me as said, “You know I just came back”—and he was brought to that meeting 
by the same red-haired lady who was a lobbyist for the UAW, who was introducing him 
around the place—he said, “Listen,” and he was really distressed, he said, “I just 
came”—a very handsome young guy, he was, too—“I just came back from a meeting 
with the Speaker, and he assures me he is going to put me on the Judiciary Committee,” 
and the Judiciary Committee never had a black person on it, and it’s the most important 
committee in Congress. He says, “so I don’t know if I can really support you.” And I 
says, “Let me tell you something. That’s between you and your conscience, but to tell 
you the truth, to have a black person on the Judiciary Committee is very important so if 
you can’t support us, I’ll understand.” And he was very grateful to hear me say that. 
Twenty years later when I went back to Washington, thirty years later. When I 
went back to [03:30:00] Washington working on the Apartheid issue, I went to his office 
because he was then head of the Black Caucus, and I said, “Mr. Conyers, I am Mike—.” 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
95 
He said, “I know who you are! You are Mike Thelwell.” And he remembered when he 
first came to Washington, 30 years earlier. 
And so we got Mink, we got the tall undertaker. And we got three or four more. 
So I went back to the leadership conference and I said, “Well, we have five congressmen 
who agree they will rise with Congressman Ryan.” So Mitchell and Raub go “Well, who 
are they?” I said, “You know, I just don’t have a list with me today. I don’t have that 
information” I wasn’t going to make the same mistake we made in Atlantic City. 
And then, some supporters sent us a letter and I cannot remember who the 
congressman was. Because in all our lobbying, we only went to liberals and as far as we 
were concerned the only liberals we knew were Democrats. So we assumed we had the 
votes of the five black Democrats—Congressman Nix, Congressman Dawson, 
Congressman Adam Clayton Powell of New York, and the guy from South Central Los 
Angeles and one other. We figured we had those five black votes. Even if some of them 
was very uncertain that they wanted to do it because the leadership was saying no. 
But somebody sent us a letter from a Republican congressman from Missouri. 
You could find out who it was. And he wrote them back saying the shit that the 
leadership conference leadership was saying: “There is no issue here, there is no 
contestants to get, there is no real claimant to the seat, they were not in any legitimate 
election, there is no way the House can seat them, so please forget it.” And our supporter, 
his constituent who got his letter, sent it to us, very distressed. I said to them, “Look, you 
are right, write them a letter.” So I wrote them a long letter, saying, “I did not expect 
Hamer and Gray and Divine to be seated, but—historic injustice to the black voter in the 
state of Mississippi—and had forgotten the role of the Republican Party after 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
96 
Reconstruction.” But as I was telling them, I had asked somebody, I had asked Bill 
Hicks, who was from your state, who was a lobbyist working there, a lawyer, went out to 
Mississippi I guess because he was gay and he was working in Congress and he used to 
work with us. And he said, “Oh, this Congressman Curtis. This Congressman Curtis of 
Missouri”—why isn’t it in my head here?—“he’s a very, very important Republican, he’s 
a very powerful Republican.” 
So I wrote him this long letter explaining that we had a legitimate challenge, that 
we really wanted to challenge the seating of these congresspeople, and that we didn’t 
expect to be seated but we hoped that the seats would be declared vacant and that a new 
election under federal auspices, a fair election, would take place. And I got a cordial but 
noncommittal letter from Curtis saying, “We thank you for the explanation. It clarifies a 
great deal. We will take it under consideration.” Something like that, right? 
We had another meeting, an earlier meeting with supporters around the country to 
generate support in Congress for the vote. And there were two guys in the meeting who 
had to be FBI agents, except I thought the FBI would do better than that. They were 
wearing work boots and they were wearing really ill-fitting suits. And at such a meeting 
there are all kinds of progressives, counterculture, or there are intellectuals, college 
professors. They look tweedy. These are some working class-looking guys who look very 
uncomfortable. [Laughter] And the discussion went on with all the flowing rhetoric and 
the hypotheses and all the academic kind of bullshit, and these guys are looking more and 
more uncomfortable. 
And they come up to me and they said, “We are from the union of electricians.” 
And what was the name of that guy who everybody claimed was a Communist? That was 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
97 
their leader? I forget his name. “So-and-so sent us.” He said, “You done a good job, kid, 
in your discussion. What’s happening?” I said, “Well the leadership won’t give us any 
space.” “That’s right. Those things. That’s the way they are.” Anyway, Maslow his name 
was. Will Maslow or something like that. 
EC: Arthur? No. 
ET: I forget. Anyway, he said, “Will said to give you this.” [03:35:00] And he 
handed me a check for $1,000 in an envelope. And he said, “Now, tell me something. 
Congressman so-and-so of Pennsylvania. What’s he doing?” I said, “Eve been calling his 
office every day. He won’t talk to me.” They said, “Don’t worry about it, kid. You’ve got 
him.” And they left. So no rhetoric, no theorizing, no nothing. Gave me the $1,000, 
marched out of there. When I got to my office that Monday, because the meeting was 
over a weekend, I got to the office, Joanne Gavins says to me, “Mike, Congressman 
Green” or whatever the hell his name was “from Pennsylvania has been calling. He called 
four times this morning already. He really wants to talk with you.” 
EC: [Laughs] 
ET: I said, “One class-conscious worker is worth a thousand students.” So they 
delivered that vote. 
Alright, so it come time now for the vote to take place in Congress. And as far as 
we know we have about eight or nine people supposed to rise with Congressman Ryan. 
So we figure if John McCormick is having a very near-sighted day, he can’t fail to see 
nine people rising up, right? And I don't know that Curtis has done anything. But then 
there was another inspiration we had. Guyot and the FDP had sent a lot of people to 
Washington to lobby Congress. Ordinary, simple, poor black folk. They didn't know 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
98 
much about lobbying Congress but their presence is a statement, and the House office 
buildings are connected to the hall of Congress by long tunnels, underground tunnels, that 
have a platform on the side of them. And somebody—I wish I could take credit—because 
we didn’t know what to do with the people. We couldn't get them all—there was a 
couple, maybe a couple hundred. People had really collected money to come lobby, you 
know, they were really into it. And there was one group that raising funds, I forget which 
town it was, and they raised funds to get a bus to bring their people. And then they sat 
again and they reflected and said, well if people got to ride a bus to come up there, they 
really can’t speak to the Congress as powerfully and as intelligently as they wanted to. 
They should really go on a plane. So they went out to go raise more funds to send their 
representatives on a plane so they could speak properly. 
So all these people were there. I had no idea what to do with them. And then we 
said, “Why don't we line them up on the platforms in the tunnel leading from the House 
office building to the floor of the Congress?” That’s what we did and I was in there with 
them that morning. And there was this line of black folks from Mississippi, all in their 
Sunday dress, which was already pretty threadbare. And we told them not to say 
anything. They could wave, or they could nod, but please don’t say nothing. Just stand 
there. We want these people to see you because we don’t want you to be an abstract 
statistic. We want you to be real people so they’ll know who they’re voting against. And I 
stood there, and I saw these congressmen coming down there with their little teams, their 
aides and stuff. And when they’d turn the corner, they’d look up and there was this line 
of silent black people, lining the tunnel. They’d stop and kind of start back. Some of them 
would kind of smile and would kind of wave, and the people were just standing there 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
99 
looking at them. And they got very self-conscious. So I believe that might have affected 
the vote. It had to have affected some of them, you know? Because it was a very 
powerful moment. 
And then I ran up to the gallery, and the reason why they were standing in the 
tunnel is we couldn't get seats in the gallery for them. We wanted them to feel like they 
were participating in some way. And I ran up to the gallery and, first of all, McCormick’s 
got to recognize Ryan and ask the Mississippians to step aside. Then he swears in the 
House, and then they take a vote whether the Mississippians should stay aside or not. 
And that vote is very important because it’s a voice vote, and McCormick’s ears are good 
enough so he’ll hear what he wants to hear. “The ayes have it!” Fuck it. And it’s over. 
So we need to have a roll call vote, but for a roll call vote you need something 
like 60 voters, 60 congressmen got to claim a role call vote, right? So we didn't think 
we’d get a roll call vote. We thought a victory would be getting them to stand aside. And 
time came, and McCormick said, [03:40:00] “Will the House rise to be sworn.” And little 
Congressman Ryan jumped to his feet, and when I looked behind him a wall of 
congressmen was standing up, like 60 guys stood up. I said, “Oh my God!” I almost 
fainted. I mean, I saw Patsy Mink rising up. I even saw John Conyers rising up. 
Everybody. I mean, 60 people stood up. There’s no way John McCormick couldn't have 
seen that, right? Says to Congressman Ryan, “It’s the proudest day in Congress. And why 
does the Congressman rise?” “I rise to challenge the seating of the congressmen from the 
second district, the third district, and the fifth district of Mississippi.” And the 
Mississippians had to stand aside. That was the first shock they got. The first shock was 
when I saw so many of their colleagues rose up. Then McCormick went to do a voice 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
100 
vote and Ryan chimes up, he says, “I call for a roll call vote.” “And who supports Ryan’s 
call?” And this wave of guys stood up again, so they had to have a roll call vote. 
And once they had a roll call vote, given the climate in the country, 147 of the 
Congress, of the House of Representatives, voted to unseat the Mississippians, to vacate 
the seats at least for the time being. And 290—is that the right figure?—I think it’s 290 or 
something like that, voted against us. But 75 votes had changed. If the 75 of them had 
come over to us, that would have been a total of 150, wouldn’t it? Because we would get 
them and they would lose them. So we would have won, right? We would have won 
handily. Seventy-five votes is all it would have taken. And that was amazing enough. 
And we can get that record, we can go and look at the Congressional Record from 
January 1965, of how that vote went. 
Now, remember, we are starting from where, Mitchell and them saying we are not 
going to get a single congressman to rise to challenge, and we’re not going to get a single 
vote, and we got 147 votes. Without the assistance of the NAACP, the UAW, or the rest 
of the liberal hierarchy. So we did that on our own. If they had been supporting us, we 
might have kicked them out. I mean, I am so exhilarated. This was a result beyond 
anything we had expected. 
I am walking out of the gallery, and I see Joe Raub and Clarence Mitchell just 
coming. Now, I don’t know why they weren’t in the gallery to watch the opening of 
Congress. Maybe they thought it was just a formality, not that important. No, but they’re 
rustling, coming, and they got pencil and paper in their hands and I’m coming out of the 
door. They said, “Mike, what was the vote?” I said, “147 to 196.” And they write it 
down. And they dropped 100. Joe Raub quickly does the math and looks up at Clarence 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
101 
Mitchell and says, “Shit! This doesn’t add up. Let’s go ask somebody intelligent.” And 
they storm off. And I was very quite happy to take that insult because I could see how 
agitated they were, because we had done this all on our own without their support or 
patronage or whatever it is, you know? 
And I’m forgetting the name of the ex-governor of Mississippi. Coleman. 
Somebody Coleman. 
EC: J.C. 
ET: J.C. Coleman, right. He looked like another product of central casting, with 
his long white hair. And he is supposed to be a gentlemanly segregationist. And he was 
defending the congresspeople. Now he had completely ignored Kuntsler and Kinoy. And 
pretended they didn't exist because they had no political power. After that vote, he sought 
them out and accepted from them a subpoena to come and testify, to come and be 
subpoenaed, come and be deposed, to give a deposition. And the media in the state of 
Mississippi talked about a day of infamy and a day of disgrace, how 147 of their 
colleagues had turned their back on the state of Mississippi and voted against the 
sovereign state of Mississippi, and it was a day of disgrace that will live forever. But the 
governor sent out instructions to every voting registrar, to every elected official, every 
local official, to accept our subpoenas to testify. In other words, that gave, [03:45:00] 
even though they voted to seat them, that vote to have them stand down gave momentum 
to the Challenge. 
And then the lawyers’ guild and a few other lawyers’ organizations came forward 
and volunteered. So hundreds of lawyers flocked to the state to start deposing these local 
officials. And, you know, these white registrars, these white sheriffs, these white local 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
102 
officials who treated black people like they didn’t mean anything, they had no 
importance, they suddenly had to come and testify. And they started to send them 
invitations that they should come to the State House, they should come to the courthouse 
and testify. And we said, “No, no don’t do that. Let them come to black churches. Let 
them come into our community.” So these white folks had to come across the tracks into 
black churches, into the black community to be deposed. And MFDP members packed 
those meetings and local people would ask them questions: “Isn’t it true that so-and-so, 
so-and-so?” And the lawyers from the South came in and it was a great psychological 
victory for the people of Mississippi. So that’s the story of the vote. 
[To JB] Hit it. Save some space. 
[Recording stops and then resumes.] 
JB: We’re going. 
ET: Alright. When Congress reconvened after that vote, then the whole question 
of the legislative agenda comes into play. And we’re trying to get the vote. The Civil 
Rights Act had been passed, but for obvious reasons there was no voting provision in 
there, because the whole lily-white South was predicated on that. They didn’t think they 
could get it passed. So that’s what we wanted. I kept saying that. We kept saying that at 
the leadership conference. Dr. King kept saying that, the Reverend Fauntleroy. “Voting 
Rights Act.” CORE kept saying it. So finally the administration sent Senator [William] 
Proxmire, I think it was from Wisconsin, little sandy-haired fellow. And he came into say 
that the administration has been discussing voting rights, and they had the language and 
the general outlines of a Voting Rights Act, which they wanted to share with us. This I 
now understand to be a “trial balloon.” You send it up to see if it would fly. 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
103 
He pulled out an envelope on which was scrawled information. That’s how formal 
it was. On the back of this envelope, he read to us that the president and the Congress 
were prepared to pass a voting rights bill in which every county or political entity in 
which less than ten percent of black people were registered to vote, less than ten percent, 
the president could send voting registrars to register all citizens. And that was the best 
legislation they could come up with at the time. And this was the extent that the 
administration was willing to go, and that was the extent of the legislation that the 
political climate in the Congress would support. 
And when these people come to the leadership conference, there is a whole set of 
protocols and rhetoric that they go through. One of them, by obligation, is to call 
Clarence Mitchell, the 101st senator. The 101st senator. They call the bartender that. 
They call everybody that. That’s supposed to be the greatest compliment the Senate can 
pay. So Proxmire comes and says, “I am so glad to be here at the leadership conference 
with my old friend, my great old friend, Clarence Mitchell, the 101st senator.” And all 
this grinning going on. And Dr. King was in town that day. Dr. King was in town, but he 
was to come to a different meeting. Fauntleroy had brought him and he had left. And I 
don’t recall if King was in there when Proxmire gave this language, this project, for the 
Voting Rights Act. And Clarence Mitchell walked Dr. King out, and came back and said, 
“Oh, Dr. King says that our proposal is perfectly acceptable, and it seems acceptable to 
me.” And I raised my hand, I said, “Hold on a minute. Is this really acceptable?” He said, 
“Alright, that ends all discussion. Meeting is adjourned.” And then he turns to me and—I 
said, “I represent people here and there’s something I want to say.” And as he walked out 
of the door he said over his shoulder, “Send a memorandum.” Big mistake. 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
104 
So I went out and I wrote this memorandum. And I said, look, Proxmire of 
Wisconsin came and told us that the Voting Rights Act being contemplated said that 
wherever less than ten percent of black people are registered to vote, [03:50:00] the 
president could send voting rights registrars. There are two things wrong with that. If it 
has to be less than ten percent, that means you have to have ninety-one percent 
discrimination. Does that mean in the face of the federal government, 90 percent 
discrimination, disfranchisement is alright? I said it’s only in those states, those 
principalities, where by great sacrifice, of life, of jobs, of personal safety, our people 
managed to get more than ten percent of themselves, ten percent or more registered. Then 
that means they’re not going to get any support from the federal government? Then the 
fact is, the legislation as presented has no teeth. The president could send registrars? That 
means he doesn’t have to. It’s not automatic. That means that what you have given him is 
a stick to beat southern recalcitrant congressmen over the head and say, “If you mess with 
me I am going to send voting registrars to your district.” 
That is not acceptable. That is not acceptable to me, and also it’s not acceptable to 
our constituents that we represent. If this is in fact honest and this is the best political 
solution that the climate of opinion in the Congress can come up with, it is up to us, the 
activist elements of the Civil Rights Movement, to go into the streets of this nation to 
create a climate of opinion where we can get decent voting rights legislation. And that’s 
how it ended. Well, when I called around, of course Jim Forman would sign it for SNCC. 
Of course, whoever the guy that had replaced Jim Farmer, would sign it for CORE. 
EC: McKissick. 
ET: [Floyd] McKissick. And Andy Young called me up. In fact, he called me up 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
105 
when I was up here at the University of Massachusetts explaining why I couldn’t come, 
to say that Martin Luther King would sign it. So that meant SNCC, CORE, Martin Luther 
King, and Lawrence Guyot would sign for the MFDP. The one mistake I made was to 
send it out on MFDP letterhead, and I hadn’t thought about it, because that’s the 
letterhead I used. But all those signatures were there, and it was a memorandum 
addressed to the leadership conference, because Clarence Mitchell had said to send a 
memorandum. The only feedback I got from the signatories was Jim, whatever his name 
was, from CORE. 
EC: McKissick. 
ET: No, not McKissick. 
EC: McCain? 
ET: No. I forget his name. He called up, he said— 
EC: Oh, CORE. Farmer? 
ET: Not Farmer. This is the guy who really handled matters, a white boy. 
EC: It wasn’t McCain? Jim McCain? 
ET: No. Well, he called up and said, “You betrayed us.” I said, “Why?” He said, 
“Well, I thought his memorandum would go out on a blank, no letterhead at all coming 
from all people equally. It was sent out on the MFDP letterhead.” I said, “Oh my God. I 
really didn't think about it. I’ve done terribly. I see what you’re saying now.” I hadn’t 
thought about it. It was the letterhead we had always used. But nobody else had any 
objection. 
Except at the leadership conference, we were meeting every week because the 
legislative agendas coming into play. We didn’t meet. And then the next week, we didn’t 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
106 
meet again. So for two weeks, the leadership conference didn't meet. Then somebody told 
me that Clarence Mitchell had a heart attack, a mild heart attack. Said that Fd called him 
“a traitor, and a sellout.” I never called him nothing. “That he was selling out black 
people,” and he was in Puerto Rico recuperating. But they didn’t meet, so obviously that 
memorandum, with Dr. King’s signature, particularly, on it, and going out to all these 
church groups who were members there. And because the logic was— That’s the 
memorandum I wanted you to get for me. The logic was irreproachable. Fuck you mean, 
“Less than ten percent. Ninety-one percent disfranchisement is acceptable?” It 
completely was about showing us being toadies of the administration, so they’d never 
meet. 
What made it worse was, remember what the last paragraph said. What the last 
paragraph said? 
EC: That the president can— 
ET: No, my memorandum. 
EC: Oh, that you’d get people in the streets to have demonstrations. 
ET: Let us create—if this is in fact the truth, that if the political climate in 
Washington can’t tolerate—let us create a political climate in the country that will give us 
real voting rights. And you can find out the date of that memorandum, because in the two 
or three weeks that they didn’t meet— 
EC: Selma. 
ET: Selma happened. [Laughter] And it’s sheer coincidence! 
EC : Kind of like when you came into the country and the sit-ins happened? 
ET: Sheer coincidence. [03:55:00] I mean, we couldn’t have planned it. We 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
107 
couldn’t have planned Jim Clark and his fucking posse beating up people on the Elmer 
[Edmund] Pettus bridge. But the two things happened one after the other. 
And during the time when the leadership conference didn’t meet, they are 
obviously in great disarray. And the leadership of Joe Raub and Clarence Mitchell were 
completely scattered because Walter Reuther sent out a telegram to all members of the 
leadership conference. I remember Bob Spike called me up, he said, “Jesus Christ. Did 
you ever see a thing so vulgar?” In the first paragraph it mentions a million dollars. In the 
first paragraph, Walter Reuther said the UAW was willing to set up a fund of a million 
dollars to endow the survivors of martyrs of the Civil Rights Movement. And in the 
second paragraph he said he was calling a meeting. And he said, all members of the 
leadership conference to a meeting to discuss policies and movement forward. He was 
obviously trying to move into a vacuum to take over because obviously Joe Raub and 
Mitchell were discredited. The NAACP leadership. 
At that meeting, I remember Courtland Cox came, and Clarence Mitchell was 
saying, “Well, the real president of the leadership conference is Roy Wilkins. I am just 
serving in his place as the Washington representative,” and Courtland looking at him 
says, “Roy Wilkins is the chairman of the leadership conference? Where is that engraved 
in stone.” He said, “Well, it’s not written anywhere.” He said, “So it’s folklore!” 
EC: [Laughter] 
ET: Clarence Mitchell almost fainted. 
EC : Another heart attack? 
ET: Like I was challenging the leadership, right? Well, anyway, Walter Reuther 
calls this meeting. And guess who he brings to speak for him? Bayard, of course. I mean, 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
108 
we knew Bayard well and respected him. So Bayard came and said, “Here’s what we’re 
going to do. We are going to endow this million dollar thing to take care of the families 
of the martyrs of the Civil Rights Movement and we are going to set up an organization 
to conduct the business of civil rights.” I just raised my hand and said, “Ok, with this 
endowment for the martyrs, will the widow of Malcolm X and his daughters be 
recipients? Will they be beneficiaries?” A long silence. Bayard’s jaw dropped, he 
obviously hadn’t thought of it. Walter Reuther sitting next to him looked very strange. 
And I asked a second question about who would send out a press release describing new 
this new organization and how did the— 
[Recording stops and then resumes.] 
EC: That’s right, they couldn’t answer that one and they couldn’t answer— 
JB: Ok, it’s rolling again. 
EC: So we should say that this is a continuation of the second drive. 
JB: The numbers will come up that way, so. Okay, it seems to be rolling. 
ET: Is it taping now? Yeah. And the second question is, who would be present 
when this statement—because the whole national, international media were gathered 
outside. What kind of statement are we going to make to the assembled press and what 
will we tell them, and they couldn't answer that question so the meeting broke up in 
confusion. Went back to the office and the phone rings and it’s Walter Reuther. And he 
wanted to know whether I would have dinner with him. I said, “Well, you know, Mr. 
Reuther, on two conditions. Number one it has to be in The Keys restaurant,” a black 
restaurant. Long silence. “And on the other hand, the rest of my staff will have to come. 
My office staff. There’s four of us. Is that okay?” He said, “Alright.” And when I hung 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
109 
up the phone, Jan, who was much more politically sophisticated, said, “You idiot! He was 
fixing to offer you a job. Why do you think he wanted to have dinner with you?” I said, 
“I didn’t want the job with him, anyway.” So the whole staff went out, and had dinner. A 
very stiff, pointless dinner. It wasn’t very much fun with Walter Reuther and the red 
haired lady at The Keys restaurant. 
And the Voting Rights Act, after Selma, was rewritten to have a very real, 
positive effect on the political history of the country and the South. And I consider that 
memorandum, which I would love to see, had a great deal to contribute to that because 
they were ready to say that that was acceptable, more than ten percent disfranchisement 
and stuff like that. 
EC: I’ll look for it. 
ET: Sol consider it a slight contribution to history. [04:00:00] 
Alright. Now, remember I told you with the book, the Carmichael book, it was 
way, way too long, and how the editor, who was a very good editor, was taking out 
everything which did not seem to drive the central narrative. Well, one of the parts in 
there was a little section dedicated to Jesse Harris, and it told a story of a young 
Mississippi black man, when the Freedom Riders had finally come free from Alabama, 
was heading toward Mississippi, he learned that they were coming and he went to the bus 
station to meet them. 
There had been planned another reception of black people there. And that was 
when the crackers who ran the state went into Parchman Farm, got some of the—as they 
were described [as the] hardest black criminals—guys who were there for manslaughter 
or murder, and said to them: “We know you always wanted to kick some white ass. Well, 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
110 
you got your chance now. We are going to take you to the bus station. When them 
Freedom Riders come, we want you to fuck them up completely. And you will get liquor, 
you will get women, and you will get easier time when you come back.” And so about 
ten or twelve black criminals that they had that way. And they thought about it for a 
minute, shuffled their feet, and said, “Cap’n, I don’t believe I will.” And none of them 
would agree to come to the bus station to beat up the Freedom Riders, which I think is 
one of the single most heroic—because when you are a black prisoner in Parchman those 
days, your life has no guarantees. None of them would do it. 
But there was one black Mississippian who met the Freedom Riders, a young 17 
year-old kid named Jesse Harris. And he walked into the white waiting room with the 
black Freedom Riders as the white ones walked into the black waiting room. And he got 
arrested. Well, he wasn’t a Freedom Rider. His name wasn’t on any list. Nobody knew 
him. He was a local kid. So they sent him to the country jail and they sent the Freedom 
Riders some place else. The Freedom Riders had some modest protection, because after 
all the violence in Alabama and stuff, the deal Robert Kennedy cut was they wouldn’t be 
brutalized and they would be treated in a certain way. And the Justice Department was 
paying attention. But nobody was paying attention to Jesse Harris, the local kid who was 
sent off by himself to the country farm. And one day, one of the walking bosses told him 
to do something, and Jesse said, “Yes.” And the walking boss said, “Yes what? You 
mean yes, sir, don’t you?” And Jesse said, “I only says sir to my daddy or to people I 
respect.” So the walking boss said, “Ok, boy, lie down over there.” And he sent for 
Brown Bessie, which was a big strap, and he tore up poor Jesse’s ass. Tore it up. Beat 
him up, sorry. Gave him a whipping. And Jesse stood up after that. His legs were 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
111 
trembling, he was weak from shock. And the cracker said, “I guess you know how to say 
sir now, don’t you, boy?” And Jesse just looked at him and turned around and lay back 
down on the long. And said, “I ain't saying sir. You can beat me some more.” And the 
guy didn't have the conscience to continue beating Jesse. [To JB]: Hit it, hit it, hit it. 
[Recording stops and then resumes.] 
Jesse of course joined SNCC. He became project director in Macomb. He ran the 
security for Martin Luther King when he came to Mississippi. He was a legitimate hero to 
us people in SNCC. And after the movement imploded he became a Muslim minister, 
then that broke up and he got involved with drugs. I think he became an addict, he served 
some time in jail. And then he disappeared. Charlie Cobb went down looking for him, 
and couldn't find him anywhere. He had disappeared. And Charlie reminded me that 
Jesse had told him that as a youth, he used to caddy at the country club in Jackson. And 
he used to hustle those crackers for money. And I said, “Is that possible?” Charlie said, 
“That’s what I asked him. I said, ‘Jesse, you really used to hustle those crackers for 
money?’ And Jesse said, ‘Yes, Charlie, it could be done but you had to play a very 
careful game.’” [Laughter] So I included that in a book as a tribute to the disappeared 
Jesse, whom we all thought was dead. And that’s one of the things the editor wanted to 
cut because it didn’t drive the narrative, and I said, “No, no, it’s an epitaph for Jesse. He 
might have disappeared [04:05:00] but he has to leave some record in the world.” 
And so she kept it. And the book came out, and I went to Jackson for a launch and 
a reading. And when I got there, the room was buzzing. People said, “Guess who’s back. 
Guess who’s back. Guess who came back. Jesse Harris. Jesse Harris came back.” I said, 
“Oh, my God.” And when I went to talk to Jesse right quick, he said where he’d been, he 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
112 
said he’d even been to Jamaica, working on a construction crew. But all he went was to 
the work site and to the bar. And he said, “I’d sit in the bar and people would talk about 
the Civil Rights Movement. I never opened my mouth. Who’s going to believe an old 
Negro like me?” I said, “Jesse, read this.” And I showed him the passage in the book that 
told the story, and I just watched him as he read it very slowly, very carefully. And a little 
smile crossed his face. When he was finished, I said, “Jesse, what do you think?” He said, 
“Dammit, Mike. I sure was bad, wasn’t I” I said, “Yes you were, Jesse.” And the next 
time you go to a bar, I want you to talk about knowing Martin Luther King and being 
involved the movement, you take this book with you. And if anybody challenges your 
veracity, you just show them that passage. 
[To JB] Did I get it in? 
JB: Yep. 
EC: How did you end up here at the University of Massachusetts? 
ET : Sheer accident and by the good offices of the FBI. I am a foreign student, 
always have been. And I was here on a foreign student’s visa. When I was sitting in my 
office at the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party in Washington, D.C., and in walks 
these two suits looking discomfited to be there. And it turns out they were men from the 
FBI. And they said to me, “Mr. Thelwell, you are the director of this office?” I said, 
“Yes, sir.” They said, “Are you or are you not a foreign student?” I said, “Yes, sir. I am.” 
They said, “You made a pledge when you came here not to involve yourself in the 
internal affairs of the country, did you not?” said, “Yes, sir.” They said, “How would you 
describe what you are doing now?” I said, “Well, I am trying to unseat three unfairly 
elected people who disfranchised black people in Mississippi. I am trying to deepen the 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
113 
current, sir, of American democracy.” They said, “Be that as it may, Mr. Thelwell, if 
you’re not in school by September”—and this was about June or July—“we shall 
personally come and escort you to the plane and deport you from the country.” 
I think they were in a bad mood when they left, but still a much better conducting 
of their affairs than they would do now. Now, I know they’d kick my ass out 
immediately, you know? So in some ways the country has not really improved. And they 
also I think were a little bit pissed because Len Holt, the SNCC doctor, the lawyer, came 
busting in, I think to defend me. And said, “Who are these gentlemen, Mike?” I said, 
“Len, they’re from the FBI.” He said, “Oh, the FBI, and how is our favorite girlfriend this 
morning?” They said, “Your favorite girlfriend?” He said, “Yes. J. Edgar Hoover.” So 
that didn’t put a nice spin on affairs. So they left. 
So I had a meeting. I said, you know, “They say they’re going to deport me unless 
I am back in school.” I said, “Oh my God, I got a letter from Sid Kaplan at the University 
of Massachusetts offering me a fellowship, but I threw it away.” And Joanne Gavin, the 
office manager, said, “Yeah, but I pulled it out of the wastebasket.” So there was a letter 
from Kaplan. And the short of it is that’s how I ended up here. But the longer story is also 
quite interesting, because all my time in the movement, I had never had a conversation 
with Martin Luther King. 
Well, I think it was about that same memorandum on the Voting Rights Act. I had 
to run up here to explain to them, in the middle of the summer, that I couldn't be here 
when school started in September because I had to see the Challenge out. And I didn't 
know if the Congress would vote on the Challenge by early September, so I could be here 
when school opened. So I said I would have to miss a week, maybe two, but I would be 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
114 
happy to start. The chairman of the department and the head of freshman English where I 
was supposed to be teaching said, “Well, you know, Mr. Thelwell, you have never been 
in graduate school before. It’s a little more rigorous.” I am sure they was thinking I was 
coming from a black school. I don’t know nothing. I said, “Yes, sir. But I am sure I will 
be able to pick up the work.” 
“Well, we don't really know.” And they were about to say that either I be here on 
time [04:10:00] or not come at all. “We don't know if you can have two weeks,” when the 
secretary runs in and says, “Is this Mr. Thelwell?” I said, “Yes.” “You have a phone 
call.” And the chairman of the department and the head of freshman English looked very 
disapproving. “Imagine this student having a phone call while in conference with us.” I 
said, “No, ma’am, I can’t take the phone call. I am really very busy here.” She says, “No, 
I think you will want to take this phone call.” So their eyebrows go up even more. And I 
said, “And why is that, ma’am?” She said, “Because it is from Dr. Martin Luther King.” 
And the whole atmosphere changed and I said, “Yes, I could go have the phone call.” 
And if I’d been smart enough I’d have got my office to go and pretend that. But it really 
wasn’t even from Dr. King. It was from Andy Young, calling for Dr. King, to clarify 
something about that memorandum we had earlier discussed. At which point, the 
chairman of the department, who was a southern gentleman, by the way, a white southern 
gentleman, and the director of freshman English said, “Yes I could have a couple weeks 
if it were necessary.” But then the director of freshman English told me what I shouldn't 
talk about in class when I was teaching freshman English. “The only subjects you should 
avoid is politics, religion, and sex. Those are not acceptable.” And I said, “Well, perhaps 
you would be good enough to tell me what is acceptable?” 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
115 
So I went back to D.C., and they had sent me my class list. I was supposed to 
teach, because the fellowship was gone so they gave me an assistantship. And I have two 
class lists that were well-balanced, there were lots of Mary Jane’s and Susan and stuff 
like this. Well, they sent me back a class list saying, well, “We have decided in view of 
your inexperience you should only teach one course.” And when I looked at the list, it 
was the freshman football team. Nothing but men. Well I think that was clearly a 
coincidence. 
JB: We’re getting down to two percent. 
ET: That’s it. 
JB: So let’s— 
[Recording stops and then resumes.] 
JB: We’re on. 
ET: Okay. Bayard came down speaking for the El AW. And then after that the 
leadership conference met again for the first time after a long hiatus. And I walked into 
the room and there is Clarence Mitchell puffing and huffing, and he’s saying, “Yes, I was 
called a traitor and a sellout.” And Evans and Novak and those other columnists had run 
stories about how the students were trying to wreck the Civil Rights Movement, and they 
had forged Dr. King’s signature on a memorandum, which was calculated to destroy the 
harmony of the Civil Rights Movement. I never done any such thing! Andy Young called 
me up at UMass. And he said, “Yes, sir, we are going to talk about the misuse of Dr. 
King’s name, and the forging of his name. And Bayard Rustin is here with a statement 
from Dr. King.” And I said, “Oh, fuck. If Dr. King the Nobel Prize winner says that Mike 
Thelwell, a SNCC student, forged his name on the memorandum, who the fuck is going 
Dr. Ekwueme Michael Thelwell, August 23,2013 
116 
to believe me?” And the memorandum, by the way, didn’t have this radical and 
disruptive language. It was very logical. That’s why I want you to get it for me, please. 
And Bayard got up. I’m sitting there with my heart in my mouth, saying, “My 
professional reputation is done, my character will be traduced, I hope Martin Luther King 
knows that I didn’t forge my name because I didn’t.” And Bayard got up and [read] a 
statement that said absolutely nothing. And then he stopped. “Dr. King said he believes in 
this time civility’s necessary and harsh language shouldn’t be used, and blah blah blah 
blah.” And then he stopped. And Clarence Mitchell said, “Is that all? Is that all?” Bayard 
said, “Yes, that is all.” And Mitchell looked very disappointed because he never talked 
about forging King’s name. So I was very, very grateful to Dr. King. But then how could 
he lie, being Dr. King? But I noticed that Bayard scratched out a last paragraph. And so 
afterwards I ran to him and said, “Thank you, Bayard. Can I have that document, 
please?” He said, “Sure, you can have it.” But the last three lines of that statement had 
been scratched out so thoroughly that there were holes in the paper. You couldn't read 
what it said. But it never said I forged Dr. King’s name, which I didn’t do. And that was 
very principled of Dr. King and Bayard, because clearly they were under pressure 
because all these columnists were saying what a disruptive document it was, that Dr. 
King couldn't possibly have signed such a disruptive and [04:15:00] radical document, 
and that his name had to be forged, but he didn’t say it. 
[Recording ends at 04:15:05] 
END OF INTERVIEW