June 27, 2013 
Office of Michael Haycook in Potsdam, NY branch of Farm Credit East 
Project: Archie Green Fellowship: Dairy Farm Workers in Northern NY 
Interviewer: Jill Breit (JB) 
Interviewee: Michael Haycook 
Transcribed by:  Madeleine Shea 
0:00:00 
JB: This is Jill Breit speaking. Today is Thursday, June 27, 2013. I’m in Potsdam and Farm Credit East 
and I’m speaking to Mike E. Haycook, who is the Vice President and Branch Manager here. And I’m 
conducting this interview as part of the research into dairy farms in the North Country for the Library 
of Congress. So Mike, would you please start by telling me what Farm Credit East is, what do you do? 
MH: Farm Credit East is a farmer owned cooperative, a business that is set up to do loans and financial 
services for people in agriculture and rural residences for home loans and such. We do business 
operating out of this office here in Potsdam but Farm Credit East is a regional cooperative; our 
headquarters is based out of Enfield, Connecticut. We have nineteen different offices located in six 
northeast states and we are part of the Greater Farm Credit system, which is a nationwide system. 
0:01:09 
JB: Ok. And how do you work with people in agriculture, what’s the general relationship in terms of 
what kinds of things you finance, or, you know, give me an idea of your typical client base? 
MH: Our client base is really quite diverse. The base includes people that are full time into agriculture 
and production agriculture, folks that maybe are involved in agriculture from a part time standpoint, 
maybe they have other careers and jobs but also are part of production agriculture; those folks who 
are involved in doing farm related businesses that support and further the purpose of folks in 
agriculture; as well as we work with rural home owners who build houses or own farm properties out 
and about in rural areas. Our normal day here at Farm Credit East deals with both providing credit to 
those folks but also doing financial services such as preparing tax returns, helping them understand 
how to do their record keeping and their payroll, perhaps providing them some consulting services 
with profit improvement or labour practices and such. We also get involved with appraising real 
estate, and those types of services. 
0:02:34 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
1
JB: So, do the folks who come through your doors here represent the spectrum from somebody 
walking in who’s never farmed before and wants to give it a try, all the way to multi generation 
farming families? 
MH: Absolutely. We certainly have a very core base of customers that we have worked with in many 
cases over—throughout many different generations. But farming is certainly something that people of 
all different locations, you know, seem to enjoy wanting to be a part of. And certainly we do have 
folks that, you know, perhaps have never done anything within agriculture before coming in with an 
idea or a dream or a thought of how to turn an agricultural property into an business, and looking for 
help in doing that. 
0:03:19 
JB: So, you said it’s a cooperative, has it always been? 
MH: It has always been a cooperative. 
JB: And when was that started? 
MH: The Farm Credit was started with the Federal Farm Loan Act of 1916, which was set up by—as an 
act of Congress at that time in an effort to provide credit to rural areas where credit was not once very 
available. Over the years that money that was first put in by Congress, it eventually got paid back and 
we became a privately held—although, federally regulated—institution owned by our customer 
borrowers. You know, the Act was updated numerous times over the years, including 1971 and 1986. 
You know, providing different levels of authority for the different things that we do.  
0:04:16 
JB: And so—I’m very ignorant about the banking industry, and I don’t know if you even consider 
yourself part of the banking industry, so you can respond to that—but is it like a credit union? Is it a 
comparable structure as the way I think of—I’m a member of a credit union, is that how it works? 
MH: I would say it is similar. You know, we are wholly beholden to our customer borrowers. The folks 
that I do business with every day, not only are my customers but they are also my owners, per se, of 
the Farm Credit system. When people do business with Farm Credit, they become a shareholder in the 
business, they gain the right to vote and to elect the Board of Directors; so very much similar to a 
credit union. We are not all that similar to a bank in the fact that we do not take depositories; you 
know, our business is purely from the standpoint of lending out money and providing those services 
to customers. Our funding actually comes from the floating of Farm Credit bonds down on Wall Street; 
our bonds are put out for purchase by various institutions and institutional investors who will buy our 
bonds as what they see a very safe and good place to park their funds. And then we then take the 
proceeds from those sales and lend those back out to our customers for a profit. 
0:05:38 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
2
JB: So, in terms of looking at the customer base here out of your Potsdam branch, what’s the range 
represented as far as the type of agricultural activity? 
MH: Our office is probably sixty five to seventy percent dairy farms. We have another large portion of 
our business that involves the timber industry going down into the Adirondacks; fair amount of 
general livestock, including horses and beef, and those types of operations. And the next largest group 
would probably be that rural home owner, rural property owner who has a house and some acreage 
in the country, would be that next portion of our business. 
0:06:20 
JB: And the person who has the house and the acreage in the country, do they necessarily have to 
have any agricultural activity, or just by virtue of being rural, are they eligible…? 
MH: By being rural they are eligible as part of our country home authority that we have. Although 
many of the folks we do business with do in fact have ongoing agricultural operations, be it raising 
beef cattle and selling them as freezer beef, or….doing, you know, commercial vegetable operations, 
or those types of things. 
JB: And would you be able to say off the top of your head, now focusing on dairy-- because that’s the 
focus I’m going to hone in on now, diary—the smallest farm you work with and the largest farm you 
work with? 
MH: Our smallest farm probably has, you know, twenty or thirty, you know, as a true dairy farm—
production dairy cattle with the young stock that go along with that. Our largest farm probably has in 
excess of three thousand animals on—on the farm. 
0:07:23 
JB: And are the people who work here at Farm Credit East likely to have some experience themselves 
with farming? Do you need to have that kind of industry background to be able to do this work or are 
you mostly coming from the financial perspective? 
MH: No, it certainly is very helpful. One of the things that I think we are very proud of is the fact that 
probably the vast majority of us that work here have either grown up on a farm or perhaps worked on 
a farm at some point in time, decided farming wasn’t the thing for them, and then moved back into 
the lending side or providing financial services. You know, having that—that empathy, having an 
understanding for what our farmers do day in and day out certainly makes it for a much, a much 
easier relationship and an understanding of their businesses.  
JB: Do you think they’re more likely to trust you if they feel like you understand their industry that 
way? 
MH: I think there’s certainly trust that comes from that, but….it’s—it’s awful hard, from what I hear, 
talking to customers, to explain what it is they do every day. You know, perhaps working with a pizza 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
3
parlour, it’s pretty easy to go in and say, “Ok, we know we make the pizzas and then we sell it to our 
customers and make profits and such.” But a lot of the things that our farm customers do, why they 
do them, and how they do them, has evolved over years and years and generations of actually doing 
it. So actually having some personal perspective and understanding their businesses makes it easier 
for both sides. Both us as a service provider and them as the borrower and/or user of services to—to 
have trust and work with each other. 
0:08:59 
JB: Now you just said something that’s interesting to me, suggesting that, in your line of work, you 
have to have a historical perspective on farming. And do you feel that way, are you aware of how 
farming has changed over the generations? 
MH: I think it’s certainly a benefit for being able to work with folks. If you understand where they’ve 
come from, where they are currently in their business, and where they’re trying to get to, it’s a lot 
easier to help be a partner with customers and help them achieve, you know, the goals and 
aspirations that they have. Certainly over time, practices and how things are done change, and how 
you operate a farm successfully today may not be how it was done thirty years ago, but there’s a lot 
of similarities, especially with, you know, why folks are doing what they do in operating their 
businesses.  
JB: Now since you provide a whole range of services to people who want to be in agriculture, do you 
take particular positions on recommendations for how they should run a farm, or do you try and 
support the farmer in whatever approach they want to take? 
MH: I’ve learned a lot over the years that there are many, many different ways to be successful. There 
is no cookie cutter way, there’s a lot of discussion always out there about size of farms and whether 
farms should be, you know, traditional or organic, or such, and those types of things, and those are all 
very personal decisions that those farm businesses make on their own—and should make on their 
own. As a lender or service provider, our job is—is more to take the approach of, is it a good 
investment for us from a loans standpoint, is there some good that we can do in providing financial 
services for these people to help them be successful at what they’re looking to do. As far as judging 
one practice versus another as being better or not, it really needs to boil down to, is—which can they 
be financially successful with. 
0:11:02 
JB: Ok. And do you, yourself, have some background in farming or agriculture? 
MH: I grew up on a dairy farm down in Orange County, New York. Left that farm and went on to 
college at Cornell, graduated from Cornell, and have been working with the Farm Credit System ever 
since. 
JB: That’s great. And how many cows did your family have? 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
4
MH: Um, my grandparents had a hundred and thirty cow free stall operation. But that farm was sold 
out during the buyout in the 1980s…I had had a number of 4H animals that my father and I—built a 
small tie stall operation and milked cows before and after school and work, and…it was there until 
Dad sold out a number of years ago. 
0:11:47 
JB: Great. Alright, well, let’s—if you don’t mind—let’s look at a couple of scenarios, just to get a sense 
of how this whole thing works. So let’s say, for instance, I come in the door right now, and I do, as it 
happens, live in a rural property. And I say to you, “Mike, I’m sort of interested in setting out to do 
some farming, I’d like to have—I’m gonna keep my full time job, but I’d like to have some cows to 
supplement—to pay the taxes, to whatever.” I’m trying to create a scenario that’s sort of the low end 
of the scale here—what are you gonna suggest to me as a course of action here? In other words, how 
would we work with you then? 
MH: Well, I mean, we’re certainly gonna start with where you are today. You know, what do you have 
for assets that you own, what do you owe for debts and liabilities and such, and from where you’ve 
started  to where you are, you know, have you been successful in the job or the business that you’re 
currently a part of. You know, next we’re gonna look at, you know, your current income sources. Do 
you have the financial wherewithal to be able to borrow the funds you may be looking to borrow for 
that operation. And we will certainly start with that. Then we would start talking about, you know, 
what type of history you have, what experience you have, what knowledge you have, what types of 
things may be beneficial or helpful for you. One of those things certainly may be, you know, how to 
keep your records. If you’ve never been operating a business before and have just been a W2 wage 
earner, you may not be all that informed on what types of revenues and what types of expenses are 
reportable and deductible and such. And we would certainly help you begin to understand the 
importance of that record keeping and how to keep track of your income and expenses. We would 
certainly offer you—to prepare your income taxes for you, because we, you know, we are the largest 
provider of income tax services and financial services here in the northeast. You know, the employees 
in our offices that do tax return preparation, that’s what we focus on. You know, we’re not the person 
you want to be coming to as the pizza parlour owner or something like that, but if you really wanna 
understand how to file your Schedule F and what’s the right thing to do, that is what we focus on. 
Excuse me for a second.  (Takes a drink.) 
JB: Sure.  
0:14:18 
JB: And so, in terms of these kinds of startup farming operations, what would you say is usually the 
smallest typical financing amount for a small startup? 
MH: It varies. You know, a business may come in and be looking for a tractor to, you know—for 
pulling equipment that they already have on a small vegetable operation, and that may very well be a 
ten or a fifteen thousand dollar loan. It may be someone walking in who’s, you know, done very well 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
5
someplace else, wants to get started farming and will want to buy a hundred acre farm. And that 
could be, you know, a hundred and fifty or two hundred thousand dollar loan. So I think the size and 
the scale is, you know, representative of the size and scale of the operation that the person is looking 
to get into. Something that I think we offer that I think we’re certainly very proud of, a number of 
years ago Farm Credit East started what’s known as the Farm Start Program. And that was a first of 
the kind beginner farmer equity investment program that no other Farm Credit had done before; that 
was done under the tutelage of Dave Boone, who has since retired from us. But it was Dave’s vision 
of, you know, what can we do to help those farmers who have put blood, sweat, and tears into trying 
to get themselves going? They’ve, you know, borrowed on the credit card, they’ve done everything 
that they can, and they’re just, you know, that little bit away from being successful.  
0:15:49 
MH: You know, a loan may not be the best thing for them at that point in time, but really—an infusion 
of equity may get them to that part. So we started that Farm Start program, which, you know, is 
available for starter farmers; you know, they certainly need to show that they’ve been, you know, 
good at using their credit wisely in the past and they need to have good credit scores and they need to 
have a good business plan, and….you know, they need to have given it a good try to start with and be 
able to come in and say, “You know, I am just that far away from being able to get this done, you 
know, I just need a little bit of equity infusion to get me working capital to get this year’s crop in the 
ground and I know I can make it from then.” And if they’re willing to work with one or another of our 
Farm Start advisors, and they’re willing to have the good back and forth that comes from, you know, 
us pushing them and testing their ideas to, you know, can you be successful and them being willing to 
put that effort into making it happen; we will do up to fifty thousand dollar investments repayable in 
five years. Where it’s, it’s not a loan, it’s equity; here go use it, not necessarily gonna set up a monthly 
repayment schedule on that but at the end of the five years, you know, we need that equity back so 
we can help that next person get started. 
0:17:11 
JB: And what happens if people default? In that case, do you take partial ownership of the operation, 
or… 
MH: No, I mean, we have looked at that program as, you know, it is for the good of the order, for the 
good of helping agriculture move forward. Not every operation is successful; from time to time you do 
take a loss, no different than you may on a loan. But our Board has, you know, very soundly believed 
that it’s important that we be a part of that, and having a little bit of exposure from that standpoint 
is—is worth it to help these people be successful. 
JB: That’s interesting. So basically, they can get that infusion of equity funds; they pay it back without 
interest at the end of the period, in other words—or do they pay interest? 
MH: No, they do pay it—Wall Street prime interest. 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
6
JB: Ok. And is that typically what the interest rate is? 
MH: Yeah, on that program, yes. 
JB: Ok. And what about on your normal loan programs, what is it—how do you usually determine the 
rates? 
MH: Our—our rates on our, you know, our normal loan program is really based on what the market is 
doing at the time. You know, much of the loan programs that we offer are variable rates, although we 
do have fixed rates; our variable rates are typically very low… 
JB: Below market, usually? 
MH: Nope, no—it’s, it’s at market for whatever the size of the loan is and the financial strength of the 
customer is. Our rates, you know, we base them on the size of the loan and how strong of a credit risk 
is it. 
0:18:40 
JB: The real advantage of those equity funds, then, is that instead of having to immediately start 
making regular payments they have time to kind of get their game together, and then they can pay it 
at the end of the period, with the interest. So it buys them time to make that money work for them. 
MH: Correct. Sure, that’s right. 
0:18:54 
JB: Ok, let’s go to—and I’m assuming along the way now, as farms are growing, let’s take this typical, 
this customer I’ve created, is growing along the way and doing well. Assuming that you worked to 
help sort of nurture that along the way, if I get going with my twenty cows and you help me get going 
with that, and then I decide, “Wow, I’ve paid that loan back, I’m doing great, now I want to do a bump 
up to a sixty cow operation.” I could come back to you and say, here’s my expansion plan? 
MH: That’s correct, I mean, the one thing I think that we are very proud of here at Farm Credit East 
is…many of the financial institutions that folks will work with, you would consider them to be 
transactional, no different than if you go down to the auto dealer and buy a car, you’re gonna get a 
loan at that point of financing. It’s a once and done. You sign the papers, they provide the funding for 
going ahead and allowing you to purchase that car, you make your payments, and as long as you make 
your payments, everybody’s happy. The relationship side of the business, which is what we focus on, 
is, you know—we don’t want it to be a once and done. We want to have good back and forth with our 
customers, we want to understand their businesses, we want to be there for them to come to us with 
questions and ideas, and bounce things back and forth as they move forward. One of our—one of our 
former consultants years ago when I first got started had come up with the theory that, you know, the 
best way to help a customer is to be able to help them from cradle to grave. And all the different 
things that we can do, you know, from that newborn child as part of that family and over the years as 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
7
they move on through the farming generation, per se, there are products and services that we can 
offer the family that really would take someone from cradle to grave. 
0:20:46 
JB: And, so, let’s get to the high end then. Let’s get to the big farms. You know, people who are 
moving up into, I don’t know, fifteen hundred, two thousand cow operations. Now, a lot of the 
discussion around that has to do with, oh, you know, the naysayers always say, “Oh my gosh, people 
have to borrow so much money to do that and they’re always in debt. The bank always owns…” And 
I’m not quoting farmers now, I’m quoting the outside public. What’s your response to that, what’s 
your explanation of the relationship once a farm gets to the point where they need vast amounts of 
capital to buy the next tractor, to buy the new state of the art manure treatment system? Clearly 
there are huge capital needs at that end, so there’s always a certain amount of credit going on, and 
certainly farmers that we’ve talked to who have larger farms, one of the things they all listed as part 
of their annual calendar is their annual meeting with their creditors! You know, very matter- of -factly, 
that that’s part of life on a farm at that level. Could you describe that spectrum, that part of the 
relationship and how you look at that as a creditor? 
MH: I guess I would, I would push back on that just slightly. The reality is that…the amount of 
investment, the amount of capital that is required in farming, especially in dairy farming, whether you 
are large or whether you are small, continues to grow. The value of land, which is certainly one of a 
farmer’s biggest investments that they have, continues to grow because, you know, the availability of 
quality land continues to shrink and farmers all need to get their hands on and have that land to be 
able to operate their businesses. So whether you’re large or you’re small, there’s still that large capital 
investment. And, you know, based on some recent numbers, you know, it’s probably fair to say that 
for a person to start a farming operation from scratch today, to be able to buy their cows, to buy their 
equipment, to buy the land, build the buildings, get a crop in the ground, they would probably invest 
somewheres between ten and twelve thousand dollars per cow of capital investment to starting a 
farm. So whether that’s a twenty cow dairy or that’s a three thousand cow dairy, it’s still the same 
amount of capital investment per cow. The issue just becomes, as you get into these larger 
operations, the number of zeroes in the backside get bigger and bigger and bigger. 
JB: Yeah. And what’s the largest, if you pick, you know, a client out of your head—a customer out of 
your head who has a large operation, what conceivably is the largest amount of money you might 
have invested through loans in a big operation here? 
MH: That depends on the operation as well. You know, how much money a customer can borrow, 
whether they’re small or whether they’re large, really doesn’t matter on size, it depends upon, you 
know, their financial ability to handle the debt that goes with it. There are operations that we work 
with that may have four or five hundred dollars debt per cow, and they struggle. There are operations 
that may have somewhere between four and five thousand dollars debt per cow that do very very 
well.  
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
8
JB: Because—because why? Because they know how to manage the cash flow, or what’s the 
difference between being the successful person and the not successful person? 
MH: I think whether it’s farming or otherwise, management ability is probably the number one thing 
that makes any business successful; does the person who’s running that operation have the skill sets 
and the knowledge and the drive to make it successful? That is probably followed up next with quality 
of land; and this is certainly what you see in Northern New York and throughout most of the country 
now, with the large, you know, buying of agricultural land that goes on. Having good quality land that 
allows them to put a high quality forage in front of those cows to allow the animals to eat well and 
produce a lot of milk, you know, is number two right behind having the management ability to get 
that done. If you can grow quality forages, on land that’s close to home and keep yourself from having 
to purchase in a great deal of feed, those operations typically do fairly well. 
0:25:19 
JB: So, given how capital intensive it is to be a dairy farmer, conceivably then if you’re, you know, 
you’re gearing up, you’re putting in new state of the art systems, you know, you might have millions 
of dollars in loans, right? 
MH: Some operations do. Yes. 
JB: Yeah. And so, then, the good management of that operation, is to be able to—and I realize I’m 
asking some naïve questions here, but I want to make sure we make a clear presentation of this—
good management means that the farmer is able to generate enough off their cows that they’re 
paying themselves a reasonable salary, that they’re covering all the expenses of the farm; in other 
words they’re saving for retirement, they’re sending their kids to college and also servicing the debt. 
But it’s not necessary—the objective in that case is not necessarily to pay off the debt, it’s to have the 
cash flow to take care of business. Is that a fair portrayal?  
MH: I think that is a fair portrayal. And any operation that wants to be successful is, just as you said, 
they need to generate sufficient return from their investments and generate cash flow in that 
business to pay all their ongoing operating expenses, to pay their debt service as require, to provide 
themselves an ample family living, which depending upon the farm is vastly different, as just for any 
other homeowner. But they then also need to make sure they are providing a return on that 
investment that they’ve made; to be able to buy that next field, to be able to…you know, upgrade 
that tractor, to add a few more cows if that’s something they choose to do. To modernize, to be able 
to put themselves in a position—which is something that’s very important over the generations—of, if 
this size operation is ok for myself, and I have several family members that are growing up and ready 
to come into the business, I then also need to make sure I have made this business able to sustain 
those additional family people. Which most of the time is what drives a lot of the expansion on farms. 
0:27:28 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
9
JB: Are you seeing a lot of competition for good land in our region these days? I know that some of 
the folks we interviewed in Jefferson County, for example, talked about how the price of renting—
leasing—fields has really gone up and the price of land in general has gone up. Is that at trend 
generally in our region? 
MH: Generally, yeah. Yes. Probably the bigger picture is, if you look at the North Country and the 
value of our ag land compared to the Greater New York State or even the greater United States as a 
whole, our land is still fairly….inexpensive compared to many of these other spots. That said, with 
people changing their tillage practices and installing tile—tile drainage—with some of the better 
varieties and more cold, hearty varieties of alfalfa  and soy beans and such, our ability and our 
farmer’s ability to get better crops, higher quality crops, and a greater volume of crops has really 
increased over the last ten to fifteen years. As a result it has made, you know, the need to have land—
and good quality land—vitally important to them. We also gotta realize that you know, in New York 
State we have what’s known as the concentrated animal feeding operation rules and regulations that 
our larger famers need to comply with. And they do comply with. But part of that is, you know, 
needing to have enough land to both produce feed for the animals but also to be able to manage the 
manure and the waste that comes off of these farms. And it requires a land base to do that.  
0:29:01 
JB: Now, do you have any competitors in this field? Or do you work with all the ag—all the farmers, all 
the agricultural people? If somebody wanted to get financing for a farm, is there anyone else they can 
go to here? 
MH: No, there are competitors. There are not as many competitors as there used to be and—I won’t 
say that that’s—that’s a good thing. Competition is certainly good, it allows all of us to keep our 
pencils sharp and you know, giving folks a choice from that perspective. But one of the things that has 
occurred over the years is, you know, as an agricultural credit association, that is our focus. That is our 
mission from Congress, is to provide credit to agriculture. We don’t have that other avenue that other 
lenders may have as to, if the returns in agriculture happen to go down for a period of time, we can’t 
pull our dollars out and go someplace else. And over the years—and the North Country has seen this 
pretty starkly a couple of times over the last ten years or so—where institutions that once were very 
active in agricultural lending decided that the risks were a little higher than they wanted and the 
returns were a little softer than they wanted so they pulled their funds and went elsewhere. So the 
agricultural loan offices that they had, you know, either moved onto other parts of the business or 
they just divested themselves of. And it did remove  some of the, some of the competition here in 
Northern New York. No doubt.  
JB: And who’s still standing? Besides you, who are the competitors now? 
MH: Probably the—you know, the number one bank that we deal with up here would be Community 
Bank. Which is a local business, they do a nice job, you know, they certainly are a competitor with us. 
Other competitors that we deal with on a frequent basis would be kind of those point of sale 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
10
financing operations. The John Deere credit, and those types of things, where customers may do point 
of sale financing with an equipment dealer or something like that. 
JB: Or they might do some combination, right, they might do some financing through you and some 
point of sale? 
MH: True. They certainly may. 
0:31:19 
JB: Do you have—how long have you been in this business, go back, you told me your story of coming 
out of a farming family, but let’s do the math. How many years have you actually been with this line 
of work? 
MH: I have been with Farm Credit for nineteen years now. 
JB: Ok. Do you have some favorite success stories without naming names? Are there examples of 
farms you would tell as stories of a great situation where the relationship really worked, they 
prospered and they’re just kind of farming success stories? 
MH: I guess there aren’t any that I would specifically, you know, point out one by one per se. I think 
the greatest thing that I’ve enjoyed over the years of doing this, you know, really is that relationship 
side of the business and that’s probably why I’ve continued to do what I do. You know, knowing that 
several times a year I will get together with the customers that I serve and, you know, sit down and 
have a good discussion with them about how the business is going and, you know, is it going as they 
planned, is that next generation ready to come into the business; if so, talking about the things that 
maybe we both need to do to get ready for that. And really seeing the businesses grow and mature 
along the years. Certainly, and I think anybody would find  this in any line of work-you know, when 
the industry is in a point where it is growing, it is expanding, when folks are doing new things, when 
they’re—when they’re adding new barns, when they’re bringing new people into the business, that 
makes things exciting. I think we all, you know, all have an interest in seeing something get better, 
seeing something expand, seeing someone new come into the business. When you’re growing 
something, it’s really really exciting. In periods where, you know, things are maybe a little less active 
because the returns on the farm aren’t as high, perhaps these farms are more in maintenance mode. 
Preparing themselves for that next step. Which is good because, I mean, probably one of those age 
old adages that I think our most successful people learn, is you know, the time that they’re most 
successful is, you know, when they’re using those good times to prepare for the bad times. To make 
sure they’re setting funds aside to be ready. When that next time comes around so they can survive 
the next down cycle.  
JB: Like last year when there was a drought and a lot of people didn’t get good hay or didn’t get corn? 
MH: Well, certainly you’ve got a situation like that, making sure that you had ample carry over forage 
and inventory from the year before, certainly allows you to get through that downtime. I guess I 
would point more towards, in the dairy industry, I think most people would argue over the last ten 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
11
years or so, that the dairy industry has gotten into almost a three year cycle. Over a three year period 
of time, you’ve got generally a down year—where prices are depressed and typically the prices that 
customers are getting paid for their milk is actually lower than it costs them to produce that milk. You 
typically have kind of another year that’s, you know, more of a break even type year, and then 
typically there’s a very good year that follows that. Where, you know, prices are good and customers 
are able to make some progress. And then the cycle starts all over again. And if you look back over the 
economics of  dairying over the last fifteen years or so and you watch the milk price cycles, you can 
very clearly see a three year cycle that’s been going on and customers need to be ready for both the 
highs and the lows.  
0:34:55 
JB: And where are we this year in that cycle? 
MH: This year is looking like a fairly good year so far. Prices are up from where they were last year. 
Most people are doing their best to recover from, as you discussed, the drought that we went through 
last year. If you ran around and talked to customers or farmers today you would probably find most 
talking about, perhaps we have too much rain this year. Which, you know, maybe slowed some 
planting down and has kept them off the fields a little more than they wanted to. But for the most 
part, of what I’ve seen this spring, most people’ve gotten the corn in the ground and the first cutting 
of haylage is off, and you know, they’re now preparing for that second cut. 
0:35:38 
JB: So at this point, dairy farms are still a majority percentage of your holdings or your portfolio here. 
Is that what you anticipate for the coming decade? Do you think dairy’s gonna hold steady or do you 
see other kinds of agriculture coming in and growing stronger than dairy will in the next decade? Do 
you have a forcast? 
MH: I think that’s gonna depend upon the area that you’re in. Here in Northern New York, I think 
there will always be a propensity for more of a commercial type of agriculture like dairy farming or—
or large scale cropping or something along those lines. Mostly because the availability of land that we 
have and the lack of urban population. If you go back to some of those areas like where I grew up and 
Southeastern New York, you know, on a hundred and thirty cow dairy farm, which at the time—now 
there’s houses everywhere. Which used to be farmland. Just the pressures of urbanization pushed out 
a lot of the dairy farming in that area. So up here, I would say yes, I believe that dairy farming will 
continue to be strong. But that said, we do continue to see a lot of those, you know, more non 
traditional agriculture in our area is moving in. You know, as you go down to the farmer’s markets in 
Canton or in Potsdam and you see some of the smaller scale produce growers, you’ll see some of the 
CSAs or those types of things going in; and they are popping up and they’re finding ways to be 
successful. And that’s good. You know, as a lender it’s—it’s nice to have variety and a different type of 
clientele to work with and assist them in their businesses.  
0:37:25 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
12
JB: So you do work with those kinds of farms as well? 
MH: Absolutely. 
JB: And where you grew up in Orange County, people who are still farming—what kind of farms are 
they more likely  to have these days? Is there still dairy in Orange County or is it…? 
MH: There is some dairy farming still left in Orange County. Not nearly what it used to be, a lot of 
Orange County has moved to, more of the nursery and the greenhouse, and more of those industries 
that are, you know, able to directly support that urban area. I still have family down there, they raise 
hay, which is typically sold to some of the equine operations down that way. So, those operations 
evolve and they change to, you know, really what they’ve gotta change to is when you have that 
urban pressure, prices of land goes up because there’s alternative uses for it, and if you’re going to 
continue in agriculture in that area, you have to then start growing a product which will give you 
enough return on the acres that you have to allow you to afford that higher priced land. And the 
higher cost that goes along with it. So if you’re operating a relatively low margin business, you’re 
gonna have to change to a higher margin business or likely you won’t be able to survive. 
JB: And is dairy farming considered a low margin business? 
MH: It depends on the year.  
JB: Again in that cycle. 
MH: Again in that cycle. There are years when farmers do very, very well. There are other years, like I 
said, when certainly their costs of producing the product far outweighs what they get paid for that 
product. And the real issue is, I’m sure, some of the farmers you’ve probably talked to have told you, 
where they kind of get caught in the middle is they don’t actually set their price. And that’s probably 
one of the biggest issues for dairy farmers. They don’t control the cost of their inputs, they don’t 
control the price they get paid at the end; all that they have to control is how efficient they can be at 
taking their inputs and creating the end product to get themselves that margin in between. 
0:39:35 
JB: And, we have talked to people a lot about the coops which are distributing milk and sort of that 
role, like the Dairylea kind of coop. And do you have an opinion about that aspect of the business, sort 
of the distribution of the product and the negotiating of the price setting and all of that, do you work 
directly with the coops that are actually taking the product from the farmer and distributing it? 
MH: No, that is a relationship that, you know, the customer has with that other coop, with that other 
distributor, or that, you know, that group that is taking their product to market for them. It’s a 
relationship no different than the customer deciding whether they would like to use us or work with a 
commercial bank. Every customer has a different opinion, I’m sure, and, you know, what works best 
for their business. 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
13
JB: So let me just end by asking you, are you still dabbling in agriculture yourself? Do you have any 
kind of operation going on at your place? 
MH: I—my daughter has gotten herself involved in the equine industry a little bit, and does some 
hunter/jumper jumping. Between myself and my dad, who did relocate from downstate up here and 
now lives right next door to myself, we’ve, you know, we’ve got just under a hundred acres where we 
take some hay off and such and, have provided a great location to raise two kids and keep them safe 
and keep them happy and keep them exposed. 
JB: That’s great. Is there anything I haven’t asked you that you think I should have, in terms of 
thinking about this piece of it; we’re trying to explain to people this relationship between farms and 
you? I think you’ve done an excellent job of making that explanation, but have I overlooked anything? 
MH: Not that I can think of. I mean…the relationship between farmers and their bankers or their 
financial service providers is obviously a personal relationship. And it’s the relationships that drive 
who those people decide to do business with. And that’s probably, you know, what I would just 
emphasize the most, is generally speaking, money is a commodity; it’s out there to be gotten in many 
different locations. Predominantly interest rates are fairly similar, the question is, who do you want to 
be dealing with at that time? And that’s, just here at Farm Credit East, that’s something that we focus 
on and really try to drive home, that we understand your business, we’ve been there, many of us, and 
it’s that reason that we’re pretty passionate about what we do. 
JB: Yeah. That’s great. Ok, well thank you! 
0:42:15 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
14