afc2021009_006
Background
Name of person interviewed: Lucille Rayford [LR]
Facts about this person:
Age: 57 (1964)
Sex: Female
Occupation: Nursing Director for LA County Department of Public Health
Credentials: PhD, RN, PHN
Residence: Rancho Cucamonga, California
Ethnic background: African American
Interviewer: Carmen Vaughn-Hewitt [CH]
Transcriber: Sara Cohen [SC]
Interview location:
Date of interview:
KEY WORDS
nurse, ADN, PhD, education, teaching, public health, community health, bedside, homeless,
COVID, administrative, POD, nursing director, vaccine, SPA, inequity, disparity, Skid Row,
gentrification, universal healthcare, PCU, ER, travel nursing, racism, bias, Chi Eta Phi
Sorority Incorporated, Beta chapters
Abstract
In this interview, Lucille recounts what inspired her to become a nurse and shares some of the
experiences she’s had during her teaching career. She describes her nursing students in depth
and mentions the values she tries to impart to them. Lucille outlines her current role as
nursing director for Los Angeles County Department of Public Health and engages in a
discussion on inequities and disparities in healthcare and racism in the communities she
serves. Lucille concludes by detailing her membership in Chi Eta Phi Sorority Incorporated,
sharing the ideas she has as the president of her local chapter, and giving valuable advice for
nursing students.
afc2021009_006
Index
[00:23] Lucille’s family background, what inspired her to become a nurse, her nurse
education and matriculation, experiences she’s had during her teaching career
[06:31] The importance of public and community health education in nursing school, her
nursing students
[13:09] The values Lucille tries to impart to her nursing students
[18:36] The good things that came out of COVID for Lucille, POD’s, her current role as
nursing director for Los Angeles County Department of Public Health
[25:24] Inequities and health disparities in Lucille’s community, the way her nursing staff
mirrors the community in terms of culture, her remedy for healthcare disparities
[37:01] More about Lucille’s family background, the other positions she has held in nursing
[41:54] How the positions Lucille has held in nursing sought her out, racism in the
communities she works in and how she equips her nurses to handle it
[49:35] Lucille’s membership in Chi Eta Phi Sorority Incorporated, the different roles and
offices she’s held
[55:53] The ideas Lucille has as the president of her local chapter, her advice for nursing
students
afc2021009_006
CH 00:23
Good morning and thank you so much for coming in to participate in this historical project
with the Library of Congress.
LR
Thank you. I appreciate you inviting me.
CH
Absolutely. Will you tell us your name, your complete name, and the city and state where you
reside?
LR
My name is Lucille Melinda Rayford. I live in Rancho Cucamonga, California.
CH
What year were you born?
LR
I was born in 1964. 57 years old [both laugh].
CH
Wonderful, wonderful. Where were you born and raised?
LR
I was born in Detroit, Michigan. My mom and my dad moved between Detroit and
Mississippi, but I think I spent most of my formative years in a place called Carthage,
Mississippi in a community called Harmony.
CH
We have something in common. I'm a native of Michigan, Flint, Michigan, and my mom and
them came from Mississippi [both laugh]. We might be cousins! [both laugh]
LR
We could be!
CH
We really could be. Who or what inspired you to become a nurse?
LR
You know, that's an interesting question. Becoming a nurse, I've had many different
aspirations as a person going to school. You can call me a professional student. I went for
interior design. I wanted to be a teacher, microbiologist, all of these things, and this nursing
just fell in my lap. I was having a conversation with a young lady who was a director of a
nursing program and we were having a conversation and I feel, you know, just talking to her
and she was like, “You should try nursing,” and I went and fell completely in love. My first
couple of weeks in class, I knew that that was my calling, you know. I fell in love and it was
amazing. I never thought I'd want to be a nurse. I never thought that this was what I wanted to
do and then it happened and it was just, like I said, it was like falling in love with something
or somebody [laughs], you know. I knew that that was my calling.
afc2021009_006
CH
Wonderful, wonderful. Your nurse education and your matriculation, would you share that
with us?
LR
I started off in an ADN program at a community college.
CH
ADN is what?
LR
Associate's Degree in Nursing.
CH
Okay.
LR
It's a two-year program and I started off there. I went to a school called Southwest College in
Los Angeles, and from there I went to Cal State Dominguez Hills, where I received my
Bachelor's in Nursing and my master's, and then from there, I went to Azusa Pacific
University, where I received my PhD in nursing.
CH
What area in nursing is your PhD?
LR
Education.
CH
Alright, alright. So, have you done any teaching?
LR
I have been teaching since 2006. I started teaching public health at Azusa Pacific University
after I received my master's and then I started teaching there, and I went and taught for Cal
State Dominguez Hills. I taught med surg, advanced med surg. I also taught at Mount St.
Mary's. Also taught at Mount Saint Mary's, where I taught fundamentals and a little bit of
med surg. So, I've been teaching [chuckles].
CH
Are you currently teaching?
LR
I currently teach for Azusa Pacific. I didn't teach last semester. I will start a class this spring.
Next week, actually. I'll be teaching community health and transitional care nursing.
CH
Do you just teach theory or do you do clinical also?
afc2021009_006
LR
I only do theory. So, I teach theory. It's just, I love teaching. So, I guess I did have aspirations
to be a teacher and that did come. I love teaching. I like to see, especially when I teach about
community health and public health, because it's just so interesting. When you're in nursing
school, everything is about inpatient care in a hospital setting and you don't get that
community-based information or that public health information, which I feel should be a part
of the general education of nursing all the way through, because you want to look at the
whole person that you're caring for, not just for taking care of that disease process right in
there, you know. You have to think about what's going to happen to that person when they're
discharged and they go home. Do they have what they need to be able to survive at home?
Not necessarily survive, but to keep from relapsing and coming back to the hospital. Do they
have the family support? Do they have the financial support? Do they have the spiritual
support or social support, those things that, you know, when you're in a hospital setting,
you're basically looking at just taking care of that disease process. So, I like to see, you know,
that light bulb go off in the student’s head when they hear about public health and community
health.
CH
Now, you mentioned in the nursing curriculum and training that it's mostly bedside, but is
that primarily, like, at the associate level?
LR 06:31
I feel that at the associate level or in undergrad programs-- So, when we go to nursing school,
most of the nursing programs, they're doing their clinical in a hospital setting.
CH
What about in the baccalaureate program? That’s when you get the introduction to
community.
LR
Yes, you get community health. Public health is usually about the last class that you take, so,
all this time, you've only been in the hospital setting and you have that doctor. When you
come in community health, you know, you're really autonomous, you know. You really have
to know your community. You really have to know what's available. You're looking at making
changes or assisting a person into making changes that's gonna affect the rest of their lives,
you know, and not only are you looking at the individual level, you're looking at a
community and systems level as well. You don't get that in the, you know, before you get into
the bachelor’s program. You really don't get that.
CH
Yeah, so that was the biggest difference I found between the associate, ‘cause I also did
associate and then baccalaureate. The focus on the baccalaureate was more so-- the program I
went through was more so community-oriented. We did geriatrics, which we did in the
community, and community, of course, you know. We were assigned to various community
agencies, and then research. I just wanted to let people know there is a distinction when you
are matriculating with the associate as opposed to the advanced knowledge that you gain
when you go into the baccalaureate program. How do you find the students, your nursing
students? You say you started in 2006?
afc2021009_006
LR
Yes.
CH
Now we're 2022. Have you seen a big difference in the students?
LR
I think it really depends on the program. When I taught for the Cal State system, I did second
degree programs, so these individuals had a bachelor's in something else and they were adult
learners and they came in and they were interested in nursing. So, I find that group of people
to be more focused. I guess when I'm dealing with adult learners, you know, they are more
focused because they have other things going on. They have work and they have children and
they have other lives, so they're really about the business of getting things taken care of. At
Azusa Pacific when I first started teaching, I was teaching in their basic nursing program
before I went to the RN to BSN program, and with those individuals, you know, I had a lot of
younger kids who were, you know, in the undergrad program and, you know, they didn't
appear as focused because, in their minds, and I'm teaching community health, this is not
bedside nursing, so they don't really feel that community health or public health is really what
you consider as nursing. At the end of the semester, you know, one of the things that I usually
do with my students in community health is I take them to the shelters, and, you know. Azusa
Pacific is a private school and most of my students are well-off and so, you know, when
they're thinking of nursing and they're thinking about the clientele of people who they will be
taking care of, they're not considering people who don't have access to medicine, you know,
medical care on a continuous basis. They don't think about homeless people. They don't think
about people who have addictions, you know. They're thinking about their community of
people who have insurance and, you know, don't necessarily have these things publicized that
they have these other things going on, you know, and so when they take them to-- We used to
take them to the shelter to feed the homeless and they would be so afraid and crying. We got
there, “Why would you bring us to a place like this?” and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, and I’d
make them go out and have a conversation, you know, because life, you know. We all have
different paths in life and that doesn't mean I'm homeless because I was a drug addict or I
made horrible choices. Sometimes life just happens and you get in these situations. We
worked in the kitchen and I would make them go out and sit down and have conversations
with these people. They would cry, you know, and then I’d take them out there. I’m like,
“This is our brothers and sisters, you know. Regardless of what your race is, you know, these
are our brothers and sisters and this can happen to anyone.” At the end of the day, you know,
they were always so grateful and just so astonished that this is a life that people live, you
know. They didn't even know that this area existed, you know. My thing is, “What do you do,
you know, with your church? Do you feed homeless people?” “Yes, but we--". This is not
what they experienced. They didn't experience anything like that, so it was always funny to
see their reactions. It's funny because they’d always, like, “How could you bring us to a place
like this? What kind of people are we--". Yeah, yeah. These are our homies. They're, you
know, these are people who just had a bad, you know, something bad happened to them and
they're just trying to survive.
CH
So, you have a reputation of being a instructor who keeps it real and tortures people [laughs].
afc2021009_006
LR 13:09
Well, you know what? My thing was not to torture people. I want you to see that your
clientele might not look like you. They might not come from the same background that you
came from. They might have habits or lifestyle that you don't necessarily believe in or
appreciate. However, this group of people need the same kind of treatment that you would
give to your sister, your brother, your mother, your father if they came into a hospital setting
or you had to take care of this person or you had to assist this person with something. You
can't just push them aside because they're homeless or they're an alcoholic or they have a
sexual orientation that you don't agree with. You have to be open to taking care of every
person across the spectrum. You don't have to agree with what they do, but you do have to be
open and honest in caring for them. So, you know, that's just the-- basically the message that I
was trying to send to my students. Even though I didn't do a lot of clinical, I did always want
to have an opportunity to introduce them to something that was outside of their comfort zone,
you know, just so when you are faced with this, if you only take care of people who look like
you, you know, and then somebody who doesn't look like you, how are you gonna treat that
person? Somebody loved them. Somebody loves them. So, you want to treat people the same.
CH
That is a fundamental characteristic, a fundamental principle, that nurses certainly have to be
open-minded so that you will be able to give everyone the same care, quality care, they
deserve as a human being.
LR
Well, you have people who come into nursing and they come into nursing because their
mother or father wants them to be nurses or because they think of the money that you make in
nursing or, you know, they think of job security in nursing. I had a couple of students when I
was teaching who would say, you know, “I just want to be a nurse that works in an office. I
don't want to touch people. I don't like people,” and then my thing would be, “Then this is not
the path for you.” I remember one student and I talked to her and she got out the program and
she ended up staying in contact with me and she was like, “You were the first person that was
honest with me.” She has a PhD in public health, which was what she wanted, but she
thought she had to be a nurse to be in public health and so she was gonna-- but she was like,
“I don't like people. I don't want to touch people. I don't want to talk to people.” I’m like,
“This is not what you should be. This is not where you’re needed, you know. Let's look at
some other options for you, you know, because you are going to have to do this. You're not
gonna be able to move forward without going to clinical,” you know. It truly is interesting.
Even though now I teach didactic, you know, I did start off with some clinical classes and
didactic and I remember, you know, what my fundamental students taking them and they've
never touched another human that wasn't a family member or seen another human, you know,
in these positions, you know. I just remember going in. I had one student that was standing
outside the door. “Did you go in?” “Yes.” I knew she hadn’t gone in, you know? “Yes.” Then,
I would take her in and, you know, introduce her to the patient and, you know, have a
conversation and, you know. Fundamentals, we're learning about baths and feeding and, you
know, and she was just petrified and, you know, and so I, you know, “I'm gonna go in there
with you. We're gonna get this done, but you have to talk to your patient, have to see your
patient. How are you going to take care of a patient if you don't spend time with them and
find out what's going on with them?” She turned out to be, you know, as we went on in class,
she just was just so afraid. She’d never had that experience before, you know, of taking care
of a person. “You’ve never taken care of your grandmother or aunt or a sick--” “No.”
afc2021009_006
CH
It seems you really are engaged with your students and you take time to help them, help to
guide them into the direction that they should go in, and I think that's wonderful as a nursing
instructor.
LR
Yes, because if this is what you want to do, I want you to go in with the mindset of taking
care of these people and understanding not just their disease process, but the things that they
go through and just, you know, giving them the best treatment. I always tell my students,
“When you're taking care of a person, you think like how you want someone to take care of
the person that you love the most.” I say that in class all the time. When you're with a patient,
you give them the care that you would want someone to give the person you love the most
and just move forward with that.
CH
How long have you been a nurse?
LR 18:36
1996, so I don't know how many years that is. 20 something [laughs].
CH
Time goes fast when you’re having fun.
LR
I love it. I love it. I miss being with patients. Now, my job is more administrative and I don't
get to see people, you know. There's only a few good things that came out of COVID for me,
and one of them was an opportunity to actually be out there amongst our community and
having conversations with them and patients and answering questions. I always try to look at
what are some of the pluses as opposed to the minuses of a situation, you know. What was
some of the good things that came out of it? COVID has been horrible for us across the
board, you know, but, you know, you do see that it's changed some of the way that we think
about things. You do see that families have become closer because you have to spend time
with your children now, and for me, you know, it's taken me out of that office setting that I've
been sitting in for so long and allowed me to go out there and have some one on one time
with our community at these POD’s and laugh and talk and, you know, just really, you know,
do what I like to do. I like to talk and I like to communicate with people, you know, and have
fun with people. That was just so fun, you know. It was fun. That was the fun part for me.
CH
So, what is a POD’s?
LR
A POD is a point of dispensing, and that is where we set up these POD’s and we have people
come through and we give them the COVID vaccines. I worked for LA County and we've
had a lot of POD’s set up and we saw 1,000s of people come through to get their COVID
vaccine to make sure that we made it available to everybody who wanted it within LA
County. We had POD’s and we worked those POD’s. All of us, all the nurses and doctors and
clerical, we all took turns working in these different POD’s to make sure that we provided
services to our community. We had ‘em strategically placed within LA County so we can get
as many people as possible. So, some are in our underserved community. We want to make
afc2021009_006
sure that we were there and located in places where they could walk up or catch the bus, you
know. Even though there's drive-thru POD’s, you know, we have our clinics and stuff so that
we have our mobile units set up to go out there in the community. So, we really wanted to
make sure that it was available to anyone who wanted it.
CH
You mentioned you worked for an agency in Los Angeles. What agency do you work for and
what is your position?
LR
I work for Los Angeles County Department of Public Health and I am the nursing director for
LA County Department of Public Health.
CH
What does the nursing director do?
LR
The nursing director, we-- I. There's only one of us in this position here. I am more of
ensuring that the nurses are practicing within their scope of practice. We develop policies,
procedures, trainings for our nurses to make sure that, you know, they're working within their
scope. They're doing whatever they need to do. We provide guidance to our nurses and we're
just there. We’re their sort of link to the BRN and their person who says, “Well, nurses can't
do this,” or “Nurses can't do that,” you know.  Basically, I have maybe 1,100 nurses under
me. They have a dotted line. We have a matrix system where they have a dotted line to me, so
I don't directly supervise these people. I do have a small set of nurses that fall under me in
nursing administration but basically, that's what we do. We stay busy. So, anytime something
new came out with the COVID vaccine, and we had policies and procedures that we had to
develop for our nurses, LPNs, RNs, don't really have that many CNAs, you know, we would
develop those policies of practice and, you know, make sure that they were put in place. We
trained them on whatever they needed to be trained on.
CH
As far as the community goes, do you all do any type of research or are you involved with
seeing exactly what the community needs?
LR
We are not. Now, our nurses are. So, the way our system is set up, we have difference SPA’s
or we have different areas that we have pockets of nurses setup that they cover, and they are
responsible for going out there, getting information. If we have surveys, we have our data
monitors or our [inaudible 24:00] people who do the surveys for us. If we're trying to get
information from the community, they're responsible for developing those and our nurses
might be responsible for implementing those or getting the information, but our data and
[inaudible 24:15] people are basically the ones that get that data and sort of give us some
guidance with that data. So, our SPA’s is our service planning areas. We have eight SPA’s in
LA County that we service. The whole county is divided up into those service planning areas,
and then we have, like, regional health officers that are over those areas and then those
pockets of nurses that are in those areas. So, being as big as we are with over 10 million
people, you know, it's a lot but, you know, we have excellent, excellent guidance from our
directors, you know, all the way down, and we look at, you know, what the inequities are and
afc2021009_006
we try to, you know. They do studies on inequity, so we try to find out what those inequities
are. We try to address those inequities as best as we can.
CH
Speaking of inequities, inequities and disparities, what do you see in your community, as far
as inequity and health disparity?
LR 25:24
I think I see inequities in just access to healthcare. I see inequities in, you know, we have a
high rate of infant mortality in our African American community with babies. I see that, you
know, LA, Los Angeles County, we have Beverly Hills and then you have Skid Row. I say
that most of the people are on that air on this side closer to the Skid Row, you know, then we
have people who are the multimillionaires. We have pockets of areas that just need special
attention just because it's just so far away from everything and, you know, we just, you know,
are not perfect. We do know that there are disparities in income. We know that there's
disparities in services that are available, you know. We have a Center of Inequity that looks at
these things and we try to figure out, you know, we know that we have a population of 10
million. We know that we have at least 100 different languages that are spoken here.
CH
Wow, okay.
LR
We know that basically, whenever we have conversations with our communities, you know,
that we need to make sure that we're having those conversations or that information in the
language that's spoken in those communities. So, you know, even though those are
disparities, these are disparities that we are focusing on trying to make sure that we-- There
are more, you know. I just can't think of any more right now but, you know, we have so many
different languages and people from different backgrounds and religious backgrounds, and so
there's a lot. It's a big county. It's a huge county, bigger than some states, okay, so just the
county.
CH
You mentioned about the different cultures. Does your nursing staff kind of mirror the
cultures?
LR
Our nursing staff does. We did a study a couple of years ago from nursing administration just
looking to see how our nursing population and culture and ethnicity mirror that of the state,
and we found out that we were pretty even across the board. We don't have as many male
nurses as we do female nurses. That's probably one of the disparities that we have, but we do
have representation from most all cultures, you know: Caucasian, Black, Hispanic, Island
Pacificers, you know, Asian, you know, Native American, you know. We don't have that
many Native American Nurses, but we try to be across the board representative of what our
communities are. We have silos and you have pockets of areas. So, I was a Skid Row nurse.
When I was in the district, I was on Skid Row, and so my community was Skid Row and
some of the, you know, and downtown LA, and so I had my high rises and then I had my
homeless, and majority of my clientele were my Skid Row clientele. So, just looking at my
office, my office of my 14 staff, you know, we have Caucasian, Filipino, Hispanic, African
American, and so we try to, you know, to represent all cultures that come through. Taiwanese,
afc2021009_006
you know, Chinese, and so we just try to be representative. I have to say that we in LA
County have really done a good job in public health as far as my study. Well, we looked at
that we have done a pretty good job of our workforce representing the population that we take
care of in our county. I do know, you know, with a lot of the gentrification that's happening in
some of the areas that we have, you know, where it used to be predominantly African
American or predominantly Hispanic, you know, and now you're having more Caucasian
people moving into those areas, we might need to work on some of those things, because you
know, you want your community to see people who represent them, and even though we have
Caucasian nurses in those areas, that's not a predominant representation, you know, of races
that we have there, but we're doing well.
CH
What in your opinion is the remedy for healthcare disparities?
LR
In my opinion?
CH
In your opinion.
LR
Healthcare disparities. When I look at healthcare disparities, I feel that it's always going to be
a monetary thing. People don't have the finances or they don't have what they need to be able
to seek medical treatment. I think that just being in a Skid Row area, you know, I find that
there's two things: You have to look at the mindset of people and the services that are
available for them. So, when you look at some communities, you know, they have everything
that they could possibly need there but they don't access those things because, you know.
Maybe they feel as if, you know, nothing is gonna happen to them, you know, so they have
things there. Then you have communities that don't have access to good quality medical help
and the services are just not there. So, we look at the barriers, you know, ‘cause to me, you
know, not only do you have to have access to health care, what are the barriers that prevent
you from getting access. A lot of times it’s transportation, trust, representation. There's so
many different things I feel when I'm talking to-- when I was in the district and I'm talking to
people and I'm looking to see, you know, “You have these services here. Why don't you go to
those services?” “Well, the services are nine to five. I work from nine to five, so unless I take
a day off, I'm not able to, you know, utilize these services.” So, there's just so many different
pieces. I don't think that there's one answer. I'm a universal healthcare person. I believe that
healthcare should be available to everybody who requires it. I think that they shouldn't have
to have that extra burden of saying, “Well, I can't afford it.” We are a nation, a superpower
nation, and you have people who don't have access to healthcare because they can't afford it,
you know. You look at other countries and, you know, the United States, we fall well below
other countries who are smaller or not super powers, super power countries, and their
population has access to health, you know. If you have access to healthcare, in my opinion, if
you have it from the beginning, some of these chronic illnesses and diseases that we have,
that we wait until we're on our last leg before we go seek any kind of medical treatment, you
know, you could nip some of that in the bud because you've had care from birth, you know. I
think everybody should have access to medical care, to healthcare, dental care, mental health,
you know, from birth until, as opposed to waiting until you're here and now it's a burden on
society, because all the money has to be spent to get you to a level where you can live your
life and sort of live an enjoyable life without that, you know. So, I understand people saying,
afc2021009_006
“Well, you know, the healthcare is so expensive,” because we wait until they get here, you
know. That they need transplants, that they need, you know, they’ve ruined their kidneys and
have heart trouble and everything when, if we would have started from the beginning, health,
clinicals, you know, annual treatment, medicine, you know. It doesn't cost you $5 million a
month just to have insulin, you know, but you know. You know I'm exaggerating, but it
doesn't cost you so much to get insulin, you know. When I was in nursing school, I worked in
a pharmacy and I remember a couple coming in and he had to make a choice of the medicine
that he could buy and afford, and I just stuck it all in the bag. I didn't know what to do. I
mean, what do you do, you know. You need all of this medicine to stay alive, and if I don't
give you this medicine, we're gonna throw it away. I just put it all in the bag, okay, and I told
my pharmacist, I was like, “So, you can do what you want to do. I don't want to be
responsible for somebody making a choice, that feels as if they're gonna die if they have to
make a choice between the medicine.” The medicine that he bought was, like, $500. This was
a senior who has Medicare, but he still had to pay 500 plus. So, he gave me $500 to put it in
that drawer but I just couldn't. I don't know. I couldn't do it, you know. He and his wife were
up there, you know, crying, you know, ‘cause he was like, “We have to make a choice. Which
ones do you--" and he was like, “I have to take all of it. I'm gonna die,” and I'm like, “Sorry.”
CH
You were the compassionate nurse already.
LR
Yes. I do not want to be responsible for that and I, you know, they can probably come and get
me, but I always tell that story. I was like, I just put the medicine in the bag. I was like,
“Here. Please just take it and go away.”
CH
Well, here you are.
LR
Lord, please. Like, I didn't know what to do on that one. I was like, “I don't know what to
do.”
CH
I want to just go back to your family background for a minute. So, your parents were from
Mississippi?
LR 37:01
My mom was from Michigan. My dad was from Mississippi.
CH
What did they do?
LR
My mom worked in a factory and my dad had multiple jobs. He worked in a factory. He
worked for a paper company. When we moved to Mississippi, so they were just regular nine
to five, whatever type of job. They didn't have a college education or degree. My dad didn't
graduate from high school. My mom did graduate from high school. My dad didn't graduate
from high school. So yeah, just regular nine to five. We were not by any measure rich or
middle class but, you know, we left the projects in Detroit. We moved to Mississippi and, you
afc2021009_006
know, we stayed on-- my dad's uncle had property, so they built a house on that and we had
gardens, so we ate from our garden and, you know, we lived in a southern community, which
was definitely, definitely to me a blessing. I’m still in contact with those people that I grew
up with in Mississippi. I feel sorry now for my daughter who's out here with just me and her.
My mom came from a large family. My dad, it was just him and his brother. In the
community that we grew up with, you know, my teachers lived in those communities, you
know. We went to church with those people in the community. Kids played and fought and
played in that community. We just, you know, you go to somebody's house and you act up,
you were gonna get chastised at that home and then when you came home, you know, you're
gonna get chastised, and you know. To me, that was just-- I wouldn't trade that upbringing for
anything. It was amazing. The people were amazing and just, I don't know. Even though I
always thought Mississippi was so many years behind the rest of the world, United States,
you know, at least 20 years behind, just our community and going to school and, you know, it
was good. It was just a really good-- My mom passed away when I was in the 10th grade,
ninth grade going to the 10th grade, so my dad took care of us and then he got married again
when I was out of college, I believe. Maybe starting college or something.
CH
Do you have sisters and brothers?
LR
I do. I have an older sister and then it's me and then I have a brother, two more sisters. My
mom died when she was pregnant with my baby brother, Martez, and so we basically raised
him.
CH
What other positions have you held in nursing?
LR
In nursing. I started off in PCU.
CH
Which is…?
LR
Progressive care units, the cardiac floor. I went from there, I went to the emergency room
where I worked in the emergency room. Charge nurse and my CN nurse, we trained to have
conversations with ambulances and fire departments when they got a person out in the field
and we walked them through how to treat the person on the radio, and then they would bring
the person to wherever we sent them to. I left there. I took a travel job because I thought I
might want to move back to Michigan, so I did travel nursing for maybe a year plus and then
I came back to California and went back to school for my master’s at that time. Then, I left
charge nurse and ER. Left the ER and came to public health, which I felt was my other
calling. I love the emergency room. I think I'm too old to do it now but I love the emergency
room. I spent most of my time in the emergency room. So, I came to public health. I worked
in public health for a little while then I went to nursing administration under the Education
Unit and then I became the assistant nursing director and then I became the nursing director.
afc2021009_006
CH
Do you feel, as an African American nurse, you faced a lot of racial prejudice in your climb
and administration?
LR 41:54
I do not think so. I didn't feel as if I faced any adversities as I was coming through and
making my climb through. I have to say this, I felt as if the positions sought me as opposed to
me seeking those positions. These were not things I aspired to do, but the opportunity came
and then I just took the opportunities. So, to me, I felt as if they knew who I was and they
knew-- because I was always-- even as a district public health nurse, I was always active and
doing different things and on different committees and-- not putting myself out there so
people could know who I was, but more because I was interested in what was going on in
those different communities and stuff and, you know, trying to make people more aware of
what was going on in the communities that I served. As a district public health nurse, I did
this big old presentation to the Public Health Commission and they were surprised and I'm
like, “You guys drive by Skid Row every day. This is not something that you've ever seen
before?” From that came a Homeless Coalition that they put together to-- and I started going
out with, you know, the different key people, you know, and to see, because they never paid
attention to Skid Row area. How do you get to work and you don't pass by it?
CH
You have blinders on. Real tunnel vision. I don’t want to see it. It might get on me.
LR
My thing is, I don't think that I, again, aspired to do those things or make myself publicly
known that I wanted to do those things, you know. Stuff would come up like, “Lucille, this is
available. You should try it.” I'm like, “Okay.” “The assistant nursing director position is
available,” and I'm like, “Oh, I don't think I scored high enough on the exam,” you know,
‘cause I've only been in-- the way that the exams go, you know, you have to be on a certain
level. You have to be in a certain position for a long period of time and they band you. They
had 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. Band one, you've got all the things that you need to qualify for this job. Band
two, you're missing a few things, you know. Band three, you have met the qualification but
there's some experiences that you need to have. So, I'm like, “Oh no.” They were like, “Well,
we think you should try out for this position.” I remember it so well. I was at work. I mean, I
was off that day but I had brought some students to do a day in public health. I’d made
arrangements and they said that they could rotate through that day. So, I'd had the students
there and I was gonna take ‘em to Skid Row. I remember getting there and they said, “We
want to interview you,” and I just had regular street clothes on and one of my coworkers
traded shirts with me and shoes so I could actually go to the interview, because I had-- I was
like, “Oh, I'm not qualified,” so I didn't think about it. Then they interviewed me and then
they called me and told me they wanted me to be the assistant nursing director, and I'm like,
“Okay.” So, I don't feel as if I met any racism or people trying to prevent me from being
where I was because of my race, because again, like I said, these are not things that I was
actually out there campaigning for. Then, my nursing director, I was my assistant nursing
director and when I received this job, you know, had already been doing it because she had
been pulled to another area. So, you know, we went through interviews and they-- I got on the
list and I was interviewed a couple of times and then I got the job.
CH
Do you feel that your staff are faced with racism at all?
afc2021009_006
LR
I don't. I'm gonna say this because they have-- we have these conversations, because we have
this-- My staff are not in the field. My staff who are definitely out in the field in the
communities, yes, you know. “Who are you? Why are you coming to my house? Why are
you in my neighborhood? I'm gonna call the police.” So, yes. So, if we're looking at our
communities, yes, you know, and you get people who will call and say, “Well, this Black
woman or this Mexican woman or this, you know, Asian lady was at my house. Why are you
guys coming to see me?” In public health, you see everybody from a billionaire to Skid Row.
You know, if it's a reportable disease and you have to go out and interview these people,
you're gonna go there. So, yes, yeah. I don't think we’ve experienced it amongst ourselves,
but being in the communities that we serve, yes.
CH
Do you have programs to help address that with your nurses?
LR
We talk about cultural competencies. We try to talk about biases. We talk about implicit
biases. We, you know, try to provide them with whatever they need to be able to make sure
that they're safe. You know, we talk about field safety and if you come upon these things, just
come home, come back, you know. We would never want to put your staff in danger, so we
try to provide all of the things that we can to ensure that our staff is safe, and if they do come
across these things to, you know, just come home, come back to work, you know. Let us
know, you know. Call us or whatever situation might be so we can deescalate the situation.
Most of the times, they don't answer the door when they knock on the door but they do call.
We leave a card, you know. We’ll either put a card on the mat or whatever the situation. Can't
touch the post office boxes, so we might leave a card or something with their name and
number and then they'll call us and say, “Why was this person at my house?” and, “There's a
Black lady at my house. What is she doing here?” So yeah, we do have that, but as far as in
our structure and our infrastructure, I'm quite sure that there is and it's subtle, but I have yet to
see it, something that's blatant. So, what we try to do is, you know, we have a commission on
racism and that's asking these questions and having these questions and having these
conversations with our staff.
CH
Wonderful, wonderful. Now, to our beloved Chi Eta Phi Sorority Incorporated!
LR
Chi Eta Phi! Yay!
CH
How long have you been a member?
LR 49:35
Five years, and I have to say that the Basileus at that particular time--
CH
Who is?
LR
Barbara Napper.
afc2021009_006
CH
She's the president, correct? The Basileus is the president.
LR
The Basileus is the president.
CH
Okay.
LR
Okay, I'll use those terms. So, our president at the time was a person that I had been in
communication with and she had been, “I want you to join this organization,” but my thing
was, I want to wait ‘til I finish this PhD because my brain was, you know. I was working
full-time, trying to do my PhD, trying to do my, you know, research, so I just wasn't about
trying to join an organization. So, she just kept in touch with me. She was always trying to
give me some guidance and some mentoring from other things that I was doing in school and,
you know, looking for a part-time job or whatever. So finally, after I finished my dissertation,
their next orientation was in the spring of the following year, 2017. So, I went.
CH
So, Barbara was the president of the local chapter?
LR
Yes, and our chapter is Psi Eta out of Long Beach.
CH
What region are you in?
LR
Southwest region. So, we’re southwest region. Psi Eta chapter. Barbara Napper at that time
was our president, and so she invited me and I went, and I was the only person that came in at
that time.
CH
Okay, special treatment.
LR
Yeah, so I had to do my service project by myself, which was fine. I sort of think that Psi Eta
is an extension of what I do, because I feel like it's an extension of public health nursing. It
can be health nursing and so it was an easy fit for me to get into that and want to be out in the
community having these conversations with people. I joined and, of course, they put you
right to work. I joined and I think I was their accounts receivable person, so would receive
the money and then the money would go over to the accountant, so that was my position
when I got there.
CH
Soon as you came in, you got that position?
LR
I got it maybe after being there-- maybe the next year. After a year.
afc2021009_006
CH
Okay, and I just want to let everybody know that Chi Eta Phi Sorority Incorporated is a
community service organization. So, just want to put that out there so people understand that.
We'll keep right on our track of offices that you've held – local, regional, national.
LR
I’ve only been at the local level. I haven't done anything at the regional level. The reason--
and so locally, I have been the Tamiochus.
CH
Who is…?
LR
Who is the person does accounts receivable.
CH
Okay, so is that like a treasure?
LR
Yeah, sort of like a treasurer. Then I've been the Anti Basileus.
CH
Who is…?
LR
The vice president. Then, I became the president in May of last year.
CH
Yay! [clapping] Congratulations.
LR
Yes, so that was interesting. Again, like I say, it's almost like these things sort of just fall in
your lap. I always said, God has definitely, definitely been present in my life and guiding me
to places, because I am just so-- I can be all over the place, you know, just because I want to
experience different things, you know, and see how things are. I got into these positions and I
enjoy the women in my sorority. In my chapter, we don't have any men in our chapter, we
only have women in our chapter, and these women are motivated and just ready to go. Now
that I am the president, I have a vice president who has her DNP, I believe. Kenya Smith, and
she's a young lady that's just-- I tell you, as we get younger people in, you know, the way--
that technology portion is amazing. I am trying, and they have these ideals and these things
and there’s just so many things that you can do in technology that I just find it’s just really
amazing. But those are the offices. No national offices, no regional offices. I'm thinking about
it maybe. Just being so new to my position as nursing director and the responsibilities that
come with being in some of these positions, you know, you don't want to, you know. I know
people talk about multitasking and having, but sometimes it's just not, especially with
COVID and all the things that we were doing with COVID and, you know, pulling us in
different directions. I don't want to have a position that I can't do the best that I can in it. I
wanted to make sure that, you know, when I do get whatever position that I get that I'm doing
the best that I can and I'm not just in there holding the seat, you know.
afc2021009_006
CH
What ideas do you have, as far as in your position as the president of your chapter?
LR 55:53
So, I have multiple ideas. You know, one of the things that we've been trying to do is get the
501(c)(3), and I really would like to get that. Then, the Beta chapters.
CH
Which is for undergraduate?
LR
Which is our undergraduate chapters. I think for us to be able to grow, we really need those
Beta chapters and we really need to get out there into those schools and talk to those schools
about establishing Beta chapters. You know, we had plans and then COVID hit and then we
didn't know that COVID was gonna linger so long. So, our plan is to grow. I feel that this
organization, Chi Eta Phi, is a larger organization but it's so not well-known, especially in this
side. I feel like it's known more in the colleges like in the east and the west, but here in the
southwest region it's almost like a secret organization in my head, is how I sort of picture it,
as a secret organization, and I think that we need to really get out there and tell them about
the good work that we do.
CH
More exposure.
LR
More exposure.
CH
That's why I'm doing this project [chuckles].
LR
More exposure. We need to have more exposure. People need to see what we do in the
community. So, you don't have access to health care. You have barriers. We are here to sort of
help you navigate those barriers, you know, or figure out ways that you can navigate those
barriers, you know. Maybe not financially, but you know, “I can't get to my doctor's
appointments,” da da da da da. “I don't have this in my area,” you know, to help you get to
where you need to be. But we can't do that, because we're so-- we’re such a-- I don't know. I
keep saying it's almost like it’s a secret society. I think, you know, that we should be on every
campus. I don't even think we have a Beta chapter in the southwest region.
CH
So, that's something you're going to help bring to fruition.
LR
I would love to. I would love to help bring that to be, you know, in some of these universities
and schools, you know.
CH
You do have the platform, being an instructor.
afc2021009_006
LR
Yeah, yes.
CH
So, you have an inroad right there. So, that is a wonderful plan.
LR
Yeah.
CH
What advice do you have for people who are nursing students?
LR
Anyone who comes into nursing, I want you to know that nursing, you really have to have a
passion for nursing. Nursing is not just about the financial benefits that people think come
along with nursing. You really have to have a true love for what you do, a true love for your
community, the people that you're going to be taking care of, whether they fit your model or
not. We have to be open-minded. You know, I don't say, “Be open-minded and accept it,” but
be open-minded enough to understand that people have a choice to live their lives the way
they live their lives and our role is to make sure we provide them with the best care possible.
So, I need you to come and as a nursing student, you know, to be open to different
experiences, to know that nursing is more than bedside nursing. There's so many options and
roles that you can take, but the fundamental part of it is bedside. So, once you get past that
and you see all of the wonderful things that you can do as a nurse, as a researcher, as an
instructor, as a lawyer, you know, as a nurse practitioner, as a esthetician, you know, you
know, anesthesiologist, I mean, you know. There's so many roles that you can take as a nurse,
and so many leadership positions, you know, that you could possibly hold to advance the
practice of nursing. But, you know, this really needs to be something that you're committed to
and it's not all that you see on television, you know. It’s truly, truly so much more.
CH
What do you have to say more about Chi Eta Phi Sorority Incorporated?
LR
Chi Eta Phi Sorority is the introductory level as far as out of school into the community. This
is gonna introduce you into your community so you can provide services to your community
members, to your members of your church, your organization, whatever organizations you're
in. You want to be a part of that so you can see what's missing, find out what the gaps are in
your community, and see what you can do to sort of meet some of those, you know, fill in
some of those gaps. There's just so much that you can get from Chi Eta Phi. We just need the
platform and you need to be willing to get out there and work.
CH
Thank you so much, Soror Dr. Lucille M. Rayford. Thank you!
LR
Thank you! My goodness. I was getting my last photo of you.
1:01:40
End of recording.