1 
 
Project: Trash Talk: Workers in Vermont’s Changing Waste Management Industry 
Narrator: Mike Peabody, Program Coordinator, Central Vermont Solid Waste Management 
District (CVSWMD) 
Interviewer:  Virginia Nickerson 
Date: August 21, 2018 
Place:   Outdoor bench in Montpelier, VT, outside CVSWMD Offices  
Transcribed by:  Teresa Bergen   
 
00:00 
 
Nickerson:  Great. So this is Ginger Nickerson and I am interviewing Michael Peabody just 
outside the Montpelier offices of the Central Vermont Solid Waste Management District on 
August 21, 2018. And Mike, can you tell me roughly when and where you were born? 
 
Peabody:  I was born less than two miles from here, actually. It was, I believe, the Berlin General 
Hospital at that, in 1982. It is now part of the UVM network of medical facilities. What’s it, 
UVM at Central Vermont Medical Center now. It’s something. (laughs) Not the same thing it 
was 36 years ago. 
 
00:55 
 
Nickerson:  So what’s your current job? How long have you been in this line of work? 
 
Peabody:  My current position is as program coordinator with the Central Vermont Solid Waste 
Management District. I’ve been doing some kind of solid waste work on and off for about the 
last decade. I took a breather in there to get some retail experience. And also because they closed 
a lot of the facilities where the district was maintaining their solid waste management practices. 
And so that was a dramatic thing. It was just money. It was 2008, there was a pretty substantial 
implosion in the recycling commodities markets. And they just lost, they just couldn’t keep 
going with what they had left. But I’ve been doing this current job, it will be three years this 
November. Yeah. 
 
1:47 
 
Nickerson:  What’s the title of your current job? 
 
Peabody:  Program coordinator. Which is a very bureaucratic-sounding thing for what I do. Most 
of what I do is just kind of make shipments go in and out. Meet people at the front door. Sort 
stuff into larger boxes or smaller boxes as necessary. And then do a lot of typing about the things 
I sort into boxes and the trucks that I’ve got moving around. 
 
2:14 
 
Nickerson:  And so when you say, you mean people at the front door, you mean at the ARCC? 
 
2 
 
Peabody:  Yeah, I should be clear that I’m referring to customer service at the Additional 
Recyclables Collection Center, which is a CVSWMD program that we’ve been doing, I want to 
say since about 2012, 2011. It’s had a couple of different incarnations. And right now it seems to 
be in its largest operating capacity and probably most substantial footprint that it’s had in that 
time. 
 
2:45 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah, so how did you get into waste management? What was the pathway that led 
you to this kind of career? 
 
Peabody:  Unhappy accident. We moved here from my in-laws’ basement, about 80 miles north 
of here. And I needed a job. All I’d had up to that point was farm work, which is not a resume 
fluffer. So I noticed that there was like a weekend attendant, I think, at the Barre facility [the 
transfer station]. Not the one I’m currently working at, but in one of the basic trash and recycling 
collection centers they used to have about ten years ago. They needed someone to fill a couple of 
hours a week. And the first day I showed up, there was an ambulance. And one of the people 
who’d been working there was an older woman who had been ignoring a football-sized ovarian 
cyst for several months. It finally incapacitated her on the job. And I showed up for what I 
thought was an interview and a quick training. And she said, “Well, I guess we have a slot for 
you now.” Which was a real shocker. I think people knew she was having some medical issues, 
but they didn’t realize it was anything that substantial. And I fell into that position. And so that’s 
where I started doing it, about four days a week, give or take, at different facilities throughout the 
district. 
 
4:16 
 
Nickerson:  Mm hmm. And how did you learn what to do? 
 
Peabody:  It’s very much OJT. On the job training, right? So you can have a pretty good idea of 
what is garbage, and what is recyclable, or what is hazardous waste. And even if you don’t, you 
can kind of start from zero and get to where you need to be. I was kind of a recycling nerd up to 
that point, anyway. I was just very focused on it. But at that time, before moving to Plainfield, 
before I moved to Barre, I started working at Barre, had been working at a place where there’s 
not a lot of recycling going on, up in [Franklin] County. Yeah, like [unclear] just threw it all in 
one big trashcan. So I knew what was supposed to be recycled, but I knew there was also no 
enforcement. And not a lot of supplies offered from her current trash hauler. So I didn’t keep up 
on the education in that regard, but I knew that there were things you could do, like soda bottles 
and newspapers and balloon cans, the classic side-of-the road recycling. 
 
 
At the facility I started working at in Barre ten years ago, they were also taking things 
like furniture and scrap metal and textbooks for reuse, and electronics. So there was a lot of other 
stuff that kind of wound up on my plate really quickly. And also, I started getting very clear on 
state regulations about what’s banned from disposal, things like televisions and household 
chemicals and certain batteries. And so I started getting an eye for those things coming in the 
door. I know I made a couple of people very mad because I refused to take things that I knew 
3 
 
were not acceptable. Stuff like 50-gallon bags completely full of liquid paint. Someone was 
trying to convince me, “Oh, no, it’s just trash from my house.” Like, really? That’s an everyday 
thing for you is just eating paint with your hands, right? Come on. Straighten me out. Yeah. But 
it’s one of those things where it’s like every day you kind of learn a new knot. And then the next 
day you have to undo that knot and learn it on the bare rope again. 
 
6:31 
 
Nickerson:  So tell me more about the ARCC and what happens at the ARCC. I think a lot of 
towns and communities don’t have anything like it. 
 
Peabody:  There are a few hard-to-recycle centers in the country. See, there’s one in Boulder, I 
think, CHARM. And there’s another similar CHARM in Athens, Georgia. And there’s 
SCARCE, outside of Romeoville, Illinois. Yeah. They all do very similar things. There’s actually 
a small but strong undercurrent for recycling really weird stuff—I mean, not like methyl mercury 
or anything like that, although I guess there’s some recovery on that, too. But things that like you 
just don’t think about “oh, can I recycle it?” all the time. Like crayons or potato chip bags, or 
household stain paints. Those kinds of things. 
 
 
And generally speaking, if you can get enough volume of something, you can usually get 
a truck or a recycler or a processor or a buyer interested in dealing with it. The trick is getting 
enough of it to get it going, because there are very few recyclers who are going to say to you, 
“Oh, please. Thank you. I would love to have ten pounds of random weird metal objects that 
could as easily go in the [landfill?] or the garbage. But once you start talking about a ton or four 
tons or 36,000 pounds, you start getting into a different conversation. Like, “Oh, well is this a 
regular thing you could supply us with? Yes or no? Is it clean, yes or no?” 
 
 
The other thing to remember is that when you do these things of I’ll call them oddball 
recycling, what you’re dealing with is something that’s kind of materially pure. One of the issues 
being faced in 2018 recycling is that a lot of the country has gone over to single-streams. That 
means all of our paper, cardboard, glass, plastic and metal are going to one bin. And they’re all 
kind of cross-contaminating each other, all the time. And that just leads to a very low-grade 
output for everything involved. 
 
8:38 
 
When you do a collection of only VHS tapes, or only tires, or only textiles in usable 
condition, you know that you’re dealing with a material whose purity is more attractive to buyers 
and resellers and reusers, because they know that they don’t have to pick wet newspaper or 
broken glass out of it to get to it.  
 
 
So these kind of facilities, though there’s not many of them, and they’re all very heavily 
subsidized and run by wonderful and often kind of kooky volunteers who are deeply committed 
to what they’re doing, they all seem to be operating at about a couple mil a year, give or take, 
like total budgets. They’ll have lots of sub-volunteers and work placement candidates who are 
employed to do a lot of the difficult or kind of mundane labor, depending on where they fall 
inside of their individual spectra. 
4 
 
 
9:50 
 
Nickerson:  I’m going to want to come back to asking you about some of the folks who work 
there. So it sounds like you work with both the people, the public, who are bringing materials 
into the ARCC. But you’re also dealing with buyers, people who might be—I don't know if 
“buyer” is the right term, but people who are taking the materials from the ARCC. Would that be 
accurate to say that you’re sort of a go between? 
 
Peabody:  Yeah. A lot of it’s kind of already written in the stars, as it were. It’s like a particular 
tire retreader or paint processor already sort of exists. You just kind of have to raise your hand to 
get seen. In other cases, I’ve had to go really kind of deep hunting for outlets and vendors and 
processors. I usually use the word “processor” because it’s the only thing I know is happening, 
whether they’re processing it for scrap paper, or resale of old cell phones or whatever, what I 
know they’ll be doing is processing it. whether or not they’re actually fixing every single thing, 
or they find that it comes in wet and they have to landfill half of it, or if it’s damaged and has to 
go right into the shredder so they can get the parts out of it that they need, “processor” is the term 
that seems to adequately describe what all of them are doing. Some of them do buy, some of 
them we pay for. Some of them just do like free shipping, free handling, and the rest of the costs 
are on you. A lot of what we take in right now is actually negotiated through state programming. 
So there’s a few things where we get a small reimbursement, or it’s just collected and handled 
for free. All we have to do is just offer an open door that consumers can come and make use of 
that service. But I think middleman is kind of a fair word, middle person, a Gofer. Gofer works, 
too. Yeah. There’s a lot of talking to customers and consumers and businesses who want to deal 
with waste, or have an idea about wanting to green their image. Or just being really frustrated 
that they have this one waste stream that they know can be recycled. But for whatever reason, 
because of an economy of scale hurdle, or a lack of proper equipment, or not knowing who will 
take it where and when, they just can’t get it to where it needs to go. So the ARCC does a lot of 
that work of kind of bridging the gap between this large, global but more often just national 
recycling scheme and these small players who can’t plug in at their current scale. 
 
12:30 
 
Nickerson:  So what are, can you give me like a list of the materials that the ARCC collects? 
 
Peabody:  Oh, that’s going to take a while.  
 
Nickerson:  Tell about just sort of the top ones. Maybe not every single one. 
 
Peabody:  All right. About 25 percent of what we take right now is what the state refers to as 
covered electronic devices. That’s computers and TVs. And we’re doing about 450 to 500,000 
pounds a year. Which, in the bigger scale of recycling, isn’t that much. But for central Vermont, 
half a million pounds is a decent output. So, yeah. I say like the big ones are books. We’re 
getting a lot of books. And computers and TVs. Below that, textiles, tires. We get probably nine 
or ten tons of tires. Hmm. I think those are the big ones right there. The rest of that half million 
pounds is just filled out with like one to three thousand pound chunks of stuff, like scrap metal or 
5 
 
household appliances like vacuums and microwaves that we do often process or send to specialty 
electronics handlers. Because some of these things are okay to throw in the scrap metal. Others 
are not. Others, we just don’t feel good throwing it in the scrap metal, because there’s just so 
much plastic or questionable material incorporated into it otherwise. Like for example, a 
photocopier. There’s zero state regulation on this, despite the fact that it’s materially not different 
than your household printer, except in scale. It just contains five times as much toner as a small 
laser jet on your desk. But for some reason, even though there’s no distinction in how much 
plastic or metal or chemical component there is, the state just says nope, that’s not covered by 
the program. And it’s not even necessarily banned from landfill. Their instructions are just to 
send that kind of stuff to scrap metal. But if you look at it, it’s housed in like 20 pounds of 
plastic. At our yards, we don’t have the big shredder yard. Our scrap metal’s kind of processed in 
a very small way with hand tools and heavy equipment, just kind of bash it down and crush it up 
into a baler. So all that plastic just winds up kind of on the ground, where it gets processed. And 
if you send it to a specialty electronics processor, they can do things like grinding or dismantling, 
where they can harvest plastics out and send them to actual recycling, rather than just being 
smashed into a bin somewhere where it just gets kicked out of the machine because it’s 
nonmagnetic or non-recoverable metal, and it just winds up sitting on the ground somewhere at 
your metal yard. And what the district tries to do is divert as much as we can from landfilling. 
And, I don't know, like chips of electronics plastic just laying on the ground at a scrap metal yard 
kind of feels like functionally landfilling, because it’s not going anywhere or doing anything. It’s 
just sitting there in the dirt, being run over by machines and people all day long. We try to avoid 
that. But yeah, the big streams right now are electronics, appliances and books. I think we’re 
doing about sixty thousand pounds a year in books. Which you know, again, the people that we 
send our stuff to, millions, millions of pounds. Every year, hundreds of thousands of pounds a 
month. We aren’t even a surface scratch to them. But for our own intake purposes, that’s, I don't 
know, it’s just dozens of cubic yards every year. Probably a hundred plus. Yeah. 
 
16:24 
 
Nickerson:  What’s it like dealing with the processors, trying to find folks to take and do 
something useful with these materials? 
 
Peabody:  It’s a weird kind of dance you have to do with them. Because on the municipal end of 
things, you’re not out to make money. You’re trying to be cost-conscious so that you don’t have 
to present your municipalities with evidence that you don’t understand how money works. But at 
the same time, you’re not out to just reap profits and pay off dividends and attract new 
investment. Like, no. The towns have already said, what matters to us is that any municipal or 
publicly funded recycling efforts that we put forth are prudently managed and do what we want 
them to do, which is diversion from landfill and protection of Vermont waterways and land. And 
so we do that. But you’ve got to understand, a lot of processing is driven by profit motive. So 
they’re very used to dealing with people who want to know well what’s the cut? What’s the 
spec[ification]? Has the bale been fluffed? Are you covering shipping? Is it FOB Barre, is it FOB 
[Sherbrooke?], Mass[achusetts]? 
 
 
 
6 
 
17:35 
 
Nickerson:  What’s FOB? 
 
Peabody:  Oh, God. Full on board, I think. It’s a trucking term. I’ve never been forced to use it. 
But it does kind of indicate where liability or problems with the trucking lay. So FOB my dock 
means that from the point that I start putting things on the truck, anything that happens to those 
things is my problem. But FOB their dock means that once it’s on the truck, it’s all their 
problem. And then when it gets where it’s going, it’s still their problem. Usually you try to 
negotiate for FOB on someone else, because that means if a pallet falls over and crushes a bunch 
of stuff or if it gets damaged in transit some other way, you don’t take the hit. Or if something 
like a defective lithium battery in a laptop or something goes off, you don’t want to be holding 
the candle on that one. Because that’s a whole other mess of stuff right now that lithium batteries 
are causing for interstate transit. 
  
Yeah, so you’re all kind of in the same pool. I mean, when I talk to Goodwill, or when I 
talk to the local tire service, it’s understood that we both want the same thing. To move 
something. I want to move it to them. They want to move it their way. In that much, you can 
agree on it. But then you start getting into fine details of oh, well who’s on the hook for 
shipping? Who’s going to return the boxes that we used to process them? Are you going to come 
and pick them up from us, or do we have to put them on your truck for you?  Is it third-party 
shipping? Do you use your own in-house trucks? Will you cover for the UPS ground label? Does 
it meet dimensional rates for UPS ground? A lot of these things. 
 
When you’re dealing with other small municipalities or charities, they’re usually a little 
more loosey goosey I mean, as long as you’re clearly not trying to manipulate them or send them 
trash or damage their reputations, they’ll forgive quite a bit. But when you talk about people who 
are doing international sales or huge volumes of national processing and like metal refining, 
there’s a lot less, I think trust, I would say, involved. They’re much less willing to take a chance. 
I get why; you can easily damage their business models handily by a misunderstanding. But it is, 
like I said, a dance. You want to make them trust you as much as you possibly can while not at 
the same time exposing yourself to being hammered by them being like, “It’s just some dorky 
bureaucrat in Vermont. Let’s just ream him, guys, come on. We can walk away from this with 
like fifty mil.” I should be clear. We’ve never dealt with 50 mil[lion] of anything! (Nickerson 
laughs) I just threw out a number. Yeah. 
 
20:35 
 
Nickerson:  So I’m getting the picture that there’s lots of different moving parts to your job, and 
you probably don’t have a typical workday. But if you were to have a typical workday, could 
you walk me through what that would be like? 
 
Peabody:  Believe it or not, my workday is pretty typical. It’s generally the same thing. I show 
up, I look around the building to make sure that no one like threw a pile of tires or a broken TV 
or something around, because we don’t have a well-guarded building, because we lease. And it 
does happen that people just leave stuff with us. Sometimes it’s kind of benign, like just like a 
7 
 
sack of Legos or something. People just don’t know what to do with it. They’ve heard that we 
quote unquote “take everything.” And so when we show up, and we’re not open. Or they come 
by at midnight because I guess they expect us to be there at midnight, they just leave the bag. It 
has been difficult in the past, with some cases. Not at our facility, but our offices the next town 
over in Montpelier, someone dumped, I want to say, about 40 pounds of potassium nitrate on our 
front step. And there was just like a note taped to the box that said like, “Found this while 
digging fences. Heard you guys took dangerous stuff.” We almost called in the bomb squad. We 
didn’t know what to do with it. It’s not safe to handle, especially once it’s been wetted like that. 
the person who brought it to us didn’t do any kind of research or packaging. They just probably 
threw it in their truck and was like, “Oh, I should leave a note. That would be the polite thing to 
do.” And they dodged about an 800-dollar bill in dealing with that stuff. It’s very frustrating. 
Because that’s a cost you throw back on the taxpayer. But we literally have to deal with it. Not 
just because we’re so [unclear], because it’s on our porch, it’s functionally our property now. We 
can’t just like push it in the grass. That would be bad PR for people who kind of pride 
themselves on proper handling of hazardous and solid waste, is that we just leave something like 
that just kind of rotting on the sidewalk because we don’t want to…..[deal with it] 
 
 
But yeah, a typical day. I show up. Look for trash on the outside. Go indoors. Turn on 
lights. And then usually, we’re open after we’ve been in the building for a couple of hours. So 
we take that first couple of hours, just down time. Buff and fluff, sweep floors, clean dishes from 
lunches, make phone calls back to people who leave voicemails, check email. It’s basically what 
you do when you start out at any other job. You just go to that building, you turn everything on, 
and you make sure nothing’s broken. And then you follow up on whatever didn’t get done at the 
end of the last day. 
 
 
And then you open. And opening is just what it is. Sometimes we’ll sit around for an 
hour before anybody shows up. Other times, there’s a line of four or five cars like ready. And no 
one’s packed anything properly, and everyone has questions, and no one’s been here before. So 
it’s just like, okay, well, this goes there, that goes there, this should really be in double bag, 
because it’s broken. We can’t legally take that. These guys will do this for free, but if you leave 
it for us, it’s fifty bucks. Just kind of like walking through everybody [all of the customers]. But I 
say on average, people generally show up little by little throughout the early part of the day. 
Most of them have been there at least once. They sometimes need a reminder about where does 
this go, or how should this be protected? And then it goes on like that. There’s probably one or 
two parts of any given day where we get five or six people all in kind of at once, and 
everything’s a little crazy. But those last maybe 30 minutes to 90 minutes. And then they cool 
off. 
 
 
I’ve noticed, in all my years of solid waste, regardless of where I’ve worked or what I’ve 
been doing, there’s just a pattern. The first part of the day kind of climbs and climbs and climbs. 
And then it dips off sometime right around after lunch. And then it starts to pick up again around 
two, going into three. And then it dips off again. And then right around between four and five, 
there’s another slight hump. And then it’s quiet in the evening. Weekends, you see a little bit of 
variation on that. It tends to be a lot more front-loaded in the morning, in the morning, and then 
right at noon. But weekdays, there’s just kind of that slow serpentine action, rise and fall. Which 
is good, because then you get a couple of minutes, or maybe even 45 minutes on a really slow 
8 
 
day, to just put stuff away. Because when people are coming in, I try to triage it, so that I’m not 
like okay, well, I’m going to devote all my possible attention to you - one out of five customers, 
and I’m going to give you everything and make everyone just wait and wait and wait.  
 
Our driveway is just a single lane. And you can’t even get out of it the way you came in, 
and you can’t get around anybody to leave if you don’t want to wait anymore. So everyone is 
just kind of stuck in the queue. So what I tend to do is I tend to go from car to car. Or if people 
are trickling in slowly, I’ll just say hello and get a quick name and where are you from and that 
kind of thing. Ask what they got, take some cash, direct them where things got to go. And then if 
they’re there longer than four or five minutes, I’ll pop back over, say, “How are you doing? 
What do you need? Did you find everything okay?” And just, even if it means like making a 
little pile of something on the floor, or outside the building, for half an hour or so, I’ll do it, just 
to keep the line going through. Because it’s way easier for me to negotiate just dealing with a 
small pile of stuff where it shouldn’t be after I get a minute, just get everyone out of the way, 
than it is for me to deal with that small pile in someone’s arms one after the other. There’s just 
no efficiency to be gained there. Because I can do it myself, and the staffers there can do it 
themselves pretty well, pretty quickly. But we can’t do every single person the exact same way 
just one at a time. We’ve got to take it, get it out of their hands, and keep the line going along. 
It’s kind of like turning tables, right? Like in wait staffing. I mean, you can’t walk every single 
person through the wine menu, or talk to them about the advantages of microbreweries and 
small-scale farming.  Like somebody could be like, “Sandwiches? Sandwiches? Everyone want 
sandwiches? You’re great. I’ll be back in ten with your water.” Well, be back in like two with 
water, then ten with any more drink questions. But, yeah. Get people going through.  
 
Because otherwise you wind up with a pile of really cranky people who have been 
waiting forever. And they start leaving the cars, and asking questions, and walking around and 
making their own rules. That’s no good. Like people come to do the recycling and there’s 
nothing that makes them come to us. Like we aren’t a legally mandated outlet for anything. 
There are some things that are banned from the landfill, but no one’s required to bring them to 
us.  So if we want people to feel comfortable and recognized and feeling like they made a good 
decision in coming to use our services in the first place, we need to show them that  we respect 
their time. And sometimes the way to do that is like, yes, take those ten tires, throw them on the 
ground, drive away. Okay, have a nice afternoon, bud. And then move on to the next car. As long 
as you don’t leave anything outside overnight, you’re usually okay. Usually okay. (laughs)  
 
27:48 
 
Nickerson:  And I know that the ARCC has like a reuse table? 
  
Peabody:  Yes. 
 
Nickerson:  Do you have folks who come there kind of on a regular basis to find materials? 
 
Peabody:  Yeah. Yeah. And that’s kind of both the highlight and the dark, sad moment of our 
day. On the one hand, it’s really great to see the same people, often young families, come by and 
they’re like oh, great, I was just going to go buy sneakers for my kid. This means I don’t have to 
9 
 
divert more resources that were going to be rent or fuel or whatever to buying shoes. Poverty’s a 
huge issue in Barre City. It’s an absolutely, ridiculously outsize problem for how small a town, 
or rather, city, Barre is. I understand it’s probably the first or second highest poverty rate in the 
entire state. That was a couple of years ago data. That may have changed. But yes, there’s no 
shortage of people who need stuff and cannot pay for consistent upgrades in Barre. So having a 
table people can come get like half a can of latex paint to go do a chair or part of a cabinet or 
they find like a stack of DVDs that they don’t have to go buy now. 
 
 
Very little of it is subsistence stuff, because we don’t take things like—well, we take food 
scraps. We don’t take like reusable food products. We don’t take a lot of toiletries. Not 
intentionally, anyway. 
  
 
But clothing is a pretty busy topic at our facility any given day that we’re open. People 
are really leaning into that pretty heavily. Sometimes people walk out of there with maybe like 
two shirts under their arms. Sometimes they’ll fill like three kitchen-sized bags of just shirts and 
socks and underpants and leggings and hats. It depends on the time of year. Unfortunately, 
people tend to discard clothes un-apropos of the season. So picking is hard—picking is hard. I 
should amplify that a little bit. People consuming secondhand clothing at our facility is at a peak 
during certain parts of the month and certain parts of the year. But as a result of the way people 
actually discard clothing, they’re getting rid of their summer gear in the cold season. They’re 
getting rid of their winter jackets in May. And so if you come looking for those kinds of things, 
it’s hard to find exactly what you want because unless you were really hurting for a two-piece 
swimsuit in November, you’re probably going to be kind of out of luck. But a number of the 
other thrift stores around us do use our services as sort of an aggregator to move things along. 
And so every once in a while, we’ll just get like a couple of people bringing in their closet cull of 
fall wear, whatever. But then we’ll get a thrift store bringing us like forty bags of stuff that’s just 
either, that’s just running the gamut from old, amazing vintage clothing to modern activewear. 
And none of its seasonally spec-ed at all, anyway. Because they’ll often sit on stuff for months 
and months to build the pile enough to justify them coming out to us. So it will sometimes be 
several months’ worth of accumulation. And that can lap seasons. So when that kind of stuff 
happens, you can usually find t-shirts in the summer and boots in the winter when you need 
them.  
 
 
But people do pick the books pretty hard, which is good. That’s a better guarantee on 
reuse of books, that someone will just walk away from you with, take it and read it, that’s a much 
more reliable way of doing it. When you recycle books by the half ton in large boxes, almost 
invariably something is damaged in there. And even if it was a good book at one point with 750 
pounds of books on top of it, it may not make the cut when it gets to the facility where they’re 
going to go picking through to find the resaleable, donatable copies. 
 
32:05 
 
 
And also right now, we’re experiencing a pretty serious issue in the region because a 
couple of the large book processors and resellers have just gone out. And books are crazy, crazy 
high volume right now. There’s just still tons of books being made, and tons of books being 
donated, tons of books being pulled out of library basements. If people want to come and get 
10 
 
them, one at a time from our bin, that’s the best way to see that book reused. Yeah. We refer to it 
as “picking.” We’ve been trying to get away from the word “scavenging,” because that just, it’s 
sort of a dehumanizing word. Yeah. I don't know. I don’t like phrasing it that way. Although, to 
be clear, some people are definitely scavenging. I mean every once in a while you’ll see someone 
come in and they’ll just go right into the electronics bin and start pulling the guts out of stuff. 
And I’m like, ‘What are you after?” And half the time, they can’t even tell you. Sometimes 
they’ll say something to the effect like, “Oh, I heard the good stuff’s on the insides,” or 
whatever. And you try to probe the question like, “What are you after?” There’s not a lot of high-
grade equipment inside of like a toaster oven. “Oh, you take that thing and you put it on the other 
part there.” There are people who are kind of like fishing for high-value stuff, but don’t 
understand that when we have a battery and it’s all crusty, we put it in a plastic bag to prevent it 
from contaminating its container and from causing a metal salt leakage.  
 
I’ve definitely talked to a couple of them who think that we’re bagging them because 
they’re new and they’re good to use. And I’ve had to kind of break them of that understanding. 
They’re like, “no, no, no.” We’re not reusing batteries; we’re taking damaged and old and dead 
pieces and we’re sending them to metals and chemical processors who can handle them. I think 
I’ve got a couple people to understand that. But I’m sure there’s a couple of people who just like, 
it’s not making sense to them. Yeah. 
   
 
34:18 
 
Nickerson:  Are there any artists or craftspeople or handy people who are coming to your facility 
to get materials which they’re then turning into something else? 
 
Peabody:  Yeah, but they’re not common. Like you would think that having thousands of pounds 
of books or clothing or odd metal parts, or appliances and tools, you would think you would be 
seeing people all the time coming and saying, “Hey, man, I’m working on a shed and I need this 
for a funky door handle,” or whatever. Or, “Oh, man, this is going to look great on my bench.” 
No. It’s mostly people who are coming in looking for clothes to wear and small appliances they 
can sell to pawn shop. I do get people who come in looking every once in a while for old books 
to do collages. Someone came in looking, she was doing wedding favors, no, table decorations, 
for her ceremony. And she got this idea of making little bundles of really old books. So she 
found a bunch of cool things. 
 
 
Some people do come in and go through our paint. We have put the good paint out for 
reuse. But you know, as much paint as I’ve got there, and as high-quality as some of it is—really, 
I do get cans that are literally unopened, unused and kept in dry storage so they’re functionally 
new. I don’t get as much paint consumption, you would think, for free, as you might expect. I do 
see people, and I’m always happy to have them come by. But they are probably less than 10 
percent of anybody that I ever see come in there to get stuff. 
 
 
 
 
11 
 
36:05 
 
 
Nickerson:  So what’s the most challenging part of the job for you? Or your least favorite part. 
 
Peabody:  Um, [pause] I’m not a manager at heart. I do pretty well counting things and writing 
about the things I counted, and physically moving them around. And organizing them when 
necessary. Packing them out. But when it comes to like getting these responsibilities into other 
people’s laps or imaginations, that’s not a strong suit of mine. I’ve been practicing and getting 
better at it, because I can’t do all of it myself. And we’ve been really trying to get a couple of the 
staffers trained up and ready to do a lot of the stuff.  So that if I’m not around, on vacation, or 
incapacitated for some other reason or just move on, that this thing just doesn’t die where I left it. 
 
Because I pushed for a lot of changes, a lot of advancements. When I started, there were a 
lot of things that had kind of, I don’t want to say fallen by the wayside, because that’s not true. 
But the programs were kind of starting to come apart on the processor end and no one had been 
informed about it. So people were like, “Well, I just keep filling boxes, and no one comes to get 
it.” And then you dig around and are like “oh, it’s because they went under four months ago. So 
we need to change this.” 
 
I’ve also pushed for adding things to our collection lists. Some of it’s kind of silly 
sounding, like the little twisty tag things from your bread bag. But it’s good plastic. You get it in 
volume, and we have a processor for it. But I’ve also been pushing to get things done like block 
Styrofoam. And juice and soup aseptic cartons. Those have been kind of a hard push because no 
one came to us and said, “Oh, we have a plan for this. We’ll do it.” I just went poking around 
and found a way to do it. And then found a couple of like shipping loopholes and supply sources 
for things like shipping and taping that allow us to get them done. But it’s adding a lot of work. 
And also, we’re trying to find ways to mitigate costs. Like there are some things that have been 
going okay. But now in this crunch of where do we export stuff to? What nation wants 
America’s waste? The blowback on the recycling stream is starting to come even at us. Even as 
far from the periphery of mixed paper products and glass bottles as we are, we are still feeling 
just like the heat of that flame. Because people that we used to count on for taking one kind of 
paper product are like, “Oh, well, no. my broker won’t take this stuff from me anymore, so I 
can’t take it from you anymore, Mike.” We’re trying to keep ahead of that. We’re trying to make 
it so that we don’t get all of a sudden stuck with 40K, forty thousand pounds of material that 
nobody wants. So we try to deal with things in small, quickly processable volumes. 
 
But in doing so, I’m trying to teach people how to do things quickly and in small 
volumes. And that’s not where we’ve been staffing-wise for a long time. It’s always ben fill this 
giant box and then call this one guy and he’ll come take it. I’ve been kind of advocating for—as 
much as I don't think is the most efficient way to go about it—like smaller, like touch it once or 
twice, maybe even four times, methodology of stuff. Again, that’s been a little hard to sell. And I 
would say that if I was a stronger manager or a better communicator, I could probably get people 
to understand why this is important and what we do. But as it is, I kind of go through it once with 
someone and maybe miss a detail, and then come back to them later on. But unfortunately, 
because I know the stuff pretty well and I can do it quickly, almost always the easier thing for me 
12 
 
to do is just fix it myself. Because if I have to re-explain it, it’s going to take at least as long as it 
took me to explain it in the first place. And then we’ll have to actually do it again together. 
Whereas if I just do it myself, that person who didn’t get it the first time can just go do 
something they know how to do, and then that’s more efficient across the board. But it does 
make it really hard to feel like you’re an effective manager. Which is fine. Because I’m not a 
manager. Most of my work is just about making sure the trucks show up and make sure people 
know what’s in each box. But I’ve been trying to get better about helping people understand, so 
that we can have some surrogacy, so we can have people step in when I’m not around.  
 
40:37 
 
Nickerson:  How many staff are there at the ARCC [people that you?] supervise? 
 
Peabody:  I’m the only full-timer with more hours on the ARCC than anybody else. And that’s 
only about three-fifths of my hours. The rest of it is kind of administrative, going to trainings, 
that kind of thing. But like actual floor time for me is three days a week. We have two part-
timers over there who are doing I think between 32, I want to say between 25 and 32 hours 
apiece a week. And then my supervisor has usually eight to ten hours a week over there. But he’s 
mostly in the offices doing operations manager stuff. You know, coding invoices, big 
conversations about what truck we’re going to buy in two years, that kind of thing. I’m the 
person who spends the most of my longer weekly schedule there, if I’m not mistaken. 
 
41:34 
 
Nickerson:  And you said that sometimes you have work placement people and volunteers? Can 
you talk about that? 
 
Peabody:  About a year ago, I noticed a trend in a lot of the facilities I’ve been talking about, like 
CHARM in Colorado and SCARCE in Illinois. That they employ a lot of people who have work 
placement issues or barriers to vocation or who just need like community service hours. I’m 
trying to think, there’s one other scenario. Or like a green team building exercise. There are a lot 
of these opportunities to have community groups and work placement organizations, have people 
come in and do stuff that’s kind of hard to justify having a like you know, middle-aged hourly 
employee do in between other topics. I’m having a hard time finding the words for this particular 
thing. Because I’ve noticed that like this whole part of the volunteer and work placement spectra, 
there’s a lot of words and a lot of rephrasing, and I’m never exactly sure which ones are okay to 
use now and then. And also the thing is, like sometimes it seems to be the exact same task, but 
we’re getting people in from a nearby school, like the New School in Montpelier, that takes 
students in who have emotional or physical or psychological debilitation or obstacles to 
overcome, and so it’s easy to find little tasks for them. Because they’re usually like, when I talk 
to their supervisors and case managers, they’re saying things like look, he just wants to leave the 
building for a couple of hours a day and do something pretty repetitive that feels good to him. 
And I can easily find that in something like packaging a small object, or sorting one particular 
piece of plastic from other pieces of trash that may get contaminated. This is work that we used 
to do ourselves at the ARCC when we had five customers a day. You know, at the beginning, 
when we weren’t getting much stuff, and we didn’t have a lot of customers. You could take a 
13 
 
minute and go through the five-gallon pail of bottle caps or batteries and just pick out the nails 
and the broken cigarette butts or whatever that just gets swept into there.  
 
But now that we’re getting dozens of pounds of these things a day, it’s really hard to find 
time to go through all of it. Because you’ve got to do other stuff, like do the bank deposit, or 
check the cameras to figure out who did a dump-and-dash the night before. There’s a lot of other 
stuff that’s kind of like okay, well, you’re a specialized, experienced person who’s been here a 
lot doing a bunch of different things. Clearly things like security protocols and talking to staff 
about vacation schedules is more in your wheelhouse, and it’s more important to the organization 
in general than getting a little bit of metal out of a little bit of plastic. That’s still important. But 
you know, in that kind of crisis moment where you have to say “oh, I’m going to manage 
people,” or “I’m going to sort plastics.” It’s obvious what choice you have to make. But as you 
get larger, you consistently make those choices more often.  
 
45:10 
 
And so we found that there’s a real opportunity to find people who have a lot of need or a 
lot of interest or just want to have kind of a nice time being environmentally conscious in a very 
physical and direct way. Like that was one of the things I enjoyed most when I started working at 
the transfer station was that I think it’s easy. People kind of feel good about like “oh, well, I 
checked fifty emails.” Great. Now I have like two carbon credits, or whatever. It’s just like these 
kind of abstract attachments to sustainability and protecting the environment. When you can 
literally take a sack of poisonous garbage in your hands, and put it where it’s supposed to go, or 
take it from someone who doesn’t know what they’re doing, or redirect them to donate or 
repurpose something that they thought was just a piece of trash, that’s got a much more 
immediate impact. It’s a much small and more localized impact. But in terms of what you 
experience as a participant in that relationship with stuff and other people, it’s got a real punch to 
it. And I think a lot of people enjoy that. They’re like oh, well, I’m very interested in being 
green. I really want to do my part to recycle. I want to protect the environmental quality of our 
state and our region for generations to come. But I just don’t feel like I’m getting it done 
subscribing to, you know, some magazine that just tells me about water issues or something like 
that. Like I want to do something more. Like more direct with myself while I have time on this 
planet. And when you say to them hey, well if you wanted to, I don't know, pull leaky ink 
cartridges out of printers and send the leaky cartridges to a specialty processor, and then send the 
printers to a different specialty processor, so that one of them or both of them isn’t dealing with 
trash that neither one of them wants, that’s a very easy conversation to have with someone. 
Because you’re like, of course I see the value in that. That’s what I want to do. 
  
And so we’ve been finding more opportunities for those kinds of things. People to come 
in and just sort stuff. Like we have a group of seniors who will just come in. And I’ll just like 
save a couple of weird projects, like dismantling VHS tapes or taping the contacts on batteries, 
just that kind of stuff. Like things that are simple, easy stuff that you can remember how to do it 
when you need to that one time during the year, or the one time during the week where it’s 
important. And then I don’t freak out about oh my God, how am I going to have time to deal 
with this before the RCRA [Resource Conservation and Recovery Act] deadline of storage of 
14 
 
this material is up. It works out better for everybody, I think, because everyone gets what they 
want. And the net benefit to the environment is the same.  
 
47:47 
 
Nickerson:  And the RCRA deadline is? 
 
Peabody:  Oh, I’m sorry. That’s a thing. So for universal and hazardous waste, you can’t be 
storing them onsite for more than a year after the point of intake. So if I get something like a 
leaky lithium battery, and I store it properly, which is bagged in a bucket of sand, usually, 
outside the building, even if I store it properly, I can’t have it around for more than 365 days. 
Like it has to be gone by the anniversary date of my collection of it. And so we never really had 
a big issue with that until we started getting in tonnage. And then you start thinking like, oh, 
man, how long has this pallet been here? Oh, wow, eight months? Rarely does anything pallet 
weight sit around for more than a couple of weeks. Because right now, we’re at a good enough 
clip in volume that we can turn over at least once a month on a lot of things. 
 
 
But, for example, mercury thermostats that we take at the facility. They send you the little 
sticker that says, “Date this when you open the box. Ship by one year from this date.” And I’m 
not going to send out one mercury thermostat and just keep wasting Fed Ex’s time with the 
shipping label. I’ll wait until I’ve got a year’s worth of collection in there. And that’s often 20 to 
40 mercury thermostats. That’s a lot of mercury to be sitting on at any one time, and it comes in 
a nice, sealed little box. But at the same time, it’s a little box. And it’s easy to forget about it for 
a couple of months at a time, especially if no one brings you any more thermostats. In fact, it 
might be one of those things where like you’ll take no thermostats for months, and then all of a 
sudden you’ll get one, and you’ll go look for the box, you’ll find it, like, oh, man, I have to ship 
this next week. What?! Yeah. So, deadlines.  
 
49:33 
 
Nickerson:  So what’s your favorite part of the job? 
   
Peabody:  Somewhere between seeing really weird stuff all the time, and just dealing with people 
doing something that they want to do. I mean, there are people who get pushed on us because 
there are a few things we take that no one else is really doing it very well or very easily. Or, for 
whatever reason, the store that should be taking it back, or the hazardous waste manager who 
knows we exist and just doesn’t want to deal with the costing on their end, will push people on 
us. And so we’ll get people who every once in a while, like, “Oh, well, I didn’t know you were 
here, and I don’t really want to…. I’m just doing what my boss told me to do.” 
 
 
But most people who come to the ARCC are like, “I’ve really been looking for a way to 
deal with cereal bags.” Or, “I really have been hoping somebody was taking pellet bag overwrap 
for recycling. This is so great to learn!” They come in and they’re invested, because it’s a pull, 
and not a push. Their own interest has sponsored them being there. And then their repeat 
visitation is based on their faith and their concern and their dedication to the work. Whenever 
you deal with those kinds of people in any regard, unless it’s like a really crazy cult that is 
15 
 
causing a lot of problems, and you have to deal with the brunt of their like moon worship or 
shooting buses or something like that—you can keep that on the record, I don't know why I went 
there, but it’s hot and I was just thinking of something else—but generally speaking, when you 
deal with people who like what they’re doing, and want to do it, and are serious about making it 
happen the right way, it’s a rewarding experience.  
 
In the service industry, I don't think you always get a lot of that. like you know, if you’re 
wait staffing, you’re dealing with people who often just showed up at your restaurant or 
whatever because they’re out of gas and they can’t find something that they and the kids will eat, 
so they’re just hoping that their visit to Arby’s or whatever will not end in tragedy, like the last 
five pit stops.   
 
In this particular case, people show up because they want to be there. They’re there on 
purpose. And they want to do what it is they’re doing. And it’s not accidental. And it’s not 
forced on them. They just, they want to see it happen. And they trust you to do it the right way. 
And being consistently trusted and heard by people is a very validating experience, and I can’t 
recommend it enough.  
 
52:10 
  
Nickerson:  How about—I just have a few more questions. 
 
Peabody:  Okay. 
 
Nickerson:  How about dangers or personal risks in doing this work? 
 
Peabody:  The number one danger in this job, as has been related to me by our insurer, is 
electronics. There are sharp edges. Some of these TVs weigh in excess of 100 pounds. And 
somehow, every fragile 90 year-old lady out there is just baffled about how it got in her car. I 
mean, this happens like twice a week. I go out there and she’s like, “Oh, I barely got it in there.”  
 
Like, “No, no, seriously, what is going on?” 
 
“Well, my grandson came by” and put it in her car. But he couldn’t come down here to 
help deal with it? “Oh, he’s busy.” I’m not trying to make any fun of old ladies. Although I do 
want to point out that a large, like more than 30 percent, I’m sorry, about 60, 70 percent of the 
people who use our services are women age 40 and over. It’s an interesting demographic to see. 
Because I don’t feel like anybody outside of fashion sees that demographic consistently. Well, 
fashion and gynecology. Yeah, but it’s like seeing that one, like seeing a line of senior women 
coming at me. Like, huh. Wow. I think we know our clientele, don’t we? It’s like so this is who’s 
interested in recycling. Hmm. I feel like someone should just do a paper on that. Because right 
now we’ve just got to treat recycling like this big catastrophe that no one can get their heads 
around. And like well clearly, the age 40 women and over get it. So let’s talk to them. 
 
Anyway, so, what was the question? 
 
54:04 
 
Nickerson:  Oh, I was asking what the dangers or personal risks [there] are. 
16 
 
 
Peabody:  Oh. (laughs) Yeah. Electronics. Very heavy electronics. Often they have glass, or 
sharp plastic edges, or metal bits, or whipping wires. You have to handle them pretty carefully 
because there’s almost no point at which a piece of e-waste, if mishandled, couldn’t cause you 
some amount of harm. I think all the injuries I’ve ever sustained at work have been related to 
electronics. Either a TV was too heavy and I threw my back out a little bit, or I gashed my hand 
trying to open something.  
 
There are things like paints can be dangerous, especially because people don’t always 
know what is a paint. They just assume it comes in a one-gallon can, it’s paint. But you know, 
you get into it and it’s like oh, it’s actually pool chem. Or it’s some kind of—it’s a little bit of 
paint, but a ton of kerosene on top. If the lid comes off on that, you get this like big gush of 
really intense petroleum distillate in your face. Yeah. So there are some chemical hazards. There 
are some physical hazards. 
 
I’ve never been physically threatened by another person. Although I have felt a little 
intimidated sometimes by people who are like really big and not interested in paying. But for the 
most part, the risks are just about how you handle stuff. 
 
And we’ve in the last couple of years been picking up a lot of tools, like a scissor lift and 
dunnage carts and those kinds of things. We’re being more conscious. My three coworkers over 
there, my supervisor and the two people who are there consistently, they’re all over forty, and 
two of them are over sixty. Like you don’t have to talk to them too hard to be like, you should be 
gentler on your back, bro. There’s no need to be throwing yourself out now. Because if you don’t 
get that kink out of your spine, you’re never coming back. So let’s all agree that we don’t need to 
die on the floor here. Like this isn’t the Titanic. We don’t have to go down with this thing.  
 
The risks are not minimal, but we’ve done a lot of conversation with OSHA, and we’ve 
made a lot of changes. And we’re feeling like generally now unless something goes wildly 
wrong, we’ll be okay. 
 
56:14 
 
I do want to say, however, that three weeks ago we did have a train derailment 
immediately outside the door. It was not lethal to anybody involved, and the train did not leave 
the tracks. The gondolas that were carrying like 50 tons of granite slag stone for rip rap use in the 
South just kind of slid inside the rail bed and the gondolas kind of fell on their sides a little bit. 
But nothing fell out and no one got hurt. But there was a real moment there where I was like, “I 
am absolutely unprepared for a disaster of this magnitude.” You’re looking over at your first aid 
kit on the wall being like “uh, no, that’s not going to do it.” Yeah. Didn’t think about a train 
derailment in 2018 being a major risk to life and limb. 
 
56:59 
 
17 
 
Nickerson:  And I should say that the ARCC is in Barre, which is the granite capital of Vermont, 
maybe of the Northeast, and there is a railyard right outside where all the granite gets shipped, 
right outside your door. 
 
Peabody:  Yes.  
 
57:18 
 
Nickerson:  So, just a couple more questions. Are there any special licenses or training required 
for your job? 
 
Peabody:  Yep.  
 
Nickerson:  Or what would you say is the special knowledge or special skills that someone in 
your position should have? 
 
Peabody:  A lot of the universal waste collection programs do have either refresher courses or 
online classes or like a little pamphlet that they’ll give to you that you do have to kind of go 
through and test yourself on and sign something to say that you’re a vetted person who has 
recognized and read these rules and knows what to do. So in the event of a disaster, it isn’t a 
thing like well, no one tried to train you. 
 
 
I’ve also done HAZWOPER [Hazardous Waste Operations and Emergency Response] 
training for emergency response for hazardous waste releases. I did a RCRA specific training for 
storage requirements and state and federal specific identifications and management of materials. 
 
58:20 
 
Nickerson:  And RCRA stands for? 
 
Peabody:  The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. I think I did that right. I believe that’s 
the one that they signed right after Love Canal, that’s about proper handling of hazardous wastes 
and management on-site and storage. It’s this big 40 year-old act that’s designed to keep people 
from being like, “Eh, put it in a bucket. And when the bucket’s full, just tip it over.” 
 
 
Yeah. Let’s see. I’ve done that. I’ve done some power truck training, which is just for 
forklifts and scissor lifting. Really, anything that uses even small [mesa?]-hydraulics is required 
that you do some kind of like nominal training with it. They just can’t put you behind a forklift 
and say, “Yeah, you’ll figure it out.” 
 
 
Let’s see. I know there are a couple of other certifications I’ve got. None of them are like 
big national things. Like I don’t have a gold medal or anything. But, yeah. They’re things that 
when you start handling something that’s a little dicey, they really want you to go to at least one 
training, or a yearly refresher on it. 
 
 
18 
 
59:42 
 
Nickerson:  Thirty years from now, do you think there will still be people in our community 
doing your job? 
 
Peabody:  (sighs) I hope not. A lot of what we do is kind of pickup work for a packaging and 
manufacturing industry that is sort of moving with the blinders on. Like so much of what we take 
right now is just big glass TVs. And nobody at any point during television manufacture in the 
last 60 years was like, “Hmm, it’s a giant glass ball full of lead, pumped full of about 20,000 
volts of electricity. Someone else’s problem. I guess I don’t need to think seriously at all about 
how to properly manage or deal with the downstream on this.”  
 
 
Like “downstream” is such a modern word. Like really, before that, at no point was 
anybody thinking seriously like, no. Because once it’s not working anymore, it goes in a hole in 
the ground. And once 50 million people decide that it doesn’t work anymore, they’re all going to 
go into 50 million holds in the ground. There was no clear thought on it. I’m sure people were 
talking about it at some point on a very small scale. But at the industry level, it’s always been, 
no. The consumer bought it from us. It’s the consumer’s problem. They deal with it. And back 
when everything was made of glass, or one kind of plastic, or paper, that was not such a huge 
hurdle to jump over. But now that we’re just burning through so much plastic like in everything. 
And now there’s a frigging lithium battery in every piece of equipment anywhere. There’s also 
one in your singing birthday card. And there’s also one in this weird piece of mail you got to tell 
you that you could go trade in your Hyundai. There’s just all these batteries and all this stuff out 
there and nobody is saying, what if this isn’t a good idea in the long run? 
 
 
And so when I say I hope that no one’s doing this work, it’s because I sincerely hope that 
inside of thirty years, someone’s just, some group of someone gets it enough that they decide 
we’re just going to start making things that— 
 
61:58 
 
[End Track 1. Begin Track 2.] 
 
Peabody:  --either break down like the autumn leaves, or it just won’t exist, or it will be 
permanently reusable. But we’re not going to make stuff that’s just made of limited shelf life 
trash, and then make it everyone’s problems but ours to deal with it. I feel like we’ve been doing 
that for a while, and the chickens have come home to roost in our civilization as a result. There 
are lessons to be learned here, and changes that need to be made. And I think 30 years is an 
adequate time for turnaround on that. So, yeah. I would like it very much if the ARCC was just 
fondly remembered by the people who used it now, in 30 years’ time. 
 
00:46 
 
Nickerson:  Is there anything that we have not covered so far that you would like people to know 
about the work that you do? 
 
19 
 
Peabody:  [pause] The garbage man is sort of this weird archetype in our culture. I don't know 
how other places, even like Canada, think or talk about or depict garbage people. But I think in 
our culture there’s like this idea of like this kind of cigarette on the edge of his lip, beer belly 
dude hanging out the back of a truck, just like flipping off little kids and shaking cans outside the 
buildings at four o’clock in the morning. I think that as garbage has become more refined, as 
recycling has become a bigger thing, that this archetype hasn’t drifted out to pasture. And I do 
still get moments with customers where they kind of seem to think that I made a bad career 
choice. I mean, I don’t know how to break it to a conversation with them, like I get government 
benefits and medical and vision, and a retirement plan. Like I’m probably doing okay. You don’t 
have to pity me. People like trying to put tips in my hand. I’m like, no, it’s cool, it’s cool. I’m 
doing all right. Like I’m here because I want to be here. You don’t have to feel bad for me. But 
you don’t want to just bring them to the carpet and be like, “Yo, dog, I make more money than 
you.” Because I probably don’t. But there are a lot of safeguards. Like there’s a lot of good that 
goes on in my work. And plus, it’s incredibly fulfilling. I mean, I’m sure some people don’t want 
to be garbage men, or don’t want to handle solid waste, or don’t want to have the same 
conversation about how to properly package paint or old shoes or whatever every single day. I’m 
not that person. I’m okay doing that stuff all the time.  
 
I just feel like everybody’s job’s got some amount of value, some amount of worth in it. 
And it doesn’t really pan out for anybody to just feel bad about someone who doesn’t have what 
they’ve got all the time. I think it’s fair to assume that a person like locked out of doors in winter 
with no food or heat source probably might need a hand. But I don't know, I feel like no one’s 
entitled to treat anybody in any job badly. There are probably a couple of jobs where I’m wrong 
about that. I can’t think of them right now. But I think it’s probably fair to preface it that there 
probably are jobs where you should just feel horrible about those people all the time. I don't 
know what they are, but I don't think garbage man is one of them. So it’s okay to be a garbage 
man. It’s okay to be a fast food worker. It’s okay to sweep floors. It’s okay to have like 14 jobs 
and they all pay like nothing and you just drive around all the time, but you like doing them. If 
you like doing them, you should just keep doing them. And if you like your one job, you should 
keep doing that one job. And nobody should feel the right to make fun of you for it. That’s it. 
I went way over time on that. I am sorry, Ginger. 
 
Nickerson:  No, no. Mike, thank you so much. I really appreciate this. 
 
4:09 
[End Track 2. End Interview.] 
 
Total time = 66 minutes