Interview Transcription, Community Health Workers in Downstate New York 
Interviewee, Vilma Velez 
Interviewers, Aaron Paige and Elinor Levy 
Conducted on April 22, 2022 
Interview conducted remotely via video conferencing software 
Aaron Paige (00:00:00): 
Today is Friday, April 22nd, 2022. My name is Aaron Paige spelling, A A R O N. Last name Paige P A I G E. 
I'm here today with fellow interviewer and folklorist Elinor Levy, spelled E L I N O R. Last name Levy, L E 
V Y. And today Elinor and I will be interviewing Vilma Velez as part of the Archie Green fellowship 
project, titled "Community Health Workers in Downstate New York". Vilma, would you please state and 
spell your full name? 
Vilma Velez (00:00:37): 
Hi, my name is Vilma Velez, Vilma, V I L M A, Velez V E L E Z. 
Aaron Paige (00:00:44): 
And Vilma, where were you born? Where did you grow up? 
Vilma Velez (00:00:48): 
I was born in, Bayamon, Puerto Rico and I was brought to New York when I was five years old. I lived for 
a short while in Manhattan and then to build Lincoln Center, we were moved to the Bronx. So I grew up 
in the Bronx. 
Aaron Paige (00:01:14): 
What brought you and your family to New York when you were five? 
Vilma Velez (00:01:19): 
Employment opportunities for my parents, they were very young at the time, they were in their young 
twenties. 
Aaron Paige (00:01:28): 
I guess maybe we'd start with, what title or titles have you held at HRH care, now Sun River? 
Vilma Velez (00:01:37): 
Okay. I started out as an Administrative Assistant to Anne Nolan, the CEO of, at that time Peekskill Area 
Health Center, in 1990. Basically, assisting in writing grants, researching grants, and all of the stuff that 
goes, a handyman in the office, practically. And then other titles I've had was, I forget the exact titles, 
but something to do with cultural competency, Director of Cultural Competency, and then Director of 
Immigrant and Community Engagement. 
Elinor Levy (00:02:23): 
So let's back up a little and talk about what you did before you came to Peekskill Health Center and what 
led you to that particular job? 
Vilma Velez (00:02:37): 
An interesting thing growing up in the Bronx, I went to Blessed Sacrament. I grew up in housing projects, 
the same housing projects, I have to mention this, Sonia Sotomayor, who is younger than I am, grew up. 
And she also went to my same Catholic school Blessed Sacrament. So of course I was ahead of her. It's 
just, you know, an interesting coincidence. 
Elinor Levy (00:03:03): 
Strong chicas, strong Latino women coming out of Blessed Sacrament. 
Vilma Velez (00:03:07): 
Yep, yep. With those strong nuns. I grew up in the Bronx, I went to high school in Manhattan and I went 
to Hunter College for two years. I dropped out after two years, got married, had a baby. My husband, 
we decided we wanted to buy a house. I didn't want to leave the Bronx, but we couldn't afford the 
Bronx. So we bought a house up in Cortland and I was home with my small children and itching to go 
back to work. And my husband mentioned that there was a job available in Peekskill. And I said, well, 
what kind of a job can I get in Peekskill? I'm a New York City person. It was a lucky break for me. So he 
found the job for me and I applied, and I got the job in 1990. 
Aaron Paige (00:04:04): 
Right off the bat, working as an Administrative Assistant, were you already involved in thinking about 
culture and negotiating culture in your role, and translating culture in that way that you came to later? 
Vilma Velez (00:04:21): 
I grew up translating for my parents and family members. I grew up interpreting for them as a child. So I 
knew the struggle that immigrants have, and when the child has more power sometimes than the 
parent, because of the language barrier for the parents. And also how I was a child, a shy child, and it 
bothered me that I had to take that role on. So, even as an administrative assistant, I was already 
working with the community, helping them, translating for them, interpreting for them. They would 
come to me for whatever they needed, a letter done. And it grew from there. 
Elinor Levy (00:05:07): 
That's really interesting because we don't often talk about that power dynamic that happens when a 
child is interpreting for their parents and how that changes the relationship probably in very 
unacknowledged ways. 
Aaron Paige (00:05:28): 
And it could be a very heavy responsibility to bear too, as a young person. 
Elinor Levy (00:05:32): 
And how do you address that balance? 
Vilma Velez (00:05:40): 
You just go through it. You just do whatever you can. I don't know if I was interpreting properly for my 
parents, but they managed. They coped. My mother eventually learned English and my father too. And 
my mother landed up working in the New York City school system. But it took a little while for them. The 
power was just...something that bothered me was that I was shy and I didn't wanna do it. And I was 
pushed into adult situations that I was not prepared for. 
Aaron Paige (00:06:16): 
Vilma, how did you make the transition from the Administrative Assistant role to the next role that you 
held? And what were you doing in that role? You had said it was.... 
Vilma Velez (00:06:29): 
Cultural competency really is the mission of the health center, and I really bought into that mission. I 
was so lucky to work for that organization. You both are frozen. You hear me? 
Aaron Paige (00:06:47): 
Yep. I hear you. 
Vilma Velez (00:06:48): 
The organization's commitment to the community. Also, in preparing grants, we would do needs 
assessments and go out into the community or have the community come to us and interview them 
regarding what were the needs of the community. So it was almost natural in developing the grants, for 
health care or for the special needs. Slowly but surely, well, we need interpreters and let's develop a 
medical interpreter program. Vilma, can you do that? You know, can you help with that? It was kind of 
natural in growing into it as it was growing in the health center, this awareness of the needs of the 
migrants or the immigrants. 
Aaron Paige (00:07:36): 
And then the CHW program, specifically the promotora program. Can you bring us into how that came 
about, how that developed, when it was established? 
Vilma Velez (00:07:49): 
Around 1990, the HIV epidemic, the need for the community to learn, regarding HIV prevention and 
services. And you don't speak about HIV to people because they're afraid. They're not going to come in. 
That only happens to a certain group of people and not to us. So how to engage them? We would do 
social events and other things. And we started with Wilfredo, whom you've probably spoken to, Comite 
Latino. Comite Latino was a way to engage people without them feeling threatened, and teaching them 
about health care and the services available to them. That was Comite Latino. Then, we started a 
woman's group that would meet every Monday. We would bring in a nurse to talk about breast cancer 
or a nutritionist to talk about nutrition and different health topics, whatever the health topic of the 
month was, we would bring an expert to speak to the women about this. 
New Speaker (00:09:08): 
And these were all immigrant women. It was done in Spanish. It was open to everyone. And on 
occasions we would have an English speaker. So we would have it bilingual, but mostly it would be 
Spanish speaking immigrants. Mothers, basically mothers who wanted to learn and take care of their 
families. In providing these educational workshops to them, it grew out of, well we wanted them to 
share this information with the rest of the community. And then Anne Nolan, our CEO, was very 
interested in our CHWs, in the Farmworker Migrant Health Program. And also how we learned about 
health promoters in Mexico and Ecuador, and tried to implement that model here, in urban areas 
because the rural community health workers work differently than the ones in the urban areas. 
Vilma Velez (00:10:12): 
So that's how it came about. And then, doing a study. How do we get this? How do we implement a 
health promoter program? What are the strategies? What do we teach them? So we reviewed what 
other organizations were doing. And we associated closely with, let me see if I remember the name, the 
National Center for Farm Worker Health. We got information and guidance from them, and training, and 
cultural competency, because the health promoters were not only trained on health topics, but also 
cultural competency and how to reach out to people without being judgmental. So, that's how we 
started. It was a long process. A very long process. And how do we implement it? Who can support the 
program within the organization was always a struggle because, we really didn't have direct funding for 
this population. Never have. 
Elinor Levy (00:11:21): 
Did you find that cultural competency came into play, because I imagine the women were from 
different, they weren't all Mexican or they weren't all Puerto Rican or they weren't all, so, there had to 
be some negotiation and learning in that space of how groups, Latinos treat each other in a sense. 
Vilma Velez (00:11:52): 
I think I mentioned this...oh, my battery's low. Let me plug this in. Let me plug it in a moment. The cord 
had come out. I think I told you this story once Aaron, I'm not sure. When I first started working in the 
health department, I would be called into women's health, which was adjacent to administration, to 
interpret for the women. Now I was not trained. And usually when an organization calls someone to 
interpret, they grab anyone, you know, a doctor, a nurse, a housekeeper to interpret, which is not 
appropriate sometimes. Anyway, one of the first few times I was called in to women's health to go 
interpret and there was a young couple there. And the nurse was speaking to the woman asking 
question and she was quiet and he would respond. 
Vilma Velez (00:12:56): 
And this was women's health issues. And in my mind, my lack of cultural competency at that time, let's 
say, I was in my mind, I didn't say it out loud, I would say why isn't she responding? Why is she quiet? 
You know? And it worked out. The nurse found out whatever she needed. She eventually spoke to the 
woman in private also just to make sure everything was okay with that relationship. And then later on, I 
was a little perturbed that the woman was not powerful, you know, like New York women, right? And 
then I came to realize he was taking care of her. So I grew culturally competent, also, being more 
sensitive to where people come from, and the dynamics of the couple. So was that your question? 
Elinor Levy (00:13:53): 
No, that answered it in some respects. I worked with Frank Proshan. I was his graduate assistant. He 
would tell me stories because he speaks several Southeast Asian languages, of being called in the 
hospital to interpret and discovering that the interpretation was as much cultural as it was language. 
Trying to explain to a doctor who thinks an appendectomy is routine, why that's not routine to an 
elderly man from Laos, who'd never been in a hospital before, and so I would imagine that those 
situations would come up in addition to situations of just, how someone from Uruguay deals with things 
as opposed to someone from Puerto Rico. And getting medical personnel to understand those 
differences as well. You can't treat everyone the same. 
Vilma Velez (00:15:07): 
And the language, it's not only knowing the language, it's culturally knowing the language where people 
come from. That takes a little listening. And as you're interpreting, just standing back a little bit and 
letting the person explain. So sometimes it takes a very long time, even though you know the language 
because people speak with different cadences, let's say, I couldn't tell what they were saying. But 
Peekskill is so diverse. Again, I am Puerto Rican. I consider myself. But I grew up in New York. So even 
the Puerto Rican culture, there, people tell me, well, this is an idiom in Puerto Rico. I go, well, it's not an 
idiom in the Bronx. Don't you do this in Puerto Rico? I go, 'I don't know, but we do this in the Bronx.' 
That kinda thing. So, I think it takes a lot of listening and letting people speak for themselves. And again, 
being a bridge without interpreting, misinterpreting, what they're saying. 
Elinor Levy (00:16:24): 
It's gonna sound like a yes or no question, but I don't want a yes or no answer. Did you ever encounter a 
time when you walked in to interpret and the doctor or the medical personnel kept insisting that they 
already knew. That it was okay. They knew the culture because they took a course in cultural 
competency. 
Vilma Velez (00:16:53): 
What I know is a lot of people think they're fluent in the language and they're not. You're not listening. 
You're speaking to the patient, but you're not listening. You may know, capture a few words, but that's 
not what the patient wants to bring across. So that's what really I encountered is that the person I was 
interpreting for, thinking that, or maybe not interpreting, but some providers thinking that they speak 
the language. Yeah. That's the hardest part, the communication between patient and provider is so 
important. 
Elinor Levy (00:17:47): 
About the same time that you started, probably in the mid-nineties, there was a movement out of 
California called cultural humility, which was like the next step from cultural competence, because the 
women who sort of created and theorized it, noticed that everyone was, hospital personnel would be 
required to take these classes in intercultural communication. And so they just went oh, I got it, I took 
that class, now I'm fine. When they really weren't. What it takes is being humble and saying, I don't 
know what I don't know. And culturally so what do you need me to do to be better? Which people don't 
like to say. 
Vilma Velez (00:18:46): 
That's important, because Latinos especially, they're very respectful of health care providers. So 
sometimes they'll shake their head yes, yes, yes, and not understand. And what I found is I want to 
make sure that they understand and that I understand what the message should be to them. So that 
was the very beginning with cultural competency. It was more of a need for communication with the 
patients and it grew from there. And then growing from there, you find out all the other needs of the 
community. Needs that they're there for them, but they're not aware that we can guide them on finding 
apartments. That they have rights to get paid. Connecting them to workers' rights organizations, to 
lawyers. Writing letters for them. And I wrote so many letters for them, whether it was for childcare or 
transporting a child or for the landlord or for their employer. So, those were all things that Comite 
Latino would do for them. And it just started because of the need of the community. And again, no 
funding. 
Aaron Paige (00:20:12): 
Would you say that one of the intentions of Comite Latino was to address the social determinants of 
health? I mean, was that really at the heart of what Comite Latino was all about? 
Vilma Velez (00:20:27): 
Exactly. Because we wanted to provide health care, but you can't provide health care if they're hungry, if 
they don't have a home, if they don't have a job. Those are priorities. Not that we could do it, but we 
would connect them to those priorities that came before health care. If they needed a job or they 
couldn't get out of their job to come see the doctor, how do we provide health care to them? Let's open 
up on Saturday. Let's have Wednesday night so they can come in for health care. And that's cultural 
competency. Being open and having hours when they're available. Not when we are available and want 
to work. 
Aaron Paige (00:21:10): 
Can you illuminate for us the relationship between the promotoras and Comite Latino how they work 
together, and just what the nature of that relationship was, or is? 
Vilma Velez (00:21:23): 
For the promotoras we developed a reference book. Not only did they get the workshops on health 
topics, just basic preventive health topics, immunizations, eating well, nutrition, blood pressure 
screening. We trained them even on doing blood pressure screenings. And we also developed a little 
handbook of community resources, so that if they met someone out on the street who was looking for a 
job, or they needed housing, they can look at our resource guide and connect them with those services. 
The health promoters, maybe they didn't have that information in their own social network when they 
met someone, but they could call up our office and we would give them that information. Or the health 
promoters themselves, they have free access to the Comite office, and they can come in, use the 
computer, make phone calls, look up whatever they needed to look up. I have to get water. 
Aaron Paige (00:22:25): 
Sure, sure. 
Vilma Velez (00:22:27): 
So, you know, the health promoters are community people. They work within the community. They're 
very connected to the church. And I'm talking about the Peekskill ones, because that's where we started 
the program. And some of them worked at White Plains Linen that employs, I don't know, hundreds of 
workers there in not very good conditions. I mean, they have improved. And we've been allowed to go 
there and they've improved the situation there. So they were able to do outreach to people in those 
organizations, the church or where they worked. 
Aaron Paige (00:23:09): 
Was that strategic, I mean, in the sense of maybe identifying promotoras who were working at White 
Plains Linen, because they had access to that community of workers in a way that the health center 
didn't? 
Vilma Velez (00:23:21): 
It was strategic, but it was lucky to get people like that. It was lucky to engage them. We were lucky. A 
lot of the women came to us and they came with a lot of tools in their own toolbox that they brought to 
us as you know. You met them. And we were just lucky that these were very animated community 
involved women. I guess it was a magnet, let's say, for natural leaders, in the Comite Latino. The 
women's group was a magnet for people who wanted to do something. 
Aaron Paige (00:24:05): 
When first designing the promotora program, did you have the diversity of Peekskill's Latino community 
in mind? And how did you see the promotora program as addressing that diversity? 
Vilma Velez (00:24:24): 
Well, our patients are very diverse and the promotoras are many of our patients, which helped a lot, 
being patients of the health center, because then, through the women's group, they knew the workings 
of the health center. And, they just got along. Whether they were from Columbia, Ecuador, Mexico, 
Guatemala, the Dominican Republic. Although there's that diversity, there's certain aspects that unite 
Latinos, whether it's the religion, whether the language, the celebrations, the music. So that brought 
everyone together. The music and the dancing. And that's why Duchess Arts arts and Westchester Arts 
was so important to gel the community together. 
Elinor Levy (00:25:16): 
I know in talking to some of the promotoras and others that they came to this country with professional 
training that they couldn't couldn't use. Do you think that becoming involved in the women's group and 
then maybe moving into promotora helped them to gain entry back into some of their professions? 
Vilma Velez (00:25:53): 
Well, one of the goals of the women's group was to empower women, empower them and help them to 
succeed in whatever they needed to. Whether it was going to school board meetings. Whether it was 
for a job. So that they could enrich their families through this self-empowerment. And these women are 
family oriented and that's why they participate in everything. To better not only the community, but 
their family, but also their community. 
Elinor Levy (00:26:28): 
Right. Because I think we sometimes, I think a lot of us sometimes forget, we just have this assumption 
that anyone who's immigrated to the United States, especially from Latino countries, are all 
farmworkers. You know, when that is not true at all. . 
Vilma Velez (00:26:51): 
We had doctors. We had doctors, nurses, nutritionists. 
Elinor Levy (00:26:56): 
Lawyers, educators. 
Vilma Velez (00:27:01): 
Yeah. Lawyers too. We were enriched with that wealth of talent that they brought to us. Again, you 
know, I considered myself lucky to have landed in this role. And we learned from them, as much as they 
learned. Basically, our goal was to teach them about the United States health care system, because they 
were savvy people. They're survivors. They're savvy people who came here struggling and smart people 
who...The language barrier, sometimes because you have a language barrier, people think, well, you 
don't know anything. That's not it. They'll speak louder, you know. You can't hear me because you don't 
know the language. 
Aaron Paige (00:27:48): 
It sounds like a lot of the promotoras came to you. Did you also have recruitment strategies in place? 
Vilma Velez (00:27:58): 
Yeah. We did flyers of course. Come join us. The first health promoter program that I started was, okay, 
what am I going to do? Why would people come to the women's group? Why would they come to me? 
So we did flyers, inviting them to come and participate in a women's group. We're going to do Zumba. 
We're going to learn about breast cancer. We have childcare. So we would have the Americorps do 
childcare and the Americorps would do the homework with them while the women were in the 
women's group. So we try not to have any barriers for women to participate. 
Elinor Levy (00:28:42): 
Does the women's group still exist today? 
Vilma Velez (00:28:46): 
It did until just before the pandemic. I've been asked to restart it, but it's been hard, with the pandemic 
and getting people back together, but it could very well. The women's group would do walking in 
Peekskill, exercises. And that was led by the health promoters. Because the health promoters became 
the women's group. So maybe there were about 10 in the women's group and then they would recruit 
others to participate in events. Our Three Kings events were health promoters or women's group getting 
the whole community involved. 
Aaron Paige (00:29:34): 
Vilma, would you take us into Three Kings a little bit, and how that started, and also I think we'd love to 
hear you speak about arts and culture and their connection specifically to the promotora program and 
how it's important, how it's used. I know Three Kings is one major example of that, but I'm sure there 
are others. 
Vilma Velez (00:29:56): 
Three Kings, it started in 1991, something like that, across the street at the United Methodist church. 
They would lend us the church. These were community members who would provide food, cook, and 
we would feed 300, 400, 500, one time it was 700. When it was 700 people I said, we can't do it in the 
church anymore. We can't feed that many people safely. And from there we would have local artists, 
playing string music, traditional, it started mostly with Puerto Rican music and then we invited others, 
the Inti Andinos with Ecuadorian music. And they would do it for free. That's why I was always loyal to 
them once we got funding. It was really a stipend what we pay them from NYSCA. 
Vilma Velez (00:31:02): 
But these were the same people that transitioned into the NYSCA-funded Three Kings Day events. 
Culture brings out people, and that was our role, was to, how do we get people to trust us, workers at 
the health center, the staff at the health center. And it is by them knowing us and knowing that we 
respect their culture, that we value the culture that they bring with them, and sharing it. And it wasn't 
only about Latinos. It was also about exposing the culture of the new immigrants to the older 
community members so that they can share in each other's culture and value that people come here 
with a rich culture. And that people before new immigrants came with a rich culture that we still have, 
and we integrate. So, that was our goal, it was really to connect new community members with the 
older community members. Although, we had so many different goals for these programs. It was value 
all around. I think NYSCA got a lot of bang for their money. Not only did NYSCA provide a cultural event 
to about 700 people, but to three different communities. It elevated those communities. Elevated 
NYSCA because immigrants would know what NYSCA was. We made sure that they would know where 
the funding was coming from. 
Elinor Levy (00:32:49): 
I would say well over 700 a year, you know? 
Vilma Velez (00:32:52): 
Because it was ongoing. I think it was important for the community, new immigrants, to know that an 
organization, a state organization would support these small community programs. I think that was 
value, also. 
Aaron Paige (00:33:17): 
So you created your own cultural programs, drawing on existing traditions as a way of reaching out to 
people. As part of the promotora program, did you also identify cultural events, religious events that 
were happening in the community and try and have a presence at those events as well? 
Vilma Velez (00:33:45): 
Whatever event was going on in the community, the health promoters would set up a table. We would 
get permission from the organizations putting on the projects, and the health promoters would set up 
tables to do blood pressure screenings, testing, Zumba classes also, in the park, so at the schools, we 
really got connected very well just before the pandemic with, well, up to the pandemic with the 
Peekskill City schools. And we had the full support of the superintendent of schools. He was already in 
Peekskill, providing the venue, without us, because that was the most cost. When our health promoters 
weren't there, where are they? We need them. They were a draw to community events, whether it was 
at the riverfront green, the parks, at the farmers' market, the schools, in front of the supermarkets, at 
White Plains Linen, I can go on and on. An at Assumption church, of course. 
Elinor Levy (00:35:02): 
I don't know the diversity of the Peekskill area, but is there a large Asian population or African 
population whose needs have been addressed in the same sort of way as the Latino population? 
Vilma Velez (00:35:31): 
It's been hard for us to reach out that way, unless it's a big event like Three Kings, or a street fair where 
people stop by a table. But to get people in, even long-term residents are not as open to coming in to 
events like that. Whether they're Puerto Rican, African American or white Americans, they're not as 
open to joining programs like this. I think that the immigrants that come in, they want to know the 
community. So they join where people born here or long-term residents are so busy with their lives that 
then they know where to go and where to reach for services. So I found it a little hard to reach out to 
long-term residents, or citizens let's say, who have been assimilated already. 
Aaron Paige (00:36:44): 
And the needs are likely different too. 
Vilma Velez (00:36:46): 
Very different, right. Yeah. There's not the language barrier, let's say. 
Elinor Levy (00:36:51): 
But if there was, say, a sudden rise in people coming from say Vietnam, would you... 
Vilma Velez (00:37:02): 
We work with Haitians in Rockland county, and the need was addressed to them. Yeah. So it could 
adapt. The program can adapt, but you have to have people from that community also. 
Elinor Levy (00:37:14): 
Who are willing to... 
Vilma Velez (00:37:15): 
to help pull them in. Right. But the Haitians, that was a good example. And I wanted to do seniors. 
Elinor Levy (00:37:28): 
Seniors is a huge group as I am becoming one of them, you know, and there many... 
Vilma Velez (00:37:35): 
I am one of them. 
Elinor Levy (00:37:36): 
And there are rising numbers of us who are single, either by choice or divorce or widow, you know, 
death, and how do seniors create that community? Especially if we're not going to be like my parents 
who moved into a retirement community that'll eventually lead into care. I know that there are studies 
about how to address those seniors, how to create a community. 
Vilma Velez (00:38:18): 
The health center model can do that. The funding is har. The funding is mostly for personnel. We have a 
senior building in Peekskill. We had at one time, a grant, and our staff of course went above and beyond 
the grant in providing services. But I remember they would have meetings there, once a week to play 
cards, dominoes, some educational sessions, providing them some services. Food pantry. And I 
remember one time, one of the outreach workers, for the senior outreach worker knew that we were 
doing Zumba and I was doing belly dance at one time with the women, you know, from a video. So she 
goes Vilma, I want you to do the belly dance with the seniors, at _____ house. And I go, "what?!" And 
then I look around and she's got flyers posted up in the building, "Belly Dancing with Vilma". And the 
seniors came and they had fun. Health promoters can do, outreach workers can do that kind of work. 
Elinor Levy (00:39:31): 
I'm also thinking of people, because I'm fairly outgoing. But I think of people like my best friend who is 
not outgoing, who lives alone. She does see a friend of ours once a week, but, and she does have means, 
so it's a little different in her case. She has the means. But I think of a lot of seniors who don't have 
means, who are introverted, who don't want to go anywhere, and who need that promotora outreach. 
I'm on board. I'm on board with you. What can we do? How can we write a grant, to maybe NYSCA or 
the NEA or something, where we can address those people? 
Aaron Paige (00:40:18): 
Well, it is mind boggling, how challenging it can be to find funding in this space because clearly, at the 
center of the conversation now in healthcare are the social determinants of health, and real 
conversations about health equity. But this is a model that is working and the outcomes might be harder 
to measure in some ways, but it is clearly working, and I know that you've had a lot of success and there 
are other programs throughout the country that have had great success and yet funding remains an 
issue for many, and it just must be really frustrating. 
Vilma Velez (00:41:05): 
Well, again, those are the funding needed for the social determinants of health, like you mentioned. So 
how do you address an application for senior wellbeing? Mental health? You know, it's not someone 
who's mentally ill, but who may need a diversion, maybe need social interaction. So how do you address 
that, a need for that? 
Aaron Paige (00:41:30): 
Vilma, we didn't really talk too specifically about demographics, but could you give us a sense of the 
Peekskill community that's served by the promotora program specifically? Who are the cultural groups? 
Vilma Velez (00:41:45): 
Well, we aim to serve the whole community regardless of who they are and what they need. That's our 
goal, to serve everyone, any question they have. Peekskill demographics that we see, at the health 
center are mostly Latinos, or African Americans. The African Americans live in public housing, most of 
them that come to us. Young families. A lot of women with young children. Young women with children. 
Seniors, some seniors, it's very diverse. Poor working people. Urban. 
Aaron Paige (00:42:29): 
And not everybody who's coming receives government services, because not all are eligible for those 
services. 
Vilma Velez (00:42:39): 
A lot of our participants are not qualified to receive. Maybe their children are. And let's say at one time, 
I don't know if it's still true, prenatal care, women, let's say they just got here and they have no services 
and they were entitled to prenatal care and were not aware of that. So that was a big role for health 
promoters. Finding young women who just found out they were pregnant and not coming in for health 
care. You are qualified. You don't need to know the language. You don't need to have money. So, that's 
who we serve. 
Elinor Levy (00:43:21): 
And probably a small percentage of people like me, who choose Sun River Health because of its mission. 
And because... 
Vilma Velez (00:43:29): 
Well, right now I don't know the percentages, but maybe about a quarter, at one time... I don't know 
because now we're all over. We're in Long Island. We're in the city. But the health center is very happy 
to provide charts, if you're interested in knowing what the true percentages are. Just so you are aware, 
the health center, and this is the model for community health centers across the country, is that the 
board of directors of the health center should be representative of the community they serve and not 
only representation in race and ethnicity, but also in income levels, educational levels. So, it's 
community driven. I don't know the exact percentages, but we do have all different varieties of people. 
Elinor Levy (00:44:30): 
And given that the health center is now entering, what, it's fifth decade, or the ending it's fourth decade 
soon, I'd be really interested in some statistics on families, families. Generational. What is the 
generational retention of patients, if they stay in the area, do children, as they grow, do they remain 
patients. 
Vilma Velez (00:45:09): 
Anecdotally, not statistically, yes, it has happened. My children were here and I saw the mothers and 
now I'm seeing the children. That happens when people don't move out and they stay long term, but 
that's not a lot, but it does happen. 
Elinor Levy (00:45:25): 
That in and of itself enables a continuity of care, that you don't maybe see as much in urban areas as 
you might in rural areas. Of course now it's different, but in areas where... That would be interesting to 
see, in areas where children tend to stay in the same region and have this continuity of care where the 
records are all in one place, I'd be really curious. That would be an interesting study. Probably not for a 
folklorist, but more for medical personnel. Are they healthier overall because of this continuity of care 
over decades? 
Vilma Velez (00:46:11): 
Well, they're getting immunizations, preventative healthcare. 
Elinor Levy (00:46:14): 
Right. Maybe they're more likely to go to the doctor because they have this lifelong trust? 
Vilma Velez (00:46:25): 
The health center, our goal was to make the health center the health home, so people can walk in. And 
as you saw with the renovation of the health center, it has that huge atrium. A point of the atrium was 
to welcome people in. Have them come in. Maybe have events there. Of course we can't have events 
now, but that was the goal. In fact, the library, what we call the library, was supposed to be an open 
space for people to come in and use for research, or for even if they didn't have computers at home. To 
come in and be able to use computers at what we call the library. It's an open access kind of place. 
Elinor Levy (00:47:11): 
Or I think of the clinic at family practices, in Poughkeepsie. Even though I go to Washington street for my 
healthcare. I also have to say, as someone who gets to sit and observe when you're waiting to be called 
in, I have never seen any personnel be snappish, or condescending, or anything but polite, even when 
they're explaining again and again. I've been to a fair amount of doctors where I've seen the front 
personnel be snappish and condescending. And I have to say that I've never witnessed that. I've always 
been treated so kindly, even when I'm in my most hysteric moments, and I've had a few,. Just 
completely impressed by the health care that is offered and the dignity with which it is offered that you 
don't always see at an urgent care or a doctor's office. 
Vilma Velez (00:48:32): 
This is very important for the health center. Lately, I participated in co-leading focus groups. The 
questions for the focus group, tell us about, what did you like about your visit? What didn't you like 
about your visit? And what services would you like at the health center? Because again, it is community 
driven. What are we doing wrong that you didn't like? And I was impressed. The last one we did, there 
was nothing they could say bad about one of the health centers in Amityville. I said, I know we have to 
be doing something bad. It's usually the phone system. 
Elinor Levy (00:49:17): 
But you are even solving that problem, with the callbacks. Probably my biggest complaint is during the 
pandemic, it felt really hard to get testing. But I'll tell you these days, I had to pay a copay for my test 
this week because the only federal testing center is now in Westchester. And if you want the rapid 
antigen test, if you don't mind waiting 72 hours, and I didn't have any home healthcare kits left, I'd used 
them all. So that would be my only beef, but that's not Sun River Health's problem. That's a national 
COVID problem. 
Vilma Velez (00:50:09): 
Yesterday I had to make appointments for my mother. She goes to the health center in Peekskill. I was 
just shocked how quickly someone answered, after I went through the prompts. A live person answered 
and made the appointment for me right away. Wow. I'm impressed. So, we look to improve. And the 
health center does do these focus groups, which I enjoy because it's getting to know the community 
also. 
Aaron Paige (00:50:39): 
Vilma, speaking of your work in the community, it's important that it be clear in the interview that your 
role at HRH care hasn't just been administrative. Your role at HRH care, hasn't only been administrative, 
you're in the field as well. You've been out in the field for a lot of your career. I'd love to hear you just 
speak a little bit about your work in the field, out in the community, the places that you personally have 
been to, either alongside the promotoras or on your own. When establishing the promotora program. 
What's your relationship been to the community in that way, outside of the health center? 
Vilma Velez (00:51:36): 
I've been tabling with the health promoters, not only because administratively, I like to make sure that 
they're following the protocol of the health center, but also in assisting them in doing their job. And they 
were the leaders and I was the follower because they know the community and I just make sure that 
they had the right equipment, When we were engaging people, just going up to people and talking to 
them, and bringing them to the table, then the heath promoters would do their job. I've done that kind 
of thing. Going to White Plains Linen to talk about the services there. And then one-on-one, when 
people have questions at White Plains Linen. Everywhere. Wherever the health promoters went, I would 
go and spend time with them. Either providing them with materials they need or engaging passersby in 
connecting with the health promoters. Or actually doing the blood pressure screenings myself. 
Aaron Paige (00:52:38): 
Do you consider yourself to be a community health worker? 
Vilma Velez (00:52:42): 
Oh, yes. Because when you work for the health center, you become a missionary. I consider myself a 
missionary. A healthcare missionary. And that's what I consider our providers. I admire our providers so 
much because they're doing this work that they're passionate about. And I got infected with that 
passion. So how do I bring people to them, is by engaging the community, talking with the community. 
And a lot of the outreach is done one-on-one. It's about building trust. And one of my roles was building 
trust with community members. Engaging with them on the street, or when they come into Comite 
Latino, which was a discreet area where they can come and talk to you, filling out paperwork, whatever 
they needed and making phone calls for them, and then guiding them to health care after their issues 
were resolved. 
Elinor Levy (00:53:43): 
Going back to White Plains Linen, you talked about how things have improved. Can you talk about the 
role that you think that you had or the promotoras had or Sun River Health had in improving conditions 
at White Plains Linen? 
Vilma Velez (00:54:01): 
That's a conversation to have with Wilfredo or Nina. I'm more the face and not the inner workings at 
White Plains Linen. The promotoras are really engaging one-on-one when we were there. Building that 
trust and then having people come to the health center. But then Nina and Wilfredo was more having 
the administrative of White Plains Linen trusting the health center, that we would provide services 
without judging what they were doing. It may have been about, air circulation was an issue there. That 
was resolved some way. I'm not too familiar with them. But there were things like that, that in a way, 
was brought to their attention of the needs of the workers, without it being critical of what they were 
doing, because people need their jobs. 
Aaron Paige (00:55:07): 
That sounds very similar to the relationship of the migrant farmworker outreach workers, to the 
growers, for example. 
Vilma Velez (00:55:15): 
Exactly. You have to gain the trust of the growers. We're going there to help their workers work better 
because they'll be healthy. 
Aaron Paige (00:55:27): 
Vilma you started to talk about this in a roundabout way. I'm wondering, what qualities do you see in 
yourself that make you good at the work that you've been doing all these years? 
Vilma Velez (00:55:41): 
I think I have the same qualities that we see in our health promoters. Wanting to share. I always want to 
share the information I have with whoever. I mentored a lot of young people at my job. I mentored 
health promoters. One time, I was at an event at a school, the middle school in Peekskill. I was at an 
event. It was healthcare and I was at a table. So I went to visit other tables and there was a young 
woman at one of the tables. I didn't remember her, but she remembered me. And she goes, Vilma, you 
were such an influence, you taught me so much. And I said, "oh my God, I touched somebody." That was 
very rewarding. I think it's my role, my own motivation is to share what I know and not keep it to myself. 
Aaron Paige (00:56:37): 
One of the other questions we've been asking the health promoters and others that we've been 
speaking to is, what you find to be most gratifying about the work? 
Vilma Velez (00:56:50): 
When someone walks away with a smile and they're happy that their needs were met, and they come 
back and say, thank you. And you go, "what did I help you with? I signed the letter for you and you 
accomplished so much with that letter I did for you." It's just feeling that people are valued and that 
their needs are met one way or another. 
Aaron Paige (00:57:15): 
I'd be curious to hear, maybe a story, a specific story of a time in your career where you really saw the 
rewards of the work that you do, where you really felt the rewards of that work. 
Vilma Velez (00:57:34): 
A while back, when there was a huge anti-immigrant feeling in Peekskill, I forget what happened. I think 
there was a death or something. A killing, between two different ethnic groups in Peekskill. So we 
started...we had meetings with the police department at the health center. How can we heal our 
community? And Wilfredo, we have a little nucleus group that did all this work together. What can we 
do with Mrs. Phillips, of course? She's our guiding soul. What can we do? So we thought we can reach 
out to young children so that they understand each other. So we started a summer program called 
Culture Club, for kids, and we did get a little funding for that. 
Vilma Velez (00:58:42): 
We hired a photog-, no, we didn't hire a photographer the first year. I did the photography workshop 
with the kids. I'm not a photographer. And it was documenting, being a photo journalist, and seeing 
people from a different perspective. They did cooking from the different countries in Latin America. Or 
writing essays about different countries. This was for children to share their experiences. And I 
remember, at the beginning of each group, we would have a circle. Children telling their stories, right? 
And one little girl, she was eight years old at the time, or nine, she started crying because her mother 
was threatened with deportation. 
Vilma Velez (00:59:31): 
And this has nothing to do with health care, but this is the social determinants of health that we talk 
about. Through her, we helped the mother out. Not that we could do anything about immigration. But 
we wrote character letters. We nurtured the family. We guided them through healthcare. And the child 
grew up. The sister grew up. And the mother has always come to me. Was not deported. Was finally 
able to get residency. And the family, just being so appreciative, that we, throughout all these years, we 
were able to be supportive to them. Not just me. Our whole organization. So that was the most 
rewarding. 
Elinor Levy (01:00:24): 
Does Culture Club still exist? 
Vilma Velez (01:00:27): 
No, we did that for about four or five years. Again, it was funding, personnel, need, because all of these 
things take a lot of people, and a lot of our time. A lot of the work we did would be off hours. Outside of 
our regular work responsibilities. We did the same thing up in Poughkeepsie. There, we did it with the 
photography program. This is where I learned to do the photo journalism that I implemented for the 
kids. We learned it from a photo journalist from Dutchess Community College. We got a little funding for 
that. We did a flyer. We invited people to come in and learn about photography. And again, it was to 
engage the people. This was when we first opened up the partnership. They would come in and once a 
week, we would drive up to Poughkeepsie. The team of us, that would be Wildfredo and Nick. 
Vilma Velez (01:01:32): 
and few other people who. One of them is a doctor nowadays. One of the twins out in California, 
unfortunately, instead of with us. But we would go there once a week and do a photo project in the 
evenings. And then we did an exhibit and a celebration of the photos. Bringing the whole community. 
The mayor came in. Again, it was about connecting the community with the health center and with the 
broader community. I don't know if you want to include this, this photo workshop. We had a 
professional, and then we wanted to do it with the kids, a couple of years later, with the kids in 
Peekskill. We had this young woman who did a PowerPoint presentation on how to be a photo 
journalist. What to look for. With her PowerPoint presentation, I was able to do it with the kids. Go out 
and photograph what you like about your world. What you don't like about your world. What your 
mother cooks. What traditional foods, and share it. What are your traditional foods? So all kinds of 
things. It was fun. I know, that's a great project. 
Elinor Levy (01:02:53): 
I love that. It's actually a project I love doing with children. Especially with cell phones now, it's so easy. 
What does your world look like? 
Aaron Paige (01:03:05): 
I think that kind of project, we think of as clearly falling under the umbrella of our work, Elinor. But I 
think that a project like this happening under the umbrella of a health center is a really special and 
important. 
Elinor Levy (01:03:22): 
Yeah, and that's why my head is spinning... 
Vilma Velez (01:03:28): 
Our motive was not to do a photo exhibit. Our motive was to engage people within the health center 
and within the broader community. The funding for that, the original workshop in Poughkeepsie, we 
used the funding to pay the instructor. The program is called Unseen America from Union 1199. They 
have, or had, a program called Bread and Roses. That's who developed that Unseen America. And that 
was our goal. How to document people, who we take for granted, who make our economy run. We 
were doing the workers in our community. At that time, we were thinking of the farmworkers. How 
farmworkers are undervalued and not recognized as an important part of our economy. 
Elinor Levy (01:04:26): 
And that it was you and Wilfredo and Nick. People who looked like them. 
Vilma Velez (01:04:31): 
Right, right, who speak their language. We went to Mexico one time, and we met in a community where 
a lot of our migrant farmworkers come from. In Mexico, I guess, they must have been bored because 
there were about 300 people to welcome us. And Wilfredo gets up and he goes, "Mi gente", my people. 
And we did the photography program there. We were able to bring those photographs from Oaxaca 
over to Poughkeepsie. And people would say, "I haven't seen him in so many years," because they can't 
travel back and forth. We wanted them to see each other through these photo exhibits. That was 
rewarding too. I've done a lot of rewarding things at the health center. It's not a typical job. 
Aaron Paige (01:05:31): 
Those are the positive highlights. We've also been asking our interviewees to reflect on challenges. And 
so if you could give some thought to maybe some of the chief challenges that you faced, in your role at 
the health center. 
Vilma Velez (01:05:54): 
I think the hardest part is people who are uninsured and don't qualify. They can get healthcare at the 
health center, primary healthcare, but if they need specialty care, it's such a hardship. If they need 
medicine, it's hard. That's the hardest part, I think I find the most challenging and our providers find too. 
What do I tell them? Come in for healthcare. We'll try to keep you healthy, but only to a certain degree, 
because it's hard to get specialty care. So that is challenging. We can provide care to a certain degree, 
but if they need specialty care, it takes calling up a specialist and begging them. Can you see this person? 
And that's one person at a time, so that's very difficult. Where can we get medicine? The medicine that 
you need that costs a lot of money and you don't have. And they get lost. When you're trying to make so 
many phone calls to find someone. I can only do so many phone calls and that that's very difficult. Or if 
they're looking for housing and they don't have the money ... 
Elinor Levy (01:07:24): 
Or they have the money, but housing is too expensive, or... 
Vilma Velez (01:07:31): 
To see the need and that we're such a rich country and we can't meet those needs. That's disheartening. 
Aaron Paige (01:07:43): 
All the more reason why programs like this one are so important. 
Vilma Velez (01:07:50): 
I think the health center, having outreach workers going out into the community, as opposed to waiting 
for the community to come to you, you go out into the community, you get to know your community, 
get to know the people, individuals in the community, and build a place where they feel safe coming to. 
That's what outreach workers do. They're the tentacles of going out there and building that bridge of 
trust. 
Aaron Paige (01:08:22): 
How was that work impacted during COVID? The work of outreach. 
Vilma Velez (01:08:30): 
It almost came to a stand still. I mean, first of all, you have to realize that I actually retired at the 
beginning of COVID. I'm still on staff, but only to do things from home. Our CEO wants me to start the 
women's group again, but I'm waiting a little while, to be safer. I think, in Peekskill, and other places, we 
have built that trust so far and people feel comfortable. So it has been able to, participate during this 
time. People have felt comfortable coming in. But we haven't really done much of events. And we can't 
at this time. But I think people still feel comfortable. Phone calls come in. And the health center has 
adjusted to every staff member. As Elinor said, we may have one or two that may not be as 
approachable, but we try to have people who are approachable and answer whatever questions people 
may have. So maybe it is not outreach it's in-reach. 
Elinor Levy (01:10:00): 
And we still managed to pull off a Three Kings this year. Even though I couldn't be there personally, that 
was amazing. We still got the job done. 
Vilma Velez (01:10:14): 
Yeah. The community is involved. That's why the community wants it. And they do enjoy it. And we have 
a few dynamic people who make things happen. 
Elinor Levy (01:10:27): 
Aaron, can you think of anything else? 
Aaron Paige (01:10:30): 
I think this is incredibly insightful. It's also a real privilege to get to listen to you, Vilma, speak about your 
work and your career, and we've gotten insights into it, and glimpses of it over the years. 
Vilma Velez (01:10:49): 
It's been a journey for me. I am so appreciative of having this opportunity to have, I don't want to say 
worked with the community, engaged with the community, be part of the community, and be enriched 
and enrich the community. I've been blessed, let's say, by this participation in the community. And I 
think our health promoters are like that. I've learned so much from them. I have lifelong friends. In 
Yonkers, our health promoters, I just pick up the phone and talk to them. I made wonderful 
relationships. Not that we see each other, but we can call each other. And that is still available, even 
though we're going through this phase. If the health center needs a focus group, let's say, to learn about 
what are the needs in the community, it's just being able to call up people and they accept your calls. 
They're open to engaging with you. It's the openness of the community. They're willing and they want to 
help not only themselves, but the broader community, a lot of amazing women, is what I have to say.