Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
1 
Project: Nursing America’s Veterans 
Name of person interviewed: Robert O’Keefe [RO] 
Facts about this person: 
Age: 44 
Sex: Male 
Occupation: Nurse 
Residence: West Grove, Pennsylvania 
Interviewer: Alana Glaser [AG] 
Transcriber: Sara Cohen [SC] 
Interview location: remote 
Date of interview: 7/15/21 
KEY WORDS 
Marine Corps, VA, nurse, Japan, combat engineer, dental school, nursing school, Nursing Aptitude Test, 
NCLEX, community hospital, float pool, primary care, ACLS, pack teams, chronic disease 
management, pain management, CARES Act, DEMPS program, trauma, agency nurses, nursing home, 
COVID-19, esprit de corps, gratitude, video visits, Virginia Henderson, mentors 
Abstract 
In this interview, Robert candidly shares his experiences working for the Veterans Administration (VA). 
He explains what drove him to become a nurse, the past roles he’s held, and how his experiences in the 
Marine Corps have helped him relate to his patients. Robert discusses how he became involved in the 
fight against COVID-19, and details his numerous deployments to the front lines of the pandemic. He 
also shares his own experience contracting COVID-19. Robert describes the effect of COVID-19 on the 
VA system and highlights some of the unique services the VA offers to veterans. He also talks about 
some of the rewards of working at the VA. Robert concludes by mentioning his professional mentors 
and giving some advice for listeners. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
2 
 
 
Index 
 
[0:00] Robert shares how his parents’ professions influenced his career path, where Robert grew up, 
Robert’s time in the Marine Corps and his plan to leave the Marine Corps. 
 
[6:12] Robert explains why he was not called back to the Marine Corps after he was discharged, 
Robert’s time in Japan. 
 
[9:35] Robert discusses his original plan of going to dental school and how he ended up in nursing 
school, the process for becoming a nurse after graduating from nursing school, Robert’s first nursing job 
after graduating from nursing school. 
 
[14:45] Robert lists the jobs he held after leaving his first nursing job, how Robert met his wife, Robert’s 
academic path and how his wife motivated him. 
 
[21:04] Robert expresses his desire to eventually move into an administrative position, Robert’s current 
role, the stress that came with being a member of the float pool at the community hospital, Robert’s 
interpretation of what patient care entails. 
 
[26:10] Robert details his day-to-day experiences in his current role. 
 
[31:43] Robert describes the most typical conditions he deals with in his current role, how Robert’s 
experiences in the Marine Corps help him relate to his patients better than other nurses. 
 
[35:03] Robert compares private sector doctors to VA doctors, how Robert ended up working for the 
VA, Robert’s role as instructor of Self Aid Buddy Care. 
 
[40:20] Robert explains how he became involved in the COVID-19 effort, the CARES Act and the 
DEMPS program, Robert’s first deployment for the COVID-19 effort. 
 
[50:34] Robert talks about his second deployment for the COVID-19 effort and his personal experience 
contracting COVID-19. 
 
[57:32] Robert provides further insight into his personal experience with COVID-19, Robert’s third 
deployment for the COVID-19 effort. 
 
[1:08:33] Robert shares how he found the strength to persevere in his role on the frontlines of the 
COVID-19 fight, the lack of opportunity to take care of one’s emotional and mental health while 
deployed for the COVID-19 effort. 
 
[1:13:42] Robert compares his military and COVID-19 deployments, the support provided by the local 
communities during Robert’s COVID-19 deployments. 
 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
3 
 
[1:18:30] Robert expresses his anger with the American media during the COVID-19 pandemic, the 
selfishness of the general public during the epidemic, the lessons that Robert is taking forward from the 
COVID-19 pandemic. 
 
[1:24:49] Robert describes the effect of COVID-19 on the VA system. 
 
[1:29:47] Robert highlights some of the unique services the VA offers to veterans, how the VA provides 
services to all veterans. 
 
[1:35:05] Robert mentions some of the rewards of working at the VA. 
 
[1:40:26] Robert explains how his experiences as a veteran influence the way he interacts with patients, 
Robert’s philosophy about nursing. 
 
[1:46:28] Robert talks about his professional mentors and gives some advice for listeners. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
4 
 
 
  
[0:00] AG: Hi, Robert. Thank you so much for participating in these Library of Congress oral histories. 
Can I ask you to introduce yourself? 
  
RO: Yeah. My name is Robert O'Keefe. I currently live in West Grove, Pennsylvania and work at the 
Wilmington Veterans Hospital in Wilmington, Delaware. 
  
AG: Wonderful. And can I begin by asking you a little bit about your upbringing and your experiences 
growing up? 
  
RO: Yeah. Growing up, I was a high school athlete. I played football my freshman and sophomore year. 
I wrestled all four years of high school and I did two years of track. After that, I went into the Marine 
Corps. I went straight out of high school into the Marine Corps. I was raised by a single mom. She was 
also a nurse. And I think that those-- and my dad was a marine. I think the fact that my dad was a marine 
and my mom was a nurse kind of guided the path that I ended up taking in life. 
  
AG: Yeah, absolutely. Wow. So, you followed in both of their footsteps, essentially, in your own 
professional career. 
  
RO: Absolutely. 
  
AG: Wow. That's incredible. Where was it that you grew up? 
  
RO: My stepdad was Navy, so mostly in Virginia Beach, Charleston, South Carolina, and Jacksonville, 
Florida. My real dad, he lived down in Fort Myers. He still lives down in Fort Myers. Usually when I 
say home, I say Florida, just because that's where my dad always lived and where my mom lives now, 
but off and on through the years she's also lived there. So, I always say Florida. 
  
AG: Got it. And so, directly from Florida or from your kind of experiences growing up in a couple 
different places, after high school, you entered the Marines. 
  
RO: Yes, and then I did seven years in the Marine Corps, two of which I spent living in Japan. I was 
stationed there for two years, and then I came back stateside. I went to Buford, South Carolina to work 
at the air station. I was a combat engineer, so nothing to do with health care. While I was there, I started 
working on my plan to get out, which included I set up an apartment in Jacksonville, Florida, I got 
accepted to Florida State College in Jacksonville, and then I also lined up two jobs. I got a job as a 
security guard working at a hospital, a security in the ER overnight shift, and I also got a job waiting 
tables at TGI Fridays [laughs]. Probably three months into that-- When I first started working there, the 
Jack Daniel’s glaze for the ribs and steaks was my favorite, and three months in I couldn't stand the sight 
of it [laughs]. 
  
AG: Oh yeah, of course. Did you end up having both of those jobs throughout college as well? 
  
RO: No. When I got out in May of 2002-- You have to remember, this was just after September 11 in 
2001. I was supposed to start school that summer semester. At that time, I had stayed in touch with 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
5 
 
several friends of mine in the Marine Corps, and two of them had been called back. Back then, you 
signed a four-year active duty contract. A component of that is four years of inactive reserve, which you 
can be called back. It never happens. But after September 11 happened, the world changed. It changed 
fast, and some people I knew were getting called back in. So, rather than start school in the summer 
semester, I decided to postpone that. I waited until fall when most people would be going to school 
anyway. Part of that was 'cause I thought I might get called back, and part of that was working the two 
jobs kind of helped me to set up a little bit of money. So, this way when I did start school, if ever I had 
to take time off and stuff, I wouldn't be too worried about it. By the time I started school, probably 
August, September timeframe, I had decided that I just wasn't going to be working at Friday's anymore. 
Between the two jobs, I felt like running tables was just exhausting. I mean, I only worked from four to 
10 or 11, it was like six hours, but I'm telling you, it's a grueling six hours. The security guard job, I sat 
at the desk. I kind of checked people in. If people were getting too loud or carried away, I'd asked 'em to 
step outside. If they were loud on their phones or something. It was a lot less demanding physically. It 
was a pretty brainless job. When you're waiting tables, you walk by a table and somebody says, "Hey, 
can I get this and this?" but you walked past three different tables that did that. So, you kind of had to 
focus a lot on this. Like I said, the security job was just so laid back, and the compensation was fair, not 
what I felt like I was worth but it was fair for what the job was. I did security for probably the first year I 
was in nursing school, and then after that, I switched over and I started working as a nurse's aide in the 
hospital for the rest of nursing school. 
  
AG: And it sounds like you were not called back after you were discharged. 
  
[6:12] RO: No, no. That's why I touched on the whole four years of active and four years of inactive. I 
had done seven years of active, 'cause I did a four-year contract. It was closer to like seven and a half 
years, but what happened was I was stationed in Japan, and I didn't have enough time on my contract to 
rotate back to stateside. The way that happens is if you go over there for a year and then you've only got 
four months left, they don't send you back to a stateside duty station. They keep you over there then they 
fly you back to California. You get discharged from San Diego. I felt like that year in Japan was 
awesome. So, I decided I wanted to stay another year in Japan anyway. I went ahead, and part of my 
process and thinking was that I couldn't get everything set up to get out of the military from Japan. 
We're talking about back in 2000. I don't even think there was a Google back then. I mean, you could do 
chat rooms, AOL, stuff like this, and the fact that there was a 14-hour time difference, so I'd have to wait 
'til the middle of the night to do stuff like this. So, I just re-enlisted while I was in Japan and figured I'd 
wait 'til I came back stateside to get out. Well, when they were calling people back for 9-11, those guys 
they were calling back, they could have been called back for four more years. But for me, the most they 
could have called me back, I think, was for five months anyway. So, no, I didn't end up getting called 
back for that, because I'd already done a little over seven and a half years, and I only had less than a half 
a year left of inactive duty. By the time they would have called me up and got me back in process, it 
would have been time for me to start out-processing anyway. 
  
AG: I see. And where were you stationed in Japan? 
  
RO: I was there in '98 and '99. Leonardo DiCaprio was king. Every Japanese girl loved the Titanic 
theme song. You couldn't go into any bar or club where that wasn't playing all of the time. Backstreet 
Boys were real big while I was in Japan. Everybody over there loved the Backstreet Boys. '98 and '99. I 
came back probably two weeks before Christmas of '99, 'cause I remember me and my buddy driving 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
6 
 
from South Carolina back home, and we did Christmas and then New Year's at my house. So, I was 
back at the turn of the millennium. 
  
AG: Right, Y2K [laughs]. 
  
RO: Oh, yeah. I forgot to bring up the whole Y2K scare [chuckles]. 
  
AG: Oh, that's terrific. So, once you were back stateside and you processed out, started school, did you 
go directly into nursing school or was it, like, undergrad, then later you decided to... 
  
[9:35] RO: No. Initially when I got out of the Marine Corps, I was gonna go to dental school. Dental 
school is no different than nursing school. You don't just go into college and go into nursing school. You 
have a bunch of prerequisite classes. It's very competitive to get in. I think that the time I got in, only 
about 20% of applicants actually got in. So, you figure for every 100 people that applied, 20 of us got in, 
so I did pretty good. I think we ended up with 120 students out of 700, or just below 800 applicants. 
About a year into school, I had done anatomy and physiology 1 and 2. I'd done chemistry. I'd done 
micro. I went and talked to the adviser and I was like, "Listen, I did seven years in the military, so I'm 
already 25. I've got a year of college, that puts me at 26. I've got seven more years before I finish dental 
school. That puts me at 33. Two years of residency puts me at 35 before I make my first decent check." 
Then I was like, "I just don't think that I want to be going to school for that long and living my life that 
late in life." Really, if you want to be a doctor or a dentist or a lawyer, you need to kind of have that plan 
going straight out of high school. I had already been working at the hospital as a security guard and 
talking to other people about other options. I talked to my advisor and I just switched to nursing as my 
major. I already had all my prereqs done, so all I had to do was put in my application for the program. 
They have this thing called the NAT, which is the Nursing Aptitude Test. They go by your GPA, your 
NAT. I remember getting interviewed, but I don't think the interview was a component of whether you 
got in or not. That's kind of where I ended up taking the road to nursing. 
  
AG: Yeah, absolutely. When you graduate with your nursing degree, do you go directly into the 
workforce at that point, or is there some other credentialing that you have to do, like board certification 
or something? 
  
RO: Yes and no. The way it works is, when you finish nursing school-- I was in an associate degree 
program, and it works the same as when you're a Bachelor. When you graduate from your program, 
you're considered a graduate nurse. As a graduate nurse, you can be hired to work as a nurse, but within 
one year, you're required to take the NCLEX, which is like a national board exam. That's kind of the cut 
off. It's kind of like a lawyer. You graduated law school but you didn't take the bar yet. Except for 
nurses, they do let us practice for that one year, and that gives you time, prior to you actually sitting 
down and taking the test. The test is usually a couple of hours, and then you just wait for the results and 
hope to God you got a license [chuckles]. 
  
AG: Absolutely. Did you work before taking it? What was that first nursing job that you took? 
  
RO: Yeah, I was working at a small hospital in Jacksonville, but it was owned by a huge company that 
owns hospitals everywhere. It was a very small community hospital, but my checks came from 
Indianapolis. It was a big hospital. The other thing is that back then, when I graduated, there was a 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
7 
 
$2,000 sign-on bonus to start working if you wanted to stay there. So, when I graduated, I just 
transitioned right into an orientation period where I worked with another nurse for probably six weeks or 
so. That was kind of short lived, because I graduated in December and I took my test the second or third 
week of January. I was only a graduate nurse for, I think, less than a month before I already had my 
license in Florida. 
  
AG: Once you got your license, did you get a different job or did you move up, or is it just a different 
level of autonomy? 
  
[14:45] RO: No, no, no, no, I stayed at that job for a little while. I did my orientation. I probably worked 
there for another two years or so. The crazy thing was that they were really excited about hiring us new 
nurses, but then they weren't excited about compensating us at an appropriate growth rate. I want to say 
my first raise there was 27 cents. Then the second year I worked there, it was somewhere around a 
quarter or two. I was talking to other nurses that I went to school with and they had gotten two and three 
dollar raises. I had to stay there for at least one year because I accepted that bonus, but then the second 
year, I was waiting for my second raise to see what it was going to look like. When I got my second 
raise and I was kind of disappointed again, I decided that sometimes to move up, you have to move on. 
So, I did. I went to another small hospital, and I worked there for about another two years, at which 
point my kids had moved to New Jersey. So, I went ahead and sold my house. I got a Delaware license. I 
moved up here and I started working right there in Delaware at a community hospital. I'm not gonna say 
the name, but it's the largest hospital in Delaware. People come there from South Jersey, Pennsylvania, 
Maryland, all come to this hospital in Delaware. It's kind of like a little city. It's so big. I worked there 
for about 10 years. During that time I met my wife, which was really important because I didn't want to 
marry her until I had my bachelor's degree. I'll never forget how driven I was to get that bachelor's 
degree so I could get to marry her. I was doing the bachelor program online, and Sunday at midnight 
was the last day that my paper was due and everything was due for me to graduate. Well, on Saturday 
night, she went to bed and I said, "I'm gonna stay up a little later," and I did. But when she went to bed, I 
got on the computer. I finished all my schoolwork that I was planning on doing Sunday. So, when she 
got up, I said, "Hey, let's go to the beach," and she said, "What about school?" I was like, "I got it all 
knocked out last night." So, we went down to the Delaware beach. I took her up on a cliff and got down 
on one knee and proposed right there. She really was the driving force for me to get my bachelor's 
degree as fast as I did. 
  
AG: Yeah, it sounds like it was important to you to have that in place before proposing. 
  
RO: Yeah, part of it was because I was concerned that if I got married, I wouldn't. Married life kind of 
changes a lot of things. Do I still have time for school? I was going to be accepting the responsibility of 
being a stepdad and still trying to see my kids that were living in New Jersey. I just wanted to make sure 
I got that done before I married her. I know this is gonna sound crazy, 'cause I don't think it really 
bothers her, but I wanted to feel like I was more worthy. You know, kind of crazy how you think about 
stuff like that. 
  
AG: Right? Yeah, all those kinds of ideas, you know, that seep into, sort of, ambition. Of course, that 
makes sense. 
  
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
8 
 
RO: Which is crazy, because during COVID, I graduated with my double master's degree. Again, she 
was a driving factor. In 2016, I'm still in the reserves of the military. In 2016, I deployed. I went over to 
the desert for six or seven months, and while I was gone she kept plugging away at school. Then when I 
got back, of course, I took a break. I didn't want to go right back into school, and my wife ended up 
finishing her master's degree first and going forward. Then she went back and got a leadership degree. 
So, this goes back to my bachelor's. I didn't feel like I was worthy to get married to her unless I got my 
bachelor's degree. Well, really her getting her two masters was a huge driving force for me to get my 
master's in nursing. I did the work, but I credit her a lot for being a driving factor in that. 
  
AG: Yeah, of course, that sort of motivating example. What are your master-- Double masters means 
like you have two-- 
  
RO: My one Master's is in nurse management and my second Master's is in healthcare administration. 
  
AG: How recently did you complete those two? 
  
RO: I completed 'em summer of 2021. My actual graduation for this is actually in September of this 
year. Because of COVID, it kept getting pushed back. 
  
AG: Congratulations. That's exciting. Yeah, absolutely. So, will your role change? Will you pursue 
administration? 
  
[21:04] RO: Eventually I will. I will. That's ultimately the goal is to move into an administrative 
position. I'd like to start off by running my own unit for a little while, and then probably move up into 
the hospital administration side away from patient care services. Sometimes I question how soon that's 
gonna happen, partially 'cause there's just not an easy path, and partially because I really am still 
attached to patient care. 
  
AG: Absolutely. I can imagine that's a big component of what attracts people to nursing. What role do 
you currently have? You were at the community hospital for a decade. How long have you been in your 
current role? 
  
RO: I've been in my current role in primary care, which is kind of like outpatient doctor's office type 
service, I've been doing that for about two and a half years. All the way up until December of this last 
year, I still worked in the community hospital. I was a member of what's called the float pool, which 
means I tell them when I'm gonna work. I pick a 12-hour shift on a Tuesday. I get to pick my schedule 
and work whenever I want, but I don't find out where I'm working until two hours before the shift starts. 
If I'm scheduled to work-- Today is Thursday. If I was supposed to be going in at seven tonight, 
probably at around five o'clock I get a text and say I'm gonna go to such-and-such floor. That hospital, 
remember I said it's like a small city, and because I'm ACLS and I was a step-down nurse for two years, 
I can go to 18 different floors in six different step-downs between the two hospitals they own. Pretty 
much they can send me anywhere. I did that all the way until December of this year. 
  
AG: Sorry, just a clarifying question: What does ACLS stand for? 
  
RO: That's an advanced cardiac life saving. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
9 
 
  
AG: That means they can place you in the cardiac care unit in-- 
  
RO: Correct. 
  
AG: Or in med surge, basically anywhere. 
  
RO: Correct. Med surg, step-down, progressive care, stroke, neuro, pretty much wherever. I could go to 
any floor and do whatever they needed me to do. 
  
AG: As a work balance thing, is that stressful not knowing what kinds of patients you're gonna be 
dealing with at a shift? 
  
RO: Yeah, you know what? I have to be honest with you. My wife could tell you, most of the time I was 
sitting by the phone. Sometimes I was hoping I would get canceled and not have to go, but then 
sometimes I'd get the text and dread the floor that I was going to, and other times I was excited 'cause it 
was a floor that I had friends that I'd worked with there at some point and I was excited to go. I think 
that patient care is patient care. A good thorough assessment and making sure they get their meds on 
time, and then meeting their needs. When they gotta go to the bathroom, get 'em into the bathroom. 
When they gotta get a drink, get 'em a drink. It doesn't matter whether it's somebody there that's for 
stroke or somebody that's there for a cardiac event. At the end of the day, if they gotta go to the 
bathroom, your job's to get 'em to the bathroom. I didn't think that the work transition from different role 
to different role was that significant. I think what really does make the difference is every unit has its 
own social dynamic and climate. Sometimes you'll go to a unit that everybody loves coming to work, 
and it's really a good experience, and then sometimes you go to a unit where maybe they don't like their 
manager, or maybe they're not happy about something that's recently going on. You can feel the 
palpable difference when you go onto different units. I would say that the bigger difficulty was not 
necessarily the patients, but the different staffing. 
  
AG: I can imagine that would make a big difference. So, you stopped doing the float shifts this 
December, and you'd been working that role and in an outpatient VA clinic? 
  
RO: Yes. 
  
AG: So, a dual job? What is the day-to-day like at the primary care clinic? 
  
[26:10] RO: Primary care, you would think that it was more structured. Anybody who thinks about their 
primary care office thinks about how regimented and strict to the time they are. If you have a 10 o'clock 
appointment and you're five minutes late, they say, "You missed your appointment. We'll see you next 
time." But it's really different at the VA, and the reason it's different is because my job's not to see as 
many patients as I can that day. When you work in a regular doctor's office, they want you to see as 
many patients as you can, because that determines the compensation. If you see 10 patients a day and 
you only get 10 bucks a patient, you only made 100 bucks that day. If you see 100 patients a day and 
you get 10 bucks a patient, now you're looking at-- but at the VA, we're not on a reimbursement system 
that way. If a veteran is late for their appointment, I still see them. If a veteran walks in for something 
and they didn't even have an appointment, I still see them. Our appointment windows are 30 minutes 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
10 
 
apiece, versus the private sector, which is, typically, you get five to ten minutes of a doctor's time. A lot 
of times my appointments don't take 30 minutes. You may be in there just for some diabetes education, 
or you may be in there for a blood pressure check, and you took up a 30-minute slot of my time, but you 
only took up 10 of my minutes. Then another veteran that's walking in and they're out of a medication, 
or maybe they need an x-ray, or maybe they got a rash or something they want me to look at, I've got 
plenty of time to fit them into my schedule throughout the day. The other thing is that anytime I'm not 
doing direct patient care, I'm managing our panel of patients. I'm following up with people who are 
calling in for things, need forms filled out, need medication refills, things like this, or outside orders. 
They may come to the VA for their primary care but they may be seeing a specialist, a cardiologist or an 
ENT doctor, and they bring in an order for a nasal spray or something, and I kind of help the veteran 
navigate how to get all this stuff done that they need done. 
  
AG: In your role, is it like a traditional doctor's office where you're there and there's one physician and 
maybe someone managing the schedule, or are there multiple physicians and multiple nurses all in the 
same place? 
  
RO: The way we do it is we're broken into what are called pack teams. Each pack team has one provider, 
which could be a doctor or a nurse practitioner, they have one RN, they have one LPN, and we have an 
MSA, which is like a medical clerk. The doctor's primary job is to see the patients. The LPN's primary 
job is to check the patients in to see the doctor. You'll go see the LPN. They'll do the vital signs. They'll 
do some surveys and stuff, and then get you ready to see the doctor, and then the doctor will spend 30 
minutes with the patient. The RN clinic, even though I'm on that team, I service my doctor's patients, but 
my clinic runs independent of hers. If it's something that you don't need a doctor for and you can see the 
nurse, then every patient that I see in that situation is a patient that didn't take up that 30-minute slot in 
her schedule. For instance, a veteran comes in, they've got a small wound on their foot, maybe they're a 
diabetic and they're wanting a podiatry consult. If you need a podiatry consult, you have to be seen in 
primary care first. Rather than take up a provider slot, they'll come see me, I'll take a look at it, I'll take a 
measurement, I'll make recommendations for treatment, send that to the doctor for approval, and then I'll 
write up the consult and the doctor will sign it. That's just an example. Or maybe they're looking for an 
ENT consult, stuff like that, or you banged your elbow and you want the doctor to look at it. You'll 
come see me, I'll order the x-rays, send you up, get the pictures taken, and then I'll type up a note of 
what happened. I'll send it to the doctor and then the doctor will determine how we're gonna treat that. 
  
AG: I see. That makes sense. What is the schedule that you work [unintelligible]? 
  
RO: I work Monday through Friday, 7:30 to four o'clock. 
  
AG: What are the most typical conditions or diagnoses that you deal with in that [unintelligible]? 
  
[31:43] RO: For my role, the most common things I deal with is, I would have to say, chronic disease 
management, helping people manage their blood pressure or manage their diabetes. The other thing is 
pain management. I don't know if you've ever seen what we had to wear in the military, but it's a lot of 
gear and it's a lot of weight. Yeah, you were 18 to 22 years old when it happened, but you're still having 
back pain 4 years later and stuff. Thankfully, there's been a lot of research and we're not turning straight 
to a pill anymore. We've got chiropractors on board, we got physical therapy on board, meditation, Tai 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
11 
 
Chi, guided imagery. We have several options to help them manage that without just giving 'em a pill 
that's just gonna get 'em addicted. 
  
AG: Absolutely. You know what, that makes me wonder, do you think that your experiences in the 
Marine Corps help you relate to your patients? Do you connect with them maybe better than other 
nurses do? 
  
RO: I would say so. There's a handful of nurses in primary care that we're all prior service, and I think 
that the VA is a good place for nurses to go that are prior service. I think that sometimes when we go to 
our doctor and we tell them what's bothering us, maybe it's knee pain. I'll just use knee pain as an 
example, and the doctor gives us a little bit-- maybe they'll do an x-ray or a CT, MRI, some kinda 
testing, and tell us that, "Well, there's nothing wrong, so just rest it up." Being a veteran, I understand 
that just because the MRI doesn't show you there's pain in my knee doesn't mean there's not something 
seriously wrong. I think having that understanding, I know how it is to go to a doctor and feel like 
they're dismissing it because they didn't find something wrong. I don't think that happens at the VA. I 
think that a lot of us, we take very seriously what the veterans say, 'cause I always say even if it's not 
real pain-- Let's say it's not real pain. It's a perceived pain. It's still something that they're experiencing 
that's disrupting their ability to perform their life regularly. Either way, we have to find a way to address 
that. 
  
AG: Absolutely. Do you find that the doctors are at the VA, maybe compared to your community 
hospital experience, more receptive and less overall kind of dismissive of these sorts of...? 
  
[35:03] RO: Of course. Like I said, they have the benefit of when they sit down with a patient, they have 
30 minutes with the patient. That's number one. Number two is that when you are in the private sector, a 
lot of what the doctor does is based on insurance reimbursement. Maybe you have knee pain. The doctor 
has to do something before you can get an MRI, 'cause an MRI is a very expensive test, probably a 
$5,000 test. Everybody that goes into their doctor with knee pain's not gonna get a $5,000 test. But in the 
VA, we-- I don't want to say that we waste resources. What I would say is that money is not the driving 
factor in what resources are available to that patient. A doctor in the private sector looks at what the 
problem is, and maybe the cheap fix is to give them a pain medicine, but at the VA, we don't have to 
look at the cheapest fix. We have to look at the most appropriate with the resources that we have. I think 
that's a huge difference between us and the private sector. 
  
AG: I'm wondering, how did you find your way to working for the VA [unintelligible]? 
  
RO: That's a good question. I worked at that small community hospital for a very long time and I never 
planned to leave. I was happy in what I was doing. I felt rewarded. I was fairly compensated. I was 
given a generous vacation package. There was no reason to leave that job really. People when they leave 
a job, they're leaving-- when they go get a new job, it's usually they're leaving a job for a reason. That 
really wasn't the case. Really, what happened for me was back in 2016, I deployed with my reserve unit 
over in the desert, and when I was over at the desert, a couple of things happened, and one of which was 
I saw a guy get his foot crushed. Just various things that had happened while I was over there. While I 
was over there, I told my wife, "When I get home, I think I'm gonna go try to work at the VA," and she 
goes, "Okay." So, I did. 
  
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
12 
 
AG: So, you were motivated by a sense of duty to your fellow [unintelligible]. 
  
RO: Yeah. I didn't know exactly how the VA ran. Even though I'm a veteran, I didn't go there for my 
care. I went to my employer. I guess I'd heard some stories about the VA, but you have a health system 
with 1,000 hospitals. If one of 'em makes a mistake, everybody sees it as the entire VA. The other 
component to that is that where I live happens to be smack dab in between three different ones, so I had 
a good chance of getting one of the positions. 
  
AG: It just occurred to me, when you deployed in 2016, and after having decades of experience nursing, 
do you use your nursing toolkit as a soldier as well, or [unintelligible]? 
  
RO: It's funny you should say that. Every other year, we're required to do Self Aid Buddy Care, which is 
a class on immediate combat action on wounds and cold injury, heat injuries, stuff like this, and I'm 
actually the base instructor for it. Everybody on that base, I'm the one that sort of-- Well, it's a team of 
us, but I'm on that team that certifies everybody every other year. 
  
AG: Right. So, you're bringing some of your civic experience into the military, basically. So, now 
you've been working at the VA, and the entire tenure you were in this primary care clinic. Is that right? 
  
RO: Correct. 
  
AG: I know that from the times we've talked before, you also deployed through their kind of emergency 
COVID [unintelligible]? 
  
RO: Correct. 
  
AG: How did that come about? How did you end up becoming involved in the COVID effort? 
  
[40:20] RO: Initially what happened was, not to get political or anything, but President Trump had 
pushed through this thing called the CARES Act. The general public understood it as, they were getting 
a check. Some people also understood it included the unemployment bonuses and stuff like this. But 
nestled into that CARES Act was resources that were at the federal government's disposal that they 
could release to the public. The VA is the largest health care system in the world, not the country, in the 
world. We're the largest healthcare system in the world, and, basically, what you have is this huge army 
of federal nurses. At that point, a lot of the VAs were shut down for a lot of services because of COVID. 
You had a lot of nurses that were not being utilized to the top end of their scope, meaning that you had 
them doing filing work or making phone calls. I'm not saying we weren't busy doing stuff, because we 
were the first to get onboard with the video visits and stuff like this, but you had a lot of nurses that you 
could use to move around and put where you needed 'em. The first time that the DEMPS program was 
used at our VA was Hurricane Maria. I think that was in 2018. What happened was we sent federal 
nurses down there to help after the hurricane. A provision in the CARES Act released some resources to 
allow the VA nurses to work across state borders. That was a big factor in this, because I'm licensed in 
Delaware and I live in PA. I can't even practice nursing in Pennsylvania, 'cause I don't have a license in 
Pennsylvania. As a matter of fact, the three places that I went to, I didn't have a license to practice in that 
state, but what this did was it allowed them to mobilize resources that we already have, that are already 
on payroll. Then they just had to convince the nurses, "Hey, who's willing to go where you're needed 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
13 
 
now?" We got this DEMPS mission roster, and it said, Wave One. The first one that I went to was in 
Paramus, New Jersey in the state Veterans Home there. At this point, what had happened was there was 
a policy put in place to where a patient-- Well, I shouldn't say a patient, a resident of a nursing home 
could be sent to the hospital, but once their symptoms improved a little bit, they could be sent back to 
the nursing home, and they were supposed to kind of quarantine in their room. The problem is you have 
an entire population who has a compromised immune system. Older people typically do have this 
compromised immune system. Then on top of that, you try telling a 76 year old he's got to stay in his 
room all day. So, you see these guys in their wheelchairs or with their walkers going up and down the 
hall. They're touching the handrails, and it just spread like wildfire through the nursing home. The first 
nursing home that I went to was in Paramus, New Jersey, and I'll never forget the day that I got there. 
Their staff were in tears to see us. Aside from the veteran, or the residents getting sick, the staff were 
getting sick [coughs]. At that point, if you tested positive for COVID, boom, you're done. You can't 
come to work for two weeks. If you have a facility that says-- Let's just say you have eight wings and 
you typically have three nurses on each wing around the clock and a third of your nurses are sick, then 
your staffing becomes critically short. Like I said, the primary function of nursing is meeting these 
people's most basic needs, and through no fault of their own, the staff could not meet that need. They 
couldn't get that many people to the toilet in time. They couldn't get that many meds passed in time. The 
unit that I worked on I, they only had-- We were working 12-hour shifts. They were still on eight-hour 
shifts. The unit I worked on, they had two nurses that were still good, not sick, working three to 11, and 
they only had one nurse that was good from 11 to seven overnight. When we showed up and I got 
assigned to that unit, I was talking to the nurse. There was a guy and a girl on the three to 11 shift, and 
because I was there, they both got to go home that night. Prior to that, what was happening is every 
single day they went to work, one of them had to stay and work a double because there was only one 
nurse on the overnight shift, and you need at least two nurses because if something happens to that 
nurse, God forbid, maybe they have a heart attack, stroke, fall, whatever, or they're in a patient's room, 
and anything can happen, so, you always have to have two nurses on the unit. The two three to 11 
nurses, every day they went to work they had to take turns. One would have to work 16 hours, then the 
next day, you got to go home after only eight hours. Initially, it's not terrible. When that goes on for a 
week or two and you get that first check, you're like, "Woohoo! Party like a rock star." But the problem 
is that when that's going on, when you're in a sustained level of trauma like that, it really does start 
taking its toll on you, as far as not getting appropriate rest and morale. You don't even want to go to 
work because there's a good-- and if that midnight nurse calls out or gets sick, then they're both staying 
every night. So, that was awesome. That was awesome when I sat there and-- And you know what? It 
was a valuable experience for me too, because while I was going through COVID in Wilmington, 
Delaware, what we thought was going through COVID was not going through COVID, because what 
we thought was we freaked out every time another person tested positive for covid. Meanwhile, when I 
got up there, it was just everybody was testing positive for COVID. The National Guard was brought in 
and they were moving beds. We set up several hallways for just COVID patients. Other hallways were 
non-COVID patients. Then, honestly, there was an emotional toll to be paid, because, unfortunately, I 
did have to go through the experience of watching a lot of people pass during that window. Because I 
was in the veterans nursing home, that was also a little emotional for me too, because these guys were 
Korean War vets, some of the older Vietnam vets, and these guys were in their 60s, 70s, 80s, 90s. At one 
point in their life, that little old man in the bed was one of the baddest men on the planet, and now here 
he is struggling to breathe. The most basic function of life and this guy can't do it. It was a challenge to 
watch. 
  
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
14 
 
AG: Absolutely. 
  
RO: Yeah [begins to cry]. 
  
AG: It sounds like a really significant service that you provided, being there with people in their last 
days and moments. It was so difficult. 
  
[50:34] RO: Yeah, and, like I said, thinking back, it was a little harder than I thought, and then we were 
quarantined in the hotel and stuff. This was before there was a vaccine and stuff. I remember while I was 
up there, my wife drove up to see me. I got off work and she drove up that morning. She got to the hotel 
and she couldn't bring herself to come in. She turned around and drove back home. I didn't even see her. 
She got to the hotel and she freaked out, because she knew that the hotel was closed. The hotel was only 
open for us, and, basically, everybody there was supposed to be quarantined, but I couldn't stand to be 
away from her for that long and she couldn't stand to be away from me that long, and we thought she 
would just drive up and come in and see me, but she drove up, and then I had fallen asleep, because I 
had worked the night before. When I woke up and she wasn't there, I kind of freaked out. I gave her a 
call and she's like, "Yeah, I turned around. I'm on the Jersey Turnpike heading home." I was like, "Well, 
how far did you get?" She's like, "I was in your hotel parking lot." I was like, "Oh, my God." She was 
like, "Yeah, I just couldn't. I couldn't bring myself to go in there," knowing that there was a chance that 
she could get sick or something like this. She made the right decision. She wasn't supposed to come in 
the hotel to begin with. She was gonna call me. I was gonna come out so I could just come out and stand 
and talk to her outside of the car for a little bit. That was the first COVID deployment. I got back from 
that, and the second time was Cherry Hill, New Jersey. It was a civilian, non-VA nursing home, and 
very similar situation. It was a devastating staffing shortage. The agencies couldn't provide enough staff 
to backfill how many staff were missing. They were having a hard time getting agency nurses to even 
come to work, because most nurses that work for an agency also have a full-time job and they work 
agency on the side, and if you had a full-time job, you were working at your full-time job non-stop. With 
the shortage of agency nurses available and with the shortage of staff and the facility available, they 
went ahead and we were able to go in there and help them with the same thing. For that one, I think that 
that was closer towards the end of the summer. Closer to the end of the summer, the initial huge number 
of deaths that happened had already occurred. The numbers were falling, but the other component to that 
was now people were being tested regularly. Everybody that worked there was tested every week, and so 
people that weren't even sick, but if they tested positive, now they're out of work for two weeks. Initially 
if you were sick, you had to stay home for two weeks. At this point, it was more of if you tested positive 
or you were sick, so it was still a huge staffing shortage. I came back from there and I still did not test 
positive for COVID. I did everything I was supposed to. I wore the respirators when I was supposed to 
wear the respirators. I washed my hands as often as I could. I donned and doffed the gowns. I took my 
time; I was never in a rush. I made sure that I did everything the right way. At the end of the day, I didn't 
get COVID. Then in September, I was at home and one day I got up for work and my back hurt. I told 
my wife that morning, "Man, I must have slept wrong. My back is so tight." She said, "Well, do you 
wanna stay home?" I was like, "No, I'll be fine. I'll go to work." Then when I got to work, getting up out 
of my chair, my knees and my hips were hurting. So, but I checked. I didn't have a fever, no cough, no 
shortness of breath, nothing like this. Then, probably at about three o'clock in the afternoon-- This is 
Friday on a holiday weekend. Three o'clock in the afternoon I checked my temperature, bam, 101 point 
something. I felt so tired. We have the COVID tent. Employees are allowed to go get tested anytime we 
want. So, I went over there and I got tested. I tested positive for COVID. I was at two of the worst spots 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
15 
 
in the country at the worst times in the country, and at those times, I never got COVID, but then coming 
home-- At that time, primary care was mostly closed. We were only doing video visits and phone calls. 
My boss, my wife, my in-laws, everybody's like, "Well, how did you get COVID? How did you get 
COVID?" and the best I could think is the ATM, the gas pump, wherever, Lowe's. I went to Lowe's and 
bought some stuff. I don't know where I got it. When I was in the most dangerous spot, I was very, very 
safe. I think that when I came home and I kinda-- Like I said, here was never really hit by COVID. I live 
in a very country area. We have one stoplight. Population maybe 2,000 people. We change that sign 
every time somebody moves in or out. I think that I kind of let my guard down, and then I ended up 
testing positive with COVID. 
  
AG: How did you handle COVID? Did you get very ill? How long were you sick? 
  
[57:32] RO: That day, I started taking Tylenol for my back and my fever. By the second day, I was fine 
with all of that stuff. The only COVID symptom that I really had was a sore throat. It was the sorest 
throat you could imagine. Everything I ate or drank-- I could drink a glass of water and it felt like I was 
drinking liquid glass. It just burned the whole way down, no matter how ice cold the water was. It hurt. 
It hurt to even drink water, but I had to drink water because when you're sick, one of the things that 
makes you feel worse is that you're dehydrated. I had to push hard to force myself to drink that water. 
That only lasted for a couple of days, and then after being out of work for a week, I decided to talk to 
my boss and tell her that I was gonna work again. I couldn't go back to work for two weeks, but I was 
allowed to use my government laptop and do video visits, phone calls, stuff like that from home and try 
to help out, because everybody thinks two weeks of being off would be a lot of fun. Well, it is if you're 
going somewhere and doing something, but I couldn't leave my living room. My wife brought me my 
food to the living room. She brought me drinks, she brought me medicine, she brought me changes of 
clothes. I had to change my clothes a couple of times during the day because I'd sweat through 'em. The 
only time I would leave my living room, I'd put on an N95 mask and then I would go up, take a shower. 
Then I would Clorox the shower before I left and then I'd come back down. That's pretty much what it 
was for two weeks. Then a few weeks after-- That happened at the end of the fall, I think September-ish, 
and then the holidays were coming around and all of a sudden there was a huge COVID outbreak in 
Oklahoma City. To leave, I would be leaving the week before Christmas. They really needed people, 
and  I didn't think that many people would volunteer, because the two weeks that you would be gone 
would be the two weeks of Christmas and New Year's. I told my wife, "I gotta go help," and she's like, 
"Well, we're gonna miss the holidays and stuff." I was like, "Yeah, but there's people dying and they 
need help, and I don't think that a lot of people are gonna volunteer to go." That's how I met Lindsay 
when I went to Oklahoma City. At home I was thinking COVID was over, and when I got there, it was 
like walking right back into a dystopic nightmare. We were staying in the hotel, me and a buddy of 
mine. He lives in Washington. We're good friends, still good friends now. Essentially, we're staying in 
the hotel. We work 12-hour shifts every day. We got a day off-- maybe 12 days into it, we got a day off. 
We got to relax for a day. Then me and him actually extended, so we were there for a full month. During 
the whole month, we took two days off and worked 12-hour shifts the rest of the time. Oklahoma City 
was the only place that I felt the need that I had to extend. Their hospital had exceeded capacity, so they 
had trailers, mobile trailers, set up outside where we had beds, and we were able to take care of the 
patients outside in these mobile units. Aside from that, because of my experience at my civilian facility, 
I was helping out in the ICU. I remember working and instead of isolating the individual rooms, they 
had to isolate the entire unit. Normally, when you go into a room with COVID, you put on a new gown, 
you put on gloves, you put on your mask, you put on your PAPR hood, and then you can go into the 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
16 
 
room. When we were there, they negative pressurized the entire unit, so there was kind of a zipper-down 
door to go into the unit. When you did that, you had to be wearing the Tyvek suit. You had to wear 
everything and you went in, and you were on that unit for your shift. The only time you left was to go to 
the bathroom and for your break, but you spent the entire time in your COVID gear. The whole time 
you're charting, the whole time when you're not busy, you stayed in the COVID gear the whole time. 
The other thing is that they didn't have a large enough mortuary or facilities taking people fast enough. 
When I was there, we actually had like a refrigerated box [begins to cry]. We had a refrigerated box 
where we were storing bodies until they could be picked up by a funeral home or something like this. 
Because, just the people were dying. Man, the people were dying so fast. It was different from the other 
facilities, 'cause the other two places I went, it was more staffing issues, and they were both nursing 
homes. Very few people died in the nursing homes, because what would happen is when they got sick 
enough to where they were going to die, we sent them over to the hospital and they died in the hospital, 
so, we weren't actually dealing with that level of death like what we experienced in Oklahoma City. The 
staff out there, amazing, amazing staff. They made us feel welcome. We jumped right in. The first day, 
the chief nursing officer pretty much gave us a rallying speech and then we went at it. I was supposed to 
be there for 14 days, and then about 10 days in, I called my wife and I said, "I'm not coming home," and 
she said, "What do you mean?" I was like, "I'm putting in for an extension. I need to stay another two 
weeks.” At this point, we didn't celebrate Christmas last year until mid-January, because I was there for 
the holidays. My daughter's birthday is New Year's Day. I missed her birthday. I missed New Year's 
Eve. But I just felt like I had to be there [crying]. Every night that we went into work, we got beat up so 
bad. I mean, so many admissions. We were constantly moving patients. The less sick they were, they got 
to go out to the mobile units. The more sicker people, we tried to get into the hospital. I remember, me 
and the guy - I don't want to say his name, because we're being recorded and stuff - but me and him were 
sitting there talking in the hotel, and we were talking about going home and I told him, I said, "I'm 
thinking about staying," and he said, "Really?" He's like, "Aren't you tired?" I was like, "I'm freaking 
exhausted, bro, but every day we go to work and we take a beating, that's one less beating their staff has 
to take, and even if we stay another two weeks, we get to go back to our lives. This is their freakin’ 
reality." I didn't feel comfortable leaving them like that, so I stayed another two weeks, and by then we 
had kind of cleared the holidays and a lot more VA employees were starting to volunteer to come. But I 
would say that whole [crying]-- I mean, as horrible as it was, just seeing the way those nurses worked so 
hard [crying], it'll definitely restore your faith in humanity. Every day they were putting themselves at 
risk working ungodly amounts of hours, and, I don't know. I don't know. I'm just-- I'm glad that we're 
past it. 
  
AG: Absolutely. Oh God, truly such a nightmare. Like you said, the amount of time and sacrifice that 
nurses have put in in the past year and a half is unfathomable. You know, for those of us who are not in 
the healthcare field, it was such a sacrifice. I wonder as you're telling me, three deployments, one after 
you already contracted COVID and were sick yourself, where do you think you got the strength to 
persevere in this role and to continue to go to the frontlines, essentially, of the COVID fight? 
  
[1:08:33] RO: Well, [crying] I think it stems back to 1995, that hot freakin’ summer of '95. Parris Island, 
South Carolina, where Marines are made. When other people are running from the bullets, the Marines 
are running into 'em. We call it esprit de corps. It's that feeling that what you're doing is contributing to 
something larger than yourself. I'm not the only one that made sacrifices. There was a lot of nurses that 
came out there. There was a lot of support staff that came out there. But really what the driving factor 
was is that usually as a nurse, I'm in a position to help somebody in front of me due to illness or injury, 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
17 
 
right. It's a great talent to have; it's a very rewarding and fulfilling career. I hear people talking all the 
time about how much nurses are compensated, and I'm like, "Yeah, we're fairly compensated," but if you 
ask most nurses, most of our reward is gratitude. Like I was saying, usually I get to help the person that's 
in front of me due to illness or injury, but in that circumstance, not only am I getting to help the person 
in front of me due to illness or injury, I'm also helping the people that work with me side-by-side. 
Because I know that if that was to happen at my facility, that the kind of people that I was going out to 
help are gonna be the kind of people that would show up to help me. And just knowing that the people 
there needed me more than the people here. 
  
AG: Absolutely, yeah. That sense of camaraderie and strength for your fellow workers as well as the 
patients is so powerful hearing you describe it. Maybe with your fellow workers or just your own 
personal time alone, were there things that you did to take care of yourself, like your emotional and 
mental health, after working so long in such hard and such terrible circumstances? 
  
RO: When I got back, I did take a week off and I did a lot of walking, a lot of hiking. Me and my wife 
did go away for-- I think we went away for a four-day weekend. But when you're there, you don't get to 
do that. You don't get to take care of yourself; it's not an option. You have to remember at that point, 
gyms were closed, so you're not going out and exercising, and also keep in mind that we were working 
12-hour shifts, seven to 7:30, but the truth of the matter is that you're leaving the hotel at about 6:15 at 
night so you can grab something to eat and then get to work, and then you're getting off at 7:30, 8 
o'clock in the morning. You gotta go grab a bite to eat, get home and take a shower. By then it's like nine 
or 10 in the morning, and you've got to get up for work in seven hours. It's not like you're gonna be 
going down to the bar and having a good time and blowing some steam off or something like that. 
Sometimes in the lobby in the morning, after we'd go up and we'd take showers, if you went back down 
to the lobby, there would be some of the other deployed nurses and stuff sitting around, and we'd be 
talking about some of the stuff we saw last night and the things we had done. It really helps when you're 
going through something like that to not be going through it alone, but it's also hard because looking 
back, just talking about it, I kind of got a little emotional, but at the time, you really couldn't do that, 
because I think if we're sitting in the lobby and we're all talking about our night and one of us broke 
down, I think that all of us would break down. I think we actually held it together for each other, but at 
the same time going through the same situation. 
  
AG: Do you see any similarities between your military deployments and some of these COVID nursing 
deployments, in terms of the intensity or the camaraderie or anything like that? 
  
[1:13:42] RO: Yes on the camaraderie thing, but no on the intensity. When I was deployed in the 
military, things are relatively safe. It's not like when we first got over there and we were living in tents 
and using temporary structures. We've been over there for 20 years and we built permanent structures. 
We have permanent hangars. We have a permanent barracks. Actually, the barracks over there is newer 
than the barracks we have on active duty bases because it was just built in the last few years and stuff. 
Over there, you go to work, you do your job, and yeah, you're in the military, it sucks. You're away from 
your family and it's for a long period of time. It's extremely hot. But we also goofed off a lot. We played 
a lot of cornhole. We played a lot of horseshoes. We had a bar on base. We can go have two beers a day 
I think was our limit or something. We had two different gyms on the base. People were always out 
running. We had a movie theater. The reason why I'm bringing all of that up is because you're in a pretty 
stressful-- it's a more stressful environment than home, but you have all of these ways to decompress. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
18 
 
The situation with COVID was different in the sense that, like I said, you were at a sustained level of 
trauma for an extended period of time with no way to decompress, and I think that's what made the 
situation-- I think that's why the deployments were only for two weeks, and most people only did two 
weeks. I think that if you would have knocked it back to eight hours a day, maybe, and if the essential 
workers-- If you want the gym to be closed to the general public, let it be closed to the general public, 
but let the essential workers go in. I know it sounds like you're giving them an unfair benefit, but they're 
in an unfair situation where they really need to just go work out some emotional things. I think that 
would have helped. I think that the supporting communities of where we were were very supportive too. 
I'm gonna go ahead and name drop Bonefish Grill, because all of the restaurants were closed up there 
when we were in New Jersey, but when that happened, the Bonefish Grill, they were closed, but some of 
their staff came in and they cooked us meals. I think once they found out we were there, they started 
cooking us dinner every night. When we got up, we could go downstairs and we could pack a little to-go 
lunch and take it with us to the facility. Then I'll go ahead and shout out McDonald's too. McDonald's 
was closed, but they opened up for essential workers, so you can go before work and you can get a 
sandwich and fries and a drink, and then they were open first thing in the morning, and you can go by 
and get an Egg McMuffin or something like this on your way back to the hotel. Those two restaurants, I 
thought it was pretty cool, because I could understand if you were open for business and said, "Oh, yeah, 
if you come, you can get it for--." No, they were closed. They weren't allowed to be open, but they 
opened up just for us. So, we did have the support of the community. But I really can't compare the two. 
I do agree with the camaraderie but, like I said, the people dying really wears on you, and, like I said, no 
way to work out your stress. 
  
AG: Are there any lessons that you're kind of taking forward in either your career or your personal life 
from the past year and a half from the COVID epidemic? 
  
[1:18:30] RO: A lot of my insight comes from being angry at the media. I was angry at the media. I'm 
still angry at the media. I think that they took a giant wedge and they split our country in half, to where 
you had people-- Wearing a mask was so important, but the way the media went totally for or against, 
and they made it such a political issue that, going forward, here we are, seven, eight months after the 
vaccine's been available, and people have still dug in their heels on this issue based on kind of what the 
media was driving to them. Really what's happened is every step of the way, they have put the public's 
health in jeopardy. I remember them talking about Congress was gonna pass something where essential 
workers got a one-time bonus or something. That never happened. But if you talked to nurses-- Now, 
I'm not saying to everybody, but if you talk to most nurses, I would have been happy to not get that one-
time bonus if that money was spent on making sure everybody had a freakin' mask. I do think that it's 
your right to choose whether you get a vaccine, but I don't feel like during a pandemic it's your choice to 
choose whether you get to wear a mask or not. It's no different than them telling me I can't go outside 
naked. I have to wear something over me. To say the government can't force you to wear something, 
they do. If you go out naked, you will be arrested. The government already forces you to wear 
something. This was not something that should have been a political issue. It was a public health issue. I 
just feel like the media really let us down in that sense. Then by keep adding and adding and adding to 
it, it's got us to the point where we are now where we're at what, 60% vaccinated. We have all these 
vaccines made, but I think we're probably at capacity, because I think the remaining people who haven't 
been vaccinated are not going to get vaccinated for one reason or another. Again, I agree that it's your 
choice with the vaccine thing, but I don't think it would have come to this if they hadn't had done such a 
good job of dividing our country on every other public health issue leading up to the vaccine. I think that 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
19 
 
I've always been willing to do whatever is best for everyone, and I just wish that's something that 
everybody else would be willing to do. It was so simple; wear a freakin' mask. Still, I remember people 
being so defiant over something so trivial. I can understand if there wasn't a purpose, but people were 
freakin' dying. We were storing them in cooler boxes. You had health care workers working around the 
clock, and you had scientists, you had manufacturers, you had so many people doing so much. It really 
does show the gumption of our country that the people that were essential, they stepped up to the plate, 
and they did what they needed to do, and then to have the media really do something like this, it's gonna 
have a lasting effect on our country, it really is. I could get behind that if it's for the political thing, like, 
"Oh, you're the red guys. We're the blue guys," and I could see them dividing us for something trivial 
like that, or for or against whatever law or something, but when it comes to public health and people 
being at risk of dying because you want to divide us, that's kind of like where I'm gonna have to draw 
the line. I would say that my key takeaway from the whole thing was that we need to just be better 
people, be better people. I don't think that's changed about me. Three years ago, I could have retired 
from the military. I'm 44 years old and I did my 20 years. I could have put down my pack. But, I still 
feel like I've got so much more to give, and nursing provides me an outlet where I get to do that all the 
time. I get to give. I get to give all the time. 
  
AG: Absolutely. You know, I'm wondering, it's just about an hour and 30 minutes. Do you have, you 
think, another 20, 30 minutes to chat a little more or you...? 
  
RO: My family's gone. My daughter went to work, my wife went to the store and stuff so I could be here 
for this. 
  
AG: Okay, wonderful. I just didn't want to impose too much on your time, but I'm glad if you're able to 
talk just a little longer, some wrapping up, long-term questions about your career, that kind of thing, and 
then sort of wrapping up the COVID topic. In your experience, how do you think COVID affected the 
VA in particular, like across the system, if you have a sense of that? 
  
[1:24:49] RO: I think that the two biggest impacts were, prior to COVID, we were already starting to do 
video visits. We were pushing people to try to get this program up and running with the video visits. 
One of the barriers to that is that the majority of our veterans are older veterans. They're Vietnam-era 
veterans. They're not really wanting to do something like what we're doing with the video visits and 
stuff like this. We were piloting it and we were pushing it and promoting it, and we weren't getting a lot 
of buy-in. But when 60 plus year olds started dying for going out in public, all of a sudden these same 
veterans were scheduling video visits. I think that that is really a huge benefit, because even though we 
had the video visits set up for a long time, we couldn't get buy-in, and now we have that buy-in that we 
need for veterans to do this. The video visit thing is a huge, huge benefit when it comes to veterans' 
access, because we don't always have a VA that's close to where a veteran lives. You go down to 
Salisbury, Maryland, and the nearest VA might be a two-hour drive. If it's something that can be done 
over video, then it's a benefit. Then of course, the second benefit of video visits is the access to 
specialists. If you come to our VA and we don't have a specialist, we can get you to talk to the best ENT 
in the country by video. We have scopes that have cameras. That's what they look at, and we can scope 
you and send the video to the best providers in the country. The public moving forward with video visits 
is good too, because for instance, for me, I live in Pennsylvania and I work down in Delaware, but my 
doctor is up in Pennsylvania. If I'm gonna do a video visit, I can take a half-hour break at work and do a 
video visit with my doctor, as opposed to me having to take a half a day off because it's an hour and 15 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
20 
 
minute drive there, spend a half hour to an hour there and then an hour and 15. I think that's one of the 
big benefits of COVID and how it impacted the VA. I think the other thing that the VA benefited from 
was we already had the DEMPS program, the Disaster Emergency Management Program, and it had 
only been used at my VA for that hurricane, but now that the framework is in place, and the number of 
nurses that have stepped up and gotten DEMPS qualified, now when there is more emergencies, like 
right now, we just got a thing. There's something going on. I forget where it was, maybe in Louisiana or 
something, that they're asking people to go. Because of COVID, we put the infrastructure in place, and 
we built up a pool of capable nurses that are willing to go places to do things like this. The next disaster 
or emergency or something like this, we've already got the pathway laid out on how we're gonna get 
people to the problem much quicker, and we already have the pool of people ready to go. They've been 
qualified on their government travel card. They got all of their qualifications there, 'cause you have to do 
a bunch of FEMA training and stuff like that to be able to do stuff like this. Because of COVID, now the 
pool of people that can do this is much more large. 
  
AG: You know, I'm wondering, as you're talking, do you think there are any services that could be 
expanded or improved for veterans through the VA? 
  
[1:29:47] RO: I think that the VA runs amazingly. It's nowhere near what I thought it was gonna be. I 
really can't think of services. There's people in rooms right now-- Well, not right now, 'cause it's getting 
late, but there's people sitting in rooms all day just thinking of ways that we can improve care to the 
veterans. We just rolled out a translator line at our VA, and which we had at my non-VA hospital. We 
had that, and I think we had access to 100 and something languages. But while they're pushing this 
program forward, I'm thinking to myself, “This is the VA. The only patients that come here served in the 
military. They speak English,” [laughs]. But I mean, we're always looking at ways, because maybe 
English is their second language. So, it is a benefit, but I question how big of a [laughing] benefit a 
program like that is. I think that improving access is constantly happening. We're starting a new health 
chat system. You know what that is? That's kind of like when you go to a website-- Let's say you go to a 
car dealership and a picture of some girl pops up on the left, and it says, "Hi, my name is Tiffany. What 
can I--," something like that. We've rolled that out. We have the video visits, which gives you access to 
so many things. We have an internal email system, to where our veterans can email me directly. We're 
always looking for ways to improve access. As far as services, I think that as time goes on, we're 
constantly expanding services. Right now, we're starting to offer more in the way of transitioning 
services for veterans that are wishing to transition, and support in that way. I don't think we're quite 
there for that yet, but we're getting there. 
  
AG: Like transitional like housing, or do you mean like gender transitioning? 
  
RO: No, I mean transition, guy to girl or girl to guy, stuff like this. We have plenty of housing support 
programs and stuff, but the thing right now that I would say that we need more services and access to 
would be that transitioning service, only because it's kind of-- I don't want to say that it's a new thing, 
'cause I don't want to make it sound like I'm dismissing it as something like that, but it's new to the VA. 
So, I don't think that we have all of the appropriate providers with the right skill sets and things like this. 
So, that's something that we're working on right now. 
  
AG: Wow. Like you said, it does sound very kind of cutting edge in terms of providing the best care to 
the broadest range of patients. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
21 
 
  
RO: That's what it is, and we're always trying to improve access, and we're always trying to make sure 
the veterans-- I never want to hear a story about a veteran who needed something and we couldn't either 
provide it or find him somebody who could provide it. And that goes for every veteran, no matter who 
they are, what their circumstances, what happened to them after the service. Maybe they went on to be 
an Elon Musk or maybe they live under a bridge. The thing you have to remember about veterans is at 
one point, one point somewhere in their life, they went into an office and signed a contract, promising 
everything up to including their life for this country. Now, maybe they didn't die, maybe they didn't get 
injured or something like this, but they were willing to, and that's not something everybody else-- Not 
everybody is willing to take a risk like that. For somebody that was willing to do that for-- and again, for 
people you don't know. It's for people you don't even know. They're a special breed of people. 
  
AG: Yes, absolutely. Given that kind of significance of the patient population, what have you found are 
the biggest rewards and challenges working at the VA? 
  
[1:35:05] RO: I think the biggest reward is when the veteran is trying to get anything accomplished, you 
pick the task, but sometimes when you're dealing with the government, it's big, and sometimes it can be 
a challenge to get what you need accomplished, because you don't know who to go to or where to go or 
what form to fill out or the right language for what you're really trying to say you're trying to get done. 
A lot of what I do is facilitating that. The patient comes in and they need x, y, z, but they don't know 
who to talk to to get it done or where to go. Or maybe we get talking and I'm like, "Oh, we can do that 
for you," and that's rewarding. It really is when you realize that there's so many services available that 
veterans don't take advantage of because they just don't know what's available, and kind of shining that 
light into that dark corner and letting 'em know, "Hey, there's a little something over there." That is 
probably one of the most rewarding things. The other thing is like when you catch something that could 
have slipped through. Recently, I just did that. I caught something, and I did send the guy an email back, 
but then I was nervous that he wouldn't get the email, so I called him and I told him what I thought he 
needed to do, and he did what I said. He went to the ER. It turns out I was right. I suspected he had a 
blood clot in his leg. I talked to him, and then when he came in and saw the doctor, he's like, "Yeah, 
your nurse saved my life, because I was fine with it. I was just dealing with it," and I was like, "No. You 
know what, these are signs. This is stuff that we need to get you into the emergency room for." He ended 
up going to the civilian emergency room, but the emergency room told him that this could have been 
catastrophic. That's something that's really rewarding, listening to that guy go on and on about how I 
saved his life when really, I just did my job. 
  
AG: Right, but your job is saving his life. And a blood clot, that is fatal. 
  
RO: Yeah. He sent me an email and told me he was having pain in his lower leg, and then when I called 
him, I got to talking to him, and I had him bend his toes up, and he had that pain shoot through there. He 
told me after the fact that he had driven to Georgia. He drove down to Georgia, and then he was in 
Georgia for a day and then he drove back. Anytime you're sitting for that long a period of time, you're 
running a high risk of a blood clot. Then he kept saying he was having that sharp pain. I asked him, 
“Does one leg look a little bit bigger than the other?" and he said, "I didn't notice it, but now that you 
mention it, the skin on one side is a little tighter than the other." I was like, "Go straight to the ER bud." 
They told him, they said that that could have been a stroke. It could have been a PE where you couldn't 
breathe, and he's like, "That nurse saved my life." That's probably the most rewarding thing. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
22 
 
  
AG: Absolutely. 
  
RO: Then there's small victories too. When I'm working with a diabetic and we can get their A1C under 
control, or a hypertensive patient. It doesn't sound like it's that big of a deal, but doing something like 
that 20 years from now might be the difference of whether they have two feet or not or whether they 
have a stroke or something like an aneurism. Really everything I do I feel is pretty important. 
  
AG: Absolutely. From what you're saying, I feel like I have a sense of your answer, but typically, do you 
like going to work every day in this current job? 
  
RO: Most days [laughs]. Most days, like everybody else. We all have a day where we get up and the 
alarm clock woke you up before you were ready to get up, or you came downstairs and you couldn't find 
your work badge, or even worse, you got halfway to work and you realized you forgot it. There's days 
that I just don't feel like getting out of bed, but I do, and I think that if it was a different job, maybe on 
those days I might not get out of bed. But for this job, I have no problem getting out of bed. 
  
AG: Could you tell me a little bit about how you think your experiences as a veteran influence the way 
that you interact with patients, or even how you feel about your job, if it does? 
  
[1:40:26] RO: Oh, it does! Today I was talking to a guy. He was in there for something petty, and it took 
two minutes to get it done. Like I said, when you get an appointment with me, you get a 30-minute 
window. Me and him talked for probably 45 minutes. He talked about his time at Parris Island. He just 
recently went down there 'cause his grandson graduated. He's like, "You wouldn't believe what it looks 
like now," and I was like, "I know, I know. It's always changed down there." He told me about what he 
did when he got out and how he went on to be an entrepreneur. He started his own business. All the time 
we talk about that, and then sometimes-- I try not to tell them too much about me. I try to make sure that 
when they're there, I'm focused on making sure they know this is about them not me, 'cause I've never 
liked the one-upper is what I call them. No matter what I say, you've got something that you've done that 
was just a little bit cooler or just a little bit better. So, unless they ask questions, specific questions, like 
when they ask where I served, I'll usually say, "I was at the air station, Buford, and then I did two years 
in Japan." Then they'll almost always ask me, "Okinawa?" and I'm like, "No, I was mainland Japan," and 
[unintelligible]. Having that shared experience with them, I feel like it's kinda like a savings bond. 
Today I made a deposit of a savings bond with this guy. I made an initial deposit of $10. It only took a 
half hour of my time. I deposited the $10 in that savings bond. Two years from now, something's gonna 
happen where he's gonna need something or we're going to be talking about something, but that deposit 
that I made today is gonna grow into something bigger, and then he'll be more open when he wants to 
discuss things with me. Maybe it's something very personal. Maybe it's man problems, which they have 
a hard time wanting to discuss, or maybe it's a behavioral problem, psychological problems. Maybe 
they're feeling a certain way. When you walk in and you don't know who you're talking to, it's kind of 
hard to open up. But if that person took that time for that $10 savings bond deposit, he feels like he 
knows me a little bit and he's gonna be more willing to open up to me a little bit. It may pay off, it may 
never pay off, but I made the deposit. 
  
AG: I hear your dogs. They're welcome. No, it's fine. You know, I wonder as we're talking, could you 
describe sort of your philosophy about nursing or your approach to nursing more broadly as well? 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
23 
 
  
RO: Okay, so, Virginia Henderson. You can write this down and take notes if you'd like. There's a 
bunch of nurse theorists and they come up with different theories of what nursing is or what it should be. 
To paraphrase her, and I kind of paraphrased her earlier and I didn't even realize it, is that a nurse is 
supposed to be doing the thing for a patient that they would normally do for themselves but they cannot 
due to illness or injury. That's basically her theory of what nursing is, and that's always been my 
philosophy. I take that approach at the bedside too. Sometimes, patients don't always like my approach 
when it comes to that, because I'm supposed to do for you what you cannot do for yourself, not what you 
will not do for yourself. When I watched you eat dinner but now you want me to brush your teeth, or I 
saw you get up and do something but now you're asking me to do something-- There's a line that I draw 
there, and the reason I draw that line is because a lot of times, me doing these things for you is not 
helping you. It's setting you back. You need to get up, you need to walk, you need to pick up the pitcher 
and fill your own cup. If you can't, you had a stroke, you can't move your left arm, that's what I'm there 
for. I've taken Virginia Henderson's philosophy on nursing and I apply it directly to pretty much 
everything I do in nursing. I don't just apply that to nursing. I apply that nursing philosophy to a lot of 
things I do in life. If somebody can do something for themselves, then they don't need me to do it for 
them. 
  
AG: That's a good lesson for, like you said, lay people as well to take on board, even a psychological 
sense. Not over take care of people. I have just a couple more questions. I was wondering, are there 
people who you consider professional mentors or people who strongly influenced your career trajectory? 
  
[1:46:28] RO: Yeah, there's a couple of them. One of course is my manager. When she hired me, I was 
already in my double Master's program, and she's invested a lot of time. Anytime she sees a leadership 
class or training experience, she's always recommending me for doing stuff like this. She does act as a 
mentor also for teaching me the ins and outs of the VA, because it's a lot different than a civilian 
hospital. Another one, and I'll just give this person a shout out by name, Jackie Barrett. She was a 
nursing instructor at Florida State College of Nursing. Remember when I said I'd worked real hard and 
saved up enough money to where I could take it easy sometime? Well, there was a point where I couldn't 
afford books, so Miss Barret gave me a book to help me get through the semester. There's been different 
people along the way that have helped me grow in my role, grow in my profession. The truth is that 
everywhere you look around you, it's not just in nursing, it's not just in your profession, it's everywhere 
in your life, you're surrounded by mentors. You're surrounded by people that can teach you things. 
There's just an abundant wealth of knowledge just on your block. Everybody on your block has a 
different job, and everybody has something they can bring to the table. Maybe the problem is that what 
they can mentor me in, I'm not interested in or have no need for, but I bet if I asked, "Hey, Mike. Can 
you show me how to do such and such?" Specifically, career-wise, my manager right now has invested 
the most in me. Prior to that, one of my other managers when I worked at the civilian hospital, the non-
VA location, she was always driving me, 'cause she wanted me to become the charge nurse and become 
the assistant nurse manager. I think that all through my career, I've had people pushing me. Then also at 
the base. Like I said, I'm still in the reserves, and those guys are always so supportive and encouraging 
me. 
  
AG: Terrific. Bobby, I can't thank you enough for taking time to talk with me. This has been so 
illuminating. Before we say goodbye, I wondered if there was anything you wanted to add. 
  
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
24 
 
RO: For the people that listen back to this, my experiences were a little bit different than most people 
during COVID. I think that what I experienced firsthand is what they may have heard of on the news, 
and when people were shocked hearing it on the news, that's nowhere near compared to seeing these 
things with your own eyes. I think that when it comes to health care, health care shouldn't be a political 
issue. Maybe paying for it should be. Okay, I'll give you that. But I think that when it comes to public 
safety and disease prevention, I guess, not just with an infection like COVID, but everything - 
hypertension, diabetes - these things impact people's lives, and everybody should be-- we have plenty of 
people that can educate on these topics. The last topic we discussed was mentorship, and that's 
something that you can look for in your community, people that can educate you on managing your 
diabetes, your hypertension, disease prevention, stroke prevention, all of these things. Really, if you 
listen this far, I hope you take a minute to look at available resources. I think that would be my message 
to the public. 
  
AG: Thank you so much. Again, like I said, I can't thank you enough for sharing all of your experiences 
and for your time. 
  
RO: Well, thank you for reaching out to me to do this. 
 
[1:51:44] End of recording.