1 
 
Conchita Fichilmar Bi-Lingual Questionnaires  
 
Interview Location: Yona, Guam 
Age of Interviewee: 75 years 
Island of Birth: 
Asor Island, Ulithi Atoll 
Audio Language: 
Ulithian 
Recording afc2022011_018_sr001 
00:01 Question 1 
1.   Thinking back, what are your very earliest memories of, or about, weaving? 
A. Ulithian:  Hobe luluwal tefal ngo mada mele hochil mem’mangi hare gulayem mo irel yam 
la Kai mo gula doh deur? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
00:40 Ngang ichil luluwalei mala ila gula yai la kai doh deur, ila 
paling dah le ila werir yarmat yar kkai deur irel yengang, 
guluch mo, le rekak mo irel yuch. Iwe ngo ngang ited paling irel 
yathla. La yothla sa yor ito le sabudoh, 01:11 ila yathle ngang is 
kai deur mo iyang mo irel makla wol bisiy. Ila yathle isa kai 
chow, isa kai deur, bo igula bo sew formel le important irel 
yamem life wol Makala fulumem. Hatapei irel dugdugul mess, 
hatapei irel mekala be wel doh le ye wares ngo ha use gow 
iyang. Ila mele ila kai deur iyang. 
 
Interviewee in English: 
I still remember, when I was young, I would see people 
learning how to weave and making lavalava with local fibers.  
They made the style for men using fibers from the banana tree, 
but I was still little at that time. I learned how to weave after we 
started using commercial thread. I learned how to make the 
warp and then how to weave from my sisters. I learned how to 
weave because I knew that it’s something important on our 
island and in our culture. We use lavalava for so many things 
on our islands. 
 
01:42 Question 2 
2.   In your mind, who is the one person you most associate with weaving in your life and 
why? 
A. Ulithian:  Lol yam luluwal, itei semal le ye kael yam fel ngali irel yam fefaru doh deur hare 
yam deduer doh?  Bo mada fal? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
01:54 Mala bisiy le Maria, Maria Lug, sil yi yaremtali yeholu 
ngalyei mele bo ibe malili. Yiy melel ifel ngali ngo yiy mele ikai 
mo irel. Igula le sew formel le important ngal yam culture irel 
makla fulumem. 
 
Interviewee in English: 
That person was my sister, Maria Lug, who was the mother of 
this interviewer who is recording me (Modesta).  Maria is the 
one person I associate with weaving. She was the one who 
taught me how to weave, and who taught me about how it’s 
2 
 
something that is very important on our islands and in our 
culture. 
 
02:20 Question 3 
3.   Why is weaving so important to you? 
A.   Ulithian: Mada mele dedeur ye kael yal palengpelal ngalug iyang? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
02:28 Deur ye paling pelal ngalyei irel makala fulumem bo ikla 
makala ha yaya. Deur, be toer deur ilang towe mol lesibe 
darfadal bo tor formel uwoch. Iwe ngo igula lw sew formel le ye 
paling fal wol pangal meka be wel doh wol makala fulumem. 
Ye budoh irel mess, yebudoh irel meka yewel le sima fang gow 
iyang. Ila fal le ila mal ngal gow iyang. 
 
 
 
Interviewee in English: 
Lavalava is very important on our islands because that is our 
clothing.  We cannot be around other people if we aren’t 
wearing lavalava because we would be naked. We also use it 
for funerals, and there are many other things that we use 
lavalava for. 
 
03:06  Question 4 
4.   How has weaving or woven skirts changed over your lifetime, or since the lifetime of 
those who taught you? 
A.   Ulithian:  Ifa sangal yal deur mo dedeur susuwel doh irel yam bubudoh yesa holadoh 
igla? Hare sa change tangi yathkawe ho k’kai mor irel sensei kala yam? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
03:20 Sa paling paling difference yal yesuwel relaka. Sa 
metmatal gow ngo sa buyui irel relaka irel metmetal color 
metmetal dedeur. Tai wochochog relakawe le ye telap 
yengang le yarmat rebe feur deur iyang. Igla sa mommai 
mommai sa paling metmetal formel le yarmat retapeli irel gow. 
 
Interviewee in English: 
There have been so many changes these days in how the 
lavalava are woven.  There are so many different colors that 
people are using now compared to the old days. Nowadays, 
lavalava are so beautiful, and they come in different styles. 
 
 
03:52 Question 5  
5.    If you could talk to your great-granddaughter about weaving, what would you want to tell 
her? 
A.   Ulithian:  Hare wochog bo hobe malili ngal lol lom tarfefel irel deur, mada mele hobe 
kangalur hare hodipli hobe kangalur? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
04:07 Ngang ila tor spegil layi tarfefel bo mala laiyi ye subdoh 
chog ngo yemes, ngo yecholop layi, lol bisiy lefechig mor 
tarfefel le ngang idipli le yathle ichil molow, be yoh le ibe 
3 
 
hamadfa ngalir yigegel makla ngang igula mo irel mil gow, bo 
yir rebgula bo lol yar loloh, pangal ngo romadaf iyang. 
 
 
Interviewee in English: 
I don’t have a daughter.  My daughter died when she was 
born, but my sisters have plenty of daughters, so I have my 
nieces. Since I am still alive, I would like to talk to my nieces 
and explain what I know about weaving so that, as they go on 
in life, they will know and understand about why it is important.