Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
1 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
Project: Nursing America’s Veterans 
Name of person interviewed:  
Vicki Walston (VW) 
Facts about this person: 
Sex (Female) 
Occupation (Registered Nurse) 
Residence (Arkansas) 
Interviewer: Alana Glaser (AG) and Lisa Krajecki (LK) 
Transcriber:  Holly A. Massanelli (HAM) 
Interview location: remote  
Date of interview: 
3/24/21 
Key Words 
Arkansas, George Air Force Base, Milwaukee, Concordia University of Mequon, Bachelor of 
Science in Nursing, Bachelor Business Administration, Cath lab, Hines, veterans, suicide rate, 
Hill Air Force Base, VA, Marquette, Chicago, Marshfield, COVID, Central DuPage, Abbott 
Northwestern, interventional radiology, Loyola, Minneapolis VA, Arkansas VA, St. Joseph 
Hospital, gatekeepers. 
Abstract 
In this interview, Vicki Walston describes growing up and her journey to become a nurse. Vicki 
talks about working in the Cardiac catheterization lab and as a floor nurse and the difference 
between them.  She talks about her experiences working for the Veterans Administration (VA) 
and how they seem to differ in different parts of the country.  Vicki emphasizes how much she 
loved working for the VA and what it has meant to her.  Vicki concludes by describing how her 
dad being in the military influenced her to work for the VA. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
2 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
 
Index 
 
[0:00] Introduction of Vicki Walston, she describes where she grew up, went to school, and how 
she got into the job she has now. 
 
[19:26]  Vicki explains what happens in the Cath lab and what she does for interventional 
radiology.  She also explains the most common types of illness she sees in her patients. 
 
[24:35]  Vicki describes what drove her to become a nurse.  She also describes who all works in 
the Cath lab, how many patients she sees in a day, and she shares a story about a patient she had 
at Minneapolis VA. 
 
[30:55]  Vicki describes her weekly work schedule and the difference in patient interaction being 
in the Cath lab and being on the floor.  She also shares a story from when she worked on the 
floor. 
 
[40:01]  Vicki describes what it was like to work in the intensive care unit when COVID hit and 
how COVID has changed the face of nursing. 
 
[47:05]  Vicki explains why she thinks COVID is not done yet and the changes she has 
experienced in the nursing profession over the years. 
 
[54:59]  Vicki talks about how many hours she spends charting.  She also explains why she 
thinks Epic is there for reimbursement and not to document patient care. 
 
[1:00:03]  Vicki describes the most challenging and rewarding aspects of her job how much she 
enjoyed working with the VA.  
 
[1:06:53]  Vicki describes how she thinks nurses are the gatekeepers of the medical field. 
 
[1:08:10]  Vicki concludes by describing how her dad’s military career influenced her decision to 
work for the VA and what life was like living on the military base as a child. 
 
[1:12:26]  End of audio 
 
 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
3 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
LK:  Okay.  Hello.  Thank you so much for taking part in these Oral Histories for the Library of 
Congress.  Can I ask you to introduce yourself? 
 
VW:  My name is Vicki Walston.  I’m a registered nurse.  I worked in many states: Illinois, 
Wisconsin, Minnesota, and currently in Arkansas. 
 
AG:  Oh, wow.  Can we begin with your family background and education history? 
 
VW:   I was born in 1955 on George Air Force Base in California, where my dad was in the  
military.  Grew up -- my dad got out of the service, and they moved back to Milwaukee where 
their parents were.  My dad finished dental school.  And I pretty much grew up in Milwaukee.  I 
went to school at Concordia University of Mequon, and have a BSN in addition to  BBA. 
 
AG:  Vicki, what is a BBA?  A BSN is -- 
 
VW:  Bachelor Business Administration. 
 
AG:  I see.  And the BSN is Bachelor’s Science of Nursing? 
 
VW:  Science of nursing, yeah.  In addition to that, I also have double major in healthcare 
administration. 
 
LK:  So, could you tell us a bit more about where you grew up? 
 
VW:  Well, that’s kind of interesting, because -- I’m sorry, that’s my husband.  Bye Mark.  I  
grew up in Milwaukee.  My dad went to dental school, and then he had to pay back his 
education, so we went to Utah, Hill Air Force Base in Utah, which is right 
outside of Salt Lake.  The only thing I remember about that is walking out the front door of our  
house and you could see the Salt Lake on the horizon, and if it was really hot, you could almost  
see the lake shrink, and then it would rain and then it -- it was crazy.  And then, on this side, we  
had the runway.  If you weren’t watching the Salt Lake, you were watching the planes take off.   
It was pretty interesting.  And then, there was a lot of desert around it.  My dad completed his  
stint.  We went back to Milwaukee.  As I said earlier, my dad taught operative dentistry  
at Marquette and had his own practice.  And I did grade school, junior high, and high  
school in the school system in Brookfield, Wisconsin, which is a suburb in  
Milwaukee.  And then, I went to Marquette for a couple of years since my dad taught there.  I  
always wanted to be a nurse and was never really good at math.  When I started at Marquette, I  
started out in dental hygiene, and was like bleh.  So, I did 2½ years at Marquette, kind of like  
being in prison.  And I had no direction, so I left school and just got jobs and worked around --  
interestingly enough, I went to cosmetology school and became a hair dresser. I owned a couple  
of businesses on my own.  And I got divorced, and there went the business, so continued doing  
hair, moved to Illinois, to Chicago, and got a job as a manager with Marshfield’s.  Loved that  
job.  That was great.  Then I met my husband and ended up moving to Milwaukee.  And then, he  
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
4 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
got a position in Marshfield, Wisconsin.  We moved up there, came back to Milwaukee, he  
[00:05:00] got a job in Illinois.  We moved a lot with my husband’s positions.  And then, I  
decided it was time to go to school, because bouncing around with no real direction just wasn’t  
working for me.  By this point, I had two kids, and I really -- I needed to be grounded in reality  
somehow.  I went to school at Concordia.  Since I already had 2½ years, I did an accelerated --  
so, instead of four years for nursing, I only went three, and a lot of that was just the clinical stuff.   
And the way the program was laid out, I probably would have finished it in two if I could have  
compacted it more.  Get out, graduated magna cum laude, of course.  Let’s see, I got a job at  
St. Joseph Hospital in Milwaukee.  Very nice place to work.  Very nice people.  I worked there  
for a couple of years.  My husband got a job in Chicago, so we moved back to Illinois.  I was  
working at Central DuPage, and I was contacted by the VA.  I don’t know, at that  
time, which would have been 1996 or 1997 I’m thinking, the VA did not have a very good  
reputation.  It was like, no, thanks.  I continued working in the private sector.  Well, then my  
husband was offered a job with Best Buy, where it was something he really wanted to do, so we  
moved to Minnesota.  Yeah.  And I was working at Abbott Northwestern as a  
nurse manager, and then a neighbor of mine said, “They have a position available in the Cath lab  
at the VA.”  I had some Cath lab experience.  She said, “It’s a really great place to work.”  She  
was working there too apparently.  I went in and interviewed and the benefits they offered are  
amazing.  In fact, right now most retirees are on Medicare and I’m on Blue Cross federal,  
because you take your benefits with you when you leave not what you paid  
when you retired.  I was also very attracted by the school loan forgiveness, except when I applied  
they said they didn’t have any money.  I never got that benefit, which to this day I’m still paying  
student loans, so that’s very disappointing.  The veteran population, I love the veterans.  I very  
much miss that population, because they were terrific to work with.  They were very  
appreciative.  It would not be unusual to have a day go by that a veteran would say to me, thank  
you so much for working here; we know you could be working somewhere else, in a nicer place,  
probably for more money, but we really appreciate you being here.  And I just really like the  
veteran population.  They were terrific to work with.  Well, 2008 came around, when -- I 
remember that distinctly, because I was in the prep recovery area of the Cath lab in Minneapolis  
VA, and we just watched the stock market go down, along with our 401K’s.  That was pretty  
much an amazing time, all of the stuff going on.  In fact, I was working for the VA too when 
9/11 happened.  You remember that, Lisa.  And it was just like planes fell out of the air.  There  
was nothing up there.  Well, in the [00:10:00] Aurora Naperville area that we both lived in, it  
was not unusual to see planes and hear them.  When 9/11 happened, it was like, what’s wrong,  
because there was nothing up there.  That was just like crazy.  So, we went to First Chicago,  
which was our bank, which was our bank, got all our cash out.  And then, I was with  
Minneapolis VA for -- well, by the time I finally retired, it was 15 years with time off for  
nonpaid time off, and it ended up being about 13½ years.  I broke my ankle and got blood clots  
and all sorts of things.  Even though I was on -- what do they call it?  I wasn’t on PTO, but I was 
out on excused absence.  I lost that working time, which frankly didn’t really seem quite fair, but  
that’s how they work it.  That cut into retirement benefits, but yeah.  Around 2012, when Best  
Buy had their issues, my husband was laid off, so he got a position in Milwaukee, so we went 
back to Milwaukee, where I worked for the Milwaukee VA.  Wonderful VA.  Very nice people.  
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
5 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
Loved the vets.  And then, he got a job in Chicago, so we moved back to the Aurora Naperville  
area, and I worked at Hines in the Cath lab again.  I really enjoyed that.  Then he was recruited  
by corporate Dillard’s, another long story, which I won’t bother you with, and I ended up --  
when we first moved down here, I was at UAMS.  I had applied to be at the VA.  The interesting  
thing about when you move around, even though you’re a VA employee, you’re treated as just  
anybody off the street, so you have to reapply.  It’s not like you can say, oh, you’ll have an  
opening in that and I’m just gonna transfer.  You have to reapply as a whole new employee.   
Your seniority continues, but you’re still considered a new employee.  That was kind of weird.   
After I started at UAMS in the emergency room, they had decided -- oh, the VA called me like  
the 2nd or 3rd day of orientation and said, “Well, you had applied for this position and we want  
to offer it to you,” and I’m like I just started here.  And the funny thing, here is UAMS, here is  
the VA, and they’re separated by a parking lot, so it’s kind of weird going to work and there’s  
the VA.  I walk right across their parking lot to get into UAMS.  After being at the VA for -- I’m  
sorry, after being at UAMS for a little over a year, the VA called me again and said, hey, you  
know, would you be interested in this?  And I thought well, a little more time on the old 
retirement benefits wouldn’t be bad, so I went back to the VA.  The Arkansas VA was very  
different from any VA that I had worked at, so compared to the prior three, it was very different.   
And I’m not saying it’s bad and I’m not saying it’s good, but it was very different.  The veteran  
population was very different.  Kind of more of an entitlement added to -- like they owe this to  
me, where the veterans up north were just very kind and grateful.  The two populations were  
very different.  Needless to say, I didn’t stay there real long.  [00:15:00]  The building itself, the 
equipment -- they were using IV pumps, a very old plum pump that I used back in nursing 
school, which at that point was 20 years prior.  And they had maybe one or two alaris pumps, 
which is pretty much what everybody is using now.  They maybe had two or three on the floor.  
Technology wise, they were very, very behind what the other three VA’s I had been at were.  
They were very short staffed.  They were working the nursing staff hard.  Like I say, the two 
geographical areas were very different.  I do remember when I was at the Minneapolis VA, our 
Cath lab helped trained the interventional radiologists that were coming out of the University of 
Minnesota, and these guys were graduating with no place to go.  They had no jobs.  And I would 
say to them Arkansas is a beautiful state -- it’s a beautiful state down here.  Why don’t you go 
down there and look?  And they were like, well, because we need to eat.  Pay down here is very 
low, which was really a shock when we moved down here, because I figured okay, so maybe I’ll 
lose 5 bucks and hour.  That’s not bad.  Twelve, that’s like a whole salary.  The other interesting 
thing with being in the VA is when I started at Minneapolis, I got X number of dollars.  Well, 
when I moved to Milwaukee, they renegotiated my salary.  It changes everywhere you go.  There 
I lost about $8 an hour going to Milwaukee.  Yeah.  And then, when we went to Chicago, it went 
up, and then it went way down going to Arkansas.  It’s another thing with the VA that was, I 
don’t know, kind of not so good.  And we got our raise every year, but it usually didn’t cover the 
cost of benefit increase.  It’s almost like it was costing you money -- sorry about the noise.  It 
was almost costing you money to go to work, because you were going backwards instead of 
forward.  You had cost of living raises and stuff, but it didn’t cover the increase in healthcare at 
that time.  All in all, I would say the VA primarily the first three, were pretty positive experience, 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
6 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
love the vets, but after being at the Arkansas VA for about a year, I thought I’ve got to get out of 
here.  Now I’m at UAMS, which is the University of Arkansas Medical Science Medical Center I  
guess.  We’re the only level one trauma center in the state.  We’re a stroke center.  And I work in  
interventional radiology.   
 
[19:26] AG:  Can you explain what that is, Vicki? 
 
VW:  We do -- okay, Cath lab did hearts, and EP, which is electrophysiology, part of the Cath  
lab, they did hearts.  Interventional radiology does everything else.  We do brains, coiling, and  
aneurysms for aneurysms, we do embolizations for people having strokes. [00:20:00]  It’s  
actually very interesting work.  Putting drains for various assorted reasons, abscesses and stuff  
like that.  We do paracentesis for liver patients who have a lot of fluid accumulating in their  
abdomen.  We do lung taps.  It’s really very interesting work. 
 
AG:  Were you in the Cath lab in the Arkansas and the Illinois and the Wisconsin VA’s, or had  
you been in multiple units? 
 
VW: The Wisconsin VA, they had -- another crazy thing, they had no opening for the Cath lab at  
the Milwaukee VA, even though I was coming from a VA with eight years of Cath lab  
experience, I worked the floor.  Not very satisfying, but I loved the veteran population.  When I  
went to Hines, I went back to the Cath lab, so it was another three years there.  When we moved  
down here, it was the same things again, they had no openings, but at that point I had 15 years of  
Cath lab experience.  But they had no openings.  Kind of frustrating. 
 
AG:  I can imagine.  When you’re in, for example, the Cath lab, what kinds of conditions do the  
veterans in that setting have?  You said it’s heart? 
 
VW: Yes, it’s procedural.  Our patients may be thinking that they have heart problems, so we’ll  
go in and we’ll inject contrast going in through the femoral artery, and then we inject contrast  
into the coronary arteries, and we can see immediately if there’s any occlusions.  Based on what  
we find there, we either place stents or we refer them on for surgery.  Additionally, we can do  
right and left heart cath.  The right heart Cath, we’ll look at the pulmonary, and then we can find  
out if they’re having problems with that, if they need additional help.  Some of them, we refer  
them for pacemakers if there ejection fractions are low, or if they have A fib.  It’s really -- it’s  
cool. 
 
AG: Absolutely.  And that’s outpatient predominantly? 
 
VW: I would say predominantly outpatient.  The get out of the procedure, we either hold  
pressure on their groin to stop bleeding or they use a closure device, and then they’ll stay for two  
to four hours after the procedure.  And if there are no complications, then they go home. 
 
AG: And then, when you were on the floor, that was a medical/surgical unit? 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
7 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
 
VW: Yeah. 
 
AG:  What kind of diagnoses did you see on those floors typically?  Was there any  
common ailments or injuries that you dealt with? 
 
VW: A lot of diabetes.  With diabetes, you know, you’ve got the stuff that goes with that, the  
sugar problems, the renal problems, vasculature problems.  The VA is a pretty -- it’s like a  
walking path of physiology course, because you pretty much see everything that there is out  
there.  And that’s what made -- the floor was not my work of choice.  I mean, I had done that 20  
something years previously when I got out of nursing school, so I always felt like I was taking a  
step back.  But the people that I met and the things that I saw, it was -- the VA population is just  
amazing. 
 
[24:35]  AG:  Yeah.  Thinking back to when you first began, do you sort of remember what  
brought you to nursing as a profession, or when you think back on it, was there anything that  
drove your desire to enter nursing? 
 
VW: Just always wanted to be a nurse.  I can’t tell you why, but I always wanted to be a nurse.   
When I was in the fourth grade, I [00:25:00] used to read these books, Nancy Kimball, RN.   
There was a series of like four or five books.  And I read those, and I thought that’s what I want  
to be when I grow up.  It took me a while to get there, but I did eventually get there. 
 
AG:  Absolutely.  Can we talk about the work that you did perhaps at the Arkansas VA  
or the Illinois, whichever one you’re more comfortable kind of discussing, were you part of like  
an interdisciplinary team in those units, or was it -- how did that -- 
 
VW:  In the Cath lab, yeah, you’ve got -- well, it’s like a team of four.  You have the nurse who  
primarily did conscious sedation, which was primarily my job.  You have a circulator, which  
could either be a rad tech or a nurse, you had someone recording.  Again, it could either be a rad  
tech or a nurse.  And then, you had the rad tech who managed the C-Arm and managed the x ray.   
Only the nurse can do conscious sedation, and only the rad tech  -- well, I shouldn’t say only,  
because the docs can also run the C-Arm, the docs and the fellow can do the x ray, but the nurse  
is the only one who can administer conscious sedation.  It would kind of flip in that nurses would  
also scrub procedures if there wasn’t a fellow available.  It was a wide range of work and it was  
very interesting.  We would come in on call in the middle of the night for somebody who was  
having an acute MI or valve problems or something like that, but yeah, it was good work. 
 
 AG:  Conscious sedation is not anesthesia where they put you under, but like a kind of -- 
 
VW:  Right, (inaudible - 00:27:02) and fentanyl. 
 
AG:  Got it.  I see.  And MI, is that myocardial infraction? 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
8 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
 
VW: Infarction, yeah.   
 
 
AG:  Infarction.  Got it.  That makes sense.  Lisa, I’ll turn it back over to you.   
 
LK:  Oh, no problem. This absolutely fascinating. 
 
VW: I hope I’m answering your questions for what you’re looking for. 
 
LK:  You’re doing excellent. 
 
VW: Okay. 
 
LK:  Thank you very much.  Could you tell us about how many patients you usually  
see in a day? 
 
VW: In the Cath lab, depending on what the patient’s turned out to be, everybody starts out as a  
diagnostic.  When they come in, they have three ways of going.  They either are diagnostic and  
they don’t need intervention, or their diagnostic needing intervention, which can be taken care of  
with stenting, or they’re diagnostic, their disease is too severe for stenting, and then they go to  
the OR.  Sometimes directly.  Good story.  My second day at the Minneapolis VA, I had already  
worked Cath lab at Loyola in Chicago, so I was pretty versed in Rush and Loyola, I should say,  
in Chicago.  By the time I got to the Minneapolis VA, I knew what I was doing.  It’s just learning  
to do it the VA way.  We had this guy who came in for a diagnostic that got access, that put the  
catheters up, they injected the dye, and he had (inaudible - 00:29:00) left main and everything  
else was shut down.  That’s when it was like -- he went direct to the OR, do not pass go.  In fact,  
he went off the table onto the gurney.  We drew labs, got pee, and he went right in.  I had never  
since seen anything like that.  I was surprised that he was talking to us, because he had no heart  
basically.  But as I said earlier, the VA population is like a walking path of physiology class, and  
they talk about the widow maker, holy cow, we saw quite a bit of that.  And it was always 
hypertension, diabetes, and usually CHF [00:30:00] was thrown in there somewhere, so it was  
almost like a cocktail of what the VA Cath lab patient looked like.  They all pretty much look the  
same, and they all varied from very young to very old. 
 
AG: What was that last condition, CAF? 
 
VW:  CHF, congestive heart failure. 
 
AG: Oh, got it.  Do you attribute the hypertension and heart failure and diabetes, do you think  
that’s related to perhaps the stress that the veterans experience or is it just their kind of age and -- 
 
VW:  Or Agent Orange. 
 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
9 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
AG:  Oh, right, exposure to toxins in the field, yeah.  I see.  They come home, and then they have  
these long terms health issues -- 
 
VW:  Right. 
 
AG: -- all across their lifespan. 
 
VW:  Or they acquire them as time goes on. 
 
[30:55]  LK:  Wow, that’s incredible.  Thank you so much for talking about that.  Could you tell 
us a bit more about your weekly work schedule at the different places? 
 
VW: Cath lab primarily works 8-hour shifts, so some places don’t let you work part-time, some  
places everybody works full-time, and then you would either be done with your day or you  
would be on call and you would need to stay to complete any cases that weren’t finished during  
the day.  We had three Cath labs in Minneapolis, two in Hines.  Hines was kind of interesting,  
because there’s Hines, there’s Loyola, another parking lot thing.  So, a lot of the really acute 
cases when to Loyola from Hines, we did not take call at Hines, where we did in Minneapolis.    
We would come in in the middle of the night, and we’d be on call maybe two days a week and a  
weekend every four weeks.  Your week was wither 40 hours with a little overtime or 40 hours  
with a lot of overtime depending on the luck of the draw. 
 
LK:  Can you describe a typical patient interaction in the units you worked in? 
 
VW: They were scared.  They didn’t know what was going on with them.  Some of them were  
repeats, so they knew, but by and large, the veterans were coming in, because they were told  
something was wrong.  They may have had an Echo done and the doctor thought that they  
found something, so they forwarded them to the Cath lab, because they may have been having  
chest pain, they may have been having shortness of breath, and there was no like, well, you  
have asthma.  Okay, so you’re short of breath.  I can’t think of any -- well, stress would give you  
chest pain, but it was more than that.  They sent them to the Cath lab, because the left heart Cath  
is the gold standard for finding heart problems.  You can find heart problems for -- we would  
measure the different pressures.  I had mentioned the right heart Cath earlier.  Well, we would  
measure the different pressures in the heart and in the lungs and be able to tell if there was  
dysfunction in the ventricles or in the lungs based on the numbers we would get.  It’s fascinating  
work.  Did I answer your question, Lisa? 
 
LK:  Well, it was a bit more about what was like more of a typical interaction with a patient.   
There’s a lot of fear, but like did they get test results back, and what were their reactions? 
 
VW: Well, they got their results right away.  My interactions would either be getting them ready  
for the procedure or seeing them afterwards, or sedating them during the procedure.  Introduce  
myself, hi, how are you, this is what we’re gonna do, goodnight.  And we’d sedate them.  
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
10 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
[00:35:00]  The interaction is not like on the floor.  On the floor, you get to know the patients a  
little bit more.  Unfortunately, with the way medicine is evolving to more of a your insurance 
company says you have to be out of here in two days, we really don’t get the opportunity to  
interact with them.  Now, when you look at the VA versus the private sector, the private sector  
turns them over way faster.  It would be unusual to have a patient in the private sector for two  
days.  They’re usually gone by then.  At the VA, you had some people that would be there for  
weeks, and you’re like, why?  But it’s -- working the floor, you had more opportunity to interact  
for longer periods of time and get to know the veterans.  There is a couple of my old patients that  
I’m still in contact with, mostly through Facebook, because I got to know the, I got to learn about  
their families, their grandkids, all of that.  That would have been while working the floor.  No  
real interactions to that extent in the Cath lab, but I will say there was -- I still think about this  
family, because it was really kind of a sad thing.  Their grandson was a traumatic brain injury  
from Iraq, and the Minneapolis VA was one of the traumatic brain injury centers.  This kid was  
at Walter Reed, and they shipped him to the Minneapolis VA, because they were a center for  
traumatic brain injuries.  At that time, I think there were only three in the country.  So, they  
shipped him to Minneapolis, and as it turned out, he had some family, grandma and grandpa,  
were in rural Minnesota.  So, they came down to see him.  Grandpa was so upset that he had a  
massive MI in the unit.  Yeah.  So, he ended up on my table, and were there like three hours, and  
he ended up going -- because he kept coding on us, which is no good.  We did a lot of heavy  
work for him.  He ended up going to the OR, and poor grandma had nobody, and nowhere to  
stay, and the veteran population, by and large, does not tend to be real flush with money.   
Grandma had no money.  Didn’t know where to stay.  Didn’t know where to go.  Didn’t know  
what to do.  I was able to hook her up on a Friday afternoon at 6:30.  Everybody is gone.  I was  
able to find a social worker who was able to get her into a hotel and get some VA funds cut loose  
for her.  He ended up -- after bypass surgery, he was at the VA for three months, and Grandma  
wasn’t there the whole time, but she was there for a while, and then ended up going back home,  
because there was nowhere really for her to go.  She didn’t have the money to afford to stay  
there.  Yeah, that was really rather sad.  He lived.  And the son -- where did grandson get  
transferred to?  I don’t remember now.  I don’t remember, but he was transferred elsewhere, I  
think closer to where home really was.  That is something I will always have right here.  There  
was another traumatic brain injury guy. He must have been 20-21.  He walked around with a  
helmet on.  And whenever I would run into him going down getting my morning coffee, I’d buy  
him a Starbucks, and there was one morning he goes, “My turn to buy.”  He was very sweet.   
There are some really wonderful memories that go with the VA.  I know.  I didn’t really answer  
your question, did I?  Sorry. [00:40:00] 
 
[40:01]  AG:  I can’t even remember what the questions was, but you certainly answered it.  Do  
you know what, though, Vicki, I’m wondering what was it like for you being so close to intense  
physical trauma and then also like the strife that the families are experiencing.  Did you have any  
-- it sounds like it was a stressful job -- 
 
VW:  It was. 
 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
11 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
AG:  -- working at the VA. 
 
VW:  It was.  It was very stressful.  And then, along came COVID.  I was out of the VA by then.   
I was working in an intensive care unit in a community hospital down here.  Wow. 
 
AG:  How did the pandemic effect your unit?  You were in an intensive care unit at that time? 
 
VW: Yes. 
 
AG: So, did you end up treating COVID patients? 
 
VW: Yeah. 
 
AG: You did.  Early on, did you know what you were seeing in the hospital? 
 
VW: She came in with pneumonia, and her chest x-ray was -- there was a lot of white in it.  It’s  
not supposed to be white.  And by the time she was diagnosed as COVID, she was almost a  
complete whiteout.  That was really something.  I also learned about how to take care of a prone  
patient.  I had never heard of proning until COVID.  Flipping the patient on their stomach and  
then on their back.  And all of the things that -- 
 
AG:  The flipping helps the patient?  The flipping helps them? 
 
VW: It does.  When they’re laying on their stomach they’re able to expand their lungs more.   
You don’t have the weight of the chest, the heart, and all of that pressing down on the lungs.   
When they’re on their stomach, the lungs can expand more.  That was -- I had her for six weeks.   
That was something.  Daughters couldn’t come up.  She was out of it.  We were running just  
about every presser we had.  She was heavily sedated.  That was really hard, and I remember  
thinking this is not what I signed up for when I became a nurse.  In fact, when I look over the  
entire venue of being a nurse, I started out being what I thought was a nurse to being someone  
who sits at a computer all day long documenting.  It’s really changed.  And now with COVID,  
we wear these hats called carps, I think.  Something like that.  And that’s -- and you’re fully  
garbed and it’s hard to breathe in all of that PPE.  It’s hot.  You take your PPE off, and my  
scrubs will be just soaked.  It’s personally uncomfortable and many of the heartbreak that goes  
with the family.  We decided -- this lady had been on a vent.  We trached her.  She did not want  
to be trached.  She didn’t even want to be on the vent.  That was the first two weeks I think of  
taking care of her.  It was so hard for her to breathe.  It was just so hard for her to breathe.  Even  
with proning her, it was just -- she had such a hard time breathing, so they talked her into being  
tubed.  She didn’t want to be tubed any longer than a week.  Well, there we were five weeks.   
And the family had signed for it.  One of the kind of confusing things with how our medical  
system works is someone can decide they’re a DNR and the family can say, oh, no, we do not  
want her to be a DNR.  Anything happens, you do everything you possibly can to save her.   
That’s difficult too, because you have the patient’s wishes versus the family’s wishes, and  
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
12 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
sometimes they don’t mesh; [00:45:00] they’re not the same.  Someone on the family side may  
have issues that they haven’t resolved with mom yet, so they want to go on a totally different  
direction.  That was hard, but she ended up -- we snuck the family up as we extubated her, the  
family decided okay, here we are at five weeks, enough is enough.  We didn’t see much  
progress.  We were doing vitamin C, Zinc, and Zithromax, and her chest x rays were getting a  
little bit better, but still they weren’t back to where they were when she came in, so we decided  
to extubate her.  So, we snuck the family in, because we figured that was pretty much gonna be  
it, and she continued to breathe.  She ended up in a long term acute care unit, called an LTAC,  
and I understood that after about three months she did discharge out.  I don’t know in what kind  
of shape, but she did discharge out.  Heartbreaking.  And when you have all of the technology  
running other than keeping the IV pumps full of drip, cleaning them up and doing the best you  
can to keep their skin from breaking down, which in the elderly that doesn’t take real long.  All I  
could do is hold her hand.  COVID has changed the face of nursing. 
 
[47:05]  AG:  Wow.  It sounds like it.  Oh, my gosh.  Are there any lessons from the COVID  
pandemic that you’re taking with you as you move forward as a nurse? 
 
VW: I don’t think we’re done with it yet.  And there’s so many different things flying around  
about COVID, I don’t think we’re done with it yet, and I think there’s -- there’s so many people  
walking around who haven’t displayed symptoms yet and may not display symptoms, but they’re  
still out there contaminating people and they don’t know.  So many people think this is all a joke.   
This isn’t real.  This is Bill Gates and his buddies trying to take over the world.  And there so  
much craziness out there.  It’s hard to really -- after you take care of a few COVID patients, you  
know it’s real, and I don’t think this is going away any time soon.  It may change the way it’s  
presenting.  They’re already talking about the Brazilian COVID, you know, the COVID from  
here, the COVID from there, and it’s just gonna continue to mutate, because germs are smart.   
We throw something at them, and they go, oh, no, we’re gonna do this.  I think nursing schools  
and hospitals are gonna have to change their approach to how they are caring for these patients.   
And I’m not sure how the best way to go forward with that is.  Just trying to answer symptoms, I  
don’t know if that’s right.  Quarantining these people, well, they were just out shopping all  
weekend.  How many people did they come in contact with?  I don’t know.  I feel bad for you  
guys, you’re still young.  And I think you guys are gonna end up cleaning up the mess, because  
there are too many people right now that are busy playing with their personal interests and that’s  
gonna make it harder.  Nursing now is not [00:50:00] what it started out being 27 years ago. 
 
AG: Can you talk a little bit about some of the changes?  You mentioned the kind of EHR’s and  
treating the computer and some of how that may be taking away from the patients care maybe  
that you were initially giving.  Can you talk a little bit about some of the changes you’ve  
experienced? 
 
VW: There was a lady -- it used to be you treated the diagnosis, you treated the patient, and now  
you treat the pair.  The pair source will say, okay, for that DRG, which is a diagnostic related  
code, it will just say I, your insurance company, will only pay for two days.  You’ve got the  
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
13 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
nurses trying to take care of these patients -- this I have seen the longer I’ve been a nurse, that  
this is driving how medicine is occurring.  They would look at getting them out by two days, and  
then the hospital employs a other bunch of people called case managers.  Well, they’re not really  
case managers: they’re case get them out of here, because we don’t want to lose money.  They’ll  
do their best to get them out, and then you’ll have -- there was this one woman I took care of  
down here.  She was on my unit for three months.  Nobody would take her.  They were trying to  
get her into a state facility down here.  She was young, late 40s, and she had a stroke.  And they  
kept saying, well, if you can get her to do this, we’ll take her.  Oh, well, now if you can get  
her to do this, we’ll take her.  She ended up dying on our floor, because of the outcomes that  
came with her stroke, but the hospital was being jerked around, the family was jumping from  
here to there to here to there, and it was just -- it wasn’t taking care of a patient.  The nurses and  
techs were doing that, but we were also kind of being told how we could care for this patient by  
the insurance companies or by Medicaid.  It’s just not what I signed up for.  I signed up to take  
care of patients, to take care of their families, because when you look at the patient, the family is  
also very much part of that family.  When you’re short on the floor and you don’t have  
somebody that can be there watching, and turning, and feeding, cleaning, you can’t be -- when I  
started out nursing, I would take care of floor patients when I worked on the floor.  The last job I  
had working on the floor would be anywhere from 6 to 7.  And the patients now are sicker,  
because we’re getting older and we have more comorbidities, so we need more staff, but the  
hospital doesn’t want to hire more staff.  They want the nurses to do everything, and they come  
on something of well, we need to have this done.  Hmm, oh, we’ll let nursing do it. And every  
time you turn around, it’s another thing, oh, we’ll let nursing do it, because nursing picks up  
everything.  The administrators are all out doing their handshaking and back patting, but  
meanwhile the nurses aren’t getting any help.  They don’t want to hire techs, because of course  
the nurse has to spend -- I would say I would spend a good six out of eight hours charting or  
passing meds.  Not at the beside taking care of patients.  Without techs, who is taking care of  
that patients?  And it’s difficult, because there’s just not enough people and some of those people  
are very sick.  Who is gonna take care of them?  Who is gonna take care of me?  I’m staying  
home. 
 
[54:59]  AG:  Yeah , precisely. [00:55:00] Oh, my gosh.  And you were saying over the course of  
a shift you would spend six to eight hours or like course of the week charting? 
 
VW: A shift. 
 
AG: A shift.  Wow.  That’s -- and was that in a 12-hour shift? 
 
VW:  In an 8-hour shift. 
 
AG: In an 8-hour shift, yeah, so the majority of the time is charting rather than attending to the  
patient? 
 
VW: Mm-hmm. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
14 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
 
AG: Wow. 
 
VW: Epic requires to be fed often. 
 
AG: Right. 
 
VW: (inaudible - 00:55:31) data put in -- 
 
AG:  Yeah. 
 
VW: -- Epic.  I have come to this opinion and this is purely my opinion, but Epic is not there to  
document patient care.  Epic is there to make sure that the hospitals get proper reimbursement.   
If I had a count -- God forbid, I got pulled in on some lawsuit and I had a count on my EPIC  
Charting -- I was thinking about this the other day, I look at what I chart and it really has nothing  
to do with patient care.  (inaudible - 00:56:15). 
 
AG:  That’s so interesting, because I know Epic did begin as a billing software company and  
they morphed into these like medical records. But when you chart and it doesn’t reflect patient  
care, I’m so interested in like an example of what that might look like. 
 
VW:  There’s a lot of within normal limits stuff.  Compared to what I used to do and what I used  
to write, the first electronic medical record that I used was (inaudible - 00:56:53) and that was at  
St. Joe’s Milwaukee.  And it was like drop down menus, but it also gave you opportunities to  
write.  And they encouraged you to write if you didn’t feel that the charting matched what you  
we’re seeing.  Interestingly enough, when I worked at Abbot Northwestern, they called all of the  
nurse managers for I think three months.  We helped them write the original (inaudible -  
00:57:23) version of Epic.  Yeah, and it’s not at all -- of course, that was a long time ago, but as  
I remember what’s there now, like is your patient alert and oriented, and can they do this, can  
they do that, it’s just -- it’s not care driven.  It’s reimbursement driven.  And to give you a real  
concrete -- well, this, I can’t really do that, but I can tell when I’m charting -- okay, so it asks  
you the size of your wound, for example.  It’ll ask you that sort of stuff, and did you change  
the dressing.  But it’s the way that it’s -- like I said, it’s just my opinion, but I feel that it’s  
reimbursement driven, because everybody is getting it.  Now, why is that? 
 
AG:  Absolutely.  I’ve heard that before, which is why I was so curious, because it had a  
couple of experience talking about charting, and it was the same -- the other caregivers, some  
were nurses and some were LVN’s, but they had the same experience where they were.  They  
felt like the charting didn’t have anything to do with patient care, but rarely Medicaid or -- 
 
VW: I can’t tell you exactly, and I don’t know if the others could either, but you just -- it’s the  
way it’s presented, I guess.  The joint commission, well, you need to do this, this, this, and this  
for joint commission.  Okay.  Then you go to a different hospital and they’ll say, well, you need  
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
15 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
to do this, this, this, and this for joint commission.  But I thought these are national standards.   
How come at that hospital it was this, this, and this, and here it’s this, this, and this?  I don’t  
know.  It’s not what I signed on for. 
 
AG: Yeah, it sounds like it had changed considerably, moving away from the kind of values that  
brought you into nursing initially. 
 
VW: These hospitals, I’ll tell you, their mission is patient centered.  Hmm.  And that’s all I’ll  
say.  [01:00:00] 
 
[1:00:03]  AG:   When you think back on your time particularly with the VA, what do you think  
of as the most challenging and rewarding aspects of nursing in the VA context? 
 
VW: The most challenging was getting change, because it’s a bureaucracy, and they talk about  
it’ll take an act of congress to change that, oh, yeah.  You have to order equipment years in  
advance.  Well, by the time the money is appropriated -- the Minneapolis VA every so many  
years would have to replace the equipment that we had, because it just wasn’t keep up.  Well, by  
the time the money was appropriated, the equipment that we got was obsolete.  So, that was  
problematic, because it takes an act of congress to get the money.  The other part of your  
question, I’m sorry. 
 
AG: The most rewarding parts of working in the VA. 
 
VW: Just the families, the patient, the vet themselves, the northern vets.  It would warm the  
cockles of my little heart. Some of these guys were just -- they would come by.  Somewhere I 
have a note that a veteran left on his bed thanking me for the care, thanking all of us for being  
there, that we all might think he’s crazy, but he’s just a veteran, and he signed his name, and it  
just -- a lot of them, particularly Vietnam vets, I feel for them, because they haven’t been treated  
as well as the World War I and World War II vets.  And you can see the hurt in their face, 
because  every now and again they’ll talk about what happened to them, and it’s unbelievable.  
And the fact that somebody would think enough of me to share, you can’t buy that stuff.  That’s 
what I signed up to be a nurse for, is to be there to be able to help, to be able to nurture, but 
when you get into the private sector, this one emergency room that I worked at, there was this 
patient who came in, got them in the room.  The first thing he wanted to know was when I was 
gonna feed his family, what we had to eat.  I’m like, hello?  We’re not here to feed your family.  
But the private sector seems to have taken up a role where they’re -- rather than have somebody 
go around and complain about them, they’ll just do it, because it’s easier.  Path of least 
resistance.   
The veterans, they have so many groups that are there to help them.  When I look at veteran  
suicide rate, it breaks my heart.  And I don’t know what to do to make it better for them.  Even  
though I have retired from the VA, I every day still think about wanting to go back, because I  
miss the veteran population.  So, I graduated from Concordia, which in 1995 was accredited by  
(inaudible - 01:04:24) group, so I applied at the VA, because I saw they had openings.  I knew  
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
16 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
they had openings.  They always have openings.  When I originally applied to the Arkansas VA,  
they told me they had no openings.  After I was in orientation, I found out they had 168 nursing  
openings.  They were not filling those positions.  God knows why.  It was probably money.  But  
I lost my train of thought.  I’m sorry. [1:05:00]  It’s just -- I think about going back, because I  
miss the population.  I know, I was talking about Concordia.  So, I put in an application and I had  
someone call me, and they said, you know, we’d really like to have you, but your nursing school  
accreditation, we need your transcript to prove that you went through nursing school.  I said, “I  
retired from the VA after 15 years.  Huh?”  All of the sudden, my nursing school isn’t good  
enough?  “Oh, we’re using a different accrediting agency now.”  What?  Again, crazy.  I kind of 
sometimes feel like the VA application process is a process of exclusion, not getting people  
in, getting people not there.  I haven’t heard anything from them, and I got a letter from the  
director of that Little Rock VA wanting to know if I’d be interested in coming back, and I wrote,  
“Absolutely, yes.  Call me.” 
 
AG: It sounds like they’re just not organized, you know, like the right hand doesn’t know what  
the left hand is doing or something like that. 
 
VW: It’s the largest healthcare entity in the country, and I am proud to say that I worked for  
them, but sometimes I don’t get it.  Must be me.  I don’t get it. 
 
[1:06:53]  AG: Vicki, I know we’re running a little long.  I just have a couple more questions if  
you’ve got time.  I wondered, how would you describe your role in providing patient care?  How  
do you think about the role of yourself or of a nurse more generally? 
 
VW: We’re the gatekeepers.  Depending on that kind of nurse you are, you’re either one who  
will go get more stuff for your patients, which I tend to be.  I’ve gotten in my share of trouble,  
but I really don’t know when to shut up I guess.  But if my patient needs something, I will go to  
the ends of the earth for my patient.  And then you have nurses that just come in, do their  
charting, pass their meds, and go home. 
 
AG: It really comes down to the individual? 
 
VW: Yes, it’s very individualized. 
 
AG: Yeah. 
 
VW: And it’s not the kind of thing that they can teach you or you can teach yourself, it’s just  
what you’re made of and how you feel about people, I guess. 
 
[1:08:10]  AG:  Right.  Yeah, something kind of internal like a colleague or orientation maybe to  
other people. That makes sense.  Vicki, is there anything you’d like to add before we conclude? 
 
VW: Thank God for the VA, because I don’t know where our patients would be.  My dad was a  
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
17 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
vet.  He was a captain in the Air Force.  Well, I said earlier that he was a vet, but my dad was a  
captain in the Air Force.  He never used the VA, because the reasons he didn’t use it are the  
reasons that are intrinsic to the VA.  It took too long to get in.  A lot of the doctors that are in the  
VA are either doctors that are from other countries.  They come.  They work at the VA, because  
they can work there for five years, and they get a citizenship.  And then, they bring their families  
over.  They -- sorry, I lost my train of thought again.  It’ll come back.  Give me a minute.  Tell  
me the question again. 
 
AG: Oh, I was wondering -- actually you brought this up, but do you think that your dad’s  
military career influenced your decision to work for the VA at all? 
 
VW: Oh, absolutely. 
 
AG: It did.  Yeah, it kind of encouraged you to? 
 
VW:  Yeah.  I remember the people that I lived with when I was a kid.  I mean, they were from  
all over the country and they all had no families with them, [01:10:00] and they made their  
families from the people that lived -- we were in on base housing, so there were the people over  
there that my parents hung out with and I hung out with their kids.  There was the major’s  
daughter over there who I hung out with.  You made your own family. You made your own  
friends.  My dad died about 10 years ago now.  His buddy from dental school who was also in  
the military came to my dad’s funeral, and they had maintained their friendship over years.  I  
can’t think of many people -- Lisa’s parents, you know, we were very, very good friends with  
them, but we’ve lost touch over the years, because we’ve moved all over the place.  That’s pretty  
much what my life has been.  A lot of the people that are moving all over the place, especially  
the lifers, they don’t have the long term solid friendships that somebody who -- oh, yeah, we’ve  
been friends since second grade.  I’ve known somebody since second grade.  Have we been  
friends since second -- no, I don’t think so, because I moved all over the country.   
For that piece, I fit very well in with that population, because I understand it, I’ve lived it.  The 
nurses who were veterans also understand the population and have lived it.  Maybe it’s a 
different kind of nurse for the VA.   I don’t know. 
 
AG: That makes sense, that kind of perspective that you bring to the role.  Absolutely.  Thank  
you so much for your time, Vicki.  I want to make sure, is there anything else you wanted to add  
before we conclude? 
 
VW:  I’ve told you guys a lot of stuff that I have never shared with anybody.   
 
AG:  This is really excellent.  I’m so grateful for your time and your insights.  Anything you  
want to add, Lisa?  Any final questions? 
 
LK: No, this is just -- this was such an incredible interview.  Thank you so, so much for -- 
 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
18 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
VW:  You’re welcome. 
 
AG:  Thank you both so much for your time. 
 
[01:12:26] End of recording