Project name: Agricultural Pilots: Crop Dusters in the Rural Midwest 
Field ID and name: Interview 11 
Interviewee: Floyd McElwain 
Interviewer/Recordist: Ellen Kendrick, Samuel Kendrick, Jackson Kendrick 
Date: 5/20/21 
Location: Atchison, Kansas 
Others Present: N/A 
Equipment used: Zoom H6 Handy Recorder 
Microphone: Saramonic Wireless Lavalier Microphone 
Recording Format: .WAV 
Recorded Tracks in Session: 1 
Duration: 01:02:54 
Keywords: Crop dusting, flying, safety, attrition, certifications, history, stories,  
  
Corresponding Materials:  
Context:  
Technical Considerations:  
Transcription prepared by: Samuel Kendrick 
Transcribing Conventions:  
Use of square brackets [ ] indicates a note from the transcriber. 
Use of parentheses (  ) indicates a conversational aside.  
Use of dash - indicates an interruption of thought or conversation. 
Use of ellipses … indicates a discontinued thought. 
Use of quotations “ “ indicates reported speech. 
Use of italics indicates emphasis. 
Use of underline indicates movie, magazine, newspaper, or book titles. 
Names of interviewee and interviewer are abbreviated by first and last initial letters. 
Time is recorded in time elapsed by the convention [hours:minutes:seconds]. 
 
  
 
[00:00:00] 
 
Unknown Speaker  0:00   
FM: Your booth will be about eight foot. Eight to 10 foot is ideal, for the best patterns. And you’re 
trying to do a good job. 
EK: Right. 
FM: (garbled) try to do too good a job. 
EK: Yeah, I knew. Uh, what do you mean, too good a job? 
FM: They try to get every crack, every nook and cranny and hit the branches of trees. That's not a 
problem. Okay,  
EK: It happens.  
FM: But yeah, as long as indecipherable is out there, you get in here and something like this and 
you’re in trouble, and you're gonna make them come back to see. All that is, is just 
(indecipherable). 
EK: There's, there's a lot of that, well, we live on a farm in South, Southwestern Missouri. And so 
you know, it's good, straight. And just, you know, some hedgerows, but like pretty big fields that 
up here, it's like, up and down and up and down. So as we were driving here, I was thinking, what 
must it be like to like… I mean, because some of those fields go over the tops of the hills.  
FM: Now, this is not the best place in the world to start the business.  
EK: No, I wouldn’t think so. [Laughter.] 
FM: But one thing about it. You don't have a whole bunch of competition. I do have some, but… 
EK: Yeah, are there, how many other ag pilots are there around here?  
FM: Oh, there's three around here.  
Ek; There’s you and your son? Well, are you guys one, like, I mean as a business?  
FM: Yeah, businesses. The Hinen brothers out of Seneca, and uh, (garbled) South of Seneca. 
EK: I know who you mean. I think the address is Seneca because I looked it up one time. 
FM: Then there’s Reiterbaum, and I believe he's over in Washington. They might be expensive. So 
yeah, that's the only three that I know. Around here. I got one at Chillicothe, that’s miles west and 
on at Viking, that’s, uh, probably 60 miles. 
EK: Yeah. Are they companies are they like single flies?  
 
FM: Three pof them are single fliers. Myself and Hinens, and Hinens is a pretty big company. 
EK: I think Aaron said they had, because I asked him, and he said he didn't know how many people 
but they run about 30 planes. 
FM: They keep real busy. I think they got four or five of their own and they bring other people in. 
 EK: I talked to Emily and Austin Daniel in New Jersey. Like one of the few women ag pilots and 
they contracted with Hinen brothers last summer and came out and flew for ‘em. So I mean that’s 
far to come to fly. 
FM: Oh, yeah. Yeah, we had Bethany here. A super pilot. She went on a joy ride and didn't come 
back.  
EK: I know that story. That’s a sad one. 
FM: Oh it is, it’s really, you know. 
EK: And you know the interesting thing is that just about every pilot who we've talked to has just 
grieved over that. 
FM: Yeah, she was a wonderful lady and she walked in this room and all dressed up. You couldn’t 
picture in your mind that she’d ever get in a spray plane.  
EK: Yeah. 
FM: She’d a been a secretary or CEO at some big office. She wouldn’t be here getting dirty. 
EK: Well, you can’t judge by the cover, can you? 
FM: Well, I told her I’d take her for a ride. She’d just had her private license, and I said I’ll stop by, 
I’ve got a 180 and give you a ride. 
EK: I’d sit for a bit. 
JK: You should announce your stuff ‘cause it's been recording. 
EK: I know I has.  I know my business. 
JK: Alright.  
EK: Anyway… 
FM: So I stopped (undecipherable). for I think we put down to call which burn and come back and 
just a ride. Thanks, Tom. I showed up at my Franklin, which was a Cessna, small, well Cessnas are 
just small period. And you’re tight inside. It’s really cozy. But I said I'll take you over later. And 
(garbeled) And show her what we did. Or what you’re supposed to do. And I thought, well she’ll 
just mark that off the list, I’ve done that. 
EK: Yeah, bucket list. 
[00:05:16] 
FM: Bucket list, yes.get off So we come back in and landed and she got down, she said, Now that's 
what I want to do. So, again, I wasn’t for sure, but I said Alright, if you can get 215 hours and and 
get your commercial ticket, I'll put you to work. Well, this was the first of May. And she said, Well, I 
need a job. I said, Well, all right. How ‘bout a ground crew. So she worked ground crew all summer.  
EK: How old was she? 
FM: Uh, 33 or 4. And She was flying every time she got a chance to, and she took I think, a Champ 
or a Cub or something of that nature. It was actually a Stinson and flew out to Denver, and come 
back just to build ours. Took about 10 hours each way, you know, but… 
EK: She was determined, wasn’t she? 
FM: That’s right. Then when she was there, she studied what to do her commercial ride, and 
passed it. Then she said, OK, here’s my hours, and my test, and was ready. And I said, uh, uh, OK. 
Here’s a spray plane. Well I couldn’t get insurance on her. But, I didn’t tell her that yet. (garbled) I 
called the insurance company, and said, listen, this one’s got 500 and some hours as a new pilot, 
and they still don’t want to insure you. So this went on, for, oh, probably a week, and I’m calling a 
couple times during the week. And last time I talked to her, she’s at Harley Aviation in Wichita, 
that’s who I was talking to, an insurance company that I’ve dealt with at least 30 years and 
probably more. And I said, listen, she’s worked for me all summer long. She’s been ground crew. 
Her name was Angie Benz, and she said Ohh. So, I called the next day, this was, Oshkosh was just 
over. 
EK: So that was July. 
FM: Last part of July. And on the way home, she talked to the guy, and he said Go ahead and put 
her on, with not even a traditional premium. 
EK: Really. 
FM: That was really… I about fell out of my chair. He had never, ever said anything like that. But 
she flew up (garbeled) this year. Good training. Next year, she stopped in and Russell had a bigger, 
better one. And then we went and bought the Thrush, 2012 Thrush. And I just got in there with 
her, which the FAA would probably frown on. 
EK: Probably. They will probably never hear this. 
FM: The guy that worked for us, he got upset at it.  
EK: Oh. 
FM: Yeah, he took a picture of them, a video of her getting in the airplane, or of Russell getting in 
with her. 
EK: Was he jealous? 
FM: Might have been. He didn’t like either one of them. Didn’t like my boy and didn’t like her. She 
hadn’t done anything to him. 
EK: Well, probably because she's female.  
FM: Yeah, she was a female. And most anybody, the ladies. She was a threat to every lady. 
EK: Right.  
FM: So anyhow, why he sent that to the FAA. And they’re the ones that brought it to our attention. 
So, one of the guys knew everybody in the FAA was still a super pilot and the examiner. I think he 
was what brought it to their attention. So when we got gotten the same (garbled) together, that's 
all the shows. Didn't jump taking off, didn't show anything else or getting out. So they dropped the 
charge.  
EK: Good. 
[00:10:03] 
FM: Anyhow, the next year she was doing good and then this air show come along. And she went 
out and done some spraying that morning. And she come in and parked the airplane and run and 
jumped into his airplane? You know, committed suicide. 
EK: Aaron said he was like, he said that he was like, it was awful.  
FM: Really? Oh, yeah. It was really awful. 
EK: He talked about it like it was yesterday. You know, I mean, it was that… 
FM: Yeah, it was dramatic.  
EK: Yeah. 
FM: Probably do the same thing because they were. I know if they got in late and they got to his 
house, they both stayed there. And if they got it late some other time where she was at, then they 
both stayed there. 
[0:10:42] 
EK: Yeah. Yep. Anyway, she was your best student. Sounds like. 
FM: Yeah, yeah. I had no idea. That short little trip I gave her. And then we come along with 
Airplane Repo. They sent me an email and I answered. Pretty soon they said listen… You know, the 
show, Airplane Repo? 
EK: Oh yes. 
JK: It’s that reality show. 
EK: We do watch it. And? Did you do that? 
FM: Well, yeah. 
EK: You did? Oh my god. We’re gonna have to look that up. 
FM: I’m in there. 
JK: Yeah, we’re gonna have to look that up. 
EK: Yes. That's incredible. 
FM: Well it is. Got an email. I called him up and talked to him. He said, Well, you know, any 
farmers? Well, I've been in the business 40 years. What do you mean do I know any farmers? Do 
you know any farmers that have a runway? Now that really pares it down. But there is some 
farmers who’ve got runways. And his name is Jeff Gaskill. I was asking three or four people and 
they said why don’t you check oiut Jeff Gasill. And they worked out the runway… 
JK: It’s called Booze Island is the… 
FM: But at one time, it use to be out in the river, is the reason that they called it Booze Island. I 
guess they were out there making booze and they could see in both directions, and if any body 
came alone, they could see ‘em or shoot ‘em or whatever. But the river moved, so here it is now, 
inland, but it’s still called the Booze Island. 
EK: Yeah. 
FM: So part of this, the farmer had to have a combine. Otherwise, we wasn’t going to do this. 
EK: Right. 
FM: Combine’s very important. Now we’re in the middle of July… 
EK: So this is all set up, isn’t it. 
FM: Oh, my. Set up, this farmer has bought a corn sprayer, but now he can’t make the payments. So 
it’s the payment, or the airplane. [Laughter.] So, I’m chasin’ my own airplane, you know. 
[Laughter.] And my pilot, you know, he’s flying out over here, you know we’re looking for this 
yellow airplane. And so we’re going, and we’re talkin’, and pretty soon, he says, “There it is.” So 
he’s right there, co-pilot there, and this bouncer’s right behind me. He had arms bigger than my 
legs, that’s not an exaggeration. And tattoos, from everything, he wore a tank top. 
EK: Yeah.  
FM: And everything you could see, below here, was tattoos. But anyhow. 
EK: So he was part of the production crew, part of the TV group. 
FM: Yeah. 
JK: He’s that, he’s the big guy that always says, Oh I don’t know what we’re going to do about this 
one, or… We gotta move now, we gotta move. 
EK: Oh, okay. [Laughter.] 
 FM: So, when they plant this airplane, I go over there. Of course, him and I had talked on the radio 
anyhow, he’s my pilot. And we chase him, and he starts swearing, “There’s that no good son of a 
gun. I’ve been looking for him and he’s been dodging me, and I (pounds on the table.)” [Laughter.] 
So later on when we get down, he apologizes for all the foul words, and he says, but they want 
something to bleep out. So  [Much laughter.] That’s the reason that was there. [Laughter.] 
EK: You don’t know how many times we have sat there and watched this and said, Do you think 
that’s real? That, that doesn’t make any sense. 
JK: It’s like, no way. 
FM: Last time I knew, you never see a cameraman follow someone into a bank and talk to the 
teller, say, Hey I want this, I want that. 
[00:15:01] 
EK: Yeah, I mean, you can just assume it’s all fake. 
JK: Well, some of the stuff… 
EK: So, you got in your own plane and repossessed it.  
FM: Yeah, well  [Laughter.] it’s Airplane Repo. So now, we’re down to the, the last scene. This is 
about 15 minutes, is all this took. And the farmer run off a couple of guys who were walking 
through his cornfield. Now they were production people who were walking through there. And he 
was shaking his fist and telling them to get out, that was just adding a little bit. So now we’re.. 
EK: Some more bleeping. 
FM: So we got the pilot with us and we come in and we land and the pilot jumps out and runs over 
to start the turbine. Well the turbine don’t start like an airplane, like a gas engine. You have to set 
everything, and it spools up, and they’re That don’t matter, we’ll have to test it. It’s like you got to 
start it in three sections, so… [Laughter.] 
JK: I have noticed that, on the show, they don’t spend any time you know, running checklists, or 
flipping the right switches or anything. 
FM: So now he’s in this airplane and he’s about to take off. Meantime, this combine’s coming down 
this runway. Course, the combine’s coming down at 12 miles an hour. [Laughter.] It’s got the corn 
heads on it and it looks bad. [Laughter.] So, well just bearing down on this is a combine.  
EK: Which had the mad farmer who’s missed his payments.  
[Recording paused while interviewee takes a phone call.] 
EK: So… 
FM: So some of my customers saw this, and called me up and said Is this what you’re gonna do for 
your winter project? [Laughter.] And one of them sees Joe, and he’s By gosh I know him. His wife, 
says, Oh, hell, you don’t know him. He’s from California. [Laughter.] 
JK: Oh, man, that’s great. 
FM: It didn’t show much of me. It shows me flyin’. So it was a quick, oh, two or three seconds, or 
whatever. But the guy next to me, and he and I had talked during this repossession, and they said 
OK, now you’re on the air, Oh no, what, where. [Much laughter.] That was some acting now… 
EK: Now is that the end of your acting career? 
FM: Well, yeah. Mine wasn’t even 15 seconds. [Laughter.] Or 15 minutes. 
EK: So how’d they get your name? 
FM: I don't know about that. But I just assumed they sent out a blanket email, to quite a few 
people. And I'm the only one that answered or… 
EK: You took the bait?  
FM: Oh yeah. Why not? We’ll just see what he’s got to say. I can always hang up.  
EK: Well, no. 
FM: It’s where I can't hear you and say Gee, why did they stop talking? 
EK: [Laughter.] Oh, that's good. 
JK: I hope you told ‘em that we had to get it done in one in one take because you weren't going to 
pay for more than one cycle on your turbine. 
FM:  Well, I didn’t know about that much at the time. And, however, at the time. I have a son-in-law 
that does the acting, my daughter does. Also he does movies. Lots of commercials in Kansas City. 
EK: Oh, maybe he gave your name. 
FM: It might’ve been. 
EK: Yeah. He sold you out. 
FM: Yeah…  [Laughter.] Well since then he’s passed away, so I can’t go back and find out. 
EK: Darn it. So that was, when was that? A few years ago?  
FM: Oh, I'll just say three years ago. Yeah. It was in ‘17.  
EK: Yeah. Doesn't seem like that long ago. It is at this point, I guess. So who else have you taught to 
fly? Well, Sam Styron, obviously. 
FM: Oh. 
EK: He said he struggled to find somebody to help him get started and that you were like, you were 
one of the only people who would help him. 
FM: Yeah, and (undecipherable) insurance people. And I've only had one, one bad deal. And the 
guy had plenty of experience and knowledge of landing. (garbled) and I told him how to do how to 
land. And he'd done it a lot of time with his, he had a Cub. He didn't pay me back to build my 
airplane. Because this as slow as possible. You got to stick forward. We got full flaps until they just 
float down by itself and the ripples down by the tail, it just this falls. We're not going to go any 
further. Then it's perfectly okay to go to the control. Well, he come in was still on his wheel on the 
back, so he pulled the stick straight back. Well, when it done that the tail hit the ground, and 
apparently it wasn't straight. Because of the runway he went, got both wings and quite a bit of 
damage. And so the insurance company totaled it. 
EK: This is your plane? 
[00:20:28] 
FM: Yes, and this is my little, trainer plane. 
EK: Yeah. 
FM: So they sent me a check for what I had it insured for. And, this has been fairly early. 
(Interference, crosstalk.)  FM: So, this guy calls up and he says, it’s me. Oh, I’ll just say the last part 
of October. They’d put my airplane out for bid and somebody had bid on it, but he wouldn’t send 
him a check. And he told me all this, and said I was the next bidder. And he says, Do you want to 
buy that airplane back? And I said, Yeah, I would. And he says, How much? And I said, well I’ll give 
you ten thousand. Ooh, don’t think I could do that. Well then we settled for twelve thousand. 
(Interference, crosstalk.) And I said I’ll just put the wings back on it and go on. And he says, Oh no. 
Those wings are not flyable. (Interference, crosstalk.) Go to the landing gear. So and now we're 
talking about, oh, I'll just say the 10th of November (garbled). And I said, wait a minute, wait a 
minute, don't, don't send me a check right now. Wait until after the 20th of November. I said, Well, 
okay. He says my wife is one of the electoral voters we’re getting thousands of letters and emails. 
(Interference, crosstalk.) He says, I could probably find your check. But I don't want to search 
through all of this just to see. (garbled.) I was givin’ you background.  
EK: Yeah. Well, I was, I was thinking that if the check changed hands, it would be like impropriety 
or something like that would be sketchy. She was one of the electorates. 
FM: Oh I don’t think. It was just she was getting (garbled) It was a campaign for her to change her 
electoral. 
EK: That’s an interesting little sidebar. I wouldn’t have thought of that. 
FM: Me neither. Cause she was (garbled.) 
EK: So you got your plane back. 
FM: I did, and I was trying to find some other wings to replace this. And I have a personal friend in 
Uvalde, Texas. At one time he worked for me, but when he was one of the new guys. And his name 
was Donnie, Donnie Ripling. And Donnie and I were good friends. Anyhow, I was talking to him 
and said Well if you know anybody that needs any Cessna parts. Anyway, he (garbled) 
firebombing. So I called him. (garbled) Cessna wings. And his business is about 309 mile west of 
San Antone. My friends business is 90 miles west of San Antone in Uvalde, Texas. 
EK: Got your wings. 
FM: Yeah, stayed and talked with my friend, and… 
[00:25:41] 
EK: Do you still fly that plane? 
FM: Yeah. I was flying it, well, it’s been two or three weeks ago.  
EK: You’ve been good to help people get started it sounds like. 
FM: Fairly, I think. (garbled) to talk to you. So, when I first started,  
EK: When was that?  
FM: I got my commercial pilot, got my private license, and then I got the G.I. Bill.  
EK: Oh, yeah. 
FM: Well then there was some money left. What’m I gonna do with it? ‘Cause I drove a truck up  
until that time, and I liked the job, but boy, when I started flying, A friend was driving a truck and 
talked about a CB and he talked about an airplane he owned. And he said, when we get back to 
Kansas City we’ll go for a ride. I said, Alright. So, I get back to Kansas City, we were, drove for 
Consolidated Freightways. Big CF.  
EK: Yep.  
FM: And we went out to the Roosterville, Liberty is where it was, that we were flying around the 
stuff coming in. And I told him thanks. That was great, too, before I got from Liberty back to St. Joe 
I stopped at Foster, and arranged for a pilot the next day, 
EK: Really. 
FM: And four months later, I have my private license. And then once you get your private license, 
you get some help with the GI Bill to get your commercial ticket. So that's what I did. And when I 
got my commercial license, then I looked around. Well, you know, I didn't have enough hours to 
even say, hey, I want to go fly airlines. So my friend had taught me was my first flight instructor. 
He had this sprayin’ business. So I went down to see him in Texas, and went to school there for a 
couple of weeks and come back and bought an airplane that didn't have a motor on it. And so I 
bought a used, no, it wasn't used. It was a surplus engine tank engine. Engine for a tank. No Army 
tank.  
EK: Oh, whoa. Yeah. 
FM: Yeah, Army tank. 
JK: These were Pratt radials.  
FM: They were radials then? 
JK: Yeah.  
FM: (garbled0 He said, Oh, yeah, listen, we can go in there might be the dead of winter. But here's 
his engine right behind you kicking out lots of heat. He says you're in your T shirt and these other 
guy are freezing, we're going down this. So I've done that. And they said, Well, we balanced it out. 
Okay, traded it for an airplane. So that's what I bought. I got it up here. It  didn't have a starter 
prop start. 
EK: Does that mean you had to go out?  
FM: And when it first started, it’d go thup, thup, thump (accelerating) pick it up. Going this is 
1234567.  
EK: So this was late ‘50s, early ‘60s.  
FM: No this would be in the ‘70s? 
EK: I was trying to think of, so when you say the GI Bill, you're talking about the Vietnam War. All 
right. 
FM: I’ll get back to that in a second. So when I went into the serice, I went in June of 1955. Will in 
January 31, 1955. They discontinued all GI Bills. You've got nothing. Well, then Vietnam come 
along here and there was so much flak about it. They finally reenacted it. Well then, when they 
first got into it they reenacted it, but a little bit later. So now let's say 1966 or 56, no, it'd be about 
68.  
EK: Yeah 
FM: When I suddenly had the GI Bill, I still don't want to use it. But now we get eight years to do 
whatever you want. (garbled) And reconnected back to first of January ‘55, that’s the only reason I 
got it. Because when I was stationed in Puerto Rico,I was managing the post theater and lifeguard 
and (garbled) beach. Tough duty. 
[00:30:21] 
EK: Actually, I'm glad to hear that. My dad took flying lessons on the GI Bill, but that was the 
Korean War.  
FM: Yeah.  
EK: And I don't know how far he took it. 
JK: I think he got to 120 hours. I think in a Piper.  
EK: But that's how he spent his GI bill too. He thought about about college and decided he'd rather 
fly.  
JK: So what kind of plane was your first ag plane? 
(Interference, crosstalk.) 
FM: Oh, yeah, I know him and I rode an elevator in Las Vegas. I said, Leland, we really are serial 
number 1019. 
(Interference, crosstalk.) He was running but… 
EK: Yeah, I watched we watched a video of the other day. And just soft spoken, real quiet. Yeah. 
Amazing airplanes.  
FM: Yeah. An open cockpit. And I just put my hand on (garbled). 
EK: Yeah. Do you have pictures of it? 
FM: No, not doing that, I’ve got pictures of my old airplane.  
EK: So you've seen some major changes in the business? 
FM: Yeah. This would been in 1974 when I started right here. And then next year I moved over to 
Foster. And then ‘75 of Kansas I said, you know, we better yet some tests going up here so 
(garbled). ‘Course you have to have a license to do that. 
EK: Didn’t have that before? 
FM: No. So I took my test. My license number for Kansas is 207. My boy’s license is 51658 or 
wherever.  
EK: Yeah.  
FM: So I just got in ‘ 75. They're changing in the Garden City. So he was really new.  
EK: But yeah, I wonder who number one is?  
JM: I don't know. But…  
EK: Somebody, somebody’s out there with that card.  
JM: Maybe they started with ten or whatever but it’s still the first one.  
EK: Yeah, like when you get a new book of checks, you never start with one?  
FM: If you do they won’t take the check.  
EK: That's right. They don't. Nope. Oh, I had a question about the plane.  
FM: Okay, you want to hear about the airplane?  
EK: Yes.  
FM: Okay.  
EK: I can't remember what it was, something but you just, you just carry on. 
FM: Right. So just a few fields, I sprayed for a few fields and this guy and Keith, Keith Marry, he 
was my first flight instructor and he sprayin’ business is, is in Foster. 
EK: Right.  
FM: And as I get through and I fly my airplane over there, and he gave me a little bit of work. But 
he didn't even want to give me too much because he had an airplane to pay for too. I actually 
bought this, my airplane from him. And when he both, he had it all figured up and got the new 
prop and got lots of things, and he’s out sprayin’ I think about the second or third fieldl, and the 
propeller broke and he shhhwww (wind sound) so he lands. The airplane wasn’t dinged up, but 
the engine was worthless or, and no propeller. So that's our come on, when I bought the airplane it 
didn't have an engine. 
EK: Oh, yeah.  
FM: All right. So, but back to, I still got this engine and the airplane and I got a call, This is, listen, 
this is over in the, it’s over by Highland, Kansas. He says, but you have to have a south wind. You 
know, it’s a big field but there's a house here and people got their garden and all this so come out. 
And this is a good-sized field, 120 acres. So I bought some chemical from Kieth, and put on some 
water and I put on 120 gallons. Didn't know that was more than what I should have. ‘Course my 
total time at that time was 290 hours and I went to school for this, but all that school is to keep 
your eyes on this and see what you need to do. So, I look at the wind, and by gosh, we got a south 
wind. Now you get to (Interference, crosstalk.) 
[00:35:25] 
FM: So, I'm going along over there and don't realize the wind has changed. When I got there and 
we had a north wind. Now since then, I look at the pond and I look at the trees and I’m positive, 
Hey we got a south wind. So we get there and I start from the north and come south, now actually I 
got a tail wheel. I mean tail wind. Way down here, is lots of trees, but one of them is shorter. 
(Interference, crosstalk.) And I look, and I pulled back in that stick and boy, nothing happened. 
And oh, my. And I give it full throttle, which is 100 more RPMs I suppose. And it's way too late. 
These trees are getting big and getting big fast. This one tree was short. And I thought now maybe 
if I get up like this and get through this. It didn’t look good. I couldn’t come up fast enough. So I 
ended up like this. This wing hit part of the top of this tree curled Wham! We went around like this 
goes down through the trees. So we're out here staggering around. And I can remember thinking, 
I’d sure like to have a (Interference, crosstalk.) That was after five or six years. (Laughter.) And 
that was your first thought? So I looked out the window, and I’m still flyin;. So we still hadn’t 
figured it out. We got a north wind. Well, I don’t want to do that again. So I sprayed the field. Went 
around the house, and the garden… 
EK: So you were able to keep going? 
FM: Yeah. I believe I might have wanted to land. 
EK: And have, and have that cigarette. (Laughter.) 
FM: I’m sure if I’d had a pack of cigarettes in my pocket, I’d think about it. I'd quit about five years 
before.  
EK: So you went back and finished the field? 
FM: Oh, yeah. And again, I didn't figure out we had a north wind because then you got their yard 
and their trees and their garden and… 
EK : Them. 
FM: Yeah, and she was watching and she said, We seen you and man, the top of that tree come out 
and went thu, thu, thu, whomp! 
JK: So you had your first incident and your first drift claim. 
FM: First customer. 
JK:. On your first customer. 
EK: Got it all out of the way at once. 
FM: That’s right. 
EK: Now you don't have to do that anymore.  
FM: Well, it wasn’t quite that simple. (Laughter.) 
EK:  Yes, we could go with that.  
FM: My story and I'm stickin’ with it. 
EK: Yeah. So did you ever figure out you had a north wind?  
FM: Oh, not till later. (Laughter.) I really didn’t, I started to think, Something should have told you 
this. But it was my first customer, and I was a hopped up pilot, or whatever, you know. 
EK: Yeah, you get things in your head and hard to see what's behind them.  
FM: Yeah,. 
JK: I, I read that, pilots, as a general rule, want to manipulate the environment rather than their 
behavior. I was reading some, some, I was reading some some safety information. And, you know, 
they were talking about how pilots, they tend to want to be able to control the environment rather 
than their own actions. So through their actions, they want to control the environment instead of 
reacting to the changing environment. You know, like you thought there was a south wind. So by 
God, there's a south wind. 
FM: No, that was right. At the time I was a Democrat and… (Laughter.) Since then I’ve changed. 
EK: You deserved a south wind. 
FM: Yeah, I did. (Laughter.) 
JK: But it's something I guess the, I guess the point of, you know, the study is that it's something 
that pilots have to learn early on that you have to be able to react to the situation, and have, and 
have a plan in your head. So if you see this particular initial thing happen, you go, okay, I've 
thought about all this. environments change. These are the steps I need to take to stay alive. 
FM: Yeah.n And fellows that’s in this spray school. Sounds interesting. I'll toss it in. There was an 
Army captain that was there, and he's going to retire and be an ag pilot. So we were staying in the 
truxk, in the big trailer, and there was three or four pilots into it, and one of them was from 
Mexico. He was a… But this Army captain, he was telling me one night he says, Listen, I noticed 
that,  boy, when they pull up, those telephone poles are about that high. And I didn't say anything. I 
just, I didn't really (undecipherable). But it's really amazing.  
JK: Yeah it is. 
[00:40:51] 
FM: So (undecipherable) along there, and this a two-seater pump, a Pawnee, they only made two 
of them. And what they done is took the hopper and formed it into a seat. Still put water in in the 
thing, but this out here. So, instructors in front, and you're in the second shelf. He can see what 
happens, trying to save, save everybody. 
JK: Um-hm. 
FM: So he says, let’s see, we come along there, and I'd say, Look, you're gonna have to pull back, 
and I’d jerk that thing back and. But you couldn't see the back, you’d tell him about it. So this 
happened about three or four times. And every time he had to keep a record to this, he found 
himself all right. And to, through those wires. We didn't try to save this airplane, I would not have 
guts enough to do that. But somehow, anyway, it didn't bring him down. He just broke the wires 
and skint up the airplane a little bit. And anybody that tells you that he's never, never hit a tree or 
a wire, he hasn't been doing it very long. I'm telling the truth. There's not, that's just facts. 
EK: So it's inevitable? 
FM: Pretty much. Your judgment gets a whole bunch better when, oh, gee, you're gonna halve that 
tree. Next time, we'll do this a lot quicker. But you also got to figure it out. Do you have a tail wind? 
Do you have a headwind?Tthose things are big, big items in the air. For example, if you've got an 
airplane is running, let’s say, 120 miles an hour and you got a 30 mile air headwind, your ground 
speed is 90 miles an hour. Now if you've got tailwind, there's a 30 miles an hour, your ground 
speed 150 miles an hour. So these are big, big items to an airplane. And that we don't have that 
kind of winds spraying, ‘cause, well the chemical gets in the next county. 
EK: Right.  
FM: You can't do that. But it's still there. Even smaller amounts. 
EK: Right. And the weather changes, you know, do that get the whole day.  
FM: That's right. And just watch the leaves and the trees and ponds and, you know, they got these 
damn tur…, uh windmills that turn behind wind a lot. It was quite a ways, at least I thought, well, 
this would be fairly safe. But by gosh, it shook that airplane up. I knew something was there when 
I got out of it. We went back to, the bottom part of this is supposed to be 100 foot above the 
ground. 
EK: Right. Kevin flies down around Lama, there’s a big field of them. And I guess, you know, he's 
had to learn to fly around them. And, and yesterday, Jacob was talking about it. He showed us a 
little, he had a video on his phone that he had taken flying around the windmills and like having to 
go under ‘em. And I asked about that. It's like how can you anticipate how that's going to affect 
you? You know, the wind and what it's going to do to your plane and he was kind of like dismissive 
of it, but I'm thinking it would be like a huge like, I mean, I don't think if I, if I was spraying I don't 
think I would want to have to figure that out the same time I was doing the job. 
FM: If you're flying in front of this turbine, you’re probably okay. It’s when you’re flying behind it… 
You know, they’ve got up by King City, I was driving up there. A lot of us were parked, they 
(garbled) I seen one of them going, the bottom part of the blade was curved. You know, we're 
talking about pulling wind that hard. 
EK: Right.  
FM: And someone was telling me says you can time these things. I think 13 times around there 
somewhere there and this bottom top blade is going about 160. You can’t hardly imagine that far 
out.  
JK: Yeah. It's like the world's largest world's largest case of wake turbulence. 
FM: Okay. 
[00:45:31] 
EK: Is, is one of those blades different from the other, the other two? 
FM: No. They’re are all three and they gotta be matched.  
EK: Yeah. Because I haven't looked at them that closely. 
FM: But you know, there’s a generator up there that, they put it on a truck, it takes nine axles to get 
to go down the down highway with. 
EK: I've seen him like on 54 cause I would drive, you know, to and from school. And I don't know 
where they come from in the east, but I would see them on the highway. And sometimes, like, 
depending on what part of it it was they would have to like, stop and do all their, you know, truck 
stuff and, 
JK: Interstate paperwork and stuff. 
EK: And stop outside of Fort Scott and do whatever they need to do. And they would sometimes 
block traffic getting in there. I mean, they're huge.  
FM: Yeah, they are. But it's just… 
EK: Part of the deal. 
FM: Part of the deal. And they get the thing up in the air so high. They don’t look so far, so big 
when you’re driving by, but shoot, their probably as big as this room. They got ladders that goes all 
the way up to the top of ‘em, and they walk out and do whatever repairs they do. A lot of ‘em on 
the west coast are rust brown.   
 
Unknown Speaker  46:28   
part of the deal. And it's part of the deal. And then they get to stay up in the air so high. And they 
don't they don't go too far. The big ones, like this modern shooter, how big is this room as far as 
putting this down? Yeah. And you get letters that go all the way up to the top of them, and they 
walk out and do whatever they're gonna do? A lot of them on the west coast are rust brown, and 
they… (undecipherable) and they’re not going to do a damn thing with ‘em. 
EK: Yeah, they're just gonna sit there 
FM: And that's right. And this was (undecipherable) to a whole bunch of these things.  
EK: These things ave a lifespan of maybe 10 years or something,  
FM: Oh, I didn’t  know.  
EK: I don't know, that might not be true. 
JK: I think they might have like 10 or 20 years, I think. And then they have to be maintained. Are 
they even marked on the charts? 
FM: No. No.  
EK: Seriously. Wow. 
FM: Because they do have a light on top of them. And I said one time it had to be atdd certain 
heights before they put this light on, and they built a big, big tower close to St. Joe. And they had a 
deadline. And they got it set before the deadline they had put a light on it. I thought, gee whiz, 
that’s dumb. 
EK: Yeah. And dangerous. 
FM: Well, the money is what you‘re talking about. I guess it was gonna cost anoter $200 or 
something. It’s that bottom line. 
EK: Yeah. Go up there and stick that lights on it. 
JK: Every time I fly with Dusty as soon as we've crossed the Kansas line, there's always radio 
towers to watch.  
FM: Tower watch. 
JK: Yeah, you know, ‘cause in Missouri, we don't have a lot of towers on that side and, butas soon 
as you get into Bourbon County, they're all over the place.  
FM: Well, GPS. I got a Garmin 396, 496, whatever. But it'll tell you about that time.  
JK: It's actually really handy that the, uh, oh the iPad, the foreflight app? He uses that a lot. And 
that's really nice.  
FM: Yeah, and, and it’s still something else you have to watch so you don’t run into things. 
JK: Yeah. 
EK: Do you still fly a lot? 
FM: I do. I got a Cessna, it’s a 175 and I converted it to a 180,  and 175 was a Gio 300. And they 
only made ‘em four years and started making equipment in ’62. What I got is the fourth one made, 
and they took it all around the country and tellin’ everybody how great it was. Now the propeller 
went this way. But they only had one gear up here because it was a geared engine. This one gear 
meant that the propeller goes that way the engine has to go this way. Well when they done that, 
they made it so this engine would run at 3,000 rpm and this is what it was built for. Well, when 
people got in there, My gosh, look at the gas this thing’s burning. So now they've cut it down to 22 
or 23 inches and screwed up the engine. So it’s a bad airplane, it really runs. But it was running  
140 miles an hour. One thing you know people want an airplane runs 140 miles an hour, burns 
eight gallons of gas or something. 
JK: Yeah. 
FM: Fourteen or 15 gallons, geez that’s just too much. 
JK: It's always a trade off though.  
FM: Yeah, I always thought, if you're going to get there faster, or you sit back here and say, Okay, 
I'll take my time get there, what you're going to save just about a gallon of gas or something. 
[00:50:23] 
JK: It's kind of the same philosophy as taking a few more seconds on a turn.  
FM: Yeah. 
JK: It’d save you save you five minutes over the entire day, instead of trying to do those 
hammerhead turns, and stallin’… 
FM: Yeah. I’d get it out here and get back. The only time I’ve (undecipherable) is darn near empty.  
 
JK: Sam Styron was he, he was talking about those, oh those Arkansas and Louisiana outfits, and 
they show up there around his neck of the woods. And he was talking about how they're just all 
about production, and they'll spray and 10 and 15 mile an hour winds, and he watches them do 
those, those stall terms. And he just can't. I mean, and he said, they just, you know, they're just 
dangerous.  
FM: Well, they are. 
JK: And I don't… 
FM: There was one, well it’s been three or four years ago now, but he come down and helped me. 
His name was Ragnar Emrich. Brand new 602, and he, I think he owed a lot of money, just like it 
was his operation. But anyhow, a 602, had lots of accidents. Enough that I decided I didn’t want 
one. But he was (undecipherable) and that bottom wing decided I can’t do this anymore, and down 
he come. 
JK: Huh. Well, I mean, it says right there on the instrument, instrument panel, maintain 
coordinated flight at all times. 
FM: Yeah, he thought it was coordinating or close to his, I guess.  
EK: Was that his last flight?  
FM: That was it.  
JK: Yeah.  
EK: We watched a safety video. Jack and I just sat and watched like, YouTube videos the other day, 
and it was Wayne Handley. Turn smart. And now that guy can fly. I think he's from California or 
something.  
JK: He had a, he had… 
EK: But he was demonstrating that, terrible ways to turn. 
JK: He stalled an 802 and he had, he had an 802 inverted, which didn't, 
FM: An 802 inverted? Wow. 
EK: Jjust to show,  
JK: Yeah, just to show what not to do. Like,  
FM: Well, I'm assuming he was. Looking (undecipherable, crosstalk) 
JK: He was, I think at least 5,000, 6,000 feet AGL. Like he had time to get it back under control. But 
I think the point was, though, if you're doing that at 300 feet, if you're turning like that, and you're 
slipping and skidding the aircraft, it only takes one time and you're dead because you have no time 
to recover.  
FM: They understand what high speed stalls meant for a long time. But you know, somebody's 
buzzin’ someone's house and then they pull up real quick, it’s not that quick. It goes eermp. You're 
going to go on down. 
JK: Yeah. You're spoiling that airflow and just plowing through the air, you're not maintaining lift.  
EK: So when dusty wakes me up in the morning, he's dangerous. 
JK: Nah. 
EK: It doesn't mean, like he likes to fly over our house. We're right in is a direct line from the 
airport in Nevada to a lot of the fields he sprays. So, if he's spraying like, right here, he'll make sure 
he flies over our house, especially if it's really early in the morning. Yes, just to annoy me. 
[Laughter.] 
JK: Well, it was a lot more fun when he had his Ag Cat with the big radial on it. 
FM: Yeah, radial engine? 
EK: I would hear him coming. The other morning. I probably shouldn't tell this, but the other 
morning, I was still in bed and I was laying there and I heard him like coming across the field. And 
I reached up, it got closer and I thought Dusty. And I pulled the curtain back and saw this big 
yellow plane just in the window. [Laughter.] Yeah. I love those planes so much. There was 
something else. I don't know. 
JK: I  just think it's interesting to talk to you because you've kind of seen how it's all grown up over 
all the years. Like you know from, from the first Snow aircraft and now you're flying, you know, 
brand new 402s and stuff.  
FM: 502. 
JK: Yeah, 502. 
FM: And the chemicals have changed a whole bunch. T8his just changed a little bit before this, 
where they couldn't tell… I was trying to tell you the name of the poison. It’ll come here in a little 
bit. But what they changed it with was parathion. And they essentially said, Oh, parathion is 
probably worse than… It'll come to me. So parathion, I sprayed a lot of tobacco. So I want to start 
my business, and I borrowed, I didn't know that you couldn't borrow $500 and start a business. 
When you don't know that you do a lot of things. So I bought this from him. And the reason I done 
it is because anybody else, it’d had to wait for some insects to come in to have a decent year. You 
know, we're one of the few people you know that look forward to insects. [Laughter.] So I bought 
this with, because of this tobacco. When you plant tobacco, there's got to be I think, there's got to 
be seed in there that's the tobacco worm, because somehow it shows up. And they'll get that big 
around. And that alone, that's without exaggeration, though, they can eat a lot of stuff I've seen ‘em 
where, they’ll lock the back tire of a wheel there, and it’ll go wht, wht, wht, wht, 
[00:56:30] 
EK: So you can stand and watch ‘em eat? 
FM: Yeah, they’re big enough that you can watch this. Tu, tu, tu, and tu, tu, tu, and then back, tu, tu, 
tu, 
EK: A tobacco leaf is… 
FM: Oh, they’re big. 
EK: The tobacco leaf over there big, that big? 
FM: Oh yes. So at the time, I was charging 12 or 12 and a half an acre, because this is a… Well if I 
took out 25 acres at a time, that was a big load. Now I might go over two counties to do this. I’d go 
down here and do an acre and a half and go over here and find the scale numbers. If you talked 
about it.. well it was just a mile north of Dice Door. Some of this you had to know. Well, okay, but 
what do you got to buy it off the store, there's tobacco here, here, here, here, here. So I've sprayed 
wrong, a few wrong tobacco patches, but most days it was insecticide. But 25 acres literally could 
be, over two different counties, could be four arers. And a couple farmers got together doing that. 
It was a big place in the adjoining couple of farms. Then four farmers got together doing that. And 
that, my gosh that’s a big field, eight acres. Just do that one first, then the airplanes lighter and you 
go around to the other places. But then… in tobacco pretty soon, they had to… well, they call it 
topic. Now they had to get up and bust this. It couldn't be cut it off. There's damage. This plant had 
to say my gosh, I've been hurt. Now to start growing. Well, they would have put out new leaves. 
But they didn't want to do that. So we have some stuff called sucker stuff. And you would spray 
this on here. And it would stop ‘em from putting out new leaves but it was still wanting to grow 
and try. Well, now all this growth and weight goes to the existing leaves. How they got that figured 
out I don't know, but it worked.  
EK: Yeah.  
FM: And then they would chop it and hang it up. Let her dry, then they’d take it to a barn. See 
constantly how it was. If you look at some of these barns, they’d have doors might be that wide, a 
whole bunch of them. And you can open up some to get more stuff through there or not.  
JK: Yeah.  
FM: But tobacco was there every year. And I didn't have to worry about, oh geez, all we got heavy 
greenbugs. So in 2006 Headline in 2005 to come out. But Headline come up with this. And said 
hey, we guarantee you do you 12 to 15 more bushel per acre putting it on your corn or five to 
seven on soybeans or wheat. So in early ‘06 slide. Some farmers have, what, three farmers, they 
called me and said here's what we want you to do. There was about 2,000 acres, and I'll bring 
whatever and you leave some places not sprayed. to kind of live in the hills never done a few of 
them in the bottoms and the bottoms, well they’d be a space like this, and it went out like so. . And 
he says, you just spray that but leave someplaces not sprayed. 
[01:00:27] 
EK: Oh, to test it and see if it worked. 
FM: Exactly. So I spray it all here. I sprayed this good job. And his big thing out here was probably 
20 acre in that area. I didn't spray that at all. And this was in the White Cloud. And he said, on the 
highway, you can see where you stopped out there. And so I asked him later, what was the 
difference in what we sprayed? He said there was 40 bushel difference per acre, between this and 
the hills, most of them got about 20 bushel. So fungicide is big, big it’s put, this put airplanes on the 
map. Every year we get more and more fungicide. By everybody, everybody does it. Not 
everybody. Russell, young farmer over here by Lancaster. And he sprays with us every year, all he 
had to do is buy chemical. But he likes to compare to a neighbor, who never sprayed. He says I 
don't care what the weather's like. The droughts or too much rain. He says, I've always made a 
whole bunch more of with this together, spraying. So you know, every time. And, at one time, like 
you do something like this, you have lots of new things come along. But it seemed like if it didn't 
triple their income, you wouldn't do it next year. This here pays you. 
EK: It’s essential, you know, I mean, it's a it's an essential part of agriculture at this point, 
FM: Yeah, it’s you know, it’s stopping other things from getting on there and causing damage to it. 
So you grow longer and grow bigger and better.  
EK: Yeah.  
FM: And have more of it.  
EK: Do you ever wish you'd done anything else?  
FM: No. I never thought I’d went to work at all once I started this. I tell people I’ve never ever 
worked, woke up and thought Oh, damn, I gotta go get an airplane.  
EK: Yeah. [Laughs.] We have kept you for an hour, so we're gonna wind it up. We've been talking 
with Lloyd McElwain, it is May 20, and we started at 2:40 and we're ending at 3:38. So… 
FM: Okay.