Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
1 
Project: Nursing America's Veterans 
Name of person interviewed: Frances Hodgkins [FH] 
Facts about this person: 
Sex: Female 
Occupation: Mental Health Nurse Specialist and Clinical Nurse Educator 
Residence: Houston, Texas 
Interviewer: Alana Glaser [AG], Hannah Shows [H] 
Transcriber: Sara Cohen [SC] 
Interview location: remote  
Date of interview: 5/19/21 
KEY WORDS 
Rural America, mental health nurse, Veterans Administration (VA), National Old Soldiers’ Home, 
nursing assistant, LVN, creativity, nursing home, contract nursing, geripsychiatry, public service, 
federal employee, Mercy Nurse, PTSD, music, nurse historian, ephemera, RTMS, treatment-resistant 
depression, esketamine, hours per patient day, evidence-based nursing, female service members, mental 
illness, physician partners, COVID-19, telehealth 
Abstract 
In this interview, Dr. Hodgkins shares her passion for working as a Veteran Administration (VA) nurse 
and describes the deep satisfaction she gets from being a mental health nurse. She lists the myriad 
improvements she’s seen the VA make during her long career with them. Fran discusses the latest 
innovations being deployed by the VA for treatment-resistant depression, and why nurses are so 
intricately involved in such endeavors. She then highlights the importance of relationship building, both 
with her patients and her fellow nurses. Fran also touches on the impact of COVID-19 on the VA and 
her approach to teaching nursing students. She concludes by stating the most rewarding aspect of 
working as a VA nurse and sharing her artistic pursuits outside of work. 
Index 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
2 
 
[0:00] Fran introduces herself and shares an overview of her family background and educational history, 
how Fran decided to become a nurse. 
 
[3:17] Fran recounts her first job at the VA and why she quit, Fran’s experience with contract nursing, 
Fran shares a story from her days as a contract nurse at the VA, why Fran has remained at the VA for so 
long. 
 
[13:01] Fran explains why she views her role at the VA as her public service, Fran’s experience at the 
VA in Maine and the different roles she took on, how Fran got started in psychiatry, how Fran ended up 
in her current role, geripsychiatry, being a federal employee, being a Mercy Nurse. 
 
[23:24] Fran discusses her fascination with and the importance of nursing history and her ephemera 
collection, the positive changes Fran has seen the VA undergo, what drew Fran to psychiatric nursing. 
 
[28:52] Fran states that the VA is the best in treating PTSD, Fran’s experience teaching psychiatry, 
innovations for treatment-resistant depression. 
 
[33:21] Fran describes how RTMS therapy works for treatment-resistant depression, what esketamine is, 
the involvement of nurses in the treatment of treatment-resistant depression, hours per patient day, 
evidence-based nursing. 
 
[38:16] Fran details what a typical shift was like when she first started at the VA, how the VA manages 
female service members as part of their patient population, stories about visitors sneaking in contraband, 
the difference between psychiatric nurses and medicine nurses, why Fran is a psychiatric nurse, mental 
illness as the chronic disease of young people. 
 
[46:14] Fran talks about the length of time patients spend on the psych ward, the relationships Fran 
builds with patients, the code green team.  
 
[49:51] Fran explains more about the code green team, how often code green teams are called, the 
community-based nature of a psychiatric nurse’s job, restraints versus a seclusion room, the beating 
heart as the tool of the psychiatric nurse. 
 
[55:31] Fran recounts a couple of stories about patients who got physical with her, the sense of 
satisfaction Fran gets from her work, how Fran “nurses the nurses” and builds relationships with her 
colleagues, the changing nature of the relationship between doctors and nurses during the pandemic. 
 
[1:02:45] Fran details what her nursing team did differently during COVID, the impact of COVID on 
the types and volume of patients Fran sees, the silver linings to COVID. 
 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
3 
 
[1:08:40] Fran talks about the downside of wearing masks for the nursing profession, the changes 
brought about by COVID that Fran would like to see implemented and/or kept, the role of the Houston 
VA in vaccinating against COVID. 
 
[1:13:19] Fran discusses her journey to getting a Doctorate in Education, how Fran motivates her 
nursing students to join the VA, the support the VA provides to its employees for continuing education, 
the support Fran has received over the years. 
 
[1:18:53] Fran lists the things she’s learned during her career that she now emphasizes to her nursing 
students. 
 
[1:22:15] Fran discusses her focus on global nursing and justice when teaching nursing students. 
 
[1:25:37] Fran states the most rewarding aspect of working as a VA nurse, Fran’s artistic pursuits 
outside of work. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
4 
 
[0:00] AG: Hi, Fran. Thank you so much for participating in these Library of Congress oral history 
interviews, and welcome. I'm going to turn things over to Hannah, who has the first couple questions for 
you. 
  
H: Hi Fran. Thank you for being here. In a couple of sentences, could you just introduce yourself? 
  
FH: My name is Fran Hodgkins, and I'm a VA nurse. I have worked for the VA for approximately 23 or 
24 years, and I'm a mental health nurse. I live in Houston, Texas. 
  
H: Thank you, Fran. Before we dive into your nursing career, I want to learn more about your family 
background and educational history. So, can you tell me a little bit about your early life? 
  
FH: Sure. I was born in Maine in a little small town where, basically, what people do is we make paper. 
We're a paper making town. And so, when you start to think about very rural Maine, a lot of people were 
loggers. My mom was a nursing assistant. My dad drives a bulldozer for a living. Well, at least he did 
when he was working. It was a really sort of a small town experience. Everybody knew each other, and 
we all had the same sort of, I would say, way of the small town life in rural Maine, which was, you 
either were gonna grow up and make paper, there was a hospital. Some people went to college, but not 
everybody that I met went to college, and my parents certainly didn't have a big educational background. 
When I decided that I was gonna graduate from high school-- I was a nursing assistant for 12 years 
before I decided to become a nurse, and that was kind of an interesting experience. The way that I 
decided to become a nurse is I realized, after 12 years of working as a nursing assistant, that this was not 
gonna be able to feed my family for the rest of my life. I'd have to work two jobs and all these kinds of 
things. So, I started looking around. Being a nurse was not my first thing to think about. I went to the 
University of Augusta in Maine, and they had two programs that I was very interested in. One of them 
was nursing, of course, because I had been a nursing assistant for all those years, so I had this baseline 
background that I knew I could do what I wanted to do. The other one was-- you're gonna die. I wanted 
to be a jazz musician. I really would have been a clarinetist and run around the country and play the 
clarinet, and who knows what, but I realized that, at a younger age, that that would not feed my family. 
So, I opted to go to nursing school. When I first got my first nursing degree, I got an Associate's Degree 
in Nursing from the University of Augusta in Maine. That's what I did. That was 1994 that I got my first 
nursing degree after being a nursing assistant for 12 years. 
  
AG : You were a clarinetist? Were you in the band? 
  
[3:17] FH: Totally, yes. We were in a marching band, which I just disliked because in Maine, it snows 
during football time and it's all very cold, but I really did love playing in the jazz band and in the 
orchestra and things like that. I've always been super creative. It was this thing that I knew that I could 
do because I have all of this creativity. I don't know whether that's right or left brain right now. I realized 
I couldn't sustain on that, right. I got an Associate's Degree in Nursing and I went to work for the VA, 
and I quit my first time in. Here's the story. I get out of school and I'm sort of working at this little-- It 
was like a little nursing home. I was working at the nursing home and I got an opportunity to work at the 
very first VA in the nation, which is in Maine, and it's Togus, Maine: T-O-G-U-S. It used to be the 
National Old Soldiers' home. VAs were established by Abraham Lincoln. When he said that we would 
take care of the widow and the soldier and the orphan, they went to the National Old Soldiers' Home. 
Now, in Togus, Maine, it used to be a place that was known for its excellent water and really good air. If 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
5 
 
you were from, in the 1800s, if you were from the city, like Boston or New York, you would go to 
Maine and you would go to the spa that was at Togus. At the time, the government was able to buy 
around 500 acres of land in Maine, and they deemed it the National Old Soldiers' Home. There's a 
couple of these Old Soldiers' Homes across the country, but Maine was one of the first ones. We were 
one of the first ones, I think the very first one, to become a VA, a Veterans Administration. When you 
go there, you drive in, the tall pines are on both sides of this quite idyllic little driveway, and there's a 
pond in the front that we all stock with fish, and the deer are actually there, and in the winter, we feed 
them apples, and it's this great place. I went to work there, and I went to work in a nursing home. It was 
a community living center that they had there. It was 50 beds, and it was horrible. I was the only nurse 
on the night shift. I had an LVN and two nursing assistants, and we were supposed to take care of 50 
patients. Two of them had ventilators and many of them had tubes going in their stomach where you 
would put all their medicine. After three months of working in what I would characterize as probably the 
most unsafe conditions I've ever been in in my life, I said, "I'm not doing that anymore," and I quit the 
VA. I said, "You can't make me do this," and so I quit. I went out, and I went through a couple of years 
where I did home health, then did some community service. At the time, I was able to get into a contract 
nursing situation. Remember, this is rural Maine. What do you got for work out there? Not a lot. So, I 
got into a contract nursing situation. They called me up one day and they said, "Fran--," and this was in 
1996. They said, "We have a contract at the Veterans Administration." I said, "Oh, okay." They're like, 
"It's 14 weeks long. You're gonna go in. You're gonna work on this med surg floor." I said, "Well, 
alright. Let's do that. Let's do that. 14 weeks, I can do that. It's probably different by now. I've spent a 
couple of years in the community.” I went, and I can remember about three, four weeks into this 
contract, I called my contract office and I said, "Get me outta here, 'cause this is the worst thing I've ever 
seen in my life," and they were like, "But you're on a contract." So, here I am. I'm working on a 28-bed 
unit, and it has patients that have everything, mostly lung patients, have a real hard time breathing. 
Everybody's smoking their little nebulizer smoke pipes to help them with their breathing. We're running 
IVs in everybody, cancer patients, you name it. It was like a dump ward. This is at the same hospital that 
I had previously quit from, and now I'm in the hospital side. It was me, there was another nurse, an 
LVN, a nursing assistant, and we took care of 28 patients. When we worked this shift, it was 3:45 to 
12:15. This was way before any kind of technological advances that we have today. We didn't have 
barcode medication administration. We didn't have computerized physician order entry. The physicians 
came and wrote their orders on a chart, and the nurses had to take the orders, read the doctor's 
handwriting, interpret the orders, write them on medication slips so that we would know what that we 
were doing, send these orders down to the pharmacy, have them processed. They wouldn't even mix our 
medicines for us. They would send us up the IVs and the little vials of medicine and we had to mix them 
together because we worked the off shift and nobody was working in the pharmacy. It was this really, 
really tough thing. From 3:45 when we got on to 12:15, that other nurse and I and my LVN and my tech, 
we ran our butts off, because you give medicine at 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and the IVs would be hanging, and 
then you're going back around and you're flushing them. It was really horrible. I can even remember one 
story that a patient was-- He had, like, altered mental status. He wasn't in his right mind. We had this 
chair that we put him in by the nurse's station out in the hall so we could watch him, because there's only 
so many of us. I'll never forget this. He reached in the wall. I didn't see him. I had my hands full of ice 
water pitchers, and I'm going down the hall, 'cause I'm trying to get everybody their ice water to keep 
them going for the night, and the next thing I heard was [whooshing sound], and I turned around and I 
looked and I couldn't see the nurse's station anymore; it was gone. I couldn't see the patients anymore; 
they were gone. All there was was this shimmery yellow stuff floating in the air. I thought, "Oh my," 
and I ran the other way. I ran down to the end of the hall and I pulled the fire alarm, 'cause that was the 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
6 
 
only thing that I knew what to do. What this guy had done was we had put him in the hallway to watch 
him, but he had got his chair over by the fire extinguisher that was in the wall, and he pulled the fire 
extinguisher thing out and discharged that fire extinguisher, which was a mica level fire extinguisher, all 
over the inside of the nurse's station and the hall, in this long hallway with about 14 doors and all of 
these lung patients. Now all of this mica is floating around and holy mackerel, it's January. What do we 
do? Now the fire alarm is going off and notifying everybody that they need to come to the fourth floor, 
because I'm in trouble. The nursing team and I, we're running around, giving everybody their little 
smoke pipes so that they can keep their airways going. We're shutting the doors so that the micas don't 
float in there. The fire department's showing up and they're opening the windows and it's cold out and all 
of this mica dust. If you've never had mica dust, gets into everything: all the paperwork, the books, the 
computers, the med carts, the pens, the pencils. We all had it. It was everywhere. Long story, the good 
ending is we said to the fellow after we yanked him out of the hall and put him all the way down to the 
place where it wasn't mica and we could talk to him, we said, "What happened? Why did you do that?" 
and his answer was, "'Cause it was there." These are the things that I was dealing with at this very start 
of what I have now is an extremely long career with VA. How did I get from, "Gosh, get me out of 
there," to 20-something years later, I'm working at VA? It's because the relationships that I developed 
with the staff that I worked with, and the patients that I take care of. 
  
[13:01] AG: Taking care of veterans, it's just one of these things that is so moving too. Hearing about 
these stories is so moving and unique to the patient population, it sounds like. 
  
FH: Yeah, it's the esprit de corps. You don't get this when you work in a private institution, because 
everybody that comes to VA, they have a mission that we've done together. I don't know if you've ever 
seen this movie, Saving Private Ryan. Tom Hanks was in it. I can't watch that, because at the beginning 
scene where they're shooting off on the beaches of Normandy, I can say, "I know that guy, and I know 
that guy, and I know that guy." I feel like, as a VA nurse, one of the things that's kind of bestowed on 
me-- How can I explain it? A gift is that I'm a repository of all the stories that people have ever told me, 
and I carry them forward so that they don't die. People don't die; they have the stories and I know what 
they are. Like the night I was giving chemotherapy to a patient who told me that he was in the trenches 
in Germany, and how they had to smoke a cigarette. They had to hide, you know, 'cause he's got lung 
cancer. They would hide under a blanket and smoke their cigarette, and they had to each take turns 
doing that and it was really, really cold and they were in Germany. And how that same person told me 
that when they tried to get out of this hole that they were in, and they had to run through the forest in 
Germany fighting the Germans, that they could hear the bullets break the branches behind them. That's 
the kind of stuff that is so important. I've met people that have been bestowed the Congressional Medal 
of Honor for heroism. Once upon a time, a Chief Nurse said, "We take care of patients and we take care 
of people. We take care of veterans that have signed a blank check to the United States of America 
[begins to cry], saying, ‘Up until-- payable up until my life’”, and that's important. Back to the guy with 
the fire extinguisher now. That guy wrote on that check, "You can cash this up until my life," and that's 
important to me. My service is to take care of veterans. That's what I do. Even though I didn't go in the 
Army, or the Marines, or the Navy, or the Air Force, I work for VA, and that's my public service. I'm 
proud of that, I can tell you, 'cause these guys are just so amazing. I'll go back there to 1996 where I'm 
working as a contract nurse, and I worked for the VA for-- I stayed there for two entire years on that 
contract. My nursing assistant at that time in my team, and they're like, "Fran, why don't you just 
become a VA employee?" So, I did, and I worked in Maine, at Togus, Maine, the first VA. I worked 
there for 10 years, and it was awfully good. I could tell you story upon story about how I worked at that 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
7 
 
unit that I told you that [unintelligible]. Then I had the opportunity to go work on some telemetry and 
work with the cardiac patients. Then I had the opportunity to work in this urgent care emergency room 
that they had there, and I worked there at night. We don't get a lot of comers at night. We do get some, 
but most of the time I spent on the phone with people who were in rural Maine and suffering from 
PTSD. They were lonely, and they would call me and they would say, "Hey Fran." I had this one guy 
that would call me every other night. I think it was just to hear a friendly voice on the phone. Through 
that experience, then I got to be a house supervisor. That kind of worked. Then I started working in 
psychiatry, where I've been since. I'm a board certified psychiatric nurse. I currently still work in 
psychiatry, but now my practice's in Houston, Texas, which of course as you know, as I've told you, 
we're I think the largest-- LA might be a little bit bigger than us, but I think we're the second largest 
outpatient psychiatric center. I am the Head Nurse of 40,000 patient clinic in Houston, Texas right now. 
In 2006, right after Katrina hit, I had applied for a warm job someplace [chuckles]. The nice part about it 
is with VA is you're a federal employee, and our nursing license kind of floats above the state nursing 
license. Right now, where states are trying to kind of make a nationwide nursing license, if you will, at 
the time, it didn't exist. You could work in Maine, and then transfer to Texas, but because you worked 
for the federal government, or California or wherever you wanted to go, you didn't have to try to get a 
new license, which is actually really good for helping nurses go from one place to the other. That's what 
I did with my family. We moved to Houston, someplace warm. At the time, we weren't having all this 
extreme weather like Harvey and-- but it was right after Katrina. You think I would have learned. I came 
down here and I started not as the head nurse for outpatient, but I was a staff nurse on a geripsychiatric 
inpatient psychiatry unit. It was wonderful. It was so wonderful. I don't mind saying that I came from 
probably the most less diverse state in the nation, which is Maine, down to the most diverse city in 
America, Houston, Texas. What I had to learn was, and what was really easy for me was, that all people 
speak one language, even if they're veterans. They still have differences, north, south, east, west, you 
name it, but the one language that they speak, and the one language that I speak, is music. When I came 
here, all of this musical creativity that I had between my choice to be a nurse and my choice to be a 
clarinetist. Why didn't I choose clarinet? Because nursing is hard. All of a sudden, melted together in 
this now post-Katrina, Louisiana, Texas mashup with a Yankee moving in. How do I come to one of the 
biggest cities in the world from this very small place and cope? I want you to know, veterans, they speak 
that same language. On that evening shift that I worked, which was four to 12 midnight, geripsychiatry, 
old people with psych issues, we had a blast. We would have music therapy every night after we gave 
out the medicines. Now, time has gone by. We've got barcode and med administration, and you know 
what I'm talking about, right? They scan your wristband, and they scan the medicine. Do you know that 
a VA nurse invented that? When I moved to Houston, I was finally able to finish my bachelor's degree 
in nursing. It was kind of this confluence of 2010, when an online sort of a situation was happening. I 
graduated with a bachelor's degree in nursing from St. Joseph's College of Maine, but I had finished it 
here while I was in Texas, so I'm still a Maine gal, as they say. Here's an interesting aside about nursing 
school. Nurses in nursing school has a big history with working with nuns. Charity Hospital and 
different kinds of hospitals often are run by the nuns. Where I graduated from is St. Joseph's College of 
Maine, and those were run by the Sisters of Mercy. At the time, even still, but it's not so much even 
thought of I don't think much anymore, if you were educated in a Catholic school like that, it's a saint 
school, you became a nurse of the order type. So, I am a Mercy Nurse. If other people had gone to the 
Sisters of Charity, like in Louisiana, and had done that in New Orleans, they'd be a Charity Nurse. I'm a 
Mercy Nurse. 
  
[22:34] AG: Does that indicate anything about your education or your training? 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
8 
 
  
FH: Yeah, it's sort of this old nursing history thing that you don't see any more. I'm a nurse historian, not 
officially, but I am because I keep track of a lot of things that we don't particularly have anymore, and 
one of those is nursing diplomas. I have some from 1917. I can show you where men were nurses in the 
1920s. I have a lot of this ephemera, if you will, paper ephemera that we're losing, because of 
technological advances and just trying to get your license. I have these paper ones that I have all over 
my office, and I have them all over my home. It's one of those things that as we move forward as a 
profession, you don't really want to lose that kind of stuff. For instance, I have nursing hats. You know, 
when back in the old days, when people used to wear their nursing caps, I have nursing capes and these 
kinds of things. 
  
AG: How did you get these great items? 
  
FH: eBay. I have a lot of it. It's important for me to save this, because having somebody to say, "I'm a 
Mercy Nurse," they wouldn't know what I was talking about, and I think that that's really sort of 
important. One of these days, my goal probably is that I will get it all to the Nursing Historical Society 
so that they can kind of keep it, 'cause it's one of a kind stuff. You can buy 'em for about 10 bucks, 20 
bucks, and they're somebody's random diploma where they became a registered nurse. How beautiful 
some of them are, how they made them so gorgeously. Now that I'm teaching faculty-- Alright, let's 
back up just a little bit. In 2006, I'm now in Houston, Texas. I'm working on this thing, and I just keep 
working. I got my bachelor's degree. In the course of my work as a board certified psychiatric nurse, I 
started working on a 32-bed intensive psychiatric care unit, a PICU: psych intensive care, with a little 
step up unit. People were very sick. Coming in urban, anything that you can think of from homelessness 
and drugs and, people that have a lot of marginalized unequitable health care, these kinds of things. I'm 
working now, continuing my education and I'm getting a master's degree in nursing with a minor in 
informatics. I did that, and I was able to graduate in 2013 with that. I'm still working in psych. I'm still 
working for the VA. I have watched the VA come from a hellhole, if you don't mind my saying so, one 
that nobody would work in, not even me, all the way to start to become world-class health care. The 
change is so amazing. There's a movie and it's called Article 99, and Kiefer Sutherland was in it. I think 
it was right about the 80s that they made this movie, and it's pretty accurate. I remember smoking at the 
nurse's station as a nurse. This movie was all about the veterans' experience of their health care, and how 
people who worked for the government didn't give a crap and all of that. But all of a sudden, there was 
this change, probably about 80s, late 80s and the 90s, when all of a sudden VA got the hold of the idea 
that safe care and quality care makes a difference. All of a sudden, we started watching the leadership at 
the national level start to lay in some really good policies and really good procedures and things for us to 
do that gave us the ability to be able to take care of our veterans just right. I can remember one night. It's 
the fourth of July. I'm working. Everybody's off. I've got a team of nurses and we're all working psych 
ICU. What do we do? We're gonna have a barbecue for our patients. So [laughs], my partner made 
pulled pork and we had strawberry shortcake and lemonade, and we all got together as just a bunch of 
grand old folks and watched the fireworks go off on the TV, and everybody went to bed with full bellies, 
and we felt great. That's so rewarding. That's so rewarding to me. 
  
AG: What drew you to psychiatric nursing after spending so much time on med surg floors? Was there 
something in particular? 
  
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
9 
 
FH: Yeah, that's a really good question. When I was in nursing school in 1993, 1992, whatever it was 
there, I can recall to this day saying to my nursing instructor for psychiatry, "Get me out of this course. I 
never want to be a psych nurse as long as I live.” Fast forward to now: I'm a head nurse of the biggest 
psych unit, I mean, outpatient, and I'm board certified in psychiatry. You know what it is? It's the idea 
that I help people who nobody else wants to help. If I'm homeless, if I'm having a problem with my 
brain and I can't think and I'm thinking about-- if I have thoughts that are intrusive, or I have moods that 
people would just shun you and leave you over there because you're bizarre, and you're not the same as 
other people, I help those folks. 
  
[28:52] AG: Do you get the sense that the psychiatric patient population in the VA might have greater 
psychiatric mental health needs than the general patient population and after people have deployed? 
  
FH: My nephew did three tours in Iraq and Afghanistan, and when he left, he was a great, normal 
everyday American kid, gonna go do his civic duty. When he came back, he was a raging alcoholic with 
massive PTSD. He spent several months, if not a year, living in the woods in New Hampshire. The idea 
that these people, if they are going to combat, they're coming back with what we can't even imagine, and 
we need to help them. Here's what I say. I don't know if we have more, but I'm gonna say that the VA is 
probably the best at PTSD. We're the best at it. If you're a soldier, an Airman, Marine, a sailor, and you 
have PTSD, the best place to get care is with us, 'cause we know what you're doing. We know how to 
treat you. That's one of the challenges that I put forth to my students, because now I teach psychiatry at 
an academic teaching and in the nursing school, along with working for the VA. I teach psychiatric 
nursing, and I challenge them to say, if you had somebody with a mental illness, where would you send 
them? Where would you go? If you run into a veteran? Why is it that 22 veterans kill themselves every 
day and how can we get in front of that? That shouldn't happen. It should never happen, and it's really 
sad when it does happen. I've been there. When I've been on a psychiatric unit, and we've seen the 
patients get better, and they leave. I'll never forget the one guy that shook my hand and said, "Thanks, 
Fran. It's been great. I'm gonna go out and I'm gonna do great," and he went out and jumped out a 10-
storey building that day and killed himself [begins to cry]. On the other hand, we have a treatment now. 
It's called repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation. Oh, my gosh, yes, RTMS for short. What we do, 
and my nurse does this, we take a special magnet and we apply it to your brain, and we ask it, on the 
outside of your head, and we ask it to give you some magnetic pulses. The magnetic pulses are saying to 
your limbic system in your brain, "Hey, could you wake up just a bit? Let's see if we can get your 
depression back in order 'cause your brain isn't working so right." Let me tell you what. We had a guy 
that we did this to, Vietnam veteran. 30 years this man had depression. 30 years; it would never go 
away. We gave him these treatments, and after about 25 treatments, he called the nurse and he said, "I'm 
having a problem," and the nurse said, "Gee, what's the matter?" He said, "I'm not depressed and I don't 
know how to act." Now we have another problem, because this is awesome. We're actually helping 
people with their depression, and now we have to be able to give them good therapy so that they can go 
live a normal life. That was super amazing. We've had some sad stories happen in the past, but we've got 
amazing results coming now for people that have treatment-resistant depression. That's very exciting, 
and it's super cutting edge. Me, with an informatics technology type nurse thing, I look at that and I 
think, "Gee whiz. VA has given that to people." Right now, my team and my nurse-- I have a nurse that's 
currently working at the national level with a team of researchers and cutting edge physicians that we 
are going to open an esketamine clinic for people that have treatment-resistant depression. What that 
means is that-- 
  
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
10 
 
AG: Is that the term for that magnetic treatment? Esketamine? 
  
FH: No, that's not. The magnetic treatment is called RTMS. You can look it up online. You might even 
heard of it before. 
  
AG: I haven't, no. It sounds amazing. 
  
[33:21] FH: It really is amazing. We just put this coil on the side of your head in a certain place. Now, 
get this: esketamine is a medicine that, in the olden days, way, long, long time ago-- Ketamine is a drug 
used in veterinary medicine, and a lot of people on the street take it and go down the k-hole. It's a drug 
of abuse. But what VA researchers have done is that they have looked at this and they have said, "We 
can treat depression with this medicine." My nurse is working amazingly at the national level with 
researchers and everything. What they're gonna to do is they're gonna put in a esketamine clinic so that 
the patient who has treatment-resistant depression, we can't fix it any other way, can come in and take 
this medicine and stay with the nurse for three hours. We want to see your depression go away. There's 
evidence for this. The next thing that's coming down the road is psychedelics for the treatment of mental 
illness, and psilocybin, or mushrooms, if you will. There is a lot of research going on right now for that. 
Nurses are intricately involved in this treatment because we don't want people to die. We want you to 
get better. That's why we do what we do every day. That's why I've worked for VA for all these years, 
because I have seen it go from bad to amazing. I'm thrilled that I work there. 
  
AG: Absolutely, yeah. It's incredible to see that change over time. And you mentioned when the nurse 
ratio was 50 patients in that first role that you had, are the nurse ratios more manageable, in your 
experience? 
  
FH: So, what we're doing is, there's a twist in the way that we think about how that happens. What's 
going on is, I'm gonna say probably about four years ago or so-- This is the nice thing about working in 
national health care, 'cause we are the national health care's petri dish for America. If you want to look at 
universal health care and what it would look like, look at the VA. For nursing in Little Rock, Arkansas 
about four years ago, some nurses said, "We had enough. We've had enough. We don't want to work 
short-staffed anymore." Don't quote me on this, but basically, they raised a ruckus. They sent a bunch of 
SOS's out to Washington and the people that can listen to us, 'cause, remember, we're cabinet-level 
organization. They said, "We've had enough," and so now what's happening is, we don't go by ratios. 
We go by this thing called "hours per patient day". What that means is, every year, the nurses and the 
nurse managers of any given unit get together. They look at all of the data from the previous year. They 
say, "This is what we've had to do. This is the places where we're actively at the bedside. This is the 
places where we're not at the bedside. What do we need to do to be able to get our nursing hours per 
patient day up to this benchmark right here?" and they set that benchmark. Then those same nurses take 
all that science and all that evidence and they go present it to the Chief Nurse. Every unit in our hospital 
and every unit across the nation does this, this is not a new thing, and they present that to their Chief 
Nurse. Their chief nurse takes that to their center director and, in my case, the center director of 
Houston, Texas is going to get a presentation from that Chief Nurse about, "This is how many nurses we 
need to be able to support the works of our unit and provide the best level of patient care." That's where 
evidence-based nursing comes in, because we're taking all the data that we generate from all this data 
collection that we do and we're putting it to good use for nursing science. That right there is a shift. 
Whereas in the old days, it might have been I could have 1 to 3 patients in an ICU, and you could too, 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
11 
 
but yours might be getting better and my guys might be going down the road, and the acuity is so far off. 
Now we do it in a different way. That's an amazing shift. That's something that we've done. I really 
appreciate the whole entire nursing service, because we're led from Washington. 
  
[38:16] AG: Tell us a little bit about what a typical shift would be like when you first started. 
  
FH: A regular shift doing a psychiatric rotation-- Now, I'm gonna talk about the evening shift, because 
that's the one I just love the most [laughs]. An average shift would be, you go to work at 3:30 and you 
get report from the off-coming shift. At that point, you're really just kind of seeing who is on your unit, 
you're making rounds, you're talking to folks, 'cause they're all up getting ready for supper. They're 
hungry. They haven't had anything since 11:30. Well, they had a snack, I mean, but I mean-- so they're 
hungry. We're just sort of talking to folks and just checking in with them and making sure that they're 
okay. We have techs that are out on the unit. Some people are sicker than others. Somebody might have 
a special buddy for the tour. You want to make sure that these folks are doing okay. The other thing, of 
course, of working with our population is you have to be kind of mindful about what's on the TV. Like 
CNN and those kinds of things can get extremely triggering to folks, especially if you're in an active 
combat situation and somebody has PTSD. That's really triggered. When I first started working for the 
VA, and when I worked on the psychiatric unit in Maine, we didn't have really hardly any women at all, 
so, it was mostly guys. We had a pool table and a pool room. We all smoked cigarettes and it was kind 
of like a camp almost in a way. Don't take me so loose. Moving forward as we've really come into the-- 
You can't have a pool table on a psychiatric unit anymore because pool balls go flyin' and that's not safe, 
so we had to take that away. But for the advance in how time has gone, women have really started to 
become part of our patient population. We have to make sure that we're making sure that everybody is 
safe, whether you're in your pajamas or not. How do you take care of co-ed rooms? How do you make 
sure that everybody's getting the same level of comfort on a unit, because they're not unisex? They're co-
ed. We have really good ways to help that. We always have a lady staff, we have men staff, and 
everybody just kind of goes around. If you're a lady and you have a room, you have the ability to shut 
your door and nobody can get in unless they were staff. You can get out whenever you want. There's 
some good controls behind the fact that now we have a lot of female service members. We would come 
in and we would give medicine and get that out. A lot of people just need to have their medicine when 
it's time to eat your dinner, and then the fun starts. Let's have a group. Let's do music group or art 
therapy group or any kind of reminiscing or what have you. Maybe we'll watch a movie. Not one that's 
gonna trigger the world, but something nice and light-hearted and get everybody off to bed, and really 
working with the teams. We have cameras that are sort of in the area. They're not in everybody's room, 
but they're certainly out in the day room. Visitors come. Visitors are very exciting sometimes because 
they sneak stuff in. We've had a drug delivery come in a chicken once. They took some weed and they 
put it on the inside of a little chicken that you buy at the grocery store. We had a guy come in, and my 
nursing assistant, because we're so good at looking for contraband, my nursing assistant asked the 
visitor, "Could you please remove your hat?" and when he did, all the pills fell out because he had put 
them underneath the band. We've had people try to-- if you know what trap pants are, these great big 
pants with lots of pockets and very loose, alcohol and that. There's lots of ways that you can try to sneak 
contraband into the place. That's why we so greatly rely on our tech staff, in order to be able to-- 
Psychiatric techs are amazing. They have a sixth sense about who's got contraband. Folks will come and 
they'll visit and they'll-- haven't seen each other in a while, so they want to kiss a little bit too much. The 
techs will be like, “You guys need to kind of back off." That's some of the stuff that we do on that shift 
is that we just kind of try to keep the humanity going, because when you're hospitalized on a psychiatric 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
12 
 
unit, no matter where you are, no matter what facility you're in, it's jail-level stuff. We don't want you to 
hurt yourself. Your toilet doesn't even have a toilet seat. It's just stainless steel, and it's cold when you sit 
on it. The water is like the Walmart sinks. The one thing about psychiatric nurses versus medicine 
nurses, medicine nurses have everything. They've got beeping TVs and monitors, and they have lots of 
tools to tell them whether their patients are sick or if they're doing better, and they can measure 
everything sort of. Psychiatric nurses don't have that. Our tools are ourselves. Our tools are our hands 
and how we think in our hearts. I think you know, a little bit a while ago, you asked why I was a 
psychiatric nurse, and I think it's because of that heart piece, that you can really affect somebody's spirit 
who's just having a hard day, by being a kind person, by being a listening ear. I think that's what attracts 
a lot of people to psychiatry [laughs]. Then, there's the brain science. We're scientists, and we put it all 
together. One of the things of mental illness is that a lot of times, you'll see where we have 100% 
service-connected veterans that are 22 years old and they have a very florid schizophrenia. The hardest 
part, and I think this is the sweetest part too, but it's the hardest part, is mental illness is the chronic 
disease of young people. It's not like you're gonna get your mental illness when you're 50 or 60, like you 
get a heart disease or you get stroke. You get your mental illness when you're young. Now, your 
disability, adjusted days of whatever, some things economists think about, you're gonna be impacted for 
the rest of your life at a very young age, and that's where we really want to support folks. I think that 
that's why I kinda also went into it. It's because what do you do with somebody who's out talking to 
themselves on the street, and they need to come in the hospital and they're 23 years old? Who's gonna 
give them the time of day if you don't? 
  
[46:14] AG: Fran, I'm wondering, how long do patients typically stay in a psych ward? 
  
FH: Good question. A long time ago, back when it was pool tables and, "Let's have a cigarette," they'd 
stay there a month. Now, very short turnaround, and that's because of the way that we think about 
mental illness as a society. We would rather have you recover rather than have you be sick. You might 
hear the terms from these old nurses of "the back ward". "We're all gonna go work on the back ward," 
and these people stayed there for months on end. That is absolutely anomalous. It happens every now 
and then, but generally, not really. Most of the time, people are in for like a week. We get you out of the 
crisis, we give you a case manager, we give you somebody to help support you, we call you ad nauseum 
after you've left the facility, and we get you into outpatient care. We start you with some of these 
remarkable treatments that we've talked about, like RTMS, esketamine, keeping you on your medicine, 
giving you therapy, very, very good therapy. That's the trajectory. They don't tend to stay too long 
anymore, which is good. You don't want to stay there. I promise. 
  
AG: Of course. I can just imagine. Are there common diagnoses that you sort of see frequently as a 
psychiatric nurse in the VA, or could it be any, you could arrange? Are there some frequent fliers? 
  
FH: Well, okay. Our population is sort of a captive audience, right? We have so many veterans; that's 
what we treat. Because mental illness is the chronic disease of young people, it's a relapsing situation. 
People do relapse, and they come back and we know 'em, so we create these really good relationships. 
Had this guy come in the emergency room, and every time he came into the emergency room, he would 
act out so bad that we had to call the police and the code green team. Now, a code green team is a 
psychiatric intervention team, and they're trained-- and they're the nurses oh, by the way. They're trained 
to go deal with people whose behavior is escalated, and they're not redirectable or following directions 
really well. They're really trained in some of these interventional skills. So, this guy would come in. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
13 
 
Every time he came in, he would act out. We'd call everybody, the police. Finally, one day, as the code 
green team leader, I said to the guy, "Why do you do this? Help me understand. Why do you always 
come in and this is what happens?" What he said was, "I just want to see Officer So And So," and I'm 
like, "Okay, so from now on, when you come in, could you please just ask for Officer So And So and 
we'll get him?" And guess what. Since that time, every time he comes in, he asked for Officer So And 
So, and we said, "Officer So and So over there." The guy's happy, and we can get him usually to the 
inpatient unit, which is where he needs to go, without having an episode like that. That's pretty cool. 
  
H: Fran, how often are code green teams called when you're working on the floor? 
  
[49:51] FH: Code green, again, is a psychiatric emergency, and how we run it at our hospital is a nurse 
from every inpatient psychiatric unit will go to where it is along with the police. It's a therapeutic 
intervention. It can happen in the ICU. It can happen in the emergency room. For instance, we were 
called to a code green in the emergency room one time where a lady, who was the wife of the husband 
that was laying in the bed getting his breathing treatment, decided that she had waited long enough, and 
she took a chair and decided to throw it across the emergency room and start making a scene. They 
called the code green team, because the nurses show up and the police show up. We can de-escalate stuff 
like that. How often does it happen? Sometimes every day, sometimes more than every day, sometimes 
multiple times in different places for lots of different reasons. Because we're taking care of people, 
people get very anxious, and they don't know how to deal with it really well when they're in a hospital 
and they have no control over anything. They can tend to act out, and that's what they do. The 
psychiatric nurse's job is really community-based in lots of ways. They go around. They do a remarkable 
job keeping people safe. They're trained in how to hold on to people. What we know is that we really 
don't want to put our hands on people, 'cause when you do, people get hurt. I can tell you something that 
we're extremely proud of in Houston is when I was the head nurse of psychiatry, of the inpatient 
psychiatric unit, I was able to work with a bunch of folks, like the medical director and the nurse 
executive and my nurse team. I'm sorry to say, but there is a reason that you would put people in 
restraints. Then there's another way that you can help contain people that's not restrictive like that. It's 
called a seclusion room. If you're really out of control, you can't control yourself, you're gonna hurt 
yourself, hurt somebody else, you have a choice: We can put you in the seclusion room or we can put 
you in restraints. I don't like putting people in restraints. I think it's wrong, 'cause you're sick, and I don't 
like that. I would rather put you in the seclusion room, which has windows and cameras, and it's not like 
you're cut off. You're just in there safe. What we did was we built another seclusion room, so we had 
two of them, because when you're working in a sick area where people's energy can meet each other, 
and their thoughts aren't always in real good control, they can kind of feed the energy. Sometimes you 
need to, but I can promise you, with the nurses that work on that unit, very high level, urban medical 
center, inner city, you name it, when we put in two seclusion rooms, we haven't put anybody in 
restraints in four years. What that means is, if you're a veteran, and you're having problems with your 
brain not working right, and you come for care, and you're still in a place where you need to be safe, 
we're not gonna tie you down in Houston, and that's remarkable. Sick people don't need to be tied to a 
bed. We have a really good way to help you. That room has padding on the floor, padding on the walls. 
You can't reach the ceiling if you tried, so we didn't pad that part. The people who work in that area, 
we're all trained to talk to people, help them feel better, and get them out of there as fast as possible so 
that you don't have to spend a long time in there. Part of how we do that is basically develop, again, the 
relationship with the people that we're working with. Some people don't have a relationship with me and 
they don't want one, but maybe they have one with my LVN who's standing right next to me, and she 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
14 
 
can talk them into anything. I'm not worried about it. As long as you've got a good connection with 
somebody that can help take care of you, that's what we're after. That's really what helps keep the 
psychiatric unit calm is a relationship with people. A lot of times, when people are homeless, they're in 
contentious relationships with anybody that's out there, 'cause they're after you. Or, maybe you got 
admitted because you're having intimate partner violence, and somebody is gonna hurt you, and now 
you want to hurt yourself 'cause you don't know what else to do. We'll take care of you, and we'll do that 
with the tools that psychiatric nurses use. Not the beeping monitor, but the beating heart is the tool of the 
psychiatric nurse. 
  
[55:31] AG: Fran, you know, I'm wondering how is it for you to be so close to veterans in these 
moments of crises? 
  
FH: I'm glad that you asked that question, because I have been punched in the face [laughs], 'cause the 
patient thought I was Catwoman. He was Batman and I was Catwoman. He was like [punching noise], 
and I was like, "Oh my god!" I could see the little birds going around my head as I was falling to the 
floor. You know, he's not thinking right. How can I ever be mad at him? Somebody on another instance 
spit directly in my face. I was mad as hell, because he did it on purpose, because he knew what he was 
doing. He wasn't out of his thinking phase; he knew exactly what he was doing. He was just mad. He 
spit on me and I was really mad about that. There's that wave that you ride in between, but most of the 
time it's that you're taking care of somebody that can't take care of themselves. I was talking to 
somebody about this today. It's an internal sense of contribution to humanity. When a patient says to 
you, "Thank you, Fran. Thank you, Maria. Thank you, Levina." Thank you to any of the nurses, we don't 
need our name in lights for that. That's what gives us the best satisfaction of all. It's just to have 
somebody say, "Oh, thank you. I'm so glad you're here today." Or, like the patient that was at the level 
one trauma center across town, and I heard the nurse call and say, "We have X patient in the ER, and he 
wants to talk to you, Fran." The nurse calls the nurse. The nurse talks to the patient, and Fran says, "I 
need you to calm down in order to get over here. Can you do that for me?" "Yes, Miss Fran. I can do 
that." The sense of satisfaction is there all the dang time, but that frustration can also occur when people 
do mean things to you, 'cause not everybody's nice. I like to live in the nice story, but not everybody's 
nice. But that's okay, because I'm gonna be nice to them, and someday, maybe it will come back to 
them. 
  
H: Fran, it seems like you have a strong connection to your patients, but I'm also wondering how 
camaraderie with your fellow nurses enables you to give the best care to your patients. 
  
FH: I think that is the most important thing. Right now, I have 43 direct reports and 50 nurses in 
outpatient sort of report to me for practice issues. I have a huge staff. The one thing that I can say is, for 
me to be able to draw the best relationship with a nurse-- See, it's all relationship-based. It's all the 
connections. If we can draw a good relationship with each other and I can help you find the hidden 
talents that you didn't even know that you had as a nurse, Chief Nurse type person, head nurse, that's my 
job. I don't necessarily nurse the patients as much anymore. Yes, I do, but I nurse the nurses. If 
somebody's feeling stressed out or somebody's feeling like, "Oh my gosh. What am I doing?" that's the 
relationship piece that you have to have, and knowing that I will go to war for them, and that they know 
that I'll do that. I think the idea of nurses as a step down from the doctor, here's the doctor, here's the 
nurse, and the social workers, they're over there. We've had that since Florence Nightingale. But I got a 
compliment from a doctor the other day about our nursing team. What he said was, "Through this 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
15 
 
pandemic, the nurses have showed us what we need to do. The pandemic has basically brought out the 
best in this nurse team, that I'm so impressed." Really, Doctor, you just needed to get outta the way. All 
of the nurses through the pandemic, we've been there every day. We take people on the phone, we take 
people walking in the front door. They've got mental health problems, we get them to the emergency 
room. We get them seen by whoever it is that we need to see. We're the ones right now in our clinic, 
instead of being the afterthought, "Let me get you to my nurse," we're saying, "We're the ones. You 
come see us, and we're gonna get you to where you need to be." The doctors are mind blown, "Holy 
crap. Had we not let the nurses just do this to begin with, we'd be in a great place now." Right now, 
we're revamping our operational processes based on all the work that the nurses have done through the 
pandemic. That is because my nurses know that I will back them up no matter what their decision is, 
'cause they are good nurses and they're nurse scientists, and they know what to do. It's that relationship 
piece, 'cause I got their back, they've got mine, too. Now, instead of saying, "Let me get you to my 
nurse," we're working in this idea that it's our physician partners in our clinic now, not, "You're the 
doctor." No, we're talking about our physician partners, and we're talking about our social work partners, 
and we're talking about our partners. As we deliver this health care for our folks, the nurses are very 
relationship-based. That's really the only way I can put it. They're a very complex system. If you're a 
nurse, you know another nurse, and if I want something done, I'm gonna call another nurse. This old 
idea that nurses eat their young, we're not going there anymore. We're not doing that. We're a force to be 
reckoned with, and that's why I love it. 
  
[1:02:45] AG: That's so powerful. I love that idea of the nurses as a force. Were there things specifically 
that your nursing team did differently during COVID that either maybe, lessons you're taking from the 
experience or ways that things on the floor changed? 
  
FH: Because we're outpatient-- now I'm outpatient-- because we're outpatient [chuckles], the first thing 
that we did was we-- Of course, we weren't seeing anybody face-to-face, but all our patients still need 
care. My whole entire nurse team trashed all of the regular processes that we had, and they just invented 
something new. Command center went into play: Here's a telephone. You need a nurse, you call this 
thing. We've got these nurses. They're gonna go down front. They're gonna take care of these people. 
We've got these nurses. They're gonna take care of-- These doctors, we're gonna call your patients and 
tell them what's going on. I had a team of 12 nurses that were completely virtual, and we put them to call 
in the patient. The minute the pandemic hit, all of a sudden, they went into population coverage mode, 
and they started calling everybody in the whole entire place, I think. Anybody that needed anything, 
they were coordinating from the back. They were like a silent army that was supporting the fact that now 
you need to stay home. Now you need to not come out of your house. Now you need to figure out a 
whole entire another way of getting the stuff that you need. They didn't even just do psychiatry. If you 
need a breathing machine at night, let's get you that. If you need your medicine, if you need a cast for 
your knee or whatever it is, they went to work and they got it done. They called 5,000 patients - I'm not 
kidding - and really worked them through. "We got you. We got you." That's the big message again. One 
more time, I'll go there, relationship building with our people. Look, the VA isn't gonna leave you out 
there. We're gonna get you and we're gonna bring you in and we're gonna take care of you, and that's 
what we want people to know. 
  
H: Fran, did you see COVID-19 impacting the types of patients that you were seeing? I know there was 
this national sort of understanding that maybe being inside all the time would affect mental health. Did 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
16 
 
you see a different type of patients or more patients show up with mental health challenges during the 
pandemic? 
  
FH: No and yes. During the pandemic, everybody was like in this mode of "Holy mackerel. We've gotta 
do this life new.”. Everybody was all okay with this chaos. Wash your groceries and spray off the mail 
and do all these things. They were so busy learning how to cope that where I'm seeing it now is now. I'm 
seeing it now. Mental health problems are now. They weren't so much in the beginning. We were 
making sure everybody got their stuff, everybody was learning how to be this-- We've had double the 
consults to the mental health service from last year to now. Double. I got 400 last month, consults of just 
people that would go to their primary care provider and say, "I really need to see mental health." Now 
people have died, grief is starting to come, waves of depression and despair and people being inside and 
not being able to go out and exercise and see their friends and their family and their loved ones or they're 
passed away or-- Living in Houston, let's just think about what's happening right now India. Houston is 
the most multiethnic city in America now, and all of our people that are from everywhere in the world 
can't go there. One of my nurses, his brother died in Canada and he can't go even to Canada. He can't go 
to Canada. It's just such a sad thing, and so many people-- My doctor had 20-something people die on 
her, 20 patients, because she's a geripsychiatrist, and in the course of the pandemic, she lost so many of 
them to COVID. That requires the hugs of a nurse, and people who know you can't lose this many 
people out of our collective panels because we all work together. There's little teams that work and we 
all take care of the patients together. Even though it might have been the doctor's patient, it was also the 
nurse's patient too. The mental health problems are now, and they're coming in all the time. We're really 
busy. But because of the pandemic, and because nurses got to be in charge, like, I'm just gonna say it, 
Hot Lips Hoolahan and Mash, we decided to build a Mash Response Unit. We put the command center 
into place. We told everybody, "This is what you're gonna do in the pandemic, and this is how we're 
gonna keep health care moving." Because we did that, we've gained professional footholds. We've 
gained trust of our colleagues. We've gained professional pride, camaraderie. There's been a lot of silver 
linings to this horrible thing we called COVID. 
  
[1:08:40] H: Fran, you've talked a bit about how COVID-19 has changed how nurses have worked in the 
field, and I'm wondering, moving forward, what changes could you articulate that you want to see 
implemented or kept more specifically? 
  
FH: COVID-19 has shown us-- Wow, that's a great question. What we know is masks aren't great for 
helping people communicate with each other, because if I'm wearing my mask, how can you tell about 
us? I'm a nurse, and I’m a psychiatric nurse, and so how do you know what I’m even talking about if 
you can’t see my face? I think that even goes as far as before, nurses would do a lot of phone 
conversations with people, but now, we really wanna know, can we really do a lot more video 
conversations with you? Not that we wanna see what kinda mess you have in the background of your 
house, ‘cause that’s not what we’re looking for. We’re looking for your emotional content, and that’s 
how we tell, is by your face. That’s how you tell us—That’s how you know that I’m really real and that 
I’m not a spam robocaller from some other place calling you to try to bilk you out of hundreds of dollars 
from Microsoft. I think that that would be really one of the big things that I wanna see, and for this 
reason. That psychiatrist that we talked about and that team of caregivers that had lost those outpatients, 
they were older patients that were for a geripsychiatric psychiatrist, and many of them were in their 70s, 
their 80s and even their 90s, and they were psychiatric patients. What we did, my team and I, is that we 
worked with my nursing assistants and we put them to work, so instead of taking your vital signs and 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
17 
 
getting your blood pressure and your pulse when you came in for your visit with your geripsychiatrist, 
we put them into work to call the families in advance of the visit with the doctor and get them ready to 
do a telehealth visit. We helped over 300 elderly patients not have to even leave their house to get their 
care, where in general they would have been trying to drive through Houston, Texas and park at the VA, 
and I say that with all emphasis on parking because it’s horrible, and try to navigate their way to the 6th 
floor to try to see our [unintelligible] doctor, and now guess what. We delivered care right to them in 
their house, and nurses helped do that. They didn’t get exposed to COVID, and they didn’t have to go 
outside, and they didn’t have to worry about whether their health was going to be compromised before 
we actually had a vaccine for people. That’s been a very amazing thing. The other thing that I think that 
we need to do is, I think that we need to have vaccine clinics for everybody [laughs]. VA has really done 
that. The nurses have run the vaccine clinics at VA, and we have vaccinated just about everybody. Right 
now, for the people in Houston that we haven’t actually been able to inject in the arm with the vaccine, 
we’re calling every single one of our patients that we don’t have data for, and we’re saying, “Did you 
get your vaccine out in the community? If you didn’t, would you like to come here and get it, ‘cause 
we’ll give it to you for free.” Well, of course it’s free, but we’re really trying to get everybody 
vaccinated and go from there. That way, we’ve got a safe public, so we can go back to life pre-- Pre-
COVID will never come back, but post-COVID we’re gonna be ok too. 
  
[1:13:19] H: You've progressed so far in your long career with the VA, and now you're working as a 
head nurse. I'm wondering, to get to this point, who supported you along this journey? Have you had 
mentors that have really stood up for you and gone to war for you like you're going for your nurses 
now? 
  
FH: That's a really good question. It's been a long journey, because now I have a doctorate in education. 
I teach. Thank you very much. I teach for the University of Texas, and I do psychiatric clinical. To 
answer your question, it is yes, I did have somebody look at me once upon a time and say, "You really 
need to go back and get this extra thing that you're doing right here." I took that advice of that person 
who just saw something in me that I guess I didn't know I had, or even as a rural kid growing up in a 
paper making town in Maine knew that was an option for me. I'm the first doctor of my family. My dad, 
my mom are so proud. It was a extremely long, arduous journey to get a Doctorate of Education that I 
put to good work, because now I'm like a nurse with super skills, Excel data analysis, I guess I could 
say. But yes, other nurses really could see people that were above me. Even going way back as far as 
when I was working in Maine on the units, when my head nurse would say to me, "You did a terrific job 
doing this. Keep going," all of the good feedback that you get when you do something good. That's 
almost a psychiatric concept of that positive reinforcement is what I've had for a really long time. I was 
never really the victim of "nurses eat their young." As I teach now, and I teach the VA nursing students 
for the University of Texas, I'm here to say to them, "This is a career you can have. You can become a 
VA nurse, and you can have such pride in what you do." These are young people, young men and 
women who are in their 20s, and they're starting their families and getting married, and some of them 
are married to service members, and now they're like, "I never even knew this was an option." I'm like, 
"It's a total option. You can do this, and you can be anything from a nurse scientist to a nurse executive 
to a nurse educator. You can do it all on the inside of the VA taking care of our very special population." 
I think that that's been the biggest thing of trying to go for more. The VA paid for my bachelor's degree. 
They have options for folks. I have a nurse. Now she's an LVN. Let me hit you with this: VA has a 
program for LVNs. You can completely go to school, you don't even have to come to work. We're gonna 
pay your salary, and we're gonna put you through school. Who does that? What you get in return is a 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
18 
 
guaranteed job. I have a good LVN who's gonna come back as a full-blown registered nurse. Let's just 
face it, ladies. We're in a nursing shortage that's not getting better. All of a sudden, I've got somebody 
that's gonna come and give service time to the VA. It's wonderful, because people will say, "I don't want 
to have to pay the VA back three years, or whatever it is." I'm like, "Do ya understand that they're 
promising to employ you? You're gonna have a job" And guess what. Federal employment is good 
employment, because although there is a rule that says the federal government cannot be the pay leader 
in any given locality-- That's actually a law someplace, because all the VA would get is all the best. The 
benefits are terrific, and they make up for it. So, we're very competitive. It's not like you're gonna work 
for free. You don't work for free. It's a really, really good place to go. I think that the support has been, 
of course, my family. I'd be remiss if I didn't mention that, but the people that have been before me, that 
structure of the organizational policies and opportunities, that's what's helped me be able to move 
forward in my career, where had I not been at VA, I don't think that would have happened. That's been a 
blessing in my life, that's for sure. 
  
[1:18:53] H: When you teach your classes now, what are things that you emphasize or prioritize to your 
students that you've learned over your career and want to pass on to the next generation of nurses? 
  
FH: I'm so glad you asked. That people are humans, and first and foremost, you must be a humanitarian. 
You have to be. You have to be concerned about gun violence, you have to be concerned about mass 
migration, and environmental damage, and inaction on climate, and you have to be involved. Does that 
mean that you're gonna go to Washington and be the chief nurse? No, but that means that for wherever 
you are, that you're going to participate in society to get us going in the right direction, and that injustice 
is wrong for everybody. In my tagline on my email at work, it says, "Mental health nurses: Grounded in 
science and guided by liberty and justice for all," and I mean that. I think that that's what's really 
significantly important about psychiatric care. My students come, and the first class that I ever have with 
them, I say to them, "Does anybody know anybody with mental illness?" Most of the time, nobody will 
say they do, because it's fraught with stigma about people who aren't the same as other people. Whether 
they do or whether they don't, part of our journey through that curriculum is, how do you take care of 
that person in their care no matter where they are and no matter where you work, regardless of whether 
you work in psychiatry, you work in ICU, or you work on a flight deck? It doesn't matter. People are 
important, and if you lose sight of that as a nurse, yeah. Kindness wins, humankind. [unintelligible]. 
They can tell me facts all day long. They can tell me about left ventricular heart failure. They can tell me 
about the signs and symptoms of mania. But if they don't get to that part where you're taking care of 
humanity, and that's a sacred duty, that's something that you really have to do. As a nurse, that's where I 
live. That's where I live a lot, is that I've been chosen to take care of humanity. I didn't choose it. It chose 
me. I wanted to be a clarinetist, remember. Way back in the day, I was gonna go play jazz music, me. 
No, nursing chose me. I wouldn't do it any other way. 
  
H: Fran, thank you so much for opening up. I know I'm definitely feeling emotional. 
  
AG: It's very, very powerful. 
  
[1:22:15] FH: All nurses everywhere have put in so much. There's an Alicia Keys song. You may have 
seen it. It's called Good Job. If you haven't seen it, go on to YouTube. I'll email it to you. She's got a 
couple of them on there; you're doing a good job. It's the only way that I can say it, so you have to watch 
it. We're doing a good job. The world needs us, and for the longest time, we haven't had any real 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
19 
 
significant outbreaks that would showcase a nurse. We had HIV. HIV was a very bad epidemic. It didn't 
hit pandemic proportion, but it was our last epidemic. But HIV had so much stigma with it, still 
continues to this day to have that. Now, in this pandemic, we've seen the value of the stored-up 
knowledge of the nurses of the world, and that's where I am. When I'm teaching, I'm not teaching about 
just nursing in America, or where you might go here. I'm talking about global nursing now. I'm talking 
to them about, how do you take care of people that are living in Denmark and the Syrians, and now 
they're told to go back home to a bombed down shelter, and DACA dreamers that are here in America 
that are told that, "You've gotta go back to Mexico," and they've never even seen it. How do you work 
with that? Justice is a big thing that I think that nurses are very concerned with. We want to make sure 
that people are taken care of, and that's why psychiatric nurses we're the bomb diggity. We love this 
stuff, 'cause we get to talk to people all day, listen. It's so strange to talk [laughs]. I spent a lot of days 
listening. This is an awesome opportunity, you guys. Thanks. 
  
H: No, thank you, Fran, for reaching back and being enthusiastic. I think that these interviews are made 
better when someone has a story that they want to tell and are eager to share it. I really appreciate 
everything that you've opened up about. I'm going to pass it to Alana for any last questions. 
  
AG: Thanks. Thanks so much, Hannah. And yeah, again, Fran, we can't thank you enough for your time, 
and like Hannah said, your openness. It's just been so nice to be with you. In the last couple minutes, and 
I know we've been talking for a while, but as I said, I am so grateful for your time, I wanted to ask you, 
basically you've kind of touched on this, but just if you could distill it for us, what you think the most 
rewarding aspect of working as a VA nurse in particular has been for you over your career. 
  
[1:25:37] FH: At the risk of sounding like a broken record, it's the relationships with the people. It's 
hands down the best thing. I have met the best people in the world. The stories people tell, the 
experiences they have, the willingness to share their life and their struggles and their accomplishments 
and their joy. The fact that they love us back, that's a nice thing, too, because, like I said before, our 
population is kind of finite. You can go from Maine to California as a veteran, pop into any VA and we 
have your complete medical history. We also offer a complete set of instant friends. That's why I really 
like it. I really like it a lot. When we're working professionally-- Recently, I was able to go to Palo Alto, 
California, a couple years ago, before the COVID hit, for some training, and the nurses there were like, 
"Hey, come to my house. Let's go eat." It's, like, instant friendships everywhere because you're a VA 
nurse. I have one last story to tell you. I was working in spinal cord once upon a time, a long time ago, 
and they floated me to another unit. When you float to another unit as a nurse, that's a really kind of a 
bothersome thing to do, because you don't know where everything is. Who knows where the linen room 
and the nutrition room and, even, where do you keep the medicine? So, you're kind of lost. I went into 
this one room, and I had this one lady sitting beside the patient laying in the bed. I said to her and the 
roommates, "My name is Fran, and I'm not from this unit, but we're gonna get through this shift 
together." I said, "And that's because I'm a VA nurse and I'm here to take care of you today." Then I put 
the wife right to business. I said, "Okay, ma'am. I need you to watch this drink and make sure he drinks. 
ou, ma'am, I need you to do this, and you do that. We're gonna get through this together." I had gone 
back out to the nurse's station and I was trying to find the medicine or do something I was trying to look 
for, and the lady came out, and she said to me, "Thank you." I said, "For what?" She said, "To say that 
no matter what, even though you've never been here before, that you're a VA nurse [begins to cry] and 
you're gonna take care of my husband." I hugged her, and, of course, the shift went well, and we did 
great together 'cause we all work together. That's the thing. They'll all work together. Every time I kind 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
20 
 
of get a little cranky, think I might go do something else, I can't leave. It's a privilege to take care of 
these people who wrote on that blank check, "Up until my life." When you put it in those kinds of ideas, 
that's when it really hits home. Every day, everybody's got stuff they gotta deal with. You've gotta deal 
with administration stuff, bureaucratic red tape, kicking and screaming all the way to the top about what 
it is that you need to do. But at the end of the day, they fought for me [begins to cry] and I'll fight for 
them. Oh my goodness. I didn't know-- Oh gosh. 
  
AG: It's very powerful. Like you said, to think about the incredible sacrifice of this particular population 
of patients is really very hard, 'cause we take it for granted most days. 
  
FH: We do. We really do. 
  
AG: Well, before we say goodbye, I have one last question. Would you share the story of those exquisite 
paintings behind you? 
  
FH: Oh, yeah. 
  
AG: I've been so enjoying looking at them while we're chatting. 
  
[1:30:11] FH: So, let me see. Let me see. I do a couple of different things. I work in encaustics. I don't 
know. Do you know what encaustic is? Encaustic is a very ancient technique that the Egyptians started. I 
used to be an acrylic painter, just playing around wit fluid painting, how they pour the cups and make 
the pretty painting. You see it on YouTube all the time. I used to do that, but what I realized is that 
acrylic paint is nothing but plastic. I work in encaustic wax, which is a really old technique that was 
really kind of-- it means, "to burn in", and what it is-- I started as an acrylic painter, doing the cup 
pouring kind of thing, but acrylic paint is fundamentally plastic, and as a nurse interested in the future of 
this planet, I had to do something a lot more sustainable than work in plastic. I don't like that at all. I 
started looking around for something else that I could do. Encaustic is molten wax-- beeswax and mixed 
with a damar resin, which is tree sap. It's like a pitch from a tree, and you mix it together. Egyptians did 
this 3,000 years ago. They made these portraits out of encaustic wax, and they are the fam portraits. 
They would paint pictures of dead people. Well, anyway, this little one that you see right here with the 
kind of like bluey type of a hill, I'll get to the pictures of them, that's encaustic wax. I melt the wax and I 
mix it with pigments and I apply multiple and multiple layers. The second one that's next to it, that's oil 
paint. Oil paint has the oil and it has the natural earth pigments that are in it. I do that. The other thing 
that I do is, because I'm sort of like a nurse informatician and a little bit of a techie, I do a lot of AI and 
deep dream generator. I'll send you some of those. I make a lot of digital art right now. I'm actually 
doing some NFT's - non-fungible tokens - and that kind of stuff [laughs]. I'm kind of dipping my toe in 
the blockchain. I know; it's wild, huh? I've been whitelisted to go on one of these NFT art sites. I'll send 
you some so you can see it. I'll send you my Twitter account, that's my art side, so that you can see. It's a 
blast. That's what I do. You have to, because when you're working like I work, you have to have 
something else to do that can take your mind sort of away. I learned how to oil paint by watching 
YouTube [laughs], and I learned how to do encaustics by just looking around for something else, and I 
just watched YouTube [laughs]. 
  
AG: They're really exquisite, and like you said, it's so important to have an artistic, beautiful practice to 
help you as a coping strategy. I can just imagine. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
21 
 
  
FH: Yeah. 
  
AG: Wow. Fran, thank you so much for sharing all of these aspects of your life with us. We're so 
grateful. Is there anything you want to add before we say goodbye? 
  
FH: I couldn't think of anything except I know this is going to the Library of Congress, and if anybody 
ever wanted to think about being a nurse, come to VA. We've got it all. 
  
AG: Absolutely, absolutely. Thank you so much, Fran. This was wonderful to speak with you. 
  
FH: You're welcome. It was great. What a great time. Thank you so much. 
  
AG: Thank you. 
 
[1:34:38] End of recording.