1 
KAREN PELLETIER INTERVIEW TRANSCRIPT 
 
 
INTERVIEWER 
 
Candacy Taylor   
INTERVIEWEE: 
 
Karen Pelletier 
DATE & TIME:   
 
August 21, 2012   10:57am 
 
LOCATION:   
 
Karen’s Barbershop  
 
 
 
 
18 E. Main St. 
 
 
 
 
Georgetown, MA  01833 
 
 
 
 
860-529-2772 
 
 
 
RECORDING:  
 
Marantz 661 – 24/96 
LENGTH 
 
 
00:47:15 
TRANSCRIPT:    
 
11 pages 
KEY:   
 
 
CT — Candacy Taylor (Interviewer) 
 
 
 
 
KP — Karen Pelletier (Interviewee) 
 
CT: We are at Karen’s Barbershop in Georgetown, Massachusetts. It’s August 21st at 
10:57am. Please state your full name, your profession and the number of years 
you’ve been doing hair. 
 
KP: My name is Karen Pelletier. I’ve been a barber for twenty-nine years. I was a 
hairdresser prior to that for about ten years. I didn’t practice it all the time. I got 
discouraged being in cosmetology so I deviated to other jobs such as bartending, 
waitressing, cleaning people’s houses [laughing], things I could do to stay home with 
my kids and not have to work full-time. 
 
CT: What age did you start cosmetology school? 
 
KP: I was twenty-one years old. It was 1976-77. I went to college to study Business 
Administration. I moved from my hometown which was Quincy to Salem, Mass 
[Massachusetts], I was in an Economics class and there was a lot of things about the 
business part of administration that I didn’t like, but I was having a great time in 
college. I quit college but I still lived in Salem with my friends and worked part-time 
at a Stop & Shop. My parents decided to lure me back home and they got me a 
substitute teaching job at a high school with an aunt that was the Principle. I was 
substitute teaching algebra to kids that were four years younger than I was. It was 
really difficult to be the discipliner and get their attention to teach them anything so. 
They [her parents] were hoping that I would want to be a teacher and go back to 
college and finish my degree and teach but I didn’t. I ended up that summer, just 
going to hairdressing school because I wanted to so something… 
 
CT: Did you know anybody who had been…? 
 
KP: No, I never did, and that was the funny part, I have four sisters and in those days 
you always set each other’s hair in rollers before you went to bed at night. My sisters 
would be doing my grandmother’s and my Mom’s [hair] and I was always totally out 
of that, I never ever wanted to participate in any of that [laughing] so for me to go to 
hairdressing school was a surprise to everybody because I never had any inkling to 
try to help them [with their hair] at all. 
 
 
2 
CT: So how was that? Did you feel like you were in the right place? Did you question 
it? 
 
KP: No, I didn’t, it was a short span of time, seven months going full-time, get 
through it and then get a job. I fell in love with my husband in Salem and I think I 
was just focused on accomplishing something so I could marry him and live happily 
ever after doing something and it didn’t necessarily have to be a college degree in 
my mind. But I worked in a shop in Cambridge on Mass [Massachusetts] Ave. We 
nicknamed it the “little old blue-haired ladies shop.” 
 
CT: What was the name of it? 
 
KP: Carol’s Beauty Shop on Mass Ave. it was right on the Cambridge/Arlington 
[subway] line. Basically every place I worked as a hairdresser, I ended up being the 
person who did the shampooing and the side work of the hair part. When I got 
married my husband worked in construction and a lot of his friends found out that I 
cut hair so they would come and have a beer in our kitchen and I would cut their hair 
and that’s when I realized that this is what I really like — is cutting men’s hair. And at 
the time, it was in the ‘70s when men wanted longer hairstyles and the barbers 
weren’t able to do anything they hadn’t trained themselves to do anything other than 
clipper work, they couldn’t actually pick hair up in their hands and cut it, they had 
no concept of how that could be done, so a lot of guys would come into the 
hairdresser shop that I worked in and I would cut their hair but they were miserable, 
they hated being around the smell of the perm, the actual application of hair color to 
women, having a man visualize that…I know that I go to the hairdresser’s now and 
it’s a neutral gendered shop and I hate having a guy see me with foils in my hair 
[laughing]. It still happens but as a person that was doing it, I really wanted to just 
have it be a comfortable place for them to come and get their hair cut. That’s when I 
started thinking that I would like to own my own business and be able to do that but 
in hindsight I thought before I’d lock myself into my own business I really should go 
back and go to barber school. My son was about three years old at the time and a 
friend of mine offered to do daycare for him really cheaply. So I traveled down to 
Lynn and went to New England Massachusetts School of Barbering and I had to do 
another thousand hours all over again, even though I had done a thousand hours of 
cosmetology, they didn’t recognize any of it. 
 
CT: How was it different? 
 
KP: The sterilization and the diseases of the scalp and the skin and all of that were 
all the same but there wasn’t any type of training for setting hair or finger waves. 
They touched upon perms but they really didn’t get into a lot of chemical 
[treatments]. If you wanted to know about that you were going to have to advance 
yourself beyond what the state of Massachusetts required you to be. 
 
CT: What about all the cuts that you learned?  
 
KP: They just gave you the basics. I had already been cutting men’s hair so I kind of 
just skimmed through it but my instructors and the owner of the school recognized 
that I had the skill already so they didn’t focus too much on me as far as teaching 
me anything, it was really just a process that I went through to get the paperwork 
that I needed. When I graduated from there, then I tried to find a shop that I could 
work in. It was a barbershop, a gentleman up the street, Gino’s Barbershop had been 
in town longer than I have. I got all dressed up and went in to apply for a job there 
 
3 
thinking it’s in the same town and I could go work there and be right down the street 
and I just wished that I could have made myself invisible and turned around and 
walked out because it was real military style but he was really very, very nice and 
suggested that I go to his buddy’s shop in New Hampshire because he hired women 
but Gino was just a one-man show and he wasn’t looking to hire anybody. It’s kind 
of funny because years later I opened this [barbershop] which was a block away 
from him. I went and introduced myself to him again and he was awesome, he had 
great advice for me as to what my hours should be and [that] my priorities should be 
my family and not my business and not make that mistake because people will 
accommodate what you set as hours and then go home to their families so that you 
can go home to yours too. Being a mom and trying to start my own business that 
was really important to me.  
 
CT: Did he remember you? 
 
KP: I don’t know if he did or not. I don’t think he did. I think that he was very 
encouraging and he said there’s plenty of business for both of us and he wasn’t 
competitive at all about it and wished me really good luck. 
 
CT: That’s great. So what do you think is the best part of the job? 
 
KP: The people. I just love watching the kids grow. After twenty-three years I have 
customers that came to me as kids that are now bringing their kids, just that whole 
circle of life is really nice. I love it. I love it. 
 
CT: What’s the worst part of the job? 
 
KP: Having to work [laughing]. It would just be nice to not have to work, at this point. 
I’m fifty-six years old. But there really isn’t any negative in my life as far as my work 
is concerned. It’s just work in general, I’m sure everyone feels the same way right? 
 
CT: Yeah. I wanted to ask you about the importance of hair. There was a Yale 
psychologist who did a study. She had a computerized image of a woman’s face and 
she put five different hairstyles on that woman’s face and interviewed all these 
people and asked them how wealthy is this woman? How smart is she? And she got 
wildly different answers based on the hairstyle. Do you think that’s applicable to men 
— the importance of hair, their hairstyle and how well they do in life? 
 
KP: Unfortunately, [it’s] not as important because a lot of men are prematurely bald, 
so they can be wildly successful. They’re not…I don’t know, that’s a hard question to 
answer with men. I don’t think it does play as much of a factor. You can tell the 
crispness of the haircut, the detail of the haircut to see where they stand. You can 
have someone who is not that particular about the detail about how their hair looks 
and still be successful. There’s a lot of men…their wives tell them to go get their hair 
cut. It’s not their wish or their need. 
 
CT: They’re not preoccupied with it. 
 
KP: Exactly, they are not preoccupied with their hair.  
 
CT: About how many years did it take to build a solid clientele here? Being a female 
barber did you find that men were leery or not? 
 
 
4 
KP: That’s part of why I named it Karen’s Barbershop because I wanted people to 
automatically know that if you were coming in here you were going to find a woman 
cutting your hair. It’s funny. It’s a mixed bag of people whether they prefer a man to 
cut their hair or a woman to cut their hair. I know my husband, I had been cutting his 
hair since he was eighteen and he’s fifty-six now. He couldn’t imagine having a man 
cut his hair. The day that I opened up I was swamped. 
 
CT: What year did you open up? 
 
KP: January 29, 1990. I took every piece of clutter out of my house and put it in a 
box and brought it down here thinking, I’ll go through this when I’m bored. My 
husband had flowers sent to the shop. I took a cleaning bucket and filled it with 
water to put the flowers into it because I had no time to put them into a vase or do 
anything [laughing]. My husband and I put ourselves in debt to renovate the space. 
It’s a rented space but we had to put some money into it to make it look nice. I was 
supposed to get a job and instead we used a home equity loan. 
 
CT: You were supposed to get another job? 
 
KP: No, my daughter was three and I wanted to stay home with her full-time. She 
was at the precipice of turning three and my husband did a seasonal job so he gets 
laid off in the winter. It was the winter so I said, why don’t I go and find another 
haircutting job and you can stay home with Michelle until the spring. I went to shops 
that I had worked in prior to this and none of them had a chair available for me to be 
able to work. So I was pretty discouraged coming home and saw the “For Rent” sign 
on this window and stopped and wrote the number down. I thought what have I got 
to lose? It’s on Main St. and I have a good enough clientele that I could probably pay 
the rent with. I have styled so many people over the years, I could piecemeal them. 
People are very loyal. If they find somebody that cut’s their hair and they don’t have 
to worry about how it looks, they get out of the shower and they comb it once or not 
comb it at all and it looks good for the rest of the day, they’re glued to you. They 
don’t want to go to anyone else. A lot of them don’t even want to sit in the chair and 
have to tell you how to cut it. They just want to sit in the chair and you know how to 
go ahead and do it. So it was easy to build up a clientele. 
 
CT: What do they talk about in the chair? 
 
KP: Sometimes I have to stop myself from talking about my world or my 
experiences. This interview was a big conversation thing to talk to people about. 
They probably would talk sports with a man barber, but I don’t really…my husband 
says, “Karen you should read the Sports page and get caught up on all the baseball, 
football…But it would just be artificial [laughing] because I don’t know anything 
about it. [They talk] about things in town that have happened or their families, their 
kids. 
 
CT: Do politics ever come up? 
 
KP: I don’t like to talk about politics. I’ll discourage that.  
 
CT: Does it come up in the shop when you’ve got several people here? 
 
KP: Occasionally it does, but for the most part it’s not a primary topic of 
conversation. It’s all fun, laughing and joking around. Like I said, it’s mostly about 
 
5 
their family and their kids. Living in town and working in town, my two children go 
into the schools and [we talk about] their sports teams, soccer games and baseball 
games.  
 
CT: Do you find that since it is such a small town…Jerry, your hair model today, 
mentioned that he finds out about the local gossip, it’s almost like a diner here. Do 
you have regulars scheduled around the same time? Or is it random? 
 
KP: It’s random. And I love it when all of that comes together and people who 
haven’t seen each other in a long time, or someone recognizes someone that they 
knew from somewhere else and they’re like, “What are you doing here?” That really 
makes me happy when I see people connect with someone from a past experience. 
 
CT: Would you say you share as much or less than what they’re sharing with you? 
 
KP: About my own personal family? I probably share too much [laughing]. My kids 
will attest to that because my daughter is a waitress/bartender and she will be at 
work and somebody she doesn’t even know will come up to her say, “Oh, your 
Karen’s daughter and know more about her life than she would really care for them 
to know because I’m talking about it in here [laughing] not ever thinking that this 
person would see her in public and share that information I’ve shared. So it’s been a 
little awkward. I think my kids joke about that. My daughter will call her brother and 
say, “Guess what. Somebody just came up to me and said… because Mom shared it 
with them.” 
 
CT: Can you talk about timing skills and what you really need to excel at to be a 
barber and how that’s different from doing women’s hair? 
 
KP: I think it’s easier to get into doing men’s hair than it is for women’s just because 
it’s a simple process, you just have to be friendly and have an eye for lines and 
precision and be conscientious about your job. 
 
CT: Would you say you are required to be more precise? 
 
KP: As a barber? Yes. I can’t explain very clearly what that is but I know there’s a lot 
more texture to a women’s hair cut and other things that make a woman’s hair look 
good, but with a man, it’s precision, the layering has to be precise so that it flows 
together. If you have a longer piece next to a shorter piece then that longer piece 
hides that shorter piece. But with women the way you style your hair…that might 
work in your favor. It’s not that one is more talented than the other [barbers versus 
hairdressers] I just think that it requires a different skill and a different eye. When you 
were talking about the woman with five different hairstyles…that was the one thing I 
was not confident with. A woman walking in and sitting in my chair and saying, 
“What do you think would look good on my face? Or what kind of hairstyle…?” I 
could never see that artistically. I could not pick that out, but with a man I could 
definitely tell him what’s going to be functional and what’s not going to be 
functional. 
 
CT: It’s kind of like artwork, the difference between creating the sculpture and 
coming up with idea of the sculpture. 
 
 
 
6 
KP: Yeah. I joke with my customers all the time. I’ll finish their haircut, I’ll blow dry 
the hair and I’ll let them go and some of them will pick up a comb, and part it and 
comb it. I just brush them off and say, “I’m the framer. I’m not the finished 
carpenter, I just framed it for you so you can finish it off [laughing].” That’s always 
been a line I’ve used with my customers. 
 
CT: How much schooling did you complete? 
 
KP: High school and I finished one year of college, the hairdressing school and then 
the barbering school. 
 
CT: Most people assume that hairdressing is not a financially rewarding career. What 
are your feelings about that? 
 
KP: I’ve been pretty happy with the amount of money that I can make doing this. 
When I was a hairdresser I really wanted to get into a progressive salon, like 
something on Newbury St [in Boston], or in Danvers, Mass [Massachusetts] there 
were a couple of hairdressing shops that were really progressive and modern styles 
back in the late ‘70s. I just didn’t have the personality to fit in there. I could have 
done the precision haircutting and really been good at the cutting part of it and the 
amount of money that they get for a haircut compared to my eighteen dollars for my 
haircut. It just doesn’t seem fair sometimes. Some women are paying sixty to eighty 
dollars to get their hair cut. I could do that, I have the knowledge to be able to cut 
that hair but I’m not in that atmosphere. In order to do that I had to dress a certain 
way, and wear the make-up and you can see there’s nothing on here [pointing to her 
face]. I never have been like that. I am mixing a little gold [hair color] in with my 
silver now [laughing] to offset that a little, but at the time I just couldn’t fit the mold 
of what I needed to be in that salon. So that was probably why I ended up going 
toward the barbering. 
 
 
CT: I would assume that you have a higher turnover. Is that true? 
 
KP: Yes, yes. 
 
CT: So that woman who spends one hundred to two hundred dollars and she’s there 
for three or four hours, so I’m not sure if it averages out or not? 
 
KP: I do think they probably earn more because the cost of women’s beauty has just 
escalated. I can’t do that many haircuts in the same amount of time to equal that, 
nor do I want to. Also, I don’t have the cost of the product. 
 
CT: Do you spend any money on marketing? 
 
KP: No, I don’t. My location does lend itself to word of mouth so I don’t really have to 
at all. I support local town [events] I put my business card on programs for sports for 
football or baseball and sponsor teams, you buy their T-shirt and their hat and it has 
your name on it, but other than that, no. 
 
[She gives me a beer cozy that she had made with her business logo on it]. 
 
CT: Has your business changed at all with the downturn in the economy?  
 
 
7 
KP: Maybe a little bit. I find that my customer might let their hair go another week, 
which over a fifty-two week period of time they may have one less [appointment] per 
year. Or people might try and buy a set of clippers and do their hair or they let their 
kids go a little longer. It’s not as important that they look as sharp. But for the most 
part if you’re unemployed, you need to look right for those job interviews, so I find 
that people are still coming in. 
 
CT: What if any part of your body is affected by the physical labor of the job? 
 
KP: Boy [laughing]. I have arthritis in my thumbs.  
 
CT: And that’s connected to doing hair? 
 
KP: Yeah, I think it is. You’re constantly moving scissors and your clippers are 
constantly in motion. You’re picking hair up and cutting so your hands, I think, take 
the biggest abuse. I had a carpel tunnel surgery on my right hand, my left hand they 
said would probably need it eventually but I’ve been managing to wear a brace at 
night and rest it that way. There are varicose veins in your legs. I always wear 
support hose for that. And you have to have good shoes. But I’ve been very lucky. 
I’m pretty adamant about trying to keep my weight down and go and do a lot of 
physical exercise to stay in shape and keep myself healthy. The more weight you 
put on your body, the more wear and tear you put on your joints. I’m doing pretty 
good for fifty-six, considering I’ve been on my feet…I was waitressing and doing 
everything else before that.  
 
CT: How was waitressing different? Did you not like it? 
 
KP: Yeah, I didn’t like waitressing, because you’re always working when everyone 
else is playing. I never liked working weekends or nights. Yeah, and I wasn’t good at 
it. I really wasn’t. I will be the first to admit that. I tried bartending down in Middleton 
and the guy actually fired me. And I cut everybody’s hair in the restaurant. He said, 
“Karen you’re a great hair cutter but you really suck at bartending.” [laughing] And I 
think it was because I wanted to stand there and talk to those people for fifteen or 
twenty minutes and the rest of them can just wait. 
 
CT: I think it’s better to know what you’re good at. 
 
KP: Yeah. I think so too. 
 
CT: Because the assumption is that anybody can wait tables and it’s not true. 
 
KP: Yeah. 
 
CT: I want to talk a little about the industry of barbershops because in the last twenty 
years there was a while where they were closing down and it seemed like the men 
who were going to those shops were scrambling, wondering where they are going to 
go because they weren’t comfortable, like you said earlier, in the traditional beauty 
salon. I’ve seen in smaller towns…I saw a place called, “Sports Cuts” they had a 
placard outside that said, “Come Visit Our Man Cave.” It was marketed heavily 
towards men who didn’t want to go to a beauty salon and didn’t have a barbershop 
anymore in that town. Do you still have that barbershop down the street? 
 
KP: Yes.  
 
8 
 
CT: This is the first time I’ve seen two within a block so it seems like here it’s not 
really happening here but on a larger scale do you know why it appears that 
barbershops are no longer really needed? I know that now they are coming back as 
sort of a nostalgic, fun, hipster experience. 
 
KP: Right. I think the barber trade always had a problem trying to market 
themselves. I think they just considered themselves as a necessity, like a laundromat 
and a convenient store. It was a place that you went and men got their hair cut quite 
frequently, it was every two or three weeks and now it’s more like sometimes they’ll 
go two or three months. I think they didn’t keep up with the industry. Hairdressers 
spend a fortune on cosmetology classes and conferences and education. And a lot 
of it is the product company marketing their products. They get you all into coming 
to these things but at the same time you can pick up a technique or something new 
that you didn’t know that’s going to make your job easier or current with the 
hairstyles. Barbers didn’t do that, so I think a lot of them probably lost business and 
couldn’t keep up with their rent or their overhead to maintain keeping the shop. A lot 
of them probably just got tired and were older and didn’t want to play the game 
anymore. But it is starting to market and trend a little bit towards the fades and line-
ups. 
 
CT: What’s a line up? 
 
KP: A line up is…you see it a lot on basketball players. They actually go beyond 
your hairline to make a very straight, precision line of your hairline. 
 
CT: Is it mostly worn by black… 
 
KP: Black, Hispanic.  
 
CT: Can you do that with other textured hair? 
 
KP: You can but it doesn’t look the same [laughing]. It doesn’t come out the same 
and there’s a lot of people that we joke about them being wannabes [laughing]. They 
want that hairstyle but again, it’s like a woman going in with a picture of a haircut of 
some actress or something and we can’t do that. You don’t have the basics to make 
that happen. 
 
CT: Yeah, it’s like the Hallie Berry haircut. So many people went into salons with a 
picture of her saying they want that, but probably what they really want is to look 
like Hallie Berry. So what percentage of men would you say come in wanting 
something that’s not…? 
 
KP: Like the line-ups and stuff? I could probably count them on two hands that come 
in here and ask that because we’re not demographically there. I don’t have a lot of 
black…two, three, black guys come in here to get their hair cut and hardly no 
Hispanic, really. 
 
CT: Any Asian? 
 
KP: I have a couple of Asian, but they too tend to go to Chinatown. There’s a 
Chinese restaurant up the street that I go to and I’ll talk to Chin and he did try me 
just to as a show of mutual support of my business and his and I admit it, I don’t 
 
9 
have the technique to make his hair do what he wants it to do. With experience and 
practice I could get it down but they don’t…they just want to go and get their haircut, 
so. 
 
CT: What’s the challenge with Asian hair?  
 
KP: It’s very coarse and it doesn’t lay flat and somehow projects horizontally out 
from their head [laughing] more than… 
 
CT: So what do you do to get it to lie straight? 
 
KP: I think razoring would probably work better than my techniques with scissors or 
clippers because it just kind of slices it. I have never watched an Asian barber do his 
trade so I can’t answer that I guess. 
 
CT: Can you talk about the issue of men who are balding? For example the men 
who want to keep the comb-over and can’t let it go. 
 
KP: I discourage the comb-over. My thing is to have the least amount of 
maintenance you need to perform on a daily basis when you’re walking out the door 
to go to work. It’s so obvious with comb-overs what’s happening.  
 
CT: Does it go over well? 
 
KP: For the most part, I’ll do it for them to a point where they start to see it for 
themselves. I say to them, “If you have a bald head and a flat stomach you’ve got a 
whole lot more going for you than someone that has a full head of hair and a gut out 
to here.” It is what it is and I think sometimes bald men look even more handsome 
than with hair, so I try to go in that direction with them. 
 
CT: You try to support them.  
 
KP: Yeah 
 
CT: What’s the most old-fashioned technique that you do here? 
 
KP: Probably the straight razor and shave. 
 
CT: And that’s on the back of the neck. Do you do full shaves? 
 
KP: I do full shaves on faces. 
 
CT: And how often do men ask for that? 
 
KP: It’s kind of a spa treatment, in their minds, for themselves. We probably do thirty 
to fifty a year. 
 
CT: You do the hot towels? 
 
KP: Yeah, the steam towels and then the cold towels. It’s fun. I love to do it. It’s nice 
to make somebody relax like that. A lot of times if their son is getting married, or 
they are getting married or if it’s a special occasion, they’ll ask for an appointment 
to have that done. 
 
10 
 
CT: Are there any newer techniques that have come about in the last ten years? 
 
KP: No, it’s all basic… 
 
CT: How many women come in here, if any, to get their hair done? 
 
KP: We get quite a few women. I’d say it’s probably ten percent of our clientele, 
maybe fifteen percent come in, a lot of little girls. Mom or dad doesn’t want to go 
and spend the price of a hairdressing shop to have just a one length straight cut. 
Again, the precision we can give to that is what they’re looking for. They just want to 
be able to put it in a ponytail and keep it out of their face. So a hairdresser might 
want to get creative with the haircut and put layers in it and may end up being 
unmanageable. I have actually just started to pick up this housing unit where there’s 
elderly people there and I cut a couple of women’s hair and word is traveling 
[laughing] so they’re all coming in saying, “Can I get an appointment with Karen?” 
Or they’ll let someone come in and cut their hair but again, they’re on fixed incomes 
and they don’t want to go and spend an exorbitant amount of money on a hairstyle 
that they’re not even happy with. They walk out because it’s too fancy for them. 
Their hair is gray and they just want something that is going to be off their neck and 
not messy. So we provide that for them too. I have a lot of elderly husbands who will 
come in and say, “Do you cut women’s hair?” And that was how it started. I would 
say, “Yeah, send your wife in. I would love to cut her hair.” 
 
CT: Since you look at a lot scalps, do you see suspicious moles? 
 
KP: Yeah. 
 
CT: And how do you handle that? 
 
KP: I’ve had a couple of customers, with the sun exposure that they’ve had mostly 
have created pre-cancerous spots on their ears, or their nose or the back of their 
neck and I’ve sent them to go to their doctor to have them take a look. And I had a 
customer come in and I saved him from having a real serious melanoma. It’s nice. It 
makes me feel good that I can point that out to them because they don’t look that 
closely in the mirror at themselves. 
 
CT: They would never really see the back of their ears. It’s a vantage point that you 
have. 
 
KP: Yep definitely. That’s actually been a good thing to do for people over the years. 
 
CT: I just have a few more basic questions. Do you have health insurance? 
 
KP: I’m covered with health insurance through my husband’s work. But at one time 
neither he nor I had it and I had to pay out of pocket. It’s a mortgage payment. It just 
kept going up. At one point I opened up a savings account and put x amount of 
dollars into that every week and it just had to keep growing and growing. I don’t 
want to get into anything political but health care is huge in my list of frustrating 
things, for people that are self-employed. 
 
CT: It’s a dysfunctional system. 
 
 
11 
KP: Yes, very. 
 
CT: And you have kids. 
 
KP: Yeah, but fortunately now my husband’s company is covering us but still even 
that keeps changing. Our co-pays and deductibles have risen over the past couple 
of years. You get to a point at my age, I don’t go to the doctor as readily as I did in 
the past because I’m not sure I want to incur that co-pay for them to tell me that it’s 
something minor that I could have diagnosed myself and treated with something 
over the counter. But you never know. You’re taking that risk of not having 
something checked out. 
 
CT: It’s a catch-22 because I go and then they tell me I have something really scary 
and then they do all these tests and then it’s fine. Yeah, it’s complicated. But I just 
wondered as a business owner, if you had insurance.  
 
KP: No, and I would love to offer that to employees and it’s just not financially 
feasible. 
 
CT: I understand. What are your plans for retirement? 
 
KP: I don’t have any at the moment.  
 
CT: Do you have any savings? 
 
KP: I started a little bit, but it’s definitely not going to be enough support me in 
retirement. So I’m hoping that I can just have other people working here and cut 
back on my own hours. My husband is in the same boat, we didn’t have jobs that 
had a good pension plan so we’ve been talking about our house, because it’s worth 
more than we paid for it, so maybe we could sell that and move someplace that 
wasn’t as expensive to live.  
 
CT: Is it expensive to live here? 
 
KP: When I moved here in 1985, my house was $87,000. And now it’s worth about 
$300,000 more than that. And it’s a modest house, four-room, we did our basement 
over and made a living space but it’s on a little less than an acre of land. Today, I 
don’t think I would be able to afford to move into Georgetown now. It’s sad because 
my kids can’t…my son bought a condo in North Andover for $180,000, but it’s not a 
house and now he has a baby, a little boy and wants to see him go out and play in 
the yard and ride his bike around. 
 
CT: I think that’s it. Is there anything I didn’t cover that you wanted to talk about? 
 
KP: No, I don’t think so.     
 
CT: It was a great interview. 
 
KP: I’m glad you included me and made the effort to come out here. 
 
[END}