AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Joy Lucas – 1/30/22 
1 
 
Joy Lucas 
Where: Conducted remotely over Zencastr 
Date: January 30, 2022 
Location: Berea, KY (Hilliard) and Claysville, OH (Lucas) 
Interviewer: Emily Hilliard 
Transcription: Emily Hilliard 
Length: 44:40 
 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Joy Lucas – 1/30/22 
2 
 
Joy Lucas (b. 1965, New Concord, Ohio) has been a rural mail carrier out of the Byesville, Ohio Post 
Office since 1990. She delivers a J-route, which means she has every other Saturday off, and her route is 
30 miles long with 650 boxes. She delivers to a rural community which she says once had a large number 
of Slovakian immigrants. Lucas serves as a National Association of Rural Letter Carriers shop steward for 
her office of two. Though she has used personal vehicles on her mail route in the past, she now drives a 
Long Life Vehicle, which she was assigned. In this interview, she talks about changes in mail type over 
time, how automation has changed her work, farm loss and the emergence of the oil and gas industry in 
the rural community she serves, and delivering mail during the COVID-19 pandemic.  
I got in touch with Joy Lucas because I saw a social media post from the National Association of Rural 
Letter Carriers of a photo of a mailbox that Joy had submitted. I asked the NRLCA social media manager 
if Joy would be interested in being interviewed, and she put me in touch. Joy spoke to me from her 
kitchen in Claysville, Ohio.  
 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Joy Lucas – 1/30/22 
3 
 
Interview with Joy Lucas 
January 30, 2022 
Conducted remotely, with Joy Lucas in Claysville, Ohio, and Emily Hilliard in Berea, Kentucky 
 
JL: Joy Lucas 
EH: Emily Hilliard 
 
00:00 
 
EH: Alright. Oh I'm getting some playback here. 
 
JL: I turned it up, maybe I should turn it back down. 
 
EH: Oh no, I think that's good. I think my playback went away. I was hearing my voice echoing (laughs) 
 
JL: Oh! 
 
EH: Well, I'm here with Joy Lucas. I'm in Berea, Kentucky and where are you today, Joy? 
 
JL: I'm in, well, Claysville, Ohio, but it's actually a subsidiary of Cambridge, Ohio. It doesn't have a post 
office (laughs). 
 
EH: And it is January the 30th, 2022. So why don't you introduce yourself and tell me your name, where 
you are from and what year you were born? 
 
JL: Okay. My name is Joy Lucas. I was born in 1965 and I grew up outside of New Concord which is like 
6 miles down the road, near another little town called Bloomfield which doesn't really exist either. 
 
EH: Nice. And why don't you tell me how you got interested in becoming a mail carrier? 
 
JL: Well, I needed a job and they were hiring! 
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
JL: I was a single mom. I needed money! 
 
EH: (laughs) And when was that? 
 
JL: Oh, 2000...no 1990! 
 
EH: 1990. Did you...go ahead. 
 
JL: It just, the days all kind of run together. 1990 seems like... 
 
EH: Yeah, a long time ago. So did you know anyone else who was a rural mail carrier? 
 
JL: Oh, I've known people but not really well. I mean it was, I mean, you know, when you live in the 
country you kind of know rural carriers. You kind of know everybody, but (laughs). 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Joy Lucas – 1/30/22 
4 
 
EH: (laughs) Right. So yeah, why don't you tell me what it was like to learn the job of a rural mail 
carrier? 
 
JL: It was really hard. I went into it thinking all you do is driver around and put mail in boxes and it's 
more than that!  
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
JL: I figured that out in a hurry! And it's, you have to be organized and you can't be organized and it's just 
really, really hard. 
 
EH: What's hard about it? 
 
JL: If you're not organized than you can't find anything and you're hunting for things all day and you just, 
it's just a mess. 
 
EH: So why don't you talk me through a typical day on the job from when you first start to when you get 
home. 
 
JL: I get to work about 7:30 and we have our flats which is stuff like magazines and catalogs, and you 
know, big envelopes, and we put them in the case and trays of letters come--they're sorted. I like to put 
them together. We aren't required to do that but personally I like to put them together, that's the way I've 
always done it and I'm getting too old to change my ways (laughs). So I put letters and the flats together 
in the case, and then you go through and you sort out your parcels and some of 'em fit in tubs and some of 
'em don't and you kinda gotta rearrange that. And I put them in order and mark them in the case and then 
you pull it all down and put it in a tray and take it out! Go out on the route, and you drive around putting 
mail in the boxes and delivering the parcels and talking to all the old people that want to tell you all their 
ailments and then you get back in and you unload what you bring back and you're done! 
 
EH: How did you learn the job. Did someone mentor you? 
 
04:20  
 
JL: Oh yes, we had, I was trained. There was a lady who was also a sub when I started and she really 
helped me out a lot. We're still very good friends now. She's long retired but we became very good 
friends. 
 
EH: Nice. And how long was your route when you first started? 
 
JL: It's still--you're talking about when I was subbing or... 
 
EH: Maybe when you first got your own route. 
 
JL: My own route? My route is about 30 miles long and it's about 650 boxes. And it's not changed a 
whole lot. 
 
EH: And how long does that take you to finish? 
 
JL: My route is, it's evaluated about 7 and a half hours total, but some days it's a lot shorter, and some 
days it's a lot longer. Like when it's snowy out, it's a lot longer. (laughs) 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Joy Lucas – 1/30/22 
5 
 
 
EH: Right. Yeah, I talked to someone yesterday who his route, well he retired 2 years ago, but his route 
was 300 miles. 
 
JL: Oh yeah. 
 
EH: So really spread out. But yours must be a lot of, even though it's short in mileage, must be long in... 
 
JL: A lot of boxes. 
 
EH: ...you know boxes and maybe spread out. 
 
JL: I've got a lot of apartment buildings and I have a trailer park. 
 
EH: I see. How has your work changed since you first started? 
 
JL: Oh! When I started you hardly got any parcels (laughs). And you had all these catalogs. Every season 
you got catalogs and catalogs and catalogs and now not so much. And now you have a whole lot of 
parcels. It's really...and automation too. When I first started you sorted your own letters. I got to work at 
6:30 and you sorted all your mail. It didn't come sorted.  
 
EH: And now DPS, it comes sorted because of DPS? 
 
JL: Yeah, the letters come in order. Mostly. mostly. 
 
EH: What about the area? Could you describe the area, the community that you serve, maybe for someone 
who's never been there?  
 
JL: I serve Byesville, Ohio, and there's a lot of low income housing on my route. There's a lot of older 
people. Years ago there was a lot of Slovaks came around the turn of the century and there was a lot of 
mines and so there's a lot of Slovak descendants there so you have a lot of names that (laughs) are kind of 
interesting. You have to just know what they say! Luckily, I had, the lady that trained me--she was from 
the area and she knew how to pronounce all those names! 
 
EH: Nice. 
 
JL: But we used to get a lot of nut rolls. The Slovakian ladies used to give us nut rolls at Christmas and I 
don't get hardly any anymore! (laughs) 
 
EH: Oh wow. Do you think the old ladies have passed away and maybe that tradition hasn't carried on? 
 
JL: That's what I wonder. I think it takes a lot of effort to make them too. I looked up how to make them 
(laughs). No. I'm not gonna do that. 
 
EH: Yeah, right. So let's talk about your customers. So who are they and you know, how have you 
developed relationships with some of them over the years? 
 
JL: Oh, a lot of the old people I know because they're lonely and they want to come out and talk to you 
and you know, they get a lot of parcels and they, but the younger people are working and you don't see 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Joy Lucas – 1/30/22 
6 
 
them. But there's been a lot of older people that I've really enjoyed talking to and they're kinda fun. Kinda 
interesting.  
 
EH: Have you heard any good stories from them? 
 
JL: Oh yeah, always. They always want to tell you about their neighbors (laughs). There's always one 
lady in every neighborhood that tells you about their neighbors. 
 
EH: Wow. So you probably between the mail and your customers, you probably learn a lot about some 
neighborhood gossip and community stories. 
 
JL: You will. Some of it, you don't know if it's true or not and you don't really, and you know when 
there's like a squabble between the two of them (laughs). 
 
EH: Oh wow. 
 
JL: Yeah. 
 
EH: Do customers leave you gifts and if so, what kind of things do they leave you besides nut rolls? 
 
JL: The nut rolls were always a big thing. I don't hardly ever get a nut roll anymore. A lot of times it's like 
cookies or there's a beef farmer who gives me hamburger. 
 
EH: Nice! 
 
JL: Good, nice hamburger every year. Just assorted things. Sometimes it's gloves and you know just little, 
just nice things to give you, maybe a cup or some hot chocolate or like a gift certificate to get a cup of 
coffee or something. 
 
EH: Are the gloves and cups, are those handmade? 
 
JL: Ah, I don't think so. Not usually. Not usually.  
 
EH: What do you bring along with you on your route, you know especially for safety and in case of bad 
weather? 
 
JL: We have dog spray we carry with us. 
 
EH: Oh! 
 
JL: I always have gloves. I always have lots of gloves in case your glove gets wet--it's a good thing to 
have a dry glove. Since I started driving an LLV (long-life vehicle) instead of my Jeep, I don't carry as 
much. I used to carry a shovel in my trunk when I had a car.  
 
EH: Yeah, why did you--I thought that most carriers drive their own vehicle, so tell me about upgrading 
to the LLV. 
 
JL: Well I didn't have a choice. 
 
EH: Okay. 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Joy Lucas – 1/30/22 
7 
 
 
JL: They told me I had to take it.  
 
11:20  
 
EH: Huh! 
 
JL: I came out ahead because I had a Jeep and I was buying transmissions like every I don't know how 
often and I only had a 30 mile route, so I wasn't getting a whole lot of EMA (Equipment Maintenance 
Allowance), where somebody that has a 300 mile route, they get a lot. They get a nice big check (laughs). 
I only got a 30 mile check. So it's not as much fun to drive as a Jeep, though, I'll tell you that! (laughs) 
 
EH: (laughs) So why did they mandate that you drive it? 
 
JL: I think they thought they were gonna save money, and I kinda think they're losing honestly. Because 
that LLV's 30 years old. They're always fixing them.  
 
EH: And they're set to be replaced soon? 
 
JL: Oh, they've been saying that for years. 
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
JL: I'm not gonna hold my breath. (laughs) 
 
EH: Was your Jeep a right-side drive? 
 
JL: Yeah. I bought it and there was a dealership that sold them especially. He had a relative that was a 
mail carrier I think is how he got into it, but I don't know if they're even in business anymore. 
 
EH: And how did that work--was it totally constructed to be right side drive or was it after production? 
 
JL: It was factory manufactured that way. Jeep was the only one that made them at that time, and I think, 
somebody said they're making them again. At one time they quit.  
 
EH: Interesting. 
 
JL: I thought that was a lot better than buying one and having it converted. 
 
EH: Yeah. 
 
JL: And I'd have a warranty that way and it just made sense. 
 
EH: And so that was your main vehicle for personal use too, or did you have a different car. 
 
JL: No, I kept that one just for the route. I would drive it to work and that would be about it. Unless, you 
know, it was bad out and I had to go to the store I would drive it sometimes. 
 
EH: I bet that was kind of odd (laughs) 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Joy Lucas – 1/30/22 
8 
 
JL: Actually, you know, everybody says, "Isn't that weird driving on that side?" And I got to where it 
didn't really, it didn't really feel any different. Just like we had a car and we had that Jeep and the thing I 
noticed more of driving the car was you sat down lower. I felt like I was sitting on the floor. 
 
EH: Interesting. (laughs) 
 
JL: But it really doesn't feel that much different. 
 
EH: You get used to it? 
 
14:01  
 
JL: Yeah. 
 
EH: When you wear a glove, do you just wear the one glove on the right hand? 
 
JL: Yeah, the one that touches the mailboxes so I can pick up mail with the other hand. And I get those 
gloves that have dots on both sides, so you can use both the gloves? 
 
EH: Oh yeah, nice. What's the most unusual mail you've delivered? 
 
JL: Hmm... well I don't always know what's in it. Sometimes people like to come out and tell you what's 
in it and then you think, I didn't want to know that! (laughs) 
 
EH: (laughs) Like what kind of things? 
 
JL: Oh, like it's from their baby's daddy's lawyer and they're suing them for this and that and this (laughs). 
I think I've delivered cremated remains and I don't know. Usually you don't know what's in it. But you 
know, sometimes you get like these big things and they don't...When I had a Jeep, it was a Jeep Wrangler 
and I had to stick it up through and tie it to the roll bar. It went clear up to the front of the Jeep. A box. I 
never knew what was in it.  
 
EH: Maybe skis or something like that. 
 
JL: Or a fishing pole or... 
 
EH: Yeah. Do human remains have to be marked as such to go through the mail? 
 
JL: It says human remains on it! "Cremated human remains" on it! 
 
EH: Wow.  
 
JL: I think you need a signature too. 
 
EH: Oh yeah, I would guess so. 
 
JL: I think they do. It's been a while.  
 
EH: Tell me about some of the weather you've encountered and how you dealt with it on your route? 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Joy Lucas – 1/30/22 
9 
 
JL: Oh, lately it's been winter weather. It's been pretty bad. The LLV is not great in ice and the snow. We 
have a lot of hillsides. I remember when they gave me the LLV, I called the union guy and I said, you 
know, how are they in the snow, and he says, "Well, if you don't have any hills, you don't have any 
trouble." And I'm like, this is southeastern Ohio--it's all hills! 
 
EH: Right! (laughs) 
 
JL: But you know, our boss he puts chains on the tires, which is really nice, because I know a lot of them 
won't do that. And he said they aren't even paying for them anymore. He has to put them in his budget 
himself. But yeah, I used to, when I drove my car, I used to carry a shovel and I had an old pair of 
Carhartt you know, overalls. I'd leave them in the car in case I got stuck and I couldn't get out, at least I'd 
have something warm to put on! (laughs) 
 
EH: Yeah, right. Did you ever get stuck? 
 
JL: Not so I couldn't get out, no. But in the LLV I have had to be pulled out.  
 
EH: Wow. Yeah, will you describe the terrain along your route, you know especially for people who 
haven't been to southeastern Ohio? 
 
JL: Oh, southeastern Ohio is all hills and curves. Beautiful! It is a beautiful, beautiful area, though. I will 
say that. But it's, there's a lot of hills. I mean a lot of dirt roads. I have a lot of state highways and county 
roads and they're paved, but I do have a few dirt roads. But it's very hilly. Very, very hilly. 
 
EH: Have you seen the area change since you started carrying the mail in terms of who lives there or 
farmland or more development or anything like that? 
 
18:07  
 
JL: There's a lot less farmers it seems like. If they are farming, they are farming part-time. They've got a 
full-time job and then they farm on the side. That was, farmers used to come out and talk to me some too. 
There was an old guy, he would come out and tell me all the old stuff. (laughs) But yeah, right now we 
have a big power plant they're building. It's I don't remember what they're calling it. It's the Gemma, 
Gemma's the one who's building it. They're building some sort of power plant for the oil and gas that 
they've been drilling and there's a lot of out of state people and I'm told it's hard to find a place to live. All 
the rentals are filled! You see a lot of Texas plates, out of state plates. 
 
EH: Wow. 
 
JL: There's a lot of places that families have been here for generations too, so. 
 
EH: Mmhm. What do you think the importance of your job is to the people that you serve? 
 
JL: Well right now it's getting their packages (laughs). 
 
EH: Yeah. 
 
JL: It used to be people were really nutty about their letters and you weren't there at a certain time, they 
were, "Where have you been! (pounds desk)" You know? And now they won't get their mail out of the 
box, hardly! But mostly it's parcels. Parcels and now it's tax things. People are looking for tax stuff. 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Joy Lucas – 1/30/22 
10 
 
 
EH: Right. Yeah, how did COVID impact your work? 
 
19:54  
 
JL: Oh we had lots and lots and lots of parcels. It was like Christmas all year that year 2020. I mean it was 
crazy. And people were looking for stuff and (sighs) and it was getting missent. At Christmas time they 
said that there was trucks lined up waiting to come into the plant at Columbus just sitting there waiting to 
get in and there weren't enough people to unload it.  
 
EH: Wow.  
 
JL: And it was just bad. It was really bad that year. 
 
EH: Yeah, that sounds very stressful. 
 
JL: Yeah, we were shorthanded. We were shorthanded, our little post office, but I can't imagine what 
Columbus was like and that's where we get our mail from. 
 
EH: Mmhm. Yeah, did you have any concerns, you know, the early days of COVID I remember people 
talking about, "Oh what if it can come through the mail or come through groceries." 
 
JL: Yeah, we, we tried wearing gloves but they didn't, the gloves we had, you sort mail and your fingers 
would be coming through them in no time! So you just use a lot of hand sanitizer and pray. (laughs)  
 
EH: Yeah (laughs) 
 
JL: Because you can't wash your hands on the route! 
 
EH: Yeah, that's right. Wow. And you know, maybe people coming to try to talk to you a lot? 
 
JL: Yeah, they want to come and they lean on your door and you're kinda like, "Stay away! Get back!" 
(laughs) 
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
JL: Or you go to their door and you think, "Okay, are you quarantined? Or you're supposed to be coming 
to the door?" Or... 
 
EH: Right, totally. Do you know who determines the route? Who set your route initially? 
 
JL: It was set when I got there, I mean it's been years and years and years that way, I mean, we can 
change it here and there but. 
 
EH: Is there a period where they check them every year and maybe add things on, or is it a case-by-case 
basis? 
 
JL: Well, as you get new boxes, they will add it. But it used to be we used to have an evaluation every 
year--they would count mail. Or not every year but every so often. And they decided to do away with that 
and they're doing a new way to evaluate us and it's gonna be based on all year. You know, everything is 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Joy Lucas – 1/30/22 
11 
 
electronic now, and they could do that. Before, you know, you didn't have all that data. But it's supposed 
to start in July and I don't know what that's gonna mean for me. I don't know if that's gonna help me or if 
it's gonna hurt me. I just, I hope I can end up at least somewhat the same. 
 
EH: Yeah, so now they know where you are at every time during the day because of the scans? 
 
JL: Yes, they do. They do. They know exactly where I'm at. And sometimes that's a little creepy to think 
that they're watching you. And other times I think well, you know, if somebody hit me and I went over 
the hill, at least they'd know where to find me. You know, so. 
 
EH: Yeah, pros and cons, I guess. 
 
JL: Yeah, I don't really do anything wrong so I guess I don't have anything to worry about, but (laughs). 
 
EH: Right. Let's see. Do you have a spot where you like to eat lunch or there was so much talk in the 
news too about Amazon drivers and where they go to the bathroom? Is that a concern on your route? 
 
JL: I don't have a restroom spot on the route anymore! I used to have an office center, but it was only, it 
was like an hour, I only had an hour left on the route when I went there. But there's a new business in 
there and they kinda closed all the entrances so it's a little harder to get into use the restroom. I mean I 
could if I really had to but I just don't bother. But yeah, there's no outhouses or anything out there for me 
to use. There's a couple businesses--if I had to go, they would probably let me. But, and my route's only 
30 miles so if I really had to go too, I could go back to the office. 
 
EH: Yeah, that's true. 
 
JL: But I kinda eat my lunch as I go. I carry things that I can, like a bag of veggies and some apples. I 
don't really stop and eat. I might stop and take a little break, get a drink and stuff, but I don't really stop 
and eat. 
 
EH: Yeah. Do you listen to the radio? 
 
JL: Oh yes, I would go nuts if I didn't.  
 
EH: (laughs) What kind of stuff do you listen to? 
 
JL: I only get like 2 or 3 stations so I listen to there's a classic rock station. I used to listen to NPR, but I 
can't get it on my radio anymore. When I switched to the LLV I got a little portable radio and it won't pick 
it up. 
 
EH: Oh weird. 
 
JL: I don't know why. I suppose it just doesn't have as much power as the rest of them. 
 
EH: So there's no radio in the car of the LLV? 
 
JL: Oh no, no, no. They don't want us to be comfortable! (laughs) 
 
25:48  
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Joy Lucas – 1/30/22 
12 
 
 
25:48  
EH: (laughs) That's too bad! 
 
JL: It' not built for comfort! 
 
EH: Let's see, what else. I read a book about carrying the mail in rural Virginia and in it, it talked a lot 
about the Million Mile Club--is that still a thing? 
 
JL: I don't know! I haven't heard about it. Every once in a while, you might see something in one of the 
magazines, but I think it kinda, they don't really mess with it too much. 
 
EH: Have you ever calculated how many miles you've driven over, since 1990? 
 
JL: Oh, no. (laughs)  
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
JL: No, I'm not really into math. It would probably be depressing! (laughs) 
 
EH: Yeah, maybe I'll try to figure it out. So you deliver Monday through Saturday? 
 
JL: I have a J Route, so I have every other Saturday off. But I don't have a sub currently, so I've been just 
working and taking a day when I can. 
 
27:05  
 
EH: What's a J-Route? 
 
JL: It's a route that you work every other Saturday! (laughs) 
 
EH: I see. And somebody else is on on the off Saturday? 
 
JL: Yeah, normally we have a sub but I haven't had a sub for a couple years now. If you have a K Route, 
you get every Saturday off.  
 
EH: Oh! Interesting. But do you get paid more because you're working that Saturday. 
 
JL: Yeah, you get paid. It goes into overtime then.  
 
EH: Nice.  
 
JL: So 43. 43 hours. I have a 43 J.  
 
EH: Mm, mmhm. Let's see here, have you ever seen any wildlife along your route? 
 
JL: Oh yeah. 
 
EH: Had any animal encounters? 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Joy Lucas – 1/30/22 
13 
 
 
JL: Deer. Deer all the time. We have lots of deer here. And there's foxes, I see foxes sometimes and 
rabbits, always rabbits. Turkeys, wild turkeys are kinda cool looking. Out there they're all puffed up when 
they're mating. I see hawks. I saw a bald eagle once. 
 
EH: Wow. 
 
JL: And there's wild ducks on this one creek that I drive over too. 
 
EH: Very cool. What's your favorite part of the job? 
 
JL: Just talking to the people. They're old people and they like to tell you about things and you know, you 
kinda, there's a couple little old ladies at the trailer park. They're always standing out there waiting on me 
and I pull up and I give them their mail and they always, "Oh you don't need to do that!" (laughs) But 
they're kinda cute, so I do it for them. 
 
EH: Nice. What's the most challenging part of the job would you say? 
 
JL: The weather. The weather.  
 
EH: Yeah. Do you have a least favorite weather? Is it snow? 
 
JL: Probably. Ice. Ice would be the worst. 
 
EH: Yeah. 
 
JL: Ice is worse than anything.  
 
EH: Yeah. Let's see here. If you could design your own car for your job, what elements would it have? 
 
JL: It would be 4-wheel drive! (laughs) 
 
EH: And I take it the LLV... 
 
JL: It would have air conditioning! (laughs) 
 
EH: So the LLV does not have air conditioning or 4-wheel drive. 
 
JL: No. It's not even front wheel drive.  
 
EH: Woah.  
 
JL: If it was front wheel drive, it would be better. But it would have air conditioning, and 4-wheel drive 
and a radio or at least something you know, you could put your phone, you could connect your phone too 
and listen to stuff off your phone. But it's, yeah. Maybe something with more windows you could see out. 
The LLV you can't, you have to really look at your mirrors a lot. 
 
EH: That's frustrating.  
 
JL: Yeah, you have to get good at looking at your mirrors. That is a challenge. 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Joy Lucas – 1/30/22 
14 
 
 
EH: So it sounds like they weren't designed with mail carrier input. 
 
JL: Well, they were designed for a city carrier. A city carrier drives and gets out and walks. 
 
EH: Right. Mmhm. 
 
JL: But they weren't designed. They didn't ask us. No. (laughs) No.  
 
EH: So you're a member of the union? 
 
JL: Yes. 
 
EH: Could you tell me a little bit about the union? 
 
JL: I don't really know much about it, I just went and got steward's training, but I've never filed a 
grievance. I don't really even know too many people that have. I go to union meetings and they come up 
with a contract. We're getting a new contract, I know that. 
 
EH: Uh-huh. And that's a national contract? 
 
JL: That's the national agreement, yeah.  
 
EH: And what does it mean to be, so are you a shop steward?  
 
JL: Yeah. 
 
EH: Or steward, I guess. So what does that mean? How many people are you a steward for? 
 
JL: Two! 
 
EH: Oh wow! (laughs) 
 
JL: There's only two in our office, but the office is over I think two other offices with rural carriers and I 
don't think I'm over them. I don't think I have anything to do with them. 
 
EH: And so it's basically one steward per post office. 
 
JL: Yeah, and there was never one there before me, but with this new evaluation, I kinda wanted to get all 
the training I could so I would know. You know, with it being new, how do I know if they're doing it right 
or not? (laughs) 
 
EH: Yeah, right. For sure. And that's the Byesville Post Office? 
 
JL: Byesville, yeah. 
 
EH: Okay. Do you feel like you're a part of, through the union or other friends, are you part of a 
community of postal workers or rural mail carriers? 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Joy Lucas – 1/30/22 
15 
 
JL: Yeah, but we really don't have a ton of meetings. I don't, I mean you might connect through 
magazines and reading things, but asking questions. 
 
EH: Yeah, I think I got connected with you because you had submitted--was it a photo of an unusual 
mailbox? 
 
JL: Yeah. Yeah. 
 
EH: Could you describe that? 
 
JL: Somebody must have a cricket machine or something because they put "Thank you, mail carrier" on 
the inside of their lid. I thought it was kinda cute so I took a picture of it and sent it in, and they posted it! 
 
EH: Very cool. (laughs) Nice! Yeah, what are the stories that rural mail carriers tell to each other about 
your work when you get together. Is there a story you like to tell? 
 
JL: People unhappy about things, they yell at you about some things.  
 
EH: Like union stuff, or you know, complaints about vehicles or automation--things like that? 
 
JL: Yeah. Sometimes we complain about that. Well, a lot of times we complain about that. (laughs)  
 
EH: What about like you know, a crazy day on the job or some kind of--helping a customer or something 
like that? 
 
JL: Yeah. People want to--they think you oughta take their mail to the door if you can't get to their 
mailbox and (laughs). It's just (laughs) It's on me to get the mail to them, not them to clean out their 
mailbox.  
 
EH: Right. 
 
JL: And not have a car in front of it. 
 
34:40  
 
EH: Yeah, that must be frustrating. 
 
JL: Yeah. 
 
EH: Are there sort of common language or phrases, names for things that rural mail carriers use that 
someone who's not a carrier might not know? 
 
JL: Oh golly, I don't know. We get these flyers and we call 'em floppy flyers but I think that's only in our 
office (laughs) Because when you pick 'em up, everything falls out of 'em, you call... 
 
EH: Uh-huh. 
 
JL: I think that's just our office. We call 'em floppies. (laughs) 
 
EH: Floppy flyers and flats. 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Joy Lucas – 1/30/22 
16 
 
 
JL: Yeah, flats. People wouldn't know what a flat was.  
 
EH: Let's see here--what else. Are there instances where you feel like you really have helped someone--a 
customer--through your job? 
 
JL: Probably. Sometimes I think I'm really helping and then they get mad at me. (laughs) 
 
EH: Oh!  
 
JL: Yeah, there's been times when I've really felt like, you know you kinda made a connection and trying 
to think of one, but I can't think of a single one! 
 
EH: That's okay. Do you have a favorite mailbox aside from the one you submitted? Are there any 
unusual mailboxes? 
 
JL: There used to be one that was--it looked like a barn and somebody stole it! 
 
EH: Oh no! 
 
JL: It was really cute. They painted it all up and it looked like a barn. They'd made it out of metal. It was 
beautiful and somebody stole it.  
 
EH: That's awful. It's also a federal offence, right? 
 
JL: Well, I don't know! I don't think they ever got it back and it's kind of a, there for a while people were 
going around bashing mailboxes like crazy so nobody was putting up anything very nice. But this one 
was kinda back off a lane so I didn't think it would be in trouble, but apparently it was. 
 
EH: Aw. Have you ever found anything unusual in a mailbox? 
 
JL: I found money in it a bunch of times. 
 
EH: Was that intended for you? 
 
JL: No, I kinda wondered if it was a drug deal, but I don't know. I took a picture of it and I texted it to my 
boss just because you know, I didn't want anybody saying that I'd taken it if it came up missing.  
 
EH: Right, right. 
 
JL: I found a kitten in a box once.  
 
EH: Oh! 
 
JL: Yeah! That's what I thought! That's kind of mean to put a kitten in a box. 
 
EH: Yeah, so they just probably dropped off a cat they didn't want? 
 
JL: Well I took it to the neighbors and she took it in, she was all excited. She wanted that kitten. 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Joy Lucas – 1/30/22 
17 
 
EH: Oh! Well that's good! 
 
JL: The neighbor kid come looking for it, so I don't know whether they were waiting for the bus and put it 
in the mailbox? 
 
EH: Interesting. 
 
JL: I don't know. 
 
EH: But it did find a home? 
 
JL: Yeah, it made it's--I was kinda thinking, I wouldn't have given it back to them if they were putting it 
in a mailbox, but...(laughs) 
 
EH: I know, yeah, that's kinda mean. 
 
JL: Yeah, there's birds. Birds like to make nests in mailboxes. Those little house wrens. Little wrens like 
to build their nest in there.  
 
EH: So if, yeah, if someone leaves the door open or something? 
 
JL: Yeah, if it's missing a lid.  
 
38:36  
 
EH: Yeah, we actually have some birds making a nest. Our mailbox is on the wall outside the door. 
 
JL: Oh yeah. 
 
EH: And there are some birds in there and if you come out too fast, they will kind of fly almost in your 
face. It's kind of scary! 
 
JL: Yeah, yeah. You have to remember that bird's in there 'cause it flies out, you drive up. 
 
EH: Could get in your car! 
 
JL: Yeah, it might fly out in your car! (laughs) 
 
EH: Yeah, that would be tough. So if you started in 1990, I remember there was the anthrax scare. Was 
that something you dealt with and remember? 
 
JL: Yeah, I remember that. That was another one where they had gloves for us and you didn't know what 
to do and (laughs)...you just had to do it! 
 
EH: Yeah. Very weird. 
 
JL: It was weird. 
 
EH: Let's see. Do you feel like you are a representative of the US Government? 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Joy Lucas – 1/30/22 
18 
 
JL: Not really, no, but...no because they don't listen to me at all! (laughs) 
 
EH: Right. Yeah, what do you think the importance of the mail is and specifically delivery of mail for 
these rural communities? 
 
40:13  
 
JL: Well, these rural communities, that's, they're starting to get internet, but a lot of 'em don't have very 
good internet.  
 
EH: Right. 
 
JL: And there's not--we have a Walmart here in our community and that's about it! So if you can't find it 
at Walmart, you pretty well gotta order it!  
 
EH: Mmhm. Yeah, so, and especially COVID made that even more obvious. 
 
JL: Yeah, yeah. 
 
EH: What about prescriptions--do you deliver a lot of prescriptions? 
 
JL: Yeah, there's a lot of prescriptions going through the mail now.  
 
EH: Yeah, I think several folks have mentioned the VA sends a lot through the mail. 
 
JL: And one of the local pharmacies. Well a couple local pharmacies was doing that now too. 
 
EH: Oh wow. 
 
JL: Whether it makes it easier for them, or... 
 
EH: Easier for people who can't get to the... 
 
JL: Yeah. I don't know. 
 
EH: And do you feel--have you felt content with how you were compensated over the years? 
 
JL: Yeah, I think I've done alright (laughs). 
 
EH: That's good. 
 
JL: Especially for this area. This area is kinda depressed and so I probably do alright especially for this 
area, but lower cost of living, so. 
 
EH: And you said you haven't really been a part of any union negotiations or anything? 
 
JL: Oh no, that's all done on a national level.  
 
EH: Do you attend the--so the meetings you attend--are those regional or are they state, like Ohio? 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Joy Lucas – 1/30/22 
19 
 
JL: They're just like an area and it seems like a lot of times they had it when I had something else going 
on so I didn't go. 
 
EH: Right. Well, is there anything else that we haven't talked about or anything you wanted to share about 
your work? 
 
JL: I don't know! (laughs) I don't feel that it's really interesting, but... 
 
EH: (laughs) No, I think it's very interesting. 
 
JL: I hope you've gotten something interesting out of it. 
 
EH: Definitely. Yeah, I think you're the first person I've talked to in Ohio--southeastern Ohio and I'm 
hopefully going up to the Hocking Hills area. 
 
JL: Oh that's beautiful too.  
 
EH: Sometime soon and one of the carriers mentioned he was helping find a loose kangaroo on the route. 
 
JL: Oh yeah! There was a kangaroo loose over on the other side of Zanesville. I remember seeing that.  
 
EH: Really? 
 
JL: Yeah.  
 
EH: So was it a zoo or somebody's exotic pet? 
 
JL: I don't know what the story was. I think it was an exotic pet.  
 
EH: Wow. 
 
JL: But you know Zanesville's where that guy let all the wild cats loose. 
 
EH: Uh-huh. I was wondering if that was related. 
 
JL: No, 'cause that guy killed himself, so (laughs). 
 
EH: Oh, okay. 
 
JL: It's not him! 
 
EH: (laughs) Probably not his kangaroo. 
 
JL: No, he didn't have anything like a kangaroo. He had cats. 
 
EH: Mmhm. Wow. Is that from the Tiger show or is that a different story. 
 
JL: Oh, that was long before the Tiger King. 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Joy Lucas – 1/30/22 
20 
 
EH: Okay, okay. Yeah, I think I have a friend who's working on a podcast about I think some kind of 
private zoo in Ohio. But I think it might have been that same guy. 
 
JL: That guy. 
 
43:59  
 
EH: Mmhm. 
 
JL: Yeah, we met him a few times. He was kinda interesting. He was...they were kinda different (laughs). 
 
EH: (laughs) Yeah. Well, thank you so much for your time. I will stop the recording if you don't have 
anything to add and it will, we'll have to wait because it will download your audio to the cloud so I can 
get the audio from your end. So I'll just stop it here. 
 
JL: Okay. 
 
44:40  
END OF TAPE 
END OF INTERVIEW