Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
1 
Client:  
Interviewer: Greg Sharrow 
Interviewee: Howard Wilcox 
Interviewee Contact:  
Location: Vermont Folklife Center  
Date: September 8, 2015 
Length: 01:39:44 
Recording Format:  
Accession: au2015-2032 
Collection: vfc2014-0005 
Indexer: Marty Dewees 
 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
00:00 – 07:40 
Family came to VT in 1803; family originally came to this country in 1635 
and resided in the Conn/Mass area. Story goes they were living in the 
wetland area and doctor suggested they move to higher elevations 
probably to get away from mosquitoes.  So moved to Vermont. Been in 
business since 1869. Family was responsible for character of Vermont 
today. Each family had a garden, fresh stream, always took water for 
granted. Hadn’t realized how precious water is until older. He enjoys 
history and looking into connections. The Wilcoxes married the Hamiltons. 
Have to place yourself in position of ancestors, no telephone, TV, Text, etc. 
Family in milk and ice cream business from since 1892 when moved to 
Manchester and bought a farm they finished paying for in 1896.  Sold 
goods to the Equinox Hotel in 1879; family has a letter indicating they 
wanted a wool pelt, eggs were 18 cents a dozen, and they sold broilers. 
Also sold lamb. And delivering milk in mid to late 50s to a lady running a 
bar called “Muggers.” [04:32] Working people came for dinner because 
coming in the back way they could smell that she was cooking pot roast, 
chicken pot pies, apple pies, etc. Woman told him his Uncle John brought  
Family background 
 
 
Early business history 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
2 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
her first dress from Manchester, didn’t date it. Took milk to the southeast 
corner of the farm by horse and then put it into someone’s truck to take to 
Manchester. There was a cheese factory there then. Surviving and able to 
sell extra. Manchester a wealthy area with summer vacationers.  
Grandfather sold milk to them. Backing up in history: from 1892 until 
about 1896 his grandfather; in 1902 a man wanted to buy their farm as 
well as two others. His grandfather wanted to trade his farm for the 
Pettibone farm. Owner had been a Tory and they selectmen confiscated his 
property and several of the neighbor Tories were shipped back to England. 
So Pettibones bought the farm in 1775 and owned it until 1898 when sold 
to Gilmore. In 1902 his great grandfather traded his farm in the village for 
Pettibones’ which has been theirs since 1902.  
Early dairy business 
 
 
 
 
Acquiring current farm 
07:40 – 10:00 
His brother and his nephew are operating the farm now as a dairy farm. 
Howard has three children, two in business with him in milk and ice cream 
and in late 90s when thought the milk wasn’t as good as it should have 
been, sold off the milk business but kept ice cream business. Transitioned 
to ice cream business called Wilcox Ice Cream, but with frozen distribution 
network so can help distribute other peoples’ product as wells. Also in 
frozen dessert business for diversification. He’s made ice cream his whole 
life. As a 6 year old he put pints together to put into a box so his father was 
all ready to sell it.  Asked to describe process of marketing ice cream. 
Current status 
 
Ice cream business 
 
Distribution network 
Diversification 
10:00 – 15:46 
Pettibone was a sheep farm, had been converted into a dairy farm after 
Civil War. Next to it was a one car garage. Tore down a building and moved 
it to make the garage into a dairy barn (pre-1928). Was erected next to 
sheep barn. Business was seasonal. His father helped his father helped in 
selling milk before high school. Could have access to car for reward for it. 
Aunt would look over at him in study hall when he’d be sleeping. Initially 
used an “aireator” to bottle milk, a cone apparatus set up in a room and 
water go through aerator, on top they’d pour milk on top of it, then fill 
Developing farm as dairy 
 
 
Distributing milk in 
Manchester  
 
  
 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
3 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
pints or quarts then capped it. Thought it made it last longer. If they had 
extra cream they’d put it in the stream to keep it cold. When they became 
16 they’d drive the truck during summer when drivers had vacation. 
Stopped at aunt’s for milk for cookies. She used sour milk which she had 
trouble getting . Now it’s aseptically bottled and in Europe methods make it 
shelf stable. Huge change in refrigeration methods. 
 
 
Refrigeration methods 
 
 
15:46 –23:45  
A Mr. Maguire had an ice cream business that he wanted to sell in 1928. His 
grandfather thought it would be a good addition to the milk business as 
kids were getting out of high school. Had extra cream also. His uncle made 
it in the village until moved it to the farm in about 1931. Got extra 
electricity for the freezing capacity. Used ice cream crank and salt, adding a 
motor.  His father in law told him about using saw dust to insulate the ice at 
Hill Farm Inn. He married a Hill. His grandfather and uncle married sisters. 
Put ice cream into brick molds that held 8 quarts. When frozen, they’d 
break it out and pack up slices into pint container.  Froze it in a canvas bag 
with a frozen cylinder on the top of it and take it to people so they could 
have ice cream for dessert at Sunday dinner. Made 5 to 10 gallons at a time. 
Did lots of batches and then transitioned to batch freezer which let them 
make a lot more a lot faster. His father went to Amherst to learn about 
processing milk.  First to pasteurize it and initiated standards before there 
were any. 
Ice cream business early 
days 
 
 
Strategies for keeping ice 
cream frozen 
 
 
 
Introduction of 
pasteurization 
23:45 – 28:50 
 One year his brother didn’t want to inoculate. In 1948 his father bought a 
continuous freezer, had the capacity of 80 gallons an hour, paid $5000 for 
it and didn’t use it for a year. In a batch freezer freeze water first, then fat 
freezes.  Ice cream coarser, molecular structure smaller. Continuous 
freezing changes the molecular structure to smoother and creamier.  
Seemed creamier. 12 to 18% butterfat, had to sell to consumers. His father 
was an innovator. Pumped in milk into the plant rather than carry it in. 
Cousins and brothers were expected to help on Sat.  Today an ingredient 
Changes in technology to 
continuous freeezing 
 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
4 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
feeder puts it in directly.  
28:50 – 36:17 
When he was a child both milk and ice cream got made in the same 
building at the same time. Pasteurizing took about 30 minutes. “Cream 
line” means not homogenized, cream rises to the top. His father had to add 
Guernseys for cream. Slow transition to homogenized.  Some glass bottles 
were marked “store” bottles.  When it was delivered to the store paid the 5 
cents on it. If you picked up from customer refund the nickel because they 
already had paid for it. Then all did cardboard. Huge amount of work with 
businesses and farming too. His uncle did the farm and his father the ice 
cream business.  In the winter, put hot water in delivery truck to keep it 
from freezing. In the summer loaded with ice. On Sundays he and his 
siblings had to go to church (Catholic) but would intercept his father 
delivering milk on the way home and would hop out into the milk truck. 
Homogenization 
 
Introduction of  Square 
paper containers waxed  
 
 
 
Delivering milk 
36:17 –42:25 
Father taught them about making change. There were books of tickets,    so 
people left bottles and tickets. Aunt and uncle with no children lived a few 
miles away in Manchester. Grandfather died in 1937; then great uncle took 
the place of the grandfather to everyone. Uncle lived “next door” a 
thousand feet away . He lived in town but was there all the time. Fed 
farmhands lunch everyday. He had two brothers and a sister. Other 
cousins. Shared space and tasks. A lot of people living and working 
together. Mostly they got along although “not without its own 
problems”[41:38]. His three cousins all opted to leave farming. Went to 
Norwich University, went into business, sales, and engineering. 
Surrogate grandfather 
 
Large extended family 
 
 
 
 
Continuing interests 
 
 
 
42:24 –49:57 
Older brother became a pharmacist. Brother went to UVM, runs farm; he 
went to UVM for farming and marketing. Really is his passion. Loves trying 
to be creative. Returned to the farm in 1966. Never a formal understanding 
about succession; he would try to steer different flavors, bigger variety of 
product line. Cabot co-op just getting started. They made butter for them,   
Discovering the passion 
 
 
 
 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
5 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
very soft butter, leaving more moisture in than newer churns. Always 
wanting to expand, carrying more product. From 60 to 66 service area 
about 12 to 15 mi. circumference; by the 90s distributing 25 miles; today 
encompasses whole state, edge of New Hampshire, Mass., Troy and Albany. 
Now pizza out of So. Burlington, frozen desserts, Bindy’s Italian dessert, 
Woodstock cookie, Red Door Cookie, distribute for a brittle, veggie burger, 
has access to chain store so they allow some of the smaller vendors use 
their account number to sell their products. Diversification is vital in 
economic stability. Stratford Organic and Blue Hill yogurt, some of Ben & 
Jerry’s novelties. Likes to help smaller companies. 
 
Taking leadership 
 
 
Growth of distribution area. 
49:57 – 54:30 
Distributing  Stratford Organic came about through his son, Craig, who 
heads up distribution. Christina, his daughter, takes care of the office. Craig 
has developed relationships with other small business throughout the 
years because he was out on the road all the time. His role is what nobody 
wants to do! Responsible for setting production levels, orders ingredients, 
women and children’s program, phasing out into cards. Takes care of chain 
store, takes care of some deliveries in Manchester. Set orders for chain 
stores, stock the shelves, delivers into freezer. Helps in maintenance in the 
trucks.    Twelve employees. Aren’t in milk business anymore. In 2001 
burned down; lost barn and manufacturing capability. He and daughter 
have been in five different locations. Have purchased a 12,000squ ft. 
building , so hope to manufacture more. Purchases some Perry’s to 
supplement variety for dip shops. With new ability will be able to broaden 
horizons.  
Current state of production 
 
 
 
 
 
Division of roles 
 
 
Rebuilding after fire 
54:30 – 1:02:15 
Probably will make sherbert again and there are options for low fat ice 
cream, gelato. Will be able to make own. St. Albans Co Op makes their own 
formula in a mix. Bring it to Manchester. On Fridays go to Hardwick to 
make 1600 gallons in 20 hours with his daughter. They lease the facility for 
the day. They do it to keep their mix, reputation, etc. So they’re excited to 
Increasing manufacturing 
 
 
New building 
 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
6 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
be able to work in that building.   Get up at 4:30 and go right through 
except he has an hour’s nap before driving home (3 hours). Purchased a 
reconditioned machine to do 100 to 300 gallons of ice cream an hour. 
Package at 180. Pints about 5 seconds.  They make 300 to 325 three gallon 
tubs which takes 7 hours. Will be able to cut that time in half.  Will 
decrease overhead and increase productivity and add some quality to their 
product.  Hopefully will make it a little smoother; molecular structure 
smaller by freezing quicker—now what people want. Will increase amount 
and desirability. More stable quicker.  
 
New machine to make ice 
cream will improve speed 
and quality 
1:02:15 – 
1:08:49 
“cloned” his father’s first ice cream. Pay attention to it, care for machine, 
weight is the measure. He’s in the middle to make it more affordable. Ben & 
Jerry’s higher end, weighs more, cost more. Design an ice cream. They use 
cane sugar, condense skim. Powdered skim, basic stabilizers, milk and 
cream. “Dairy dessert” [1:04:15] doesn’t meet federal standard for ice 
cream which is 8 per cent butterfat. His father set the stage. Original 
formula from trial and error; theirs is not as sweet by design; higher solids 
ice cream so more body and increased mouth feel. He likes to do delicate 
flavors. Ate someone else’s mint chip that was way too strong. Tries to be 
more subtle. When you’re done, remember experience but don’t taste it. 
Always make a good vanilla. Uses Madagasgar bourbon vanilla. Mellow, 
pleasant. Developed “Mocha Mud” blending chocolate mix and had to 
adjust for increased solids; then added coffee.  Cousin owns the Vermont 
Country Store. Now make Gingersnap Maple. Fun to make new flavors. 
Different weights and prices 
 
 
 
Subtle flavorings 
1:08:49 – 
1:14:33 
They experiment with suggestions for new flavors.  Grandson wanted a 
sweet cream caramel which he wanted to add to coffee heath; ended up by 
doing it by itself.  Middlebury College has theme days, and requested maple 
base, strawberry, and granola.  He likes Fudge Ripple the best. Made a kiwi 
sorbet by ripening kiwi on the lawn and then pureed base for sorbet base 
and it went to Michael J. Fox’s wedding.  Greg asked about fire as 
Process of flavoring 
 
Variety 
 
 
 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
7 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
benchmark, turning points. Definitely the fire was. Quitting the milk 
business was very emotional because they had done it for so long. Couldn’t 
get enough of a premium as now. Small businesses more appreciated now. 
Barn was gone before firemen got there.  Traumatic to lose it all. Mother 
Nature can’t be controlled. Relates to flood victims, hurricanes, etc. 
Milestones 
1:14:33 – 
1:20:59 
Trucks went out the next day. Pause. Family was resilient; Greg added he 
was resilient too. [Overcome with emotion]. For us to redo something 
everyone wants to come and see it. He’s passing to his daughter how to 
make ice cream. Grandchildren not yet exhibiting interest. But “good for 
young people to explore their own options.” “Takes heart and soul to do” 
what they do. [1:16:22].Sometimes it has nothing to do with economic 
return, it’s your satisfaction.  He has customers from “forever.” He hopes a 
grandchild will want to do it. Has to find someone with the passion to do it. 
His own son was clearly into the business from the beginning; daughter did 
other things first. Now has great relationship with her and now she has the 
passion to make the ice cream with her. Son takes care of the customers 
and doing the orders. One grandson could be involved in consulting around 
the business to avoid pitfalls. Feels they don’t do a good job marketing. 
They have a great story, want to get it out there more. 
Emotions involved 
 
 
Satisfaction of putting in 
heart and soul 
 
 
 
Commitment to the business 
1:20:59 – 
1:26:48 
Asked about dairies; Monument only one who sells products from their 
own milk. Greg asking about companies getting bigger and bigger and now 
there’s an opportunity to get small. Looking at struggle. Thinks Wilcox fits 
well into new landscape even though older company. Asked about the 
future. Sustainable agriculture better than it was, although fluctuating. 
Value added product important. Bigger is not always better. Have to know 
how you want to impact the market. Smaller operations sustainable. Some 
problems with VT agriculture is distribution cost. Proximity to 
metropolitan area important. Diversification important.  Wishes more 
small farms could survive. Would go back to doing glass bottle milk if he 
Struggle into the future 
 
 
Smaller agriculture now 
 
Bigger is not always better 
 
 
 
 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
8 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
has old facility. 
 
1:26:48 – 
1:34:32 
Interesting to focus about the past; he talked about the fire, but also 
mechanical refrigeration was critical; hitting markets further away was 
important.  They used to make commercial grade of ice cream, lower in fat; 
wants to try other things. Has molds for novelties they made as kids. Used 
to make them all summer.  Glad to go back to school! Father used to make 
sandwiches.  Might make novelties again. Goal for broader area? Or more 
variety?—they may want to make it and let someone else distribute it. 
They’d like to density increased. Need for production time may recur with 
new facility. Can add capacity to increase production facility easily. 
Increase products, some other markets, like colleges.  Bennington College a 
possibility. 
Other turning points 
 
 
 
Future possibilities 
1:34:32 – 
1:39:44  
 Sees himself as a lucky guy to have his family involved. Wife says to slow 
down. Works 72 hours a week, would like to work less. Wants to 
concentrate more on manufacturing or teaching what he knows or just 
being more creative—eg. Ben & Jerry’s peace pop. Some mistakes in 
flavoring. First time he made the mocha asked people who didn’t like it to 
taste it—try to please them. Fun.  Enjoys talking about history of the family 
and accomplishments. Thinks of the transitions from wagons to high tech 
trucks with refrigeration on them. Aseptic conditions. Wife’s grandmother 
says she went to school in horse and buggy and knows about man on the 
moon and snow mobiles. 
 
 
 
Reflections on past and 
amount of change people 
have lived through