1 
 
 February 4, 2013 
Home of Madeline Decker, Stockholm, NY 
Project: Archie Green Fellowship: Dairy Farm Workers in Northern NY 
Interviewer: Varick Chittenden (VC) 
Interviewee: Clark Decker, co-owner of Decker Farm, and Madeline Decker, his mother 
Transcribed by:  Mimi Rooney 
 
(0:00:00) 
 
VC: This is Monday February 4, 2013 and I am sitting at the dining table of Mrs. Madeline Decker. I 
would like each of you to introduce yourself, tell a little bit about yourself, and your personal history. 
MD: Well I was born in the town of Stockholm, down on the Pleasant Valley Road. My dad worked on 
the Balm Farm, it was a Guernsey farm, then my mothers’ parents passed away and she inherited 
money and they bought the farm down here. They thought they bought it from a middle age man, but 
come to find out that it was his father. He died and all the mortgages were seized and sold, and that was 
during the Depression. So they lost their farm and it ended up that they had to rent from then on. He 
rented the farm there on Route 11B. I went to high school in Potsdam, but I had worked for a lady, and 
had to finish up my year, so there was no money for college. I had been going with my husband since I 
was 14 or 15 and 2 days after I turned 18 we were married. That lasted for 60-some years. So I guess it 
was a good solid marriage. He was a wonderful man. 
(0:02:18) 
VC: And your maiden name was? 
MD: Robertson. My parents were good people. My mother was born out west and she migrated to 
Vermont because her father had bought a farm down there.  My dad had gone to Vermont. He was 
originally from Parishville. He knew about my grandfather who was an older man to be buying a farm. So 
my dad would go and help him out. My mom came east to visit them and they met and fell in love and 
ended up here.  
(0:03:12) 
VC: Did your father always work on dairy farms? 
MD: Yes. It was Fuller Farm. Do you know the Fullers? 
VC: Yes, I do. 
2 
 
MD: So that was where we were married. We got married on December 12, 1943. Before we came 
home he had to milk. Cows don’t realize that people do get married [laughter].  
CD: Grandpa Decker didn’t either, did he? 
MD: No. Well his father was an older man and they were both in their 40s when my husband was born. 
So he had to take over, well his buddy did, after he got to Canton and bought the farm. 
(0:04:23) 
VC: How large was that farm? Do you remember how many head of cattle he had? 
MD: At the time we were married, I think we were probably milking around 30. 
CD: It wouldn’t have been quite that many, I don’t think. It might have been around 20. 
MD: Well, maybe. I think we had about 40 head, 50. 
(0:04:49) 
VC: Would you be milking entirely by hand? 
MD: Yes, at that time, but very shortly afterwards he bought a milking machine. We were milking by 
hand and I went right to milking. That was part of the deal. 
VC: Did you learn it before you were married. 
MD: Oh, I knew how to milk, yes! I didn’t that first night, but I did afterwards [laughter]. The next 
morning my father-in-law brought me down the stairs and insisted I learn how to give my mother-in-law 
insulin because he had been giving it to her and he didn’t like doing it. So that was my first day on the 
farm. 
CD: As a daughter-in-law [laughter]. But you know, I didn’t mind. Now poor Nancy is my guiding angel. 
(0:06:00) 
VC: So how many brothers and sisters did you have? 
MD: I had one brother and he passed away when he was thirty. 
VC: So had he farmed, too? 
MD: No, he worked at ALCOA. He had a stroke at 30 years old. He had 3 children, 3 little ones. 
(0:06:25) 
VC: So you started farming young. How many children do you have? 
MD: Three. I have 2 girls and a boy. That’s the boy[laughter]. 
3 
 
VC: What are their names and in what order? 
MD: Meribeth Richael, she lives up between Hopkinton and Nicholville. There is a big red brick house. 
VC: I know the house. 
CD: You know Mike, don’t you? 
VC: Yes. The last time I knew, she was a baker. 
MD: Yes, she is a baker. She bakes now, she bakes for the club in Canton, and she bakes for Potsdam 
State. 
VC: She is good, too. 
CD: And for several restaurants up in Lake Placid. 
MD: Then Clark was next. Then my daughter Anita lives in Cobleskill. She and her husband work for the 
college there. They have 3 girls. One’s a doctor, one worked for the department of education, and one 
works at George Washington University in Washington D.C. I am very proud of all my grandchildren. 
VC: For good reason. 
MD: They have all done wonderfully. They have all gone to college. Meribeth’s oldest boy got his 
doctorate in Plant Science. He works for, what is the name of that? It’s is one of the largest potato 
growers in the world. He does research. 
CD: They provide all the potatoes for McDonalds. Simplat. 
MD: Simplat, that’s right. 
(0:08:27) 
VC: So where does he live? 
MD: In Boise, Idaho. They were here this fall, and we went up to 4-H camp, because the kids practically 
grew up in 4-H camp. It was a beautiful day and I was able to go with them. 
(0:08:53) 
VC: So Mrs. Decker, you and Mr. Decker had the farm up where Clark is now? 
MD: Yes. 
VC: So you grew up on that farm? 
CD: Yup.  
4 
 
MD: Then he was working for the bank and he came home one day and said, “Mom, Dad, if you’re going 
to sell it, will you sell me the farm?” I don’t know if we hesitated or not? 
CD: No, I don’t think so. Well not in front of me anyway [laughter]. 
MD: I don’t think so. 
(0:09:22) 
VC: So this is a good time for you Clark to introduce yourself. 
CD: Okay. I am Clark Decker. Born and raised here in the town of Stockholm. I graduated from high 
school in 1969. I took a leave of absence for a year at Cornell to serve as the state FFA Treasurer. I went 
to Cornell originally to be an Ag teacher, but then ended up in Ag Finance, and spent several summers 
working on internships for different companies round the country. Upon completion of my degree I 
went to work for St. Lawrence National Bank to organize and develop a farm loan department. I had 
been there about 3, 3 ½ years and decided I enjoyed being on the farms more than I enjoyed the paper 
work and the office. Senior management just didn’t believe that I was going to leave the bank and go 
back to the daily struggles of dairy farming. The choice was primarily looking ahead. Nancy and I were 
engaged and planning on getting married and raising a family. We felt the best opportunity for raising a 
family would be right at home on the family farm.  I bought the farm from Mom and Dad in January of 
1977. There were 33 cows and a small list of machinery. Dad had planned, he raised the 2 of us, we 
went to college, but that was just the difference in the economics in the 1960’s and 70’s versus what it is 
today. I worked at the bank until the middle of April. Then I resigned and started a major expansion 
program right there at the farm at that time. 
VC: So that was ’77? So you had already been thinking about the expansion. 
CD: Oh yes. I realized that in order to be able to buy the farm from Mom and Dad and provide 
retirement for them and to look at raising a family, we were going to need to be larger: milk more cows, 
raise more crops, and generate more income. 
(0:12:20) 
VC: Was the time when other people were doing the same thing? 
CD: Right. Yes, there were several farms. I think at that time there probably about 11 farms in the town 
of Stockholm, 11 or 12 dairy farms shipping milk. As of now there’s just 3 of us left, quite a 
consolidation. 
VC: Consolidation is an interesting choice. Have you bought up other farms? 
CD: At one time it was 3 farms that we owned, plus we leased quite a bit of land that was involved in 
other dairy operations as well. 
VC: Contiguous to you? 
5 
 
CD: No, no they’re not. That is one of the situations with the town of Stockholm: good tillable land is few 
and far between. So you have to go where the tillable land is. Actually the home farm is there on Old 
Market Road, and one of the first farms we bought in 1979 was Macintyre Road, it was my sister’s 
father-in-law’s farm. In 1986 we bought a farm just of Route 11, one is 3 miles east of us and one is 3 
miles west of us, the old Wells Farm. Just off Route 11. 
VC: So you don’t own or rent anything on 11B? 
CD: Well the Richael’s Farm is just about a ¼ mile from 11B. We rent the Reagan Farm, it used to be on 
Sullivan Road. We also lease the Parker Farm that is on the other side of 11b. 
VC: The stone house? Where Ray Parker was? 
CD: Right, we have 60 tillable acres up and back of there that we use. 
(0:14:37) 
VC: What kind of crops were you raising when you first started farming? 
MD: My husband always had a good big field of potatoes. Potatoes were the main part of your menu. 
We always had a vegetable garden. My husband grew winter wheat and winter rye. We had the use of 
land that my mom and dad had been part of the place that they bought. That had been bought 
separately. So they still maintained that land. It was left to Clark when my mother died. We used it to 
use winter wheat and winter rye. We always had corn. We always grew corn. At that time it all had to be 
cut and shucked. We never used it but his grandfather had a cradle that they used in harvesting. That is 
still at the farm. My husband was hard worker. We always had crops and it depended a lot on Mother 
Nature. 
(0:16:31) 
VC: How many acres did you have? 
MD: I can’t really say. 
CD: The original farm was 98 acres. Then when he bought this other portion it was another 110. It 
brought us up to about 198 acres when I bought the farm. 
MD: Now when did you buy the school house? When you were in college you bought the school house 
from your cousin. 
CD: Yep, in 1973. 
VC: This building? 
CD: Yep. 
6 
 
MD: When we sold the farm, we were supposed to have the life use of the family farm. Well my 
husband just overdid it. He’d get up, he thought he had to get up when the place got bigger, and he 
thought he had to get up when they would come in around 4:30. He thought he had to be up too, he 
had maybe been up 3 or 4 times in the night checking on cattle that were due to calf. I knew he was 
getting exhausted and we went down to our daughters down near Cobleskill and he passed out one 
night. I figured that is when he probably had his first stroke. They took him into the hospital and they 
told him he had to slow down. So that is when we decided to change places. Nancy really needed to be 
down there because she was keeping the books and everything. 
VC: So you were living here, Clark, here at the school house. 
MD: Yeah. 
CD: It was raining one day during corn planting and I went in and said, “Well, we can’t plant corn, we’re 
going to switch houses today.” 
MD: Yeah, I had had 28 girls. I had cooked for a sorority in Potsdam, the one right by the theater. I had 
had the seniors and it was a big class that year. I had had them that night for dinner, and he comes in 
and says, “Ma, can we move today?” [laughter] Oh, he was so thoughtful. We did, we moved partially. 
CD: Yep, that night. 
MD: We didn’t move some of the stuff until we got this built. 
CD: The next rainy spell. 
MD: This table was bought in 1901. Argie’s father and mother bought it the year they were married. 
They paid $4. It’s maple. This is one of the poorer leaves. It didn’t get finished like the rest did. It was 
never just us at the farm. 
CD: It tells about that in this. In all the people that have lived in the farm. 
MD: Eighteen different people made their home with us when we lived down there. 
(0:19:53) 
VC: Would have had hired men? 
CD: When I left to go to college it was about the only time Dad hired. 
MD: We had kids that were in college, still high school. 
CD: Then you had old Jimbo there for a year or so while I was in high school.  
MD: Then we had that boy from, who helped set up the program. 
CD: There was a program that the former president from Ithaca College left money to Cornell to take 
people that were from a non-agricultural background and had no interest in pursuing an education in 
7 
 
agriculture, but it allowed, the grant allowed to pay them to work for a summer on a farm. So Mom and 
Dad were able to have these college kids come and spend a summer working 8 to 10 weeks, and their 
wages were paid by this grant. They just had to provide room and board. 
VC: Sometimes it was more work for you to have them I suspect. 
CD: Well, we met some very nice people. 
MD: And we had one pain in the neck [laughter]. His father worked on Wall Street and they lived in Long 
Island. Spoiled. He thought he had hog flu, or what was it? Swine flu. His mother ended up taking him 
home. I was never so glad to see anybody go. 
CD: We had that girl that came from Boston. 
MD: Oh, she was lovely. 
CD: Tony and MaryEl, and that Bob Dedine that ended up being a police officer in Arizona, in Phoenix. 
Quite a variety. 
MD: What’s her name? 
CD: Drea. 
MD: She was wonderful. 
(0:22:16) 
VC: Does your farm go back to the day of threshing machines and all of that? 
MD: Thrashing machines. Yeah, yeah, we used to have a whole crew come in and do his winter wheat. 
CD: And oats. 
MD: He’d have to get it all cut and everything. Then they would throw those bales into the thresher. Yes 
it was always a big meal with lots of food and a lot of people. 
CD: When I was young we didn’t do the threshing, but there was a lot of community work with chopping  
corn and stuff like this. Dad worked with the neighbor over here on the old Reagan Farm. Dad owned 
the big tractor and he owned the chopper and a couple self-unloading wagons and Dad owned a self-
unloading wagon. They worked together back and forth chopping corn. 
MD: Gus Marsher. You probably heard of him. 
VC: Yes, I have, he was a legislator. 
CD: When I retired from the bank, in addition to putting the first addition on the farm I also leased his 
farm and milked a separate herd over there, too. 
8 
 
(0:23:59) 
VC: When you were starting out, your Dad must have had a fair amount of equipment he had 
purchased. 
CD: Right, we had a chopper, a baler, but we were still dropping the bales on the ground picking them 
up. Most of that equipment is what we operated with until about 1980. By that time we had built the 
herd up to 60 head, so we were covering a lot more ground to get the crops. I actually didn’t really but a 
lot of equipment at that time, I hired Jim Mitchell to do all of the chopping and harrowing and stuff like 
that so it limited the amount of equipment we had to invest in. 
VC: So he actually did the work as well. 
CD: Right, we custom hired him. 
(0:25:07) 
VC: So you used an expression a minute ago, community work, is that an expression people called it 
when they shared the work? 
CD: It was more, we would go over there and fill a silo and at noon we would stop and have big meals. 
Then we would bring all the equipment to our place and do it. The following year you would switch and 
do it the other way. 
VC: So this would be around the 1970s and 80s? 
CD: No, this was probably more in the 60s. In the 70s technology changed a lot. They were looking at 
larger farms, larger equipment, so there was a gradual shift away from the working together. A lot the 
farms that had reached retirement age just sold the farms and left. People that bought the place bought 
it for the residence and some of the land just grew up. Some of the other, some of the better land was 
leased or used by some of the farmers that were left. A lot of land here in the town just grew up to 
brush. 
VC: There was sort of a tipping point there. When the farmer who reach the age that he really couldn’t 
do much more, his kids were leaving home. The families were getting small, too?  
(0:26:55) 
VC: What kind of cows have you had? 
CD: Dad originally started with a herd of Milking Shorthorns. 
MD: Yes. Then he sold the whole herd. I will never forget. He sat at the table and cried the day those 
went. He said, “Why did I sell them, why did I sell them?” He wanted to get the buildings bigger and 
better. 
9 
 
CD: It was before he started this building project. So they went up to the Last Chance Ranch up in Lake 
Placid to a large dairy operation. They had a complete shorthorn operation there. 
VC: I don’t think I have heard many people talking about Milking Shorthorns as a herd. 
CD: Right. 
VC: Is that unusual to have a herd of Shorthorns? 
MD: Yes it was. There was a herd in West Potsdam is how he got interested.  Pease, their name was. He 
really liked them. 
VC: How do they compare with butterfat and quantity? 
CD: Well, they were listed as a dual purpose animal. They were a beef and milk animal. They were 
probably similar to a Brown Swiss as far as production, protein and butterfat content. But he sold them 
in 1946, right? 
MD: Something like that. 
CD: Because the building went up in 1947. 
MD:  Yeah, the year Meribeth was born. 
(0:28:55) 
VC: What did he switch to? 
CD: We had a mixed herd. He really enjoyed the Guernsey. At the time when I bought the farm, better 
than half of the herd was Guernsey. When I started 4-H in the late 50s, my first calf that he got was an 
Ayrshire calf. By the time we were in high school, we were all showing Guernseys. 
MD: We had 23, 24 one year. 
CD: 24 the last year we all showed. Meribeth,  Anita, and I. We probably had more cows milking at the 
fair than Dad did here left at the farm. 
VC: Really?[laughter] 
(0:29:54) 
VC: Showing cattle was a big thing for you. 
MD: It was for them. It was great opportunity to compete with others, learn a sportsmanship and all 
that. 
CD: We were all involved in 4-H from the time we all old enough to join. 
MD: We were leaders for 40 some years. 
10 
 
VC: Were you both leaders? 
CD: Yeah. Nancy and I took the club over after I got back from college and started on the farm, we took 
the club back over and had it for another 12 or 14 years. 
VC: Does it still exist? 
CD: I don’t think it’s active anymore. We had it right through until our children got out of high school. 
MD: Meribeth and Mike had it awhile. 
CD: Yep, Hilda worked with Meribeth and Mike for awhile.  
VC: So 4-H was a good experience for you? 
CD: Excellent, 4-H and FFA. 4-H was more of the day to day farming activities, you know the, the cattle 
judging and the cattle showing and stuff like that. FFA was a tremendous background in parliamentary 
procedure. It just gave great opportunity to meet people across the state, across the country. 
MD: Anita was the first girl to go to the Kansas City delegate. 
CD: And the first girl to serve as an officer for the New York Association. The year after I was Treasurer 
she was Secretary. Meribeth had wanted to be in the FFA but they wouldn’t allow her. Woman weren’t 
allowed. She ended up teaching a lot of the boys that were in the Potsdam FFA. They came up to the 
farm for Leadsmen and judging contests. We had trainings there at the farm and she’d end up teaching 
them what they had to know to go compete where she couldn’t complete. 
VC: That’s ironic. 
(0:32:09) 
VC: So Guernseys are still what you have? 
CD: No, probably in the early 90s when the economics of dairying kept on getting tighter and tighter the 
rewards for the butterfat weren’t sufficient to off-set the decrease in production. 
MD: You couldn’t afford to buy them either, they were so expensive. 
CD: The Guernseys had an inherent problem with reproduction. They just had a lot more, with the 
introduction of artificial insemination, and with stressing them for higher production, you just weren’t 
able to get them bred as well. We had a farmer that was just starting up in the Malone area. We ended 
up selling him the majority of the registered Guernseys went to him.  
VC: Was that tough for you to get rid of the Guernseys? You liked them as a breed? 
CD: It’s hard not to like their personality, and their disposition is so much calmer than other animals. 
(0:33:46) 
11 
 
VC:  Ayrshires—are they the ones that get a little rambunctious? 
CD: They were a more timid animal than the Guernseys. 
VC: But you haven’t gone to Holsteins? 
CD: Yes. 
VC: You have gone to Holsteins. 
CD: Yes, we are all Holstein now. 
VC: Do you have red and white Holsteins? 
CD: We do have some. 
VC: Is that just some sort of mutation or something. 
CD: Yes, a genetic throwback. 
VC: Nothing different about the milk content or anything? 
CD: No, we have a young fellow, whose father has worked for  . . . 
MD: Since ’77. 
CD: 36 years. So his son grew up on our farm also and he’s at Cobleskill now. He has developed quite an 
affinity for red and whites, so he got 1 or 2 that he has bought and brought back to the farm and plans 
on showing them another year. 
VC: On your farm? 
CD: Yes. 
(0:34:53) 
VC: You never had Jerseys? 
CD: No. Dad had a couple, but he just never really pursued them. 
MD: Bob Hall was the other fellow at Canton that was good friend of ours.  
VC: Francis Hall? 
MD: No, Bob Hall. 
MC: There is another, Francis, what’s his name? He taught Ag Mechanics at part of that program. Of 
course that program is all gone. That was a controversial thing. 
12 
 
CD: Anita’s husband is a professor for Ag Mechanics at Cobleskill and has been involved in the John 
Deere program for years. He spends time working with local dealers and students doing internships and 
things. 
(0:35:59) 
VC: So how many of you are actually working day to day on the farm now? 
CD: My 2 sons. In January 1 of 2012 we formed and LLC. Nancy and I brought the 2 sons. Both of them 
got their 4 year degrees from Cobleskill and worked out of other places for a couple of years, and 
eventually came back to farm and have been on the farm for 5 to 8 years. So we decided it was time for 
them to be involved. They were interested in continuing so we formed an LLC and brought them into the 
partnership. They pretty much take care of the day to day operation on the farm now. Rob, who I hired 
in 1977 is working there with them. And they just have some part time high school help that work with 
them also. 
MD: The oldest bought the place next door. 
CD: Our oldest son bought the farm next door. 
VC: His name is? 
CD: Wade. 
VC: And your other son? 
CD: Mark. 
VC: And they are how old now? 
CD: Wade is 33 and Mark will be 32. 
VC: They have families of their own? 
CD: They live close. Wade’s son Owen is 7th generation to be on the farm. 
VC: My goodness, how old is he? 
CD: He’s 4. He helps his dad in the barn in the evenings. When we bought the farm next door they 
remodeled and put a group of young stock in there. 
MD: His wife had cattle and her father sold the farm, so she brought her cattle down. 
CD: We have dairy through and through. We got it coming from both sides. 
MD: They are expecting a baby in June. 
(0:38:20) 
13 
 
VC: Was there ever any question that your sons would come back to the farm? 
CD: All that Nancy and I strived for was to develop a farm to have the resource base that if they wanted 
to farm it would be available, be a viable farm to continue on with. But it was really hard at the time 
when we were deciding about it. If you want to burden them with the 7 days a week, it is long hours, 
they both work 14 hours a day, 6 to 7 days a week depending on the time of the year. The boys both 
talked about it from the time they were old enough. 
MD: Both of them are involved with farm girls, which help. 
VC: They were both in 4-H? FFA? 
CD: Yes, they developed an appreciation. Then we have also been involved in maple. We do the maple 
sugaring. I had bought some additional property back in ’85 and had a forester that came. He was going 
to mark it for productive woods. He had been down there about an hour and came back and said to me, 
“What do you want to do with all the sugar maples?” Instead of marking it as a source of lumber and 
logs to sell, market it as a sugar bush. So we ended up building the sugar house down there in 1986. I 
wanted to get back into it. We had done it as kids. The old sugar house that Mom used to boil in was 
built in 1918. Some of the buckets that my grandfather bought for 3 cents apiece from Montgomery 
Ward Catalogue are still down at our sugar house. 
(0:40:50) 
VC: Do you still use them? Do you have tubing? 
CD: We are pretty much all tubing now. I put up 150, 200 buckets. Before the ice storm we were about 
1500 buckets and 1500 tubing, but then after the ice storm there was a year that we didn’t make sugar 
because the woods were just devastated so bad. When we went back we ended up with about only 
1700 taps. We have been able to gradually expand that back to about 2500. That is challenge enough. 
The boys aren’t involved a lot with the maple because they simply spend too much time on the dairy, so 
I have kind of inherited that end of the operation. 
VC: Doesn’t last all year. 
CD: It is similar to dairy in the technological changes that have taken place. It is just amazing. 
MD: He has been lucky, too. Meribeth and Mike have a good market up at Lake Placid so they have been 
buying his syrup, too. 
(0:42:10) 
VC: So you aren’t doing too much retail? 
CD: We still maintain a large retail in this area. I just got an order here today from some to go to Hawaii, 
Singapore, and Hong Kong. We shipped 2 gallons to Louisiana one time. It left here as maple syrup and 
14 
 
ended up there as water. Somewhere along the way one of the UPS workers ended up with 2 gallons of 
maple syrup. 
(0:42:50) 
VC: So this is a big question. How would you compare the changes that have happened over the years? 
CD: A lot more physical activity back then. We cleaned the gutters by hand, we threw the silage out of 
the silo by hand, and we loaded the shucks of corn onto the wagon by hand and fed them through an 
old ensilage cutter by hand. There was a tremendous amount of physical work, now there is a lot more 
mechanization and automation and a lot more stress. When we were kids, we would get up in the 
morning, milk early, then get in the car and drive and spend the day at the state fair. Then come back 
and help Dad with chores when we got home. We got away and had a wonderful day, and wonderful 
memories. Now the way the farm is, it is just not available. You’re really incapable, unless you can work 
it out to take the day off, schedules are much more fixed. There is so much more emphasis on 
production, and production per cow that everything has to done. You try to just bore then into giving 
you the most milk possible. No changes, no stress. It’s much more technical and much more stressful 
than when I was a child. 
MD: He has a lot to be thankful for in his life. She is a wonderful bookkeeper. Her mother was very 
business-oriented too, and Nancy is excellent. 
VC: What was Nancy’s family name? 
CD: Everhart. 
(0:45:33) 
VC: Did she live around here? 
CD: West Stockholm. 
VC: So you knew her in school? 
CD: I had to go to Cornell though to appreciate her [laughter] 
MD: She’s a wonderful girl. I don’t know what I would have done without her. She takes me to the 
doctor, she comes every night to make sure I am all right. 
CD: She still feeds calves twice a day. 
VC: You said she would have to leave at 3:00, does that mean to feed the cows? 
CD: Yes. 
MD: With all the talking, I couldn’t get by without saying how important she is to the business. 
VC: She did not grow up on a farm? 
15 
 
CD: No, but 4 or 5 days after we got back from the honeymoon I was getting off a tractor and severely 
sprained an ankle and could hardly get around. So she stepped in and started learning how to milk cows 
at that point. 
VC: Drive a tractor? 
CD: No, she would rather work with animals. She was a teacher. She taught math out at St. Mary’s 
School for several years. Once she was pregnant with Wade she decided she’d rather work with calves 
than kids.  
VC: So she grew up in town. 
CD: Right. I had a tremendous appreciation. Her brother worked for Dad and had animals there at their 
place and had a flock of laying hens. So she was always involved with animals. She has been the anchor 
of the operation, that’s for sure. 
VC: Farm wives often are. 
MD: She’s the bagbalm.  
VC: I was going to get to her, but I am glad you brought it up. 
(0:44:45) 
VC: How large is the operation now? 
CD: We own about 700 acres. We are milking about 150 animals. They boys are looking to gradually 
build up to a herd of about 199. Once you reach 200 it’s a CAFO. 
VC: A what? 
CD: CAFO. Consolidated Animal Feeding Operation [laughter]. As far as the record goes, we will never go 
over 199. 
(0:48:25) 
VC: Do you know the Gilberts? They have large operation there. The feeding is all scientific, it is all 
computerized, have you gone to some computerization? 
CD: Yeah, for years. It has probably been 20 years that we’ve used computer generated feed formulas. 
At one time all of the animals we had were evaluated and plugged into a computer and there was 
electronic dating involved to make for the optimum dairy cow. 
MD: She does most of the computer work. 
CD: All of our records are on computers. What I did with a 3 ring notebook has all been converted onto 
computers. 
16 
 
(0:49:40) 
VC: Is one of your sons responsible for animals, and the other for crops? 
CD: No, Mark milks, Wade does all the feeding, all of the mixes. We do everything by scales and measure 
right to the pound. 
VC: Some of the crops you raise, you feed with? 
CD: We raise alfalfa, grass hay, corn silage, a bunch of corn for grain, high moisture corn, shell corn. For 
years we grew soybeans. We were up around 100 acres of soybeans, but we cut back on that. 
VCP: Because? 
CD: In this area, if you are looking at cash crops, the corn is a more stable, reliable crop. Soybeans are 
sort of a hot and cold. 
VC: People are raising a lot more corn then they ever did. Some of it’s being sold for processing? 
CD: We sold about, well with the drought our production was limited this past year. So we weren’t able 
to sell as much. We anticipated selling 100 acres as cash grain to board over others in Canton. But we 
only did about 40. We needed to keep the balance in order to meet our own supply and demand. 
(0:51:27) 
VC: Given the margin of profit,  keeping the farm under 200 head is alright for your families? 
CD: There are several factors that go into consideration. Number 1, the land, right, if we wanted to 
expand beyond that we would have to look into another area because the limits on tillable land right 
here in the town of Stockholm. The other thing, we have a little different approach. We do all of our 
own building, we cut the logs, saw the lumber, and do all the construction work ourselves. Our parlor 
was put into operation for 10% of what some of the other farms have invested around. We do the 
maple sugaring, we sell firewood and stuff like this. We have those sorts of resources that are available 
to us that offer us a different income opportunity than a real concentrated, consolidated dairy operation 
would. We are looking at a little more niche, doing more of the processing of maple. We expanded into 
maple cream, maple candies, maple granulated sugar and stuff like this, other revenue streams 
available. 
(0:53:14) 
VC: My dad had a general store, and would have a lot of farmers come in, and I remember him saying, 
“A good farmer will always have something to sell you.” 
CD: Yeah. 
VC: You are in or you are out. There was a fellow outside of Hopkinton named Curtis Benham, and he 
was an old fashion farmer. 
17 
 
MD: Yes, they were related to the Cooks, too. 
VC: This was 50 years ago, but Curtis was an old time farmer, and my dad swore by his maple syrup. But 
they would have potatoes, or in late summer they would have gladiolas to sell, but there was always 
something for a little bit of cash, and that has changed so much. 
CD: But now if you read a lot of the agricultural magazines they are starting to cycle back to this theory. 
You not only have a herd of cows, but you have a corn maze and sell pumpkins in the fall and give hay 
rides. The agro-tourism is coming in more and more as revenue streams for dairy farms. There are other 
options. Last year Mark grew a vegetable garden and had Indian corn and gourds and pumpkins and we 
took a load up to Lake Placid of corn stalks on top, and filled the back up with maple syrup and maple 
cream and maple sugar and gourds and pumpkins and Indian corn, and we had a fairly substantial check 
on our way home. 
(0:55:35) 
VC: Recently, I find the emphasis on buying local produce to be interesting. As a 7th generation family 
farm, why do it, why stay with farming? 
CD: The town clerk asked me that. She will say, “What were you doing today?” I will say, “ I was up at 
4:30, I was on the tractor, plowed a field, got it done, went home and ate breakfast, and here I am at the 
office at 7:30, quarter to 8. And she says, “Why?” I say, “Well, why not.” I love doing it, I love plowing, I 
love working in the fields. When the snow melts, you see the bare ground, and you are all ready, and we 
have everything ordered for the corn crop this spring, and you are already getting antsy about when you 
are going to be able to get on the ground and when are you going to be able to get the crop in. You can’t 
wait to see those corn sprouts come up. You can wait to see what type of crop you are going to have. 
You can wait to see it all harvested and all bare again. You are forever anticipating the next phase. 
VC: The bonus with you, is that you get a jump start with maple sugaring. 
CD: Right. We would have been tapping this afternoon if it was 10 degrees warmer. I checked the 
computer to see what the weather was before I set up the appointment. Not only has farming changed, 
but also the weather. When I was young, you never tapped before St Patrick’s Day. Even then a lot of 
times, it was later than that, the 20th, the 25th. Now we want to be done by Valentine’s Day, have all the 
tapping done. Last year we boiled on the 18th of February; I’ve never boiled in February before. So there 
are changes. 
(0:58:27) 
VC: Also, is the length of the season changing? 
CE: The old saying was you will always make more syrup in April than you ever will in March. Last year 
we were done the 23rd or the 24th of March we all through. It had been 80 degrees. The last day we 
boiled it had been 87 degrees. April would have been beautiful sugaring weather if the trees hadn’t all 
quit.  
18 
 
(0:59:00) 
VC: Is that true in terms of crops as well? 
CD: Yeah. At the time I was in Cornell, the general assumption was you couldn’t grow corn north of 
Watertown. Then there were changes in the genetics and they developed this 70, 80 day hybrids, so we 
were able to get a crop planted. Generally, I never planted corn before Memorial Day, but now we’re 
planting 100 day varieties. Some of the farms are planting 100 day varieties, so of the farms are planting 
110, 115 day varieties. They are looking at having corn all planted by the 20th of May. The frost in the 
fall, I can remember several times as a child going to school, driving by a field that was located down on 
Livingston Road and seeing the leaves all frozen, and now it is generally in October sometime that we 
have a killing frost. A lot changes, not only to dairy, but to the crop technology as well. 
(1:00:15) 
VC: So I assume that you subscribe to farm magazine? 
CD: Oh, yeah. 
VC: Are you involved with Cooperative Extension at all? 
CD: I was on the board back in the 80s. Dad served on the board of Cooperative Extension. I was on the 
board and a chairman back in the early 80s. 
MD: He was on the 4-H camp committee for 26 years. 
CD: I was on the Ag  Advisory Board at the Potsdam High School for 30 years. Now there is not Ag 
Department at the high school. When Dave Sipher retired. 
VC: Was Dave Sipher from Gouverneur? 
CD: Yes. 
VC: I am old enough that he was one of my students in high school. 
CD: No Kidding. 
VC: His son is the Vice-President at St. Lawrence. 
CD: Some of the family was involved at Potsdam State for awhile, too. He lost his wife, she was 
wonderful. 
VC: Dave did? 
CD: Yes, they were both teachers in Potsdam High School. They all had her for math and all had him for 
math. Nancy always said it was a great opportunity for the kids there, because they were such a loving 
couple. It was just a good model for people to see what a functioning family should be like. 
19 
 
(1:00:15) 
VC: What are your thoughts about farms bringing in migrant workers? 
CD: That is one of the reasons we’re not going to milk over 200 cows, so the boys can just do everything 
themselves. It’s the only option that’s available. When we were first starting we hired 25 or 30 high 
school kids that worked for us, and now it’s almost impossible to find a kid that is willing and able. If you 
do find one, he will say to you, “I can’t work this weekend,” when you need him to work this weekend 
because he is going to go snowmobiling with his girlfriend.  They really don’t have the type of 
background or perception of agriculture to understand that you just don’t put things off, thing have to 
get done. The migrants, I know several of the farms are really pleased. They want to work, they want to 
work as many hours as they can work, and they aren’t cheap. I mean, they are paying them good wages, 
anywhere from $10 to $15 per hour, but they are a reliable work source. Occasionally there is a bad 
apple in the bunch, but most of them develop very close relationships with the farms they work on. It’s 
unfortunate that it is that way. I think the Gilberts are fortunate that they have been able to maintain a 
local work force. Right now we have some people that are interested in working. When we have an 
opening, they want to come. 
(1:04:10) 
VC: Some of these big dairies are like factory farms? 
CD: But most of them are family owned, which is the thing you have to remember. 
VC: True, family owned and operated. There are some of those big farms up here now, right? 
CD: Yes. 
VC: Some of them are big enough to have quite a work crew. 
CD: I was taking with Adon and I think they have 35, 37 people working for them. 
VC: I already had a conversation with Andy, and they have 30 workers, but they do not have migrant 
workers. There are some, like Kevin Acres, and he has a couple I think who work with him. 
CD: Stauffer have several. 
VC: Which farm is that? 
CD: It’s out in North Lawrence. Sandy Stauffer. He came up in the late 70s, Mennonite. He has 2 sons 
that are home with him now. They have 1500 and are looking to go to 3000. 
VC: Do they have name for their farm? 
CD: No, I’m not sure, but in the phone book it would be under Sanford Stauffer. His wife is Ruth and she 
was a teacher. 
20 
 
VC: So she was a local woman? 
CD: No, they were, I’m not sure, Pennsylvania or where it was from where they came. 
VC: You think they are aiming to have a few thousand head? 
CD: That’s their long term goal. Ben serves on the Soil and Water Committee with me, real sharp, young 
guy. 
VC: The Gilberts have 1300 milkers? 700 young? 
CD: Tony has said their goal is 1500. 
VC: So the Stauffer’s place is big. 
CD: They have 1500 now, so if they put the other barn up. It is going to take land resources, they are 
acquiring land and improving the land they have. 
(1:06:45) 
VC: Who is the man that has worked for you all these years? 
CD: Rob Snyder. 
VC: Do you think he would be willing to talk to us? 
CD: We’ll see. On a good day maybe. 
VC: We wouldn’t be asking probing questions. 
CD: He was off back in 1990 to farm on his own, and he decided it wasn’t his cup of tea. Then one of his 
other sons has worked for us since he was a kid, and he just left here on the 1st of December is working 
for the Gilberts.  He likes going in at 6 at night and working until 3 in the morning better than he liked 
coming at 5 in the morning and working until 3 in the afternoon. 
(1:07:55) 
VC: Do you milk twice a day? 
CD: Yes, about 2 hours. 
VC: What is the time frame? 
CD: They start at 4 in the afternoon and about 5 in the morning. 
VC: It is all parlor? 
CD: Yes. 
21 
 
VC: How many cows are in the parlor at one time? 
CD: Double 8. 8 on each side, 16. 
VC: Where do you ship your milk? 
CD: Dairylea. Sandy would be a good source of information there because he is on the board of directors 
for Dairylea. 
VC: Hannah’s talked with Tim O’Brien, what is or was his relationship with Dairy lea? 
CD: Public Relations. I don’t know if he is now or not. I haven’t talked to Tim in a year or so.  
(1:08:55) 
VC: How much milk do you send out on a week? 
CD: We are sending about 9 or 10 thousand pounds each day. 
VC: Is that pretty much consistent year round now? 
CD: Pretty much, very little fluctuation. 
VC: None of that business about  . . . 
CD:  Drying off the herd. In Australia it’s big and in New Zealand they do it all there. 
VC: Mrs. Decker, when you were young, did the cows go dry? 
CD: In the winter there was hardly any production. Most of the time I can remember, they had the 
Louisville plan back in the late 50s early 60s where they took money out of your milk for April, May and 
June and then added it back in October, November and December. The idea was to get the farmers to 
switch the herds. That started breeding artificially in the early 50s. I went and was trained in the early 
80s and we did all of our own breeding. 
MD: I showed an Ayrshire in an artificial breeding show. She was a great Ayrshire,  just a beautiful 
animal. 
(1:10:40) 
VC: I kept you both for the afternoon, and I know darn well we are going to want to come back at some 
point, but I know sugar season is about to start. 
MD: There is a lot of difference in what we were doing and what they are doing now, that’s for sure. 
VC: I’m sure you are happy to see it stay in the family. 
MD: Yes, I am. I feel bad in some ways that they feel they have to keep the farm going, but that’s their 
problem, [laughter]I never encouraged them. 
22 
 
VC: It sounds like they like doing it though. 
MD: Yep. 
CD: Very much. 
MD: We all were very farm oriented I guess you could say. I know the girls at the sorority all thought it 
was wonderful that we were such a close-knit family because so many of those girls came from broken 
homes. You can almost tell when a girl was from a broken home, when they entered the sorority. 
CD: I remember the girl that came from Boston. I think you asked her one of the last days before she left 
to go back what she thought about it. She commented that it really wasn’t quite as romantic as she 
hoped it would be. She didn’t have time enough to sit on a porch in a rocking chair and watch the corn 
grow. 
VC: I have one thing that I have to ask you, but I will turn this off.