STEVE BENNET 
January 12, 2012 
 
Summary: Steve Bennet, boatman, talks to Pat Jasper about his family's career on the 
waterfront. From how his father and mother started on the waterfront, right up to his 
grandson showing an interest on working at the Port. He also talks about exactly what his 
job entails and just how dangerous it is.  
 
00:00:14 
Home 13531, Willow Height Ct. Clearlake City 
 
Born in Houston in 1955, oldest of 4 kids. Dad was away at sea working on the ship, 
from Georgia. Mother from Texas. During WW1 Dad and cousin wanted to find work. 
Wanted to join the Marines. Was told not to join the Marines but the Merchant Marines. 
Was told of the extra pay. Went to Florida to get into radio class. Completed the class and 
waited for a ship out. Cousin Joe was shipped out. Dad was left waiting. Then hired as a 
deckhand. Worked his way up to become Captain of the ship. Came to New Orleans and 
Galveston. Mom worked as a secretary. They met and married. Smell of crude oil. Dad 
was accepted as a Houston ship pilot.Dad was pilot for over 30 years. Dad made 
introductions and started working part time for a boatman. Wife went into labor while 
was in Florida. Got back to Pasadena. Son was born healthy but contracted meningitis 
that left him with brain damage. Got relocated to Houston. Worked part time tying up 
ships until August 1978. Job has been helpful because could work when it was feasible 
and could take off when needed. Back then, men had ice chests full of beer and cigarettes 
and could drink and smoke on the job.  
 
00:16:00 
Very low on the totem pole. Peers that he started with are no longer around. Back then 
while on a boat, did not wear life jackets, hard hats, no protective gear. No radio. 
"Seniority is good, the older you get" 
 
00:20:00 
Have had a few incidents while running the boat up and down the channel. Tornado. A 
lot of changes, technology wise, makes it a lot easier, 
 
00:25:40 
Dad was number 75. Ned Murser top pilot then. When Dad got in the early 60s, had to 
get to know everyone that was there.  
 
00:27:15 
Boatman are ILA local. The company that started boatman position was the Houston 
Mooring company. Started off part time and if they needed more people they would vote 
in more people. As President of the local, wanted to introduce a program for drug 
 
 
screening and rehab. Back in the 80s someone filed a lawsuit against hiring 
discrimination. Still fighting the lawsuit but now we had a "stair-step system" 
deal. got the lawsuit fixed and now invite applications to fix positions. 
 
00:32:08 
Most of the men moving up the ladder were sons of former employees. That's when the 
lawsuit came in. Nepotism. System worked out that benefits everyone. It is a good part 
time job for the extra men.  
 
00:36:53 
In group A everyone gets paid the same. The senior most member gets to run the boat and 
run the gang. Both those jobs mean extra money. The order in which people get the job in 
the groups.  
 
00:40:26 
Have had women working and people from all races have worked. There are about 3-4 
locals. Clerks and checkers, car loaders, warehouse local, the boatman local. Only 75 
people in Houston tie the ships up. Will meet the other locals during general meetings. 
They are longshoreman. Do not load ships but are still longshoreman.  
 
00:45:34 
Back then Galveston had a local too. They did not have a contract like the one in 
Houston. Negotiated a new contract. From getting paid $4.70 a job to $12.00 a job. 
Wages progress by zones. Became $8.00 extra for running a boat. "With Boatman, you 
just die usually or very few of us retire."  
 
00:50:52 
At Houston Mooring, Charlie Block's dad - longshoreman would be on one side of the 
channel wanting to cross and work on the ship and he had a rowboat and he would charge 
them a nickel a person to row them across. From there he got into tying up ships, 
Charlie's brother was tired of waiting around to get a job. He tossed the charter and set up 
a hiring hall so companies could hire them through that. Everyone has to take turns 
dispatching. No paid dispatcher. have to dispatch for 8 hours once every 15 days, Don't 
get paid.  
 
00:55:02 
Office will call with a job going to city dock 30. Ship inbound at Shell. Down at the dock 
wait for ship. Radio on and can hear Port of Houston spot the ship. Tell the ship where 
they want it. Two men on the stern and two on bow. Guys will throw a heaven line over 
that has a monkey fist on it. It is a line which has a weight on one end and throw it to the 
dock. On the other end it is ties to the ship's line. Boatman will take the line and pull it 
over and take the heaven line and throw it back up to the ship and tie it on. spring lines 
first and then the stern lines out. two men on each end when tying a ship up. It is a twenty 
 
 
foot pull up to tying the ship up. When lines get wet they soak up a lot of water. The 
newer lines are heavier. Sometimes use the truck to tie up the ship. when it comes to 
untie the ship loose, there will be two boatman. One on stern and one on bow. Ship would 
select the headlines. When ship goes into crude terminal or chemical dock. Ship is now 
800 ft long, 136 ft wide and draft of about 42 ft under the water. Ship will come 
alongside the boat that boatman is in. Have two gangs. One guy running the boat, one 
guy swamping - the one who stand behind the boat operator and wraps the lines off when 
they come on the boat. One deckhand, who takes the lines on the ford end of the boat as 
they slack them down. So, they slack it down to the guy, the deckhand holds it steady 
amidst the wind and the water and the elements. Deckhand would get the line on the bow 
and run it down the port side, pass it to the boat operator. Swamper in the back has a 
small half inch line that he wraps around this and puts on the bit. Boat will take that line 
and put it on the bid. Since the boat operator is squatting so much, have been doing it for 
35 years have shot the knees out. Also suffer from Arthritic pain in the fingers from 
pulling the lines. Can take from anywhere between 15 mins to and hour and half to tie up 
a ship. Depends on the situation, the docks, the ship, and the crew. Like the 15 mins jobs 
better. Sometimes the giant ships are easier and faster to tie up than the small ones.  
 
01:02:09 
have a lot of knowledge. the newer guys want to start running the boats from the first 
day. But they don't know how to react in most situations. Was tying up a ship at 
Petrotanks, brother-in-law was running one of the mooring boats. Ship had a variable 
pitch wheel. Crew slacked off too much line all at once. Right before Mark got to the 
bank, the line got wrapped around the propeller and all of a sudden the boat went 
underwater and started pulling it back towards the ship. Mark and James were stuck in 
the boat and couldn't get out. Luckily, before it got to the propeller, the bit on boat that 
was holding the line, broke and came out and the boat just came up to the water. Another 
time, at Barber's Cut. Were using the truck to pull. Through a series of events, the truck 
was found hanging and luckily Mark jumped off. The line broke and the truck went to the 
bottom of the ship channel. Know people who have broken their legs, hurt my back, 
cracked vertebrae, strained ligaments. One guy lost seven fingers by the backlash on the 
ship.  
 
01:07:10 
Watched how older guys ran the boat, the little tricks they had, where to run the boat 
when you are hooked up. Now there are training programs. Boat training classes. Test 
new recruits ability to maneuver the boat. On probation they can only operate certain 
boats on certain docks. New recruits have to do 20 jobs under a trained professional.  
 
01:11:11 
As a union member soaked up everything the older members were saying. Watched out 
for you. When first starting out was still in the navy, so did not have a vehicle. Never had 
a paid vacation. Take off then don't get paid. No sick pay.  Dispatch for free.  
 
 
 
01:17:50 
Contract for fringes. Increased it for the first time. Got a pay raise or a fringe raise. 
Increased retirement to $3.75 now. Goes into individual 401Ks. Pension system.. Need 
1000 jobs to get into the system.  
 
01:22:26 
Work month. With group and seniority can do 10 jobs a day. 50 jobs in 5 days. Work 
week is not 5 days a week. It is 365 days a year. Paycheck is every 2 weeks. 16-18 hrs 
day. Work is not guaranteed. There could be fog, channel could shut down. Have the best 
job in the world. Could take off whenever wanted to see kids games, concerts and other 
events. No other job would give levy to do that. Have hope for grandson. He seems 
interested. May take him down to the docks. Family would sit in the truck watching him 
work. After 9/11, fences came up, places cordoned off, camera monitoring everything.  
 
01:30:20 
There are dangers around the work place. If ships surges, lines will pop. wires will break, 
hooks will come off. Accident at Barber's cut where man lost both his legs and was 
pronounced dead soon after that.  
Have had boats crushed. Have had boats leave out from under. There are all kinds of 
accidents.  
 
01:34:41 
Rope draggers, boatman. Line handlers. Terminology. Decals on hard-hat. When first 
started out, wore a cowboy hat. On the hard hat, have a work number on. Might put a 
sticker on. Get recognized by the color of the hardhat. Took a trip with dad on ship from 
Houston to New York and back at 10 years of age. Started love for sea. Was made to 
color maps on board. Got to go out on the bow in the morning and gather the flying fish 
that landed on the deck at night. Was assistant first mate to Dad. Was paid $42.00 in 
quarters. Had a bag of quarters, papers, two frozen flying fish. Was the richest kid 
around.  
 
01:41:03 
Mother would see the boatman tying the ships up and she would tell Dad, "That would be 
a great job for Steve." Dad set up the job. Can't be a pilot because of colorblindness. 
Failed all the tests.  
 
01:46:35 
Sister went to A&M and got her 3rd mates license in Galveston. She worked in Oregon. 
and then finally got her Captain's license. After parents passed away she did not go back 
to sea. The whole family has some ties to the sea and the port. It all started from father 
and cousin running away to join the Marine and getting picked up by an Officer and 
being told to join the Merchant Marine.  
 
 
 
01:48:32 
Father was in Merchant Marine during the war. He stayed on even after the war. Did not 
even finish 8th grade.