Tabor, Belinda 
Interviewed by Christopher Sims 
September 30, 2017 
 
 
SIMS [00:00:05]: Alright, for the—first question is just sort of 
a pretend question so I can get the settings right— 
 
TABOR: Okay. 
 
SIMS: —If you wanna tell me, could you tell me what you had for 
breakfast? 
 
TABOR [00:00:15]: Coffee. 
 
SIMS: Coffee. 
 
TABOR: (laughing) Yes, I didn’t have anything to eat yet this 
morning. I, my, my standby.  
 
SIMS [00:00:22]: Is this one of the—have they like redone the 
McDonalds so it’s a little fancier inside here? Have you ever 
seen those? 
 
TABOR: No.  
 
SIMS: Is that McD—yeah that’s McDonalds.  
 
TABOR [00:00:30]: Yeah McDonalds, yeah. Not good—I don’t know 
what a fancy McDonalds would look like, so. (laughing) 
 
SIMS [00:00:35]: It’s amazing, actually. It’s like a—I don’t 
know. Like the stone outside—like the—sort of grey, and— 
 
TABOR: Nope. Haven’t done that yet. They tore down the 
playground and that’s about it. (laughing) 
 
SIMS [00:00:47]: That’s about it. It’s actually amazing the one 
in my hometown. It’s…I mean almost like a really nice coffee 
shop. 
 
TABOR [00:00:57]: Really. 
 
SIMS [00:00:58]: I mean the food’s like, always the same— 
 
TABOR: Right, right. 
 
SIMS [00:01:00]: But it’s…surprisingly well done.  
 
TABOR [00:01:03]: I wish we had some nice coffee shops around 
here. Only thing we have is Starbucks and that’s on post so you 
have to go on post to get— 
 
SIMS: Oh. 
 
TABOR [00:01:09]: —coffee and it’s like, “nah.” 
 
SIMS [00:01:14]: Yeah, so let’s see, I think we’re good to 
go…Could I ask you to say and then spell your name, so we’ll 
have it? 
 
TABOR [00:01:23]: Belinda Tabor. B-E-L-I-N-D-A T-A-B-O-R.  
 
SIMS [00:01:30]: Great. And can you tell me where you grew up 
and sort of what your…what type of work your parents did? 
 
TABOR [00:01:39]: My dad was a drill sergeant so I grew up 
around milit—mostly Fort Polk and Schofield Barracks, Hawaii…My 
mom was a stay-at-home person but my dad was and still is my 
idol. So, yeah. 
 
SIMS [00:01:59]: So was it…was he a—kinda a drill sergeant at 
home? Or… 
 
TABOR [00:02:05]: Yes. (laughing) But I learned some really nice 
words when I was younger that used to get me in a lot of 
trouble. (laughing)  
 
SIMS [00:02:14]: And you mentioned before we started recording, 
he was, I guess away a lot and so you were with your granddad, 
in terms of— 
 
TABOR [00:02:22]: Yes, yes. Yeah we originally from West 
Virginia. So, yeah. I spent a lot of time with my grandfather 
when my dad was overseas.  
 
SIMS [00:02:32]: And where—where was he stationed? 
 
TABOR: He was in Vietnam. 
 
SIMS: Okay. 
 
TABOR [00:02:35]: He went—he, he did six tours.  
 
SIMS: Wow. 
 
TABOR [00:02:37]: He’s got four purple hearts.  
 
SIMS [00:02:40]: And so you, you said he was your…idol or you 
looked up to him— 
 
TABOR [00:02:45]: He is.  
 
SIMS [00:02:46]: What was…of course a daughter, you know— 
 
TABOR [00:02:49]: Right, right. 
 
SIMS: —It’s not surprising but was there something about his 
work that added to that? 
 
TABOR [00:02:57]: I just thought he was awesome. I just—being 
the only girl, being daddy’s girl—you know, it just…I always 
had, I always had the military hair cut, had the military 
glasses, you know; had my own little set of fatigues and, yeah—I 
went to work with him a lot. Yeah he was—he is—cool.  
 
SIMS [00:03:18]: It was take-your-daughter-to-work day before 
they had it. 
 
TABOR [00:03:20]: (laughing) Yes, exactly.  
 
SIMS [00:03:22]: So…tell me about your impressions of the 
military when you were a kid. What did it represent for you—what 
did—how did you feel when you were around it? 
 
TABOR [00:03:36]: Y—you know, we moved around a lot and...we 
would go to these towns…excuse me, and I would see all of these 
kids that had been there since they were born, you know…and I 
would think “oh my god, how—what a boring life.” You know? I 
liked the moving and…it was…my dad, doing what he did, gave me 
so many opportunities that most kids don’t have, you know. I—
we’re a really patriotic family, we—there’s red, white, and blue 
everywhere in our houses, we fly the American flag, we stand for 
the national anthem, we say a prayer, so it’s…to me it was, it 
was, it was something special growing up as a military kid. 
 
SIMS [00:04:29]: So where were all the places that you lived? 
 
TABOR [00:04:35]: Schofield Barracks Hawaii, Fort Polk, Fort 
Ashby West Virginia…you’ll have to excuse me, I had a 
stroke…back at Fort Polk (laughing)…that’s about—and Colorado, 
which I loved it there too. But…that’s about all I can think of 
right now.  
 
SIMS [00:05:06]: And so how did you, prior to doing role play, 
what—what brought you back to Fort Polk? Or had you been in this 
area for a long time? 
 
TABOR [00:05:17]: Whenever I moved away the—, whenever I grew 
up? 
 
SIMS: Yeah, so it seems like you lived in all these places— 
 
TABOR: Yes. 
 
SIMS [00:05:22]: And then obviously you’re here now so what, 
like what…was it because that it was the last place your dad was 
stationed that— 
 
TABOR [00:05:29]: Well he retired here. And then, you know being 
a rebellious child I moved to Boston, Massachusetts, and then he 
got sick and I came back home. 
 
SIMS [00:05:39]: Okay.  
 
TABOR [00:05:39]: And bought me ten acres of land on the lake 
and…been happy ever since.  
 
SIMS: And what, when you came back, what type of work did you 
do? 
 
TABOR [00:05:51]: I worked out—I was feeding the soldiers out at 
Fort Polk, I was a cook, and then I heard about a opening at 
B.D.M. (Braddock, Dunne & McDonald)  this was back before it was 
the Cubic and I went out there and applied and got the job.  
 
SIMS [00:06:09]: As a role player? 
 
TABOR: As a role player. 
 
SIMS [00:06:11]: So what—prior to getting the job—had you like 
seen role players around or what was— 
 
TABOR [00:06:16]: I had some friends at church who were, who 
worked there and they were always telling me that it was cool 
and it was fun and so, being a adventurous kind of person I 
always wanted to try it— 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
TABOR: —So, best job I ever had.  
 
SIMS [00:06:29]: So tell me about the, the first day or the 
first week that you’re out there—what was your impressions of 
it? How would you describe it to someone? 
 
TABOR [00:06:39]: I hated it. We went out to this village, this 
building—no air conditioning, no heat, no bathrooms, no running 
water (laughing)—and we sat around in the high grass and...the 
port-a-potties were horrible but…I decided to stick with it, 
thought maybe it would get better, and it did. So…but yeah, it 
was kind of scary at the beginning ‘cause they—in prep they tell 
you “make sure you check the port-a-potties for snakes, and 
scorpions, and all kinds of other wicked stuff.” (laughing) 
 
SIMS [00:07:17]: Right. They—sometimes they do like female only 
port-a-potties— 
 
TABOR: Yes. 
 
SIMS: Which is probably a little bit better, maybe? (laughing) 
 
TABOR [00:07:24]: Well, when I started there was seventy-six, 
around seventy-six people only, so there was only one port-a-
potty per, per village so…(laughing) 
 
SIMS [00:07:33]: So what year did you start? That must have been 
early. 
 
TABOR: 2000. 
 
SIMS: Okay. And…could you describe the villages at that point? 
It seems like they’re probably a lot, was a lot different than 
what they are now.  
 
TABOR [00:07:48]: Yeah. They—they were just concrete buildings 
with holes in them for windows. And…I guess because hunters and 
stuff always go out there they had bullet holes and stuff but 
yeah, they were just plain concrete buildings. And now they’re 
like…like a home, you know what I’m saying? Like home—these were 
just cold, concrete buildings—several floors.  
 
SIMS [00:08:19]: So how…as they evolved into homes, did you—were 
you involved with like, I’ve noticed there’s a lot of paintings 
and stuff, did you do any of that type of stuff? 
 
TABOR [00:08:31]: No, no. That’s—I am not an artist. Hell-
raiser, yes. Artist, no. (laughing) 
 
SIMS [00:08:39]: So what, I’m trying to figure out how those 
paintings happened. Did you—because it doesn’t look like it’s—
it’s like a—an artist, that’s not, it’s not like a—official— 
 
TABOR [00:08:50]: Not like a graffiti. 
 
SIMS [00:08:51]: Right.  
 
TABOR: Right. 
 
SIMS: Like it seems…like it’s—somebody had to give the okay but 
it also doesn’t seem like it’s mandated in a certain way, 
there’s like a lot of creativity. 
 
TABOR [00:09:02]: Well they…it got to be—when Cubic first took 
over from B.D.M. (Braddock, Dunne & McDonald) it got to where 
they wanted it to be more like…a village instead of people just 
setting around outside to build these concrete buildings. And…I 
was a—I was a nurse in Youngstown and…I had the—I had the 
hospital. And it was just a building. So I had one of the girls—
wonderful artist—she come and painted me a carpet on the floor. 
Because you know we couldn’t use real ones— 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
TABOR [00:09:35]: —because the rats would tear it up or get 
infested with bugs, but…she come in and made this beautiful—
painted magnolias and just painted it with the greens and the 
burgundies and—oh it was—yeah, just…as long as they didn’t mind 
what it, what you painted, as long as it…coincided with what it 
was supposed to be meant for. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
TABOR [00:09:58]: So yeah, it’s, she—we painted bookshelves on 
the walls and, so it was—you know, make it look more like a 
hospital. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
TABOR [00:10:04]: Instead of just a building. 
 
SIMS [00:10:06]: So what vill—do you—what village, this was in 
Youngstown? 
 
TABOR [00:10:08]: Right off Youngstown road, yes. 
 
SIMS: Okay. 
 
TABOR: I don’t know, I don’t know the words for it now so. 
(laughing)  
 
SIMS [00:10:13]: Yeah it’s hard to remember. Yeah. So would you 
actually…did you come up with the idea like for a rug and for 
the bookshelf or? 
 
TABOR [00:10:22]: Yes.  
 
SIMS: Yeah. 
 
TABOR: I wanted somebody to do that and she, I, I, I knew Miss 
Sue could paint and she’s like “yeah.” And so we got with supply 
and they got all the stuff that we needed…she would go through 
and start drawing it and hand me a little bitty paintbrush and 
she said “now stay in these lines and you can color this part.” 
(laughing) 
 
SIMS: Right. You were her assistant. 
 
TABOR [00:10:41]: Yeah. (laughing) 
 
SIMS: Color by numbers.  
 
TABOR [00:10:44]: Yeah, that—more like color by numbers, yeah.  
(laughing) 
 
SIMS [00:10:49]: So the—I also noticed a lot of people do like 
crafts like handmaid stuff, did you do any of that? 
 
TABOR [00:10:59]: Crocheting and basket weaving was about—I was 
mostly in the kitchen, I was mostly cooking. When they found out 
I used to cook for military they, yeah, they put me in the 
kitchen a lot.  
 
SIMS [00:11:11]: So what…how does the cooking work? So…I’ve seen 
like M.R.E.s (Meal, Ready-to-Eat) out there sometimes but you 
all did actual…like meal time. 
 
TABOR [00:11:23]: Right. We got kitchens and…we would take 
donations and then that was what we would go the next day and 
plan—you know plan our meals and then go to Walmart’s and go 
shopping and come back. We’d have breakfast and lunch, and if we 
got there running late we’d have dinner. And then at the end of 
rotation, what was left in refrigerator, got all cooked up.  
 
SIMS [00:11:45]: So how…is that like something that the 
contractor decides or is it kind of left up to the village to 
figure out how you all are gonna do the food? 
 
TABOR [00:11:57]: It’s, it’s, it’s the village, it’s the cooks 
and the…oh what are they called… 
 
SIMS: The work leaders or… 
 
TABOR: Work group leaders, yes. 
 
SIMS [00:12:06]: So the, the work group leaders, would they—so 
they find out that you’re a cook and basically that— 
 
TABOR: Yeah. (laughing) 
 
SIMS: —that becomes your job.  
 
TABOR [00:12:13]: (laughing) Yes.  
 
SIMS [00:12:16]: But are you also, you’re still a role player 
though, right? 
 
TABOR: Yes. Oh yes.  
 
SIMS: So— 
 
TABOR: You still have your, you still have your, your character 
papers you get, and that comes first.  
 
SIMS: Right. So tell me about some of the—like what would be 
some typical meals that you all made? 
 
TABOR [00:12:37]: Oh for breakfast gravy and biscuits or 
breakfast burritos—you can lay it all out, everybody can serve 
themselves, you know…lunches you know, chili dogs or…hobo stew—
you know everybody brings in, first day of rotation everybody 
brings in one canned good, throw it all in the pot, we’ve got 
hobo stew. So, just things like the easy things—spaghetti—you 
know, easy to clean up, because if we were in the middle of a 
meal and they called time to start whatever was going to happen, 
everything stopped. It didn’t matter if we were halfway through 
cooking it— 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
TABOR: —all the food was laid out, it didn’t matter.  
 
SIMS [00:13:27]: So were…like how much would a donation like, 
be. Would like someone give like a dollar or two? 
 
TABOR [00:13:34]: Yeah usually about a dollar or two.  
 
SIMS: And that, I guess because it was such a large group, it 
would— 
 
TABOR: Oh yeah, it would buy, it would buy—you know, you buy in 
bulk, so it’s a whole lot easier and a whole lot cheaper to do 
it that way. But yeah, that’s usually what it was. And you know 
the, the T.M.s (Tactical Manager) and all them would, it, they 
would call around the villages and find what they were having. 
One was having a fish fry, that’s where they would all meet up. 
That day, you know so. (laughing) 
 
SIMS [00:14:00]: Right. What are the T—what’s a T.M.? 
 
TABOR [00:14:02]: Oh, the, the, the military man who, who are 
over the military that are out of the villages. They were called 
T.M.s back when I was there so I don’t know what they’re called 
now.  
 
SIMS: They’d find out where they could get the best food. 
 
TABOR: Yeah, they would call out on the radios, find out what 
each village was having for lunch that day, and that’s where 
they would all be. 
 
SIMS: So you could cook fish? Like what type of— 
 
TABOR: Fish fry, tilapia, mostly. So.  
 
SIMS: But what type of…was there a stove and fridge? 
 
TABOR [00:14:29]: Yeah, yes. We’d bring out a stove and 
refrigerator on the first day and set it up because we didn’t 
dare leave them out there because they would walk off. Or 
somebody would borrow them or relocate them. But yeah, we would, 
we would have trucks that would have the well pump—in some of 
the villages, and the stove and refrigerator were the first ones 
to come out. ‘Cause people like to eat and people like to drink, 
so. (laughing) 
 
SIMS [00:14:52]: So did you enjoy the cooking? 
 
TABOR [00:14:54]: I did. I, I, I still love it. I love cooking. 
I was raised—when I was little it was me, my four brothers, my 
mom and dad, and my aunt. So I’m used to cooking for a crowd.  
 
SIMS [00:15:07]: Right. That’s a, yeah. It’s a slightly 
different skill than like just cooking for you know, for— 
 
TABOR [00:15:07]: I still cook a big gigantic meal and it’s just 
three of us now. (laughing) 
 
SIMS: So that’s where I, I don’t cook that much but when I do I 
wanna make sure it’s gonna—we’ll get a lot out of it.  
 
TABOR: Right, right.  
 
SIMS: ‘Cause it’s the clean-up that seems to be the— 
 
TABOR: The worst part. (laughing) 
 
SIMS [00:15:31]: Yeah. So my wife is a really good cook but it’s 
unbelievable the amount of stuff like, after she cooks. 
 
TABOR: Right.  
 
SIMS [00:15:41]: Like, I—it almost seems like it’s deliberate to 
use every possible pan and surface area. 
 
TABOR: Yep, that’s, that’s, that’s Ricky. He, my Ricky, he can 
make spaghetti and e—there’s not a clean spoon, fork, knife, 
plate, or anything in the house. (laughing) For spaghetti! 
 
SIMS: Right. My, my thing on the other hand is like, it’s—I 
won’t ever say the food is great— 
 
TABOR: Right. 
 
SIMS [00:16:03]: —but I, like I get it clean up while I make it. 
 
TABOR [00:16:06]: Right, yeah. Clean as you go.  
 
SIMS: Like that, that’s my skill. 
 
TABOR: Yep. Yep. 
 
SIMS: But, so. I guess it’s good to have both in the family. 
 
TABOR: Right, right. (laughing) 
 
SIMS [00:16:18]: So…can you tell me about each of the jobs I 
guess you had, I terms of identity as role player and kinda 
describe— 
 
TABOR: Okay.  
 
SIMS [00:16:32]: —like, like master thief  
 
TABOR: Okay. (laughing) 
 
SIMS: Like what, what the story was— 
 
TABOR: Right. 
 
SIMS: —for the person? 
 
TABOR [00:16:38]: I would get the—this was back when we could do 
things, you know back before when we got so restricted now. 
But…when I was the thief I would, I was out on Trauma Lane, I 
was always on Trauma Lane and— 
 
SIMS [00:16:53]: That’s a STX? 
 
TABOR: Yes. 
 
SIMS: Yeah.  
 
TABOR [00:16:56]: And…I would take anything that wasn’t nailed 
down. I’d take tires off Humvees, I’d take doors, I recall one 
rotation I w—it was a big, big gun fight out in the woods. And 
they left everything behind. So I was taking radios out of 
trucks, I had weapons, I had stripped the ambulance down, and 
then…a T.M. (Training Manager) come over he says “did you get 
everything you can?” I said “yeah.” He goes “there’s a soldier 
in the ambulance.” So it’s like-okay. So I get one of those, 
those litters, you know, the ones with the canvas in ‘em, and I 
told him I says “okay, you can come out here and get in that or 
I can just pull you off of there.”  
 
SIMS [00:17:43]: He was like an injured soldier? 
 
TABOR: [00:16:44]: Yes. He was, he was supposed to be—he was in 
the ambulance, he was supposed to be injured. 
 
SIMS: Right.  
 
TABOR: So he got down, he got on litter and I was dragging him 
out and I was pulling him up the hill and…I got shot in the 
head. But…(laughing)I have stolen—oh my goodness—I’d hide behind 
trees and steal their foods, steal their weapons, medical 
bags…just anything I could get my hands on. 
 
SIMS [00:18:14]: And what would you—if you got away—where do 
you—where would you take it, the stuff? 
 
TABOR [00:18:20]: I would take it to the T.M. (Training Manager) 
shack which was usually behind the port-a-potties because you 
know, the port-a-potties were off limits. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
TABOR: And he would tag everything up and I would have—again it 
was—oh I had, when they’d go back to their units and at night 
they’d talk, and I’d—when they’d come back in the morning they’d 
be looking for me. So I had like five or six different garbs I 
could put—you know change in and out of real quick—because they 
w—they, they, they’d talk amongst theirselves and, yeah. When 
they’d come in the village they were.  
 
SIMS [00:18:50]: They had basically figured out who would’ve 
done—  
 
TABOR [00:18:50]: Yes. (laughing) 
 
SIMS: Now could they get the stuff back or once it’s like 
tagged— 
 
TABOR [00:18:57]: Once it’s tagged you—if I stoled your weapon, 
you had to do the rest of the rotation without it.  
 
SIMS: Wow. 
 
TABOR: So, needless to say you didn’t last very long. 
 
SIMS: Right. They weren’t too happy if they saw you. 
 
TABOR [00:10:08]: No. (laughing) So they had their buddies 
looking for me but, it was fun. 
 
SIMS [00:19:14]: Would you say most of the time you were able to 
get stuff or were you caught most of the time, would you say? 
 
TABOR [00:19:21]: Oh I was good. We would be setting in a riot 
and they would gather around—gather around there—because they 
were protesting, and by the time that boy looked down he didn’t 
have his wallet, his radio, everything on/off of him. It’s just—
or…I would walk around and look on the ground for rocks. And 
they knew they weren’t allowed to touch me ‘cause I was a 
female. And I’d go right up, crawl right between their legs 
looking for rocks, and you know they trying to stretch up to 
where they wouldn’t touch me and by the time I come back they—
they were so busy focused on what I was doing that they didn’t 
see me take the—their, pistol out of their side or something. 
 
SIMS: Oh. 
 
TABOR: So…(laughing) 
 
SIMS [00:20:12]: Now did the soldiers just have wallets like in 
their pockets? 
 
TABOR [00:20:15]: Some of them do, they’re not supposed to carry 
them out there. 
 
SIMS: Right.  
 
TABOR: But they would have, or they would have, whatever they 
had in their pockets-radios or…j—their foods, their, their 
personal gear, yeah. If I could get my hands on it, it was mine.  
 
SIMS [00:20:33]: And when you would—were you like in a, like one 
of those dresses where it would be easy to hide stuff? 
 
TABOR [00:20:40]: Mm-hmm. Yeah. (laughing) Oh yeah, I had 
pockets built—being a seamstress I would build pockets inside 
mine so I could hide all my stuff in there. 
 
SIMS: Oh. 
 
TABOR [00:20:50]: And they couldn’t frisk me.  
 
SIMS [00:20:52]: Right, yeah. 
 
TABOR: So…(laughing) 
 
SIMS: Very smart…So if someone did…like notice something was 
gone and figured out it was you, like tell me how those wou—
those confrontations would go, like what would you all say to 
each other? 
 
TABOR [00:21:08]: If—well if they found that it-if, they 
suspected it was me— 
 
SIMS: Yeah. 
 
TABOR: I would run in the building where they have the women 
held up and I would change garbs with somebody else. So they 
would be looking for a girl you know, with the glasses on, with 
the red dress on— 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
TABOR [00:21:25]: And I would go in there and switch garbs with 
somebody else and the next thing you know I might be having 
yellow on or—you know, and I’d be setting there crocheting 
and…they…I would try my hardest not to get caught.  
 
SIMS: [00:21:38]: And did you ever—what happens if they did 
catch you and they were totally certain it was you? You know, 
you were caught red-handed? Did— 
 
TABOR [00:21:45]: I’d probably get assassinated. They’d pull me 
out in the mud in front of the building, put me on my knees, put 
my hands behind my back and shoot me in the head.  
 
SIMS: Really?  
 
TABOR [00:21:52]: Yeah. (laughing) That’s a tough one to act out 
because you gotta fall. (laughing) 
 
SIMS: Right.  
 
TABOR: But yeah, it’s—the first two times I think I passed out 
when I heard the gun click, I knew there wasn’t nothing in—you 
know what I’m saying? Just the fear that builds up in you but 
do—yeah. And you just, you just have to fall forward. Just, like 
you’re dying.  
 
SIMS [00:22:15]: Right. So it sounds like it was actually scary, 
right? Yeah. The first couple of times. But you—I loved it, I 
did.  
 
SIMS [00:22:25]: And so was that—these are, it’s not five-o-
nine, this is like the rotation unit? 
 
TABOR [00:22:29]: Rotational unit, yes sir.  
 
SIMS: And they would, were like allowed to shoot you? 
 
TABOR: (laughing) That’s, yeah, that’s the way they would do it—
everything was played out like it would be played out overseas. 
That’s what we were doing, we were training them to—how to treat 
to situations that they might encounter over there. And over 
there, if they caught you, the Iraqis, you know if they caught 
you, they would stone you to death because you know, a woman is 
not allowed to—they’re lower than goats, you know. So…if they, 
if the military caught you, if you went back to your family they 
would either hold you as a hooker or a spy and you would end up 
dead anyhow, so.  
 
SIMS [00:23:21]: So when you were…let’s, let’s say you were 
caught and then shot, like how does the village react to you—to 
one of their— 
 
TABOR [00:23:29]: Oh they come out and they’re screaming and 
crying and the women are bawling and the men are trying to 
protest—you know, waving sticks and stuff—‘cause we’re not 
allowed to hit ‘em—at the military and chasing ‘em out of town. 
And then they would have a funeral for me and…then I would move 
to another village and start all over again. 
 
SIMS [00:23:50]: So what would—let’s say…like you fall to the 
ground. 
 
TABOR: Okay. 
 
SIMS: And then, like what actually happens? Do you lie there for 
then minutes and then— 
 
TABOR [00:23:59]: Yep the ladies, yeah the ladies will come out 
there and they’ll start, they’ll start crying, they’ll all be 
grouped over top of me, and then…they’ll carry me back inside 
the building and, and— 
 
SIMS [00:24:12]: Like the fit—actually, do they put you on a 
stretcher or anything? 
 
TABOR: Yes. 
 
SIMS: Yeah. 
 
TABOR: Yes, usually, yeah.  
 
SIMS [00:24:17]: And during this time, like you’re totally 
playing dead? 
 
TABOR [00:24:20]: Mm-hmm. That’s the only time you’re allowed to 
sleep out there. (laughing) 
 
SIMS [00:24:22]: (laughing) I guess that’s a bonus of dying.  
 
TABOR: And so, yeah. It’s, it’s and, like they would have a it 
would-it, everything was acted out like acted out basically as 
close as they could to, to real life.  
 
SIMS: And then after they carry you into a building, what—like 
what happens? Like you’re obviously not sleeping there-- 
 
TABOR: No.  
 
SIMS: —for twenty hours or whatever. 
 
TABOR [00:24:46]: Oh no, no, no, no, no. They would come by, the 
T.M.s (Training Manager) would come by and they would pick me up 
and clear me for the day and I’d go home and then the next day 
we’d start over from the funeral, you know, and that’d be on the 
horse-drawn cart. 
 
SIMS [00:25:01]: So you’d actually be in a, like a coffin? Or— 
 
TABOR: No, they—just like out on top. 
 
SIMS: But do you, I mean— 
 
TABOR: Yes. 
 
SIMS: Basically close your eyes and— 
 
TABOR: Yep. Close my eyes, take a nap, whatever, you know and 
just lay there and pray to God nobody drops me. (laughing) 
 
SIMS [00:25:14]: So what do you, what do you—it must be an odd 
experience—like what are you thinking while you’re being, like 
wheeled through the village to the graveyard? 
 
TABOR [00:25:24]: Mostly…”God that was a big home” or like I 
said, “I hope they don’t dr—whoever picks me up to take—put me 
off the wagon to put me on the ground— 
 
SIMS: Right.  
 
TABOR: —doesn’t drop me” or… 
 
SIMS: And then did they, what is the funeral service like in the 
village? Like who…like they, they wheel you into the graveyard 
and then what happens? Are they picking you up and then putting 
you on the ground, like where they grave is? 
 
TABOR [00:25:52]: Yes. And all the ladies are the—you know the 
men are in the front. Because it’s always segregated. The men 
are in front and they’ll take, they’ll, they’ll take the wagon 
in there and the ladies are in the back crying and the, and 
whenever they pick you up and put you on, in the litter on the 
ground, all the ladies gather round and they’re crying and all 
the men are shouting in protest or, or making threats because 
regardless—whenever there’s a big mob together, there’s always 
military presence. I guess so, maybe they couldn’t—you know, 
carry weapons around or something like that—but it’s basically 
like a, a funeral procession over here. 
 
SIMS [00:26:29]: Right, and they’re basically, if I remember, 
they’re in the—the graveyards are pretty much right in the 
village— 
 
TABOR: Yes, yes. 
 
SIMS: —or right on the outside. You’re saying they would…you 
would never have one without like a rotational unit, like right 
there? 
 
TABOR [00:26:48]: Right, right, yes, yeah, because it, you—they 
had to have, had to be witness to it. But usually, whenever I 
was dying, I would be from the next village over, you know I 
was—I was a wife that was brought in from another village so 
they would have to carry me around to the, to the next village 
where I was from, so. 
 
SIMS [00:27:09]: And who like, who like the horses—real horses, 
right? 
 
TABOR: Mm-hmm we have real horses, goats, and geese, and all 
kinds of stuff out there. We had gardens—well we didn’t, I’m, 
I’m not sure what the—how that’s running now but yeah we had, we 
had gardens—we grew gardens every year and we subsidized most of 
our eating with the gardens—the stuff that we’d grow in the 
gardens out there.  
 
SIMS: Right…So tell me about the, like other roles that you had. 
You said you were a nurse once. 
 
TABOR: I was a nurse, yes.  
 
SIMS: What was…what’s your—what was the backstory for the nurse? 
 
TABOR [00:27:49]: It was just something they gave me. They 
needed somebody with a loud mouth who could start trouble 
(laughing) and they—I was, I was always picked for the roles 
like that but… 
 
SIMS [00:28:01]: Was there a doctor that you were assisting? Or 
was it like a clinic and you were primary medical? 
 
TABOR: I was primary medical, yeah. And…being a female…the units 
had to learn not to talk to me directly. They had to use their 
interpreter to talk to me because they weren’t allowed to look 
me in the eye so they—had, had to teach them to rely on this guy 
over here that spoke the language. 
 
SIMS [00:28:28]: And did you ever treat any real-world stuff as 
a nurse in there? 
 
TABOR: Sprained ankles, bug bites, bloody noses, just—you know, 
basic stuff. 
 
SIMS [00:28:40]: So you had actual like first-aid equipment? 
 
TABOR: Oh yeah, yeah. 
 
SIMS: Yeah. Which—do you remember which village this was? 
 
TABOR [00:28:50]: Youngstown, most of—most of my time I spend 
out there was ‘cause I was going from Trauma Lane to the regular 
village right there in Youngstown. 
 
SIMS: So tell me about some of the interactions that like, why 
would the Rotational Unit wanna come in and want to talk to it, 
the nurse? Like what were they…were they looking for something? 
 
TABOR [00:29:12]: Well most of the times it was epidemics or 
they would send out a health—if we were a small village out in 
the middle of nowhere they would send in a unit to set up a 
medical clinic—you know, people would come in and they would say 
that they had soar throats and they would pass out aspirins or 
Motrin or you know, if somebody had an arm hurt they would, you 
know—put him in a sling. Just, you know, as as…as a goodwill 
statement to show that they were trying to—and I would also 
collect school supplies for the children of the village, you 
know. 
 
SIMS [00:29:48]: How would you do that? 
 
TABOR: They—whenever they were coming in to bring the medical 
supplies in they would bring pencils and crayons and coloring 
books and stuff like that and we did have a couple of little 
people out there when I was out there that were playing children 
and they were really annoying. (laughing) 
 
SIMS [00:30:04]: Oh. I’ve never heard of-that they— 
 
TABOR: Yeah, yep.  
 
SIMS: So like how many of how many little people were there? 
 
TABOR [00:30:09]: There were two most of the time, brother-
sister pair. But they would make those soldiers crazy—they would 
run over them with their little toy trucks and pull each—the, 
the, the, they would be driving up into a village and they’d 
pull their tr—little wagon each other and the wagons out if 
front of the traffic and you know and make them stop. [laughing] 
 
SIMS [00:30:29]: That makes a lot of sense though— 
 
TABOR: Yeah. 
 
SIMS: Because they can’t obviously have…under-aged children— 
 
TABOR: Right. 
 
SIMS: —like serving the roles. 
 
TABOR: Exactly, exactly. 
 
SIMS [00:30:36]: So they had a lot of—how did they feel about 
the work, did they enjoy doing it? 
 
TABOR [00:30:42]: Oh they loved it, loved it. As a matter of 
fact the girls a stripper down the door. [laughing] But yeah 
they, they were, they were treated like any other role player. 
Except that they would wear little kids clothes, and like I said 
being as annoying as they possibly could. You know they’d climb 
up in the, in the, in the trees and grab the radios and pretend 
like they was—“hello, hello, hello!” 
 
SIMS: Right.  
 
TABOR [00:31:08]: “Roger, roger, oh, hello!” You know just…just 
acting like regular kids would do. 
 
SIMS: And so how did the soldiers respond? Are they allowed to 
like pick up the kids and… 
 
TABOR [00:31:19]: They can move them, yeah. But they…if the 
mother and father didn’t like that they could get chastised or 
stoned or possibly even killed, so.  
 
SIMS: So when they brought the school supplies in are there 
actual—are they, these are like actual pencils and coloring 
books? 
 
TABOR [00:31:41]: Yes.  
 
SIMS: And then you would store them somewhere or you know part 
of them would just— 
 
TABOR: Yeah, yeah they would go in the trunk and then the next 
rotation they’d be used again, so.  
 
SIMS [00:31:51]: So where, do you have any roles besides master 
thief and nurse? 
 
TABOR [00:31:56]: Y—like I said I was cook most of the time, one 
time the soldiers come in and I was cooking and they thought 
that we were hiding a killer—Al Qaeda guy—and they come in and 
put my hands up and I had a spoon in my hand and they buttstroke 
me, knocked all my teeth out. Because I had threatened him, with 
a spoon, he was scared of me. [laughing] 
 
SIMS [00:32:23]: But he didn’t a—did he, did he actually hit 
you? 
 
TABOR: Yes. I was unconscious for like twenty minutes. 
 
SIMS: Wow. 
 
TABOR [00:32:30]: He…he got, because he overreacted he lost 
rank, he lost pay, he had to stay in the barracks—he couldn’t go 
home—see these guys they gotta watch what they’re doing if 
they’re gonna—over there they don’t have somebody saying “okay, 
you’re in trouble.”  
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
TABOR: Over there they’d kill them. So… 
 
SIMS: Wow. 
 
TABOR [00:32:50]: But trauma, there were several times 
where…when people see blood, even if it’s fake blood, they 
associate it with pathogens, blood-born pathogens. And…I can’t 
tell you how many times we have chased people in port-a-potties 
screaming their heads off ‘cause we’d have like, a stump, and 
it’d have a pump on it and we’d be squirting with blood and 
they’d lock themselves in a port-a-pottie. [laughing] 
 
SIMS: Like the…some of the role players? 
 
TABOR: Yeah—no, the soldiers, yeah. 
 
SIMS: the soldiers.  
 
TABOR: Scared to death because they were afraid of hepatitis— 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
TABOR: Or AIDS or anything else like that. So… 
 
SIMS: But they ha—they knew it was fake but they just, just— 
 
TABOR [00:33:32]: It’s…it’s a psychological thing. When you’ve 
got the guns shooting and the bombs going off and the smoke and 
the exhaust from the cars and people screaming and hollering and 
running everywhere, I guess somewhere in your mind it becomes 
real. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
TABOR: If you’ve never experienced it before, you know. And 
they’d be running around all over the place and, yeah—if you run 
I’m gonna chase you, I’m gonna squirt blood all over you, and 
I’m gonna go for your face. Because your most vulnerable areas 
is your eyes and your mouth. So…but, freaking out over…little 
things like that. It’s… 
 
SIMS [00:34:10]: So what would happen like if a soldier runs 
into the port-a-potty that’s a— 
 
TABOR: They’re dead— 
 
SIMS: Yeah. 
 
TABOR: Yeah they go out. 
 
SIMS [00:34:17]: That’s not a glorious way to end your 
experience 
 
TABOR [00:34:19]: Exactly, exactly. We’ve even kidnapped 
colonels and thrown them into port-a-potties, that means they 
belong to us now, so. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
TABOR [00:34:36]: And if we could talk a prisoner exchange…if we 
were to do that it would usually be to take out the whole 
unit…and it’s been done—takin’ out whole units at a time. And 
then there was nobody else to play with so we had to stop doing 
it. [laughing] 
 
SIMS: Right. So that time you were knocked out, what was—when 
you came to like what was the scene? I mean I’m sure people were 
really freaked out. 
 
TABOR [00:35:00]: Yeah, it was mass chaos. Because…they had this 
guy over here in handcuffs, he’s trying to plea his case to the 
T.M.s you know—the work group leaders, and all the other role 
players were trying to figure out—because I was up against the 
wall, they hit me, he hit me right here. 
 
SIMS: So basically with the butt— 
 
TABOR [00:35:18]: Of a gun, yes.  
 
SIMS: He basically swung and… 
 
TABOR: He just—like that, just jabbed at me with it, knocked me 
unconscious.  
 
SIMS [00:35:25]: Wow, that’s… 
 
TABOR: And see they’re not suppose—they’regardless of how scared 
you get…they also need to remember that this is not real world, 
that…we’re there to help them, and this guy just said he got 
carried away and he freaked out whenever he see me with a wooden 
spoon in his hand and…all he could think of was he—that I was 
going to hurt him. 
 
SIMS [00:35:53]: Is there like a court marshal or anything that 
you like testified at or— 
 
TABOR: No, I never filed any complaints. I was running drugs one 
time, out in, in Houghton and…and STX, and I ran out of the 
building and got my boot caught on a nail and broke my leg. When 
I got the cast off, two weeks later I was running the same bag 
of drugs out the same building, caught the same nail [laughing] 
and broke my leg again. [laughing] 
 
SIMS [00:36:22]: Really? 
 
TABOR: Yeah. [laughing] 
 
SIMS: I hope the nail’s—did they finally get rid of the nail? 
 
TABOR: Yeah, they finally get rid of that whole building, so.  
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
TABOR [00:36:30]: But I have, I have busted up my knees jumping 
out of buildings—when I was the madam of the 
bordello…[laughing]I’ve had some interesting roles. 
 
SIMS: Yeah. 
 
TABOR: And at the, the, the, the rotation they would bring me 
these bombs—make-shift bombs—and weapons and stuff like that 
that I had to hide all over the bordello. And they would come 
busting up in there and you know—when somebody busts in your 
house what’s the first thing you do? You flee. So, yeah—jumping 
out of windows many of times—I’ve had to have my knee replaced, 
I’ve messed up my knees but… 
 
SIMS [00:37:09]: But is this covered by Workers’ Comp and stuff? 
 
TABOR: Yeah.  
 
SIMS: Yeah. 
 
TABOR [00:37:12]: But I’ve never pushed it any further than 
that, I—it, it was, it was a job that I really liked and then 
whenever my daughter’s unit got their orders to go overseas it 
became real to me. You know first it was just fun and games—you 
know torturing the soldiers and everything else like that and 
everything after—whenever she got her orders—her unit got their 
orders, it became a mission to train these soldiers…so they 
would come back alive.  
 
SIMS [00:37:50]: Did she come through Fort Polk? 
 
TABOR: No— 
 
SIMS: Through the 
 
TABOR: —no.  
 
SIMS: Did she have any training like that? In any way? 
 
TABOR [00:37:58]: California. But as far as I know that’s all 
she—all she had. 
 
SIMS: She was at the N.T.C. (National Training Center) 
 
TABOR: Yes. 
 
SIMS: And where was she—where did she deploy to? 
 
TABOR: Bagram, Afghanistan…she came back, she’s different than 
she was but she did come back. 
 
SIMS [00:38:25]: Glad to hear that…I’ve never seen the bordello, 
was that in Youngstown? 
 
TABOR [00:38:33]: [laughing] No, that was out in, oh…Wadi al-
Tarif. Way out in the back part. But uh… 
 
SIMS [00:38:43]: And, can you describe the outside and the 
inside of the building? 
 
TABOR [00:38:46]: Okay, it’s— 
 
SIMS: Was it clear that it’s a bordello? By—how d— 
 
TABOR [00:36:50]: Oh yeah, I had boas hanging around the 
windows—'cause we brought our own props in—big red curtains you 
know and had the little red light bulb on the outside and… 
 
SIMS: Wow.  
 
TABOR: It was, it was cool. And I had a—one of those, you know 
one of those fake plants, fake plastic plants that are in the 
basket? Now I had a land mine, and I had that setting on top it 
and they never found it. Couple years later when I went out 
there after they took that role down, that landmine was still 
setting under that tree [laughing] but it’s, it’s a job that I 
really, really loved. 
 
SIMS [00:39:29]: Was there like a actual like stage and tables 
or like rooms like— 
 
TABOR [00:39:34]: Oh yeah we separated into rooms yeah, it was, 
it had a big area you know we had the couches lined up against 
the wall and had three smaller rooms in the back with the 
curtains—you know, these god awful gaudy looking curtains— 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
TABOR: And stuff like that, you know. [laughing] 
 
SIMS [00:39:48]: Well did you decorate, I mean was that your job 
to— 
 
TABOR: Yes. It was my job to decorate my bordello. 
 
SIMS: That’s a lot, that sounds like a fun workday. 
 
TABOR [00:39:56]: [laughing]  
 
SIMS [00:39:59]: So when did you like get all that material? 
Like, is it stuff you would buy at Walmart or? 
 
TABOR: I would go to flea markets, I—you know ‘cause it would 
probably get destroyed by the end of the rotation, so I would go 
to flea markets, get the most ugliest, gaudiest stuff I could 
find. You know you could go to the Dollar Tree and get the 
little feather boas, you know they were a dollar a-piece. So 
yeah just, just whatever I could find and wherever I could find 
it.  
 
SIMS [00:40:25]: And this is your own personal money? 
 
TABOR: Yes. 
 
SIMS: Or would you—so you would never get like reimbursed? 
 
TABOR: No. 
 
SIMS: It’s just, it’s just a— 
 
TABOR: And it really didn’t matter. ‘Cause it was, it was all 
part of the fun of doing it. 
 
SIMS: Were there other, were there dancers or prostitutes? 
 
TABOR [00:40:42]: I, yeah I had my own set of hookers. 
[laughing] And one of ‘em right now is one of my really, really 
dear friends. My preacher’s mother, she was one of my main 
hookers.  
 
SIMS: Wow. 
 
TABOR: [laughing] 
 
SIMS [00:40:55]: And they, were they just dressed as regular 
villagers? 
 
TABOR: Mm-hmm. 
 
SIMS: But they were hanging out— 
 
TABOR [00:40:25]: Except—but they, they were allowed to wear 
make-up. You know lipstick and stuff like that. And yeah they’d 
hangout outside and they’d whistle at the—the, the, Americans 
and you know, flirt with them and you know, stuff like that. 
 
SIMS [00:41:14]: So did any—how did the soldiers respond? 
 
TABOR [00:41:17]: Some of them, they would whistle back and wave 
and other ones would look at us like “oh my God what did we get 
ourselves into.” [laughing] But yeah it was, it was cool.  
 
SIMS [00:41:30]: So, sounds like you said they took that down?  
 
TABOR: Y—yeah they took that role it, it wasn’t—they didn’t use 
it anymore after a while. 
 
SIMS [00:41:39]: Do you know why that was or… 
 
TABOR [00:41:43]: I guess because if—units talk amongst 
themselves and you know if this guy gets stationed over here and 
he tells them all about what’s going on out there then they—it’s 
not gonna be a surprise to them, you know what I’m saying? It’ll 
be, it’ll be, you know something that he can warn everybody 
about, so. You—you have to rotate your things in and out to keep 
everything fresh and new. 
 
SIMS [00:42:09]: So how long was it, like bordello in existence? 
 
TABOR: I guess like a year. 
 
SIMS: So what were y—what was the start and end year of your 
time as a role player? 
 
TABOR [00:42:22]: I was there from 2000 to…two thousand and— 
 
SIMS: 2010 
 
TABOR: 2010. No, 2012. 
 
SIMS: Okay.  
 
TABOR: And then…that’s when I had my stroke out there. 
 
SIMS: So you were actually in the field and you had a— 
 
TABOR: Yes sir.  
 
SIMS: What, what happened when that— 
 
TABOR [00:42:38]: …we were setting there eating lunch and the 
next thing I know…I was on the floor and I woke up in the, in 
the ambulance and they were taking me into the hospital and 
that’s about all really I can remember. They had th—I had a 
blood clot form in the base of my brain and they said it 
might’ve been from when I got butt-stroked in the head. 
 
SIMS [00:43:01]: Oh really? 
 
TABOR: Yeah. But they, they, you know they couldn’t make a, the 
couldn’t, they didn’t know for sure. But as soon as I got 
better, two and a half years later I was back out there. 
 
SIMS [00:43:12]: Oh so what year was that? And— 
 
TABOR: I, I was only out there for one rotation. I just couldn’t 
deal with it, I tried, I was on a cane ‘cause I’d just got out 
of a wheel chair— 
 
SIMS: So this was two years after 2010? 
 
TABOR: Yes. 
 
SIMS: You tried it and— 
 
TABOR: Yes.  
 
SIMS: —for one more rotation. 
 
TABOR: One more rotation. And I just—it, walking through the 
brush and the high grass with a cane and, and the rocks—it 
just…it was just too much for me. Because I knew I couldn’t be 
all that I needed to be in that situation—to, to be in that 
job…Oh another time I was a, a peasant—I was hanging clothes on 
a line—and I got shot and I was supposed to go to the medical 
unit looking for help. Well, we got caught up in a convoy and…it 
was hot that day and I had my arm stuck out the window and was 
laying out the window like this ’cause the air conditioning 
didn’t work in our vehicle [laughing] freaked a lot of soldiers 
out ‘cause my boo-boo run down my arm down the side of the 
truck. [laughing] But yeah, I would do my own moulage. I got to 
where I was doing moulages for—if they didn’t have anybody to do 
it I would be—I had my own kit and everything that they 
established me with so—break a chicken bone, stick it in there 
so it’s— 
 
SIMS [00:44:34]: Right. 
 
TABOR: Stickin’ out. Many, many, many soldiers I’ve made throw 
up because of situations like that. 
 
SIMS [00:44:44]: Yeah I’ve seen it it’s, it’s shocking…it’s hard 
to… 
 
TABOR [00:44:47]: [laughing] We had one out there where I’d make 
the girl—her eye—she got in a R.P.G. (Rocket-Propelled Grenade) 
blast and her eye was hanging out, you know just… 
 
SIMS: Uh, God.  
 
TABOR: [laughing] It’s a very fun job. It’s very tedious and 
it’s very strenuous. It will stress you out.  
 
SIMS [00:45:09]: What were the, what-what are the stressful 
parts? Is it more when it gets really action oriented or is it 
just something, just something else about it? 
 
TABOR [00:45:20]: Just the fact that…during 9/11 we were told—we 
were all called in when 9/11 happened and told that… 
“you say anything--” because we were, we had New York’s 10th 
Mountain there with us.  
 
SIMS: Mm-hmm. 
 
TABOR [00:45:42]: And these guys were trying to forget—we 
weren’t allowed to say anything. We would be court marshalled if 
we said—because they were afraid the guys would go a—you know, 
AWOL (absent without official leave). And… 
 
SIMS [00:45:52]: So they’re in the box with a kind of 
media…blackout. 
 
TABOR: Yes, exactly. And you know, it’s—everybody’s coming to 
work crying and, and the soldiers would come up and talk to you 
“well you know we’re not allowed to talk—” so they knew 
something was up. You know. And then you would hear on the 
news…you know this soldier died in Iraq or Afghanistan and then 
a lot of—we would be sitting in group and it’d be like… “did we 
train him? Did we not train him good enough? Did we not do our 
job properly?” ‘Cause that young man not coming home. And then 
you—some of us would say “oh, I’ve got a nephew who just got his 
deployment” or “is he coming here, for us to train?” or “if he’s 
not is he going to go to someplace else and get the training he 
needs?” You know it’s, it’s—a lot of things work on your mind 
when you have  ajob like this. It, it’s, it’s really scary.  
 
SIMS [00:46:57]: Yeah, like you can’t separate yourself from 
these really big questions. 
 
TABOR: Exactly. And when you’re out there for twenty-one days 
straight, in this role, it’s hard to…get yourself out of it for 
the one week you’re home. Because you’re always thinking about 
the next rotation, “okay…you know I wonder if, if I had done 
this a little bit different, if this guy would’ve come back.” 
You know “if, if, if I had done this a little bit harder or 
pushed a little bit further for this young man who’s now in an 
airplane with a flag over his casket, could I have prevented 
that?” You know and you think about how you can change up your—
what you’re, what you’re gonna do next time to see if, you know—
it’s just, it gets to you sometimes. 
 
SIMS [00:47:55]: So how do, how do you or how do people when 
you’re in a rotation, like do you bring your work home in a way? 
Like how does that effect your personal and family life like if 
you’re carrying—you know you go in everyday, you’re thinking 
about these things— 
 
TABOR: Right. 
 
SIMS: —you’re doing things that are…strenuous…it’s not a, not a 
nine-to-five job at the bank. 
 
TABOR [00:48:22]: Exactly, exactly. 
 
SIMS: Right. What is it like to…come home and sort of like 
decompress? Or how do you, you handle that? 
 
TABOR [00:48:35]: [whispers] Alcohol. [laughing] Lots of 
alcohol. But I, I would go, regardless of what time—my 
grandmother had M.S. (multiple sclerosis) and she was confided 
to a wheelchair but she always loved my stories. And I would go 
and tell her, you know, my day—what I did during my day. Because 
she was always waiting up for me. And uh before, this is before 
she passed, and I would tell her all my stories and she would 
laugh or she would cry with me, you know. Like the time that I 
had a baby and whenever they was taking it out of its plastic 
bag its head and its arms and its legs fell off so we’re trying 
to put it back together [laughing] you know people in the army 
come over to help me with it. 
 
SIMS [00:49:16]: Right.  
 
TABOR: But…you know she would laugh and…and one time I made the 
mistake by coming home with my moulage on and my son was like 
three years old and here I am with a helicopter blade sticking 
out of the top of my head, and I’ve got all this blood down my 
face and you know I’m grey underneath and…yeah he freaked out 
and told me “Momma, don’t come home like that no more, I don’t 
like it.” So you know you get, you start to…it’s like you’re in 
a different mindset, you know? All I could think about was 
getting home and getting a shower. I wasn’t thinking about my 
three-year-old seeing me like that. And you know, how his 
reaction would be until I s—I made sure that before I came home 
anymore if I had moulage, I took a shower before I came home. 
So. It’s hard on family life too because I was spending more 
time with the people out in the field than I was, you know, with 
my own family.  
 
SIMS [00:50:14]: Right, it’s a…it’s a strange thing. I’ve—I’ve  
or people have talked about it’s kind of like to maybe have two 
families— 
 
TABOR: Exactly, exactly. 
 
SIMS: —right and a sort of work family.  
 
TABOR [00:50:28]: Right.   
 
SIMS: So tell me a little about the work family—how does that—
because you’re not always—it seems like you were in the same 
village but that’s not always the case, right?  
 
TABOR [00:50:39]: No it’s not, not.  
 
SIMS: So how do friendships like…develop if you know like the 
next rotation—maybe won’t see that person past that rotation? Or 
is that not the case? 
 
TABOR [00:50:55]: J.R.T.C.—‘Just React to Change.’ So but that—
it w—, it would get hard, especially if you spent a lot of time 
with, you know a certain group of people you knew how to react, 
how they were going to react, how they were going to react to a 
certain situation. You knew what you needed to do to get them to 
react to the situation that they, that they needed to. 
 
SIMS: Right.  
 
TABOR: And whenever you got moved to a new village you had to 
learn everything, you know I—, I—, it was like moving to a new, 
to a new town. You know. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
TABOR [00:51:25]: You didn’t know anybody, you…y—it, it’s, it 
was really weird. Sometimes it brought a lot of tears because 
you, you missed everybody that you were used to being around, 
you know. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
TABOR: Because you know, during the week off we’d get together 
and have lunch or…you know just—you hung out with those people 
after—when you weren’t at work. 
 
SIMS [00:51:52]: Yeah, it seems so, sort of like being the new 
kid in class. 
 
TABOR: Yes, exactly.  
 
SIMS: But I guess it’s like you, maybe you would see them— 
 
TABOR: Well you— 
 
SIMS: —a lot the next time but maybe not, right? Like that’s 
just— 
 
TABOR: May—exactly. You never knew until you got your piece of 
paper and that you’d know exactly where you were going. 
 
SIMS [00:52:08]: Right. And so how did, how did they, like who 
decides where you go? 
 
TABOR: Admin.  
 
SIMS: And what like—do you have any insight on how they choose 
who goes where? 
 
TABOR [00:52:20]: It’s, it’s, well it depends on which town was 
having which scenario going. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
TABOR: If they needed loud people then they would pull all the 
loud mouths like me out and they would send—if it was going to 
be a lot of protests then they needed a lot of noise so they 
would take all those and the would send them over there. Now, 
next rotation you may go back to where you were at or…they may 
keep you where you were at—you know, in, in the new place. But 
yeah, you know if, if they needed a lot of people in this 
village and they didn’t expect the soldiers to come—that, but 
drive through this village, well they still needed a few people 
in this village. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
TABOR [00:52:56]: And they needed more people over here so they 
would at the beginning of the rotation, make sure that there was 
enough people over here where the—adequate…body count—it was all 
up to body count.  
 
SIMS [00:53:09]: So…talk about bordello owner, nurse, cook, 
master thief, is there any other— 
 
TABOR: Spy. [laughing] 
 
SIMS: Spy, what did you do as a spy? Who were, who were you 
working for? 
 
TABOR [00:53:24]: I was working for both sides. [laughing] 
But…because women didn’t have the, the—don’t play big roles over 
there except for baby-making, and cleaning the house and raising 
the kids but…I would go outside sometimes, I would go set 
outside the, the village and where there were the F.O.B.s 
(Forward Operating Base) and I would sketch, you know pretend 
like I had a paper and pencil and so I would make a map—you know 
I’d walk around it, and I would pass that on. When an order for 
the military to get that from me, I needed some information, I 
would pay attention, and I’d take that back to my people to get 
food for my village, you know what I’m saying. So it wasn’t one 
of the most fun things to do. 
 
SIMS: Why, why not? 
 
TABOR [00:54:19]: [sighs] It wasn’t exciting enough to me. But… 
 
SIMS: Bu—so the most exciting would be like the master thief?  
 
TABOR: Oh God I loved being a thief. I would, oh my goodness, I 
was good at that and like you said, it doesn’t look good on a 
resume so. [laughing] 
 
SIMS: Right.  
 
TABOR [00:54:39]: But yeah I got, I got—I did that for about 
four years and I, I loved that.  
 
SIMS: Is that, is that a J.I.M.M. role? J-I-M, have you heard 
that word? 
 
TABOR: Mm-mmm. 
 
SIMS: Okay. Seems like there’s a…certain role players that once 
they have a specific, reoccurring role that there’s a special 
word that I’ve heard some people use. 
 
TABOR [00:55:04]: Mm…I don’t know. Like I said I, I, I—there’s a 
lot of stuff that I don’t remember because of my stroke. 
 
SIMS: Mm-hmm. So do you—all in all are you—it sounds like you’re 
glad you did it and it was a great experience.  
 
TABOR [00:55:22]:  Oh yeah.  
 
SIMS: Yeah. 
 
TABOR: I—if, if they had running water out there and bathrooms 
[laughing] I w—and heat and air conditioning, ‘cause I’ve gotten 
kind of spoiled now that I’m not out there anymore but I would 
do it all over again—the broken legs, the knocked out 
teeth…knees being, being replaced. You know I meet a lot of the 
old timers that I was out there with and they’re like “girl, oh 
my knees are—” oh I’m sorry, “my knees are killing me, my back 
is killing me, but you remember that time that we jumped out of 
that truck and it was moving down the street— 
SIMS: Right. 
 
TABOR [00:55:54]: “—we rolled down the hill, that was so cool. 
But girl…I’m paying for it now,” you know? [laughing] It’s like 
“yeah, the things that we did when we were younger, if we only 
knew what it was gonna cost us.” 
 
SIMS: Right. So how did the—how did it change over the ten or 
twelve years that you were there? 
 
TABOR [00:56:11]: Well it started out that we could— 
 
SIMS: You mentioned before like there are more restrictions now?  
 
TABOR [00:56:17]: Yeah, you know we could touch the soldiers, we 
could taunt them, you know we could take stuff. And now they 
don’t want them taunted, they don’t want them scared, they don’t 
want…you know you can’t touch anything, especially restricted 
items, you know. You can’t steal anything… 
 
SIMS [00:56:37]: So why is all this? Seems like it’s a lot of 
what makes since to do, right? 
 
TABOR [00:56:42]: Well it’s—exactly. And, and, and that’s why a 
lot of the old timers got out of it. Because you’re not training 
anymore it’s…more like you’re pussy-footing around. Because you 
don’t want to hurt their feelings, you don’t want to scare them. 
Because soldiers were not wanting to go overseas because they 
were afraid of how it would tur—if it was anything like they 
were you know—and that’s what it was supposed to be, was 
supposed to be real life. To get them…used to…what it was 
supposed to be like when they got over there. It’s not supposed 
to be like the United States, you know? And…you can’t do this or 
you’re gonna get killed and you can’t do this or you’re gonna 
get killed, you have to—and now it’s like “don’t, don’t scare 
the soldiers, you know. Don’t make ‘em nervous. Don’t knock ‘em 
in the port-a-potty, don’t squirt ‘em with blood, you know and 
it’s like…how are we helping? You know, if we can’t train them, 
to prepare them for what they’re gonna get into. You know it 
just, it seemed like a waste of time. 
 
SIMS [00:57:56]: So, some people even, they basically quit 
because they felt like it wasn’t— 
 
TABOR: Yeah it was, exactly. They—we weren’t doing what we were 
supposed to be doing… 
 
SIMS: Seems to bad. 
 
TABOR [00:58:09]: Yeah. It was because…it just, it just seems 
like…I don’t know. It’s sad because they’re going over there 
thinking it’s going to be all nice and pleasantries and rainbows 
and flowers and unicorns…And it’s not…’cause there’s still 
bombings going on, there’s still shootings going on, there’s 
still little kids out there running down the street with, you 
know, with R.P.G.s (Rocket-Propelled Grenade) under their 
shirts, trying to kill us. And that’s just, you know. If 
you’re…training them that it’s all nice over there, they’re not 
gonna be prepared for that.  
 
SIMS [00:58:56]: We covered a lot of things… 
 
TABOR: [laughing] Yeah, I like to talk about it. I— 
 
SIMS: Yeah. 
 
TABOR: Like I said, I used to tell my grandmother all my 
stories, she was my, she was my venting post. 
 
SIMS: Uh-huh, yeah. It’s—everyone needs one of those. Is there 
anything that we didn’t cover that you thought would be 
important for, for folks to know? 
 
TABOR [00:59:21]: No… 
 
SIMS: Or any other stories that you remember? 
 
TABOR: No, not that I can think of right now. Just a lot of 
folks getting hurt on the way home because they—because of all 
the long hours that we did. We had quite a few of that happen 
but other than that, that’s it.  
 
SIMS [00:59:37]: Car, like car accidents? 
 
TABOR: Yeah. Fall asleep goin’ home. But no, I can’t think of 
anything else. I hope you enjoyed my stories. [laughing] 
 
SIMS: I did, it’s—what’s been great about this is everybody’s 
totally different.  
 
TABOR: Exactly. 
 
SIMS [00:59:51]: Like they have—I mean it’s like, some of it—the 
background’s the same but like…everyone did something different, 
right? 
 
TABOR: Exactly. Everybody had their own role.  
 
SIMS: And brought their own, like thing to it. So— 
 
TABOR: That’s what made it real. 
 
SIMS [01:00:07]: Yeah, it’s been a lot of fun just to…hear 
these. I wish…I mean I’m just glad I get to do this. I mean 
photographing you get to see all the amazing— 
 
TABOR: Right. 
 
SIMS: —things that people build. 
 
TABOR [01:00:18]: Why don’t you one day see if, like for one 
rotation, they’ll let you dress out for one day and put you in a 
village! 
 
SIMS [01:00:28]: …Yeah, we could.  
 
TABOR: Just to, you know what I’m saying? 
 
SIMS: Yeah, one time at N.T.C. (National Training Center) I was 
actually—for a couple weeks—I was media on the battle field. 
 
TBAOR: Oh yeah, they have that out at role play too, you can— 
 
SIMS: So I was…I was like a, not CNN but like ‘Z’NN.  
 
TABOR [01:00:43]: Like ZNN, right, right. [laughing]  
 
SIMS: So I was—the one thing I remember the most was like 
chasing down a general and yelling like obnoxious questions at 
him.  
 
TABOR [01:00:53]: Right, right. [laughing] See, it’s fun. But 
you get drawn in real quick. 
 
SIMS: Yeah, I felt like that was the thing where…I had to, I had 
to, I didn’t—I don’t know if I like figured it out—but you’re 
torn between, like I…I wasn’t being mean mean to him but I, you 
know, it was like, it felt, it felt weird to, you know. Yell a 
this person who’s sort of my senior… 
 
TABOR [01:01:19]: Right, right. [laughing] 
 
SIMS: Although it’s like, I’m not actually— 
 
TABOR: Right.  
 
SIMS: —in the army or really— 
 
TABOR: Right. 
 
SIMS: —or was, you know. 
 
TABOR: Right, exactly. It’s, it’s, it’s a different situation 
than in real life. 
 
SIMS: Right. And it’s all just pretend but it’s not—it’s also 
real at the same time.  
 
TABOR: Exactly, exactly. And, and, and see, after doing it for 
so long it becomes…I don’t know…it’s not like it’s hard to 
decipher between one world and another but it’s like they kind 
of just start…becoming one. You know what I’m trying to say? 
 
SIMS [01:01:58]: Mm-hmm, I know exactly what you mean. Like it 
does a weird, it’s a unique situation where at the same time, 
you’re living a real life and you also are pretending. 
 
TABOR: Exactly, exactly. And you never know from one day to the 
next who or what you’re gonna be. I think that’s, that’s the 
lure to most people. They could go out there and let their 
alter-ego out. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
TABOR [01:02:30]: And, and not get in trouble for it. [laughing] 
 
SIMS: Yeah, it seems like master thief is like the exactly the— 
 
TABOR: The… [laughing] 
 
SIMS [01:02:41]: And everyone would walk, like to— 
 
TABOR: I enjoyed it. I really did. I was, it, I— 
 
SIMS: Everybody would want to do that, right? Because you sort 
of have the permission to— 
 
TABOR [01:02:38]: To do whatever, be as ornery as you want to, 
yeah and—  
 
SIMS: Right.   
 
TABOR [01:02:42]: And not gettin’… not get in trouble for it. No 
retribution. 
 
SIMS: If anything, get praised for it. 
 
TABOR: Yeah. [laughing] yeah, that’s the only job I got, and got 
praised for being bad. [laughing] 
 
SIMS: Right…Alright, I really appreciate your time— 
 
TABOR [01:03:01]: No problem. 
 
SIMS: —just wanted to talk with you…I’ll turn these off, we’ll 
have, a little bit. 
 
 
End of Recording [01:03:08]: