1 
Multi-Generational African American Farmers of the Midwest 
Anna-Lisa Cox 
Library of Congress AFC Archie Green Fellowship 
 
 
Date of interview: July 22, 2019 
 
Names/s of those interviewed: Marva Green 
 
Primary Interviewer: Anna-Lisa Cox (ALC) 
 
Secondary Interviewers:  
 
Interview Location: Home of Marva Green, just outside of the village of Pinkstaff, Lawrence 
County, Illinois 
 
Transcriber: Mabel Scroggins 
 
 
Abstract: Mrs. Marva Green grew up and helped work on her family’s farm in Lawrence 
County, Illinois. She continues to live on the land that she grew up on, in a house she designed 
and had built to her specifications. It includes beautiful views of the land her family once farmed, 
which she now rents out to white farmers. Gowin/Gowan/Goin is one of the oldest free-people-
of-color names in the United States, dating back to the early 1600s. There are many African-
descended families with this name who were antebellum pioneers to the Old Northwest Territory 
states. Lawrence County, Illinois has been home to propertied farmers of African descent since 
before Illinois statehood – around 1800. They homesteaded some of the most desirable land in 
the Old Northwest Territory – in the Wabash River Valley, and fought in the War of 1812 in that 
region. Mrs. Green is a community leader, teaching Sunday School and Bible Study at her local 
church, the Pinkstaff Methodist Church, which has been racially integrated since the Pinkstaff 
African Methodist Episcopal Church and the Methodist church joined together in the late 20th 
century. Mrs. Green took over her husband’s highway building company after he died, running it 
successfully until her retirement. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
Index/Log (5 Minute Time Stamped) 
 
 
[0:00] Introduction of Marva Green and setting.  
 
[5:00] Details of the Gowins family land, her mother’s involvement in farming, details of 
supplying eggs to Knox County, description of food grown on the farm.  
 
[10:00] Details of a typical Sunday night meal, a list of specific vegetables and greens grown on 
the farm, description of tomato varieties.  
 
[15:00] Her dad’s time was consumed by farming, details of raising and slaughtering pigs, 
descriptions of farm ponds, duties of Marva and her siblings on the farm.  
 
[20:00] Marva is the only one in her family who attended college, she lived with the Wheeler 
family in college and provided farm produce as pay.  
 
[25:00] College wasn’t a big adjustment for Marva, details of the Gibson County fair, description 
of special treats such as Hokey Pokeys, Marva’s cooking and sewing. Involvement in 4H as an 
African American.  
 
[30:00] Marva’s dad got along with all farmers in the area, describing racial views in Gibson 
County and Lawrence County.  
 
[35:00] Describing the importance of family relations, details of a typical Sunday growing up, 
description of the local huckster man, details of slaughtering and selling chickens.  
 
[40:00] The compatibility of farmers in her area growing up, details of annual family reunions, 
acknowledgement of centennial farms. Discussion of racial identity and self-identification.  
 
[45:00] Reminiscing her close relationship with her grandma, details of her grandmother’s 
homemade butter.  
 
[50:00] The family history was common knowledge. Details of racial segregation/integration in 
her area. Expresses gratitude for where she grew up. Details of her family’s physical appearances 
regarding ethnicity.