Multi-Generational African American Farmers of the Midwest
Anna-Lisa Cox
Library of Congress AFC Archie Green Fellowship
Date of interview: July 25th, 2019
Names/s of those interviewed: Dennis Hardiman and Logan Thomas
Primary Interviewer: Anna-Lisa Cox (ALC)
Secondary Interviewers: Lishawna Taylor
Interview Location: Lyles Station School Museum, Lyles Station, Gibson County, Indiana.
Transcriber: Mary Kamara-Hagemeyer
Abstract: Dennis Hardiman farmed with his grandfather and his father on their farms in Gibson
County. Mr. Hardiman was the first African American baby born in the “white” maternity ward
of the racially segregated Princeton Hospital in Princeton, Indiana. African American women
were relegated to a ward in the basement, but his mother almost died during labor, so she was
brought upstairs where the facility was better, and Dennis was born there. After earning his BA
at Purdue University, Dennis Hardiman went to Colorado to get his veterinarian’s degree. He
returned to help his father with the farm, and ultimately took over farming there. Dennis
Hardiman mentions in this interview that his family had not built a barn in generations, because
hostile white neighbors had repeatedly burned their barns in the past. This resulted in the loss of
their animals, their stored crops and their equipment. However, it is also very challenging to farm
without a barn, during the harsh Indiana winters. Mr. Hardiman is locally renowned for working
with ox and horse teams he trained himself, for his logging and farming operations, and he was a
skilled trainer. He came from a long line of metal-workers and metal forgers, a passion he and his
grandson, Logan, share.
1
Index/Log (5 Minute Time Stamped)
Part 1 of 3
[0:00] Introduction to Mr. Dennis Hardiman and his grandson Logan Thomas. Explanation of the
project and where information will be stored.
[5:00] Dennis talks about the old age both his grandfather’s reached.
[10:00] Dennis explains he was working two jobs, and sometimes three at the same time.  He
talks about the origin of the family land and how it changed hands from different family
members.
[15:00] Estimates that the land presently owned is at three-hundred acres. Part is farmed by
Dennis and part rented out to other farmers.  Lists five original family names in the area. Logan
expresses a desire to farm when he’s older.
[20:00] Logan explains his and his brother’s role on the farm in helping his grandfather.  He
discusses what crops his grandfather grows and what he knows of his family’s history in the area.
Talks about his generation’s opinion on farming.
[25:00] Dennis discusses the various livestock on his farm and the various methods of animal
husbandry and management he utilized.
[30:00] Discusses how he was trained in farming and in blacksmithing and what neighborhoods
he lived in.  Remembered grandparents would figure out metalwork and other skills needed for
tasks on their own, and this knowledge was passed down.
[35:00] Logan discusses his interest in metalsmithing. ALC and Lishawna Taylor impart the
history of the trade and in relation to his ancestors and explain the essential role of the trade in a
town.
[40:00] ALC emphasizes the role of the African-American pioneers in the area and the history of
the Wabash River [presumed spelling].  Dennis adds more information to the role of the Wabash
River in slavery and the transportation of enslaved people of African descent.  He discusses the
possibility of being kidnapping and sold into slavery as a free Black person in the area,
especially near the river.
[45:00] The Location of an old slave house is described and a deathly quicksand hole in the area
is also described to grandson.  Dennis states that back in the day Black farmers wouldn’t get
build barns became they were a target for easy destruction by whites.  Spoke about how his own
2
father wouldn’t allow him to build a barn because white people were still burning Black people’s
barns and property down because of their dislike for Black people. Instead, the equipment was
left out in the open to avoid racial harassment.
[50:00] Dennis explains a story passed down to him of his ancestors being carried over to
America under the ships, tied down, as slaves. Discusses the influence and legacy of his father in
the area and explains how his family attempted to avoid racial harassment and violence.
[55:00] Discusses feeling like an outsider in the community. Gave grandson tips oo being a
successful farmer and described his success in raising pigs, starting in 4-H.
[60:00] Affirms he is still doing metalwork. Discusses with his grandson forging rules and
techniques. Raising sheep and the challenges that came with it, including sickness and the
medicines he favored to cure them.
[1:02:00] End of part 1 of this interview – interview continues in part 2 audio
3