Oral History Interview 
 
with 
 
Jim Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
Interview Conducted by 
Juliana Nykolaiszyn 
June 15, 2011 
 
 
The “Big Top” Show Goes On:  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oklahoma Oral History Research Program 
Edmon Low Library ● Oklahoma State University 
© 2011 
 
 
2
The “Big Top” Show Goes On  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
Interview History 
 
 
Interviewer: 
Juliana Nykolaiszyn 
Transcriber: 
Miranda Mackey 
Editors: 
Amy Graham, Tanya Finchum, Juliana Nykolaiszyn 
 
The recording and transcript of this interview were processed at the Oklahoma State 
University Library in Stillwater, Oklahoma. 
 
Project Detail 
 
The “Big Top” Show Goes On: An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the 
Canvas Circus Tent aims to preserve the voices and experiences of those involved with the 
work culture associated with Hugo, Oklahoma’s tent circus tradition.  
 
Funding for this project was made possible by the Library of Congress American Folklife 
Center as part of a 2011 Archie Green Fellowship awarded to researchers Tanya Finchum 
and Juliana Nykolaiszyn with the Oklahoma Oral History Research Program at the OSU 
Library. 
 
This project was approved by the Oklahoma State University Institutional Review Board on 
May 6, 2011. 
 
Legal Status 
 
Scholarly use of the recordings and transcripts of the interview with Jim Royal is 
unrestricted. The interview agreement was signed on June 15, 2011. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
The “Big Top” Show Goes On  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
About Jim Royal… 
 
Jim Royal was born in 1948 and was reared in Maywood, Illinois, a suburb of Chicago. 
Early, in his grade school days, Jim experienced his first circus and from then on was very 
interested in the work and world of the circus. His first summer after graduating from high 
school, Jim worked as a ticket-taker for the Al G. Kelly and Miller Brothers Circus. After 
deciding college was not for him, he rejoined the circus world in 1967 working in a 
sideshow. He would go on to perform as a fire-eater and as a sword swallower apprentice. 
He also performed magic acts and juggled.  
 
As the Vietnam Conflict raged on, Jim joined the navy in 1967 and served four years. Then 
he and his wife, Beverly, developed a magic show and took it on the road for a few years 
before deciding to go into the circus full time. From stage manager to ringmaster to circus 
manager, Jim has many experiences with the circus. Around 1981, Jim and Beverly joined 
the Carson and Barnes Circus and moved to Hugo, Oklahoma. While with Carson and 
Barnes, he had the opportunity to work a fourteen week show in England which actually 
turned into a fourteen year stay in England and Ireland. While overseas he was ringmaster, 
co-owner of the Circus Star, and worked in promotions for various circuses.  
 
When Jim and Beverly decided it was time to return to the United States, Jim was 
approached by the owners of Big Apple Circus in 2002. He would become the production 
unit manager for Big Apple and would hold that position for four years. In 2006, John 
Ringling North, II purchased the Kelly Miller Circus, headquartered in Hugo, and hired Jim 
to be the manager. 
 
Jim continues to be the manager of the Kelly Miller Circus and he and Beverly reside in 
Hugo, Oklahoma. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
The “Big Top” Show Goes On  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
Jim Royal 
 
Oral History Interview 
 
Interviewed by Juliana Nykolaiszyn 
June 15, 2011 
Hugo, Oklahoma 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
 
 
 
Royal 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
 
Royal 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
My name is Juliana Nykolaiszyn with the Oklahoma State University 
Library, Oklahoma Oral History Research Program. Today is 
Wednesday, June 15, 2011 and we’re in Hugo, Oklahoma, interviewing 
Jim Royal. Thank you very much for joining us today. 
 
My pleasure, thanks for coming down. 
 
Well, let’s learn a little bit more about you. Can you tell us where you 
were born, where you grew up? 
 
I grew up in the suburbs of Chicago in a town called Maywood, which is 
a western suburb of Chicago, very close to the city, in kind of a 
working-class neighborhood. 
 
And what year were you born? 
 
1948. 
 
Okay. 
 
I’m a baby boomer. I’m one of the aging baby boomers. 
 
Well, tell me about your first circus memory, when you were younger. 
 
Well, I remember there was a circus that appeared, a tented circus, in 
one of the local parks that I used to go to. I remember going on the 
swings, and someone in a trailer came out. I don’t remember exactly 
what they said, but kind of like, “Hey, kid! Get out of here! What are 
you doing?” (Laughs) At the time, I thought, “Wait a minute! This is our 
park! What are you doing here?” That was kind of my initial memory of 
the first circus experience. 
 
 
 
5
Nykolaiszyn  
 
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
 
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
Okay, well, as you were getting older, did you have any interactions with 
the circus growing up? 
 
In a remote way. My grandmother’s sister kind of ran away with the 
circus, so to speak. She fell in love with a circus performer, a man who 
is named Chief Keys, Clarence Keys. He was from Fort Towson, right 
near Hugo, and worked primarily with Hugo circuses. He was mostly 
Choctaw Indian and was a Wild West performer, a sharp shooter, a knife 
thrower, and she became his human target in the knife throwing act. I 
had never met her. I mean, they lived out here and toured all the time. I 
had never met her, but I later corresponded with her when I got 
interested in the circus. 
 
When you were getting interested in the circus, what were you hoping to 
do? Were you looking to become a performer, break into the business, 
or were you just naturally curious about the family history? 
 
When I was in the sixth grade or the seventh grade, I’m not sure which, I 
was a safety patrol boy. Years ago, you had youngsters in school who 
wore a white belt and helped other children cross the street safely. They 
took us, as a reward, to the Medinah Shrine Circus in Chicago. It was in 
The Loop—well, just outside of The Loop, in the city. The Medinah 
Temple was a beautiful, ornate old building. Marvelous old place. And 
at that time, the circus was produced by Polack Brothers, which had a 
real powerhouse of a show. We were, I think, in the third row, right 
there. It was an amazing circus, real high quality show. I was quite taken 
with it and the building, too, inside. It was very, very interesting. It just 
really fascinated me. I think that’s really where I got things started.  
 
I think I’m fortunate in that I’m one of those people that, very early in 
life, realized what I wanted to do in life and that was it. I was set, where 
so many people wander around trying to find themselves, as we used to 
say in the ’60s, or find something that they enjoy doing for a living, but I 
was lucky. Not long after that, I’m in the local library browsing through 
the shelves and my eye was caught by a book called The Circus Kings, 
which is by Henry Ringling North, whose father was married to the only 
Ringling sister. His mother was the only Ringling sister, and his uncles 
were the Ringling Brothers. He and his brother ran the circus for many 
years, and he wrote this book, fascinating book, telling about their 
experiences. That really hooked me. I decided that was for me, and I 
always wanted to do the business side of it, the managing side of the 
circus. 
 
Did you have any early mentors, learning the business-end? 
 
Yes, I was very fortunate. When I was a sophomore in high school, a 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
friend of mine was kind of interested in the circus, too. I got him 
interested in it. He wrote to one of the circuses, Cristiani-Wallace 
Brothers—not a Hugo show, they were out of Sarasota, Florida—and 
asked if they would be in the Chicago area. They wrote him a letter and 
said, “Yes, we’re going to be in the Chicago area and can you get us a 
sponsor?” and that was all we needed to know. We were set. So we 
raced about and found a local organization that would be interested in 
sponsoring the circus. We called the circus up and they said, “Okay, 
we’ve got what we call a contracting agent”—in those days, an agent 
who booked the circus with the local communities—“named Jack 
LaPearl. We’re going to send Jack LaPearl out. Jack lives in Wheaton.”  
 
Well, Wheaton is, I don’t know, twenty miles west of where I live, and 
we were excited because LaPearl was a famous circus name. There had 
been a LaPearl Circus and Jack’s brother, Harry, was married in center 
ring—he was a clown—in clown wardrobe, at the old Madison Square 
Garden in, I don’t know, 1890, or something like that. It was a big, big 
production. So Jack came, and Jack LaPearl at that time, I’m guessing, 
was maybe seventy-five, seventy-six. Spry, dapper, debonair, and 
charming and as fun, interesting a guy as you could possibly meet. He 
came out to talk to the sponsor with us and then, we would go visit him. 
I would go out into towns in northern Illinois, southern Wisconsin, 
Indiana, booking the circus with him in the wintertime. He was just 
wonderful company and a wonderful mentor. 
 
Now, was that your first job? 
 
Yes, I was still in school, of course, high school, but we were gone and 
booked the circus together. 
 
Well, take me through your early career. What happened after high 
school? 
 
Well, I always wanted to go every summer, and my parents said, “Are 
you nuts?” (Laughs) “No,” they said, “You’re too young. You shouldn’t 
be doing that.” So when I was eighteen they said, “Okay, you can go.” 
So I graduated high school on a Thursday, and Saturday morning I was 
on a train to Neenah, Wisconsin, where I was joining the old Al G. Kelly 
and Miller Brothers Circus to take a job as the ticket-taker in the 
summer. I did that, and I remember the first day I took the job, they had 
a tremendous sale. I arrived just in time to kind of get up there, about 
fifteen minutes before they opened the doors to the circus, and the 
midway was just a huge sea of people all itching to get in there, and I 
thought, “Wow!” It was a little bit intimidating.  
 
So I spent that summer with the circus, and then I went to the University 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
 
of Illinois at Chicago to get my doctorate. (Laughs) I lasted four months. 
Chicago, this was in the fall and the wintertime, it was a new campus. It 
was all modern and all concrete, and it had no soul to it. It was primarily 
a commuter campus. And the circus, at that time, Kelly Miller for a few 
years, wintered in Ocean Springs, Mississippi, on the gulf coast. I’d be 
sitting in class at like eight in the morning or something, having 
driven—because I was a commuter—through traffic for forty minutes 
and thinking, “Oh, they’re down there in Ocean Springs and here I am, 
looking out the window at the wind whistling in Chicago.” So after four 
months, I resigned my career as a university student and rejoined the 
circus and this time, it was 1967. I started that year working in the 
sideshow. I learned to eat fire, and I was an apprentice sword swallower. 
I was working on it, but never really became a full-fledged sword 
swallower. I did magic, Punch and Judy, and did what we call a talker. A 
lot of people refer to him as a barker, but in the circus we always called 
that person the talker. 
 
You think of fire-eaters and sword swallowers, is it a hard performance 
act to learn? 
 
The biggest problem for me, seriously, was overcoming the fear of that 
first time of putting the fire in your mouth. There are no real tricks to it. 
You just have to be very cautious. You have to keep your mouth moist, 
you always have to exhale, you have to come at a certain angle, and 
things like that for the basics of it, which I just did the basics. But it is a 
dangerous thing. We have a man with the show that has been doing it for 
many, many years. He was trying a different fluid and he got burned 
earlier this year. As so often is the case, many circus arts are very 
dangerous. 
 
Who was teaching you the finer points of these performance acts? 
 
At that time, when I joined the circus down in Ocean Springs, I had just 
finished reading W.C. Fields, his Follies and Fortunes, or was it by 
Robert Lewis Taylor? I think it was him that did a circus book later. But 
anyway, there was Thomas Hart, who was the sideshow manager, and 
Thomas Hart was this larger than life character, a bit like W.C. Fields. 
He had kind of that sort of a voice. He and a guy named Charlie Roark 
were there. Charlie was just visiting for a few weeks of the tour, and 
they taught me the sideshow things. 
 
Take me through what happens next in your career. What happens? 
 
Well, we were there for about three months and then Thomas got an 
offer to go with Bob Snowden, who was a circus producer who had a 
show called the International Cavalcade of Stars. It was a half-circus, 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
half-magic show, big stage illusions. They asked me to come over there. 
I did a juggling act, a little basic juggling act and also, be stage manager. 
I did that, and we spent part of the year in buildings and part of the year 
in tents. It was a specially designed circus tent that held the stage as 
well.  
 
Then I did that and at about this time I was getting draft notices. This 
was 1967 and we had that Vietnam thing going on, and I was sending in 
my change of address all the time, because I was moving all the time. I 
was kind of staying one step ahead. At the end of the season I went 
home, and I had been home about a week and I got another notice. This 
time it was for a physical. I went down for the physical, and they 
stamped all those papers, and they handed them to me, and they said, 
“You can be drafted as soon as two weeks.” I thought, “Oh!” you know, 
I didn’t really want to go over to Vietnam. So I joined the navy, and 
ended up going to Vietnam anyway, and spent four years in the navy at 
that point. It interrupted my career right when I was going! 
 
So you come back from the service… 
 
Yes, and went back and worked with the circus doing some promotional 
work. Just before I went into the navy, I worked for the Commonwealth 
Edison Company, a public utility in Chicago, just because I had ran out 
of money and it was wintertime. I had worked there ninety days and in 
those days, if you worked at a company ninety days when you went into 
the service, they had to give you a job when you came out. It was a 
union job and all of your seniority would have to go through. Then you 
had a hundred and twenty days after you got out of the service to decide 
if you wanted to go back there. I had no intention of going back, but then 
Tommy Hart and I, who I mentioned earlier, were going to put this show 
out. I went to work with him, we were doing promotions, and Thomas 
was getting kind of irascible, and I decided I didn’t want to go into 
business with him. Just the very last possible day, I went back to Edison 
just to make some money and put out a stage show, a magic show, I 
decided. There I met my wife, my future wife, and we put together a 
show and took it on the road then. 
 
Was your wife in a circus family? 
 
No. She was this person working in an office who hated boring jobs, 
hated office jobs. She loved being outdoors. She loved travel. She loved 
adventure. She loved animals. So we did the magic show for a couple of 
years and I said, “Let’s go back to the circus,” and she said, “Let’s do 
it!” She learned to be an aerialist, and she was deathly afraid of heights, 
I kid you not. If you ask her to step on a chair she’d be all nervous, yet 
she ended up doing crazy things at the top of the tent. 
 
 
9
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Where did your career take you next? 
 
Well, we were in the circus business here in the United States. At that 
time I was ringmastering, and we did an escape act and a magic act. My 
wife did aerial acts and worked with elephants and things like that. We 
were doing that, and in the wintertime we would book circuses, go out 
and do what I had done before, contracting. Then, we were in New 
Jersey, 1980 I think it was, ’79-’80, something like that, and an 
Australian man who worked with English circuses was visiting. He had 
a magazine called The King Pole, which is a British circus magazine. I’d 
always been an Anglophile, I don’t know why. My one grandmother was 
from England, but she died before I was born. I don’t know if that’s the 
connection. He was telling us about traveling. We were doing one-day 
stands in America, seven days a week. He was talking about traveling 
with this little British circus that he worked with every year and he said, 
“Oh, we just play week stands and we have Mondays off. We go to bed 
and breakfasts, or some nice little hotel or something. We’re playing 
little country towns in England.” That sounded idyllic to us.  
 
He said, “You know, you’re an American ringmaster. You could 
probably get a job over there.” And he had The King Pole, which at that 
time, was the directory issue, which is the once a year issue where they 
list all the different British circuses, and he gave it to me. So I contacted 
them all and only one expressed an interest, but they said they had 
nothing open. Then in 1982, out of the blue, they sent me a telegram. I 
was with Carson and Barnes Circus out of Hugo, and they said, “We 
need an American ringmaster for fourteen weeks for a summer season. 
Can you do it?” I went to D.R. Miller, the famous circus impresario, and 
I told him about it. He said, “Oh, no!”—this was our second year there. 
We loved it at Carson and Barnes. He said, “No, no. You’re obligated to 
us,” and I thought, “Well, he’s right.” So, I don’t know, fifteen minutes 
later he comes by and he says, “You know, it’s a chance of a lifetime. I 
can’t hold you back.” Because I had an assistant on the show he said, 
“Just go over and come back at the end of it,” which was really, really 
generous of him. So we did.  
 
We went to England in ’82, for the summer, and worked at Clacton Pier. 
They had the circus in a building at the end of an amusement pier in the 
North Sea. We had an interesting time there, and the owner of the circus 
and I talked frequently. I talked about ideas that we used in the United 
States to market circuses. They weren’t doing them there and he said, 
“Can you come back? We have a big Christmas show in Birmingham, 
England, every year. Will you come back and work that?” and we did. 
We came back for that. Then he said, “Will you”—he wanted me to put 
together a tour of indoor venues for them. We decided to stay and ended 
 
 
10
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
up staying in England and Ireland fourteen years then, at that point. 
 
Wow. What are some of the major differences between circuses in 
America versus the U.K.? 
 
Well, of course, things have changed here, but at that time, most shows 
were three-ring. Carson and Barnes was a five-ring show, a big, huge 
show, whereas European shows are always one-ring. Once in a great 
while there would be a three-ring show as a novelty, but primarily, they 
are one-ring. They would stay longer in one location, whereas American 
circuses tend to do one-day stands. They moved at a slower pace too, the 
performance. Circuses over in Europe, adults appreciate them a lot more 
than here. In America, we think of it as children’s entertainment, 
whereas you go to the circus in Germany in the evening and it’s 
primarily adults in the audience. There is a lot more subtle humor with 
the clowns. There is more nuance, people are so close, too. They can 
appreciate it more. 
 
Would you serve as ringmaster? 
 
Yes. I went over there and I said, “I’ve never really even seen a British 
ringmaster.” They said, “We don’t want a British ringmaster, we want 
an American ringmaster.” It happened to be that the musical Barnum 
had been running in England for a year or so, when I got there, with 
Michael Crawford and was hugely popular. They liked that and said, 
“You kind of resemble Michael Crawford a little bit,” so they thought 
that was a plus. And I would sing, which they didn’t have singing 
ringmasters over there in production numbers. 
 
What were the types of musical pieces you would sing? 
 
Like, from Barnum. Our finale was “Follow the Flag” and there’s a 
song, “The Greatest Show on Earth,” we used to open with that. “Be a 
Clown” was one we did for production numbers. 
 
Were the shows well received? 
 
Yes. Yes it was a very strong show that first year and second year we 
were over there. 
 
Well, how did you come back to the States? 
 
Well, you have time? 
 
Sure! 
 
 
 
11
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
Okay. (Laughs) We went the one year with Sally Chipperfield. We went 
for the summer and then came back so, Sally Chipperfield’s Circus. 
Then we worked 1983 with them. Then at the end of ’83, we were 
thinking, “Well, it’s about time, maybe we should just go home.” We 
got the chance to see the country and then Chipperfield’s, which was 
another branch of the family, the bigger circus, was going to Ireland that 
year and they asked me to come over as manager and to book their tour 
and manage the show. “Hey, we’ve never been to Ireland!” This 
was1984 so we did that and went to Ireland and had a great tour there. 
We really loved Ireland.  
 
Then we were thinking about going back to the States and then some 
French people, the Gruss family, which is kind of like the Ringling 
family of France, a segment of the family with the Chipperfield’s 
English Circus in Ireland, and saw how successful Chipperfield’s was. I 
was able to get terrific publicity that year for the show, and we hit all the 
right towns. They asked me to market a tour and book a tour of a French 
circus they were going to call the Grande Cirque de France and bring it 
over to Ireland. We said, “Well, yes!” We stayed for that, and the tour 
was unsuccessful, unfortunately. We were in partnership with them and 
it was a wonderful show, very, very good show, but they lacked the 
money to really get it started. In fact, when it came time to bring the 
show from France, they had no money to ship it. I had to go and find a 
shipper, a ferry company that would transfer the show over and did a 
promotional tie-in and fortunately got it over there. At the end of the 
tour we were more or less broke.  
 
We thought, “Well, should we go back to America?” We thought, “No. 
We don’t want to go back broke.” So we talked to Phillip Gandy, who 
was a British circus promoter—owner, I should say—and said, “We’ve 
got a lot of ideas.” And he said, “Well, come on over. We’ll do a deal.” 
We set up a company together and started promoting the circus using 
U.S. marketing techniques. Then it was so successful, he and I set up a 
separate circus called Circus Starr, which is still running today, that we 
got up and running and ran for a number of years. Then we decided to 
come back here to the States at the end of ’95, actually early ’96. 
 
And now that you’re back in the States, were you looking to settle or 
were you still looking to work or retire? 
 
Well, life is full of surprises, especially in the circus business. At the end 
of 2002, I was contacted by the Big Apple Circus, which is one of the 
best circuses in the United States. It’s actually a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit 
company based in New York City. It’s the crème de la crème of 
circuses. They, for example, play Lincoln Center, right next to the 
Metropolitan Opera house—literally, next door to the Metropolitan 
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Opera House for three months every year in the fall and winter. It’s very 
prestigious, and they offered me a job as a production unit manager, 
which is like the circus manager. We spent almost four years there and 
absolutely loved it and thought we would retire there. You moved eleven 
times a year instead of two hundred and some times, sat in New York 
City for three months out of the year, and then in Boston for seven 
weeks. It was wonderful. I have to backtrack a bit. Do we have time for 
this? 
 
Sure, absolutely. 
 
Okay. Back in 1984, I was booking Chipperfield’s Circus in a town 
called Naas, in Ireland, at a racetrack, a racecourse as they call it. I was 
doing the deal with the manager and he said, “You know, the only circus 
people I know are the Norths.” My ears shot up there and I said, “You 
know the Norths? Well, Henry North is who got me really interested in 
the circus!” He said, “Yes!” He said, “They’ve got a place in Galway.” I 
said, “I know!” It was somewhere in Ireland because they had in the 
early ’60s, bought back the old family estate, the North family, and I just 
knew it was somewhere in Galway, County Galway. He said, “Well, it’s 
outside of a little town called Ballinasloe, near a little town called 
Aughrim. I said, “Well, wow!” And I finally had my lead. This is before 
the internet of course, and now you can find anything.  
 
The next year, with the French show, I was coming through going on my 
way to book Galway. Beverly, my wife, and I made a side trip to 
Aughrim and stopped in the local pub and asked for directions. They 
gave me directions and I drove out. There was Northbrook Cattle 
Company and I went into the office, and there was a man in there 
sweeping. I said, “Is Mr. Henry North here?” and he said, “Well, he’s 
not here, but I’m his son, John,” and it was John Ringling North, II. I 
said, “I’m Jim Royal, with the circus.” He said, “Oh, with the circus!” 
Then he said, “Come on over to the house.” His father and uncle owned 
Ringling Brothers from like’38, more or less, right through until they 
sold it in 1967. He had always thought he was going to be taking over 
the circus, but his uncle, who was a 51 percent owner decided to sell. So 
they sent him over here to set up this cattle operation at the old family 
estate, but he always loved the circus. He and I stayed friends, and then 
when we were in England we’d come over and stay with him in Ireland, 
and he’d visit us when he came back to the States.  
 
Again, one of the strange coincidences, we were with Big Apple Circus 
in 2006, this would’ve been, and we were in Washington. John was 
coming over to the States, he lived in Ireland, he wanted to get together, 
and he said, “Let’s go to 21 [Club] in New York. I’ll buy dinner.” We 
had the date set and about a day or two before then, I was talking to one 
 
 
13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of the people in Big Apple and they said, “Did you hear that Kelly 
Miller is not going out next year? They’re not going to take it out. 
They’re going to sell the show.” I said, “Wow!” We couldn’t believe it, 
because it was a great show. It had a wonderful reputation. It was so 
well run, a high quality show.  
 
So, I don’t know, two days later we were with John at 21 and talking, 
and he always talked circus. He said, “Well, what’s happening?” I said, 
“Well, we just found out Kelly Miller is not going on the road,” and we 
talked about that. That was it. Had a wonderful evening and then he 
went back to Ireland, and I get a call two or three days later. He says, 
“Do you know who owns Kelly Miller?” I said, “Yes. David Rawls is 
the president of the circus.” He said, “If I buy it, will you run it for me?” 
I said, “Well,” I thought, “Yes, I need a challenge!” We did the 
arrangements, and he bought the show and a couple of weeks later, here 
I am in Hugo. 
 
What year is this? 
 
This would be the tail end of 2006. We took over in January 2007. I had 
thought I’d be retiring with Big Apple, and here we are today with Kelly 
Miller. 
 
Well, backing up just a little bit, what was your first exposure to Hugo, 
around what year, with Carson and Barnes? 
 
That would’ve been—we came from Florida, drove up here in February 
of ’81. My first impression of Hugo wasn’t terribly—we knew it was a 
great circus city, but we arrived on a horribly cold, dreary, rainy, and by 
the time we got here it was dark. It was raining and dreary. We came 
out, parked, and we got stuck in mud. We were pulling a trailer. But then 
we went in and met D.R. and he was such a great character. You know, 
the next day the sun was out. It was a beautiful day and everything was 
fine. 
 
What were your impressions of D.R. Miller? 
 
Oh, we loved him right off the bat. I mean, he had such a reputation 
because he was such a remarkable, remarkable man. He was just 100 
percent circus, the man was. He was great fun, too. I think people in the 
circus liked him and respected him because he had done everything. 
They had started with absolutely nothing and built up this huge, huge 
circus. And he’d had so many ups and downs over the years. We all 
liked him and respected him. He always seemed, to me, he always had 
that good sense of humor, no matter how difficult things were. 
 
 
 
14
Nykolaiszyn  
 
 
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Well, now you’re at the helm of Kelly Miller. Did you make any 
changes? What were your plans, your goals, in taking out the show for 
the new season? 
 
Well, Mr. North, of course, his background is Ringling Brothers and 
Barnum and Bailey. He always loved the tented circus. They went 
indoors in 1957 and that kind of lost some of its luster for him. He loves 
the tent show and I do too. But he was accustomed to this huge 
production of fifteen hundred people, literally. So he’s always trying to 
increase things and I’m always saying, “Watch the budget! Watch it. 
We’ve got to pay the bills, here!” (Laughs) He really concentrates on 
improving the performance, which is a good thing. 
 
Tell me a little bit about the types of acts now that are on the show, that 
you try to incorporate. 
 
Well, we do some production numbers in the show, which Mr. North 
likes. We have three elephants which are in the show. We’ve added wild 
animals, which they haven’t had for a number of years here. We’ve got 
an act with five tigers in it. We also have a camel act, and it had 
choreography with the dancing girls as well in that. We have what’s 
called a Risley act, a very good Risley act. A Risley act is a very unusual 
act. You don’t see them often in the circus. It’s juggling human beings 
with your feet, is what, essentially, it is. In this case, a man, the father of 
the family, leans back in a cushioned kind of table thing, and propels his 
children with his feet and they do somersaults, double somersaults, 
twists, turns, flips. It’s very unusual. And aerial acts, of course. We have 
a young lady from Australia who’s with us, who does a very extreme 
sort of aerial act. It’s one of those nail-biters. It keeps you on the edge of 
your seat. 
 
How do you go about choosing the acts every season? 
 
In the glorious days, when John’s father and his uncle were running 
Ringling Brothers, John’s uncle would go to Europe every year and 
travel around all over Europe going to nightclubs, circuses, all sorts of 
things. One time, one of the most famous Ringling aerialists, Pinito Del 
Oro, he found in a little gypsy circus, a little open-aired traveling circus. 
But he would go around scouting acts that way, which was a good way 
to do it. He had some wonderful meals and cocktails.  
 
But nowadays, people send you, “Here’s a link on YouTube. You can 
see my act,” and DVDs and that sort of thing. We’ve built up a 
reputation of having a quality show, which it always was. Kelly Miller 
always was a first class show and a show where we have a very long 
season, good, regular, long, lengthy period of pay. We value people on 
 
 
15
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
the show so people have a feeling of being appreciated. We have people 
knocking on the door to work here. 
 
During the season, as you’re managing everything, could you take me 
through a typical day for you? 
 
Well, in recent years, there’s so much to do with what we call the front-
end of the circus, which is what we are right here, a big chunk of it here 
in this office, in Hugo. So much takes place before the circus hits the 
road, and the last year or two I have spent more and more time here, than 
on the road to the point that Oscar Perez is our day to day manager on 
the circus. So, right now, and certainly this year, I got the circus on the 
road and spent the first month with it, making sure everything was all set 
and running. Then I came in here and it’s just ten hour, eleven hour days 
here, all day long.  
 
People say the circus is dying, but we’ve been hearing that for 
generations. We’re having exceptionally good business, year after year. 
The biggest challenge we face is the costs involved with the circus and 
now, it’s just so complicated. We spend hours and hours here in this 
office, dealing with regulations of all types. I mean, your average 
business is inspected by local authorities maybe once a year, whereas we 
are inspected every single day of the week by different authorities. We 
have to comply with different laws, different regulations, different 
forms, and it’s just endless paperwork. 
 
How do you go about choosing your route? Do you get together with the 
other circuses in town or you all divvy up the area? 
 
Well, circuses, some of them have, more or less, an established route. 
We do. We cover an area. We’ve added the Rio Grande Valley, which 
we didn’t used to do. This is our third year, and it’s given us an 
additional five or six weeks of work, because we open up down there 
where it is warm. It’s an eight hundred mile drive down there, but it 
works well for us. We start there and then we kind of work in a 
northeasterly direction out as far as—this year, we’re going into New 
Hampshire. Then we swing west to the Chicagoland area and then back 
down to Hugo, and that’s over a thirty-eight week period. That’s kind of 
the established Kelly Miller route, that area. It varies a little bit one way 
or the other, but we know certain areas we are going to be in at certain 
times, and then we book the route accordingly. We have a lot of towns 
that we play every year, some towns every other year.  
 
Do you have a personal favorite? 
 
Of the towns? 
 
 
16
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yes. 
 
No, not particularly. There are so many that have certain things that you 
like about them. There may be a little restaurant or something. That’s 
one of the things about the circus, when you’ve been doing it for many, 
many years and going to all these towns, I’ll find myself driving and 
without thinking when I’m going somewhere, and suddenly I’ll be in a 
town and think, “Wait a minute! About three blocks up ahead, if you 
turn right, there’s a really good restaurant right down there, a little home 
cooking kind of place.” You get there and sure enough, that’s it. And 
yet, I don’t know where I put my glasses. (Laughter) 
 
How big of a lot, or how small of a lot can you perform on? 
 
We shoot for three hundred feet by three hundred feet. That’s our ideal 
footprint, but we can fit in smaller areas. We do need about a hundred 
and eighty by a hundred and eighty minimum, for the tent portion of it. 
Then we kind of juggle things around. We have some terrifically 
talented people on the circus. Gustavo Perez, for example, our 
superintendent of getting that circus shoehorned into different locations 
and how you get all the vehicles in. We sometimes are in an L-shape, 
sometimes it’s irregular shapes. 
 
How many trucks contain everything? 
 
On circus-owned vehicles, there are seventeen this year. Then we have, 
all together, about thirty-three that are traveling with the circus and that 
is employees’ RVs, acts that have their motor homes or travel trailers 
that they live in. 
 
Have you noticed, as we go through the years, government regulations 
becoming tighter and tighter? Are obtaining visas a problem? 
 
Yes, yes. One of our big hurdles since, oh, I guess, since maybe twenty-
five years or so, now, circuses have taken advantage of seasonal H2B 
visas, which allow people to come into the country for nine, I think it’s a 
maximum of ten months. Trying to find someone who wants to work 
seven days a week, virtually nonstop for thirty-eight weeks, in all kinds 
of weather—no matter how cold it is out there, how wet, how muddy, 
but to put that show up, it’s hard to find people that are willing to do 
that.  
 
A number of years back, circuses came across the H2B visa worker, 
which brings up seasonal workers, and we have our workers come from 
Mexico, from the Puebla area. They’ve been coming to us for years and 
 
 
17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
years and years. They’re not illegal immigrants. They’re not immigrants 
at all. They are workers on a visa, a temporary visa. They come out and 
they want to go home. They just want to come up, get work, and go 
home. What do we get then? We get reliable help that works very hard 
no matter what the conditions. They’re friends to us. We’ve know them 
all for many years. They come home.  
 
We pay taxes, we pay social security, which benefits you and I, because 
they never use that social security contribution, and the minute the 
show’s over they are heading home. We have to pay the highest 
minimum wage of any location we go to in the United States. Of the 
eighteen states that we go to and all the communities, we have to find 
which one pays the highest minimum wage and that’s what our 
minimum wage can be for a worker, these H2B workers. But a lot of 
them make a lot more money than that. So it’s not like taking jobs away 
from Americans. 
 
Right. 
 
The government has made it difficult sometimes. Then when the 
economy was great, people like landscapers and so forth were using 
them. There is a limited number, sixty-six thousand per year, and the 
numbers would be taken up and we’d have trouble getting workers. 
Now, the Department of Labor this year, has decided they don’t think 
it’s a good program so they’re doing everything they can to make it 
unworkable, which is a sad commentary. In order to get these workers, 
we have to advertise for Americans, which is fine. It would be a lot 
cheaper for us to not have to go through all of this, which costs 
thousands of dollars. We advertise, and this year, we had two responses, 
which is typical. We hired one man and he’s still with us. The previous 
year, we had three responses and one of them came for an interview, the 
other two never showed. The one that came for an interview was going 
to come back to work the next week and never showed. It’s just a sad 
situation. 
 
Approximately, how many H2B visas do you obtain every year? 
 
We do about twenty-three, twenty-two or twenty-three. 
 
Now, when a circus comes to town, how do you find the sponsors? 
 
We have people like what I did when I was a young, obnoxious teenager 
called a contracting agent. Ideally, we have someone out in the field. As 
I mentioned, we have a lot of towns that are every-year towns, a lot of 
towns that are every other year towns. We’re always trying to look for 
new towns because sometimes you’re with, I don’t know, Lion’s Club, 
 
 
18
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
 
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for example, and then over the years they kind of disintegrate and the 
club is not as strong as it used to be so you want a new town. So these 
people go out and we’re going from A to B and in between there we 
want to play a town, and we’ll look at towns and see which one the 
demographics look good on. Then the contracting agent will go into that 
community, look for a place where they can put the circus on, and then 
start knocking on doors, calling, and talking to chambers of commerce, 
Rotary clubs, Lions, education foundations, and see who wants to do it 
as a fundraiser. 
 
Do you ever find that circuses are confused with carnivals? 
 
Oh, people often times, yes. We’re—circus people are a little huffy 
about that.  
 
Why is that? 
 
This is no disrespect, because there are so many great carnival people, 
but we feel that the circus is, and certainly in other countries, it’s 
respected as one of the arts. It’s considered part of the culture. In France, 
they get letters of honor from the government, circus performers, and 
they are awarded things. In Monte Carlo, for example, Princess 
Stephanie is the patron of the circus. They have the Monte Carlo festival 
about the circus every year. But here, we’re just the circus. People don’t 
give it the respect we feel it deserves.  
 
Then we think, well, a lot of carnivals have just people that are operating 
a ride. They’re kind of in some cases, maybe a little bit shiftless. Not in 
all cases, just one or two, but it doesn’t require tremendous skill, 
whereas we have people with Kelly Miller that are like eight and nine 
generations of circus that perform a certain act that they’ve honed for 
those many, many generations. But because we are a traveling 
organization, we’re lumped together. 
 
What are some of the essential jobs on the road? We hear the front lot 
and back lot. What are some of those essential jobs when it comes to 
putting on a show? 
 
Well, with the circus, the contracting agent is the person who books the 
circus, gets the contract signed with the Rotary Club, or whoever it may 
be. That’s early on. Then we have the home office and here, we have a 
team of people that, more or less, hold the hand of the sponsor and guide 
them through the process and help them all the way along at promoting 
the circus together. It’s a joint effort. Then two weeks out or three weeks 
out, we have Carlee and Charlie, husband and wife clown team, they go 
in and promote the circus. They meet with the sponsor and go to schools, 
 
 
19
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
old-age homes and things like that, entertaining and promoting. Then 
twelve days out, the billposters arrive. The billposters put up the posters 
in the community telling about the circus coming.  
 
Then the twenty-four hour man arrives the day before, the twenty-four 
man or the arrow man, and he’s the man that, with shows like ours that 
are primarily one-day stands—today, for example, he would go in the 
office around nine in the morning, when they open, and talk and get the 
route to the next town and get the details. Then he leaves and he puts 
little paper arrows. Each circus or carnival has their own distinctive style 
of arrows. He puts these on poles, indicating where to turn. He guides 
the circus from today’s town to the next town. He goes ahead to make 
sure that the route planned is a good one and that there’s not suddenly a 
low overpass or something, that they weren’t aware of. He gets to the 
next town, meets with the sponsor, and puts little markers in where 
everything is going to go on the lot. He marks where the tent will be, 
where the elephants are going, where the cookhouse is going, and so 
forth.  
 
Then, the next morning, the earliest one in this case is Gustavo Perez, 
with Kelly Miller, who is the superintendent. He is the first one there. 
He gets there, looks it over and talks with the arrow man and he may 
make some adjustments, because he’s really the pro at this. He might 
say, “No, let’s move the tent back a little bit. It looks kind of soft there. 
It’s supposed to be going to rain and we want to get the show as close to 
the edge as possible.” Then, he and the arrow man spot everybody, and 
the process of setting up begins for that day.  
 
The cookhouse goes to work. They set up the cookhouse early and they 
start preparing the first meal of the day. Men unload the tents. The 
animals are unloaded and cared for. Tent goes up, seats go in, rigging 
lights, people practice during the day, school starts. We have a school 
for the children with the circus. Do a couple of shows, tear it all down, 
go to sleep, get up, and do it again. 
 
And you’re on to the next town? 
 
Yes. We have this year, a four-day stand. That’s the longest stand of the 
season. Otherwise, it’s mostly one day. 
 
How many miles, approximately, do you travel every day? 
 
It averages out to be about forty miles. We’ll do ten thousand miles over 
thirty-eight weeks. 
 
In your eyes, what are the must-haves? When you think circus, do you 
 
 
20
 
 
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
 
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
 
 
think, “I must have elephants. I must have X.” What are your must-
haves? 
 
Well, although you can do a great circus in a building, I think a tent 
circus is really where the circus is at its best. Elephants, of course, I 
would have to have right up there, too. We poll our audiences and 
survey them to see what they liked best, and nine times out of ten, 
number one is always elephants. A good circus really has to have certain 
ingredients. It has to have good comedy in it. It has to have a nice 
mixture of animals. It has to have aerial acts. It has to have acrobatic 
acts, ground acts, and it has to have a good, fast pace to it. Those are the 
prerequisites, I would say. 
 
We’re inundated with media and smartphones, and everything today has 
really changed from days gone by. Do you think the circus will continue 
to remain popular in our culture? Do you see it dwindling? 
 
No, as I mentioned earlier, our obstacle are costs, because moving the 
circus around the country, as you can imagine, is really expensive. We 
can’t raise the prices so high that families can’t afford to go. But I 
remember when I was young and researching the circus. In 1938 
Ringling Brothers had a strike by the working personnel. They shut 
down for a short time. I think it was The New Republic magazine that 
had the headline, “The Circus is Dead.” This is it, you know, we’re 
never going to see circuses anymore. Little did they know, huh? The 
same thing when Ringling Brothers stopped touring under canvas and 
went into arenas. I think the circus is always going to be around.  
 
The circus arts have certainly been with us way, way, way back. If we 
get people out, you have a good quality circus, a well-presented circus, 
like Kelly Miller, you entertain people. You are sure to. The nice thing 
about the circus is you go inside and it’s not uncommon to see a 
grandparent, a parent, and a child, three generations sitting together. 
They’re looking at the circus and they have that same expression on all 
three ages which is wonderful to watch, whether it’s they’re laughing at 
the clowns or they’re kind of nervous watching the tight wire performer. 
The circus is successful because it hits all those ages. It entertains people 
of all ages. I think that it will always be around. Our problem is the 
competition and getting people out there. It’s expensive. 
 
Who is your competition? 
 
Everything nowadays. Text messages, people are you know—electronic 
devices, the internet. People can sit in front of computers now for hours 
and hours and hours. But when they get out there and sit in the tent, it is 
a magical time. Of course, the various network television, cable 
 
 
21
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
 
 
 
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
television, DVDs, movies, all the electronic media, books that are 
electronic now. What isn’t? 
 
You mentioned a lot about the role of the staff on the road. Tell me a 
little bit about what goes on in the home office. What type of staff 
members do you have? You mentioned that they help guide the sponsors 
through the process. Do you have marketing people in-house here? 
What are the types of positions? 
 
We have a team of several people here. Me, I kind of just get in 
everyone’s way, everyone’s hair. We have people out in the field that 
are doing the booking. Then, Jill Jones, who is our office manager here, 
she and I sit down, not too far from right now, and start planning the 
following year’s tour. We know, more or less, what areas we are going 
to and then we kind of single out what towns we are going to. Then we 
have to contact the sponsors that we expect to be on board to make sure 
that they’re on board for the tour and lay out all the tour. Then it’s a 
process of contacting them and getting all of that lined up.  
 
We have another lady here, Catie Maxwell, and she deals with the 
sponsors regarding logistics and things like that with them. She goes 
through different processes with them. We have another position, which 
we are just getting another person in that Jill is replacing right now, that 
does the advertising, marketing, and promotion of the events, working 
with the sponsors. Then we have Brenda Rawls, who does the business 
side of it, the accounting side, payroll and things like that. Then we have 
a telephone marketing company that we’re associated with. They work 
with the sponsors as well. 
 
Do you do automated calls in the community? 
 
No, just to businesses. 
 
Oh, okay. So what’s the most important job on the road that you see, in 
your eyes? Whose job is really integral to the whole process? 
 
Well, if you’re doing the circus right, everyone. Every single job is 
really important. In circuses, there’s very little waste ever, in a circus. 
You don’t find jobs where there is—what used to be called 
featherbedding, I don’t know if they use that term anymore. That’s an 
old union term, I guess. People are not fluff jobs. They have meat and 
potatoes—what horrible metaphors I’m using! (Laughter) I’m sorry. 
They’re essential jobs in the circus. The man who is shoveling up after 
the elephants is really important. The thing that people always say in the 
circus is once in a while people will get that attitude, “I’m going to be 
out of here, and you guys are going to be lost without me!” Well, it 
 
 
22
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
 
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
 
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
always goes on. No matter who leaves, it carries on. 
 
What is your favorite part? You’re sitting back, you’ve had a long 
career, and you’re now running Kelly Miller, what is your favorite part 
about the circus? 
 
It’s the thing that’s going to sound like a Frank Capra movie. It’ll sound 
so corny and so hokey—it’s to go into that tent and just look around at 
the audience. You hear the laughs when the clowns are in and you stick 
your head in and look and you see the expressions on the people’s faces. 
You see families together, having a great time and knowing that the 
magic had some [impact]. 
 
Do you have some just really stand-out circus moments as you look 
back, as you get together with your wife or your circus family, that you 
like to tell, just in your mind that you go back to all the time. 
 
Well, there are those funny moments that we think about and neat 
experiences. I remember, the first time we were in England and that first 
opening, that first show, during the finale production, I was there and I 
was thinking, “We’re in England! Hey, we’re here! We made it in 
England! We’re with an English circus!” That is really, really 
something. I think opening at Lincoln Center with Big Apple was 
something we’ll always remember, that first time we did that. 
 
Tell me a little bit about the Hugo community. The circus is a big part of 
the community. Are they friendly to the needs of showmen? 
 
They are, indeed. We were with, as I mentioned, Carson and Barnes in 
’81,’82, and then we were over in Europe all that time. Then, we came 
back to work for D.R. when he put out a show called the Chinese 
Imperial Circus. He had a complete Chinese circus he brought over, 
from China obviously, and we toured America and Canada with it. I 
remember coming back at the end of that season and you drive down 
Jackson [Street] in Hugo, and that was back in the days when they’d 
have the reader board signs, businesses used to have them, and they 
would say, “Welcome home circus!” all the different businesses, and I 
thought, “Wow! That’s really great.” And that’s just the way it is. Here 
in Hugo, the circus is so much a part of it.  
 
Even not all that long ago, last fall, I guess it was, I was in the post 
office and someone, I have no idea who it was who knew me, and said, 
“How was the season?” I said, “Oh, we had a good season,” and we 
were talking. People ask you that and they kind of know about the 
circus, understand the circus more than businesses in a regular 
community, a non-circus community. We’re very much a part of it here 
 
 
23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
 
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and accepted just like as if we ran the lumber yard or something, which 
is great.  
 
You get support. You can go into a bank and talk about circus things and 
they know what you’re talking about. I remember the first year we took 
over Kelly Miller, one of the bank presidents was a member of the 
Rotary Club, which was a sponsor of the circus every year, and he saw 
me a few days before we opened. We opened on a Saturday. He said, “If 
you need anything, let me know. We’ll come open the bank for you. If 
you need to get change or anything, let me know.” That’s the kind of 
attitude here. 
 
Why keep winter quarters in Hugo? Is it just because of the longstanding 
history? Is there anything you find unique about the location? 
 
Well, there’s an advantage to being here. A lot of shows winter in 
Florida, which of course, has a better winter than we do. But 
surprisingly, Hugo winters are relatively mild. The animals can go out 
most of the time. We have acres and acres of land for animals to go out 
on. So often people will call me and say, “Oh, you’re in Oklahoma. Boy! 
You had a horrible storm there the other day!” Well, they did in 
Oklahoma City and north, but where we are, in this little southeastern 
corner, for some reason we don’t get the horrible weather so often. 
Winters aren’t absolutely dreadful here. They’re fairly mild.  
 
Florida, of course, is great. But in Florida, you really can only go north. 
That’s about all you can really do there. Whereas here, we could go 
west, we could go into west Texas, Arizona, head out to California that 
way. We could go north, through the plains states. We could go the way 
Kelly Miller used to do and head off into Arkansas and up north that 
way or you can go south, go into Louisiana. You’ve got many different 
directions to go to start your tour so we have that advantage.  
Geographically, it’s in a good location. The climate is mild, a little warm 
in the summertime, but the circus isn’t here [then]. 
 
Very warm in the summertime! (Laughs) Where do you see the circus 
business going in the next ten to twenty years? Do you see any major 
changes? 
 
There’s the Cirque du Soleil, of course, has come out on the scene and 
it’s a hybrid of the circus. I think, eventually, it’s just going to kind of 
stabilize. It’s in an expansion period right now, but it’ll shrink 
somewhat. The number of tented shows like ours has diminished over 
the years and that’s really, as I mentioned before, primarily, the cost is 
the big challenge we face. I think that we are probably at about the point 
where it’s not going to get fewer then there are right now. There will 
 
 
24
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
 
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
continue to be the building circuses. I think it’ll, more or less, be about 
what it is now. I don’t see great changes. But then one never knows what 
will happen. I mean, we didn’t know. John North II, who is our owner, 
spends part of his year in Ireland and he texts me messages throughout 
the day. Ten years ago, I never would’ve thought I could sit here like 
this and be in Ireland in a second. There could be some surprises there 
that will affect us. 
 
Any major—not that I want to tip off your competition—any major plans 
you’re hoping to integrate into future Kelly Miller shows? 
 
No, we’ve kind of settled on the format, a very traditional circus, and all 
the ingredients of an old-fashioned circus. We find it’s very successful. 
We’re getting nothing but good reviews from our sponsors and our 
audiences. We’re doing it the way we think it used to be and the way it 
should be done. It’s working very well. I think if we keep to that format, 
we’re in good shape. Of course, I’m always trying to get new surprises 
in it, new acts, new features, freshening it up. 
 
I want to focus a little bit on the museum that’s coming to town and kind 
of the origins and how it kind of evolved, the background of the history 
of it. 
 
The library, here in Hugo, was in a building that leaked and it was not in 
a great state of repair. Local people felt, on the library board, that they 
needed a new library. They got together, worked really hard, held 
fundraisers, and did everything possible. I remember seeing a sign 
“Future home of the library,” on a vacant lot. Then I was gone. I came 
back from New York four years later and there was this beautiful new 
library. It’s a gorgeous library. Inside, there is a huge circus section 
there. They concentrate on the circus there. It has a circus motif in it. 
There’s a big brown sculpture of the circus inside.  
 
The librarian, Lila Swink, and Marilyn Custer, who’s on the library 
board, were looking out the beautiful window, the great big window of 
the library across the street, at a house in a vacant lot and thinking, 
“Boy, we don’t want to see a fast food restaurant going in there. We 
need to put something there.” They thought having an arts facility there 
of some sort and then that idea didn’t work too well. Then they thought, 
“Wait a minute! A circus museum! That’s what we need, a circus 
museum and park there. A small park and a museum, a small museum.” 
So they began working on it and it became a 501(c)(3). They invited 
each of the circuses to participate. I’m the board member for Kelly 
Miller, and we’ve been working ever since. We got a mortgage and 
bought the property. We were going to convert the house that’s on the 
property into a museum, but in talking to the funders, they said that we 
 
 
25
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
would be better off dismantling the house. It would be easier to get 
funding for a brand new facility that was purpose-built than try to 
convert an old structure. But fortunately, we’re taking bits and pieces of 
the house and selling it—all the old interior doors, wood work, and so 
forth. We’re recycling it, which is a good thing.  
 
We’re doing various fundraisers to raise money to build the museum, 
and it’ll salute Hugo circus history. We plan to have it very much an 
educational facility. It’s going to be a series of buildings, four pods 
connecting. One of them is an educational building, where we’ll be 
giving lectures on the circus and different aspects on the circus and 
teaching circus skills to youth. That’s one of the things we’re starting on 
right now. This fall we’ll be working with Hugo schools. The museum 
has a project teaching circus skills, basic skills, to the youngsters and it 
gives them a chance to develop physically, challenge them mentally, get 
self-esteem, and learn teamwork and things like that. 
 
Does the house have any historical circus significance? 
 
Well, not really. It was owned for some time by David Rawls, who was 
with the circus for many years, and was president of the Kelly Miller 
Circus. It just happened to be there in the right location. 
 
I guess, now, it’s still in the fundraising process? 
 
Yes, right now we have two major fundraisers. We have the circus 
festival, the first Saturday in November, on the museum grounds where 
we have free circus acts that circus people donate their time and talent 
and various games and so forth, fun activities, and chances for people to 
spend money and donate. Then we started last January, for the first time, 
we open a café once a year. It’s called the International Red Nose Café 
and it was a great success last year. What we do is we have recipes from 
circus performers. In the circus business, it’s always very international. 
When we have an evening off or something, frequently, we’ll have 
potluck dinners together. The person from France brings a recipe that 
their family has, people from Peru bring a specialty from Peru. You get 
all these wonderful international dishes that you can taste and learn 
about the culture. Well, we decided we’ll have a meal like that. So we 
have a huge buffet, and last year we did capacity business. People came 
to try all these different circus recipes, and we had circus acts 
performing as well. That’s the other major fundraiser—and a cookbook 
is coming out with those recipes, shortly. 
 
Wonderful. 
 
And we’re seeking funding through different organizations. 
 
 
26
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
 
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Is there an estimated completion date? 
 
No, unfortunately not. Just when things were going good, that’s when 
the old economy hit the skids, and it has been very difficult fundraising 
major contributions. 
 
It seems like a good project to undertake, especially in Hugo, with the 
history and the continuing winter quarters of several organizations. 
 
Hugo is an area that’s economically deprived in this part of the state. 
They’re trying to bolster tourism here, because there is a wonderful 
Hugo Lake and outdoor facilities, and people are aware of Hugo as a 
circus town, and so they come to the town to see a little bit of the circus. 
Of course, we have the Showmen’s Rest cemetery, which is part of 
Mount Olivet Cemetery and interesting gravestones of the circus people, 
but it needs that museum. It needs that piece in there so people can come 
at any time of year and experience part of the circus and that’s what the 
museum will provide. 
 
Well, one more question, not that I’m trying to put you into retirement… 
 
I’ve got my lottery ticket! (Laughter) 
 
...as you look towards the future and where you want to retire you, of 
course, have traveled all over the world, all over the country. Are there 
any parts of the world you have your eye on for retirement? 
 
Well, finances of course, enter into that, always. We bought a home in 
Iowa. I grew up in Chicago, but my grandparents were in a little town, 
he was a coal miner in southern Iowa. My wife and I used to visit there 
and we liked the area. We bought a house there thinking we would retire 
there, but now we spend so much time in Hugo, we’ve recently bought a 
mobile home here, in Hugo. Maybe we’ll be part of the year here, part of 
the year there, back and forth. I don’t know. 
 
Do you miss going out on the road much? 
 
Yes and no. Nowadays, business is conducted electronically so much 
and when you’re on the road, sometimes you’re in mountains and don’t 
get good internet reception. You can’t send emails, you can’t scan items 
and send them so I find I can get so much more done sitting in an office 
than everyday moving. With your office on the road, you have to kind of 
put things down because you’re traveling and it sucks up a lot of 
valuable time. But I do miss traveling. 
 
 
 
27
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
 
 
Royal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
 
Royal 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn  
 
Royal 
You miss it a little bit? 
 
Yes. 
 
Another question to ask, I know early on you had your sights set on 
circus, but if you could do it all over again, if you could be anything you 
wanted to be, what would you be? 
 
The son of extremely wealthy parents and a lazy… No. (Laughs) I think 
the circus has given me so much satisfaction, I can’t think of anything 
else that I would do. Like I said earlier, you’re really lucky if you find 
something that you love and you make a living out of it. It has taken me 
all over the world almost, and it’s something that can really stir you 
inside. It hits you that way. Like Cecil B. DeMille said, “You can shake 
the sawdust out of your shoes, but you can’t shake it out of your heart,” 
and I can’t imagine anything else that would do that. I’m sure there is 
possibly something, but I don’t know what it is. 
 
All right, I’m going to put you on the spot. Are you ready? 
 
I’m ready. 
 
Okay, how would you close a show as a ringmaster? 
 
I used to say—what was it that I used to say? “Until we meet again, keep 
the circus magic in your heart.” 
 
Well, I think that’s a good way to end. Did you change it up through the 
years? 
 
Yes. I was trying to think of something and I came up with that one, at 
some point. 
 
Well, thank you very much for your time today. 
 
My pleasure. 
 
------- End of interview -------