Glenville Graham 
Enfield, CT 
41 years old (1973) 
20:37 
From Jamaica center of the island 
00:30 I am from Jamaica, Trelawny, between Kingston and Montego Bay. Economics on the island are 
not that great so we try to find jobs in other places. Agriculture section of Jamaica, you do an interview, 
do a selection and then once you do that they tell you where you come to work. It is either apples, 
flowers and luckily for me in 2000 on the 9th of July I ended up at HF Brown tobacco in Windsor. After 
that in ‘04 I came here to Jarmoc to work and from ’04 I have been here ever since, 6 months, 5 months, 
and 7 months. It provides for the family, the income. I find it to be a challenging things. I like changes 
and I look forward to the changes of the season and the different aspects of it. This minute you’re here 
in the greenhouse, the next minute you are in the field planting, the next two weeks you are hoeing, the 
next two weeks you are putting in flowers, the next two weeks you are putting in the chemicals and 
then you are reaping and then you are packing. You are not at the same place doing the same thing 
every day. That makes it interesting for me. 
2:34 I don’t mind the outdoor work. Physical labor has always been one of my strong points. If it is not 
tobacco than I will be doing construction. We prepared the land for a few weeks. We are ploughing it 
with a tractor and then put in the fertilizer, then you prefecture it, then we plant it with two guys driving 
and two guys behind planting, then you go back and look for the plants that need…wait another two 
weeks, weeds come up with the rain, now we are hoeing and putting the fertilizer a little bit closer to 
the plant, fiber roots. Then we take breaks and do some repairing on the buildings, change the roofs. 
Once have done that we go and get the suckers. The little ones that come out between the leaves. You 
want the leaf to be healthy and get all nutrients so you take the suckers out then we put the chemicals 
on the off shoots. Then in another couple of weeks we go and cut it, and a couple of us guys cut it and a 
couple of guys are in the barn hang it. 
04:50 Hanging is you put them on a rig out in the field. You put six plants on a lathe and you stick them 
on it.  50 lathe come in on a rig. There are a couple of guys, one standing on the rig and three other guys 
with poles and you keep passing them up like a chain length it takes a minute and a few seconds to 
unload a rig. 
05:30 If the plants are healthy then it is maybe a good thirty or forty pounds. Sometimes it is as light at 
10 to five pounds but when the stock is as thick as your hand it is really heavy. For six plants to be going 
for 8-10 hours and when it is hot 80-90 degrees in the top of that barn it is no fun. You try to go as quick 
as possible so you can come down lower where there is fresh air. The tractors just keep flowing there 
are ten or fifteen tractors outside of the barn. It never stops until the day is over. It is peace of mind 
when the barn is full because you are not up there! Now there are only 40 more to go. Ya it’s done and 
the cycle repeats itself because when it dries we have to take it down again. 
07:18 Once it is up there it is another few weeks to dry. During that time you put away equipment that 
you are not using to plant, repair barns, by the end of September and October you are trying to get 
those things done. Fields are not on the same timing. They are on different timing. By the time you 
reach the last field it is July so you return to the first barn and it is a cycle. 
8:08 So this year we started the 29th of May and we finished two weeks ago. I would say there is six 
weeks between the fields. They are staggered.  
8:51 (In the past Jarmoc grew shade tobacco and Glenville talks now about working in the shade 
tobacco) It is pretty interesting plant. It takes more time to prepare but within the same breathe it is 
always a challenge to sell because they are so picky with it, the quality of the leaf, the size of a leaf, once 
nature takes course you can never tell how it is going to grow. You can’t always get that perfection that 
they wanted. You may have a good rainy season but then the leaves can get too big, too thin, and too 
thick. You need 18” for those leaves. Broad leaf can be big. You make a mark on your arm to measure 
the leaf. Within seven days you pick from the bottom to the top and then come around again to get the 
next round. 
10:26 (So you are picking one leaf at a time under those tents? Nets) Oh ya,  If the temperature outside 
is say 90 and the humidity makes it feel like 100 then underneath  it feels like 150. It is always three 
times more. When it is really bad is when there is no wind blowing. Then it is muggy. You go in to do one 
row and you are dying to get it done so you can get back out and get some fresh air and water. There 
are some farms that when it is really low the first bit you are most likely on your butt for the first row. 
Then it is knee height and you can bend.  For tall persons it is more difficult than for shorter ones. For 
them there is less pressure on your back. But then they recommend that they put the taller guys in the 
barn and the shorter guys in the field. The taller one in the field does no justice to the leaves. When you 
bend you are going to break the vein of the leaf behind you or beside you. Once the veins are broken 
they are considered to be no good.  
12:28 You can only assume that I will get work. I am married and my family is in Jamaica. Two girls. You 
can never guarantee coming back. I have worked for Steve for years, but it is still never gaunt teed. 
There are so many people who want to come and work. If that phone call comes and you miss it you 
then you will miss your turn. When you know the time that they will call you have to be on your alert. If 
you miss it you miss it.  
13:51 Once my 8 hour day is over here we go back to the camp and sit down, we talk a lot of crap, play 
dominoes, drive on the road and go take a look. Some of the bigger companies do provide stuff a camp 
and some don’t so you have to provide your own thing. Steve supplies us a van. Steve is a not a bad 
boss. Once you have a license you can go but you stay near the farm in Enfield. If you want to go further 
out you may ask a friend to take you. You try to make it as best as possible home away from home 
without thinking about it so it does not stress you out. It is never good leaving your family. It is really a 
challenge. You always want to see your home and they are happy when the financial thing is taken care 
of but if they have no demands then they want to see you.  
15:28 (Do you grow tobacco in Jamaica?) I don’t but there are guys who do plant ya. Not so much that 
they have to employ a person just from a personal perspective. For the past 14 years I have been going 
and coming.  Nigel has been coming and going for 20 years. I have been working with the same set of 
guys for over ten years. (His cell phone beeps.) We are not that close.  
16:45 (So does that, meaning his cell phone, help?) Oh ya, I use my headset and listen to my radio and 
my music. Keeps my mind and thoughts with my family. At any given time they can call so I can work and 
talk. My girls are 14 and 12. When I have a break I am always on my phone. When I look at my phone 
now I see my battery is red. I have to have a backup battery in my bag all the time.  
 
17:55 (Do you think that your girls will ever come over?) If the whole agriculture and immigration thing 
works, knock on wood, I think. I would like for them to come here and go to school. Get even insurance. 
In the islands we do not have insurance. I want to come here and work pay my taxes and do my thing 
and work to get my family going. It is getting harder and harder even for Steve to get us here. It is a work 
visas that lasts 5 months then it is off. There is nothing you can do about it. If you want to come here 
you have to apply to get a visiting visa. Based on your application and interview they say yes or no. You 
can never tell if they will say yes or no even if you have a good history apply in you can never tell when 
they will say yes or no. I have been coming here for 14 years and 4 times I have been turned down. 
Jamaica turns it down and a person who has never been here gets through.   
19:55 It is all about luck. It doesn’t make any sense to lie on the form.