May 7, 2013 
Home of John E. Peck, Great Bend, NY 
Project: Archie Green Fellowship: Dairy Farm Workers in Northern NY 
Interviewer: Jill Breit (JB) 
Interviewees: John E. Peck (JP), Wilma Peck (WP), wife of John E.; Helen Peck (HP), mother of John E. 
Transcribed by:  Julia Bailey 
Track One 
0:00:00 
JB: This is Jill Breit speaking. Today is Tuesday, May 7th, 2013.  I am at the home of John and Helen Peck 
in Great Bend.  I guess this is your home; maybe it’s your mother’s home, I don’t know!  This is the 
second interview with the Peck family for the research on dairy farms that TAUNY is doing with support 
from the Archie Green grant.  Today I am here to talk about the experience of the Pecks in some earlier 
generations of activity on the farms, so this is a follow-up interview to the one I did with John D. Peck.  
So if we could just start by going around the table and have each one of you say your name and your 
relationship to John D. 
WP: This is Wilma Peck and I am the mother of John. 
JP: And grandson.  You are the grandmother of John D. 
WP: And grandmother of John D. 
JP: I’m John E. Peck, and I’m the father of John D. 
HP: I’m Helen Peck, the mother of John D. 
JB: Okay, thank you for doing that. As I said before we turned on the machine I really should’ve spoken 
to you folks first so that he could have said his relationship to you because you come first!  So when I 
spoke to John D. I got a very good overview of the history of the Pecks here in this county and what has 
happened through the generations.  He sort of went through the genealogy for me and he talked about 
what farming is like now, as he is working the farm.  So I wonder if we could just start by just talking 
about some earlier generations, and Wilma, if you’re comfortable with starting, if you could just tell me 
a little bit about when you started farming with your husband. 
WP: Tell me, John 
JP: What year did you get married? 
WP: 1944 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
1
JP: So you started farming with him then. 
WP: Yes. 
JB: And did you come from a farm? 
WP: Yes. 
JB: And when you married your husband was your plan to work actively on the farm, or just to take care 
of the children and the home? 
WP: Everything! 
JB: Your husband was running the family farm that he had sort of inherited from his father, right? 
JP: Grandfather. He bought from his grandmother. Grandfather died and he bought it from his 
grandmother. 
JB: Okay. [Telephone rings] Oops, do you want take that? 
 
END OF TRACK ONE 
0:02:53 
Track Two 
0:00:00 
JB: Okay so can you tell me a little bit about what your married life was like on the farm, like what kinds 
of things you did on the farm? 
WP: That’s hard to say. 
JP: Well you milked the cows! 
WP: Oh I milked the cows and did everything I could. 
JB: Did you work in the fields also? 
WP: Not too much. 
JP: Picked a few rocks! 
JB: John actually did talk a lot about picking rocks as a big job on the farm. 
WP: Yes 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
2
JB: Were you the one in the family who was more in charge of taking care of the cows, and sort of 
working with the calves? 
WP: I guess so. 
JB: Did you like the cows? 
WP: Oh yes. I liked the cattle. 
JP: She had a special breed of cattle she liked. 
JB: Oh really? What kind of cattle did you like? 
WP: Linebacks. 
JB: I have never even heard of those. 
WP: Line down their back, line up the belly. 
JB: Really? 
JP: White line across their backbone. 
JB: And so they were black and white? 
JP: Black and white, Holsteins. But they were what they called Lineback. 
JB: But they are Holsteins? 
JP: Yeah, most times they are Holsteins. 
JB: Oh interesting! And so did you have some of those Linebacks? 
WP: Oh yes. 
JB: And did they produce better milk, or about the same? 
WP: Oh I think about the same. 
HP: All named after flowers! 
JP: Ours now are all named after flowers. 
JB: Oh, is that right? 
JP: We have some now, and she grew up with some, and then she bought some calves back in...well she 
was up in years and she was still farming it.  I guess she remembered them from the home farm.  The 
other thing that we have is Dutch Belted animals.  They have a white belt around them with a black 
front and black back-end. 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
3
JB: So these Linebacks, is that just like a normal variation on a Holstein or is that a particular breed? 
JP: Kind of a particular breed. There are not a whole lot of them around and at one time you could 
through some places buy the semen that was produced by bulls that were Linebacks or Dutch Belted, 
but it was kind of a specialty thing. 
JB: So if you would then give me an idea of sort of the mix within the cows you have, like how many 
Linebacks, how many Dutch Belted, how many regular Holsteins? 
JP: Right now probably Linebacks would be roughly 15% and Dutch Belted about 10% of the herd.  Then 
maybe 40% of the herd is Holstein and the rest of the percentage would be a combination Holstein 
Jerseys.  And they do produce a high protein butterfat milk and a lot of them are very good producers 
too.  They may not quite produce what a Holstein cow does, but they do well at it for their size. They’re 
always eating in the pasture, the other ones could be lying around, but they are always picking.  We 
have quite a variety of cattle. 
JB: Do you think there’s an advantage to having a mix of different kinds of cattle? 
WP: Oh yeah. 
HP: They look pretty in the field! 
JB: That’s part of it, right? 
JP: She’s waiting for one to come down here because she’s going to see them this year, all summer.  She 
likes to see her cattle. 
HP: That and we have red and white Holstein.  Took a long time for us to get them. 
JP: They were all black and white, and my father, way back when, had a red and white calf born and he 
wouldn’t keep it.  Figured it was a freak!  And then for years I tried to breed black and white Holsteins 
with red and white bull sires and finally I started getting some but they were bulls for a while, and then I 
started getting heifer calves.  We’ve got quite a few of them now and I can’t say they do any better than 
a black and white one, but sometimes you have to have a little fun with farming because you’re not 
making anything on the milk and to see the herd and different varieties of them.....we have a few 
beefers just for our own eating and we now have, besides the Black Angus we have a Red Angus up 
there. 
JB: Oh nice! 
JP: Yeah he’s a cutie! 
0:04.42 
JB: So that’s good, it sounds like you genuinely enjoy the animals.  Now you talked about giving the cows 
the names of flowers, is that just the Linebacks? 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
4
WP: Mostly the Linebacks. 
JP: Yes what we normally do when we name cows or calves when we’re gonna raise them, we go by a 
letter of the alphabet.  Each year we keep going through the alphabet, except for certain ones like the 
Linebacks and a few others I keep. 
HP: His ice cream flavors! 
JP: Yeah he has a few that come from a cow that was named after an ice cream, so he had some 
offspring from her and he’s kept that, and the same thing many years ago he bought two purebred cows 
down at the Morrisville sale and he named them both with tree names. 
HP: Sequoia... 
JP: Sequoia and Magnolia. And so now we have trees like Sugar Maple, and there’s quite a variety of 
them. 
JB: So do you all get involved in naming the cows? 
JP: Not anymore. It’s up to him and his wife. Sometimes the hired man up there will make a suggestion.  
We had one that just had a seven on its head, and I thought maybe they were gonna call it Seven, but he 
called it Lucky! It wasn’t their letter for the year, but he called it Lucky. 
0:06:02 
JB: That’s great! So Wilma, did you also have to cook for work crews? 
WP: Oh yeah. Well I don’t know. 
JP: At times, if there was something special. 
JB: Now John was telling me about some kind of apple dumpling that he loved. Who’s the one that made 
the apple dumplings? Was that....oh maybe I’m confusing that with somebody else.  Did you guys have 
apple pies or apple dumplings as part of your...you didn’t have apple trees here did you? 
JP: No, not any. 
0:06:37 
JB: I might be confusing that with someone else.  All right, well I’m coming back to you Wilma, but let’s 
move over here to John and Helen.  Could you tell me about your early days on the farm, when you first 
started out as a couple and kind of how you got together and how you set up farming together? 
HP: [laughter] 
JP: Well, that’s an interesting story!  We both graduated from college in 1967, her from Bible College 
from New Jersey. She went out as a missionary in Western New York.  I knew her through the church we 
were attending in Black River and saw her now and then when she was home, and there were people 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
5
involved in us getting put together.  One of them was the artificial inseminator for our herd here on the 
farm. 
JB: Also playing matchmaker in the human realm! 
JP: So 1969 I proposed to her, and in April of 1970 we were married.  It’s a 50 year contract so you can 
count that; I haven’t got too many more years left, like 17.  But the Lord brought us together and we 
ended up here.  I got out of college and I came back to the farm and I stayed.   Then my brother got 
involved after he got out of high school for a while until ’87, and then he left.  And we went to 
operating; she went to working on the farm then.  She had helped some, but she went to working 
basically full-time for eighteen years.  And her body paid for it now with the arthritis and pulmonary 
problems.  But now you have good lungs. I fought cancer here six years ago and my lung function was 
always good.  John, he has problems.  He can’t take the dust. 
JB: So that’s the big thing, is breathing all that dust. 
JP: He has to use a mask if he’s bedding the cattle.  It’s one of the occupational hazards of farming but it 
has never bothered me.  When we took over we worked hard and we kind of kept the cattle back. We 
had more than a barn full and we kind of worked it back and then in ’88 we officially were operating and 
it was our tax return and everything, and then in 2000 when my father died she transferred the land and 
buildings over to us, and we had the cattle and everything.  Then in 2008 we transferred the cattle and 
machinery over to John because he had done one heck of a job when I was four and a half months in the 
hospital fighting cancer, and I said “It’s your turn and we still own the land and buildings, but that’s 
gonna somehow be transferred and done.”  But we have two sons; the other one lives here on the farm 
in a house but he works for an assemblyman. 
JB: That’s actually how I found you!  I had an appointment with Assemblyman Blankenbush and I met 
your other son Brian and he said “Oh! You’re going to interview farmers; well you should be talking to 
my family!” So that’s actually how I found you, is through Brian. Was it hard to stop farming? Was it 
hard to turn it over to the next generation? 
JP: Not really.  I can’t say I stopped farming, I mean we’re on Social Security and whatever— 
WP: He’s out there every day 
JP: I’m out there every day doing what I can because we just don’t make...bills are higher than income so 
I do as much as I can to save him on labor.  I don’t milk as many cows as I used to but I operate a lot of 
the equipment in the fields and do a lot of the odd stuff, but it’s a good life.  Our sons, I’m glad they’re 
here; our four grandsons are here and we get to see them all the time, babysit them now and then and 
they both enjoy the farm.  They don’t want to see anything happen to it.  Will we always be milking 
cows? I don’t know.  If we have a dry summer like we seem to be looking at, comparing it with last year 
being dry, we’re not gonna have enough crops to feed the animals through the whole winter.  We had 
enough this year, but we had quite a lot of carry-over hay.  We’re all hay and grain; we do not have corn.  
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
6
So things might change, I don’t know.  But that’s one thing, to not see the cattle out there...it’s gonna be 
rough. 
0:11:04 
JB: That would be a rough thing.  So if it came to that point, if it came to the point where it just didn’t 
make sense to have the cows anymore, to have the cattle anymore, what do you think would happen on 
the farm? Would you get into a different kind of crop, or would you just simply live here and you know 
the younger generation would earn their money a different way? 
JP: Maybe a different crop, maybe ending up renting the land or leasing it.  Not any of us are looking to 
the idea of trying to sell this farm; we don’t want it sold.  Two hundred years is a long while on the main 
farm, and this one here my father’s owned since the early fifties, and they’re all attached.  But there are 
big farms out here not that far away that are renting land.  They’re looking for it all the time, they keep 
getting bigger herds, some out of Watertown, some off toward Rodman, guy up there the other side of 
Lowville—Marks Farms—they’re almost down to here. 
JB: Yeah I’ve heard this, in speaking to other people, that some of these farms that are growing big are 
really looking for land; they’re looking to buy, looking to rent. 
HP: Yeah, even land that hasn’t been used in years. 
JP: We’ve got one good-sized farm over here; they just got told today that the guy is filing for 
bankruptcy. 
JB: They’ve been operating up to this point? 
JP: They moved up here and operated it as a dairy farm, a big herd and whatever, and then got out of it 
in one of the dairy buyouts here a few years ago and were raising some beef.  He’s been raising heifers, 
dairy heifers, for farmers or whatever, but had been cropping the land.  The price of that originally when 
he bought it had to be out of sight and he hasn’t been able to make the payments. 
JB: How long ago did he buy it? 
JP: Oh what would it be...ten years ago? Ten, fifteen? 
HP: Well, was it that long? 
JP: Wouldn’t be more than ten years ago. 
WP: No. 
JP: I don’t think so, maybe ten years ago at the most.  
JB: And was this somebody who knew anything about farming when he came into it? 
JP: Well...not particularly about dairy 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
7
HP: He knew beef farming. 
JP: He knew beef but not dairy. And he bought a big dairy farm and had problems. 
JB: So what do you think will happen?  He’s declaring bankruptcy, will some other farm absorb it do you 
think? 
JP: Oh yeah, somebody will absorb that land if that’s what happens and he unloads it.  He was doing 
some cropping over there right now, I see he’s planted some corn, I seen him do it one day. But land 
around here will be used; it isn’t going to sit idle. 
0:13:44 
JB: Well since we’ve kind of gone down this road, I mean one of the things I imagine you could tell me 
about is that the economics of dairy farming has changed a lot.  I mean from when you started it as 
young people farming to what your own children are dealing with now, John and Helen. What was it like 
when you started farming? It was still a good way to make a living, right? 
JP: Yeah, I didn’t think it was too bad. Pa thought it was a good way of making a living, farming, you and 
Pa? 
WP: Oh yeah. 
HP: He did some extra stuff too, like plowing. He did a lot of plowing in the winter. 
JP: Yeah, plowing in the winter...driveways, school in Great Bend.  And he bought a baler in the early 
fifties.  He went out on what he called the River Flats, the other side of Carthage along the Black River, 
and he’d bale hay with that.  He helped pay for the baler and got so much a bale or whatever from these 
farmers.  And the one year, like this year only maybe worse, it was very dry and the farmers were 
fighting for the bales as they came out of the baler, grabbing ‘em up! There was a lot of hay on the River 
Flats, there was a lot of grass, but there was a lot of hay there and they were fighting over them. 
JB: Yeah, so that was a good year for having hay. 
JP: But that’s how he helped subsidize things.  He took a chance, a big step, in 1957; he built the dairy 
barn. He went into debt, farm credit, land bank, and he always had a plan he was going to be out of 
debt, that by such and such a date he’d have that paid for.  And he worked hard and it was. And we 
worked hard.  I mean hard labor in there, my sisters and I and my brother, we were all involved in that.  
He had that paid off, he built a machinery garage there in ’66 and that was paid off, and when I took 
over the farm when he had died, that farm was debt-free and had been for a number of years.  But we 
worked. 
JB: You worked hard. 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
8
JP: We didn’t get good salaries or anything, but we all worked hard and right now my son has a line of 
credit with Farm Credit, it’s basically on the cattle and stuff, there’s no lien against the farm land and 
stuff, but it’s just very tight. I mean we use money that... 
0:16:13 
JB: Well it’s interesting because we’ve been speaking to people with farms of all different sizes. And 
we’ve heard a lot of different stories about, you know, the question of debt on a farm.  I mean the really 
big farm, that’s just part of their formula. Debt is just something they live with all the time, and they go 
into more debt all the time, and that’s part of what’s factored in.  And I don’t really understand it 
because I don’t really understand what the end game is.  If you’re in debt all the time, where does this 
end? 
JP: It doesn’t. These big farms...it doesn’t.  And in most cases they keep paying the minimum or 
whatever they have to and keep the good credit rating. But the banks or whoever is lending has got so 
much into ‘em they can’t walk away.  You know, if they need $100,000 for a new tractor or something, 
they’re most likely gonna write the check for it. 
JB: So John and Helen, when you were first farming, how much were you getting for milk? Do you 
remember? 
HP: Don’t ask me! 
JP: Oh maybe $12 a hundredweight. 
JB: And how’s that compared to now? 
JP: Well now, there was several years, two to three years ago, where it was $12 a hundredweight.  Now 
he’s netting about 16 something.  That’s after the milk promotion and the mandatory things taken out 
and the hauling.  I always figure it that way, that’s what you’ve got left in your pocket.  But $16 a 
hundredweight out of that milk check comes $772 a month just his health insurance for his family. And 
that’s$20 copay, $1000 total for the year paying...not great coverage but you gotta have some kind of 
coverage. 
JB: And the reason it’s so high for farmers is that it’s considered a high-risk occupation right? So you pay 
higher. 
JP: And we’re in with a farm group too as it is.  But the farm pays our supplemental health insurance for 
the two of us.  But that isn’t too bad, but we got that plus Medicare and we have such low income 
because we don’t have anything connected with the farm, we just have our land here and we’re not 
making anything off that. 
HP: That and Social Security. 
 JP: Social Security’s all we have and the government’s even been paying our Medicare plan, we pay the 
supplement, but that’s ninety some dollars that we’re keeping a month in our Social Security check now.  
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
9
Our insurance had spoken to us here last year and we had the supplemental plan through AARP and 
there was a way that you could qualify.  End up going through Social Services and whatever and do I 
particularly want to, but... 
JB: Now when you were raising your children on the farm did it feel like there wasn’t enough money 
then? Or have the expenses grown and that’s part of what is going on? 
JP: Expenses are growing, that is part of it. We did well even when we were raising our children and 
when we took over and we were paying father something each month for the farm until it got worse 
and worse and then, I mean, we were still paying their health insurance and they had their house they 
were living in. All their expenses were taken care of but we just couldn’t give him cash each month 
because we just didn’t have it.  I never demanded that out of my son to help pay our health insurance or 
fuel oil...but taxes are paid, and even some of that we’ve been helping to pay. We work together...I 
don’t know...in 1998 we had a tremendous ice storm here; it did a lot of destruction. We have two 
maple woodlots, good maple wood lots. The one on this farm my father bought in the early fifties, a 
farmer here pastured it; he’d cut the cows right out of it. As it was growing back up all of a sudden there 
were all kinds of berry bushes in there...you could go in there and pick raspberries and blackcaps and get 
full buckets in a hurry.  Nowadays you don’t because the undergrowth is growing up, and that’s why you 
couldn’t see through it but then as the trees weeded themselves out...We’ve got a lot of new growth in 
the other woodlot, had not been touched, when my father took over the farm my great-grandfather had 
never logged or anything out of it to speak of.  Way back when they used to do maple syrup he brought 
in a guy to log it and they took out trees you wouldn’t believe, I don’t know how old or whatever, and 
that helped him pay for the farm.  Only what he wanted, he had gone to Wanakena Ranger School, so he 
was very particular about his trees right ‘til the day he died and when the guy was marking the trees 
from the ice storm damage he told him “You only mark what isn’t gonna survive and is that badly 
damaged, but you leave the other ones and let ‘em grow because that’s money in the bank.” And that’s 
what happened and they were marked by a guy who had no connection with any logging company or 
anything else. Private individual, that knew his business and therefore he wasn’t looking to make money 
and we paid him outright as it was. Usually they get a percentage but in this case he got paid outright.  
But that money helped us do roofs and maintain our buildings and stuff down through the years, which 
it isn’t there anymore but we used it for those purposes and we even did a thing with our church.  We 
had a mortgage and they wanted to get it paid off early and when this money came in we told our 
pastor we’d make a commitment.  From now until—this was like on February 1st—from now until the 
end of June for every dollar donated, we will donate a dollar toward the mortgage.   
JB: Wow! 
JP: About the tenth of June or so we had made it. 
JB: Wow. So throughout your life that has been an important commitment for you, is your commitment 
to the church? 
HP: Yeah 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
10
0:22:47 
JB: Now Helen you went to Bible Study College, did you intend to be a preacher? 
HP: No, I intended to work with kids. 
JB: And did you ever do any of that? 
HP: Yeah I did, for about six years.  Three years out in Erie County and then around three years here, 
working in release time programs and after-school bible clubs so ‘til it kind of really got to the place 
where it was too expensive...when the gas prices took off.. 
JB: It wasn’t worth your while to drive to where the jobs were.  So what kinds of things, now if I’m 
remembering this correctly, you started out in 1970 as a couple with the farm? 
HP: Yes. 
JB: And how did your work on the farm develop, like what kinds of things did you do for the farm? 
HP: Well when his brother left I did everything. 
JB: Now what year was that, when the brother left? 
JP: ’87. 
HP: ’87, yeah. I went and milked cows, I did field work, and... 
JP: She wants to know before that, from ’70 to ’87. 
HP: Um, I helped out a bit here and there but not every day.  When Harry left, then I started working 
every day. 
JP: She used to help in the summer driving wagons while we loaded hay, on a flat wagon. We had steep 
hills on the back end of the farm and she would drive it and I was loading the hay, and she decided she’d 
find a woodchuck hole. She missed one and hit this one and flipped the wagon— 
HP: And him... 
JP: And me, right off. 
JB: Did anyone get hurt?! 
JP: No 
JB: Just a little adventure for the day! 
JP: Just one of the little adventures of life on the farm. 
JB: So that must have been a big deal for you then! 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
11
HP: That, and running into bees’ nests! 
JB: Did they come up and sting? 
HP: Well I never got stung, but they sure were buzzing’ around! 
JB: But that would’ve been a big thing in 1987 if you’d been married for seventeen years, on the farm for 
seventeen years and then suddenly you’re really needed. That’s a big change! 
HP: Yeah well I was in there crying every day because it hurt so badly, because I was not used to the 
bending over and the milking.  Then I got so I could do the whole thing, the whole milking myself.  But I 
didn’t want to do it very often, but I could do it! 
JB: How many cows? 
HP: Sixty cows. 
JB: Really? And you could do the whole milking by yourself? 
HP: Yeah. Milking, feed ‘em, clean ‘em down. 
JB: Now you were, at that point, you would’ve had a milking machine right? 
JP: Oh yeah, we had a milking machine. We had a pipeline milker, barn built in ’57, and in 1963 we put a 
pipeline milker in to carry the milk from the cows.  He didn’t when he built the barn originally which was 
good. There were more improvements since then, and when it came to ’63...that was part of his issue, 
he didn’t want to go farther into debt. 
JB: So who kept the books for the farm? You did?  Do you still? John...I should say that because he’s 
nodding here! John kept the books for the farm? 
JP: Yeah, the old John still keeps the books!  They sit right out here and I keep it in a hand ledger.  
[Telephone rings, John leaves to answer] 
0:26:42 
JB: Okay, so I believe we should be fine here. So John you’ve kept the books over the years, so you’ve 
been in a good position to see the changing economics of farming.  Which is what it seems we always 
circle back to with people when we talk with them, is whether it’s viable for the next generation or not. 
JP: If you can keep your debt down it can be viable, even this sized farm.  There’s a place where you go 
bigger and you’re really in trouble, you got to go a lot bigger.  It seems to be, the Cooperative Extension 
will tell you that maybe we should be a little bigger.  He has a lot more cattle right now, young stock 
heifers, than we ever did but the barn only has sixty stalls and he’s got a good milking herd for the most 
part and he’s improved milk production, his breeding of cattle; he breeds all with Gen-X.  He’s improved 
even more so than I and they do well.  You get an issue sometimes with a cow, and we do even to this 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
12
day. But going back to what I said before, whether it’s gonna still be a dairy farm I don’t know.  Weather 
plays so much of a hand in all of this. 
HP: And Jay likes to try and be self-sufficient. I mean he’s got his garden, he’s got his chickens and he’s 
getting pigs and he’s got the cows so I mean I think he really...his wife can make cheese and butter. 
JP: She has recently. 
HP: You know, they’ve tried to be extremely self-sufficient where they don’t have to rely on anybody or 
anything else. 
JP: One of the problems he has that I don’t have is that his wife can’t do the things my wife Helen could 
do. She did do a lot of it when I was in the hospital five years ago but she has a lot of back problems. 
JB: So that limits how much she can work out... 
JP: [to Wilma] What were you going to say? 
WP:  Nothing, only your mother pitches right in and does everything, right? 
JP: Who? 
WP: Me! 
JP: You did when you were working, yeah. Oh yeah, she used to take us to the barn in the playpens. 
WP: Yeah and then they would throw their shoes out into the gutter! 
JP: Oh yes! Get out of the playpen, go try to milk a cow! 
WP: Yeah! 
JB: So your family was about doing whatever has to be done? 
WP: Oh yes. 
JB: And did you like it? Did you like working on the farm? 
WP: Oh yeah. I came from the farm and went to the farm. 
JB: And what was your favorite part of the work? What did you like doing the best? 
WP: Anything, right John? 
JP: Yeah, you did anything. You had a garden and everything else! 
0:30:08 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
13
JB: Now when young John’s children get old enough to really do chores, they’re not really old enough 
yet right? 
JP: No, no. 
JB: So that will help when they get old enough so they can help right? Like your own children, what did 
they do on the farm? 
HP: They cleaned down the animals, they fed them, took care of calves. 
JP: As they got older they milked the cows and they did everything.  They went out and picked rocks— 
HP: Yeah, they worked in the fields and did hay. 
JP: —when they got home from school. They did hay during the summer and they did everything. Some 
of the things they didn’t do and John didn’t do and had to learn when I ended up in the hospital were 
like planting fields and cutting hay. I had to help them from the hospital bed a little bit.  I didn’t kind of 
approve of the way he planted.  I told him how to do it but he ended up leaving strips not planted! But 
at least it got planted, but that was part of my problem even to this day. I operated the combine and he 
never had, so when I was in the hospital and it was getting ripe. Last time I was home in the end of July I 
got the machine out of the corner where it was in the building and gave him a fast course of what the 
controls were and I said “Well...here you go!” Then I got home seven days later and the crop had been 
ripe and he hadn’t gotten to it and in two days I was climbing up on that machine after I got home. My 
legs were weak and it took two arms and two legs to get me up there and I said “you keep the wagons 
empty because I’m staying on this thing until I have to quit because of the darkness,” and I did and we 
got it done. 
JB: I guess when you’ve had a lifetime of hard work it’s hard to break that habit, whether you’re sick or 
whatever is going on. You see a job that needs to be done right? 
HP: We were sick in the gutter lots of times! You gotta do what you gotta do. 
JB: Yeah, you just gotta keep going. 
JP: Yeah, and I still do and I guess if I didn’t I don’t know what would happen to me.  I couldn’t sit around 
here all the time. 
JB: Because you love it. 
JP: Yeah I like it but I couldn’t put up with these two 24 hours a day! 
JB: Wilma’s looking shocked here! 
WP: I’m 88 tomorrow, Tuesday 
JP: No the 13th, next Monday. 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
14
HP: 88 or 87? 
JP: 87 next Monday, she was born in ’26. 
WP: [laughs] Okay! 
JB: Does it make you happy to still see the farm in the family?  
WP: Oh yeah.  
JP: You talk about Jay’s sons, Brian’s son’s next door—he can’t wait to do things. He’s riding around on a 
tractor with his father or doing this and that. He likes to farm. 
JB: Now did Jay and Brian complain when they were boys and had to do chores? 
HP: Of course! [Laughter] Poor Brian, he’d come from school and have to go out, and that’s before we 
had a shredder for the straw, and he’d have to go out and cut up the bales and fluff them up and he’d 
come home crying that his hands hurt. 
JP: And this was straw that was not dry and it was weedy so it was hard to pull apart. 
HP: He got paid pennies. 
JP: My brother would pay him to do it, in pennies! 
JB: Well it sort of goes along with being on the farm. Now did your boys ever participate in like 4-H and 
farm projects, things like that? 
JP: The older ones…both of them were in FFA. 
HP: Brian wasn’t. 
JP: No he wasn’t at all, but John was in Future Farmers of America and he had a farming program or 
whatever and he ended up receiving this State Empire Farmer Degree, and I had received it back in 
1960...or ’65. So there’s two of us in the family who received that, two generations, which is unusual. 
There was only about four in the school district, ever, that got it and it was us and one other woman 
that went to school with my other son. And then one of the first ones that ever got it was my cousin 
who lived on a farm here. So he was active with the farming stuff and the other one…neither one of 
them were ever involved in 4-H. But one was in FFA. 
HP: Brian has been more since he’s been working for Blankenbush. 
JP: Blankenbush relies on him for agricultural stuff and Blankenbush is the only member of the Assembly 
Ag Committee. So he has a lot of background, he’s my son and if he has questions he asks Brian. “Okay 
what’d your father think about this bill?”  
JB: That’s good. 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
15
JP: So we have influenced my other son being a county legislator and then this one involved as Chief of 
Staff for the Assemblyman and I was on the local school board for eighteen years, my father was nine 
years. He could’ve shot me the day I told him I was gonna run. 
JB: Why did he feel that way? 
JP: He didn’t figure I had time for it or whatever. I mean he went through some rough times when he 
was on the board and I went through some rough ones at the end but we worked it out. My family made 
it so I could get to the meetings. So now I’m working to help my son get to his county legislator 
meetings. 
0:36:22 
JB: Yeah, how did you feel about Jay running for county legislator? When he told you that what did you 
think? 
JP: I wasn’t surprised. He was town legislator, town councilman ever since he turned eighteen. He ran 
for office, he started doing the petitions before he had his eighteenth birthday in June. People caught it 
and he had throw up up and rip ‘em up and do it over again when he turned eighteen on that 14th of 
June.  He was born on Flag Day; the other one was born on the Fourth of July! 
JB: Is that right! So politics just had to be a part of their life? 
HP: Oh yeah. 
JP: We have a relative way, way back who was an Assemblyman downstate so it’s been in there, and 
Brian is six years older than John. But we adopted him, he told you that? 
JB: Mmhm. 
JP: We adopted him through a Christian agency; we got him when he was three weeks old. 
JB: Oh really? 
JP: We didn’t know if we were ever going to have any and then six years later she’s about five months 
pregnant thinking, “Something’s wrong with me!” Goes to the doctor and he says “Yeah something’s 
wrong with you, you’re gonna have a kid!” 
JB: Surprise! 
HP: [laughs] Surprise! 
JB: Well that’s nice, so Brian had a brother. 
JP: Oh, he was praying for a baby sister! But he accepted a brother okay. But it was the Lord’s doing and 
we were quite pleased in both instances. Brian has two boys now, they’re not going to have any more of 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
16
their own, but they probably are going to adopt now. For a fellow who has been adopted to want to 
adopt, you know that gives a pretty good feeling to the parents. 
JB: Yeah that’s wonderful, you did right by him. 
JP: He ended up a number of years later when he was working in Binghamton meeting his real mother. 
JB: Oh he did? 
JP: We knew he came from down that way and somebody in Rochester put all the pieces together. He 
got ahold of her and then she calls Brian, asks him if she can meet with him. And Brian asked her certain 
questions that only she would know the answers to. So he met with her and she had some other boys, 
she’d gotten married and divorced; she’d had a rough life but first thing he told her upfront was “I have 
parents.” But they did get to meet and talk and the ironic thing was that when we went to church the 
following week, I get bombarded by this couple who was in Binghamton and worked down there at the 
college. And she came up here to work at Samaritan and said “Oh, you’re such great parents, you’re just 
great parents!” And I said “Why are we such great parents?!”  And they said “Well we knew Brian before 
he was born and we prayed for him and his mother lots of times.” And that it was a hard thing for her to 
give him up; she had been born overseas in Libya, her parents were missionaries, and then they moved 
back to the States. And things happened and her mother and father were adamant that she give him up 
for adoption through the Christian agency.  And when we got him she had clothes, had knitted a hat for 
him… 
HP: And an afghan. 
JP: Yeah, an afghan and different things that came with him. 
JB: Oh is that right? 
HP: Clothes in every size, up to size 2. 
JP: I said “What do you mean?!” He said “Well, we knew him.” 
JB: Isn’t that amazing! 
JP: And Brian doesn’t say anything so within the week I said something to Brian one day.   I said “Do you 
have something to tell us?” And he did. He probably was a little worried what we would think but there 
was no problem with that at all.  We were kind of glad of it! 
0:40:35 
JB: That’s wonderful to hear a story that’s worked out nicely like that. So Wilma, how were your children 
on the farm? 
WP: Well none of them but you has been working on the farm. 
JP: But they all helped when they were in school, they all all helped. 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
17
WP: Okay. I don’t know what to say more than what he is throwing out! 
JB: Was John the one who liked the farm the best, of your children? 
WP: Oh I think so. 
JB: So did you always expect he would be the child who took over the farm? 
WP: Yeah. 
JB: Did the two of you work on things together, like you took them out in the barn when they were little 
or you took them out in the fields and then would you work side by side? 
WP: Oh yeah. 
JP: Yeah, she and I did a lot. She was still in the barn milking cows with me and my brother even after my 
father was maybe off doing field work or doing something. If he could stay away from the cows…that 
was his occupation. He’d do anything else but she was in the barn right up until she could hardly do it 
anymore. 
WP: Check in on them all night long. 
JP: Yeah she would go out when she was living at the main farm; she would go out at night and check on 
the cows. 
JB: Is that right? 
WP: Oh yeah. 
JB: Like in the middle of the night? 
WP: Oh yeah. 
JB: You would wake up and just wonder how things were? 
WP: Yep. 
JP: See if there was somebody that was going to have a calf or not. Those cows were grumpy the next 
morning because they got disturbed! [Laughter] 
WP: Well that’s true! 
JB: So when would you say, Wilma, I know you’re still involved in counsel with your family about the 
farm, but when did you actively stop farming? 
WP: Oh when my son next to him ran over my leg and broke it. They called the ambulance to come get 
her and take her to the hospital. So I went to the hospital and I guess that was it. 
JB: That was it? 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
18
WP:  I came home after so many days, ended up in the hospital bed in my back room and that’s where I 
stayed. 
JP: Quite a slow recovery. 
JB: How long ago was that? 
WP: Five weeks. 
JP: You were laid up yeah, but how many years ago? 
JB: How old were you when that happened? 
WP: Oh Lord, I don’t know. 
JP: You were married in ’43, you were milking so it had to have been like ’86 or ’87. 
WP: Hmm? 
JP: 1986 or 1987, before Harry left. 
WP: Oh yeah. 
JB: How did he run over your leg? What happened? 
HP: She fell in the bathroom. 
JP: Yeah. She fell in the bathroom and broke her leg, she didn’t get run over. 
WP: He got out of a bathtub and of course he left water there. I slipped on that and down I went, and 
there I stayed until the ambulance got there. 
JP: She had multiple fractures. 
JB: In the one leg? 
WP: Oh yeah. 
JB: Did you ever get injured on the farm, while you were working on the farm? 
JP: I don’t know, did you ever get hurt on the farm? 
WP: Other than that one leg. 
JB: You must have been good and careful then! A cow never kicked you? 
WP: Oh yes!  
0:44:34 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
19
JB: Now what do you do about that, if you have a cranky cow, and you’re in there trying to milk and it’s 
kicking at you, how do you handle that? 
WP: Make him come and help me. 
JB: Is that right, a two person operation? 
JP: Yeah sometimes, and guess who milks the new milkers when they calve to this day? 
JB: Is that right? Still you? 
JP: Usually me, if I have a serious problem my son will help but usually it’s me working with them. 
HP: They’ve got kickers they can put on. 
JP: Yeah we’ve got kicker things we can put on over their back to help stop them from kicking quite so 
much, maybe shorten up their neck chain a little so they can’t move quite so much. But I’m the one who 
usually takes the time to work with them. 
JB: Can you break it, can you break a cow that has a tendency to kick or are there some that are just 
always going to kick? 
JP: Well we had one last year that took six months to break. And between the anti-kickers and wrapping 
the chain and having even a nose-lead in her nose…but she’s okay now. She calved with about a six 
month period. 
WP: You didn’t even tell me that! 
JP: In about a six month period. I worked with her every day basically when I was around. But she’s okay 
now, but we almost gave up on her. 
JB: Which means what, that she becomes dinner? 
JP: Yeah, somebody’s dinner. She was out of a good background, a good herd but we don’t give up 
easily. This farm will spend a lot of money sometimes to try and save a cow. 
JB: Is it because you love the animals, or because you feel like ultimately they’re your economic lifeline 
and it’s an investment? 
JP: Both. A year ago when it was so hot in March we had a lot of health problems. We had a cow calve 
and then she had what they call milk fever, a calcium imbalance. And we got her straightened around on 
that and we had the vet there and he said she had what they call a twisted stomach. We didn’t want to 
operate on her; she wasn’t one of our best cows but we took her outside and sometimes you can roll 
them over, get them down, and then roll them and roll them back and the stomach will go back in place. 
And we did that, brought her back into the barn, and the vet was going to give her some more medicine 
and all of a sudden she’s going down. My son yells, and we got her out into the middle of the barn and 
she dropped dead. So she had another issue; we don’t know for sure. We got her out of the barn, a guy 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
20
not too far from here will take these animals and we have to pay him sixty bucks to take them. But he 
came to get her while the vet was still there. She was very shook up; she was a young vet, just beside 
herself. And I had told her that “You, my son, and I all agreed to what we were going to do with that 
cow, rolling her over or whatever. I don’t believe that had anything to do with it and you do not second 
guess yourself. You are a good vet and you don’t second guess yourself.”  And when the guy came to get 
the cow she was still there, she went to talk with him about if he found anything strange. And he said 
something about going to cut her open right off.  I asked her if she wanted to go over with him, and I 
said to him “Would you mind if she came over?” And she was very pleased to go over. There was some 
blood in one stomach, and she still didn’t come up with what exactly happened with her. But she felt a 
little better, I mean she talked with her cohorts and whatever with the vet clinic and the other vets and 
it floored her. But we always told her, and we’ve told the other vets, some of the ones that own the 
business, that she’s a good vet and she’s still with them to this day. But things like that happen! I mean 
we had a lot of sickness at that time of year with the heat in March. I mean when you get up to 80 in 
March it’s not good news. I don’t care what type of barn you have or anything else; we had our big fan 
going and everything, but it’s still not normal. This year’s been a very good year as far as health 
problems with the cattle; there have been very few and some of it I think is the difference in the feed, 
the grain mix and whatever. But the cows have had very little problems when they calve and we’ve done 
well this year which considering all the other expenses has been a good thing. 
JB: Now in that very hot March, when you’re doing everything you can to keep the cows cool, do some 
of them just succumb to heat exhaustion? Or do they produce less? 
JP: They’ll produce less and sometimes you get into a case of diarrhea, loose manure. And we had one 
other cow we lost, one of the ones he bought from the Morrisville sale. She had calved a while before, 
but then she went off feed, and we were treating her for a couple different things and thought she was 
coming along. And then she ended up going down and not getting up anymore and we just had to have 
her taken away. 
JB: Now cows that die of sickness, they get taken away. But cows that just get retired and kind of go of 
old age, do you eat them? 
JP: No, we sell them. 
JB: Oh you do. 
JP: We sell them in an auction. The only ones we eat…a year and a half ago we ate a young heifer; she 
hadn’t calved yet. She was with calf, went off feed, and there was an issue with her that we gave her 
one shot of what they call liquid Banamine; it’s a liquid aspirin. You can’t sell them in the sale, but 
they’re edible and that one there we took to guy to have her butchered for us.  But most of the time our 
meat is that we raise one Angus calf a year, Angus-Holstein mixture. And that’s what we eat. The last 
one we ate weighed over a ton. 
JB: So it was enough meat to last for a while! 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
21
JP: Oh yeah, it feeds us and our two sons. We give a little to our minister who lives in the one house I 
rent here. But it’s real meat; I like the fat! 
JB: So the sick ones that get hauled away, what does that fellow do with them? 
JP: He cuts them up and ends up rendering it. It goes to dog food or something. 
JB: And then the ones that you retire, that stop milking, you sell them live on the hoof at an auction? 
JP: Yeah at an auction in Lowville. We sold two Monday; we needed some room for some heifers that 
are gonna come to calf. We sold them maybe a little quicker than we would have, but we needed money 
to pay for bills. 
0:51:34 
JB: But what’s the usual milking life of a cow? About how many years does a cow milk usually? 
JP: My son, he usually has them having their first calf when they’re about 18 or 20 months old. If he’s 
got them raised up as good big calves, where their height and growth is enough to be bred, then like 
anywhere from 20 to 24 months of age. But we’ve had cows as old as 13, 14 years old, and we’re the 
extreme on that because most of them, if they get four years of milking out of a cow they’ve done well. 
So they’re literally replacing their herd every four years or less. 
JB:  And are your cows able to milk longer because you treat them differently somehow? 
JP: Oh I think so. And we’re not pushing them for the highest production. Our cows, if you went up and 
looked at them today, they’re in good shape, they’re not skinny. We do take care of them well and 
maybe that hurts us that we’re not pushing to get that milk all out of them. But they last longer too. It 
takes money to replace animals and right now we’ve got enough calves coming that he can cull them 
more. He probably won’t but he might end up selling some of his young stock because he’s got so many 
and he doesn’t need them.  The herd of cows is okay and he hasn’t got that many to replace. I don’t 
know what his plan is there but you’ll find that you’ll get six milking years out of them. Like I said some 
less, some more; we had a pet of ours we kept, we even bred her back once more, which probably a 
quarter of the herd or so is her offspring.  And they’re all good cows. We’ve got her children, 
grandchildren, and great-grandchildren milking now. She was one that was still in the barn when you 
[Helen] left, and that day wasn’t a good day when we sent her. 
JB: Because that particular one was special to you. 
JP: She stood right there by the barn, by the milk house door, and I mean you could feed her doughnuts, 
almost anything you wanted to feed her.  Which years ago one of the guys that worked on the farm 
went and got a bunch of apples, and we were gonna let animals outside that day and get them trained 
to a fence. And we had a bull at that time—this was back when my father was running the farm—so he 
had a bunch of apples, about a bushel basket full, and fed this bull the apples. He had drugged him, 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
22
because apples will ferment in a cow’s stomach and you can kill them. That night my father wanted to 
use that bull for a service bull and that bull didn’t know which end was up! 
JB: He couldn’t perform! [Laughter] 
JP: Oh was my father mad at those guys! This one guy, he lives up the road now, to this day will never 
forget. 
JB: So was the bull kind of stumbling around?! 
JP: Yes he was! My father was saying words that weren’t good. 
0:55:22 
JB: You know when I think about the big animals that you’re dealing with and the big equipment, it 
seems like sometimes the work may be frightening. Has there ever been a time when you’ve been 
frightened on the farm by something that was going on? 
JP: Oh yeah.   
HP: Lulu! 
JP: Yeah Lulu our cow, we didn’t trust her ever. And then we had a 10 acre field on the back of the farm 
that you part you hair in the middle when you plow it or do anything because it’s so steep. I planted that 
in 2006, the year before I had cancer, and we haven’t touched it again until this past fall when my son 
thought he would plow it up and plant it. We were trying to seed it and that didn’t particularly do 
anything so I’m plowing it and he was back there getting brush off the fence. And he’s seen me raise the 
front end of the tractor two or three times, and I told him “I’ll get this plowed this year and I gotta plow 
it a certain way so you don’t do that! I have one corner on the back end of it that I have yet to do this 
spring and we’re looking to put certain seeds in to hope maybe that will stay there for years. And I don’t 
think you’ll ever plow it, and this may be the last time you ever do!” 
JB: But that’s a field that you regularly plowed throughout your time running the farm. 
JP: Oh yeah, there was always a rotation. 
JB: Like how steep are we talking? 
HP: [laughs] Bad! 
JP: Good sliding in the wintertime! Some of it we do not plow because it is steep. 
HP: When I’ve worked on those fields my hands, they hang on to the steering so much they ache when I 
get off! And I close my eyes and go. 
JP: We had a couple other fields with hills that she worked on. It wasn’t as bad as this one, but it was 
bad enough for her! 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
23
HP: Well I was driving a tractor with no brakes! 
JB: Did you know it had no brakes? 
JP: Oh yeah, she had a bucket in the front and when she needed to stop she just lowered the bucket and 
stopped. 
JB: Because the work just had to get done, no time to stop and fix the brakes. 
JP: Oh yeah she was baling hay with a tractor that had a motor on it where [trails off]…..I said she did 
about everything there was. She was quite a lady, both of them. 
JB: So Wilma was there anything on the farm that you would just refuse to do? 
WP: No. I was right there when the work came. 
JP: You did anything, everything. 
0:58:21 
JB: Do you have favorite stories, like stories that you tell a lot in the family, about life on the farm? 
WP: Not really. I don’t think so. 
JB: When you think back on raising your kids on the farm, what was the routine like that you sort of 
remember? 
HP: The girls, Barb and Mary, did a lot of the housework and stuff I think. 
JB: Because Wilma was out on the farm, right? 
HP: Yeah, they learned to cook and stuff early. 
JP: Was I the one, because I was born awful small that you put on top of the stove on the warming tray? 
WP: Oh yeah! I don’t know whether it was the top of the stove or the oven door. He was only 4.5. He 
was the first one. 
JP: I was lucky to be around, in 1947. 
JB: Oh, wow. And you were born at home of course. 
JP: No, I was born in the hospital. 
WP: Yeah and they said take him home, that’s all there was. 
JP: She had a rough pregnancy somewhat, that spring in March this road was closed due to a huge 
snowstorm. And they couldn’t get the milk to market or they took it by horses, but this road was closed 
right down. And she was having trouble with the pregnancy…but I’m still here! 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
24
WP: Well that’s what you have to do. 
JB: And it’s amazing, here he is! And he’s been running the farm and still working on the farm. So putting 
him on the oven was a good idea! 
WP: Yeah. 
JB: Did you have difficulty with the other children when they were born? 
WP: I don’t think so, not like it was with him. 
JP: Last one, she did. I think it was kind of a surprise but— 
WP: Oh yeah the last one they kept me in the hospital and waited and waited until he came, and the 
doctor slept right in the bedroom. 
JP: Breech birth, was it? 
WP: Oh I don’t know. 
JP: I don’t know but it was a very serious one. 
JB: But you made it and so did Duane. 
JP: And then we lost him a number of years ago to an ATV accident. A whole group of them were up in 
Lewis County, and he was one of the last ones coming down through. My other brother Harry was with 
them and the forest ranger saw him go by, then all of a sudden they stopped at a place and Duane isn’t 
with them. And they go back and somehow the 4-wheeler had flipped over, pinned him underneath and 
ruptured his heart right on the spot. There was no saving him. 
JB: And how old was he? 
JP: 24 maybe? 
JB: Really? Oh dear. 
JP: He didn’t work on the farm; he lived on the farm with them and worked in the stone quarry up the 
road. One of the things you don’t forget. 
JB: So Wilma how many children did you have? 
WP: Well four, five counting the one we lost. 
JB: So there’s John, Harry… 
WP: Well two girls, Mary and Barbara, and Harry. And the one we lost was Duane. 
JB: And he was the youngest? 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
25
JP: Yes. 
JB: So what have your daughters ended up doing? Do they live on farms? 
WP: No way! The oldest one lives in Canandaigua and since I’ve been laid up she would come every so 
often. And then the next one, she’ll be 60 on Monday. And she works at Woolworths in Watertown. 
 
JP: No she works for Kinney’s. Barbara was born in ’53, she’s 60. She worked for years at the PX System 
in Fort Drum. Mary, who lives in Canandaigua, is a retired schoolteacher. Taught ever since she got out 
of Potsdam College and now she’s working with Potsdam College with student teachers out there in 
Western New York. She comes regularly to come help us out and check on mother. 
 
JB: Well that’s nice that she’s nearby like that. 
 
JP: They never wanted to farm or anything. Neither one of them ever married. 
 
WP: And the boys were all married. 
 
JP: No,Duane never was. The other two are, me and Harry. 
JB: Right, and Harry worked with you on the farm for a while. 
 
JP: For a while, until ’87. 
 
1:04:15 
 
JB: So Helen did you grow up on a farm? 
 
HP: Nope. I grew up in the village, and I didn’t know what I was in for! 
JB: In Great Bend? 
 
JP: Black River. 
 
HP: Black River, yeah. 
 
JB: Okay and you did or did not know what you were in for? 
 
HP: I did not know what I was in for. 
 
JB: Now did you worry about that at all when you first started out or did you just figure “Oh, well, I love 
this man and it’ll be fine”? 
 
HP: We did this house over...actually I didn’t see him much when we were first married. I saw the 
carpenter more because the house wasn’t done; we only had about two or three rooms done when we 
moved in here.  
 
JB: So is this the house you raised your family in? 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
26
 
JP: Yup. 
 
JB: So that’s a good idea, you had some renovations done early on! 
 
JP: Well this house, when my father bought it in the early 50s, had water to an old kitchen sink out here 
and an outhouse. That was it. And so we started from the basement, we had to shore up the corner that 
was cracking out, before we ever did anything else to make sure we weren’t going to lose the house. 
And this all started in 1969; we were married on June 13th, 1970. Like she said the carpenter was still 
here; we had the kitchen, bathroom, and one bedroom upstairs but we went all the way back to stone 
walls, insulated out. Did we do the right thing? We had at that time 3.5” insulation and two by fours, 
and it was great and okay, but fuel oil was like 12 or 13 cents a gallon, not almost $4.00 a gallon. When 
you did other houses and built the new house they were more insulated, but we tried to keep the rustic 
in it. We have two fireplaces in that room, one on each end. One was the original cooking fireplace. Part 
of it, where the oven part would have been, had been torn down. If we had known what could’ve been 
put in there we might’ve done it. But we didn’t restore it; it was enough work just to restore one side of 
it just to keep it. And they both can be used; they have dampers in it and this one over here, that 
chimney goes up through and there’s a little warming fireplace upstairs. 
 
JB: Oh really! 
 
JP: But we kept all that and the open beam and it’s unique. This stone house was built in 1825. The main 
farm house was built in 1827. And they tell this story that when they built that house they quarried all 
the rocks out of this stone quarry, just as you break over the hill here.  You can see some of the rock 
ledges still there. And they got all the stone up there to build that house and it doesn’t have a cellar 
that….well you can go down there and bang your head on anything. They got two feet above the ground 
and ran out of rock and they thought they would have enough rock to do it. And they ran out two feet 
above ground. 
 
JB: Oh my goodness. Well it’s a beautiful old stone house, it really is. 
 
HP: 1970s! 
 
JP: Yeah, yeah, some of this stuff is of the ‘70s, I mean we didn’t remodel it at all, other than the floors 
and carpet and stuff. 
 
HP: Nothing’s been done to it since. 
 
JP: We want to redo the bathroom, take out the tub and put in a walk-in shower for these ladies. I mean 
I can still get in it but they can’t. 
 
JB: But you’ve taken good care of the structure of the house, the main stone structure. So if somebody 
just wanted to change the décor in here that’s an easy change. You’ve taken care of the building and 
that’s wonderful. 
 
JP: Like I said that’s what a lot of the timber money went to, was doing roofs. On every house I’ve done a 
roof on and the barns too. 
 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
27
1:08:24 
 
JB: Did you ever sell eggs, or have other things that you sold off the farm? You’ve talked about wood and 
you’ve talked about other things; what other things did you sell on the farm? 
 
JP: [to Wilma] You sold eggs! You don’t remember me taking them to school? 
 
WP: Oh yeah.  
 
JP: Dad was looking for the money when I got home too! 
 
JB: How many chickens did you have? 
 
WP: I don’t remember. 
 
JP: I don’t know, I was pretty small then. I was in like second grade and I was taking eggs to school. 
“Don’t break ‘em!” 
 
JB: And what about berries? You had talked about all those berries there, that you could fill buckets. Did 
you ever sell berries? 
 
JP: No. They were just for our own eating. When both my sisters and I were young, for a 4-H project, we 
raised three pigs. And that’s what John and Brian have been looking into possibly, and I don’t think it’s 
gonna happen this year. They’ve been cleaning out the old pigpen where they could do it but different 
things have happened in their businesses and stuff but they’re looking at it sometime. 
 
JB: Would they switch over entirely to pigs? 
 
JP: Oh no. This was just them looking to raise three— 
 
HP: Six. 
 
JP: Six they were thinking about but it was more for themselves, plus to sell a little. I told him the other 
day, “The way your finances are or whatever, you gotta feed them and stuff. And you haven’t gotten the 
pigpen done yet, Brian’s so busy with the assemblyman, and I think you better wait.” He said “Well the 
guy we were thinking of getting them from hasn’t gotten back to us anyway!” But he’s getting more 
chickens here; he’s got more chicks coming. He started chickens back when I was in the hospital, 2007. 
He gets lots of eggs, he sold eggs and all the families had enough eggs to eat. He’s down to only like five 
chickens now and they’ve got a lot of age on them. He has one duck, one male duck. A year ago he had 
two, a male and a female, and the female had something like 13 ducklings. 
 
JB: Really? 
 
JP: I couldn’t believe it, I mean this was one female! He had bought them the year before, a pair of two 
different ducks, and in the fall one pair flew off. But this other pair stuck around for the winter and then 
she had all these ducklings, and then we had some animal get them. And we lost all but her and four or 
five ducklings. But then something got her, and then all through the winter we had two females and the 
male. The male almost got killed back when the animals got to them, whether it was a coy dog we don’t 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
28
know, but he almost lost his neck. But he babied back through, and you can see where his neck is big in 
one spot because of the scar tissue. But this spring, we think it was a possum, got the two females. He 
got into the cage and got them; tore it up over. And then a few days later he saw it up here at the bird 
feeder, and he ended up going up a tree and he shot it. He hasn’t had any trouble since with anything 
but they can climb the fence to get them, and they don’t eat the whole thing either. They just kill them, 
eat a little, and take off.  
 
JB: I that something you’ve had to attend to over the years, you know, the predators getting at your 
critters on the farm? 
 
JP: Some, not a whole lot. Our biggest predators are woodchucks. They don’t do anything to the 
animals, but they make holes. 
 
JB: Like that wagon bump you talked about. 
 
JP: We had a guy and his brother that stopped, we came out one day and told them they could go hunt 
them, and we told them where our line was. But they do raise hard with the fields and you don’t see 
that with the equipment. We had dogs we used on them too, but we lost all our dogs to old age and 
what have you. They’d get back in the neck of that woodchuck and snap it quick, and some of them 
would bring it up on the lawn to show the prize they got! 
 
JB: You know we had at one point a woodchuck starting to get into my garden at home and the 
neighbor’s dog came down and dispatched that in no time flat!  
 
1:13:12 
 
Well, I don’t want to overstay my welcome here but keeping in mind that people in Washington are 
going to be listening to this and that into the future all kinds of researchers are going to have access to 
this interview, is there anything you would like to say about dairy farming, about your life on the farm, 
for the sake of this interview? Any favorite stories, anything you’d like people to know about farming? 
 
HP: That we’re not mean to our animals! They are really very well taken care of, well-fed, and despite 
some of the stupid things they do we take care of them. Like walking into a well! 
 
WP: Who did that? 
 
HP: One of the little Jerseys was in a well and we had to pull it out, and it was fine. 
 
JP: Get the neighbor’s tractor and pull it out. Once we got her out of the well she took right off to the 
barn! 
 
HP: Fast as she could go! But you know they have this conception that we’re not nice to our animals. 
They really are an extension of the family. That’s why you name them and some of them you get close 
to and some of them you hate! 
 
JB: That’s like family, isn’t it? 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
29
HP: Some have an attitude; there were always some that would like to kick and be nasty. I had one that 
was nasty to me but everybody else could touch her and there was no problem! I go to milk her and 
she’d try to kick my head off every time. 
 
JB: Isn’t that weird. So you just avoided that one? 
 
HP: She knew I didn’t like her. 
 
JP: And they can sense if you’re scared of them. If you’re scared and nervous with them, then that 
makes them nervous. 
 
JB: And that’s true with cows, and that’s also true with horses right? 
 
JP: Horses are a different breed of animal. They are very much so like that and they just have their own 
issues. You gotta be a real horse lover to work with them. 
 
JB: How long has it been since you’ve had horses on the farm? 
 
JP: Great-Grandfather had them but my father bought this farm in the early fifties and there was a pair 
of horses here and a John Deere tractor and they were the first things that went, because he was an 
International guy! And he had no love for horses. A little work he did with his grandfather and that was 
it! 
 
JB: Interesting. What about oxen? Did you ever have oxen on the farm? 
 
JP: I don’t think so. 
 
WP: Oh no. 
 
JB: You don’t find those so commonly on farms around here and even going back, they’re not so 
common. Is there anything else you’d like to say, knowing that people are going to be listening 
generations from now? 
 
JP: That I don’t think there’s a better place to raise a family than a farm. Our kids have proved that in 
what they’re doing with their lives and with their own children, and our grandchildren. You learn things 
like work ethic; you learn joys and sorrows of living; when you see your own animal drop dead in front 
of you, that’s a pretty rough thing for your son to take. Those things are all a part of their nature. They 
grew up and it made them stronger men. They’ve found good wives, wives that didn’t come off of a 
farm but they’re active and do their own gardening. They talk about the animals and some weird 
things…we had a Black Angus that we’re eating now; they used to take a hired man that had red hair 
and put him under the fence.  It wouldn’t bother anybody else. I could walk out there, and here I am, a 
65 year old guy. I could pat him, he’d come up to be and pat, maybe nudge me, and he wasn’t gonna go 
after me at all. But red hair, or something weird, that’s all we could figure out. That animal that weighs 
over 2,000 pounds, he could put me in the ground instantly if he wanted to. But that’s one of the odd 
things that happen now and then on a farm. 
 
HP: The twin, dying. 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
30
JP: Yeah we had twins just here this past year. One of them we couldn’t get back with calf, and the other 
one had calved in December 2012, and in about February we sold her twin. And they stood side by side 
in the barn and within a week her twin quit eating. We could not find out why she shouldn’t eat, she’d 
go down and wouldn’t get up; we’d have to lift her up. We ended up having to get rid of her. We got her 
on to a truck, but it ended up she went down at the auction sale barn so we didn’t get anything for her. 
And that isn’t the first time that has happened. Years ago we had a set of twins, same thing. Got rid of 
one, and the other one went the other way. But we’ve learned if we have twins, and we’ve got some 
twin calves we’re raising right now, don’t let them be together their whole lifetime, separate them. They 
had one other cow that is a twin; we got rid of her twin back last year, and she’s okay. But she was on 
one end of the barn and the other one was on the other end. People will say it can’t happen, but I’ve 
seen it too many times, her and I and my son. 
 
JB: They form that attachment to each other over time. 
 
JP: Oh they do. I hope we’ve given some information that will help future generations because we’ve 
been here a long while and we hope we can be here a while longer. 
 
JB: Would you like to have a final word on anything Wilma? No? Well this has been great and it’s 
possible I’ll have some follow-up questions so I hope you’ll be willing to keep talking to me. 
 
JP: Yup. 
 
JB: But this has been terrific, and thanks you for taking the time to do this today. 
 
END TRACK TWO 
1:20:36 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
31