Finding Roots: Asian American Farmers in Contemporary America 
Christina Chan 
December 7, 2020 
Interview conducted by Katelyn Reuther 
Christina Chan is the founder and owner of Choy Division in Chester, New York. 
This was a 
remote interview conducted during the COVID-19 pandemic. Christina Chan joined 
the interview from Chester, New York, and Katie Reuther joined from Chittenden, Vermont. 
Interview Log 
00:00:00 
Introductions 
00:00:34 
Christina talks about the importance of food in her family, and how she sees 
it as a 
love language that they use to convey affection, love, and pride. 
00:02:00 
Christina shares meaningful food memories from her childhood. Her 
grandad would make green peppers stuffed with a 
fish paste, and she would 
make dumplings with her grandma. 
00:03:05 
Working in food and agriculture did not cross Christina's mind when she was 
young, but early in her teen years, she developed a 
passion for cooking and 
learning about food science. 
00:03:53 
Christina describes how she got her start in farming. After finishing a 
master's 
program in conservation science in 2014 or 2015, she realized academia was 
not the way for her to make the most effective change in the world. Through 
spending time at an urban farm she heard about, she fell in love with farming 
and saw it as the answer to what she wanted to do. 
00:06:07 
Christina educated herself about farming by working with farmers on the urban 
farm, doing online research (a 
lot of YouTube), and reading books. She also found 
Instagram to be a 
very valuable tool for knowledge sharing. 
00:06:57 
Christina talks more about her decision to get into farming. She not only 
volunteered at the urban farm, but also worked at and managed the farm's cafe. 
She considered working in a 
kitchen, but found it grueling in an unenjoyable 
way. After moving back to the United States from the United Kingdom where 
Christina Chan Interview Log, December 7, 2020 
1 
she got her master's degree, she did a 
three-month apprenticeship at a 
biodynamic farm. This was her first experience on a 
large-scale production farm, 
and she realizes there how much she loves the hustle of production farming. 
00:09:04 
There were many people who influenced her decision to farm, but no one person 
influenced her decision more than another. However, her family has always been 
concerned about her going into farming. The strong negative influence from her 
family made her want to prove them wrong. It's more than a 
job; it's a 
passion. 
00:10:40 
She only found other Asian American farmers when she actively searched. 
00:11:00 
The lack of Asian American representation in farming didn't dissuade or 
encourage her to farm, but it did impact the type of farm she wanted to have. 
Seeing the lack of representation made her feel like there was a 
gap she could 
fill. 
00:11:46 
Her decision to start her own farm came from a 
desire to grow what she wanted 
to grow. 
00:12:53 
She describes the three- to four-year period of time between working on the 
large-scale biodynamic farm and starting her own farm. She worked on an urban 
farm in New York City for two years as an educator. There, she had room to 
experiment without risk of failure. She also did a 
three-week mentorship with a 
Korean farmer in California (Kristyn Leach), which had a 
big impact on her. 
00:14:38 
Christina talks about the process of starting her own farming business. She 
participated in a 
beginner farmer training program through GrowNYC, which 
helped propel her forward by providing technical assistance and resources. She is 
also part of an incubator program that provides access to land and infrastructure. 
00:16:35 
Christina reflects on the connection between farming and identity. Her farm 
focuses mainly on East Asian heritage vegetables. The biodynamic farmer she 
worked with grew celtuce, a 
Chinese vegetable, which got her thinking about 
growing Chinese vegetables. She was frustrated by the lack of Asian American 
representation at local farmers markets in New York City, despite the large Asian 
American population there. She wanted to show people that there is more to 
Chinese food than takeout, and to grow vegetables for meaningful dishes that 
are culturally and culinarily rich. Farming is not only the culmination of her 
interests, but also now encompasses her identity. For a 
long time, she pushed 
away being Chinese. Farming is her way of reconciling that, being proud of who 
she is, and reconnecting with her family. 
Christina Chan Interview Log, December 7, 2020 
2 
00:22:51 
Christina's farm is a 
half-acre, three-season farm located in Chester, New York. It 
is a 
regenerative agriculture-focused, diversified operation that follows the 
Community Supported Agriculture model (CSA) and primarily serves the New 
York City population. 
00:24:10 
Target customers are people like her (in their twenties and thirties looking to find 
themselves in the food scene). Marketing is done on social media and via word-
of-mouth. She wants to expand to serve the community at large, including 
lower-income immigrants and the elderly. 
00:25:21 
Customers strongly identify with her messaging. They feel seen, and they feel 
heard. 
00:26:18 
Through reading about her work in the media and seeing how people are 
responding to it, Christina's family has begun to shift their views on the work she 
is doing as a 
farmer. They also recognize the superior freshness of her food. 
00:27:43 
As Christina learns different ways of cooking the vegetables she is growing, she 
is also learning about the culinary history of different regions in Asia. 
00:29:15 
Christina explains how she decided to grow certain crops or varieties, including 
gai Ian and head mustard. She notes that Asian people love texture, and the traits 
selected for in Asian vegetable varieties differ significantly from their western 
counterparts. For example, the stem and leaves of gai Ian, or Chinese broccoli, are 
the most important part of the vegetable, whereas western broccoli was selected 
for its flowerhead. What we choose to grow and how we choose to grow it 
illustrates what we value in our food. 
00:31:09 
Christina sources seeds from Japanese-owned Kitazawa Seed Company in 
California. Larger seed companies have a 
tendency to lump things together in 
categories such as "Asian greens." Furthermore, it is likely not Asian people 
doing the field trials and taste test selections. She tends to trust smaller seed 
companies for better quality. She would like to start saving seed and developing 
her own varieties. 
00:33:13 
The internet has allowed her to connect with an Asian American farmer 
community, including Scott Chang-Fleeman of Shao Shan Farm; Leslie Wiser of 
Radical Family Farms; Kristyn Leach of Namu Farm; Katherine Chiu; and Larry 
Tse of Dig Inn. There seems to be a 
small but growing movement of Asian 
Americans who are looking to reclaim who they are and what is theirs through 
farming. 
00:36:01 
Christina is the sole worker on her farm. 
Christina Chan Interview Log, December 7, 2020 
3 
00:36:51 
Christina talks about the community she wants to build on the farm with 
employees and customers in the future. She discusses making her farm into an 
educational space where people can learn how to grow food that is meaningful 
to them. Although she wants to keep her farm small, she recognizes that 
mentorship opportunities for Asian farmers are limited. The ultimate goal is to 
become a 
mentor herself and teach someone else to start their own farm in a 
space where they feel safe, seen, and heard. 
00:39:11 
As an Asian American farmer, Christina has felt invisible in the food and 
agriculture space. During discussions about POC (people of color) matters and 
representation during conferences, the focus is typically on Black and brown 
farmers. How do you make space for the Asian community members without 
taking away space from others? How do you create visibility for both yourself and 
for the wider Asian community? 
00:40:29 
Christina's race/ethnicity has given her a 
niche. In a 
business sense, the specific 
knowledge she possesses gives her an edge. 
00:41:13 
Christina recounts a 
story about racial tension that took place on the urban farm 
where she worked in New York City. She felt the farm management was splitting 
POC into different groups and pitting them against each other. There seemed to be 
room for only one group at the table. 
00:44:38 
Christina is used to being in fairly rural areas, so it was not a 
big adjustment when 
she moved to Chester (New York) in April 2020. Although she was terrified of 
how she would be treated in a 
more conservative rural area due to the pandemic, 
she actually faced more verbal aggression in New York City before she moved. 
00:46:31 
Christina touches on how the events of 2020 impacted her and her work. After 
being furloughed for a 
month from her job, she decided to start her farm a 
year early. The demand for CSAs (Community Supported Agriculture) rose 
alongside the fear of food supply chain disruptions and food shortages. She used 
farming as a 
way to fight back against the hate crimes and "othering" of Asian 
Americans. 
00:49:01 
Now more than ever, Christina feels like she is doing what she is meant to do. 
It surprised her how receptive people were to her work, and she found a 
huge 
need for more of it. The work she does brings memories back to people and 
brings joy into their lives, which is not something she expected. This 
helped reaffirm her desire to focus on serving communities that are a 
little more 
on the outer margins and less accessible to her. 
Christina Chan Interview Log, December 7, 2020 
4 
00:51:15 
Christina's vision for an ideal food system includes fewer large, mono-crop farms. 
It also includes a 
smaller food system that attends more to people working on and 
running farms; focuses on taking care of each other and the land more; builds 
diversity both in what we grow and who is growing it; and turns back inward and 
does not focus entirely on production output. It's not just about efficiency. What 
other intangible products does a 
farm create? 
00:53:22 
Christina's advice for POC trying to get into farming: find someone who looks 
like you to work with, but if you cannot, don't let that stop you. It's all about 
dedication, commitment, and passion. 
00:54:31 
Christina is grateful to have found such a 
strong passion and career. 
00:55:04 
Christina discusses her future plans. She says investors are on board to buy land, 
and she hopes to build it up and build a 
space for everyone. She is planning for 
thirty to thirty-five CSA members for next season, in addition to adding wholesale 
(for stable income and order simplicity). Many Asian restaurants run by younger 
chefs are redefining what Asian food can be through a 
lens of someone who grew 
up here in the U.S. 
00:57:27 
End of interview 
Christina Chan Interview Log, December 7, 2020 
5