Occupational Folklife Project | Food Processing and Legacy Trades: White Oak Pastures. Jean Turn, Comptroller
Food Processing and Legacy Trades 
Title: White Oak Pastures interview with Jean Turn 
Interview conducted by Makalé Faber Cullen 
Interview /Event Unique ID: afc2015042_04186 
Date of Interview: 2017-05-31 Location: Bluffton, GA 
Duration of Interview (Total): 00:52:48 
Summary of  Interview: 
Jean Olivia Turn shares the arc of her career, from physics major to agricultural chemical sales director to 
librarian to comptroller for White Oak Pastures. She reflects on her career and her unintentional diversion  
from her generation’s conventional female path of marriage and motherhood. Jean discusses her family’s 
legacy rural General Store and how the experiences of growing up as a shop kid informed her approach to 
work in a large corporation, in rural libraries and on a multi-species farm. Mid-way into her career, while 
supervising chemical distribution for Gold Kist, Inc., Jean became disillusioned with chemical agriculture and 
retooled professionally, becoming a successful librarian. She returned to agriculture in her 60s as comptroller 
for White Oak Pastures where she joyfully integrates a lifetime of professional experiences to sustainably 
organize and grow the complex farm. 
Interview Log: 
0 01 03 Jean shares good things about the farm: willingness to hire felons and people who just need a chance. 
0 01 30 Jean describes how she moved to Atlanta after college for social reasons, found work at Gold Kist 
where her grandfather once worked. She started as a clerk, transferred to the Southwest, and worked her way 
up to supervisor of chemical distribution centers where disillusionment with chemical agriculture set in. 
0 04 21 Jean Olivia Turn introduces herself. She was born in Bushkill, PA, on January 3, 1952. Currently, she 
is the comptroller of White Oak Pastures, ensuring that every penny earned goes back into the farm and that 
there’s enough money for new projects.  
0 05 51 Jean describes a farm comptroller’s work, including frustrations and challenges with software, 
management and organizational development. Her work: administrative, accounting, human resources 
management, insurance risk management. She moved financial reporting from an off-site accounting firm to 
on-site at the farm. She also brought her own software expertise to the farm, creating income and expense 
reports that helped the farm streamline its operations. Staff had software challenges. Under her leadership the 
farm increased specialization to 11 divisions and 50 departments.  
Jean gives the chronology of statement preparation and monthly meetings with departmental managers. She 
describes reorganization of the farm based on financial reports all while being animal, plant and land focused.  
0 09 36 Jean uses her financial background to make departmental operations more efficient: eggs, hogs, cattle, 
and slaughterhouse. Interdepartmental transfers. All departments / workers get credit for their labor/
contributions, even if they’re not monetized externally.  
0 11 25 Jean gives more detail about her work: organizing a human resources department, handling the payroll 
for 130+ employees, processing new hires and departures, and arranging for employees to buy at the Store 
and Restaurant with payroll deduction. She says that White Oak Pastures is small operation but has the same 
parts as a multinational corporation.  
0 12 58 Jean tells of her journey to farm comptroller: becoming a career woman, her Gold Kist work, and her 
original buy-in to the mantra: “chemicals are good…chemicals will save the world…fertilizers are good.”  She 
then is charged with managing a recall of toxic, carcinogenic chemicals that had been on the market for 
decades after there was a “sudden” discovery that they caused birth defects. She talks of a second class of 
  of  
1
3
Occupational Folklife Project | Food Processing and Legacy Trades: White Oak Pastures. Jean Turn, Comptroller
“bad stuff” after the earlier recall of DDT. Other work issues that pushed her towards a career change: 
disposal challenges and incinerators. 
0 15 23 Jean describes Gold Kist’s decision to stop selling toxic chemicals but let customers use up what they 
already had.  
0 15 52 Jean turns against chemical use in agriculture while simultaneously maturing as a worker — learning 
that company executives she’d previously admired had ordinary limitations and made erroneous, sometimes 
unethical decisions. Example: selling to India the leftover chemicals that were banned for sale in the US. She 
experiences a let down, then starts an organic garden.  
0 17 45 “I realized that executives didn’t know any more than I did about how to run anything.”  
0 17 51 Jean begins graduate work in Information Studies while living in Baker County. She holds a part-time 
job in ecology at the famous Ichauway Plantation of Joseph Jones Research Center, becoming a public 
librarian, 2000-2010. The rise of computer use in the library made her a techy as well.  
0 20 58 Jean sees how libraries are changing. She moves up in that world—from front desk reference librarian 
to regional director to six-county regional director. Tasks at each level are described. Then, looking for a 
lifestyle change and seeing the ends of libraries, Jean learns about nearby White Oak Pastures. She gets a part-
time then a full-time job there.  
0 23 13 Jean introduces her family of origin. Her grandfather had a general store in the Poconos. Jean and a 
bother worked in the store. She says that the Poconos of her childhood was similar to Bluffton, GA. 
0 27 06 Jean is ‘good at math but really interested in energy aspects of everything.’ She recently hired an 
Earth Acupuncturist from the UK to look at energy imbalances on White Oak Pastures’ land.  
0 28 57 Jean describes Will Harris, White Oak Pastures’ owner as appreciating energy work and energy 
imbalance and being open, not “just a cowboy.” His way of working attracts people to the farm. 
0 30 06 On the experience of working at White Oak Pastures: pulling lessons from all previous jobs, using 
source materials, not summaries to secure funding and establish new public policies and protocols. She has 
valuable connections from her library work and work with local governments—from content to financial. 
0 34 56 On professional relationships.  
0 36 04 On the comptroller’s work — similar to being an auditor for the business, keeping a finger on the 
larger picture and appreciating people who come to the farm to work or visit. She discusses how her love of 
horses also connects her to other workers.  
0 40 03 White Oak Pastures moves many offices away from the processing facility to the center of Bluffton, 
allowing the town to see the plant as one facet of a complex system. 
0 41 58 Jean’s belief that White Oak Pastures, a small business, will revitalize the small town of Bluffton 
through agriculture, which is unprecedented in rural America. 
0 42 32 Jean describes Bluffton: population about 100, two main streets and two churches (Methodist and 
Baptist). Before White Oak Pastures moved its offices into town there was just a post office and remnants of 
a peanut company. White Oak Pastures leased and restored the Methodist church, whose land had reverted to 
the town. Jean describes the restoration, moving offices, buying insurance, and cost. 
0 46 05 Jean discusses the challenge of ongoing White Oak Pastures work and facilities restoration and the 
hierarchy of workers. 
  of  
2
3
Occupational Folklife Project | Food Processing and Legacy Trades: White Oak Pastures. Jean Turn, Comptroller
 0 50 42 The old church functions as the office space for field managers. They order supplies, check email, 
and interact. It’s in this space and through transparent administrative systems, where Will and Jean learn how 
the farm is growing in new ways, like why the hog manager began to buy plant seeds: to create little food 
plots for the hogs.   
END 0 52 48 
  of  
3
3