NEW BEDFORD FISHING HERITAGE CENTER 
Date of Interview May 13, 2017 
Gomez, Maria ~ Oral History Interview 
Corinn Williams 
Gomez, Maria. Interview by Corinn Williams Workers on the New Bedford Waterfront. New 
Bedford Fishing Heritage Center. May 13 ,2017. 
This oral history was produced in 2017 as part of the Workers on the Waterfront Oral History 
Project conducted by New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center with funding from an Archie Green 
Fellowship provided by the Library of Congress. 
New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center 
38 Bethel Street 
P.O. Box 2052 
New Bedford, MA 02741-2052 
Interview with Maria Gomez, May 13, 2017 
1 
Background 
Name of person interviewed: Maria Gomez 
Facts about this person: 
Age 28 
Sex Female 
Occupation Fish skinning machine operator 
Residence (Town where lives) New Bedford 
Ethnic background (if known) Guatemala, Maya K’iche 
Interviewer: Corinn Williams 
Transcriber: Joselyn Feliciano 
Interview location: Community Economic Development Center, New Bedford 
Date of interview: January 21,2017 
Key Words: Skinning machine, packing, fish cutters, fillets. Immigration, Guatemala, New 
Bedford, America 
Abstract 
Maria Gomez is from Guatemala and skins, cleans and packs fish at Bergie’s Seafood in New 
Bedford, MA. She describes her job cleaning and cutting fish at Bergie’s, job positions for men 
and women in the fish processing industry, her family life and move from Guatemala to the 
United States. 
Interview with Maria Gomez, May 13, 2017 
Index 
[2:25] Left home country Guatemala to U.S. because of failing economy, mother’s illness, 
family in US and Guatemala. 
[6:35] Father’s illness upon return to Guatemala. Job at Bergie’s Seafood, skinning machine job 
description, ethnic diversity in company, training as a team, job descriptions, company uniforms 
and gear. 
[12:17] Machine operation, packing, communication standards between employees 
[16:00] Schedule, fluctuating hours based off-season 
[20:18] Diversity in the workplace, contrast between male and female job descriptions, equality, 
safety standards, training 
[25:30] Fish cutters, company growth, machine operation, and family, economic struggle 
[37:17] End interview 
Interview with Maria Gomez, May 13, 2017 
3 
Light Transcription 
(2:25) My name is Maria Gomez and I am from Sam Andres Sacabaja de Quiche, Guatemala. I 
am 28 years old. I came here 16 years ago July 22. I was 15 years old and I came here with my 
father. He is not here anymore. He returned to Guatemala. I didn’t do anything in Guatemala. 
There is no work, I came here out of need, so I can eat. Only men can get work over there two or 
three days picking vegetables. My mother would make tortillas and clean the house. She became 
sick and died in 1999 and two weeks later I came here. I have one sibling in Guatemala and two 
here. 
(6:35) I came here with my father, he was living here for a few years. He was diagnosed with 
diabetes when he was here (in the U.S.) and when he returned (to Guatemala) he drank a lot and 
passed away. I am here with my husband with no children but I am four months pregnant now. 
I stopped going to school when my mother became ill, it was very difficult. When I was 15 and I 
arrived in the U.S. everything was nice. I was able to rest for a couple of weeks and shortly after 
I found a job but soon after that there was a lay off Looking for work became difficult, I only 
worked a day or two or three day here and there. Then I went to the south end and found a job 
and I have been there for 15 years. I have stayed because they always offer hours to work. 
I work cleaning fish on a table of fifteen women. There are many different people from different 
countries. My aunt worked at the factory and she showed me how to clean the fish along with the 
help of the supervisors. I speak Spanish and Quiche but I have learned more Spanish at work. (At 
first) I was just putting labels on the bags for the scallops. I work on the skinning machine, 
cleaning fish, packing fish, doing everything. 
(12:17) The cutters cut the fish creating fillets, a man comes and put the fish with scales on the 
tables and I separate the skin from the fish and put the skin in a tub. When we clean fish we are 
eight people and it usually it is just me and sometimes another person who skins the fish. You 
have to put on gloves and jacket so you don’t dirty your clothes. In the wintertime, we have to 
wear thick clothes because of the cold, but during the summer it is normal. If the machine locks 
up or gets ruined someone has to come and fix it, which happens about once a week. The women 
just clean the fish if they are still dirty after I pass them through the machine. Before I used to 
weigh the fish. The women pack the fish I would weigh the fish for ten pounds and I would 
mark the packages with the names of the fish. After that, I went to skinning fish. I have learned 
various skills. I like to be there because the boss a good person, they don’t hurt or disrespect. 
There are bosses in some jobs that yell and put you down. 
(16:00) At Kyler Seafoods they yelled at us to hurry up. If we missed a day, they would yell at us 
that we needed to get permission to take days off Here at Bergie’s they are calm. The most 
difficult part is when there are a lot of fish it is hard because we get tired. We go in early and 
leave late and we get tired. Normally we enter at 7 AM and leave at 5 PM but when there is a lot 
of fish we start at 4 AM and work for 13-14 hours a day, but that is only when we get a lot of 
fish and that will be like for two or three weeks and it goes back to normal. Work decreases in 
Interview with Maria Gomez, May 13, 2017 
4 
January and goes up in March a little bit. Before Holy Week work increases because everyone is 
eating seafood, but the work usually goes up and down. I got this job because a friend told me 
they were looking for people to work, and he urged me to go where he works because there is a 
need for workers so I got the job. My husband also works at this company. It is good because 
we go to work together and get out at the same time and at home and we get eat lunch and dinner 
together. He cuts fish, he is a fish cutter. I don’t have many friends at work we just say and hi 
and things like that. 
(20:18 ) Sometimes we speak in K’iche dialect in Spanish, and a little bit of English. At least half 
the people are from San Andres and other parts of Quiche. There are men and women working 
there. The women clean and pack the fish while the men cut the fish, creating fillets. Other men 
put fish on the table for the women, lifting 25 lbs boxes. They treat everyone equally and with 
respect. There are other companies that mistreat employees. I don’t think it is dangerous but 
maybe in other companies where they have big machines. When someone comes in and doesn’t 
know the job, the rest of us get together to teach and the supervisors help too and in two weeks 
they understand (how to do the job). 
(25:37) Sometimes people leave to take other jobs. Not understanding English can be an issue. 
There have been some changes, now there are machines that cut the codfish frozen. Before it was 
the men cutting them. The company has purchased machines to skin the fish but they didn’t used 
to have machines to take the bones out or to cut fillets and now they do. Before there were 9 fish 
cutters by hand and they worked a lot of hours and when the company bought the machines, the 
fish cutters all left to find another job and now there are only fish two cutters. It went from nine 
cutters fulltime to five cutters with a few hours and now just two. Cutting fish takes a lot of 
practice, you have to cut good and understand how to take the bones out. 
Well, I would like to tell the new immigrants they must work hard to earn money to buy what 
they want. The sister of my husband has been here for a year now. She is 17 years old. It has 
been difficult because she can’t work, she has to go to school. When she turns 18 she will leave 
school and go to work, she says she doesn’t like to study she would prefer to work. 
(30:00) My sister-in-law came because she heard we have money here, she was looking for a 
dream. She thought when she got here she could just work but the law says she has to go to 
school. It is difficult because we have to support her with food, clothing and rent. When I came 
here from Guatemala I was just a baby. I didn’t know my husband from Guatemala, I met him 
here at work. He came to the U.S with his sister, together with their father. The father has a hard 
time because of his immigration appointments. The four of us live here, the three of us work and 
we pay for the food together and we share the expenses. We pay 500.00, it is a little but the 
apartment is very small. We pay for light, gas, cable and telephone. It is a little better because his 
father helps with the rent., we pay 250.00 each plus the other bills before so it is better now. I 
would like to save money if I could, maybe one day. We don’t know if someday we will go back 
to Guatemala so if maybe we save money we will have when we are over there. We would like 
to stay here, get settled and buy a nice car. That is my dream and god only knows. 
(37:17) End of recording. 
Interview with Maria Gomez, May 13, 2017 
5