Oral History Interview 
 
with 
 
David Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
Interview Conducted by 
Tanya Finchum and Juliana Nykolaiszyn 
June 15, 2011 
 
 
The “Big Top” Show Goes On:  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oklahoma Oral History Research Program 
Edmon Low Library ● Oklahoma State University 
© 2011 
 
 
2
The “Big Top” Show Goes On  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
Interview History 
 
 
Interviewers: Tanya Finchum, Juliana Nykolaiszyn 
Transcriber: 
Miranda Mackey 
Editors: 
Amy Graham, Tanya Finchum, Juliana Nykolaiszyn 
 
The recording and transcript of this interview were processed at the Oklahoma State 
University Library in Stillwater, Oklahoma. 
 
Project Detail 
 
The “Big Top” Show Goes On: An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the 
Canvas Circus Tent aims to preserve the voices and experiences of those involved with the 
work culture associated with Hugo, Oklahoma’s tent circus tradition.  
 
Funding for this project was made possible by the Library of Congress American Folklife 
Center as part of a 2011 Archie Green Fellowship awarded to researchers Tanya Finchum 
and Juliana Nykolaiszyn with the Oklahoma Oral History Research Program at the OSU 
Library. 
 
This project was approved by the Oklahoma State University Institutional Review Board on 
May 6, 2011. 
 
Legal Status 
 
Scholarly use of the recordings and transcripts of the interview with David Rawls is 
unrestricted. The interview agreement was signed on June 15, 2011. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
The “Big Top” Show Goes On  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
About David Rawls… 
 
David Rawls, the oldest son of Harry and Mary Rawls, was born in 1948 in Lebanon, 
Missouri and lived in Macks Creek, Missouri until he was in elementary school. His parents 
worked in the circus industry first as performers then in various occupations within the 
circus. In 1955 the family moved to Hugo, Oklahoma where they joined the Famous Cole 
Circus owned by Herb Walters. During his youth, in addition to performing trampoline acts 
with his brother, David was interested in learning all aspects of the circus industry and 
sought out every opportunity to learn.  
 
Following graduation from Hugo High School, David served in the military. After serving, 
he returned to the circus business. At the age of twenty-five David was hired by Frank 
McCloskey to be the concession manager for the Clyde Beatty-Cole Brothers Circus. As 
David gained more experience, he moved closer to his childhood dream of having his own 
circus. D.R. Miller, owner of the Carson and Barnes Circus and well-known in the industry, 
saw something in David and together they formed a circus which they named the Kelly 
Miller Circus. This circus first went out on the road in 1984 and twenty-five years later, 
David sold it having completed twenty-five successful years as owner/manager.  
 
After selling the Kelly Miller Circus, David served as City Manager of Hugo, Oklahoma. 
Previously he had also been Mayor of Hugo, Oklahoma. He now serves as a consultant to 
the Carson and Barnes Circus and continues to call Hugo, Oklahoma home. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
The “Big Top” Show Goes On  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
David Rawls 
 
Oral History Interview 
 
Interviewed by Tanya Finchum  
& Juliana Nykolaiszyn 
June 15, 2011 
Hugo, Oklahoma 
 
 
Finchum 
 
 
 
 
Rawls 
 
Finchum 
 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I’m Tanya Finchum along with Juliana Nykolaiszyn. We’re with the 
Oklahoma Oral History Research Program at the Oklahoma State 
University Library. Today is June 15, 2011 and we’re in Hugo, 
Oklahoma, speaking with David Rawls. Thank you for joining us today. 
 
Well, thank you for having me. 
 
Let’s get started by having you tell us a little bit about your youth, where 
you were born, your family, and that type of thing. 
 
Well, I was born in Lebanon, Missouri. At that time, we lived in a little 
town called Macks Creek. My grandfather had a one-room house there 
with outdoor plumbing, no indoor plumbing. I lived there off and on 
until my first year of school. I started the first grade in Camdenton, 
which was the nearest school to where I lived. It was quite a bus ride, I 
recall. I was the first one on the bus, the last one off. School was a 
wonderment to me. It was an association with other kids who I didn’t 
have a whole lot in common with, but I found it interesting and 
intriguing. It helped build my desires for a lot of things in life.  
 
From Macks Creek, after the first grade, we moved here in 1955, to 
Hugo. I started school here. We came here to join the Famous Cole 
Circus owned by Herb Walters. My brother and I were learning, at that 
time, to do trampoline. I was trying to follow in my father’s footsteps. 
He was a cowboy, trick-rider, rope-spinner, whip-cracker, and every 
circus in that day had a Wild West concert or after show, a takeoff on 
the western days of our country. I’m sure you’re familiar with Buffalo 
Bill and Tom Mix and some of the western stars that we had. They had 
Wild West circuses, Wild West shows. That was incorporated into the 
entertainment of the tent circuses as an after show or a concert.  
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
I really wanted to be a cowboy, like my father. I learned how to spin 
ropes and ride, whip-cracking. I learned all of that at an early age, and he 
was perfectly willing to teach me anything that I wanted to learn. That 
was my goal in life at seven, eight years old. And really, I got to perform 
at an early age in the ring, in the Wild West concert. My brother and I 
did a trampoline act at the time.  
 
There were, at that time, six children in the family. They were, in their 
own way, each beginning to learn what they gravitated towards. I have a 
sister who was a wire-walker. My brother Bobby was an excellent clown 
that he developed later in life. In addition to the trampoline he juggled, 
did rolling globe, and was a good wire-walker, himself. My mother was 
a wire-walker so we had an opportunity to learn the various acts that our 
parents did or other people did. If we had a knack for it, we were given 
the freedom to try to learn it and practice. That’s the way you develop 
your skills as a performer in the circus. It starts at an early age, and not 
everyone has the ability or the desire to do all of the acts. But you soon 
learn where you excel and where you don’t, usually, you pursue that.  
 
From there, we traveled with other circuses. Our family grew. There 
were two additional children, later. We all did acts. We did at least ten 
acts, ten different acts. My sisters were aerialists. We did wire-walking. 
They did ladder and web, rolling globe. My mother did an act called 
loop-de-loop and neck loop, which was where you hang by your neck 
and perform. You hang by your neck in a way that’s not detrimental to 
you, but you do that and perform. So, in total, we did ten acts. We 
became usable on many circuses. There were a lot of people that would 
like to have our acts because we had done a great deal, and we were 
pretty cheap to hire. I mean, you hire the family and you get ten acts. In 
addition to that, we did a lot of other things in the show.  
 
I had a lot of interest in circus. I wanted to learn how to put up the tents 
and the logistics and the engineering that went along with that. I learned 
how to drive at an early age. I was driving circus trucks at fifteen. I was 
very interested in the why’s and the where for’s of the circus industry, 
and I had my heroes and the people that I admired in the business that 
I’d heard their names many times before and followed their careers. 
 
And who were those, while you’re on that? 
 
Oh, there was Floyd King, who was a circus owner in his own right. He 
had the King Brothers Circus many, many years ago. He was a general 
agent, at that time. I was fascinated by the routing of the shows; why 
they went, when they went, where they went. He was legendary in our 
industry. I heard a lot of stories about him and I tried to figure out what 
made him tick and what made him go where he went and why did he do 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
what he did. He was very successful at it. He was highly sought after to 
be the routing agent for various circuses because of his success.  
 
I also followed closely the Millers, here in Hugo. At that time, Obert 
Miller was the owner of the show. He had two sons, Dory and Kelly, but 
he was the patriarch of the family. He had a unique niche that he had 
carved out, and had a large show, very successful. I was highly 
interested in why he went where he went and how he did it. That’s kind 
of unusual at sixteen, and I would say at sixteen, I was highly motivated 
by the circus industry and wanted to pursue it. So much so, that my 
brothers and sisters took to calling me Mr. Circus, because my interests 
were not the same as theirs. I was pretty wrapped up. At night, if we had 
a truck break down or blow a motor, I would stay up with the mechanics 
and try to learn how to get the truck fixed and hand them their tools. I 
mean, they were glad to have me just as a gopher, a helper but all the 
while, I was learning. I did that in several instances in the business when 
I was growing up.  
 
I was very curious about all aspects of the circus industry and gravitated 
toward concessions. I noticed early on that the guys that we called candy 
butchers, which are the vendors in the circus, always had money. They 
always seemed to be kind of carefree and independent. I admired that 
and started hanging around them. So when I wasn’t doing my acts or 
putting up props or taking down props for the family, I would go up and 
help the concession vendors and try to learn what they did. I liked it so 
much that I eventually got into the concession end of the business. I 
learned all aspects, and I became a concession manager at twenty-five 
years old. I ran the concessions on the Clyde Beatty-Cole Brothers 
Circus, which was the largest tent circus in the country at that time. Oh, 
you could say I thought I had died and went to heaven. It was a dream.  
 
I was working for a man named Frank McCloskey, who was an icon in 
our industry. He owned three circuses and had been on the Ringling 
Brothers Circus many, many years ago. He came from that to the Beatty 
show, the Clyde Beatty Circus. He and a partner named Walter Kernan 
bought the Beatty show and took it off-rail and put it on trucks and 
became very successful in the circus industry. He expanded that to both 
the King Brothers Circus and the Sells and Gray Circus. They had three 
circuses out at one time, very, very successful. And the man hired me to 
run his concessions on the Beatty show. I was intrigued by that.  
 
By that time, my father was managing the King Brothers Circus. My 
father had grown in stature and respect in the industry and became 
sought after as a manager for a multitude of reasons. He was very calm 
and efficient at what he did. He could handle people, had a way of 
commanding respect without being rough or demanding about it, and 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
was very successful as a manager in his own right. So it gave me 
opportunities to be looked at by other people in the industry. “Oh, you’re 
one of those Rawls?” We had a large family. We had been on a lot of 
shows. We were fairly well-known. We weren’t famous in any respect 
as to our acts. We did a multitude of acts when we were performing.  
 
At eighteen, I knew that I wasn’t going to continue in the performing 
end of the industry. I was going to gravitate towards management. I did 
that through concessions, initially, but I always had the dream of having 
my own circus and running my own circus some day. I wanted to learn 
every aspect of the business. I bumped my nose a few times in that 
pursuit, but in the end, I was given the opportunity. The opportunity 
came my way to take out my own show. My father and I took out the 
Great American Chautauqua earlier. It was not successful. Great show. 
We combined theater and circus. It was a theatrical stage production 
under the big top. 
 
About what time period, year-wise? 
 
That was in the ’70s. Let’s see, we folded it in ’80—you’re going to 
make my memory go bad. I want to say that we folded the thing in ’81 
or ’82. I can’t recall, but it was a great show. The people that did see it—
I mean, we got standing ovations. We had a hard time making the public 
understand what a Chautauqua was. At one time it was very famous in 
the country. My father’s idea was to bring it back. There used to be 
Chautauquas that traveled all over the country. They were well-known 
and well respected. They combined theater and some circus 
entertainment. They didn’t combine a lot of circus, and his idea was to 
have a show that explained Chautauqua.  
 
As he and his grandson, who were fishing along a riverbank, reminisced, 
the grandson would ask him questions about, “What was it? What would 
it do?” As the grandfather recalled a memory, what he remembered from 
the Chautauqua days, it would appear onstage. The lights would dim and 
then they would come up on stage and you would see it. We had singing 
and dancing in the show. We had circus acts. We had comedy. We had a 
wide variety of things. Quite a few people were involved in the 
endeavor, costuming, lighting, and like I say, it was well received. We 
just couldn’t market it well enough to get the crowds there to see it. 
After a lengthy run, we folded it and lost a lot of money and were 
disheartened by the effort. 
 
But I hadn’t lost my desire to own my own circus. I went on from there 
and took an opportunity to work for D.R. Miller and ran his concessions. 
He and I became friends. He was my employer and my boss, but we also 
became friends. We had a lot of the same likes and dislikes, as far as the 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
circus is concerned. I never met a man more enthusiastic about circus in 
my life. That’s all he cared about. He didn’t have any other interests, 
outside interests. I mean, he was circus through and through, and very 
unique and an innovator. He’d done a lot of things, a lot of firsts in the 
industry. There was not much he hadn’t tried, and I admired the man, 
and he and I got along well. He saw something in me that made him take 
a chance and together we bought a circus that folded in California. I took 
it out in 1984. It was Kelly Miller, his old title. That got me into 
ownership, and I learned a lot more about the circus industry after I 
owned one and ran one for twenty-five years. 
 
Twenty-five! 
 
Well, you had an idea of what you wanted to present to the public when 
you started Kelly Miller. What were some of your goals for that circus? 
 
My goals were developed throughout my life. The circus business—of 
course, the times were different. You have to recall that right after the 
Depression, we came out into the ’50s and we went through a huge 
recession in the country. A lot of things were changing quickly. Korea 
was over and all our men came home. We had a huge recession in the 
country at the time. Television was in its infancy, just being developed 
and habits and attitudes of the general population were just being 
developed. It was a terrible time for the American circus in the ’50s. A 
lot of big shows folded in the ’50s. It couldn’t continue to compete with 
the changing entertainment market.  
 
Neither one of you are probably old enough to recall that when 
television first came out and became on the air all the time, and it wasn’t 
all the time. Even then, it went off at midnight and came on sometimes 
as late as ten-eleven o’clock. Before a program started on the air it 
would just have a symbol on the TV and it was all black and white. But 
there were westerns that people did not miss. On Wednesday night they 
watched Gunsmoke or Maverick or Cheyenne, or I can remember a 
program called The Top Ten Show, where they did the top ten musical 
hits for the week or for the month or whatever the case may be. But 
people were engrossed in it. 
 
I can remember in our family when we finally got a television, wow! We 
just couldn’t wait until Thursday night got here so we could watch “X” 
program. We all sat down together and watched it and everybody 
enjoyed it. It was something new and different. Well, it took away from 
people wanting to go out and see a circus or spend their money on other 
things. It was quite an expensive investment. I can remember we didn’t 
have a television for many years, and I knew other kids that had them 
and couldn’t understand why. My parents made me realize real quick it 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
was a large investment, and it wasn’t something you spend your money 
on first. It was an extra. It was a luxury, and so it wasn’t something you 
did first, but it did have a huge impact on the industry. It was in the ’50s 
that the Ringling Show went out from under canvas, and several other 
shows folded and became part of our history instead of still alive, but the 
industry survived it.  
 
One of the things that I wanted to have in the circus was I wanted to 
entertain families. I want to do it well. I wanted them to enjoy it and I 
wanted it to be eye-catching. Taking my children to Disneyworld when 
they were quite young, I remember taking a lesson from Disneyworld. 
Everything was squeaky clean. All their people were in uniform. You 
saw no distraction or detraction from your visit. Even the lines were 
scientifically done so they didn’t seem as long as they actually were. 
(Laughs) They had a way of getting you into a line and then you would 
go inside the facility and you’d find out the line was twice as long inside 
as it was outside, but they did it well. And I took lessons from that. I 
noticed that they had people cleaning up debris and trash off of the 
grounds just instantly. All the negatives they tried to remove. I took 
good lessons from that.  
 
When I took out my circus I wanted everyone in uniform. I had strict 
rules about long hair and beards, no [going without] shirts, no drinking, 
no cursing—of course, people curse, but not in front of our public. If I 
caught you doing that, it was a finable offense and you could be 
terminated. But we wanted to take care of our patrons. When they came 
to the circus I didn’t want them to have an experience that was negative 
in any way, if I could help it. So we worked very hard at that on Kelly 
Miller. Over the years, we developed a reputation for being a show that 
was pleasing and did what it said, and the people enjoyed themselves 
when they were there.  
 
A lot of contact, a lot of contact. I insisted my performers visit with the 
public and talk to them and not be strangers. I wanted that personal 
contact. It served us well. We had a lot of people who remembered us. 
They remembered us better than we remembered them. They would 
come up to us a year later or two years later and say, “I saw your show 
the other day. Yeah, you guys talked to me! So and so sold me the 
tickets, and I remember feeding the elephant,” or whatever the case may 
be. And you try to encourage that and develop that, continue it.  
 
We built a route and a territory that if they were going to have a circus 
that year, which we were always sponsored by some civic organization 
in the community so it becomes beneficial to the community as well as 
to us financially. If they were going to have a circus, they would call and 
ask you if Kelly Miller was coming or could come. Or we would call 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and say, “Do you want us back?” and they would say, “Yes, we’d like to 
have you back. It was a good experience.” That was the goal and I think 
we achieved it. 
 
Well, when you were deciding on your routes to drum up business, did 
you go to particular areas, like southwest, every year? 
 
I had a particular direction. We would start out here in the spring. A lot 
of people think you jump all over the country with a circus, and that’s so 
far from the truth it’s not funny. In twenty-five years we averaged forty-
eight miles a day and that’s playing two hundred and ten dates a year. It 
was well thought out, well planned, well plotted. Occasionally, we went 
farther, sometimes shorter, but we averaged, over the years, forty-eight 
miles a day. So you had an hour move, like an hour commute to go to 
work. You got up in the morning and you loaded and cleaned up. People 
left the grounds in an orderly fashion, early in the morning, and by 7:00, 
7:30, you’re arriving in your new town when people are getting up and 
starting to move around. 
 
A.M. 
 
A.M., yes. And you do the setup. Our setup was—that’s another thing 
Kelly Miller was known for—it moved like a clock. Our setup took two 
and a half to three hours, maximum, and our teardown took an hour, 
hour and ten minutes, maximum. And then our performances were an 
hour and forty-five minutes long, two of them. So it wasn’t too 
demanding on our people. It was hard work, but it wasn’t too demanding 
on our people. We moved, usually, on a daily basis to a different 
community, would setup and teardown, and the next morning get up and 
move to the next community and develop that routine. 
 
I wanted to be north in the summertime when the weather is cooler. A 
big top circus can’t be in Texas in July. It can be, but it’s a mistake 
(laughs) because it’s too hot for people to be sitting under a tent, and it’s 
too hot for your performers, and your people, and your animals. So it 
was something that you had to keep in mind. So we tried to be in the 
north country in June, July, and August. We would work our way up in 
the spring and work our way back in the fall. I had favorite territories 
that I expanded and tried to improve on.  
 
My first year, Michigan was the target. The auto industry had been in 
bad shape. The economy was not real good and a lot of shows shied 
away from Michigan. It left a vacuum. Even in bad economic times, 
people still want entertainment, especially if it was local. You don’t have 
to drive to Nashville, or you don’t have to drive to the West Coast, East 
Coast, or Florida. If you get local entertainment, people will go if they 
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
have a few bucks. And so we’d try to keep our prices within range of a 
family and still be able to make enough money to continue to do what 
we do.  
 
We went to the communities. I think that is one of the big attractions. I 
don’t think circus will ever go away because as long as there are parents 
who have children, they want them to experience the magic that they 
experienced with their parents and go on down the line. So I think that as 
long as there is someone willing to cater to that and try to achieve that, 
there will always be circus. It will change in its format. It will change in 
what you see. Today’s generation is much harder to entertain than 
generations in the ’50s, when I grew up. The electronic mediums that 
these kids have, their attention spans quickly disintegrate if you don’t 
have something in front of them. So you see improved lighting, sound is 
important, fast-paced shows, better costuming, better lighting that keeps 
the children entertained. And you have to be geared toward the children, 
as well as the adults. If your kids have a good time, you’re going to have 
a good time. So you have to be cognizant and aware of that. 
 
It can’t be strictly theater. As a matter of fact, Cirque du Soleil 
advertises on many of their shows that it is not intended for children. It’s 
an adult theater. It’s not that they do anything that’s wrong, it’s not X-
rated or anything, but the presentation is not geared towards children, 
it’s geared towards adults. And they’re very successful at what they do, 
but what we did was for the family. We wanted everybody to be there. 
We wanted Mom, Dad, Grandma, Grandpa, and the kids. I always had a 
story that I told my sponsors, I said, “We are not a carnival,” I said, “We 
lose teenagers. When kids get to be teenagers, they lose interest in the 
circus. They don’t come back to us until they have children of their own, 
but they do come back.” The carnival is more geared to the adult and to 
the young teenager. It’s more active and there is nothing in a carnival 
where you go sit down for an hour and a half. So I try to impress on 
them the difference between the two forms of entertainment. 
 
How would you find your acts each year? 
 
Acts were fairly easy to come by. In the beginning, the first year, I had a 
hard time finding acts willing to commit a season to me because I was 
new and they didn’t know if I’d make it. There were a lot of questions in 
everybody’s mind. But after a couple of years, I had no problem getting 
acts. I would get, during the year, probably thirty, forty, fifty inquiries of 
acts wanting to perform on our show, for many reasons. They had heard 
it was a well-run show, it was stable, we had a good commissary or 
cookhouse, the management was good, the jumps were short, good solid 
season. So I would get inquiries from Eastern Europe, from South 
America, from here in the United States of acts of all kinds. I can readily 
 
 
12
 
 
Finchum 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
say that it was the least of the problems… 
 
Pick and choose. 
 
…putting together a show. My biggest problem was people I brought on 
my show I wanted to know something about. I didn’t want to know just 
what they did. I wanted to know something about them, personally, 
because it’s very close quarters, seventy people traveling together for 
two hundred and ten days. You have to get along. You have to be able to 
get along. I provided a school in my circus, an accredited school in my 
circus that I worked very diligently at, because I believe strongly in 
education. I wanted my people to be able to have it, especially my staff, 
who traveled with me year after year, who had family. I wanted them to 
be able to have their children with them. I didn’t like the idea of the 
children staying home and the mom staying home until school was out, 
and then for a very brief ten weeks in the summer they were there, and 
then they’re gone again in the fall. So I worked with the school here in 
Hugo.  
 
And that’s another great thing about Hugo, is the relationship between 
the circus and the community gave me the ability to do that. Mike Arms 
was the superintendent here in Hugo, at the time, and I went to him with 
the idea of providing an accredited teacher to teach our younger 
children. I wanted the same curriculum, the same lessons that they had 
in the system. I wanted them to get credit for it, and I wanted them to 
accredit my teacher. I would pay for the teacher but they had to give her, 
usually then it was a woman all the time that I had the show, the ability 
to give grades and those grades were recorded and they were counted 
present for all the days that they were with us. As long as we achieved 
the lessons and maintained the standard—and all my children were on 
the A-B Honor Roll. We took it very seriously, and they took their 
lessons in the commissary in the morning. It was off limits to anybody 
but the school. 
 
I didn’t charge for the school, but I did require every parent to pay 
fifteen dollars into a fund, per week. Then when we hit areas like around 
Washington D.C., I had a van on the circus, and they would take the 
children to the Smithsonian or to various places, Niagara Falls, places 
that are of great interest to kids, historical, educational. So they got to 
take field trips and that was what the money was used for, these field 
trips, for their entrance into the museums or their food when they went 
on these trips. It was very, very successful. Our kids did very, very well. 
I was very proud of the fact that we had the school there and could 
achieve that. It gave me the ability to attract the employees who were 
interested in that also. In other words, that was one of the big pluses, the 
benefits, of coming to Kelly Miller, was because they had the school and 
 
 
13
 
 
Finchum 
 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
they knew it was a good one. 
 
How often did the teacher rotate? Was it the same one several years in a 
row? 
 
Yes, generally. I only had like three teachers in the twenty-five years 
that I had the show. So it was very little rotation. I managed to attract 
young people who were interested in the traveling, in the circus-side of 
the atmosphere in the equation, and made it possible for them to come 
and be on the show, and paid them well enough that it was attractive to 
them. I think what attracted them more was the fact that we were so 
serious about education for our kids. Not just my kids, I’m talking about 
my employees’ kids—but in providing education for the kids that they 
reveled in that. I think they kind of enjoyed the fact that they were a part 
of something unique and unusual. I would certainly say that would be a 
huge plus on someone’s resume down the line. And the successes that 
we enjoyed were obvious. Mike Arms, who was the superintendent, he 
said, “I never have any trouble with your kids. Your kids are very 
serious about school, very good in school, and very well behaved.” That 
was a big plus for us. 
 
Well, how have the animal acts changed through the years? 
 
Oh, there has been a multitude of changes. Of course, it’s not just us, its 
changes in the entire country and the attitude and the atmosphere. 
Television has been a blessing in many, many ways, very educational, 
but it’s also very detrimental, I think, to our country and to our mindset. 
There’s not a scrap of news that you can’t hear instantly. We have 
twenty-four hour news channels. I can remember when there was no 
news and then they finally did develop news programs on CBS, NBC, 
and ABC, which were the only three networks there were. They were for 
a half hour a night so the serious things you got to hear about.  
 
Today, you hear about anything, everything instantly. It makes people 
more worried, more concerned, or in a lot of ways, calloused. You see 
graphic violence on television—in the news reports. You can see a 
robbery instantaneously. It’s on the news, what results, good or bad. 
Missing people, we’ve always had missing people, you just didn’t hear 
about it before. It wasn’t a part of your life. If it didn’t impact you or 
next door or your state or your county, you probably weren’t aware of it, 
but today you are. Today, we know about a young lady who’s missing in 
Indiana, college student, and we know every minute of the chase and the 
hunt and what happened. We’ll know everything that happened to her 
when they finally figure out what did happen to her. I don’t know that 
that’s a good thing, because not only do we see it, but our children see it. 
It impacts our lives and it impacts the lives of what we do in many cases. 
 
 
14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The animals on the circuses were always there and they were a great part 
of the circus. That was one of the things that was really attractive about 
the circus, was that they brought animals that you never got the 
opportunity to see. And even today, in the smaller towns, rural America, 
there is a huge attraction and desire for that, and I think it’s beneficial. I 
gave a tour last weekend at the elephant Endangered Ark Foundation. 
We had a hundred people, hundred very sophisticated people, retirees, 
who have three hundred thousand dollar motor homes so they are very 
successful. They had to be successful people, in a variety of walks of 
life.  
 
Then we had people from the Presbyterian Church in Dallas, you can tell 
by the way they act they are affluent people and they brought a lot of 
their children with them. The first time they’d ever been close to an 
elephant, the first time they had the opportunity to see and ask questions. 
We just had a birth at the Endangered Ark. They saw the baby elephant. 
They were very amazed to learn that the elephant weighed three hundred 
and twenty-three pounds when it was born. The parents were amazed at 
twenty-two months of gestation, the care, the knowledge that they have 
about the facility, about the elephants; it’s something you don’t get to 
learn or see, even if you go to the zoo. It’s very rare that you have the 
opportunity to learn that much about the elephants. Out here, it’s very 
much up close and personal. You get to see what they do. You get to ask 
questions, “Why do they do that? How do they do that? What happens? 
What’s the ball for? Why do they play with the tires? Why do they 
throw dirt on their backs?” All of those questions come out in the tours 
and are answered in the tours. That’s what’s changed. You used to do 
that one-on-one each day. 
 
Then the people who are negative about that, which I’m sure you’re very 
familiar with people who call themselves vegans. They don’t think we 
should have any interaction with animals. They don’t just have that 
mindset. They want everybody to have that mindset. That’s what amazes 
me about the public today, “If I believe something, I’m right. Everybody 
ought to believe it.” I find that so strange. I have no problem with them 
being vegans. I have no problem with them being animal activists. I 
have a problem with them thinking that everybody should think like they 
do. I have a huge problem, and that is starting to permeate our society to 
a great degree, and that’s not how we got here. That’s not how this 
country was formed. You think the way you want to think. You have 
every right to think it, but don’t force me to think it. That’s a danger. To 
me, that’s more what got Hitler in business than what we’re about as a 
country.  
 
Those are some of the things that have changed. We have learned a lot 
 
 
15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
 
over the years about how to train and handle animals, transport animals, 
care for animals. We’ve been part of a million studies about our animals. 
The birth of elephants in the United States was started by circus people. 
The first birth was at the Portland Zoo. A circus elephant trainer was the 
one who went there. They wanted to try it. He said he knew how. They 
went there and did it and were successful. Morgan Berry was the first 
circus trainer to go to the Portland Zoo and successfully have a live birth 
in the United States. From that, we’ve learned over the years and now 
there have been several successful births at zoos, quite a few. I can name 
the Fort Worth Zoo, the Oklahoma City Zoo, the Indianapolis Zoo, the 
San Diego Zoo, they’re having successes.  
 
We have participated in studies with Dr. Dennis Schmitt, who is 
probably the foremost expert on breeding of elephants, both African and 
Asian. He’s in demand all over the world for his expertise in that aspect. 
He’s the one that we consult with on our herd and our breeding. He 
developed sonograms for the elephants so that they can do sonograms 
and tell you which females are breedable and which are not, how the 
fetus is doing. There are all kinds of things, blood tests to tell you when 
ovulation occurs in the female. It aides a great deal in the breeding. It 
used to be just the shotgun approach. You put the females with the male 
as many times as you can and hope something happens. Well, we found 
out that that’s not the way to do it. It’s not very successful. It also can be 
detrimental to the elephants, not the male, the females because it’s a 
rough process.  
 
You have to be careful and take care of your females. There is no sense 
in putting a female in that can’t breed, number one, or is not ready to 
breed, number two. It doesn’t stop the male, but it is detrimental to the 
elephant. So that is something we’ve learned and developed. That 
knowledge has come from the fact that this family, with their millions of 
dollars invested in these elephants, is interested in finding out. They 
spend their dollars and their time to find it out, which is beneficial to the 
animal. That would not happen if it weren’t for people like the Millers 
and the Byrds. That’s often lost on our society today, especially on our 
people who are anti. They only see negatives. There are negatives. There 
are negatives in everything. I don’t care if you raise cattle or horses or 
sheep or dogs, there are a tremendous amount of negatives and you have 
to overcome those. You have to learn from them, avoid them, and 
change the way you do things. But it doesn’t mean you should stop. If 
that was our attitude about everything, we’d be in the Dark Ages still. 
 
Well, what were some must-have animals during your twenty-five years? 
You’re planning for the next year, you have to have elephants, and you 
need to have “X,” what would those be? 
 
 
 
16
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
You wanted as large a variety of animals as you could have and not be 
detrimental to the animal and not be detrimental to their health and 
welfare. You had to have elephants. I mean, it was absolutely 
mandatory. Elephants and circuses were not initially a part of the same 
sentence. You have to remember that the first elephants imported were 
imported into a permanent facility in Connecticut and then later on, to 
circuses.  
 
Circuses, primarily, relied on the horse, back in the horse and wagon 
days. As a matter of fact, there was a gentleman in Missouri, just right 
outside of Hannibal, Missouri, at a facility called The Cellar. I assume 
because it’s half underground, half above ground. He made his living 
trading horses. He traded to the military back in the cavalry days and 
traded to circuses, because there were a lot of horses around the circuses. 
My father grew up working a team. They pulled the tents into the air 
with teams. They pulled the wagons from the train to the lot with teams. 
Then that started changing.  
 
When the cavalry, United States Army, stopped using horses, it changed 
a lot of things in a lot of places. People don’t realize that, but he went 
from raising, and breeding, and selling, and trading horses to elephants. 
He had a lot of elephants at his facility, and so he began to trade with the 
circuses and buy and sell elephants. For many years, he did sell at that 
facility. I’m going back quite a ways in our history, but it became that 
the elephants pulled the wagons from the train to the lot. It became an 
attraction and they paraded. In other words, instead of just hauling the 
wagons from the lot to the train, they paraded and created a crowd, an 
enthusiasm, and a following. You have to remember that circuses didn’t 
have sponsors back then. They would just come into town, rent the lot, 
or the grounds, and start setting up and sell tickets that day. There were 
no advanced sales. They did have free passes and things that they gave 
away, trade for press, or for arrangements for grain or water or whatever 
they needed at the commissary, or whatever they needed for that day, 
but there were no advanced sales.  
 
They had to create an interest. Well, they did so with the parade. Instead 
of just pulling the wagons to the lot, they paraded and brought the 
elephants, brought the horses, brought the wagons, performers, and the 
band would play, start up the excitement. They’d usually do that around 
ten o’clock. The parade was at ten o’clock. Of course, there were already 
many wagons taken to the lot before ten o’clock because the setup had 
already started, but they took the majority of everything from the train at 
around ten o’clock. It created an interest—what became termed in the 
business as “the ten o’clock call,” because at ten o’clock, on the 
grounds, they would open the concessions. They would open the 
sideshows. They would open the snake show or the exhibits. Not the 
 
 
17
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Rawls 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Rawls 
 
Finchum 
 
Rawls 
 
Finchum 
 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
circus itself, but all that was open and people could see things and do 
things on the grounds, buy their tickets. Then they would come back for 
the performances. You have to remember the Ringling Show, in its 
heyday under the big top, they could seat fourteen thousand people. 
 
For one show? 
 
One show. They had two thousand employees. They moved every day. 
They moved it every day. 
 
You’d have to be very organized and… 
 
Oh, yes. As a matter of fact, there is a book called The Game of the 
Foxes. It was written about pre-war, World War II Germany and the 
spying and the intelligence. It gives you a clue at how soon Hitler knew 
he was going to go to war, because he was preparing in the early- to 
mid-’30s for the war. He actually sent German spies over here to follow 
the Ringling Show, because he wanted to figure out how to move an 
army as efficiently as they moved that circus. They spied on the 
Ringling Show, found out how they loaded the trains, and how they fed 
the people, and how they moved the people, and housed the people on 
the trains. That’s in a book called The Game of the Foxes. I’d stumbled 
on it. I’m a history buff and was reading the book and I was shocked. 
There was this story in the ’30s of Hitler sending spies over here to 
follow the Ringling Show. 
 
You said you had seventy employees? 
 
I had seventy on the circus. 
 
Performers or total? 
 
Total, on the circus. The most employees I ever had was ninety. 
 
The ones that actually set up the lot? The ones that were not performing, 
where would you find those people? 
 
Initially, I started hiring local help. As things digressed in this country, 
drugs—it was not an element I wanted in my circus. I was very 
disgusted, disappointed in the quality of help, because I wouldn’t 
tolerate drugs. I just abhor drugs. I didn’t want them around my circus. 
Alcohol, you can’t keep people away from alcohol. It’s a legal thing, but 
I didn’t want it around my circus either. So I was very strict about that. I 
had a hard time with my help, because people who’d been into drugs or 
in that culture just did not think the same way I did.  
 
 
 
18
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
So I was very disgusted until I sought out help from Mexico. I learned 
how to apply for visas, and I applied for visas for what they called an 
H2B, which is temporary help. They could come for a period less than a 
year. They had to go home. So I solicited help and I had Mexican people 
I knew. I went to Mexico, and I hired all my people from a town called 
Pueblo, which is where the University of the Americas is. I’ve been 
there many times. I would go and interview and visit in the wintertime. 
It became very, very easy. They knew that I would hire. They knew that 
my people came, spent a season. I flew them home, paid them well, paid 
them bonuses at the end of the year, so it was no problem getting help 
the next year. I had most of my people return. They would come back 
year after year, as long as I could get the visas.  
 
That’s one thing that became difficult is the visas, extremely difficult. It 
seems like they made it more and more difficult, as the years went by, to 
obtain visas for these folks. But they were all background checked, they 
were all good people. I paid them, and fed them, and took care of them, 
and then sent them home, and then they returned the next season. I 
couldn’t find people in the United States that wanted to do what we did. 
I developed a relationship with Pueblo, Mexico, a little town called 
Cholula is where I always went and stayed, which is right outside a 
suburb of Pueblo. 
 
Did you learn to speak the language? 
 
Yes, I did learn to speak the language. I felt it was imperative that I had 
to speak the language. I think we, as Americans, are extremely lazy to 
go to foreign countries and not try to speak their language. Not everyone 
is successful, not everyone has the same ability to learn languages. It’s 
different from person to person, but if I’m going to have people who 
work for me—now, they want to learn English. And they all did. They 
learned English very, very well. They adapted very well. Of course, they 
were immersed in it. You have to remember, they come from Mexico. 
They come up here where almost everybody speaks English so they had 
to learn just to go to the store or buy groceries, or do whatever they 
wanted to do. They had to learn how to speak English. But I thought it 
was imperative that I learn how to speak Spanish so I worked very hard 
at it. 
 
About how many each year would you bring over? 
 
I usually brought around twenty-four, twenty-five. It would vary 
depending on the needs, but I would usually bring twenty-four, twenty-
five up on visas. They would work for the season and then go home. The 
rest of my employees were all from the United States. 
 
 
 
19
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
What were some of their job duties? 
 
Oh, they varied. Big top hand, they would work in the animal 
department as a groom. Some worked in the commissary. I would 
interview and find out what their skills were. I had mechanics, people 
who could fix trucks or work in the mechanics department, people who 
worked in the electrical department. I let them gravitate towards what 
they wanted to gravitate towards, within reason. I mean, you only need 
so many electricians. The circus is like a little town. You need a utility 
department, a water department, an electrical department. You’ve got 
cleanup with your trash every day, cleanup the trash, someone has to 
clean the bathrooms every day, the commissary has to operate, you have 
to serve food to all these people on a regular basis. There was plenty of 
work. 
 
Well, as you moved from town to town, would you get supplies along the 
way? 
 
Oh, absolutely. There were many things that we certainly couldn’t carry. 
I had to buy hay and grain for the animals on an almost daily basis. We 
could haul a certain amount, probably a week’s worth, at the most. We 
would resupply twice a week, make sure we never ran out or got close. 
Then food for the commissary; five days a week we would shop for the 
commissary. You didn’t try to shop on weekends because it was too 
demanding, but we could stock up for the weekend. We always had, in 
the commissary, emergency meals, in case something happened, 
something broke down, you always had a meal or two set aside. But we 
would shop on a daily basis for food.  
 
We had to buy fuel on a daily basis. There were a plethora of other 
things. Of course, everybody shopped. I paid on Sunday so Monday was 
a big day in the town we were in, because all of the performers would go 
to town. They would probably buy toys or clothes or gifts or hardware or 
whatever they needed. They did that on a regular basis, same thing with 
the working guys. They would all go to town, hit the stores, and 
resupply or get ready for the next week, or buy something that they had 
their eye on and saved their money for, and that took place quite often. 
We spent money in every town we went to. 
 
You’d have to plan ahead too, to know that there is food to get for the 
animals, from the town? 
 
Yes, and we had the home office, of course. If I had an extraordinary 
need I could call the home office and say, “See if you can arrange for 
hay and such and such.” But we also had an advance man, twenty-four 
hour man. He would be in town a day ahead of us. When I arrived and 
 
 
20
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Rawls 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
we got everything organized for the new day in the new town, he would 
leave and go to the next town. I would tell him if I needed fuel. I would 
tell him if I needed hay or grain. Of course, the commissary, they took 
care of themselves. He didn’t have to arrange that, but yes, any of those 
needs were taken care of. Logistically—a lot of logistics to the circus. 
 
Yes. 
 
A lot of logistics. It’s a lot of businesses rolled into one. You’re in the 
trucking industry. You have to keep your trucks up and running, and not 
only up and running, but you have to comply with all the laws of each 
state that you travel through. You have to be tagged, pay your highway 
use tax, your fuel tax in all those states, your drivers all have to be 
certified. So you have to have a method for doing that, like a trucking 
company even though we were not. Our average season was ten to 
twelve thousand miles, but a lot of people think we were in the trucks all 
the time. I guess it was forty-eight miles a day, an hour a day. But you 
had to have good drivers, and you had to have all the correct paperwork. 
They all had to have health cards so you had to have a doctor give them 
a physical, and you had to have a certified health card in their file.  
 
You had to have a logistical system for maintaining your equipment. 
You had to have a log book for your travels. When a state trooper 
stopped one of our trucks, we had a book in there that he could open up 
and see when was the last time we changed the oil, checked the brakes, 
if we had any problems with the truck, reported or unreported. He did an 
inspection of the truck to make sure it was up to snuff and in 
compliance. So you’re in the trucking industry. In addition, you’re in the 
circus business. Your building inspector comes out and he wants to 
check your tent for design and wind load and…  
 
How often would that happen? 
 
Oh, you were subject to it every day, every day. 
 
The fire marshal? 
 
The fire marshal comes out and wants to make sure you have correct fire 
lanes and exits for the public so they can get in and out of the tent, wants 
to make sure that you’re not going to set the world on fire when you put 
your big top up. You have the health department come out on a regular 
basis and check your concession stands and make sure you are in 
compliance with all the state health codes and health laws. 
 
OSHA [Occupational Safety and Health Administration], ever? 
 
 
 
21
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oh, yes, OSHA. We’ve dealt with OSHA. Although, usually, you deal 
with OSHA when you begin to have a lot of problems. Department of 
Labor, OSHA is going to come out and check you out if you have 
injured workers or injured public. That was very, very rare, but you had 
to comply with OSHA standards, and you were subject to an inspection 
by OSHA anytime. We had hardhats. We had earplugs. There were a 
multitude of things that we had to provide, according to OSHA 
standards, for our employees. We had to see to it that they weren’t 
injured or working too long, a lot of things. There were no different rules 
for us than there were for anybody else. 
 
You had to have insurance, various kinds? 
 
Absolutely. We had to have insurance on our trucks to be able to 
operate. You couldn’t drive a mile without it. Liability insurance to 
protect our sponsors and our show grounds. Insurance was a huge part, a 
huge expense, with the circus. It’s something that was absolutely 
mandatory. 
 
Does someone in the home office take care of that or would you, as the 
owner? 
 
I usually took care of insurance. I would negotiate the policy. Of course, 
it’s what they call ‘specialty insurance’ so there are very few people that 
you deal with. Your average insurance agency on the street doesn’t deal 
with that kind of insurance, but there are specialty companies around the 
country. They became familiar with us, and we became familiar with 
them. We would try to negotiate the best deal we possibly could. A lot 
of it was determined by your records, the same as your driving record if 
you want automobile insurance, it impacts your cost. It’s the same thing 
with a circus. If our record was bad, we were going to pay through the 
nose for insurance, but if our record was good, we were going to be 
sought after. We would be able to negotiate a little fairer price than 
someone who didn’t have a good record. 
 
And then health insurance for the employees? 
 
I delved into that—several issues, some of the laws. When I first started 
providing health insurance for my employees, they passed the law that if 
you provided for one you had to provide for all. So I couldn’t pick and 
choose my staff. See, I had people that really weren’t interested in it 
because they were only under a season contract, but I had staff who were 
there year after year and I wanted to provide it for them. I was informed 
I couldn’t do that, it’s illegal. So I turned it around and did it another 
way. I just paid them what my portion of the insurance would be into 
their salaries and then they got their own insurance. I got around it that 
 
 
22
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
 
Rawls 
 
Finchum 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
way, but it was something I wanted to provide. If I could afford it and 
provide it, I wanted too because it helped me attract staff.  
 
Let’s talk a little bit more about logistics. Now there are three circuses 
in town. 
 
Yes. 
 
Do you all get together and decide who’s going which way and when? 
 
Absolutely not. You don’t do that! (Laughter) No, Mr. Miller and I 
always had a game. Once I had Kelly Miller and I took it out, we would 
never talk about where we were going or when we were opening. We 
played a little game, and so we would set our opening day and where we 
were going to open. After it was written in stone, and printed, and 
contracts were signed, then we became aware of it. So it was kind of a 
little game we played with each other. I knew where he was going to go, 
and I knew where I wanted to go. And he knew that too. He didn’t want 
to be where I wanted to be. I wanted to be in Small Town, U.S.A., Small 
Town, America. However, I wanted to show that I could also play 
Chicago or Washington D.C., the suburbs around Maryland, Kansas 
City, and St. Louis. I could do that. I didn’t enjoy doing that. I did it and 
had great success and great business.  
 
We played Chicago for twenty-one days in the fall of the year, every 
year. I developed twenty-one days of route in Chicago in the suburbs. I 
did it very successfully. It was very lucrative and financially beneficial 
for the show. However, I didn’t enjoy it. It was something I did because 
it was business and you had to do it. But I enjoyed playing in Small 
Town, America. I enjoyed playing in the towns where they are glad to 
have you, you’re a great diversion from everyday life, and it was fun to 
be there. That was the thing I liked, to go to the little towns in upstate 
New York and upstate Michigan and play towns that were smaller. 
People were more friendly and open and tickled to see you. You had a 
good time and you got to know them.  
 
City people are much, much different. Not bad, their lives are so busy 
and they just don’t even think the same way as rural people. I like to call 
it the “growing up on concrete” aspect. If you grow up in the city, you 
tend to always be on concrete, everything you want is around you, all the 
entertainment you want is around you, you just pick and choose and do 
whatever your heart desires. Rural people tend to be much easier to visit 
with, talk to, and entertain. They are used to entertaining themselves. 
They don’t have all the entertainment. It’s a big trip to go to the city to 
see a basketball game or a football game. But if you grow up in Norman, 
Oklahoma, or Stillwater, you can see them anytime you want. It’s a 
 
 
23
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
whole different ballgame so I had much more of an affinity with rural 
people in Small Town, America. So that’s where I liked to be. His [Mr. 
Miller’s] show was larger and had to be in bigger towns anyway. 
 
So you didn’t cross paths too many times when you were out doing your 
shows? 
 
No, we did cross paths and all shows are going to. They are what we call 
crossroad states. Ohio is a crossroad state. If you’re going to go to the 
east and come back to the west or vice versa, you’re going to cross Ohio 
if you’re in the north, in the summertime. You’re not going to dip all the 
way down into Kentucky and Tennessee and go around to get to 
Maryland or get to Pennsylvania, you’re going to go across. That’s a 
crossroad state. Indiana is a crossroad state. You’re going to cross paths 
with other shows, but it tends to be quick. Usually, you’re going in 
opposite directions. So you might be close to one another for a day, but 
that’s it. And that’s part of the business. That happens not only with 
shows out of Hugo, but it happens with shows all over the country.  
 
I did not go west at all in the twenty-five years I had the circus. I have 
no desire to be in California. I never found California attractive. I was 
stationed there. I served time in the military there. You’ve got a little 
strip of land along the ocean and then you’ve got the desert. (Laughs) 
The only part of California that is really beautiful and attractive is 
Northern California. And it is beautiful. You get up in the High Sierras 
and the beautiful forest, north of Sacramento, that is a beautiful part of 
the country, but it’s very unpopulated. There are not a whole lot of 
people that live up there. The majority of your people in California are 
in deserts, high desert, low desert, they’re in the desert, and it’s not my 
favorite place to play with a tent. The wind, the dust, the rules, the 
regulations, the traffic, the fact that you have to cross the mountains and 
the desert to get there, cross the mountains and the desert to get back, I 
never took my show west. I’ve toured in the west, I’ve toured California 
with other shows, but I never took my show west. I’m more of a 
northeast, central to northern United States, and east. 
 
Tennessee? 
 
Oh, yes. I played Tennessee, played Kentucky, played Ohio, played 
Maryland, New Hampshire, upstate New York. I did not like the far east 
coast, Massachusetts. Maine is a bad. Maine is a great state. I love 
Maine. It’s beautiful, I like the people, but there is one way in and one 
way out. Maine has one main highway that goes up through it and so 
you’ve got to go over it and backtrack over it. If any other show goes, 
you’re tripping over used territory. There’s not a plethora of places to 
play in Maine so logistically it didn’t make sense for me. 
 
 
24
 
Finchum 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
You have to be a geographer. 
 
You have to know a little bit about geography, and you have to know a 
little bit about the right time to be at the right places. You asked me 
earlier about Midwest shows in the early days. At an early age, I said, 
“Why do we do what we do? We go south real quick into Texas, and 
then we turn around and we just go like crazy back all the way to the 
Canadian border.” It didn’t dawn on me that there was a method to this 
madness. We would open up in the spring of the year and go south into 
Texas, and you’d follow the wheat harvest. The wheat harvest would 
start down here and gravitate north all the way to the Canadian border. 
After that, it was time for the corn harvest, and so you would turn 
around and follow the corn harvest back. When you got down to this 
part of the country, you had the cotton crop or if you went to Louisiana, 
you had cane season, where they cut cane.  
 
The reason for the shows following the crops is because that’s when 
people had money in their pocket. That’s when they had the ability to go 
to a circus or have a good time. So that was how the routes developed. 
Things changed dramatically as farming and agriculture changed. They 
don’t tassel corn anymore. They have machines that do it and no longer 
are a lot of people employed. They don’t pick cotton anywhere anymore. 
There are no cotton gins and that’s where the circus used to play, 
actually, on the gin lot because usually, cotton is grown in black dirt 
country, and so in the wet season it’s pretty muddy. They always had a 
gin lot that had been filled with gravel or shale and you could put the 
wagons, haul their cotton wagons down to the gin lot, waiting to be 
ginned. It made a great place for the circus to show, because it was a 
large lot and it would accommodate all the trucks and the tents and 
everything. And it wouldn’t be muddy. So I played on a lot of gin lots 
when I was a kid, but they don’t even exist anymore. You can’t find a 
gin lot. You can’t find a cotton gin anymore. (Laughs)  
 
That was part of the thing I learned about the routing, is that there’s a 
reason for being where you want to be. Just like Michigan, upstate 
Michigan, you don’t want to get there too early. You have to wait until 
tourist season, because all those towns are waiting for the same thing 
you are, the tourists to come. When the tourists come, they’ve got 
dollars in their pockets. They have the opportunity—not only they, but 
the tourists themselves—are looking for something to do when they tend 
to be on vacation and acting as tourists, they are looking for things to do. 
The circus is a great entertainment for them and it’s available, but it also 
is accommodating for the people who live in the communities. 
Traditionally, in upstate Michigan, they hire high school kids, college 
kids for the summer to work in a multitude of venues.  
 
 
25
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I don’t know if you’re familiar with Traverse City, Michigan, or not but 
there is an influx of people, fifty thousand people a week travel in and 
out of Traverse City. Gorgeous beaches, amusement parks, the cherry 
festival, golf, great golf courses. It’s geared for entertainment of the 
tourists, and there are fifty thousand migrant tourists every week that 
rotate in and out of Traverse City during the summer. 
 
Just keep the circus there, then. 
 
And believe me, I’ve thought about that. If it was something that I 
wanted to do, but believe me, there are fourteen different putt-putt golf 
courses in Traverse City, Michigan, at least. It’s a perfect place for a 
summer entertainment venue, where you are there all summer. Utilize 
college kids or high school kids for your band, for your entertainers, for 
your ticket takers, for your ticket sellers, and it would work. It’s 
something I studied quite a bit. I even looked into buying land or leasing 
land to put up a summer circus. It would have to be a combination. It 
would have to be fast-paced and entertaining, and you might combine it 
with something like putt-putt golf with an animal park-type atmosphere.  
 
That’s something that I’ve thought about a great deal. I just didn’t think 
about it until I didn’t have enough energy to do it anymore, but it would 
be something that, I think, would work. It would be a great 
entertainment venue, because when I went to the airport and looked at 
the flights, the number of flights—they come in from Detroit, Chicago, a 
multitude of other places, but a lot of flights from Detroit, Chicago. I got 
with the demographics and the Chamber of Commerce and I found out 
that fifty thousand people turn over in that town during the summer 
every week. Well, that is plenty of people to try to attract a portion of 
them to your venue. 
 
Sure. 
 
Well, what was the perfect sized lot for Kelly Miller? What were you 
looking for? 
 
Oh, we wanted three hundred feet by three hundred feet. I had to have 
three hundred feet square. I didn’t have to have it, but that was ideal and 
that was just for the show, not including parking. Quite often, we had 
lots larger than that. Many, many times we had lots smaller than that, 
and then you had to be a bit of a magician to get the show on the lot. But 
you had to have enough room for your tent, which is a hundred and 
twenty feet round. I had to have a hundred and twenty feet each way. 
Then you would like to have twenty feet for the fire lane for your fire 
marshal, and then you have to have enough room to park your 
 
 
26
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
equipment. You had to park your equipment, many times, in a certain 
way. You had to have your concession stand near the entrance so that it 
wasn’t [hard to find]. 
 
As an owner during the season, you’re on the road. What is a typical 
day like when you arrive on the lot? 
 
Well, I can give you a typical day. My day started, I usually got up at 
five o’clock A.M. I’d put some coffee on, I got ready, and then went out 
and I’d start waking people up, making sure everybody was ready to go. 
Now, my routine was to leave early. However, I didn’t leave early 
before anybody else was up and around. I wanted to make sure my staff, 
my key employees, were up and going and doing the things they wanted. 
Then I would get in my rig and go to the next town. I would arrive on 
the grounds and immediately visit with the twenty-four hour man, who 
was there ahead of me. He would tell me where he had the big top 
spotted, why he had it that way. There were a lot of things that went into 
it.  
 
I would, first of all, look at the logistics for the next town the day before. 
I would go through my file, who was my sponsor, what was the lot, how 
was the ticket sales—a variety of things—what was the water source, 
what was the trash and manure source, things like that. I’d also look at 
the weather. I wanted to know what the weather was going to be. What it 
was going to do or what it could do that day. It might change the way I 
laid the lot out, where I put the tent, where I put my trucks. So all that 
went into consideration when you got there. If everything was normal 
and you had the lot in a decent place and it was a good access and aimed 
the right way so the public didn’t get confused on how to approach the 
circus and how to get in and buy their tickets and all that, then I would 
park my rig and again, have another cup of coffee, probably my second 
of thirty that day, and begin to park the trucks as they came in, because 
they would start arriving probably fifteen-twenty-thirty minutes after I 
arrived. That transition took place.  
 
We were all usually all on the grounds by oh, seven-thirty. Everybody 
had a place they would park, and I would park the trucks in the place 
that they went. He [twenty-four hour man] would handle the performers 
and the house trailers and I would handle the trucks. We’d get 
everything located where it went, and then the people would come out of 
the trucks and go to work. When the animals arrived, you immediately 
put up the awning, you put up the fencing, you unloaded the animals, 
and you started cleaning the animals’ area up and feeding, watering, and 
things like that. It all had to be done.  
 
The public usually would come out around nine o’clock. Almost every 
 
 
27
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
day, people came out to watch the show go up, and we had a tour that 
we gave. We told them about the animals, we took them into the tent and 
they watched as the tent went through the air. If they had questions we 
would answer them. We told them about what the show times were and 
how much the tickets were and whatever their questions were. That 
usually went on, and by eleven o’clock we were usually done, ready to 
go. It was during that time that if we had a mechanical problem or we 
needed filters or needed a new tire or needed a drum of oil, or whatever 
the case may be, we would take care of those logistics during that time 
frame. Some of them would go off and do the commissary buying. We 
had a buyer, an assigned buyer. They would get a list from the cook and 
the cook would tell them what they needed for the next day’s meals, and 
off to the grocery store they went to buy the food.  
 
If I had a fuel truck coming that day, I would make sure we had enough 
cash in the office to pay for the fuel, usually around three thousand 
dollars that we had to have in cash to pay the fuel man. Someone was 
assigned to go around with the fuel man, in the mechanics department, 
and make sure every truck had fuel with the proper fuel and that the 
generators were fueled and ready to go. At nine o’clock in the morning 
the generators started, and that’s when the personnel who ran the office 
and worked in the office and dealt with the sponsors and sold the tickets, 
they’d go to the office. Their computers would now work, and their 
lighting would now work, and their calculators would now work, and so 
they would begin their day. Concession stand was getting cleaned, 
would get cleaned from the day before and ready for that day’s 
operation. The concession manager would see to it that he had the stock 
that he needed for the day. We bought ice, sugar, apples, and hot dogs 
on a daily basis so all that was taken care of during that time frame.  
 
At eleven o’clock the cookhouse would serve lunch. I skipped a little 
part. At five o’clock in the morning, when I get up, the commissary has 
already got coffee and rolls and things on. So as everybody gets up, they 
go to the commissary and get a cup of coffee and something to eat in 
preparation for the day. Then at noon, they served another meal in the 
commissary. Then starting at the intermission of the first show, they 
started serving supper. They served that until after the show was over, 
well after the show was over so that everybody had an opportunity to eat 
dinner. Then they would close up, clean up, and tear down the 
commissary in preparation for the move to the next town.  
 
At two-thirty we started preparing for the performance. We had a three-
thirty midway call. Typically, our shows were at four-thirty during the 
week. Three-thirty is midway call, everybody has to be in place and 
ready at three-thirty. If you worked on the midway, if you did elephant 
rides or worked in the concession department or took tickets, you had to 
 
 
28
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
be ready to go at three-thirty and in uniform. The ushers had to be in 
uniforms, and animal grooms had to be in uniform. So everything had to 
be ready to go at three-thirty. You started preparing for that at two-
thirty. The elephants get a bath, horses are brushed, and everything is 
cleaned up, spiffed up and made ready to go. I typically would do a 
walk-through at three-thirty. I walked down the midway to make sure 
everybody was where they were supposed to be, which was an 
automatic. They knew me very well. They knew I’d be there so I really 
didn’t have to do anything, it was just a walk.  
 
I would also go into the big top to check and make sure that there were 
no obstructions, everything was where it was supposed to be, and the 
public could enter the big top and walk to their seating area in a good, 
safe manner, no side wall was left hanging up or down, all the lighting 
was like it was supposed to be, all the backdoor curtains were drawn so 
it looked like we were ready for a show when the public walked in. You 
didn’t want it to look like half-done. It had to be ready to go. Then the 
people would come. They’d buy their tickets. They’d ride the elephants 
and do whatever. Then they would gravitate into the big top.  
 
At four-thirty, the performance would begin. The performance went on 
for an hour and forty-five minutes, and then that show was over and 
those people would leave. Then they would ride the elephants or the 
pony ride or whatever, buy cotton candy or a souvenir, and then they 
would leave and get in their cars. Then at six-thirty, the crowd started 
coming for the next show, and you would do the second performance. 
On a normal day, when everything is going right, the second 
performance would be over and when that was over we would start the 
teardown and dismantling the entire operation. That took about an hour 
and ten minutes.  
 
At the end, I would walk around and make sure the animals were like 
they were supposed to be and the tent was put away and all the stakes 
were picked up. I had good bosses, good staff, that took care of 
everything. Then I would go to my trailer and try to relax. I never was 
able to just lie down and go to sleep. I’d watch a movie or have a 
cocktail or whatever. Then I’d go to bed, and then the next morning start 
again. 
 
Would you have a role during the performance or what were you doing? 
 
Typically, I did not. I had people who did those things. There is not 
much I hadn’t done or couldn’t do. At times on my circus I worked the 
elephants, I worked the horses, I did the announcing. I even performed 
my western act, brought it out of moth balls and performed my western 
act when I had a performer who was injured, had a broken ankle and was 
 
 
29
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
out of the performance for a while. Typically, I did not do that. 
Typically, I was just there. When everything was running just right it 
was very, very boring for me because I had great staff, great bosses, and 
they took care of what they were supposed to take care of. There wasn’t 
anything that much for me to do.  
 
It was only when things went out of the norm that I became involved 
and entwined in the activity, and I was very entwined. People would tell 
you I was very hands-on. If we had a storm or if we had a muddy lot or 
if we had tough inspectors that gave us a problem of some kind, I was 
very involved. But when everything was normal and typical, which were 
the majority of the days on Kelly Miller Circus, it was a very boring—
from the outside looking in—a very boring operation. My part was not 
that tough at all because like I say, I had good staff and everything 
moved like a clock. It was very good. It’s what I worked towards and 
worked hard to achieve. Once I achieved it, there wasn’t that much to 
do. People knew what to do. My staff, my bosses, even the employees, 
they knew what to do. They knew what we demanded and what our role 
was, and they certainly knew what I expected of them for the public, for 
our patrons. They were key. 
 
What was the most important job? What do you see as the most 
important job? 
 
Oh, gosh! I used to give a speech every spring on my circus. I did it for 
twenty-five years. “There is no one here more important than the other. 
There are no stars in the Kelly Miller Circus. We are all stars. You might 
think of your position as being the lowest on the ladder, I have no such 
fantasy. Everybody is important. Every job is important. We are all here 
to do one job and we must do it well. So we have to work together to do 
that.” I said, “If you ever begin to think you’re better than someone else, 
you’re in trouble in my mind, because I just absolutely will not tolerate 
that kind of an attitude.” One thing there used to be, years ago, they used 
to have in the commissary different tables for staff, performers, working 
men. They had different tables that they ate at. 
 
They didn’t mingle. 
 
They didn’t mingle. They didn’t separate. I eliminated that the first year 
I had my show, and it became a question because people were used to it 
in the industry. I said, “No, you sit wherever you like to sit. Working 
men can sit with performers or staff. You sit next to who you want to. 
There’s no assigned tables, no assigned place to eat.” It’s just not 
something that I condone, and it worked. I mean, it worked very, very 
well. People appreciated that. People are people. I don’t care whether 
you clean the bathrooms or you’re a groom with the elephants or you’re 
 
 
30
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the best trapeze performer in the country. They appreciate it. They 
appreciate the fact that people are people. They all have problems. They 
all have issues. They all have little nagging issues outside of their daily 
work, and you have to be cognizant and aware of that.  
 
You don’t have to get involved in their business, but you certainly have 
to be smart enough to know that their focus is not 100 percent, three 
hundred and sixty five days a year of their job. They also have other 
issues, “Is my truck working? Do I have water today? Is my air 
conditioner out? Are my kids acting up? Do I have a sick child? Is my 
wife sick? Are my wife and I fighting?” Those are all issues that 
everybody deals with in their personal lives and you have to, as a boss 
and someone who looks after the entire show, you have to be well aware 
of that. You have to make allowances for it and make room for it and 
make tolerance for it. Now, we still have to do our jobs.  
 
Quite often, I was father confessor and people would come and tell me 
their troubles, and I would have to deal with issues that I really didn’t 
want to deal with, but it was part of my job, too. It’s important to them 
so it’s important to me. So you would try to resolve the issues if you 
could without inserting yourself into peoples’ personal lives. 
 
When your season’s over, you’re coming home to winter quarters, what 
activities now, from an owners perspective, are happening in the off 
season? 
 
Well, I’m in hyper mode. Now you go into a little depression—
personally, this is just me. Not depression that everybody else knew 
about, but you’ve used up another season so now you have to begin from 
scratch to redo your route. Typically, it’s already started. Usually, we 
started booking the next season at least by September 1. So you already 
know where you are going for the year, but logistically you have to, 
“Okay, what equipment needs to be refurbished? What equipment needs 
to be replaced? Do I need a new tent? Am I losing people, serious staff 
that I’m going to have to replace? How soon do I need to start? The 
elephant truck needs a new floor and a paint job. We are going to have 
to redo the inside of the interior of the elephant truck.” So that’s on your 
mind. You schedule that. “How much time is it going to take to redo the 
truck? It’ll tie up the barn for so many days.”  
 
Mechanically, you go through. There’s a routine on the mechanics. You 
check all the brakes, you change oil, and check the lighting on every 
truck. Your signal lights and all of that have to be working so it goes 
through the mechanic shop. Every vehicle goes through the mechanic 
shop, and you double check brakes and if you need to replace brake 
shoes and brake drums and all of that.  
 
 
31
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
And you start to think about, “Okay, we came in with this X amount of 
dollars, and so how much am I going to spend on getting ready for the 
next season?” So you allocate a budget for your winter quarters, and you 
allocate a budget for refurbishing, and if you’re going to buy any new 
equipment for a new tent or a new truck or a new generator, all of that 
goes into that budget and planning. In addition, you have to take care of 
the staff that remains in the wintertime. And your office staff is year-
around. We shut down for two weeks, and everybody takes their 
vacations between Christmas and New Year’s. I mean December 15 and 
January 1, that’s when everybody takes their vacations and we totally 
shut down, but other than that, we’re operating in the wintertime.  
 
It becomes a labor. You don’t get what feeds you. There’s no public, 
there’s no shows, there’s no dollars. So the things that can energize you 
and keep you going, you have to push yourself through the winter, but 
you’re looking forward to the next spring and getting out in the next 
season and your hopes and aspirations for a good year, a healthy year. 
Success to me was not just dollars. You have to make enough money to 
keep the show going, keep it looking good, and keep it operating, 
absolutely. That’s business. But a successful year to me was a year that 
you had enough dollars to go to the next year, everybody was safe, 
everybody got through the year, the public was entertained, we made all 
our performances, all of our animals were okay and healthy. That was a 
successful year. That was the uppermost in my mind. 
 
Were most of yours successful, then?  
 
This may sound like I’m patting myself, but I have twenty-five winning 
seasons, very blessed, very blessed. The Good Lord smiles on fools and 
Irishmen, and I’m covered in both categories. (Laughs) 
 
What made you decide to get out of the business—that part of the 
business? 
 
You want me to be absolutely candid? Government. It seemed like every 
year, every season, there was a new rule, a new regulation that was 
aimed at putting us out of business, and it hasn’t gotten any better. It’s 
one of the things we’re learning as a country right now. We are in 
serious trouble as a country. We’re some fifteen trillion dollars in debt, 
and I don’t know how many millions of people are unemployed. We’re 
in trouble and yet we continue to grow our federal government, our state 
government, bureaucrats think of ways to tax or permit or fee every 
activity. I was in a town in Idaho, just the other day, I pulled up their 
permits. They have one, you have to have a permit to go out of business 
in a town in Idaho. Now, that’s the nth degree to me. And that’s what’s 
 
 
32
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
happening in this country.  
 
The immigration problem, if you look at it from the perspective of 
reality, there are sixty-six thousand H2B visas issued for Mexico every 
year. They’re gone. They open the process twice a year, two six-month 
periods, July 1, January 1. They close by January the 3rd, it got down to. 
Three days after they opened, it was closed. They had far more than 
thirty-three thousand applications, so they would close the process. You 
couldn’t put a permit application in for a visa. Then July, the same thing, 
another thirty-three thousand were issued. By July 3rd or 4th, it was gone. 
You couldn’t put another application in. There is no problem with 
bringing people into this country who want to work. I have nothing 
against that.  
 
Believe me, Mexican people are great people. I’m totally impressed by 
their work ethic. The old wives’ tale that they are lazy is so far from true 
it’s unbelievable. They work in all states in this country, Mexican 
people. They take the jobs that most people wouldn’t take. They hang 
dry wall, they lay brick, they do work on road crews, and they mow 
yards. They do jobs no one else would really want. They do them 
enthusiastically, they do them well, they save their money. They don’t 
give you any trouble, for the most part.  
 
The issue is the government. If the government would give you three 
hundred thousand H2B visas you’d have a lot less illegals, because once 
those are gone, people are still going to come to try to work, to survive, 
to live. Issue more visas. With visas you have control, they pay taxes, 
they get a social security card, they’re part of our fabric of our society, 
they contribute, and they also go home. H2B requires that they return to 
their country of origin within a year so they go back to Mexico. If they 
knew that they had an opportunity to come back in, they’d go back 
because they’d like to see their family, they’d like to see their homes, 
their moms or dads or children or wives, whatever the case may be. It’s 
not as complicated as our politicians make it out to be. You wouldn’t 
have all the illegals in this country if you had a system that allowed for 
them to come in.  
 
I understand that you have to ensure that you are not taking jobs away 
from Americans, but after years of advertising and being in this industry 
and advertising for local help to travel with the circus, we never could 
supply our help needs. People didn’t want to do what we did. However, 
the Mexicans were the answer for us. They readily did what we wanted 
to do, they did it well, they returned home, and believe me, it was a 
blessing on both sides. They were glad to have the work, and we were 
glad to have them. They didn’t do drugs, they didn’t get drunk, they did 
their job, they were there all the time, and they had a work ethic. The 
 
 
33
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
people that would answer the ads for us were drunks or drug addicts or 
problems, and we didn’t want that in our industry. So it became an issue. 
 
If you go to most departments of transportation across the country you’ll 
find a lot of Mexican crews that are contracted workers. The reason? 
They’re there, they’ll do the work, even though it’s hard—hot, hard, and 
they’re there, they do the work. They pay them the same so there, it’s 
not an issue that way. I think there is a happy medium there where you 
can say, “Okay, we are going to open this up and have more temporary 
work visas,” because those people do. With a visa, I had to get a social 
security card, I paid taxes on all the employees, they contributed social 
security even though they don’t draw it. It’s another helpful answer to 
our problems. You have to look at it realistically, from the perspective of 
the people involved. It can’t be a “one size fits all.” 
 
I have the same philosophy about education. We were successful with 
our educational program on Kelly Miller, because it fit my people. When 
you try to make rules out of Washington D.C. of the education of our 
children who live all across this country in different atmospheres, grow 
up differently, you’re making a huge mistake. Kids who grow up in 
Oklahoma are different than kids who grow up in San Francisco. I think 
the education needs to remain at the local level, as local as you can get it 
so that you can accommodate the needs of your children. We may need 
more technical education in rural America and gear ourselves a lot less 
towards college, because I don’t care what you do, you need people. 
You need electricians, you need plumbers, you need ditch diggers, you 
need people who can work on road crews and operate heavy equipment, 
and those are technical skills. They’re not taught in college. I don’t 
know too many college people that can drive a pay loader (laughs) or do 
electric wiring or do plumbing. In a lot of ways they think it’s beneath 
them. But, we need technical skills in this country.  
 
We need to adapt ourselves in our educational process to the people 
instead of having an educator deem what is necessary for all of us from 
Washington D.C. We need to go to the local level and say, “What is 
necessary here? What do you need? What do we need to be able to keep 
our kids in Hugo and provide jobs for the future, so they can make a 
living, grow up here, and stay here instead of having to go away?” 
That’s not in the equation today, but it needs to be. 
 
And certainly, technical education has been the stepchild in our country. 
I’ve read about Russia, I’ve read about Eastern Europe, they separate 
them at an early age. If you have the aptitude and the desire to go on to 
college, you go one way in about junior high, over there. If you’re more 
on the technical side of things you go a different way. The educational 
process starts dividing when they’re young teens, and so they learn skills 
 
 
34
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Rawls 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Rawls 
 
 
that they want to learn and pursue careers that they want to pursue. The 
educational system is designed to accommodate that, and I think it’s 
very wise. I think we have to stop saying, “You’re not worth anything if 
you don’t have a college education.” That’s an absolute travesty, in my 
opinion. Abraham Lincoln didn’t have a college education. 
 
Your regulations are becoming tighter, you’re thinking about selling the 
show, how does one… 
 
Well, primarily there were two things, the regulations and my children. 
 
Okay. 
 
My children grew up in the business and they kind of thought, “Well, 
we’d like to try something else.” I wanted them to continue to run the 
show. As long as they had an interest in it and wanted to do it, I was 
enthusiastic about them doing it. And they even did it for two years. I 
stayed home, and they did it for the last two years, but they had children 
of their own. They were starting to think, “Okay, maybe there is another 
side to life that we’d like to try.” I always raised my kids to, “Do 
whatever you want to do. I want you to be able to do whatever you 
wanted to do.” I insist on education. Both of my kids went to college, 
but only to please me and to assure myself that if they didn’t choose 
show business, if show business wasn’t the way they wanted to go, they 
could do whatever they want. So they wanted to try something different.  
 
I lost my enthusiasm for continuing if my children didn’t want to 
continue in the business. I started thinking, and my wife and I—we’re 
not spring chickens anymore, we’re getting older. I didn’t really think 
about selling the show, I just thought about stopping. I didn’t know that 
there was a huge interest in my show. Well, it turns out a man in Ireland 
was interested in buying my show and contacted me. I said, “Well, yes, 
I’ll sell it,” and then we agreed, had to negotiate a price, and had to work 
through all the details, but we did that. So it went out the next season. I 
assisted him. My staff remained. Anybody that wanted to stay got to 
stay. The staff remained and most of my people weren’t out of work and 
having to go other places to find jobs, which pleased me a great deal. 
That was one of the hardest things about stopping was, “What happens 
to my people?” Believe me, after twenty-five years, they become your 
people. 
 
Yes. They’re family. 
 
They’re family, much like the animals. People don’t understand. I had 
those elephants for twenty-five years. They are like part of my family. 
You miss them. I can readily identify with someone who has a dog or a 
 
 
35
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Rawls 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cat that they’re in love with, a parakeet, or whatever the case may be. I 
can’t understand why they can’t identify with my association with an 
animal, even though the animal works. The animal earns its way too. 
There’s no one on a circus that doesn’t earn their way. I think that’s the 
way life should be, you’ve got to earn your way.  
 
Did you choose the location for the Kelly Miller winter quarters? 
 
Yes, I bought the property, built the buildings, put up the fences, built 
the barns. (Laughs) 
 
You could’ve done it anywhere, but you chose Hugo? 
 
Oh, yes. I have a great affinity for Hugo, Oklahoma. The town was good 
to us. When I came here as child, over the years, the relationship—I 
went to school here, got to know the people here, they treated my family 
well. There are so many people here that treated my family, my parents, 
very, very well. I know the bankers, I know the school system, I know 
the educational system. I owe the town a debt, and I’ve always felt that 
way. I have an affinity for this community. I like it. They’ve never 
treated show people as a pariah or strange or an oddity. There has 
always been a very cordial relationship. Now, not everybody in the town 
feels that way. There are many who don’t know any of us in show 
business and are not too sure they want to know us, that kind of attitude. 
But I can tell you that we brush shoulders, whether it be in church, or at 
the banks, or at the schools, or at the Chamber of Commerce functions, 
or wherever. There’s always been a willingness and a friendliness in this 
community. You’ll not find a friendlier town in America. I’m not saying 
we’re the friendliest, but you’ll not find one any friendlier than this 
town. There are great people here.  
 
After you sold the show, what did you do? 
 
Ah, that’s another story. I really, actually, spent about two, two and a 
half months in retired mode. I didn’t actually retire, but I just didn’t have 
a job. I putted around the house, I did little chores, I drove my wife nuts, 
and finally, she said, “You’re going to have to go do something!”  
(Laughs) And I had already served on the city council and had been 
mayor here some years back. At that time, the city council was at odds 
with the city manager and they needed somebody to step in while they 
hired another city manager. A friend of mine on the council talked to me 
and asked me if I’d be interested in doing that. I said, “Okay, I will.” 
You know, I didn’t have anything else to do, and I knew most of the 
people at City Hall, and so I said, “I’ll step in and hold it down while 
you”—and at this time I still had the circus. My kids had it, but I was 
here. For six months I ran the city as the interim city manager, and then 
 
 
36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
they hired a new city manager, and I stepped aside. A year or so later, 
his health got bad and he had to leave the job. Now they come back and 
said, “Would you be interested?” Well, now, I’ve sold the circus and I’m 
free and they know it. They asked me if I would consider putting in an 
application as city manager. There were five or six other applications 
that they were considering. So I did and they hired me. I did that for four 
years and ran the city of Hugo. 
 
Was that much different than running a circus? 
 
In a lot of ways it’s the same, a lot of it’s the same. I’ll be honest with 
you. On the circus, you never know what problems are going to hit you 
any minute. It’s much the same at the City Hall. There’s a multitude of 
problems at City Hall, a multitude of little things we’re involved in. 
We’re involved in parks and recreation, in sewer, in water, in roads, in 
streets, court, traffic court, police, fire, a lot of things. The atmosphere 
was a little the same. One minute you’re dealing with a police problem, 
the next minute you are dealing with a sewer problem. You have to be 
flexible and that was something that I was used to.  
 
I’ll be honest with you. There was a learning curve, because I had to 
learn DEQ [Department of Environmental Quality] regulations, I had to 
learn government regulations, we had to follow the law, and our council 
meetings had to be in compliance with state statutes. The bookkeeping, 
the accounting and working up a budget, that was all fairly similar—
different, but similar. If you know how to do a budget for the circus, you 
can do one for City Hall. Dealing with the people, that was something 
that I had gained an ability at when I ran the circus. I dealt with ninety 
people in my own company, and the City has about seventy employees 
so it was very similar in the number. Learning about the police 
department, the rules and regulations, learning about fire rules and 
regulations, learning about DEQ rules and regulations and how water 
plants operate, and sewer plants operate, there was a learning curve, but 
I enjoyed that. I enjoyed the learning.  
 
I went to classes for certification so that I had the knowledge about city 
government and state statutes and the rules and regulations regarding 
that. Budget timing, public notice, and a multitude of things, public 
records, I learned all that. But I enjoyed that. I enjoyed the people and 
there are a lot of great people. I miss the people down there. But it was 
twenty-four hours a day. I didn’t even have an assistant manager. You’re 
city manager. You’re on your own. Seven days a week I was on call. 
Quite often, there would be things that developed on the weekends or at 
night, and I felt it was in my responsibility to take care of them so I did. 
It was demanding, but I enjoyed it. I really did. 
 
 
 
37
Finchum 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
And then after that? 
 
After that, I left the city, not long ago. Then in January, I took a 
consulting job for Carson and Barnes Circus so I’m still involved in the 
circus business. 
 
No retirement in sight, huh? 
 
Well, I’m of the age, but I can’t see myself not doing anything. The 
[phone] call I just had was in relation to that consulting job. The owner 
of the show was having some logistical problems with an electrical 
permit out in Idaho so we had to hash that out and get it straightened out. 
 
What do you miss the most about being on the road and doing that sort 
of activity? 
 
I miss the traveling. I miss my friends. You have to realize that I’ve been 
in show business all my life—the friendships that I’ve developed across 
the country, in Maryland the state trooper captain that I had a great 
friendship with and don’t see any more, but I would see him once a year. 
In Ohio I had friends that I would see once a year, Michigan, Chicago. 
The mayor of Naperville was a good friend of mine, and I enjoyed 
visiting with him each year when we played Naperville. Yes, I miss that 
part. I miss that part and just the diversity of our country. When you sit 
in one place all the time, you forget that this is a diverse country. There 
are so many different people, and different walks of life and aspects of 
the country, different agricultural aspects of the country, geographical, 
the topography of the country, it’s a pleasure.  
 
I’m blessed. I’m blessed because I spent my life in show business and 
got to travel all over this country and got to know it well. I got to raise 
my children in that atmosphere and they got to know it well. It’s 
something most people don’t get to do. The vast majority of the people 
that live in this country live in one small part and occasionally visit 
someplace else, but they don’t get to know it. It’s a blessing and an 
honor to be able to have done all that in one short lifetime. 
 
Do you have a favorite venue? 
 
No, I have fond memories when you think about some of the places that 
I’ve been. I’ve been to southern Utah. There’s an area there that we 
played years ago with the circus that I just thought was beautiful. 
Upstate New York, when you get into the Finger Lakes region of upstate 
New York and some of that area, it’s just a great place to play. I like to 
be around the lakes and the water. I’m fascinated with boats and 
especially, our large fresh water lakes, Superior, Michigan, Erie.  
 
 
38
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Taking the circus across to a place called Kelleys Island on ferries was 
exhausting, because I worried about all the logistics involved and 
carrying it all, but I enjoyed it tremendously. The people were so 
enthusiastic about the show. They’d spend the entire day. They didn’t 
just come for the performance. They spent the entire day at the circus 
grounds and visiting and having a good time. Those are things that I 
remember and remember well.  
 
You also remember a lot of the tough times. You remember when it 
snows on you two days in a row and it’s so miserable cold, you worry 
about the animals, and you worry about the people. Snow on a tent is 
very, very dangerous because it weighs so much. You’re trying to make 
sure you can get the job done and not get anybody hurt—tornadoes or 
bad storms, when they threaten the tent and your people. But that’s a 
challenge. You kind of enjoy it when it’s over—if you win. (Laughs) 
 
Well, as we’re winding down, do you have some favorite circus 
memories that stick out in your mind? 
 
Some, but they’re fairly private. When I was doing trampoline, I wanted 
to throw a triple somersault. I worked extremely hard at it, and I skinned 
my nose and failed thousands of times, but when I finally threw the 
triple successfully—I never incorporated it into the performance because 
I never had it down well enough—but when I threw the triple 
successfully, came out and landed on my feet, that was a great moment 
for me, personally. It didn’t mean a whole lot to anybody else, but it 
meant something to me. It was something that I worked extremely hard 
at.  
 
Watching my brother perform was a great treat. He was a natural clown. 
He was good. People loved him and it was so automatic for him. I mean, 
it was just a natural thing for him so, watching him perform. My father 
ascending to management in the circus was a personal thrill for me. My 
father was not educated. Neither one of my parents were educated, 
neither one had a high school education. They got their GEDs in their 
seventies but, self taught. My father—you would never know he wasn’t 
educated—read voraciously. He instilled that in me, I love to read. 
When he attained management status and became the manager of the 
King Show and was well-respected by a man that I admired, Frank 
McCloskey, that was a personal moment for me. 
 
I don’t have a lot of gigantic moments, public moments, that I share with 
people, but I have a lot of private moments. My relationship with D.R. 
Miller was extraordinary. We had an understanding of each other. We 
were different kinds of people, but we had the love for this industry and 
 
 
39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Rawls 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
 
Rawls 
 
Finchum 
 
 
the job that we did. I admired the man, and he gave me the opportunity 
that I probably wouldn’t have gotten from anyone else. He knew people, 
he could read people. He was a great innovator. He was uneducated, but 
he was a very wise man and very sharp and very, very integral to our 
industry over the years. He owned more elephants than anyone else, had 
a huge show, very successful, was welcomed anywhere. I never heard 
the man knock anyone. He just didn’t knock other people. He had people 
he liked and people he didn’t like, but he didn’t talk about them. He 
wasn’t one of those kinds of guys that said, “Oh, I don’t like that so and 
so.” It just wasn’t in him.  
 
And what’s really funny is as I was a kid, growing up, I thought he was 
rough as a cob and didn’t know he had this personal side to him. If he 
got to know you and you got to know him, which we did and became 
great friends. I think that’s another proud moment. He asked me to help 
do something when he died. He wanted to be taken to the cemetery with 
a horse-drawn carriage and a circus parade and so we did that. We had 
his service under the big top. About three thousand people lined the 
streets of Hugo to watch him go to the cemetery with a horse-drawn 
carriage and a circus band playing and a circus wagon on the way. 
 
That’s pretty neat. 
 
Yes, and it’s on tape. I’ve got a tape of it. It was something that he had 
asked me to try to achieve, and we got it done. His daughter allowed me 
to do that, and so it was a great moment that I’ll cherish.  
 
Anything else? We’re out of questions unless there is something else you 
want to add. 
 
No.  
 
Well, thank you so much for talking with us today. We appreciate your 
time and have enjoyed learning about your circus experiences. 
 
------- End of interview -------