Oral History Interview 
 
with 
 
Joel Mashburn 
 
 
 
 
 
Interview Conducted by 
Juliana Nykolaiszyn and Tanya Finchum 
June 14, 2011 
 
 
The “Big Top” Show Goes On:  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oklahoma Oral History Research Program 
Edmon Low Library ● Oklahoma State University 
© 2011 
 
 
2
The “Big Top” Show Goes On  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
Interview History 
 
 
Interviewers: Juliana Nykolaiszyn, Tanya Finchum 
Transcriber: 
Miranda Mackey 
Editors: 
Amy Graham, Tanya Finchum, Juliana Nykolaiszyn 
 
The recording and transcript of this interview were processed at the Oklahoma State 
University Library in Stillwater, Oklahoma. 
 
Project Detail 
 
The “Big Top” Show Goes On: An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the 
Canvas Circus Tent aims to preserve the voices and experiences of those involved with the 
work culture associated with Hugo, Oklahoma’s tent circus tradition.  
 
Funding for this project was made possible by the Library of Congress American Folklife 
Center as part of a 2011 Archie Green Fellowship awarded to researchers Tanya Finchum 
and Juliana Nykolaiszyn with the Oklahoma Oral History Research Program at the OSU 
Library. 
 
This project was approved by the Oklahoma State University Institutional Review Board on 
May 6, 2011. 
 
Legal Status 
 
Scholarly use of the recordings and transcripts of the interview with Joel Mashburn is 
unrestricted. The interview agreement was signed on June 14, 2011. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
The “Big Top” Show Goes On  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
About Joel Mashburn… 
 
Joel Mashburn was born in Hugo, Oklahoma in 1947. After graduating from Hugo High 
School in 1965 he enrolled in college at Weatherford, Oklahoma and graduated in 1969 with 
a pharmacy degree. He then returned to Hugo where he worked, and later owned, Palace 
Drug Store until it burned in 1998. At that time he went to work for City Drug and continues 
to work there today. 
 
Throughout his life, Joel has interacted with members of the circus community from 
attending high school with children of circus owners and performers to employing children 
of circus owners. He has also been the pharmacist for the circus community including 
humans as well as animals. He has enjoyed watching circus performances, visiting the 
Endangered Ark, learning about the elephants, and riding elephants as Santa Claus. 
 
Joel and his family call Hugo, Oklahoma home.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
The “Big Top” Show Goes On  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
Joel Mashburn 
 
Oral History Interview 
 
Interviewed by Juliana Nykolaiszyn  
& Tanya Finchum 
June 14, 2011 
Hugo, Oklahoma 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
 
 
Mashburn 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Mashburn 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Mashburn 
 
Finchum 
 
Mashburn 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Mashburn 
My name is Juliana Nykolaiszyn and also with me is Tanya Finchum. 
We’re with the Oklahoma Oral History Research Program at the OSU 
Library. Today is Tuesday, June 14, 2011, and we’re in Hugo, 
Oklahoma, interviewing Joel Mashburn. Thank you for joining us today. 
 
Thank you. Thank you for inviting me. 
 
Well, we’d like to learn a little bit more about you. Could you tell us 
where you were born and where you grew up? 
 
Okay, I was born here, in Hugo. They used to have a hospital downtown 
above the bank and I was born down there. I grew up here. The only 
time I have not lived in Hugo is when I went to Weatherford, Oklahoma 
for schooling. I went out there for four years to college, got my 
pharmacy degree, and moved back here. I’ve been here ever since. 
 
What year were you born? 
 
I was born in ’47. 
 
Okay. 
 
Yes. 
 
And you graduated from high school…? 
 
I graduated from high school in ’65 and graduated from college in ’69. 
 
So you spent your whole life here in Hugo, for the most part. 
 
My whole life here. I came back in ’69 and that’s when I started working 
 
 
5
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Mashburn 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Mashburn 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Mashburn 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
in the pharmacy, in ’69. 
 
And how did you get interested in becoming a pharmacist? 
 
This guy that owned Palace Drug Store downtown, I knew him. He told 
me that if I’d go to pharmacy school, he’d give me a job. I thought, 
“Well, that’s a pretty good deal.” So I went to pharmacy school. I like 
science and math better than I like English, or something like that, so 
pharmacy fit what I needed more than some other degrees. 
 
And your first pharmacy [job] after school was at the Palace…? 
 
Palace Drug Store. 
 
Okay. 
 
I worked at Palace Drug Store from ’69 to ’98, and the guy that owned it 
passed away. He had a stroke, and then he sold it to me, and then he 
passed away. Then on Christmas Eve of 1998, it burned up. There was, 
we think, a natural gas explosion in it. It was real cold that winter, and 
we think that when the furnace came on, then it just blew up. So living 
in a small town, we were uptown at two o’clock in the morning and the 
guy that owned the other drugstore down the street, which we were real 
close friends, Mr. Askew, he came up there. We were standing across 
the street watching the pharmacy burn and he said, “Well, what are you 
going to do?” I said, “I don’t know.” He said, “Well, you can come to 
work for me if you want to.” I said, “That sounds like a good deal.” So I 
went to work for him. Before the drugstore quit burning, I had another 
job. 
 
And Mr. Askew’s pharmacy was called…? 
 
City Drug. 
 
City Drug. 
 
And that’s where I’m working today. I went to work there in January of 
’99 and I’ve been there ever since. 
 
Well, as a pharmacist, you have really close interaction with the 
community. 
 
Right. 
 
You probably have your pulse on what’s going on in Hugo. 
 
 
 
6
Mashburn 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
Pretty much so, yes. 
 
Well, tell me about living here and growing up here, your first circus 
memory. 
 
The first circus memory I remember is back when we were little kids, 
the circus—I assume the circus did—but they had, over at our park, they 
had some cages with lions in them. We lived a ways from the park, but 
at night you could hear those lions roaring. That’s really the first 
interaction I had with the circus. Of course then in school, the 
lady[Barbara Miller Byrd] that owns the circus right now, she’s just a 
year older than I am, and I knew her in school. So I knew about the 
circus life and that sort of thing. 
 
Did you have many friends? I know a lot of the kids were probably on 
the road a lot and then they’d come back to Hugo. Did you have 
interactions with a lot of the circus? 
 
I had interactions with some of them. A lot of them were customers at 
the drugstore. Lucy Loyal, her daddy was a horse trainer and their 
family traded with us a lot and I knew her. Actually, at one time, we had 
a little horse and he trained it for us to do a few little tricks, lay down 
and step up on a deal and just things like that, which was real nice. So I 
knew them. The Rawls family, Mr. and Mrs. Rawls, they had like five or 
six kids. I knew that family. Some of that family actually, some of the 
girls in that family, actually worked at the drugstore part-time when they 
were going to school so I had a close interactions with them. Of course, 
David Rawls still lives here today and he’s run the circus and then after 
he retired, he was the city manager for a while. Now he’s retired from 
that so he’s finally got retired now. But David and his sisters and 
brothers, I’ve known them ever since we were kids. I knew that they 
went off and worked in the circus and came back. 
 
You mentioned trading, which often happens in small towns. Explain to 
me that process. 
 
Well, it’s just in a small town, you know people and you know what you 
need so you know exactly who to go to. They’ll help you find something 
or do something like that. Like, we had this horse that needed to be 
trained and knew that Mr. Loyal was a great horse trainer. So we worked 
out a deal with him to train our little horse, and he did a fantastic job. 
That’s an advantage of having the circus around, is that there are 
different occupations there that a lot of people don’t understand and 
don’t see. So it’s quite a bit different. 
 
That’s a good segue. Can you talk a little bit about some of those 
 
 
7
 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
occupations? 
 
Some of those occupations, the good friend of mine and another good 
friend, Mike Gallagher, his family came to town because of the circus. 
His mother worked for the circus years ago, and after he got out of 
school he never did actually work for them, but he was great on a 
trampoline. He could do all kinds of tricks on a trampoline, because 
that’s what he learned as a kid. Then later, he got into selling cotton 
candy, and that’s a trade he learned with the circus. We’d be having a 
parade or something, and he’d set up a little stand and sell cotton candy. 
Later, he got into selling snow cones and ice creams, and that all 
developed from his being with the circus and doing that.  
 
And of course, a friend of mine that works in the circus right now, he is 
actually from Peru, and he’ll go home when the circus is not working, 
but sometimes it’s two or three weeks before he goes home, and then 
sometimes he comes back here two or three weeks before they go out. 
He stays with us and it has been real interesting to get to know him. He’s 
a grown man and he has had many other jobs in Peru, and he tells us 
about Peru, but he helps with the concession stands and helps them with 
the money and the people that go into the tent and sell, well, he kind of 
helps. He gets them their stuff and takes the money from them and that 
sort of thing. So that’s an occupation that they learn.  
 
Sometimes they’ll come back, and I knew one of the clowns. He’s just 
an ordinary guy until he puts on his makeup and of course, they’ve all 
got personalities. All those clowns have their own little personality and 
their own little makeup, but he’s a real neat guy. He came and went to 
church with us some, real neat guy. And when he puts on his clown deal, 
he’s got a whole different personality. So that’s pretty good. Of course, 
Barbara, the lady that owns the circus now, Barbara Byrd, like I say, I 
went to school with her, and I’ve known her two kids since they were 
born. It’s interesting to watch them run the circus now.  
 
The best part to me about the circus, when I go to it, is the before and 
after. It’s great to go early enough to watch them set up that great big 
tent, and then watch them take everything down and put it up, because 
you know they’ll move. A lot of times they’ll just show one day and 
then move. Every time they get through with something they pack it and 
get it ready to put up, and then as soon as the circus is over they start 
folding up the bleachers and all that.  
 
Then they’ve got stakes in the ground to hold the tent up. The elephant is 
trained to pull up those stakes, and they’ve got a harness on the elephant 
and a deal that wraps around the elephant’s leg. They wrap a chain 
around that stake and then that elephant will walk over to that stake and 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
raise its leg and just pull that stake right out of the ground. The elephant 
is so trained that it knows where the next stake is going to be. They’ll 
pull that one out, and that guy just kind of walks with the elephant. It 
just walks right over there and puts its foot right back so that guy can 
wrap the chain around it, and it just lifts up its foot and that thing just 
comes right out of the ground. That’s what’s so fun.  
 
We see people in town and say, “Oh, he’s the elephant trainer,” or they 
had a real tall guy that did all the announcing. You see him in town, you 
know what he did. We’ve just always had those people around. 
 
No desire as a high school student to get into the circus yourself? 
 
No, no desire to do that. Barbara has a friend, Jan, who back years ago 
when she was younger, she would go with them and stay with Barbara 
for two or three weeks at a time. I always thought that would be neat, but 
I never did do it. They worked hard. Let me tell you, it was scary to 
watch them work. Boy, they work hard. When they’re on the road, it’s 
day and night. It’s a tough deal. 
 
Well, when the circus comes back from the road, do you see any 
contributions they make to the Hugo community? 
 
Oh, yes. They make a lot of contributions. I even, through the drugstore, 
over the years, I’ve had many friends that work for the circus, and I’ve 
actually mailed their medicine to them while they were on the road. I 
still do it with the Byrd family, with Barbara and her family and the 
kids. Fortunately, right now, the kids’ grandmother lives here, Geary’s 
mother lives here, so she comes by and gets their medicine and mails it 
to them. But I still fill all their medicine, year round.  
 
As far as contributions to the town, they’ve done lots of things for the 
town. They’ve given money to the school foundation. If you noticed out 
here, in the library, the elephants and all that, that’s all from the circus. 
They gave all of that stuff. Over at the elementary school, in the library 
over there, they fixed a real nice deal and donated that. We made a 
walking path out at the edge of town by our softball fields and we call it 
the Elephant Walk. They’ve donated a lot of things there, a lot of 
exercise equipment, a lot of benches and great things. When we had the 
grand opening out there, they brought an elephant out there and let the 
elephant walk around in front of everybody while we made the [walk]. 
It’s probably about a half-of-a-mile walk. I don’t know how far it is, 
maybe a quarter-of-a-mile. But all the community showed up, and we 
walked around and the elephant walked in front of us and all that. 
 
One of my hobbies is, at Christmastime I like to play Santa Claus. I let 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Mashburn 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Mashburn 
 
my beard get a little bit longer, and I love to play Santa Claus. Out at our 
nursing home, one of our nursing homes out there, we bring the elephant 
out there at Christmastime, and I get on the elephant as Santa Claus and 
we walk around the nursing home. Some of them can come outside and 
some of them can just come to the doors and see the elephant. We’ve 
done that two or three times and they’ve brought the elephant out there 
to do that. We’re probably one of the few towns in the world that when 
we have our Christmas parade, Santa Claus usually comes on a fire truck 
or something like that, ours comes on an elephant. I mean, they’ve been 
doing that for years, and that’s just a donation that they do. Not many 
towns have got Santa Claus coming through on an elephant. It’s real 
neat. It’s different.  
 
Of course, the elephants are fun animals because they are so well trained 
that people think, “Well, they’ve got to make them do stuff.” They just 
talk to them, just like humans. I’ve seen them at the circus on the 
elephant ride. They have those, and they come up to this little deck so 
kids can get on. Well, sometimes they’re not close enough, and they’ll 
call the elephant by name and say, “Get over here.” That elephant will 
scoot over a little bit. I mean, they don’t touch them or hook them or 
anything. They don’t do anything. They just talk to them, and those 
elephants are so well trained they know exactly what to do. 
 
But back to your question, I don’t even know all the stuff that they’ve 
done for the community. Of course, they’ve got a lot of property here 
and they pay taxes on that. The granddaughters have built some nice 
houses. There’s a lot of houses in town that the circus people own. They 
give a lot to the schools and the public places, like the library. They’ve 
have been real active in, like I say, when we have a parade or something 
like that, they’ve always got something to [contribute] if they’re here. 
See, a lot of parades we have, they’re gone so they don’t have anything 
to put in it. Like, we had a rodeo parade the other day. Well, everything 
is gone right now. But when they’re here in the wintertime and we have 
something, they are always active to do it. Down by the depot, they are 
trying to build a museum here. They’ll set up, almost a miniature circus 
down there to raise money for that circus museum, and whatever they 
raise they’ll give it to the museum. 
 
Can you tell when the circus comes back to town? 
 
Yes, I can because I know some of them, is the main thing. 
 
 Does traffic increase? 
 
Not really. The one thing that you notice is—of course, they live at the 
edge of town, and some of those people that work for the circus don’t 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Mashburn 
really have transportation, because they really don’t need any 
transportation, because all their transportation is through the circus. So 
when they come to town, you see them walking to Wal-Mart, or you’ll 
see the circus [van]. They’ve got a little van that has “Kelly Miller 
Circus” on it, or two or three of them. They don’t have just one, but 
they’ve got two or three. You’ll see it at Wal-Mart or uptown or 
something, and you know that those guys are uptown buying stuff and 
that sort of thing. 
 
Do you have children? 
 
Yes, I’ve got children. I’ve got five children, got some grandkids, I’ve 
even got some great-grandkids. I was fortunate today that two of my 
great-grandkids came to town and surprised me, and so I just had lunch 
with them. So that was nice. That’s one thing we do, is we go to the 
circus a lot. And of course, I know them so well that they kind of give 
me little privileges to get me a good seat to watch it. I take my grandkids 
all the time. 
 
To various places or just when they’re performing here? 
 
I’ve been to various places. It’s mostly just around here close. I’ve got a 
granddaughter that lives down at Fort Worth so a lot of times when 
they’re around Dallas or Fort Worth, I’ve gone down there. I’ve been to 
Durant. I’ve been to Gainesville, you know. I’ve been to a lot of 
different places. My daughter that lives in Rogers, Arkansas, when they 
showed up there, of course, she went out to see them and talked to 
everybody. We’re close friends with them, and we just love to go and 
watch it. 
 
Do you have brothers and sisters? 
 
I’ve got brothers and sisters. I’ve got two older brothers and one younger 
sister. My two older brothers live in Texas, one in Conroe, Texas, and 
one in Austin. My sister lives here. My sister works for the school. She’s 
a secretary for the school. She’s done that for years. 
 
Are they as fond of the circus as you? 
 
Probably not as close to them as I am. I’ve just, through the years, I’ve 
done business with them and dealt with them. I’ve just got a closer 
relationship, probably, with them. 
 
Since ’69…? 
 
’69. 
 
 
11
 
Finchum 
 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
 
…’69 until now, have you noticed any changes or how things might have 
changed? 
 
A couple of things have changed about the circus since ’69. In the olden 
days, their equipment wasn’t too good sometimes, and they’d start off in 
the year and go from here to Paris. If you were going, half of their 
equipment would break down before they got there, and they just didn’t 
keep their equipment up like they do now. Since Geary and Barbara 
have been running it, they’ve got much better equipment and it functions 
a lot better. There are a couple of downsides to the big circus. The last 
few years, we’ve had a little circus and a big circus. We’ve had two 
circuses here and that’s the way we refer to them, or most of us do, is the 
big one and the little one. Of course, the little one [Kelly Miller] has 
reduced itself down to a one-ring deal, the one that David ran before he 
retired, and it was great. It doesn’t take up a lot of room.  
 
Carson and Barnes, the one that the Byrds run that the Millers started, 
it’s a big five-ring circus, a big tent, and they’ve got lots of animals and 
lots of trucks. So they have to have a big space to put it in, and that’s one 
of the things that makes it difficult for them going places sometimes, is 
in some of these towns there is less and less vacant lots that are big 
enough for it. So that has made it real hard on it. Of course, what has 
made it hard on them the last few years is the price of gas and diesel has 
just gone up so much that it costs them more to travel. With the 
economy down, it’s a little harder to draw some of those big crowds that 
they used to have. But they still work it and give it a shot and it’s 
amazing. 
 
Does the local paper keep track of all these activities? 
 
They do a lot of stories on them. During the year when they’re gone, 
there are not too many stories. But anytime that they help the community 
like that, and every year when they come back, we have a circus day 
welcoming them back with the city officials and all that. It’s a pretty big 
day, and the circus people get up and tell us where they’ve been and how 
many miles they’ve gone and that sort of thing. It’s a big event when 
they come back and do that. 
 
If Hugo did not have the circus, what do you think the town would be 
like? 
 
I never have thought about it. Of course, we couldn’t call ourselves 
Circus City, U.S.A., that’s for sure. (Laughs) I don’t know. We’ve just 
always had it so I’ve never thought about it not ever being here. I mean, 
my whole life, they’ve out there at the corner of Ninety-Three and Kirk 
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Street. Last weekend, as a matter of fact, we went to eat at a place out 
there and was coming back, and where they have their elephant deal out 
there, it was so warm that the elephants were outside throwing hay 
around, trying to throw hay on his back so he could stay [cool]. Not 
every place you can go and drive down the road and look and see a big 
elephant.  
 
A couple of times we’ve had Babe Ruth Baseball come to town. The 
nine-year-olds come here for a regional playoff and have seven or eight 
teams from all over Texas, Louisiana, and Oklahoma. When those kids 
came, they let us go out to the elephant foundation and put us on a tram 
and drove us around and let us see the elephants, and the lady told us all 
about elephants and about raising them and taking care of them. That’s 
something that we were able to do for those baseball kids that a lot of 
other towns couldn’t do. I mean, they came to play baseball, but they 
also got to go see an elephant and find out a little bit about the elephants. 
They talked about them and all that. Of course, they’ve had some baby 
elephants and that is really neat, to go see one of those little baby 
elephants. They are so cute. It is just unbelievable. It takes two years for 
a momma to have a baby elephant. It’s very hard to breed elephants in 
captivity. 
 
Right. 
 
Of course, they’ve got a little, about a three-year-old elephant that 
travels with them and he’s about halfway grown. He loves to perform 
though. You can watch him and he loves to perform, but he’s a little bit 
ornery so you’ve got to kind of watch him. When you go and if you 
watch those elephants, watch their eyes, they watch people. Boy, they 
look around. Even when they are performing, they look around to see 
what’s going on and see people. It’s pretty amazing.  
 
Now, another story I’ll tell you is, of course, being in the pharmacy 
business, we’re always dealing with medicine and stuff, we’ve doctored 
elephants. One of them got burned one time and of course, we can fill 
medicine that the vet writes. One of them got burned one time so we got 
some burn ointment, and the only difference is we sell you a little bitty 
tube. Well, a little bitty tube is not going to go very far on a big elephant. 
You’ve got to have a big bucket of burn medicine to put on an elephant. 
So it takes a lot more. Then, the baby elephants, we’ve doctored them 
two or three times when they’ve got different problems. We’ll try to rake 
up enough of an initial dose for them before they can get it in a bigger 
bulk. It’s the same way with the burn medicine. It takes a lot of it just to 
give one dose of it to the elephant. But some of the babies have had this 
or that, and we’ve been able to get medicine gathered up to doctor them. 
 
 
 
13
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Mashburn 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Mashburn 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
 
Mashburn 
Do you have to keep any certain types of medicine on-hand? 
 
No, we really don’t keep anything special or anything like that. 
 
Where do you go to get a big old bucket of burn medicine? 
 
Well, you just order—they say, “We need some.” I say, “Well, I’ve got 
this pound jar. We’ll start with it,” and then you order about five of 
those five-pound jars to send out there. Of course, we order everyday so 
we get it the next day. That’s how you do it, instead of that little bitty 
tube that you’d get. A pound jar for a person will last forever, but when 
you doctor an elephant you need four or five of those real quick to smear 
on there. 
 
The pharmaceutical company is probably wondering what’s going on!  
(Laughs) 
 
Yes, and the baby elephants, they get a viral infection. That’s what 
messes with them. There’s some kind of a virus, and I don’t even know 
the name of it, but there is some kind of virus that is fairly common in 
baby elephants, in zoos and that sort of thing. So antiviral medicine, just 
oral antiviral medicine that we take, we’d get some of those and just up 
the dose. It takes a bunch of pills for them, where us, it just takes one. 
But that’s what we doctor them with. 
 
Do you ever have to add any flavoring? 
 
No, no. 
 
Just curious. They like the bubblegum flavor? 
 
No, don’t have to do the bubblegum flavor or anything for them.  
(Laughter) 
 
 I don’t know if it comes in peanut. 
 
Peanut flavor, if it came in peanut they’d love that. You can tell I’m 
fascinated by the elephants, but you know, if you’ve ever fed them, they 
can take that trunk and it’s just like a hand to them. You can hand them 
anything and they can get it with that trunk, they can take care of it. It’s 
amazing what they can do with that trunk. 
 
So when you retire from the pharmacy are you going to join the circus 
and be a clown or a ticket-taker or something? (Laughter) 
 
Well, I’ve thought in the past, I would love to be because I do Santa 
 
 
14
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Claus. I dress up and do that. In the past, I thought, “You know, it would 
be fun to dress up and be a clown.” 
 
At least for one season. 
 
One season, that would be fun, but I doubt it. I’m too much of a 
homebody. You can tell that, because I haven’t ever left here. So it’s 
hard for me to travel all year. That’s one of the things in the past that I 
thought, “That would be neat for one year just to be a clown, put on that 
makeup, and go out there and try to entertain people.” I think it would be 
great. 
 
Do you know of some other town folk that actually do that, like, on 
occasion not full-time? 
 
No, not really. I don’t know of any that actually do that, not really. A 
part of it is, is when they are out on the road working, everybody has got 
two or three jobs. They don’t have a lot of [free time]. If you’re out there 
with them, they’re going to expect you to work. It’s not a vacation. 
 
Why do you think Hugo is a friendly place for circus folk? 
 
I don’t know. They just were always here. I mean, they were here when I 
was a little kid, and they’ve just always been here. We’ve just interacted 
with them. They’ve sent their kids to our schools. Barbara graduated 
from high school here and then went off to college. Her two daughters 
graduated from here and then went off to college. That’s where Barbara 
met her husband. She went to college and met him and then he came 
back and went to work for them. I don’t know. It has just always been—
it might’ve been in the early days, it was a cheap place to buy some land. 
It’s fairly in the middle of the United States. Usually, what they do is 
one year, they’ll go back east and up north and that way, then kind of 
Midwest and come home. Then the next year, they’ll go Texas and out 
west, northwest, Midwest, and come home. So right here in Hugo, it’s 
equal distance, basically, to those two places. It’s not as warm as Florida 
is, because Florida has got many more circuses than we do, or back in 
the day they did, but it’s warm enough that even in the wintertime they 
can get some of the animals out, especially the elephants. The elephants 
don’t like cold weather, but it’s warm enough during the wintertime they 
can kind of get them out and get them a little exercise. 
 
It’s a small community, so I think they’ve just felt comfortable here. 
Barbara’s mother and daddy [D.R. and Isla Miller], everybody knew 
them. They were just part of the community. Like I say, my uncle 
Hermon, Charles’ daddy [Charles Baggett], had a dealership here and 
they bought cars from him for years. When they’d come back, they’d 
 
 
15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
buy a car or whatever. Uncle Hermon knew them real well, and he went 
to see them in a lot of different places, too. He was real close to them, 
and anytime they were around close or something, he would go see 
them. If he was off working there someplace, he would go see them 
quite a bit. I don’t know. I like to think we’re a friendly community, and 
I like to think we’re small enough that it’s not like a big city, and 
they’ve got plenty of room, plenty of land here. They own quite a bit of 
land out there. 
 
Well, what keeps you in Hugo? You could’ve gone anywhere. 
 
Well, I just love Hugo. I love the small town. I’ve, like I say, been in 
business here. I’ve been on the industrial authority, the Choctaw County 
Industrial Authority. I was chairman of that for almost seven or eight 
years, maybe longer. I was on it for a long time. My uncle Hermon 
[Baggett], he was on it a long time before that and I was on it. I love my 
local church here. I love knowing people and seeing people. I’ve been 
fortunate enough to have a job where I could stay here. A lot of people 
don’t, in our small communities now. That’s one of the things that hurts 
us is we don’t have enough jobs for some of the young people. 
Fortunately, for me, I had one here. 
 
Well, do you have that favorite circus memory when you think of the 
circus or when you get together with the family that you like to tell? 
 
Of course, I don’t know how many elephants they own now, but they 
still own quite a few elephants. The elephants are a business with them, 
because they rent them out to other circuses. A lot of other circuses that 
perform have their elephants. Of course, now they’re breeding elephants 
and that’s a real big thing. Probably, my biggest memory is back in the 
old days, when they carried about twenty-five elephants with them when 
they went on the road. They would bring those elephants around that 
ring there and they had to bring them down there and then they would—
just in the walkway there—they’d bring them out there and those 
elephants would rear up on each other and stand up and then raise their 
trunks. To me, that’s a beautiful sight, especially when there is like, 
twenty-five of them. And back then, they had a bunch. The momma 
elephants they’ve got now were young teenage elephants back then.  
 
An elephant’s age kind of goes the same as humans. They’re babies and 
teenagers and then grown. A lot of those elephants that I remember years 
ago are the momma elephants now. They got a whole bunch of teenage 
elephants at one time. Then I remember when their first baby was born. I 
heard about it. D.R. [Miller] was alive then, Barbara’s daddy, who ran 
the circus, and he needed some medicine one day. I took him some 
medicine. I delivered him some medicine, personally, out there after 
 
 
16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
work and I said, “Now, I want to see the baby since I’ve come this far. I 
want to go see the baby,” because it was just three or four days old. Of 
course, D.R., he was a funny guy anyway and he said, “Well, you know 
it’s going to cost you.” He said, “I don’t let anybody see that baby 
without paying, because that’s the way I make a living.” So it was a big 
joke, you know. I got in his truck, and we went over to see the baby and 
it was so exciting to see that little baby, because I knew how hard they 
had worked to get a baby. I know how much trouble it is. They go to 
special vets and they’ve sent vets to Washington State to learn how to 
artificially inseminate an elephant. They’ve spent a lot of money doing 
that, and it was so great to see that little baby. I just love the little babies. 
The elephants are probably the thing that I remember.  
 
Of course, you know, they don’t have them anymore, but they had a lot 
of tigers and lions and animals back in the old days. I’ve known some of 
the trapeze artists. At church the other day, a couple of the trapeze artists 
were at church. He’s not working with them this year, but he has in the 
past. He’d been in Las Vegas working, and he was home so he was at 
church with us, and it was kind of interesting to talk to him. 
 
Good memories. 
 
Good memories. Great memories! Like I say, Barbara and I were real 
good friends in school, the gal that runs it now. And of course, I know 
their two daughters real personally. So it’s just fun to know them. 
 
We hear Mr. Miller was quite a character. 
 
Mr. Miller was quite a character. He was quite a kidder. One of the 
things he liked to do was—he never did just really dress up. He always 
just wore old, slouchy-looking clothes, and he loved to chew chewing 
tobacco. He had a tie on most of the time, but the tie might have four or 
five big old spots on it, where the tobacco has dripped on it, but that 
didn’t bother him. He loved to go in places that didn’t know him and 
you’d look at him and he’d ask to buy a car or something. They would 
look at him and say, “How is he going to buy a car?”  
 
He loved to kid people around. Just like when I went to see the baby 
elephant, the first thing he said was, “Well, it’s going to cost you, 
because I don’t let anybody see it without paying. That’s the way I make 
my money.” The other part of that is my good friend was out there with 
him, the guy that worked for the circus that took care of their money for 
a long time. He said, “Yes, the next thing he’ll be charging you to go to 
the bathroom!” (Laughter) But D.R. was quite a guy. He was quite a 
character. If you didn’t know him, you’d think he was a grouchy, old 
man, but that’s just kind of the way he wanted people to perceive him. 
 
 
17
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Mashburn 
Now, he ran a tight ship. When they were working, they had to work for 
him. 
 
Did you have much interaction with his wife? 
 
Yes, she was just a quieter gal, and real sweet. She stayed here a lot, 
after the kids got going to school. Used to, years and years ago, they 
would put their kids in school late and take them out early, and they 
could still manage to get through school. Well, school has changed since 
then. Now, you can’t do that. So she would stay here and keep the kids 
and let them go to school. Then as soon as school was out, she’d go stay 
for a while. She stayed here more than she traveled with them in the 
days I knew her. When she was young she didn’t, she was part of it. But 
as she got older, she stayed here. They’ve got a real nice house out there, 
a real nice place. Back when one of the daughters was graduating, they 
had a big party for the class out at their house and that sort of thing. 
They’re real giving people, real loving people. 
 
Very community-oriented, too. 
 
Very community-oriented and I don’t get into all of that, but I just know 
that they’ve given a lot to the community, they’ve given a lot to the 
schools, they’ve given a lot to the foundation. I told you earlier, they’ve 
done places in the community to help that some of the rest of us 
probably wouldn’t have done. They’ve spent some money. One place I 
didn’t tell you about, down at the old depot, they donated a great big 
picture of D.R. and his wife that’s on the wall down there at our depot 
museum. It’s actually in the café connected to the depot museum. It’s 
real nice.  
 
We’ve got Angie’s Circus City Diner here, that’s where I ate today. 
She’s got all kinds of pictures of them. People have given her all that 
stuff, pictures of the circuses, advertisements when they’re coming to 
town. She’s got all kinds of stuff that they’ve donated to her, because 
she called it Circus City Diner. They’ve donated a lot of things to her.  
 
Route cards, that’s one of the things that’s different that a lot of people 
don’t know about. In the olden days, they printed up these cards that told 
where they were and what day and that sort of thing. They’d do about 
two weeks at a time on them, and they gave them to different people so 
they’d know where the circus was. Back in the day when they had that, I 
always got a set of those. They always sent me a set of those. 
 
Did you keep them? 
 
No, I didn’t keep them. I probably wished I had. Ted Bowman, a friend 
 
 
18
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum  
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
of mine that worked for the circus, the one that took care of their money 
for years and years, I got to be real close friends with, his hobby was 
collecting route cards. He collected them not only from this circus, but 
from all the circuses he could. I think there is a big circus museum 
someplace up in the Midwest, and when he died, he donated that whole 
collection of route cards to them, which was worth a bunch of money. 
Ted, I got to sending him medicine and at Palace Drug, we always had 
Jolly Ranchers sitting there by the counter for the kids or whoever 
wanted it, and every time Ted would come in, he’d get some of them. So 
when I’d pack his medicine to mail to him, I got to packing it with Jolly 
Ranchers. He said that was worth more than the medicine was, to get 
that box of Jolly Ranchers. It wasn’t a big deal, and he could go buy 
Jolly Ranchers anytime he wanted to, but it was just fun that he enjoyed 
it, and I enjoyed sending him Jolly Ranchers. When he’d come to town 
we’d go eat.  
 
This is a strange deal, but I’ll tell you how close some of the circus stuff 
is. When Ted died, we had a funeral for him and another guy here—Ted 
didn’t have a family so he kind of adopted other people, and a family 
here was kind of his caretaker, and he appointed them to take care of his 
estate. They still live here. They used to work with the circus, but they 
live here now. This other guy that still lives here, he doesn’t have a 
family either. I was a pallbearer at Ted’s funeral and after it was over, 
this other guy came up to me and he said, “You know, I hadn’t thought 
about it, but when I die I might not have any pallbearers.” He said, 
“Would you be my pallbearer?” And Ted’s been dead probably ten 
years. I told him, “Yes, I’ll do that.” That guy trades with me at the store 
and he was in the store three or four months ago. He said something, 
asked me about it, if I remembered him asking me and I said, “Yes, I 
remember.” He said, “Okay.” That’s just a strange thing about how close 
some of us get. I’m not real close to this guy, but he knew that I loved 
the circus and knew him and that’s just a funny quirk, I guess you might 
say. That just gives you an idea of how close we are sometimes. 
 
Any other names that you want to mention that are no longer with us? 
 
Oh, I can’t remember. Of course, I mentioned Mike Gallagher, his 
mother, and Mrs. Gallagher and his sister, Tiny. They called her Tiny, 
she was a trapeze artist and she worked for them for many years. I 
remember her. Lucy Loyal’s father that trained the horses, her mother 
and daddy were real nice people. Of course, D.R. Miller and his wife, 
they were great people. We had a big parade when he died. Has anybody 
told you about that? 
 
No. 
 
 
 
19
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
No. 
 
I don’t know if you all want to hear this part or not. When he died, they 
were out in Colorado, out that way someplace when he died. He had 
already told them that when he died, he wanted to have a circus. He 
wanted it to be a big deal. So they embalmed his body, and then they put 
it in a holding place, a cold place, and they kept it there. Then they went 
on and did their yearly circus run and then when they came back to town 
then, they sent for the body or went and got the body and brought it 
back. They set up a tent out here where they usually have a circus. They 
set up a circus tent and had his funeral inside the circus tent. Then they 
put it on a circus wagon, an old, restored circus wagon pulled by horses, 
and from out here on this side of town, which would be the north side of 
town—it’s where we always have the circus—they had a big parade 
procession all the way down to the cemetery that you all went to, on the 
south side of town. He wanted it to be a big production and that’s what 
they did. People were lined up along the streets to see him pass. They set 
up the circus tent and they had the funeral inside the circus tent. That’s 
what he wanted to do.  
 
I can’t think of some of the other people. Ted Bowman, Ted worked for 
them for a long time, and Ted and I got to be real close friends. Like I 
say, every time he’d come back we’d go eat and do things like that. I 
sent him medicine the whole time he was on the road. He was a great 
guy. He was a bookkeeper. He was excellent. He knew figures 
frontwards and backwards, and he was a nice guy.  
 
Of course, Barbara and Geary Byrd, like I say, I went to school with 
Barbara and she was real sweet, is still real sweet. Ever since she 
married Geary and brought him back here, I’ve been friends with him. 
Now, Geary’s mother and daddy have moved here and I got to be friends 
with them. Of course, the two girls, I’ve known them since they were 
babies. I’ve been out to their house before, especially when Ted was 
alive. I went out there quite a bit, because Ted stayed with them. Even 
after he came home he stayed out there at the house with them. He 
wasn’t married and didn’t have a family either.  
 
Of course, the Rawls family, David Rawls’ mother and daddy and his 
sisters. Two of his sisters worked for us at the drugstore. Margie was the 
oldest sister. She worked for us, excellent. And the younger sister, I 
can’t even think of her name right now. She worked for us after school 
and Saturdays and that sort of thing. So we’ve always been real close to 
them, because of things like that. 
 
Just a tight, close-knit community. 
 
 
 
20
Mashburn 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Mashburn 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Mashburn 
 
 
It’s a close-knit community. The circus is close-knit, they take care of 
each other, they know each other, and it works out real good. 
 
Well, is there anything else you’d like to mention before we close out 
here today? 
 
I don’t know. Like I say, it has been fun living here with the circus. I’ve 
been to the circus many times and I still go if I get a chance. It’s fun and 
they’ve been good for the community. Over the years they’ve made 
some money, but they’ve put a lot of money back into the community. 
They’ve donated a lot of money to the community. And anytime we 
need something, like an elephant for a Christmas parade, they’re right 
there to do it. Elephant to the golden age home, for the nursing home, 
they did that. 
 
Good life. 
 
It’s a good life. It’s a tough life, they work hard, and travel many miles. 
 
Well, we appreciate your time today. Thank you for sitting down and 
talking with us. 
 
Oh, I thank you. Appreciate it. 
 
------- End of interview -------