Washington State Works: Archie Green Fellows Project, 2012-2013 
Ruth Lipow interview, 2012-11-13 : interview conducted by Deborah 
Fant 
Interview ID: afc2012032_00530 
Date: November 13, 2012 
Duration: 0:52:28 
 
Ruth Lipow Interview  
 
0:00:19.1 Debbie Fant introduces herself, interview of Ruth Lipow at the 
Senior Center in Olympia, WA. Doug Plummer videotaped the interview.  
 
0:01:05.6 Ruth became aware of the importance of unions when she was 12 
years old. There was a big progressive, anti-fascist movement. Her 
girlfriend’s father was active in the Upton Sinclair movement, it was 
called EPIC. End Poverty in California. Sinclair was running for governor 
of California on the socialist ticket. Many World War I veterans were 
active in that campaign. Mr. Baker, her neighbor, took her to a meeting. 
She was the only female there. Made her aware of the importance of 
unions, people organizing.  
 
0:02:26.7 Where was this in California? In Los Angeles, the southwest 
part of the city. She thinks it’s a Latino neighborhood now. Digression 
about the makeup of the neighborhood.  
 
0:03:01.7 Sinclair was running in 1934. He lost. It was the first time 
that Hollywood made short films, propaganda. Had a little old lady in a 
film sitting on her front porch in a rocking chair. She said, "If Upton 
Sinclair is elected, I’m going to lose my home." The Republican was 
elected. She believes that Sinclair’s movement to end poverty influenced 
Franklin Roosevelt to enact Social Security.  
 
0:04:13.2 She was exposed to the idea that unions were good. Sinclair was 
mainly interested in ending poverty and unemployment. And then Roosevelt 
enacted the Works Progress Administration (WPA) and the Civilian 
Conservation Corps (CCC), with young men building parks and city halls. 
Had people in the arts and federal theatre, those only lasted a short 
time. Congress decided that was communism, and they couldn’t have that. 
But those programs put millions of people back to work.  
 
0:05:30.4 In the 1930s you had the emergence of the CIO and the sit-down 
strikes. A lot of women played a role, on the outside, supporting the 
men. She was very aware of that.  
 
0:06:03.8 Lipow’s first job: She had training with National Youth 
Administration, for $20 a month, training her on a machine. In WW II, she 
went to work for Bendix Radio where they tested radio parts for 
airplanes. She went to the United Electrical Workers union, a company 
union at Bendix Radio. Ruth went into the company with flyers trying to 
organize it, and supervisors appeared and she was fired, for union 
activities during WW II. Her husband at the time was in the Air Force, 
had been Orson Welles’ right-hand man, he wanted her to come and join him 
in Texas, where he was training to become a pilot. She couldn’t get 
anyone to testify for her at Bendix because they were afraid of losing 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
1
their jobs. She thinks hundreds of people in our era have been fired for 
organizing unions or trying to join unions. Speaks about attacks on 
collective bargaining.  
 
0:10:24.0 She was fired for leafleting, so she went to Texas. She took 
the jobs that were available for servicemen’s wives, in department 
stores, for example. In the 1950s she went back to Los Angeles and went 
to work at the Thrifty Warehouse. There was the International 
Longshoremen and Warehousemen’s Union. She joined and became a shop 
steward.  
 
0:11:23.1 She went to work for Thrifty Warehouse because she needed a 
job, she knew people there, and it was easy to get hired there. Then she 
realized there was a good, strong union. Doesn’t know if there were any 
other shop stewards, but there weren’t very many women in leadership at 
the time, 1952.  
 
0:12:07.0 Role as shop steward, if anyone had a problem, they came to 
her. The chief shop steward was very popular. They didn’t have too many 
problems, the company was friendly toward the ILWU at that time. The 
president and treasurer, during the McCarthy era, were called before the 
Un-American Activities Committee. They refused to name names. The 
President didn’t sell out then, but turns out that he was very friendly 
with the company that he was supposed to be fighting against. The 
longshoremen got wind of it and almost pushed him off the dock. He became 
a consultant for the companies that he was supposed to be organizing 
against.  
 
0:13:20.7 She spoke at a union convention on the same platform as Harry 
Bridges, about 1952. She raised the issue that the union should hire 
African American women, there were none. There were Latino women in the 
union, but no Black women. She thought it would make the union stronger. 
No one had taken that position at that time. She got a lot of attention 
for that speech--more attention than Harry Bridges got that day. Today 
there are a lot of women leaders and presidents of unions, but that was 
back in the 1950s, and there were few women leaders.  
 
0:14:37.2 Ruth stayed at the Thrifty Warehouse for a while. She knew she 
wouldn’t stay there forever. That was the end of her union jobs.  
 
0:15:17.3 Ruth doesn’t think you can have a real democracy without strong 
unions. What’s happening today, our democracy is under attack, and so are 
unions. There are 23 million people unemployed or underemployed. One in 
five children living in poverty, one in seven adults living in poverty, 
47 million people living in poverty. There’s a correlation between unions 
being attacked and being weak and our democracy being undermined.  
 
0:16:26.4 When people have a good living wage, good health care, they can 
participate in our democracy. When people are just struggling to keep 
body and soul together, it’s hard to be active politically. During the 
Roosevelt Era, we had a WPA and youth programs, and that was because 
there was a big, strong progressive left movement. That movement is weak 
today. We aren’t getting the kind of programs we need. The Government 
needs to invest in jobs, not austerity. You see what’s happening in 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
2
Europe with all the austerity--25% unemployment in Spain, all the youth 
unemployed. The U.S. has a lot of problems for youth. Even with a degree, 
then your overqualified if you want to take any kind of job. Retirement 
will be a thing of the past soon. Ruth has Social Security, but no 
retirement. Now the government wants to raise the age to collect Social 
Security to age 70, cut Medicare, Medicaid.  
 
0:18:56.2 People were more politically active when unions had a big role 
in our democracy. But now they’re weak and didn’t win anything in this 
last Congress.  
 
0:19:54.5 Ruth thinks unions have declined because the corporations and 
the press have so much power. Laws such as those that outsource jobs, 
threaten to move to Mexico or Guatemala if you organize a union. So many 
jobs have been outsourced. And the corporations hire cheaper labor in 
Mexico and China. Corporations have moved their companies to those 
countries.  
 
0:21:32.9 Back in the Thrifty Workhouse. She once had to check chocolate 
to get the worms out of the chocolate. She threw the pieces of chocolate 
into a box, got rid of the worms. Sometimes they put together Easter 
baskets, put grass in the basket, candy in the basket. You never knew 
what you were going to do from day to day. Sometimes they put vitamins 
into bottles. All of this work was on an assembly line. They did a lot of 
talking about the union on the line. She remembers that more than the 
work itself. It was pretty exciting, being active in a union. Everybody 
belonged to the union. They had health care. Made 85 cents an hour, which 
was a lot in those days. Felt secure. If there were ever any problem, 
everybody would stop work. The chief shop steward would raise the issue, 
whatever the problem was, and they’d just stop work. They’d call a 
meeting, then stop work. There was a lot of freedom in that warehouse.  
 
0:24:18.3 There were some blacklisted people from Hollywood who worked in 
the warehouse--a composer was one, who went back to work after the 
Blacklist was over. They had a grip from a Hollywood studio. It was an 
interesting place to work.  
 
0:24:50.6 She wore blue jeans, she thinks. She once fell and bruised 
herself, had to go to the doctor.  
 
0:25:20.7 She would pack a lunch for work each day.  
 
0:25:50.8 They’d have union meetings once a month, there was a big 
turnout. She understands that nowadays hardly anyone shows up for a 
meeting, at the ILWU in Olympia. In those days, everybody came.  
 
0:26:33.5 The union members really went for horse racing. The Hollywood 
Racetrack was there.  
 
0:27:10.7 Ruth ran for shop steward and was elected. She wanted to make a 
contribution. Most of the women didn’t want to take any leadership. She 
thinks she was more politically aware. Women didn’t think of taking 
political leadership, most women, at that time.  
 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
3
0:27:52.3 She worked at the Thrifty Warehouse for a year or two. She left 
because she was being harassed by the FBI, it was during the McCarthy 
Era. Her ex-husband named her in front of the House Un-American 
Committee. A lot of harassment. One day she was at lunch, she was married 
again for the second time, everyone else left and the FBI came to her 
door and said, "You were expecting us, weren’t you?" She slammed the door 
in their faces. People were named. Some women lost custody of their 
children. She had a son with her first husband, and ex-husbands named ex-
wives, and vice versa. It was a very difficult time. A lot of people got 
fired, lost their jobs. Teachers, social workers. We all know about the 
Hollywood people who were named, but there were hundreds of others. Trade 
unionists were purged from the CIO, a lot of them had organized the CIO. 
Some people had been killed in the South, organizing. It was a dangerous 
job at that time in the South.  
 
0:30:29.8 Ruth recently met a group of young workers, they’re under 30, 
and they asked her to speak at their union meeting. She gave them a 
little history.  
 
0:30:53.2 After the Second World War, the war against fascism, she had a 
neighbor who was on strike. Trying to build a Hollywood Democratic Union. 
The IATSE was very corrupt, taking bribes from the producers. There was a 
big picket line in front of Warner Brothers. Her husband at the time was 
still in uniform, and she joined the picket line. The police were on the 
roof at Warner Brothers, and all of a sudden a busload of thugs arrived 
with chains. They beat people to the ground, and Ruth backed off. There 
were a lot of witnesses. Warner Brothers had made all these anti-fascist 
films and they imported goons to beat up people with chains. The strike 
was won, then lost. Because the projectionists wouldn’t join the union. 
That was right after WW II.  
 
0:33:13.6 Ruth thinks we need unions now more than ever. Everybody’s 
entitled to a living wage and health care, maybe some retirement. It was 
inspiring in Wisconsin when the union members stood up when collective 
bargaining was under attack.  
 
0:34:29.7 Ruth is a big supporter for the 99%, for Operation Wall Street. 
They played a big role in trying to help people who were affected by the 
flooding and loss of power with Hurricane Sandy. With Wall Street, young 
people came on bicycles to bring clothing and food. Set up a center where 
people could come. A lot of isolated elderly people were helped by union 
nurses. The 99% are brave and caring.  
 
0:36:16.7 If you can get a job these days, take it. So much unemployment. 
If you’ve over 50 and unemployed for any length of time, it’s hard to get 
a job. So much the better if it’s a union job.  
 
0:37:29.9 Ruth took a class as a clerk, worked for a retail company, 
would load a truck and deal with rates and tariffs. Trucking lines could 
only go to certain routes at one point. The teamsters used to be strong, 
but a lot of that has been under attack.  
 
0:38:42.6 Her working life wasn’t that exciting. She wanted to be an 
actor, was around a lot of professional actors and producers. That was 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
4
where her interest was. A job was a job, but she really wanted to be an 
actor.  
 
0:39:27.2 Ruth thinks the job was more meaningful when she was in a 
union, contributing politically. Not so much the work as being 
politically active. That’s always been important to her.  
 
0:40:04.7 Ruth calls herself a political activist. A good rank-and-file 
person. She went door-to-door to campaign for Franklin Roosevelt. Did 
that in Los Angeles for the first African American mayor, Bradley. 
Campaigned for him. That was more meaningful to her than having a career.  
 
0:41:09.4 She knew John Houseman, who told her if by the age of 27 she 
wasn’t acting, she wasn’t going to make it. Then he became an actor in 
his 70s. Had been Orson Welles partner, the Mercury Theatre, come out of 
the WPA.  
 
0:41:49.9 We’re going to have to be more politically active, more is at 
stake for the younger generation. Austerity is not the answer. The 
government has to invest money the way Roosevelt did. It’s going to cost 
billions of dollars to rebuild after the hurricane. If they want to save 
New York from being underwater, they’re going to have to build levees. We 
need green jobs, get off of coal and oil. Invest in green jobs--solar and 
wind, conservation. There are so many solutions. Politicians have to get 
it. They’re talking about the deficit being the problem, but global 
warming is the issue for our generation. We can borrow from ourselves. 
Roosevelt did it. And when he tried to cut the deficit, he almost lost 
the election because he lost jobs. The deficit will improve if we have a 
lot of jobs. Austerity will only make it worse.  
 
0:44:16.3 Democrats have become more like Eisenhower Republicans--that’s 
how far to the right they’ve moved. The more you compromise, the further 
right you go.  
 
0:44:46.0 Dennis Kucinich is her favorite politician of the past 50 
years--he stood for unions and peace. She’s glad the Elizabeth Warren got 
elected, Tammy Baldwin in Wisconsin. Maria Cantwell is good on 
environment and banks. Maybe she and Warren can get together and take on 
the banks. She was glad to see so many women elected in the 2012 
election.  
 
0:46:07.0 Ruth has one grandson who lives in Maine.  
 
0:46:45.2 The planet is changing, and to mitigate global warming is the 
major thing. What happened in New York and New Jersey (Hurricane Sandy) 
will become the norm.  
 
0:47:28.7 Shed advise the next generation to become politically involved. 
Use civil disobedience. The 1% has recovered very nicely from the 
recession, so there are a few more jobs. But not very good ones--
restaurants, part-time. Ruth has a historical perspective on things. She 
has faith in the younger generation. Operation Wall Street was very 
exciting. The younger generation reacted wonderfully in Staten Island. 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
5
Ruth ends the interview by giving her views on global warming, Roosevelt, 
and contemporary politicians.  
 
END OF INTERVIEW 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
6