1 
 
Rowina Leraw Bi-Lingual Questionnaires  
 
Interview Location: Wolharag, Asor Island, Ulithi Atoll 
Age of Interviewee: 46 years 
Island of Birth: 
Asor Island, Ulithi Atoll 
Audio Language: 
Ulithian 
Recording afc2022011_010_sr001 
00:01 Question 1 
1.   Thinking back, what are your very earliest memories of, or about, weaving? 
A. Ulithian:  Hobe luluwal tefal ngo mada mele hochil mem’mangi hare gulayem mo irel yam 
la Kai mo gula doh deur? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
00:29 Ila ima kai fadal irel ahhh, ima komahoi yal yarmat deur, 
isa loh isla somala fadalei feur fadal yai deur mo irel mang, ila 
mala yechap yai kai milel deur mo iyang. Isa koma hoi fadalei. 
Iwe saloh ye sa chap yai dedeur le ito.  Ikla makla Yarmat resa 
fefeur irel yathkawe.  Iwe sa chap yai feur mil 01:00 ito le yarmat 
mele rewol ahh, sa kangal yei haskuna ngal yei milal, isa kai 
irel cho ye lamol sa moch chap yai deur. 
 
Interviewee in English:   I used to learn and watch people weave. Then, I would use my 
toy loom, using dried pandanas leaves and imitating how they 
were weaving. That’s how I started learning and understanding 
how we weave. I started weaving real lavalava with 
commercial thread. That’s what people are using nowadays. I 
started learning how to make the warp with thread until I had 
fully learned it, and then I started weaving.  
01:12 Question 2 
2.   In your mind, who is the one person you most associate with weaving in your life and 
why? 
A. Ulithian:  Lol yam luluwal, itei semal le ye kael yam fel ngali irel yam fefaru doh deur hare 
yam deduer doh?  Bo mada fal? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
01:32 Ah cousin kala yai mo wol Falalop mele ila gula deur mo 
irer. Mala seley mele mol haskuna ngal yei ngo teifalapal, mele 
igula mo iyang bo itugla hare milmala hama fedeg irel yal 
kkaskuna yei ibe tugla ngo yewadu yei, iwe sala far counsin 
kala yai mele ila kaikai moirer ye ila gulaloh. 01:56 Iwe mo, ila 
mo isor long yi yaramtal ye? Yi Lucia mele wol haskuna 
ngalyei tot makla ngang itugla yiy sa kanganal yei kangal yei 
ye… la mol ngalyei pangal. 
 
 
Interviewee in English: 
My cousins on Falalop, Ulithi, were the ones that I most 
associate with weaving. My mom was the first to teach me how 
to weave, but I did not learn that much from her because we 
always argued. So, I went and learned from my cousins until I 
2 
 
knew how to weave by myself. My cousin, Lucia, taught me 
some weaving techniques intil I knew how to do all of it. 
 
 
02:17 Question 3 
3.   Why is weaving so important to you? 
A.   Ulithi: Mada mele dedeur ye kael yal palengpelal ngalug iyang? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
02:25 Yepaling pelal ngal yei bo ikla makla gich sitaptap.  Be 
budoh le sibe te feuru makala ngo tor mele sibe taptap iyang 
irel tapel ahh yach mada? emm? Te mas chog, bo ikla makla 
sibe sor bo yach mil yaya hare mada? Be budoh le sibe te feur 
ilang tor. 02:54 Sew ila si taptap irel hapalech, sew ila si wol 
taptap irel milel mas ka yach si wol taptap irel tapel mulwe si 
ma wol tapei chuwai, wol sew peteg le yepaling mo irech le si 
wol taptap iyang. 
 
 
 
Interviewee in English: 
Weaving is very important because that is what we use.  If we 
don’t weave, then we won’t have anything to wear, or to use 
for a funeral. We also use lavalava to exchange with others for 
things we don’t have.  It’s something that is very important in 
our culture. 
 
03:17  Question 4 
4.   How has weaving or woven skirts changed over your lifetime, or since the lifetime of 
those who taught you? 
A.   Ulithi:  Ifa sangal yal deur mo dedeur susuwel doh irel yam bubudoh yesa holadoh igla? 
Hare sa change tangi yathkawe ho k’kai mor irel sensei kala yam? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
03:35 Sa paling yal change bo ralakawe, mala ngang igula le 
rehaskuna ngal yei le ma hal wolow pedal yach deur.  Iwe ngo 
gur ka le halsew loh chog color iyang. La ralka sa cholop fadal 
deur le… yor mele sama fusuw, ngo yor mele waluw, iwe ngo 
gur ka le sa mol le ro-mix igli fadalei ngal tai tugul color ngo ro-
mix igli ngali.  Ila tot changes le yiwiri le sapling yal change loh. 
Interviewee in English: 
Weaving has changed a lot. When I started learning, I only 
learned only 6 stripe (Pad) and 7 stripe (Gur) patterns. And the 
Gur had to be only one color. These days, people are making 
lavalava that have 7 or 8 stripes (Pad) and 8 or 9 stripe Gur 
patterns. Furthermore, they mix whatever colors they want to 
use in the Gur. Those are some changes that I see nowadays. 
  
04:13 Question 5  
5.    If you could talk to your great-granddaughter about weaving, what would you want to tell 
her? 
A.   Ulithian:  Hare wochog bo hobe malili ngal lol lom tarfefel irel deur, mada mele hobe 
kangalur hare hodipli hobe kangalur? 
3 
 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
04:28 Ibe kangalur bo rebe kai ngo roitol depar iyang bo deur le 
sew furmel le ye paling pelal ngal gich. Ila mele sitaptap irel 
yach mil yaya.  Sitaptap irel ahh peteg.  Sew formel le ye 
paling le sitaptap irel peteg. Iwe ngo sima wol hasi siya tap 
chuwai, cholop makla si taptap iyang le paling pelal ngal gich. 
 
 
Interviewee in English: 
I want to tell my great-great-grandkids to learn how to weave 
because lavalava is something that is very important in our 
culture, and that is what we wear. There are so many things 
that we use lavalava for, so it’s something that is important to 
us.