Washington State Works: Archie Green Fellows Project, 2012-2013 
Ryan Todd Weber interview, 2013-10-14 : interview conducted by 
Deborah Fant 
Interview ID: afc2012032_00496 
Date: October 14, 2013 
Duration: 1:03:15 
 
Ryan Weber Interview Log  
 
0:00:04.8 Debbie Fant, October 14, 2013, at her home in West Seattle, WA. 
Interviewing Ryan Weber.  
 
0:00:47.2 Basic biographical info.  
 
0:01:47.7 Ryan grew up in Canby, OR, south of Portland. His father was a 
cabinetmaker. The family moved to the Portland area and his father opened 
a cabinet shop where he made kitchen and bathroom cabinets for homes. 
When Ryan was 12, his father started a business manufacturing interior 
window coverings for homes. From that time on, the family made interior 
shutters, and his mother became part of the family business.  
 
0:03:45.6 Ryan went to the University of Oregon where he graduated in 
1996 with a B.S. in Theatre Arts. He studied lighting and scene design, 
wanted to work in the performing arts.  
 
0:05:03.7 Ryan is an apprentice lineman now. When he graduated from 
college he was offered a job with the family business. He admired his 
parents and respected what they had built. His assignment was to move 
from Eugene to Seattle and open a branch office. Ryan and his wife, 
Katie, moved to Seattle and worked in the family business for about 13 
years, then the economy started to turn. The downturn in the housing 
economy took a toll on the business. It became clear that they were going 
to have to close the Seattle branch, and it was time for Ryan to find 
another line of work.  
 
Linework had been something he’d been drawn to for a long time. It was a 
different kind of career that would be rewarding. The job had a lot of 
qualities that he wanted in a profession: working outdoors, a team-driven 
work environment, a job that not a lot of people were willing to do or 
interested in doing.  
 
0:08:55.1 Ryan really wanted to start an apprenticeship with Seattle City 
Light. There’s not a lot of places in the area that offer 
apprenticeships, and the only way to get into linework is to start a 
formal apprenticeship through the IBEW (International Brotherhood of 
Electrical Workers). Those are not given out often, and it’s very 
competitive to get a spot. He knew that Seattle was where he wanted to 
be. He found out they were going to be indenturing apprentices, and they 
had a rigorous written test as well as a physical test. To ensure that he 
passed, he joined a gym, worked out five days a week with the goal of 
maxing out the physical test, which he did when it came up. He passed the 
written test well enough to get through, passed the physical with flying 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
1
colors, and earned an interview. Then he was offered an apprenticeship 
after he completed the interview.  
 
0:11:10.2 Before that, Ryan wanted to increase his chances of getting 
through an interview and getting indentured into an apprenticeship the 
first time he tried for it. He knew that to work in the construction 
industry, he needed a Class A CDL (Commercial Driver’s License), which 
allows him to drive any vehicle, large or small; a flagger card to be 
able to flag traffic in the state; and a CPR certificate. The last two he 
got through the IBEW Local 77, which offered classes for First Aid CPR 
and Flagging. He got enrolled into a truck-driving school where he earned 
his Class A CDL. In addition, he enrolled in VOLTA, a line school in 
Warrenton, OR, just outside of Astoria. That was a three-month program. 
 
0:12:46.5 VOLTA is the Vocational Outside Line Training Academy, a broad-
based trade school that offers a sampler of all of the different types of 
high-voltage work. Gives you an opportunity to decide if that’s the kind 
of work you want to do, and it gives you a lot of good training in how to 
get into the profession. It’s not a substitute for an apprenticeship, 
it’s a training center to learn all about it. To get in, because it’s a 
popular school, they open the sign-ups for the April class at midnight on 
the second of January. Ryan knew that without a steady source of income, 
he really needed to go to the April class. He found out when the 
applications were taken--it was going to be at 12:01 AM on a Monday 
morning. They would accept applications in person starting at that time: 
someone would be in the office at that minute to accept the applications. 
He knew there was a limit of about 30 spots, and he was determined to be 
one of them. He drove to Portland the night before, stayed with his 
parents, got to the parking lot at the Northwest Line Apprenticeship 
Office at 10 PM to get in line and staked his claim as second in line. He 
waited for Bill Stone to come and open the doors. They took his 
application that night, and he was able to go home to sleep after that. 
He guaranteed his spot for April.  
 
At that moment, he knew that he’d have a CDL, he knew he had a spot in 
VOLTA, and a new career was starting. That was very exciting. It showed 
him he had a plan, and with his determination, that plan would work out. 
From that moment he had a positive outlook that he was going to change 
industries. He was going to do something completely different, something 
he’d decided on himself.  
 
0:16:36.0 He learned a lot in VOLTA. He lived in their travel trailer in 
Warrenton from Sunday night through Thursday, then once class was over on 
Thursday, he had all of Friday, Saturday, and Sunday off. So almost every 
weekend he drove home on Thursday night so he could spend the weekend 
with his family. On Sunday afternoon, he loaded up his clean clothes and 
headed back to Astoria for VOLTA. That paid off. It gave a lot of good 
training, validated that he liked climbing poles, he liked rigging, he 
liked the teamwork. He was really interested in the on-the-job training 
part of the apprenticeship because he was learning new skills from 
journeymen linemen. When he did get into an apprenticeship, he knew 
that’s how the training would be done. Had good instructors, great 
classmates, a good experience, good tips and ideas for practice and 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
2
taking tests, passing interviews, got a lot of tools in his "toolbox" for 
getting into the trade. The session at VOLTA was about 11 weeks. 
 
0:18:37.5 After VOLTA he wanted to get into the trade any way he could, 
and the most direct way is to go to the local union hall and sign the 
books. He was able to sign that he had his CDL and all of the 
certifications that they were looking for, and a few weeks later he got a 
call from the dispatch office that they had a job for him doing power 
line tree-trimming work as a groundman, the entry level job as a beginner 
getting into the line trade. He took that job and got put on a crew right 
away. Got a call on Thursday afternoon and was reporting for duty the 
next Monday morning. The training paid off, it got him through the door 
and to work.  
 
0:19:43.9 DF: What are the mechanics of the union hall? RW: Anybody off 
the street, as long as they meet the minimum requirements (18 years of 
age, high school diploma or GED) you can get a job with the union. 
Typically the first job would be as a groundman, working on the ground, 
helping the journeymen do the job. It’s a great way to get training and 
figure out if you like that type of work. Gets you started in a process 
of learning. Journeymen are there to keep you safe, show you what to do, 
to get started in that teamwork aspect of the trade. You go to the hall 
in person and sign the books.  
 
Book One is for journeymen who live in the area, Book Two is for 
journeymen who don’t live in the area, have traveled here and are staying 
here but their local is somewhere else; Book Three is for members who 
have the minimum number of hours working in the trade, and Book Four was 
for someone like him who knows they want to work in the trade but don’t 
have any hours. Once you sign Book Four, you get called in order. The 
people who have been signed up the longest get called first, and they 
have the first refusal. When it gets to you, Dispatch calls when they 
have a job and you can take it or not take it. Once you get enough hours, 
when you’re out of work, you can sign Book Three. Groundmen would work 
out of those books until they worked their way up to get a better spot.  
 
0:22:18.1 The apprenticeship is a whole different program. It’s run from 
the union, and there’s a different set of Dispatch. Once you’re 
indentured, you’ve been offered an apprenticeship position and you’ve 
signed an agreement. If you’re trying to become an apprentice on the 
construction side of the trade, it’s typically done by interview where 
you sit in front of a panel of representatives from both labor and 
management. On that interview you’re given a score, and the higher your 
score, the quicker you’ll be offered an apprenticeship. With the City of 
Seattle Utilities, they typically hire based on a written test. There’s 
also a physical test and a working test. Once they’ve pared their numbers 
down, there’s an interview. Based on the interview, people are offered an 
apprenticeship.  
 
0:24:00.3 Ryan was working for Asplund Tree Trimming in Snohomish County, 
as a groundman helping the tree crews. The apprenticeship opened up at 
Seattle City Light, and he applied for it. He started preparing for the 
tests and interview. He went through that process and was working at 
Asplund when he got a call from the City and was offered the 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
3
apprenticeship. He told his foreman and journeymen what had happened, and 
they were all happy for him. He worked there another three weeks, then 
quit on a Friday and the next Wednesday was the first day of his 
apprenticeship at City Light.  
 
0:25:30.2 Now Ryan is a third-year apprentice. He started with Seattle 
City Light in March 2011. They have a six-month pre-apprenticeship 
program where the people who are hired into the apprenticeship work at 
the City for six months. In that time, they go through physical training, 
climbing training (wood poles), working on the line. They’re not out in 
the field, not allowed to do any electrical work, but they’re working on 
the ground and working with the crews. As long as you get positive 
reviews from crew chiefs, pass all of climbing school tests and working 
tests and gym tests, at the end of the six months youre offered an 
apprenticeship. So August 31 of 2011 was the first day he was an 
apprentice for the City. Quite a process from October of 2010, when he 
closed the family business to March of 2011, when he started the process 
of becoming an apprentice with the City. Lot of change in that time.  
 
0:27:53.2 Skills necessary to be a good lineman: Ability to listen to 
instructions, then take those instructions and perform them right away. 
Being detail-oriented, having a thick skin on the job. Because on-the-job 
training to become a lineman is an unforgiving place. A lot of teamwork, 
lot of camaraderie. Journeymen are there to keep you safe and train you 
to be a lineman. You can take or leave the training. Every lineman, every 
groundman on a crew has something to offer. You can choose to take that 
information or not. But almost all of that information is to keep you 
safe and make you a better worker.  
 
0:29:27.3 An apprenticeship is a short amount of time. About 3-1/2 years 
to go from a brand-new apprentice to a journeyman. In the course of a 20-
30 year career, that’s just the blink of an eye. It’s an intense amount 
of time to take in a lot of information and become completely proficient 
at what you do. There are a lot of hazards in the trade, and it’s up to 
you to keep yourself and those around you safe, to start learning how to 
watch everyone else’s back in addition to your own.  
 
0:31:04.8 There are always some initiation-type jokes. All meant in fun. 
Ryan can’t disclose too many of them because it would let the cat out of 
the bag.  
 
0:32:07.3 A typical day for Ryan: Starts early, at 7:45 am Monday through 
Friday, on the dock. The dock is where all the trucks are lined up and 
all the transformers and materials they might need are kept. All the 
workers, crew chiefs, supervisors, journeymen to apprentices and material 
suppliers, meet on the dock and assemble the crew for the day. They have 
a safety stand-down every day, 5-10 minutes where they talk about safety. 
Clean-up salvage from the previous day is dealt with first--emptying the 
trucks, cleaning and restocking them. He meets with the crew chief and 
linemen and prepares for the project they’ll do that day. Some days are 
routine, the same thing over and over, and that isn’t necessarily good 
for keeping your safety at the forefront. It’s good to mix it up so 
you’re questioning your work methods and safety.  
 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
4
0:34:22.7 Then take a break and meet up at the job site. Perform the work 
for the day, then when it’s done clean up and go back to the shop.  
 
0:34:45.4 As an apprentice, Ryan gets rotated from crew to crew. The 
length of time being on a crew is from one month to 4-6 months, depending 
on what the job assignment is, what the apprentice needs. Right now Ryan 
is on a crew for 2 months, then he leaves that crew and goes to 2 other 
crews for one month each, then he comes back to his original crew for 2 
months.  
 
0:35:41.9 Ryan is on a small crew that has one foreman, or "crew chief," 
three linemen and Ryan, the apprentice. That’s a typical small crew, four 
workers plus an apprentice. A large crew can be 6-7 lineman and a 
material supplier who stays on the ground, a groundman, and the crew 
chief. In that situation, a crew chief is non-working, based on the 
contract between the union and the City.  
 
0:36:46.6 A small crew will often work on one or two poles, with a 
journeyman in the bucket and another journeyman or apprentice on the 
pole. You’d have another climber on an adjacent pole. A large crew 
typically travels with two bucket trucks so they can double their 
exposure. With a few climbers on poles, and a large crew, you can be 
working on every pole on a city street.  
 
0:38:09.6 A lineman’s job is to keep the power on. Ryan works for a 
utility, so most of what he does is distribution work. His specialty at 
the City is distribution, not building new transmission lines. 
Maintaining an aging system. A wood pole has a lifespan of 30-40 years, 
and the City has a lot of wood poles that are rotting and need to be 
replaced. The bread-and-butter of what he does is upgrades to the system. 
There are storms and outages that knock the power out, so they go out 
whenever that happens and as quickly and safely as possible restore the 
power. Maintenance of Seattle’s power system is really what they do.  
 
0:39:51.9 Clothing: In the event of an arc flash, all of the clothing has 
been certified that it will self-extinguish. If you’re caught in an arc 
flash, that heat with regular clothes will melt them or they’d catch 
fire. With their clothing, when the arc flash is extinguished, their 
clothes won’t continue to burn.  
 
Tools: Most basic are the personal protective tools: hard hats, safety 
glasses, gloves. Climbing tools include gaffs, the hook that’s attached 
to his foot and leg that allows him to climb a wood pole. He has a belt 
and a pole strap that goes around the pole so he can climb into position 
and put his weight into the belt, so both hands are free to work. 
Attached to that belt are all his hand tools to enable him to work in the 
air. They have bucket trucks that allow them to fly out in the air in 
three dimensions. That truck has a miniature crane on it called a jib 
boom, and that allows them to pick things up, such as the tops of old 
poles or transformers. When they work on electrical parts that are over 
5,000 volts, they’re required to use hot sticks, fiberglass sticks that 
are 6-8 feet long. They allow the linemen to stay far enough away from 
the conductor so that if an arc flash happens, the impact is minimized.  
 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
5
0:43:29.2 Other parts of the country don’t use hot sticks as much as 
they’re used in the Northwest. The reason for that is that it rains a lot 
here, and anytime you have water tracking across your body, that’s a path 
for the voltage. Being wet and that close to an energized conductor can 
be very dangerous. There’s a thin layer of silicone on the hot stick, so 
water shouldn’t flow down a hot stick, it should bead up into individual 
drops, preventing the current from flowing. They have rubber gloves that 
will keep you safe from the voltage, but the water is what you have to 
watch out for.  
 
0:45:21.2 What’s "not" routine is transmission work. As an apprentice for 
the City, Ryan doesn’t get a lot of exposure to transmission work and 
climbing and working on towers or steel. Rigging for transmission is 
something that doesn’t come up often and is exciting. Apprentices at the 
city spend 6 months in underground distribution, which can be anything 
from a street light hand hole to a large feeder vault.  
 
0:46:29.3 Definition of underground distribution: all lines are 
underground instead of on electrical poles. City of Seattle has a good 
network of underground distribution that is well laid out, consistent in 
its setup, so it’s fairly predictable. When you drive down a street with 
overhead lines, you can see most everything, where the conductors are, 
where the junction is during an outage. You can see wires lying on the 
ground that a tree may have pulled out.  
 
With underground it’s not that way: you open up a vault with thick wires 
coming out of a hole that junction to something and go to someplace that 
you can’t see. There’s a lot of unknowns. There’s labeling and tagging, 
but you don’t trust that. Never trust a tag. It can be a hint or a good 
clue about where the wire is from or going to, but the only way to know 
is to trace things out and test. If you’re going to work on a line, it 
has to be grounded and dead. The underground training is good in Seattle 
because there’s a lot of knowledgeable, specialized linemen who only work 
in the underground system so they’re well-versed in that work. Right now, 
Ryan prefers overhead work.  
 
0:49:26.2 With overhead and underground, you can look at a job, and the 
longer you’ve been around and the more experience you have, you know when 
something looks good and functions well. It’s something you can be proud 
of. Electrically, when everybody’s lights are on, you know you’ve done 
the job right. When your peers tell you it looks good and it was done 
well, then that’s something to be proud of.  
 
0:50:23.9 Ryan is a member of IBEW Local 77. In the trade he’s in, it’s 
led by safety. Most of the contract has to do with safety, making sure 
all of the rules agreed upon between the union and the City are being 
upheld. For him, that’s the value of the union. For those reasons, it’s 
important to have a strong union. It helps ensure that they’ve got strong 
health care benefits, good wages, good working conditions. With that as 
the focus, they’re well served.  
 
0:53:39.3 Ryan really worked to get into an apprenticeship. With VOLTA, 
31 started in the class. There are still guys looking to get into an 
apprenticeship. There’s not that many linemen in the country. Banding 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
6
together and attracting people who can work safely and respect the 
training aspect, those are important things. This type of work will 
always be here. Somebody’s got to do this trade, and it’s important that 
the union attract the best and brightest to do the work. It’s not always 
easy to do. It’s a good trade, it needs the right training and the right 
kind of mentality going into it, knowing that it’s something you really 
need to like to do.  
 
0:55:53.1 The best part of being a lineman is having the knowledge and 
skill to put out a very high quality product and really being your own 
best judge at how the work is done. He’s being trained to be a lineman, 
he’s not there yet. But he’s the best judge of the quality of his own 
work. When he sees a lineman doing a good job, skillfully in a short 
amount of time, you can see its high quality work. Maybe there’s an art 
to it. It’s a craft that takes a high level of skill, a lot of training. 
Working in the air and working from a pole, the longer you do it the more 
comfortable you get at it and the more fluid you get. That’s the great 
thing of having an on-the-job training program: you’re not applying as a 
lineman, you’re applying as someone who wants to "become" a lineman. They 
give you the time, training, and opportunity to develop.  
 
0:58:46.0 Ryan will advance to journeyman, he hopes, in a year and a 
half. His total apprenticeship is 7,000 hours, about three and a half 
years. The first two years is spent working “secondaries,” energized 
lines that are below 600 volts. The last year and a half of the 
apprenticeship, which he’s just begun, is working on high voltage lines. 
 
After completing the 7,000 hours you can take a written test for a City 
lineworker. Once you’ve accumulated three signatures from journeymen 
linemen who vouch for you, who will "sign your ticket," you take that 
ticket to the hall where you take a written test. When you pass that 
test, you’re a journeyman lineman. He is currently a "hot apprentice," 
because he can work on high voltage lines. But any apprentice is called a 
"Squeak." That refers to the sound of a new workers boots when you walk 
down a hallway--they squeak. Plus you look at somebody that has all 
brand-new tools, they all look squeaky clean. Ryan doesn’t know which one 
is true, but when somebody says "Squeak!" his ears go up because they’re 
probably talking about him. Also your reputation is still squeaky-clean--
you haven’t messed anything up yet!  
 
1:01:41.1 Ryan would encourage his sons to become linemen, if that’s what 
they wanted to do. Deciding what you want to be in life isn’t easy. He’s 
changed course several times. Those decisions never came easy. So if one 
of his boys says he wants to be a lineman, he’d encourage that.  
 
1:02:49.2 Ryan enjoys what he does now. It’s gratifying and challenging. 
This apprenticeship will come to a close, and he hopes that he’s good 
enough to be proud of his work and put out a quality product.  
 
END OF INTERVIEW 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
7