HOLLI BUTLER, Historic window preservation 
Katy Clune  0:00
I'm going to go ahead and hit record and get us started. Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell here, 
March 12 2021, at Double Hung windows in Greensboro. And we'll start by Holli just having 
you introduce yourself for the tape.
Holli Butler 0:19
Oh, yeah.
KC  0:19
Tell us who you are and what you do and we'll take it from there.
HB 0:22
Absolutely. I'm I'm Holli Butler from Chapel Hill, North Carolina. I went to school at UNC 
Greensboro for kinesiology and I really just needed a job my last six months of school. And I 
had a friend that knew somebody here, they showed me the shop and I came and looked around, 
I told him, I knew how to sand a little bit and stuff. So they hired me and, you know, after I 
graduated, they wanted me to stay. So I decided to stay and I'm here. I've been here for three, 
almost three and a half years now. So I'm really enjoying it. And I've always just been hands on 
kind of person. You know, I was in school for kinesiology. You know, that's like sport med but 
um...
KC  1:03
That was gonna be my first question.
HB 1:05
Yeah, oh was it? Yeah, I'm sorry.
KC  1:07
Haha, no that's ok!
HB 1:08
But, yeah, so I was in school for kinesiology. And yeah, I just found this job. And I really enjoy 
it. I don't know, it's very satisfying, restoration. Definitely.
KC  1:21
Tell us about Double Hung and specifically what you do for them.
HB 1:26
So at Double Hung, we restore windows. Wood, metal, just pretty much from--- shoot, I'm 
working on a job right now, the house was built in about 1870. So we work on houses from about
afc2020009_008--Holli Butler  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
1870, to I would say about 1970. Even, you know more recent sometimes but um... So what did
you what? Oh, what I do.
KC  1:57
Yeah, what you do with the company
HB 1:58
So I do a lot of things here, I definitely do repairs on the windows.  I know how to, first of all,
we take off, we take off all the paint we'll take them off, sand them, take out the glass, and then
we'll repair them. I can do all all of those things, I can reglass I put the glass back in, we reglaze
them, you know prime 'em, finish paint them and put them back in. I've actually been working in
the field the last about eight months. I've been a site supervisor. So pulling the windows out
making sure that everything's there, bringing them back to the shop and make sure everything in
the shop, you know. I'm also working with the windows that we pull. And then I'll also take them
back and put them back in. I've really been enjoying it. It's a niche. It's really cool.
Julia Gartrell 2:50
Can you unpack some of that terminology for us? So you said reglaze.Can you describe what
that is?
KC  2:57
So glaze holds in the glass, holds in the glass. It also keeps, you know, the air from coming in.
But it deteriorates over time. So it starts getting crack-y. It'll just fall out. So when we bring old
windows back, well, we'll take out that glaze. We'll cut them out, cut it out with a knife, put it in
the steamer sometimes because it's a hard substance. So we'll have to put it in the steamer to
soften it up. And we'll you know, we'll get it all out. We'll even take the glass out and clean it
because glass that old is just disgusting. Really it's so nasty--- it's so amazing to see how dirty
these things come in. And we make it seem like a very new product coming out. When we
reglaze them, we obviously use a new glaze. You have to use like a knife tool to pretty much, not
sculpt it, but, um...
JG  3:53
It's like a putty?
HB 3:54
It's a putty. Yes. Yeah, you use a glaze knife and just skim it in, skim it, you know, around the
glass to hold it in. Yeah, it's a good... and it'll get hard, you know, after about 90 days. I mean,
really, it probably takes about six months to really get fully set up. But yeah, glaze is a good
thing. We run into a lot of caulk, you know, back in the day, they probably just caulked it in, oh
it's so hard to get out. Sometimes it's just crazy, but...
afc2020009_008--Holli Butler  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
JG  4:35
What were the other things you said you do, you do sanding?
KC  4:38
I do. Yeah, we sand, strip the paint. So we scrape the paint off. So yeah, we bring the windows
in. We'll put them in the steamer, you know, get the glaze out, take the glass out. We'll take the
paint off, scrape it all off. It might, may need to take a day if the sash is still wet, whatever. Then
we'll send it---
JG  4:58
The sash?
HB 4:58
The sash--- the window. If it's still wet from the steamer you can't sand it the same day is the
wood or peal up, you know. So yeah, we'll wait another day we'll sand all the rest of it off make
it really smooth. And then repairs come in we have you know, we have a epoxies, we have a flex
tech we have, you know, hard pine for Dutchman's. If something is, you know, if the side of a
stile is broke off--- stile is the sides of the window and the rails are the top and the bottom of it.
So if anything, if a piece of wood is you know, broken off, we can repair that by a Dutchman,
which is pretty much putting another piece of wood in its place. Not a whole rail, just a little, you
know, just a little small piece of wood to fill that or we can use epoxies for you know, say rot or
termite damage. We'll put a bunch of wood hardener epoxies just to solidify everything in there.
And then we'll go and fill it in with Ab-- we have Abatron too.
JG  6:04
What? Sorry
HB 6:04
Abatron. It's this kind of like a car Bondo, but for wood. It has wood properties, you can sand it,
you can sculpt it, you can do anything with this it's a great product. So we use that, to restore.
Flex is a really good, it's really good too. Yeah, just rot, termite damage, we deal with a lot of
stuff like that. So even if we have to cut all that out and replace it, you know, we'll replace even a
whole bottom rail. If it's been weathered to death, I think about 30%, if 30%, or more of like a
rail or stile is damaged, then we'll just completely replace it. They'll run it in the shop it's going
to be the same, it's going to look exactly the same as what it did before. They have all the profile
bits, you know, to run those parts. And so yeah, I mean, we completely restore those windows.
They're not looking anything else then what they came in looking like, you know, except better.
When they go out, you know?
afc2020009_008--Holli Butler  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
JG  7:12
Always bettter.
HB 7:13
Defintiely.
JG  7:13
That's amazing to have the specialized equipment and materials to just do that one process.
KC  7:21
Yes,
JG  7:22
But it also goes across different types of processes. You're talking mostly about the wood, but
you also have like, metal....
KC  7:31
Um, yes, we have been bringing in metal sash. Personally, I haven't dealt, repairing them as
much. That's like welding, I just don't have much experience with welding or anything like that. I
would like to, I'd like to start working on them. But yeah, I've really been focusing on the wood,
you know. And we have multiple sizes, you know, it can be... and we call call them, like, lights,
like a 12 light would be it has 12 pieces of like that small, like that would be a four [gesttures at
4 and 12 paned window sashes] that'd be a 12 light right there. But yeah, we can go from
anywhere, you know, little six light little church, we go residential, commercial, and we do do
like churches, spiritual kind of stuff like that. So we go all over I mean, this is really a broad
business. Definitely.
KC  8:28
Does churches mean stained glass?
KC  8:31
We have done stained glass too.  Actually they just did Wake Chapel, and Wake Forest
University. Oh my gosh, it was beautiful. Huge. They had to get on scaffolding and stuff like
that, like three stories.  Very expensive glass and yes, stained glass. We don't have we don't have
stained glass in our shop. We keep DSB which is just flat, you know, flat glass. We have wavy
glass, that's just like scrap, that we'll use from other jobs if we don't use it. And then restover we
have restover and that's, it's like a factory wavy made. Like it's supposed to look like old glass,
but old glass they used to make it on site. So that's why all these crazy waves you see and
bubbles and stuff like that. There's never going to--- you see one little piece of you know six by
six. You'll never have a piece of glass like that again, because it was just you know, made on site.
afc2020009_008--Holli Butler  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
No type--- its the waves will never be like that. That's why it's price--- priceless to me. I've never
even paid attention to glass or windows until this job. And now I just I'm obsessed I love glass I
love, you know, stuff like that, things that you wouldn't think you liked until you work with it.
JG  9:48
So the wavy glass you have in your shop here is actually all very old. It's like salvaged from
other projects?
KC  9:57
We do have some that salvaged, and then we'll use that restover from... but we did a big job and
they'd let us keep--- they didn't even want their glass, you know, so they'd let us keep some of it
and why not? Reuse. I mean, if if it's from the 1920s why wouldn't we use it in people's houses
that want it? You know, they want that wavy glass. Definitely.
JG  10:22
Okay. Is this a myth that very old panes of glass are thicker towards the bottom?
KC  10:31
Um, I have not heard that. Um, in my experience, I haven't seen that. I'm not seen that it's thicker
at the bottom. It kind of would make sense to me if it's thicker at the bottom, like a bottom rail,
and thicker. Yeah, if it's at the bottom, it would make sense if it if it could be a little bit thicker so
the rainwater wouldn't get in there as easy. That would make sense but I have not ran into that. I
don't think.
JG  10:59
I feel like maybe that's an urban ledgend that I heard that like very old glass it's still moving and
flowing.
KC  11:06
Well, oh, you're saying it's just settling at the bottom? Wow. Very possible. I don't know. I have
no. heard that. I don't know if it's still moving. Because I feel like it's solid, but they could have
made it like that. Yeah, I felt like they could have
JG  11:20
Yeah, that's true.
HB 11:22
Yeah, definitely.
KC  11:24
afc2020009_008--Holli Butler  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
Are there---  you just said a lot of window vocabulary I've never heard, that's super cool. But  do
certain, like are there standard styles of windows that have names?
KC  11:36
Um, yes. So we have the double hung which the top--- the top and the bottom are operational. So
the top will move down and they're on ropes. They're on ropes, pulley, a pulley system. So say a
sash window is 10 pounds. Well, you're gonna have a five pound weight on each side. So you
can move it you know, every little centimeter you can move it down if you want. It's not going to
slam up, down. So that's double hung. We have transoms, one that just sit in the hole. We have
casements, ones the open on hinges. Transoms, casements, double hungs. We have, we have
single hungs too. That's just you know one single. Yes.
KC  12:28
I only know French doors.
HB 12:30
French doors
KC  12:32
And mabe windows?
HB 12:33
Yeah, we actually we have had a lot of doors come in here recently. I said I thought this was a
window company. Why are we having doors and shutters coming here? But yeah, we're working
with those too, French doors. And, and hardware too, Quinn does a great job. Y'all might talk to
her. How the hardware is cleaned. It is crazy. Now you see this old hardware people have painted
over it 20 times. It's gross. We all take all that paint off and Quinn'll clean it up on a, you know,
on a wheel, a wire wheel. It is gold. It's brass. Beautiful. People love it. You know hinges, we do
all of it. Yeah, really clean people's stuff up.
KC  13:15
How many people would you say work on one window with the different skills that come
together?
KC  13:23
How many people on one, like, single one that comes in there? You know, there might be one
person that takes the paint off and sands it you know passes it to... It really depends, honestly on
how many are there you know people do--- we can do piecework or we can do where everybody
in the shop is just kind of, you know, you're just set on this for the day. It could be I mean--- five
people could touch one of them or one person, you know, could just do the whole thing theirself.
afc2020009_008--Holli Butler  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
No, it really depends on if we have 100 you know, if we have 100 that come in, one person is not
going to work on all of those, you know. They'll they'll have a couple people, maybe four people
that are taking all the paint off and those people might do the sanding too, but then they pass
them to a whole new--- they pass them to the repairs. And then there might be three different
people that are doing repairs and, you know, then they'll pass them to glassing. You know, they
need to be glassed, whoever's faster and whatever at glassing, they'll do them. You know, Laura's
are big finish painter. I mean, she's just really good at it. So, she finished paints a lot of our stuff.
And so does Benny; he has his own company, but he'll do that. But I mean, I would say, I mean,
there's no telling how many... it can it can go from five to ten to just one I would say.
KC  14:47
And tell us about how you were trained when you started on the job and how, like what you've
done is changed over the years.
HB 14:54
Yeah, um, so I was trained by Devin. He was actually the manager here. The shop manager when
we started he, pretty much--- I mean, I knew how to sand. It's not rocket science to take paint off
and sand. But repairs, yeah, I mean it definitely, I think I started repairs about two weeks into this
job--- two to three weeks in this job--- which they were kind of like, that's weird you're, you
know, you're starting a little early for repairs. But, I just, he taught me how to replace glass
tracks. Glass tracks are where the glass like sits in there. You know, sometimes they'll be rotted,
whatever. Replace those, he taught me how to put epoxy in places that, you know, if a chunk is
missing out of the wood, I can put that, you know, just pretty much put it back. I had the
carpenter here teach me Dutchman's and how to use the bandsaw. And the table saw which I'm
not--- the table saw is not my favorite thing to work on. I mean, if I have to I'll do it. But I mean,
what I normally do in there, I don't need the table saw I can do it on, you know, the bandsaw or
smaller stuff.  But glassing, I had, I never thought I would catch on to glassing. I never thought
I'd learn how to cut a piece of glass or anything. Scott taught me. And that's literally one of my
favorite things to do here is glass, I just love it. I mean, I, I had to do it for like six months, I
think. At one point, we had some people, you know, they might have left or whatever. And there
was nobody that knew how to glass. I was just doing that for straight six months, you know, just
slinging glass around. I just loved it.  But I had to teach some other people how to do that,
because I had to be at other places, too. I just couldn't be at one.
KC  16:50
Why do you love working with glass so much?
KC  16:53
I don't know, because I've never worked with it. You know, I've been, I don't know, I've always
you know, my dad had a, he had a metal shop. And I would always sand, I'd just go get
afc2020009_008--Holli Butler  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
sandpaper and just sand stuff just for fun, you know, metal stuff. But I'd never worked with glass
like that. And I never even understood how--- we have a little tool that will just score it, it'll just
make a little line on it. And it will just break right off. And it's it's very satisfying. Honestly, it's
just one of those things. It's like, wow, this is really cool. And I'm getting good at it. You know,
just get confident in things that you can do fast get faster at, you know,
KC  17:31
We talked to a guy who repairs, like upright basses, and he actually uses shards of glass to do
really fine scraping on the wood.
HB 17:43
Oh, wow.
KC  17:43
So he showed us his like glass box where he'll break it to try to get it to that perfect curve.
KC  17:48
How about that?
KC  17:49
Yeah. I wasn't expecting that from him.
KC  17:52
Yeah.
KC  17:56
So how has the company changed over the past three and a half-ish years?
KC  18:04
Um, I would say in a good way. You know, when I when I first started, it might have been more
of a, maybe a mom and pop kind of company. You know, I mean, it's still it's still like that we're
just, we're a big family here, you know. Nothing that has changed that much. I feel like what we
have been working towards, we're trying to get more things done. We've organized the shop a lot
better that--- oh my gosh, you should have seen how it looked when I first started. And now it's a
lot more open. We've got a lot more space, we have this building [next door that we are
interviewing in]. This wasn't here. This just got here about six months, or you know, I don't
know, about eight months ago, we just got this building. And we haven't, we're not even utilizing
it yet. We're just, it's just storage right now. But, you know, I mean, people I've been working
with a lot of the same people that started when I started. Even though some people have come
and gone, you know. But we still have our, I think we still have a strong base here. And, you
afc2020009_008--Holli Butler  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
know, management, they're doing the best they can. And I think it's I think that we have, we're
gonna grow in a better way than we ever had before. Definitely. Commercial wise, you know,
residential, whatever it is, I think.
JG  19:25
Do you see yourself staying in the repair industry?
KC  19:30
I do. I really enjoy what I'm doing right now. I do live in Chapel Hill. So that that is annoying. I
do have a little a little 45 minute drive here that and I've been doing that for two years now. But
it's worth it. You know, it's definitely worth it to me to be working here. And I can see myself
being here for a long time.
JG  19:50
Are you full time? You work every day?
HB 19:52
Yes, ma'am. I am.
JG  19:55
We just came in here from Durham
HB 19:57
I did live in Green[sboro]. That's when I started. I was in school in here in Greensboro. So I
worked from here about--- I don't know, maybe six to eight months before I moved back, you
know? But yeah, I've just, I've just been enjoying it. I can't let go of something that I enjoy. You
know? Definitely. It's very satisfying. Cleaning up. I mean, even customers, they're just so happy
when we bring back their windows. I mean, the last the last job I did, we pulled her windows out
and covered them up, you know, we covered the hole with plywood and like a Tyvek. And she
was saying, Oh, that looks so good. I'm like, lady we  ain't even brought back your windows yet.
Can't wait till we do!
KC  20:47
And help us understand, like how, I mean, I've definitely haven't ever heard of a company that
just specializes in window restoration.
HB 20:56
Yeah,
KC  20:57
afc2020009_008--Holli Butler  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
Do you have a sense of like, how unusual Double Hung is?
KC  21:01
Yes, I definitely think it's, it's a niche. And very--- I mean, I haven't seen another window
company, maybe new windows, you know. I'll see 'em go down the road, new. Whatever they
are, but I've never seen--- I mean, I see restoration people, but I don't see window restoration,
specifically. I have not seen it. And that's why I'm into it. You know, I just it's just one of those
things that you know... They're just they're pushing for, I think in the 90s, too, they really pushed
for the new windows: get rid of your old ones, we want, you know, you want new windows. And
I think those were actually, they were made so cheap. But they were also sold for pretty
expensive, right? I mean, I don't know, I'm a 90s. Baby. So I really don't know that. But I know
what we do is, is very important, too. Because there's historic districts, that they won't let you
just replace your windows. They won't even let you paint your room a certain color without you
going and asking them first, you know. So there has to be people that that do window restoration.
And, you know, I mean, even even too where there's five layers of paint and they can't even open
the window. I just went to a job yesterday, where that's all--- I mean, we installed some doors,
but she just wanted her kitchen window to roll up or just to go up. You know, it was just stuck.
There's no telling how many people just need that done. You know?
JG  22:38
I grew up in an old house and that sounds very familiar!
HB 22:42
Yeah, yeah.
JG  22:44
Do you find yourself getting interested in the history side? I mean, you're doing the site work
now?
KC  22:50
Yeah.
JG  22:51
Are you? What haveyou learned about, you know, this area's buildings?
KC  22:58
Actually, yeah, I had--- I didn't think I was into history, you know, other than maybe the battles
and stuff like that, but I really am into it. I have a job, it's called the Holly Bend. job, Holly Bend
house. And that house was built in like, it's about 1870, 80, something like that. And they have
such intricate work in that house. It's I don't even know how they did it. I really don't know how
afc2020009_008--Holli Butler  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
they did it. Crazy, you know, crown molding designs and everything in there. Yeah, I'm very
interested in, in learning more about the history I have learned a lot about, you know, like,
lead---you know, we, that is a very big part of our job is having to deal with lead. It's not good
for your body. They used to put, yeah, lead in paint. So we're sitting here scraping and sanding
lead paint. So that that can't you know, it's not healthy. But also that's what they used to put in
paint to make it solid or, you know, whatever they did for that. But yeah, I am more...
JG  24:10
Is there someone on site that if you have a historical question that they're like your go to?
KC  24:15
Um, yes, there usually is. I mean, I have been doing more site supervising, but I have had like a
mentor there too to help me understand, you know, better ways of preserving things versus
others. You know, you don't want to just throw a bunch of epoxy into something that's rot-rotten,
you know. You can't do that, you want to cut out the rot and then maybe make a Dutchman. And
if you have to use epoxies with it, then you do that. But that's, that's the more historic way to do
it. You know, trying to preserve as much history as we can. I did the Colonial Inn in
Hillsborough. I don't know if y'all know?
KC  24:54
I think I know that actually.
HB 24:55
Y'all should check that out. That is a really cool place. I really can't remember when it was built.
I mean, I feel like it was 1800s.
KC  25:03
Is it just on one of those side streets off of Main?
HB 25:06
Uh huh.
KC  25:06
Yeah. I know what you're talking about.
HB 25:07
Yeah. Oh my gosh, it was, it looked so bad. And I've seen pictures, it was so bad. And all the
work I saw from when we pulled the windows out. I mean, it was a it was a skeleton of a
building. You know, all the work who--- all the people that were involved with that oh my gosh,
it was crazy. But I got a lot of comments from the, the electricians, the general contractors and
afc2020009_008--Holli Butler  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
stuff that they, they were amazed when we brought those windows back, they said you really
have made the face of this building. Like it's, it's the jewelry, and that's what I've heard is
windows are like the jewelry or the face or the beauty of whatever. And if you look at Colonial
that really shows it too. Definitely.
KC  25:50
If that's what I'm thinking of, it is, it's like almost all windows.
HB 25:52
Yeah, yeah. They transformed it looks---- I need to go back there. It's about only, what, 20
minutes from where I live from there. So I'm gonna have to go have a have a brunch or
something there. Definitely.
KC  26:05
It's nice to be able to, I mean, have you, you say you want to but have you ever had other
opportunities to go back and see the work you've done for like years later? And like, feel that
pride of I helped make that?
KC  26:20
Yeah, I have. I mean, I've seen the final product, you know, of when we're done. Colonial, like, I
haven't been inside. Like, I really would just like to go inside and look, but I have rode by, you
know. I have to do a little ride by sometimes. But residential places I haven't checked out
completely, you know. If I if I just go help at a job, you know, like, I have a couple jobs in
Raleigh. And actually, I liked, I really liked one of the ladies that who owned that house her
mom was so sweet. I gave her some pickles one time, she was just, I would love to like go back
and just see how they were doing and how everything turned out because I didn't see the final
stuff. So I would like to do that. But I have seen like the Colonial I have I have seen a lot of them
come together. Definitely. And it's yeah, this feels good. Yeah.
KC  27:14
And you said about now about half of the people who work in the shop are women?
HB 27:18
I would, I would say so. I really would. At least 40%. Definitely. There's a lot of yeah, a lot of
women in there, they know what they're doing. I mean, we have Laurie she's, well, Matt and Lori
are running the shop. But Lori is--- she knows her stuff. She was trained by me. That's why. I'm
just kidding. But um, yeah, she knows all her stuff. And there's all the girls in here. They're,
they're really good. Definitely.
KC  27:52
afc2020009_008--Holli Butler  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
And I think you were telling us earlier, but we weren't recording it. You were saying, do you
think there might be like, women are naturally more inclined to have attention to detail?
HB 28:05
Yeah, I've just I've always heard that, that women pay more attention to detail. And sometimes I
can see that, you know. I'm going through I'm sanding I'm seeing things just that pop up that
maybe other people don't see. You know, I'm not saying you know, one's better than the other but
I feel like yeah, women--- and Laura, her finish painting. Like it's just perfect. You know, she's---
but I don't even know. I think women do have a place in this, in this industry. Definitely. I don't
think it's just one gender. I think anybody can work here and make a living. Be happy. Be
satisfied. You know.
KC  28:51
And it's so cool that you found this career path that you love. When you know you--- it's very
different from sports medicine.
HB 28:59
Yeah, it is. It's a lot different. Yeah, I did want to do physical therapy and stuff. But now after
working here and stuff, I'm thinking--- I like, you know, I like what I wear. I'm not--- I don't want
to be in a clinic. I don't really want to do that every day. I don't want to go and have to be on a
computer and I think I would go crazy. If I had to be on a computer or something like that all
day. I'm a very, very hands on person. So I really do enjoy what I found and what I do, you know.
KC  29:31
Any crazy stories of like unexpected things found in old windows or like signatures by old
window hangers?
HB 29:39
You know, I feel like I found a UNC--- no maybe it was NC State. Maybe it was the State  versus
UNC It was like a ticket like used a shim. I don't even--- it was the craziest thing that--- I mean
not the craziest, I mean, I've definitely seen a lot of things, working with 'em. Bugs crawl out of
them all the time. I'm trying to think though, what'd you say? What'd you say the craziest thing
that I've seen? .
KC  29:43
Yeah. Or like I've asked her in part because, like, for example, we talked to someone who does
plaster restoring.
HB 30:24
Uh huh.
afc2020009_008--Holli Butler  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
KC  30:25
He said like when he was repairing a wall that his grandad actually made, he found like horsehair
in it, because that's how they used to fix the like, baselayer.
HB 30:38
Oh, wow.
KC  30:39
Or um...
JG  30:41
They found signatures
KC  30:42
Oh yeah! They'd like sign the inside of a chimney.
HB 30:46
Oh, yeah.
KC  30:46
I was wondering about like the like--- 'cause you're working with your hands on the windows,
and so did someone...
HB 30:53
Oh, definitely
KC  30:54
....when they were made in the 1870s
HB 30:54
Yeah, definitely. I mean, that ticket was pretty crazy to find. Not gonna lie. I'm trying to think...
KC  30:54
I mean you haven't worked for that long.
HB 30:54
I don't know what they--- I mean, just on the side of the window. It was wild. I'm trying to think,
JG  31:12
afc2020009_008--Holli Butler  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
When I was young I used to like, drop stuff. Because, you know, in the old double hung, there's
like, a gap where the weights are?
HB 31:18
Uh huh.
JG  31:19
I would like, drop stuff down there.
HB 31:21
Oh, would you?
JG  31:22
Like inside the wall.
HB 31:23
There's no tell--- I mean, I don't really dig my hand in there to try to find out what's in there.
KC  31:28
You told us it was gross.
HB 31:29
Yeah, it's, I mean, it's a very dirty job. It can be you know, I mean. There've been--- even the
weights, pullin' out the weights. I mean, my hands are black. When, after, if I don't wear my
gloves, you know, stuff like that. I had something---
JG  31:47
What's your favorite part of a day in the life? Like, what if you're coming to work and someone's
like, you're on this job? What are you feeling like, is an exciting....
HB 31:58
Like, my favorite, my favorite is, um, let's say like a residential. "Holli, you have, here's a cart of
20 windows, I need these all repaired in three days", or, you know, I need something like----
pinpoint, I just need a goal to reach you know. I need all the, all these 20 sash, I need them
abated and sanded this week. Or I need them all repaired, or, you know, I just need to have a goal
of--- and I'll set it out, you know, I'll do all my repairs on one and get them like, or say like 15
sash. I'll get them all done, repairs on there, get them all on the rack, make sure everything's
done. And then so the next day, I mean, you know, I go home, I can rest and I wake up, I'm like,
good, I know what I'm doing. I'm going in and I'm sanding off all my repairs that I did. And then
I'll be able to prime them, you know, and send them to the next person or I'll do it myself. You
afc2020009_008--Holli Butler  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
know, whatever it is, but I just I need to--- I love to have the goal or a goal in mind pretty much 
of what I need to have done. And you know, I really don't mind what I'm doing, you know, they 
can put me on glass and glazing, repairs, abating, I really don't care. Either one, you know, I 
might not want to do sanding for three weeks straight. I might not enjoy that that much. But I 
like to switch it up every now and then definitely.
JG  33:21
Where does your mind go? If you are stuck on something kind of mind numbing, like sanding?
HB 33:25
You know, we have a, we have a big job,  Cone Manor [Flat Top Manor, Moses H. Cone 
Memorial Park] in right now. And there's a ton of windows a ton of like the balusters--- I don't 
know if you see those balusters back there, we have a ton of those. And sometimes it's just what 
you got. You got to do what you got to do. I bring my headphones, I like to listen to music. I 
listen to some podcasts sometimes. Just to get me through the day. I mean, I'm not gonna if I got 
to sand for three weeks, I'll do you know. Yeah, sometimes, I mean--- I'm not gonna say boring, 
but it can, it's just the same thing over and over. But that's not a bad thing either. Because then 
you get in a rhythm and you do it, you get faster and faster. You figure out different ways to do it. 
So, I mean, that's why I do like doing things for a--- you know, for a while, maybe three weeks, 
then I really know what I'm doing. But at the same time, sometimes it, it can be exhausting and 
be like alright, I kind of feel like doing something else at the same time. Can I go to glass real 
quick? You know? Yeah.
KC  34:29
That's nice, but y'all can mix it up. And not just do the same thing all the time.
HB 34:33
Yeah.
KC  34:34
So when you started you said that Double Hung works on windows from about 1870 to about 
1970--- what's that cut off? Is it, like, what happens in 19--- in the 70s?
HB 34:47
Um, I guess maybe new windows come in, or like, the newer like, vinyl and stuff like that. I'm 
not gonna say I mean, I'm just not I'm not an expert on this. I mean, we may work on a house 
from the 90s I just--- err not the, I wouldn't say the 90s probably like the 80s. But like, I'm 
thinking about the house I grew up in my windows from the 90s. I mean, they, they're insulated 
glass. But we do have stuff that comes in there. I guess I shouldn't cut it off at 1970 because we 
do have insulated glass. So we have to reorder insulated glass and come in. So I guess I could be 
wrong about that, um, the 1970. But I would say we could, we work on even probably, I don't
afc2020009_008--Holli Butler  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
know if we've worked on anything before 1870 maybe a colonial if that was--- but I don't I don't
know the cut off. I mean, I feel like we would work on anything, that, but not really vinyl. Like
we're not into we don't do that. We, we do the wood restoration, metal, stuff like that if people
want vinyl or storm windows we will order them and we'll put them in for them. You know, it
was we don't restore vinyl, you know, windows. We do more historic--- it's on the weights it's on
spring balances its on--- actually, that Holly Bend job I've never seen--- but this on the right side
of the windows are actually cut like a stair. Instead of being on ropes they're cut. The bottom
sash is cut like a stair. And you have to press this thing in on the side to raise it up one stair level.
Ah, yeah, each time.
JG  36:30
Oh, I saw that in there!
HB 36:31
But yeah, they don't have a lock though. So when you roll it all the way down, that pin is holding
that top sash in. So you don't have to lock it there's no way that top--- the top sash is not going to
come down because it's being held in by a piece of wood. There's no way you're going to break
in. You don't need a lock because of that stair system. I've never seen it and I went to the house
and I pulled them out and I loved it. So we don't have to re-rope. We don't have to--- this is great.
But I can't imagine the carpenters that worked on that and how they did that.
JG  37:00
It's very precise and very creative engineering.
HB 37:03
Yeah, definitely. Even the pieces the, the metal pieces that we had to push in to roll it up. You
could tell that they were made by a blacksmith because the piece of metal was--- it was almost
like bent like this. It had to be hated. And he had to beat it somehow. I don't know how they did
it. But yeah, it's a cool, it's definitely a cool mechanism there.
KC  37:24
Do you do anything creative outside of the job, like work with your hands outsideof work?
HB 37:30
I do like to garden. I have a I have a nice garden and---
KC  37:34
I just started my seeds.
HB 37:36
afc2020009_008--Holli Butler  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
Yeah?
KC  37:36
Yeah, I'm like worried they're all dead already.
HB 37:39
Yeah, no, I'm actually I probably need to do that in the next like two weeks. Start. I still need to
de-weed my garden first. That'll be fun. But yeah, I do I do that. Um, I like, I like to fish. I like to
ride four wheelers. I'm just an old country girl.
KC  37:58
And we ask everybody this question. It's a little weird, but go with it. What's your favorite tool
on the job?
HB 38:05
My favorite tool? Hmm. I don't think I've ever been asked that.
KC  38:11
I'm not surprised.
HB 38:13
Huh. Well. I don't know. I guess I'll just say a hammer. A mallet--- do destructive things. There
you go. But I really do like the glass cutters. That's a really cool--- just something I've never seen
before and never worked before until this job. And it's just it's got a little piece of, I don't know,
just a little blade on it that scores the glass and you can cut it. We actually have a thing, a glass
cutter, but it's on rollers. So I might have like a big piece of glass and it's got like, six rollers on
it. I can roll it on the glass and the cutter extends it probably goes about two feet. So if I wanted a
piece of glass at 15 inches, I can set it you know, 15 inches. There's my cutter. Here's my roller.
Put it on there, roll it all the way across. That, you know what? Forget the hammer. That's my
favorite. Forget the hammer. That's my favorite tool. Definitely. Yeah. Yeah, it is actually, can
probably show y'all when we go in there.
KC  39:20
Any other questions, Julia?
JG  39:23
Is there anything you feel like we didn't ask you about terms of your job or your relationship to
repair or you just want to have on the record?
HB 39:32
afc2020009_008--Holli Butler  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
I don't. Um, nah I mean, just Double Hung in general is--- I just really feel like it's a great
company. It's a great, you know, niche to have. We're a huge family. Everybody likes each other
in there we don't have, you know, many issues. Yeah, it's just one of those--- I really enjoy
working here. Never, never even looked at a window like I do now. I can't even drive down the
road without having a wreck. Oh wow! You know, or if somebody else is driving them, that's all
I'm doing is just checking out their windows going down the road. So funny. I never did that
before. But now I see how important--- they really are important and people, the customers and
stuff. They can be funny about their windows for sure. But um, yeah, I mean, I just I really enjoy
working here and it's a great thing they got going on. Definitely. You got to keep history
preserved if you can. In buildings. [laughs]
KC  40:41
Most of history.
HB 40:42
Most of history. Yes. Windows, that's what I meant. Definitely what I meant.
JG  40:50
Well thank you so much.
HB 40:50
Yeah, absolutely.
JG  40:52
It was so great to talk to you.
HB 40:53
Yeah, it was great.
afc2020009_008--Holli Butler  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell