Wakefield, Tommy 
Interviewed by Christopher Sims 
September 29, 2017 
 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:00:00]: --open house and I had seen Thunderbird 
but I never have seen the Blue Angels, and they were there and 
they had a static display with different aircrafts and got to 
talking to this one fella who’s a—he’s a pilot of a B-52 and 
they were selling these and…he said—we talking--and he said his 
longest mission in the air that he’s ever flown was thirty-nine 
hours.  
 
SIMS: That’s there and, there and back? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:00:37]: I said “now if you left”—I thought to 
myself, “if you left Barksdale Air Force Base in Shreveport and 
you fly for thirty-nine hours round-trip, you was on the other 
side of the world when you started back home.” I just wonder how 
many times he would have to refuel.  
 
SIMS [00:00:55]: Yeah, that’s amazing…and then, I mean do they 
sleep? Do they alternate, or— 
 
WAKEFIELD: You would think that he and the co-pilot would have 
to. 
 
SIMS: Right, I mean it would…just be too dangerous otherwise.  
 
WAKEFIELD: And they had the new fighter, the F-35. 
 
SIMS: The, yeah. 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:01:19]: They didn’t want people touching it. Stay 
away. I don’t know if the aircraft metal on it was metal or 
something. 
 
SIMS: Is that already in production? I know they’ve been working 
on it for a long time. 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:01:36]: They—well it’s the latest fighter that 
they had, that they’ve added. It’s supposed to be a lot better 
in so far as being able to get away from radar. 
 
SIMS: Right. Alright, so…if you, if we could start by if you 
could say your name and spell it.  
 
WAKEFIELD [00:02:01]: Tommy Wakefield. T-O-M-M-Y W-A-K-E-F-I-E-
L-D.  
 
SIMS: And where do you live, Tommy? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:02:14]: I live here in Leesville Louisiana. 
 
SIMS: And could you tell me a little about before you did role 
playing, like the types of—I know we covered this a little bit 
while walking—but the type of work that you did? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:02:35]: I worked for the United Postal Service and 
retired after a little over thirty-four years, in nineteen 
ninety-six, in December. 
 
SIMS: And what, what did you do for the postal service? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:02:44]: I was a clerk and I met the public at 
what, we always referred to as a ‘window job.’ And I did that.  
 
SIMS: And since you were in Leesville where Fort Polk was during 
that time, what was your experience like with the military or 
your impression of what was happening at Fort Polk? 
 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:03:07]: It, well when I first started with the 
postal service I was working at the post office on post, I 
worked there for seventeen years. And I got to know a lot of the 
men who were in and out and this was back during the time of the 
Vietnam Era. And I met a lot of good men, and men that I would 
trust with anything I had. And I always had a good rapport with 
them and tried to do whatever they needed done in so far as the 
postal service was concerned. And…I guess that’s one reason I 
liked what I did after I retired. 
 
SIMS [00:03:56]: So how—did you know about role playing when you 
were in the postal service? Was— 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:04:01]: Right, within six, seven months prior to 
my retirement I’d see men come in and they’d be wearing a cap 
that would say ‘fire markers.’ Or I’d see one that would say 
‘civilians on the battlefield.’ Well, unbeknownst to me I didn’t 
know what that was. So I’d asked either one, like for instance—
the fire markers I said “now what do you all do?” They’d say 
“now we set off pyrotechnics that replicate artillery, mortar 
rounds, and bombs.” And then civilians on the battlefield were 
the people that occupied the villages that had interaction with 
the troops here for the training. And I knew some of the people 
that worked there and after I retired I had to have something to 
do to occupy my time. So I applied, was selected, and got hired, 
and the rest of it. For almost eighteen years. 
 
SIMS [00:05:11]: Well let’s talk, I know what the villages are 
like now but I’m really interested to know in—this is nineteen 
ninety…seven? 
 
WAKEFIELD: Seven.  
 
SIMS: So pretend I don’t know anything about the box, like, and 
we’re in nineteen ninety-seven, tell me what you see like the 
first time you went into the box, like…what existed? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:05:31]: Some of, some of the villages back then 
were—well when I went to work, the biggest village was one they 
referred to as ‘Shughart-Gordon,’ where—which is named after the 
two men that was killed in Somalia. And then they had several 
villages that had small buildings, wooden buildings in them, and 
that’s the ones we occupied. And we, we’d go there, and stay 
during the day and then we would have some people who came late 
in the evening and would spend the night, and we’d go out the 
next morning and relieve them. And they would come in and come 
back that night. But…villages were very small and they had some 
that had water pumps that we could carry a small trailer that 
had the pump and all on it, and we could hook it all up and it 
would pump water into the building. ‘Cause each one of them had 
a kitchen in it and…some awfully good cooks out there, too. 
But…it was, it was quite a deal. And…we…had to wear what they 
call ‘M.I.L.E.S.’ (Multiple Integrated Laser Engagement System) 
if we were shot or anything like that they would go off. And we 
still wore ‘em, even up until I left. 
 
SIMS [00:07:12]: So in that, those early years, how did 
people…how many other villagers would be at Shughart-Gordon with 
you? 
 
WAKEFIELD: How many individuals? 
 
SIMS [00:07:22]: Yeah, like… 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:07:24]: Probably twenty, maybe twenty-five at 
most. It was very small, we didn’t have that big a crew. 
 
SIMS: And were these—tell me who the other villages are? People 
like yourself, from the area? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:07:41]: Most of ‘em. And, and DeRitter and some of 
the surrounding areas. Some people from just across river in 
east Texas who were still out there and those people would get 
up and have to be at work at six in the morning—that’s quite a 
drive.  
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:08:03]: But we were all dedicated to it and 
believed in what we were trying to do. 
 
SIMS: So you mentioned cooking, and I don’t know if it changed 
over the years but could you tell me a little bit about like how 
that—because it sounds like you maybe stayed overnight which I 
think is maybe less common now, like how—how did it work? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:08:23]: Well we…we, we worked two shifts—we had a 
day shift. Most of the time the day shift would go in like at 
six o’clock in the morning and stay until six o’clock that 
evening. Well the second shift just reversed—they’d come in at 
six in the evening and stay ‘til six in the next morning. And we 
would relieve one another. And the thought was if you were 
cooking something and the troops here for the training, they 
could smell that, and it gave them a sense of “hey, these people 
live here.” And…that’s one re—one of the things, they said “if 
nothing else, just put a pot of onions or something on the 
stove.” 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:09:13]: Or something that would replicate the 
smell in a village. So that’s what we tried to do. 
 
SIMS [00:09:18]: And so did…basically certain people who were 
better cooks like kind of take those jobs? Or how did it, like— 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:09:26]: It just depends if they wanted to. They 
didn’t have to do it but a lot of them, a lot of the ladies 
would volunteer and do it. And we had an old boy—we all tickled, 
were tickled about having somebody would cook us a decent meal. 
 
SIMS: Right. Because you have probably have a bit more time out 
there than you would at a regular job, right? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:09:50]: Oh yeah. Well, we were twelve-hour days 
and…we had fun, we worked together, and did what the army was 
expecting of us, and tried to do whatever they wanted done. 
 
SIMS: Can you tell me about any particular meals that you 
remember as being really good or, interesting? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:10:14]: Some of the ladies would cook gumbo and 
we’d have taco soup, maybe. And just anything that you could 
cook a large portion of to be able to feed everybody in the 
village. That’s what we do—and everybody would contribute each a 
day—a dollar, two dollars—put it in the kiddy and these ladies 
would, after they’d get off they’d go to the store, buy the 
stuff they was gonna fix the next day because they’d fix a 
breakfast and a lunch. And we kept coffee and sugar and we all 
pitched in to keep that in, in play.  
 
SIMS [00:11:00]: Did they have, like a refrigerator out there? 
 
WAKEFIELD: We had a refrigerator and a stove. They was, it was 
an electric stove. Had a microwave in all the villages and…we’d 
bring the stove and the ice box and the microwave back in and 
turn it back into supply but it were provided for us and that’s 
the way we did it. 
 
SIMS: Did that change over time in terms of like— 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:11:32]: No it’s still much the same, to this day. 
They…try to feed everybody. 
 
SIMS: Yeah, it’s interesting that it becomes kind of like real-
life, right? Because you wouldn’t want to eat M.R.E.s [Meal, 
Ready-to-Eat]. 
 
WAKEFIELD. No, I have but…yeah we used to—the last day of the 
rotation, like for instance the one village that’s next to the 
farthest end, as we refer to ‘the range,’ I was at it a lot and 
at one time I was the work group leader, as they call it, but on 
the last day of the rotation the story line was that our country 
had invaded, been invaded by the opposing force and as they were 
moving north everybody was subject to be killed. So we left like 
refugees and would walk and start walking and we would walk up 
from—back then it was Jeetertown, and we would walk to Huffton, 
from Huffton up to the next village and generally around that 
third village we would be intercepted by the American Army and 
they would provide us with transportation to get us out of the—
deal. But…we walked. And this was, wasn’t a short distance. 
‘Cause, as you’ve been here, you go down past Dara Lam and go 
back to the east aways and then turn and south. And we’d be down 
at that village there. But we would interact with service men, 
and if we came on an American vehicle that was destroyed, if 
they had any water, we would take their water, M.R.E.s (Meals, 
Ready-to-Eat), the only thing we could not touch would be the 
sensitive items that belong to the American soldier.    
 
SIMS [00:13:53]: What do you think the hardest part of the job 
is? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:13:57]: Well, some—some of it is, you get kind of 
bored because some villages have more to do than others, just 
depends on how the fight’s going. Now in Shughart, that was 
generally the last battle of the, and would be the culmination 
of the rotation. And we’d go out there at like, like at five 
o’clock in the evening and the—the O.P.F.O.R. (Opposing Forces) 
would take the individuals and put ‘em in different buildings. 
And we had to do whatever they wanted to do. For instance, we’d 
holler “don’t shoot, don’t shoot, we’re up here, don’t shoot at 
us.” And…we’d watch the battle and it would be rather intense at 
times. And… 
 
SIMS [00:14:55]: Like, how long would that battle go sometimes? 
 
WAKEFIELD: All night, generally. It would be up close to 
midnight before the Americans would make their approach because 
they were having to come from the east side of the maneuver area 
and they would encounter small resistance in places and…and they 
would make their attack on the village and—it was very 
interesting, they would make it tough for the Americans to get 
in there. And one night, probably the most horrible thing I 
guess you can imagine, they had attacked the village from the 
southwest side and in the course of the battle that night—them 
trying to make their approach—two of the American soldiers had 
died in the battle. And it was very cool that morning and they 
had gotten wet crossing a little creek and they…had took their, 
as they referred to it, their snivel gear. And they laid down on 
the ground and covered up. Well in the heat of the battle they 
were, the Americans told their lead tank to pull-out and try to 
bridge the wire. Well when they moved that tank they ran over 
these two gentlemen and both of them was killed. And we stopped 
the fight right there for like two and a half hours. ‘Til they 
could get those guys out. And the battle captains said “alright” 
said “if we were over there we wouldn’t stop, we’d keep 
fighting, so let’s go.” So we went back to battle, continued, 
but it was—that was sad that night, that those two guys were 
killed in such a manner. But…that happens.  
 
SIMS [00:16:58]: So were they part of the O.P.F.O.R. or part of 
the group? 
 
WAKEFIED: That was part of the troops that were here for 
training. 
 
SIMS: Okay.  
 
WAKEFIELD: As we’d always call them, that was the blue force.  
 
SIMS: Wow, so how did the role players react when that happened? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:17:12]: Oh we all hated it, we were sad that, it 
took a whole lot out of—you could tell it bothered everybody. 
Not just the soldiers and all but even the civilians because, it 
was the first time we’d ever known of any one of them being 
killed. And it was right there within sight, almost. So it was, 
it was really unnerving that night. Nothing was—we didn’t, 
didn’t any of us want any hardships put on the Americans 
regardless of what it was. We, we wanted them to learn and learn 
from what their mistakes were over here that might help them 
somewhere else in this world.  
 
SIMS [00:18:02]: So during the times that were…when there was 
less going on in the village…like what were some of the 
activities you’d do? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:18:12]: Well we would, we would add stuff to the 
building, we’d build things—we could get lumber and stuff, and 
we had hammers and saws and nails and we’d build stuff—we’d 
build shelves in the kitchen for the ladies to put stuff on, or… 
we worked on—in there in Shughart Gordon, did you notice a 
little cemetery there? We constructed— 
 
SIMS: Outside, outside the fence. 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:18:38]: —all that. And there archway— 
 
SIMS: Or there’s one by the church, right? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:18:43]: They are up at the church, the archway—me 
and some other guys put that in. 
 
SIMS [00:18:49]: If I remember those are real gravestones that 
were like… 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:18:52]: I don’t know where they got ‘em but they 
got ‘em from somewhere. 
 
SIMS: Right. They’re actual stone, maybe they were mistake— 
 
WAKEFIELD: Yeah. 
 
SIMS: —names or something.  
 
WAKEFIELD [00:19:04]: And we…had a store and they had old 
clothes and different things, odds and ends inside the store. 
And we had a fire station, with an old fire truck. And then we 
had a police station, had a post office, in fact I worked in the 
post office. [laughing] 
 
SIMS [00:19:25]: [laughing] I was gonna ask you that, what was 
that like?  
 
WAKEFIELD [00:19:28]: And then we had a hotel, school, a bank, 
we even had a little veterinarian office—with a small corral and 
all.  
 
SIMS [00:18:39]: So was the post office accurate to your memory? 
 
WAKEFIELD: Oh we—well we had old, old post office boxes and 
stuff like that but other than—that was about it.  
 
SIMS [00:19:49]: I wonder if there was anything you had touched 
twenty years before? 
 
WAKEFIELD: No, I don’t think, I don’t think. I don’t believe 
they got ‘em from the post office in Polk—but they might have…I 
don’t know where they came from to be honest with you.  
 
SIMS [00:20:06]: So when you made the gazebo or the, the archway 
in the cemetery, did somebody tell you all to do that or was it 
a matter…like talk to me, tell me about like how you all decided 
to do that? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:20:21]: We…Okay, in each one of the villages we 
had what we called a work group leader. They were the ones who 
had more time or was felt like by the bosses that they were the 
ones they wanted to lead the village. And they would tell us 
what they wanted done, how they wanted it, and we would just get 
it done. You know just something to occupy our time when nothing 
was going on. And…it kept us busy, rather than just sit around 
and that gets old. I don’t mind doing something to just occupy 
our time.  
 
SIMS [00:21:05]: So each different rotation that you did, like 
you find yourself with, like mostly the same people from the 
previous rotation? Or how did, how did that like work? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:21:16]: Well, right at first it didn’t. I always 
felt like…if you had the same nucleus of people, if the American 
came in and something was said and maybe one of the role players 
started interacting with them about something, if we had been 
around one another enough we could pick up on where they were 
headed with what they were doing and we could join in on it. And 
I always felt like if you could do that with the same group of 
people and something was said—the others knew where or what was 
going on or be said or done, whether than if you had the 
different people every time they didn’t know what you were gonna 
do. And eventually that’s the way it was, so—it worked out a 
whole lot better. 
 
SIMS [00:22:17]: So basically the organizers…figured out that, 
exactly what you were saying was a good way to do it. And were 
you, I think you mentioned you were a group leader once, or… 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:22:32]: I was one group leader. 
 
SIMS: So tell me how that worked—is it something you apply for 
or they tap you on the shoulder and— 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:22:41]: More or less tap us on the shoulder and 
ask us if we’d, if we’d be willing to do it…Yeah, and I 
accepted. 
 
SIMS [00:22:49]: And tell me how that was different than…being a 
regular role player? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:22:53]: Well it was—that is just like any other 
job, you’ve got some that would do whatever you ask of them and 
then you’ve got some who didn’t want to do anything. But for the 
most part I always had a group that I could rely on and they 
would do whatever I asked and we really got along well—just like 
a big family. But we worked at it. And…I wouldn’t ask someone to 
do something that I myself would not do—that’s the way my dad 
taught me and I wasn’t gonna ask you to do something that I 
wouldn’t do. But…we worked at it and got things accomplished, 
and then later one…I moved up to what they call a shift leader 
and I was a shift leader for about two and a half, three years. 
And— 
 
SIMS [00:23:53]: And what’s the different between a group leader 
and a shift leader? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:23:59]: We…would wear, we wore a khaki uniform or—
and we would go around and we were out of the play. We ask if 
they were getting what they wanted from the role players, we 
would help with certain events that they wanted done—how they 
wanted it done, and that’s what we did—just make sure everything 
was going like they were expected.  
 
SIMS [00:24:30]: Like management?  
 
WAKEFIELD: They said exactly like what it amount to. I had three 
people under me, other shift leaders—had three under me at the 
time—and we worked at it, tried to get everything accomplished. 
 
SIMS [00:24:50]: So if there was somebody—if you’re a group 
leader and a shift leader and there is a, a role player—maybe he 
or she’s new there and they’re not…you know, giving it their 
all, not participating, like how, how would you handle a 
situation like that> 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:25:10]: Well I would just call them off to the 
side and talk to them—one-on-one—and say, and say “look—we’ve 
got a certain job that we have to do, just like on any other 
job, and we’ve got to do it. Because—” I said “if we don’t make 
this work, it takes both sides to make a rotation work. And if 
we don’t do what is expected of us, the unit’s not gonna get any 
training out of this. And I’d work at it, because that’s the way 
I felt. If, if we didn’t do what was expected of us and do what 
the Army wanted us to do in so far as presenting problems to the 
post—I mean the group that had came for the training—they 
weren’t learning anything.  
 
SIMS [00:26:02]: And what were—how would you characterize the— 
like the types of any problems you had—was it—like for example 
was it mostly young people who—you know were goofing around? Or— 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:26:15]: That. That, that, and there was certain 
things we could not do—we couldn’t pick up…any kind of a weapon, 
we couldn’t try to inflict harm on the unit—that was out of 
character—we had…certain guidelines when it came to interacting 
with the unit that we had to stay within the guidelines. And…I 
know of one person who, that picked up a weapon and got in deep 
trouble and they didn’t stay in role playing very long after 
that. Because we just couldn’t put ourselves—that we could, 
could have been that he could have gotten hurt himself. And they 
didn’t want that. 
 
SIMS [00:27:13]: Were there any times that you felt like it was 
so realistic or intense that you actually sort of like forget 
that you’re—it’s all pretend or it’s all— 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:27:28]: No because, like I say we were told that 
we had to interact and make it as near possible or the real 
thing as we could…and…we’d scream and holler and just really 
work at it. And…you always, if you were in a building you always 
wanted to stay away from the front door because if the, the 
Americans came up there, the first thing they were gonna do was 
kick that door open. And if you were right there, you could—you 
could be hit. And once they did that we’d all start screaming 
“don’t shoot, don’t shoot,” and…that’s the way we done it.  
 
SIMS [00:28:18]: Can you tell me about some of the characters or 
like some of the people that you were—I don’t know if you 
remember names or some of the stories that they would tell you 
behind who you were? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:28:30]: Well, I worked—the last job that I had, I 
was with a contractor, a building contractor, and I worked for 
Hamid Construction, who was a company started by my father. 
And…we would meet with the Army and they would tell us what they 
wanted to do—if we could do this or do that—and then…like I 
said, one time I was a post master. And another time I ran a 
general store. And just different jobs, whatever they would 
assign us. And…that’s the reason I, I learned to really love it 
and expected to do my best each time I went out there. 
 
SIMS [00:29:20]: So I talked to somebody who said they actually 
sent letters between villages.  
 
WAKEFIELD: We had a postman. And you could write—you knew what 
the—each work group leader had a list of the people and their 
character names. And if you wanted to write someone a letter you 
got their character name and wrote their name and their village 
and…you would always note on the back of the envelope who, who 
it actually should go to. [laughing] 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
WAKEFIELD: And the postman would actually deliver it.  
 
SIMS [00:30:04]: But would they—they first would they come to 
the post office and turn it over? 
 
WAKEFIELD: Very seldom. They’d always give it to him, that one 
person.  
 
SIMS: So no Atropia stamps? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:30:17]: No. We’d—some of them would draw what they 
thought was a stamp on the corner of it. 
 
SIMS: Right. That’s funny.  
 
WAKEFIELD [00:30:27]: But we always had—we even had animals. We 
had goats, chickens, and when I first went to work one of the 
villages had some hogs. But they got to where they was too big 
and just couldn’t handle ‘em. But we had chickens and goats and 
there’s one goat…he—do you know where the war memorial is, 
there? North of Dara Lam had an old bunker that’s painted with 
all the different unit crests on em? 
 
SIMS [00:31:06]: Is it sort of…you go down a hill and come up? 
 
WAKEFIELD: No it’s up on a hill. 
 
SIMS [00:31:13]: And it—it used to be where you had two sabers—a 
cross, a long time ago? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:31:18]: Yeah, a long time ago but it’s—anyhow, 
this goat, Strawberry, he’s very dear. He’s very, he was very 
famous. A group of the Americans were holding a meeting in the 
village…and this goat got up in that meeting and the captain who 
was kind of running the meeting, that goat head butted that 
captain. So Strawberry was made honorary hero of the battle. 
[laughing] And he is buried there at that memorial, at, from the 
north end of that road.  
 
SIMS [00:32:05]: Is there a, a—any marker for him? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:32:08]: I—I don’t know, I haven’t been by it in 
several, several, well a couple years anyhow. So I don’t know. 
But they had honors, a funeral and everything for him. 
 
SIMS: Really? 
 
WAKEFIELD: Yeah. 
 
SIMS [00:32:21]: So the, the villagers bury him? Or— 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:32:23]: I don’t remember who—I was had a—what I do 
know is he’s buried up there. [laughing] But…we did, we had 
goats and chickens and that was about all we had at the time. 
But we had to water the fields, and then the last of the 
rotation they were picked up and carried back to a point on 
North Fort.  
 
SIMS [00:32:50]: Yeah, I went one time to the goat place—where 
they keep them. Now I heard about an emu, once. Do you know 
anything about that? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:32:59]: I, I heard reports that people said—I 
don’t know where those emus supposedly came from. But…I do know, 
I’ve heard stories that when the last division was at Fort Polk 
left and went to Fort Hood, a lot of people had pets that they 
couldn’t take with ‘em. And they took them out in that range and 
just let them out and left them. So I don’t know where these 
emus may have come from but I know several of the people that 
said they saw them—I never did—but several of ‘em did.  
 
SIMS [00:33:40]: Do you remember any other stories like the 
Strawberry one? Just kind of strange, unusual? 
 
WAKEFIELD: No, that’s probably the, the best that we’ve had.  
 
SIMS: [laughing] I can’t imagine how people reacted.  
 
WAKEFIELD [00:33:55]: We all thought that was the grandest thing 
in the world. To have known about that…But it’s, it’s, it’s 
definitely a job where the majority of people don’t know what 
goes on there, they have no clue—I didn’t. And, and…each in—each 
person, if they ever get a chance to go to that family day and 
get an idea of what they do, they’ll have a bigger and better 
understanding of it…And like I said that Shughart, a lot of 
people don’t know that’s out there and where it got its name but 
they’ve got the two deals there under the towers we always refer 
to, with the plaques of the two men. 
 
SIMS [00:34:49]: Yeah, I remember that.  
 
WAKEFIELD [00:34:51]: And they said that the day they dedicated 
the village, I think both wives were here for that.  
 
SIMS [00:35:02]: So I’ve noticed…over the time I’ve been here, 
which is less amount of time that you knew it, it seems like 
there were more and more villages with more people, and now I’m 
surprised like some of the stuff, they tore it down…which I 
didn’t totally understand— 
 
WAKEFIELD: Yeah. 
 
SIMS: It seems like you could just leave it, right? In case you 
ever needed it again. What was your reaction when you saw things 
change like that? 
 
WAKEFIELD: Well, we, we really didn’t know what may be down the 
road—so to speak, because of the—I don’t know if you’re ever in 
what we call east and west Sadiq—was all metal buildings. See 
those are all gone, they’re not there. And a few buildings that 
they tried to replicate for a mosque or for anything like that, 
they’re there and they…over a period of time they deteriorated 
so they didn’t become unsafe. So they had to tear ‘em all down 
and…since then they tried to maintain the wooden ones as best 
they could because they have been there a lot longer. And…but a 
lot of that stuff, that they came in here and—it was my 
understanding that a lot of the stuff that they built was to 
replicate what they find in the Middle East and Afghanistan and 
they had a—I was told, a Hollywood set maker came here and…he 
gave them the first mock-up of what they could do and this, 
but…they could not really fix the buildings in such a way that 
the weather is what really hurt because they weren’t fixed where 
the rain could get to ‘em and they would get wet on the inside 
and some of the buildings even developed that black mold and it 
would probably have cost them more in the long run to repair 
those buildings and, and rebuild a lot of it so they just tore 
it all down.  
 
SIMS [00:37:58]: Did you have a favorite village? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:38:00]: Not really. Just, go to any of ‘em…I 
really didn’t have a favorite. I enjoyed the ones out in the 
Boonies rather than like, Shughart, that was just too much 
concrete. 
 
SIMS: Yeah. 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:38:16]: Same way with the newer village, Dara Lam.  
 
SIMS: Yeah, it seems like the smaller ones have more character, 
especially the older ones, right? Which is sort of funny, 
they’re probably cheaper to build— 
 
WAKEFIELD: Yep.  
 
SIMS: And they’re probably more realistic.  
 
WAKEFIELD [00:38:35]: But…this…the only that’s really made a lot 
of improvement on some of the stuff they do out there—and…you, 
you’re out there in those woods and you’re used to be going down 
that road and then you, here’s this one village—Dara Lam—that 
just rises up out of the tinder, and it’s all concrete. With 
paved roads, even got an overpass. And you’re right next to a 
landing spill where they can land the C-130s, C-17s, and…there’s 
something, if, if a person has a chance to go—ever get a chance 
to go watch and watch some of it, they need to. It gives them an 
understanding of what is trying to be done, it’s for the 
American soldier, that we do out there.  
 
SIMS [00:39:35]: So tell me about the horses that I’ve seen by 
Dara Lam what do you know about it? 
 
WAKEFIELD: The story that I’ve always been told that once Fort 
Polk was established, the people who lived out in that area had 
to leave. They were supposedly given fair market value for their 
land. Well, they didn’t have ways to transport the livestock so 
they just left them. And a lot of those horses they said was 
left then and then there was also the story of when they did 
away with the cavalry soldiers, a lot of their horses. I don’t 
know it that’s actually true or not but, those horses…over the 
period of time, survived on their own out there and they was 
quite a big herd, a herd of wild horses out there. 
 
SIMS [00:40:32]: How many would you guess?  
 
WAKEFIELD: I guess it—the most I’ve ever seen at one time was 
probably close to a hundred or better. But they said when 
Hurricane Rita came through this area in ’05 that all the horses 
they thought that was in the maneuver area came to that “drop 
zone,” as we always called it, where they could drop 
paratroopers in and not be worried about hitting trees that 
they—all those horses came to that drop zone and that’s where 
they stayed during Rita. ‘Cause it’s like I said, the good Lord 
told those horses what to do and he was protecting them—because 
there was no timber that could blow down on ‘em, or any debris, 
and they said that’s where they road the storm out. Now I wasn’t 
there ‘cause I was in Fort Hood. So…and then right before I left 
role play that had built a corral out there to the east side of 
the drop zone. They felt like that the horses had become maybe a 
nuisance to training and they were trying—gonna try to round ‘em 
all up and get ‘em off of Fort Polk. Now whether they ever got 
them completely down I don’t know  
 
SIMS [00:42:07]: Would be a big job. 
 
WAKEFIELD: Yeah it would be. I know one day out there I was 
coming across a road there and it was raining and lightning and 
all that morning and the lightning struck up in there close by 
to where a bunch of these horses were and they took off running 
like someone had shot at them. And I had to come to about a 
complete stop and let a forty head of horses cross in front of 
me, to keep from running over ‘em. But they—that was the only 
time I ever really would’ve even considered ‘em being a nuisance 
but I didn’t think of them that way, they didn’t bother anyone. 
 
SIMS [00:42:57]: Right. And it seems like they add something. 
 
WAKEFIELD: It did.  
 
SIMS [00:43:02]: Right, you know. You like—when you were at Fort 
Hood, did you do role playing at other places? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:43:10]: Well, we made 
two…different…role…exercises, we went to, like I said we went to 
Fort Hood in ’05 and conducted rotation over there. And then one 
year we went to Fort Lewis Washington and did a rotation up 
there. 
 
SIMS [00:43:35]: And so why would…why would they have you go 
there versus having the troops come here? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:43:40]: You know I never was really told that…but 
that’s, I don’t know what the real reason was for it but that’s 
where we went and we did the best we could.  
 
SIMS [00:43:51]: And what, what were the facilities or the 
villages like there, compared to Fort Polk? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:43:58]: It was rather crude ‘cause they wasn’t 
really, didn’t have the, the places for us, you know. And…we did 
the best we could out of the, out of the situation. That’s just 
the way we were—we would try to overcome and adapt.  
 
SIMS [00:44:19]: So in a given year, how, like how many 
rotations would there be and would you do all of them? Is it 
something like where you have to do all of them or would you 
pick and choose? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:44:33]: We…always had at least, well, there were 
always scheduled for ten rotations a year…and I worked them all. 
I…enjoyed going and we would always—just about everybody was the 
same way—I mean we worked all ten rotations…and… 
 
SIMS [00:45:02]: Can—would you have a, a—I guess the questions 
I’m getting after is how much of a regular job it is. Like if 
you work at the post office you’re there everyday except for 
vacation—with something like rotation, like how much of it is 
like a regular job— 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:45:17]: Oh…I would glad to be retired from service 
but doing this—each rotation probably lasts ten to maybe 
thirteen, fourteen days at most, and I knew I was going to work 
that number of days and then I’d be off until the next one 
started which may be two weeks, three weeks, and it give me time 
to do other things. So…it didn’t interfere. 
 
SIMS [00:45:45]: Yeah, it sounds like the perfect retirement. 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:45:47]: It was, it really was.  
 
SIMS: You still have enough free time and my feeling always is 
if you had too much free time it’s probably not healthy and you 
would— 
 
WAKEFIELD: No it’s not. 
 
SIMS: —you know. 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:46:02]: But…and for the most part a lot of the men 
were retired. And then we had some young people who worked but 
everybody just pitched in and we were all one big family. 
 
SIMS [00:46:17]: So how did you decide to retire from that, from 
the role playing? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:46:23]: I just…wanted to do it. 
 
SIMS: Is there anything you miss about— 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:46:33]: I miss the people and what we were trying 
to accomplish for the American soldiers…and I’ll always have the 
deepest respect for the man who puts that uniform on—man or 
woman it doesn’t matter.  
 
SIMS [00:46:52]: Do you still—when you did, when you were a role 
player outside of work would you spend time with the other role 
players or was it strictly— 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:47:06]: Some, not that many. Some of the guys, we 
liked to fish together and stuff like that. But…no, we didn’t. 
 
SIMS [00:47:19]: I guess you spend a lot of time together at 
work, right? 
 
WAKEFIELD: Yeah.  
 
SIMS: Yeah. 
 
WAKEFIELD: Yeah.  
 
SIMS [00:47:26]: Did your wife ever have a chance to like, see 
what it’s like? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:47:29]: She did it for a while. She did and…it 
just got to be too much for her, she…had a lot of problems with 
her legs and…she give it up before I did. She I think did seven 
years. She…she went to work there after Hurricane Rita came 
through and then we both went to Fort Lewis together. But… 
 
SIMS [00:48:03]: And were you ever in the same village? Could 
you— 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:47:06]: No.  
 
SIMS: Did they intentionally try to put couples in different 
places? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:48:13]: Mm-hmm. Nowadays, my understanding is a 
man and his wife cannot be in the same village together and in 
some cases it works a hardship for them, I was talking to a 
couple last week, they live up close to Toledo Bend—actually 
they live on Toledo Bend—and one rotation there, the lady had to 
be at work at six, her husband had to be at work at eight. So 
that meant they had to bring two vehicles and they could not be 
in the same village. So, I mean, I understand—I just think that 
if it doesn’t create that big of a hardship why split them up? 
 
SIMS: What was— 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:49:06]: For a long time there they didn’t do that.  
 
SIMS [00:49:11]: What would be the problem, do you think? Or 
just— 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:49:13]: Well it’s just…it causes a hardship 
because sometimes if the two spouses are in different 
villages…unknown to—the other one over here, something may 
happen and they may not get off at the regular time. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
WAKEFIELD: And that one has to sit and wait ‘til it’s—the other 
one gets there so they can go home together. Because they come 
to work—they may not be in the same village but they came to 
work at the same hour. 
 
SIMS [00:49:47]: And there’s not a cellphone where they can— 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:49:50]: Nu-uh.  
 
SIMS: —get in touch.  
 
WAKEFIELD [00:49:53]: So…I, I think it…just in some cases works 
a hardship because people—a lot of those people are dedicated 
and they want to do what’s the best and then they get penalized 
for it—my way of thinking. I don’t say penalize maybe be the 
wrong word but they just don’t do it anymore. 
 
SIMS [00:50:23]: Yeah. I would think it’s like a lot things—they 
have to make a rule for everybody even if for some people it 
makes it worse than if they didn’t have it…I think we’re getting 
towards the end, I have a couple more questions. One is—if you 
could describe the…maybe some of the more recent story lines 
behind—like I know before it was kind of Iraq and Afghanistan 
and you said it changed some. Like what are some of the I guess 
big background story that goes on? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:51:08]: Well, let’s see…it—it just, the first 
story line when I first went to work is just the Americans had 
been asked by this country to come in and help ‘em put down 
those, the uprising that was going on. And then later we got 
into the time in Iraq and…that was different from what we had 
done in the first realm of things. And…from Iraq we of course 
went into Afghanistan but that pretty much is one in the same 
because they’re still, in essence, fighting the same people. 
(cough) During the time of the Iraq-type rotations, there was 
another company who came here who brought actual people here 
that spoke the language. And…they had some of those men who’d 
acted as interpreters for the American soldiers. And they were 
assigned to the base camps that we—that they had throughout the 
training area. And if they left their basecamp and went to a 
specific village they had to have this interpreter to talk and 
express what they wanted or why they were there and they always—
we always had the Iraq or the people who was here for the 
rotation acting as…like the mayor and the police chief or the 
higher-ups in the village. They would meet with the American 
commander, with his…interpreter and…that added a lot of realism 
to it. And then…and then they…quit bringing those guys in. They 
don’t have any of that now with the Afghan rotations, I don’t 
know why. But they tried to play it as close to the real thing 
as they can because they want these guys to learn…and what to—to 
be expected and I always felt like that they—they give it their 
upmost to try to present any and every kind of a problem that 
they may encounter…’cause it was better if you make a mistake 
here, nobody really gets hurt. But you get over there and you 
make a mistake, it could cost you a life. That was the only—that 
was the way we always felt about it. Learn here, make your 
mistakes here. Because when you get there, you’ve been down that 
road, and you’ve learned from that and you know what may 
transpire on some of the things because you experienced it 
already. So that’s what we always tried to instill.  
 
SIMS [00:55:02]: What was the relationship like between the role 
players who were from this area and the cultural role players 
who would come in? 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:55:12]: We got a—we got along good with them, for 
the most part. They…a lot of them was here for each rotation, we 
got to know one another and…knew what to expect and who we would 
watch and see who could do the job that the—we wanted done. And 
if they couldn’t do it we would go to their management and tell 
them, say “this person needs to be replaced” or, or, or vice 
versa and you know, and that’s what we did. And… 
 
SIMS [00:55:2]: Did you all socialize, I mean was it, was it 
sort of like s— 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:55:56]: Well when we get in the village, what—we 
would—they would come and talk to us and carry on but for the 
most part they had their own little group and we didn’t care. I 
mean they could come socialize with us but…they did a lot of 
their cooking and all that. But…we didn’t bother them, we just 
let ‘em do—all we wanted to know was if the American showed in 
the village, you better be ready to meet and do what’s expected.  
 
SIMS [00:56:30]: And did you eat any of the food that that group 
made? 
 
WAKEFIELD: No. 
 
SIMS: No. What type of food did they have?  
 
WAKEFIELD [00:56:38]: Different things. I don’t know. They would 
get their supervisors and all to shop for them. I know one year 
they…got their supervise—I don’t know where they went and found 
it—but they got a goat, lamb, and brought it to the villages and 
they cooked it. 
 
SIMS [00:67:03]: Did they kill it there in the village? 
 
WAKEFIELD: No it was already killed and dressed and cleaned. 
They…built the fire and they went to roast it all… 
 
SIMS: Yeah. Bet that smelled good.  
 
WAKEFIELD [00:57:15]: Yeah…But for the most party they—they were 
good people. And…they came from all over the country. Some from 
around Washington, some from around the Detroit area, 
California, Texas, Houston. 
 
SIMS [00:57:41]: Do you know how they got hired? Or like how 
they would find— 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:57:46]: They were hired by a—a company up called 
Mobius, and that’s the way they were, they were hired. It was 
put out on the internet and…that’s the way they found out about 
it. And they would apply and sometimes they would, they would 
get hired.  
 
SIMS [00:58:13]: And when they were in the village, like 
obviously part of what they do is to be there to speak in 
costume— 
 
WAKEFIELD: Mm-hmm, they played a—they played a…top echelon of 
the village. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
WAKEFIELD: Like I said, mayor, police chief, the…religious 
leaders, and… 
 
SIMS [00:58:36]: But they would speak to you all in English 
during the— 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:58:38]: Oh yes, yeah. If the Americans weren’t 
there.  
 
SIMS [00:58:45]: Right. And so when the Americans were there 
and… 
 
WAKEFIELD: They, they had their own little compound were the 
mayor had his own office and the police chief—they were all in a 
little compound.  
 
SIMS [00:58:57]: So you all wouldn’t necessarily be part of 
that, it was more that you would fill out the rest of the 
village. 
 
WAKEFIELD [00:59:04]: We had, like I said, they had the Army’s 
observer controller, which is the ref. He, he would always be 
there and listen to the meetings. And we would always find out 
from him how the meeting went—was he getting what the Army 
wanted the interpreters and all to do. And if they didn’t we’d 
set them down and say “look, this is what we’ve got to do. This 
is what the Army wants you or how they want you to handle it.” 
And that’s the way we went with it. 
 
SIMS [00:59:47]: Was there anything that was—you wish—you 
thought could be done better? Or did it sort of work itself out 
over time? 
 
WAKEFIELD: It—it all pretty much worked itself out. And…after 
you do it so many times you get all the bugs worked out of it. 
 
SIMS [01:00:07]: Makes sense. Is there anything else that I 
didn’t ask about that you think would be important to have in 
the history? 
 
WAKEFIELD [01:00:16]: No you have pretty much covered it. Like I 
said, I enjoyed every minute of it. And…someday if I get a 
chance I might go back. I—an old man, seventy-six years old, has 
to have something to do. (laughing) 
 
SIMS: Right. (laughing) Well I appreciate you taking the time. 
 
WAKEFIELD [01:00:44]: Well, I enjoyed it. And once I saw this on 
the internet the other day I said “I—I’ll contact him.” A little 
girl by the name of Sarah Mayo is the one that sent me the, the 
deal.  
 
SIMS: Okay, I don’t think I— 
 
WAKEFIELD [01:00:59]: And she was, she was working there when I 
went to work ‘cause she was considered a nurse. She worked for 
the doctor we—the character we had playing the doctor.  
 
SIMS [01:01:11]: Is she German? 
 
WAKEFIELD: No. 
 
SIMS [01:00:12]: Okay. Do you know—do you remember a German 
woman who worked in Dara Lam who was maybe the assistant to the 
doctor? 
 
WAKEFIELD [01:01:23]: Yes. The—the elderly lady.  
 
SIMS: Yeah. 
 
WAKEFIELD [01:01:27]: Yeah, she finally had to give it up. 
 
SIMS [01:00:29]: Yeah. I couldn’t…I— 
 
WAKEFIELD: She always had all the pictures of herself meeting 
the different— 
 
SIMS: Yeah. 
 
WAKEFIELD: High-up, high ranking officers. 
 
SIMS: And she had—I…my grandparents were German and I studied 
German— 
 
WAKEFIELD: Oh really? 
 
SIMS [01:01:47]: —and so I practiced speaking with her some 
which was— 
 
WAKEFIELD [01:01:50]: Yeah, we had a lady who was there when I 
went to work, she was German and…she’s now in England, she 
married a fellow from England and she’s in very poor health at 
this time. May. She was a character.  
 
SIMS [01:01:14]: Alright.  
 
WAKEFIELD [01:00:16]: Well I hope I given you what you wanna 
know. 
 
SIMS [01:01:19]: You did. It was very helpful, thank you. 
 
 
END OF TAPE [01:02:22]