Occupational Folklife Project | Food Processing and Legacy Trades: White Oak Pastures. Ali Civelek, Butcher
Food Processing and Legacy Trades 
Title: White Oak Pastures interview with Ali Civelek 
Interview conducted by: Makalé Faber Cullen 
Interview/Event ID: afc2015042_04185 
Date of Interview: 2017-05-30 | Location: Bluffton, GA | Duration of Interview (Total): 00:43:15 
Summary of  Interview / Event: 
Ali Civelek, a White Oak Pastures’ butcher, shares his reasons for taking on a position at the farm, his transition from 
work in urban restaurant kitchens to a rural abattoir, how work and home life merge in a small American town, and the 
tools of his trade.  
Interview Log: 
0 00 30 Ali Civelek introduces himself as a butcher at White Oak Pastures (WOP), where he started as an intern in 2016. 
0 01 13 Ali discusses his personal reasons for moving to Bluffton, GA from New York City. “In the city, I didn’t work 
with animals; I just cooked them…”  
0 01 57 Ali shares his pre-WOP life and how he came to work in kitchens. After three and a half years “on the line,” he 
decided to learn how the food we cook comes to the table.  
To Ali, “the farm seems like the real America in a way, with New York City being a very extreme example of America. 
There’s a different kind of people and a different lifestyle out in the country in south Georgia. The people here like 
sweet tea, and they’re more open and more welcoming than city people are. They’re not used to outsiders so when one 
joins the family in a way, they want to know that person and their culture as well.”  
0 03 50 Ali talks about meeting people in south Georgia. “It’s easy because people know I’m not from here so they start 
the conversation with “How’d you end up here?” After just a year, I feel like a Southerner.  
He describes his home in Blakely, a small town about 15 miles from the farm. 
0 04 52 Ali describes his work as a butcher on the farm “where I work on a kind of assembly line in the cut room… The 
workers break down cattle, goats, sheep, and hogs. One person at the beginning of the table breaks the whole carcass of 
an animal into big parts, then we debone it on the table, with about six people on each side passing the parts and cutting 
them smaller and smaller. We do two different species in one day…”  
Ali continues to discuss his on-the-job training, learning animal anatomy. To supplement his learning, Ali read books and 
searched online, “but seeing the animals really helped me to grasp it. I always knew where chuck came from but didn’t 
know what it looked like in the animal.” 
0 07 05 Ali discusses his early days on the job, learning butchery skills. When we (newbies) work on the line, he says, we 
start with the easier parts, like trimming the fat, then moved up the table to start deboning some of the cuts. He 
describes his days being guided by what’s in the freezer, what whole animal has been harvested, which by law and 
traditional practice, must be cooled before being butchered. The whole skinned carcass stays in the ‘fridge over night at 
42 degrees Fahrenheit, and we process it in the morning. 
Ali describes his colleagues around the butchery table and in the facility… In addition to the six butchers at the table, a 
gentleman boxes the orders and two ladies seal the meat and bag it. We know who the end customer is for each animal. 
Everything is set up… 
0 08 44 Ali describes processing non-cattle species. Hogs are killed in another facility because a scalder is needed to 
remove their tougher skin…Then the whole carcass is returned to the main abattoir Ali works in for processing…Goats 
and sheep are processed like cattle, using a captive bolt… 
Page   of  
1
3
Occupational Folklife Project | Food Processing and Legacy Trades: White Oak Pastures. Ali Civelek, Butcher
0 10 35 When he was an intern, Ali worked in the fields, building houses for the animals and doing other things…it’s all 
part of one process: the growing to the cooking. Now I know what the animal goes through before it comes to our 
hands. 
0 12 07 Ali describes discovering White Oak Pastures through a 12-week program the offered that allowed him to work 
with animals. He was in a cohort of four people with different backgrounds.  
0 13 25 Ali describes the challenges of skinning different species and bulls vs. older cows. Skinning is a handcraft that 
requires focus… 
0 15 29 On tools, Ali distinguishes between the knives used in the abattoir and knives used in the kitchen. He describes 
what the handles and blades look like and the distinctive strokes needed for butchery work.  
0 16 35 Ali on handcraft, the process of learning how to cut meat for retail and how speed and accuracy are acquired. 
0 17 35 Ali’s first day of work. Before going to the kill floor, he had never seen an animal being killed and “I wondered if 
I would feel bad seeing the blood, whether I would be able to do it, whether I could take it…” 
0 18 41 Ali prefers kill room work over cut room work. No bond is made with the animal in the cut room but, when an 
animal comes in alive in the kill room he feels more about it than when cutting a cold carcass.  
0 19 27 I feel fortunate to be working with people who’ve been doing kill and cut work for a long time because I have 
learned from them. Ali describes being one of the few people who started working on the kill floor with no experience, 
“whereas one of the others had skinned buffalos for 10 years, another co-worker is from a hunter’s family and worked in 
a deer processing plant, another had been doing his job for seven years, and another for eight years… `*      
cc6iiikj 
0 21 00 Ali tells about a typical day: getting to work at 6:30 or 6:45 in the morning, and starting processing and pulling 
the carcasses out of the cooler at about 7 a.m. The job is repetitive in a way. 
0 22 16 The physical challenges in Ali’s work — relate to worker size and movement style: Ali is tall, and the table is low, 
which can stress the back. Whereas he moves his entire body a lot in the kill room, he has to stand still and straight 
looking down at his work on the assembly line in the cut room. “I was used to standing for long hours in the kitchen but 
standing still hurts more than moving around… He’s become used to it.  
 0 23 04 Ali describes what is worn by butchers/animal processors: aprons, gloves, and helmets—helmets because the 
carcasses are hanging.  
0 24 31 Priorities are important. Cattle always have priority. Bigger orders are done first. Cattle are done daily, and sheep, 
goats, and hogs are done about once a week. Since this morning, we have done 28 cows—but how many we do depends 
on the kind of cow: young cows are smaller and their meat is not as tough, so they can be processed faster… 
0 25 44. Ali says that he would like to continue cooking but definitely not in the city. Ideally, he would combine cooking 
with farm work around animals.  
0 26 19 Ali shares what he likes about the southern American countryside.  
0 27 10 As to skills required for his job, “…no special skills are needed and everything can be picked up— it’s as simple 
as knowing how to hold a knife and practicing…”  
0 27 47 On caring for knives, everyone marks their knives and cares for them. With the amount of cutting that is done, 
knives don’t last years. Tips break off. Ali describes how they sharpen knives. 
0 32 27 What I like about is work is being able to feed people.  
Page   of  
2
3
Occupational Folklife Project | Food Processing and Legacy Trades: White Oak Pastures. Ali Civelek, Butcher
0 33 06 - On his relationship to WOP’s restaurant, Ali says he normally cooks at home. He never cooked outside, so he 
does a lot of smoking, mostly pork and whole chickens using pecan wood from area trees. 
0 35 32 On his family’s understanding of his work “My father knows what I am doing, but my mother doesn’t. She 
would be disgusted, as would be a lot of of other people. They say this work is disgusting, but it’s what we eat and we 
should know killing is part of the whole process. Seeing a kill floor shouldn’t make you a vegan, he says, but should 
increase your knowledge…” 
0 39 56 He describes why he believes handcraft butchering work will continue. 
0 41 43 Ali gives advice to butchers starting up in meat processing: Make sure your knives are always sharp. Be careful. 
And, care about what you’re doing. Respect your job and respect the animal. Respecting the animal is probably the most 
important thing.  
0 43 15 Ali’s closing thoughts on working at White Oak Pastures: It’s a place to learn how to treat animals and workers 
well. 
Page   of  
3
3