Washington State Works: Archie Green Fellows Project, 2012-2013 
Richard Michael Reed interview, 2013-10-30 : interview conducted by 
Deborah Fant 
Interview ID: afc2012032_00497 
Date: October 30, 2013 
Duration: 1:03:22 
 
0:01:15.9 Biographical information: Richard Michael Reed, prefers 
Richard. Born in 1952, in Bloomington, IN.  
 
0:02:11.2 Richard is a member of Local 76-493, Musicians Association in 
Seattle.  
 
0:02:26.1 Richard likes to do a lot of different things. He’s played the 
French horn since he was 10, and it’s a lifelong passion. Went to music 
school, got degrees in music. He’s also had mechanical inclinations. His 
father was a mechanical engineer, his mother was a singer. So he had a 
little bit of both. Through the 1980s he supported himself working for a 
delivery company doing heavy lifting, then went into management and 
became an operations manager.  
 
He decided if he were going to work that hard, he should have his own 
business. His wife said, "You’re racing cars now, you’ve always worked on 
your own cars, why don’t you do auto repair?" He didn’t have that 
training, so he went to trade school in his late 30s. His goal was to 
have a business by the time he was 45. He opened Maestro Motors when he 
was 45 and fulfilled that goal. He’s happy with the business.  
 
0:04:23.2 He came to Seattle initially to attend graduate school in 
music, French horn, in 1974. He’s been here since.  
 
0:05:03.4 Richard has two halves to his life. First, musical half: 
Richard is known as a freelance musician. He works for everybody in town. 
Has had a contract for 20+ years with Pacific Northwest Ballet. Not a 
full-time position, a weekly cycle per month. He works for the Seattle 
Symphony and Seattle Opera fairly regularly. He plays for the Tacoma 
Symphony, he’s done a lot of theatre work at the Paramount and Fifth 
Avenue Theatres in Seattle, though not as much recently. He also teaches 
one day a week at Western Washington University in Bellingham as an 
affiliate instructor.  
 
0:06:45.4 Some of his jobs are contractual, like Tacoma Symphony and 
Pacific Northwest Ballet. There are contractors in town, and Richard is 
on a list, number 2 or 3 on their list when they need extra players. The 
Symphony and the Opera have the same manager, so he’s approximately in 
the same spot on those lists as well. They give him a short month notice 
that they need someone. Sometimes they need a player that afternoon, but 
mostly he knows in advance what his schedule will be for the month.  
 
0:07:49.5 During the 9 months of the academic year, or an artistic 
season, a standard music week is 8 services, a 2-1/2 hour rehearsal or 
performance. This week he’s at the end of the opera, so he has 3 
performances. Next week he has 12 services in 7 days. Usually he does 5-6 
services a week on an average during the 9-month academic year. During 
Washington State Workers, afc2012/032
1
the summer, it could be quiet, with a music festival here and there. Last 
summer he did the opera, a substantial amount of work in 2 months. It 
varies quite a bit.  
 
0:08:47.6 In the music business, there’s no differentiation between 
performance and rehearsal. Each is called a service. The standard Seattle 
Symphony cycle is 4 rehearsals and 3 performances, so that would be a 7-
service week. With the Symphony next week he’s doing 3 rehearsals and 2 
performances. He’s paid per service. The service concept is typical in 
the music business. You just show up whether you’ve got the clothes on or 
not, whether you’re dressed or not. And you have to perform at the same 
level, whether you’re dressed or not. No differentiation between the 
level of work you have to do.  
 
0:10:01.8 Richard likes being in the pit. He likes vocal shows and opera. 
He likes being a part of a larger production. The symphonic stage is part 
of his world, but he enjoys the singing and the lyricism of the music in 
shows and operas.  
 
0:10:46.5 Richard knows most of the musicians he plays with--the pool is 
fairly small. The hardest thing about professional music is there is no 
rehearsal time. You have to be there ready to go, it’s sprucing things up 
rather than learning them on the job. The level of performer who can do 
that is fairly restricted. He knows everybody really well, especially the 
French horn players in Seattle. There are, at most, 8 high-level 
performers on the French horn.  
 
0:11:50.2 The longest run he ever performed in was the Phantom of the 
Opera. A group started a production in Seattle in 1991 or ‘92. They built 
the run to fit smaller theaters in order to reach out to smaller 
communities, like Seattle, which is smaller than London or New York. They 
had to build a whole new production, staging and choreography. There was 
a months’ worth of rehearsals and preparation, which was terrific fun. 
Then there were 110 performances. That was the longest for him. Some 
people do the same show for 3-4 years at a time. But for Richard, none of 
those shows stay around that long. That was a pretty show to play, he 
didn’t get bored with the music.  
 
0:13:49.5 The hardest part for Richard is that he’s an introvert. When he 
has solos, he’d like to run and hide. The higher the level he achieves, 
the more solos he has. That’s a weak spot--he gets apprehensive about 
being in front of the public, which is funny for a performer. It’s 
something he wrestles with.  
 
0:14:46.5 He just toughs it out. It helps to do a lot of solos. He’s 
getting better, continues to get more comfortable with himself. The new 
generation of players is very confident and comfortable, and that’s 
rubbing off on him. He’s learning from his younger colleagues that it’s 
not that big a deal, "just play it!" A lot of his generation is uptight 
about performing, where the younger guys are not.  
 
0:15:38.3 The biggest change he’s seen as a performer is the level of 
performance, the quality of the performances. Each year the level of 
players gets better. What it would take to get an orchestra job when he 
Washington State Workers, afc2012/032
2
was coming out of college, you could hardly get into a school band today. 
The expectations for the performers are higher. He thinks CDs have a lot 
to do with that. They’re so perfect when you listen to them. He is 
refining what his teacher taught him, and he teaches his students. So he 
thinks the students are getting better information every day. The 
instruments are getting better and easier to play. The fact that you can 
go on YouTube and see the Berlin Philharmonic or Chicago Symphony do 
Mahler Sixth, that sets a high standard. He tries to up his ante a bit. 
Back in the vinyl days, you’d go to a record store and buy THE recording 
and listen to that. Off in the distance you might hear your instrument. 
The accessibility to see other performances and hear others performing at 
the highest levels raises the standard.  
 
0:18:47.2 Richard has four or five French horns. He has a Yamaha horn 
that was experimental, some brass alloys, and it has a pretty good sound. 
He has a Conn descant horn that’s a shorter, smaller instrument that has 
a high gear on it. It can make some of the higher entrances a little 
easier. He has a fairly heavy silver instrument--the other two are brass-
-and it has a different tone color. Used to be, the Seattle Symphony 
required that you have a silver instrument, didn’t want any brass. But 
that’s changed recently. The silver horn is sitting in the closet because 
he doesn’t like playing it very much. He has a couple of specialty 
instruments that are unique that he uses once every couple of years. He 
has two basic instruments that he uses all the time.  
 
0:20:19.2 He selects an instrument because of its range for the 
performance. If there are a lot of high notes, he’ll pick the descant 
horn.  
 
0:21:01.5 In an orchestra, "horn" means French horn. Horn might mean 
saxophone or trumpet in a jazz band, but in an orchestra it’s just a 
horn. Other instruments are pretty much called what they are. The oboe 
section, the clarinet section, the trumpet section. The Tuba guy. Doesn’t 
know of any nicknames. Sometimes the horn players are put in with the 
woodwinds, to play with the flutes and clarinets as a "wind" group.  
 
0:22:46.0 Richard has had some meltdown performances where the nerve 
thing got the better of him. Those were disappointing, because they 
weren’t particularly hard performances to play, but he was shaking. 
That’s probably the most disappointing thing, when you know you can play 
the part but your "fight or flight" response takes over. He’s not afraid 
to perform, but the adrenaline kicks in and takes over. Then it becomes a 
negative spiral, because you worry about the next performance. "Is this 
going to happen again?" You don’t worry about whether or not you can play 
the high C, you worry about the nerve thing. Medication helps.  
 
In an orchestra, a handful of players are comfortable being there and 
playing, and a huge chunk of the orchestra aren’t in exposure spots, and 
they can be pretty comfortable. But if you’re on an instrument where 
there’s only one person on a part, you’re the guy. When your part comes 
around, you’re the only one on it. You have to do it. Some people who can 
play very well never make it to the stage.  
 
Washington State Workers, afc2012/032
3
0:25:35.8 DF: What about a performance that you still remember that made 
your heart sing? RR: One memory he’ll always have was performing for Rod 
Stewart at The Gorge (an outdoor music venue on the Columbia River). He 
was the first guy to walk out on the stage after the warmup band, and he 
heard the entire audience explode because the show was about to happen--
you don’t usually get that as a French horn player. At the end of the 
show, they did an encore that they didn’t rehearse. So as Richard and his 
friend Roger were playing, the encore broke off into a horn feature. They 
could see the big screen TV panning down on them, and they hadn’t 
rehearsed! Their eyes got big, the sweat started to bead out. They got 
through it nicely, it sounded good. He never forgets that particular show 
because of those two things.  
 
0:28:03.3 DF: You ordinarily travel by motorcycle. RR: To and from home 
because he lives on Vashon Island, It gets him on the ferry first, with 
priority loading. He can go to the opera and squeeze into a parking spot. 
Right now his instrument is in his locker at the hall. Because he has 
several instruments, he can practice at home but leave an instrument at 
the venue. He can strap the horn on his back on the motorcycle if he 
needs to.  
 
0:28:54.0 In the pit, he wears simple black on black, black shirt, black 
slacks. He has worn tails underneath his motorcycle gear. He has a one-
piece suit that he can step out of with his tails on. Usually, on those 
situations, he drives his car.  
 
0:29:45.4 He has damaged his hands. Fortunately, his instrument is left-
handed, and he’s right-handed. Most of his at-risk work is done with his 
right hand. There are a few jobs that he is very careful about--taking 
motor mounts out of engines where the engine is swinging free. If it 
falls of the crane, it would take his fingers off. He’s had some finger 
injuries, but nothing of substance. He’s very careful. As the shop owner, 
he may be working 2-3 hours in a regular workday on physical car work, 
the rest of the time he’s on the phone or interacting with the customers.  
 
He has had a couple of injuries to his lip. The lip is critical. He did 
drop an exhaust piece on his lip the evening before a Tristan and Isolde 
performance. Fortunately, he was offstage and only had to play for less 
than 5 minutes. He was able to fake his way through to one note that the 
audience might actually hear him play, mustering the strength to play 
that one note. By the next performance two days later, he was okay. Last 
year he took a big chunk out of his lip before a Fidelio rehearsal. He 
had to call and get a sub for that, but it was only a rehearsal. Those 
are the only two times he’s hurt himself that he can think of. Sometimes 
when he’s doing a lot of physical work with his hands, especially in the 
cold in the winter, he can’t do finger trills at the rate he’d need to. A 
few things he pays the price for because he’s a mechanic. But usually he 
can work around those problems.  
 
0:33:14.4 Aesthetics: When you do a performance, even in rehearsals, you 
continue to up your standards because the first time, you perform at a 
certain level. Then you evaluate all the things you need to spruce up. 
The next time, you hope you did all the first things you did right as 
well as all the "spruce-up" things. Sometimes you get the spruce-up 
Washington State Workers, afc2012/032
4
things right, but you lose something else. By the dress rehearsal, you 
hope you’ve gotten all those things squared away. He continues to make 
subtle improvements throughout the performances. There’s no pinnacle.  
 
0:34:54.1 He feels successful if he doesn’t go backwards! Sometimes when 
he’s tired, it’s hard to not lose attention. Today hell be at the shop 
for 9 hours, then go and do a 3-hour opera tonight. He’s working in a 
pair now with another guy, and they work well together. They’re having 
fun because they’re doing tasty little things. They’ll give each other a 
thumbs-up after a good part.  
 
0:36:45.5 The learning process is interesting. He’ll play a piece after 
five years. Maybe earlier it was a struggle, but now, five years later, 
it’s easier, even though he hasn’t practiced it. Sometimes when things 
sit in your system for a while, they meld. The reason he practices the 
fundamentals--scales and arpeggios--is so that those patterns become more 
ingrained. The more you do it, the more naturally those patterns flow so 
you don’t have to think about specific notes. It’s very much muscle 
memory. It transfers to his performance: He’ll see an F Major scale, and 
his fingers just do that. He doesn’t have a job, like the Seattle 
Symphony, where he does the same symphonic piece every year. His spacing 
on some pieces is much further apart. He’ll do those pieces every six or 
seven years. Even so, each time he comes back to it, all he learned 
before is still there. He keeps putting a new layer on top of his 
expertise and inspiration, keeps building his rapport with the piece.  
 
0:39:56.5 The aesthetics of being an auto shop owner are exactly the same 
as being a musician. Diagnostically, the first time he approaches an 
evaporative problem with a Toyota Yaris, he has to study and learn the 
system. Then he attempts to solve the problem based on prior knowledge. 
The next time a Corolla comes by, with a similar evaporative system, he’s 
already there. He knows exactly what to do. He can diagnose specific cars 
over the phone from his experience with them. The quality of engineering 
is so good that if one Yaris has a problem, they will all have that same 
problem. So another Yaris owner could call and say, "Hey, I’ve got this 
evap problem," and he can say "That’s because the hose on the air filter 
housing is pulled off." They always get pulled off at the Jiffy Lube when 
they get an oil change. He can fix it over the phone.  
 
It’s the same kind of thing with music: The first time he played the 
Brahms Second Symphony, he only knew about 30% of the depth of it. It was 
like taking the Yaris in for the first time. He got through the 
performance, he fixed the car. But the second time it comes in, he gets 
more deeply involved. Sometimes there are surprises. But because he knows 
all of the other work he’s done on cars, he can at least eliminate and go 
from there. Diagnostically, that’s what allows him to run the shop and be 
successful at it. He doesn’t need to spend a week to learn how the system 
works. He has a lot of experience. He learns very fast. He did well at 
trade school. He has a knack for the job.  
 
0:43:02.7 After trade school, he worked for a couple of people for about 
3 years total. The problem was the 9-5 automotive job doesn’t work well 
with the music job. They got in each other’s way. The last guy he worked 
for was an ex-Marine, and the flag went up at 8 and down at 6. He didn’t 
Washington State Workers, afc2012/032
5
understand that Richard would think about leaving at 11:00 to get to a 
noon rehearsal, or wouldn’t come in until 1:00 PM because he had a 10-
12:30 rehearsal. That’s when he opened his own business.  
 
He’s not there on Mondays because he teaches up at Western Washington 
University in Bellingham. He might have a Tuesday morning rehearsal. When 
he was working for himself, the shop was just closed. People knew that’s 
what he did. He couldn’t do that for Goodyear or Midas. He might work 
until 10:00 at night, on Saturday and Sunday. He can do that because it’s 
his own show. He can have fun with both jobs at his leisure.  
 
0:44:53.9 The most enjoyable part of working on automobiles is that he 
likes fixing things. People think he’s a car guy, but he isn’t. He drives 
dumpy little things that he rescues, currently a 1991 Geo Storm, with 
217,000 miles on it. It was black and he’d just gotten it painted. Then 
it got sideswiped by a semi and was totaled. Then he bought a yellow one. 
Last summer’s project was to take off all the yellow and black parts and 
put them together, and now its "The Bumblebee." It’s all yellow and 
black, pretty fun, but it’s not a car he’d recommend to anybody else to 
drive, but it’s his car.  
 
0:46:10.5 Richard really likes the "sound" of mechanical things. That’s 
what enchants him the most—the motors, the pumps, the whirring sounds. 
He’s sensitive to that music, so Richard can diagnose things by sound.  
 
0:47:01.7 Richard is particular about the kinds of cars he works on, even 
though "It’s all the same dirt, all the same grease and oil." They 
physics of the cars is the same, whether a Chevrolet or a Toyota. There 
is one brand that makes him nuts to work on, so he jokingly refuses to do 
so—Volkswagens. VWs do not use different technology, they just do it 
poorly. GM isn’t much better. It’s kind of a joke at the shop. He works 
on French cars, but Italian or British cars he doesn’t work on. For the 
same reason--frustration. He ends up losing money when he works on those 
cars. When he started out he’d work on anything, work on lawnmowers or 
whatever. He has to be more professional now.  
 
0:49:29.1 Electronic control started in 1981. By the late ‘80s, when he 
got into trade school, it was established. It’s parallel with your home 
computer, how much it’s changed in the last 10-15 years. The way they 
work, it’s the same complexity and speed. For cars, it’s been terrific 
because the technology allows cars to run cleaner and more efficiently 
use less fuel. They can attach more creature comforts to a computer to 
control the position when you get in the car, for example. Lots of goofy 
little things you can do because of computers that you couldn’t do 
before. They do a lot more self-diagnosis. The ‘80s were terrible for 
trying to figure out a computer-based car. Old cars didn’t talk to you, 
they just didn’t work. When you have old computer technology that’s 
disintegrating and interfering with the mechanical, you have to sort that 
out. It’s more complicated than with the newer cars. A lot is 
computerized, so there’s more to know about how a system works, the 
impact of all the different sensors on the system. In some ways it’s 
easier.  
 
Washington State Workers, afc2012/032
6
0:52:36.5 Richard doesn’t have as much time as he’d like for training, 
but he gets training every day because he has an information system His 
information system is really good. He learns by reading, unlike a lot of 
others in the trade. He has to take a class every year for the emissions 
training, and he learns a lot then. The emissions controls are the most 
complicated technology. He reads his trade magazines in the pit during 
shows. He can put a magazine on his music stand during a performance, so 
when a break comes he can read it.  
 
0:54:18.7 Training new mechanics can be really tricky. A car stopped by 
yesterday that had a carburetor problem, and there hasn’t been a 
carburetor on cars since the early ‘80s. He knows how they work, but they 
don’t even teach them in trade school anymore. The physics of making a 
car run, compressing fuel and air and the explosion and spark, hasn’t 
really changed since the beginning of the last century. His automotive 
experience started in the late 1960s when he got his first car. If a car 
comes in with a carburetor, Richard gets it. But you can go online and 
watch someone overhaul an old Toyota carburetor. That’s the beautiful 
thing of all the technology that is out there--it’s readily accessible.  
 
0:56:07.6 Richard does not advertise and never has. He just does a good 
job. He tells a joke that, in the music industry, the jobs are so hard to 
come by that you have to be really good at what you do, really nice, 
available, and compliant. In the automotive industry, everybody’s got a 
car and they’re all broken. People stand in line to come into his shop 
and have him work on their cars. It’s quite different from the music 
business. They do a good job. It’s all word-of-mouth. He gets 4-6 
referred customers every week.  
 
0:57:49.0 He also doesn’t need to make as much money as his peers because 
he has another job. If he had to feed a family and pay all the bills, he 
would have to run his shop differently. But he runs the shop on the Robin 
Hood principle because he has a "real" job. The music is the real job--
that’s what pays the bills.  
 
0:58:43.1 Maestro Motors is located next to a coffee shop, Diva Espresso, 
and Richard has the best waiting room in town!  
 
0:59:26.7 Richard has been active with his union, negotiating contracts. 
He sees being unionized as a viable way for music organizations to work. 
The Seattle Symphony, Opera, and Ballet have their own guild, but he 
thinks that’s a bit shortsighted. The National Federation has more impact 
overall, and it makes the family bigger. He has to be a member of a union 
to do any theater work, and for the Tacoma Symphony.  
 
1:02:20.4 As a business owner, he completely lives on the other side of 
that. He pays his people what he can pay them, but it’s just them and 
Richard, so they negotiate. It’s more difficult with a group of 80 
musicians. It’s better to work as a collective in that regard. But he 
lives both sides of that coin--he’s a good management person, too.  
 
END OF INTERVIEW 
Washington State Workers, afc2012/032
7