Ethnic Grocers in the Urban Midwest: Archie Green Fellows Prcject, 2013-2014 
Oscar Gonzalez interview, 2014-02-14: interview conducted by Lucy Long 
Interview ID: afc2013016 00700 
Date: February 14, 2014 
Duration: 01:23:12 
San Marcos Grocery 
Toledo, Ohio 
Feb. 12, 2014 
Mexican grocery store and restaurant. 235 Broadway Street, Toledo, Ohio, 43604. 
Interviewees: Oscar Gonzalez (store owner), Anna Ponce (his wife), and Maria Guel (office 
manager/assistant.) 
Interviewed by Lucy Long in office of grocery store. 
0:00:53 - Introducing owner, Oscar, Anna (Oscars wife and office clerk), and Maria (Office 
clerk) of San Marcos Grocery in Toledo, Ohio. Interviewed by Lucy Long. 
0:02:05 - Discussing the year the grocery store opened. They concluded it was in 2006. 
0:02:51 - Customers who came in the beginning of opening the store were mostly Latinos with 
few Anglo. 
0:03:23 - Accommodations made for the Anglo customers included offering prepared foods such 
as tacos for sale and using signs with both English and Spanish. They also had to describe the 
foods that were unfamiliar to the Anglo patrons. Some people now come in and request foods 
that are unfamiliar. 
0:05:52 - Oscar came from Mexico when he was 14 years old in 1983 to Indiana. 
0:06:14 - Asked if they thought it would be different to run a 
grocery store like this in Mexico 
than like it is in Toledo. Oscar answered yes. 
0:06:33 - Discussing living in Goshen (Indiana) and Elkhart (Indiana) as well as the family 
businesses there. Oscar and his wife moved to Toledo, Ohio after they got married to start their 
own business. His parents still run the other family business. 
0:07:35 - Oscar talks about how offering authentic Mexican food is a 
lot of work because they 
use all fresh ingredients and don't use canned products. 
They make their own spices and then combine them into their own recipes. 
0:08:30 - They alter their food very little to accommodate what Anglos' tastes are accustomed to. 
The Latino customers do not complain about the slight changes, because the authenticity of the 
food is so close. 
0:09:98 - When asked if they purchase certain things for particular members of their local 
community, Oscar said they take requests, but for the mostly already they know what the people 
in the community want. 
0:10:55 - The group discusses the diverse gastronomy of Mexico and how each of the 32 states 
in Mexico has its food variations. There might be a 
food found in one state that is not found in 
another. 
0:13:00 - The food that they serve is not the TexMex food that many American's and Mexican 
Americans are used to. Maria says that the authenticity of their food is why it's so popular 
because it is not TexMex. Also, it's what you would eat at someone's house in Mexico. 
Oscar describes their food as more homemade. 
0:14:00 - Asked if patrons request a 
certain regional Mexican food and, if so, are they able to 
provide that for their patrons. Oscar said that they are able to if they can find them. They import 
products from Central and Southern America. Maria said that many times they may have the 
same thing but it's just a 
different brand. 
0:15:13 - Talking about tortilla manufactures in the region; Chicago, Michigan, and Ohio. 
Toledo has 2 
tortilla factories. 
0:16:50 - Discussing if there is any different feeling or behaviors between those customers who 
speak Spanish and those who do not. 
0:18:20 - Oscar talking about when he came to America in 1983. He would invite his Anglo 
friends to his house and offer his mother's home cooking. They were turned off at first, but now 
those childhood friends look forward to eating Oscar's food. 
Oscar also tells a 
childhood story 
of betting his Anglo friends to eat a 
hot pepper. 
0:20:20 - Comparing their grocery store to a 
chain grocery store. In the beginning for food they 
would drive to Detroit or Chicago for an authentic Mexican products. 
0:22:16 - Discussing the sense of community found within the market. Comment on the 
emphasis the Latinos have on the importance of family and concern for others and how that 
contrasts with American behaviors. 
0:26:10 - Talking about the atmosphere and customer service in their market—friendly and 
helpful. 
0:27:00 - The owners of the market celebrate special holidays such as Cinco de Mayo, and Three 
Kings Day in their market by providing specialty foods. 
Talking about how they celebrate Christmas and New Year's. During the holiday times of the 
year, they bring in special product such as ponche (a 
tea or punch made out of fruits), Rosca de 
Reyes (a 
special bread with a 
toy inside for Three Kings Day) that they know that people will use 
in their holiday meals. 
0:33:02 - Asked if they ever consider doing a 
different job since it's so demanding and takes so 
much time. Oscar would not want to choose anything else because running a 
market is almost a 
family tradition and he has a 
passion for the career. Anna loves working at the market. They 
encourage their children to do better for themselves, but also want them to take interest in 
running a 
market. 
0:37:29 - When asked if the market offers a 
sense of community for those who are Latino, Oscar 
did not know how to answer that because he is seeing a 
growing number of American people 
come in as regulars, and they seem to enjoy the atmosphere/community of the market as well. 
0:39:46 - Can special or ethnic food help build a 
community? Maria: yes because food is the 
attraction and then you can learn so much more about people. She told a 
story of wanting to 
share recipes and cooking techniques with a 
Chinese lady whom her daughter knew. Oscar told 
story of serving a 
group of Chinese people who did not speak any English. 
0:42:00 - Oscar feels that the gratitude he receives from his job is better than monetary reward. 
0:42:51 - Talking about the weather affecting business. (The hard winter kept customers away.) 
Oscar also discusses his emphasis in his running of the grocery/restaurant is on the kitchen over 
the office work (that is why he hired Maria). Oscar and his wife are very conscious of making 
sure their customer satisfaction is achieved by getting out there and doing the work in the 
kitchen, market, and restaurant. 
0:45:08 - Asked about how owning an ethnic grocery store is part of them, their personality, or 
their family history. 
Oscar: Likes the socializing aspect and is able to identify with the job. He is always happy to 
come to work. 
0:47:55 - Oscar wants to try new things (foods in the restaurant which is part of the market) and 
test them out on a 
few new people. There are foods that they make at home that many people, 
even some other Latinos are not familiar with. Oscar gives an example of feeding pozole to 250 
member of his church. Maria shares a 
story of sharing her cornbread recipe with Anna. 
0:50:52 - Oscar says that at lunchtime at the market he likes that they (employees) share their 
lunches with each other. Sharing food at a 
mealtime is a 
cultural thing. 
Maria talk about how back in Mexico as a 
child, if you have a 
little bag of chips in the lunch 
room when you open them up you offer some to others at the table. 
0:52:32 - Oscar explains why he believes the sharing occurs as part of the Mexican culture. Anna 
agrees with a 
story of when she was a 
kid; she wanted a 
piece of candy and she would collect 
bottles and sell them to collect money. 
Oscar shares a 
story about the time his father gave him a 
sucker. He ate the whole sucker except 
for a 
small last bit on the stick and saved it for the next day. 
0:54:45 - Discuss how being poor has taught them how to appreciate what you have and what 
you get. 
0:56:26 - Has experiencing being poor influenced the way the run the market? Oscar answers 
"Of course". Anna agrees too and shares with how Oscar and his wife are very caring. 
0:57:45 - Oscar compares the communities that he has lived in and explains how he feels that 
Toledo's Latino community is very friendly, and Toledo is welcoming to Latinos. 
0:59:58 - Oscar uses local companies to buy food. Whatever they can't find here they will buy 
for a 
Mexican company in Chicago. 
1:01:04 - Mexicans and farming in the local region (NW 
Ohio). Anna shares how she came to 
America as a 
migrant worker with her family and picked cucumbers and tomatoes. 
Oscar said when he first came here (America) his first job was picking corn. 
Oscar shares as story about talking to immigrant children and how they identify as an immigrant 
worker. Discuss the increase of prices since the change in immigration regulations. 
1:04:00 - Talk about the hiring practices of San Marcos. It's a 
family business and mostly run 
and owned by family. Talk about other restaurants and markets that are owned by Oscar's 
family. They run a 
store and restaurant in Elkhart, Indiana that Lucy has been to. 
Not all of the employees at San Marcos are family, but Oscar says that there are some that have 
been working with him long enough that they feel like part of his family. 
1:07:17 - Creating their own culinary culture, a 
blend of Mexican and American, in the San 
Marcos market. 
1:07:45 - Talk about going back to his hometown in Mexico with some employees from San 
Marcos. 
Oscar's hometown in Mexico is Aguascalientes. Anna's hometown in Mexico is in Tamaulipas, 
a 
Mexican State that borders Texas. 
They said the food is different from both of their hometown. The food in the US is similar to the 
food in Northern Mexico. 
1:11:00 - Discuss the differences in mole and how it's eaten. Mole is a 
big, traditional party food 
(weddings, quinceaiiera, and holidays). They sell mole in the store but they have never sold it in 
the restaurant. 
1:13:00 - TexMex food uses a 
lot of gravies on their foods unlike authentic Mexican dishes with 
the exception of mole. 
1:13:30 - Experiencing other cultures' foods. They enjoy exchanging recipes with each other for 
different Mexican recipes, but also recipes for American foods. Anna gave an example of 
making and sharing vegetable pizza with her friends who had never had it before. 
Oscar said you can get recipes on the computer, but it's better to get the recipe from an 
individual. 
1:16:42 - Talking about purple hominy--how to cook it and it being used to make pozole and 
used in menudo. 
There are variations in pozole with spices and pork or chicken. 
Spanish and Chicano people ask for the corn/hominy as pozole and the Mexican people refer to 
the corn/hominy as maize. Pozole was a 
soup dish created in Mexico. 
1:20:20 - Oscar and Anna talk about eating and serving tripe to others who have not had it 
before. 
Oscar surprised that Anglo restaurant patrons enjoyed the beef tripe tacos as much as they did. 
Felt they are really embracing his culture's foods. 
1:21:44- Oscar tells a 
story about his mom making liver tacos and feeding them to his friends. 
1:22:35 - Talking about tripe. Tripe in a 
taco is different from in menudo. At San Marcos they 
fry the meat where most places boil it. 
It is an involved dish and Anna says she would rather buy 
it at the restaurant than make it at home. 
1:23:50 - Closing comments; Talk about pictures taken of the market