Page 1 of 8 
 
Interviewee: Lindsay Davel 
Date: 06-14-2019 
Interviewer: Charitie V. Hyman 
Location: Her office, Oshkosh, WI 
File Name: afc2018032_05026_ms01 
Background Noise: Just a few office noises; computer, phone, etc.  
 
Summary of Interview: Lindsey Davel talks about her early interest in nursing; she graduated 
high school early and took nursing classes at UW-Oshkosh. She describes working at a state 
psychiatric hospital noting aspects of the physical environment and the patient population. She 
says that she frequently dealt with violence and she became burned out after an injury. 
Afterwards, she explains, she went back to school and became a psychiatric nurse practitioner. 
At her current employment, she says her job satisfaction is much higher; it’s a slower pace and 
she feels more appreciated. 
 
Time 
Content Description 
0.00.00 
Introductions 
0.00.23 
Born in Milwaukee and raised in Sussex, a suburb of Milwaukee. Three siblings; 
second oldest. She graduated from high school one semester early. Went to UW-
Oshkosh to pursue nursing degree while still being in high school. Got Bachelor’s 
degree in nursing in 2006. “I actually wasn’t going to be a nurse. I hated the 
whole program. But I did want to finish the program … But at least I was going to 
finish with a diploma. The very last semester of college was psych/mental health, 
and because I graduated high school early, it was kind of off kilter. It was the Fall 
of 2006 … Well, that semester was mental health and I had to go to Winnebago 
Mental Health Institute for a mental health rotation. At the time, the medium-
security unit was co-ed (it’s now female). Going there, one of the first things I 
saw was someone running around with their underwear on their head … with 
some psychotic ramblings. And I thought, ‘I think I could fit in here!’” Institution 
was delighted interviewee wanted to work on this unit. “And I loved it; I was 
there for five years and eight months. Absolutely loved it. I got a little burned out 
working at Winnebago.” One of the perks was that Winnebago would pay for a 
master’s degree; was encouraged by coworkers who thought interviewee was “so 
smart.” Loved being at UW-Madison for this degree. Worked fulltime—with 
overtime—while also doing program for master’s for psychiatric nurse 
practitioner through UW-Madison. 
0.04.46 
“While at Winnebago, I dealt with a lot of violence. And I actually liked that at 
the beginning because it reminded me of a lot of happy memories of my 
childhood. That sounds odd! But I used to do Tae Kwan Do with my father, and 
we used to use sparring competitions … So, to use those skills to help other 
people—within the confines of the hospital rules of course—was great. So, I 
really liked working there. I even signed up to the crisis management team, 
teaching new employees about how to safely restrain and protect themselves and 
others. And that included suiting up in the riot gear for patients who were 
extremely assaultive and even had weapons—which was not uncommon.” 
Page 2 of 8 
 
0.06.28 
“So I got a little burned out after I lost a fight—I think that was in 2010. We had a 
rule change where at snack time they used to have a bag of chips out of the 
vending machine—they used to be able to have a whole bag. So, the institution 
wanted to be a little healthier, and wanted them to have only one serving of chips. 
But trying to educate people who maybe did not have adult cognitive functioning 
was not going to go well. One patient had the cognitive functioning of a five-year-
old—and trying to tell that person that, ‘No, you’re not in trouble’—because food 
is a reward—was not going to work. And she became physical and upset. And my 
options were to enforce the rule and have her be upset … or have everyone else be 
upset.” The patient was put in restraints, and later that night, the patient had 
appeared to calm—reflecting back on the situation and talking about it—but the 
patient became combative again and ran out. “I had just enough time to stand up 
before she was in my face. She ended up picking me up and kind of wedging me 
between a door and a doorframe—actually picking me up off the ground. Patients 
who are psychotic, with that adrenaline, they can get superhuman strength. But in 
trying to put me down, she ended up with her weight on my leg. And I felt a pop. 
And I didn’t really know—in the moment, you don’t feel pain … We ended up 
having to put her back in restraints. And I thought I had just sprained my knee … 
They took an X-ray to make sure nothing was broken … I tried to ‘walk it off’ 
and it wasn’t getting better … The patient was very remorseful and even tried to 
make me a card. And people were like, ‘You should sue her.’ But no, that’s not 
going to make anything better. The best apology was the card and just the verbal 
apology. My dips, dives, and ducks were like half a second off. And then I started 
to get black eyes, and I was limping. So, I became a target then … And that just 
kind of bruised my ego a bit then. But it turned out that I ended up having a 
broken ACL.” Initially, the goal was to take tendons and make an ACL, but the 
surgery ended up involving cadaver grafts. The recovery took a long time. 
 
0.11.59 
“And during this time there was a lot of political stuff going on. It was when there 
all those protests down at the Capitol. And my mom actually took me to school, 
because you can’t miss a day in grad school. But navigating the protests was 
hard—all the stopping and starting … And one thing that happened [around this 
time] was that state employees lost the ability to negotiate about working 
conditions … So, the timing of that, with a broken ACL, I was grateful that I was 
in school, because that was no longer an option to work at Winnebago, with the 
safety concerns.” Was assessed to have 12% disability in knee, and so “dips, 
dives, and ducks” were still half a second off. Wanted to start a family and come 
home and “not have to tell kids why mom has a black eye.” 
 
0.14.15 
After grad school, applied for jobs and felt had “pick of the litter” because there’s 
not a lot of competition for jobs. The job at Aurora that interviewee now has as 
psych nurse practitioner had been posted the entire time interviewee was in grad 
school. Has worked at Aurora for six years. Was hired with condition of going 
back for DNP and wanted support in terms of time off to get clinicals and study; 
Aurora agreed to this. Didn’t realize until working at Aurora that had some PTSD 
symptoms. Felt that you knew the “noise of how a unit was run,” and that noise 
Page 3 of 8 
 
out of the normal was a sign that something wasn’t right; would hear this before 
the alert. “You’re kind of alert to abnormal sounds of the unit.” But in new 
position, every sound was unfamiliar; so, would often do safety rounds and be 
“hyper-vigilant.” Over time, feels that this has slowly gotten better, but still once 
a year something might “pique the hyper-vigilance.” 
 
0.17.02 
At Aurora, with a civil not forensic population, with insurance and patients being 
higher functioning. Feels the work environment is a lot better—fewer risks of 
getting black eye and having to explain this to child. “So, my work satisfaction is 
a lot better. I really like working here.” 
 
0.17.56 
Got DNP in 2014 and Master’s in 2012. “The focus in going from a master’s to a 
DNP is to put a capstone on, but also to introduce leadership.” Learned about 
business side of healthcare, grant-writing, etc. Feels in hindsight this was 
excellent preparation to understand where administration is coming from, having 
come from a clinical background. “I can kind of be the liaison between the two 
[the clinical side and the business/administrative side] So my DNP, I’m really 
glad I got it.” 
 
0.19.39 
Other nurse practitioners also work in Aurora—one of whom was interviewee’s 
students. One psychiatrist works via ‘tele-psych,’ because of an acute shortage of 
psychiatrists.  
 
0.20.16 
“So it’s a hard job. And there’s stigma” because of significant pay differences 
“and psychiatric patients have that stigma of being ‘challenging’—and I say that 
in quotes—and so why work with a patient population that’s challenging when 
you could be cardiologist and make twice as much?” 
 
0.21.05 
On whether the stigma has a basis: “It depends on how you want to define 
challenging patients. For me, I’m used to it, I guess. But if I had somebody who 
had stroke—for a med/surg nurse practitioner, that’s easy; for me, it’s a challenge. 
So, it depends on what you know how to do. For me, with my history of karate 
and Tae Kwon Do, that’s not a challenge … So, I guess to me it never felt like it 
was that much of a challenge. I think the challenge was the amount of overtime 
we worked. And sometimes the lack of support from administration—and it may 
not be a lack of support, but the constraints from the governor and all the politics 
down in Madison. And whoever is the governor, they’re not concerned with 
what’s going on with one particular unit or one particular patient or how it’s run. 
So, people are between a rock and a hard place there too. And I really did enjoy 
working at Winnebago, despite the challenges there.” 
 
0.23.34 
On a day in the life of a psych nurse and how it changed: As an RN, not as a nurse 
practitioner. If a day shift, would start with 24-hour report, the report between 
shifts about each patient and how they were doing, and what safety precautions 
had been taken, and if they’d been restricted to the day room—if there were 
medical needs or behavioral issues from the previous shift. And because there 
Page 4 of 8 
 
were 28 people on the unit, there were usually two nurses on day shifts, two on 
PM shift, and one on night shift. And at the time, RCTs—or now PCTs 
(psychiatric care technicians)—“like a CNA-type role, but you wouldn’t dare call 
them CNAs—definite title protection there.” And the nurses would “divvy up” the 
roles—one being the ‘charge’ or ‘lead.’ One nurse would run checks, these being 
completed by the RCTs or PCTs. They also attended meetings, for treatment plans 
for patients, and collaborating with other members of the healthcare team. 
Because the unit was forensic, another element of the job was reviewing 
competence to stand trial. For those not guilty by reason of mental defect, 
assessment of their threat level and what level of security was needed for patient. 
This role was therefore highly structured. Nurses would also coordinate blood 
draws, transportation to a hospital if needed, which PCT/RCT would go, and 
oversee seclusion and restraints. The support nurse would then support the charge 
nurse. Their role would also be to process orders, but most importantly to pass 
meds. The scheduled meds were 8am, 12pm, 4pm, and at night, and then as 
needed. “It was always interesting when patients would ask for those as-needed 
medications … When they were agitated and angry and were requesting [shots], 
they would be, ‘I need my PRN!,’ and it was such a cultural thing. I always 
thought it was interesting. They would always call medications by name except 
when it was the agitation medication.” 
 
0.29.24 
On deciding roles: “It was usually who was on staff that day. So sometimes it 
would be seniority-based a lot of times—there was a chart. But it wasn’t set in 
stone by any means. It would also be the comfort level of the nurse, or if one 
nurse was a ‘float’ or more familiar with the unit.” 
 
0.30.01 
On the roles: “I liked bits and pieces of both roles, and I liked interacting with the 
patients while passing medications. I also really liked, in the charge role, the 
seclusion and restraints.” 
 
0.30.31 
On restraints: “At that time, there were a lot of different kind of restraints that we 
could use, depending on patient needs and whether they had disabilities—they 
could be adapted. One was called mini-wraps, like Velcro type wraps, about 12 
inches in width and you would wrap one around their torsos and made sure it 
covered their elbows so they couldn’t pull out of it. So, their arms would be 
against their sides, you’d kind of wrap them around like a burrito. And the other 
strap would be around their knees. And you’d put them kind of on a lifeguard 
board … And you’d put them on a gurney, and put them in a seclusion room, 
which was kind of cement walls, a cement floor, and a steel door, with a camera 
there to watch. And we’d take the person off the gurney, off the board, and partly 
unwrap them, and lock the steel door, because they’re still agitated and a risk to 
staff and patients. And the theory was they’d fight and get their energy out by 
fighting out of those restraints and get their energy out by fighting out of those 
restraints. And not only was there a camera there but a person there to watch 
them” to check their needs and assess whether they were ready to come out of the 
seclusion room. 
Page 5 of 8 
 
 
0.33.28 
“And then there was the trans board, which was a big board that took six to eight 
people to lift. At that time, the straps would be around the wrists, ankles, shins, 
thighs, and chest. And you always had to make sure that you could fit your hand 
under the chest one, because you did not want to risk positional asphyxiation, 
because that would result in death … If they still were really agitated, we could 
add biceps and forearm restraints if we really needed to … Nowadays I don’t 
think they are able to use that many restraints anymore—they eliminated the chest 
one because the risk of positional asphyxiation … It was sort of like taking the 
patient to a bed restraint. You would bring that to them, and then bring them to a 
safe place, so they couldn’t go after other patients or other patients couldn’t go 
after them. And there the door had to be left open because of the risk of 
asphyxiation and they weren’t fighting to get out of the restraints and work out 
their energy. And that was for safety. Safety was a big thing.” 
 
0.35.28 
“The last type of restraint we would use was the ‘Gerry chair.’ And the jerry chair 
was pretty tricky. Basically, to describe it in layman’s terms, it was kind of like a 
giant highchair on wheels. So, the patient would be on the ground being restrained 
by staff. And you would roll this chair up and put the patient in it, and then put 
this highchair tray down, and their wrists would be restrained to this tray. And 
ankle and wrists would be restrained. That probably resulted in the most staff 
injuries, so it wasn’t used that much.” This would patient-dependent: sometimes 
lying down would be very traumatic for a patient based on their history. 
 
0.37.06 
“The last type of restraint was the seclusion room, locked. But restraints and 
seclusion were a last resort. We worked on de-escalation and tried coping skills 
before using those. That was always last-resort.” 
 
0.37.46 
Length of patient stay varied, depending on legal status. Some were 72-hour 
detentions to determine if psych exam was needed. If exam needed, a 14-day 
psych exam, if approved by court, with possible extensions. If decided not fit to 
stand trial, then patient could come back for a year to try to gain competency. 
Court check-ins took place every three months to see if they were gaining 
competency—i.e., if knew what a court was, how to assist lawyer, understanding 
plea options. 
 
0.39.06 
On learning these skills: “Baptism by fire. So, what resulted in the less yelling and 
screaming. And what also resulted in positive behaviors. So, if I would give in to 
patients, well that would just be negative reinforcement for patients to continue 
the negative behaviors. So, learning about what was best for the unit and for the 
patients as far as rehabilitation goes, and being able to function effectively in the 
community, if they get the chance to get out in the community.” 
 
0.40.17 
On relationship in the hospital with other medical staff: “Nurses managed the day-
to-day functioning of the unit. They also were assigned primary patients, and they 
would kind of pay a little more attention, compared to all the rests of the patients. 
Page 6 of 8 
 
And they would be developing nursing plans, patient care plans … teaching them 
about their medications and promoting adherence to their medications … So, they 
focused a lot on the medical piece and the day-to-day functioning. So, say when 
they participated in staffing meetings, they would report out on what happened 
day-to-day … They would do a lot of the charting on all the different incidences 
on each shift. And they were required to chart on certain people each month … 
So, if someone was in restraints, they would report on what happened before that, 
what alternatives were tried to de-escalate, and what happened after.” 
 
0.42.39 
Hand-charting was used when interviewee was at Winnebago. Even after ACA, 
which penalized hand-charting, Wisconsin was “behind” because of a lack of 
funding, so mental health institutions were still using hand charting behind 
everyone else. Only in last year did Winnebago transition to electronic charting. 
But some things could be dictated and put into Microsoft Word, so each patient 
would have a server drive on the network, with each patient having a file, with 
intake assessment, the “big, formal treatment plans,” etc. 
 
0.45.01 
“Some of the aspects [I miss], yes, absolutely. I liked working with that severity 
of patients and being able to watch them proceed through their recovery and 
getting better. That was fun to see and know you were part of that recovery 
process. That was very rewarding to me. My coworkers were amazing. So, 
working with all the other people who had direct care duties. There was a lot of 
camaraderie there, because you had to function as a team to maintain safety of the 
unit. Versus here in Aurora, I’m here in my office, and yes, I have a nurse to help 
out and we have meetings, but the camaraderie is not what it’s like in 
Winnebago.” 
 
0.46.35 
On coping with the stress of Winnebago: “Drink! [laughs] I don’t drink at all 
anymore. But most people coped by drinking. But there were two bars there that 
were open, because they were open at all times, so it didn’t matter which shift you 
were are. I remember one time going to a bar at 7am with my coworkers with a 
meat raffle! … And honestly, I think it’s a maladaptive coping mechanism, but 
there’s a lot of it … Otherwise, personally, focusing a lot on family.” 
 
0.48.10 
On working in more of a clinical setting: “Not only is the setting different, but the 
role is different too. I like that it’s kind of a slower pace, because I’m not getting 
any younger! [laughs] I like the long-term care of the patients. Some of these 
patients, I’ve seen for the last six years I’ve been here. So that’s been kind of 
reward for me. And I just like that it’s slower—it’s easier … I get to decorate my 
office. I would have to say that the administration of Aurora treats their 
employees a lot better. Not to say that the administration at Winnebago were 
disrespectful, but the funds weren’t there to show appreciation for employees.” 
Examples: employee appreciation schemes at Aurora, and money being allocated 
in department budget for that—not administration’s fault, but a lack of control 
and political reasons. “I feel more appreciated.” 
 
Page 7 of 8 
 
0.50.40 
“Aurora, since they’re not for profit, they really emphasize the importance of 
community outreach. So, I’m on CIT—crisis intervention team—for Winnebago 
county, representing Aurora. We get there with all the other health agencies in the 
county … and how do we provide better services for some of the more 
challenging patients that reside in this county. That would include the county jail, 
the city police department, the homeless shelters, a lot of the nonprofit 
organization. [Representatives from each of these organizations are involved.] … 
There’s a lot of people that come together … We share a lot of resources. It’s 
actually an awesome outlet to get resources from.” 
 
0.52.14 
On resources in the county: “Psychiatric resources? No. One example: I am the 
only one who will take a lot of child/adolescent patients in the Oshkosh/Fond du 
Lac market … If your insurance will only take Aurora [and you’re in this area], 
then you’re stuck with me! [laughs] … The need is so high here.” 
 
0.53.43 
No in-patient unit in this market for Aurora; work with other healthcare 
organizations to hospitalize patients when this is needed. Can be very challenging 
to hospitalize patients in other healthcare systems, because of a lack of guarantee 
that the bed will still be available. Doctor-to-doctor communication required, and 
this can be unpredictable and delayed. 
 
0.54.50 
On alternative options: “It can be really, really challenging to try to find [a bed]. 
The longer it takes, the more likely the patient will go from voluntary to 
involuntary hospitalization. And then the police have to come, and the county 
takes over, and gets an involuntary 72-hour detention. But that’s not great care. 
You don’t want to do that.” 
 
0.55.49 
At one point, the state implemented a scheme listing online all the available beds. 
But not taken up well by hospitals, who didn’t update system. 
 
0.56.17 
Summit House, sponsored through the county, and a place called Iris (for 
voluntarily admitted patients, kind of a respite place) function as other outlets for 
step-down from hospitalizations. Sometimes the possibility of finagling the 
patient into partial hospitalization or intensive out-patient scheme. But this can be 
time-consuming and is not always an option. 
 
0.57.42 
Interviewee finds this aspect of the job really frustrating (finding beds when 
needed) and the hardest part of her job—that and insurance companies. These 
companies dictate how and what interviewee prescribes. One example: 
interviewee had ordered 40 mg capsule of Prozac, to take once a day. Would cost 
about $4 a day from Walmart. Insurance company had requested prior 
authorization, because they wanted another similarly priced authorization. This 
put the brakes on the patient getting their meds while interviewee justified her 
medical decision. “Yeah, I was pretty angry that day. Granted, that’s an extreme 
example. But there’s numerous examples of insurance companies dictating. And I 
know part of it is they want to cut costs, but sometimes it really puts us in a bind 
Page 8 of 8 
 
where they won’t cover it and say the patients aren’t even taking it, and I have to 
crash them off of it, and it risks hospitalization and decompensation. And it’s 
really hard to watch. I can try writing to the companies and asking for free 
samples—you have to get creative—but it can be really frustrating. And that’s a 
common issue for a lot of prescribers.” 
 
1.00.52 
Another example: a company that would only allow antipsychotics from list only 
two of which were indicated for the condition at issue. After “jumping through 
hoops,” the company imposed new conditions, requiring that all the medications 
on the list be tried before any new medication was tried. “I was so irate … It was 
awful, just awful … And then it delays the patients getting the medications, not 
follow up, and just continue to get sick.” 
 
1.02.25 
“I wouldn’t trade this job for the world—that’s for sure. Even though I talked 
about a lot of the downs, some of the ups, honestly, I couldn’t imagine myself 
doing something else. It’s a tough job, it’s a hard job, a lot of people don’t want to 
do it. But I couldn’t see myself doing anything else. I absolutely love this patient 
population and the work that I do. It’s very rewarding for me … Being part of the 
recovery process. It’s always interesting to see the mental illness symptoms. It is 
always intriguing to see, say, the presentation of schizophrenia, and kind of 
listening to their stories and their thoughts and thinking. And how can I as a 
provider listen to them, and help them, and watch their recovery. That’s very 
rewarding, and I’m a big fan … And building that therapeutic rapport with 
patients. I really do like that. And if you don’t build that therapeutic rapport, 
that’s okay too … And I like—I guess I just really like working with this 
population.”