1 
 
Project: Trash Talk: Workers in Vermont’s Changing Waste Management Industry 
Narrator: Gary Winnie, hazardous waste supervisor 
Interviewer:  Virginia Nickerson 
Date: October 19, 2018 
Place:  Chittenden Solid Waste District Environmental Depot, South Burlington, Vermont 
Transcribed by:  Teresa Bergen  
 
00:00 
 
Winnie:  Start all over. 
 
Nickerson:  So this is Ginger Nickerson.  
 
Winnie:  Still. 
 
Nickerson:  Still. And I am interviewing Gary Winnie at the Chittenden Solid Waste District 
Environmental Depot in South Burlington on October 19, 2018. So Gary, I usually start by just 
asking people if they could tell me the year and the town that they were born in. 
 
Winnie:  The year was 1959, and the town was Randolph, Vermont. 
 
00:30 
 
Nickerson:  Okay. So could you tell me what your current job is and how long you’ve been in 
this line of work? 
 
Winnie  Well, my official title is hazardous waste supervisor. I have been the hazardous waste 
supervisor since about year 2000. But I’ve been in hazardous waste management, this same job 
for the solid waste district since 1991, or 27 years.  
 
01:04 
 
Nickerson:  And what was your pathway into hazardous waste? What had you done before and 
how did you get into it? 
 
Winnie:  Well, [the] pathway is long. But briefly I would say way back in the late ‘70s, after I got 
out of high school, I decided I wanted to work helping the environment. Like a lot of people do 
nowadays. And there was a bumpy start. Then finally in the late 1980s, I started dairy farming, 
which I felt was helping the environment. When I found out that wasn’t exactly what I was 
thinking of, I saw this job come up and I thought, that’s exactly what I was thinking of. So I 
2 
 
applied and they hired me because, according to my supervisor at the time, I was a farmer and 
they figured that I would know how to work hard. (laughs)  
 
2:13 
 
Nickerson:  Was that true? 
 
Winnie:  Well, I like to think so. But it’s not really my call. I think it’s worked that way. It’s not an 
easy job. I mean, it’s a job where you do have to work hard. They haven’t thrown me out the 
door yet, so I guess I’m working hard still. 
 
2:30 
 
Nickerson:  So do you remember your first day at work? 
 
Winnie:  Yes. Well, actually my first week at work, I started with a week-long training in 
emergency training. So, the first day I fell victim to a prank over at the trainer’s office that one 
trainer was playing on another trainer. But I got into the middle of it and ended up with dish 
soap all over the side of my head. So I felt like boy, this is a good start. I wonder how things go 
from here? They got better, of course. But yeah, the first week was kind of scary because it was 
all about emergencies. And I thought, man, what have I gotten myself into? I’m going to be  
having all these environmental emergencies. That wasn’t really what I was signing on for. I 
come to find out, we don’t really have environmental emergencies, but they just want to 
prepare you for that type of thing. And I figured out how to get dish soap off the side of your 
head. 
 
03:27 
 
Nickerson:  So do you want to tell me about that prank? 
 
Winnie:  Well, yeah. One guy decided it would be funny to put dish soap all over the other guy’s 
telephone. And of course everybody had land lines back then. This was 1991. I was supposed to 
call in my supervisor at lunchtime and tell her how things were going on my first day. So I 
picked up the phone and it was covered with dish soap, which I did not notice until I was done 
with the conversation. And then I realized I had this slimy stuff all over the side of my head. 
When I went out there and said something about it, everybody laughed except the guy who 
was supposed to fall victim to it. And then I found out. Anyways. I don't think I ever got an 
apology for that. That’s all right. 
 
 
 
3 
 
04:13 
 
Nickerson:  So they weren't trying to haze you. 
 
Winnie:  No. No, they were hazing each other. No doubt. Yeah. 
 
04:20 
 
Nickerson:  Was that here in this facility? 
 
Winnie:  No. No. We actually started out operating down on Pine Street in Burlington. And it 
wasn’t at that facility. It was at the trainer’s. The trainers had their own facility. But we started 
out in 1990. We opened up for business and we were down on Pine Street in what used to be 
the street department, Burlington Street Department> Well actually, it’s now an empty lot 
where they dump dirt from catch basin clean outs. But we operated out of that spot for the first 
13 years that we were open. And then we moved up here in 2003. And we have been here 
since. 
 
Nickerson:  And “here” is near the airport. 
 
Winnie:  “Here” is near the airport. Yeah.  
 
05:16 
 
Nickerson:  Is this some kind of a specially designed facility? 
 
 
Winnie:  No, actually it was retrofitted to house us. It actually started out as a biosolids facility 
where they took biosolids [residuals from sewage water treatment plants] and made it into 
fertilizer pellets. And yeah, that went out of business in the mid to late ‘90s. The building was 
idle for five or six years, or actually close to ten years. And then we were looking for a place to 
move because an old story, the southern connector was supposed to get completed in 
Burlington, and we were actually sitting in the path of this other connector. And we were told 
when we were in that parking lot from day one that we would have to leave as soon as they got 
to that southern connector. 
 
 
So they finally gave us notice that it was time to leave. So we moved into this building, 
which was abandoned. And we retrofitted it for us. But only about a third of the building was 
retrofitted for this operation. The other two-thirds were kept for maybe future biosolids use. 
But over the years, we took over the whole building. 
 
 
4 
 
 
06:40 
 
Nickerson:  So I’m going to go back to your first week of work. 
 
Winnie:  Okay.  
 
Nickerson:  And your first few weeks of work started in 1991. What kinds of stuff were you, 
after you had your emergency training, what kinds of stuff were you doing when you started? 
 
Winnie:  Well, I didn’t get much training after that. It was kind of a funny setup. The solid waste 
district owned the facility, but it was operated by the city of Burlington. So I was paid by the 
solid waste district but supervised by the city of Burlington. The city of Burlington was trying to 
get their curbside recycling program, up and running. So they contracted the [environmental] 
depot labor to a local hazardous waste facility. Private enterprise. So when I walked into the 
depot the first time to work, there was a guy from private industry there to train me, which I 
was told would take probably about a month to get me up to speed so that I could run the 
place by myself. He trained me for about an hour, an hour and a half. And he left. And then I 
never saw anybody again. But that was the nature of household hazardous waste back in 1991. 
It wasn’t extraordinary. It wasn’t anything different. Very, very few people were fulltime 
household hazardous waste operators in the country. It was, to say that you’ve been in the 
business for 27 years is almost pioneering. And I’m not making any claim of my greatness. All 
I’m saying is, in 1991 or 1990, there were very few household hazardous waste facilities 
anywhere in the country. So if you started out back then, there was no one to train you. You 
trained on your own.  
 
08:55 
 
Nickerson:  So what were you doing in the beginning, and how did you learn what to do? 
 
Winnie:  Well, I learned by embarrassing myself. And I’ll tell you how that happened. And to be 
honest with you, I was doing in the beginning exactly what I’m doing now: collecting waste 
from households. It was a little bit different in the beginning in that we also had a scrap metal 
yard. We were the only public scrap metal yard in the county. We were accepting tires as well. 
We were the only public drop off area for tires in the county. So there was a considerable 
amount of work in just moving scrap metal, which we did all by hand.  
 
 
But learning how to handle hazardous waste came from making phone calls. Back then, 
there was no internet. I don't think we even had a computer down at the depot. No, I know we 
did not. We didn’t have a computer at the depot, and I didn’t have a cash register. I had a cash 
box - a box that held money. And I hand wrote receipts if they were needed for fees associated 
5 
 
with scrap metal and tires. So anytime I ran across household hazardous waste that I didn’t 
know what it was, I would pile it up. And at the end of the day, I would make phone calls to the 
local TSDF, treatment storage disposal facility. The hazardous waste people, the private 
enterprise that would eventually pick up our waste. And I would say okay, what do I do with 
this? What do I do with this? And they would tell me, how to handle it from there. It worked 
really well. I didn’t get myself into too much trouble. We had a thing called the Hawley’s 
Chemical Dictionary. It was actually a book, and you opened it up and you read all the 
ingredients. The customer base was much smaller back then. It was 2,000 customers a year. 
And in the wintertime, it was virtually a ghost town. On a busy day, we would get ten people, 
and that would be really busy. There were days in the winter down there when we got nobody. 
We got no customers whatsoever. So there was a lot of time to train yourself. But it was all 
done by phone or on paper. Through books. There weren’t a lot of people around to talk to face 
to face. 
 
 
I started going to what they call the SWANA conference. SWANA is the Solid Waste 
Association of North America. They’re the ones that essentially started household hazardous 
waste programs through money from the EPA. They held annual conferences. I started going to 
those conferences. Met up with people across the country that were also, quote, unquote, 
“pioneers.” But we never had much dialog, because again, there was no internet. So there was 
no way to just say, “Hey, I wonder about this. I know Jim out in Portland, Oregon, he knows all 
about this. I’m going to drop him an email.” It just didn’t work like that. You called him on the 
phone. And he might not even have a voicemail. I mean, back then they had an answering 
machine. And it just wasn’t the same thing. 
  
 
So information moves slow. And you know, the internet has helped that. It has helped 
the whole system. You don’t have to wait until once a year when the conference comes around 
to find out things. 
 
 
Of course our program has advanced so much. I guess we’re jumping way ahead. But 
our program has advanced so much. There are certainly much larger programs than ours. It’s 
vastly contingent on how many people you’re serving. So if you have a system like Portland or 
Seattle, who have always been at the front end of the household hazardous waste, they’re 
serving millions of people, where we’re serving 150,000. Well, their programs, they don’t 
generally call me and ask me for information. But we do get a lot of programs, especially in 
Vermont, that do call us. And it’s good, because everybody has an outlet now. Or they email 
me. Or whatever. So everybody has a way to learn quicker now and come up to speed quicker. 
So I guess that’s the difference, the biggest difference.  
 
 
But I don’t even think that was the question, was it? You don’t remember, either. 
(laughs)  
 
6 
 
13:48 
 
Nickerson:  No, I was asking— 
 
Winnie:  What did I do the first week? 
 
Nickerson:  What, yeah, what your first, in the beginning, what was your typical day like? What 
were you doing? And what kinds of waste were people bringing in? 
 
Winnie:  That’s a good question. Because I often think about that. And most of the people that I 
work with now have been here ten years or less. So they see a little bit of a trend, a difference 
in the waste. But I see a lot of difference since 1990. You know, household hazardous waste 
since 1990 has changed drastically. Most of the stuff, at least by EPA standards, has become 
much less toxic than it used to be. You know, there was a lot, back then there were a lot of 
pesticides that were banned that were coming into the program. A lot of oil-based paints. Just 
things that met the criteria for EPA hazardous waste. And now we find ourselves handling and 
dealing with a lot of more stuff. Not to say that most of it is not hazardous, but under EPA 
standards are not hazardous. 
 
 
There’s different standards for what’s hazardous and what isn’t. This is another thing 
that you learn when you get in the business. Everybody’s got their hands into this, okay? So 
what EPA considers hazardous, NIOSH [National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health] 
might consider not. Or more than likely, the National Institute of Health would consider it 
probably hazardous where EPA would not. Then there’s the Department of Transportation, 
because everything has to be trucked over the roads. So what they consider hazardous might 
be different. What OSHA considers hazardous is definitely going to be different, because 
they’re dealing with workers’ safety, and not the environment. So hazardous is a term that’s 
very difficult to throw out there and have everybody understand. From the standpoint of 
hazardous waste, it’s very specific to the EPA definition of hazardous waste. And by that 
definition, things have gotten less hazardous over time. 
  
 
Before everybody attacks me for saying [that]—(laughs) what about this? Yeah, there’s 
a lot of things still left in, there’s politics involved in it and everybody knows that. There are 
things that we as consumers and users and protectors of the environment wish were 
considered hazardous, and they’re not. They’re not. And we don’t know why. We don’t know 
why. But a lot of people think it’s money. I don't know. But all I know is there are strict 
definitions of what is hazardous. There are lists. They actually call them lists. And you go to that 
list and you say okay, this waste, this can of paint, this bottle of solvent, this household cleaner 
is on that list or it’s not. Or the ingredients, I should say, are on that list or it’s not. So it’s either 
hazardous or it isn’t. In 1990, most of the stuff we got in here from households was on that list. 
Nowadays, I’m not sure that that’s true anymore. 
7 
 
 
17:17 
 
Nickerson:  So what are some of the most common things that people bring in today? The most 
common categories. 
 
Winnie:  Well, paint has always been, I think paint has always been the most common item that 
people bring in. It’s the one thing that everybody kind of has, and it’s also the easiest thing for 
people to remember oh, I can bring paint there, so they bring paint. And you know, I would say 
that really hasn’t changed over the years. About maybe 30, 40 percent of all of our waste is 
paint. 
 
 
What’s changed about the paint is that it’s become less hazardous. You rarely see lead-
based paint anymore. You rarely see paint with mercury in it anymore. The amount of VOCs in 
paint has dropped. So paint— 
 
Nickerson:  VOCs? 
 
Winnie:  Volatile organic compounds. So for indoor air quality purposes. You know, can you use 
something indoors or not? So all that’s gone way down to levels that we didn’t see back in the 
beginning. There was a lot more oil-based paint back in the old days, which would be higher 
VOC. And even the water-based paint, the latex paint, had higher VOCs than it does now. Much 
higher. So that’s changed in that respect.  
 
 
Another waste stream that’s changed a lot is used oil. There was a time when used oil 
was a major waste stream, probably the second largest waste stream that we had. Because a 
lot of people changed their own oil. And they stockpiled it, because there was no place to take 
it. So in the first 10 or 15 years that we were open, it was not unusual to get 15,000 gallons of 
used oil every year. That made it one of our largest waste streams. Nowadays what we find is 
fewer and fewer people. Well, we don’t know. it would be anecdotal to say this, but I’ll throw it 
out anyways. Either/or people are not doing DIY, do it yourself oil changes as much as they 
used to, which I think is true. Plus, on top of that, they don’t have stockpiles anymore. Where it 
was very common for a household to have a 55-gallon drum of used oil, now it’s very 
uncommon. We used to get them weekly back in the beginning. Now it’s maybe four or five 
drums a year from households. So that’s changed a lot. 
 
 
You know, we cleaned everybody, not everybody, but we cleaned a lot of houses out of 
the oil they had. And some switched to not doing oil anymore. Cheaper to let somebody else do 
it. Not as easy to do it yourself, you know. Don’t like the mess. Whatever their reason is, we’re 
only seeing five thousand gallons now versus fifteen thousand gallons before. District-wide, we 
used to get 30, 35,000 gallons from all of our facilities. Thirty to thirty-five thousand gallons. 
8 
 
Now we’re around 15,000 for all of our facilities so that’s a good thing. That’s a good thing. It 
can’t be said, I’m sure, that people are driving less, because I’m sure they’re not. Perhaps 
synthetic oils have made a difference. I don't know. There’s probably other factors. A lot of 
people burn oil now. There was a period in the ‘60s and ‘70s and before when there were a lot 
of oil burners. And then clean air regulations came in and those oil burners were all shut down. 
So nobody was burning oil anymore. And then all of a sudden in the ‘90s, a new generation of 
oil burners came in. We use one here in this building. They’re called clean burn systems. And 
now the amount of garages that have those has skyrocketed. And now a lot of the used oil gets 
burned. 
 
 
And since the natural gas phenomena, that’s not as true. Because used oil, like anything 
else, costs money. It’s sold on the open market. And when natural gas is cheaper than used oil, 
people are going to use natural gas. So there was a drop in demand for used oil a while ago, but 
it looks like it’s heading back up again. 
 
0:21:56 
 
Nickerson:  So paint and oil are really common. What are some other common things that 
people bring in? 
 
Winnie:  Well, I like to think that we are, but I’m sure we are not, the lightbulb capital of the 
world. What they call mercury-containing lamps, which in layman’s terms we used to call 
florescent lights. So back when we first started collecting florescent lights, which I believe is 
way back. I think the first year we collected florescent tubes, it was probably in the mid-1990s. 
We were charging a dollar a foot to recycle them. And I remember the first year we got four 
four-foot bulbs. That was our entire haul for the year. So 16 feet of lightbulbs was our entire 
haul. Now we’re recycling about probably 10 or 15,000 feet every ten days. So it’s quite a bit of 
difference.  
 
Now on the other side of that, a couple of things have happened. One, the price to 
recycle them has gone down from a dollar a foot to pennies. So it’s become more affordable. 
Secondly, there are a lot more lightbulbs now because there was a huge switch in the ‘90s and 
the early 2000s from incandescent to florescent tubes. Especially from homeowners, compact 
fluorescents. All those bulbs, if they’re florescent, contain mercury in small amounts. So they’re 
all recycled. Or they have to be recycled in Vermont, anyways. So that started out being a waste 
stream that took a long time to get going. Now it consumes a lot of our time. Everything in 
household hazardous waste is compared by weight. Because it’s kind of hard to say like “oh, I 
want to compare gasoline with lightbulbs.” The only way you can really do that is to weigh it 
and say okay, we’ve got this many pounds of [a material]. So everything we do is reported and 
thought of as in pounds. But if you start throwing labor in on top of that, then lightbulbs is a 
time-consuming waste stream. Because packaging them and handling them takes a lot of time. 
9 
 
So a drum of gasoline might weigh 450 pounds, but you might be able to handle that in a 
couple of minutes. But 450 pounds of lightbulbs could take you a long time, maybe hours, to 
get them together. It depends on how much time the person that brought you the bulbs put 
into them. I’ve got somebody outside right now reboxing 2,000 100 bulbs because he didn’t put 
it together right. So, yeah. But there was a day when we would do that ourselves. We would 
just say, “okay, well, you have 2,000 100 bulbs. Bring them in. We’ll put them in boxes.” And 
that would be what we did. Twenty years ago, that was a year’s worth of lightbulbs. Or more.  
 
Pesticides have always been a huge part of our program. Since day one I was just 
amazed at the amount of things I had read about in books and studied in college all of a sudden 
were in my hands: Chlordane, DDT, Agent Orange. I was just amazed. And I was thinking how 
did homeowners get their hands on these? I thought these things were industrial chemicals. 
Come to find out they were made for households as well. Maybe not in the same 
concentrations. But people did use them. 
 
We still see all that stuff today. Maybe not today, but in this operating year we’ll see all 
those banned chemicals that we read about in Silent Spring 50 years ago, we will still see those 
today. However, the trend has changed. Most of what we used to get in the 1990s were a lot of 
what people would consider highly toxic pesticides. Now what we’re seeing is more like 
insecticidal soaps, and what’s known as the organic pesticides now. So I wouldn’t say the 
organics constitute the majority of the pesticides, but it certainly has taken over a large part of 
the market. 
 
The largest part of the pesticide market is without a doubt weed killers. Still. 2-4D has 
been around forever. It was substituted somewhat with glyphosate as a less toxic alternative. 
But you know, look at it now. Who knows? Who would have known back in 1990 when they did 
the substitution that it would get the press that it’s getting today? And it’s very much in use at 
the homeowner level. 
 
Last quarter, July, August, September, we collected 9,500 pounds of pesticides. And 
anybody here would probably tell you the majority of that was weed killers. Probably half of 
that was just weed killers. And again, we don’t collect much pesticides from businesses. [That’s 
a] very small amount. I would say over a year’s time, less than 5 percent of our pesticides come 
from businesses. It’s just individual homeowners where we’re seeing this. So if we get into 
responsibility, which we may sometime during this interview, we all have to start thinking 
about that. How important is this? 
  
I never once thought about Lake Champlain until I moved up here and started working 
up here. I came from central Vermont. Water is a river in central Vermont, or a brook. It’s not a 
lake. There are very few ponds, there are very few lakes. And when I was a kid, we just didn’t 
hop in the car and come running up to Lake Champlain. In fact, I don’t ever recall going to Lake 
10 
 
Champlain for any reason when I was a kid. But now that I’m here, and I have seen it for 
twenty-some odd years, I find out how much we who live in this area and beyond, I learned this 
whole thing about watersheds years ago: we’re all responsible for what’s happening out there. 
So anyway, that’s almost soapbox. I think I’m going to climb down real quick. Let’s go back to 
the waste. (laughs)  
 
0:29:37 
 
Nickerson:  That was fascinating hearing about what some of the common things are. And just 
to kind of emphasize it, it sounds like the majority of the customers that this place is set up to 
handle are households as opposed to businesses. 
 
Winnie:  Yes. Now even though I say that, it’s got to be qualified a little bit. So over a year’s 
time, we handle about 10,000 households. And over a year’s time, we handle about 600 
businesses. So think of those two numbers. One is 10,000. One is 600. The businesses bring us 
40 percent of the waste that we receive, okay? So that’s kind of alarming in that sense. So the 
businesses, although there’s only 600 of them versus 10,000 households, are almost bringing 
half the waste. So business waste is a huge part of this. And it’s getting bigger. There was 
certainly a time—when we first started out, we didn't collect business waste at all. We didn’t 
collect it until 1993. We started collecting business waste in May of 1993. And it was a small 
part of what we did. Back in the beginning, I would guess 10 percent or less. And it grew to 25 
percent. It stayed at 25 percent for a long, long time.  
 
 
With deregulation in the hazardous waste business, which is kind of hard to explain so I 
won’t even attempt to, but waste was deregulated in certain ways over the years. Not that it 
was said that it was no longer hazardous, but they changed the regulations to make it—the 
intent was to make it easier to dispose of waste. And when they did that, it made it easier for 
businesses to come here. Because we only accept waste from certain generators, certain 
businesses. Businesses that only have a small amount of hazardous waste. But by deregulating 
the waste, they no longer had to say that that waste was hazardous. And therefore they could 
get into the program because they didn’t have large amounts of hazardous waste. 
 
 
So, backing up, and this is going to sound very controversial, but don’t let it be that way, 
because it really has to do with trying to make it easier for businesses to dispose of waste. And 
in this case, small businesses, because that’s who we’re dealing with. The EPA came in probably 
back in the 1990s and they said okay, these types of waste, we’re going to call them universal 
waste instead of hazardous waste. They still have to end up in the same place that the 
hazardous waste did, but we’re going to reduce the amount of paperwork. And in some cases 
we’re going to reduce some of the storage requirements that you have for these to make it 
easier for you to dispose of them. They’d already done it with used oil. So then they added 
universal waste. 
11 
 
 
 
It started out kind of simply with pesticides and I don't remember what the first ones 
were. Anyway, it’s grown. It’s grown over the years as the program’s become more successful. 
Not our program, but the universal waste program. Now it includes oil-based paints, it includes 
mercury-containing lamps, mercury-containing devices like thermometers and thermostats. 
Light ballast, which could contain PCBs. Batteries, almost all batteries. So at one point, these 
materials were all hazardous waste. And now they’re universal waste. [….] they don’t have to 
be counted as hazardous by the business. So the business all of  a sudden qualifies for the 
program where they didn’t before. So now they can bring us all that waste. So the amount of 
waste coming in per business, we have a lot more businesses, but now each business also has 
more waste that they’re allowed to bring here. That’s good, and it has its upside to it. Makes it 
easier for small businesses. We’re dealing with a lot of one-man, two-man operations. It’s not 
like all of a sudden we kicked open the doors and IBM is rolling stuff in here. It’s mostly 
contractors, electrical contractors, small manufacturing outfits, even schools. Most of the 
schools and municipalities like highway garages in this county bring their waste to us. Where 
they didn’t have that option before. The option before was they had to have a private 
contractor go to them, and the costs were much higher. Because they didn’t have much waste 
and they had no real way to prepare it properly to go over the roads. So the waste hauler had 
to do that on site. And they charge a lot of money for it. 
 
 
So that’s what we do here. That’s exactly what we do. Whether it’s from a household or 
a business, we consolidate the waste, make it legal to go over the road, and try to get a cost 
benefit from having all the waste in one area. Obviously households are not going to be able to 
call a waste hauler and have them come to their house and pick up waste. They can. But it’s 
going to cost them thousands where here it might cost them nothing. 
 
0:35:43 
 
Nickerson:  So could you walk me through, I realize you might not have a typical day, but to 
help someone understand what a typical day at your job might be like, from when you come in 
in the morning to when you check out at the end of the day. 
 
Winnie:  Sure. We have about a half an hour before we open. We try to get a quick meeting 
together to decide what we have to do. 
 
Nickerson:  Wait, this is at the beginning of the day? 
 
Winnie:  At the beginning of the day, right. So we meet up at 7:30 and we decide what we’re 
going to have to do to stay compliant. 
 
Nickerson:  I’m sorry. How many of there are you? 
12 
 
 
Winnie:  Three. Three. Sometimes four. Sometimes we have a fourth person. But right now 
we’re operating with three. Most of this summer we operated with three. So first thing we do is 
go over what we have to do to remain complaint throughout the day. And that’s everybody 
who’s got their hands in on the deal. I mentioned this earlier. You know, for safety’s sake of the 
people that work here, we have to stay compliant with OSHA. And for the environment, we 
have to stay compliant with EPA. And if we’re going to truck stuff that day, then we have to be 
DOT compliant as well. They interlock to a certain degree. But to some degree, they don’t at all. 
So we have to know those differences and we have to know by the end of the day who we have 
to comply with and who we don’t. Because we’re going to have a limited amount of time.  So 
the first thing on the list is okay, what are we going to do to stay compliant? In other words, 
what are we going to do to stay safe and protect the environment? In the end, that’s why we 
started this to begin with. 
 
 
Then we open by eight. The customers start pulling in. They have nobody knows what. 
Trunkload, carload, truckload of household hazardous waste. Lately the trend has been toward 
smaller items. You know, there’s still lots of paint out there. But now we’re looking at more like 
household cleaners, insecticides, pesticides, smaller items. Still lots of DIY [do-it-yourself] oil 
changes, antifreeze.  
 
 
So that’s what we do for the first six hours we’re open. We take households in and we 
help them get to their next step. A lot of times they’re just dropping one or two items off and 
they’ll be back in another month. Sometimes they’re moving and they have a lot of stuff 
because movers generally nowadays don’t move hazardous waste. In the old days, they did. 
They just threw it all in the truck with everything else. Now they know they can’t do that 
anymore. So everybody has to purge and get rid of everything.  
 
 
A lot of times, somebody in a family dies and they leave behind a lot of stuff. That’s a 
sad moment. It’s also understanding that there’s a lot of people out there that hold onto a lot 
of items. It’s a lot of stress for the people that come in here. They never understood what was 
going on when it was happening. And all of a sudden they’re struck with a truckload or two or 
three of household hazardous waste. And they’re frustrated. They’re trying to get this thing 
done because they’ve also done truckloads of garbage and what not. So it’s working with the 
people, trying to get things done for them as well.  
 
 
We do that for about six hours. Along that line as well, we have some scheduled 
business drop-offs. We usually do businesses during the week that we’re going to have the 
public coming in, the households coming in as well. We do smaller amounts of business waste 
because we don’t know how many households we’re going to have. We don’t know if it’s going 
to be 30 today or 70 today or 80 or 20, we have no idea. It’s not done by appointment, so it’s 
usually weather-driven. If it’s a good day, we’re going to have a lot of people. First day of the 
13 
 
week, Wednesday, we open on Wednesdays, that tends to be our busiest day because its, I 
guess, the first day of the week.  
 
So, sorting it out, that’s the next thing. We sort it out into what we know about the 
waste. The chemical compatibility. How we’re eventually we’re going to have to ship it out. 
Then at the end of the day, after that six hours of collecting, we have about an hour and a half 
to two hours to be compliant again. To get it all back to, like, say, everything we said at a 
quarter to eight this morning for  how we needed to stay compliant is okay, it’s solid, let’s go 
with it. Or well, we didn’t see this coming. We didn’t see the guy with the 2,000 lightbulbs 
coming that we’re going to have to do extra work on. So something’s got to give. We’re not 
going to be able to do this. And we start dropping noncompliance issues. You know, we were 
going to pump out some oil today. Well, we’re not going to do that today because we’ve got 
lightbulbs that have to be [dealt with]—the oil sitting in a drum is compliant already, but the 
lightbulbs are in boxes that are all rotted. That’s not compliant. So now, all of a sudden, that 
takes priority. And we have an hour and a half, two hours, to straighten that out. Then we do it 
again tomorrow. (laughs) Times 27 years.  
 
You know, we’ve gone from the first year, I don’t even remember how much, it was 
maybe 20,000 pounds of waste the first year. Our last fiscal year just ended on June 30th, and I 
want to say we broke 800,000 pounds. In the beginning, we had one fulltime person and one 
halftime person. so we had one and a half people, and now we have three people. Well, there’s 
more to it than that. I shouldn’t make it sound like all of a sudden we have these three people 
doing this monumental task. Because the infrastructure behind us is much different than it used 
to be, it’s much bigger than it used to be. So we’re not alone. But there’s three of us here 
handling 800,000 pounds of waste now, when we had one and a half doing 20,000 pounds. It’s 
no more difficult today than it was then. I think if anything the stress from dealing with the 
public every day has gotten to be more than worrying about the chemicals. Because exposures 
have gone down over the years as we’ve had less toxic stuff to deal with.  
 
What we had at the very beginning was high disposal costs and low labor rates. I started 
out working here in 1991 and I was getting paid less than ten dollars an hour. Most of the 
people in the business were getting about that wage. But disposal costs were two to four times 
higher than they are today. So labor was how we got the total cost down. We put more hours 
into processing the waste, which meant more exposure. Because if you take stuff out of the can 
and you’re transferring it into larger containers so that you can get a volume discount. It works 
that way even in hazardous waste, not just at Costco. I shouldn’t have said Costco, should I? in 
the marketing world, you get the same discount if you have everything in volume.  
 
But now move to even the early part of the last decade. Prices to dispose of waste went 
way down. More people got into the business. The price started dropping. The facilities that 
handle the waste at the very end, the incinerators multiplied. So the cost of getting rid of the 
14 
 
waste at the end, and the very end, what we call in hazardous waste business as the grave, the 
price went way down. 
 
In the meantime, wages went way up. Because, for one, I refuse to leave, so they have 
to pay me more and more every year. But also, wages just went up anyways. And so now the 
highest cost is labor. It’s not disposal anymore. So the way to move it now is to not put as much 
labor into it. Which is good for the worker, because there’s less exposure that way. And so we 
can move things faster. So now it’s not so hard for three guys to move 800,000 pounds. Back in 
the beginning, it would have been impossible. There would be no way, because you would have 
to have had to process all that stuff. We were cutting open containers with tile knives back then 
to empty them out because you couldn’t get the solids out of them, so you’d cut them open 
and scrape them all out. We don’t do anything like that anymore. If it’s like that, it just goes to, 
end disposal is another term for the grave, it goes to end disposal the way it is, and it’s disposed 
of in the container that it comes in. Most pesticides are like that. Nobody consolidates those 
pesticides. Nobody pours them into a larger container. The container that the household brings 
it to us is also the container that it will someday be disposed of in the end. 
 
0:45:58 
 
Nickerson:  Do you know where those graves are? 
 
Winnie:  The graves are all over the country. And yes, by law, we’re required to know where 
they are, and we’re required to get documentation that they actually did what they said they 
were going to. Or at least received the waste at their sites. So it really depends on who the 
waste hauler is, where the graves are. And they’re all over North America, mostly in the United 
States, that we deal with, of course. There’s no way to ship stuff to a foreign country, other 
than Canada, without it being cost prohibitive. So most of the waste disposal in this country, for 
most hazardous waste, is somewhere in this country.  
 
And it depends on what waste you’re talking about. Because waste is, this is a very good 
subject, because most people that bring waste here will say, “Well, can you recycle this? Can 
you recycle this? Can you recycle this?” And that’s really not what happens. Yes, there is a lot of 
recycling in the hazardous waste world. But there’s a lot of incineration in the hazardous world. 
And there’s a lot of landfilling in the hazardous world. And it sounds almost like, how can you 
do that? But when you back it up, what you have to remember is, these are not clandestine 
landfills and these are not burn barrels in the back of somebody’s yard. These are sophisticated 
technology that are the best in the world that we know right now as far as technology goes. 
This is the best way we know right now. And I’m not condoning it in any way. All I’m saying is, 
when I say incineration, a lot of people think of the old trash incinerators. Back when I first got 
in the business, there was trash incinerator in Rutland and one in Claremont and they both 
eventually closed down. And everybody was in an uproar over them because of release of 
15 
 
dioxins and what not. Well, that’s a trash incinerator. We’re talking about a hazardous waste 
incinerator that’s burning things at three or four thousand degrees. Yeah, there’s waste when 
you’re done. It’s ash. And there’s a release of pollutants from incinerating it, but the alternative 
is—what? We don’t do anything? We wave a magic wand over it and it disappears. We landfill 
it? I don't know. I’m just asking, what would be the alternative? 
 
So when we start talking about waste, and I’m not sure why we’re talking about this 
right now, because I’ve already forgotten the question, end disposal, or the graves, they’re all 
over the country. The most sophisticated incinerator that I know of in the country is in 
Arkansas, is called the El Dorado incinerator. So most of our pesticides go there. Most of the 
toxic stuff goes there. 
 
There’s a large portion of household hazardous waste and hazardous waste in general 
that is used as industrial fuel, also known as fuel blending. So there are these things called tank 
farms, and they’re all over the country. I visited one down in Texas, and I visited one in 
Braintree, Massachusetts, where they consolidate hazardous waste into large tanks, stir it all 
up, and they sell it on the open market as fuel. Now it has to meet a certain criteria. So I’m not 
saying that we’re pouring all this DDT and whatnot into these cylinders. But what we are 
putting in there is waste gasoline.  
 
I’m going to start talking about household hazardous waste now, because this is 
important that people understand what their waste is doing. So when you bring us a bottle of 
suntan lotion, a bottle of mineral oil, a can of paint thinner, a can of gasoline, things like that 
that are flammable or combustible, they actually have what’s known as BTU value. They can 
produce heat. We mix all those together in drums. Those go to tank farms and are mixed in 
with other hazardous waste that have that BTU value, and it’s sold on the market to very 
specific burners. They’re not just like sold to households to use in their home furnaces. They’re 
sold as industrial fuel. And those industrial fuel burners use that hazardous waste. 
 
We actually saw one down in Albany area that was a concrete manufacturer that 
manufactured the powder that goes into making concrete. They were burning ten million 
gallons of hazardous waste and used oil per year. And if they didn’t get that ten million gallons, 
then they had to buy natural gas. So this is a large portion of our household hazardous waste is 
fuel blend. Then to a smaller degree would be incinerators, and then a smaller degree than that 
would be landfill for some stuff that’s not-hazardous. It still comes out of households. 
 
Then there is the recycling. Now recycling means something specific. It doesn’t mean 
[reusing], so if you’re fuel blending stuff, really all you’re doing is reusing it. You’re not doing 
anything to make it what it was again. Recycling is recycling. You’re taking that waste and 
you’re going to turn it back into some other product or that waste product, how it started out 
16 
 
to begin with. Like used oil. You take it, you re-refine it, you make more oil out of it. Antifreeze 
is our best example, probably, here. It’s recycled into new antifreeze. 
 
But that part of recycling is not a huge part of the hazardous waste. Because most stuff 
is not quality enough to recycle. So used oil is a fuel blend for most districts, and most 
hazardous waste drop offs. Antifreeze is recycled. Lightbulbs, to a small degree, are recycled, 
some recycling there. Batteries is a huge recycling [process] for the most part. The batteries 
eventually are batteries again. But that, again is, when you look at the entire list of everything 
we take here, and where the grave is, recycling is a smaller part of that. 
  
So, reuse? Big part of it. Fuel blends, all the oil-based paints, all the flammable liquids, 
combustible liquids, which is kind of a confusing thing to tell people. All the flammable and 
combustible liquids, we’re going to fuel blend them. That doesn't mean much to most people. If 
I said, “oh, your furniture polish, that’s going to get fuel-blended. We’re going to use that as 
fuel.” Carpet cleaner, maybe.  We could look under your cabinet and I could tell you where it’s 
going to go. 
 
Some of it’s ugly. Some of it will be waste water treated. What does that mean? Waste 
water treated? That means you’re going to take it to an industrial waste water facility, treat it, 
and it’s going to end up in a river.  
 
So these are the things that people need to know about what we do. And it’s not 
diabolical. And it’s not our fault. And when people start saying, “Well, do you think that’s a 
good idea?” I would say to them, “Well, I didn’t buy it. And maybe if you don’t want this to 
happen, don’t buy it.” 
 
But this is the thing with reduce, recycle, and reuse, the reduce part is often 
misinterpreted, especially in household hazardous waste. Well, I say especially because that’s 
what I do. I don't know how it is interpreted in anything else. But in household hazardous 
waste, I find it’s often misinterpreted. And I recycle, too, so I do know that even in recycling it is 
confused with recycling. It’s confused with reusing. It’s not the same thing. Reduce means you 
don’t have the waste to begin with.  You never have to figure out what you’re going to do with 
it. You never have to figure out how you’re going to reuse it. You never have to figure out how 
you’re going to recycle it, because you don’t have it. You don’t have it to begin with.  
 
It’s contrary to everything we do in this country. We purchase more because that’s what 
we do. And then we turn around and we say, “But we need to reduce.” How do we do that? 
How do we keep an economy rolling and yet reduce all that time? I’m not saying it’s impossible. 
I’m not saying one’s better than the other. I don't know. I’m just saying they contradict each 
other, constantly. So when we say, the point I’m trying to get across is, when we say reduce, 
think about what that really means. If you don’t want your pesticides to be incinerated at El 
17 
 
Dorado in Arkansas, the only way for you to have that happen is to don’t buy them to begin 
with. Or, use them up and never bring any leftovers here. Then you can be responsible for that 
lake we were talking about earlier. Because that’s what this boils down to.  
 
It’s a hard message. Because you don’t want to guilt people. You don’t want to say, 
“Well, you know, if you don’t like it, don’t buy it.” That’s not the point. The point is, think. Let’s 
think about this. How important is it? How important is it to get rid of dandelions? How 
important is it to have all green grass versus weeds? How important is to have a furniture polish 
that works with petroleum base. How important are all those things? If it’s really important to 
you, then your best bet is to try to use it all up. If it’s not so important, maybe you’ll think of 
something else. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I used to think I knew all those 
answers. I used to think, this is easy, we’ve just got to stop. But I can’t stop. So how do I know? 
All I know is, it’s not easy. It’s not easy when you’re consumers, you’re in a consumer society, to 
just stop. But if we think about it more, maybe we can change something.  
 
I think we are. At least in this state, we are. In this state, I think people think about it a 
lot more. We go to conferences in other states. I have in-laws that don’t live in Vermont. And I 
have some friends outside of Vermont. And it’s funny when you go to different states. Not only 
just that “oh, we went down to such and such a place and they didn’t even have recycling.” 
Well yeah, that’s part of it. But what if they did have recycling? This whole notion that as long 
as I recycle, I’m off the hook. Well, I’m not so sure that that’s true. I recycle. I know a lot of 
people that recycle. But does that mean you’re off the hook? That’s the end of your obligation? 
I don't know. I don't know. 
 
I don’t feel like personally it’s the end of my obligation. But I’m not sure how—where 
the end is. I’m not sure what I’m responsible for. My stepson and I will argue about this all the 
time. “Well, corporations, they’re dumping so much stuff. And what you do is a drop in the 
bucket.” 
 
True. But, it’s still my drop. I’m still responsible for it. Yeah, they sold it to me. They 
pitched the ads in the paper to get me to buy it and all that stuff. But I could have said no. I 
could have. You know? But I didn’t. So, I don't know. Responsibility, it’s a huge issue. As I get 
older, I feel like I don’t even know the answer to that one anymore. Who’s responsible? We all 
are. But to what degree. I don't know. It’s individual. It’s individual. I’d like to think I’m not 
responsible at all. It’s everybody else’s fault. (laughter)  
 
 
0:59:02 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. Tough questions. Tough questions. 
 
18 
 
Winnie:  Yeah. Well, if you handle waste long enough, these things will come up.  
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. Are you okay with me asking you a few more questions? 
 
Winnie:  Yeah. Yeah. How much longer do we need? Nine-thirty. See, I told you this wasn’t 
going to be easy if you got me involved in it. 
 
Nickerson:  (laughs) Well, you tell me when you want to stop. 
 
Winnie:  Probably within a half an hour. 
 
0:58:37 
 
Nickerson:  Oh, absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. Could you just briefly describe the Rover? 
 
Winnie:  No. (laughter) The Rover, okay. Historically—see, I told you it wouldn’t be brief. We 
started up the Rover the fall of 1991. And it was a unit where we kind of like had a miniature 
depot. And we went to one town and we stayed there for like a month. 
  
Nickerson:  The Rover is a vehicle. 
 
Winnie:  Well at the time, it was a setup. More than a vehicle. It was like a portable setup. So 
we had our own fence. We had our own buildings. Containments. The whole thing. We just 
brought it all there. Now it’s not. We changed in 1999 or 2000, somewhere around there, to a 
truck. So the truck goes to each town in the county one time per year. And we collect 
household hazardous waste, usually at a highway garage or a local school. And all that stuff is 
packed temporarily in the truck to come back here and combined with the waste here. It’s 
helpful to the people that live too far from here to get here. A lot of people don’t like to come 
into Burlington. Or they don’t have a lot of waste. And if they live in the outskirts, like Westford 
or Charlotte, they can save up that waste and then we’re there one day a year and they can 
drop it off. 
 
 
So it’s been a useful program. We used to do 50 or 60 collections a year. We’re down to 
16 now. There was a hope at one point where we could just get everybody steered into coming 
here. But I don't think that’s ever realistic. And I don't think it’s the right thing to ask people. 
You know, there’s a lot of people out there, especially the elderly. They can’t make this trip into 
Burlington that easily. And to ask them to load a bunch of hazardous waste in their car and 
drive up here is a tough thing sometimes. So it’s going to have its purpose forever, but I think— 
 
1:02:06 
[End Track 1. Begin Track 2.] 
19 
 
 
Winnie:  --in the end, cost-wise, it’s the best thing for everyone to do is to bring it to this one 
central location. So I don’t see that program expanding. But I don't think it’s going to contract 
anymore than it has over the years. Most HHW [household hazardous waste] programs in this 
country are based on what they call Rover programs. We don’t have the only Rover. Lots of 
people call their programs Rovers where they only do what they call one-day collection. So in 
Lamoille County in central Vermont, they’ll have a series of one-day collections where 
everybody goes to a specific spot. And that spot will move the next time. To try to get a 
geographical area done. But typically, it’s all economics, so the areas that don’t have as many 
people just don’t have the service. They might have one a year. Where here, people in 
Westford can wait till we go to Westford. Or they have 250 other days that they can try to get 
here. So if it becomes necessary, like they move or the house gets too crowded and 
something’s got to go, they can always come here. And now we’re accepting waste throughout 
the state, too. So anybody can come here from anywhere. 
  
01:27 
 
Nickerson:  You told me about what some of the most common things are that people bring in. 
What are some of the odd and strange things you’ve seen over the years? I’m looking at these 
little bottles up here [on top of the bookcase]. 
 
Winnie:  Well those, there’s still a small amount of people, mostly it’s a generation gone by 
where people worked in industry and they also had like a little lab in their own home. And I 
don't think you see a lot of that anymore. I remember back in nineteen ninety-whatever, we did 
see a considerable amount of that, especially being that close to the college [University of 
Vermont], where a lot of college professors would set up a lab at home and they would have a 
lot of laboratory chemicals. Even then, though, it was the exception, maybe four or five times a 
year. Now we’re only seeing it once or twice a  year. So laboratory chemicals, certainly, 
especially the more toxic stuff, is something that we rarely see anymore. I don’t really know 
what would be, certainly when you see older material, stuff that was made in the ‘50s, ‘40s, 
maybe even ‘30s or before, that’s what’s fascinating. It’s fascinating that it made it that far, for 
one, and that all of a sudden it appears again. Most of the stuff that we see nowadays, I would 
venture to guess was manufactured in the last 10 or 15 years. When I first started out this job, 
the sky was the limit. A lot of stuff was 25, 30, 40, 50 years old. So when we do see that to this 
day, it’s unusual now to see it.  I have to like go back into my memory bank and be like oh, 
wow, I haven’t seen a bottle of that stuff, Sheila Shine with perchlorate ethylene in it. You put it 
on your floor to get your floor to shine. Perc, they call it now, dry cleaning solvent. You 
wouldn’t see anything like that. You would have to go back to the ‘60s in order to see 
something like that.  I grew up in the ‘60s, it doesn’t seem like that long ago. But you know, 
that’s a half a century ago. Oh, that just hurt. That hurt! 
 
20 
 
Nickerson:  Sorry about that. (laughs)  
 
Winnie:  That hurt. I shouldn’t have said that. But you know, I think just older products that are 
still out there, that’s probably the most amazing thing. 
 
04:15 
 
Nickerson:  So what’s your favorite part of the job, or the best part of this job, from your 
perspective? 
 
Winnie:  Oh. That’s good. I was jokingly going to throw out the paycheck. Say like well, you’re 
getting paid every other week is my favorite. But it’s probably not. If I wanted to really look at 
it, I would say I do believe that what we’re doing is worthwhile. Because we have no way, we 
have no way to really stop it as a society. So somebody has to do it. It’s the same as wastewater 
treatment. You know, the guys that are working the sewer. We’re all handling people’s waste. 
There’s an inevitability to it. Somebody has to do it. So I kind of like that. I kind of like the fact 
that if we didn't do it, who would? You know, how exactly would this get done? Not that us 
three are the only three in the world, but somebody has to step in and do it. So that’s a good 
feeling. I like that.  I got into this to protect the environment. And we are protecting the 
environment. We just are. It might be a small, small amount, but we are. Whether you’re 
composting or recycling glass, one way or another you’re doing a little bit to help out. So I kind 
of like that part of it. I also really enjoy the people I work with.  
 
The public has been okay. They’re receptive to, they’re at least interested in, it’s a 
volunteer program. I mean, to some degree, they don’t need to come here. There’s no law. 
There are local ordinances against throwing stuff in the trash. But at the EPA level, there’s no 
law that says households have to do this. So they come here and they’re pretty sincere about it. 
Now they might not like the rules, they might not like what we will and what we won’t take, or 
they might not like the end disposal, the grave part of it. But they’re still pretty sincere about 
what they’re doing. Vermont’s a really unique place in that respect. There’s only a few places 
that I’ve run into across the country where people care that much about what they’re doing to 
the environment. So I like that. I like that. So there’s like four different things that are my 
favorite parts. So, yeah. 
 
07:08 
 
Nickerson:  And what’s the hardest, your least favorite or the most challenging part of the job? 
 
Winnie:  (sighs) That’s going to be hard. Let’s see, how do I be diplomatic? Okay. I would say my 
least favorite part—the most difficult part. I don't know that it’s least favorite. Because like 
crushing oil filters until you’re covered with oil is not fun. And/or getting oil that’s 
21 
 
contaminated with water and dead animals and leaves is not fun. So those would be some of 
my least favorite parts is waste that is waste. It’s not just hazardous waste; it’s disgusting. A lot 
of that is neglect by people. I don't know. I guess neglect by people is the bottom line. 
 
But having said that, I would also say that they did bring it here. So at some point they 
decided, it needed to be taken care of. So you can sometimes look through it.  If they do it over 
and over again, same customer, then it starts to get really perturbing. Because you feel like now 
they’re dumping on us because they’re not handling this properly at all. They’re not doing 
anything except bringing it here after the catastrophe has already happened. And they keep 
doing it over and over, which really doesn’t mean they care. It just means they don’t want it in 
their yard, so they’re bringing it here. And, knowing that it probably really is in their yard, 
because if it’s that bad it’s probably leaked or contaminated, so they really haven’t done much. 
And that kind of, I guess you would call it ignorance, is hard to deal with some days. You know, 
just going from customer to customer of people that maybe they were renters. Not to pick on 
renters, but maybe they were renters and their landlord said, “Get this out of here, period.” So 
they bring it to us. Well, we don’t usually charge people. So what difference does it make to 
them? all they know is they had to get it out of there because the landlord said, “Move it.” 
Meantime, they’re angry. They’re dumping the problem on us. We’re disgusted by it. They 
don’t like that. So, it’s tough. It’s tough in that sense. I think everybody that’s ever worked this 
job would say that dealing with difficult customers, dealing with difficult people that are 
dropping off waste is the hardest part of the job.  
 
But I think that also has like a bell curve to it. So when you first start out, it’s really easy 
because you’re like, “Oh, don’t you worry. We’ll clean this up. Don’t worry.” And then after a 
few years you get to that point where you’re lecturing everybody and you’re angry at them for 
doing that stuff. And then after you do this for a few more years—I’m running into decades 
now, of course—then it doesn’t bother you once again. I’m at that point now, because I 
wouldn’t say I’ve seen it all, because somebody’s going to come in today with something that I 
haven’t seen. But I’ve seen so much of it that it’s hard to get upset over it anymore. Plus I find 
that most people that have a mess, that wasn’t their intention to begin with. It just turned out 
that way. 
 
My favorite was the five-gallon can of tar that broke open on the carpeted floor. So they 
cut the carpet up, wound it up into the can of tar, and then put it on a red sled, and it leaked 
onto the red sled. So the waste was the red sled covered with tar, the piece of carpet which 
was three foot by three foot, covered with tar, and then the can. Plus the gloves they used, plus 
the paper towel they used, plus everything wadded up in a giant ball. “Here. Could you guys 
take this?” We take it. Okay? Try to fit all that into a 55-gallon drum. It will actually fit. At what 
cost, you know, is—I’m not saying that we get red sleds with tar on them all the time. But those 
kinds of things happen frequently. Daily. Daily. So that could be frustrating. 
 
22 
 
Was that the question to begin with? (Nickerson nods) Okay. Good enough. 
 
12:04 
 
Nickerson:  So you guys deal with hazardous waste. 
 
Winnie:  Right. 
 
Nickerson:  And we started out by you talking about how in your first days on the job, back in 
1991, you had to go through an emergency training. 
 
Winnie:  Mm hmm. 
 
Nickerson:  Can you tell me about the risks of doing this work, and what you and your 
coworkers do to protect yourselves? 
 
Winnie:  Well, like I said, I think risk has declined over the years because our knowledge base 
has gotten larger. So we tend to know more about the waste that we’re handling. Plus we’re 
directly handling a lot less than we used to. However, the volume issue has changed, so now we 
have a lot more waste. But what we’ve done over the years is, of course, training has become 
much more specific to what we’re doing. In the beginning, there was only emergency training. 
So if you didn't have an emergency, the training really didn’t help out a whole lot. So training’s 
changed. There’s actual training modules for household hazardous waste workers. They didn’t 
have that when I first started. You know, you just winged it. Essentially you just figured out 
what to do as you went along. 
 
 
So the risks. I suppose, we try to believe that the chance for acute exposure, meaning 
exposure that would happen instantly and damaging right off, like a fire or an explosion or you 
inhale a poisonous gas, it’s pretty minimal. Because we’re not handling waste or combining 
waste the way we used to. What we worry about more is chronic exposure. So you know, I’ve 
done this 27 years now. what exactly is that going to mean? I’m 60. So what does that mean 
when I turn 65, or 62, or next year? The synergistic effect, too, of working with all these—it’s 
pretty simple to say like oh, well, the exposure to gasoline over a certain amount of time will 
cause this. Sure. Even OSHA can, map that out for you and tell you what that’s going to mean. 
But nobody can really tell you what combining acetone and gasoline and naphtha and toluene 
and mineral spirits and suntan lotion and cooking oil and being exposed to all of that at the 
same time is going to do in the long run. 
 
 
What we do have is a yearly medical evaluation. And it’s pretty extensive. So 
everybody’s level of heavy metals in your body gets checked to see are you accumulating things 
like lead, mercury, cadmium? How is your kidney function? How’s your liver functions? Those 
23 
 
are the organs that take care of these types of things. What’s your blood look like? Can you 
pass a pulmonary function test? Is your breathing and your heart what they used to be 
compared to everybody else your age? 
 
 
So those are all things that have changed. Those are all things that we hope protect us. 
So risk is hard to determine. I think, again, from an acute risk it’s minimal. Anybody could walk 
in with a stick of dynamite tomorrow and mess that all up. But the chances of that happening 
are well, I’ve now taken care of 10,000 customers a year for the last 10 years. And then 
however many before that, I’ve never seen a stick of dynamite. Some programs see them often. 
Some programs see hand grenades. Some programs see chemicals that can explode when you 
try to open them. All that’s training that we never had that in the beginning.  
 
Back when I first started if you got picric acid, I wouldn’t have known what picric acid 
was. I may have put it aside and called somebody. I may have looked it up in the chemical 
dictionary. But now I know that if have picric acid, it’s a huge deal. It’s a problem that could 
close a facility for a day. It’s a problem that could necessitate calling a bomb squad. Well, these 
programs see picric acid all the time. I mean, not this program. But programs across the country 
see it all the time. I personally have only seen three or four bottles in 25 years. But it’s out 
there. So in that sense, the risk can never be zero. But neither is being a flag man on the 
highway. And they’re probably, their mortality rate is way higher from an acute standpoint than 
ours. Or farming. But from the long term standpoint, because we are pioneers, nobody knows. 
Nobody knows what little bits at a time every day for 25 years [add up to].  The guys coming up 
behind us, or the women coming up behind us, eventually that will all come out. But I feel fine. 
(laughs)  
 
17:58 
 
Nickerson:  What kind of special knowledge or skills would you say somebody in this job needs? 
Do you need a lot of chemistry? 
 
Winnie:  You don’t need a lot of chemistry, but you have to understand chemistry. You have to 
understand some chemistry. I don't think anybody here except me has college chemistry. And 
I’m not sure that the college chemistry that I had would have prepared me for this, either. But 
you definitely need specialized training to figure out—probably to protect yourself, the most 
valuable training is, believe it or not, Department of Transportation training. Because that 
breaks things down into what’s compatible and what isn’t. Because over the road is the most 
important thing under DOT is like getting stuff from here to the grave, to the end disposal. And 
they’re very, very strict and very specific about how that can happen. And that’s where you 
learn your chemistry. So that training, I think, is the most valuable. 
 
24 
 
 
But exposure is also pretty valuable as well. Because there are certain things that DOT 
does not call hazardous that could be hazardous - things are hazardous to different people for 
different reasons. Lots of people are very chemically sensitive. Some are not at all. So 
something that might cause dermatitis for you wouldn’t do anything for me. Or cause me to 
cough and have a headache, and you might be able to handle it no problem. Who knows? 
 
So I’ve already forgotten what the question was. 
 
 
19:46 
 
Nickerson:  What kind of special knowledge or skills you need for this job. 
 
Winnie:  Special knowledge. Number one is patience training. Patience. Not patients as in 
hospital patients, but patience with the public. There’s all kinds of people out there. And I 
found out very few of them are exactly like me. So it takes a lot of patience.  We are public 
servants. So that’s our job other than making sure the waste is safe and the workers are safe, 
we’re also public servants. So no matter what we see, now matter what we hear, no matter 
what we encounter from our customers. No, we don’t think they’re always right. But that 
doesn’t necessarily mean we have to tell them that they’re wrong. But we do have to have a lot 
of patience. Because it’s fast-moving, it’s stressful. Yeah. Patience training. 
 
20:55 
  
Nickerson:  So last question. Is there anything that we have not talked about that you would 
like the public to know about your job? 
 
Winnie:  Well, not to get back on the soapbox again, but I’ll just end by saying this. I wish my job 
didn’t exist. And I mean that if we didn’t have hazardous waste, we wouldn’t need me. If we 
didn’t over-buy, we wouldn’t need me. We wouldn’t need the guys that work here. There 
would be no reason to have a facility like this. So that would be the last thing I’d have to say. I 
challenge all of us to put me out of business and make me unemployed. I think now it’s not 
going to happen. But it’s just something to think about. It’s something to think about in the long 
run. Because that’s what we really need to start doing when it comes to waste. Whether it’s 
household hazardous waste or otherwise is recycling is good. It’s excellent. But it’s not the 
ultimate end of all means. Waste reduction, we have to start thinking about that as individuals. 
What can we do not to have waste? Period. (laughs)  
 
Nickerson:  Period. Thank you so much. This was absolutely eye-opening and fascinating for me, 
so I really appreciate your taking the time. 
 
Winnie:  Well, you’re obviously easily amused. (laughter)  
25 
 
 
 
[End Track 2. End Interview.] 
22:36 
Total time =  95 minutes