Washington State Works: Archie Green Fellows Project, 2012-2013 
Terry Lee Weiner interview, 2013-10-17 : interview conducted by 
Deborah Fant 
Interview ID: afc2012032_00517 
Date: October 17, 2013 
Duration: 0:35:00 
 
0:00:04.9 Debbie Fant introduces herself, October 17, 2013, interviewing 
Terry Weiner at his home in Shoreline, WA. At the time of the interview, 
Weiner was recovering from back surgery.  
 
0:00:31.1 Weiner expresses concern about where his name will be going, so 
Fant stops the tape to review the goals of the project and the reason for 
the interview.  
 
0:01:04.2 Terry Lee Weiner. Born 1953 in Riverside, CA. 
 
 
info.  
 
0:02:07.7 Weiner lists the different occupations he’s had over the years: 
figure skater when he was a kid, parents weren’t well off. Ice skating is 
a very expensive sport, so he started working at 13 for his father, who 
owned a shoe store. Worked a couple of days after school during the week, 
then all day Saturday. He did that until he was 19. He taught figure 
skating for a while, in the Bay Area, then in Eugene, Oregon. He was in 
the Ice Follies, Holiday on Ice, for about six months. After that he 
hitchhiked around the country, as a lot of others did in the 1970s, 
hitchhiked across Canada and had odd jobs, such as moving furniture in a 
hospital to picking tobacco near Toronto. Then came back to the West 
Coast and settled. That was when he taught skating for a couple of years.  
 
0:04:27.5 Wasn’t really making it as an ice skating teacher
had a lot of 
talent, but teaching wasn’t easy because skating came so naturally to 
him—he hadn’t had to work at it. He worked in restaurants as a 
dishwasher, cook, prep cook for a number of years. That was in the Bay 
Area and Eugene, OR. He moved to Seattle in 1982 and got a job with the 
City of Seattle as a temporary worker
six months on, six off.  
 
(Temp doing what?) Just about anything. For six months he worked in a 
parking garage in the pay booth, he worked for City Light digging 
ditches, for street maintenance etching holes in the roads, cleaning 
sidewalks and city stairways. After that he started a food business with 
a girlfriend; they sold salsa to some of the stores in Seattle. They made 
it themselves, delivered it, did it all. They had five or six employees. 
The salsa was called "Flash Quickstep Salsa." He and his girlfriend did 
that for a couple of years until they broke up and she got the business.  
 
0:06:40.3 Then he decided to go back to school. He needed a real job, 40 
hours a week with a paycheck and some health insurance. So he went to 
Shoreline Community College in Seattle and got two degrees: one in 
chemistry and one in marine biology. Then he got a job at an 
environmental lab testing soils, waters, and air for pollutants. Could 
have worked for the FDA, worked for them a couple of years as a student 
chemist. Had he had a four year degree, he could have stayed there. He 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
1
chose to work in the private sector instead. (Tape is stopped for a phone 
call.)  
 
0:07:47.0 He got a job at an environmental lab in downtown Seattle and 
worked there for five and a half years. He regrets not having worked for 
the FDA because the private lab, with a two year degree, didn’t pay very 
much. In the 5 1/2 years he was there, he probably got only a 45 cent 
raise the whole time. The lab was slowly taking benefits away; the 
employees used to get bonuses but the lab began reinvesting the money. 
The lab was a growing business, but the employees didn’t profit. So Terry 
quit and decided to make more money in another line of work.  
 
0:09:22.2 He had always worked on his own cars as a shade tree mechanic, 
owned older cars. Shoreline Community College had a program where you 
could go to school for six months and work for a dealer for six months. 
He worked for about six weeks for Toyota and found the experience 
jarring. The repair department tried to take money from the mechanics, so 
the mechanics would try to do extra repairs that weren’t exactly needed 
on the cars. He found he wasn’t cut out to be there. He had some fellow 
musician friends who were electricians. They were both union electricians 
and he heard it was a pretty good deal, both money wise and benefits
wise. So he applied with the union in Seattle. In the meantime he worked 
for a residential non union shop and went to a non union trade school. He 
told the teacher at the school that he’d applied with the union The 
teacher was a union inside wireman, and he said he’d recommend one or two 
of his students each year to get into the union. He recommended Weiner, 
and Weiner eventually got an interview. A few months later he was in.  
 
0:11:55.9 Before all that, he was also a banjo player in several bands, 
played on the street a lot, taught music. That was in the late ‘70s until 
the mid 80s. Along with the restaurant work. 0:12:22.3 So he got in the 
union and was 45 at the time. Usually that’s the time when people start 
thinking of retiring, because they’re about 20 years old when they get in 
the union. But the union took Terry. They had a quota to fill and "needed 
an old guy to hire" and hired Terry and several women. He went to work as 
a first year apprentice. That was 1997.  
 
0:13:18.2 He started off doing grunt labor, carrying pipe around, doing 
simple jobs. He worked with a journeyman who had the job of training him. 
The good thing about the union is that you’re always with a journeyman, 
and their job is not only to get the job done but to train the apprentice 
as well. That doesn’t often happen in non union jobs, he’s found from the 
work he’s done in the past. Back then he earned $9.00 an hour, which was 
a cut in pay from his work in the labs. Journeymen were making about 
$22/hour at that point. He kept his nose to the grindstone and worked his 
40 hours and occasionally got some overtime. He found he wasn’t really 
getting the training he wanted in some instances. Foremen had preferences 
for who they wanted to train, and usually it was the younger 20 year olds 
who they could mold. Terry was ready to be molded but thinks it appeared 
he wasn’t. He would assert himself and ask to be trained. Sometimes that 
worked, sometimes it didn’t. He didn’t always get the best journeymen to 
teach him
sometimes he got the worst, and he ended up teaching them 
because he caught on pretty quickly.  
 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
2
0:15:21.1 The main problem with the job was the physical stress. If he 
had it to do over again, he would not have become an electrician. In the 
15 years he’s been an electrician, he’s been off a lot with injuries. The 
past 10 years he’s had five surgeries, two shoulder, two back, a hernia 
operation. It’s common when somebody gets older to start needing 
surgeries. But he hung in there. He turned out
became a journeyman
in 
2002. After five years of apprenticeship. He found the apprenticeship 
school to be lacking in a lot of ways. They didn’t help the students so 
much as they were accusatory. There was never any "let’s sit down and 
talk about your weaknesses and get you some extra help" or anything like 
that. Since then the JATC
Journeyman Apprentice Training Council
has 
changed some.  
 
Now you do not only the written test at school but you also do some 
physical, hands on testing of, say, wiring a transformer. In his case, he 
didn’t get to do very much of that on the job. He barely got to look at a 
blueprint until he was a fifth year apprentice. People would just say, 
"Hey, here’s some wire, put it here, put it there." But he didn’t get to 
work with the foreman, with some of the top journeymen to be trained with 
a blueprint. When he turned out, when he became a journeyman, he felt 
like he had some catching up to do.  
 
0:18:26.9 As he worked as an apprentice and then a journeyman, he felt 
there was a cultural divide at the workplace. Most of the guys, most of 
the foremen, were hunters and fishermen. All loved to talk football. He 
was never interested in any of those things. He was a musician, artist, 
and his politics leaned toward the left. Though all of his fellow workers 
were union members, pro labor, a lot of time when it came down to voting, 
they’d vote for Republican candidates because they listened to Fox News. 
It was a strange way to live. There were a few others like him, but most 
weren’t. He just learned to deal with it.  
 
0:20:24.9 Became a journeyman in 2002. It was a slow start, but he caught 
on. Since then he’s been offered a few foreman jobs, which he turns down. 
He doesn’t think he’s the foreman type. He doesn’t know about 
construction in general, didn’t know it that well aside from the 
electrical stuff. You have to be an A type personality to be a foreman, 
and he just wanted to do his job. When he went home, he’d leave the work 
on the job site. When you’re a foreman, you take work home with you. So 
he stayed a working journeyman and has had two back operations. It was a 
trade off.  
 
0:21:27.4 DF: What kinds of jobs have you worked and how do you get your 
jobs? TW: You go down to the union hall, and the union companies will 
send in a notice saying they need so many guys for a certain job. There 
was always a list. When you’d get laid off, you’d be at the end of the 
list. As time went on, as jobs were given out, you’d work your way up the 
list. They closer to the top you were, the easier it was to get a job or 
your choice of the kind of job you wanted. The kind of job you were 
suited for.  
 
0:22:16.7 DF: You were an inside electrician, a commercial electrician. 
What do you call yourself? TW: An "inside wireman," meaning commercial 
work. DF: What were the jobs he’d look for?  
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
3
 
0:22:41.9 There were a lot of office renovations, Microsoft buildings, 
computer labs that would be redone. More industrial work
working in 
glass plants. He tended to go for the office jobs, which tended to be the 
lighter work. More of a compact area to work in. He could get a better 
handle on the work if he came on in the middle of an office job. Years 
ago, the union gave up the residential business. They wanted the "big 
money," building the big buildings in Seattle and Bellevue. Thinks it was 
the 1960s. So the union let the residential work go. The union now has a 
very small foothold in the residential market.  
 
Since 2008, a lot of people have been off work and have started their own 
small companies, so the union is getting some of the residential work 
back through union people having their own companies. There seems to be 
quite a bit of residential work out there right now. Since 2008, not a 
whole lot of work for commercial. Usually there are 700 800 guys on the 
union books. You might work on a job for three months, then get laid off 
and you could be off for a year and a half, maybe more, until you work 
your way up the books and get another job. It’s been tough since 2008 for 
a lot of people.  
 
0:24:44.5 On the plus side, the union workers get great benefits, what’s 
called "Cadillac insurance," a pension, 401K they can contribute to, and 
the owners of the companies all contribute. So that’s been very good. If 
you’ve got the hours in, you can retire at age 55. That’s a great deal. 
On the other hand, a lot of times you’re off work a lot, and it’s hard to 
get those hours in—30,000 hours by the time you’re 55. Depends on when 
you started as an electrician.  
 
0:25:40.1 DF: Now are you still on the books? Yes. He can be a 
residential wireman, a commercial wireman, can work trade shows, can do 
light fixture maintenance. Right now recovering from back surgery, not 
doing anything. He and his wife have started their own company, about a 
year ago, and he’s worked a little bit. There are a lot of small 
companies doing residential work since there’s not a lot of commercial 
work. His wife owns the business, and he’s the administrator
he works 
for her. It’s a good deal, since he’s a union employee he gets the 
benefits, and since the owner is his wife, she gets benefits too as his 
spouse.  
 
0:27:24.3 Terry is a member of Local 46, Seattle, International 
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. DF: In the past decade or two, union 
membership has begun to fall off nationally. Can you envision another way 
of organizing workers that wouldn’t be through a union? Is there another 
way you could see going about working?  
 
0:28:29.7 One way would be to create a cooperative with various 
companies. But in this political climate, he doesn’t think it would fare 
any better than what’s happening to the unions. There are a lot of right
to work states, where somebody is allowed to work under a union contract 
at union scale, but they don’t have to pay the dues. That hurts the 
unions terribly. He thinks as far as the local he’s in, they’ve priced 
themselves out of the market. They get $42/hour plus all the benefits. 
It’s about $60/hour to employ one journeyman. It’s easy for a non union 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
4
company to come in and undercut that. He’s not talking about cutting 
prices so low that nobody makes money
that wouldn’t do anyone any good. 
But whenever a union contract comes up, every three years, people want 
more money. And by getting more money per hour, sometimes you give up 
your conditions. Used to be if you started work at 6:00 am, you got time 
and a half. Now they’ve gotten more money, but less work in exchange for 
that. Not really the unions fault, but in this political climate you’ve 
got to be wary of all of the things out there that can make a union 
weaker. You have to be a little more competitive.  
 
0:30:58.1 DF: You’re not only an electrician, you’re also a musician. Is 
that how you see yourself? How do you describe yourself?  
 
0:31:12.7 TW: I see myself as a mixture of things: musician, ice skater, 
electrician, hell of a dishwasher. I don’t really hold onto one thing. 
I’ve always had many different interests.  
 
0:31:44.7 DF: Anything else you want to tell me?  
 
0:31:55.1 It’s great work, especially if you love that kind of work. You 
need good mechanical skills, good observational skills to see what’s 
going on around you and see what needs to be done. You can’t be stupid 
and be an electrician. You have to have a certain level of awareness of 
what needs to be done on the job.  
 
0:32:32.9 DF: In terms of doing the job "well," what are your criteria 
for knowing that you’ve done a job well?  
 
0:32:40.4 I have to be satisfied with what I’ve done. I have to step back 
and look at it and say, "Yeah, that looks nice. That looks like a 
professional job. Not just like anybody came along and slapped it up." 
Even if that’s what they wanted
something fast just to get the job done. 
You still have to maintain a certain amount of pride in your work.  
 
0:33:08.9 DF: Is there an artistic element to it?  
 
0:33:10.4 TW: Sure. There’s a certain amount… you have to think about the 
aesthetics. You can look at bending pipe as an art, even though you can 
do it completely mathematically. You have to have an eye for it as well.  
 
0:33:36.0 DF: Would you recommend this job to someone coming up?  
 
0:33:43.1 TW: Sure. The way it is now, I’d like to recommend the union, 
but I don’t know. The work is getting slimmer and slimmer, or maybe this 
is going to turn around. I guess I can’t really say one way or another. 
It’s done well for me. When you do get laid off, if you’ve been working 
for a while, you have insurance. You have your hours built up, which 
means you can have insurance for as long as six months before you go on 
COBRA. You can get unemployment easily. If you’re smart with your money, 
you should have a fairly easy time being in the union working. I know a 
lot of people are not good with their money, they live from paycheck to 
paycheck even though the paychecks are big. You have to be an adult with 
your money, like in any type of lifestyle. TW: "That’s all folks!" 
 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
5
 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
6