Thomas Lovia Brown 
May 26, 2015 
81 years old/ 1934 
West Hartford Public Library 
01:11:00 
Dixwell Avenue United Congregational Church of Christ in New Haven CT is the oldest Black 
congregational church in the world. Started in 1820 when the freed and escaped slaves who attended 
the center church there and they kept being relegated to the balcony. Their tithes were valued. A young 
minister who was a white guy Simeon Jocelyn started meeting with the 25 people and they broke away 
and started their own church and that was in 1820. One of the guys from the Yale divinity school, fast 
forward, two years ago came to us as an intern. He has since left and he came back for a celebration and 
I asked him, where are you and he said Morehouse. Morehouse? I said that is my Alma matter and he 
said I know. Anyway, so I am going there next week and I am going to meet with him and one of the 
archivist there and pick their brains about how did this all start. How did Morehouse College and 
Cullman Brothers make the connection because there were a number of Morehouse college students 
who had come to the tobacco farm when I was there. When I went there we were stationed on Fire 
Tower Road in Simsbury in a great big army barracks. It looked like a great big tobacco barn but it was a 
residence hall. On the first floor was the post office, the kitchen and dining room and some recreation 
stuff out there and the pantry, the second and third floor were sleeping quarters with bunk beds.  
3:15 (The official interview begins) I am Thomas Lovia Brown, and I live in New Haven CT right now and I 
am 81 years old and I worked in the tobacco farms during the 1950’s immediately after graduating from 
high school and was accepted to Morehouse. I went there immediately after graduating from high 
school because we did not have enough to the where with all to pay for the tuition. We had a very small 
grant to go to Morehouse but that was not enough to pay even the full year. I was from Greensboro, 
Georgia but I was raised between Greensboro and Chicago. My parents lived in Chicago and my father 
was a carpenter and my mother was a practical nurse. We spent a lot of summers in Georgia and my 
mother said to me when I graduated high school I want you to go to college in Georgia as opposed to 
coming back to Chicago and it was at that time that I went to Morehouse college and there were two of 
my high school teachers who encouraged me to go to Morehouse. And they were very instrumental in 
making sure that I got placed there.  In retrospect I Iooked back to see if they were Morehouse men but 
no they were not. They felt that somehow I and two other of my classmates were Morehouse quality 
men.  
5:20 Two of us are still alive. The three of us was Benny Asbury and the other was Jewel Jones and Jewel 
had a middle initial J and he was a junior. Jewel J Jones Jr. Jewel is still alive and he is retired as a social 
worker from Pittsburg, Pennsylvania. It was when that we went for the admissions interview, I believe t 
the offer was made to us, I think that we all went at the same time, the offer was made to us. Jewel’s 
family, his father was an auto mechanic for a big ford company and his mother was a domestic worker 
and he was the younger of the three of us and I don’t think that he needed the financial as much as we 
did.  
7:00 While my grandfather could have paid my way through college no problem whatever that was not 
going to happen. I got mine and I will show you how you can get yours. If you want to go to college you 
will have to work for it, boy. When the offer was made Benny and I just jumped at it. The offer was you 
can go to the tobacco farm and probably earn enough money to pay for a year’s tuition. And if I 
remember correctly at the time the tuition was only 1000 dollars. I don’t remember if it included room 
and board. Jewel and I jumped at it. After all, this was the first time that we had ever been away from 
home and in a strange land. It was the first time that I got an opportunity to work and meet with the 
Caribbean, the Jamaicans, this was the first time that I got the opportunity to meet and work with the 
displaced people from Europe, we called the DP’s at the time, and hear their Polish accents and enjoy 
their foods.  
9:00 I guess that I am talking about the social things right now that I learned. Aside from the social 
acclimatizing rituals which were absolutely wonderful we used to exchange lunches, just like the kids in 
school. I would end up getting one of the polish lunches and I would have the cabbage and corned beef 
and I had had cabbage but never cooked like that and never for lunch. Between a piece of bread with 
mustard. And I would have the Jamaican food that was the jerked chicken and the beef. (little spicier)Let 
me tell you that it was one of those acquired tastes that you wanted to say what do we have today. And 
they enjoyed the cold cuts that we had and our cold cuts were mostly bologna and often times we had 
fried chicken. And I have to say to you that it was the biggest fried chicken I’d ever seen. We used to call 
them sea gulls. The legs along with the drumsticks were that big. (spreads his hands)  
11:00 We paid out of our earnings for our board and for the room and board. Out of that money, the 
cooks from Morehouse would, they had been tobacco farm workers themselves, they were students, 
this was a program that had been established quite well and I remember that Tiny was the guy who was 
the cook and I think that he had graduated from Morehouse already and he was a preacher who was 
going to the Gammon Theological Seminary associated with the Atlanta University System at that time. 
He had a number of us helping him in the kitchen and one or two people who were assistant cooks and 
like the military, which I would later learn, we all had KP. They would go out and buy the foods we were 
to eat, that would be from breakfast cereal to the desserts that we had and sometimes we’d have the 
cold friend chicken and those were not like the tender little chicken legs that my grandmother used to 
make. 
13:00 We did everything on the farm. Let me share you this, when I went to the tobacco farms I was five 
feet eight. One of my nicknames in school was squeak because my voice was very squeaky. I was a runt. 
I am six one now! It wasn’t so much the chicken legs as the hard work. My Dad gave me the challenge of 
a lifetime. He said, “it is too hard and you are not going to make it. You are not used to this kind of hard 
work.” That was a challenge that you don’t ever tell your son I don’t know if that was by design but it 
worked. I was going to come back standing up on my shield. I was not going to come back with my tail 
between my legs and my head bowed.  
14:35 When we started working we started hoeing. They taught us how to do that. The tobacco was in 
the ground and really growing. We were taught by this Polish man, a little short bowlegged man who 
looked just like my grandfather and I think that is why I loved him so much. His name was Otto and I am 
sure that I will go in the archives there in the tobacco museum and find a picture and if I can ever write 
to any of Ottos’ people , he was my mentor my hero, we got along so well together. Otto taught us 
everything. He taught us how to hold a hoe, how to pull away the choppings and then push it back so 
that the tobacco was in a mound in a row and not wash the plants away but feed the root. He also 
taught us how to slide down the tobacco rows with a burlap bag tied around you to absorb some of the 
moisture. It was at least ten degrees hotter. It was a hot house. We were incubating the tobacco plants 
they would grow sometimes two and a half or three inches a day. When we got there they were this 
(1/2 inch high) out of the round and by the time we left they were eight feet pushing the nets and that 
was like two and a half months. We went through early on to weed out the growths to the point, 
spacing the plants, not suckering yet, first was the weeding and then spacing and then after that the 
plants were about so high (2 feet) and then we had to sucker the plants. There is a leaf that comes out 
of here and in this leaf there is another small plant that is growing here and it grows all the way up and 
we’d take our fingers and our thumbs and we’d break the sucker off and by the end of that time your 
fingers would conform to the v shape of where you were knocking the suckers off. Very sticky. You’d 
have tar like stuff all over your hand. Just get it done. What would happen is there would be we’d start 
early enough in the morning there was dew all over the place and was like a sauna you are getting wet 
and your butt is getting wet and you are sliding through the stuff and each person is working two rows 
and as you get to the end of it, I don’t know if we were paid for bents at the time and you were 
expected to move in harness with the rest of the people. And if you couldn’t do it they’d find another 
job for you.  
20:00 We’d go from one field to the other all over the place from Simsbury to Windsor and sometimes 
we went across the river to Springfield. We were all over the darn tobacco valley. We’d get up at 5:30-
6:00 and have breakfast from 6:00 -6:30 and at 7:00 we were in the field to take advantage of cooler 
weather. We stayed in the fields until the sun went down and you couldn’t work anymore. We did not 
take our lunches to the field with us. They would prepare the lunches back there after they finished 
breakfast and our lunches were brought out to us. Someone says what about the mayonnaise? I would 
say that the mayonnaise did not sit out there. They would bring it to us.  This was fresh. For many of us 
to have a banana was like a treat. Benny Asbury said, before he passed away, he said I remember that 
when I was a little boy and we’d go to the tobacco farms and we’d have bananas every 2-3 days and I 
said “that when I grow up I am going to be able to buy all the bananas I can eat.” These are young 
southern men who are being acclimated to a form of life that is totally different to them.  
22:50 (Dale asks a question about Martin Luther King attributes the idea that there was equality and 
that for him going into a restaurant was a novelty) I found it true but I also found it true in Chicago. So 
see King had probably never been out of the south. Atlanta but you have to understand too that even 
during King’s time Atlanta was a different south than the rest of the south. There is an old saying that 
Atlanta is in Georgia but Georgia is not in Atlanta and the same is true now. Is it like South Carolina and 
Charleston? It is more so than that. When I went to college there was even inter racial dating in Atlanta 
but you don’t go outside the city of Atlanta. You don’t flaunt it. If you go outside of the city and 
someone knows that is what you are doing.  
24:00 That was an escape. Like Chicago which was the stock yard, that was during the northern 
migration, Detroit for cars, Massachusetts for the shoe makers and if you will notice that Massachusetts 
had a lot of Appalachian cultures there and I realize that right here in CT if you would go to Danielson 
you’d think you were in the hill country of Tennessee, there was Waltham which was a watch company 
and Waterbury which was a brass and watch company. Fast forward: When I was first reading the Dune 
series I thought about what he had probably done is to take the idea of specialties in various, like guilds, 
thank you and the guilds he took them off world and what he was doing it was like the mind melting 
mentites and space travelers and to some degree our world is like that now and it was always like that 
with the Guilds. But here in Connecticut I experienced a kind of acceptance that I did not find universally 
in Georgia, in Atlanta I found it much more so, but not in Georgia and I found it a lot in Chicago. There 
were a lot of Southerners who came to Chicago as well and there was the Italian and Polish 
neighborhoods and they were very clannish that was in Chicago but the few months that we were here 
during the summer we found acceptance. 
27:00 So much so that during the hard work we had glee clubs because Morehouse is famous for its glee 
clubs as are most of the historically black colleges the Fish Jubilee singers and the Morehouse college 
glee club . So what we did was have a kind of quasi Morehouse college glee club here. Each summer 
we’d go down and sing on the banks of the CT River and if you were to look at the topography or 
geography of that time the CT River has been pushed further east than it is now. I am trying to think of 
that building that sits right on the CT River. But we used to sing, Steam Boiler, which building now would 
be right in the Middle of where the CT River used to be. It was a kind of patio and balcony there that we 
would sing and we looked forward to that and were received with great appreciation. Everybody came 
to listen. G Fox was open at that time and they did have the blue laws as far as stores being open on 
Sundays but Saturdays if it were a rainy day we would sing down there and Sundays we would always 
sing and it got to be a thing where people would come from all around.  
28:50 Soccer games and little league baseball? There were but you see the soccer was played by the 
Jamaicans and we were the baseball players and the basketball players as well and the way I learned 
how to play rough house basketball was from those guys from Birmingham, Alabama. In other words 
there was no fouling and no taking time out and that kind of stuff. You get the ball and you go for it. 
There were boulders and rocks on the ground that were big as a footballs themselves so you’d never 
bounce the ball because if you bounce the ball you’d lose it. More like Rugby. 
29:30 Were you ever part of the harvest? I was as a matter of fact that is where I made my money. We 
were making maybe 35 cents an hour and you were not going to make enough money for tuition at that 
time so it was during the harvest when you had to pick tobacco and they had to get the tobacco off the 
stalks and into the barns as quickly as they possibly could because the window of ripping and drying is a 
very short one and that is when they’d pay you for piece work. They’d pay us something like 5-6 cents a 
bent. You know what the bents are. You start off here again sitting on your butt picking tobacco. You 
have a partner here with two rows and you are here with your two rows and in the center is the basket. 
Tobacco basket, canvas on wooden slides with a hook and you pull it and what you do is to fill these 
tobacco things up. Each picking has a number of leaves you are supposed to pick from each stalk. You 
start out with 2, 1,2 stack it, you go here 1,2 stack it and you stack the leaves in the tobacco bin this way 
( he draws what it looks like) What they did was, here are canvas hooks and you put a hook in here and . 
You put your s here and he puts his there and each time you go down he pulls the basket along and you  
keep filling it up to the point that you were not supposed to fill the tobacco leaves beyond this level but 
we tried to get as many as we can so we packed it down. Here we go, 1,2 1,2 stack and you move up and 
1,2,1,2 stack the next time we probably came in with three off of each. What our tobacco puller would 
do is stack the baskets like this and tie them together like this so that he could pull a whole bunch of 
them because oftentimes those rows were very long and he had to leave a basket here for us as he 
pulled those baskets out and what does he do he has to bring empty baskets back for us.  
34:30 Proper length of leaf? Otto would go in and say these are ready to pick. They’d go in and measure 
and say this is ready to harvest. We just picked it. It was easy picking the tobacco when you were sitting 
on your butt, but you had to bend over…in other words it was too high and you had to bend over. This is 
a kid who had never worked hard in all of his life but I busted my butt during that time and I didn’t do 
anything but eat, work, eat and sleep and it was at that time that my body started growing. And the first 
year that I came back from the tobacco farm, it was like the end of August. We had this great big house 
and going up these granite steps and my mother heard some say Thomas is home and she ran out of the 
kitchen and she opened the front door and saw me ascending the stairs. And she said “Baby!” And then 
she began to back up and she said that’s the face but that is not my baby’s body.” I was like 5’ 11” it was 
like I went from 5’ 8” to 5 11 and you can imagine how dexterous was. Every time that I reached for 
something that my muscle memory knew from home I would knock it over. My aunt, father’s sister 
would say, “Thomas would you knock this over for me.” In other words she was pocking with my mind 
and saying be careful when you hand me that.  
37:30 At the end of August, the first year that we went back, t after paying the room and board and 
whatever the earnings were and I should say that this was the first pay check that I ever had the first 
time money was given to me in the form of a written promissory note and I went back home with more 
than two thousand dollars that first summer. Benny Asbury and I were the highest earners. We were the 
neophytes there. The other people had never worked so hard nor had they been put to such 
competition. Benny was a much better picker than I was he really was. We competed. For each bit that 
we picked we got seven cents a bent and the puller got seven. What we made they made. Often times 
our pullers couldn’t keep up with us and they’d say, “That is enough. I want the money but I don’t want 
you guys to kill me.” So we rotated pullers that was Benny and Me. For some reason Benny didn’t grow 
but I did and he stayed about the same height he did up until of course he died.  
39:30 We went to town. The second year when I came back, did three years total, the year before 
Morehouse, the end of my freshman year and the end of my sophomore year and the end of my junior 
year, I think I did four years. When I came back the second year Otto approached me immediately and 
he said,  “I want to make you a foreman.” and I said,  “Otto I came here to make money.” and he said 
alright how much do you want?” “ I want a salary that id going to take me back to Morehouse with no 
less than what I made last year and somehow I had the presence of mind to negotiate and I want as 
much as the top earner from Morehouse makes, in other words if he makes more than what I did last 
year then I want to make that amount too because I would be making that amount too. And I knew that 
was going to be Benny and sure enough I made as much as Benny did and they gave me another 10 
percent because I was foreman.  
41:00 But you can imagine it was a very hard thing for me. This was just my second year there and there 
were some guys who’d been there for two or three years and I am like a neophyte and I am coming in 
here to be the foreman and I am younger than they are and they tested me. That where the old military, 
who has the biggest….. and I earned that. It was one of the things that I learned during the times that we 
traveled all over the place. Pick out the bully, the baddest one and even if he beats your hiney that is the 
only fight you will have to have and I had a fight with the bully and I beat him and everything else was in 
line. It was no more than two or three punches. What was happening we were hanging tobacco in the 
middle of the season because we had harvested enough and we had nothing else to pick. So we went to 
the barns and we were to space ourselves, here, here, here, there and all the way to the top. I asked 
him, “which tier do you want?” And he says I am not going up there. And I said then you can stay down 
here and I am not going to do this then you can go home and he said I am not going to home, then you 
are not going to get paid, I am going to get paid and I told the book keeper kick him off the books he’s 
not working today and he pushed me and I said don’t touch me don’t touch me and he did and that was 
all there was. The timekeeper was a respected position. They counted your bents. We used to argue 
with them. It is almost like golf. You have to make sure that you honestly count…. we found a way to 
make sure that we got the right bents. What we did was is at the end of each row we would drive a 
stake and not tell anyone because someone could come and pull it away and if there was an argument 
we’d say let’s just go back and count the stakes and make the corrections. It was a fun time. 
44:30 When we went to town, we walked up from Fire Tower Road to Simsbury center on Sunday 
afternoons to the drug stores to buy supplies that were not in our commissary, by the way we did have a 
commissary a full commissary there and we’d buy things and stamps at the post office, I remember the 
first time that we went there were eight or nine of us and some of the young kids came out and they 
had never seen people of color and not that many together at one time and  they would shout, that was 
the first time I heard the n word in CT, they’d go,  “Momma, Momma here comes the niggers.” And I 
would say oh my, that word is up here too. But in retrospect I realized that it was the word that the kids 
had heard over the dinner table talking about the blacks working down the street, It was not so much 
that the kids feared us because they ran to the edge of their properties to see what we looked like as 
opposed to running and cowering behind the bushes or their parents.  
47:20 I think that it was during the 50’s when the Cullman Brothers had the monopoly on the farms. And 
then they changed their name to Culbro. When I saw the movie Parrish it was at a time when the guy 
who was the big person, I can’t remember the actors name, Karl Malden was the guy who owned the big 
farm and I saw him as being Cullman Brothers. There were a number of, as Otto used to say, upstart 
tobacco growers who did not want to sell and were not doing well and everything that happened to 
them that was to their determent they blamed on the big farmers, And Cullman Brothers eventually 
ended up buying all of this. And then Cullman Brothers sold. From what I could gather Cullman Brothers 
failed to trademark or pattern their tobacco seed. You can get Connecticut shade all over the world 
now. Someone took the seeds and walked away.  
50:00 Part of the season that you liked the most? Favorite shed? I did not fall in love with the sheds 
because the only time that we went to the sheds was when there was a lull in the picking or planting so I 
was on hourly wages in the shed the last thing you wanted to do. You were hanging the tobacco you had 
already picked and it was raining so you couldn’t go out and pick tobacco. If it is raining and you to out 
and pick the tobacco the leaves with the rain have firmed up and you going through the rows are going 
to break those leaves they are much more brittle than they would be when it is hot. When you walk 
through the leaves the leaves would give. So no. 
51:40 We often times went into the cities and there were dances and they were integrated dances 
believe it or not probably organized by the churches and for many of us Southern boys this was our first 
opportunity of dancing with and meeting  white women on an equal footing, basis. That was fun. Case in 
point, when I started working for the Ct Department of Education one of the women that I was dating 
had gone to Smith College and one of the women’s prep schools around here because her father was a 
doctor in Longmeadow and she said that she’d worked on these tobacco farms down here and I just 
said, I wonder if I met you? But the stories that she told me about her time were very much like the ones 
that the women on the panel with us, Connie told. But hers was probably along the same years that I 
was back there. 
 
53:30 Did the president of Morehouse College ever come up when you were here? Benjamin E Mays, 
president of Morehouse College. If you ever hear Benjamin Mays speak and then you listen to Martin 
Luther King’s earlier talks you will hear the same alliteration and the same tonality. But Martin, thanks 
to Benjamin, evolved on his own to the point that his delivery was head and shoulders above Dr. Mays, 
we called him Buck Penny. In other words he learned from his master and he went on to become the 
master. And I did the march on Washington and it was only 7-8 years ago that I found out that Dr. 
Benjamin E. Mays was on the organizational panel for the march on Washington. Martin Luther King was 
the front man. The Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters, A. Philip Randolph you know. 
55:28 We had church and Tiny, who was a huge guy, went on to become a very famous preacher in 
either North or South Carolina in a big church there and it is people like him. There were guys from 
Birmingham, I remember them by their nicknames. Tokey who went on to become a senator in 
Oklahoma, Flash went on to become a federal judge in Boston, and all of these guys got their start 
working on tobacco. I became, in my very famous days, a consultant for the CT Department of 
Education. 
56:50 I was a principle in Chicago. As soon as a I graduated from Morehouse II tried not to go into the 
Korean war and got every deferment I possibly could. I was hopefully on my way to Meharry to get a 
medical degree.  I graduated, well correction I finished my course August 7 and I got a letter on August 
10th said that I was to report to Fort Jackson South Carolina August the 14th. I thought that I was just 
going up for a physical and I was going to come back. I didn’t come back for two years and a day. So 
much for my deferment and for going to medical school. I ended up going back to Chicago and becoming 
a teacher and quickly became a master teacher, assistant principle and then a principle. From there my 
work in St. Louis was a lot of organizing because I had gone to the New Campus of Southern Illinois 
University at Edwardsville and that is right across the river from St. Louis and I started working with the 
street gangs and the St. Louis police department. As a matter of fact my master thesis was done at 
Ferguson Middle School the bedroom community of McDonnell Douglas executives. From there I went 
back to Chicago and continued working with street gangs and I would bring the Bernard Horwich Jewish 
Community Center kids down to bring with the street gangs on the South Side of Chicago and scared the 
crap out of the kids and me as well. But that kind of work, and my work there in St. Louis, when the 
group on Washington DC petitioned the Washington DC board of Education to let the community run 
the school which was the second one of the schools, the first one was the Morgan school which the 
black community had petitioned and they gave them that and the second school was the Adams school, 
the John Quincy Adams school, and I knew a lot about John Quincy Adams for his work with the Amistad 
he was the attorney who defended Cinque and the revolters on the Amistad and won over the 
objections of the president of the united states at the time. I became the principle of the John Quincy 
Adams School from Chicago and I realized about a month after being in DC that I had gone south. That 
was a wonderful experiment and it was the first or the second of the now called charter schools country. 
I was very proud to be the principle of that school. I left there and went to Cornell to get a doctorate and 
from there I went to direct a national program that was called unified Sciences and Mathematics in 
Elementary School and I was the implementation officer where we went from two school districts in the 
District of Columbia to 38 school districts in 35 states and I was traveling like a circuit preacher and one 
of the things that it gave me was a view of the lay of the land in education and the country. A good cross 
section where teachers were treated as professionals and where they were babysitters. When I started 
working at the CT Department of Education I had a cross section of what it was like and I realized that 
that job, back peddle, I quit my job because I wanted to do something different. I woke up one night in 
century city and I had gone to the washroom and as the door closed behind me I realized that I was in 
my birthday suit in the hall. I am in Century City traveling like a circuit preacher and I just said what am I 
doing it is time to quit this job. The guy came up and said this happens all the time he had a bathrobe he 
said don’t’ be embarrassed it happens all the time.  
1:02:30 It was at that point that I was raising two boys alone and I realized that I needed to settle down 
because I was using Au Pairs, Au Pairs are raising my sons so I started to work for the CT Department of 
Education after quitting my job and I realized that Regan was elected president and all the big salaries I 
was making are gone. I was hired at the CT State Department of Education making a third of what I’d 
been making at my last job. But I’ been out of work for six months and I was glad to have it. I didn’t 
realize how much my psyche was tied into how much I got paid or whether I got paid and during the last 
three months of that period I realized that I was going through some awful depressions even to the 
point where I was saying to myself, all these years you’ve been running a scam on people, In other 
words all of the stuff they have been paying you for, as Malcolm X said you have been bamboozling, in 
other words I was questioning my own worth.  
1:04:50 I jumped at that job at the CT State Department of Education but I realized that these were the 
people I used to fire. They knew nothing about education. Half of the people where were making rules 
at State Department of Education throughout the country are people who have seldom walked in the 
shoes of the people who are running the schools. I ended up with all kinds of psycho somatic illnesses 
TMJ I had a heart rate that was so high that my Dr. gave me nitroglycerin pills. If you have heard of the 
TMJ where jaws drop, chewing it’s like people hit me on the side of the head with a bat. I was smart 
enough to know that if I was going survive there and raise my son I was going to have to write grants 
and take the monies away from the SOB, and I don’t meant state office building, from the SOB and I put 
all of my jobs elsewhere so much so that every job that came up and no one wanted I took it. I ended up 
the first year that I was there finding the CT Teacher of the Year who went on to become the National 
Teacher of the Year. That was Lee Hayes. Everybody said he’s not going to make it. I said this guy is the 
best thing I have ever seen he is going to be National Teacher of the year and they said you don’t know 
what you are talking about and it was about that time that they said maybe this guy does know a thing 
or two. So when we ended up with the CT Educator of the Year award, financed by the Michael Milken 
Family, so for maybe 7-8 I was Mr. Millionaire and find 12 people who were deserving of 12,000 dollars 
tax free. I became very popular in the state. Invited to diners. People thinking maybe I can get an award 
if I woo him enough. 
1:08:00 I did a lot of wonderful things. Started the first principle’s Academy. When I was in Chicago one 
of the things I did was start the teacher center there where teachers were teaching teachers and I did 
the same thing with the CT Principles. And Jerry True Rossi who had been a principle in New Haven 
became the commissioner of Education and he realized I knew a few things about that kind of stuff and 
he allowed me to run this. It was the first state run Principle’s Academy in the Nation and I was very 
proud of that. They had a number of commissioners after Jerry but they did not earn my respect and 
1:09:00 I realized that I had to get out of there and that I was getting old. They offered me a three year 
chit on top of my 17 years that I had there so that was 20 years and I started my own business called the 
Diversity Leadership Forum and I have been doing consulting work around the country ever since. One 
of my biggest studies under the Diversity Leadership Forum was to do a work force environmental study 
for the University of CT health center and that was about maybe 9 -10 years ago and it was with that 
study that they reorganized the whole health center even to the point where, and I don’t take pride in it, 
they fired the chancellor and the HR person and a whole bunch of folks down the line. Better care now. I 
go there for my dental work, my eyes, and something else but I can’t remember (laughter)