Stephen Tingley 
August 11, 2014’ 
63 years old/ Born 1951 
Thrall Farm 
30:37 
 
I grew up in northern Maine and there were no jobs up there for kids. My sister was living in Suffield, CT 
so she volunteered to come up and get me and bring me down here for a summer job. Uncle took me to 
a farm called Hathaway-Stein, on a Saturday he took a six pack of beer, sat on the bus with his 
supervisor so they talked and I got a job. So Monday morning I walked down to the farm about a mile 
from where I lived the road and there was one farm on side of the road and another farm on the other 
side of the road and there were 100’s of people on each side of the road and I wasn’t sure of which side 
of the road I was supposed to go to so I just picked a side and  walked over and told them that I was 
there and my uncle had gotten me a job so they signed me up put me in a field picking tobacco.  
1:15 I had just turned fourteen the day before that. So I picked tobacco that summer. Growing up in 
northern Maine this was the first time I saw Puerto Ricans, Mexicans, black people, northern Maine 
there are no black people so it was a real difference culture wise for me but picking tobacco was easy 
compared to picking potatoes so I didn’t mind sitting on my butt getting paid for it.  I made friends 
talking baseball, talking sports, I made friends from Springfield or wherever they came from. So the next 
summer I came back and the supervisor remembered me because I had worked every day and done my 
job so he made me a supervisor in the field, a straw boss. So my job at 15 was to check on other kids, 
teach them how to pick, walk behind them and make sure they were taking the right leaves off, bottom 
to the top and not breaking things so I did that that summer. When I came back at 16 they remembered 
me and put me driving a tractor. Hauling tobacco from the fields to the sheds and helping out with 
irrigation so I got my first taste of irrigation at 16. When I came back at 17 they made me a supervisor 
moving the sewing machines and setting up the burners. And so I was supposed to back to college in 
Northern Maine I had been accepted and was supposed to play soccer up there but I decided to stay 
down here and make money. I was only 17 when I graduated from high school money was more 
important plus I had met a girl so I stayed and worked that winter and so I stayed and the next year and 
the next winter and then they went out of business so I went back and took my SAT’s and got accepted 
at Southern Connecticut University. The few years that I went to southern Connecticut, I worked for 
General Cigar, Cullbro Tobacco, I got a job first year I was a truck driver working the machines in the 
sheds and then the next year I came back my boss said that he wanted me to be a Time keeper. 
3:45 I go around and record the numbers of people who come in the morning, their names, all the 
hours, at that time we paid piece work so I had to keep track of all the piece work. At that time Cullbro 
mid-summer had 250-300 employees. They come in in the morning on busses.  As the busses come in 
you get on the bus and take the numbers before they get off the bus but you also have people coming in 
in cars so I try to check them before they get out into the fields, then you go out to the fields and the 
sheds and to where odd jobs are going on and if you miss somebody and they are short eight hours pay 
the next week it is a problem especially with some of the people they spread the word, oh he missed 
me. Then I would have to make a wage adjustment. The next week I’d have 5 guys there saying they’d 
missed hours. The next week 20. 
5:00  I learned real fast to double check, triple check, by the third year I had it down so that there were 
few problems. As time keeper you get to see all the operations. Because you are going from gang to 
gang, you are seeing irrigation, firing of sheds, you are seeing everything I asked questions I was 
interested. They guy I was working for had a big impact on me. He was an old polish guy. He took care of 
me. He told me stories. He told me the right way to do things. At this point I made up my mind that I’d 
like his job someday.  
6:00 I was time keeper for 4 years. Got married, got out of college and got married the next week. Went 
to work for the farm that summer. That winter I went for another company. Cullbro didn’t want to give 
me salary for the winter. Then I went back to Cullbro for the summer and they put me on salary and 
made me supervisor and I told my wife at the time, because I had a degree for teaching special 
education, to give me five years, because that is how long my certification is good for, If I don’t’ see that 
I am going anywhere then I will go teaching. She was willing to bite it down because I wasn’t making any 
money back then and within three years I was a farm manager, I had my own farm, then they closed 
down and I had to go back and work for someone else but they kept me at the same wage level which 
was enough to survive plus I was living in a company house. So I lived in a company house in Southwick 
Ma for 18 years which was huge. It had three floors, an attic. No neighbors for a half mile on each side, a 
soccer field out back, my kids had it made cross country skiing and no one to bother us. We had soccer 
parties for the kids in the summer their buddies would come and sleep over night, I had lights set up and 
they’d play till one o’clock in the morning. I did this job every day as a farm manager for Cullbro. 
7:45 I had a lot of responsibility as far as organizing all the people, getting the busses on the road 
because at that time we hauled help, so the busses had to be, all the tractor driving, everything was my 
responsibility. I had a riding boss above me and then Cullbro started to go down and they got sold to 
another company Swiss Scandinavian tobacco grower. At that time we had a supervisor from the 
Dominican Republic and he came to me and said would you mind going to the Dominican during the 
winter time and helping us down there. I said let me talk to my wife I am not sure how this is going to 
run over. We talked it over at the time I had two kids in school so I told him that I can’t do it full time 
right now. I’d go for two weeks in the Dominican and then come back home for two weeks.  They’d send 
equipment from here trying to modernize, everything, planters, harrows, plows, baskets the bicycles the 
technology that made this good went down there. General Cigar, you have pictures of barns in Simsbury 
and Granby. I ran both those farms at one time. I went to the Dominican the first year two weeks at a 
time. He didn’t ask me to go back the next year. Finally, my daughter graduated and I said I can go now. 
A year later he asked if I was still committed and I said ya I’ll go. I’d go at the end of September first of 
October until March and I’d go down there and do basically the same thing that I’d do here but down 
there you are supervising Dominicans, Haitians, its poor. Resources are rare.  I used to call it the land of 
Mickey Mouse. If you can mickey mouse it and make it work then you make it work. So I worked there 
until they finally stopped growing here in the Valley so we were partners with Thralls as far as buying 
their tobacco so they came to thralls and said would you mind Steve working with you during the 
summer time and then we’ll have him the Dominican in the Winter time and he can work for both us.  
10:35 So the first two years that I worked for Thrall I was paid by General Cigar. General cigar was one of 
the few companies who grew and rolled cigars. Thrall is a grower.  So I went to the Dominican in the 
winter time and worked for Thralls in the summertime. I lasted ten more years than anybody else doing 
that and Joe told me that when Cullbro finally pulls the plug you have a job with us so don’t worry about 
it.  It was a big relief because when you get to my age and you are looking for a job it’s not easy. Three 
years ago they came to me and said you are done in March. I went to Joe’s house and he said no 
problem and told me that when I am ready to come back to work we’ll work things out. They have been 
very good to me and basically gave me the same money in management. I have been here a long time. 
12:00 A typical day of picking is you have a quota you should be making. When I came in as a 14 year old 
you met in the yard, they would tell me which bus to get on, you’d get to the field and you had 
supervisors. Quota in number of rows. The polls you see out there are called bents. Each time you go 
down, say you go down five bents they would add that up and put it on a sheet. At the end of the day 
you’d have to have so many bents. When I worked for Hathaway and Stein they didn’t push it if you 
came in worked steady and didn’t give anybody problems you had a job. Cullbro was stricter, they were 
harder. They put a quota on it and if you didn’t make the quota by the end of the first week they’d find 
somebody else. It was easier to find help back then.  
13:15 (We understood that a bent was a measurement of a shed) They are completely separate. The 
field is 33 feet, bent it is 33 feet square. If you are counting picking bents or tying tobacco they had a 
quota for the job and they’d say that you had to do so many bents per day. Not sure when it exactly 
started but the cloth is made that way. It is 33 feet wide. That was all. This exploded in the states in 
1907, this whole valley was tobacco for a long time. Everywhere you looked was sheds and tobacco. 
14:20 But we also had camp kids from Pennsylvania and Florida. They had softball tournaments camp to 
camp, they took them to the beach one time a summer, and they had competitions between different 
camps.  Kids who came back their moms and dads had been here. Their uncles and aunts had been here. 
We had generations of kids coming . When you are a kid 14 or 15 years old, and you are earning, at that 
time too kids got paid less. We didn’t have to pay adult wages. They were a bonus. I was a kid making 85 
cents an hour, the adults were making a dollar 35. That is a big difference when you add 5-600 people 
doing the same job. When I was 17, I was working on the crew doing set up of sheds. I was working 
almost 100 dollars a week. Not making 100 dollars the kid I was working with me wasn’t 18 but he had 
lied or somehow got his birth certificate through and he was making 350.00 a week which was huge 
money. Take that times 300 people. Now you can’t do that nay more kids get whatever the adults are 
making.   
16:05 The camps faded as I like to say society faded. Kids became more difficult, drugs became a 
problem at camps, run-ways became a problem, pregnancy became a problem, and to monitor the 
whole thing was almost impossible. it wasn’t worth going through the hassle any more to bring up. A lot 
of the times the kids were great and they learned and went back home with money in their pocket and 
living a different life style. My friends in Northern Maine were not as close as a lot of the groups were 
because I was only there 6 months out of there. When I was at school ya we were friends, but I was 
gone during the summer when they went camping and doing all the stuff together as a group. But I was 
down here. But my friends down here were stronger when we were doing all the kid’s stuff. I lived on 
the lake so we did a lot of stuff on the lakes and we lived across the lake from the girl’s camp. 
Congamond lakes in Suffield. 
17:40 As a supervisor you have to know the basics of Spanish, the different tools. Living in the 
Dominican none of the guys spoke English but I am glad that I did it. My wife came down every year in 
February for a week’s vacation the company would pay for it fly her down, we’d stay in a resort area. I 
could always go into a restaurant and order but that wasn’t hard. The first years I worked in one area of 
the Dominican and it was all Dominicans, the last five hears I worked closer to Haitians and that is a 
whole different dialect. They speak Patois but that is impossible to learn. French with their own. I took 
French in high school but it was long gone by then. I could do numbers with hem which was important 
for my job. I learned different expressions. But their language. I just couldn’t get. I was too old maybe. 
The problem with a lot of Americans who go down there, they were their gold watches and I didn’t. No 
jewelry. I never carried money. I cried poverty. It is a whole different lifestyle down there but the people 
are great. They took me in. They were my friends. If I walked or drove down the street I’d get the big 
wave. I was always being invited to people’s houses but the problem with that is that I am a very fussy 
eater and I didn’t dare go to people’s house because they’d always offer and I could never find a way to 
turn it down, plus they always offered beer and there was no way I was drinking and driving in that 
country. There was no way. I made good friends and I went into situations that I knew I could get out of 
easily enough. Loved the beach. I went to the beach every chance I got. You should have seen my tan 
when I was in the Dominican. 
20:40 During the winters I work now for these guys in the winter. Fix the burners. Fix the controls that 
control the burners. I help fix the machines for sewing the tobacco. I keep busy.  
21:24 (Drying Tobacco) There is a million situations and as Bunny Thrall will say, the boys dad, if anyone 
thinks they know it all they are completely wrong. But I can give you the basics.  Tobacco comes in the 
barn green. (We are standing in a full tobacco shed of Connecticut Shade for the wrapper) If you set the 
fires too soon you can set the green color and green tobacco is worth nothing, if you set the fires too 
late you’ll get wild colors, mixed colors and all kinds of problems, you can have a thing called frog eye 
where little drops of water get on the leaf and stain the leaf. If that is on there the leaf is useless. You 
have to have uniform color and no breakage. Each side of the leaf makes one cigar. They take the center 
stem out and this side will be one cigar and this side will be another cigar. The idea is that you put it into 
the barn and you wait for it to do what we call” tipping”, which is that leaf is ripper than anything else so 
it is already tipped but  I am not going to fire this barn until I see that tipping across the whole bottom. 
So when I walk into the shed I want to see at least 85-90 percent of the leaves with this yellow tip on it 
starting to work up the leaf because if you are curing the tobacco and you are doing it right the colors 
move from the bottom around the edges to the top. Slowly and easily and it will first become a 
yellowish greenish color and then it will change hopefully the edges will start to turn brownish and then 
as it works up the leaf it will dry out to the top and you leave it in the fires until basically the leaf itself is 
dried out. The stem will not dry out the first time through.  
24:00 Depending on the size of the tobacco and how thick it is the first firing usually lasts ten two twelve 
days. The doors depends on the weather. We have a hydrometer. (We all walk over to look at the 
hydrometer) This is a hydrometer. We go by the dry side and the wet side. Right now you have a ten 
point differential between the wet side and the dry side. That is what you want when you are firing at 
least ten. You want a ten point differential between your humid side and your dry side.   So on humid 
days I will have these sides cracked because as you are drying this leaf the humidity is coming out. So 
you take a barn this size and all that humidity at one time and it is 70 percent humidity outside you have 
to get that humid air somewhere so we vent.  We will put them out three inches depending on the day. 
There are degrees of being open. This is open now because the tobacco is not ready for firing yet so we 
want all the fresh air to get coming through and create an air flow. (Do you have a preference for 
venting?) Well it depends on what kind of tobacco you have. I prefer horizontals on the bottom 3-4 feet 
up and 18 inches wide because you can open the horizontal because it creates an air flow over the top 
of the burner so even it is cool air it is heating across the top of the burners and going up through the 
shed and creating a flow up. With verticals like that you are getting cold air coming in from both sides 
and it is hard to get the heat all the way to the top. But if you have to get the humid air out then you do 
it. The difference between when I worked at Cullbro, nobody knows it all, they went by temperature and 
were not worried about the spread. Mr. Thrall wants a point spread and I have adapted to his style and 
He is more right than Cullbro was. If you don’t have a point spread you are taking chances of a lot of 
things happening up there. You can get rotten tobacco. That was the other thing. We used to put 
hydrometers up there but surprisingly there isn’t much difference top to bottom. This will give you your 
basics.  
27:30 Alot of mine is from doing it over and over and over again.  I can walk in a shed and tell you uhoh 
we have a problem. (He tore the tip of a leaf. It is useless) The process: When you finish this curing and 
We will burn gas all through the summer every time it rains it gets real soft and we have to fire it again, 
it helps the aging process, helps to change the colors, develop the uniformity of the leaf, the more times 
you can get it soft and fire it back down the better your leaf will be in the end. Through the summer they 
will fire this and the money is being spent. In the fall we put humidifiers in here and make our own 
humidity. We surround the shed with plastic to hold the humidity in. Every shed. People come in and 
take the shed down and Pack it and then it goes into the sweat room for four weeks so you are paying 
for the process in there the heat and everything in there and then you ship it to the Dominican Republic 
and that is where they do the sort. A broken leaf is worth.. laughter. Every process is vulnerable to 
breakage. Is it more fragile when it is brown? No because we put the humidity in it. We take it back to a 
soft state. Whoever is supervising the taking down has to make sure of that and if you get it too damp 
and pack it in a box it can mold and get rotten in a box. Every job is serious. A barn like this 250,000 
dollars can go down the drain like that.  
30:00 This time of day I was checking these sheds because these are new sheds, we just started them, if 
that temperature in that shed gets too hot I can green the whole bottom or part of the shed. That isn’t 
working. It is worth money but…It is brutal.  I don’t let it happen. I have done it over the years. It has 
happened. It is a rush.