Page 1 of 9 
 
Interviewee: Jessica Machmueller 
Date: 5-22-2019 
Interviewer: Charitie V. Hyman 
Location: Oshkosh Public Library 
File Name: afc2018032_05024_ms01 
Background Noise: Some vague library noises.  
 
Summary of Interview: Jessica Machmueller, from Manitowoc, describes growing up on a dairy 
farm. She says nursing appealed to her because she was good with people. She explains working 
as a CNA for several years before becoming an RN. She talks about working in a nursing home 
with dementia patients and developing different traditions to deal with death. She describes her 
interest mental health working at several hospitals. She currently works at a crisis unit for the 
county and is going back to school to specialize as a psychiatric mental health nurse practitioner. 
 
Time 
Content Description 
0.00.00 
Introduction 
0.00.34 
Grew up in Manitowoc, Wisconsin, along Lake Michigan, on a dairy farm. Dad 
did field work during the day and Mom did the housework; oldest of four 
children, so had the most responsibilities. Went to a rural school; graduated with 
83 people in the class—a small school of farm families. 
0.01.15 
Always fascinated with science: from 7th through 12th grade, job shadowed with 
the veterinarian that would come to farm, helping her with procedures, traveling 
to different farms, doing projects and reporting back to school. Example: a 
surgery in which a calf was split in half because it had been dead in the womb for 
so long. “It was just fascinating to me. The blood and gore of everything didn’t 
bother me at all.” Wanted to go to school to be a veterinarian, and originally went 
to school to be a veterinarian for a semester. But had an older half-sister—about 
16 years older—who is a nurse practitioner who suggested: “‘Why don’t you go 
for nursing? You’re good with people.’ And I thought, ‘I don’t know if I want to 
do that with people.’ But I tried it, and that’s what we brought me now, working 
with people not animals—and that’s why … it’s been a very fun time.” 
0.02.30 
Started at Moraine Park Technical College in Fond du Lac. Got put on waiting list 
for nursing program, but instead of waiting, decided to continue with bachelor’s 
degree, and so went to University of Wisconsin—Oshkosh, and graduated from 
there. Currently in school through Walden University, pursuing a master’s degree 
for psychiatric mental health nurse practitioner; about one year left. An online 
program, but with practicums in person, beginning next year. Excited to go to 
different facilities and work alongside doctors and counselors.  
0.03.52 
At Oshkosh, a broad bachelor’s program, a B.S. with emphasis in nursing. Basic 
science classes (chemistry, pathology, pharmaceutical classes.) The nursing 
program itself was five semesters long, from Sophomore II to Senior II. Did 
general education at the tech college, but at the university the arrangements are 
the same: general education classes for freshman and Sophomore I classes. 
0.04.49 
“I like technical stuff, like little procedures: inserting IVs, learning about the body 
parts, how they work together. And then how if you throw a wrench in one 
system, how it affects all the other systems. And actually, breaking it down to the 
Page 2 of 9 
 
cellular level, it’s just fascinating to see how our bodies have been put together 
and how just one little thing would go off can just throw everything off. Or how 
your body can actually just compensate. So, if you try to throw something off, 
your body can just go this other way and make it better again. It was fascinating 
to read about those things: how the drugs can interact with your brain.” Liked the 
technical side of things, like IV insertion. “It’s ‘fun’! No, that’s like the twisted 
humor that nurses have; it’s like the only thing that we got. But yeah, it’s pretty 
fun.” 
0.06.19 
The UW-Oshkosh program is very hands-on, from the very first semester in 
Sophomore II. The first semester was similar to being a nursing assistant. Had 
worked as a nursing for a long time—about five years. So, some of the experience 
was a ‘refresher.’ Did clinicals from early semesters: went to nursing homes, 
interview patients, getting history, and then working as a nursing assistant: taking 
them to a bathroom, drawing a bath. Even in ‘book’ semesters, did some clinicals, 
getting a taste of things as we went along. Found it very good: program is ranked 
highly. Staff “really come alongside you and guide you.” Also “one of the hardest 
things to go through—it’s just so hard.”  
0.07.39 
Challenging to keep going in program, but “I have this drive in me to keep going. 
I want to better myself and to help others. That was a big thing. I would think 
about how my knowledge would help somebody else.” Found immediate family 
very supportive. But the dedication really came from wanting to better oneself 
and “get into a profession where I could lead. Working as a nursing assistant, 
you’re always under the direction of a nurse. But it was too fascinating to me to 
be, like: ‘I want to make those decisions, make those calls.’ And I wanted to take 
other people under my wing and say, ‘I’m going to guide you.’ The drive to just 
be a leader.” 
0.08.49 
There were two people in the program who were especially supportive. One of the 
clinical instructors, was so friendly and cheerful and tried to relate to you at your 
level and cheered you on. Patty Vanderloop had worked as an Ob-Gyn nurse, and 
one of the community health clinicals was done in India for three weeks. Patty 
was there for that and was instrumental in providing a loving environment. “We 
had gone into this hospital where this woman was giving birth, and she was just 
laying on this hard metal bed, and going back and forth in labor in pain, and 
nobody was by her side. And Patty goes up and just starts rubbing her forehead 
and holding her hand. They couldn’t talk same language, but she was trying to 
show comfort … You need to provide comfort … I’ve never forgotten that, how 
she was right there, helping the woman to get into different positions too. So that 
stuck in my mind.” 
0.10.39 
Spent two weeks in Chennai and one week in New Delhi. Going from hot to cold 
weather, sleeping in sleeping bags, hats and gloves. Spent time in a hospital in the 
Himalayas, with space heaters around each bed in the ICU, because of a lack of 
central heat. Found the experience eye-opening, especially the differences 
between standards of medical infrastructure in America and other countries and 
huge cultural differences (like livestock co-existing with everyday life). Made 
interviewee want to return as instructor. Made interviewee feel guilty on return to 
America to enjoy things that had seemed to be basics but now seemed luxurious. 
Page 3 of 9 
 
The experience also prompted interviewee to take two mission trips to Haiti: “it 
just keeps things in perspective of how blessed you are here in America.” Went 
through church to help rebuild community after earthquake and hurricanes since 
2010; work with same area, community, church and people, building relationships 
on a long term. “And that’s also been my core with nursing: building 
relationships, getting that rapport with people, and having that sense of trust. And 
the patient will trust the nurse right off the bat, because we try to relate. And in 
nursing school, we talked about the mind, body, and spirit, and how you have to 
look at the whole person, and not just diagnose and treat … You’ve got to look at 
everything. So, you know, it all encompasses how you care for people when you 
just look at them from every different angle.” 
0.14.39 
Graduated in 2010, with bachelor’s. But first job was working in a nursing home, 
got CNA there in 2000. So, had worked as a nursing assistant for 6-7 years before 
starting nursing program, doing home care in a nursing home. Got into hospital in 
2005 and worked there through time in school, and afterwards when hired as 
nurse. “That really helped me as I was going through school. I tried to learn 
everything I could in the hospital. Like telemetry, when I was in nursing school, I 
found easier, because I had learned it in the hospital.” 
0.15.50 
A typical day as a CNA in the nursing home: had the same population of people 
(unlike the constant turnover in a hospital). Amazed by how “up close and 
personal” you get it. For example, you have to get right beside people who are 
incontinent and change their bedpans or help stroke patients to stand up using a 
gait belt to guide them. Found it shocking to touch strangers and “get that close 
and personal.” Another example: a patient with Alzheimer’s, who would run 
through hallways with pants around her ankles, screaming for help and thinking 
she was being pursued by someone with an ax. “You had to find different ways to 
communicate with the person. Because otherwise she would be so standoffish or 
think you were going to hurt her—or kill her with an ax!” Found it shocking and 
sad that people who had been part of community and now had to be helped to eat, 
and the disparity between patients who had visitors and those who did not. 
Cleaning up a body after a death before the coroner came in. “One of the nurses 
who were there would say, ‘Everyone has a different way of dealing with death. 
Some people would open a window to let the spirit leave the room. Others would 
say a prayer.’ So, I took that to heart and found that, because that was hard to deal 
with—especially when you had just been talking to them the other day and they 
had been just fine.” Developed a tradition of praying with someone just before 
they passed or with the family afterwards—but without being intrusive. 
0.19.47 
From 2010, worked at Mercy Medical Center in Oshkosh. Worked in the ‘float 
pool,’ so ‘floated’ to all floors—cardiac, surgical, mental health, rehab. Was also 
what had done as a nursing assistant—liked the variety. Each floor had its own 
‘quirks,’ but because had worked as CNA, knew these, and so was a matter of 
getting used to the new role. Transition to leading the assistants was an interesting 
new aspect. “It was like the transition in nursing school: ‘Oh, in a couple months, 
you’re going to be telling me what to do. And I was like, ‘I’m not going to tell 
you what to do; I know where you’re coming from.’ And people would also 
respect me more, because I was their colleague and now, I’m in this role. But it 
Page 4 of 9 
 
was hard to see how it was from the nursing standpoint, and then the nursing 
assistant standpoint. It was hard to make that adjustment in some ways. I would 
now see why the nurses would sit at the computer longer versus running around 
taking care of the patients. And then also how much the nurses rely on those 
nurses assistants too to be their eyes and ears, because they are doing more 
paperwork and more responsibility.” Found it hard not to be “always there by the 
person” in this new role. 
0.21.45 
Comparing nursing home to hospital: nursing home, the nurses are the boss, and 
the CNAs do more of the ‘grunt work’. In the hospital setting, everybody worked 
together: the nurses worked with the CNAs. But there was that sense of the nurses 
having more responsibility and more of a rapport with the doctors. Nursing 
assistants would have more of a ‘touch and go’ with the occupational therapists, 
because they were the hands-on people and that’s what the therapists do. All 
‘flowed’ well. Different roles but did all “commingle” together. Communication 
could be a challenged: could get “mixed” at times. Computer systems both helped 
and hindered, especially if people didn’t go back and look at notes. Still relied on 
verbal reports at beginning of shift, but some miscommunication. 
0.23.20 
The verbal reports: you can “be yourself” in the report. You can say: “Mr. Jones 
is a pain,” but that couldn’t go in the chart. Also used to justify some actions, and 
face-to-face colleagues could say ‘I see why you did that.’ And that could be 
validating. Was also a problem-solving exercise, sharing ideas with other nurses. 
Face-to-face element was essential to this. Nice to have this, rather than just 
charting, which could be ‘cut and dried’ or lacking “that bit of insight you might 
need and that you’d get when you’re talking to someone.” Also, a place of 
“twisted humor”: that’s a release valve, allowing nurses to joke and release 
agitation or animosity that might have built up—also a way of receiving 
validation of experience during labor. “Humor is good medicine—I really think 
so.” 
0.25.22 
Felt there were differences between floors: for example, the cardiology unit felt 
more serious, because there were more, and more serious, things that could go 
wrong and even risk death. Similarly, for the surgical floor, because of the 
possibility of post-surgical complications. But on that floor, people were 
healthier, even if older, if they’d been in for routine surgeries. And there was an 
element of routine on that floor, because there was a routine of rehabilitating 
patients after surgeries to be followed. On the rehab floor, similarly, there was a 
strict rehab program to help them recover.  
0.27.23 
Psych, on the other hand, was a “whole different animal.” “You’re not dealing 
with anything medical, per se; it’s all psychological.” Patients would be cleared as 
“medically stable.” And psych nurses would deal with the psych, not the medical, 
except in detox cases. And even in detox cases, if their charts are too far off, they 
have to go back to another floor. The people on that floor would usually take care 
of themselves—people could walk out of their room, go to a day room, and watch 
TV, say. That was very different from other floors, where patients were room-
based. 
0.28.28 
The day-to-day experiences of work on the psych ward were very different from 
other floors. You would pass the meds—whatever the doctor had ordered. Each 
Page 5 of 9 
 
person would be talked with individually, to assess their mental state, and see if 
they’re ‘with it’—i.e., if they’re alert, oriented, know what the date is. Some 
could not be at this level—e.g., they might think they’re grocery shopping, or not 
recognize the medication as medication and think it was poison. So, there was a 
large element of building trust with patients, to be able to come at them from a 
different angle. There was a constant awareness of the unpredictability of the 
patients, and how quickly their condition could change. So, you’d have to be 
aware of your resources—how to call a ‘code green’ and call for help from 
another floor. In some cases, you’d have to know how to follow medication and 
restraining procedures to avoid someone hurting themselves or hurting you. “But 
mostly it’s providing the emotional support. And sometimes it can get really 
draining—especially if you see the same person coming back again, and maybe 
they’re an alcoholic, and they had been all set to go to a new program, but they 
relapse instead, and then you start back over. So sometimes you could develop 
this cynical, hardened kind of—you wouldn’t let the person know that. But you 
might wonder what more you could do for them, if they couldn’t help 
themselves.” Work could be frustrating in that respect.  
0.30.40 
“The emotional support thing, that was where I felt I grew, and I just found that 
that was my niche, because I like talking to people and I like helping them work 
through issues. And you’d have someone who was maybe on the brink of jumping 
off a bridge and you could give them hope and let them better themselves and 
deal with whatever crisis they were going through.” With some people—the 
“mentally sick,” people with organic conditions involving hallucinations, say—
you could see huge changes very quickly after medication. And interviewee found 
fascinating how quickly medication could take effect and why. And found it 
rewarding to help people through those kinds of crisis episodes. 
0.32.01 
Important to think of each person as individuals, in order to do the work (e.g., 
giving medications). Have to be carefully aware of each person. For example, 
with a standoffish person, might adopt a relaxed attitude, prompting them to talk a 
little and be laid back, so they know they can trust; produces very different results 
from a “forceful hand” approach. But this attitude varied from nurse to nurse. 
“You need to come alongside them and say, ‘You know, I’ve had rough days too.’ 
And I’ve found the more I disclose things and talk, the more they’ll talk.” Being 
on the same level as the patient very important. A fine line to walk between 
entertaining stories and building trust but not validating. Could also be an 
important assessment and diagnostic tool, to ask the patient more questions and 
watch them talk and observe their overall mannerisms. That’s revealing. With 
experience, you see a lot more of that. 
0.34.09 
At this job was where interviewee first discovered vocation for psych work. But 
even in first nursing home job, realized she liked talking to people. One patient 
had severe OCD, but interviewee discovered that unlike others, she could get 
patient to talk and cooperate. “I would, for example, do her laundry the way she 
wanted it. I washed the floor the way she wanted it. And I thought, ‘This is really 
different, and I don’t know if I’m doing this right,’ because I didn’t have much 
knowledge then. But then I worked on the psych floor and that’s where I got my 
taste of psych, and just stayed, and I love it.” 
Page 6 of 9 
 
0.35.06 
Worked at the hospital until 2014, and worked in Peds, but found that nursing 
work with pediatrics was difficult. There was a social aspect to that role that was 
difficult, since some family situations were very difficult. 
0.36.10 
Next position was on the psychiatric floor at Neenah. Worked for two years on 
mental health floor there. Unlike the Mercy position, was “strictly psych.” There 
was a bigger group of patients, and more doctors. “We had buttons that would 
wear, and if there was an emergency would press the button and set off the bells 
for the whole hospital and people would come running.” Really enjoyed that role. 
Took a position also in a clinic, and the more regular routine was nicer. A new 
element of that experience was seeing people on the out-patient perspective. In 
that role, would do groups, and see how people were improving on their own: 
very different from working in-patient, where the patient is centered to that unit.  
0.37.50 
The workplace hierarchy at the larger hospital was very different. A manager does 
paperwork and statistics, keeping the unit afloat. A supervisor would work more 
hands-on with the staff for scheduling and so on. A charge nurse would also work 
on the floor but was the go-to person to take admission, distribute who gets who, 
and so on. And then the nurses would each have their own patient loads, usually 
5-6 patients. And then distributing it would be the CNAs. And then an 
administrative assistant would answer phones and direct calls. A discharge 
planner would help with patients and help with counselling and appointments for 
when patients got out. An insurance person would take care of making sure 
insurance when through. There was a morning report when doctors and nurses 
came in, and the ‘treatment team’ would sit and talk about each individual and 
how their care would proceed. Another interesting aspect of the workplace was 
‘family meetings,’ where the family, doctor and discharge planner would talk 
together too. That collaboration “was so much nicer.” Part of that was it being a 
bigger hospital. “It ran a lot smoother, but they had a lot more resources too.” Not 
just a psych hospital—it was a Trauma II, about half the specialties of a Trauma I 
hospital. 
0.41.13 
Emergency buttons would be used “more than you’d think”. There was special 
training for management of aggressive behavior—e.g., making sure that you’re 
never cornered in a room. But there were times when patients might, say, need 
help to a bathroom, and then you’d be alone in a bathroom and someone might 
start harming themselves. “I had one guy who started banging their head on the 
wall, and actually put his head through the wall.” Since you couldn’t leave a 
patient alone, the buttons were very useful in a situation like that—even easier 
than trying to dial a phone. The button also had a GPS, so it could tell you where 
you were. So, the charge nurse could check at the station, and see where nurses 
were located if someone hadn’t check in. Very helpful with unpredictable 
patients. 
0.43.30 
The clinic where interviewee worked was “partial hospitalization” and focused on 
group therapies. Social workers led groups, and the two nurses worked with the 
doctors and psychiatrists for med management. So, nurses would make sure that 
the patient’s med regimen was up to date and recommend changes to regimen if 
patient was observed to struggle in groups. One meeting a day was held to discuss 
nursing-related subjects, like how depression works in the brain. A social worker 
Page 7 of 9 
 
would ask how to deal with depression or cope with it; these meetings would 
discuss how it works in the body. But in general nurses were more in the 
background. Very different from in-patient work where nurses were the lead; here 
social workers and therapists were the lead. Each kind of work different and 
refreshing to do a different kind of work. In some ways reminiscent of the trip to 
India—almost a shock, it was such a different atmosphere—another learning 
experience. 
0.45.37 
Decided to become a nurse practitioner because of same drive that drew 
interviewee to nursing school—wanting to succeed and give family a better life 
and help people beyond what had been doing. “Not that my job right now isn’t 
important, but I wanted to step it up and do something challenging.” Interviewee 
two years into program, on a part-time basis, doing one class—really the only 
scheduling option because of family commitments, and very helpful to be able to 
do it online because of having a job and family.  
0.47.01 
Worked at Department of Corrections for a year. The ‘prison route’ was 
interesting, “but you couldn’t be the nurse that you wanted to be, because a nurse 
that’s caring could be preyed upon by the inmate population. So, you had to have 
a harder shell. And working in mental health, you had to have a harder shell, 
because you’ve been called every name in the book, and you have people trying 
to manipulate you. But I found that with the prison, I liked making an impact in 
people’s lives, but I couldn’t be that caring nurse I wanted to be either, because it 
was frowned upon.” Also work as a crisis worker for the county for Human 
Services. Involves talking to people who are suicidal and assessing whether 
people need to go in-patient, and talking with families to develop a safety plan, so 
that someone can go home in a safe way. Also involves working with law 
enforcement, because no one can be put in involuntarily without a crisis worker 
and a law enforcement officer in agreement. Rather than one making a decision 
too quickly or without enough information, both now groups collaborate. Largely 
an in-person role, but after-hours role also answering the phone—not working 
during the day, which is more of a court-based role. A situation might start with a 
call from a police officer requesting that you meet to help talk to and evaluate the 
person. Could go anywhere in Winnebago County or a hospital, say, in Appleton, 
if the person’s from Winnebago County. There’s also a crisis center where the 
calls come in, and where there are eight beds in the county’s crisis facility. That 
role is med management, passing meds, and monitoring a patient’s mental state. 
And there’s some group activity there. Focused on patients who are too sick to go 
home but not sick enough to go to the hospital. Set up like a home, but where 
nurses can keep an eye on patients. There’s also a different facility for longer-
term patients. 
0.51.47 
What happens after a consult at a particular hospital depends on the case. For 
example, a patient couldn’t be admitted if the hospital doesn’t have a psych unit. 
In that case, a police officer might take them to a hospital with a psych unit. After 
the consult, you draw up a plan based on where beds are available. In psych, the 
doctor would assess the person over the phone, but also the whole unit. For 
example, if you have one very ill person but also five others, that might not work 
Page 8 of 9 
 
very well. So, you have to judge the situation as a whole, and whether there’s 
enough staff to manage the acuity. 
0.53.04 
If the patient is violent, there’s a protocol that you have to exhaust your resources 
before going to Winnebago Mental Health. That’s where the more aggressive 
patients would go, if other hospitals would not take them. “So, there’s all these 
quirks that you learn with psych. I’ve found that doctors can refuse to take them, 
or they’ll say, ‘We’ve got to transfer them.’ But with psych, doctors can just say 
‘No’ and refuse to take them.” 
0.54.05 
Feels that not enough resources in the county to deal with psych patients. “Mental 
health is growing in the sense that people are becoming more enlightened. 
Schools are having more groups—allowing the kids to learn more about it. But 
when it comes down to it, the resources are really scarce. We’re building, and 
everyone’s trying … And there’s still this stigma out there too. People don’t want 
to talk about their feelings, because they don’t want to be weak. Or if they do talk 
about them, they’re going to get made fun of. Or ‘they’re just crazy, so leave them 
alone.’ There’s still this kind of terminology out there too.” 
0.55.08 
Doesn’t really feel that there’s a stigma attached to mental health workers. “I hear 
a lot from people saying ‘I could never do your job. I just wouldn’t be able to 
handle it.’ But I’ve found as I’ve worked in all the different areas of nursing, 
you’re dealing with mental health every single day with every single patient. And 
you’ll have those ones that are psychotic, but physically something’s going on, 
like an infection. So, to be afraid of that, to think you can’t deal with it—every 
nurse does do it. It’s just that this is strictly focused on it. And I think that’s where 
people get a little skittish, because they’re afraid of getting hurt because the 
person is so unpredictable.” “Usually mental health workers are almost idolized. 
I’ve had so many police officers say, ‘Well, you’re the professional. You take it 
from here and talk to them.’”  
0.56.47 
Relations with law enforcement have changed over time. Tend to work with same 
officers, because they’re better at working with mental health situations or are 
used to it. These officers have also often had training to deal with critical mental 
health issues. 
0.57.26 
See many of the same patients—some of them want validation that it’s going to 
be okay. “We have one gentleman who’ll call the crisis hotline all the time, and 
just say ‘You know, I’m just dealing with a lot today.’ They just need that.” Some 
interventions with repeat patients, you have to help patients work out for 
themselves how to follow plans that have already been made. For alcohol and 
drug users—especially heroin use in the area—addiction can overtake someone, 
even if the person wants to stop. “I always look at it, like it’s hard to change … 
It’s hard to change your lifestyle.” Tends to look at it as would with any hard-to-
make lifestyle change, especially when faced with stigma that surrounds drug use 
if framed as a ‘choice’ or attitude that user can ‘just choose to stop it’: it’s “easier 
said than done.” 
0.59.12 
Nurse practitioner role will see addiction-related cases, mixed together with 
others. These cases are mental focused too: “It’s something that just grips the 
brain.” 
Page 9 of 9 
 
0.59.56 
“Nursing is a field of many hats. And so, I think every single person would be 
able to find something that they could do in nursing, because it touches everything 
everywhere. The computer systems out there are becoming more user-friendly. 
But there are more regulations, so it does become stressful for a nurse with all the 
charting that needs to be done and the legal aspects. And you have a lot more 
people that like to sue nowadays. So, you have to be careful with what you say 
and how you chart it. And that stress adds up to. Previous jobs I used to work 
[outside of nursing] I think how simple that was compared to nursing now, 
because there’s so many legal things you need to watch out for. And it just goes 
beyond the simple trying to save someone’s life. It’s like keeping yourself safe so 
you don’t end up in prison … But for the most part, it’s like everything—if you 
love what you do, you don’t work a day in your life. So, you’ve just got to find 
the right niche.”