Back of House: Kitchen Workers in Central Ohio
Archie Green Fellows Project, 2017 
Occupational Folklife Project || American Folklife Center 
Interviewee: Molly Shea [Worker-Owner & Manager, Pattycake Bakery] 
Interviewer: Jess Lamar Reece Holler 
Date of Interview: June 4th, 2018 
Location: Front-of-House Area, Pattycake Bakery, During Closing 
SOUND QUALITY NOTE: The interview takes place at Pattycake Bakery during closing; we waited out 
the kitchen music, so the interview is relatively quiet in that regard; but we were set up close to Pattycake’s main 
customer-facing refrigerator and drink cooler, so there is a persistent buzzing of the unit during the interview. 
Fellow Pattycake bakers close up the shop and leave during the early moments of the interview.
Interview Index 
00:00:00 -- Introductory Slate // Interview Lede 
00:01:00 -- Early Life & Childhood: Growing Up in Morrow County 
●
Growing up in an old farmhouse in Morrow County, close to Marengo; major “city” was 
Delaware; spent alot of time in childhood being outside and playing with siblings 
●
Dad worked at an oﬃce supply store; and mom worked with special needs students in pre-
school and elementary school settings; parents split up in middle/high-school, but family 
stayed close 
●
Attended Buckeye Valley schools; involved in alot of sports (soccer, martial arts); involved in 
making art, photography; liked to be outside, but didn’t grow up in a family that did 
“outdoor stuﬀ”; discussion of the fun and competitive aspects of playing spotts (00:05:30)
00:05:40 -- College & New Directions: Ohio University in Athens, Ohio & Environmental 
Activism 
●
Attended Ohio University because it was a mid-sized state school, “but mostly I went there 
because I was like, this place is beautiful; I’m gonna go here.”
●
Molly discusses how the ﬁrst few years of college “drastically changed” who she became; and 
shared how making new friends with fellow “weirdos”; taking an environmental geography 
course on climate change, and watching her nephew grew up radically changed her path 
towards environmental activism
●
00:08:36 -- Working at the Oﬃce of Sustainability at Ohio University as her work-study 
project; being inﬂuenced by her mentor, Sonja Marcus; working with Students for 
Democratic Society (SDS) as it was re-forming -- “I think most people would consider us 
from very far left, working on everything from free-speech zones … [to] doing other stuﬀ, 
like we would run for student senate … did alot of coal organizing, looking particularly at the 
coal plants on campuses … and particularly got more and more involved in mountain-top 
removal activism …”; and part-time work with the Community Food Initiative (CFI) doing 
community gardens and food sovereignty work. Molly’s ﬁrst project with CFI was working 
on a seed saver catalogue in Athens County; she notes that this project also really shaped the 
way she thinks of food.
●
Inﬂuence of being in Athens County; Molly discusses importance of sense-of-place and pride 
in being in a rural place; “I’m from a rural place, where I was always embarrassed … and 
seeing people who were like, This is the life, was always very exciting and interesting to me.” 
Also shaped by the poverty and disparity in Athens County and in the wider foothills; and 
resilience in Appalachian Ohio.
●
00:13:30 -- Changes in relationship to food out of her activism; narrative around becoming a 
vegetarian in elementary school. Discussion of living in the dorm for two years and not being 
allowed to go oﬀ the meal plan at OU; and moving oﬀ-campus. More discussion of Molly’s 
earlier family vegetarian eating habits. Learning about seasonal food (00:16:00) and 
participating in pot-lucks; “[Food] just became a core part of how my day and my week is 
shaped.” Discussion of baking and food for others as a way to make friends and build 
solidarity in activism work.
●
00:18:00 -- Molly discusses the role baking has played in her life; had considered working at 
Crum’s, a worker-owned bakery in Athens. [A co-worker delivers Molly some vegan dumplings 
outside the window at Pattycake.]
00:19:00 -- Post-College: Nomadic Activisms & Movement Work Throughout 
Appalachia 
●
Molly discusses work she’d been involved in towards the end of college: hosting the Beehive 
Collective, and doing work around Mountaintop Removal (MTR) Coal work
●
Applied to work with Beehive Collective; and had planned to move to West Virginia for a 
year working with Coal River Mountain Watch in anti-MTR coal work; tabled with the 
Beehive Collective at the U.S. Social Forum, for the release of their new poster on MTR-
work
●
Ended up working with Beehive Collective for two years, and being a part of a work party in 
Maine, getting ready for a massive party called the Black Fly Ball; and going on tour with the 
Beehive Collective for 2-3 months; and moved to West Virginia for the winter and spring
●
00:22:20 -- All this movement work was unpaid; both organizations provided food and 
housing to support this sort of work; Molly also was able to save some money, and had a very 
old car
●
Discussion of cooking for movement work; keeping a vegan kitchen to prepare for the 
festival, which was organized to celebrate the restoration of a historic grange hall; cooking 
for activists and gatherings of various sizes and scales (00:25:00); work with Seeds of Peace 
Collective, an organization that “cooks for resistance”; discussion of staple dishes in 
movement kitchens (00:28:00) -- curries, soups, tacos, “alot of bean-based dishes”
●
00:30:00 -- Discussion of funding/fundraising of these grassroots and non-proﬁt eﬀorts and 
mobilizations, like the March on Blair Mountain
00:32:00 -- Transitioning Back to Ohio: Fracking in Ohio, & Racial Justice Work; & 
Baking 
●
Molly discusses feeling called to come back to Ohio, where hydraulic fracturing (fracking) 
was happening in Morrow County, Knox County and other areas close to where she grew up; 
moved back here with the intention of getting a job, and then working as an activist and 
change-maker where she was from
●
00:34:00 -- Molly describes having trouble ﬁnding a ground in anti-fracking work in Ohio; 
felt like the movement was dispersed, and that it was diﬃcult to plug in and ﬁnd ways to 
build momentum
●
00:35:00 -- move to Columbus, and becoming aware of extreme racial disparities in 
Columbus and police violence against people of color; Molly also describes getting involved 
in sexual assault work, while also “working jobs, paying bills, and living in houses”
●
Initially moved in with her mom, and worked with her brother-and-law for his landscaping 
crew; before that, she had been working in a day center for adults with special needs
●
00:38:11 -- Moved back to Columbus; and got her ﬁrst job baking bread; meanwhile, her 
movement work continued. Molly describes a particular facilitation training with Training 
for Change in Philadelphia, designed for white people about racism (White People 
Confronting Racism)
●
00:40:36 -- Moving into the Midden, an activist co-operative house in Columbus; “if I’m not 
in a community, I can’t change a community”; era of the Occupy movement; larger national 
attention, thanks to smartphones, on racial disparities; formation of new movements in 
Columbus -- Ohio Student Association, People’s Justice Project, Showing Up for Racial 
Justice [SURJ]
●
00:43:16 -- Bakery work alongside activism work; Molly describes her ﬁrst bakery job, at an 
upstart bakery that baked after-hours at a grocery store in college, and baked all night until 
sometimes as early as 6am; and then had to be at a farmers’ market the next day. Molly 
discusses her interest in the job; felt like she had reached a plateau with her bread skills, and 
had heard this baker had been making some of the best breads in Columbus, and called and 
asked if work was available; Molly wanted to learn sourdough breads. Discussion of the joys 
of getting to bake bread as a job.
00:46:00 -- Transition to Pattycake Bakery // the Worker-Owned Model // Pattycake 
Culture 
●
Molly’s transition to Pattycake was prompted by feeling that workers at the other bakery 
weren’t treated equitably; she was friends with worker-owners at Pattycake Bakery, and felt 
that the worker-owner model matched her worldview; Molly likes baking, but the economic 
model was more appealing -- “it really is not about the products; though how we make our 
product and how we get to that point is what’s important to me. But it was mostly about the 
business model, and the culture around it.”
●
00:48:00 -- Culture of Pattycake Bakery as a worker-owned cooperative; Molly describes 
that Pattycake wasn’t always a worker-owned co-op (about twelve years old, but has been a 
co-op for about ﬁve years); values of Pattycake: choice in work and respect for workers; “still 
giving people choice and autonomy”; and structuring the workplace from a place of care -- 
culture in the kitchen “is like a social experiment,” since most people spend all day baking 
and talking together; making things work when people need to leave or are having a rough 
day
●
00:52:00 -- Molly discusses Pattycake’s sourcing and baking ethics: all dyes are plant-based, 
all-natural and largely organic ingredients; “we just don’t use any chemicals in anything we 
make … and that’s very diﬀerent than most bakeries; … we’re a sweets bakery … but we do 
aim to use minimally-processed stuﬀ …” with priority for seasonal, locally- and organically-
grown ingredients
●
00:54:00 -- Growing a culture of care; structures and workplace design elements that help 
maintain that culture; Molly discusses challenges of the small kitchen space that hasn’t been 
able to expand as the business has grown -- develops challenges for equity, when the kitchen 
actually needs to be more streamlined: discussion of equity concerns between early shift and 
night shift (00:56:30); discussion of management styles and managers working to do the 
grunt work (“shit jobs” along with regular hourly employees; maintaining a culture of 
gratitude for people’s work
01:00:00 -- Positions, Roles/Duties & Cultures in the Pattycake Kitchen; Bakery 
Schedules/Shifts 
●
01:00:36 -- “There are very few people who are not bakers”; only one person doesn’t bake, 
and she does all the wholesale orders, deliveries, and packaging; head icer and designer; 
others are icers; wedding coordinators; and managers -- who bake also, but “do a little more 
problem solving”; but, as Molly shares, “everyone has to problem-solve all the time”
●
01:05:00 -- General bakers bake everything; discussion of the training process; Molly shares 
how it takes about a year for everyone to know how to do everything; new bakers start out 
doing, literally, everything; “it’s deﬁnitely really overwhelming … deﬁnitely very high chaos in 
here. You get used to it, and it deﬁnitely starts making sense, but at the beginning, you just 
see people being like … What am I doing?! Because: there’s a lot.” Molly discusses how all 
bakers, “the person who has the cleanest hands … is the person who works front-of-the-
house the moment the customer walks in” (no dedicated front-of-house staﬀ). 
●
01:08:00 -- Molly describes the menu and oﬀerings at Pattycake: 11 cookies, 5 muﬃns, 4 
cupcakes, seasonal/odds-and-end items (whoopie pies, gluten-free items), daily cakes-by-the-
slice, “cooler cakes” (6-inch cakes, always available for last-minute), raw cheesecake; and then 
a dedicated order-ahead cake menu with maybe 30 ﬂavors; and lots of diﬀerent sizes
●
01:10:00 -- Discussion of special order cakes and cultures of preparing cakes; “cakes are a 
huge part of what we do”; and end up being a big part of their business ﬁnancially, as well; 
wholesale -vs.- in-house orders for smaller baked goods
●
01:12:00 -- Structure of the day // shifts and schedule; “we don’t do baker’s hours.”
●
01:14:00 -- Molly discusses her decision to work 10-12 hour shifts, three days a week, in order 
to be able to spend the other days of her week on her own and activist pursuits.
●
00:17:00 -- Molly discusses that most new hires can/should expect to work the later shifts; 
conversation about hiring in certain positions (like for the currently-vacant icing position) -
vs.- cross-training from within
01:18:50 -- Molly’s Life/Activism in Columbus; Sticking Around at Pattycake & 
Becoming an Owner 
●
Molly shares more about approaching Pattycake for a job; condensing her time to work 32-
hours per week in three days, and has more time to make food, have a garden, go to 
meetings, etc.; “it blows my mind, when people work ﬁve days a week … I get home from 
work, and I’m exhausted, whether I’ve worked eight hours or eleven hours, I’m exhausted. So 
I might as well work eleven hours three times than eight hours ﬁve times.”
●
Discussion of Pattycake’s valuing of employee time oﬀ and giving people time oﬀ when they 
need it; praise of Pattycake founder Jenny, who does the schedule and tries very hard to help 
people get time oﬀ when they need it. Discussion of how workers are often willing to take 
weird shifts to help other co-workers do things they need to do.
●
01:21:00 -- Molly discusses the rarity of having both stability in her job and freedom in her 
life; and her relationship, with a partner who is likely going to be working a 9-5 schedule -- “I 
think that’s going to be a challenge: being very connected to someone who is working a 
‘normal’ work job; while I’m doing this super-weird thing over here … but, we’re going to 
make it work … I meant that about the bakery; but that’s also true about my relationship!” 
●
01:23:00 -- Becoming a worker-owner: discussion of eligibility, beneﬁts and changes in worker 
relationship; Molly shares Pattycake’s worker-owner business model: someone has to work in 
the bakery for a year, and without a probation period; “we intentionally have chosen to make 
our buy-in amount and process something that folks who work here, with our wages, can 
do”; Pattycake provides for it to happen over a period of ﬁve years, and the proﬁts that are 
earned from buying in can be used to pay back the buy-in; “... you can use the funds you’re 
receiving as an owner” to pay oﬀ the equity. Becoming a worker-owner makes an employee a 
board member, with full voting power; and equal compensation based on hours worked; and 
proﬁts aren’t based on seniority. And alot of the proﬁt is saved for the business.
●
01:26:30 -- Trying to dismantle the hierarchy in the worker-owner model; even though 
informal social hierarchies are going to exist: people who have been around longer are 
committed and may know more, etc.; trying to be conscious about power structures -- 
“there’s power in longevity, in any job; and this one, too”
●
01:27:40 -- Molly’s decision to join as a worker-owner; diﬃculty of maintaining equity in a 
food system where people don’t want to pay the food costs required to provide workers with 
a living wage. Discussion of Pattycake not being able to provide health insurance; and 
discussion of working hard to ensure that the proﬁt-sharing amongst worker-owners doesn’t 
imperil wages for employees who aren’t owners, etc. Discussion of the collaborative 
leadership structure; “I don’t like bosses”; Molly’s anti-capitalist perspective and excitement 
about building alternative institutions, “because we are going nowhere good fast; and if we 
don’t have anything else to catch us, it’s just going to crash and burn.”
●
01:30:00 -- Staying in Columbus; deciding to be in Columbus and not closer to family, in 
Morrow County; “Columbus became the obvious choice; and I’ve learned to really love this 
city and value this city … and hope it really slows down, how quickly it’s changing.”
●
“I hope that one day I get to bake bread here; but I don’t intend to go bake bread 
somewhere else if I can’t …”
●
01:32:00 -- Peer institutions // other worker-owned cooperatives; recognized by the Ohio 
Employee Ownership Institute (out of Kent, Ohio), which helps incubate worker-owned co-
ops; they helped with the transition, and helping to develop the bylaws; joined the U.S. 
Federation of Worker-Owned Co-Ops (none others, that they know of, in Ohio; but lots 
along the coast) -- able to pool together and provide dental insurance to employees at 
Pattycake through them; Haven Herbs worker-owned herbalist co-op in Columbus
01:37:00 -- Maintaining a Kitchen Culture at Pattycake 
●
01:37:00 -- On hiring decisions and who gets to come work in the kitchen; trying to work to 
not have an exclusively white staﬀ, and paying mind to making sure to interview a diverse 
group of people racially, and across gender identities, sexual orientations, and places of 
origin; “we really want this to be a place that is available and accessible to everyone, 
especially as a worker-owned model … we had this epiphany of, ‘Oh, all our owners are white. 
Huh. That is a problem. That is not OK. We can’t have this model, and have it be for the 
people who are already winning. We need it to be for everyone.’ So, that’s been a huge shift, 
in the last couple of years.” Discussion of intentional practices to try to maintain a diverse 
employee staﬀ; diverse backgrounds “all collide” in the bakery, in weird and interesting ways. 
●
01:40:00 -- Maintaining a justice-oriented and respectful kitchen culture; respect for people’s 
pronouns, for example, is critical; “We also have no room for racist, or homophobic or 
ableist behavior, that isn’t willing to be engaged with. We all have that baggage, but we need 
to be able to change it when it comes up and when we see it.” 
●
01:42:00 -- Discussion of workplace culture and political commitments; “We’re real gay over 
here; and it’s ﬁne!”; being a queer-aﬃrming workplace as a core part of Pattycake’s culture; 
Pride shirts as a fundraiser for the Trevor Program (a hotline for LGBT youth); people who 
aren’t a good ﬁt are more likely to leave, “normal … is ﬁne; as long as you can be a good 
holistic person, who’s willing to work with us and all of our co-workers.” 
●
01:44:00 -- Consideration of implicit biases and problematic/unjust statements in the 
workplace; Molly speaks on her feeling of responsibility, as a white, cis, able-bodied woman, 
to speak up about not-cool things that get said, when she hears them; “Everyone who works 
here is nice and genuine and kind … but we’ve also all grown up under white supremacy, and 
we’ve also all grown up under heteronormativity … and that’s stuﬀ still really ingrained in us. 
So, just creating a culture where, no one’s perfect … and not putting that responsibility on 
someone who is uncomfortable because it’s about them. With a more racially diverse staﬀ, I 
don’t want someone who is not white to have to tell their white co-worker that the thing 
they said was racist. I’m gonna be the one to say, ‘We need to talk about how that was racist.’ 
Or someone can also say that to me. But, it’s not super formal … because of the culture, I’ve 
sometimes heard co-workers say something … and then they apologize.” 
●
01:47:00 -- Discussion of gender pronouns and the diﬃculty some co-workers have had, and 
creating a culture of enforcing respect in the kitchen // Pattycake’s enduring culture of 
respect; “it gets alot more complicated when it’s a customer … like: how do you ﬁre your 
customers, who are being racist? Mostly we deal with that by giving folks the autonomy to 
stand in their own dignity. And then … we get to step in and say what needs to be said.” 
Discussing micro-aggressions to workers, from customers; “it’s really hard to suss out, it’s 
really hard to pinpoint, and it’s really hard to say something about; because there are a 
million other reasons that interaction could have gone that way …” 
●
01:49:00 -- Socialization after work; informal staﬀ activities -- clothing swaps or game nights 
or movie nights at staﬀ members’ houses; and more formal activities -- like a staﬀ retreat, at 
least once a year, picnics, etc.
01:52:00 -- Aesthetics, Excellence, Sourcing and What Feels Good in Pattycake Bakery 
Work 
●
Molly discusses bakery work after ﬁve years at Pattycake; the excitement of holiday baking 
work (which quickly turns into “I hate pies”); importance of stopping and connecting to the 
work she is doing, -vs.- getting caught in the rush of trying to get it done
●
Other unique issues to being a small-scale ethical bakery: current chocolate chip supplier 
issue; diﬃculty in ﬁnding a vegan, all-natural supplier for larger-batch chocolate chips; “It’s 
this moment of … wow: we are doing something that other people are just not doing. But it 
can also make it incredibly diﬃcult, when things go wrong.”
●
Discussing the joy of having a customer walk in and realize everything is vegan, or that they 
can eat birthday cake for the ﬁrst time in their life because they’ve had an egg allergy; “It’s 
not just cake … cake is actually very important to us, at a cultural level … sometimes I can 
forget, when I’m scooping, like, my ten-hundredth cookie. But, most of the time: it’s really 
special.”
●
01:55:20 -- Challenges of producing gluten-free products; testing products to make sure they 
meet standards of what is considered gluten-free; “but we also work in a space where gluten 
is just in the air”; dangers of the workplace (ﬂour in the lungs) 
●
01:58:00 -- Molly discusses desire for more sugar-free or low-sugar options at the bakery; and 
increasing their food sourcing ﬂour; one campaign of Molly’s is working to switch to fair-
trade organic chocolate instead of just organic chocolate; and continuing organic sourcing 
practices during climate change, changing economic circumstances, etc., “as our prices 
skyrocket for our ingredients” 
02:00:00 -- Handling Workplace Equity & Wages as Worker-Owned Co-Op 
●
Molly discusses prioritizing giving raises and increasing wages; but healthcare, with the 
Aﬀordable Care Act crumbling, is a critical issue for Pattycake right now -- “we’re able to pay 
people enough that they can’t apply for government assistance; but not really enough that 
they can get good healthcare. I pay alot of money for terrible healthcare … I don’t want 
anyone to have to do that.” 
●
Discussion of trying to get more eﬃcient, and to give good wages; one way Pattycake works 
to equalize that is to not give very big bumps to managers (versus regular employees); 
managers aren’t salaried (as a way to try to deal with the disparity); “that works with the 
microcosm of what happens in here; but it doesn’t work for the macrocosm of living in a city 
where housing is skyrocketing, where healthcare is incredibly inaccessible , where food costs 
… how are we going to take care of each other, in this wild, scary world? And we don’t have a 
great solution for that, an easy out … just … constant problem-solving.” Pattycake is not 
currently able to pay $15/hour as a baseline wage; but is still working on this.
●
“We try … and that’s the best that we have right now. We’re going to keep trying until it gets 
good enough.” 
02:03:00 -- Changing Cultures & Economies in Columbus; Gentriﬁcation & Housing 
Costs 
●
Changing economy and development along High Street screwed up Pattycake’s plans to buy 
their building and open a restaurant; “the ﬁnancials of doing that in Clintonville just kept 
increasing, so we had to be like … OK. We had to ﬁnd a diﬀerent plan.” Molly describes 
these changes as “heartbreaking.”
●
Molly discusses the fact that many of the employees at Pattycake now work more than one 
job, and don’t go to doctor’s when they are sick, and aren’t able to get enough sleep, because 
it’s not easy to get by in Columbus; “and, as housing costs increase, you have less money to 
do what you need to do …”; Molly discusses the impact of rising costs of housing on working 
cultures and workers’ individual lives
●
Molly also shares that, as “Columbus has gotten a little more … fancy, there’s more desire for 
an organic, natural, gluten-free, vegan bakery”; so, the changing culture creates more business 
for Pattycake, but also hurts employees; “it’s just very confusing, and hard to navigate”
●
Molly discusses current gentriﬁcation in Columbus: witnessing friends being priced out of 
their neighborhood; watching housing prices skyrocket in her neighborhood, the working-
class community of North Linden, as it gets wildly gentriﬁed; “In a city that’s growing and 
gentrifying, there isn’t really an equitable way to buy a home; and if you can’t buy a home, 
you’re paying a landlord, who is deﬁnitely taking advantage of you, and all of your neighbors 
… there isn’t really a way to not participate in gentriﬁcation, in this city. Either you’re 
pushing someone out, or you’re getting pushed out, at this point.” Discussion of long-term 
impact of gentriﬁcation on the bakery; changes in bus-lines make it harder for lower-income 
or car-free customers to get to the bakery. “It’s a really big bummer; it’s just really sad to 
watch it happen, and not have a really clear sense of how to impact it … both in terms of the 
choices I make, the choices the bakery makes, and the choices the community might make, 
to change our path …”
●
00:05:30 -- Trying to make Columbus “a Columbus for all”
00:06:45 (Pt 2) -- Back-of-House: Against Open Kitchen Culture 
●
Molly discusses Pattycake’s bamboo curtain between front-of-house and back-of-house; and 
resisting keeping workers on display; “not making it a show … we’re not here to do a cooking 
show; we’re here to make some delicious baked goods that are high-quality; and you get to 
take them home”
●
Molly stands behind these “small things” that she feels ensures a respectful and digniﬁed 
work culture; “you can just do your work; and it’s ﬁne.” 
00:08:55 (Pt 2) -- Concluding Slate, Thanks & Goodbyes