1 
 
Maria Ubey Bi-Lingual Questionnaires  
 
Interview Location: Yona, Guam 
Age of Interviewee: 79 years 
Island of Birth: 
Asor Island, Ulithi Atoll 
Audio Language: 
Ulithian 
Recording afc2022011_017_sr001 
00:01 Question 1 
1.   Thinking back, what are your very earliest memories of, or about, weaving? 
A. Ulithian:  Hobe luluwal tefal ngo mada mele hochil mem’mangi hare gulayem mo irel yam 
la Kai mo gula doh deur? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
00:36 Yai la kai doh deur, ngo idipli, interest le ibe kai mala 
wulullul deur, sa chapi mo irel mala ngachel sa bulong irel 
makala halolol sa bulong irel makala gurul mo padal, le ye 
mushloh milal mele guluch ngo ye mushloh melal mele gulfei 
le sima haplali fafel. 01:01 Idipli dipli ila kai mo irel mala seley 
ngo i interest iyang le ibe gula pangal wulullul mitmetal ah deur 
le ibe chogu meka sima itadah iyang, gurubech mo samat mo 
samat le ibe hololoiyu ngali. Pangal mokawe ngo I interest 
iyang. 
 
Interviewee in English: 
When I learned how to weave, I was really interested in 
learning the whole process. Like, starting from the 
supplemental warp edge designs, making the wider stripe 
called “gur” and the thinner stipe called “pad”,  and making 
different styles of lavalava. There are lavalava styles called 
“guluch” for men and there are lavalava styles called “gulfei” 
for women. So, when I learned from my mom, I was so 
interested in learning the whole process, starting from warping 
with all the supplemental designs and then weaving with all the 
supplemental wefts. 
 
Interviewer in Ulithian: 
01:19 Iwe ngo, iwe ngo, yathla mala gel hola kai doh deur, ah 
sayor mwol? 
 
Interviewer in English: 
Was there commercial thread by the time you learned how to 
weave? 
 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
01:30 Sa yor.  Sa yor mwol yathla.  Resa kekkak mo lol kantine 
we yal fului. 
 
Interviewee in English: 
Yes.  A community store had thread for sale at that time. 
 
Interviewer in Ulithian: 
01:39 Iwe ngo irel time la mala sayor mwol le gel ho kai doh, ngo 
chil keal farul milal milfulyach? 
 
Interviewer in English: 
So, at the time when you learned to weave with commercial 
thread, were many people still making local lavalava? 
 
2 
 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
01:47 Chil loloh mil fulyach ngo hal ila yarmat resa receive mwol 
sa yor le yechow mil fulyach ngo yor le mal mwol. Sa loh 
hasla… ite… ite chapdah mo irel ah meka, yengangal fulyach 
bo ichapdah mo irel ito. 
 
Interviewee in English: 
Yes.  People still wove local lavalava, and because we had 
thread, some people wove local and some wove lavalava 
made out of thread. 
 
Interviewer in Ulithian: 
02:03 Gel ho kai mo irel ito? 
 
Interviewer in English: 
Did you learn how to weave with commercial thread? 
 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
02:05 Ngo ikai mo irel ito. Ite kai mo irel milfulyach. 
 
Interviewee in English: 
Yes, I learned how to weave with thread. 
 
Interviewer in Ulithian: 
02:08 Iwe ngo gel hogula farul mil fulyach? 
 
Interviewer in English: 
Did you also know how to make lavalava with local fibers? 
 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
02:12 Sugfed mo iyang.  Meka sima rarui ah ah mada meka 
yuch ka sima tapei irel mil fulyach ngo siya kabech chael sibe 
pedadi ngel iyang siya hadudui, yahdi mulwe be ruchupung. 
Siya pada ngal mele be white bo padal, isa kai irel yathla ngo 
mala ichapdah iyang le ito mele yechap yai kai iyang. 
 
Interviewee in English: 
I knew a little about how to make local lavalava. I knew how to 
scrape the strips to get fibers from the banana tree that we 
used for weaving. I knew how dye the fibers a darker color, 
then make the warp and mix it with white fibers. We used the 
dark color for the wider background stripes (gur) and the white 
color for the thinner stripes (pad). So, I learned how to make 
local lavalava at that time, but I did start learning from 
commercial thread first. 
 
02:42 Question 2 
2.   In your mind, who is the one person you most associate with weaving in your life and 
why? 
A. Ulithian:  Lol yam luluwal, itei semal le ye kael yam fel ngali irel yam fefaru doh deur hare 
yam deduer doh?  Bo mada fal? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
02:58 Tor semal le ifel ngali bo imel chog irel mala seley irot isa 
fefeur lufulyui. Tor mele be teidi ipol lefechig ngo isa fidir. Imel 
chog irel mala seley irot, home isa kkai makla ye ila gula, isa 
feferu lufulyei yii saloh sala yengang fedal ye labudoh, mele 
yela feru, ngang yipai home le ifefaru makla isa kkai isa gula, 
isa fefaru mo home. Guluch ngal gulfei irel yai fefeur doh irel 
yai life le yathla ichil lefechig le imoch… interest irel yai gula, 
makla ikkai mo irel seley. 
 
3 
 
Interviewee in English: 
I don’t associate weaving with anybody except my mom.  I did 
not join the other ladies when they would gather at the 
women’s house and weave lavalava. I just stayed home with 
my mom and learned how to weave. My mom would go out to 
do her work, and I stayed home and wove after I learned how 
to weave.  I wove both the men’s style and the women’s style 
of lavalava. I was so interested in learning to weave when I 
was young. 
 
 
03:41 Question 3 
3.   Why is weaving so important to you? 
A.   Ulithian: Mada mele dedeur ye kael yal palengpelal ngalug iyang? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
03:50 Ye kael yal paling pelal gnalyei yai gula le yarmat reyaya 
gow fafel, iwe ngo belela mess doh tamach hare bisich hare 
loch mwaal, iwe ngo sipedah loh Makala yar mal iyang. Iwe 
ngo bala wel doh sew le sibe hafalpech iyang, ngo sibe 
pepeloh gow iyang le wenig irel meka melal mala sibe 
hafalpech. Siya kak gow le litach siya loh drop irel ahh hasorol 
mulwe rebe winig yarmat iyang. 04:25 Ila paling lol depei, depei 
ngal gow irel meka yar fafel mo yar mwal. Si pilta meka 
hasorol ngal gow. Fafel hare mwal ngo meka sihafohoi iyang 
siya pedal loh. 
 
 
 
Interviewee in English: 
It’s very important to me because I know that it is what women 
use for clothing. We also use lavalava for funerals and other 
things.  If our dad, sister, or kids die, we lay them on a 
lavalava, and also use it to cover them. If something happens 
that requires you to apologize for an inappropriate action, you 
will give lavalava. So, lavalava is something that I really need 
to have in case any of these things happen. 
 
04:41  Question 4 
4.   How has weaving or woven skirts changed over your lifetime, or since the lifetime of 
those who taught you? 
A.   Ulithian:  Ifa sangal yal deur mo dedeur susuwel doh irel yam bubudoh yesa holadoh 
igla? Hare sa change tangi yathkawe ho k’kai mor irel sensei kala yam? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
04:56 Sa paling paling paling yal yesuwel. Ralkawe le halfamat 
hare mada color le ila chog meka yarmat retaptap. Ngo la 
raleka, le hobla compare ngal ralkawe sa sulai chog yach pass 
igli, sa memmai mommai color le sa buyui raleka le metmatal 
gow le yarmat resa feru raleka. Sa fidi ah, hobla komahoi 
chog. Ngo sa wochog rainbow kawe le sabuyui le isa luwdah 
irel wulul tang ralakawe yal chap dah mele gow lol 05:25 poch 
chol fulukala fulyach. Sa paling paling yal dil fetang meka 
guluch yar mwal mo meka gulfei. Especially yar  fafel le sa 
metmetal color ngo sa buyui le sa mommai mommai. Ila. 
4 
 
Interviewee in English: 
There have been so many changes these days. In the old 
days, we only used about 4 colors. But these days, when you 
compare the recent lavalava to those made in the past, the 
lavalava these days are like rainbows. I am surprised by how 
these new lavalava are woven. It’s so much different now than 
in the old days when weaving was started. There have been 
changes in the style of lavalava for men (guluch), and there 
have been even more changes in the style of lavalava for 
women (gulfei). The colors are so beautiful. 
 
 
05:43 Question 5  
5.    If you could talk to your great-granddaughter about weaving, what would you want to tell 
her? 
A.   Ulithian:  Hare wochog bo hobe malili ngal lol lom tarfefel irel deur, mada mele hobe 
kangalur hare hodipli hobe kangalur? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
05:55 Idipli le ibe kangalur, rebe kai, rebe kai gow bo important le 
gow le bala mess doh lol loch. Idipli le be pangar meka lol, lol 
lai ye tugla siyar ngo ibe teach iglir irel milal gow bo rebe salap 
iyang be pai le holgur le rebe feru robe gula wulul. Ila mala 
idipli le, isa lachog lapal. 
 
 
Interviewee in English: 
I would like to tell them to learn how to weave because 
lavalava is something very important. I would like to teach all 
my great-granddaughters how to weave so that they know 
how.