Civil Rights History Project 
Interview completed by the Southern Oral History Program 
under contract to the 
Smithsonian Institution’s National Museum of African American History & Culture 
and the Library of Congress, 2013 
 
 
Interviewee:  
 
Robert Brown 
Interview Date: 
 
October 1, 2013 
Location: 
High Point, North Carolina 
Interviewer: 
 
 
David Cline 
Videographer:  
 
John Bishop 
Length: 
 
 
02:10:28  
 
Robert Brown: As ready as I’m going to be. [Laughs] 
David Cline: [Laughs] Alright, alright. 
John Bishop: We’re rolling. 
David Cline: Okay, fantastic. So, I’m just going to record a little opening message just for 
the recording, and then we’ll start talking. 
Robert Brown: Okay. 
David Cline: This is David Cline from Virginia Tech and the Southern Oral History 
Program, recording today for the Civil Rights History Project of the Smithsonian’s National 
Museum of African American History and Culture and the Library of Congress. Today is the 
first of October, 2013, and we have the pleasure of being in High Point, North Carolina, today, 
with Mr. Robert Brown. Behind the camera is John Bishop of Media Generation and UCLA, and 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
2 
we also have Elaine Nichols from the museum here today, too. So, I just want to start by saying 
thank you so much for making time in your schedule for us today. 
Robert Brown: Well, thank you for being here. 
David Cline: Yeah, absolutely. And what I’d like to do, I know we have a lot of ground 
to cover. [Pause] Fantastic. So, if we could just start with your childhood, or even before your 
childhood, if you like, talking about your family and your roots here, I think, in this area, I think 
that would be a great place to start. 
Robert Brown: Okay. I was born and raised here in High Point where I live now. And my 
grandmother, who raised me, was born and raised in Anson County. That’s down in eastern 
North Carolina. And her father, his name was Joseph Kendall, Sr., was a slave in that county 
down there. And he was one of those who was used to help build the railroads in North Carolina, 
because a lot of the labor building the railroads during that period was slave labor. 
And interestingly enough, I became—a number of years ago, twenty-some years ago—
the governor appointed me, Governor Jim Martin appointed me to be the president and CEO of 
the North Carolina Railroad Company, which the state owned the majority shares in, now, and 
the state owns all the shares in now. And it was like coming full circle. 
DC: I was going to say, was that four generations, three? 
RB: It was full circle. 
DC: Yeah. 
DC: And so, that’s one of the other interesting things or interesting parts of my life that 
I’ve had to happen. But early on, my grandmother used to talk about the railroad, because she 
was a maid up at the Southern Railroad station here in High Point. And wherever we went, 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
3 
usually if the train went there, we would ride the train, because she could get a discount on the 
tickets. And so, my brother and I would go with her all over the place. 
And so, one day, she came to us and said, you know, “We’re going to catch the bus.” 
We’re going down to her home area, called Wadesboro. “But we’re going to go by Fayetteville, 
North Carolina, because there’s something that I want you all to see.” And we were just small 
boys. I mean, I was probably eight or nine years old. My brother was eleven or twelve. And she 
said, “There’s something I want you all to see.” 
And so, we got on the bus and we went to Fayetteville, North Carolina. We were going to 
change buses there, but there was a layover. And my grandmother said, “Come on! We’re going 
to walk on down here.” So, she asked, got off the bus, and we asked somebody, “Where is the 
old slave mart in Fayetteville?” And the fellow says, “Oh, you go down this street. It’s just right 
down the road there.” 
So, we walked around there. And she said, “I just wanted to bring you all here, because 
this was the last place that my father was sold here in North Carolina,” was at that slave mart in 
Fayetteville. And so, it’s the kind of thing you never really forget. 
And my grandmother was a sainted woman who believed in God and believed in helping 
everybody and wanted to do something. And she wanted her people to do something. She wanted 
me and my brother and her son, my uncle, and my mother, her daughter, to really do some 
meaningful things. 
DC: Um-hmm. What did that do for you or to you, seeing that place in Fayetteville? 
RB: It didn’t do [0:05:00] as much for me then as it did for me later. And here I am, all 
these years later, I’m seventy-some years old, and I was like eight or nine then. I was old enough 
to understand what it was and so forth, and my brother was, too. And the more I grew up and the 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
4 
more I studied—and I became steeped in history. History was my major subject; it was my major 
in college, and U.S. history, in particular. And I wanted to know more. I mean, it gave me an 
insatiable appetite to really get some base knowledge about the history of America and the 
history of slavery and the Reconstruction and all that. So, it piqued my interest as a young boy, 
and I never forgot it. Here I am, all these years later, generations later, decades later, still talking 
about that trip. And it was incredible! 
And then, we would go down to Wadesboro, and we would go down there maybe two or 
three times a year to see her sisters. They still lived on those farms and so forth. And we would 
go by, on several occasions, we would go by to see the old house where my grandmother grew 
up. It was an old clapboard place with no paint, and a big old fireplace in there, and it was 
rundown and so forth. And my grandmother would say, you know, “We grew up here and we 
raised cotton and farmed out here on the land.” And I would look at this place, and it was—it 
was incredible. 
And then, she’d say—there was an old, what they called Rosenwald School. And there 
was this old school building out there. And the school building—I was down there a month and a 
half ago, in that area, and I went by there. And that school building is still there, and they’re 
trying to renovate it a little bit now. It’s still standing, all these years later. So, it really piqued 
my interest in history and what was going on and all of that, you know. 
DC: Um-hmm. What’s your grandmother’s name? 
RB: Nellie, N-E-L-L-I-E. Nellie Marshall Brown. Her maiden name was Kendall, Nellie 
Kendall. 
JB: Excuse me a second. Would it—? 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
5 
DC: Alright, great. Thank you, appreciate it. Alright, so maybe we could talk a little bit 
about just growing up, then, here in High Point, and what that was like, and your schooling. 
RB: Yeah. Growing up was—it was—it was—it was tough. 
DC: You were born in what year, now? 
RB: I was born in 1935, February of 1935. And, you know, it was—we were poor, 
difficult circumstances. Everything was segregated. There were certain water fountains you 
couldn’t drink out of, toilets you couldn’t go to. You know, if you went places, if they had a 
toilet, if they had a toilet for blacks—most of them did not have a toilet for blacks. See, they had 
toilets, but you couldn’t use them, because they had “white toilet” for men, “white toilet” for 
women. They had big signs up there, “White,” so you knew right away. 
But, you know, a funny thing. We used to go—one of my favorite places to shop as a 
young boy, a young kid, was the Woolworth’s store, because they would have a variety of 
everything. Unlike Kress, S.H. Kress, or Kresge, or some of the others, Woolworth’s would 
always seem to have good quality stuff, and they would have a variety of stuff. So, I liked to go 
into the Woolworth’s store, and my grandmother would take me in the Woolworth’s store. 
So, in the back of the Woolworth’s store, there were the water fountains. You had “White 
Water” and you had “Colored Water.” Right over the fountain, you had “White Water” and you 
had “Colored Water.” So, I mean, I’m just a little boy. I don’t know that much about [0:10:00] 
the white water and colored water. And I would be, you know—so, one day, I’m drinking out of 
the white water, because I just thought maybe the water had a little white in it, or something. 
And so, my grandmother saw me. She was over there, looking at something, and I’m 
there, drinking water out of the white water. And she turned around and saw me drinking out of 
that white water, and she came over there and she pulled me away from it. She said, “Boy, don’t 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
6 
drink out of that white water fountain!” I said, “Mama, it ain’t nothing but water. It tastes like the 
same water as the water over there at the colored!” I said, “I just wanted to see what the white 
water was like.” 
And she said, “It’s the same water, son. It’s just that people want you to drink out of the 
one, the colored water.” And she said, “One of these days, it’ll be changed, but right now we 
have to drink out of the white water and the colored water.” So, I said, “Well, Mama, ain’t it the 
same water?” And she said, “Oh, yeah. It’s all God’s water.” And she said, “God’s going to 
change it. He’s going to fix it after a while.” She said, “I may not live to see it, but He’s going to 
fix it.” But thank God she lived to see that it was fixed! 
And thank God that she lived to see that I helped to fix it! And, amazingly, I helped to fix 
it on many sides. Because when I went into business in 1961, in early ’61, my first major client 
was the F.W. Woolworth Company, my first major client. And in 1961, there was still colored 
and white water in the South. In 1961, there were still colored and white toilets—in 1961, in 
1962, and 1963. And Woolworth became one of my major clients. 
And I think they became a major client because I went to them and told them that they 
needed to change and that there was a change coming and they needed to get with it and have 
their thing, stay in front of it, so that they could remain a viable entity in America and, indeed, in 
the world, if they wanted to do that. And they were—I found them interested in doing that, and it 
amazed me. 
But in a year and a half after I went to them, and they hired me to do assessments around 
the country and to tell them what they ought to be doing, in terms of their change and integrating 
and so forth across the country, I was the principle advisor on all of this kind of thing to their 
company. It was one of the major companies in America, and the people on their board of 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
7 
directors, from the chairman on down, were some of the major financiers in America. John J. 
McCloy, who was the high commissioner in Germany after World War II to reconstruct 
Germany, he was one of the people on their board and executive committee. Fred Kirby, who 
was chairman of the Allegheny Corporation, which was the predecessor of all these major hedge 
funds and all of that. They owned the New York Central railroad and a whole lot of other 
companies. They were the biggest people, financiers, in America, at that time. And they were the 
ones who were responsible for setting policy and everything else at Woolworth’s. 
DC: Um-hmm. 
RB: And so, when I got to know them, and they got to know what I was doing, they 
would invite me to their board retreats and to golf outings and so forth at the Westchester 
Country Club. And I would be making presentations to their board of directors on the kinds of 
things they ought to be doing and what was happening in America and where we were going and 
that we needed to be in front of it, not behind it. And they really believed what I told them. I was 
fascinated [0:15:00] just by that. 
Then, they began to tell me that there were companies around in America who needed 
this kind of advice and counsel, other companies, many of them that they controlled or that they 
were big shareholders in. And so, they would send me to see other CEOs and the chairman of the 
board of this company or that company, and I got a lot of business, a lot of clients, just by 
following their advice and counsel on who I should go see. And every time I’d go tell them that 
Mr. Kirby sent me, or Mr. McCloy, who was one of the biggest lawyers in America, sent me, or 
he told me to call you all, boom, I had another client immediately. 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
8 
DC: Maybe we could back up for just a second, and we’ll back up a little bit further, too, 
but if you could tell us just a little bit about the company that you started, and when you started 
it, and why. 
RB: I started it—I started out as a policeman here in High Point. 
DC: Well, maybe let’s just back up a little bit further, and then we’ll catch up with that, 
then. 
RB: Okay. 
DC: So, we were talking about your childhood, but maybe a little bit more about the 
school that you went to here. I know that was very important for you. 
RB: Oh, yeah. 
DC: And then your— 
RB: It was— 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
DC:  – the file. 
RB: Oh, okay. 
DC: So, we’ll take little breaks. 
RB: Okay. 
JB: We’re back. 
DC: We’re back. So, yeah. 
RB: Well, starting out, I started out—there was a little grade school not too far away from 
my house called Leonard Street School. I went to the sixth grade there. And in the seventh grade, 
all the classes for the black schools went to William Penn High School. And so, I went to 
William Penn High School, which was a school that was founded by the Quakers who dominated 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
9 
the area, this area in North Carolina. And so, I went there in the seventh grade, and from then on, 
I—and I graduated from there in the twelfth. 
But it was an extraordinary experience there, because one of my first major experiences 
at William Penn was the principal came to me one day, and he said, “You know, you’re a bright 
young fellow, and there’s something that I have for you to do.” And I asked him, “Yes, sir, what 
is it?” He said, “We have Mary McLeod Bethune coming to the school in the next few days. And 
I want you to be on your best behavior, because I want you to meet her at the door and stay with 
her and guide her around the school, all around the school, and stay with her until she gets ready 
to leave in the afternoon.” 
And that’s what I did. I met her at the door. A car came up with her, and I met her at the 
door, told her who I was and that I was going to be her escort. And I escorted her around, and she 
counseled me all that time. For several hours, she would tell me—she asked me about my family, 
about what I wanted to do with my life, and then she said, “You know, you’re a bright young 
man. You’re going to do some wonderful things with your life.” But she said, “You’ve got to 
work hard.” She said, “You can’t just come in here every day and run and play and everything. 
You’ve just got to work at it.” And all the way through, all day long, she would counsel me and 
tell me about her life. And it was an extraordinary experience. 
DC: Hmm. 
RB: And that was one of my first real experiences in school at William Penn. 
DC: Um-hmm. 
RB: And then, later on, we had people like Langston Hughes to come to the school, 
people like Dr. Dellie Boger, who was a professor at Morehouse College, who had graduated 
from William Penn. We had Colonel Smith, who became a colonel in the Army, who had 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
10 
graduated from William Penn, to come back and speak, and so forth. And so, we had a lot of—
we interfaced with a great number of people who had graduated from William Penn and who had 
done extremely well—to come back. They would always come back and speak to the kids and do 
different things with us and that sort of thing. So, it was a great experience. And I think that 
sowed the seeds for me wanting to do things. 
I was a [0:20:00] voracious reader. I stayed in the library. The kids used to pick at me a 
lot of times. They’d say, “Oh, man, you’re going back to the library again?” I played football and 
stuff like that, just like other kids, but I was always reading something. I was always reading all 
the magazines and newspapers, because I wanted to know what was happening in the country 
and in the world. 
DC: Yeah, yeah. 
RB: And so, when I would go to the civics class, or something like that, I would know a 
lot of things. By the time I was in the tenth or eleventh grade, I knew a lot. I mean, I was up to 
date on all the current affairs of what was happening in the world. So, I became, near the end of 
the tenth grade, I became the editor of our school paper. And I think somewhere along the line, I 
have some of those papers now, and I go back and I read some of the editorials that I wrote as an 
eleventh grade and twelfth grade student. And sometimes, I don’t believe that [laughs] I wrote 
that, you know, in the eleventh or twelfth grade. But it was extraordinary, and I enjoyed it 
immensely. 
DC: Do you remember some of the things that you read back then? I think it’s so 
interesting to think of being in a relatively small place like High Point, North Carolina, but you 
were really connecting out to a much larger world, and through some of these people that came 
to town, too. 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
11 
RB: Oh, yeah! Oh, yeah. I read—I was reading all the time. First of all, I would read all 
the magazines, all the big magazines that would come into the school, in the school library. We 
didn’t have money to get a lot, so whatever came in, the magazines and newspapers. And then, 
from time to time, we would have the Sunday New York Times in there, from time to time. And 
then, we would have many of the local papers in there. And I would go in there, because we 
didn’t have money to get those papers and magazines, so I’d go in there and I’d read everything 
in there. And then, I’d read different books about, you know, what was happening in the world 
and different things. So, it was— 
But even more than that, there was a lady who lived across the street from us. Her name 
was Mrs. [   ], and she worked for a wealthy white family. And one day, I was sitting on the steps 
and I had some old newspapers. I had maybe five or six newspapers there that I was going 
through. And I had gotten them from somewhere, probably got them out of a garbage can, 
because we didn’t have money to get books or newspapers or magazines. So, I’d get them, I’d 
scrounge them up, and I’d bring them home, and I’d sit there on the porch on the steps and read 
them. 
So, one day, I’m reading these newspapers and so forth, and Mrs. [20:34] comes home 
from work. And she sees me out there, reading these newspapers, and she stops. And she said, 
“Bobby,” she said, “I see you’re reading a lot. You love to read, don’t you?” I said, “Yes, 
ma’am.” She said, “Well, I throw away newspapers and magazines every month up there where I 
work, and sometimes, two or three times a month.” She said, “They don’t keep them.” She said, 
“If you’d like them, I’ll bring them all home to you.” I said, “Oh, yes, ma’am!” It was like the 
Lord Himself was speaking to me! 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
12 
So, for the next few years, she would, about two or three times a month, she would bring 
a big box of newspapers and magazines home. And, I mean, it would be sometimes the New York 
Times in there, and magazines from New York and different places, different kinds of 
magazines. And I would go through and I would read every one of them, every one of them. And 
so, I became—I mean, I could go through a box of stuff, magazines and newspapers. 
And I find myself, all these years later, I still read every day. I read several newspapers. I 
probably, in the course of any day, at the end of the day, I probably have read eight, ten, 
sometimes twelve or fifteen newspapers from different parts of the country. I subscribe to 
newspapers [0:25:00] from different parts of the country, so that I will know what’s happening in 
different places and I will have some idea, so that when I speak to different groups, or I’m giving 
some thoughts, my thoughts on what’s happening in different areas, to my clients, then, you 
know, I’m giving it from a factual point of view. I’m not just pulling something out of the wind. 
And usually, when I’m in a meeting, whether it’s a board meeting of a major corporation that I 
might be on the board, or I might be giving a presentation, and they ask me questions, nine times 
out of ten, I’m going to know what I’m talking about. It’s not going to be some theory or 
something that I just looked up in the air and pulled down. You know, I’m going to know what is 
going on. 
And that’s the way I’ve been since I was in high school. And I was that way—I’ve been 
that way in business. I’ve been that way in different things, jobs that I’ve held. When I was at the 
White House, when I would go in a meeting, I had done not only reading, but I had different 
people who always sent me different kinds of information on different communities and places in 
the world, information. And I still have those contacts in Africa and Europe and different places 
around the world, so when I’m in a board meeting—I’ve served on the board of directors of 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
13 
some of the largest companies in the world and still serve on a few. And when something comes 
up about one thing or another, I usually know something about it. I may not know the in-depth 
phase of what happened, but I usually know something about it. And I can tell you sometimes 
why it happened here, because it happened over there and it, you know, made a trail over here 
and is happening there because somebody wanted that deal over here to happen. So, you know, 
you can put the dots together. But the only way you can do that is to have the knowledge base to 
do that. You can’t do that on air, you know. And I found that out a long time ago, you know, 
back in high school and college. 
DC: It’s interesting that you say that, because I was struck by that, just reading about you 
and your career, that you end up operating, you know, in these national, obviously, and 
international circles, but so rooted in the local, and coming back home to High Point and staying 
in High Point. So, it’s interesting for me to hear you say how important it is for you to 
understand what’s happening at a very local level in the places where you work. 
RB: Yeah, because when I go into a boardroom or when I go to make a presentation to a 
major group in New York or London or Paris or Rome or Legos, Nigeria, you know, I know 
what I’m talking about, you know. And not only have I read, but I’ve done a lot of background 
work. And so, and after a while, and having done it for decades, I can watch the trends. And the 
trends most of the time do not lie, but you’ve got to be able to understand what happened twenty-
five or thirty years ago, and how that’s coming back into the [groove/brew] at this point and have 
some idea of what’s going to happen as a direct result of that. 
I was telling somebody the other day that many things are happening to American 
companies now, having to do with race-related kinds of problems, because a lot of the 
management in American companies and in other companies have no frame of reference to these 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
14 
kinds of problems and what existed. Because the people who were there earlier, who went 
through this phase, who went through all the problems, they went through it, so they have an 
idea. But most of those people are either dead and gone, or they have retired, and they are no 
longer on the scene. The people who are there, running many of the companies and many aspects 
of the companies and many divisions of the companies, they have no idea. They have no idea of 
what happened way back, or maybe they read a memo, but they have no idea about what’s 
happening. And that’s why you have [0:30:00] today, and you are going to have even more so, I 
would say over the next two or three years, a lot of race-related kinds of problems in major 
companies, because they are not prepared to deal with them. 
They think because they have somebody who is head of diversity or something like that 
in the company, which is fine, that that’s going to be okay. But usually the person who’s in 
charge of diversity, they may be black, or they may be white, or they may be Hispanic, but if 
they’re not steeped in the historical aspects of what is going on and how it was fixed before, and 
what you need to do to fix it now, and what kind of changes have been made, and what’s 
happening in the marketplace, and all that, if you’re not versed in that, you’re going to have a 
problem, your company is going to have a problem, or whatever you’re allied with, the 
government, government agency is going to have a problem. 
And so, now you have problems cropping up all over the place as a direct result of people 
not understanding the dynamics of what—or any kind of historical reference to what has gone 
on. Because many of these problems have gone on, you know, they were going on thirty or forty 
years ago. I’ve been in this business over fifty years, and we were dealing with some of this stuff 
forty years ago, thirty years ago! 
DC: Right. And now you see it coming around again. 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
15 
RB: You see it coming, making full circle, full circle, same kind of stuff. Because they 
have no reference. They don’t know how to deal with it and they have no frame of reference on 
much of this stuff. 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB: We’re back. Do you mind getting just a brief couple of sentences of what your job is? 
DC: Yeah. So, let’s talk, if you could tell us a little bit about your time in Richmond and 
then coming back here, police officer, federal agent, and starting the company. 
RB: Just give you a little thumbnail? 
DC: Yeah, yeah. What’s that? 
Elaine Nichols: The name of the company. 
DC: And the name of the company, yeah, of course. So, we’ll start with just after high 
school, I guess. 
RB: Yeah, okay. Well, after high school, I went to Virginia Union University. I stayed a 
year there, and then my grandparents, who raised me, got ill. I came back home and enrolled at 
North Carolina A&T State University. Spent a year there, and close to the end of that school 
year, I went to take a police examination as a—because I thought it was directly related to a class 
in sociology that I was taking, you know, under Dr. Robinson, who was the dean of the School of 
Social Work. And it was. I made an A in the course. I took the police exam, and it helped me 
generate some thoughts on what ought to be done. 
And about two weeks after I took that exam, which was about the end of the school year, 
I had a meeting. The captain of police detectives came to my house, and he saw my grandmother. 
And I hadn’t come home from school. The school was about out, and I hadn’t come home from 
school that afternoon. So, when I got home from Greensboro, my grandmother said to me, 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
16 
“Captain Johnson from the police station has been here, looking for you. And I asked him was 
anything wrong, and he said, ‘No, no, we just want to talk to him.’” And so, my grandmother 
was, I mean, she was shaking [she was so nervous]. 
DC: [Laughs] She probably didn’t believe them. 
RB: You know, I mean, back then, you know, police come, police captain comes, 
detectives come to your house, man, that’s something else! 
DC: [Laughs] It’s not a good thing. 
RB: [Laughs] That’s not a good thing! So, she said, “Well, he said that he wants you to 
call him as soon as you get in.” So, I went out and called him, and I had to go across the street, 
because we didn’t have a telephone. And I went across the street in Mrs. Dunlap’s house and 
called him. And he said, “Robert, you’re home?” I said, “Yes, sir.” He said, “Well, we’re going 
to come down and see you.” He said, “We just want to chat with you for a few minutes.” I said, 
“Yes, sir. Well, I’ll be here.” He said, “Well, we’re going to get in the car now and come on 
down there.” So, the police station wasn’t that far away. It’s downtown, which was about maybe 
ten minutes, fifteen minutes away. 
So, he came down. And I decided I’d stand out there on the porch, so that—my 
grandmother and my grandfather were in the house—so I [didn’t have to] wait on him. [0:35:00] 
So, I stood out there, and they drove up, he and another police detective. Got out of the car, came 
up on the porch, and he introduced himself. He said, “I’m Captain Johnson from the police 
department.” And he said, “We just want to talk to you for a few minutes.” I said, “Yes, sir. 
What can I do for you?” 
He said, “Well, we want to offer you a job as a policeman.” I said, “Offer me a job?” I 
said, “You’re kidding?” He said, “No, sir. We’re not kidding.” He said, “You took the police 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
17 
examination a couple of weeks ago and you made the highest mark that anybody ever made on 
the police examination. And we wanted to reach out to you and see if you want a job.” I had just 
turned twenty-one years old! And I said, “Well, let me think about it. I’ll let you know in the 
next day or two.” He said, “Okay. Well, here’s my card, and my phone number is on there. You 
call me.” 
And so, I went back in the house. And my grandmother, she was so nervous, and my 
grandfather. They said, “What did they want? You’re not in any trouble, are you, Bobby?” I said, 
“No, ma’am.” So, I said, “They wanted to offer me a job as a policeman.” And my grandmother 
said, “Oh, you can’t take a job as a policeman! You are in college! You’ve got to go ahead and 
finish college.” And both of them were ill, and, you know, money was almost nonexistent. And I 
said, “Mama,” I said, “I don’t know. Let me think about it.” 
And so, school was about out. So, I went to school the next morning and I thought about 
it all of that day. And I came back home that afternoon and I went in and talked to my 
grandmother and grandfather. I told them, I said, “I think I’ll take this job for a year or two, and 
then I’ll go back to school. And maybe I can go to school at night and take some night classes.” 
So, they went along with me. So, I took the job, [clears throat] and I stayed on the job for a 
couple of years. 
DC: Um-hmm. Were there many black police officers in High Point then? 
RB: I think there were maybe four, four or five. There were two black detectives and I 
think two or three officers. But I took the job. 
DC: How were things in the police department then, in terms of race relations? 
RB: They were fair. They weren’t the best, but they were fair. You know, blacks were 
supposed to be patrolling black areas and all that, and weren’t supposed to arrest any white 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
18 
people. I mean, none of this was written down, now. And, of course, you know, I got right in the 
mix. Because I hadn’t been there but about six months, and one day, my partner and I—he was a 
black guy—we got a call. It was a call on the radio. I mean, the radio goes out to everybody, all 
the cars. “All cars, there’s a white male loose down off of Olga Street, and he’s running. And all 
cars converge on that area, and we need to get him in tow,” and so forth. 
Anyway, [coughs] I went—we went down there. And I grew up in that area. [Laughs] 
That was the area I grew up in, so I knew all the branches and where you could hide and couldn’t 
hide. So, I told my partner. He drove around. I told him where to let me off. He let me out, and I 
told him to drive around and wait at the other end of the branch over there. I said, “The only 
place that he can run and not expect to be caught is in that branch, because everywhere else 
everybody is going to see him.” And sure enough, that’s what this guy did. He jumped in that 
branch and was running up the branch. 
And so, as soon as I got out of the car, and my guy drove off, I see this white guy running 
up through that branch. I mean, he was trucking up through that branch. So, I jumped down in 
the branch and I said, “Hey! Stop!” I said, “You’re under arrest.” And he says, “Nigger-boy, get 
out of my way! You better get out of my way. What are you talking about? You can’t arrest me 
no way.” 
I said, “I can’t?” So, I took my blackjack out, and I hit him with it, bam, you know, and 
drug him out. I said, “Come on, get up!” And I drug him out of the branch, because, you know, I 
figured anything could happen down in that branch, and they wouldn’t find me or him until he’s 
way away. So, I hit him a couple of times and drug him out of the branch. He said, “You better 
not hit me no more with that blackjack!” [0:40:00] And I hit him again! [Laughs] 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
19 
I said, “You’d better get up and walk, because I’m going to do more than hit you. I’m 
going to take my pistol out and shoot you.” So, he got—we got him up out of the branch. As 
soon as we got up out of the branch, there were police cars. I hadn’t showed up on the other end, 
so they came back. All the cars converged; my partner and the white guys were there. And they 
took him. They came down there and took him, and they beat him up a little bit, [laughs] you 
know, and they threw him in the car. 
And so, I had to go up there and sign a warrant against him at the police station. And, you 
know, I thought maybe they would, you know, they may say something, “Well, you know, you 
don’t have to do this.” But no. I went up there, I signed the warrant, and everything else, and 
they kept him in jail. And the judge, when the trial went down, the judge threw the book at him. 
He stayed in jail for three or four years. 
But up until that time, I don’t think there had been any kind of interfacing like that 
between whites and blacks. But nobody said anything. So, after that was over, you know, 
nobody—and this was in 1956, somewhere like that—and after that was over, nobody thought 
anything else about—nobody ever said you couldn’t arrest a white. You know, it was never a 
written thing. But it was just sort of, you know, under the current that, you know, you don’t 
arrest white people. 
DC: But then, you saw that change. 
RB: I saw that change, because I arrested several more white people. I know there was a 
white guy on Washington Street in a black area, and I was down there one day, just walking the 
street. And he was down there drunk and raising particular hell on the street. And so, I saw all of 
the blacks, looking out of the barbershop doors and everything, you know. And they were 
wondering what I was going to do, because I’m—you know, I’m just patrolling on foot that day. 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
20 
And so, I’m walking down the street, and this guy is kind of woozy, he’s about half-juiced and 
he’s walking down the street, cursing and raising sand. 
And then, he saw me. He looked up and he saw me and he called me a nigger, you know, 
and stuff. So, I said, “Okay.” So, I crossed the street over there to where he was and I said, 
“You’re under arrest.” And he says, “Oh?” He called me a nigger again, “You can’t arrest me! 
You better get out of my way.” So, I took my blackjack out and hit him one time as hard as I 
could hit him. And he said, “Oh, you better not hit me,” you know, and he fell down on one 
knee. He said, “Don’t hit me anymore!” 
So, I took my cuffs out and put the cuffs on him and strapped him up. And then, I told 
one of the guys in the barbershop, I said, “You get on your phone and call the station and tell 
them to send a car down here. I’ve got somebody under arrest.” And before I could get him up 
and at’em, cars were—sirens were coming and cars were coming from every whichaway. They 
came down here and they threw him in the car. [Laughs] And they told me, said, “Bob, you 
better come on up here and sign a warrant against this rascal,” you know. [Laughs] And I think 
they probably beat him up a little bit on the way up there, you know. [Laughs] 
DC: Right. 
RB: So, you know, it was that kind of a situation. So, it was an interesting—that was an 
interesting part of my life. And then, I got a job as a federal agent as a result of my being a 
policeman. I had helped some federal agents do some work, and so I got a job in New York, and 
my posted duty was New York City. I started working on the Mafia and ended up, you know, 
testifying in the Vito Genovese case, which was the biggest Mafia case ever. Several of those 
guys in that case were defendants of mine. And I worked in Canada on the guy who was the 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
21 
biggest Mafia guy there. I worked up there, and I worked in Pennsylvania and New York, all 
over New York. I made a lot of cases, some of the biggest cases ever in the Bureau. 
And then, after about three years, I decided I didn’t want to do that anymore. I wanted to 
go into the public relations business. I had read about public relations, and it was something I 
wanted to do. And so, I read more books and so forth and so on. And one day, I came home and 
told my wife, “I want to go into the public relations business.” And she said, “Oh, Robert, you 
don’t know anything about public relations. All you know about is what you read in those books 
you’ve been reading.” I said, “Yeah, but I know enough to know that this is what I want to do 
with my life.” [0:45:00] 
Four or five months later, I resigned my job, and we packed up and came back to North 
Carolina. And my district supervisor at the time in New York, he said, “You’ve been a great 
agent.” He said, “Why do you want to mess this up?” He said, “You can stay here for twenty 
years and you can retire, and you’d be still a young man.” He said, “If you go to North Carolina 
and open up a public relations business, you know, you can’t get no clients.” He said, “Your 
people can’t even go in a restaurant.” 
DC: Hmm. 
RB: He said, “What are you talking about you’re going to open up a public relations 
business in North Carolina?” He said, “If you’re going to do that, you ought to stay in New 
York.” I said, “I’m going back to North Carolina to help deal with the problems there.” And I 
said, “I’ll be able to work everywhere from there.” He said, “Okay.” So, I came back, and the 
rest is history. 
DC: Now, did you have a sense that—of the timing at that time, that there was something 
brewing that—? 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
22 
RB: Oh, yeah. I knew that there were some things brewing. The sit-ins had occurred. And 
then, there were things—I was still reading, and that’s what kept me abreast, you know, the New 
York Times and all these papers that I had been reading. I was living in New York so, you know, 
communication there was great. And I saw where all these things were happening all over the 
country. And I said, “Oh. Something’s—this is not going to go away. There’s going to be a 
change forevermore.” 
And so, I decided that that was where I wanted to be. I wanted to be in the arena. And so, 
I came back home to do that. I didn’t feel like I could do that the way I wanted to do it in New 
York or somewhere like that. I needed to be in North Carolina. I needed to be where the action 
was going to be, in the South. 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB: [We’re going again]. 
DC: Okay. And so, if you could tell us about—just the name of the company and when 
you started. 
RB: Okay, I started at the end of 1960. December, 1960, I came back here and started this 
business. And then, you know, I pursued it. I had a 1960 Rambler car and I would go around. I 
made up a list of the companies. I made up a scenario of what I wanted to do and so forth, and 
how I wanted to do it. And then, I went around to see if I could go in these doors, go in the doors 
and see these people in these companies. And I got to see a lot of them. I’d drive different places. 
And many times, I’d have to sleep in my car, whether I was—if it was in the South, I’d 
sleep in the car because I couldn’t get a hotel. And if I was in the North, many times, if I was 
driving to New York or somewhere else, many times I wouldn’t have the money. I’d have to 
have the money to save money for my gas. And so, I’d sleep in my car, and go to the Y and have 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
23 
a shower and shave and change clothes. And I’d keep a nice pressed suit and shirt and tie, and 
they wouldn’t know whether I came out of the Waldorf-Astoria, [laughs] or whether I came out 
of the back of my car. So, I would do that, and that’s the way I pursued it. And I pursued it with 
some vigor and kept doing it. 
DC: And the company name? 
RB: The name of my company is B&C Associates. When I started out, I had a friend of 
mine, who had just—he had just come back from the service. He had been in service and he 
stayed with me. His name was Campbell, and he stayed with me for about three months. And 
after that time, he says, “Hey, look, I’ve got to go find myself a job. My wife says I’ve got to 
find a job.” Said, you know, “I don’t know whether this thing is going to work here or not.” So, 
he left, and I just never changed the name. I said, “Hey, look, what’s in a name anyway?” So, I 
kept the name and kept on moving, you know. 
DC: Um-hmm. Now, so often, I think, you know, when we think of the Movement or 
making change, you know, we think of these big public events, and not what’s happening 
behind, you know, behind the scenes or the closed doors or the money or the public relations that 
it takes. Could you talk a little bit about what it does take to make change happen, to make a 
movement? 
RB: From a company point of view? Or from the civil rights point of view? 
DC: Yeah, I mean, both, I think. And, yeah, and I’ll ask some more questions, too, but 
let’s start there. 
RB: Well, you know, you couldn’t have—say, from the civil rights point of view, I had 
access to a number of companies. I had some access to [0:50:00] some funding from these 
companies. And I was—I did some very innovative things, because what I would do if—for 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
24 
instance, when I started working closely with Dr. King and Rev. Wyatt Tee Walker, who was Dr. 
King’s assistant and executive vice-president of the SCLC, he was literally running everything 
on a day-to-day basis, and they needed all kind of help. They told me upfront they needed help. 
And they did. They needed help with money. They needed logistical help, with this and that and 
another, opening doors. 
And I used what I had. For instance, many of these companies that I worked with, they 
would budget so much money for this, and this, that, and the other. And they would tell me, 
“You have access to this and that and the other.” And some of them, I didn’t have any budget. I 
mean, I just did what I needed to do and billed them for it. So, what I would do is—if Dr. King 
and the Movement needed my help in many ways. And many times that was like funding a 
meeting. And the hotels, many times, would not go along with them for all kinds of reasons. 
They’d have them putting up this and that and the other. And I’d come in and say, “Okay, I’ll 
pay this bill. I’ll pay that bill.” So, many of the movements that took place, I underwrote them. 
And then, I would either suck up that bill myself, if I had the flexibility that month or 
during that period, or I would charge off to one of the major companies, Woolworth, or some of 
them. And then, I would tell them, you know, “I have to have this flexibility to do, you know, to 
work with everybody, and I want this flexibility. If you want to work with me, this is the way I 
work.” So, I’d just charge it off as a business development kind of thing, and that was it. 
DC: Now, what would a Woolworth’s—you talked about how, really, one of your first or 
your first major client early opened the doors to a lot of other clients. But what did they want 
from you? I mean, how did they put that into—what did they want you to do for them? I mean, 
they saw the winds of change, right, but what did that mean, exactly? 
RB: Well, they didn’t know what it meant. 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
25 
DC: [Laughs] 
RB: Seriously. You know, they didn’t understand, because nothing like this had ever 
happened in America before. Nothing like this had ever happened in our country before! There 
was nothing that they could compare it with. They couldn’t go to the Harvard Business School 
and say, “Hey, look, how do you put this—what is the equation? What kind of equation do you 
use on this one?” They couldn’t do that. And so, you know, I was plowing up new ground. There 
was nothing to compare it to. There were no books written on this, because nothing like this had 
ever happened in America before. 
So, I had to use my own judgment, my own ingenuity and so forth. And my ingenuity 
told me, and what my grandmother raised me, she said, “Just do the right thing.” And my 
grandmother was living then, and I would talk to her many times, tell her, say, “Mama, I’ve got 
to deal with this and that and the other.” And she would tell me, she said, she would tell me over 
and over again, she said, “Martin Luther King, Jr. is a wonderful man, and those fellows, Bobby, 
they are wonderful people.” Said, “You need to continue to help them all you can.” She said, 
“Just do the right thing.” 
And that’s what I was trying to do: the right thing. And I knew they were on solid ground. 
I knew that that was a winning cause. They had a lot of detractors, many in the black community 
and a lot of them in the white community, who did not like them, and so forth. But they were my 
friends, and I had to figure out all over again, time and time again, how I could be helpful to 
them, how I could open doors, and how I could change the attitudes of major business people in 
the business community about what was happening and how this would be good for our country. 
And I made speeches to different groups, different heads of companies who would be 
meeting at the Westchester Country Club or at other places around the country, [0:55:00] 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
26 
different companies, on race relations, on what do you do in a crisis situation and how you 
should handle it, and how change, how to deal with change, and all that. I mean, these were all 
new things in America that had never happened in America before! Never! You know, I mean, 
you know, since slavery. Slavery was one thing, but then the sixties comes, and between the 
sixties, between the 1960s and the 1860s, you know, you had Reconstruction and you had this 
and that and the other, and part of slavery. But there was nothing, nothing, that they could 
compare themselves with that would prepare them for this, for what was happening at that time. 
So, all this was new ground. 
DC: Now, did you have to sell them on the power of the black consumer dollar? 
RB: Oh, yeah! That was a constant sell. And many times, that would be the argument that 
I would have. Because I would do research, and then I hired some professors at A&T. There was 
a man, his name was Dr. Sidney Evans, who was an economist at A&T, he became one of my 
principal consultants. He was consulting with me for twenty-five years. And he knew a lot 
about—there were other men like Sidney who I hired to work with me, who wrote papers and did 
all kind of things to say to the business community, “Here. Here’s what the black market is. 
Here’s what you’re dealing with, and here’s the power in it,” not just from the standpoint of the 
economic power, but power of the black church, power of the black schools, all kinds of latent 
power within the black community that was going to come and rise up. And you had to deal with 
this. 
And that was what I was selling. I was selling that, “Hey, look, this is coming. Whether 
you want it, whether you like it or dislike it, makes no difference. For the good of your company 
and for the good of America, you have to be in front of this. You have to deal with this. You 
have to make a way.” Because, see, companies like Woolworth, they didn’t even have a black 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
27 
secretary in the Woolworth headquarters building! But they had stores all over the black 
community in Chicago, New York, They had Woolworth’s stores everywhere, in California, in 
Watts, and everywhere. They had Woolworth’s stores everywhere. And they had black assistant 
managers, many times, in black areas, but very few, if any, and almost no black managers of the 
stores in black communities! 
So, I told them, “We’ve got to dispense with this! We’ve got to go find us some black 
managers, we’ve got to train them, we’ve got to bring them in. We’ve got to put people on the 
board of directors of the company, black people, you know. You’ve got to put people in the 
executive offices of the company. You’ve got to have black buyers and all that.” We did all of 
that at the Woolworth Company. And because we did it there, and they were the biggest, the 
others kind of took on—they didn’t have too much of a choice, because many of these guys, who 
were on the board, they were the most powerful businessmen in America. So, if they—you know 
how business is. They see one doing it, and the others almost are going to fall in place. And they 
saw what was happening to a lot of them who didn’t fall in place. You know, there were 
boycotts, there were demonstrations, there were all kinds of things. Because Woolworth’s was 
hit very hard. 
And, you know, the strange thing about the whole Woolworth thing is that we started 
working with them in 1961, probably about July or August of 1961. Four or five years after we 
started working with them, and they were supposed to be, in terms of the black community, in 
terms of companies, the devil reincarnated. But about five years later, Woolworth got two or 
three awards for being one of the leading companies, in terms of civil rights, in terms of 
integration, and all that, because we integrated the executive office, we integrated the board. 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
28 
[1:00:00] You know, we integrated—you look at Woolworth’s stores around the country. We 
integrated that. 
We even had—there was a huge Woolworth’s store in Harlem that was owned by blacks. 
We changed the ownership. They had the store, when it was burned out from the riots and stuff, 
we had the store turned around, and we put it in a limited corporation, where the store and 
building were owned by blacks. It was a sale/leaseback deal, where Woolworth’s took a long-
term lease, and the land and everything was owned by black people. We did that in several 
communities all across the country. And now, you know, it seems like we’ve gone backwards, 
because you’re doing very little of that now, with black people. You know, other people are still 
doing it and all that—sale/leaseback deals, and this, that and the other—but you don’t know a lot 
of black people involved. We started this all way back. 
DC: So, Woolworth’s knew—or I guess I should put this in the form of a question. So, 
did Woolworth’s know that they really had a problem on their hands, just the fact that their name 
became sort of synonymous with the pickets? 
RB: Oh, yeah. 
DC: And that they had to turn that around, in some way. 
RB: I think they understood. They understood. There were some people who didn’t want 
to deal with it, I think, but they understood. 
DC: What kinds of resistance did you meet when you took on these projects for the big 
corporations? 
RB: I met with resistance, all kinds of resistance. I met with resistance in the black 
community. I met with resistance in the white community. For instance, in Birmingham, many of 
the guys who—when Dr. King was trying to get the stores down there to integrate and so forth. 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
29 
Well, I was working through Woolworth and some other companies. Of course, Woolworth is 
the biggest. Woolworth said, yeah, they’ll do it, but the rest of them did not want to integrate 
their lunch counters. They didn’t want to integrate their luncheon rooms and that kind of stuff. 
The big department stores, they didn’t want to hire no blacks, and this, that and the other. 
So, Woolworth was the big daddy in the National Retail Association at the time, and that 
was the big daddy of all of them. They all were members of that. And so, Woolworth had me to 
meet with those people and give them the facts of life and everything. And so, when Dr. King 
and Dr. Wyatt Walker went to them and talked to them about—then Woolworth passed the word 
down that they were going to integrate, and they were going to not only integrate, but they were 
going to take the business. They were going to figure out a way how to take the business, all the 
business, and have people coming to [laughs] their stores and so forth. And so, the dollar sign 
started computing with the guys, and all of a sudden, everybody starts coming together. So, they 
got the message. The dollar is up there somewhere. They got the message and they all agreed 
that there would be a certain time when all of them would come together, all of the stores would 
integrate. 
Same way with the hotels. I remember when Dr. King and those integrated the hotels in 
Memphis, Tennessee, for instance. In Memphis, there was a hotel called the Peabody. That was 
the main hotel there. It may still be there. It was an old, nice hotel. 
DC: It is. 
RB: Where the ducks walk up and all that. 
DC: Yep. [Laughs] 
RB: So, Dr. Wyatt Walker called me one day, and he said, “Bob, we’ve got a tentative 
agreement with the Peabody and the downtown hotels that they’re going to integrate. And we’re 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
30 
going to have a big meeting there at some point in the next couple of months. But we’ve got to 
test the hotel to see if they’re going to do the right thing first.” And he said, “And Dr. King wants 
you to go there and see if they’ll let you in, and so forth.” [Laughs] So, I said, “Well, okay, if he 
really wants me to do it.” 
So, I flew to Memphis, and some of the guys met me, some of the SCLC guys met me, 
and they wanted to see what was happening. So, I went there and went to the counter and told 
them I wanted a suite, wondered what kind of [1:05:00] big suite you have. So, they gave me a 
big suite, signed me up. I went up there and took the suite. And then I came back and I met with 
some of the guys. I said, “Man, all y’all come on up!” Said, “We’re going to have some drinks 
and dinner up there.” It was a big suite! The first time a black had ever had a suite up there. But 
they wanted to test it to see what was going on, you know. 
But, I mean, I used to do so many different things, all over the place, all over the place. I 
know that there were some things going on in Richmond. And Dr. King wanted to make sure that 
they were worked out okay, and we got in the middle of that. And Wyatt Walker was a great 
tactician. He was a brilliant guy in the movement. And I don’t think he ever really got the credit 
he deserved, because he was there during those difficult days. He left later on and went to be an 
executive in a publishing company in New York and took a large church there and so forth. And 
he’s still living, and he has—he’s been ill the last few years, and he lives in Virginia. 
But there were just—there were so many things going on, you know, that we were a part 
of and participating in in some way. The Poor People’s Campaign, Dr. King was planning on 
that when he was killed, you know, the Poor People’s Campaign. This was in 1968. ’68 was an 
unbelievable perilous year. Because in ’68, I’m working with Dr. King in the Movement and so 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
31 
forth. We were doing a lot of things. We were holding meetings. We were planning for the Poor 
People’s Campaign and all of that. 
And then, Dr. King is killed. And I go with Mrs. King to Memphis to pick up his body, 
you know. And then, we had Dr. King’s funeral. And the night before the funeral, I had a big 
suite at the Hyatt Regency in Atlanta, where we met with a lot of people, people like—Sidney 
Poitier was there; Robert Kennedy, Senator Kennedy, who I had met on several occasions, he 
was there with his wife, Ethel—and just a whole host of people who came to the funeral, talk 
about where we were going in the country, and all of that. And then, later on after that, Earl 
Graves, who had worked with me in the Bureau, and we’d been friends for a long time, called 
me and said, you know, “We want to push Robert Kennedy’s campaign on up to a new level,” 
and I started working with them on that. And then, a few months later, Bobby Kennedy is killed 
in California. 
And all this happened in 1968. And then, we’re still trying to plan the Poor People’s 
Campaign. And then, a few weeks later, one of my guys who’s working for the Nixon campaign, 
who’s working for Ray Bliss, who was the chairman of the Republican National Committee, a 
black guy, Clarence Townes, wanted me to work with him, give him advice and counsel on what 
he ought to be doing and all that kind of stuff. And I agreed to do that two days a week. Two 
days ran into five days, five days into seven days, and I was handling a lot of different problems 
for them. 
And then, after a few weeks, I was called in by Bob Finch, who was running Nixon’s 
campaign. He was the lieutenant governor of California and chairman of the Nixon campaign. 
He told me that Mr. Nixon wanted me to be on the plane with him, that he had been watching 
what I’d been doing for his campaign, and he wanted me to travel with him. 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
32 
So, I came back home, got myself together, and went back, and met the campaign in 
Ohio, and we went across the state on the last whistle stop train tour that any president has taken 
in America. Nixon took it across Ohio. And that’s where we saw the sign with the little girl 
holding up the sign, “Bring Us Together.” And that became a campaign theme for us. And I 
worked and traveled with Nixon until the end of the campaign. [1:10:00] 
DC: And what did you think of Nixon when you first met him or got involved in the 
campaign at that level? 
RB: I thought he was smart and many times intuitive and insensitive to a great degree. I 
didn’t consider him—a lot of people wanted to tag him as a racist. I think he wasn’t a racist. He 
was everything but a racist. And then, I got to even know him better after the campaign was 
over. And after the campaign was over, I told them that I was—they wanted me to go to help put 
the government together, [coughs] down in Key Biscayne, and I told them I was going back to 
North Carolina and put my business back together. 
JB: I’ll take a little pause. 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB: We’re back. 
DC: Now, you’d been—I mean, you’d been working through your company for Nixon, 
right? So, you were getting—were you getting paid for that? That wasn’t volunteer work. 
RB: It wasn’t—it wasn’t my regular pay that, you know. I think they paid me something. 
It wasn’t much. 
DC: Okay. Now, when you worked with the Movement, was that all just on your own 
dime? 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
33 
RB: Oh, that was on my own. That was totally—I was raising money and giving them 
money. [Laughs] 
DC: Okay. [laughs] 
RB: [Laughs] I wasn’t getting paid. I was giving them money. But it was something that I 
wanted to do. I felt that I needed to do it. I was making the contacts. I had the contacts and I 
thought one dovetailed into another, and everybody could learn something, and that progress 
could be made. 
DC: Um-hmm. Now, did King first reach out to you, or how did you make that 
connection with King and some of the other Movement leaders? 
RB: [Coughs] I was having lunch in Atlanta with a friend of mine, Stan Scott, who ran 
the Atlanta Daily World black newspaper. And he introduced me to Reverend Wyatt Tee Walker, 
who was Dr. King’s righthand man. And Reverend Walker says to me, he said, “You know, 
you’re in the public relations business.” He said, “We need your help.” He said, “Why don’t you 
come by the office when you finish your lunch and meet with Dr. King?” Said, “Dr. King is in 
town.” Said, “He would love to meet you.” So, I said, “Yeah, fine, no problem.” I said, “I like 
what he’s doing.” That’s how it happened. 
I went by the office and meet Dr. King. Dr. King says, “Hey, look. We need your help,” 
you know. “We need—we’re trying to raise money and we need the best minds we can get. 
We’re just trying to make it through here.” That’s how we met. 
DC: Interesting. Yeah. 
RB: [Coughs] 
DC: So, jumping back to President Nixon, then, you were talking about once the 
government started to—they started to form that government and asked you to be a part of it. 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
34 
RB: Oh, yeah. And so, I initially, you know, I said, “No, I can’t do that. I’ve got to go 
back and make some money.” And so, every day I would get a call from Ron Ziegler or 
somebody in Nixon’s office, asking me about this and what they ought to do about this, that and 
the other. So, one day, I got a call from Haldeman. This was about the third or fourth week in 
November of ’68. And Haldeman says, “Bob, I’m calling you because the Old Man wants to see 
you, and he wants to see you right away.” I said, “Well, I’ve got to come to New York anyway.” 
They were in New York at the Pierre Hotel. That’s where the transition office was set up. I said, 
“I’ll come by tomorrow. I’ll come on up and come by.” 
So, I flew to New York and went to the Pierre. Haldeman met me, and he said, “I’ll take 
you on up.” So, he took me up to Nixon’s suite. Herbert Brownell and Bill Rogers were in there. 
Brownell had been Attorney General under Eisenhower, and Rogers was going to be Secretary of 
State. He hadn’t—Nixon hadn’t named a cabinet, didn’t even have a real staff at that time. And 
so, when I walked in the room, and Haldeman says to Mr. Nixon, “Oh, I didn’t know you had 
people in here.” He said, “I’ve got Bob Brown with me, and we’ll just wait [1:15:00] outside 
until you finish.” He said, “Oh, no, no, no.” He said, “These guys are leaving. I’ve got to talk to 
Bob.” He said, “Bring Bob on in. I want to introduce him to these guys.” 
So, I came in, and he introduced me. He said, “This Bob Brown. I want you all to meet 
him, because you all are going to be seeing a lot of him.” He said, “He’s going to be one of my 
principal assistants in the White House.” Now, we hadn’t even had a conversation. Hadn’t even 
had a conversation, and that’s the way he introduced me to Brownell and Bill Rogers. And so, 
they left. And then, Haldeman says, “Do you want me to stick around here?” And he said, “Oh, 
no, I want to meet with Bob.” 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
35 
So, the two of us met for a long time, maybe forty-five minutes or more, and a lot of the 
time, he’s telling me about different things about the blacks that he knew. And he started telling 
me this story about E. Frederick Morrow, who was in the White House when he was vice 
president. And he said, “Bob, I know you’ve probably heard or you might know E. Frederick 
Morrow.” He said, “Fred Morrow was a top-grade guy. He was brilliant smart.” He said, “But 
they had him sitting, as the black sitting beside the door.” He said, “They didn’t give him any 
real responsibility.” He said, “That was wrong. He was a brilliant man.” He said, “He was 
probably smarter than any of the guys that Eisenhower had around him.” And he said, “They just 
didn’t give him a break.” 
He said, “But you don’t have to worry about that. You have total access to me.” And he 
says, “In Washington, access is everything. It’s everything.” And he said, “If you’ve got my 
confidence and my access, that’s all you need.” He said, “It don’t make no difference what your 
title is. If you’ve got access, you’ve got it all.” And I found out he was right, and he never 
changed that. The whole time—I was at the White House for four years and three months, and 
the whole time I was at the White House, there was never a time, never a time when anybody 
overruled me—I mean, there were times when people tried—about anything that I did there, 
including the President. And there were some very sticky situations. 
There was one of them where one of the big associations who had given the President a 
lot of money in his campaign, they wanted to change some of the stuff that I was doing, because 
I was doing the whole black economic development thing and all this. I was getting blacks 
involved with contracts and grants and stuff that they had never been involved with before. And 
that was stuff that they had control over, particularly these contracts. And they thought I was 
treading on their ground. And they told Haldeman they wanted to see the President about, talk to 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
36 
him about firing me, because Haldeman came and told me. He says, “You know, these guys,” he 
said, “you better tread lightly,” or whatever. And I said, “I’m just doing what I think the 
President wants me to do.” 
So, Haldeman says, “I’ve got to go tell the President what they want.” I said, “Well, tell 
him! No problem.” So, he went and told the President what they wanted, and Haldeman called 
me back. He said, “Bob, the President wants you to see them.” He said, “But the President said 
he’s not going to see him. They have to come to see you.” 
DC: [Laughs] 
RB: And these were guys that had given him a lot of money. And they came to see me. 
And I told them, I said, “Hey, look, we want to work this out. But it’s not going to be the same 
thing as it’s always been.” I said, “We want to include some minorities, some women in this 
deal, these deals here now.” I said, “You all had it all, but we can’t do that. This is in a different 
kind of America where we’re going to be running here right now.” And the President backed me 
up. And, you know, and those guys became friends. I mean, you know, they—because I was 
going to take more than I took, you know. 
DC: Right. Now, did the President give you a brief as to what he exactly he wanted to 
see? 
RB: Oh, yeah, he talked about—he told me in that initial meeting up there in the Pierre 
Hotel, he said, “Look, you know, I’ve talked about—” in the campaign he talked about black 
capitalism. And he said, “You know, I made a speech about blacks being in business and doing 
this and that and the other.” He said, “But I don’t really,” he said, “You know more about this 
kind of thing than I do.” He said, “You’ve worked with Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. You’ve 
worked with civil rights. You’ve traveled all over the country with different black groups and 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
37 
worked [1:20:00] with the church groups and the schools.” [Coughs] He said, “You need to 
handle this.” He said, “I’m looking to you to deal with this.” 
And he said something else that was very important to me. He said, “Whenever we have 
a cabinet meeting,” he said, “you will be at all the cabinet meetings.” He said, “You will meet—
every time the cabinet meets, you will meet.” He said, “Rosemary [will help you].” He said, 
“There will probably be five or six senior staff in the cabinet meetings.” Every cabinet meeting 
that was held, if I was in town, or even if I was out of town and could be back there by the time 
[it met], I was in the cabinet meetings, all of them. I had a chair with my name on it. 
DC: And your title was—? 
RB: Special Assistant to the President. 
DC: Special Assistant— 
RB: And not only did I have a chair, [clears throat] but back then you could do some 
other things. I brought my chair home. My chair is in my office down the road over there, with 
my name on the back of it. 
DC: Oh, that’s great. 
EN: Let’s take a break. 
DC: That’s—want to take a little break? 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB: Okay, start again. How did you end up going to South Africa in the first place? Tell 
us the story. 
RB: [Eating] Well, I went to South Africa. I had gone there on a couple of other 
occasions with Ambassador Doug Holladay, who was a special ambassador to South Africa. I 
had also gone there to take about [clears throat] twenty black college presidents to South Africa 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
38 
who wanted to go. And the South African government gave us visas to [get on in], because it was 
hard to get a visa. 
So, then Mrs. King called me one day, and she said, “Bob.” She was a very close friend. 
So, she said, “Bob, I want to go to South Africa, and you know all those people over there, 
because we can’t get a visa.” She said, “My people have tried to get a visa.” 
So, I called Piet Koornhof, who was the ambassador from South Africa to the United 
States. And I had met Piet at a prayer breakfast in Washington, and he considered himself a 
strong devout Christian and so forth. So, I told him I wanted to see him. He said, “Okay, you 
come and have lunch with me, Bob.” I said, “Okay.” So, I went to the embassy and had lunch 
with him. I said, “You know, Mrs. King, Martin Luther King’s widow, says she wants to go to 
South Africa, and she wants to take some of her staff with her, but she can’t get a visa to get in 
the country.” And I said, “This is not the Christian way.” 
DC: Hmm. 
RB: “You know, you need to do something else with this.” I said, “I don’t know what this 
is, Piet. You know, you’re supposed to be my Christian brother, but the country’s doing this kind 
of thing.” He said, “Oh, Bob, no! No, that’s not right! You know, Mrs. King wants to go, we will 
let her. We’ll have her visa.” He said, “You get me all the information, and we’ll get it worked 
out.” I said, “Okay.” So, I called Coretta, and Coretta has one of the staff to get all the 
information on all of the people who want to go. Got the information, and within a few days, we 
had the visas for everybody who wanted to go. 
Now, the other problem was, there were a number of people Mrs. King wanted to go 
didn’t have no money. I mean, you know, we were doing it under the banner of the King Center, 
which she had established. And they didn’t have any money. So, I had to go out and raise the 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
39 
money to make the trip. So, anyway, we went over there. And one of the things that she said she 
wanted to do was to go see President Botha to see if we could get him to let Nelson Mandela out 
of jail. She said, “I really think I can do this, Bob.” I said, “Okay, no problem.” 
DC: This is what—what year is this, approximately? 
RB: This was about 1986 maybe, something like that.. 
DC: Okay. 
RB: So, we went to South Africa. [1:25:00] And when we got there, we met with a group 
of the people in South Africa, like Dr. Boesak, and others. And they all were urging us not to 
meet, that Mrs. King shouldn’t meet with President Botha. And we said, “Okay.” And Mrs. King 
and some of the people that she had taken with her, you know, said they were rethinking meeting 
with President Botha. So, after we got there, we stayed up all night discussing with some of the 
leadership in South Africa and some of the people who were leaders in the U.S., saying that—
and most of them came to the conclusion that we shouldn’t meet with President Botha. 
And that’s one of the reasons Mrs. King was over there. She was over there for a couple 
of other reasons. And I think one of the other reasons was Bishop Tutu was being made an 
archbishop at the time, and she was going to attend. We were all going to attend his ceremony. 
And nobody wanted Mrs. King to meet with President Botha. She wanted to meet with President 
Botha to ask for him to get Mandela out of jail, let Mandela out of jail. Well—and, see, this is 
something that never really has surfaced, but most of the people in that meeting, they didn’t want 
Mrs. King to meet with President Botha. 
So, we thrashed that out over all night long, I mean, literally all night. It was daybreak, 
and we still had—were talking about this. And so, Mrs. King decided. She said, “Bob, I don’t 
want to go against the wishes of the people here on the ground in dealing with this.” She said, 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
40 
“I’m not going to do this.” She said, “I’m going to write a letter to President Botha and tell him 
that I can’t meet with him,” and so forth. 
So, she wrote the letter. And, of course, who gets picked to take the letter to the state 
house? Okay, so, [laughs] I told them I would do it after they picked me. So, I went over there to 
deliver the letter to tell them—the letter told them that she wasn’t going to be meeting with him, 
because he had agreed to meet with her. And he wouldn’t meet with anybody, but he had agreed 
to meet with her! And she was going to ask for Mandela’s release, but she—so, anyway, I took 
the letter. And I went through the gate, they let me through the gate, and I went to President 
Botha’s office. 
And this guy met me, one of his assistants met me. And I delivered the letter, and I said, 
“Please give this letter from Mrs. King to President Botha.” And I said, “She deeply regrets that 
she could not meet with him at this time.” And he looked at me and he said, “Mr. Brown, we 
certainly appreciate Mrs. King being here, and we appreciate you delivering this letter to 
President Botha, telling him what Mrs. King’s wishes were.” And he said, “We respect her 
wishes.” And I said, “Thank you very much, and we look forward to maybe greeting you again 
sometime.” So, I turned around and left. 
So, I went back, and Mrs. King says, “Bob,” she said, “one of the things that I need to do 
before we leave this country, I need to go see Winnie Mandela.” Now, we were in Cape Town. 
Johannesburg is two and a half hours away by plane. And so, we got in touch with Mrs. 
Mandela. Mrs. Mandela said, “Yeah, I’d love to see Mrs. King.” So, we flew to Johannesburg 
and went to Soweto to spend some time with Mrs. Mandela. So, we’re sitting there talking, 
talking, talking about everything. And so, Mrs. King asked Mrs. Mandela, “What would you—
what would be most important to you and Mr. Mandela for us that we could do for you all now?” 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
41 
And Mrs. Mandela was loud and clear. She said, “The thing that Nelson and I want most 
is for our children [1:30:00] to be able to go back to America and go to school.” She said, “There 
have been a number of people over here who promised that, but nobody has ever delivered.” 
Said, you know, “People promise in America, and you never hear from them anymore.” That’s 
what Mrs. Mandela told Mrs. King. 
So, Mrs. King looked at me and she said, “Bob, is this something that we can do?” I 
knew what she meant, you know, [laughs] is it something that I can do? So, I told her. I told Mrs. 
Mandela and I told Mrs. King, I said, “Yes, I think we can do it.” And I said, “But what we need, 
what I need, is I need a letter from Mrs. Mandela to me personally, asking me to do this, and then 
I’ll set it into motion.” 
And sure enough, about two or three weeks later, I get a letter from Mrs. Mandela, asking 
me to do this! And so, I set it into motion. I called the president of Boston University, who is a 
close friend, and I was on that board. I’m still on that board of trustees of the university. And he 
agreed to do—he agreed to take care of the tuition and so forth. But I would have to take care of 
all the other expenses: getting them over here, housed, a van because they had Mandela’s three 
grandchildren at the time. There was four, because she had another child [after she got here]. 
And they lived here seven years, seven years, and I paid for it personally. Not some grant 
I got from a foundation or from a company—from RJB personally. And it was a very expensive 
proposition, but it was one that I did because I thought we owed it to them. And I had told Mrs. 
King, who was one of my closest friends, that I would do it. And I did it. 
Now, that young woman who came over here is now the South African ambassador to 
Argentina, Uruguay and Paraguay. She’s the only person, only Mandela child or grandchild who 
is in an official position with the government, and that’s Zenani. 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
42 
DC: Um-hmm. Incredible story. 
RB: So, you know, you never know how things are going to turn out when you’re 
pursuing different kinds of activity. But South Africa was a real challenge. 
DC: And you met him as soon as he got out of prison? 
RB: I met him inside the jail. 
DC: Oh, really? 
RB: I have some material that I’ll share with you. But I met him inside the jail. They 
allowed Mrs.—Mrs. Mandela says, “Look.” When I agreed to take them over, bring them back 
with me, I went over there. And Mrs. Mandela said, “Before you leave this country again, you 
have to see Nelson Mandela.” I said, “Well, nobody has seen him in twenty-some years. How 
you think they’re going to let me see him?” I said, “They won’t even let you all see him but 
fifteen minutes at a time, and you all travel two and a half hours down there to Cape Town from 
Johannesburg.” 
She said, “Well, I’m going to try. I’m going to petition to President Botha for you to see 
him, because you’re taking—you’re the guardian of his children.” And I thought it was a 
hopeless, useless, hopeless kind of thing for her to do, because I knew they weren’t going to do 
nothing. 
The night before I was to leave, I got a call from Neil van Heerden, who was one of the 
top assistants to President Botha. And he called me on the telephone at the hotel and he said, 
“Mr. Brown,” and he said what his name was. He said, “I’m calling for President Botha. He 
asked me to call you to tell you that you have permission. He’s granting you permission to see 
Mr. Mandela tomorrow at Pollsmoor Prison if you still want to do it.” 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
43 
I couldn’t believe it. Nobody had seen Nelson Mandela in twenty-some years, and these 
people are granting me permission to go to Pollsmoor Prison to see him inside the prison? I 
mean, I couldn’t—I mean, it was just so—I figured maybe they want to kill me or something! 
Because, you know, there were a lot of killings and bombings and everything going on then. And 
so, I said, “Oh, my goodness!” So, I prayed over it, you know, and I asked God to give me the 
strength and the guidance and to give me the courage to go ahead and do this. [1:35:00] So, I 
went down there. I carried Zenani and Prince Muzi, her husband, with me. 
And so, we got to the gate, and, you know, they had all these guns and things there. And I 
said, “Oh, my God! This may be it!” So, the guy brought out his big old pad, and he says, “Oh, 
you’re Mr. Brown?” And I said, “Yeah.” He said, “Well, we are going to open the gate, and you 
go to that red brick building up there. And somebody will come and meet you at the door as soon 
as you get there.” 
So, we walked through the gate, walked up to this red brick building, and as soon as I got 
to the bottom of the steps of that brick building, only about three or four steps, this big white guy 
comes out. And he grabs my hand and he says, “Mr. Brown,” he said, “I’m the chief warden 
here, and you—what you’re doing for Mr. Mandela is a marvelous thing for his family. And we 
all want to congratulate you for what you’re doing for Mr. Mandela and his family.” He said, 
“I’m having him brought down from his cell now. And you go into that big room over there in 
the corner, and you sit in there, and you talk to him as long as you want to.” 
Now, in twenty-some years, nobody—his family, who they’re the only people they would 
allow to see him—they would only let him be seen for fifteen or twenty minutes, and then 
sometimes they’d give them an extra fifteen minutes. And they would travel two and a half hours 
by plane! And I sat there and talked to him about two hours. It was absolutely mind-boggling! 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
44 
He told me what it would take to make peace in South Africa. He talked about a lot of things. I 
have a memo that I wrote—as soon as I got out of there, I was scratching down notes—I have a 
memo that I wrote as soon as I got outside the gate, and I’ll give you a copy of it, the memo that 
I wrote about our meeting. 
DC: Okay. 
RB: And then, they let me go back. The next year, they let me go back to see him again. 
But by this time, they were talking to him, you know. They had never really had any relationship 
or talked to him. They wouldn’t let anybody else talk to him. But after I saw him and I wrote this 
memo, and I passed it on to Mrs. Mandela. She gave it to the ANC. I passed it on to George 
Schultz, who was Secretary of State. I passed it on to President Botha. I gave Piet Koornhof and 
those a copy of it, so they could send it to President Botha and so forth. So, everybody had it. 
Our side had it, their side had it, the ANC had it. Everybody had the memo about what Mr. 
Mandela was talking about. And so, after that, they had started little conversations with him. 
DC: And things started rolling. 
RB: One thing led into another and another. So, you just never know what God has in 
store for you and how he’s using you. As my grandmother used to say, “Just let God have his 
way.” Let him use you, and things will turn out okay. But it was an unbelievable time down there 
in South Africa. 
DC: Amazing. 
RB: It was amazing. And then, you know, there were other things that happened during 
that period. I went into most of the black townships all over the country. And I would go to the 
schools, because I figured that was—the schools and see if there were any libraries. Well, there 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
45 
are very few, if almost no libraries, because they wouldn’t let them have books. So, what I did, is 
I decided to start taking books and sending books back to South Africa. [Coughs] 
And so, as a result, I would take truckloads. And I got permission from the South African 
government that I could bring shoes and clothes. I didn’t tell them I was bringing books. So, in 
every box of shoes and clothes, I’d have a half a box of shoes and clothes and a half a box of 
books, all kinds of schoolbooks. And so, I started doing that on a scale, [1:40:00] just—and I 
would be going there—I’d make it my point to go there. Get the books, and then I’d get a truck 
from here, and have the truck loaded up. 
And I had got permission from the South African government to put those books on 
South Africa Airways, and they didn’t charge me anything for putting them on there. So, I’d put 
those books in the clothes, because I told them they were shoes and clothes. And if they’d look in 
the box, that’s what they would see, shoes and clothes, but the other half of the box were a 
number of books. So, I did that. For several years, I did that. I took books [coughs] into— 
DC: And you still do that, right? 
RB: And still do that. We set up over three hundred libraries in South Africa, over three 
hundred. We set them up in the Zululand and Ulundi, where the king of the Zulus, who is also a 
good friend. And, you know, before you leave, I’ll show you some pictures of some of that, you 
know. 
DC: Great. 
RB: And we set up all over South Africa, because books are still precious in Africa, not 
just in South Africa. In Africa, books are like gold. A kid gets a book, and they start to cry. And 
we’re shredding books over here. 
DC: Right. 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
46 
RB: We’re shredding books by the millions, you know, recycling them and that kind of 
thing, when these people, tens of millions of kids, don’t have any books. And they think a book 
is like a piece of gold. They cry many times when they get a book. 
DC: Okay. 
RB: Somehow or another, we’re going to have to figure that one out. 
DC: Um-hmm. How’s your voice? 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB: We’re rolling again. 
DC: Are you ready to start again? So, maybe let’s start there, if you would, talk a little bit 
about President Nixon and his character and how he felt about working on race relations. But I 
also want to really hear about the work that you were able to do in stimulating the growth of 
minority businesses in that time. 
RB: Well, first of all, I think a lot of people have put together in their own minds that 
President Nixon was a devout racist. He was a devout Quaker, and I don’t know any racist 
Quakers. I know that sometimes President Nixon used some language that he probably regretted 
or shouldn’t have used. But many people do that. But many people didn’t have a camera on them 
when they were doing it, you know. Many presidents have done that, and many top people. I’ve 
been around a few when they’ve used some bad language. So, he’s not the only one who’s done 
that. But he’s the only one who had that camera on him, who you could show. And so, he was 
condemned for it. But he was not a racist. 
He was a person, if he believed in you or if he believed in a cause, he was totally for it. 
And the whole thing of minority business enterprise. He wanted to have blacks and Hispanics 
and others to get a—have a shot, because he felt very strongly that if you don’t get a shot within 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
47 
the business community, or in business in general, that this whole country was built on that. And 
if you were not involved in that, then it was going to be very limited, in terms of what you were 
going to be able to do in America. And so, he wanted that opened up, and my charge was to do 
that. 
I went to Wall Street. I went to the biggest banks in the country, to Citigroup, which was 
the biggest bank at the time, and met with their chairman and CEO and vice-chairman about the 
whole minority enterprise program and what we expected of them and their bank to do. They 
agreed to work with us. We organized a National Commission on Minority Enterprise. We put 
the most powerful people in America in it. 
We designated as chairman of that group Mr. Roche, who was Jim Roche, who was the 
chairman and CEO of General Motors, which at the time was the largest corporation and, indeed, 
in the world at that time. He agreed to chair it. [1:45:00] Not only did he agree to chair it, but he 
got other industrial people, other automobile manufacturers to come on in and give dealerships to 
blacks all over the country. When we went to the White House in late 1968, ’69, there were 
only—I think there were only two, no more than three blacks in America who owned 
dealerships. And there were very few who were working in many of these major manufacturers, 
you know, like Chrysler, GM, Ford. Very few were working—almost none were working in the 
executive positions in these companies, in the top executive. 
Now, I mean, it was—people seem to think that, you know, because you have some 
blacks there now in some top positions and all that, on boards, and so forth, that all this just 
happened by osmosis. It did not happen by osmosis. It happened because we worked at it and 
made it happen. You know, I met—Jim Roche became a close personal friend of mine. And 
when I left the White House, he wanted to expand what they were doing, in terms of minority 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
48 
enterprise, and General Motors hired my company for several years to go out and spread the 
word and to get them involved in a whole range of different kinds of activities, with minorities 
across the country. 
So, there were—you know, it just didn’t happen, you know, just because I was there, and 
I was sitting up there as a black person. It makes no difference, whether you’re a black person 
sitting where I was sitting as a staff person, or if you’re a black person sitting as President of the 
United States, if you want some stuff to happen, you’ve got to work at it. You know, you can’t 
just wish it to happen. You’ve got to make it happen. And that’s what we were doing. That’s 
what we did. 
And that’s what the Nixon years were all about. President Nixon, in 1972, when he ran 
for reelection, he got twenty percent or more of the black vote, and he was supposed to be, 
according to some history books and some people, he was supposed to be the devil reincarnated 
to blacks. No Republican candidate since 1972 has gotten as many black votes as Richard Nixon 
got in 1972, no candidate! How did that happen, when he was supposed to be the devil 
reincarnated? 
We had Jim Brown, we had Sammy Davis, Jr., [clears throat] we had the president of the 
Baptist conventions, several Baptist conventions, we had some of the top ministers in the country 
and bishops of different churches, and so forth, who came out in support of President Nixon in 
1972. That’s how it happened. Because they knew we were working closely with them. They 
knew that we had had a major effort to get major money into black colleges. We got the first 
major money into black colleges ever in America. Richard Nixon did that. 
No president before or since has met with all of the top blacks that he had in top positions 
in the administration. We would meet with all of them at least a year, sometimes twice a year. 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
49 
And people who were in the group were people like Jim Farmer, who was Assistant Secretary of 
HEW, who was the head of CORE, at that time, was considered the most radical organization 
there was on the scene. He was conducting massive demonstrations and everything else. But we 
brought him into the administration as an Assistant Secretary of HEW, in a top job, where he 
could make things happen, where he did make things happen. 
We had other people there, the head of the Woman’s Bureau in the Labor Department. 
We had Art Fletcher there, who was the Assistant Secretary of Labor, who came up with the 
Philadelphia Plan and all those things to right the ship, with regards to employment. All those 
things started under Richard Nixon, all those things. And we had people in those jobs, who came 
en masse, we had them en masse in the White House. I have pictures here to show you what we 
were doing and who we were meeting with. 
And these pictures were to go out to the Washington Post, the New York Times, and all 
that, about these meetings [1:50:00] and all this stuff that was going on. And I don’t think—not 
one, as I recall, not one major newspaper printed any of these pictures. Not one major 
newspaper. Now, something’s wrong with that. Not one major newspaper printed any of these 
pictures of all of this that happened all over the place. 
So, there were so many different things going on. Job situations, EEOC, the first major 
funding in revamping of EEOC to take it to another level so that it could be more effective was 
done under Richard Nixon. And Bill Brown, who’s a big lawyer who made a lot of strides in 
America, was chairman of it for four years. He’s a Philadelphia lawyer, one of the top lawyers in 
the country, black lawyer. And there were other things like that that happened over and over 
again, where we brought top people, civil rights leaders, and others. Roy Wilkins, Whitney 
Young. The President met with Whitney Young many times. The President met with Roy 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
50 
Wilkins, who was the head of the NAACP, many times. We did all kinds of things as a result of 
their suggestions and so forth. 
DC: What about the federal government patronizing black businesses? Was that a 
priority? 
RB: That was a big priority. And that was something that I pursued at a White House 
level and that Secretary Maurice Stans, who was Secretary of Commerce, he and I worked very 
closely together on that. He had the responsibility because we set up the Office of Minority 
Business Enterprise within the Commerce Department. And we pursued that with all of the 
departments of the government. 
DC: Right. 
RB: And not only did we pursue it, in terms of contracts and grants, but along with all the 
other things I was doing, I made sure that the Defense Department, that the other departments 
that had a lot of money, like the General Services Administration and all that, I made sure that 
they were giving out contracts and grants and whatever they had to black contractors, to the 
black colleges and universities, just as they were doing to other people, that they hadn’t been 
doing before we got there. 
DC: Right. Yeah, the figure that I have is that the federal government purchases from 
black businesses rose from thirteen million dollars to a hundred and forty-two million dollars 
during Nixon’s time in office, and during your time. [Laughs] 
RB: I know, because we monitored it. And, you know, there’s another thing we 
monitored. The Korean War was going on—not the Korean War—the Vietnam War was going 
on at the time. We were having big trouble, the race relations problem. There were big race 
relations problems. When we got to the White House, that was one of the big problems. And 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
51 
blacks were not being promoted. They were at a certain level and they couldn’t go to—when we 
got to the White House in 1969, when Nixon was inaugurated, we had, I think, two, no more 
than three, blacks who were an admiral or general or something like that, and most of the 
departments and all that was in the Army, I believe. I think we had one Navy guy, Gravely, 
Admiral Gravely, I think he was a rear admiral. But that was it when we got there in 1969. 
One of the things that happened, you know, and I started concentrating on this—and 
Chappie James, who we brought over to be the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense Public 
Affairs and gave him a star because he was a colonel—he was an ace pilot in two wars, one of 
the top guys in the military that we’ve ever had, and he was a colonel! And was an ace pilot in 
two wars! And we brought him over, gave him a star, and put him in the Defense Department. 
Chappie came to me one day, and he said, “Bob,” he said, “We’re never going to have a 
representative number of blacks unless we get something going here in this Defense Department. 
It’s never going to happen.” So, I said, “We’re going to do something about it, Chappie.” So, I 
talked to Haldeman about it. And he said, “Let me go talk to the President and let me tell him.” 
He said, “I’m on my way to talk to the President now. I’ll talk to him and see what he says, and 
I’ll call you back.” 
And about two or three hours later, I get this call from Haldeman. Haldeman said, 
[1:55:00] “Bob, I talked to the President, and the President thinks you’re exactly right, and he 
wants to be helpful. He said he figured out that the way that he can be helpful is that every 
month, they send over the list of flagged officers, because as Commander in Chief, he has to sign 
off on it. And so, in order to do something about that, Bob,” he said, “what I’m going to do, and 
the President agreed, what I’m going to do is send you the list when it comes over. And you 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
52 
check it out and see if there are any minorities on the list.” He said, “If there are no minorities,” 
he said, “you let me know, and we’ll send it right on back.” 
We sent it back about three or four times in a row, unsigned. Unsigned. Nobody got 
promoted. Unsigned. And so, all of a sudden, it must have dawned on somebody at the Pentagon 
that we better, we’ve got to do something else. So, they started putting some blacks on there, 
they put a woman on there, and stuff like that. And so, I would check it out. Every time it would 
come over, I would check it out. And when they started doing that, we sent it back. 
By the time I left the White House in 1973, we had a whole lot of black generals, okay? I 
mean, a lot of them, and then, they congregated all over the place after that. By the time I left 
there, Chappie James, who had never had a star when we got there. We gave him his first star. 
By the time I left, he had three stars, and he was the head of our military base in Denver, that 
strategic base that we have out there. 
But there were just so many things like that that happened over and over. I mean, that 
was vastly important. It changed the way we did business in America, with the military, with 
business people, with all facets of what we were trying to do. But we had to wade in on it. I even 
set up a special commission. I did this myself, because I had the President’s okay to do whatever. 
I set up a special commission to go around the world, because we were having race relations 
problems on military bases all over the world. I set up a special commission to go around the 
world to check this out and meet with the service people in all these places. You find out all kind 
of problems. 
And then, I would go, from time to time, I would go myself, unannounced, until I got 
right there near the base. And then, I’d have somebody, one of the military guys on the plane 
with me to call the base and tell them that I’m going to be landing this plane, he’s going to be 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
53 
landing this plane in the next thirty minutes, and that I wanted to meet with the commanding 
officer. Because we’d have intelligence that was telling us what was happening on different 
places. 
DC: Yeah, yeah. 
RB: I went to Hawaii, spent a lot of time in Hawaii, because we have a lot of military 
bases there. 
DC: Sure do. 
RB: And the person who was the head of CINCPAC, over all of our armed forces in the 
Far East from Hawaii on back, was none other than General John McCain, John McCain’s father. 
I have a picture of him around here somewhere with him and I meeting over there in Hawaii. We 
became good friends as a result of that, you know. 
DC: Okay. 
RB: So, you know, it was quite a time. 
DC: Amazing work that you did there. So, I have just— 
JB: [   ] 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB: Okay, we’re rolling again. 
DC: Yeah, so, to just conclude, if you could tell us about Sealtest and A&P. 
RB: Well, I got this call one day from one of the guys who was traveling with Dr. King. 
And Dr. King was in Cleveland, and he said that Dr. King wanted to talk to me and he wanted to 
meet with me, if I didn’t mind coming out there. And I said, “Oh, no, I’ll catch the next plane out 
there.” So, I went out to the airport, jumped on an airplane, and went out to Cleveland. 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
54 
And when I got there, Dr. King came in the room, and he said, “Bob, we’ve got a 
problem here.” And he says, “And we’ve got a problem with Sealtest.” He said, “You know, 
we’ve been trying to meet with them and get them to hire black truck drivers and do some other 
kinds of things that they need to be doing.” [2:00:00] And he said, “They won’t even meet with 
me. They refuse to meet with me or any of my people.” And he said, “I’m wondering if you have 
any suggestions of what we can do.” 
And I told him, I said, “Yeah,” I said, “What I need to do,” I said, “I have this 
relationship with the people at A&P, with the top people at A&P,” which at the time was the 
largest supermarket chain in America. And I said, you know, “I will go to them. I’ll call them up 
and see if I can see them. And then, I’ll fly there immediately and see what I can do about it.” 
And he said, “Well, we need to do something, because we want to make some progress, but 
we’re going to have to—we don’t want to tear up everything in making progress.” 
So, I flew to New York and [coughs] got a meeting with the CEO of A&P. And when I 
went in the room, we expressed greetings and so forth. And I told him, I said, “Let me get right 
to the point. Here’s the point.” I said, “Dr. King and his people are in the Cleveland, Ohio, area, 
and they’ve been having a lot of problems with Sealtest Dairy.” I said, “The Sealtest 
management won’t meet with Dr. King or any of his people.” 
And I said, “There’s going to be big trouble there.” I said, “We do not need the A&P 
stores,” because the A&P was a client of mine. So, I said, “We don’t need the A&P stores 
involved in this. We’re trying to make, you know, trying to make room in all of the states where 
A&P is located to have a new relationship.” And I said, “We need to be in front of this.” And he 
said, “Well, Bob, what would you recommend?” 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
55 
I said, “I would recommend that you have somebody to get in touch with A&P, one of 
our top executives, and let them know—with Sealtest—and let them know that we have a 
problem with this and we don’t want to be involved some kind of way.” And he says, “Yeah, 
you’re right, Bob.” Then he called in one of his top assistants. He came in the room, and he said, 
“Look, Bob’s been telling me about this problem with Sealtest.” And he said, “Yes, sir, we know 
all about it.” Said, “It’s a problem out there in the Midwest.” And he said, “Well, I want you to 
call the top people at Sealtest and tell them that if they don’t get this situation right with Dr. 
King, that we are going to take Sealtest products out of all of the stores in Ohio.” Now, I had 
recommended initially that maybe we ought to look at taking the products out of all the stores in 
Cleveland. 
DC: [Laughs] 
RB: He told him to tell them they were going to take the products out of all the stores in 
Ohio. Before I could hardly get out of the building, because I had some more meetings there, 
before I could get out of the building, I called my office, and my office told me that, “Mr. 
Brown, Dr. King’s people are desperately trying to reach you. They’re still in Cleveland and they 
need to talk to you.” So, I called them. I called Dr. King. 
Dr. King said, “Bob,” he said, “I don’t know what you told them people.” He said, “But 
the top people at Sealtest have called me several times already. They want to meet this afternoon, 
they want to meet in the morning, anytime we can meet, they want to meet. They’re ready to 
meet and work with us any way they can.” So, they went and met with them. 
And that night, Dr. King called a mass rally in Cleveland, at a big church there, at 
Reverend Hoover’s church there, Odie Hoover, [clears throat] Mount Olivet Baptist Church. And 
so, Dr. King made this speech. And in his speech, he talked about Sealtest, and he talked about 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
56 
me. He said, you know, “We’ve made a major breakthrough here like we haven’t made in a 
while.” He said, “But what Sealtest didn’t realize is that we have Bob Brown on our side, and 
he’s on our board of directors, and he was the man that made this stuff happen,” and so forth. 
And it’s recorded. There’s a recording about this, you know. I have one somewhere in the office 
or somewhere. There’s a recording of this speech and what he was talking about. He said, “This 
is what we’re going to do now, you know. This is the way of the future,” and so forth. And he 
talked about my role [2:05:00] in it and everything else, and what I’d done for SCLC. 
DC: Amazing, yeah. 
RB: So, it was an amazing time. 
DC: Um-hmm. 
RB: An amazing time. 
DC: I mean, as I—you know, as I said when we started this a couple of hours ago, that 
it’s not just the, you know, the marches, but it’s these kinds of pressures and [laughs] arm-
twisting in the back— 
RB: Yeah! 
DC: This is how change is done. 
RB: I mean, if you’re not doing that, if you’re not making something happen—because 
it’s all about jobs and different kinds of opportunities, contracts with minority business people, 
all of this. This is what makes the whole thing go round. This is what makes it all a success. You 
know, because the businesses and the jobs are going on all the time. It’s just that you need 
participation by all the people, blacks, browns, grays, whatever they are, you need all the people 
to participate. 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
57 
And during the fifties and the sixties, for the most part, and sometimes in the seventies, 
you had only the whites who were participating in all this. Sealtest and the rest of the milk 
companies didn’t even have any black—they were taking milk throughout all these communities. 
They had thousands of trucks and truck drivers delivering milk. You remember the mild truck 
driver? 
DC: Um-hmm, sure. 
RB: They didn’t have any blacks! 
DC: Not a single driver? 
RB: Not a single driver! Delivering black people milk every whichaway, thousands of 
black people, tens of thousands of them. Didn’t have one single driver black! We changed that. 
You know, there are just so many different things like that that happened during that 
time. I mean, a lot of people look at stuff now, and they think it just happened, you know, like 
out of the clear blue sky, somebody just got religion one day and said, “We’re going to help the 
black people.” You know, no, it didn’t happen like that. You had to give it some pressure put on 
them. 
And that’s what has to happen now. I mean, you know, this thing with Mr. Obama taking 
the money away from the black colleges, and there are tens of thousands of students who can’t 
go back to school, right now, black kids, because they tightened up the money, the credit crunch 
on the parents who could not get the loans anymore, because the administration did that, you 
know. And so, many of the black colleges, you watch, over the next year or two, many of the 
black colleges are going to be closing down. They can’t stay open if they don’t have students. 
The students— 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
58 
DC: So, you tell me when. 
JB: It’s rolling. 
DC: Okay. So, I’ll just ask you if you have any concluding remarks you’d like to make, I 
mean, anything that I didn’t ask you that I should have asked, or you were expecting me to ask 
that I didn’t, or anything else you’d like to say. 
RB: No, I think you’ve done a great job. I appreciate you coming and I appreciate what 
you all are doing, and not just for your departments and history departments and all that, but for 
what the museum is doing, and what it will represent to ages yet unborn, to those kids, and to 
many of the young people today. They have absolutely no idea of what went on, and they’ll get 
this from this museum and what you all are doing now. And it’ll be a guidepost for many people, 
white, black, whoever, to see what has happened and to give them some sense of what they ought 
to be doing in the years ahead. So, I appreciate what you’ve done and what you continue to do. 
DC: Well, thank you so much. And, yeah, it’s been a battle just to get, you know, just to 
get the museum, as you know. 
RB: Oh, yeah. But I never thought that we would have a Black History Museum right 
there in the heart of Washington, in probably the most prime spot that you can put a museum in 
the capitol of the world. I think it’s fantastic. Every time I go by there, the tears just well up in 
my eyes now, you know, and I’m back and forth in Washington all the time. But I think it’s a 
wonderful, magnificent thing. 
And I congratulate you, all of you, for what you’ve done, and especially Lonnie and the 
board and everybody involved. I think you’ve done a great job. And I’m looking forward to 
seeing the finished product and to getting a lot of young people, blacks and whites and others, 
there to see it, and particularly some young people from Africa. [2:10:00] I think they need to see 
Robert Brown, October 1, 2013 
59 
this. That would help them a great deal. And I’m in touch with a lot of them. We’re still sending 
a lot of books into schools there. And many of them who can come over here to visit. So, I’m 
going to be taking—when you finish, I’m going to be taking a lot of them through that museum. 
DC: Fantastic. What a great way to end! Well, thank you so much. 
RB: Thank you. 
DC: Thank you. It’s been just terrific. 
 
[Recording ends at 2:10:28] 
END OF INTERVIEW 
Transcript by Sally C. Council