Oral History Interview 
 
with 
 
B. K. Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
Interview Conducted by 
Juliana Nykolaiszyn and Tanya Finchum 
January 18, 2012 
 
 
The “Big Top” Show Goes On:  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oklahoma Oral History Research Program 
Edmon Low Library ● Oklahoma State University 
© 2012 
 
 
2
The “Big Top” Show Goes On  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
Interview History 
 
 
Interviewers: Juliana Nykolaiszyn, Tanya Finchum 
Transcriber: 
Miranda Mackey 
Editors: 
Ashley Sarchet, Tanya Finchum 
 
The recording and transcript of this interview were processed at the Oklahoma State 
University Library in Stillwater, Oklahoma. 
 
Project Detail 
 
The “Big Top” Show Goes On: An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the 
Canvas Circus Tent aims to preserve the voices and experiences of those involved with the 
work culture associated with Hugo, Oklahoma’s tent circus tradition.  
 
Funding for this project was made possible by the Library of Congress American Folklife 
Center as part of a 2011 Archie Green Fellowship awarded to researchers Tanya Finchum 
and Juliana Nykolaiszyn with the Oklahoma Oral History Research Program at the OSU 
Library. 
 
This project was approved by the Oklahoma State University Institutional Review Board on 
May 6, 2011. 
 
Legal Status 
 
Scholarly use of the recordings and transcripts of the interview with B. K. Silverlake is 
unrestricted. The interview agreement was signed on July 1, 2011. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
The “Big Top” Show Goes On  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
About B. K. Silverlake… 
 
B.K. Silverlake was born in Ora, Indiana in August of 1946 to Emma and Raymond Duke. 
The Dukes were in the circus business at the time B.K. was born. Two weeks later she was 
traveling with the circus. Having worked in the circus business her whole life, she has 
literally done every job from booking to performing. 
 
In the fall of 1967, she married Melvin Silverlake. The Dukes and the Silverlakes knew and 
worked together long before B.K. was born. In 1967 the Silverlakes bought Clark and 
Walters Circus, where everyone worked together once again. In the winter of 1970, the 
family decided to open a second show, and Melvin and B.K. opened Fisher Brothers Circus 
to carry on the family name as Melvin’s grandfather took out the original Fisher Brothers in 
the 1930s. 
 
After Fisher Brothers, B.K. continued to remain very involved in the circus and carnival 
industry through the years. 
 
B.K. and Melvin have one son, Mel Ray. She currently resides in Hugo, Oklahoma and 
remains passionate about the people and profession she loves dearly. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
The “Big Top” Show Goes On  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
B. K. Silverlake 
 
Oral History Interview 
 
Interviewed by Juliana Nykolaiszyn  
& Tanya Finchum 
January 18, 2012 
Hugo, Oklahoma 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We are picking up our interview with B.K. Silverlake, and today is 
Wednesday, January 18, 2012. All right, we were talking about pig 
racing [when we stopped], and I think we’re nearing the end of pig 
racing. 
 
Right. 
 
Tell me a little bit more about the pig racing. 
 
Well, we got off on to last spring when I went and helped Mel Ray, my 
son, and Culpepper and Merriweather Circus here. But I had to call my 
son to put me in gear, to where I should actually be. And, really, those 
pig races that I talked about already, we didn’t do them maybe for a year 
or something. That’s still foggy in there. But then what we did was—and 
I’m not sure which came first. Let’s see, it would’ve been ’91, ’92, ’90, 
so, yes, it had to be 1990. We wound up in southern Indiana at my ex-
husband’s, it’s still hard to get that ex in there, but his home in southern 
Indiana. We decided to do Christmas shows, which are indoor shows 
and you have a Santa Claus, but it’s the same thing. It’s still a circus, 
and so I went out and booked it.  
 
As a matter of fact, that’s the time I’d said before in there about when I 
had pneumonia so bad and our sponsor wasn’t going to let me leave, but 
we did it. I think we showed three weeks with that, on the Christmas 
show. That would’ve been fall of 1990. And then we went back to 
Florida. My Aunt Torchy, her aunt passed away and left her quite a sum 
of money, and she wanted to take a circus out. And I talked, I begged, I 
pleaded, “Don’t do this. We don’t have the right people. Please don’t do 
this.” Fought her every step of the way. I said, “Go buy you a motor 
home, tour the circuses,” because she was older and, “Nope. I want you 
to run it. I want you to take it out. I want you to do it.” I’m like, “But it 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
may not work. Then what have you got? Nothing.” She said, “Well, I 
didn’t have nothing before so what makes the difference?”  
 
Well, anyway, it wound up she says, “Either you take it out or I’ll get 
somebody that will.” Well, that meant whoever would just take her 
money and that was it and not even try. So we did. We put another 
circus together, and we called it Fisher Brothers, because that’s what she 
wanted. And she said mostly she wanted to do it because Uncle Cal 
always wanted his own circus, and this would be like in memory of him. 
Well, we took it out. It did not do well, but we made it through and 
whatever. 
 
Where would you book the… 
 
We started out in Florida [spring of 1990], and we booked it, myself and 
my sister-in-law, Myrna, and my brother-in-law helped some on the 
booking, Joe. We toured up through Florida, working our way to 
Indiana, per se, up into Michigan because that was kind of always our 
territory, per se. It’s anybody’s territory, but that’s where we usually had 
shown. I’m thinking maybe we got as far as northern Indiana, I want to 
say, and it wasn’t clicking. Of course, my dad was not there, the 
mainstay on the booking agent. We didn’t have key people like we’d had 
in the past. And that’s what it takes. You’ve got to have the right people 
with their hearts in it and pushing every step of the way. And don’t 
misunderstand me, because the people we had were all for it and did 
everything we could, but it just was not clicking.  
 
So then we wound up in southern Indiana, and I booked the Christmas 
show again with pretty much the same sponsors, a few new ones. And I 
got the biggest kick out of the one fellow, because you don’t talk to 
these sponsors a whole lot. I mean, you do an initial and then you do the 
show and then that’s it. And I called and I just said, “Hello, how are you 
doing?” or something like that, and he said, “Well, B.K., how are you?” 
No, he didn’t say that, either. It was something to the effect, “Well, how 
in the world are you?” he says, “I’m so glad to hear from you.” And I’m 
thinking, I said, “You don’t even know who this is.” He says, “Yes, I do. 
It’s B.K.” (Laughter) And I thought, “How do they remember me?” 
(Laughs) So I can never do any bad because people remember me, you 
know. I learned that a long time ago. (Laughter)  
 
All right, so then we did that Christmas show. And let’s see. When that 
was over is when I left Melvin, what I call the real divorce, because I’d 
gotten a divorce. We’d been married thirteen years, I actually got a 
divorce [in 1980], and we were back together for thirteen years, and then 
I just—I’d lost it. And I think a lot of it was because I felt I’d let Aunt 
Torchy down and the people that was working. And Melvin was being a 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
jag, as normal. (Laughs) He won’t say that, he was Mr. perfect, but he is 
a good guy. And that’s when my son told me that him and Unity were 
getting married. I left and I came out to Texas. Johnny Frazier was doing 
phone rooms, and so I took a job with him. 
 
So what’s a phone room? 
 
Oh, okay. (Laughs) That’s what they call telemarketing. It’s like you get 
these calls of the evening to sell you something. Well, the phone rooms 
is where the circus calls businesses during the day and tries to sell them, 
we call them, books of tickets. It’ll either be five tickets, ten tickets, 
twenty tickets, whatever, and you try and sell those to a business. It’s 
just children’s tickets, is what you’re selling. They can keep them or 
they can donate them back to the sponsoring organization, and they will 
distribute them to less fortunate children. That type of thing. And then 
the sponsor gets a percentage, the show gets a percentage, and the 
telemarketer gets a percentage of that money.  
 
Then they also do a night sale, which is calling families at home, which I 
don’t know of anybody doing that anymore. But that’s basically the gist 
of it. And it helps all the way around because not only—and I don’t 
know if I said that in the billposting aspect. Even if you go into a store 
and ask to put a poster up, and they say no, you have still advertised. So 
this way you have called all the businesses, they know about it, and in 
the night sales you called most of the homes. So now you’ve told those 
people on a one-to-one basis. So to me, it’s really super good 
advertising. Okay? 
 
So how long were you doing phone rooms with Johnny? 
 
Boy, it wasn’t very long. I’m thinking maybe a couple of months, 
because that went defunct. (Laughs) We have a lot of that in our 
business, but we get up and try again. That’s the main thing. And then 
from there, my son says we went back to pig races, and Bobby Greene 
and I took a unit out. And I think Melvin and Myrna had a unit out at 
that time. That was my first experience of announcing. I’d never truly 
announced anything before, but Bobby Greene wasn’t about to do it. So 
I had to give all the jargon, and the carrying on, with the pig races. 
 
How’d that go for you? 
 
That was good. (Laughter) And the pig races were fun, whether it was 
with Melvin or with, like doing it on my own there with Bobby. They 
were fun, but they were boring, as I said before, because you just don’t 
have time. If you want to wonder around the midway and see what’s 
going on at the fair and it’s crowded and you can’t get back to do the pig 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
races, then you’re in trouble. So we didn’t get to do a lot of that. We 
could venture off a little bit, but not too far.  
 
The funniest part was Bobby stayed home in southern Indiana and Jackie 
Bradford went with me a couple, three spots. But the first one we went 
from southern Indiana to Rapid City, South Dakota. And it was when the 
bikers were having their fiftieth reunion out there. And boy, I’m telling 
you, all you saw was bikes. I don’t think there was a car on the road, 
except us. (Laughs) It was bikes, bikes, and more bikes, and they come 
to the pig races, and they had a blast. But it was pretty neat. We did get 
to go down after the fair was over. We went down that night and all 
through Rapid City. I mean, it was just neat, because it was just full of 
bikers. And if I recall right, they said there weren’t hardly any problems 
that year. So it was pretty neat. I was pretty proud.  
 
Then we had a few days to make the jump to wherever we were going, 
so I told—well, I just said her name—Jackie that we need to go see 
some sights. We went one day for a few hours, because you can’t leave 
the pigs for very long, and we had a ball. But she made it funny, because 
we’re driving and she’s reading a book. I said, “You’re supposed to be 
looking at the sights.” She says, “What am I looking at? A bunch of 
rocks over there, a bunch of trees over there.” (Laughs) But we just had 
fun. So it wasn’t often, even on the circus. We’ve been all over the 
country, but to actually go see the Grand Canyon or to go to 
Yellowstone Park, it’s very rare that you get to do that, especially if 
you’re right on the circus.  
 
Now, like where my dad was booking or billposting when I was young I 
was fortunate, because we did have time some days to go and do those 
things. And I’m very proud of Kelly Miller Circus, because they make 
time to take the kids, when they are in certain parts of the area, to see 
more than just, “Oh, there’s the Grand Canyon” as we’re driving by. So 
it’s pretty cool. 
 
All right. So Bobby and I did that. Now, Mel Ray thinks I did it two 
years, but I think I only did it one year. And then I wound up back here 
in Hugo, and I went to work at the Kelly Miller office, working in the 
office at Kelly Miller Circus when it was over here in the apartment 
buildings. 
 
And what would you do for them? 
 
I kind of run the office. I felt like I didn’t do much of anything. I just 
kind of twiddled my thumbs. I was kind of lost, because it was booked 
and it was this and it was that. Of course, then, David was the manager, 
co-owner, and I remember there was a couple of towns that needed to be 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
filled in. I said, “David, don’t you want me to fill it?” “No, B.K., I’ve 
got somebody…” I go, “But David, I could fill them in.” It was like I 
needed something to do, per se. I just made sure the girls did what they 
were supposed to. I did payroll and just kind of ran the office, per se, 
like that type thing. It wasn’t a whole lot of nothing, but it was a job. 
And I had my granddaughter here. She was in first grade, because 
maybe Mel Ray and Unity were on the show that year, on Kelly Miller.  
 
So I kept her when school started. That was in 2001 because that’s when 
the Twin Towers [New York City]… I know that year. Then after that, I 
think I went back to Florida —yes, I did. I went back to Florida for a 
while. Don’t ask me what I did there because I don’t really remember. 
Let’s see. Was that the year maybe Bobby and I worked for Ward Hall 
Sideshow? That could’ve been right in there. And we did—was it 
Miami? It doesn’t seem like it was Miami. Palm Springs, no, that’s 
California. One of those bigger towns down in southern Florida, 
anyway, and that was an experience of a lifetime.  
 
And I love Ward and Chris, and we had more fun. It about killed us, but 
we had more fun, because their other acts didn’t show up. (Laughs)  
Ben Dwayne was there, he was the announcer and magician, per se. So 
Bobby and I’d just take turns. I’d be the headless woman and then 
Bobby would be the snake man, and then I’d be spider woman and 
Bobby would be whatever was next. And then I’d be the electric lady. 
And one time, Ben was not paying attention. He couldn’t hear for 
nothing, and somehow the thing wasn’t set right and I was getting 
shocked, and I kept screaming, and he’s just announcing. (Laughs) 
Finally, he turned around and I’m trying to stay from getting 
electrocuted. We just had a ball, and it was cold and rainy, and I put up 
sidewall around. They all laughed, because I’d make some big ole pot of 
stew, and we’d all gather. And little Pete would come, and he’d eat. And 
Ward would come and say, “Now, did Pete give you two dollars for his 
lunch?” I said, “Ward, I don’t care if he does or not!” (Laughs) “Well, 
he needs to pay you something,” but it was just fun. We were dead. 
 
So then we went back, we finished that, went back to Gibsonton. It had 
to be in February because the Florida State Fair was going on and the 
Trade Show was going on, and Bobby and I was over at the club. And I 
said, “Well, I’m going home, or whatever, for a while, and Bobby said, 
“Well, I’ll sit here.” As I walked out, here come Ward, just a trucking. 
And I’m like, “I’ve got to avoid him somehow.” “B.K.! B.K.! Our acts 
didn’t show up again. Can you and Bobby come do the fair?” I’m like, 
“Oh my God, Ward!” (Laughs) So go back in, and I said, “Bobby, 
c’mon. We’ve got to go.” “Where are we going?” I said, “Well, Ward 
needs us.” “No, I’m not going.” “Yes, you are. C’mon.” (Laughs) So we 
did the fair then, the Tampa State Fair, to help him out. But the acts 
 
 
9
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
came a couple days later. I liked that there. 
 
Gibsonton is an interesting town. 
 
Oh, yes. Yes, very interesting. It is way, way, old, old, old with show 
people. There are a lot more carnivals there than there are circuses. As a 
matter of fact, I don’t know if right now there’s any circus that actually 
winters there, but the carnival people are there. And it has the 
Independent Showmen’s Club, International Independent Showmen’s 
Club [Association], and it’s huge, huge. They do a lot for things. And 
every year they do a free circus. Well, it’s not a free circus. The public 
has to pay a nominal fee, but the acts donate their time. I mean, they 
might buy your gas to get there or something like that, but they donate 
their time. And it’s usually a pretty nice circus, because you have all the 
highline acts. (Laughs)  
 
Oh, they have all kind of things. Like the extravaganza is where all the 
buildings are full of merchandise of what the showmen need to buy, like 
the vendors will come, the insurance companies will come. They set up 
brand new rides out in the back to try and sell. It’s pretty neat. It’s like a 
trade show, I guess, really. They call it that, too. Then they have a 
“Welcome home” barbeque every year with huge people coming in, and 
it’s great because you can visit. You see people you haven’t seen for a 
while, and so it’s really a nice club. This club that I started here, I tried 
to go by the guidelines pretty much, that they had with ideas of what 
they did, but we’re still young. (Laughs) I told them not long ago at our 
club, I said, “That club started, I think, in the ’30s with maybe eight 
people. So it has taken them a long time to build to where they are 
today.” They have a lot more carnival people, and there were more 
circus people there so it had a little more where there’s just not as many 
of us here.  
 
Okay, Kelly Miller, then I went back, and we did that with Ward. Oh, 
and then I went to Atlanta, Georgia for Pat Guthrie—well, Ray and Pat 
Guthrie, on their carnival. What he did, he started I think he called it the 
Atlanta Fair, and it was big. I mean, it was a huge thing. And so I did 
that, helped them. What did I do there? Relieved ticket sellers, sold 
tickets, just kind of whatever. And then I stayed on with their carnival, 
yes, Peachtree Rides. Boy, I’m telling you, this getting old is for the 
birds. (Laughter) I was there five years, and I did the—they call it Grab 
Joint or we call it a Candy Wagon. There’s another name that the 
carnivals call it, too, but it’s Candy Wagon to me. I sold the cotton 
candy, candy apples, caramel corn, popcorn, sodas, snow cones, that 
type of thing, and argued with Pat most of the time.  
 
Mostly my job truly was—and my son was there and another fellow, 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Roy, they were like the superintendents over the rides. So every tear 
down night, it was my job to get Pat off the lot, because they’d get a ride 
coming down and Pat would go take one of the guys and put him over 
here, and just have them all mixed up. Roy and Mel Ray would say—
one of them would come, “Don’t you and Pat need to go to the Waffle 
House and have coffee?” “Oh, yes. Okay.” (Laughs) So I’d get him to 
go—most of the time. Not always. And then when we’d get back, the 
show would be down. But if he stayed, we were there all night. (Laughs) 
We’d been back and forth with Pat. Now, there’s another thing, too, 
because after we did the circus thing with Jimmy and Marlyn and all of 
us down in Texas, which I think I talked about before, we didn’t know 
Pat.  
 
But Jimmy knew him [Guthrie] through Hoxie Tucker, who owned 
Hoxie Brothers Circus. And Pat was going to take out a circus because 
he was kind of a circus-y fan, like, although he’s carnival, and they’ve 
had it for years. They were young. I mean, they’ve just had a carnival 
forever. What was that? I can’t remember. Anyway, Melvin said, “All 
right, we’ll bring our show over,” because Jimmy, then, was going to 
work for Hoxie Brothers, and that kind of broke up our little indoor 
show down in Texas. So they hired me to book. Okay, I can tell you 
when it was. It was 1981 because in 1980, we had the concessions on 
Hoxie Brothers Circus. So in ’81 is when we were doing that little 
indoor show with his brother, Jimmy. So then we agreed to go with Pat 
on his circus, brand new type thing. And I think he’d been out a few 
weeks the year before, and I agreed to book. So I went on ahead, and 
when I got there I had a meeting with Pat and then here was this young 
man—and I’ll never remember his name. I should, but I don’t and 
probably never will—who had been on Hoxie Brothers Circus with us 
the year before. He had walked in off the street, never been on a circus, 
never seen a circus before, but Pat had hired him through Hoxie.  
 
So my guess is Hoxie is trying to get rid of him and stuck him with Pat. 
(Laughs) So Pat showed me the contract. It was one of those stupid, long 
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah-contracts that I hate, and Pat would say, 
“Now, in this case, what would you do?” So I’d tell him, and he would 
turn to this fellow and he’d say, “Is that right?” And the guy would say, 
“Yes,” or, “No.” And I’m like, “Hmm, okay.” So then Pat would ask me 
another question, and I’d answer him, and this—“Is that the way it 
works?” to this other guy. And I’m like, “Um, he don’t know,” you 
know, my mind is saying. And several questions. Well, by the time I left 
the office, I went straight to a payphone, somehow got a hold of Melvin, 
and I said, “Don’t bother coming, I’m headed back! This guy is an 
idiot!” (Laughs) And explained that he’s asking some First of May if 
I’m right. Of course, needless to say I was a little bit upset. Melvin says, 
“Oh, you can’t. We’re about halfway there. Just stay, we’ll get through 
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
it. We’ll make it,” and I’m like, “No, please, God, no!” But I did, and we 
made it through that season, and then we went again. 
 
Well, there was a little difficulty in booking because Pat—I used to get a 
kick because I’d have to call him every night and he’d answer, “Hey, 
B.K.!” That’s the Georgia way, though, “Hey.” It’s not “Hi, how are 
you?” or, “Hello,” it’s “Hey!” And, of course, I wasn’t used to it. I’d 
say, “Pat, you’re going to have to send me some help up here.” “Oh, 
well, there’s this fellow over here that’s going to help you.” “Well, 
what’s his name?” “Well, you don’t need to know that.” I said, “Well, 
how we going to coordinate?” “I’ll coordinate,” and it just went on and 
on, and it was all screwy, and the guy didn’t book one town.  
 
So now I’ve got to double back and fill in two weeks worth of things, 
like clockwork. [Snaps] Of course, that’s my expertise on booking, is 
fill-in dates. Oh, and then his wife, Pam, came up. She did all right for a 
week. She got me another week ahead. Well, you don’t stay ahead when 
you’re booking. It’s like the Pac-Man game, he’s eating you up. 
(Laughs) So went on, finally, he says, “Well, I’m sending this other 
fellow,” and I’m like, “Nope, that’s all right, Pat. I’ll do something. I’ll 
work twenty-four hours.” (Laughs) But, “No, I’m sending him.” And his 
name was Alman Brandon, and he came, older gentleman, made all 
kinds of sense, got out there, and we just worked together great. So we 
got it ahead, and got it going, and we had a decent season.  
 
I’m thinking we stayed the next year. Yes, we started out the next year, 
and Pat was paying gas, our gas, and then all of a sudden he switched to 
mileage. And I took him a receipt from the week before, “Well, I’m not 
paying it.” I said, “Okie dokie.” So I went back to the trailer and I told 
Melvin, I said, “He ain’t paying it.” “Oh, the hell he ain’t!” And over 
Melvin went to the office, and I went over to the concession wagon 
where Jimmy Kernan—oh, I love him— a friend, is at and told him what 
was going on. Jimmy said, “Well, what do you think is going to 
happen?” I said, “Well, we’ll probably be leaving here soon.” (Laughter) 
Over a ten dollar gas bill. But we’re people where your word is your 
word. We just can’t help it. So Melvin stepped out of the office and did 
his, “Head ‘em up and move ‘em out!” and I said, “Well, Jimmy, I’ll see 
you down the road somewhere.” (Laughs) And so we left.  
 
See, and where did we go from there? I forgot about that. That was 
before Kelly Miller and all, so it had to be in the late-’80s. Okay, so Mel 
Ray said I went with Guthrie in ’93, so that’s back when I was there for 
the five years and did the concessions. I don’t remember why I left, but I 
came back here to Hugo. And that is when Barbara and Geary [Byrd] 
hired me to drive D.R. [Miller] and Isla’s motor home on Carson and 
Barnes. And Isla [Miller] took sick and they didn’t go on the road that 
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
year, and I wound up—left my truck and trailer here, and I drove a 
camper. I stayed in it, and then I pulled the Chinese people’s trailer and 
went with them. And I really didn’t have a job. It was just whenever—
“If we need you, you can sell or take tickets, or you can high seat”—do 
you know what that is? 
 
No. 
 
Oh, shoot. I just keep coming up with these names. 
 
That’s good. 
 
Okay, if you have a big crowd, and—you know, when you go to 
somewhere, you’re not going to climb to the highest seat. You’re going 
to go maybe halfway up or you’re going to get where you want to be. So 
when you have a large crowd, you have to have someone saying, 
“Would you folks mind, please scoot over. Let these people up,” and 
you’re picking out seats, finding [seats]. And the fuller it gets, we can 
see that there’s an empty seat, where you would go and it looks like it’s 
full up. And then we take you and deliver you right to a seat, so you 
have a seat. And that’s just called high seating. And if you know it’s a 
big crowd to start with, you will be in there trying to get the people to sit 
on higher bleachers so that the ones aren’t climbing over you to get a 
seat. And that’s called high seating. Well, that never worked out too 
well. I didn’t seem to do much of that. 
 
Geary made me have a radio, a walkie-talkie—and I have to tell this. So 
went on a week and he never called me. I said, “Geary, why don’t you 
give this radio to somebody that might need it more than me?” “Nope, 
you have to have it. I might need to call you.” And no calls. “Geary, this 
is silly for me to carry this around. You never call me when I’m out 
there. I check if I need to take tickets or where you need me. I’m there.” 
“Nope, I might need to call you.” And that was the same answer, over 
and over and over. And I tried to get rid of that radio, because all it did 
was sit there. So one day I was sitting in the camper, and I just got 
laughing. And Laura Herriott came and she said, “Are you all right?” 
and I said, “Oh, yes. I just thought of something,” and I said, “You 
know, Geary makes me keep this radio in case he has to call me.” And I 
said, “I just realized if I’d have known being a call girl was this easy I’d 
have done it a long time ago.” (Laughter) 
 
We don’t have that circus job on our list. 
 
Yes, I’ve never had that one yet. (Laughter) That one, I’m not sure. I 
can’t explain that one to you. (Laughter) So then, finally, one day, the 
purchasing agent left and Geary did come and talk to me, or sent for me. 
 
 
13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
He didn’t even call me then. He sent for me and asked if I would take 
over purchasing until he could get someone. And I said, “Sure, no 
problem.” He said, “Yes, but you know Parker. He’s hard to work for, 
and he don’t like women.” He was the mechanic on the show, and they 
live right out here. I’ve told this story many times. And I knew him, but 
not well, but knew who he was and everything. And Geary said, “Now, 
you’re going to purchase for the mechanic shop, and that’s your main 
one. You’re actually part of their crew. I don’t care if you don’t buy for 
anybody else, you keep Parker happy.” I said, “Okay.”  
 
So I bought for the mechanics, the electric, the welding shop, and the big 
top. So I had four people I had to check with every morning to see what 
they needed. So being the studious person that I am, I took my little 
clipboard the next morning over to the mechanic shop, because that’s 
who I’m supposed to take care of. And Bill was standing out there—
Parker, Bill Parker is his name. “Well, Bill,” I said, “Do you have a list, 
or do you know what you need?” “Well, God damn, B.K., I ain’t even 
had my burrito yet. Jesus!” I said, “Okay, I’ll be back.” So I went and 
made my other rounds, and when I came back I saw him standing. So I 
kind of snuck around to the truck, and I saw one of the other mechanics. 
I was close enough so Bill could hear me, and I said, “Hey, has Bill had 
his burrito yet?” Bill hollers, “Yeah, I’ve had my burrito! Here’s your 
list!”  
 
So I went and got the list, and I looked at it, and I said, “Oh, okay.” 
Went, got what was on the list, brought it back.” So the next morning, 
same scenario, but when I got there I said, “Bill, you had your burrito?” 
“Yeah.” Just—[mumbles]—he didn’t want anybody to like him, to be 
honest. (Laughs) So anyway, that went on the first week, and I’d look at 
this list, and I’d think, “I don’t think we need that stuff. I know I saw 
some in the shop truck. I don’t know why I’m getting that.” But it was 
always something hard to find, so I was being tested—which I knew. 
But every day, like clockwork, here it was, here it was. I’d bring it back 
to him. Well, I finally kind of won him over a smidgeon, or at least I 
thought I had.  
 
So then, oh, it just went on. Geary hired some guy. Of course, I have to 
go pick him up at the airport, and he says, “Now, fill him in, what his 
duties are,” and I go, “Okay.” Well, this guy is a goof, and he couldn’t 
find his way off the lot, let alone back on to the lot. So I’m like, “Well, 
Geary, here he is, but I don’t think he’s going to last.” (Laughs) “Well, 
you never know, B.K.” And I’m like, “Okay,” three days later, he was 
gone and I was back to purchasing. (Laughs)  
 
So by this time, Bill realized that I was okay, and I knew about parts. 
Well, he didn’t realize both my brothers were terrific mechanics, and 
 
 
14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
that’s all I ever got to do was “Hand me this. This is such and such,” so I 
knew parts pretty good. Well, so finally I discovered that every morning 
he would take one of the mechanics to breakfast. So now, I’ve kind of 
swung Bill around that I’m an all right person. Okay? So this one 
morning “Bill,” I said, “You know, I’m part of this mechanic crew, 
aren’t I?” “Well, yeah!” I said, “Well, you take one of the guys to 
breakfast every morning. You haven’t taken me to breakfast.” “Oh, my 
God! If Gail ever found out I took you to breakfast, oh, she’d have a fit!” 
because his wife had to stay home with the kids. (Laughs) I said, “I 
don’t think she’d care.” “Oh, my God, no! Oh, my God! Oh, my God, 
no!” (Laughs)  
 
So every morning I’d agitate him. “Yeah, I see you took so and so to 
breakfast. You know, I’m just nothing.” (Laughs) You know, I’d pick on 
him every day. [I had to leave the show before the end of the season. 
And I’m telling this long story because I’m very proud. Bill Parker paid 
me the highest compliment I’ve ever been paid in my lifetime. I was 
getting ready to leave and I to take the camper over to the mechanic 
shop for them to check everything for the trip, because we were in 
California. He [Parker] said, “Would you stay if I bought you breakfast 
every morning?” Now, I’m sorry, but to me, that’s the highest 
compliment I have ever had in my lifetime. I was pretty proud. (Laughs) 
That was that story. Well, anyhow, I came back to Hugo. 
 
So the answer was no? 
 
No, I wasn’t staying. (Laughter) No, I wasn’t staying. So I came back to 
Hugo, and I was parked over here at Toni’s with my truck and trailer. 
One of the girls come out and said, “B.K., there’s a fellow on the phone 
for you.” I’m like, “Okay.” So I went in and it was Bob Childress, who, 
at that time, owned Hendricks Brothers Circus from North Carolina. 
And I had met him at Pat Guthrie’s in Atlanta a couple times, maybe two 
or three times was all. He’d visited with Pat.  
 
He offered me to come and manage his circus with a decent salary, and I 
said, “Okay.” So North Carolina here I went and got there and did it all. 
I actually managed the circus and got it all going. And he wanted to go 
to Wisconsin, and I kept trying to talk him out of it. I says, “No, no, no. 
This year we need to go up the East Coast and come back. Stay close to 
home. Next year, you want to go to Wisconsin, we’ll truck that way,” 
but he wouldn’t listen. Well, we got to Wisconsin and business wasn’t 
good so he closed the show. 
 
Okay, from there, my friend, Bill Griffith, that I had grown up on his 
show, that had given me all these jobs that I thought he was being bad 
about but wound up being good, teaching me. I stayed with him for a 
 
 
15
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
week or two, and he kept talking about wanting to do a little—he had 
been buying calliopes [KĂ-lē-ōps]. You know what that is, right? 
 
You might as well tell us. 
 
You know them as calliopes [kə-LĪ-ə-pēs], steam music, pianos, organs. 
 
Why the difference in the pronunciation? 
 
I have no clue on that one. We just like to be different, I think. It’s 
calliope [KĂ-lē-ōp]. It sounds better. 
 
Okay. 
 
Well, I don’t know if it sounds better, calliope [kə-LĪ-ə-pē], calliope 
[KĂ-lē-ōp]. I honestly don’t know that answer. 
 
Okay. 
 
See? There’s something I don’t know about this business. (Laughs) 
 
That’s when you say, “Oh, just look it up.” 
 
Yes, look it up. You guys figure that part out. (Laughs) But, you know, I 
really don’t. It’s just always been calliope [KĂ-lē-ōp] in the circus. So I 
stayed there, and he kept wanting to do this little calliope thing in the 
parks, wanted me to book it, and then we’d get some concessions and 
sell them. It could be free, like a little entertainment thing in the park. 
And I’m thinking, “Bill, that isn’t going to make it. What are you 
selling? You’re not selling—it isn’t going to work.” And I’m not quite 
sure how we worked around to a carnival, but we worked around to—
oh, yes I do, because I said, “Well, maybe if we had three or four little 
kiddie rides, which would draw the young kids, and then do a little show 
and they could—you know, the calliope play and blah, blah, blah. 
Maybe it would be something.”  
 
Anyhow, this one morning he got up and he said, “Well, come on, hurry 
up! We’ve got to go to Baraboo.” I said, “Oh, what are we going to 
Baraboo for?” He says, “We’ve got to get a Billboard,” because we still 
call them Billboards. They’re Amusement Business now. And he says, 
“We’re going to buy a carnival, we got to get finding some rides.” 
“Okay.” So we went and we bought a carnival—he bought a carnival, 
but I was partner. And then my son came up and we hired guys and 
painted rides and fixed rides and bought rides, and I booked it. Which 
it’s so funny in our business because the carnivals, they just think it’s a 
horrible, horrible—they just can’t hardly book anything. Where they 
 
 
16
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
Finchum 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
book anywhere from three days to two weeks in one town, and I’m 
booking one town, one day. And so it was like a snap for me to book the 
carnival. (Laughs) Now, we didn’t have great fairs or great celebrations, 
but it was our first year. We pretty well broke even. 
 
Did it have a name? 
 
Oh, yes. Mid America Carnival, yes. Then Bill got tired. Well, he didn’t 
come out all the time anyway. He was an older gentleman. Then we got 
so we were running out of route, and I kept saying, “Bill, you got to 
book something, you got to book something.” “Oh, yeah. Maybe I will.” 
But his daughter, Linda, who were my kids when they were little, that’s 
the ones I babysit for, had said, “Now, B.K., when he gets bored, he’ll 
just say forget it.” And he did, and so we wound up in southern 
Arkansas at some friends. They had property where we could park 
everything. And then we wound up just selling it off, piece by piece type 
thing. And that’s pretty much when I came over here to Hugo and pretty 
well have stayed ever since. And that was either ’98 or ’99.  
 
And then…oh, I went to Canada with Gopher’s show since I’ve been 
here. What did I do up there? Let’s see, I think I kind of billposted and 
booked and advertising and back on the show and just a little bit of 
everything. Let’s see, what else? Where’d I go next? (Laughs) 
 
You always seem to be somewhere. 
 
Oh, yes! (Laughs) It’s continual. 
 
But you always came back here? 
 
Since ’98, yes, or ’99. It’s right out of that winter. And the reason I say 
that is because ’99 is when I had the colon cancer, so I remember that I 
came before that. But like 2000 is when I started the chemo, so in the 
fall of ’99. But I was here before so it was either like maybe the winter 
of ’98 or the spring of ’99 I came. Who else have I been with since then? 
All right, girls. I’m running out of info here. (Laughs) 
 
Well… 
 
Oh, I went with Ringling Brothers for Ralph Gifford, put out coupons 
and posters, mostly just drove. The boys wouldn’t let me get out and do 
anything. I said, “I’ve got to get out and move! I can’t just sit in this 
car.” (Laughs) 
 
You’ve been involved with carnivals and circuses. What are some of the 
major differences between the two? 
 
 
17
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The major difference is at a carnival the public entertains themselves, 
and at a circus we entertain the public. As far as the workings go, there’s 
a lot of pig iron on a carnival. (Laughs) And they stay for, like I said, 
three days to two weeks, sometimes seventeen days or longer, at the 
fairs, where we move pretty much every day. Nowadays, they do a lot of 
two-day stands. Some do three days here and there. 
 
What do you like better? 
 
Oh, the circus, yes. 
 
Why is that? 
 
You have more time to yourself. And it’s very strange, because carnival 
people cannot understand how we can move every day and still have 
more time for ourselves. But on the carnival, you just don’t seem to 
because once it opens, you’re there. You’re either at a ride, you’re at a 
game, you’re at a concession, you’re—whatever you are doing, you are 
there. And most of them the latest they open is noon. And a lot of them 
will open at ten. The big fairs open at eight o’clock. Let’s see. Here’s 
another one that we did, the State Fair of Texas, with our little ole snake 
show. We set up right next to Ward and Chris Hall’s big sideshow. And 
of course, we’re friends of theirs. And I’m the day person, Melvin’s the 
night person. So, of course, I got the day shift.  
 
And the fair boards send you around a sheet and it tells you the hours 
that they’re open each day, and the close, and what’s going on and that 
type of stuff. So the first day the sheet says we open at eight a.m., and 
I’m like, “Ain’t no idiot going to be out here at eight o’clock riding these 
rides. That’s the dumbest thing I ever heard of! Blah, blah, blah, blah, 
blah.” Of course, I had the snake show open at eight o’clock with my big 
thermos of coffee. Finally, Chris come sundering around—well, it was 
before eight I was out there. I said, “Chris, you want a cup of coffee?” 
“Yes.” I said, “This is the dumbest thing I ever heard of, eight o’clock, 
opening this carnival.” He said, “No, B.K., the people will be here.” I 
said, “Oh, Chris, don’t give me that line of garbage and blah, blah.”  
 
At eight a.m. the gates opened, and at 8:02, you cannot get across that 
midway. It is packed, jammed, crammed with people. Now, this is back 
when they run consecutive, seventeen days. Now, they split it up on 
weekends or something—and just packed, just packed! The people 
would go in our little ole snake show. And that first day I’ll never forget, 
because I kept looking at my watch, said, “Melvin, you better get out 
here. I’m not going to make it. Melvin, you need to get out here.” 
(Laughs) So he shows up at eleven or noon or something, and I couldn’t 
 
 
18
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
leave. I got up in the corner. I said to the people, just kept saying, 
“Please hurry, please move along. Please let your friends and neighbors 
come in and see this giant snake,” just to try, not push them, we wanted 
them to see it, but we wanted them also to [move along because] they’re 
lined up, everywhere. At the end of the fair that year they said, 
“Carnivals go by footage.” If you have a show or a game, they charge 
you by how long your tent or how long your thing is. So per foot our 
snake show out-grossed that big ole sideshow. (Laughs) 
 
Wow. 
 
We didn’t moneywise, but per foot. So we put lots and lots of people 
through there. 
 
Where’d you find your big ole snake? 
 
I don’t remember where. Then, I’m sure we had Conga, then. I don’t 
remember where we got her from exactly, but she was huge. I mean, she 
was big. It was a python. That’s the only thing I’m afraid of in the entire 
world is any kind of snake. It’s live ones, dead ones, big ones, little ones, 
and phony ones—only five kinds. (Laughs) But guess what animal I got 
to name. Guess what animal I usually always got to clean. The Conga. 
(Laughter) 
 
Lucky you! 
 
But I had her trained. Now, people think snakes aren’t smart. I had a 
stick, nice little soft on the end. I made it everything nice and nice, and I 
could tap her just so or rub her just so if I wanted her to go to the other 
end of the cage so I could clean this end. Or if I wanted her to get in the 
water, then I touched her just so. But it took a long time. I mean, we 
worked and I’d try and stop her, I’d—“No, get in the water,” and blah, 
blah, blah. I was so lucky. I was so happy. And my brother-in-law, 
Jimmy—well, when we bought Clark and Walters, we had a big snake 
that came with it. Willy was his name, and he was bigger than Conga, 
even. And of course, I got to run the snake show so much. It’s just one 
of those—they loved me. (Laughs)  
 
But I would tell people—and I thought I was exaggerating, because I 
would put my hands together and I would say, “Now, that’s kind of like 
their heads,” I said, “Maybe they’re a little bit bigger, but they dislocate 
their jaws and they swallow their prey whole.” And I’m thinking, “Woo 
hoo! I’m exaggerating. I’m really telling a big story here!” So one night 
Jimmy came, he fed Willy chickens. We bought him big chickens, Willy 
would eat. And he says, “Come on, B.K., you’ve got to come watch the 
snake eat!” “I don’t want to see that snake!” “Get out here! You’re going 
 
 
19
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
Finchum 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to go with me and watch the snake eat!” (Laughs) So I’m glad I did, 
because this was not exaggerating. And they do a thing where it’s like 
part of it kind of comes apart, and they’ll like hook in, and then it’ll 
come and hook in and come and hook in. Willy’s was around a chicken, 
like that. (Gestures) So this was not exaggerating. (Laughs) So I felt 
better then, after that. 
 
A lot of people think they know a lot about animals, but I don’t know. 
There are so many people that don’t really listen to the animals. That’s 
what always upsets me. You have to listen to them. They’ll tell you what 
they want, if you pay attention. And if you live with them and eat with 
them and sleep with them and… 
 
Like people. 
 
Yes. Yes. 
 
You mentioned pig iron. 
 
Pig iron is just the iron that the rides are made out of. They’re all mostly 
steel, or whatever, and they just call it pig iron.  
 
You mentioned as you finish up one opportunity, you go to another 
opportunity. 
 
Yes. 
 
How do all these people know where to find you? 
 
Well, let’s see. I’m going to get up from here when we leave, and I’m 
going to walk out that door, and I’m going to trip and sprain my ankle. 
Within ten minutes, everybody’s going to know about it. We don’t 
know, even the ones that we’ve done it and we’ve had it. Melvin, years 
ago, before cell phones, any of that kind of stuff, we were in Virginia 
and the billposter had put posters on the telephone poles, which was 
illegal there in that county, or whatever. So the sheriff came down, 
wanted to know who the manager was, and his mother said, “That’s him 
right over there,” went and put handcuffs on him and took him to jail, 
because we weren’t supposed to do that. Well, he didn’t do it, and we 
didn’t know that we weren’t supposed to at that time, which had to be in 
’68, probably, 1968.  
 
He was gone maybe an hour when another policeman brought a 
message—oh, what was his name? Frank-something, from California 
was calling. So I went to the phone, “I heard Brownie was put in jail, 
and what can I do to help out?” Well, it wasn’t Brownie, that was 
 
 
20
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
Melvin’s dad. I said, “Well, it was Melvin. How did”—“Well, I just 
heard…” Now, we were in Virginia. He was in California. And there 
was a grapevine somehow in our business that does it. But the main 
one—and he never did tell me how—was when I was telling you that 
Bob Childress called after I came back and was parked over here and the 
girls come got me. And I had only met the man maybe three or four 
times. Now, how he tracked me down, got Toni’s number—and I 
actually asked him, but he wouldn’t tell me. He says, “I got my ways.” 
So I don’t know.  
 
Well, it’s kind of like I’ve always been the address book for the 
business. It’s like if you called and said, “I’d like to get a hold of so and 
so.” I’d say, “Oh, okay.” Flip, flip, flip, “Oh, no. I haven’t got that, but 
Joe Blow over here will know where they’re at.” And so I call Joe Blow 
and he, “Oh, no. But Suzy knows where they’re at,” and so I call Suzy. 
“Oh, okay.” So then I call you back and say, “Here’s the number for 
them.” I think that’s more how, that they find out you’re not working. 
It’s like—[Snaps]. It’s like a gossip column. (Laughter) 
 
I’m sure… 
 
I hate it, because I don’t like gossip, but… 
 
Internet and cell phone, it has to be even quicker now. 
 
Oh, it’s more, yes, yes. 
 
Just quicker. 
 
Yes, because when Lucy was in the hospital last fall [I was] on 
Culpepper, just happy as a lark and nobody come and said, “Lucy’s in 
the hospital.” I can’t even remember how I found out for sure. 
Everybody on the show knew, because they were on Facebook. I said, 
“Why didn’t you guys tell me?” and I’m having conniptions, because 
those kids didn’t call me. (Laughs) They were threatened within the inch 
of their lives. Didn’t do much good, because they didn’t call me this 
time, either. (Laughs) 
 
Well, let’s back up just a little bit. 
 
Okay. 
 
I want to know what it was like raising Mel Ray on the circus. 
 
Oh, that was easy. 
 
 
 
21
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
That was the easy part? 
 
Yes, because my mom had him and wouldn’t give him back. (Laughter) 
Well, that’s the truth, it really is, because many nights I’d—[knocks on 
the door]—“Mother, can Mel Ray please spend the night with us?” 
“Well, maybe.” (Laughs) But it’s not hard with kids on the show. It 
really isn’t. They’re there, and one of the good things—I think it still 
goes on today, because I haven’t really been right on the circus proper 
for the past, really, ten years, other than Culpepper this past fall for three 
weeks—but everybody looks out for the kids, everybody, everybody. 
Working men, too. Now, years ago, like I told before, working men 
weren’t allowed to talk to anybody. I mean, they better stay to 
themselves. They maybe could talk to the concessioners or maybe some 
of the men on the show, but they better never speak to a woman or a kid, 
ever, boy or girl, nothing, zippo. But they still watched out for them. I 
know that sounds crazy, but then they would go get somebody and say, 
“Hey, Mel Ray is over here messing up,” or, “He might get hurt,” or 
whatever. Well, then somebody else would go get him and wail his butt, 
because it’s a family—period. 
 
It’s so hard for people to understand, I think, I don’t know. We say ‘you 
get sawdust in your veins.’ We really mean it. We say, ‘The circus 
people are family.’ We mean it. But he went to school, and I was 
fortunate I got to go to school. My mother would take him home for 
school. And then after she passed away, he stayed with his other 
grandmother for school. I think one year I stayed home with him for 
school, and it’s not hard because they just grow up—we sort of grow up 
as adults, but yet we’re still kids. I remember in the last thing there, you 
asked “Did they tell you you had rules that you couldn’t do this, you 
couldn’t do that?” I was thinking about that this morning, and I don’t 
honestly remember them saying, “Don’t do this. Don’t do that.” It was 
kind of a built in—you just knew from the time you were born. If you 
were raised on the circus, born and raised on it, it’s just a “Nobody else 
did it, you don’t do it.” Or if you did it then they’d say, “Hey, we don’t 
do that,” or you got your butt whipped, one or the other. (Laughs)  
 
Was he always interested in learning, for example, the whip act? 
 
Oh, yes, too much. 
 
Too much? (Laughs) 
 
Oh, yes. Oh, yes. Sure is too bad Bobby Greene isn’t here to answer that 
one for you. (Laughs) He clowned from a little bitty boy. His 
grandmother took him in all the time, to clown. Then I think the next 
thing, pretty much, he learned to juggle. And that’s where Bobby Greene 
 
 
22
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
came in because the act, every day or so or three, would get a little 
longer and a little longer and a little longer, because Mel Ray would 
incorporate new things to juggle. (Laughter) Just anything that was 
handy, like hammers, regular ole hammers. I mean, I don’t mean special 
built, because things have to be balanced to juggle—or should be, it’s 
easier. And oh, my God, what all did he juggle? (Laughter)  
 
Bobby says, “You’ve got to tell him to quit doing that! The whole show 
is his juggling act!” (Laughs) So we kind of had to tone him down a 
little bit on the balls, the hoops, the clubs. (Laughs) “A couple little 
other things are all right, but you got to slow it down.” He never seemed 
interested in aerial acts, in working anything aerial. But he did the 
animals. There’s pictures in there with him with the pony, with the 
baboons and stuff, the goats, and animals he liked. His dad was bookoo 
into movies, and he was wanting Mel Ray to be in the movies. And Mel 
Ray was kind of iffy about it. I mean, he was all right with it, but he 
likes the special effects better. He would build bombs and traps and little 
different things like that. (Laughs)  
 
They’d go out in the woods and he’d blow his cousin up, and his 
grandmother would die. And he played Evil Knievel with the little 
motorcycle, jumping the ramps. But you thought that would be a good 
act in the show. His grandmother, Melvin’s mother, I called home and 
she said, “You have to talk to Mel Ray. You have to make him stop 
doing this.” I said, “Well, what is he doing, Mom?” “Well, he’s got 
these boards so high now that if he falls he’s going to break an arm or a 
leg.” I said, “Well, Mom, he’s a boy.” (Laughs) “If he does that, then 
you take him to the hospital and get it fixed.” You weren’t going to stop 
him. You don’t stop him now. 
 
Toby Tyler’s circus—oh, there’s another one we were on. (Laughs) 
 
There’s been a lot. 
 
Yes. It’s called Russian swing or revolving swing or revolving trapeze, 
they call it, and it’s just iron bars, like a trapeze, only it’s solid. And it’s 
a loop-de-loop. And this one day the girl somehow got—they had it too 
high in the tent, and it got caught in the canvas as it flipped over. And 
Toby Tyler’s tent is probably thirty-five feet, at least, tall, and there she 
hung. It wouldn’t go back, it wouldn’t go forward. She can’t get out of 
it. She’s there. And the web setter, a few other people that was much 
closer, nothing. Mel Ray is over there shimmying up the rope with a 
knife to cut her loose, and I’m like “Ah!” because once it’s loose, 
they’re going. Well, he’s not strapped in, but she is. I mean, he’s fearless 
like that. 
 
 
 
23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Another time in winter quarters, they had the poles put up and they were 
practicing either web or cloud swing. I can’t remember for sure, the girls 
were. And he was helping being a web setter, and the rope or something 
popped and the poles all went. Well, the girls couldn’t do nothing. They 
just fell with it. What does Mel Ray do? He’s got his arms wrapped and 
trying to hold the poles. Well, that’s impossible. And he had third degree 
burns all down his arms. But it’s just him. He is that way. (Laughs) And 
I’ve learned to not worry any more than I just have to. (Laughter)  
 
And it’s like, I’ll say, “Now, Mel Ray, be careful making that trip.” 
“Mom, you know I’m never careful.” I’m like, “Yes, I know.” But he 
loves the business. He likes carnival business all right, but I do think he 
likes the circus better. He seemed so much more at ease last year on 
Culpepper, but he was kind of lost because there wasn’t that much work 
for him to do. But it wasn’t hard raising him. Maybe it wasn’t hard 
raising him because he is an exceptional child. He has never given us 
any problems. Nothing, nothing. He was a teenager, his dad would say, 
“Mel Ray, it’s ten o’clock. Don’t you want to go to town? Mel Ray, it’s 
nine o’clock. Why don’t you go down and break out some windows in 
the pool hall? Mel Ray, why don’t you go do something? Get out of our 
house.” (Laughs) But he’s just kind of been a homebody.  
 
He’s excellent at makeup and at the special effects. We wish he 
would’ve had more of a break, maybe in Hollywood or the movies, 
because I think he’d have been good at it. He’s been in—and I’m maybe 
lying—four or five movies. We had a—oh, what are they called—a 
casting agent in Atlanta, there. She wanted him to stay the one year. I 
think he was sixteen or seventeen, and she said if he’d stay with her and 
her husband that she could get him more roles and stuff and get him 
pushed more into the business. But where we travel, he can’t be back 
and forth, back and forth, back and forth. But, nope, he wouldn’t stay. 
And I mean we knew her. He liked her, and they were nice people and 
all that, but he wouldn’t stay. He wouldn’t stay. 
 
Well, you grew up in this business. What is it about circus life that’s 
really attracted you through the years, keeps you so tied to it? 
 
My best answer? Love for it. There’s so many things. When you are 
performing, especially, when you know that you have made someone 
happy in that audience, that they have enjoyed something, there’s no 
better reward. Think about it. I mean, even in your life when you do 
something for somebody and you know they’re truly enjoying, that 
makes you happy. Meeting people, just so many different people, you—I 
don’t know how to explain that. It’s like me meeting you guys. I think 
you’re great! I’m just in love with you! (Laughter) Not in a bad way, but 
I think you gals are just the greatest.  
 
 
24
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
And I have so many people that I have met. I met a lot of people I didn’t 
care to see again, too, but it’s still part of the traveling and the aura that’s 
there that you get to meet people, and you see so many places. My 
husband’s barber said it the best one time, he told him, he says, “Melvin, 
I don’t think it’s fair.” He says, “You get paid to go see all these places 
when we have to pay to go see them.” I mean, we have to go and travel. 
Of course, it’s like I said, you don’t get to see all of them. Maybe as 
you’re driving by, there’s the Petrified Forest. “Oh, yes, that looks 
good.” (Laughs) But you saw it or you got glimpses of it. So many times 
people will say, “Well, I’m from Kentucky,” and I’ll say, “Well, 
whereabouts in Kentucky?” “Ipswich.” “Oh, yes, I know where that’s 
at.” “No, you don’t.” I said, “Oh, yes. It’s right next to Lebanon,” or 
whatever, because we’ve traveled them all. It’s exciting, yet it’s hard 
work. Most of the days you’re just exhausted. Even when you’re young 
you get wore out after about eighteen hours. (Laughs)  
 
One show we were on, Mid America, another one. That was with Bob 
Tripp. We were up in Kansas or Nebraska where they have those nice 
little rolling hills for ditches. I mean, they’re just little ditches, but 
they’re not a deep ditch. They’re just kind of smooth and rolling. He had 
booked these towns, it was like two weeks’ worth, 200, 250, 275 miles 
every day, after day, after day. He had a big motor home so he would 
leave early, go about halfway, find a little roadside park, or wherever, or 
a big empty lot that he could pull in, start the generator, make coffee. 
We’d all pull in once we got there, and he’s pouring the coffee, to keep 
us awake. We’d get to the next town and set up, and if we were lucky 
maybe an hour or two of sleep and do the show and start moving again.  
 
And this one night—well, I think it was getting daylight—and we all had 
CB’s back then, and I was driving our Cadillac, pulling our horse trailer. 
This guy come on the CB and he said, “B.K.!” And I grabbed the mic 
and I said, “Yep, c’mon! You got her!” He said, “Do you always drive in 
the ditch?” and I’m like, “What?” And I was down in one of those nice 
rolling ditches, just truckin’. Don’t have a clue how I got there, but I 
sure got out of it quick. (Laughter) I was awake the rest of the trip. 
(Laughs) But Myrna said today, “With Jimmy being so sick now, but 
look at all the times and things that Jimmy could have been dead 
already.” And I said, “Yes, me too—and Melvin and all of us.” But we 
have life-threatening experiences a lot, traveling and doing our line of 
work.  
 
I told her I have it figured out, because God’s been able to take me 
many, many, many times—many times. He’s had me right at those 
pearly gates, and then he goes down his little list and he says, “Okay, 
who we got today coming in? (Gasps) No, not B.K.! Send her back. I’m 
 
 
25
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
not ready to put up with her yet!” (Laughter) But the most is you just fall 
in love with it, and you either like it or you don’t like it. I mean, or you 
are there for the money—if there is any, because a lot of times there 
isn’t. But I think most people that are really in the business who stay in 
the business, or whatever, you just love it.  
 
My dad was worse than probably anybody that I’ve known in my 
lifetime. I’m serious when I said, he ate, breathed, slept, drank, you 
name it, for circus. That was it. That was all he wanted to talk about. 
That was his life—well, not really all. I mean, he did joke and stuff, too, 
but… The elephant area out here out behind caught on fire this past 
summer. Well, it wasn’t long after it happened I got a phone call, “The 
elephant barn is on fire.” Well, I was one of the first ones there. I mean, 
it’s not my circus, I don’t work there anymore. If something happened 
with Kelly Miller, Jim [Royal] needed a town booked last summer 
sometime. “B.K., I need it”—oh, in the spring. I know it was the spring, 
and he says, “Would you mind trying to fill it in for me?” and I said, 
“No, I don’t’ mind at all.” He said, “Oh, it’s the Fourth of July.” “Oh, 
thanks,” one of the hardest ones to book, but I got it for him. And they 
said they turned out pretty good. (Laughs)  
 
But it doesn’t matter, if it’s circus, if they’re having problems, I want to 
help. And most show people, the ones that are really, truly show 
people—Lucy’s brother, Joe Loyal, when you’re talking about the 
difference between a carnival and a circus back a few minutes ago. Joe 
Loyal was killed in an accident in one of my trucks—or our trucks, 
however you want to word it. A carnival was headed to the valley at the 
same time. I don’t think there was three trucks that passed that didn’t 
stop to see if they could help us. And probably, the three trucks were 
working men that knew they weren’t’ supposed to stop for nothing. 
That’s what they’d been told. But the owners, “We’ll send trucks back. 
We’ll do whatever you need.” I mean, it’s show business. It’s stick 
together. 
 
And while we’re on this, I want to say why most circuses and carnivals 
and stuff get a bad name. And years ago it used to be worse. Anyway, 
this is my scenario, let’s put it that way. I pull into town with my circus 
today. We set up. Some local kid comes down, wants a job, so we hire 
him, because we need the help. Three days from now, instead of him 
coming and saying, “Hey, I’m a little extra hungry. I’d like to go get a 
soda or some lunchmeat to have at my room,” or something, he goes 
down to the local 7-Eleven and steals it. Now, he gets caught, the police 
come, “Where you from?” “Oh, I’m from the circus down here. I’m with 
the circus.” He’s only been there three days. He’s not really with the 
circus. So a lot of times I think that that’s—people say, “Oh, they come 
in and rob you.”  
 
 
26
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
We did a show years ago. We drove from the Rio Grande Valley to 
Gainesville, Texas, because our friend lived there. The governor from 
Texas was coming to give a speech at the senior citizens’ center, and 
they wanted to do a show for him to appreciate him coming and talking 
to the senior citizens and blah, blah, blah. And Boots Madden was the 
guy’s name that lived there, and his father and mother. His father played 
organ, and he’d go and play at the senior citizens’ so many days a week, 
to entertain them. So this governor came to town. We drove from the 
Rio Grande Valley, 750 miles, free, to do this show because Boots asked 
us to. And it was inside a building, and the governor is on a stage, and 
Boots is on that side in the dressing room, and I’m on the other side in 
the dressing room. (Gestures)  
 
The governor is going to do his speech then he’s going to sit down, and 
we’re going to do a show for him. And the governor starts out, almost 
right off the bat, with “Well, if I’m elected, I’m going to clean up the 
streets and I’m going to get the police more involved and whatever and 
blah, blah, blah. And that way we’re going to make it safe, so when the 
carnival comes to town you don’t have to worry about locking your 
doors.” Now, you see? I went a little livid. Boots went a little livid. His 
dad’s holding him back, and Melvin’s holding me back. “He said 
carnival.” I said, “I don’t care! He don’t know the difference between a 
carnival and a circus! I drove 700 miles to do a show for this idiot that’s 
accusing me of being a thief?!” (Laughs)  
 
Boots is doing the same thing. “I’m not doing that show for him!” Boots 
said. We were mad! Well, they calmed us down, and we did the show. 
And the Maddens got an apology from the fellow. But they just think 
that. We’re the true show people. Oh, you’ve got some that’ll try and rip 
you off or whatever, but to me, you ought to be smart enough to figure it 
out that they’re conning you or something. (Laughs) I don’t know. But 
they’re really, most of them, are pretty honest show people, carnival and 
circus, I think. There’s some, few, but they’re the ones that give 
everybody else a bad name. 
 
The public perception, yes. 
 
Right, thank you. 
 
So you think you all get a bad rap sometimes? 
 
Yes. 
 
Even today?  
 
 
 
27
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yes, seems to be not as bad nowadays. People seem to be more liking 
circus, trusting circus, more interested in circus as they were years ago. 
Billposting as a young girl, teenager maybe twelve, thirteen or so years 
old, you go in to ask to put a poster up in a five and ten cent store and, “I 
don’t want that stuff in my building! That circus comes to town and 
takes all the money out of town!” And, of course, first time that 
happened, I didn’t think too well. But the next time or so that it 
happened, I said, “Well, wait a minute. We buy our food here. We buy 
our gas here. We do our advertising here. Now, I would like to know, 
where did you buy this box of Kleenex from, that you’re selling? Oh, it 
says ‘New York City.’ Now, who takes the money out of town?” and 
walked out the door. (Laughs) So the perception is bad. Some people 
just totally don’t understand. I’ve been in stores where they’re actually 
marking up the prices because we’re in town—and admitted to it, even. 
 
Are there cities that you feel more welcomed in as a showman? 
 
No. No. We have some sponsors that seem to be—they’ll welcome us 
more than others. But as far as the city in general—and there are 
differences in the cities, even during the performances. You can tell by 
their reaction to your acts. I mean, if they’re really applauding and really 
happy and having a good time overall, the entire show, you know that 
they like it. Whereas, sometimes they’re just kind of in between, 
clapping or what, which leads me to another story.  
 
On Mid America Circus, Bob Tripp had some of the best acts in this 
country—and I do mean top-of-the-line names. We were in Kansas, 
again. (Laughs) I don’t remember what town. And for some reason he 
had me doing swinging ladder. It’s a nothing act, nothing. It’s blah. I 
mean, I’m going up against Franz Bruin and big names, here. I told him, 
I said, “I don’t want to do swinging ladder. These people are great. 
Swinging ladder is a—it’s what you learn when you’re a kid. It’s just a 
fill-in act type thing.”  
 
Well, anyhow, this one day, whatever town we were in, here’s all these 
big name acts, beautiful, wonderful, exceptional acts. There’s no 
applause. There’s no applause. I don’t care what act went in, the people 
didn’t applaud. And so they’d just leave the ring and come out. I had my 
robe on, of course, and I went out because Melvin was doing the 
announcing, and I said, “Melvin, they didn’t applaud. What’s…?” He 
said, “They ain’t been applauding. They haven’t applauded one act yet.” 
I said, “Well, by God, they’ll applaud me.” “No, B.K., don’t do that.” 
(Laughs) “Please don’t do that.”  
 
So in I went when it was my time, my little puny-ass swinging ladder 
act. (Laughs) Through the whole thing, no applause, nothing. Came 
 
 
28
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
down, walked to the front of the ring, as I always did, and styled. 
Nothing. I walked to the right, styled. Nothing. Walked to the left, I 
styled. Nothing. I walked to the back, styled. Nothing. Walked to the 
other side, walked back to the center of the ring, styled. Walked to the 
front of the ring, styled. And I know Melvin was back there going to kill 
me. And finally, he said, “Well, ladies and gentleman, I don’t believe 
she’s leaving until you applaud.” And they just busted out applauding, 
and they applauded after every act after that. I don’t know if they didn’t 
know they were supposed to, not supposed to. But I had never in my life 
come across that. I mean, two or three people will—(claps)—at least that 
much or something. But it was nothing. But I’d made up my mind, I 
ain’t leaving until somebody applauds, (Laughs) for the lousiest act they 
saw that day. 
 
But darn it, they were going to applaud. 
 
That’s right. And they did! Well, after Melvin told them to. (Laughs) 
 
I can see that. What do you think is the hardest job on the circus? If you 
had to narrow it down, what’s the hardest job and what’s the most 
important job? They don’t have to be the same. 
 
Okay, most important is booking. That’s an easy one. Without a town 
booked, you ain’t got a circus. You don’t need the rest of it. You’ve got 
to have some place to show. So to me, that’s the most important. 
Hardest? Well, booking is up there in the top ranks on that. Hardest… 
It’s all hard. (Laughs) 
 
It’s all hard? 
 
There ain’t much easy about it. And then on the other hand, it’s all easy. 
 
Right. 
 
It’s just, you’ve got to do it. Boy, I’ve never been asked that question 
before. Booking is one of the harder jobs, and it’s the most important. 
 
How did you become… 
 
Now, do you mean hard as to doing it or physically hard, too, because… 
 
Both. 
 
Well, mentally hard is booking, I mean, because you’re stressed on 
making sure there’s a town for that show to go to. Physically, really, 
putting the big top up and down, would be physically. You have a lot of 
 
 
29
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
acts that are physically hard to do, but they only last a few minutes, 
using your muscle. But the big top, it’s quite a while, and especially if 
you don’t have any help. (Laughs) 
 
And especially when it was canvas versus the vinyl? Is there much 
difference? 
 
One’s just about as hard as the other to me. I like the canvas better. It 
breathes. The vinyl doesn’t breathe. I don’t know how to put it different. 
The vinyl, to unfold it, it’s stiff and it’s hard. Most of it’s as heavy as the 
canvas was. If you had a really good canvas tent it was probably a little 
heavier, but it’s not really any lighter, much, weight-wise, overall.  
 
Through the years you’d have to put up your fair share—help put up 
your fair share of tents? 
 
I put them up, oh, yes. Drove stakes with sledgehammers. That was what 
killed me at Culpepper last spring. I couldn’t even lift a sledgehammer, 
and I wanted to drive the first stake just because I figured it would mean 
I’d get to ever again. (Laughs) All they had was a stupid twenty and 
twenty-two pound sledgehammer. Nobody had a twelve-pounder even. I 
might’ve swung that one. I can swing a sledgehammer and drive stakes 
right along with the best of them, triple up on them. I know you’ve seen 
the old movies where three or four guys are pounding one stake, and I 
can do it. Well, with a lighter weight sledgehammer now. (Laughs)  I 
used to do it with a sixteen pound. I don’t think I ever used much of 
anything heavier than that. Yes, ma’am. I drove thirty-eight stakes for 
our sideshow, almost every day for a long, long time. 
 
That’s a lot. 
 
Yes, that’s why I hurt so bad today. (Laughs) 
 
Well, what would happen if you were to get injured? 
 
Well, you wait and see whether you’re going to make it or not, and then 
you might go to the hospital. (Laughs) Or if you was hurt really, really, 
really bad, you’d go to the hospital. Oh, yes, I’ve had pieces of iron 
stake in here, and I’ve had monkey bites over here and rope burns 
everywhere and clonks in the heads. One time, I had a knot that my 
hand, like that, fit over on my head. (Gestures) See, I’m different than a 
lot of show people, and especially women show people. The majority of 
the women were performers or concessioners or office people and cooks, 
but I don’t know. I guess I’m half tomboy, but I never felt like I was. 
 
Not afraid to get your hands dirty. 
 
 
30
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Right. And carried seat boards, day after day, tied the stringers down, 
drove stakes, pulled tents up and carried side poles, carried center poles, 
carried quarter poles, just did it. 
 
Can you park with the best of them? 
 
I can park anything you want anywhere you want it. (Laughter) 
 
It doesn’t matter how big or small the space? 
 
Nope, nope. And if you was hanging around me very often, every now 
and then I still say, “Well, just get out of the car, I’ll get it in there. If 
you can’t get through there, you don’t need to be driving.” (Laughs) Oh, 
yes. When you drove in the ’60s, in that Kentucky and West Virginia 
mountains, on the roads they had back then, Honey, you can drive 
anything, anywhere. (Laughs) My one time going up this horrible 
mountain and Don Gillette was broke down halfway up with his semi so 
you got to go around them. Well, I felt the front left tire drop off the 
ledge and I’m like—(Gasps). Then I felt the back end of my trailer 
hitting the front end of his truck, and I just knew I knocked him off the 
blocks that he was on, but I didn’t.  
 
Creeped on up, got just at the top, making a left turn, and now the bank 
is on this [the right] side of me, and here comes this doublewide mobile 
home at me. There’s only room for one vehicle, two to barely pass. And 
I hit the brakes, and they were the air brakes. When I hit that, I killed the 
engine, and I’m rolling back, over the mountain. The back end of the 
pole truck was hanging over. The back tires were already hanging over 
the cliff, and so I’m telling you. That’s why God, he says, “Oh, no. No, 
no. That’s B.K., can’t put up with her yet.” How this fellow did it, I will 
never know. He stopped that semi with that doublewide trailer, got out, 
and grabbed some kind of big boulder, and threw it under the truck cab, 
the back wheels of the semi-tractor part—because the other part was 
already over—and stopped me from going on over that cliff. 
 
Close calls. 
 
Yes. I was good until he says, “Do you want me to drive it on up the 
mountain, get it out of there, and take it on up the mountain?” And I—
[Imitates Crying]—“No, no because my husband would kill me if I let 
somebody else drive this truck!” (Laughs) So he backed up [the 
mountain. It was close to] the top. The top had pullouts [for parking]. So 
he backed up and I got on up there. He stayed with the rock to make sure 
that I could get it on out of there. I got up on the top, and I just waited 
for Melvin. I said, “You go down. You get my car. You bring it back up, 
 
 
31
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
and you drive this thing down. I ain’t going down!” But I did. (Laughs) 
And one day, his dad and I were out in Colorado coming down a 
mountain. I don’t know, I went to step on the brakes and it didn’t do 
nothing. It just went to the floor. But I got it stopped and slowed down. 
We made it. Another time, I pulled in on the lot and Melvin says, “Bring 
that [water] truck over here so I can water the elephants.” And I just kept 
spinning that steering wheel and going straight. So five, ten minutes 
before that, if we’d have been out on the highway, I’d have been gone. 
Well, I can go on, and on. (Laughs) You see why I decided, “No, God is 
not ready for me.” (Laughs) 
 
You have more than nine lives. 
 
Oh, yes. (Laughs) 
 
Are there any jobs in the circus that women would typically stay away 
from? 
 
Yes, putting a tent up. 
 
Putting the tent up? 
 
Yes. And working animals. We have a lot of women that work animals, 
don’t misunderstand me. But they are a special breed that want to work 
the animals. But putting the tents up… 
 
Not too many women mechanics? 
 
No, just me. (Laughs) Well, they used to laugh because I’d be—have the 
hood up and my butt’s sticking out of the engine. “Oh, that’s just B.K., 
broke down again. She’ll be in town soon.” (Laughter) Of course, I had, 
like I said, two brothers and I knew a little bit of stuff. They never let me 
get in there and get dirty. And my brother just told me not too awfully 
long ago, he says, “No, because Mother would’ve killed us if you had a 
speck of dirt on you,” when I was growing up. Because I always got 
mad at him, “Start it up, pump the clutch, hit the brake.” “But I want to 
see what you’re doing. Why don’t you show me how to do that? What if 
I’m out on the road somewhere?” “No, no. Just tap the starter, turn the 
lights on, hit the brakes, pump the clutch, give it a little more gas.” 
That’s all I ever got learned. (Laughs) But they would tell me things like 
how to do them, or if you hear this, that’s what’s wrong. So when I’d 
have to be on the road, I’d be looking, “Yes, that’s what it looks like that 
he described, and let’s try this.” But I’m really not a mechanic. 
 
I think you like the challenge. 
 
 
 
32
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
Oh, any challenge. 
 
That’s probably why you’re drawn to booking so much. 
 
Yes. 
 
Especially those hard dates. 
 
Well, I don’t know if that’s it or if that’s the way I started. Because 
when they threw me out there booking, it was on close dates. And I told 
that in the first part. Now, I’ve booked even Carson and Barnes, almost 
two years here just recently. Maybe a few of the dates I had three or four 
months out, but that was as far out as I would get. Most of them, I was a 
month or so and, but I started doing it that way. You know how you 
learn something—to crochet one way, and somebody tries to tell you, 
“No, hold it like this,” it don’t work as well. So I don’t know if that’s it, 
but I’m a good challenge person. Yes, don’t tell me I can’t do it. I’ll 
show you how to do it. (Laughs) I’ll figure it out. My brother bought me 
a present—and I should’ve brought that, and I meant to. It’s a box that 
has these papers, right here. (Gestures) They’re just little notepapers, and 
it [the box] has stripes on it. And on the top it says, “Impossible, you 
say? Nothing is impossible when you work for the circus.” So I guess 
that’s been my motto all my life. There isn’t anything impossible. You 
just have to work at it a little harder to make it work. 
 
I want to know about a couple people. 
 
All right. 
 
Tell me about Ralph [Gifford]. 
 
What a pain in the butt! (Laughs) Well, there’s a couple different 
Ralphs, but I’m assuming you mean Ralph Gifford, since he just passed 
away. 
 
Yes. 
 
And I knew him a little bit. Well, you know I’m his second wife? Oh, 
didn’t even break a sweat there. (Laughs) Ralph was a character—and 
he was a pain in the butt. Ask Susie, his wife, she’ll tell you. He was a 
worry wart. He was a good guy. He loved the show business. What other 
kind of things do you want to know about him? 
 
Well, you all worked together, recently. 
 
Yes. 
 
 
33
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
What were you doing with him? 
 
The last I did, I mostly just drove him around and made sure he was all 
right and took his medicine and argued with him. (Laughs) Same thing I 
usually did. 
 
And he was out billposting? 
 
Yes, yes. But he would worry about six months down the road, and he 
was always going, “Now, B.K., do you think that you can go do Dallas 
with me?” “Well, when is it, Ralph?” “Um, November.” “Um, Ralph, 
let’s wait. I may not be alive by then.” But he did worry, and he wanted 
everything right. He tried to make sure everything was right. He just 
loved the business. But he was a character, I mean a character, now. And 
we all loved him, though. I mean, I don’t know what to tell you about 
him. He was a good guy. Ralph really loved the business. 
 
Tell me a little bit about the first time you met D.R. Miller.  
 
Oh, hell, I don’t remember. I was a little kid. 
 
Oh, yeah? 
 
I’ve known him all my life. (Laughs) 
 
What’d you think of him? 
 
Oh, he’s another character. (Laughter) D.R. was a very tough hombre. 
And somewhere in there, he was a very soft hombre. Very smart. Hmm, 
what else can I say about D.R.? 
 
In your view, did you appreciate his approach to circus? 
 
Yes, pretty much. Pretty much. Back when he was young, he was too 
tough. I mean, he was mean. He’d just as soon cold cock you and beat 
you half to death as to look at you. He had a good reputation for that. In 
the same time era, a lot of the guys did. And that’s back when they 
would roll you out, beat you half to death, roll you up in the sidewall, 
carry you to the next town, and then unroll you and make you go to 
work [but you had done something really bad to get that treatment]. 
(Laughs) That’s true. But he mellowed. But he was tough. He was strict. 
He wanted things right. In his, really, heydays, that show was great. It 
walked, talked this country, buddy. Outdid them all, he pushed it. 
 
And we don’t hear too much about his wife. 
 
 
34
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Isla? 
 
Yes. 
 
It’s because she didn’t—she wasn’t overly involved in the business end 
of it. Isla, pretty much, was a lot in charge of wardrobe and the show 
itself, maybe. She would get into that, but a sweetheart. Everybody 
loved Isla. She just—elegant lady, very down to earth. You were never 
treated as if you were below her, you were her equal. You just admired 
her. I never saw her get mad. And like I say, I wasn’t around Isla as 
much. Isla was either in the trailer or she took care of Barbara. I mean, 
she really was a mother, mother. She did a lot of that. But D.R. was the 
flamboyant, out on the lot and raising heck. And if we visited, I hated 
almost to visit. “B.K., go tell them to do this. B.K., go get this done.” I 
said, “D.R., I’m just visiting.” (Laughs) 
 
Put you to work! 
 
Yes, oh, yes. That’s why I never wanted to work for him. He offered me, 
several times, a job. I said, “I don’t think so. He’d kill me,” because he 
knew what I knew how to do. You follow me? 
 
Oh, yes. 
 
And it’s like, “Oh, no, no. He’d work me to death.” And he would’ve. 
(Laughs) 
 
So you’ve been several different places. We know you came to Hugo at 
some point, but what brought you to Hugo? 
 
Like to stay here, kind of, to live here, you mean? 
 
Yes. 
 
I have been in and out of Hugo all my life, visiting. 
 
Okay. 
 
Okay. As long as I can remember. This was the truck, we come through, 
we stopped, we visited. You’d make the rounds to all the show people 
and visit for two or three days, a week, whatever. Or if you just 
happened to be hurrying, you visited who you could and got on back to 
work. But we lived in the Rio Grande Valley of Texas. I was born and 
raised in northern Indiana, don’t like the snow and cold. So I’m not 
going back there unless I’m really desperate. (Laughs) Lived in Florida, 
 
 
35
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I do not like Florida. I like it because there were show people there. 
That’s the only good thing I can say about Florida. So years and years—
several years ago, even before Melvin and I was divorced, I said, “Well, 
when we retire,” first, I was, “we’re either going to live in Florida or in 
Hugo,” because there’s show people. Then we actually lived in Florida 
for a while and I’m like, “Guess I’ll retire in Hugo.” So that’s why I’m 
here, there’s show people. That’s what’s made me decide to be here. 
And now, it’s grown so big I’m ready to move out in the country.  
 
Are you, really? (Laughs) 
 
Yes, it’s getting too big, too much traffic. (Laughs) Well, when you 
grow up on a circus you’re on a little ole lot with a little ole town… 
 
That’s true. 
 
…which is the circus town. (Laughs) 
 
You just mentioned the R-word, retirement. 
 
Yes. 
 
Are you retired? 
 
Um…probably not. I’d like to be, but I don’t think so. (Laughs) 
 
I don’t know if you can—can you retire? 
 
I don’t think so. I don’t think they let you, because it’s always, “B.K., 
what you doing? I need you to…” (Laughs) I don’t want to retire 
completely. I’m not physically able to just go out there and do it like I 
used to. Face it, I am getting older. It seems like by leaps and bounds. 
But you see, what I’d really like to do is just go hang out on a circus and 
just kind of help out where I can, when I can. But that’s not going to 
happen, because when you are on the circus, you need to work. It’s like 
when I went and told them I’d come cook on Culpepper. Well, I knew I 
couldn’t do it by myself. And Mel Ray was there and he said, “Well, 
Mom, I don’t do that much.” He said, “I’ll help you when I need to.” 
Okay, well, that would’ve been all fine and dandy, except three or four 
days before I left, I fell and messed up my foot. So it made it harder for 
me to do it, and they don’t have just a certain eating time. So it made it 
harder yet, and so I was pretty pooped. Well, I was kind of getting in the 
swing of it by the time the three weeks was up. (Laughs) And my foot 
had quit hurting. But I was there. I cooked. I told them I would be there, 
and I was there. Of course, like I say, I couldn’t have done it without my 
son’s help. 
 
 
36
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I wrote on that paper to explain to you about the Silverlake name. 
 
That would be great. Why don’t we do that? 
 
All right. Silverlake is not our legal name. It is Timberlake, but if you go 
to any show people, they’re not going to know that. They’re getting so a 
little bit more, but for years and years they haven’t known it. And way, 
way back on the—and of course, it’s my husband’s side, not mine. It 
was Timberlake, and they started out, I think before vaudeville, actually, 
the family, generations back. But as vaudeville came into the scene and 
they started doing more vaudeville, it’d be like Melvin’s grandfather and 
great-grandfather were more into the vaudeville-type acting. And they 
told them that Timberlake was just not flashy enough for a show name. 
It just didn’t set well. So they came up with Silverlake. So that they used 
as a professional name.  
 
Then part of the family broke off, let’s see, probably in the ’30s, ’40s 
maybe. I’m not sure when Arthur went to California. But Arthur and 
Florence went to California. Part of the family moved out there and 
started working, trying to get into the movie business. So it was Arthur 
Silverlake and Florence Silverlake, and he got into the movies. Florence 
got into the movies in more bit parts. That was back when the movie 
industry out there was all concerned with the communist role, and that 
Silverlake sounded a little too Jewish. So they cut it to just Lake, then. 
So Melvin’s cousin was Arthur Lake, who is Dagwood [in the] 
Dagwood and Blondie movies. So that’s how the change in the names—
it’s all come about. But most people in show business don’t know that 
it’s Timberlake. And if I’m doing anything circus-related, it 
automatically writes Silverlake, and if I’m signing a check, it’s 
Timberlake. It just automatically works that way. (Laughs)  
 
Well, we learned about Timberlake. 
 
Yes. 
 
Do you mind telling me how B.K. came about, what does B.K. stand for? 
 
Well, I ain’t going to tell you what it stands for. That’s going with this in 
the history books, but it came about because when I started booking I 
was young and beautiful. (Laughter) Don’t look now. (Laughter) And I 
would stay in motels, and it kind of worried me, being a single woman. 
And, I don’t know, I just started writing B.K. Timberlake or Silverlake, 
whichever I felt like using at that time. That way, if another teller—I say 
teller… 
 
 
 
37
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
 
Silverlake 
 
Finchum 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clerk. 
 
Clerk, yes—came on and it was a man or something, they wouldn’t 
necessarily know whether I was a man or woman, because they didn’t 
put “Mr.,” or “Mrs.,” they just put “B.K.” And I just felt a little more 
safe, but that’s actually how it started. And I don’t know how it picked 
up. But it’s the same with Melvin, my ex, he’s more known as Colonel 
Mel now. And that came from we hired an Elvis impersonator who did 
our concerts. And the guy just kept calling him Colonel, “Colonel,” and 
just teasing like he was the Colonel, Elvis’s Colonel Parker. It just stuck, 
so now it’s Colonel Mel most of the time. (Laughs) But we have all 
kinds of names for people, I mean, just nicknames. What they happen 
to—Turtle, on the pictures you’ll see Ken Turtle Benson. Well, he got 
his nickname, because he worked for Carson and Barnes and was in a 
truck accident, and he was in a body cast and would walk around the lot. 
(Laughs) So it stuck. He’s Turtle.  
 
I’m sure some names are more flattering than others. 
 
Oh, yes. (Laughter) 
 
Well, when you think about the circus, and you attend a circus today, 
whether you’re working or you’re enjoying the show, what are some of 
your favorite sights and smells and sounds? 
 
Ooh, all of it. The elephants and the cotton candy. 
 
Smelling the elephants or seeing the elephants? 
 
Smelling them. (Laughs) 
 
Describe the smell for me. 
 
Well, to me it’s like roses, to you guys it stinks. Well, once in a while it 
stinks to me, too, but when you haven’t smelled it for a while it’s like, 
“Oh, that’s great. That’s elephants.” [Makes sniffing sound] (Laughs) 
But I love elephants, so kind of attached. The [second] winter with Clark 
and Walters, we wintered in southern Indiana, and we had to keep them 
in the barn, the elephants, to keep them warm most of the days—or 
nights especially. But you take them out when it warms up some. But a 
lot of times, Melvin would not change clothes before we’d go to the 
grocery store, and like from three isles over, somebody would holler, 
“Timberlake, is that you?” because they could smell him. It wasn’t 
because they could see him, because he’d smell like the elephants. 
(Laughter) 
 
 
 
38
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
And as far as the acts, if they were good acts, I love to watch them. 
Trapeze, sometimes I’m nervous, the way they’re doing it, because I did 
it and I know what they’re doing and what the holds are. And if they’re 
not just caught just exactly like I think they should be, then I get a little 
scared. I just love it all. I don’t like a circus that drags its heels, like it’s 
an act and then we stall and do something until the [next] act starts. I 
want it to move. Even if it’s a lousy act, I don’t care. Get it in there. 
Let’s go, keep it moving. Keep the audience entertained. That’s what 
we’re here for. 
 
So if you could go back and change anything, be anything, outside of 
working in the circus, what would you think you would’ve been, 
would’ve done? 
 
Well, I truly wanted to be a beautician when I was a teenager and 
growing up. And my aunt and uncle were going to pay my tuition and 
everything. And then I, for a long time, I thought, “Boy, I wished I 
would’ve become a lawyer,” but as I’ve investigated, it’s pretty hard 
work. (Laughs) I’m a softy so I’m not sure how good of a lawyer I 
would’ve been, so I’m probably better off not having done that. But 
that’s about the only other things I truly would ever want to aspire to. 
It’s kind of hard to answer that when you grow up in the business, and 
that’s really all you know. I did do a factory job once. I was in the 
basement, and I taped under the dashboard of your cars. It was a bunch 
of wires they call a harness, and I put the tape around them for six 
weeks, because that’s all the longer I could stand it. (Laughs)  Too 
repetitious. 
 
Definitely not circus work. 
 
No, too repetitious, because no matter how many times you hit that stake 
or how many times you drive that stake, it’s in a different place, and 
you’ve hit it just a little different, and it’s on a different angle. (Laughs) 
There’s always something different. And maybe that’s the allure to 
circus, there’s always something new, something different happening. 
“So and so had a flat tire on the way today,” or, “The floor fell out of the 
elephant truck, coming home from the jump.” There’s always 
something. And, like I said, you meet so many wonderful people, just 
fantastic. We’ve made so many friends through that. 
 
You’ve seen a lot of the circus, you’ve worked them, you’ve owned them, 
you’ve managed them… 
 
Yep. 
 
You, personally, where do you see the circus going within the next ten to 
 
 
39
 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
twenty years? 
 
It’s not looking good. As you said a little while ago, and I don’t think we 
had the tape rolling, but things keep changing and they come back to 
things that have happened before. And that’s the only chance that, I 
think, the circus has. We have so much competition today with the—we 
just thought there was competition when the TV started. But, now, it’s 
TV, movies, tapes, telephones that the kids are just texting on all the 
time, there’s the iPods, there’s something to keep entertainment going. 
When I grew up, we pulled in town, boy, everybody was out. Something 
was happening. Nowadays, you can pull in town, you can have a parade, 
and even our little parades here in Hugo, my era, the whole town 
would’ve been there. I’m sure these streets were packed. Today, there’s 
a few people lined up watching the parade, because we have so much 
other things to do that seem to be more important. So I think that the 
show business, the circus, it’s going to be a little hard for them to keep 
going. We’ve seen it dwindle, and years ago, people said, “Oh, it’s dying 
out. It’s dying out.” And I used to say, “No, it’ll never die out,” but I 
think it’s going to get harder. It may not completely ever go away, but 
it’s just going to be harder and harder. That’s my thinking. I’m hoping 
not—big time hoping not. 
 
Well, talk to me a little bit about the Showmen’s Club, how it started 
here in Hugo. 
 
Oh, dumb-dumb here got it started. 
 
And what year was that? 
 
Two years ago. 
 
Okay. 
 
Let’s see. This is 2012, ’11, ’10, ’09, 2009, in the fall of the year we 
were blabbing about something. And Moira [Loter Curiel] actually, I 
think, is the one that says, “I am so sick of going to funerals and that’s 
the only time we see anybody.” I believe the museum or the chamber or 
the library had a little luncheon up here at Angie’s and invited so many 
show people. And we went up and we kind of talked, but you couldn’t 
talk, because you’re in the restaurant and you’re not wanting to interfere 
with other people, and you couldn’t hear what so-and-so was saying 
down there and this and that. I guess I went home and was a little 
frustrated, not that I ever get that way. And I said, “Well, this is 
malarkey. We’re going to do something about it,” meaning me.  
 
So I got on the horn and I checked with the VFW [Veterans of Foreign 
 
 
40
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wars] if I could use the hall and called everybody and told them, “We’re 
going to get together, and we’re going to have a club or a social club or a 
whatever,” and wound up with seems like around thirty-six people 
attended that night. And I told them we could become a club like the 
other Showmen’s Club, or we could just have get-togethers once a 
month or something where we could see everybody and visit. We go for 
weeks on end. I don’t see Lucy, I don’t see this one, I don’t see that one, 
and it’s frustrating because they’re our friends. We used to be together 
every day and see each other every day. So they all wanted to make it a 
club. And I said, “Even if we’re a social club, we have to have some 
kind of leadership.”  
 
And so we became a club. We worked towards getting it all together and 
here we are. (Laughs) And we haven’t been able to do a whole lot yet. 
Last year, we donated money to the Men United, here in town. This 
year, we donated to the VFW because they don’t charge us even, for 
using the hall out there, and we’re kind of embarrassed. We do take up a 
little dollar collection and give them for electric, but it’s not enough to 
cover the electric, even what we use. What else have we helped? 
Different little things, very little things. But we haven’t had a lot of 
money until this year, and I don’t consider it a lot of money yet. But 
we’ve had the haunted house to raise money, and we’ve used the old 
house that they’re going to tear down [to build the circus museum on the 
property], and we’ve paid—like last year, we paid their rent, I think it 
was. And then this year, we had to pay insurance to have it.  
 
So, in a sense, we’ve tried to help them. And we try to help them. We’re 
here to help. We haven’t had a lot of people realize we’re here and to 
ask. We had one lady came that she helps a lot of the teenagers. She’s a 
great gal, works her tail off and talked to us about doing some stuff, but 
we haven’t heard any more from her. We just got new officers, just 
January is our reelection. Now, everybody’s got to sign up and pay their 
dues. I don’t know what all we’ll do this year. Terry [Loter Parkinson] is 
our president, and she’s got umpteen-zillion ideas she’s inundating me 
with. (Laughs) “Okay, Terry. Okay, Terry. Okay, Terry.” Which is 
good, it’s great. 
 
Well, it’s good, yes. And you get to see each other every month. 
 
Right, right. And my problem now, I’m not quite getting it somehow, 
and I don’t know how to go about it, is we’ll have our meeting, we eat, 
and then my thoughts were we’d sit around and BS, play games, do 
something. Well, we have a meeting, we eat, and everybody leaves. But 
the last several months, myself, Dixie and Gus and Billy [Loter family], 
[and Susie Gifford] we sit and play penny-ante poker and have a blast. 
We laugh and carry on, act goofy, and everybody’s—we’re just there in 
 
 
41
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
that big ole VFW hall, but we have fun. (Laughs) And we try to talk 
others into staying. We want to get games. If they don’t want to do that, 
do something else. If they don’t want to do that, just sit around and make 
fun of us doing it, whatever. So we’re together. And we’re going to do 
scholarships. We have four—I think it’s four, maybe five graduating this 
year. So we’re going to help with scholarships this year, for them. 
 
Well, good. You’ve got to start somewhere. 
 
Yes, and I know a lot of them are anxious, and I said, “But we’re still a 
young club, guys. You’ve got to kind of still tread a little lightly and 
help what we can and when we can.” But it’ll go. We’re going to keep 
going until it just dies out. (Laughs) 
 
Well, what’s special about Hugo that keeps showmen here? 
 
I don’t think there’s anything special, it’s just because there’s been so 
many shows here that other circus people are established here and live 
here that it attracts more people. We are a special family, a special breed 
of people. We have our own special language. I can visit with you all 
with no problem, most any of us can. But you’re not show people, and 
there’s a difference, and it’s hard to explain. I don’t like you or dislike 
you any more or any less than I do show people. It’s just we don’t talk 
the same language, and I don’t know how to explain it better than that. 
 
B.K. is Mom, and I don’t know where that comes from. I will say that. 
On these circuses, carnivals, shows, wherever I have been—and I have 
accused my son of putting working men up to it, but he swears he 
doesn’t. And just out of nowhere they’re calling me Mom. I have more 
kids than the law allows. (Laughter) 
 
That could be either really good or really bad. 
 
I think it’s pretty good. I like most of them. The ones I didn’t like, I 
straightened them out and then I liked them. (Laughs) 
 
Well, Mom is better than Grandma. 
 
Yes, I guess that’s true. 
 
Well, is there anything else you’d like to share before we end, anything 
we missed? We’ve covered so much. 
 
How much more? 
 
I know, I know. Would you do it all over again? 
 
 
42
 
Silverlake 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Silverlake 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Silverlake 
 
Oh, yes. Oh, yes. Some parts I’d like to already know what I know now 
and not screw up back on the road. But I wouldn’t change none of it, not 
a thing. Not a thing. It’s the most wonderful life there ever can be. Every 
child, every person in this country should have to spend one season on a 
circus and they would respect, honor more about life than anywhere else 
will ever teach them. And I can attest that that’s true, because I’ve had 
several of them do it, nieces, nephews, “There’s no electric Aunt B.K.! 
How am I going to curl my hair?! Oh, the hairdryer won’t work!” Boy, 
they appreciate that generator they can stand out behind and get their 
hair dry. But they learn that it’s not all roses in this life. So it’s really 
true. Kids grow up much better, much more prepared for life, I think, 
than a lot of the kids that don’t get a chance to do anything like that. 
 
It’s been a good life.  
 
Very good. 
 
I think that’s a good way to end. 
 
Better than most anybody could ever imagine. I’ve done more things in 
my life than most people ever even dream about doing. (Laughs) 
 
Well, thank you so much for sharing your life with us. We really 
appreciate it. 
 
Well, you gals are who we appreciate, every one of us, for doing this. 
And we just pray we don’t embarrass you. (Laughter) 
 
------- End of interview -------