March 20, 2013 
Home of David Vincent 
Project: Archie Green Fellowship: Dairy Farm Workers in Northern NY 
Interviewer: Jill Breit (JB) 
Interviewees: David (Dave) Vincent (DV) 
Transcribed by: MP Filippi 
(0:00:00) 
JB: Hello, this is Jill Breit speaking. Today is Wednesday March 20, 2013. I’m at the Vincent Farm on the 
Vincent Road outside of Malone. And I’m here speaking to Dave Vincent about the family farm and how 
it has evolved over time. This is an interview for the Archie Green Dairy Farm Project. Dave, thank you 
for agreeing to talk to me today. And could you just start by telling me a little bit of the history of your 
family farm. 
DV: Well, my great Grandfather comes to Burke around mid-1800 and he started the farm and it was 
small. And his son took over the farm. He had an only son, took over the farm and started here. I guess 
he had two sons. One lived up the road and we now have that farm. And then my grandfather started 
farming and then 1920, my father was born and as soon as he got out of Canton College they went into 
partnerships and farmed together. And my father was into vegetables, potatoes mostly. And it was a 
pretty stable crop back in the ‘40’s and ‘50’s. Everybody had a good meal at night and I don’t think 
people do that as much anymore. And we grew from 5 acres to potatoes to eventually, mid-‘80’s we 
were up into 160-150 acres of potatoes. But between there and now my father has three sons. I’m one 
of them, I’m David. My oldest brother was Lee and my next oldest brother was Sy. We do have a 
daughter Mary; she’s not in the operation. Everything was going along pretty smooth. I get out of high 
school in 1976 and joined the partnership in 1980. Worked in the farm with my brother and my father 
and we grew potatoes. The farm kept getting a little larger; we kept buying up farms as they come for 
sale. I was more on the dairy side, so we put up a free stall operation in mid-90. To no avail or however 
you want to say it, my father had a problem and he passed away in 1998. So it left his three sons. We 
were farming along for a few years and my brother Lee, my eldest brother, he had a bout with cancer 
and he lost the bout. And so in 2000 my brother Sy and me farmed until the end of 2011. And at the end 
of 2011 he retired and is working for me, keeping me on the ball. But there was a lot of evolution 
between there. We went to being a large potato grower to being a moderately small potato grower. We 
used to do quite a lot of seed, seed oats. We still do seed oats; we market a little bit of oats for horse 
feed and stuff like that. Not as much seed or recleaned oats as we used to do because of regulations. 
We used to be a fairly large maple producer at one time in the area, but after the ice storm of ’98 and 
reduction of help because of my father’s death and my brother’s death we scaled back and let that 
operation kind of go. At this point we’re cropping approximately 600 acres. We put up forage for our 
own herd and we have a small community of Amish in the community and they buy quite a lot of their 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
1
corn silage energy needs and some of their haylage needs from us. So we’re feeding quite a few herds. 
So our farm went from vegetables, so now we’re growing quite a few crops for sale for other farmers. 
Not only Amish and Mennonites, but anybody in the area. The maple production, I’d like to go back into 
it but it doesn’t seem like we have enough time in the day. We’re milking approximately 160 head of 
cattle and doing the feed, some straw, we’re doing oats, and we’re selling some rye seed, doing some 
rye straw, different things and some custom work for people. 
(0:05:02) 
 JB: And when you say custom work, what do you mean by custom work? 
DV: We do combine some grain for people. We do some field work, depends on if we have time that 
permits with the help I have. 
(0:05:16) 
 JB: Now right now in your family you mentioned that your retired brother helps you out a little bit. Is 
there anybody else in your immediate family who is working on the farm right now? 
DV: No, there isn’t. And I feel sad that there isn’t. I think young folks on the farm are going away for 
bigger and better opportunities away from the farm. I’m the last one of the Vincent family that is on the 
farm. And I wish there was more coming along. 
(0:05:46) 
 JB: Yeah. Do you have children? 
DV: Yes, I have four girls. One’s a speech pathologist for the school system. One works for social 
services. One works in a grocery store and the other one is working as a bookkeeper for an electrical 
inspector. 
(0:06:05) 
 JB: Okay. So you anticipate that you’re the last generation of this family that will be running this farm? 
DV: Yes. 
(0:06:13) 
 JV: And of course the whole road is named after your family. So you talked about going back to your 
great- grandfather who started with a small farm. Where was that? Was that on what is now on this 
road, the Vincent Road?  
DV: Yes, this is one the Vincent Road right at the present location that we are at.  
JB: Okay. And at this point does your family own all of the farms that are up and down this road? 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
2
DV: No, we don’t. There is at one end of the road one farm. The north end of the road is owned by two 
different farmers and as you go up the road after the bridge, the west side of the road is owned by 
another farm at the end, Mr. Gokee.  
(0:06:55) 
 JB: Okay. So at this point, given that you have a diversified operation, what percentage of your overall 
business if we’re looking at gross income for the farm, what percentage of your overall business comes 
from the dairy? 
DV: Probably about 90%. 
JB: Okay. As opposed to when your dad was growing potatoes, that probably would have been about 
90% of the business then? Is that fair to say? 
DV: No, when we were growing potatoes, it was probably 45% coming from the dairy. We only milked 
approximately 60-70 head. It’s probably was in the ‘40’s. And now it’s approximately 90, but I would say 
it runs someplace between 80 and 90. 
(0:07:36) 
JB: All right. Well, I think Franklin County and particularly here in this Malone/Burke area was 
particularly known for growing out crops like potatoes and cabbage and onions and things like that. Is 
that correct? 
DV: That’s correct. I think it was more on the potatoes side. My neighbor did get into cabbage. I don’t 
know of any onions being grown here but a lot of seed potatoes. I can remember when we used to get 
together at a potato meeting and we used to be 15-20 people. And now I think right here in the locality 
we’ve got one or two growers for table stock. 
(0:08:13) 
 JB: How large are those operations? 
DV: One table stock grower is 20 acres and I think the other table stock grower is around 50 acres. We 
got a large seed grower, Child stock Farm in Malone, and I guess there’s a few up south, little seed stock 
farms. But nothing like there used to be.  
JB: And what happened? 
DV: Well, I think with the potatoes, I think we ran into competition with the Canadian market and the 
borders. They can bring stuff over here and we couldn’t take it back across the border. There’s 
regulations on this Free Trade that doesn’t look very free to me. But we were running into problems, 
they were getting subsidies and we couldn’t compete with them in the Syracuse market. And it was hard 
to get our money, so we decided to opt out of that business. 
JB: And as we sit here, we’re actually pretty close with the border to Canada. How close are we? 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
3
DV: We’re probably within 6-8 miles from the border. 
(0:09:22) 
 JB: Okay. So tell me a little but for you personally as a young person growing up on the farm sort of how 
it has evolved for you. You know you’ve gone through the big sweep of how the crop and the 
diversification has shifted, but let’s talk about the work. How was it when you were a boy? 
DV: Oh, it was the best thing in the world. You couldn’t wait to get home from after school to see what 
they were doing because there was new and great things and tractors. And little boys and tractors go 
along great. And you were working with your family and your brothers and it was just great. Neighbors 
worked together. My uncle used to come down and help up with potato harvest and potato planting. 
We used to go help him. It was a big family thing and his sons, we all worked together. And it seems like 
it has got away from that. It’s got more, with the more regulations we’ve got, there’s more 
documentations. Things are a lot more complicated. The whole family thing is kind of, growing hard to 
do.  
(0:10:40) 
 JV: And how large of a work force do you have now. How many people do you employ? 
DV: I employ five full-time people. 
JV: And do you have any Amish workers? 
DV: No. At one time we used to have three or four, when they first started coming in the area, they 
come up and work for me and learned how we did things here on this farm. And they bought their own 
farms since then and gone into farming for themselves.  
JB: And are they doing similar kinds of work to what they learned here? 
DV: Yes, they are milking dairy cows. Some of them have got real nice farms, very clean, very high 
quality milk. Excellent people.  
(0:11:18) 
 JB: And are you able to get any local folks to work on the farm? I know that’s an issue, a lot of farmers 
have talked about it- 
DV: We don’t at this point- sorry for interrupting you. But at this point we don’t have any migrant 
workers. We have all local workers. I have a husband and wife team that has a few animals on this farm. 
The rest of my people are all local. I don’t have any migrants. Sometimes I think maybe I should and 
other times I think with the local work force because I think there are opportunities for the young 
people in the area. 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
4
JB: It’s interesting because somebody I interviewed two weeks ago said the same thing. He actually 
invests a lot of energy and training local young people to work on the farm because he just thinks it’s 
important for them to have that experience.  
DV: Yes, I do too. And the big thing that I would like to see is I would like to see some young folk or some 
young person that’s got out of college that would like to come along and grab onto the reins a little bit 
and maybe farm with me. And maybe he could be the next generation here. I think we’re gonna have to 
work in that direction. I’d rather see a few smaller farms here instead of being gobbled up by a great big 
one. 
(0:12:36) 
 JB: How many acres do you have here? 
DV: We approximately own 903 acres on this operation, me and my brother do. And shares. And we also 
rent around 150 acres of tillable ground.  
JB: And how much of that acreage is woodlot or non-productive land from the farmer’s perspective? 
DV: On the whole farm we’re about 50-50, on the 903. We probably have about 400+ that’s good tillable 
ground and the rest of it is kind of marginal pasture, woods, not great lumber but brushy trashy stuff. 
(0:13:20) 
 JB: And is it all contiguous here? Is your 900 all together here? 
DV: No, our 900 acres is not all on the Vincent Road. We do have a 200-250 acre farm that we own, 
that’s on Route 11 by the Burke Center by the Town Garage. We bought that because it was a potato 
farm that was going out of business in 1975. And we purchased that farm because we were in the mode 
of growing and doing more potatoes and I was just already about out of high school and I think my 
father was planning to make room for me and that was one of the reasons he bought that farm.  
(0:14:02) 
 JB: Before we talk about the dairy a little more, I’m very interested in the fact that we are sitting right 
now in what was the storage and processing area for the potatoes. So can you talk about this building 
we’re in a little bit and how it worked when you were in potatoes in a big way? 
DV: Yeah, we had- my father had a dream I guess and ever since he got out of school. And he was a very 
good carpenter and he built the storages and we used to grade out of the storages. And around 1967 
when my brother come home- I think one come home from college in 1964 and one of them went to 
work in Rochester and came home about ’67. At that point they decided we needed a place that we 
could package potatoes. So we built the building and it’s approximately 40’ wide by 120’, to set out 
packing line up in. And we used to send out approximately a load of, a trailer load of potatoes every 
other day, three to four trailer loads a week, all winter long to keep our work force busy that we used on 
the dairy farm in the summertime putting up feed for the dairy, worked in here in the wintertime 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
5
packaging potatoes. And at that time there was four family members and three employees. And right 
now, kind of the tables are switched and we’ve turned packing plant into- one end’s a mini shop for 
equipment, to work on in the wintertime and the other end is ‘storage,’ for calf grain and woodworking 
shop for repairing buildings and do some of our own carpentry work. 
(0:15:50) 
 JB: Now you talked about having five full-time people who work with you. Do you also being on extra 
labor in the summer? 
DV: Sometimes but not as a rule of thumb. Sometimes we get an extra person to help with milking 
because the men are gettin’ stretched out a little far. But most of the time we don’t. 
(0:16:12) 
 JB: So as the owner of this operation now, what is your routine like over the course of the week? Are 
you mostly managing these days or are you still actively out working with the cows, are you out in the 
fields? 
DV: In the wintertime I do a lot of the truck driving for the silage operation. I don’t manage the cows as 
much as I used to. I have a herdsperson. She looks after the cows, we talk. On a weekly or daily- we talk 
on a daily basis. We try to make plans on a weekly basis. But sometimes during the busy times it’s more 
like a monthly basis, but we talk on a daily basis on how things are going. She works with the cows. My 
brother does a lot of the maintenance in equipment and I do do a lot of the field work in the 
summertime, because in the summertime we do not deliver feed, and so I do a lot of the planning and 
spraying. We do our own spraying, we don’t custom hire a lot of the work done, we do it ourselves. And 
utilize our work force to the maximum. 
(0:17:28) 
 JB: Now the woman who overlooks your herd, is that the husband and wife team you’re talking about? 
DV: Yes, it’s a husband/wife team and I think they have approximately 25 cows milking at this point. 
They were another farm, the other farm went out of business, they happened to come here. Her 
husband is laid up right now, he has a farm accident two years ago and they did surgery this winter and 
he is not back to work at this point. 
JB: So right now you’re operating with four full—time people.  
DV: Yes, and I’ve hired an extra to take his place at this point. 
JB: Oh, okay. 
(0:17:57) 
 JB: So the production from the dairy, you’re sending out milk. Well, where do you sell your milk? 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
6
DV: We contract our milk with St. Albans Co-op in Vermont and they’re affiliated with Ben and Jerry’s. 
And we’re working with Ben and Jerry’s on different programs to create better animal husbandry, more 
promotion of the milk, better land conservation. Ben and Jerry’s want to be noted for high quality 
farming in the area and we’re in a program with them and our milk goes to St. Albans. 
(0:18:48) 
 JB: Yes, and for the record, St. Albans is in Vermont. 
DV: Yes, it’s in St. Albans, Vermont. 
JB: Do most of the dairy farmers in Franklin County belong to that particular co-op. 
DV:  No, most of the dairy farmers, it’s a mix but a lot of them belong to Chateauguay Co-op, which is a 
cheese manufacturer in Chateauguay. We used to; we switched back 5-6 years ago because of other 
opportunities. There are other co-ops. Dairy lea is in the area. There’s some organic milk in the Town of 
Burke. 
(0:19:34) 
 JB: So, I’ve heard from a number of people that it’s not unusual for women to be the ones who actually 
interact with the cows more and oversee them, because there’s some perception that women do that 
better. Has that been the case on your farm over the time that you family has run it, that you’ve usually 
had a woman working with the herd? 
DV: No, it wasn’t until 2007 when we hired Joyce with the herd. I used to do a lot of the herds work 
myself, but with this transition into me being the owner and my brother retiring, it doesn’t seem like I 
could get it done. And it was an opportunity to hire Joyce and add, when Dennis got done farming and 
we did and she’s been doing most of the herd work and she’s more capable of doing the herd work than 
she is field work, so we’ve kept her where she fits in the best. And the perception about a woman being 
better with cows; she’s a lot better with the calves, she’s probably more patient with some things than 
what I would be. I don’t mean that I am impatient, but she is a little more caring at some points. 
(0:20:52) 
 JB: Did your mom work on the farm when you were growing up? 
DV: My mom worked mostly as bookkeeping. She did help with potato harvesting. I think all family 
members when we were harvesting potatoes- if we were short and people didn’t show up in the fall- I 
think all the women folks had shared in the potatoes or in the packing line. But not very many of them 
worked in the dairy barn. 
(0:21:15) 
 JB: And you did say when harvest was one, even your relatives who were not necessarily on farms 
themselves would come and help, right? 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
7
DV: Yes, yes. Way back we’ve got movies way back where the neighbors all come and helped. And we 
hired a lot of people and we used to have a single row harvester. And my cousin’s mother was on the 
harvester and my uncle was on the harvester, the neighbors were. We used to take a lot of work when 
we used to have to pick the bags of potatoes up and draw them in, in bags. There was a lot of labor, but 
at that point there was a great return on investment. 
JB: So you actually have movies of this work going on? 
DV: Yes, if I can come up with them. We have old movies in the ‘60’s. 
JB: Oh my gosh that would be wonderful 
DV: -of maple syrup being done by hand, drilling the holes by hand. Potato harvesting by hand. We’ve 
got the whole thing on- 
JB: Who thought to make movies? 
DV: The neighbor used to ride around with her horse. Dolly Leonard. And her husband used to help us 
with potato harvesting and with maple syrup. And she took movies when we were doing it.  
JB: That is wonderful. And so you got copies of those? 
DV: Yes.  
JB: Fascinating. That would be a wonderful thing if we could have copies of those at some point to put 
with the archive. That would be terrific.  
DV: Okay. Maybe I can see about getting a copy made for you. 
(0:22:45) 
 JB: So, I’m really intrigues that you actually sell to the Amish because that’s not the way it usually goes. 
Usually people buy from the Amish or sometimes they have a labor force that’s Amish. But we don’t 
think of- Most of us when we think about the Amish, we think of them producing all they need. So tell 
me about that relationship, I’m fascinated about that. 
DV: Well, I think the relationship started with me back when I had them working for me. And they used 
to do the feeding of our cows and so on and so forth. And then when they went on their smal farms, 
they wanted to milk 50-60 animals for their family. And the first thing they knew, they couldn’t produce 
enough field with their horses and the equipment that they used and they do more summer grazing. So 
they went to doing more summer grazing and they contract their winter needs of feed through us for 
they can maintain a little larger herds and make a little more profit.  
(0:23:44) 
 JB: I’m not as familiar with the Amish communities here in this Burke area as I am with the ones over in 
St. Lawrence County, how large of a community is that? How many Amish do live in this area? 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
8
DV: It’s getting to be quite a large community. At one time it started out with four or five families, but at 
this point I’d say over a hundred of them when they gather for church on Sundays. Houses are full and 
running over. A lot of them come up to do carpenter work. A lot of them are running other businesses 
other than dairying, masonry, carpenter, construction, stores, variety stores, maple sugar production. A 
lot of them are doing a lot of different things.  
(0:24:31) 
 JB: And you had said earlier that it’s actually a mix of Amish and Mennonite, right? 
DV: Yes, the Mennonites are more over towards the North western side of Franklin County-Westville, 
Constable area- than they are in Burke. In Burke, I think it’s mostly all Amish. But I do work with the 
Mennonites. I hired one of them; he does tile drainage for me. I do sell them seed oats or oats for their 
horses, and so on and so forth. 
(0:25:07) 
 JB: Now the straw that you produce, where do you sell that? 
DV: It goes to mostly Amish. We just took a load this morning to Ruben Miller in Constable. Mostly 
Amish or fair time when people are taking their cows to fair. 
JB: Now that’s very interesting because the Franklin County Fair is just a few miles from here. 
DV: Yes, and generally we have Rye straw and that’s ready about the same time as the Clinton County 
fair is. And most everybody is out of straw. It gives a good opportunity to make a few dollars doing that. 
JB: So are you the only one selling straw to the fairs? 
DV: No, there are other people right in this area. We’ve got a neighbor farmer and there’s a big farmer 
over in Chateauguay that sells straw. But it’s like sweet corn. The first on the market makes a big buck.  
(0:25:57) 
 JB: So is the fair still a big deal in this area? 
DV: Not as big as it used to be. I can remember going to the fair and you’d have a lot more farmers 
there. And they had a machinery setup on the infield and people would go and talk, there would be 
more of a farming community. Now it’s got more commercial, gone away from the farming a little bit. 
You have your cattle shows. A lot of farmers or herdsmen take cattle. You have that part of the fair that 
is still there. But as far as the fair it’s got more industrialized than it used to be. Back when I was a kid 
you could go and you’ve got the whole farming community there. Now we’re all home working as fast as 
we can, trying to make a living. 
JB: And I think it will be interesting for us to mention to people listening to this interview that the 
Franklin County Fair was the fair that Laura Ingalls Wilder wrote about with Almanzo Wilder and that we 
are not that far from the Almanzo Wilder Homestead. 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
9
DV: No, we’re probably, as the crow flies, probably about a mile, mile and a half west of us would be the 
Wilder Farm. And we’re only about 4 or 5 miles from the fairgrounds.  
JB: So somebody reading the accounts of the fair then they read in the books and comparing that to 
what they would see today, there would be some differences. 
DV: There would be quite a few differences. The fair has got a lot more commercial. The buildings that 
used to house just things for farmers, it’s mostly for common individual. 4H has got smaller. We used to 
have a big potato stand. We used to all go work at the potato stand. And the local potato growers used 
to bake potatoes and cut ‘em in half and put a piece of butter in them. And we don’t have any potato 
growers. Farming is dwindling. Less farms, more bigger farms. It’s going in a different direction, one that 
I don’t like to see. 
(0:28:16) 
 JB: And you had talk about, given that your own family is not going to take this generation into the next 
generation, possibly trying to attract some young person who wants to get into it, who would work with 
you and take it. How are you making decisions about what to invest in at this point? You’ve told me that 
you’re in your fifties. How do you decide about investing in equipment and so forth as you look at your 
own time on this farm? 
DV: Equipment I’m investing in, I hope I can get my investment out of it when I go to sell it. But most of 
the equipment I’m investing in, like I bought a new chopper last year, my other one was wore out. I sell 
a lot of feed and I have to have a good chopper. I upgraded a few things but as far as building more 
barns, at this point I’m kind of on hold because I’m not quite sure the future is going to bring. This Dairy 
Bill is very unfair I think. Cheap food policy is very unfair. I think the processors take a bigger share than 
what the consumer knows. I think it puts the farmers at disadvantages and I think a lot of them do it just 
because they love doing what they’re doing? 
(0:29:39) 
 JB: Are you at all involved in politics or lobbying legislation of any kind? Do you serve in any kind of 
elected role? 
DV: Yes, I do. At this point I serve as the Burke Town Supervisor. I also serve on Agricultural Committee 
for Franklin County FSA office. And I also serve on the Soil and Water Committee as the treasurer for 
Franklin County. Sometimes people say I’m a glutton for punishment, but some of these places they’re 
not able to fill positions and it’s so bad to see that the way farm life is going that people are going away 
from it because we all need to eat. 
(0:30:30) 
 JB: Yeah, yeah. So do you feel that you’re able to have any influence in those roles or do you feel like 
you’re fighting a losing battle? 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
10
DV: Sometimes I feel like I’m fighting a losing battle. Because there are too many people that consume 
and there’s not that many of us that make it and I’d like to see people be more knowledgeable of what 
the farmer’s price is. I think using products from other countries; we should be concentrating on our 
own country. I think we have to try to get more employment into agriculture, I think the products value 
should be higher so these young folks don’t go away from the farm and lose- you know I was taught 
things from my grandfather that I use today that other people can’t get out of reading a book.  
(0:31:24) 
 JB: And tell me about some of those. What are some of the skills you feel like you learned from your 
grandfather that have been helpful? 
DV: When to plant and when to harvest, what to look for, different weather patterns, lot of 
commonsense. 
JB: Now you know I’m a folklorist, we love that stuff when you say you’re looking for signs in the 
weather. So give me some examples. What kinds of things do you look for around planting time? How 
do you know when it’s time to plant? 
DV: Well, one of the old things my grandfather said is, ‘It’s time to plant corn when the shade trees are 
blossoming.’ And that must have to do with the temperature because a lot of time maybe I start just 
before they blossom, but you generally right if you plant it at that time, and so on and so forth. But 
some of the other things like, time to cut the hay and stuff has changed because the economics of 
getting more protein out of these grass hays, we cut a lot earlier than what we used to. We used to 
always get done spring’s work, take a little break and then start haying. But now it seems we’re trying to 
hay before we get planting done. And different changes to- lot of them I don’t know if it’s for the better 
or not, but the cow’s milk better on higher quality feed. 
(0:32:42) 
 JB: Did your grandfather plant by the phases of the moon at all? 
DV: I don’t know that for sure. He was quite old when I grew up. 
JB: Or have you ever heard anybody in your family talk about particular birdsong, like when you hear 
this bird calling- 
DV: My mother used to talk about the robins and certain time and what they said and I guess I was too 
young to write that all down or memorize it. I wish I’d have took the time because I can’t have it back to 
redo it. And I think that’s part of growing up; the more things you miss, you pay attention as you get 
older.  
(0:33:21) 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
11
 JB: What kind of things did you try to teach your daughters when they were growing up on the farm? I 
mean they’ve chosen to work off the farm, but probably as children, they were living the farm life, right? 
So what kinds of things did they- 
DV: Two of my daughter used to come work in the packing plant. One of my daughters used to come 
and work in the barn. The other daughter used to be around here during haying. They like the farm life. 
They like the feeling of being raising something. One of them brings her kids here all the time. When the 
weather is better they’re walking around, the kids are. They like the feeling of being at home, the farm 
feeling. It’s a different- I don’t know how to describe it. It’s a feeling of being together.  
JB: Yeah, we’ve heard about the family theme a lot with farmers. At all different sizes of farms. People 
talk a lot about the importance of family and how it makes them feel as a family. So it sounds like you’re 
expressing that same- 
DV: Yes, I’m expressing the same thing, because I go to these people that work at- one of the biggest 
jobs up here is prisons- or works off the farm or someplace. And you don’t see the kids all getting 
together in the house to have supper at the same time. You don’t see the gathering. What really 
impresses me is, the neighbor down the road, one of my best friends. He has a family of eight kids; a 
couple of them are out of college now. But when they get together at mealtime, they all sit down and 
have a meal together. They all go to church together. They do things together. And it’s kind of a family 
farm type of deal. And they employ people, but you see them together all the time. And you see a lot of 
farm families together all the time. Where you go to these other families and the kid might be at a 
friend’s house, they’re not eating together, they’re not working together. They don’t interact as well 
together and maybe that’[s some of the problems with the family life. Like I said, the potato industry 
went down because I don’t think people are going home and having suppers together. I don’t know if 
sometimes people really know what their kids are doing. 
JB: And did your family take all of its meals together? I mean obviously when you were in school you 
didn’t, but you all had breakfast together, you all had dinner together? 
DV: Yes, we tried to. There was some time during that darn potato harvest we ate at grandma and 
grandpa’s because everybody else was working on the potato harvester and I thought that was kind of 
neat. Yes, we ate most of our meals, even after I got married; I ate my lunch with my mother because 
my wife was working out of the house. We all used to spend quite a lot of time at home. Even my 
brother, when he’d get done at night at the farm, he’d go up and see how mom was doing and the 
bookwork and stuff. Then go home to his own family. Yes, it was a close knit deal. 
JB: And related to that, you mentioned the family down the road that goes to church together. It 
appears that in many instances there is a faith component to all this. That many of the farm families that 
we’ve interviewed feel strongly about their religious faith. Is that something that either in your own 
family or in neighboring families you’ve seen? 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
12
DV: Yes, we try to go to church every Sunday together. At one time or another, or on Friday night. And 
we used to take our kids; we promote it to our grandchildren. I think during rough times, people keep 
trying to have the faith. A lot of interaction with the church in farm families.  
JB: And do you mind if I ask which church you belong to? 
DV: I belong to the Malone Catholic Parishes. 
(0:37:11) 
 JB: Now you mentioned that your wife had a job off the farm. Did she always work off the farm? 
DV: Yes. She has always worked off the farm since we’ve met. She’s worked in grocery stores as a meat 
cutter and a packager. She’s got done there. She worked there 2o some years. And then the P&C closed 
up and she was very lucky to land a job with the United States Post Office. One of the lower paid people, 
but she’s working for the postal service getting a few hours a week. Sometimes I don’t think it’s 
necessary for her to go to work, she could help me at home. But she likes the little extra spending 
money. 
JB: And in earlier generations of your family on the farm, was it typical for somebody to be working off 
the farm or did most of the family income come from the farm, or all of the family income come from 
the farm? 
DV: In earlier years, most all the income comes from the farm.  But as we progressed into the latter 
years, 1980 forward my brother’s wife worked off the farm as a teacher’s aide. My wife worked off the 
farm. My other brother’s wife had a hair dressing salon in the house but was at home. But earlier, no. 
The wife stayed at the farm. 
JB: And would they have done something like raise chickens or something for what they used to call pin 
money, extra sources of money for gifts and things like that? 
DV: We used to do that ‘cause my mother had a- funny to bring that up because I had forgot about that 
enterprise. We used to have a thousand to 1,500 hens, laying hens on this farm. And we got out of them 
in mid sixties, early seventies. Yes, they used to do things at the farm or sell sweet corn or do other 
things and be at home. Even doing bookwork, that’s quite a lot of extra help with the milking. My 
grandmother used to milk the cows because she said she could milk faster than my grandfather.  
JB: And could she? 
DV: Yeah! I think he used to have six and she had nine or something. So she was pretty good. 
JB: That’s great. 
DV: She worked right to her last days. You know she wouldn’t gonna let us dig them potatoes that fall 
unless she was on it. She didn’t make it all the way through. 
JB: And what was your grandmother’s name? 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
13
DV: Bertha Vincent.  
(0:39:45) 
 JB: Okay, great. And what about a garden? Did you grow food for the family? Canning, you know that 
sort of thing? 
DV: We always did all the way through my life. We still do. Not as much as for a full winter supply, but 
we grow- it’s hard to take the potatoes out if somebody has been growing them. I still grow a little plot 
of potatoes, enough for me and my children. And we grow tomatoes and we give tomatoes away. And 
we grow a few other vegetables. But with both of us working pretty full time our garden isn’t big enough 
for a full winter supply of food. But enough to have some nice vegetables out of the garden. Plus down 
the road, probably a mile away from where we’re sitting, there is a farmer that used to be a dairy 
farmer. Which he isn’t any more, he’s a custom sprayer. And he has a beautiful vegetable stand. So it’s 
easy to run down the road and pick up some beets or do this or that, that are fresh right off the thing.  
(0:40:48) 
 JB: Yeah, that’s great. Now I’m curious as somebody who grows potatoes because I love to dig them, I 
love to dig potatoes in the fall. So I always grow some potatoes. But for you, when you say you have a 
little patch just to supply you family, like how much area are we talking, do you still keep in potatoes for 
your own purposes and your family? 
DV: Probably a third of an acre. 
JB: Okay. So, that’s still a pretty good sized potato patch. 
DV: Yeah, we dig it by hand. It’s maybe not a third, it’s maybe a sixth. But it’s quite a few. You know I’ve 
got six grandchildren coming along here and they eat quite a lot. (Jill laughs) And we’re very generous to 
the neighbors. 
JB: That’s great. 
DV: We do have a good working relationship with the neighbors. We always try to tell the neighbors 
when we’re going to be spreading manure or something for their prepared ahead. We always try to 
keep their driveways plowed out. We do other things to help them out for we can have good 
relationships. 
(0:41:48) 
 JB: You actually plow your neighbors’ driveways for them? 
DV: Yes. 
JB: Wow! 
DV: Just for good relationships. 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
14
JB: For good relationships; that is wonderful! 
DV: Yeah. Very seldom does a dog bite someone that feeds them. (jill laughs) And I figure in the farming 
community, with the dust and the smell, at certain periods of time, it’s better to have someone happy 
than unhappy.  
JB: Well, that’s god thinking on your part, that’s very good thinking. 
DV: We try. 
(0:42:13) 
 JB: Well, um let’s talk about some of the things- we have about eight minutes left in our hour.  
DV: Okay. 
JB: Let’s talk about some of the things that you loved to do as a kid. Let’s talk about some family stories. 
Some of the jobs. You mentioned earlier that you loved working with your family. And you loved coming 
home and seeing what was going on. But what were some of your favorite jobs on the farm growing up? 
DV: Well anything with driving the tractor. I was fascinated with equipment. One of the favorite jobs I 
guess, and I don’t know why it was favorite. After working in this packing plant that’s a little damp, no 
windows because the windows would make the potatoes turn green. It was nice to get out in spring and 
go to the sugar woods and have the sun start shining on you. And it seemed like that fresh sun in the 
beginning of the springtime. Or if we got home from school at night, we run down and run to the sugar 
woods to see grandpa and especially if the sun was out because the sap would be running. And to get 
that fresh syrup off the pan and the steam. It’s still in the blood. It’s just something that my 
grandchildren are missing. I say some days I ‘m going to buy a little evaporator and do that and other 
days I say, ‘You fool, you’ve got too much to do.’ But that was one of the biggest things. Or harvest time 
in the fall. Seeing the potatoes coming in. The smell of potatoes going into the pile. It was something 
that embedded itself in me. Like apple dumplings in the fall. When we got home from the school bus, 
you had one of them with sweetened milk on it and go down and help with the potatoes and work 
beside them and be happy. It was a family thing. See you dad and your brothers and everybody is 
working together. And everybody is getting along. It was very impressive to me.  
(0:44:11) 
 JB: Now, talk about these apple dumplings. Would these have been apples that your family grew? 
DV: Yes, we have three old trees old here. And they used to produce real well and they were St. 
Lawrence apples. And they were a funny type of apple. They made good apple dumplings but we used to 
have to- Way back when my grandfather was you, we used to have an apple orchard here. And e has all 
sorts of apples and they used to pick them. But the St. Lawrence made the best apple dumplings. 
JB: And in the earlier time when there was more of an orchard, were they selling those apples or just 
growing for the farm? 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
15
DV: Just growing for the farm. 
JB: So how do you make an apple dumpling? 
DV: Geez, I don’t know. I’m not the cook.  
(Jill laughs) 
JB: Was it baked or wrapped in dough? 
DV: yes, like she put the apples on the bottom and then she put like a biscuit on top and baked it. And 
then she turned it upside down when she put it into the plate. And then you poured a little bit of that 
warm sweetened milk. It was milk with sugar with a little cinnamon mixed with it. And it was, I can still 
taste it. 
JB: And you would only have it in the fall when those apples were ready? 
DV: Yeah. It was something you’d look forward- what they have today for dessert, you know- cause she 
used to feed the potato digging crew- and you’d look and say, ‘Geez, apple dumplings, great!’ You’d 
almost want to eat the whole thing and hide the rest but you couldn’t do that. 
(0:45:37) 
 JB: You know I just thought of another crop that people associate with this area. Spinach. Yes? 
DV: Spinach was grown by Charlie Bottle.  For some reason he went out of business and it’s been quite a 
few years since anything has been growing up there. 
JB: So he was the spinach farmer, that wasn’t a common crop.  
DV: It wasn’t a common crop. 
JB: And what about hops at an earlier time? 
DV: Yes. My house where I’m living at 86 Vincent Road used to have a hop kiln in there and when my 
grandfather was young he talked about the whole field across the road was all hops. And hops used to 
be a great thing. We used to grow a lot of hops here. 
JB: Uhuh. But you don’t know anybody who is doing that now?  
DV: No. I still got one vine climbing up the side of my house, but that’s it. 
JB: Just a reminder of an earlier time. 
DV: Yeah. 
JB: Yeah. Going back to the apple dumplings. I love that image that has stuck with you so strongly over 
all these years. 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
16
DV: Its different things for different times of the year. You know like spring was the hot maple syrup and 
maybe bringing some home and cooking it down a little more and having sugar on snow. In the fall it 
was getting the crops in. It was just; I guess more of a feeling of all being together. 
JB: Uhuh. So it was a kind of security too. 
DV: Yeah. My late neighbor laughs at me.  He says, ‘you know here I am when I first come here working 
like a devil and I didn’t have any kids that were old enough to help me. You had all your brothers and 
father at that time and now they’re all gone and you’re working alone. And I’ve got enough kids, I can 
take off.’ And it is a different trend. It’s a different winding down stage. 
JB: It is, but it circles back around to, it’s hard to keep a family farm going if you don’t have enough 
family involved.  
DV: Yeah. 
JB: It really is. 
DV: And I don’t know how to get young folks interested or how you’d ever work anything out. But you 
know, we all need food and I think our legislators and our congress and our president ought to look at 
what we’ve got here. Because it’s going down. 
(0:48:03) 
 JB: Now have you always had- what kind of cows do you have?  
DV: Right now we’ve got strictly Holsteins, but the herdsman has Jerseys.  
JB: It’s been Jerseys in the past? 
DV: Nope. It used to be Aschers at one time and then something happened, brucellosis or something 
back in the early 1900’s they were put down. And we went to Holsteins then and we’ve been Holsteins. 
But the herdsmen, she has Jerseys. 
JB: Oh, that’s what you said. I understand now. She has Jerseys. And is that because she is going for 
more cream production or-? 
DV: I think it’s because it’s something that she fell in love with. But she does have red and white 
Holsteins now. I don’t know if it’s a color difference or you can pick my breed out. I really don’t know. 
She’s been working at this herd for a long time 
(0:48:53) 
 JB: That’s interesting. Did you ever have other kinds of animals on the farm? Sheep or goats or pigs? 
DV: The only other animals that I’ve had, we’ve raised a few pigs off and on for family meat, we used to 
have chickens when we did the chicken operation. And then we went into, we had horses. We used to 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
17
do sugaring up until the early ‘70’s with horses because the horses are so easy to get around in the 
woods. You could yell back at the horse and say, ‘Come here.’ The horse would move the sled up and 
you could dump the sap. And we went to tractors, tractors don’t listen. You yell back, and they don’t 
come.  
(Jill laughs) 
JB: Right! 
DV: You’ve got to go fetch. 
JB: Right! Exactly! 
DV: But that was the most, we did try a few beef cows here or there. But we never got into anything 
other than dairy. 
JB: Yeah. 
DV: Not saying it might not happen in the future. 
(0:49:57) 
 JB: Right, who knows what, might come. Is there anything we haven’t talked about today that- it’s 
possible that I may ask to come back and ask some follow up questions after I listen to this? Interview? 
Are there things on your mind today that you’d like to have been part of this interview? Stories you’d 
like to tell or other things you’d like to say? 
DV: Well, not at this point. You’ve asked so many questions, maybe lost for words. I might think of 
something before you get down to the end of the road and turn the corner, but- 
JB: That’s okay. 
DV: We did have a lot of stories when we were kids. Lot of fun time on the farms of the neighbors. 
Halloween and some of the pranksters that we did. And it was all never to hurt anybody. And we all 
grew up together. It’s just the country life. It’s hard to replace. And I think that’s one of the reasons I’m 
still farming because there’s something in my blood that says, ‘Keep going.’ Maybe I’d be better off to go 
and do another type of job and retire along with my brother from the dairy industry. But there’s 
grandchildren coming along, his coming grandchildren come over. I just hate to have a legacy end.  
(0:51:11) 
 JB: Exactly. Now, I forgot to ask something important. Now, this is a Dairy of Distinction.  
DV: Yes. We’ve been very proud the way we keep our farm up and clean. And most of the time we try to 
keep everything in order. Sometimes during the busy times maybe the lawns don’t get mowed on times, 
but we try to keep everything in repair. We’re a Dairy of Distinction. We’re also a Century Farm because 
of the hard work that my father and my grandfather and the whole family has done and passed down 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
18
through the years. We’ve been able to be here long enough to be a Century Farm. We’re also a Dairy of 
Distinction.  
JB: And explain what it means to be a Dairy of Distinction. You have a sign out on front of your farm here 
that says you are one. Who gives that honor and what does it mean? 
DV: It’s a New York State thing and people come and judge the farm to make sure it’s well-maintained, 
the upkeep is nice. It’s one of the farms that stand out in the area. It’s supposed to be a real elite thing 
to have. But I think there’s a lot of a farm in this county that work real hard and have real nice places 
too. I’m not the only one. I just think it’s a great thing that they recognize us for doing something. 
JB: And do they come every year and check on you? 
DV: I think it’s like an every other year. They drive around. Or if they get a report back that we’re getting 
sloppy, I don’t know if they’d come along with a wet noodle and beat us or not. But there’s certain 
family pride that your family enstows upon you or pounds into you or whatever way you want to put it, 
that you like to keep things neat and nice and proud of what you’re doing.  
JB: yeah. 
DV: I think that’s in every farmer because the only thing you has at the end of the day is, he can turn 
around and say, ‘I did that.’ This is something I did. I produced this. I’ve these beautiful cows, it’s 
because of the way I bred something or the way I feed them or the way I take care of my cows. I think 
it’s something that’s bred into all of us. 
JB: So you were working on painting when I came in. 
DV: Oh, it was just an old thing that was in the milk house, it got a little rusty and I thought it would look 
nicer in the milk house if we painted it up bright white for our towel holder. Make the milk inspector 
happy. And it’s too cold to go outside and do anything right at this point.  
JB: Yeah, we’re having a cold March day. So what do you think your week is gonna to look like, for the 
rest of this week? What kind of projects do you anticipate you’ll be working on the rest of this week? 
DV: We’re gonna finish cleaning this place up. We’re gonna get the heifer barn cleaned back up. And by 
the end of the week we hope we’re out cutting some cedar posts and some firewood for next winter. 
JB: Okay. 
DV: And starting to get ready to put up different products. Starting to get the equipment out and get 
ready for a nice April. 
JB: And that’s when you’ll start planting, in April? 
DV: Toward the end of April. But we’ve got a lot of little things to wrap up and get ready. 
JB: And a lot of different things to keep track of. 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
19
DV: Yeah. 
JB: Alright. Well, thank you for taking the time out to talk to me. I appreciate it. 
DV: I feel honored that people are concerned about us farmers and are around looking at what’s 
happening before it gets to a disaster. 
JB: Thank you. 
 
 
 
Dairy Farm Workers in New York's North Country, afc2012/033
20