1 
 
Transcript of Interview with Chad Helm, October 12, 2020 
By Ethan Sharp 
Ethan (00:00:03): 
All right. It doesn't, it'll pick you up really well, but me not so much. Okay. I'm here. This is Ethan Sharp. 
I'm here with Chad Helm. We're in Willisburg, Kentucky. Today is October the 12th, 2020. And to get us 
started, Chad, I would like for you to talk a little bit about your background, could you tell us about where 
you were born and where you grew up and what your journey has been like before you came here to 
Isaiah House? 
Chad (00:00:33): 
Yeah, my name is Chad Helm and I was originally born in Decatur, Illinois, which is right outside of Chicago, 
Illinois. You know, I had amazing parents, great childhood but then I started being sexually molested as a 
kid. And you know, that happened for almost seven years. And as that happened, I started to live in this 
dark world, you know, and I felt as if I didn't have any self-worth, that I wanted nothing more than to die. 
And I became very suicidal. You know, and as time went on, I started becoming an introvert and I would 
isolate. And then in my teenage years, you know, through school and stuff like that, I never really fit in. I 
was an outcast. I was bullied. You know, and I actually moved out at a very, very early age and started 
raising myself, you know, and I was in and out of different houses, so on and so forth, trying to survive. 
Chad (00:01:25): 
You know, and survival is naturally an addict's way of coping. And we get in this mindset that, you know, 
we've got to do whatever it takes to just make it for that day, you know, and in recovery it teaches us to 
live just for the day, you know, but it really depends on what spectrum you're looking at. And in active 
addiction, I got, I got introduced to drugs at a very early age as well, at 17 years old. I was in the car 
business, and they had a salesman of the month party for me, you know, and a plate was being passed 
around of this white powdery substance. Now I had never seen or touched a drug in my life up until this 
point. And the plate got to me, you know, and I was longing for that male figure in my life. 
Chad (00:02:09): 
And, you know, I had my father in my life as a kid, but when my step family came in, as we all know, a lot 
of step families struggle with love or feeling rejected. And a lot of it was of my own making, you know. 
And so this plate got to me, and I went ahead and snorted a line of it, and it was ether based cocaine laced 
with another substance. And that was the first drug I had ever done. And it was like for the first 5, 10 
minutes of this high, it was like all my anxiety, frustration, depression, fear, guilt, shame, remorse, 
everything that I had weighing me down was gone, but that only lasted for a moment. And I had it, went 
from once a month to once a week to seven days a week to where I was snorting two eight balls, which is 
seven grams of ether based cocaine per day, seven days a week. 
Chad (00:03:02): 
My habit turned in from cocaine to crack. The crack habit went from a hundred dollars a day to literally 
$300 to $500 per day, seven days a week. Obviously, you know, it's no matter what job you're doing, it's 
never enough. So you start stealing, you start selling drugs, start doing different things to get that fix. And 
I started to quickly go downhill within about a two year period. I received my first set of charges. And I 
was sentenced to the department of corrections outside of Chicago, Illinois, and my second week in there, 
2 
 
I remember being in the shower, you know, and I had my head bent down. I was using the handicapped 
shower where there's two spigots. And I remember hearing the cage, the door rattled to the shower 
behind me. I turn around and look, and I just saw a pair of legs and tennis shoes. I was raped my second 
week in prison. And for a person who's already been through a ton of trauma as a kid. Now as an adult, 
you're dignity, pride, everything is stripped away from you at this moment. And so once again. 
Ethan (00:04:11): 
At that time you were just 19? 
Chad (00:04:14): 
Nineteen years old. Yeah. Shortly before I turned 20 is when this happened. And so now even as an adult, 
I developed once again, this low self-worth, low self-esteem, no confidence in myself. I hated who I was. 
And I wanted once again to die, you know, and a lot of addicts, we go through these suicidal thoughts, 
and a lot of us would use drugs in order to die, you know, and that was, that was my goal. And as time 
went on, my addiction progressed, I ended up getting introduced to heroin, black tar heroin, and then I 
progressed to fentanyl and Xanax. And then methamphetamines. And so, I've been around the block when 
it comes to drug addiction. And you know, I can definitely say that throughout my journey, I've developed 
a tremendous amount of faith in my higher power and who I choose to call God, you know. And, and my 
mindset today is an attitude of gratitude compared to an attitude of always complaining. I look myself in 
the mirror today, and I love who I am, you know, but it took me to be arrested. And in 2018, my home 
was raided in Lexington, Kentucky, and Officer Pope, which is one of the head narcotics officers. 
Ethan (00:05:39): 
How did you end up to Kentucky? Could you talk about that a little bit? 
Chad (00:05:45): 
Absolutely, the way I ended up in Kentucky, you know, I was arrested several times in Illinois and the last 
set of charges that I caught in Illinois was on 10/10 of 2015. I got charged with aggravated battery on a 
police officer, aggravated fleeing and eluding tampering with evidence manufacturing, intent to deliver 
and possession of a controlled substance. I was facing 6 to 30 years in prison, 6 to 30. Illinois, like Kentucky 
does PFO, Illinois does extended term, which is classic sentencing, which was a huge range. And Illinois, 
you serve 50, 75, or a 100 percent of your time. So it's a lot different than, than Kentucky. But I ended up 
getting locked up, and I was sitting in jail, and there was a police officer that kept coming to my jail cell 
every few days. And he says, “Mr. Helm, you just need to surrender.” 
Chad (00:06:39): 
And at first, you know, I tried to cuss at this guy. I told him to leave me alone. He has, he has an ulterior 
motive, and in my mind I always thought somebody had a motive. Well, anyways I remember dropping 
on my knees one night, and I said, you know, “Father, my way is death. Your way is life. I can't do this on 
my own no more.” And you know, at the time I meant it, but I obviously still wasn't ready to change, you 
know? Cause my addiction progressed. Well, after about sitting in jail for a few months, I get called down 
to a library and that I had a visitor. I get down there. And there's this elderly man down there that was 
sitting at the table in the library, and he handed me this flyer. He says, “Before you read this flyer,” he 
says, “Young man, I want you to tell me your story. And if you lie to me, I will walk out of here. You'll never 
hear from me again.” So I just started pouring my heart out to this guy. I started sobbing, snot running 
down my face, tears running down my face. You know, and I just let everything out, and I was completely 
3 
 
honest. He says, “Now read this flyer.” So I read this flyer, and it was titled on the front, Released through 
Jesus Prison Ministries. And his name was Jim Helton, and his story matched my story almost to a T of 
what he went through in his life. He says, “What is one thing that you want from me when I leave this 
place?” I said, “To pray for my mother, that she's still here for me whenever I get out of prison.” He says, 
“I'm going to pray anyways in my ministry.” He says, “What is one thing that you want from me when I 
leave this place?” 
Chad (00:08:08): 
I said, “Pray for my family, that their needs are provided for.” He says, “Stop with the praying stuff, 
Chatty.” He says, “What is the one thing that you want?” I said, “I want to be able to walk out of here and 
see my family.” He says, “I'll see you in an hour.” So an hour goes by. And nobody had, I hadn't heard 
anything yet. And so I call home to my mother, and my mother is bawling hysterically on the other end of 
the line. She couldn't even speak. And she hung up on me. So I'm thinking automatically the worst, 
something has happened, because addicts, our mind naturally goes to the worst. You know, and next thing 
you know, I hang up the phone, and I tried calling back and she wouldn't answer. And then I hear my name 
over the intercom that says, “Mr. Helm, pack your stuff, you're being discharged.” I said, “This isn't true. 
I'm hearing something.” So I went and sat on the floor in the day room, and I started just reading my book 
and listened to the TV. And they said it again, “Mr. Helm.” They said, louder, this time, “Pack your stuff. 
You're being discharged.” I still didn't get up. And I said, this is, somebody's messing with me. So finally, 
the other inmates come up to me. They say, “Chad, bro, you're leaving, you're leaving.” I said, “No, I'm 
not, man. Shut up. I'm facing 6 to 30 years. There's no way. My bond is $50,000 full cash.” And so anyways, 
the third time, the door opens to the cell block, and here comes these correctional officers with gloves on 
and stuff. And they said, “Mr. Helm, you need to pack your stuff. You're being discharged. Otherwise we're 
going to physically remove you.” So I'm like, “Oh, okay.” 
Chad (00:09:39): 
So I get my stuff. And I walk out. And I remember walking out of the jail in Sullivan, Illinois. And I remember 
seeing my mother, this chief deputy of police who was coming and talking to me, my sister, and this guy, 
the founder of Released through Jesus Prison Ministries. This ministry had bonded me out of jail, and they 
saw something in me. And before I left that parking lot, he says, “Chad, you have a purpose.” He says, 
“You just have to surrender.” He says, “No matter what you do, let go of whatever it is you're holding on 
to and fulfill your purpose in life.” And see a lot of us in addiction, we fear success, and we fear failure. 
We fear both. And no matter what is happening in our life, we seem to self-sabotage because we don't 
feel we're good enough for it. 
Chad (00:10:30): 
Or if we fail, we become even more self-sabotaging because we already get it in our mind that we're 
failures and defeated. So I remember looking at him, giving him a hug, and I got in the vehicle with my 
mother, you know, or we're driving and talking. And I had already made it up in my mind that I was going 
to get high again. And it's crazy, you know. So, we no sooner get to Decatur, Illinois, and I'm already telling 
my mother I need to use her phone. And I'm calling a dope dealer who I remembered. And I met him 
there, same old place, same old neighborhood, same old people. And I got high once again, and I was off 
to the races. Well, I had a court date, scheduled for 30 days out. And if I missed this court date, a fugitive 
warrant nationwide goes out for me because of the severity of the charges. 
Chad (00:11:21): 
4 
 
So I got the bright idea that I was going to fly to Florida to go to rehab in Florida. And I remember my 
father called me, and he says, “Son, if you want me back in your life, you need to go to long-term treatment 
and get help.” I said, “Okay, I'll do it.” So I go to treatment. I go to Florida, and I'm in Florida for several 
months. I was involved in long-term rehab facility, ended up completing it. Well, at the end of it, during 
my discharge, it was time for me to go to sober living or transitional living. And so they found me this 
place, and I end up getting there. And the first day that I get there, I walk in, and everything looked great, 
this and that. But then, at night time is when the skeletons started coming out, and people were snorting 
lines of heroin. They were shooting up dope in their bedrooms, turned out to be a flop house. I was back 
to using drugs the second day that I was out of treatment. 
Ethan (00:12:15): 
That was in Florida? 
Chad (00:12:15): 
That was in Florida. Delray Beach, Florida. Well, I ended up getting involved in human trafficking in Florida. 
And I was involved in that for a long time to support my addiction. I would go to any length to get my next 
fix, and no matter what I had to do, no matter who I had to hurt in the way, no matter what I did to myself, 
or how low I had to stoop, I would get my next fix. And I once again was molested in Florida, and by a few 
people at the same time. My life once again became very demonic. And I hated to look myself in the mirror 
once again. 
Ethan (00:12:55): 
That was your first long-term treatment? 
Chad (00:12:59): 
Yep. That was my first long-term treatment, other than jail, prison, and little short 30 day rehabs. And you 
know, here's the thing through treatment. There never, during my time in treatment, and other states, 
there's not really peer support specialists, you know, and I'll get to that in a minute. But so I'm in Florida, 
and I met this individual at the Hard Rock Cafe casino there. And I was there trying to panhandle and 
hustle money to survive. And this, this gentleman he introduced himself, his name was Ken, and he says, 
“Young man, what are you doing to yourself? You look like death.” And you know, in my mind, once again, 
I'm thinking this person has got a motive, you know, and he didn't, he sincerely cared. He says, you know, 
he says, “Have you ever thought about living in Kentucky?” 
Chad (00:13:55): 
And I looked at him, and I'm like, “Well, no, where's Kentucky?” And he says, “Well,” he says, “That's 
where I'm from.” He says, “I race horses,” and dah, dah, dah. So I'm like, all right, well, he gives me his 
phone number. He says, “When you're ready to clean up your life, you give me a call.” And I ended up 
calling him about three weeks later. And he got me a Greyhound bus ticket that same day. And he brought 
me here to Kentucky. I get to Kentucky, and I did great for the first few months. It was like, I have a new 
life. I had a new outlook on life. I could finally see a light in the midst of the darkness. 
Ethan (00:14:32): 
He gave you some work? 
Chad (00:14:33): 
5 
 
Yes. He put me to work. He gave me a roof over my head, food in my stomach, new clothes. But the whole 
entire time, I'm always thinking, something's going to happen. So since nothing happened, once again, I 
became self-sabotaging, and I started selling methamphetamines, as well as doing methamphetamines. 
And my habit of methamphetamines went from doing, you know, what they call a ticket, which is 25 hours 
worth clear up to almost a ball a day of methamphetamines, which is a lot of ice. And then I started doing 
fentanyl again. And once again, got involved in different things here in Kentucky, I became under 
investigation. I got involved with some high profile people that were already under federal investigation. 
And you know, I was trying to be somebody quote, unquote, when I really was a nobody. And then I 
became addicted to money. I became a sex addict. I became addicted to any type of drug, chemical, 
altering substance, and any type of recognition that I could get or acceptance from any type of people. 
Chad (00:15:54): 
And on 7/27 of 2018, my home was raided in Lexington, Kentucky, on Richmond Road. And like I was 
saying earlier, Officer Chris Pope had me under investigation. They raided my home, and I had overdosed. 
As they came in the door, I heard them getting ready to kick in the door. And I swallowed everything that 
I had on me at the time. And I had fentanyl, Xanax, heroin, methamphetamine, and cocaine, all in the 
same baggy. And I ended up swallowing everything. After about 30 minutes, the bag exploded in my 
stomach. And I remember laying there or sitting there on the couch, shackled, my hands behind my back. 
And I remember the officer talking to me, and his voice started becoming groggy, like I was hearing 
something. And next thing I know, I'm out. I don't remember nothing. 
Chad (00:16:51): 
And the way I know what happened today is because I was able to see the body cam footage and things 
that took place. They Narcanned me several times. They rushed me to the hospital, and I get to the 
hospital, and I guess I was out for a few days. I woke up with a catheter in me. I woke up with a feeding 
tube down my throat, a breathing tube up my nostrils, several IVs in me, a Narcan hose in me, and I 
couldn't even hold up a fork. I couldn't, I couldn't do nothing, barely could move my head. And the phone 
had rang that day, and it was my mother. And I couldn't really talk because I had this tube down my throat 
and a tube down my nose. But I could mumble. And I remember this officer that was in the road that was 
monitoring me. 
Chad (00:17:36): 
He held the phone up to my ear and my mother says, “Honey, it's time.” And at that time, I started bawling, 
you know, because I knew what she meant, and I was sick and tired of being sick and tired, you know. And 
finally at that point, I said another prayer, and I truly meant it. And I surrendered my life for the first time 
and truly had pure motives, a pure heart. And just knew that this was my turning point. And I for sure 
thought I was going to go to prison for a very long time. But I was okay with that at the time. And for a 
person to get to that mental state and preparation, it takes a lot, you know, and it took me to live, literally 
live hell on earth to get to this point in my life. 
Chad (00:18:22): 
So I ended up getting transferred to FCDC, Fayette County Detention Center. I sat there for several months 
fighting my case. And I got reclassified from maximum security to minimum security, and I ended up 
getting involved in the Hope Center program in Fayette County Detention Center, which is also a long-
term program. But see the thing, it was a lot different in there, and Carlton Robinson, which is one of the 
peer support and a therapist there. And then Keith is the other one. They were both my therapist and 
6 
 
peer support. This was the first time that I had ever met somebody or heard of somebody to be a peer 
support specialist. So at first, you know, I looked at these guys, and I'm like, man, they're full of crap, so 
on and so forth, but they weren't and everything that they were teaching made sense, you know. 
Chad (00:19:16): 
And it's almost like if you go to a church and somebody comes up to you and tells you your life that you 
don't know from Adam. Well, these people didn't know me from Adam. And they were able to call me out 
on everything, you know, and the littlest lies or the little bit of deceitfulness they would literally call me 
out on. So, you know, I went through this program, and I remember getting to the end of it, and my 
attorney came. And his name was Russ [inaudbile], you know, and Russ is a good attorney. My family had 
pulled through for me and got him. And I remember him talking to me, and he's saying, “Chad, you know, 
the state is offering you 22 years.” And I said, “Is that the best we can do?” 
Chad (00:20:04): 
And he says, “Well, I don't see you getting less than 15 to 18, but 22 right now is their offer.” And he said, 
“We can go with a counter offer.” I said no. I said, “I'm not taking it.” I said, “I'll fight until the end.” He 
says, “Well, would you want to do an open plea?” I said, “Well, what are my options?” And he said, “Well, 
there's drug court. You know, there's get sentenced to DOC and then apply for shock.” I said I wanted to 
go for drug court. And I said, “Russ, my life has changed. I'm a new person. I know you guys hear this all 
the time.” But I just needed a chance. So anyways, going in front of the judge, Judge Kimberly Bunnell, an 
amazing woman, she's straightforward. She treats everybody the same. She's a straight shooter. And she 
also can see through bull crap. She looks at me and she says, “Mr. Helm,” she says, “Is there anything you 
want to say today before your final sentencing?” I said, “Your honor, I can tell you this, no matter what 
you sentence me to, I deserve it. But I am a different person today. I'm not the same person who I was 
when I walked in these doors.” She pulls out this file, and she starts reading all these letters from family 
who I had done so wrong over the years. And the words that they used and the things that they said it 
was like they knew too this was my turning point. And the reason why they wrote these letters is because 
that time that I was in the Hope Center program and that time that I sat in jail, the phone calls home, my 
words that I would use were different. My voice was different. It wasn't to call home and ask for money 
for commissary. It was to call home just to see how family was doing and to tell them that I loved them, 
you know, and they knew there was something different in me. 
Chad (00:21:47): 
So the judge looks at me and she says, young man, she says, I'm going to give you a chance. And she slams 
the gavel. She says, “You're sentenced to 18 months of drug court in Fayette County with X amount of 
time over your head.” And so I go through this drug court program, and the, the peer support specialist 
that work with New Vista were my peer support, that mentored me, inspired me, you know, and then 
Jenny [unclear] was my therapist at New Vista for the IOP. And then my caseworker and then my therapist 
from drug court, you know, the way they interacted with the clients and with me gave me hope, and I 
wanted what they had. 
Ethan (00:22:33): 
So the peer support specialist... I need to check this. It usually flashes, I'm just wondering why it's 
not...they met with you in drug court? 
Chad (00:22:48): 
7 
 
The peer support specialist would meet with me literally three times a week. And when I would go for my 
IOP groups at New Vista for drug court, and the way they were able to just talk with me and I just could 
relate to them. You know, normally if a person comes to you or a therapist or a caseworker that has never 
been in addiction, or that's never lived that type of life, but they just know stuff out of a book or what 
they've been taught, it's often hard for the addict or alcoholic to open up and to relate. You know, and 
the peer support specialists have been where the addict or alcoholic has been. The peer support specialist 
can get you to open up. And so what happened was, as I went through this, and as they mentored me and 
they supported me through my recovery, I began to look into becoming a peer support specialist myself, 
you know, and I began to see what it took. 
Chad (00:23:51): 
A job is not all about the money. Yes, money makes things easier. But at the same time, if you don't like 
what you're doing and love what you're doing, it's a prison sentence to me. And you know, so I looked to 
see what the pay was. I looked to see what the qualifications were, and the cool thing about a peer support 
specialist is you can be honest. You don't have to try to be somebody you're not. And the thing that I 
learned is vulnerability. You know, these men and women that were my, that worked with the clinical 
team as peer support specialist, as I went through the program myself, they were very vulnerable by 
willing to put their selves out there in order to get me to feel comfortable, to open up. And I truly was 
inspired by that. 
Chad (00:24:44): 
So drug court offered peer support specialist training and through the KY STARS program. And so, I looked 
into that, and drug court actually paid for me to go through this training. They picked a select few of us, 
the ones that they thought were really trying to change and do something different. So, I went through 
this training, and I remember sitting there saying, “Man, this is a lot of stuff listening to all this.” But I was 
also inspired because it was peer support specialists teaching the training as well, you know, and I can 
relate to them, and they were able to, to teach us in a way that we can understand it and receive the 
message. So I ended up getting my peer support certification. 
Ethan (00:25:34): 
When was that? 
Chad (00:25:34): 
That was in 2000, beginning or middle of 2019. At first, I didn't really do anything with it yet. I went back 
to selling cars and doing finance for a car lot in Winchester, Kentucky. And, but I started to feel myself 
being empty again. And I started to feel myself becoming depressed. And so COVID ended up coming, and 
you know, COVID actually was a blessing and a curse. And the reason why I say this is because at first I 
was devastated because I had gotten laid off work in commission-based sales. My pay, I went from making 
thousands of dollars a month to making hundreds of dollars a month through unemployment, and I didn't 
know how I was going to support my lifestyle and my bills. And, but it also gave me time to reflect on my 
life and reflect on what I truly wanted to do. And I remember going in my office at my house, and I looked 
up on the wall as I walked in on my corkboard and I saw my peer support certification. 
Chad (00:26:41): 
And you know, I'm like, you know, I'm going to just start applying. And so I started applying now, listen, I 
have 20 some felony convictions on my record. Never thought it was possible for me to ever work in this 
8 
 
field or somebody to give me a chance. And I remember applying to Isaiah House here in Willisburg, 
Kentucky, and that was the first place I applied. And then I applied at three others. And within an hour 
and a half, I got a phone call from Isaiah House. An hour and a half. And it was, it was April in the HR 
department. She says, “Mr. Helm, I got your resume.” She says, “When can you come in for an interview?” 
I says, “Well, I can come right now.” She says, “No, let's, what about tomorrow morning at 8:00 AM?” 
Chad (00:27:26): 
And I said, okay. So I come at 8:00 AM, and Jason Mullins, which is the peer support supervisor, and April 
Roth, which is the human resources manager, are sitting there in the office. And I walk in, and they say, 
you know, tell us your story. So I was just completely honest. Total, about my felony convictions. I told 
them about what I had been through. That is the first interview I've ever been in where I could be totally, 
100% transparent. And I remember at the end of it, they said, “Well, the pay is nowhere near what, what 
you you're used to making.” I said, “I'm okay with that.” I said, “Just give me a chance.” And so I remember 
walking out, and before I walked out, they shook my hand and they said, “We want to let you know, we 
appreciate your honesty.” 
Chad (00:28:14): 
And that meant a lot to me, you know. So I walked out. I remember driving home, and I was listening to a 
song by John Arthur called “My Recovery.” And it talks about how in our recovery, we're in this battle, 
and we may lose the battle, but together we'll win the war. And you know, our mind often causes us to 
think negatively or to doubt ourselves, our self-worth. So, on my way home, I'm thinking, there's no way 
that I'm going to get this job, but I tried, you know. So, I get home. And I remember I'm sitting there talking 
with somebody that was at my house at the time. And this was at 10 o'clock at night. And I looked over to 
this individual, and I said, you know, “I, I just wish somebody would just give me a chance. I feel this is 
what I'm supposed to do, is be a peer support specialist and be there for the sick and suffering.” And I 
remember my phone beeping through Facebook messenger. It was like 10:33, 10:34 at night. And it said, 
April through Facebook messenger, said, “Sent you a message. Would you be willing to accept?” And so I 
opened up my Facebook, and I read it. And it was April of the HR department. 
Ethan (00:29:35): 
At 10:30 at night. 
Chad (00:29:36): 
At 10:30 at night. She says, “Sorry to bother you. Are you awake?” And I said yes. I said, “What's up?” I 
didn't know what else to say. And she says, “Do you have anything on your testimony?” So I sent her a 
video clip of my testimony, and about 20 minutes later, I get a message back. She says, “Are you still 
awake?” 
Chad (00:30:03): 
And I said, “Yes, what's up.” She says, “Listen, I normally don't do this.” She says, “But I would like to offer 
you a first shift position with the pay that you asked for. And I would like you to start tomorrow morning 
if possible.” And I totally broke down in tears because I had been praying for this. And God answered my 
prayer, you know. And that's one thing about recovery, they teach you if you continue to do the next right 
thing, right things will happen, and doors will open that are unexpected. So, I come here to the Isaiah 
House at eight o'clock the following morning. 
9 
 
Ethan (00:30:37): 
When was this? This was in the middle of COVID, right? 
Chad (00:30:41): 
Yeah. Towards the beginning of COVID. And so I go to the HR department, and she says, “Well, we need 
to do the background check and we need to do this and do that.” So immediately, once again, I'm starting, 
“Oh, no. Background check. They're going to see this. Wait a minute.” And so I look at her, and I say, “I did 
tell you, right, about all my felony stuff. She says, “Yes, you were transparent. That's why we said thank 
you for your honesty.” She says, “You have nothing to worry about. This is just part of it.” And she made 
the statement to me. She looked me dead in the eyes and she says, she says, “Chad, God's got a plan for 
you, and he needs you here.” And she says, “Just be yourself and be a light.” And, so I started. And I can 
say, since I've been here the, the love that the clients show me is healing for me. But then at the same 
time, I get to pour into them on a daily basis, and being a peer support specialist, you know, you're able 
to, for one, see the light bulb, finally click and come on in clients on a day-to-day basis. Being a peer 
support specialist, you're able to relate to the clients, and voids were filled in my life that have never been 
filled before. 
Chad (00:31:58): 
And to be able to be a part of saving a life by just telling my story and by just being a listening ear, that's 
not a job to me. You know, it's my passion, it's my heart. And I literally get paid to do something that I 
look forward to doing every day. I literally lose sleep at night, and this is no exaggeration. I lose sleep at 
night because of my anxiety of being excited to go to work the next day. I walk in these halls, no matter 
what type of day I'm having, no matter what's going on in my personal life. It does not change my 
demeanor. And you can ask any client, any staff member here, they will tell you that I am the same way 
every day, no matter what's going on in my day. And that's only by God. And that's by the voids that have 
been filled in my life, through the staff here and the clients. 
Ethan (00:32:52): 
Can you tell us what your duties are like, what you do on a day to day basis? 
Chad (00:32:58): 
Yep. Actually I facilitate several groups a day. I actually, I do one-on-one sessions, work with the clinical 
team. And you know, we are able to give suggestions to the clients and use our experience, strength, and 
hope to relate to them. If we have a client trying to leave the facility, as we consider it a “walk-off,” our 
job is to do an intervention with that client and try to get them to see the pros and cons of walking out 
these doors compared to staying. And also my job is to advocate for the clients, to make sure that their 
needs are being met, to make sure that their voice is being heard, to make sure that they're feeling that 
love and acceptance that they've not felt before in their life. And you know, my job is also, though, to be 
honest with the clients, and even though I'm that person that they can relate to, you know, a person who 
truly cares is not always going to be eye to eye with you. 
Chad (00:34:01): 
And I have to be able to look the client face to face and be back to back with them sometimes because 
often we can see things in other people that we can't see in ourselves. And I have to call them out on the 
bull crap sometimes. You know, and I also am that person that, you know, I give them my number. They 
can call me at any time just for me to listen to them. And, and then on top of that, I also had just started 
10 
 
teaching a program called soft skills and workforce development, which basically a lot of clients that come 
into these facilities, they don't know how to do a job interview. They don't know how to do a resume. A 
lot of them don't even know how to read and write. You know, and I get to be a part of helping them see 
and learn how to do these things. 
Ethan (00:34:49): 
Yeah. Oh, could you? This facility, is it divided into phases. Are you assigned to a particular phase? Can 
you tell us a little bit about that? 
Chad (00:35:03): 
The way we do peer support specialist here is, for the most part, me and another individual, we teach the 
IOP programs. You know, but this, this is developed in several phases first off, there's the detox part, then 
there's residential and then there's IOP and then there's LIC BS. 
Ethan (00:35:25): 
What does that stand for? LIC BS. That's a new term for me, or you can just tell us what it is. 
Chad (00:35:34): 
Basically what it is, it's very similar to IOP. And it's just the next transitioning phase before they move into 
working and going out on their own. And the IOP is supposed to be intensive outpatient, but we let the 
clients stay here and live here. You know, and that way we know for sure they're doing their IOPs. It's 
more intense. And then the residential part is basically the breaking-in phase and that's basically getting 
them broken down to become vulnerable, to give them that love that they need to feel comfortable 
enough to begin to open up. You know, and I can say this 20, 28 days is not long enough in rehab. 95% of 
clients need long-term. The statistics in fact show it. 
Ethan (00:36:25): 
So if a client goes all the way through IOP they're here for how long? 
Chad (00:36:30): 
11 months. Yep. 11 month program. They can choose to be here for a month or they can choose to be 
here for 11 months. You know, and the cool thing about this place is, even, even if funding was a problem, 
or insurance was a problem we have different avenues to be able to still provide for the clients and to 
further them in their treatment. You know, it's not just because insurance is no longer paying, you're 
kicked out the door, no. I can say this, this place truly does care about the clients. I'm not just saying that 
because I work here. But I see it on a day-to-day basis. 
Ethan (00:37:06): 
Yeah. So you, your focus is primarily with the folks who are in the IOP, or do you work in the other areas? 
Chad (00:37:15): 
Yes, I work in all the areas. What happens is the way we do it here is different peer support specialists will 
alternate in the classes that we teach. And the reason why we do that is because some clients relate better 
to one peer support specialist compared to another. And that way they can get a feel for each of us and 
see who they feel most comfortable enough to open up to and to talk to. 
11 
 
Ethan (00:37:39): 
And, so when you, when you're talking about them opening up to you, would they come to you and say, 
can we talk, you know, have a session, so that does happen? 
Chad (00:37:50): 
What will we do is, we have something called a Teams feed, which every staff member has it on their 
phone, and every time there's something good or bad with a client, it's posted on Teams all throughout 
the day. And just as we've been talking, that's what my phone keeps dinging for. No, no, it's fine. But what 
it is, basically clients will have their one-on-one time with their therapist, their counseling sessions. And 
then if the client is having some, some struggles that the therapist is not able to relate to the client about, 
or to have a breakthrough with them, they reach out to us peer support, and then we do the one-on-one 
and get the client to open up where the therapist couldn't. You know, and then we all together as a staff, 
from operations to maintenance, to HR, to clinical, we all work together as a team. Everybody's in the 
loop. Everybody knows what's going on with every single client that's in this place. So, yeah. 
Ethan (00:38:53): 
Do you have an idea of how many folks or clients you have right now? 
Chad (00:38:57): 
Right now, we have approximately a hundred, I want to say 140, somewhere around there. 
Ethan (00:39:03): 
In this facility. 
Chad (00:39:04): 
In this facility here, we have 110, 120. And then in our other men's facility, we have 20 to 30, and then 
plus we have the women now. So there's, I mean, there's quite a few. 
Ethan (00:39:21): 
Yeah. I did want to go back a little, you know, and, and talk about your involvement. I don't know if you 
were involved in church because, you know, Isaiah House has the faith-based side to it. So could you talk 
a little about how that actually worked for you? 
Chad (00:39:46): 
Yep. You know, for growing up as a kid, never really went to church a lot, you know, but then my teenage 
years, I was introduced to the youth group at a church. And I fell in love with just the atmosphere, the 
environment, and the feeling that I would get while I was at church. And then as time went on, you know, 
I started to fade away from God and from church and, you know, but this time when I surrendered my 
life, you know, and I prayed as I was laying in that hospital bed, I knew that there was a God out there, 
and I had that spiritual experience and that spiritual awakening. And so I, I truly wanted to work at a faith-
based place. You know, and a lot of people, our clients struggle with the whole God concept, a lot of clients 
you know, may not believe in a God. 
Chad (00:40:36): 
12 
 
And the thing about this place is just because it's a faith-based place, anybody is welcome, you know. We 
don't try to force Christianity or anything on them. Because my thing that I tell people every day is, you 
know, we don't have to try to find God. We just, just trust him. Just let him show himself that he's alive 
and powerful working in your life. As you read your Bible, as you pray, as you meditate and seek him, he'll 
reveal himself to you. And you know, and in my, my approach is to not shove religion down people's 
throats, to not try to convince them to be the way that I am, but just to let them have their own walk and 
their own journey. And see the thing with recovery, and this is the cool part about this. Recovery is not a 
marathon. It's not a race. It's not a walk. It's a journey. You know, it's at your own pace. And that's one 
thing as a peer support specialist, we have to be understanding of that. Every client, we have to be open-
minded with, and let them be where they're at and just be that light and just be the example. 
Ethan (00:41:49): 
Right. Right. But in your journey of recovery, you got involved in the church? 
Chad (00:41:55): 
I got, I got involved in the church. When I got sentenced to drug court and released out of jail, I became a 
member at LexCity church in Lexington, Kentucky, which used to be Quest. And they have something 
called Freedom and Recovery on Thursday nights there. And one of the pastors is actually a recovering 
alcoholic herself and teaches the program. And I remember attending this church and going to this event 
every week faithfully. And my, my faith began to grow and grow and grow. And then I started teaching 
there. Then I started speaking there, and then I started getting more and more involved. Then I became a 
driver for the Hope Center and driving the clients, the band and the bus every week, picking up the guys, 
taking them to church. And I became very involved in my community, and my faith as an addict and 
recovering addict myself, my faith is stronger now than it ever has been my entire life. 
Ethan (00:42:55): 
And that experience just seems like the perfect foundation for what you're doing now. 
Chad (00:43:01): 
100 %. You know, and that's the thing, you know, as a person to me personally, this is my personal opinion. 
I focus on God's promises and not so much my progress. And I just did a speech on this. You know, so 
often we get caught up in looking at our progress because we put these expectations on ourselves, and 
we don't like how slow it's taken us, or that we haven't advanced like we wanted to, you know, so we 
start to lose focus. Then we become disappointed. Well, if we just focus on what God promises us and 
what any 12 step promise or 12 step program promises us, we'll continue to advance in the kingdom and 
in our recovery. 
Ethan (00:43:49): 
Yeah. The other piece of your job that we didn't talk about is your speaking engagements. So can you talk 
a little bit about how that fits into your work? 
Chad (00:43:59): 
I, as a kid, even though I was an introvert and an outcast, I always could picture myself being up on a stage 
speaking to a big crowd, but I didn't know about what. And I was bullied a lot in school, so I wanted to be 
this guy that spoke in schools to kids. And I never knew I was going to be an addict. I didn't know I was 
going to be an alcoholic. And so once I got clean and sober and once I got involved at LexCity church, I 
13 
 
started watching Andrew Hager Live and different, different speakers on Facebook. And it inspired me 
more and more and more. And then I met a guy named Billy Ballenger at a winter jam concert. And he's a 
motivational speaker and he's a professional Christian singer. 
Chad (00:44:48): 
And you know, he gave me some resources, and so I started doing a podcast on Facebook myself. And I 
got involved in that. And then I went from having five views to having 2000 views, and it just kept 
progressing. And I had no motive, wasn't getting paid nothing for it, just doing it because I wanted to do 
it, and thought I was called to do it. Well, then I started getting invited to start speaking at recovery events 
sharing my testimony, and as I done it, it was like, the joy that I would get being able to see the reaction 
and the way it affected other people by simply just telling my story. It inspired me to continue doing it. 
So, then I started getting invited to speak at churches and then schools, and then these big recovery rallies. 
I'm speaking for the court system, speaking for different drug courts in different counties. And one thing 
just led into the next, you know, and now a lot of my speaking engagements are for free. I don't get paid 
nothing for them. Some of them, yes, I do get paid for, depending on whether it's for a recovery event or 
whether it's motivational speaking. And I do have a ministry now Stuck by Choice. 
Ethan (00:46:06): 
So that's something you kind of do on the side? That's not part of your Isaiah House work? 
Chad (00:46:09): 
That is on the side. That was a business that I had before I started working at Isaiah House, while I was 
actually selling cars, was motivational speaking and recovery outreach coordinator in Lexington. 
Ethan (00:46:23): 
OK. And when you do go to a rally, like you did in Cynthiana, that's, that's part of Isaiah House? 
Chad (00:46:31): 
Nope. That is actually all my recovery rally events are simply, simply the ones that have asked me to come 
and speak. And that, that is strictly just by people hearing my testimony at other events and being inspired 
and wanting me to come to their event. 
Ethan (00:46:56): 
I did want to, maybe we'll move towards some final questions. Is there like, you know, I hesitate always 
to use the word success story, but is there a story of an individual that you've helped that you'd like to 
highlight maybe without mentioning names? 
Chad (00:47:18): 
Yes, there is an individual who was at his lowest of lows. He was in active addiction, been locked up several 
times, and he was very suicidal. And I remember getting the phone call, and I rushed to where he was at. 
And you know, often in recovery, recovery never stops. I don't care what time of day or what time of night 
it is, it doesn't stop. And I remember rushing to him and doing an intervention with him and trying to get 
him to see how valued his life really is and that suicide is not the answer. And there's so many addicts that 
suffer in silence, man. And there's so many people that are hurting that, that don't know how to open up. 
And the way they cry out for help is, is by voicing the suicide or by using drugs even deeper. 
14 
 
Chad (00:48:17): 
You know, and I'm able to see those things now, you know, and I'm able to hear them things in a person's 
voice. So anyways, I go to this individual, and I talked to him, you know, and we talked for almost two, 
two and a half hours. And I remember at the end of it, he looked at me, and he hugged me from ear to 
ear, with tears falling down his face. And then some time goes by, and I check on this individual every day. 
And I remembered, I hadn't heard nothing from him again. So, I went to where I had met him before. I 
tried to see if he was there. He wasn't there. And I found out that he had overdosed again. And so I went 
up to the hospital, and here's the thing about addicts is, you don't give up on somebody just because they 
make a mistake or they take a step back. 
Chad (00:49:05): 
Do I believe relapse is a part of recovery? Absolutely not. Does it happen though? Yes, it does. And I have 
to remember where I came from, that that too once was me. But the ones that didn't give up on me are 
the ones that gave me hope and I'm at where I'm at because of them today. And so I went to this hospital 
bed, and I remember sitting there, and he was in a coma, totally out, just like I was when I overdosed, 
feeding tube, the whole nine yards, totally sedated. And I remember sitting there for several hours for 
several days in a row until he finally woke up. And I was the first person who was sitting next to him when 
he woke up. And I didn't know he was waking up, but I remember he reached over and he squeezed my 
arm. And I turn, I get up, and I look, you know, and the anxiety hit me. I was like excited because I get to 
speak to him again. He's alive. Brain activity. 
Chad (00:50:05): 
So, I just start pouring into this guy. And I remember even though he couldn't talk, I remember grabbing 
his hand and putting my other hand on his knee, and we prayed. And I remember seeing him smile even 
with this tube shoved down his mouth into his throat. I saw his, his cheeks widen. And I said, “Thank you, 
God.” And I remember leaving the hospital that day and just knowing that something clicked in him finally. 
Well, now it's been almost eight, eight and a half months. And that person is still alive to this day. That 
person is more healthier now than they have been in their entire adult life. That person now works in 
recovery themselves. That person just got their peer support certification last month. The list can go on 
and on and on, you know, and that person tells me faithfully, “Thank you for letting God work through 
you.” 
Chad (00:51:10): 
And one thing that I have to remember is no matter how much I do in the recovery community, it's not 
me. It's the God through me, working through me, using me as a vessel to impact lives. And the moment 
that I start looking at clout or looking at, you know, the appreciation that because Chad has done this is 
the moment that I'm going to stumble and fall and relapse myself. So I have to constantly have an attitude 
of gratitude and realize that this isn't by Chad's will but this is by God's will that I'm able to do what I'm 
doing. 
Ethan (00:51:44): 
Well, I think we can talk now maybe about some, some issues or challenges that you see in the recovery 
field. Maybe one thing that we can talk about, if you feel comfortable with that, is you said that you went 
through medication assisted recovery and for some people, that's controversial. But also we could talk 
about peer support specialists and maybe where you see you know, where they need some help with, you 
know, changing some things. 
15 
 
Chad (00:52:21): 
The biggest thing is, yes, I went through a maintenance program. I was actually on methadone for a period 
of time. And you know, the biggest thing that I see nowadays is there's a lot of addicts are changing their 
addiction from the heroin, fentanyl, or Xanax to the Suboxone and to the methadone or Subutex. And I 
think as staff in recovery, you know, I believe there's way too much leniency with the prescribing this stuff 
to the clients. Because they're just trading one addiction for another. I believe the system could be a little 
bit better as far as, you know, implementing it and then tapering them off of it, towards not a lifelong 
thing. You know, because an addict can recover, we do recover. We are able to live life on life's terms with 
the proper guidance, leadership, and counsel and but it's really, you know, is the addict willing, will they 
work for it? The biggest thing that I can see as far as, you know, in the peer support field is allowing us to 
get involved just a little bit more and to trust our judgment. Because we've been where the addicts been, 
we relate to them, we're able to see through their lives, we're able to see through the manipulation, and 
you know, we can use our experience. Instead of just being book smart or a college degree, you know, 
we've lived it. 
Ethan (00:54:07): 
So, there might be a case where with a therapist that you might say, “Hey, I know what's going on here.” 
But the therapist kind of resists. 
Chad (00:54:16): 
Exactly. And you know, just because we don't have the, the degree or college education that an actual 
psychologist or psychiatrist or therapist has doesn't mean that we're not able to, to, to be more 
understanding of what's going on in the client's lives. And then also, you know, another thing that I can 
see is the funding for clients who come off the streets or who come out of jail or prison, if you go through 
these treatment programs, you know, the resources for when it's time for them to be discharged, you 
know, a lot of them don't have nothing. A lot of them, their families have lost [unclear]. They don't have 
a job. They don't have any money. A lot of them are homeless, granted there are sober living houses, but 
it takes money to get into these living houses. And the sober living houses have to have the finances to 
keep the doors open. And so, the biggest thing is the resources for the addicts, and you know, addiction 
never stops. It's, it's an epidemic that never stops. 
Ethan (00:55:27): 
Well, I think we can leave it there. I mean, I don't know if there's anything else in terms of like training, 
you know. Maybe we could just end with this question. Is there some training that has really helped you 
in understanding recovery and how to help folks. And maybe are there other training opportunities that 
you would like to see? 
Chad (00:55:57): 
I went through, I went through obviously the KY STARS peer support certification. And then I also do web 
seminars. 
Ethan (00:56:09): 
Continuing ed? 
Chad (00:56:11): 
16 
 
Yep. Continuing education on a weekly basis. Most of them are free. Some of them have a small fee. Then, 
I also, you know, go to these different events and stuff like that because, you know, first off the greatest 
testimony doesn't have words. And what I mean by that is, you know, a person's actions and the way they 
live their life speaks volumes. You know, I go to these recovery events, yes, to hear other people's words. 
And I don't always pay so much attention to the messenger as I do the message during them, the events, 
you know, but then outside of the events, I do pay attention to the messenger, and I see does their video 
match their audio. And I learn more just from an individual than I would learn sitting in the classroom, you 
know. And I also believe that a lot of self-help, a lot of reading knowledge for yourself and just staying up 
to date with the new trends of things, the new drugs that are out there, effective listening, effective 
speaking, stuff like that. And then I also believe that as a peer support specialist, that we should do the 
Narcan training. We should do the public health training. We also should do the maintenance training. So 
we're, we're also aware. 
Ethan (00:57:31): 
You are getting those opportunities? 
Chad (00:57:34): 
Yes. And I've been through all of them, but I still continue and I'll repeat them if I have to. So, yeah. 
Ethan (00:57:44): 
Just one other thing. Obviously we could talk all day, but you, you were involved in, in helping folks getting 
those job skills, you teach that class. Is that a sort of a new emphasis for Isaiah House? 
Chad (00:57:58): 
Yep. We just implemented as part of our long-term program. It's called the workforce development/soft 
skills training. And basically what it is, it's a training that teaches the clients how to do resumes. It teaches 
them soft skills, which is teamwork, which is their attitude, which is the respect and different things in the 
place of, the environment, of the workplace. And you know, because a lot of addicts that come in off the 
streets or that have the prison or jail mentality that have constantly been institutionalized or, you know, 
in different rehabs, this and that, you know, they don't have a lot of knowledge on how to present 
themselves in an interview or how to do certain things. So what we do now, we offer that as part of our 
long-term program. And they get a certification at the end of it. They have a 20 question exam at the end 
of it they have to take in order to get the certification. 
Ethan (00:58:52): 
So there's a series of classes? 
Chad (00:58:53): 
There's a series of classes that they go through, and they watch eight hours of videos, plus eight hours of 
teaching. And then we do the exam. 
Ethan (00:59:03): 
And does, does Isaiah house try to connect them with jobs? 
Chad (00:59:07): 
17 
 
Yes, Isaiah House, if you go through the long-term treatment, they put you, you become employed no 
matter what. You'll intern. You become employed. Every client that stays for long term gets employment. 
Ethan (00:59:21): 
Okay. I didn't, I didn't realize that. And is peer support, going into being a peer support specialist, is that 
an option for some folks? Is that something that's brought up? 
Chad (00:59:31): 
At the end of their long-term, all right, once they hit their nine month mark, they can take their peer 
support certification training. And then after they graduate, after they complete their 11 months, they 
can begin to intern. Okay. 
Ethan (00:59:52): 
Anything else that you'd like to add about peer support services or recovery or anything else that we 
forgot? 
Chad (00:59:58): 
I just want to say thank you so much for interviewing me and you know, go God go. 
Ethan (01:00:08): 
Okay, that's a good way to end. Thank you.