Fieldnotes	  
	  
Project:	  AFC	  Archie	  Green	  Fellowship	  Project/VFC2014-­‐0005	  
Accession	  Number:	  FN2015-­‐1006	  
Interviewee:	  Andy	  Jones	  
Interviewer:	  Andy	  Kolovos	  
Interview	  Date:	  March	  16,	  2015	  
Interview	  Location:	  Intervale	  Community	  Farm,	  Burlington,	  VT	  
	  
This	  is	  the	  third	  interview	  in	  a	  series	  aimed	  at	  exploring	  the	  network	  of	  growers	  and	  
producers	  who	  supply	  Fletcher	  Allen	  Hosptial/University	  of	  Vermont	  Medical	  
Center.	  
	  
Once	  again,	  it	  was	  FREAKING	  COLD	  this	  day.	  	  Once	  I	  identified	  the	  proper	  building	  I	  
parked	  and	  caught	  up	  with	  Andy	  as	  he	  was	  helping	  out	  a	  few	  other	  guys	  with	  a	  
truck.	  We	  went	  into	  the	  building	  and	  upstairs	  to	  his	  office	  and	  I	  set	  up	  the	  gear.	  
	  
Before	  this	  interview	  I	  was	  unaware	  of	  how	  long	  the	  Intervale	  Community	  Farm	  had	  
been	  in	  existence	  (much	  longer	  than	  I	  realized)	  and	  how	  long	  Andy	  had	  been	  
involved	  (ditto).	  Andy	  was	  essentially	  involved	  almost	  from	  the	  start	  back	  in	  the	  
early	  90s,	  so	  his	  prospective	  was	  particularly	  valuable	  in	  sketching	  out	  the	  long-­‐arc	  
history	  of	  the	  operation	  and	  how	  their	  approaches	  have	  changed	  over	  time.	  He	  was	  
a	  thoughtful	  interviewee	  who	  had	  a	  lot	  to	  say	  about	  the	  operation	  and	  the	  
movement	  of	  which	  it	  is	  a	  part.	  	  
	  
My	  wife	  and	  I	  have	  been	  CSA	  members	  for	  a	  couple	  of	  years	  now	  (a	  couple?	  Maybe	  
just	  one?	  Got	  to	  ask	  her	  to	  remind	  me.)	  and	  I	  really	  dig	  the	  scene	  at	  pick	  up	  day	  on	  
the	  farm—much	  to	  my	  astonishment.	  I	  really	  want	  to	  focus	  some	  of	  our	  
documentary	  site	  visits	  on	  them	  and	  how	  they	  approach	  direct-­‐to-­‐consumer	  
growing	  and	  direct-­‐to-­‐consumer	  sales.