DOMESTIC WORKERS UNITED 
Interview: afc2015027_02761_ms02 
Joyce Romain interviewed by Christine Lewis 
TRANSCRIPT 
00:00:00:00 
Interviewer: So, hi my name is Christine Lewis and I am with Domestic Workers United. And 
today is Monday, 20th of March, 2016 and together with the Brooklyn Arts Council we are 
doing this archiving of the voices of domestic workers in collaboration altogether with the 
Library of Congress. Again, through the Brooklyn Arts Council, we were given a grant to do the 
archiving of the voices of domestic workers for the library of congress. So some years from 
now, our children and great grandchildren children’s will get to hear our voices in the Library 
of Congress. Right? What is your name? 
00:00:48:10 
JR: My name is Joyce Romain. 
00:00:54:10 
Interviewer:  Where are you from originally? 
00:00:55:20 
JR: I am originally from the Caribbean, the island of Spice, Grenada, West Indies. 
00:01:04:14 
Interviewer: What brought you to America? 
00:01:07:19 
JR: Well, coming here was adventurous purposes to see the country of freedom all paved in 
Gold, but on the other hand it was part of thorny roads and hindrances, all the way. 
00:01:36:06 
Interviewer: What borough do you reside in right now? 
JR: New York, Staten Island. 
00:01:43:26 
Interviewer: What is your current occupation? 
JR: I’m a baby nurse, post-partum doula and nanny. 
00:01:51:18 
Interviewer: What is a post-partum doula? 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
1
JR: Well a post-partum doula deals with newly moms, or moms who have kids already, it's like 
they have some moms suffer from depression, or they had some traumatic event happening in 
their life prior to pregnancy. Or sometimes, they didn't accept the birth of their new born baby 
due to anxiety, bi-polar which sometimes, they are not aware of. So when that baby comes 
into the world, our duty and role is to nurture then back with good counseling and advise 
them to see their physicians and to get support in the right places and assist them in getting 
back, well. Loving and caring for their little ones. 
 
00:03:06:07 
Interviewer: Oh, so you weren't just a nanny, you were a nanny/baby doula Postpartum. 
 
00:03:19:09 
Interviewer: What is your current occupation? How did you become a domestic worker? 
 
JR: Well, coming to here like an eye and eye, meaning an illegal immigrant, I was forced to 
seek labor work through nannying and house cleaning. So that is where I became a domestic 
worker. 
 
00:03:51:27 
Interviewer: How long have you done this work? 
 
JR: Approximately, 23 years. 
 
00:03:55:29 
Interviewer: How many positions have you had? 
 
JR: Well I had quite a number of positions as nanny.  As a nanny, plus as a babysitter. Plus as a 
housecleaner, plus like a doula, a post-partum doula. Plus also I did two birth doulas, and then 
I did a baby nurse about four (years). 
 
00:04:32:08 
Interviewer: So what motivated you to be a part of this project to be a part of this project now 
for the Brooklyn Arts Council into the LOC. 
 
JR: Well, a lot of people because they are I and I/illegal immigrants, they hide their faces 
behind closed doors through oppression exploitation victimization, and the whole nine yards. 
Underpaid and you know, treated badly. Although, we are a great asset to the people that we 
work for taking care of  their loved ones, because part of the time they themselves don't even 
have the knowledge how to handle such situations. And we are placed in this position so I 
become part of this organization so that I can be fairly and justly treated by my employers. 
 
00:05:32:19 
Interviewer: Well, let me ask you again. Why did you want to do it? Lend your voice. 
 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
2
JR: So that the people, the other people that come after us, even my great grandchildren, who 
born here, will one day, might be a researcher, and would hear my voice after I'm long gone, 
so I'm leaving a legacy in action. 
 
00:06:06:25 
Interviewer: Now if you were to meet someone on the street, how would you describe what it 
is like being a domestic worker? 
 
JR: Well if I meet someone on the street and explaining to them the role of me being a 
domestic worker is one like, I would explain to them thoroughly that being a domestic worker, 
your right is being vetted out to you. 
 
00:06:31:27 
Interviewer: What is your right has been "metted out?"  
 
JR: Meaning that, you know, we go through channels, where we have been exploited on 
wages, just wages, not been paid the right work, although we work out the home doing nanny, 
house cleaning, doula, baby nurse, we are not being the just wages.  Sometimes based on the 
color of our skin. So, I would explain to them, being a domestic worker, you are protected, you 
will be given your rightful role in this society and you will be empowered _with a lot of 
beneficial things that you can stand with someone supporting you. 
 
00:07:26:22 
Interviewer:  I want to revisit the question. What is LIKE being a domestic worker, apart from 
what you said about the rights and mandated rights. What is it for you?  
 
JR:  Well, l being a domestic worker is that a way you can obtain lawful sustenance to take 
care of your household. In the sense of domestic work, working like in the house, taking care 
of kids, that's the way you make your money to take care of you and your family. 
 
00:08:09:06 
Interviewer: Please walk me through a typical day in your daily routine. What is your daily 
responsibility?  
 
JR: I work as a nanny, I take care of the baby. I take care of the chores of the house. I do the 
babies chores. Never do cooking for the family. I cook for the babies that is in my care. Take 
them to the museum, take them to the library. Have play dates. Take them to the park. And, 
lots of other adventurous things outdoors. 
 
00:09:11:24 
Interviewer: Any specific things out doors? 
 
JR: Like, going to the zoo. Taking them to a Caribbean restaurant when they grow up.  So that 
they can taste the flavor of the Caribbean. Taking them to the beach, you know. 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
3
 
00:09:31:23 
Interviewer: What is that experience for you? 
 
JR: Just as normal as my own child in Grenada. I took them to the beach in Seattle though. 
Three year old. They like the cold water. Buy Joyce don't go into the water honey. I sit on the 
bank and I pay attention to them. And say do not cross that mark. And they will splash water 
on me. They will say "Joyce-y" come in. It's nice. No! I won't. The water is too cold. 
 
00:10:08:18 
Interviewer: Interesting, what a Caribbean woman like you, from Grenada, doing in Seattle?  
 
JR:  Well, honey. Seattle. I had best friend living in Seattle. My boss and I here in Manhattan 
had a fall out.  That led to termination of my job. So, I wanted to relax and have fun, so she 
invited me up. I went to Seattle and I realized that the environment. The place of interest was 
enormous and I stood there. Found job and I stood there. 
 
00:11:08:10 
Interviewer: What was the fallen out, if you care to say? With your employer that took you to 
Seattle. 
 
JR: What was that fallen out about. It was a really nice hot Thursday, 2pm. I went to work in 
the morning. But prior to that every day he would start a load of clothing. Even if the clothes 
were already washed the day before. So, that Thursday in particular I just see the clothes and I 
just, that was the first time I realized the word, "depressed." It's not just for the dictionary, it's 
a human ailment to. I felt so depressed when I see that. His wife had just had a baby boy and I 
lay my head down on the table and I say Lord that adventure is taking me toward a really 
really rocky road. 
 
00:12:12:18 
Interviewer: So hold on, he's always putting in his load of clothes every day.  
 
JR: Every morning he puts a load in first thing in the morning after his coffee break. Cause I 
start working from 11 to 7. And, every time he puts this load of clothes in and another basket 
on the ground. You do it faithfully for the first time so. He had a dog and the dog was blind and 
ailing. So, I used to use that dog. He didn't used to like to walk the dog now. Because of the 
impediment of the dog. And I just used the dog as an excuse to take my fresh air. And exercise 
in the park. To me, it was just, for me to take that dog for my personal use, but it turns out 
that it was my job on low and lay. So my position as nanny has shift to the dog walker. So that 
Thursday, I took Streaky out, because after sleeping and laying my head on the table, I don't 
know how long I got up and I said Streaky time for you to go. But I didn't do anything I only 
take out the laundry up put it down, then put a load in and take Streaky outside.  And he and 
his wife and his two kids went to the park. And when I was going down to the park with 
streaky, I saw them coming up. So when he went inside he realized that I didn't do much of a 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
4
chores as usual. He didn't ask me if I was sick. He didn't ask me how I was doing. He just 
walked down back behind me and tell me he wanted to talk to me. And he said, "Do you know 
that you are not supposed to walk the dog for more than ten minutes? So I said to him, if I had 
to walk the dog for 10 minutes, then I am not going to walk your dog anymore. I'm a nanny. 
I'm not a dog walker and you are not paying me for dog walking. I was only trying to be nice 
and helpful.  
 
He keep going round and round the block. So I say, "Hold it." If your intention is to fire me 
today, please say the word and let me go in peace and you go, because this walk you’re 
walking me is making me dizzy and I don't know what will become of my language towards 
you. And I don't you to disrespect me and I don't want to disrespect me. So just say what you 
have to say.  So he say, Joycee, I don't want fire you but what you are leading me to is to fire 
you because you have to walk Streaky. I say, no I don't have to walk Streaky. When you hired 
me, you hired me as a nanny. I was just trying to be nice. You are paying me no extra money 
for walking your dog.  And he say well, you're fired. I said "thank you." So he tell me I can't go 
into the building to get my bag. I say, are you crazy? You want the police to go get it for me. 
Right? I say I am going to call the police. Because you can't tell me come back for my bag 
tomorrow.  You going to leave it at the front desk? Front desk didn't hire me? 
 
00:15:42:06 
Interviewer: Was it a live in position?  
 
JR: No. So I went into the building and I went upstairs and then he came up behind me. His 
wife was sitting at the front, I say can I come in to get my bag because your husband said I 
cannot get my bag. And then she said, of course, and she was crying, because apparently he 
had called and told her he fired me. Then, I went in, I took my bag and he asked me, so you’re 
not going to give them a last bath. I say no, you fired me, I'm not going to get paid for that. I 
missed bathing them. 
 
00:16:26:24 
Interviewer: Wow, he wanted you to, on top of firing you, to bath his kids? 
 
JR: So I say no. He said, you are really going to go? I said you just fired me. So what you want 
me to do?  I cannot stand her and beg or cry?  We both broke down in tears. Then I had him 
his phone, took my bag, he paid me some, a little bit of money. I take the money. Left. Then he 
called me and asked me if I am not coming back and I say "no."  But I will ask my daughter to 
hold the positon until you find somebody. 
 
00:17:05:29 
Interviewer: Wow, under all that, you will still offering up your daughter to come and hold on 
top of being fired. 
 
JR: Then, when he got somebody from Napa or whatever, he dismissed my daughter without 
even telling her didn't want her no more. Then, on top of that, he refused to give me a 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
5
reference. When I told people that I worked for him, he said he never know me. But, I went to 
Domestic Workers Union and related this story to the, I don’t' know if she was the President, 
Joyce, at that time. She said, despite he paying you his cash, we still have a case. I say no, you 
know, before all of that happened, they were good people to me and I am and I am I and I, so 
there are other people in my position. And I don't want this system to sort of breaking in on 
other people that are trying to find something, meaningful to do. Call my friend and I hop the 
plane the next Friday and I Seattle here I came. 
 
00:18:24:10 
Interviewer: What skills do you need to be a domestic worker and how did you learn them.   
 
JR: No, it's something Caribbean people were born with naturally to me. Growing up in the 
Caribbean, you learn to cook at a very early age. You learn to tend to your younger siblings at 
an early age and then when you have your own sibling, you take tend to take care of them, 
with the aid of your grandparents, and yourself. So, skills wise, it is important because within 
the American system, in the American country, certificate counts, not experience. So, it is wise 
to go out and learn these new skills and techniques of how to handle white babies because 
they are more delicate than the black skinned babies. 
 
00:19:17:18 
Interviewer: Who says so? 
 
JR: Of course, yes. Because with this shaking syndrome.  When the babies shake, here, they 
prone to die faster. Then, back then, when my mother hold you and shake you, when you did 
something wrong. So it's two different type of baby. Just like all pregnancies are not alike, all 
babies are not alike. 
 
00:19:45:08 
Interviewer: That I know, you're right, because I saw a father lift a baby, and I saw him shake 
the baby up and down. It's not accepted for the baby is still forming.  There are tough babies, 
there are weak babies, baby who are born premature.  But you believe that white babies and 
black babies are different? 
 
JR: I mean coming out from the Caribbean. Because, here, I really never deal with them too 
much, the dark skin babies. But back home, babies are much more different. They are tougher. 
Because, when you go into the river for example, in the days when there was river. You would 
take a basin, but a sheet inside the basin and put your baby inside of it. And wash your 
clothes, rinser your clothes, put it on your head and take your baby and go home. You can't do 
that with a white pickney. No. 
 
00:21:07:01 
 
Interviewer: Is there anything that people who employ you might have learned from you?  
 
JR: Yes, I taught some of them a lot of things, for example I was a doula to a family in Seattle, 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
6
she had her first baby and she had postpartum depression but it was unattended. So she was 
afraid of having another child. 
 
00:21:55:04 
Interviewer: When you say unattended, what do you mean?  
 
JR: Meaning that, she didn't get the medical help that she needed. So that fear remain in her. 
So, she is prone to, when she have the next child, if that condition didn't fix it would reoccur. 
So, I had to walk her through. She was afraid to hold the baby. Wondering what would 
happen. Like what had happened to her baby Sophia. So I had to tell her, you know, she was a 
lawyer, then she was working in a predominantly male office. Then she was kind of feeling 
embarrassed, when the man would say, oh another American mom. So I had to coach her and 
teach her how to handle situations like that. 
 
00:22:52:15 
Interviewer: You mean breast feeding on the job?  
 
JR: No, she would pump, pump the milk for the babies feeding at the job. Then, she was afraid 
to handle Anna. Despite the fact that it was my job, I would let her take a night to tend to the 
baby slowly, but gracefully until slowly she became  the perfect, not the perfect in the sense 
of, without no blemishes, but the perfect mom. Doing a great job. 
 
00:23:32:19 
Interviewer: What is it that she took away from you? 
 
JR: Well I taught her the skill of trying to get real. At first, I saw it was like something fearful in 
her, towards that little girl. You could sense something wasn't right. Then, we spoke and I ask 
her, did you have problems when you had Sophia because I find that you are acting in a way 
that with Anna, something scary about Anna. Then she said, yes. And then, we started to walk 
through the process, beat by beat and she grown over it. Then she would nurture and love 
that baby, and then she made her third one and I said to her, "Being Jewish, when you make 
that boy I will not be there to nurture him for you." She said, "Well of course Joyce."  Then she 
made a boy and then she didn't need no help. Meaning, I had worked in NY with lots of Jewish 
families. They always tell me, like maybe the daughter of the second generation would say, 
"When a Jewish has a boy child, that first born is a king. The second one just melting in, but 
that first one is always king. If she have five girls and she make that one boy, he's the king." So 
I learned that little kosher talk, like people would tell me "kosher talk" meaning good talk. And 
then I would incalcate it when I meet her Jewish family and I would make the point, if you 
make a boy. It's the same thing that happen to my next boss that fired me.  Because she was 
Jewish.  They were Jewish and when Levi came it was a different format in the house. So, I 
carry that like a little family joke with Jewish people, because most of them is not really 
kosher. They might have married some other person of another faith. So they have a 
Christmas tree and Hanukkah here. So I would make little joke to just lighten up the place. 
 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
7
00:26:27:24 
Interviewer: Which brings me to me another question of culture, as you talk about the Jewish 
culture and all that first born son, who is king.... Do you ever share something cultural from 
your heritage?  
 
JR: I share part of my culture, Carnival, the activity, Carnival.  Some of my food like plantain, 
pound plantain with some baked fish or okra. Or some of my tie dye designs.  These things 
that I love, I don't mind sharing it freely. Like food, language, because sometimes. I will call 
them Creole "salad." You know, Creole, saying the patois and, like Haitian thing, I would say, 
them salup pace?  _I share part of my culture. Carnival. The activity Carnival.  Some of my 
food, plantain. Palm plantain with some baked fish or stewed fish. Or some of my Tie Dye 
designs.  These things that I love, I don't mind sharing it freely.  So, you know, food, language. 
Because sometimes I would call them Creole-asalo.  Saying the Patwa and the Haitian thing.  
I'd say "Oh my God, Un Saloppe Tu?" 
 
Interviewer: What do you meant what did you tell them? 
 
JR: Saloppe? Okay leave it there. I shouldn't share it. Meaning, Saloppe, meaning no matter 
what you are doing it is not a good attitude. It means a "no good attitude."  And then, I would, 
in Grenada we speak a little different to people when we English, especially when we get 
upset. We kind of "rumble it up." Sometimes we speak Gypsy too. Like..."yookodoka pwaka 
dooka." 
 
00:28:55:18 
Interviewer: You know we used to say that in Trinidad, Yiddish. You'd speak in Yiddish, 
because it's a difficult language. 
 
JR: If they'd say something, I don't want them…I'm talking to you on the phone, I call you to 
tell you the Mela, I would say "Gabal...[unintelligable]..." You know what I mean?  They'd say 
Joyce, what are you saying?" 
 
00:28:58:09 
 
Interviewer: Because you wouldn't want them to understand what you are saying? 
 
00:29:03:06 
JR: Exactly. 
 
00:29:29:14 
Interviewer: Any other beliefs or faith or anything? 
 
00:29:32:11 
 
JR: No, you see my religion, whenever I leave my house, I place it in the closet.  I don't discuss 
and I don't have no discussion about no religion that's in my closet. When I come home I'm my 
religious body. I dress myself modestly when I am going out to do my job, modestly dressed 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
8
but, my religion is something sacred and I leave it home. I don't have no arguments or no 
debate about my religion, that's my personal life. 
 
00:30:04:24 
Interviewer: So what conditions do you face throughout your work experience as a domestic 
worker in the industry?  What are some of the conditions? 
 
00:30:09:28 
 
Joyce Romain:   Well some was good days, and some was bad days. Because, you never meet 
everybody the same. You know, the years? I never liked history so I never kept dates accept if I 
write them down. Like personally, I met good people you know, people err, the make mistakes 
and they get angry because of something happening in their personal life and they don't want 
to lash it at you who is closer to them at that point in time.  
 
So, you know, but I have never been a fully oppressive worker in any field because I was 
taught from home how to defend myself and uphold my rights but in a dignified way so if you 
coming to lash at me, I will be quiet, listen and then I will respond with you and let you know 
that that is not a way that you should treat me because I am the one taking care of your 
household and even that you want to talk to me like that? We cannot work together we have 
two different points of interest.  So, you're not going to treat me like trash and I have to take 
care of your household. So, Friday comes and I will not return because you show lack of 
respect and I couldn't tolerate that. But to say like you know...full oppression to the maxim? 
No. But yeah...they oppress you because one thing that I learned as a domestic worker, and no 
offense to that but--white folks tolerate black people, they don't love them. Black folks love 
them but they don't know to tolerate them.  But in the instance I learned that they only could 
tolerate us and very nice too. But they don't love us. 
 
00:32:42:21 
 
Interviewer: Why do you think that is? Why? 
 
00:32:47:29 
Joyce Romain:  That's hereditary-handed down. It's in the blood, it's in the vein. Some people 
try to be extra nice but they know how to tolerate you nice and make you feel comfortable. 
 
00:33:03:00 
Interviewer: But you think you experienced on your job something that you have seen... 
 
00:33:07:11 
Christine Lewis: How are you predicted that though? 
 
00:33:19:22 
Joyce Romain: You see, it's kind of sensitive thing. You have a boss, who would be very 
outspoken. And you have a boss who would be...you meet every different boss. So, when you 
working with somebody you would supposed to feel the vibes. If you been oppressed, if they 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
9
victimizing you, or if they, whatever they are doing to you. You supposed to know that and 
know how to get out nicely out of it without harming yourself or without harming them. 
 
00:33:54:18 
Christine Lewis: So what was the best part of your job? 
 
00:33:58:14 
Joyce Romain: Well the best part of my job is the labor of love. The kids, I call them the labor 
of love. The kids have nothing to do with any other part of your work life. It's either the mom 
or the dad. Because sometimes they want you to do something that is not in your job 
description and if you refuse, or if you do it once, it becomes automatically part of your job. 
Let's say for example, you have a boss who is always busy running out of the house, she 
drinking her coffee, putting on her makeup, she leaves that coffee cup on the table, you 
remove that coffee cup the first day she do that? Remember, that's your job for the rest of 
your life working with her. This kind of instance is what I'm talking about. And if one day she 
come and you forget her cup, not all, but those who in that category, would then ask you, why 
you didn't pick up that cup here? What is it doing that still? 
 
00:35:02:10 
Christine Lewis:  So that you would say it is part of the job? 
 
00:35:15:20 
Joyce Romain: When the parents are very inconsiderate and don't appreciate the extra little 
miles that you will do for them. For them, not the kids. The kids are darling, the labor of love. 
When they feel sick, they wouldn't leave your side, but that means, that if you are the nanny 
or the doula or whatever, is treating that child to, with love. Because some of the nanny's 
don't treat all the kids with love, either.  It's a two way street. 
 
00:35:51:12 
Christine Lewis: So what is the worst part of the job? 
 
00:36:03:29 
Joyce Romain: Well honey, there is no worst part of my job, because I know how to handle 
things. 
 
00:36:04:10 
Christine Lewis:  What challenges or sources of tension do you face on the job? I mean you 
kind of spell that out in the dog story. But if there is anything specific. 
 
00:36:18:07 
Joyce Romain: You know, what the challenges were in one of my jobs that I didn't like. But 
despite of I'm telling her, she's like not understanding. I used to take care of her little girl and I 
had to take her to music lesson. My God! My bus pass is my bus pass, not your bus pass to 
take your child to class. You have to provide the money. She's not going to provide no bus fee. 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
10
When I insist, one day she was so rude, telling me, but you don't have to pay for my child. I 
said, "excuse me, what did you just say?" Never mind (she said). I said, not "never mind." 
Listen carefully. If I were not taking your kid to class?  I didn't have to go to class. So, your child 
cannot ride on the bus, by herself, because the bus instruction is, the child arrive with a paying 
adult. And if you need handing enough money, I am not going. I said, you know I ain't driving. 
It's my Metrocard and honey, no matter what I do?  She wouldn't put money on the table for 
the bus. You know, sometime I sit home and I said, today, it's cold and I don't like when it's 
cold, I ain't going.  So the next week, she put $20 and that is for the rest of the winter and I'll 
buy the ticket. That was the most challenging disgusting thing I didn't like on that job. 
 
00:38:14:02 
Christine Lewis: So let me ask you, would she reimburse you eventually? 
 
00:38:18:13 
Joyce Romain: No, the $20 she gave is to take care of the rest of the months ahead until the 
vacation comes. Then, one day the husband come, because I don't argue much. He said, Joyce, 
do you have a card, but that's for me. To pay my bus to come home and do your job. So you 
are supposed to provide money, I would have to put on my card, or give me the tickets for the 
bus.  He never asked me another word. I said, the money I put on my card is my money to take 
me to work and go home. 
 
00:39:20:03 
Christine Lewis: So tell me, how is your relationship with your current employer? 
 
00:39:22:05 
Joyce Romain: Oh good. I never leave no bad stepping stone even with the one that fired me. 
They still ask people, have you seen Joyce? They say, no but Joyce said she went to Seattle 
which is true, they had a good excuse to tell the children. 
 
00:39:58:11 
Christine Lewis: So, are there relationships with previous children you have cared for that have 
been particularly memorable in a good or bad kind of way? 
 
00:40:04:18 
Joyce Romain: All of the children have loving memories, not all of the parents have it, but all 
the kids have it.  Well, right now, one mom told me tomorrow, next month, next year, she buy 
a ticket for me to come back to Seattle anytime I want. Because, her daughter keep asking, 
when is Joycey coming back? What did you do with Joycey? But she said, but I gave her a story 
Joyce, that you know, I don't know what tell her. I said, honey, just tell her that I will see her 
someday.  But I wrote letters to them, send cards, they send pictures for me.  She send all her 
arts from school for me to see, you know. 
 
00:41:09:20 
Christine Lewis:  And not in a bad kind of way? 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
11
 
00:41:12:10 
Joyce Romain: No, the kids like I tell you I always tell all the kids are the labor of love. Children 
don't have nothing to do with it. They are just sweet honey. They tell you as it is and when a 
challenge is asserting you just have to smile, it's a nice sweet way.  People might say their 
rude, no their just assertive. 
 
00:41:48:12 
Christine Lewis:  So what was the original agreement with your employer and was it violated? 
Did you ever have an agreement that was violated or did you feel was violated. 
 
00:42:04:09 
Joyce Romain: I went into to do babysitting, they want me to do nanny. That's two different 
classified jobs. Babysitting is you sitting the baby until the mom comes. She has to prepare the 
food, she has to do everything.  Now when you are doing nannying, you have to do light 
housekeeping, taking care of the child's environment, taking care of the child, feeding the 
child, if possible, bathing the child. So, there is a difference. People get it mixed up. 
Babysitting, child care giving, and nannying, are three different type of jobs, and 
responsibilities.  While childcare is basically, you have to look after all the kids, sometimes 
even the family household, because you are doing an overall. 
 
00:43:19:08 
Christine Lewis: So tell me about that violation. 
 
00:43:22:26 
Joyce Romain: I was supposed to be doing babysitting, and she insist that I do nannying. And I 
defined what is nannying and she went to the computer, she come back she tell me, I kinda 
partially right, I said, honey, I am a nanny from British. I just tell them I'm British, because I 
deal with the British law because on the school I am British too.  I tell them I am British. So, 
nanny has a different category to babysitting.  You asked me to babysit. You didn't me to do 
laundry. I come here to take care and make sure that the child is safe, read the child a story, 
you cook the child food and I feed the child if possible, but everything else is for me to sit with 
that baby. Entertain that baby and I 'm not supposed to be making your bed up. I'm not 
supposed to be doing your laundry. I'm not supposed to be cleaning your house, that's two 
different jobs you’re talking. 
 
00:44:36:01 
Christine Lewis:  So you feel it was violated? 
 
00:44:36:01 
Joyce Romain: Yes, my job was violated and then she stated to grumble that she didn't know 
what she was doing with me. Well, you have to define my role.  Monday morning I didn't 
return. No, I didn't return. That was it. After I get my pay honey its good bye and I will kiss the 
children good bye real nice and sing in their ears, "I’m gonna miss you but I won't be back."  
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
12
And I am not going to come back. 
 
00:45:20:21 
 
Christine Lewis: Do you feel that the amount of hours that you work and your holiday 
schedules are being respected. 
 
00:45:24:24 
Joyce Romain: Oh, no. No, no, no. But the thing about it is, after a while, job began getting a 
little difficult and steep in New York. Because you know, the employers doesn't want 
reference even if the person is a lawyer of doctor and they are black skinned like you, they 
don't want that reference.  So, you know, when you have a job, even if you been underpaid 
and for me, work to me was just fun, I don't like to be sitting. So sometimes, I will do things 
that not in my role, just to keep me active. Because, I don't like to sleep on job. Although, I 
work with people that gave me blanket in the winter and say, when they baby sleeping Joyce 
you can have a nap too. But I can't sleep.   
 
So, when you do those things, people don't respect you, they don't give you a little overpay.  
For example, they go out to dinner, they go part of the time on your worktime, on your 
workshift and they get back late, 2 hours or an hour late. They don't want to pay for the two 
hours. They should be paying you but they don't pay you. Sometimes, they ask you to come ad 
work for them, I expected to get paid on the Saturday, I work for you from 10 in the morning 
to 7 at night and when I go they tell me, oh, I'll see you. So when my paycheck comes I didn't 
see that. So I ask for my pay, he didn't know that he was supposed to pay me.  On a Saturday!  
That is time and a half. Those kind of things.   There are some people, honey they don't miss 
paying you, because I met some like that. 
 
00:47:43:24 
Christine Lewis:  So what is the right thing? By paying the overtime, by paying that Saturday. I 
respect you... 
 
00:47:54:24 
Joyce Romain: But you respect the person's labor, the time, the effort, they didn't have to 
come on Saturday. They didn't have to stay overtime on Saturday. You set a time, get here at 
8, and you finish at 6. When 6 o'clock comes I expect you to come home to release me to 
come home. If I work until 7 or 8, I think I am entitled to be paid. 
 
00:48:20:10 
Christine Lewis: So, would you say that you are any worker that you know has been exploited 
due to immigration status. 
 
00:48:28:15 
Joyce Romain: Yeah. A lot.  One girl I remembered, she was working with a woman, taking care 
of a little boy on Riverside and the lady she asked the women for a little raise of pay. And the 
women tell her who do you think you are asking me for a raise of pay when you know that you 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
13
are illegal in the country. The husband didn't say anything and he sat there and he listened 
carefully and then she asked her to not return. On top of that, she placed her on her Mom's 
page and asking people not to hire her. She didn't put that she was illegal, she just put that 
she was not a good nanny. So she referred to parents, be careful when they hire her. So, 
another person she worked with saw it and called her. Well we both went there and the lady 
told her, what was on the page. So we told her to take her to the labor board and tell her that 
if you are illegal that she is absolutely wrong in hiring you.   
 
But on the other hand, I said, there is a law, and I can't quote the number. But they say you 
don't need no social security to legally work in America. So the law is confusing. What she is 
telling you, you take her to the labor board and then the husband come and ask if they could 
release it and then the mom took it off the post. And I remember, my friend from Jamaica 
Karen. She used to work with someone that come from France and came to America to work.  
She used to work with Stephanie. Stephanie paid Karen $350 a week for 10 hours/day. She has 
to clean, cook, iron, wash, take care of the babies, everything. The whole nine yards. And 
Karen just asked for $50 more, a slight increase.  Just to help to pay for the transportation fee.  
She said, Karen, before I give you the $50, I prefer to get somebody new. So Karen, one of the 
ladies upstairs heard the conversation and found a job for Karen for $650/week. So Karen 
decided to go so after two weeks, Karen tell her she's going to go. She tell her I am going to 
give you two weeks’ notice Stephanie.  So Stephanie says, that's okay Karen. She start calling. 
She got a lot of nasty slabs from interviewers. She said Karen you should have taken her and 
beaten my $50. Because nobody is taking that job for $350.  
 
So Karen has a cousin who was in the process of getting her documents together and she 
asked if she could hold the job for Stephanie until she get somebody.  So, when she goes, what 
do you want me to do, nanny or babysitting. She said, nannying. Okay, nannying is what you 
are hiring me for.  So Stephanie think it is the same Karen. So, she left the girl and she go and 
when she come back she said, but you didn't iron the cloths. She say, if you want me iron, $50 
more.  So she got $50 more. She said, but you didn't do the dishes?  She said, $50 more. So 
she end up getting like $600 to get the job. So, she cousin told one of the nanny upstairs that 
she going to quit because her documents come. She's going to go and do something different. 
So, the nanny go upstairs and she tell Karen. So dummy Karen fire her.  So when she fire her so 
she said, now that I have my papers in hand I am going to take her to court. So she took her to 
court. She ball like a hound because France used to give her enough money to pay the nanny 
position. And she used to rob the money. The judge made her pay the year over $30,000. She 
tell Karen, if she had only listened to her and given her that extra $50 it would not have cost 
her that much. 
 
00:54:27:08 
Christine Lewis: So do you currently have children or family or individual responsibility that 
you are taking care of? 
 
00:54:36:11 
Joyce Romain: Right now, no. All my kids are grown, all my adopted kids are grown. All of 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
14
them are grown living individually. But presently, my grandkids, they migrated back to 
Grenada to live with their mom, so I am free of them. 
 
00:54:59:09 
Christine Lewis: So how do you manage balancing your personal life and your worklife? 
 
00:55:04:26 
Joyce Romain: Presently I am not working, but in the light of working, I'm working because I 
am trying to build up my blog to define and seek employment through my job website--Post-
Partum Doula. What I having planned is to build up site that where that I can nurture black 
folks with a lower scaling fees and if I could encourage other women folks. 
 
00:55:46:22 
Christine Lewis: So how does being a domestic worker impact your own family life?  How did 
that impact it? 
 
00:55:57:02 
Joyce Romain: No, my family was back in the Caribbean first, so I was here making the dollars, 
preparing to make them and send it back to them. When they fully grown and graduate from 
school they came up. 
 
00:56:15:03 
Christine Lewis: Are you a member of other groups? 
 
00:56:15:03 
Joyce Romain: Not now. The groups that I was involved in they all smashed up. The 
organizations. And then I have a partner calling house and hands it’s a suso, through domestic 
workers. A susu is where all Caribbean people come together and we every Friday we put in 
$100 or $200 and each Friday somebody gets what we call a hand that if it is 10 people and 
everyone puts in $100 then that is equivalent to $1000.  That one person to hold the bag. 
Every week. You could do monthly. I have that one weekly. And it's recurring all the time. 
Sometimes people drop off if they lose their work or sometimes when you get low. You can 
call Susu Partners or "Hats in Hand." 
 
00:58:07:23 
Christine Lewis: Do you belong to Domestic Workers United? 
 
00:58:15:06 
Joyce Romain: I forgot, I have been away. I wasn't thinking about Domestic Work here. 
 
00:58:26:06 
Christine Lewis: So when you do Domestic Work, do you feel supported or have you felt that 
you are working in an isolated environment? 
 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
15
00:58:33:20 
Joyce Romain: No, of, course because some people could really isolate you. It's one on one. 
Sometimes the parents don't even want you to have play dates with their babies. For example, 
I was doing a nanny job and the mom said to me, but she was young, she don't want no play 
dates.  So I say, how is your daughter going to get social skills developed?  So she said, hmm, I 
wasn't thinking about that but let me take care of the play date. 
 
00:59:32:01 
Christine Lewis: The mother said that you to you? 
 
00:59:36:00 
Joyce Romain: So I said fine. So she would go and get the babies, let the parents come and 
drop the babies for me to have play date. So I call her and I said, excuse me, why are you 
leaving? So who is taking care of your baby? Oh no, Molly says that I can leave the baby. Oh 
no, play date means that you have to take care of your baby, while I am taking care of my job 
and the two children interacting.  You know, she didn't understand what a playdate is. She 
thought she would bring all the children for me.  I said, yeah, you could but each child that 
comes to the house you have to pay me per child. 
 
01:00:20:04 
Christine Lewis: Imagine leaving the confine of Grenada and working in America and working 
in house in the Winter, Spring, Summer, or Fall. Especially the Winter. Do you ever feel 
isolated? 
 
01:00:37:08 
Joyce Romain: Basically, I don't like the snow, period.  No because I communicate via slow mail 
and via phone. And then, you know I have close friends that visit me and I will visit them. Then 
during the winter when I was working in most of the building that I work in Manhattan they 
have a playroom. So I would invite other friends to come because I have the key for the 
playroom and we would have things there. And if the parents go out I would ask them for 
permission that we could make a pot.  You know like a little Caribbean food. We cook, we 
share, we eat and we laugh and had pot. So during the week I had a program. 
 
01:01:32:18 
Christine Lewis: So you had like a network. 
 
01:01:32:04 
Joyce Romain: So I couldn't to go outside, because I only go outside to catch the train and 
home.  Come back, go to get the train, go to work. 
 
01:01:42:13 
Christine Lewis: So let's talk about Domestic Workers United, when and why did you become a 
part of DWU? How did you hear about it? 
 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
16
01:01:51:01 
Joyce Romain: Well, hearing about it was...I was talking to somebody and they told me about 
Domestic Workers United. And, they didn't have the full info but they gave me a phone 
number. You know, coming up from the Caribbean, fully revolutionized. I like revolution, I like 
politics, I want to get....So I called the number and then the women answered was my 
namesake, Joyce, too. We made introductions and then she asked me to come and then I 
went down and talked to her in the office on 28th street. Then I see, I liked it.  And then I 
automatically went to Oxford Street and became a member.  
 
During that period there was a lot of activities. I mean really stressful things taking place with 
nannies.  I remember these years were horrible. I remember I had a friend that invited to go to 
the meeting and she promised but she never made it because she died. She had high blood 
pressure and the sun was so hot and she went home: instead of going to the doctor, she went 
home. The doctor told her to come back to the hospital. Her boyfriend told her to go in the 
morning. When she left to go at 5 in the morning she just fall on the floor and died. Then I had 
another friend, lot of people were just dying, during that era.... 
 
01:03:50:17 
Christine Lewis: And they were domestic workers? 
 
01:03:52:23 
Joyce Romain: Nannies, nannies, nannies. And then I met some Spanish people that had some 
sad story to tell too. How they was treated. How some people got burnt: for example this 
family in Long Island, burned, take her passport. It was a lot of roughness. So I saw it as a safe 
haven to protect us as I and I. Oh, it was just in place. The politics of getting it to be recognized 
and too stand firm for the people. 
 
01:04:44:05 
Christine Lewis: So what has it meant for you and your work that Domestic Workers Bill of 
Rights has been passed in 2010. What does that mean for you? 
 
01:04:54:10 
Joyce Romain: Well this bill of rights was sort of empowerment for us black people to demand 
what our wages should be and then we could take it. We had choices. We could either take it 
or refuse it and look for something better. Because we had support, we had our rights in 
place: laid down.  People who never accepted it, they still scared and they still afraid. 
 
01:05:25:25 
Christine Lewis: Who are those people that you are talking about? 
 
01:05:28:17 
Joyce Romain: Nannies and elderly cares. They think half a loaf is better than nothing. 
 
01:05:34:03 
 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
17
Christine Lewis:  And how about the parents though, as you talk about the nannies.  This bill 
was passed in 2010 and here we are in 2016. What about the parents that aren't enforcing, 
doing the right thing still? 
01:05:44:01 
Joyce Romain: Because, like I told you, the people who lack the knowledge, cannot implement 
anything worthy. Because, if you don't know your rights, you wouldn't know if somebody is 
treating you right.  You don't know your rights. 
 
01:06:07:00 
Christine Lewis: So what impact do you think the bill has had and why do you think it is 
important? 
 
01:06:10:20 
Joyce Romain: Well the bill has make me a very powerful empowered black woman from the 
Caribbean. 
 
01:06:23:17 
Christine Lewis: What would you like to see happen in the future with the Bill of Rights? 
 
01:06:27:26 
 
Joyce Romain: I just see that bill of rights to just spread their wings to all over America, to all 
the 52 states and letting the people know what their rights are and forming numerous 
organizations all over America. 
 
01:06:44:24 
Christine Lewis: Well it has taken root, right? I think you have California, you have Hawaii, you 
have Massachusetts, you have Connecticut? 
 
01:06:55:01 
Joyce Romain: I think it should be 52 states. 
 
01:06:58:19 
Christine Lewis: What do you want legislators to know? 
 
01:07:13:00 
Joyce Romain: Legislators should know our rights and our Bill so that we shouldn't be the ones 
taken to the street, we should have one of them pushing and doing empowerment with 
congressmen, so that whenever we have something we went to veto for, we just send him a 
letter. Let them veto for us and at the White House. 
 
01:07:32:00 
Christine Lewis: Are you happy with the Bill's impact? 
 
01:07:35:19 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
18
Joyce Romain: Well so far, it's in place. As the time goes on, and the years of technology and 
whatever increasing, you increase and change laws. So right now, it's in place for the moment. 
But, still there is room for improvement as the time goes on. Because when my grandchildren 
start to do nanny they have to upgrade it.  Because they wouldn't be like us. 
 
01:08:06:06 
Christine Lewis: And what do you mean upgrade? 
 
01:08:08:01 
Joyce Romain: I mean like certain clause have to put in place. I don't really know yet, the time 
ain’t reached yet. 
 
01:08:19:26 
Christine Lewis: If the Bill is kind of like a shoe in the door, let's assume, it hasn't created much 
of an impact then? 
 
01:08:34:14 
Joyce Romain: No, no, no. Now, the bill is there for us. But when my generation comes, I don't 
know what they are going to want to change. Because they might not want that kind of wage 
that they would be there, they would ask for something different, and ask for some other 
clause to be included. 
 
01:08:52:11 
 
Christine Lewis: So what areas of education and skills are you trying to gain?  
 
01:09:01:00 
Joyce Romain: Counseling. Becoming a counselor, maybe for youth or you know...when I 
develop myself employ entrepreneur business, I want to counsel the women to be their own 
bosses. To be self-employed and make much of the entrepreneurship business. Make your 
retirement because if you work for somebody you are going to retire on very minimal 
resources. But when you are the boss, spicy boss, you make your retirement. Money still 
rolling when you retire on the beach in Bahamas or Grenada beach. 
 
01:10:01:03 
Christine Lewis:  What skill did DWU teach and what type of training? 
 
01:10:06:21 
Joyce Romain: Well DWU has taught me a lot on the way you want to be. That's where I gather 
from my knowledge from them, to be my own boss. Although I love children, don't get me 
wrong, I would still be doing a little side thing playing with children, even if I had to walk with a 
stick. But, it taught me to be more vigilant in becoming self-employed and be my own boss. 
 
01:10:43:05 
 
Christine Lewis: How is cultural expression used as a tool of advocacy and outreach of 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
19
Domestic Workers United? Such as music, dance, proverbs (sayings)? How do you think that 
impacts the outreach and advocacy of domestic workers? 
 
01:11:05:12 
Joyce Romain: Well the cultural expression is building, but you know, people haven’t' been 
coming together to grasp the knowledge. It's just a few. So you not seeing the culture being 
spread vastly. Because it's just a handful that appreciate and held onto that legacy. But if more 
people come forward with the diversification of all the cultural aspect mixing. Because like for 
example, Caribbean people, Trinidadian, like Roti. Grenada like Oildon, Barbadoan jerk chicken 
whatever, and if we can come together, the music and all is even different, you know. The 
folklore is different. When you share that Caribbean culture, its spice it up. 
 
01:12:02:28 
Christine Lewis:  How do you feel that it will impact the outcome of Domestic Workers as a 
movement?  The food is one aspect. Whenever the Jews for Racial and Economic Justice 
celebrate Purim, which Domestic Workers United has been celebrating with them for years. 
The food is the criteria for the movement. The food would be hamintoshen and Roti. Every 
year, they wanted that Caribbean Curry, Roti at the Purim celebration. Last week, believe it or 
not, they had hamentoshen and Roti. 
 
01:12:50:10 
Joyce Romain: So you see, the impact on the culture has taken a nice gasp. And then the 
music, because Trinidadian is different than Grenadian. When you go you share that aspect of 
music because music in itself is a language that each and every one of us respond to. Writing 
ones story. Cultural composition. Everybody has a different way of bringing forward there 
thing. 
 
01:13:28:08 
Christine Lewis:  I like the fact that you mention story. 
 
01:13:30:09 
 
Joyce Romain: So all this cultural thing. Everything. Even if we from the Caribbean prepare the 
same food we prepare it in a different way with different spices with different seasons for 
different flavors. So, when we inculcate and have a big forum, we share cultural views, we 
share musical views, we share food. Folklore, everything together. And we interchange and we 
learn the aspect of each other's culture and we bring it to the movement as one. 
 
01:14:17:01 
Christine Lewis:  Do you have any last words or parting shots you would like to share? 
 
01:14:20:20 
Joyce Romain: Well, the legacy that I live with Domestic Workers United. You want them to 
adhere to the cultural aspect of how black women get together and put on one of the most 
educated bill of rights to defend Domestic Workers union. To empower them, to give them a 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
20
voice.  To give them a legacy. To give them power and give them respect, and to demonstrate 
respect and love to the community for which they live and work. Domestic workers have 
elevated black women from shyness to boldness, to empowerment. And you know, it's a 
legacy that should be carried on for our great grand or our 54th generation down the line. 
Because you never know they too might be nannies, housekeepers. Because now, 
housekeeping has been changed from the natural bleaching thing to more eco-friendly. So 
they could own their own business and running the company with eco-friendly housecleaning 
products. And to take care of a child now with these specific skills, which Domestic Workers 
has a program to enhance them. To have that Cornell Nanny Certificate, Red Cross CPR. I 
mean, it's a lifelong challenges to show that we come here as domestic workers, we never had 
a certificate we only got a job by chance. But now, the future generation of women would 
have a certificate to prove that we are qualified to do our just job, for honest wage, for just 
and fair wages. 
 
01:16:38:25 
Christine Lewis: Thank you, thank you, thank you. 
 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
21