Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
1	  
Project: Archie Green Project 
Interviewer: Andy Kolovos 
Interviewee: Adam Hausmann 
Interviewee Contact: 
 
Location: Adam’s Berry Farm, Charlotte, VT 
Date: 15 April 2015 
Length: 02:15:36 
Recording Format: Digital 
Accession: au2015-1012 
Collection: vfc2014-0005 
Indexer: Shannon Esrich	  
	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
START-00:00:38 
Introductions.	  
Introduction	  
00:00:38-00:05:44 
Not	  born	  into	  agriculture,	  seems	  to	  be	  common	  thread	  with	  new	  farmers.	  
It’s	  a	  lifestyle	  choice	  and	  passion	  that	  you	  believe	  in,	  not	  multi	  generational	  
farming.	  Parents	  had	  sheep,	  chickens,	  garden,	  grandmother	  was	  Norwegian	  
and	  Adam	  helped	  her	  seed	  things,	  inspired	  him	  to	  love	  food	  and	  to	  grow	  it.	  
Appreciating	  different	  flavors	  of	  foods	  was	  very	  important,	  honoring	  
heritage	  varieties.	  Always	  had	  interest	  in	  farming	  because	  surrounded	  by	  it	  
in	  Pennsylvania	  hour	  outside	  of	  Philly,	  was	  still	  farming	  culture	  with	  open	  
land	  then.	  Came	  to	  VT	  in	  1995	  after	  college,	  hiked	  Appalachian	  Trail	  and	  fell	  
in	  love	  with	  VT	  and	  NC	  mountain	  areas	  on	  trail.	  When	  finished,	  had	  more	  
friends	  up	  north	  and	  ended	  up	  there.	  Drawn	  to	  VT	  culture,	  independence,	  
hadn’t	  been	  “Americanized”,	  downtown	  was	  still	  thriving,	  lots	  of	  
independent	  businesses,	  was	  very	  attractive.	  Buy	  Local	  movement	  carried	  
over	  to	  independent	  businesses,	  wasn’t	  very	  food	  focused	  until	  more	  
recently	  to	  support	  farms.	  Interesting	  to	  watch	  shift	  and	  see	  VT	  identify	  
with	  food	  culture,	  chefs,	  James	  Beard	  awards,	  craft	  foods.	  	  
Childhood,	  independence,	  Buy	  
Local,	  food	  culture	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
2	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
00:05:44-00:23:34 
Exciting	  time	  to	  be	  involved	  in	  the	  food	  culture,	  curious	  to	  see	  its	  future.	  
Have	  some	  fears	  in	  case	  parts	  are	  more	  fad	  than	  trend,	  but	  thinks	  small	  
farms	  will	  always	  thrive	  somewhat	  in	  VT.	  Worries	  on	  national	  level	  about	  
trends	  in	  agriculture,	  but	  has	  been	  exciting	  to	  be	  part	  of	  it.	  Food	  community	  
has	  new	  interest	  and	  many	  young	  people	  starting	  small	  farms	  without	  
understanding	  full	  reality	  of	  farming	  and	  lifestyle	  choice.	  Even	  other	  berry	  
farms	  in	  area	  have	  closed	  due	  to	  inexperienced	  and	  unprepared	  people	  to	  
deal	  with	  reality.	  Not	  all	  glamorous,	  work	  every	  day	  and	  long	  hours.	  Fear	  
about	  cannibalism	  within	  the	  marketplace,	  especially	  in	  VT	  with	  limited	  
population	  (600,000).	  Very	  small	  percent	  of	  those	  people	  buy	  local	  or	  
organic	  foods	  for	  varied	  reasons,	  and	  market	  is	  becoming	  saturated,	  hurting	  
some	  businesses.	  Forces	  creativity	  as	  business	  owner	  to	  expand	  market,	  
season,	  but	  many	  growers	  don’t	  want	  to	  extend	  season	  but	  have	  to	  maintain	  
business.	  Great	  for	  consumers,	  more	  year	  round	  fresh	  produce,	  but	  nerve	  
racking	  from	  grower	  side	  because	  of	  increased	  effort	  and	  competition	  for	  
same	  market.	  Questions	  on	  redefining	  local,	  has	  been	  100miles	  in	  VT	  
generally,	  may	  be	  too	  narrow	  with	  Montreal,	  Boston,	  NYC	  relatively	  close.	  
“To	  access	  those	  markets,	  it	  would	  shift	  the	  way	  people	  are	  producing	  here,	  
and	  what	  people	  value	  as	  far	  as	  the	  small	  farm	  that	  has	  direct	  connection	  
with	  consumer	  base	  and	  people	  knowing	  their	  farmer	  and	  vice	  versa,	  the	  
farmer	  knowing	  their	  customers.	  We’d	  become	  more	  anonymous	  in	  the	  
marketplace	  and	  more	  of	  a	  brand	  versus	  a	  relationship,	  and	  that’s	  
something	  that	  a	  lot	  of	  growers	  don’t	  want.”	  Already	  an	  exhausting	  but	  
wonderful	  life,	  value	  the	  work	  immensely,	  but	  have	  to	  make	  many	  sacrifices	  
to	  make	  it	  work.	  Many	  growers	  are	  able	  to	  keep	  going	  because	  of	  the	  
relationships	  they	  have.	  Expanding	  market	  distance	  may	  lose	  those	  
connections.	  To	  extend	  season,	  Adam’s	  farm	  has	  unheated	  hoop	  houses	  to	  
grow	  in	  extra	  3	  weeks	  in	  spring	  and	  fall,	  makes	  a	  big	  difference	  in	  business,	  
longer	  fresh	  berry	  season.	  Forces	  people	  to	  think	  about	  their	  consumption	  
Food	  culture,	  lifestyle,	  trend,	  
saturation,	  relationship,	  
expanding	  business,	  competition,	  
consumer,	  producer,	  retail	  outlet,	  
distributor,	  community,	  CSA	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
3	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
patterns	  and	  beliefs,	  what	  they	  want	  to	  support.	  Luckily	  in	  community	  that	  
value	  foods	  and	  local	  farms,	  people	  seem	  to	  choose	  local	  in-­‐season	  products.	  
Recognizes	  approaching	  threshold,	  many	  people	  will	  go	  out	  of	  business	  
soon.	  Wants	  to	  be	  wrong,	  but	  trend	  seems	  to	  say	  otherwise	  with	  saturated	  
market.	  People	  are	  beginning	  to	  recognize	  this	  however	  and	  are	  moving	  to	  
other	  parts	  of	  country	  where	  local	  food	  is	  just	  beginning,	  workers	  have	  gone	  
to	  Georgia,	  Idaho,	  California,	  Pennsylvania.	  VT	  is	  mecca	  and	  incubator	  for	  
small	  local	  producers,	  having	  an	  impact.	  Could	  move	  business	  and	  have	  
greater	  impact	  on	  local	  food	  system,	  but	  love	  community	  and	  location,	  but	  
other	  people	  are	  moving	  to	  help	  fix	  the	  food	  system	  on	  larger	  scale.	  Being	  
discussed	  at	  conferences,	  among	  growers,	  listservs,	  CSAs	  being	  saturated.	  
“Field	  of	  Dreams”	  syndrome,	  people	  put	  things	  in	  ground	  without	  market	  
and	  market	  is	  saturated.	  But	  having	  the	  conversation	  is	  positive,	  creative	  
businesses	  have	  come	  from	  it.	  Part	  of	  our	  culture	  is	  people	  wanting	  specific	  
things	  at	  certain	  times,	  wide	  variety	  of	  foods	  all	  the	  time,	  so	  all	  local	  food	  
can	  be	  hard.	  Forces	  both	  consumers	  and	  producers	  to	  be	  more	  flexible	  and	  
offer	  more	  choices.	  Some	  CSAs	  more	  subscription	  services	  to	  choose	  what	  
you	  want.	  	  
00:23:34-00:31:21 
Adam’s	  farm	  sells	  85-­‐90%	  of	  product	  within	  Chittenden	  County,	  also	  does	  
work	  with	  distributor	  outside	  VT,	  Farmers	  to	  You,	  produce	  goes	  down	  to	  
Boston	  once	  a	  week	  year-­‐round.	  Online	  shopping,	  have	  to	  buy	  $40	  of	  
product	  a	  week,	  but	  consumers	  choose	  which	  products.	  Forces	  adaptation	  
in	  marketplace,	  which	  is	  consumer-­‐driven,	  some	  farms	  better	  at	  it	  than	  
others.	  Distributor	  is	  easy	  to	  work	  with,	  but	  fear	  of	  being	  anonymous	  and	  
losing	  relationships.	  Have	  met	  some	  members	  of	  Boston	  buying	  club	  
because	  they	  vacation	  in	  VT,	  will	  get	  calls	  to	  answer	  questions	  about	  
growing	  practices	  from	  customers.	  Being	  a	  food	  producer	  is	  one	  of	  few	  jobs	  
where	  marketplace	  rather	  than	  grower	  sets	  price.	  Up	  to	  producer	  if	  price	  
point	  allows	  them	  to	  be	  profitable.	  Part	  of	  why	  food	  is	  so	  cheap	  and	  farmers	  
Distributor,	  Farmers	  to	  You,	  
choice,	  relationship,	  market,	  
price,	  education	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
4	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
struggle,	  cost	  of	  production	  has	  increased	  but	  food	  prices	  relatively	  stable	  
over	  past	  20	  years.	  Wants	  to	  shift	  this	  through	  connections	  to	  customers,	  
consumer	  education,	  looking	  at	  multifaceted	  bottom	  line	  (social,	  economic,	  
environmental).	  Some	  customers	  want	  the	  connection,	  others	  don’t,	  but	  
about	  figuring	  out	  your	  customer	  base	  and	  justifying	  organic	  prices	  and	  
practices	  to	  people.	  
00:31:21-00:38:14 
Farmers	  to	  You	  has	  competitive	  wholesale	  pricing.	  Intervale	  Food	  Hub	  
wanted	  better	  ricing	  than	  average	  wholesale	  market,	  but	  it’s	  all	  evened	  out.	  
Everyone	  has	  expenses	  to	  cover,	  there	  are	  open	  conversations	  about	  
transparency	  and	  fairness.	  Farmers	  to	  You	  makes	  it	  very	  easy	  to	  participate,	  
very	  consistent	  business.	  Adam’s	  farm	  does	  not	  have	  much	  crop	  diversity,	  
just	  grow	  berries	  and	  majority	  is	  strawberries,	  blueberries,	  and	  raspberries.	  
While	  offerings	  are	  limited,	  sales	  outlets	  are	  diverse.	  Work	  with	  CSAs,	  
wholesale	  to	  20	  local	  restaurants,	  natural	  food	  stores	  and	  co-­‐ops,	  
independent	  grocers,	  BFM,	  on-­‐farm	  pick-­‐your-­‐own.	  Last	  is	  biggest	  labor	  of	  
love,	  lots	  of	  customer	  interaction	  and	  get	  to	  build	  relationships,	  watch	  
families	  grow	  up,	  very	  rewarding.	  Hope	  pick-­‐your-­‐own	  acts	  as	  gateway	  to	  
other	  vegetables	  and	  foods	  for	  kids,	  positive	  experience	  with	  food	  because	  
it’s	  fun,	  tastes	  good,	  learn	  about	  farming.	  Customers	  care	  about	  good	  
healthy	  food,	  whole	  generation	  being	  raised	  that	  way,	  will	  be	  interesting	  to	  
see	  them	  grow	  up.	  Also	  do	  value	  added	  products,	  all	  meant	  to	  help	  bottom	  
line	  but	  also	  feed	  business	  and	  themselves.	  All	  products	  integral	  to	  
themselves	  and	  as	  business.	  
Distributor,	  Farmers	  to	  You,	  
Intervale	  Food	  Hub,	  wholesale,	  
diversity,	  retail	  outlet,	  CSA,	  co-­‐op,	  
Burlington	  Farmers	  Market,	  pick-­‐
your-­‐own,	  community,	  values	  
00:38:14-00:43:00 
Adam	  never	  thought	  he	  would	  be	  farmer,	  wasn’t	  a	  profession	  people	  looked	  
towards	  while	  growing	  up.	  After	  college	  worked	  in	  environmental	  an	  
outdoor	  education,	  two	  places	  had	  farms	  as	  educational	  component.	  
Realized	  more	  intrigued	  by	  farming	  than	  teaching,	  felt	  didn’t	  have	  enough	  
knowledge	  to	  teach	  others	  because	  of	  young	  age.	  Saw	  farms	  as	  tool	  to	  
inspire	  kids,	  also	  inspired	  Adam	  to	  garden	  more.	  Freaked	  out	  about	  making	  
Education,	  herbals,	  tea,	  producer,	  
marketing	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
5	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
a	  living	  as	  farmer,	  left	  outdoor	  education	  and	  worked	  for	  bookstore.	  
Learned	  a	  lot	  but	  went	  insane	  in	  office,	  wasn’t	  inspired,	  left	  drained	  from	  
sitting	  all	  day.	  Friends	  had	  started	  coffee	  roasting	  company,	  looking	  to	  
expand	  into	  herbal	  tea,	  asked	  Adam	  to	  help	  develop	  herbal	  tea	  business.	  
Friends	  went	  out	  of	  business	  but	  Adam	  was	  intrigued,	  found	  largest	  farm	  in	  
Chittenden	  county	  that	  was	  growing	  herbal	  and	  medicinal	  plant	  starts	  for	  
sale.	  Took	  Adam	  in	  to	  learn,	  took	  classes	  in	  area,	  developed	  teas,	  balms,	  
tinctures,	  but	  also	  learned	  about	  farm	  production,	  marketing,	  distribution.	  
Adam	  was	  allowed	  to	  do	  product	  design,	  label	  design,	  worked	  there	  5	  years.	  	  
00:43:00-00:53:50 
Realized	  wanted	  to	  farm	  on	  his	  own.	  Was	  living	  in	  Lincoln,	  VT	  close	  to	  2,000	  
ft.	  elevation	  and	  put	  in	  300	  blueberry	  bushes	  at	  home	  to	  practice	  growing	  
things	  and	  making	  connections	  to	  markets.	  Explored	  options	  for	  what	  
would	  sustain	  him	  economically,	  physically,	  emotionally.	  Were	  other	  berry	  
farms,	  but	  no	  one	  focusing	  on	  organic	  berries,	  excited	  to	  fill	  the	  gap.	  Also	  
wanted	  to	  work	  with	  perennials,	  liked	  long-­‐term	  connection	  to	  the	  plants	  
and	  helping	  them	  grow	  better	  each	  year	  for	  as	  long	  as	  possible.	  Then	  faced	  
struggled	  finding	  land,	  Lincoln	  too	  cold,	  had	  to	  move	  down	  elevation.	  After	  
saving	  money	  to	  buy	  land,	  didn’t	  have	  enough	  money	  for	  house	  or	  plants.	  
Didn’t	  plan	  all	  steps	  at	  once,	  searched	  for	  long	  time.	  Abby	  Nelson	  who	  
started	  Vermont	  FEED	  suggested	  Intervale	  in	  Burlington.	  Had	  never	  been	  
there,	  visited,	  within	  one	  month	  created	  business	  plan,	  applied	  for	  land,	  and	  
signed	  lease	  with	  Intervale.	  Bizarre	  to	  move	  to	  city	  to	  start	  farm,	  but	  was	  in	  
late	  20s	  and	  needed	  more	  social	  life	  anyway,	  and	  already	  had	  fear	  of	  
farming	  as	  being	  isolating.	  Intervale	  was	  attractive	  because	  of	  vivacity	  of	  
Burlington	  and	  because	  of	  community	  among	  Intervale	  farmers	  with	  9-­‐13	  
farms.	  Seeing	  others	  and	  sharing	  knowledge	  in	  Intervale	  very	  helpful	  in	  
learning	  about	  farming.	  Intervale	  also	  gives	  access	  to	  equipment,	  barns,	  
storage	  space,	  greenhouse	  space,	  freezers,	  etc.	  Gave	  you	  the	  infrastructure	  
needed	  to	  start	  a	  business	  rapidly,	  took	  a	  lot	  of	  financial	  burden	  off.	  
Perennial	  agriculture,	  institution,	  
Vermont	  Feed,	  Intervale	  Center,	  
producer,	  business	  plan,	  
community,	  infrastructure	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
6	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
00:53:50-01:05:00 
Intervale	  and	  Burlington	  communities	  very	  supportive,	  2002	  lots	  of	  energy	  
around	  local	  food	  within	  community,	  restaurants.	  Lived	  in	  Lincoln	  when	  
first	  stared	  farm,	  worked	  at	  different	  farm,	  then	  worked	  own	  farm	  until	  
dark	  just	  to	  get	  things	  started.	  Trial	  year	  to	  test	  business	  and	  decisions,	  then	  
moved	  to	  Burlington	  and	  quit	  other	  job	  to	  focus	  on	  own	  business.	  
Relationships	  with	  restaurants	  and	  customers	  came	  fairly	  quickly	  and	  
helped	  Adam	  settle	  into	  town.	  As	  an	  older	  farm,	  was	  grandfathered	  in	  and	  
could	  stay	  as	  long	  as	  you	  wanted	  so	  decided	  to	  make	  investment	  in	  land.	  
Then,	  effects	  of	  climate	  change	  increased,	  at	  greater	  risk	  for	  floods,	  and	  
large	  challenge	  for	  perennials.	  Major	  floods	  almost	  every	  other	  year,	  lost	  
acres	  of	  fruit	  at	  a	  time.	  Vegetable	  farmers	  can	  almost	  add	  flooding	  into	  the	  
plan,	  but	  for	  perennial	  fruit	  farming	  not	  as	  easy	  to	  recover.	  Had	  many	  
successful	  years	  in	  production,	  2010	  really	  bad	  flood	  and	  decided	  long-­‐term	  
didn’t	  make	  sense	  to	  risk	  crop	  every	  year.	  Started	  looking	  at	  land,	  2011	  
huge	  flood	  and	  lost	  many	  crops,	  then	  in	  drought,	  then	  Irene	  was	  final	  kick	  to	  
actively	  seek	  alternative	  land	  because	  lost	  so	  many	  crops,	  couldn’t	  take	  risk	  
anymore.	  Made	  them	  question	  if	  they	  wanted	  to	  do	  it,	  decided	  they	  were	  
still	  passionate,	  valued	  the	  community	  greatly	  for	  support	  in	  hard	  years	  so	  
wanted	  to	  stay	  within	  area.	  Looked	  for	  land	  in	  greater	  Burlington	  area,	  
didn’t	  want	  to	  start	  over	  and	  find	  new	  markets,	  also	  wanted	  to	  maintain	  
similar	  geographic	  area	  for	  similar	  soils.	  Wanted	  to	  own	  land	  instead	  of	  
leasing	  now.	  	  
Intervale	  Center,	  Burlington,	  
consumer,	  producer,	  climate	  
change,	  flood,	  crop	  loss,	  lease	  
01:05:00-01:12:31 
Found	  land	  first,	  then	  engaged	  with	  Vermont	  Land	  Trust.	  They’ve	  shifted	  
from	  only	  conservation	  to	  also	  Farmland	  Access	  Program,	  conserves	  land	  
and	  puts	  agricultural	  easements	  on	  properties	  to	  keep	  land	  affordable	  in	  
future	  for	  future	  generations	  of	  farmers	  and	  helping	  to	  stabilize	  local	  
affordable	  food	  sources.	  Easements	  build	  in	  clause	  that	  land	  must	  be	  sold	  
for	  agricultural	  value,	  not	  development	  value.	  Also	  allows	  people	  to	  afford	  
land	  in	  population	  centers.	  Many	  farmers	  retire	  by	  selling	  their	  land	  for	  
Institution,	  Vermont	  Land	  Trust,	  
Farmland	  Access	  Program,	  
conservation,	  easement,	  shift,	  
University	  of	  Vermont	  Extension,	  
stability	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
7	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
development,	  many	  dairies	  do	  this,	  but	  this	  program’s	  lower	  land	  costs	  
helps	  put	  more	  money	  towards	  farm	  infrastructure	  and	  save	  money	  for	  
retirement	  without	  selling	  farm.	  Many	  farmers	  of	  Adam’s	  generation	  have	  
found	  land	  this	  way,	  and	  farmers	  who	  have	  left	  the	  Intervale	  too.	  Starting	  to	  
see	  impact	  of	  these	  programs	  after	  10/15	  years	  of	  their	  existence	  and	  the	  
shift	  of	  farmers.	  150	  years	  ago	  all	  sheep,	  then	  dairy,	  now	  dairy	  is	  fading	  and	  
currently	  in	  another	  shift	  but	  don’t	  know	  the	  outcome	  or	  end	  product	  yet.	  
Farms	  are	  smaller,	  more	  localized,	  still	  valuable	  community	  members	  like	  
past	  members,	  but	  distribution	  is	  more	  community-­‐centered.	  Vern	  
Grubinger	  from	  UVM	  Extension	  very	  helpful	  in	  growing	  and	  business	  
practices.	  Programs	  are	  helping	  to	  stabilize	  farms	  and	  livelihoods	  and	  
families,	  then	  through	  that	  stability	  impacting	  the	  shift	  in	  the	  food	  system	  
where	  people	  want	  to	  know	  more	  about	  their	  food.	  	  
01:12:31-01:28:15 
Worked	  with	  Farmland	  Access	  Program,	  purchased	  current	  land	  in	  end	  of	  
2012,	  had	  leased	  the	  land	  one	  year	  previous	  to	  cover	  crop	  and	  get	  it	  ready.	  
2013	  started	  move	  to	  new	  land,	  planted	  new	  strawberries,	  raspberries,	  
transferred	  blueberries	  because	  bushes	  would	  still	  be	  productive	  for	  20	  
more	  years	  and	  allowed	  more	  seamless	  transfer	  of	  business	  with	  
continuous	  products.	  Had	  business	  split	  between	  the	  two	  farms	  with	  
different	  fruit	  growing	  at	  each.	  Put	  in	  fruit	  trees	  at	  new	  property,	  exciting	  to	  
branch	  into	  new	  things	  that	  were	  fruit	  and	  perennials,	  and	  to	  fill	  more	  gaps	  
in	  marketplace.	  2013	  was	  exhausting,	  2014	  built	  barn,	  first	  full	  year	  of	  
production	  at	  new	  land.	  Still	  many	  learning	  curves	  from	  new	  soil,	  
distribution,	  an	  exhausting	  transition	  but	  2015	  may	  be	  first	  season	  where	  
systems	  are	  more	  in	  place	  and	  things	  run	  more	  smoothly	  with	  slightly	  less	  
effort.	  Started	  to	  purchase	  tractors	  and	  implements	  at	  Intervale,	  but	  
building	  and	  moving	  greenhouses	  and	  other	  features	  very	  hard	  work	  but	  
wanted	  transition	  to	  be	  as	  quick	  as	  possible	  to	  concentrate	  on	  future	  of	  
business,	  which	  is	  hard	  when	  so	  focused	  on	  changes	  in	  the	  present.	  Rare	  
Institution,	  Vermont	  Land	  Trust,	  
Farmland	  Access	  Program,	  
transition,	  business	  plan,	  
gleaning,	  retail	  outlet,	  CSA,	  
processing,	  value	  added,	  
community,	  education,	  University	  
of	  Vermont	  Farmer	  Training	  
Program,	  nature	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
8	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
chance	  as	  grower	  to	  reinvent	  business	  in	  new	  location	  after	  10	  years	  of	  
practice.	  Can	  reevaluate	  quality	  of	  life,	  business	  decisions,	  planting	  
decisions,	  etc.	  Wanted	  to	  farm	  smarter,	  not	  harder,	  also	  getting	  older	  so	  
can’t	  sustain	  physical	  inputs	  of	  past	  and	  need	  to	  be	  smarter	  about	  using	  
energy.	  Fun	  to	  re-­‐evaluate,	  made	  more	  value	  added	  products,	  more	  frozen	  
berries	  to	  extend	  business	  season,	  working	  to	  minimize	  waste	  on	  farm.	  
Intervale	  has	  gleaning	  program	  and	  CSA	  share	  for	  that	  food	  for	  low-­‐income	  
areas	  from	  that	  food.	  Try	  to	  minimize	  crop	  loss,	  use	  value	  added	  products	  to	  
use	  less	  than	  perfect	  fruit.	  Make	  popsicles,	  fun	  to	  figure	  out	  ways	  to	  stabilize	  
business	  and	  minimize	  waste.	  Good	  to	  see	  business	  grow,	  could	  employ	  
more	  people	  for	  longer	  periods	  of	  time.	  Helps	  Adam	  to	  have	  more	  
knowledgeable	  and	  long-­‐term	  employees	  as	  well.	  Has	  been	  hectic	  last	  few	  
years,	  but	  excited	  with	  changes.	  Miss	  living	  in	  town,	  but	  more	  growth	  
opportunities	  in	  Charlotte	  area	  for	  a	  berry	  farmer,	  can	  bring	  people	  from	  
Burlington	  out	  to	  Charlotte	  and	  encourage	  connections	  to	  natural	  world.	  
Farms	  serve	  role	  in	  community	  to	  get	  people	  into	  natural	  world	  in	  addition	  
to	  growing	  food.	  Keep	  their	  farm	  open	  to	  the	  community,	  so	  thrilled	  about	  
bringing	  new	  people	  and	  building	  more	  education	  into	  farm,	  working	  with	  
schools.	  Currently	  work	  with	  UVM’s	  Farmer	  Training	  Program.	  Partner	  
teaches	  VT	  Food	  Systems	  class	  at	  UVM	  and	  works	  with	  Intervale,	  so	  still	  
very	  engaged	  in	  that	  community	  and	  want	  to	  continue	  that.	  
01:28:15-01:39:31 
Property	  is	  56	  acres,	  18	  acres	  prime	  soil,	  others	  okay	  too,	  have	  15	  acres	  
under	  production	  and	  another	  10	  acres	  of	  woods,	  lower	  wet	  field.	  Property	  
is	  varied,	  more	  land	  than	  they	  needed	  or	  wanted,	  but	  will	  allow	  for	  4-­‐year	  
rotation	  of	  strawberry	  crops	  with	  cover	  cropping.	  There	  is	  land	  to	  expand	  
planting	  if	  they	  want	  to	  or	  to	  try	  new	  crops	  for	  new	  markets	  as	  they	  emerge.	  
Just	  over	  12	  miles	  south	  of	  Burlington	  in	  Chittenden	  County,	  3	  miles	  from	  
Lake	  Champlain,	  little	  cooler	  than	  Intervale	  by	  2	  degrees.	  In	  Intervale	  leased	  
10	  acres,	  2-­‐3	  of	  raspberries,	  2	  acres	  strawberries,	  the	  rest	  blueberries.	  Soil	  
Property,	  cover	  cropping,	  
rotation,	  soil	  structure,	  
community,	  diversity	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
9	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
was	  very	  different	  in	  Intervale,	  was	  very	  sandy	  river	  bottom.	  Charlotte	  is	  
loam,	  clay,	  stones,	  but	  not	  a	  problem	  because	  only	  cultivate	  land	  once	  to	  
plant	  bushes.	  Has	  been	  fun	  for	  change	  of	  pace	  to	  be	  out	  of	  Intervale	  
community,	  in	  Charlotte	  surrounded	  by	  conserved	  land,	  other	  diversified	  
and	  new	  small	  farms,	  dairy,	  beef,	  fodder,	  vegetable	  CSA,	  pesto,	  etc.	  Good	  
mutual	  respect	  and	  support	  for	  working	  with	  the	  land	  even	  though	  doing	  
different	  kinds	  of	  farming,	  all	  subject	  to	  seasons	  and	  natural	  weather	  
events.	  People	  have	  offered	  to	  share	  equipment.	  There	  is	  curiosity	  and	  
desire	  to	  help	  one	  another.	  Did	  not	  anticipate	  similar	  community	  with	  new	  
location,	  but	  love	  it	  with	  new	  added	  diversity	  within	  community.	  
01:39:31-01:49:45 
Currently	  have	  raspberries	  under	  cover	  and	  in	  greenhouses.	  Soft-­‐bodied	  
fruits	  get	  damaged	  in	  rain,	  hoop	  houses	  provide	  drier	  environment	  for	  
earlier	  and	  later	  season	  crops,	  plus	  less	  disease	  and	  pests.	  Allows	  for	  
minimum	  pest	  management	  and	  inputs,	  and	  can	  use	  biological	  controls	  
because	  fairly	  contained	  area.	  Raspberry	  has	  2-­‐3	  day	  shelf	  life,	  but	  by	  
growing	  under	  cover	  can	  double	  shelf	  life,	  product	  looks	  nicer.	  Farm	  is	  very	  
production-­‐oriented,	  want	  to	  have	  highest	  yields	  possible,	  so	  hoop	  houses’	  
extended	  season	  mean	  more	  availability	  of	  local	  product	  in	  the	  market	  for	  
longer	  periods	  of	  time.	  Hoop	  houses	  add	  30%	  to	  production,	  also	  because	  
higher	  percentage	  of	  crops	  under	  cover	  is	  marketable.	  Can’t	  pick	  
raspberries	  and	  strawberries	  when	  it’s	  wet	  out,	  so	  having	  them	  under	  cover	  
also	  helps	  with	  picking	  every	  day	  and	  selling	  product	  without	  concern	  of	  
early	  rot.	  Have	  multiple	  varieties	  of	  each	  kind	  of	  fruit,	  each	  have	  own	  
flavors,	  growth	  habits,	  etc.	  Playing	  around	  with	  growing	  blueberries	  in	  hoop	  
houses	  to	  shift	  season	  to	  be	  earlier	  and	  longer,	  helps	  with	  offsetting	  need	  
for	  local	  berries	  earlier	  in	  year.	  Were	  limitations	  at	  Intervale	  for	  hoop	  
houses	  due	  to	  different	  rules,	  impacted	  business	  and	  ability	  to	  adapt	  to	  
climate	  change	  and	  wetter	  weather.	  Hoop	  houses	  are	  long-­‐term	  
investments	  but	  pay	  for	  themselves	  quickly.	  Majority	  of	  production	  is	  still	  
Hoop	  house,	  greenhouse,	  
mitigation,	  product	  quality,	  shelf	  
life,	  yield,	  retail	  outlet	  	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
10	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
outside	  in	  the	  field.	  
01:49:45-01:57:05 
More	  wholesale	  than	  direct	  retail,	  wish	  it	  were	  other	  way.	  Main	  retail	  is	  
BFM,	  pick-­‐your-­‐own	  is	  direct	  retail	  but	  at	  more	  wholesale	  price.	  65-­‐70%	  
wholesale,	  30%	  retail	  in	  sales.	  Sell	  everything	  in	  containers,	  blueberries	  and	  
strawberries	  in	  pints,	  raspberries	  in	  half	  pints	  because	  so	  delicate	  would	  
crush	  themselves	  in	  larger	  amounts.	  Wholesaling	  by	  cases,	  usually	  2	  case	  
minimum.	  Pick-­‐your-­‐own	  by	  the	  pound.	  Harvest	  30,000	  pounds	  
blueberries/year,	  grow	  fewer	  strawberries	  with	  very	  short	  growing	  season	  
in	  June,	  harvest	  6-­‐8,000	  pounds/acre/year,	  4,000	  in	  bad	  years	  if	  wet	  season.	  
Partly	  why	  have	  more	  wholesale	  than	  retail,	  don’t	  want	  people	  in	  the	  field	  
when	  it’s	  wet	  to	  prevent	  spread	  of	  disease.	  Raspberries	  weigh	  very	  little,	  
average	  4-­‐5,000	  pounds/year.	  Are	  very	  harvest-­‐intensive,	  long	  harvest	  
period,	  but	  have	  to	  pick	  daily.	  
Retail	  outlet,	  wholesale,	  yield,	  
Burlington	  Farmers	  Market	  
01:57:05-02:06:33 
In	  winter,	  just	  Adam	  and	  partner	  as	  employees.	  Don’t	  hire	  until	  absolutely	  
necessary	  because	  very	  expensive,	  hire	  core	  of	  5	  full-­‐time	  employees	  that	  
do	  everything.	  Harvest	  crew	  helps	  out	  just	  with	  harvest,	  can	  add	  up	  to	  7	  
more	  people.	  Big	  spike	  in	  labor	  in	  summer	  months	  for	  10-­‐12	  weeks,	  then	  
drops	  rapidly	  in	  fall.	  One	  of	  biggest	  challenges	  of	  running	  a	  business	  is	  
finding	  good	  workers,	  balancing	  personalities.	  “Food	  is	  really	  popular	  right	  
now,	  and	  food	  systems	  are	  really	  popular,	  but	  farming	  is	  not	  as	  popular	  as	  
far	  as	  a	  profession.”	  People	  use	  to	  work	  for	  no	  or	  little	  pay,	  but	  hard	  to	  find	  
people	  who	  want	  to	  farm	  and	  people	  know	  other	  professions	  are	  easier	  and	  
will	  earn	  more	  money.	  Spend	  a	  lot	  of	  time	  teaching	  people	  work	  ethic,	  but	  
also	  hire	  over	  educated	  people	  without	  employment.	  Many	  people	  
struggling	  with	  hiring	  labor	  for	  farms,	  food	  system	  and	  food	  economy	  has	  
done	  really	  well	  for	  everyone,	  but	  growers	  don’t	  benefit	  monetarily	  as	  much	  
as	  everyone	  else.	  Farms	  still	  facing	  lots	  of	  expenses	  and	  small	  margins,	  so	  
good	  labor	  is	  really	  valuable.	  Will	  always	  be	  turnover,	  but	  want	  to	  keep	  
people	  on	  as	  long	  as	  possible.	  Also	  like	  working	  alone	  in	  spring	  and	  fall,	  
Labor,	  employees,	  harvest,	  
education,	  partner	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
11	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
mainly	  pruning	  in	  spring	  and	  touching	  each	  plant	  to	  assess	  its	  growth,	  plan	  
for	  the	  coming	  season.	  Partner	  has	  helped	  for	  years	  but	  will	  be	  joining	  more	  
in	  coming	  year,	  will	  be	  new	  challenges	  to	  work	  together	  more	  but	  looking	  
forward	  to	  it.	  	  
02:06:33-END. 
Self-­‐deliver	  for	  all	  wholesale	  distribution,	  don’t	  use	  Black	  River	  Produce,	  
Deep	  Root	  Co-­‐op.	  Those	  were	  formed	  when	  food	  movement	  expanded	  and	  
growers	  needed	  more	  outlets	  so	  formed	  their	  own	  collectives	  to	  distribute	  
food.	  Like	  self-­‐delivering	  because	  chance	  to	  check	  in	  with	  accounts,	  
communicate	  with	  quality,	  uses	  of	  product	  by	  others,	  making	  sure	  
everyone’s	  happy,	  planning	  next	  delivery.	  Goes	  back	  to	  business	  of	  
relationships,	  important	  to	  take	  time	  to	  talk	  with	  buyers	  and	  consumers,	  
not	  just	  about	  product	  but	  also	  as	  friend,	  enriches	  experience	  for	  both	  
people	  being	  invested	  in	  one	  another’s	  lives.	  Has	  helped	  Adam	  build	  market	  
and	  support	  and	  customer	  base.	  Customers	  and	  other	  farmers	  also	  become	  
friends.	  Self-­‐distribution	  nurtures	  those	  relationships	  and	  connections,	  
helped	  them	  deal	  with	  having	  fewer	  products	  during	  farm	  transfer	  and	  got	  
feedback	  for	  new	  products	  for	  new	  farms	  because	  of	  relationships.	  
Breweries	  and	  cideries	  now	  trying	  to	  use	  fruit	  too.	  Feed	  off	  of	  that	  energy	  
and	  connections.	  There	  are	  easier	  ways	  to	  distribute	  than	  self-­‐deliver,	  but	  
can	  start	  to	  get	  anonymous	  and	  wants	  to	  maintain	  connection	  with	  
community	  face-­‐to-­‐face.	  Now	  have	  co-­‐dependence	  for	  quality,	  timeliness,	  
relationships	  in	  general.	  If	  were	  not	  self-­‐distributing,	  probably	  would	  have	  
different	  business	  model,	  less	  crop	  diversity,	  and	  not	  what	  he	  wants	  to	  do.	  
In	  future,	  want	  more	  consumer	  and	  community	  engagement.	  Feels	  like	  this	  
movement	  does	  need	  to	  be	  documented.	  
Self-­‐delivery,	  distribution,	  Black	  
River	  Produce,	  Deep	  Root	  Co-­‐op,	  
community,	  relationship,	  
consumer,	  diversity,	  flexibility,	  
engagement