July 12, 2013 
Home of Robert Thompson, Canton, NY 
Project: Archie Green Fellowship: Dairy Farm Workers in Northern NY 
Interviewer: Hannah Harvester (HH) 
Interviewees: Robert (Bob) Thompson (BT) 
Transcribed by:  Madeleine Shea  
Note: “Ruth,” referred to throughout the interview, is an acquaintance of the interviewer and Bob’s 
daughter. 
0:00:00 
HH: Mr. Thompson, would you start by introducing yourself and just giving a little bit of personal history, 
where you were born, and just a bit of personal history? 
BT: I’m Bob Thompson, and I’m living here in Canton in the retirement home now, but I grew up in Saint 
Lawrence County and I’ve lived here all my life. I’m ninety years old. I grew up on a small dairy farm on 
Route 68 between Canton and Ogdensburg…went to school—one room school—for eight years…went 
to OFA [Ogdensburg Free Academy]for four years, graduated there, and went to Canton ATI [Agricultural 
Technical Institute, now SUNY Canton] for two years. This was—the ATI period—was the time of World 
War II, and when I got out of school, the war was on. In fact, Pearl Harbor was December seventh my 
senior year. We didn’t know what our future was going to be, but I was an only son and I went home to 
the farm. We had agricultural deferments for people who had a large-enough basis of production to 
warrant a deferment from military service. So originally, I had an agricultural deferment, and then when 
they got short on manpower during World War II, I got called up for a physical along with about a 
hundred of us in St. Lawrence County who were in the same status. And, incidentally, I failed the army 
physical because of a bad knee. Okay, military service was out; I had what was called a 2CF deferment, 
Agricultural and Disability deferment, for the rest of the war. Got married, and went into partnership 
with my father on the farm. My mother died a year later; my father decided he no longer wanted to be 
part of the farming operation, so we made a contract with him to buy the farm as it sat from him. This 
was in 1946. In 1954, what I considered to be one of the best farms in the county came up for sale at 
public auction, and I told my wife I thought we ought to consider it. We had a good farm where we 
were, but we had six children at the time and our barns were across the road from the house, and I 
would spend a lot of time keeping kids off the road when I ought to have been milking cows and so on. 
So anyway, we bought the farm at auction in 1954 and moved to the Five Mile Line in Lisbon, and we 
were there for forty years. That farm, at that farm, we were able to milk about sixty cows and raise our 
family of ten children. In the 1980s, I had three different children and their spouses who worked with 
me at various times with the idea that one of them would probably go into partnership with me and we 
would proceed towards a change to the next generation. The last one of the children was our youngest, 
Marsha, and her husband. They started in 1985 and things were going well until about 1990 when the 
milk price got quite depressed and they got sort of discouraged—they said they did not think they could 
make a living and they weren’t going to work all their lives for nothing, so they decided to leave. During 
that period, when they were there, I was not needed full time, and so I started doing real estate 
appraisals for the banks, and by ‘92 when they decided to quit farming I had developed a full time job 
doing real estate appraisals. I was state certified by then. So, we had to make a big decision. And by that 
time they owned the cattle and machinery when they had an auction and sold them and we still owned 
the farm and we sold that ourselves and moved to Canton. So that was the end of my farming operation, 
and from then on we lived in Canton. I continued to do real estate appraisals and developed the 
business; my son-in-law and I both worked full time at it and we were just bringing a third person into 
the business, expanding again, when I got seriously ill and I was hospitalized for almost a year. 
Recovered, and wound up in the retirement home where I live now eventually, and my wife is in 
Maplewood nursing home. We’ve been married sixty nine years. 
0:06:28 
HH: When that third child decided they were not going to go into farming, that they were going to give 
up farming, and you made that decision to go into real estate, did you have mixed feelings about leaving 
the farm? 
BT: Very. Very. I had no idea that farm would go out of the family. We had some good things going for us 
in my opinion. We had a registered Holstein herd, which had developed to the point where we had, you 
might say, national notoriety. In addition to milk sales, we had a purebred cattle sales business that was 
bringing us quite a bit of income every year. I reached the point where we were selling seed stock, 
really, all over the world. I sold bulk calves to Argentina, Iran; we sold a tractor trailer load of heifers to 
Puerto Rico, we sold bulls to bull studs in this country, to breeding organizations, and the secondary 
income from cattle sales was what paid for an awful lot of our kids’ fifty five years of education! And it 
was a sad day when I had to give up the farm, but it was a strange coincidence—there were strange 
coincidences that led up to this. Our son David, who was the one who I expected would take over the 
farm, had a Master’s from Cornell, and he was very interested in the purebred part of the business, and 
came home and was there for about two years. He married a girl at Cornell from Long Island and after 
two years she decided she wanted to be a lawyer. So they left and she went through law school; he put 
her through law school at Albany. When he left, one of our older boys, Ruth’s twin, worked for 
Community Bank at Watertown, and he and his wife said, “we’d like to come back.” So they gave up that 
job and came, and they’d been there about a year when one of the members of the bank board—when 
he was working at the bank, was one of the owners of Jefferson County Concrete Works in Watertown— 
and he came up one day and wanted to know if Mark would come back to Watertown and work for 
them. He said, “Fort Drum’s going to expand and we need help, we’ll expand right along with them.” 
And they made him an offer he didn’t feel he could turn down. So that’s when he left. And that’s when 
Marsha was graduating from St. Lawrence, and she and Bob came in ‘85. And so that was the sequence 
of the children who came. A lot of our families are related—have jobs related to agriculture, but they’re 
not farming.  
0:10:211 
HH: How long had the farm been in your family? You said you were raised on—not the one you ended 
up buying, but you were raised on a dairy farm. How long does dairy farming go back in your family? 
BT: If you’re familiar with St. Lawrence County, in the town of Louisville, there’s a road called the 
Thompson Ridge Road. And when that road was settled in the early 1800s, that was settled by the 
Thompson Family, and that was why they called it the Thompson Ridge. So it goes back to the early 
1800s, and I’m not sure where they came from, but I think it was Vermont. And I don’t know much 
about the extent—what they did, except I know they had sheep and cattle. My father was one of the 
first students at ATI, it was the School of Agriculture then, but I’ve got his diploma. He graduated in the 
second class in 1909, and he immediately went home to the farm at Louisville, but within five years 
bought the farm in Lisbon and developed a registered Holstein herd from 1915. So the Holstein herd 
goes back to almost a hundred years. 
0:11:41 
HH: And that’s the herd that you inherited? 
BT: That’s right, yeah, and developed. 
HH: And so, I’m curious about your herd, the breeding that you were doing—was the way you were 
developing the herd, was that following what you had learned from your father, or was that coming 
from ATI, or what kind of knowledge were you putting into that herd? 
BT: My dad let me see….go back to World War One. My dad had ideas and he had a neighbor who had 
one of the real good registered Holstein herds, and I think he got an inspiration from that. He and my 
mother milked cows by hand four times a day in World War One, made official records, sold the 
offspring of those cows to pay for the farm. I’ve heard him tell about selling four heifers in a national 
sale in Philadelphia that were bought by one of the generals who was back from World War One, who 
started a farm in Pennsylvania. So that’s as far back as the registered Holstein herds go. And he, he had 
official records; testers came regularly from the time I was a little kid; I remember always having the 
milk testers come and make official records. So when I went to school, I learned some more modern 
methods and so on, and I got interested in the artificial breeding business and the use of some of the 
outstanding bulls in the country through artificial breeding, and that’s how I developed this international 
business. So it goes back a long ways. 
13:50:7 
HH: When did you start with the artificial breeding? 
BT: Nineteen forty…six or seven. 
HH: And was that new technology at that time? 
BT: Yes, they started around 1940. Yup. And so I eventually became elected to the committee that 
bought the bulls for Eastern Artificial Breeding Cooperative, at Ithaca. And I got to be chairman of the 
committee, so I traveled all over the country buying bulls for them in the sixties and seventies.  
0:14:30 
HH: You said you were the only child growing up? 
BT: I had an older sister, ten years older than I am, and that was it. 
HH: Only son. 
BT: Yup. 
HH: So did you do many farm chores growing up? 
BT: Oh, I milked cows by hand by the time I was five years old, I think!  
HH: Wow. 
BT: Five—talking about official records, we had official tests when I was in the grade school, and the 
school house was just up the road from our farm, and some days I went home at noon to milk our cows 
at noon when they were out in the field! So yeah…it was in my soul from way back. 
0:15:18 
HH: Did you know growing up that you wanted to take the farm on…? 
BT: This was strange. When I was at—see, I went to Ogdensburg School, and when I was a senior in 
school….there were no guidance counselors. And the principal called me into his office one day, and I 
wondered what I’d done wrong, and he said, “I want to talk to you.” Says, “I think you ought to go to 
Cornell.” I looked at him, and I had never even thought of such a thing. And he said, “The last boy like 
you in school we had went to Cornell and became a local veterinarian here. I think you ought to consider 
it.” I went home and talked to my folks, and they said “Well, we need you here to help. And we think 
you ought to go to Canton.” That ended it right there. 
0:16:28 
HH: So, it was something—farming was something you enjoyed and were attracted to, but also you 
weren’t really given a choice? 
BT: I had no idea, thought, that I could ever do anything else. Goodness…I was salutatorian of the class 
in Ogdensburg and I was a little country kid that didn’t know hardly anybody, that got on the bus and 
went to school in the morning, came home as soon as school was over, changed my clothes and went to 
the barn—went to work and didn’t know anything else. And so I had no thought of doing anything else 
growing up. I’ll say one thing though, we got married—my wife was a very intelligent lady, says “Our kids 
are going to have an opportunity to get an education so they can do what they want, so they don’t have 
to come here if they don’t want to.” And we gave them that opportunity. 
0:17:36 
HH: How many cows were you milking growing up? 
BT: About thirty… Twenty five to thirty. When I moved from one farm to the other we didn’t have quite 
thirty, I don’t think. The barn would hold sixty and we just gradually grew into that to fill the barn.  
0:17:57 
HH: Okay, this is kind of a big question, but can you think about—it might be a really big question, over 
the many years that you were in farming, some of the major changes. You know, on your own farm? 
BT: Okay, when I first can remember in the twenties, we didn’t have electricity, we milked by hand, we 
had kerosene lights in the house. Pumped water by hand, by the cows…once we got electricity, my dad 
bought a milk machine shortly thereafter. We had—we always had a tractor from the time I can 
remember but we also had the horses. We used the tractor, an old Fordson tractor, and about ten years 
later, it caught fire near the barn—almost burned the barn—and my dad had a small machinery 
business, sold mowing machines, manure spreaders, hay equipment. So he had some knowledge of 
newer machinery. So there was a machinery dealer in Canton who had a rubber tire tractor, was having 
trouble selling it because people weren’t sure they could ever make it with rubber tires instead of the 
old steel wheels. Anyway, my dad bought it. And so we had that rubber-tired tractor from about—
somewhere around 1939 or 40, just before the war. Then you couldn’t get any machinery for several 
years because of the war, so after the war, it started—the changeover to rubber-tired machinery, and 
diesel engines were coming for farm use. And so we got mechanized somewhat, and after the war, they 
came out with a hay baler, which was a new thought! And I saw three or four hay bales of different 
models and sizes and so on, and anybody that wanted to get one had to put their name in at the 
machinery dealer, because they could only get one or two in an area because they were so short; there 
was much demand after the war. So we were able to buy what we called the Allis Chalmers Round Baler 
in 1947 or 8. 
0:21:18 
HH: That makes the large round bales? 
BT: It made the little round bales. Kicked them out on the ground and you had to pick them up and load 
them on wagons. And we’d bale about ten thousand of them a year! 
HH: Would those be about the size of the square bales today? 
BT: The little square bales, yup. And we—so we got sort of mechanized, and when I got that baler I had 
enough demand from neighbors to bale hay for them, so I baled hay around our neighborhood enough 
the first year to pay for it. 
0:21:55 
HH: Before that, was there any kind of cooperative work with the neighbors? 
BT: Oh absolutely, we threshed and filled silo. One of the neighbors had the threshing team, my father 
had the blower that fills silos with corn silage, and we worked together in the community. It was—in the 
winter time, three of us, our neighbors; we cut wood supply in our wood lots and sawed the wood piles 
together. And then when anybody was short of help, or anything in the community, we changed works 
and helped each other—tried to make the machinery that we bought go farther than our own fence 
lines. 
0:22:50 
HH: About how many neighbors were involved in that? 
BT: Silo filling—went about five or six, and it would be the same with the grain threshing, yes. We did 
our haying ourselves, each one did their own haying except in an emergency when someone needed 
extra help or was hurt.  
0:23:16 
HH: So it was, these new machines after World War Two that kind of started to change this system? 
BT:  Very much so, very much. And it changed the size of farms. That’s when really, after the war, there 
were several years that the prices were fairly good and people were able to get some money ahead, and 
some of them bought out their neighbors’ farms, and that started this revolution, I’d call it. The time 
that I was in school, census-wise there were 5,000 farms in St. Lawrence County. Now there’s what, six 
or seven hundred? And half of them are Amish small farms, the other half are very large. But the 
Depression years were tough—I’ve heard my father say that he knew farmers who bought farms in 
World War I that paid for them in World War II. The milk cooperative is another thing you might be 
interested in. When I was young the—every neighborhood had its own cheese factory, and I well 
remember the horses and milk wagons going to the cheese factories. And between Ogdensburg and 
Canton there was one like, every two miles. 
0:25:00 
HH: Wow. So this was the twenties, and thirties? 
BT: Yes, around 1930. And, you see, farmers, I mean, you didn’t go over a mile or so to the cheese 
factory! And they had the horses and the milk wagons, and they took a big tank, and they carried whey 
home for their pigs. About 1930, they developed enough transportation efficiency so they believed they 
could haul milk from Upstate New York to New York City to supply the New York market. The New York 
City market was a very volatile thing; there were these millions of people needing a milk supply and the 
dealers in the city established plants out far enough to supply them with the milk they needed. They—
those communities, they built these milk plants, and they were called receiving plants. Where they took 
the milk in, and then they loaded it in milk tank cars and they shipped it to New York.  
0:26:29 
HH: They shipped it on the train? 
BT: On railroads. At that time, the way the dairy farming business went, the majority of the cattle calved 
in the spring and when the pasture was the main source of feed, and that’s when milk could be 
produced the cheapest. So…there was really a short supply of milk in the winter and a flush in the 
summer. So there was chaos in the New York milk industry because that was where the good price was, 
was New York City. Milk was unregulated, and so companies started building plants out farther; plants 
that could either manufacture the cheese or ship milk to New York if there was a demand. So they 
started shipping milk down to New York unregulated, just shipped it there, and it raised havoc because 
the folks up here were getting a low price for milk compared to the people near New York. And it was 
the buyers in New York who’d buy it cheaper and there was all kinds of problems. So, in order to correct 
that, they created what they called the Metropolitan Milk shed. It established a line out from New York 
City and said that anybody—any plant who could get qualified to ship milk to New York City—all the 
people that took milk to that plant had to be qualified, and would participate in the New York Market 
whether the milk went or not. So, most of the year at least half the milk in that certified area had to be 
manufactured. But, the people down in New York got—part of their price was based on the cheese price 
and part of ours was based on the fluid milk price in New York. That was the Metropolitan Market. The 
only adjustment in there was, they had a location adjustment so the people who had been favored by 
the area near New York City got a slight premium for their location, but that location premium dropped 
as it came north, and it went out three hundred miles from New York City. So when that happened, the 
milk price was so much better with the participation in the New York Market that the cheese factories 
faded right out. And they all disappeared. But that didn’t solve all the problems, there’ve been problems 
ever since of one kind or another; the biggest one was when they established this Metropolitan Market, 
it was a government-ordered market and in order to do that the government agreed to purchase all of 
the excess milk that couldn’t be sold or manufactured. And it wound up with the government buying 
butter, and cheese, and skim milk—oodles of it—and storing it in caves and everything else to get rid of 
it. Shipping it all over the world, and…they started shipping powdered milk all over the world, and next 
thing you knew they were upset and the economy of the countries where they were shipping it to….and 
it’s been a problem ever since and it’s still a problem today. This new Farm Bill, it’s right in there, yep, 
the problems….Then they reached the point where they bought a whole bunch of the cattle to reduce 
the number of cattle available to produce the milk! And the people who sold had to agree to stay out of 
business for so many years. And now they’re trying to put a supply management in to where you can 
only sell so much milk. But, this is the milk business, milk is so perishable…. 
0:31:20 
HH: How would, I mean, if you had the opportunity to craft the new policy, how would you address it? 
BT: Well….you ought to talk to my son, because he was Assistant Secretary of Agriculture when one of 
the Farm Bills was written. And he was on President Reagan’s Council of Economic Advisors. We look 
across the river, Canada, and see what they have done, how they’ve controlled production. And they’ve 
got a marketing quota; they set that up how many years ago, forty, fifty years ago? And it looked 
wonderful. Everybody that was in business was given a quota based on what they were producing right 
then. Then they decided how much of that quota was needed. If they were getting ten percent more 
milk than the markets would handle, they cut their quota back ten percent, and that’s all the people got 
paid for. If you sold beyond that, you got penalized. I look over there, I see those nice small farms being 
maintained, and boy, I said, that’s the answer. Then people started retiring and in this quota business, it 
was set up so you could not sell your quota outside the family. So anybody who wanted to quit, retire, 
sell out, the government bought the quota. And milk quotas became a marketing product just like the 
stock market. And it got all out of hand. And over there it’s reached the point that quota costs as much 
as the farm. In other words, you buy a farm over in Ontario now, you pay double the price of the farm in 
order to get that quota; that’s just about what it amounts to. Well, that’s not the whole answer! So...I 
still think that there could be some kind of a quota put in that would restrict people to expand beyond 
the needs of the country. Wisconsin’s still got the cheese markets, big, California—they’ve made it so 
lucrative out there that they’ve developed the biggest cheese plants in the world, in California, in areas 
that shouldn’t have even been producing milk because they’re buying all the water! And as my son says, 
if they had to pay the price for water, what it costs them, they couldn’t afford to produce milk. And now 
that’s beginning to be a problem out there because of shortages of water for the cities and all of a 
sudden Idaho has become one of the biggest milk producing states in the country! Because they’re 
moving there from California! Because there’s water up near the Canadian border! It’s a problem and 
I—it bothers me to know and to see the family farms disappear. And I don’t think it should ever happen 
but I guess it was inevitable because of the labor problems and the tight markets, it made the profit 
levels so narrow that people had to milk a lot of cows in order to break even and…it’s a problem. I don’t 
have the answer, but I still think there’s a place for the smaller family-sized farm like what our farm was 
and still is.  
0:35:54 
HH: You were milking sixty cows—that was when you retired? 
BT: Yes. I don’t think we ever milked over sixty cows while I was running things. And we did that with 
family help from 1960s to 1980 when the kids were trying to earn their way to college.  
HH: How did you sort of organize who did what during those years? What was the division of labor? 
BT: Actually, I ought to start when Marsha was born, just before our oldest child left for college. So, Bob 
was born in ’45, and…at the time he left for college, we had three other kids that were taking his place, 
and it just rotated through from one to the next. As one left, the next one filled in and took over. Every 
single one of them milked—not twice a day, but milked once a day for years and years and years, and 
they started when they were pretty young; probably I could be faulted for making kids work so hard, but 
all ten of them went through college and the farm paid their way by them working their way. 
0:37:40 
HH: So they did barn chores, they did milking chores; did they help in the fields in the summer? 
BT: Oh, baled hay, did hay in the summertime, every one of them worked that hay mow on the farm 
and…I remember having kids on tractors, and I’d be on the wagon loading hay bales, and we’d get to the 
end of the row; I had to jump off to go around, get on the tractor to help them turn the next windrow 
because they couldn’t turn! 
HH: So, did you ever have hired hands? 
BT: Up until 1960, we always had a hired man. I grew up with a hired man but 1960 was when we 
realized something had to change if we were gonna send these kids to college! And that’s when we let 
our hired man go and the kids and I did it ourselves for twenty years.  
HH: Did the kids seem to enjoy the work? 
BT: I think…there were very few complaints. I think they all accepted it, it was part of the family 
operation, they had to assume their responsibilities and there wasn’t one of them that I can remember 
ever objected to having to do their share. I’ll say that we tried to do things with them and for them that 
maybe helped compensate; they had their own 4-H cattle, they went to the fairs every year and they 
went to 4-H camp and they did things in school. The boys were in sports and the kids were in the bands, 
and we found a way for them to do a lot of things that helped improve their outlook as well as taking 
the responsibilities at the barn. I remember one night, I was down in the field baling hay, and a 
machinery dealer came looking for me: he came down the field, he said, “I was just up at the barn, the 
two little boys milking told me you were in the field!” So they worked hard, and also the girls helped 
Esther in the house a lot. 
0:40:12 
HH: But they worked also on the farm? 
BT: Yup, the three older girls all graduated from the Home Ec School at Cornell. Marsha graduated from 
St. Lawrence.  
HH: And what crops did you grow? 
BT: Mainly hay, and corn, and pasture. Tried to grow alfalfa hay but the farm had an awful lot of flat land 
in it and we had a drainage problem, so I tile-drained about eighty acres in order to be able to grow 
alfalfa. It was better-quality hay, higher protein….and we used pasture, cattle into pasture every day and 
night, and we grew enough corn to fill silos. We didn’t do much with grain because we could buy grain 
cheaper than we could grow it because our yields weren’t very high in oats and we didn’t think we could 
grow corn for grain at the time. You can now, but at that time the varieties were such that didn’t 
mature, and so we just relied on hay and corn silage and pasture in the summertime, and we bought all 
our concentrates.  
0:41:51 
HH: Over your time in farming, did the types of skills and knowledge that you used change very much? 
Change at all? 
BT: Well one thing that has changed is this business idea of managing hired help, which I didn’t have to 
worry about too much. When we bought the farm, the man that was working there—I hired him that 
day, and he stayed right there from 1954 to 1960 and then I helped him get a job on a research farm for 
one of the grain companies when he left our place. That was a big one; I would not have been a good 
person at managing hired labor like they have to today. Of course, the machinery changed so much that 
you need to get to be a pretty good mechanic, and I had to rely on some others to help me quite a little 
bit because I’m not well trained as a mechanic and we did hire machinery repair work done. 
0:43:19 
HH: It’s sounded to me like, when it comes to the different aspects of dairy farming, there’s animal 
husbandry—animal care, and then there’s the crops, and what was the part that you were most drawn 
to? 
BT: In order to be a dairy farmer today you need both. You need the animal sciences and you need the 
agronomy as well as the machinery knowledge. I grew up really with a pretty good handle on how to 
handle cattle. I knew from way back pretty much how to get milk out of cows and how to handle them 
and take care of them, and was willing to accept that responsibility. I had to learn quite a little bit about 
the field crops but I really got to enjoy it, and there’s a lot of satisfaction in being able to grow a good 
crop and make it produce, and the end result in the milk tank. So I enjoyed both of them, and I think I 
got fairly decent at that, but I don’t think I was ever as good a machine maintenance and machine repair 
man as I should have been. But I always had neighbors who I could work with who were good at it. 
0:45:00 
HH: I wanted to ask you about what relationships were like with your neighboring farmers, and if that 
changed over the years. 
BT: At Flackville where I grew up, there was a very close-knit neighborhood of farmers who worked 
together. When I went to Lisbon to the new farm, it was only six miles away but it was a new 
community, I had to get to know my neighbors, and at that time we still changed works with those 
neighbors just as we had at our original farm at Flackville…same type of farmers, similar sized farms, and 
we got along just fine doing it. But then as the smaller farms started disappearing, and the large farms 
started to be developed, that all changed…there was no changing works because where your farm had 
hundreds of cows and the neighbor had thirty cows, there was no correlation between what he needed 
done and what you needed done. And we—we would spend a month in haying in the summertime to 
get all our haying done, and now these big operators wanted to do it in two or three days with 
mammoth expensive machinery. And also what you had for an investment was entirely different. Like, I 
never paid over 5,000 dollars for a tractor, and now they’re talking a quarter of a million for these big 
high powered tractors with air-conditioned cabs and so on; it’s an entirely different ball game now, and 
there’s—the only people I know now that change works are the Amish! Small neighborhoods, yep. 
0:47:24 
HH: And I—I’ve heard this expression before, changing work, but can you kind of define it? 
BT: We have a crop that is a small crop, really, of a few acres, that each one of us has, and it takes some 
specialized equipment to harvest that crop, so one of those machines in those communities is all that’s 
needed so we change works. Somebody owns the machinery and the rest of the neighborhood helps, 
and the one who owns the machine gets paid a small amount from the neighbors for the use of it, and 
the rest of it is all changing works—whether it’s pitching grain, or pitching corn or helping thresh…but 
that’s the term, changing works. It was the neighborhood way of doing things. 
0:48:26 
HH: Did you have a big meal on those days? 
BT: Absolutely. The women cooked for everybody in the house that day, and sometimes a couple of 
neighbors—or three women, got together at the different places when the threshing was going on, or 
silo filling.  
HH: And how do you describe—I hope this doesn’t sound funny, but how do you describe the 
relationship that you had with your animals? 
BT: Uhh…wish I could think of a good term. The cows were all named, they knew their names….now 
they’re numbers. We thought nothing of staying up at night when a calf was gonna be born, they were 
almost part of the family and…cows—we wanted to keep them as long as we could, profitably, and 
make them last as many years as possible. Now, they’re just numbers, turning over seems to be no 
problem with these big operations, and it’s entirely different. I thought as much of the cows as people 
do their dogs today! 
0:49:58 
HH: Did they have different personalities? 
BT: Oh yes, oh yes. We had kickers! They didn’t stay around as long. Yes they did…those traits went with 
families, too. Cow families were just as important to us! 
0:50:23 
HH: So it, it sounds to me like, well, I’m just curious. It sounds to me like you certainly keep abreast of 
changes in the dairy industry; you’re still interested in how things are developing… 
BT: I try, yeah.  
HH: And, sounds like you do see some negative aspects to the increasing size of the farms. 
BT: I see some trends that I’m not happy with. Um, I cannot imagine how one of these big operations is 
gonna transfer, because the investment is so great…nobody starting in can afford to buy it, and I don’t 
believe you can get financed by a bank. So, I see, down the road, banks owning a lot of these big farms 
because they practically own them as it is. The last big farm that I did an appraisal on, they were just 
starting to get large when I got sick. And I remember the statement…this family was in St. Lawrence 
County, and they had—they were in a location where they had a lot of land available to them in the 
neighborhood they were in, and they had grown to six hundred cows. They made a decision to go to 
twelve hundred. And I went and did the appraisal for the banks to get financed. And the fellow’s wife 
says to me, she said, “You wanna know what we need for financing?” Well, I said, “It’s not part of the 
appraisal, but I would be interested in knowing.” And she said, “If this appraisal doesn’t come in for 
three and a half million, we won’t get our loan.” I…I took all the information that I had on that place and 
there was no way that that appraisal was gonna come out to three and a half million. So, I said, “How 
fast do you want to expand?” They said “Well, we’d like to grow into it. If we have a good heifer crop, in 
two years’ time, we could be up there.” What I’m getting at here is, if you had six hundred cows, and 
they all calved every year, theoretically you’d have three hundred heifer calves. And the next year you’d 
have three hundred more. And unless they had to cull a lot, they could gradually grow into this. I took 
that appraisal, and I projected it out to an estimated value two years from the time I did it and I came up 
with three and a half million as an estimated value two years later. You know, that appraisal was for the 
bank in the western part of the state somewhere, I got a telephone from a bank manager and he says, “I 
am on a plane somewhere over the Midwest and I am reviewing your appraisal because I got some 
questions for you.” So we discussed this on that basis and they got their loan! But, this is unheard of to 
me! My goodness, when we got to the point where we were selling a hundred thousand dollars worth of 
milk a year I was out of this world, I never expected to get that big. And here, a neighbor up the road 
from Gendebiens, they tell me his milk check’s for a million dollars a month. And of course the neighbors 
say he isn’t breaking even! 
0:54:53 
HH: What are his expenses? Because expenses could be… 
BT: All the neighbors say he’s going in the hole! Of course, that’s jealousy too! But, this is what is hard 
for me to fathom. And that’s why, nobody can say, “I’m going to buy that place” like we did. That day, 
when this farm came up for auction—this is a funny story—I was on the school board at Lisbon, we’d 
built the new school, the central school, and we had all these country schools. And I was assigned to go 
to the school where our farm at Lisbon was—to the school meeting— and tell the folks that the school 
would be closed that fall, the teacher was gonna be in the new school in Lisbon and the kids would go 
on the bus. And the night I was at that meeting, the two hired men at the farm where we bought were 
at the meeting, they had kids in school, and I knew the both of them, and they came to me after the 
meeting and said, “Ray Geary’s gonna sell the farm!” I was shocked; at that time, we knew this was one 
of the best farms around. I went home and got Esther out of bed! I said, “Ray Geary’s gonna sell the 
farm next week and we ought to be interested!” And we bought it. And, the next day, I went to school at 
Canton and talked to Bill Long, my farm economics teacher when I was in school, get his opinion of what 
he thought. And he came out, and he walked the farm with us, and he said, he says, “I think you can 
afford to pay ten thousand more for this farm than your farm’s worth.” All I said, “Now, what do you 
think that figure is?” Well, he gave it some thought. Well, he says, “Never been a farm sold this high, but 
I think it’s worth 25,000.” So, my next trip, I went back to Canton, to the bank, what’s now Community 
Bank, it was First National Bank of Canton at that time, and I knew the farm loan man, Bill Stalder, and I 
told him my situation. Said, “We bought the farm off my father, we just finished paying for it, I’ve got no 
money.”  I said, “Bill Long thinks that farm is worth 25,000, would you finance it?” And he says, “I think 
we can.” So, Geary had three farms. They sold the first one, which was a smaller farm, the first day; the 
one we bought was the second day. The first one sold for twenty five thousand. I was completely 
discouraged. I said, “What’s gonna happen to this one, if that one sold for twenty five thousand and I 
can just get financed for twenty five thousand?” So, I got a hold of Bill Stalder, talked on the telephone 
with him, and he says, “I’ll be out at the auction, we’ll talk about it.” So, it was just like a field day that 
day. Cars were everywhere, that yard at the farm was packed with people; the auctioneer stood up on 
the fence, they started that one at twenty five thousand. Well, Bill Stalder says, “Bid for a ways and see 
what happens.” There were only three bidders. They got to thirty thousand and it stopped. They 
stopped the sale. And said, “We want you folks to think about this a little bit,” and they gave us time to 
think and get our finances in order. So they recommended I go a little farther; when they restarted, all 
that was left was a cattle dealer from Smith’s Falls, Ontario, and me. And of course I knew what he 
wanted it for was a place to move cattle in this country, because he was a cattle dealer. So anyway, we 
went to thirty-two five and I bought it. And everybody around us just put up their hands and said it 
could never be paid for! There’d never be a farm sold for anything like this in St. Lawrence County! 
0:59:42 
HH: What year was that? 
BT: Fifty four. 
HH: Okay. So everyone came out to the auction as entertainment? 
BT: Entertainment! Oh my, yes! The whole countryside was there! The hill out back to the barn was 
packed with cars just like a fair ground! 
HH: And what made it the best farm in St. Lawrence County, or the best farm in the area, to you? 
BT: It was good land….high lime soil….Geary had built the new barn, remodeled two houses for hired 
men, cleared out hedgerows: he had a crew of about six carpenters on full time, and they built fences, 
remodeled buildings, and down the road made all the fields into twenty acre fields. And it was just laid 
out so well, it was a gravel road off the main road, little traffic. And it was—it was a desirable place, 
there was no doubt about that, but…that was quite a day… 
HH: And that’s— 
BT: That’s where Blake Gendebien is now. I—soon as that sale was over, I went home and started 
loading up machinery up onto wagons to get it over there and start working the next morning putting in 
crops. There were fifty acres plowed that hadn’t been touched. 
HH: What time of year was this? 
BT: May twenty-fourth. And the crops should’ve been in. Boy, the next week, we put everything into 
oats, everything that was plowed. 
HH: And you sold your farm right away? 
BT: Well, that was a problem. Our farm at Flackville had two houses on it. You know where Merckley’s 
is? Our farm’s the next one towards Canton, where the motorcycle shop is now, and the barn is burned 
there and there’s two houses there. We had both houses. So. When Bill Bill said to me, says “I think you 
can go ten thousand more than your farm’s worth,” I figured it was worth fifteen! Well, I changed my 
thinking after I paid thirty five! We couldn’t find anybody to get financed! We had asked twenty five 
thousand for it, and we couldn’t get it financed…nobody. Finally, we had a neighbor up the road towards 
Ogdensburg who had a machine shop, and where the machine shop was, was a little farm, and his oldest 
boy was milking a few cows out there and liked it. So, he came up with the idea that he’d buy that farm 
for his boy, and they’d run it together—he’d run that along with his machine shop. So anyway, we 
settled on a price, one house—17,000. And he got financed, and we sold it to him. That left us with the 
second house. So it took us a year to sell the second house and we finally got 7,000 for it. So, we got—
we got twenty four thousand! But we paid for that farm, with milk at four dollars a hundred [weight]. 
And the cattle sales. But, those were different days. The price level was different. And I knew when I saw 
that—it never dawned on me that place would ever be for sale, but the minute I talked to those fellows, 
I said, “This is the place we want.”  
1:03:41 
HH: Are you interested in, you know, Blake’s farm now, and what he’s doing with it? 
BT: Very, very. I—I really enjoy going there and seeing what they have done with it and how they have 
tied together our home farm with Blake’s father’s farm, and run it as one unit. And milk at the one 
farm—there’s so many farms that, when the owner retires, seem to go downhill and aren’t maintained 
that it does me good to see a family move in there and is willing to work and maintain that farm…and 
make a good living there, and make it look respectable.  
HH: And Peter Gendebien told me that when he moved, when he started farming, that you were really 
his mentor. That he learned a lot of what he knew from you.  
BT: This is interesting. Our daughter Marilyn, our oldest daughter Marilyn, was working at Cooperative 
Extension at the time, in Canton. And of course, you know from talking to Peter that he’d been in the 
Peace Corps. When he got out of the Peace Corps, I don’t know if he told you this, but, he had grown up 
on a farm in Pennsylvania and he’d been to Penn State and graduated before he went into the Peace 
Corps, and when he got out he wanted to go into farming. And he went to a national real estate agency 
to where he could find cheap land. And this is where they sent him. He came up and he went to the 
Extension office, and Marilyn met him there. And he spent a week up here looking at vacant farms. At 
the end of the week, he made a deal for the farm next to us. And they moved here in August ’71….didn’t 
know too much about the area—didn’t know anything about the area, didn’t know a lot about what he 
was gonna do when he got the farm, I don’t believe. So, I went over to see them , to meet the the night 
they moved in, and their second daughter was about a month old and she was in a clothes basket, 
pouring rain that night…and from that day on we worked together, the two farms, as long as I was 
there! That was a great relationship we had, and I don’t know what I taught him but we worked 
together and he kept our machinery running and we ran it at both places…it was a great relationship we 
had. 
HH: Yeah, I think he said that you know, you worked together and he learned a lot just from working 
with you. 
BT: I hope so…Blake was born after they came there…I was surprised that he came home. I’m surprised 
that he was motivated to change jobs after he graduated from Penn State, what I thought was a good 
job with a machinery company… 
HH: Well, from what I’ve heard from him and from his parents, it was wanting to raise his children the 
way he was brought up. And they’re having a great childhood because they have those goats and the 
donkeys…. 
BT: They say the same thing as we said, don’t they! About the kids, there. It’s just a good place to raise a 
family, off the main road, up that driveway, and still have a life where you can enjoy things and make a 
living…it’s been good for everybody for years. 
1:07:51 
HH: Well, I don’t want to keep you too much longer…. 
BT: I’m free for the whole afternoon if you are, but whatever you want to do! 
HH: As long as I’m not wearing you out! 
BT: You’re not wearing me out! 
1:08:08 
HH: What, for you, was the most challenging part, or some of the most challenging aspects of dairy 
farming? 
BT: Um, well, most—the most challenging thing was this milk marketing thing, I think. It’s just a problem 
which—well, I lived through two milk strikes, which were terrible. And it pitted neighbor against 
neighbor, and my father had neighbors that I don’t think ever spoke to him again after the milk strikes. 
HH: So this was farmers just refusing to sell their milk? 
BT: In ’37. I’ve got…I’ve got some of the articles here that were in the newspaper. Terrible, terrible. ’37, 
the milk price got down to a dollar a hundred and people could not break even, they were going in the 
hole. And, uh, you know, it was—some were better farmers than others and some of these people 
didn’t milk over ten cows, you know, they milked by hand….they were not making good livings, and 
families got discouraged, and a man who grew up in St. Lawrence County left the area and became a 
union organizer, realized that there was an opportunity for him. And he came back and formed a dairy 
farmers’ union. And he was a real organizer, and some of the people that were the worst off 
financially—he persuaded to join his organization, and he got a lot of people. A lot of them. They had 
some big, wild meetings and they decided that if they could call a milk strike and shut off the milk to 
New York City, they could get a living wage. A price for milk that would be equal to cost of production.  
HH: The price was being determined at that point that this New York Milk shed…. 
BT: A Market Administrator in New York City established the price…they had a price for fluid milk, price 
for milk going into cheese, butter; there were four price levels, class one, two, three, and four as I 
remember at the beginning. And they established based on how the milk was used; like the cheese 
market, there was a Chicago or Wisconsin cheese market that established the cheese prices just like the 
commodity market in Chicago today, only just for cheese. And the other prices varied from the cheese 
price. That was the market, right there; that was basically the one that established the floor. The milk 
companies were able to buy milk; of course, as in the Depression years there was no money in New 
York, either, you got all the bread lines in New York City, and they wanted to buy milk just as cheap as 
they could, you know, to distribute in New York City, and these companies owned these plants out in 
the country. So…when they started the milk strike, they picketed the plants, they surrounded the plants 
so people couldn’t get in. But…my father was one of the local officers in the local milk co-op which sold 
milk to—what was it, Barden’s? I can’t remember who it was that was buying…but, they determined 
that this wasn’t gonna work, that they would never shut off the supply from downstate, this was a local 
thing up here that—they didn’t need the milk in New York anyway, most of the year, and they weren’t 
going to get any more. So they opposed the union completely, wouldn’t have anything to do with it, and 
that’s what pitted farmer against farmer. And I remember… I was old enough to remember, that our 
local people around there decided that they were gonna get the milk into the local plant at Heuvelton. It 
was all cans, and they got on the truck and….make sure the truck got through, which was the plan. And 
in the process, my father hit a fellow over the head with a baseball bat; he was trying to climb onto the 
truck to dump the milk. That’s how bad it got.  
1:13:39 
HH: Wow. No one was killed? 
BT: No. That man turned out to be a union member from the aluminum plant in Massena. They got the 
union to come and support the Farmers’ Union. Next Sunday morning, my dad sat in the barn door with 
a gun and my mother and I went to church. It was just like warfare. I never forgot it.  
1:14:27 
HH: How was it all resolved in the end? 
BT: Strike failed. They tried it twice, in a big way, and the last time….maybe three times. And the last 
time, this National Dairy Farmers’ Union headquarters in Wisconsin got in the act and they tried to make 
it nationwide. And that got to be serious too, but it….it wasn’t as bad locally as this first one was in ’37. 
I’ve got articles; I’ve got pictures…one man got shot, in the arm, at Heuvelton.  
1:15:18 
HH: So that really pitted neighbor against neighbor. 
BT: Oh, barns burned! I know one farm where the tails were all cut off the cattle in the morning…there 
were places where they got into the milk house and put kerosene in the milk cans so if the milk got into 
the plant it would spoil the whole supply….you wouldn’t believe it. The police were everywhere, 
patrolling roads, keeping things under control. That was…and milk marketing has been my—ever since 
then, the worst problem that I see and the worst bugaboo as far as my psyche has gone, ever since that 
time. I’ve never forgotten it. I was riding the school bus with the kids from some of those places. It was 
awful… 
1:16:41 
HH: Well what was the most pleasant, or enjoyable, or satisfying aspect of farming? 
BT: My—for me, the purebred Holstein business. The matings I made, the cows that I developed, the 
markets I developed, and the people I was able to associate with all over the country. I was the delegate 
to the National Holstein Convention in San Francisco! I don’t know if you know who Owen D. Young is, 
the Owen D. Young library at St. Lawrence? He was president of the National Holstein Association at 
that time. Did you go to St. Lawrence? [Bob is referring to St. Lawrence University in Canton, NY.] 
HH: No, I didn’t. I’ve taken classes there but no, I didn’t go there.  
BT: Where are you from? 
HH: I’m from Massachusetts. I went to school in Pennsylvania, though. You know, it’s funny that you—
I’ve talked to a few other farmers for whom, you know, the breeding was very important, who had 
registered dairies, and I never thought about it until now... I mean, would you consider that aspect of 
your work the most creative and artistic? 
BT: Oh, absolutely, most creative. 
HH: Well, literally creative… 
BT: We made—we, you see, when I got on the Sire Committee at Ithaca and the chairman of the 
Committee was traveling the country, what we were mainly doing was writing contracts for bulls, for 
bull stud for artificial breeding, and I met people from all over, and I was in herds all the way to 
California and Oregon, Washington, Wisconsin, Illinois, Ohio, Pennsylvania, New York, Vermont, Ontario. 
And this was an eye opener to me, and I met all kinds of people, you know, and I could go to the 
National Holstein Convention and rub elbows with people from all over, and talk their language! 
HH: And when you’re making, like when you’re making a pairing, is it all information that’s on paper that 
you’re looking at, or is it also actually looking at the animals? 
BT: Mainly it was paper information, because we had good information. We had about—on the other 
hand, one of the other reasons we traveled when we did buying bulls is, we would go to Wisconsin, and 
we knew from the records the top transmitting bulls. And we would go to herds and look at their 
daughters and decide if we wanted to use that bull in New York. And we did the same thing in 
Washington and Utah. And, all that was interesting to me, to be able to work on these matings and 
come up with the future sire generations. And now it’s all genomics, if you know the term! 
HH: I know the term, but I still don’t quite understand it. 
BT: I don’t either!  But I’ll tell you, see, I’ve got a son in the artificial breeding business, been in it all his 
life, in fact he was the number two man at Select Sires in Ohio for years, and now he works for Alta 
Genetics, whose headquarters is in Holland, and he works all over the world training their people. And 
so I’ve been closely involved with this ever since he was in Cornell. And then David, our son, teaches this 
at Cobleskill, SUNY Cobleskill. He teaches dairy science courses, and he comes up here, we sit and talk 
half the night about some of these things that— tools they’re using now. I don’t understand why there’s 
DNA or what it is, but they believe, the theorists believe, they can tell the transmitting of an animal 
when it’s born. Without ever seeing any offspring. As David says, they’re just babies! And they’re selling 
these calves for phenomenal prices based on what they can determine from, I guess it’s blood typing, I 
know it’s DNA or… 
1:21:34 
HH: Well, it must be genetic, but… 
BT: Our neighbor up the road from our farm’s got the big operation. You don’t know Dr. Cruikshank here 
in Canton, do you? 
HH: I’ve heard his name quite a lot. Well, I’ve heard about the Cruikshanks— 
BT: The farm. 
HH: Yeah, the farm. 
BT: Well, see, I started them. Bob was—lived on our farm, his house was on our farm and when they 
decided to buy a farm I sold him his first cattle. Now he’s got 2,000. And he’s got involved with this 
genomics business. Young Robby, who is the doctor here, saw him Monday and I said, “How’s your 
father doing?” Said, “He’s pretty happy, just sold a calf for forty five thousand dollars!” 
HH: Wow! 
BT: So…I don’t know how he got into this level where he’s at with some of these cattle; I don’t think it 
was ours that he bought that had the high level of transmitting ability, but maybe it is! 
HH: When you say transmitting, you mean the likelihood of…? 
BT: That they will transmit at a superior production to anything that’s ever been before… 
HH: You mean in terms of quality of offspring? 
BT: I’m talking about milk. I’m talking about milk, milk production. And, also, there’s this other angle of 
type, too. I like to think it’s—it’s related directly to longevity, but some of it gets beyond that and gets 
into this frilly stuff and the show ring. And that’s where the top money is. 
1:23:33 
HH: Really? 
BT: Oh, these millionaires that have got farms, you know, want to win at the National Dairy Show, they’ll 
pay almost anything for the top animal. 
HH: And when it comes to the dairy shows, it’s not about production; it’s about looks, basically. 
BT: Type. Entirely based on looks. And, well, we used to show at County Fair and the kids had a great 
time there, did well too, locally, but we couldn’t compete nationally…but did sell an animal that was 
nominated for All American, which is the top in the country, but that’s not anything that I would 
encourage anybody to get into but, this business of transmitting ability, you’re transmitting superior 
production and you’re transmitting superior type of animal which theoretically lasts longer, who has 
feet and legs that can stand the pressure of these—feet and legs are a big problem in these big herds 
that don’t get out to pasture. Their legs don’t hold up, some of these cows only last two or three years. 
HH: Because they’re not getting enough exercise?  
BT: That’s right. And they’re on concrete all the time. 
HH: And that’s—I also heard that the hoof trimming, you know, is a much bigger deal in cows that don’t 
go to pasture, because in the pasture they’re getting worn down on stones and things like that. 
BT: Down at Cobleskill, David even teaches a course in this, on foot trimming and how to handle cows’ 
feet and legs to keep them going! We never had that problem when the cows were outdoors, we had 
certain cows with sickle hocks that would rock back on their heels and their heels would get sore, and 
their feet and toes would grow out like sled runners, but theoretically most of the cattle didn’t need 
hoof trimming regularly and now twice a year! Some of these hoof trimmers come to farms and…it’s a 
new game, new business created! 
HH: Right, right, with a big contraption… 
BT: Yup, you put them in, tip them over, and…yup. 
HH: Did you clip your cows’ hair? What was that about, I haven’t quite figured that out… 
BT: In the wintertime, when you were in the milk market, they required you to clip your cow for health 
purposes. 
HH: Just hygiene? 
BT: Yeah, yeah. Udders and rear ends especially, because they kick up the manure, and you get long hair 
all matted with manure and it makes a mess. So yes, we clipped, in fact we clipped them pretty much all 
over when they went into the barn in the fall. Of course, you’ve seen these Scottish Highlanders with the 
shaggy hair! 
1:26:43 
HH: Would you consider dairy farming an art? 
BT: Almost, almost. 
HH: Almost! 
BT: It’s not one of the fine arts! I’d get criticized if I called it that! But yes, I think—I think dairy farming is 
quite an art, to be able to do all the aspects of it. Of course, now the big operators, they’ll have someone 
that knows nothing but the cattle, someone else to handle the crops. And so, two separate enterprises.  
1:27:32 
HH: I’m just curious, you are following developments in dairy industry, where do you see dairy in the 
North Country, or in St. Lawrence County, heading? 
BT: I…I don’t know. One of the reasons that St. Lawrence County developed as a dairy industry was the 
pasture land, the crop land, hay land…that’s what the original aspect ingredient that developed the 
dairy industry in the county. Now, I’m not sure. I don’t know what else we can do with this land up here 
profitably other than grow forage crops. I…we’ve got corn varieties now that’ll do well, and there are a 
few people who are getting income from the sale of corn grain, in fact, Pete and Sharon on our farm 
are…and they learned that in Pennsylvania, before they came here. Pete knew how to grow corn for 
grain, and I was shocked when he started doing that originally, and it worked for him. But we do have 
varieties of corn which will produce profitably up here just as well as they will in Ontario, and they’ve 
been doing it longer in Ontario than we have here. So that is a possibility, but this land is not the top 
grain producing land, and I don’t believe we can compete with the Midwest grain producing states. But I 
believe we can on hay and pasture. And, what that hay and pasture’s gonna be put through profitably, 
I’m not sure, if it’s gonna be dairy cattle or sheep or goats or what it is, but up until now I’ve felt 
anybody that didn’t have a milk check probably wouldn’t make it here in St. Lawrence County. But 
uh…things are changing, so I don’t have a good answer. But I know we gotta think in terms of forage, 
hay, crops or pasture land for part of the use of this land up here. Beef cattle…I don’t think we can 
compete with the Southwest and the big feed lots, but on the other hand if land is cheap enough, 
maybe we can graze beef cattle profitably. I never did it, but I see people trying it…and that’s a 
possibility. You don’t have to milk them, anyway. It changes the labor supply when you go to beef cattle.  
1:31:06 
HH: Do you have many interactions with Amish neighbors, when they started coming in? 
BT: Very much so, we had them on our farm. You see, when Bob Hostetter, my son-in-law, took over the 
farm, one of the first things he did was hire an Amish fellow to work for him. Young fellow getting 
married, and they went around, cut the trees around the fence lines, and got the lumber to build that 
Amish house on the farm. Built in a day, sun would come up in the morning, they’d arrive, the two 
families, all of them, and when the sun went down at night, the roof was going on! And we worked with 
them that day, and we worked with them from that time on. Still have a very good relationship with 
those people, we’d go out there and get strawberries from them, our folks do, and I have nothing but 
good to say about what I’ve seen of the Amish coming to this county because they have taken over a lot 
of this land that was being abandoned and making it work for them. I was glad to see that they were 
able to put these milk houses in and get a milk market. That changed things for the people that worked 
for us, I know. The farm next to them was abandoned, and there was a bulk tank sitting in the milk 
house, and they were able to take their milk there and use that bulk tank and rent the milk house. The 
young couple came to our place, left with one child and now they have eleven, and the boy that was 
there when they were at our place is now married! 
1:33:09 
HH: When did you—you said you worked with horses, when did you stop using horses in the field? 
BT: Let’s see. I bought a tractor—new tractor, in forty six, and another one in forty eight.  I think, I’m not 
accurate on this, but I think by 1950 we had sold the horses. I bought a team after we were married, one 
of them got hit by lightening in the pasture. Then I bought another horse to replace that one to make a 
team…I remember a neighbor that sold his horses, and that was that laughing stock of the community, 
how can he ever make it without a team of horses? And it wasn’t long until a lot of our horses 
disappeared out of our neighborhood! 
1:34:38 
HH: I was just curious if, you know, if you enjoy seeing the Amish working with horses. 
BT: Yeah, I do, but I wouldn’t want to go back to horses. 
HH: Too much work? 
BT: Yeah, and slow, and the limited amounts you can accomplish in a day; doesn’t seem to bother them 
but after I saw what I could do with a tractor, I couldn’t do it. My dad always had good horses and we 
always had three horses, we had a team and then we had a third one that we used for odd jobs like 
putting hay in the hay mow; we a horse that pulled the loads off the wagon, and that one horse did that. 
And a horse did the raking in the field, the one horse…little odd jobs, but you know.  
1:35:47 
HH: Well, do you have any final thoughts, or any other remarks you’d like to make about your life as a 
farmer, changes you’ve known, anything like that? 
BT: Well, the one thing that’s constant is change. That, I’ve got to accept. And the changes that are going 
on now are so foreign to what happened thirty years ago when I was making decisions, are phenomenal. 
And I—I don’t have a good answer as to where I think things are going. I got a feeling that I think there’s 
going to be more Amish in this area, and there’ll probably be a dozen or fifteen big farms. There are no 
milk plants left in St. Lawrence County, which every community had their own milk plant when I was 
growing up. Now, they’re all gone. Milk has to be transported either east or west. I believe, in my own 
mind, that milk can be produced as cheaply here as it can in most places. And so I think from that angle, 
milk production ought to stay in the county. But I see this as more development of the Amish 
community in the future than it is now. And that’s gonna stay small farms, if they continue. And I hope 
that they can compete pricewise for land with the big operators. But I don’t see much future in this area 
for any development other than agriculture, because we don’t have—we’re a distance from the market, 
they are too great for manufacturing to develop and our population is small enough up here so that 
you’re not gonna see a lot of other industries come. I think education’s gonna be one of our big ones, 
with the colleges we’ve got. That’s why I think the future of the Canton-Potsdam area is about the 
greatest of anywhere in the county. The mines were important once, but they have depleted some of 
the highest grade ores we’ve got. The iron mines closed, the lead mines closed, the talc mine is 
closed…the woods are there. The woods industries. We’ve got a few small ones, like I don’t know if 
you’ve had anything to do with Pat Curran or not, the wood pellets at Massena? He might be a good 
fellow to talk to, he invested a lot of money in a pelleting business, taking the cull wood and what’s left 
over from the pulp and logging industries, and manufacturing them into a marketable product…but I 
think that’s limited. The tourist industry’ll grow. We’ve got a lot of nice things up here for people to do 
and see. That’s as I see things in the future. 
1:40:50 
HH: And what are you most proud of? 
BT: I guess my family! 
(Note: Bob Thompson continued with a discussion of his family for the remainder of the interview.)