Ironworkers Documentation Project: AMERICA WORKS
AUDIO LOG FORM
Interviewer's recording no(s).:AWP00167_SR01
Contact: George L. Bunders
Interviewer: Jim Leary
Interview:
     Date:  Thursday afternoon, July 7, 2011
     Place: Living room of Bunders home
     Other people present: nobody
     Background noise: minimal, a telephone ringing at one point
     Equipment used:  (audio recorder brand and model; microphone(s), brand(s), model(s))
Marantz professional PMD 661 digital recorder; Audio Technica C87 condenser microphone
     Recording medium used:  Kingsport 2 gigabyte SD[Secure Digital]memory card 362.4
megabytes, uncompressed WAV format)
     Recording engineer: Leary
Summary description of audio interview contents:
Now retired, Bunders talks about his experiences as an ironworker.
Audio Interview Contents:  George Bunders
Time                   Topic
0:04    Announcement, initial question–when and where born, how you got into ironworkers
trade?
0:32    I was born in Milwaukee, 1939, June 8th.  Moved to Madison when I was six months old
and I’ve been here ever since. So I attended high school here, and a couple years of college.  I
kinda was at an impasse and my father, who was also an ironworker, was a superintendent at a
company called Theodore Kupfer Ironworks. And he kind of put it to me, if he could get me an
apprenticeship would I be interested in it?  And I said, yes, because I was kind of at the end of my
rope.  I didn’t know what I wanted to do.  So that was my start. Started in February of 1960 as an
apprentice in 383.  I think that one of the other fellows you’ll talk to, Everett Erstad and I started
together.  His father was a foreman there [Kupfer Ironworks] also.  So we, the two of us, went to
Kupfer’s as apprentices. That’s where it all got started.  So I’m what you’d call a second
generation ironworker I guess.
2:12 [Tell me a little about your dad?  What his name was and where he was from.]   I was a
junior so he has the same name.  George Laurel Bunders and I’m a junior so, since he’s passed
away, I don’t use the junior anymore.  He started basically in the ironworkers way back in the
Second World War.  He worked at Wisconsin Foundry and worked on ship parts or something
like that.  He started working for Reynolds which is a company in Madison.  They had a few
ironworkers for moving things.  He started there and worked for them for quite a few years. 
There was a big teamster’s strike and Kupfer’s, the two bosses at Kupfer’s and Reynolds were
good friends and were at lunch.  They offered him a job to come to Kupfer’s to work and he
started there as a foreman.  Shortly after that, he became a general foreman for them, or a
superintendent.  He had a 45 year pin when he retired, before he died.  And I have a 50 year pin
so…we have lots of years behind our belt.  [So where did he grow up then?]  He was born in
Prairie du Chien.  He moved…said his sister got him out of the river bottom or he’d still be there. 
He went to Beaver Dam and began as a truck driver.  He used to drive truck for Kroger and
Kroger was based here in Madison.  That’s where he met my mother, working at Krogers’. 
During WWII, he got started and was an early welder.  He was learning welding when they were
using the bare sticks and stuff.  So he was in on the base…  There was a lot of welding in this
Wisconsin Foundry thing.  So he had his experience there.  As the war ended, the ironworkers
were looking for welders and he had experience.  Basically, that’s how he got started in the
ironworkers, as a welder.  At first the ironworkers didn’t recognize welders because there weren’t
a lot of them.  But then as the trade grew, welding became more prominent.  He was then
welcomed into the fold of ironworkers.  So I guess you’d say that I started in the era of when… 
The criteria for getting in was you had relatives or you knew someone, which is totally different
now.  You go through a process of tests and things.  Even though I had to take tests for the state
apprenticeship, I actually got in because I had an uncle who was an ironworker at one time and
my father…and a couple of friends that were in the trade.  So I guess that’s basically how I got
started in it.
6:30  [Did you have a sense growing up of ironworkers as a trade and a culture?]  Well, the
only…  Not early of course but…  I did as my father grew…as he grew into the trade, I was
conscious as I grew older of what he did.  I would go look at some of the things he’d built and
stuff so I had a sense of it.  But the actual know-how, I would be the first to admit that I had to
start from ground zero.  I learned what I know from the people in the trade. 
7:20  [Could you say a little bit about that process of learning?  How did you learn stuff as you
started out?  How much did you know going into it and…?]  Well, to be very honest, when I
started in the ironworkers, there were a lot of farmers.  They had worked with machinery and
probably repaired things.  I have to say I had to start at ground zero.  I had to learn my way
through what makes a welder work, how to get the engines running, all of this.  It was all new to
me.  So I guess for saying anything in my own stead, I did keep after it and try to watch and learn. 
I tried to pick up… And I had some really good mentors.  I had probably a really good friend
through many years who passed away in 1990 who was in the next apprentice class ahead of me. 
So he was getting done and I was starting.  We became great friends and he really kind of led me
by the nose, through the pitfalls and showed me what needs to be done to become a good
ironworker.  So that really helps to have people there.  And I get a lot of knowledge from my
father.  He was well respected and did a lot of pretty…for this area, fairly good sized projects. 
He gained knowledge through that and then just by doing it and learning…and not being afraid to
say that you don’t know it all.
9:30  [Tell me a little bit more about your friend.]  My friend was Dick Higby.  He was an
ironworker…he got out probably at age 55.  He was a foreman at Kupfer’s and we were basically
doing the same thing.  I became a foreman in the late 60s and so we were working together, doing
the same thing for Kupfer’s.  Socially, our wives got to know one another and we did a lot of
things away from work too.  It was a good relationship. 
10:20  [When you were first learning, were there people playing tricks on you some?]  Oh sure. 
Apprentices…that was…  I think it’s changed somewhat now.  When we taught, I taught
a—mentors, talking about mentors and how you need to bring these people on--they don’t know. 
You have to teach them.  But in 1960, when I started, the old timers looked on the apprentices
kind of like danger for their jobs.  And in some aspects, they probably were because I know that
at Kupfer’s, for instance, shortly after I started in 1960 and in the 60s, they made a big transition
from older ironworker foreman that they had over the years to a younger better trained probably a
little more active type of help.  So since it was…  But we all know that what you can do at 25 you
can’t do at 55 so you have to realize that at some point in time, someone is going to have to
replace you.  Even though you may not think that, this needs to happen and that’s been one of the
trade’s biggest drawbacks, I think.  They want to covet things for themselves and then all of a
sudden, they wake up one day and say, “I can maybe do this but I don’t really want to do this.  I
want some younger guy to do this.”  And so if you don’t train anyone, there is no one there to do
it.  [Did you have any tricks played on you?]  Oh, basically the…  In the early years you’re the
gopher.  They all say, go to the truck and get the come-along.  You’d run down six flights of
stairs, run back up there, bring it up… “Oh, we don’t need that now.  We’re done already.”  That
kind of thing.  It was just general joking, trying to trick you to doing something that they can
laugh at.  But as you go, if you’ve paid attention and watched.  That was one of my pet things as
a teacher to tell a younger apprentice how I learned is…  You don’t watch the guy that’s a fumble
bum…and struggling.  You’re not going to learn anything good from him.  You watch the guys
that make it look easy and know what they’re doing.  Pay attention to them.  You watch what
they do.  And most of them, if you talk nice to them, will show you how they do it.  They’ll talk
to you about how they do it.  That’s really much easier than to learn.
14:10   [Years ago, I used to work in the woods peeling popple bolts.  And then later on I did
interviews with loggers and there was a sawyer who ran a saw mill by a lever and a carriage. 
Very steady.  And there was another guy who loaded with a hydraulic clam onto not just a trailer
but a “pup” as they call it.  Where you had to load logs but couldn’t really see but kind of feel 
through the hydraulics. They said you could paint a picture on the side of his loads. Could you
talk about some guys who were really good and had good reputations.]   Guys would make jobs
look so simple.  Because I was a certified welder, I did some connecting but we were a small
company.  You’re talking about school houses and things but I never connected on a large
building like a power house and stuff, or a multi-storied building.  Some of these guys could…  In
the 60s, you know what I’m talking about.  In the late 60s, they quit doing it but they used to fill
our bag with bolts, climb a column, stick a stud wrench in, sit on it, and wait for a load to come. 
As I learned and became a foreman, I mean, you can do it that way but it’s a little more dangerous
and it’s hard on the man unless he’s really good at climbing.  And the potential for an accident is
higher.  As a foreman, we would try to send pieces so that they could work from one to the other
to the other and around in a circle.  The first piece, someone has to get up there to make it.  After
that, if the foreman is organized, he can send the pieces so that they can go to one to the other to
the other to the other without climbing up a bare column and sit there, waiting for the piece. 
There were any number of… A guy by the name of Norm Lenzer who was there when I first
started, could walk on anything, could climb, knew what he was doing.  He knew how to use his
spud wrench.  I saw guys who didn’t know to use a spud wrench get caught between the beam
and the column, and you can’t get the spud wrench out.  It’s bound in.  They got it in too deep
and it bound in.  And the early years, we used to do a double connecting, which now they’ve kind
of eliminated.  They have a few but they do what they call now an “OSHA connection,” which
OSHA had nothing to do with it.  The ironworkers were the ones who came up with the idea. 
They add an extra set of bolts.  You have to drill two more holes in the column.  Then put the
beam that you’re starting with, you have to have two more--an extra set of holes.  You can go
down there and the guy goes out to the blind column, he puts two bolts in the bottom home plate
and tightens them up.  He still can make a double connection because that next beam that comes
won’t have that.  There’s no safety problem.  Where the old connection…  The connector would
have to hold the beam with his spud wrench, take the nuts off the bolts, bring the piece in so it slid
on.  Try to get a nut started and then bring the piece around and keep holding it with the spud. 
That all works fine and dandy if you know what you’re doing, but if a column was a little bit out
of plumb and the anchor bolts aren’t just right, all of a sudden the column walks away from you. 
The beam is heavy.  All of a sudden your stud wrench is bound.  You can’t get it up.  You can’t
lift it up.  Too heavy of a beam.  Now it comes time for a come-along chokers and hook it up. 
Pull it in.  It’s like half an hour process, where these guys--the good ones would make it look like
clockwork.  If you got someone up there that didn’t know what they were doing, all of a sudden
you have a major problem.
19:02   [The come-along, is that a choker?]  It’s a lifting device with a handle and chain.  You can
reel the chain out and put a choker on the beam, put a choker on the column, if you had a column
above you.  Then you hook it up and jack it up, pull that weight up again so you could get the
spud and pull it back in.  Then sometimes you’d have to put one on the other way if the column
was too bad.  Pull it in tight and why, you made a bolt.  It got…  I’ve seen some hairy things. 
These guys would make it look pretty easy.  And of course the walking, which is practically out
of the picture now.  They’d get fired for that.  They’d walk across anything.  This Norm that I
talked about…  He would come to a column and instead of hanging onto the column, walking
around and going the other direction, he’d just jump across the corner.  He had big long legs and
he’d step three-four feet across and keep right on going down the other one, never slowing down. 
These guys were very good at what they do. 
20:22  To be perfectly honest, the things that have changed with safety, with OSHA, because of
accidents--if you had an accident, it was bad—but these guys, and I’m talking about a group, a
pair of connectors that worked together, that was their trade.  That was what they did and they
were very, very good at it.  I never saw one of them fall or injury themselves.  It was usually
people who were not good at it.  They’d do something stupid and get injured.  But they are also
part of the workforce so as safety and insurance got high, the contractor is willing to go by the
speed to get it done safely.  But as I told a lot of my apprentice classes, some watch some of the
old films.  What how they worked and watch what they did because you’ll not see it in your day
and age.  And that’s very true.  Now they use these basket booms and take two of them.  They go
up there and there’s a guy in this basket and a guy in that basket.  Then they make the beam and
they look at one another to see, well, am I going to get out and take the choker off or are you
going to go out?  And this was all clockwork when two connecters would work together.  They
would trade, one would make the live end one time and the next time, the other guy would go.  It
was the up-most that I can remember, working as a foreman, that if that ball wasn’t down in 30
seconds, he was screaming.  “What’s going on up there?”  The whole thing was that—“If you
can’t make the bolt, stick your permit in it.”  They would take…not that it was safe or anything
but… 
22:50   Crane time and availability were so critical that if there was something wrong with the
connection and they couldn’t make it, stick a piece of 9 wire in it or something like that.  Wire it
off.  Let the bolt-up gang take care of it because the crane was so critical that it was needed at
another job.  You had to be done…well, we’re going to be done here Thursday and the crane had
a place to go on Friday.  Nowadays, cranes are available everywhere.  We used to arrive on jobs,
we’d be the only crane on the job.  We would be a premium.  Everybody on the job would be
looking for a—“Jeez, can you give us a pick over here.  Can you lift this up for us?  Can you do
that?”  Yeah, later, when we weren’t so busy.  Then we used to do it quite a bit.  Nowadays, it’s
so changed.  The first jobs I was one, the old mechanical cranes with the steel booms, without the
hydraulic, it would take a day to put a big crane together, a whole day.  Now they arrive on a job. 
The operator can give you 200 feet of boom in ten minutes and do it all by himself.  The
ironworkers used to--that was one of our things.--the operators liked working with ironworkers
because we always chipped in and helped them.  Get the riggers out and pick up the pads, put
them in…  The ironworker always did that because he depended on that operator for your life. 
He was that …  He was a real plus.  And that’s the other thing that made ironworkers easy or
hard.  You have a good operator, setting steel, no problem.  If you’re the foreman and I want that
end to go that guy…  You take it up 2-3 floors and boom, that guy would have that in.  He knew
how to turn it, get it to the guy, put it to him  where it didn’t knock him off. 
25:14  We had an old timer, and he was an old timer when I got there at Kupfer’s in 1960.  He
didn’t have a huge crane but it would have 85 foot of boom with a jib on it.  If you were setting
chintzy little stuff that was hard to get out, to get the choker, he would always say just leave it. 
When he’d get a little slack time, he’d go up there with a hook and pull the chokers off.  His
depth perception was that good.  He could reach up a couple of floors, 60 feet, and put that hook
over there.  Pretty soon he’d have that choker off of there without anybody…  His name was Otto
Renewatts [Reneau? Renoir?].  He was a heavy set guy, bachelor, lived alone.  He was the
primary operator at Kupfer’s when I got there.  He liked his beer but he could do the job.  These
were all pull out riggers on this crane.  You’d have to carry it around.  He had this big 12 by 12
about foot and a half long…  That was always on the back of the crane.  We’d say, “do you want
the riggers out, Otto?”  “Naw, naw.  Just put that 12 by under the back or in the middle…”  And
he’d get something on the front of the crane and it would be four feet off the ground and he’d be
fishing it in like a big fish bowl.  He knew what he was doing and he was excellent at it.  Until he
got a little older and then of course he was, like everyone, did less.  Very good.
27:28   [Any good welders, too, that were special?]  Yeah, I always…prided myself I guess for
being a fairly good welder.  I mean there were lots but I said you can teach anyone to weld but
you can’t teach, unless they want to, to be a very good welder.  Sometimes it is a multiple pass
weld.  It’s kind of a monotonous type job.  You’ve got to want to do it right, to do it good.  I
always looked at when they start a beam and weld a beam… what it would look like when it
finished.  Some guys would get to the top and leave a half an inch.  They wouldn’t finish what
they were doing, finish it off.  “Make it look like a tradesman did it,” as opposed to someone that
just didn’t care.  So it…  And that evolved through my time.  Welding was really coming on.  In
fact, at the [Dane County] Coliseum, I was one of the welders on the Coliseum.  That was our
first introduction to a rod we called 70-18 which is low hydrogen which is used almost exclusively
on any structural welds.  They even…now, we’ve transgressed to the wire feed even is coming in. 
In the 60s it was pretty much 100% stick welding.  Now, if they got column splices and things,
they use wire feed.  It speeds it up.  It’s more uniform.  [Continuous feed?]  Yeah, the drawback
to a wire feed is that you have to have the spool on the thing.  So you can’t carry…like, climbing
around on stuff, like that, you can’t climb with it. But if you’re on a multi-story building like this,
if these columns where they splice have to be welded, of course, you’ve got a floor.  So now you
can bring the wire feed there.  Sit right by the column and it speeds up that welding process by a
ten-fold.  You figure that a 14 inch welding rod and you burn it down about 12 inches and you
throw two away.  Where this wire, you’re just whoossshhh--you may lose a half an inch here or
there but you’re not wasting time.  You can go clear across or stick if you start and you have a
twelve inch column.  You’re not going to make it with one rod.  You have to stop and that means
you have to re-start.  The wire feed, you just keep coming across.   You don’t have as many
re-starts in your weld which is basically where you may leave a foreign particle in there, where
you make your re-starts.
31:00   [We’ve talked a little bit about changes in technology with welding.  What about welders’
gear, you know…  What they would wear so there wouldn’t be sparks in it.  Has it changed over
the years and what did you start out with, what did your gang wear?]  Well, I always wore cotton
gloves because of the fact that we were doing more than welding.  If you’re sitting on a stool and
you’re welding here, you can put on those big leather gloves because they’re heat resistant and
sparks don’t get to you.  But if you’re welding here and then over there you’re putting nuts on a
bolt, they just don’t work.  They’re too clumsy.  You couldn’t do the things you needed to do.  I
always wore the cotton gloves with the gauntlet to keep the fire out of your wrist.  If you wore
just gloves, you’d always get the thing in…and the gauntlets helped.  Keeping the fire with the
torch.  Lots of times it backfires on you.  They just improved hoods and devices that we had to
wear them on the hard hats.  There were a lot of guys who didn’t want the hard hat.  Use the old
thing.  Well then, they said you had to have the hard hat.  Then they came up with lots of different
ways you could fasten them on.  They had little horns on the side and the pins that went into some
of them.  There was a ring that came over and snapped over it.  I used that kind.  I guess I
preferred the pin ones.  They were less apt to get broke.  Then you just went and popped it on. 
That was one sign of a welder.  They almost always wore their hard hats backwards.  The bill was
in the back because if you’re a welder, you can’t have the bill there so that kind of distinguished
us.  I think the ironworkers liked it because we thought we were a little different.  We always
wore them backwards even if we weren’t welding so…
33:43    [Years ago, in the 60s and 70s, you used to see sometimes guys where cotton or polka
dot hats with a high crown and a long bill; you wore ‘em backwards and they were called welder’s
caps.]  I think basically I think it originated to my knowledge fitters, steamfitters, did a lot of
sit-down welding.  That’s no longer…  Their trade has changed so much.  They used to get boxes
full of elbows and 20 foot lengths of pipe and then they’d sit and weld, and weld on elbows, and
make up these pieces.  Now all that stuff comes shipped in.  Some are all put together and then
they just make a couple of connections and it’s all done.  Plumbers the same way.  It used to take
them days to hook up a bathroom in a public building, you know, where they had four or five
stools and all this.  They’d build it all individually.  Now the whole kit ‘n’ kaboodle comes in all
put together.  They bring it in, they set it on the floor, line it up.  Put two anchors in and it’s done. 
The fitters, just like the ironworker with his hat backwards, a fitter always had these fancy looking
hats.  Not that some ironworkers didn’t.  Some guys wore them.  If you were doing a lot of
welding, some of them would get, they’d go to the welding shop and get these little beanies. 
They wouldn’t even have a bill on them.  They’d wear that beanie to protect from…and then
they’d put their hood over before they’d force you into wearing a hard hat.  It’s a little hard to
wear a hat under there, although I have seen some.  They’d wear a billed hat, turn it around
backwards and put their hard hat over that.  [This guy was showing me that the bill of the
cap…where they had so many seams sown on.  That was supposed to mean something…?]  I
don’t know that.  I’m not familiar with that.
36:10  [Do welders drink anything to protect their throat?]  Water.  I was doing some welding up
at the Sheboygan power house.  Galvanizing is bad.  It’s hard to weld because you have that
coating on there.  To really get any penetration, you almost have to burn the galvanizing off. 
While you’re… You’d make a pass with 60-11 which had a little more dig to it and not so much
flux.  And your first pass would kind of burn the galvanizing away and make room.  Then you’d
clean that off real good, sometimes grind it.  Then put your finish pass on it.  I was working one
day on this intake and there were these baffles had to be welded on ‘cause the water would swirl
in from the lake.  There were big plates and they had to be welded 100% up the side.  I was in
there all day and I was looking around.  It was like the whole room was blue…  I was in and out,
but I was welding a lot.  I went to the motel by myself.  I got there and I thought…geez.  It’s
freezing.  I was shivering.  I got into bed, covered up and I still couldn’t get warm.  I deducted
after a while that I think I have galvanized poisoning.  I didn’t know what to do.  I’m there all by
myself.  So I took some aspirin and finally it went away.  But that’s not a good thing.  I probably
was really close to…  And then your tolerance for that, after that whenever I was anywhere near
it, I could just taste it immediately.  It does something to your body and it reacted to it.  The other
thing welders--your hair growth in your nose.  My nose hair when I was welding would just grow
profusely.  You had to be trimming it all the time.  It’s a protective thing.  Your body is reacting
to that.  Fortunately, the ironworker probably escaped some because we did a lot of welding in
the air, in the wind.  But like those situations that I was speaking of, where you’re in enclosed
rooms, even regular welding was not…  I always joked that they put warnings on the welding rod
cans about twenty years after I welded.  I said, “What does that do for me for the first 20 years?” 
So...you know…  So far I haven’t had any emphysema and my air is pretty good.  I feel like I got
away pretty easy.  My knees are probably the worst.  I had this one replaced and this one probably
should be.  They got banged.  Kneeling on concrete, that was the worst thing.  In the winter time,
you’d be doing stuff, drilling holes and kneeling on the ground to tighten anchor bolts and stuff. 
It takes its toll. 
40:18  [Could you talk about weather…as an ironworker?]  That was the thing.  Being a foreman,
it was a kind of a funny thing.  I kind of got started early knowing that unless I worked, I wasn’t
going to get paid.  So early in my career, I took the option that saying it’s too cold.  If there was
any possibility of working, I worked, because that’s when I got a paycheck.  Then through my
foreman years, it got quite funny.  There are those days that it was very, very miserable in the
winter time.  When it’s 10 below zero, the higher you go in the air, the colder it gets.  If you can
do something on the ground, it’s a whole lot different.  I would usually, as a foreman, try to find
something…  Like if we would be setting iron and that first two hours are the worst.  You’re
coming out of the warm car.  You’ve listened all the way to the job site, you’ve listened about the
wind chill factor.  You don’t even know if it’s the same where you are but you’ve heard it. 
They’re saying this thing…and these guys, before they even set foot out of the trailer door,
they’ve already made up their minds that its too cold.  So I always tried to get them… “Well, let’s
try it to coffee break.  We’ll go out, we’ve got something to do.  Let’s shake out some iron, let’s
do it.  Keep moving.  Let’s see how we feel when we come in and have a cup of coffee at 10
o’clock if we want to do it or not.”  Most cases, we’d end up working the day.  And then the
majority of the crews said, “No, we don’t want to work.”  Then we wouldn’t work.  But I found
it to be very strange because on Monday, it would be cold.  They’d say, “Oh, this is too bad.  We
can’t work.”  Tuesday would come and it wouldn’t be any better.  So “Oh, we couldn’t work
yesterday so we can’t work today.”  Wednesday comes and it was probably worse than the first
two days.  But in the back of their mind, gee… Two days…  If I don’t work today, I’ll only have
two days of work.  So they end up working on Wednesday in conditions that were worse than
Monday because of this thing in the back of their mind that says, hey, I’m not going to have any
pay this week.  It’s just a way…human nature.  You just can’t…
43:30   [It reminds me of a story a logging camp in the UP.  Big Eric Erickson got together with
his men Monday.  And said, “Well, boys…it’s Monday…and its pretty cold.  Pretty soon it will be
Tuesday…and Wednesday…  We don’t have no work done yet.]  LAUGHS
44:02   [So how was it being a foreman, the pusher…?]  The head foreman you worked for… 
There are guys you enjoy working with.  I guess I was the type that I didn’t tell anybody to do
anything that I wouldn’t do myself.  And I worked with them most of the time.  There are times
when you’re setting the iron, you’re reading the prints.  There is no way that you can do that. 
That’s your job and you have to be doing it.  But when that was done, I was up there doing the
same thing they were doing.  So I was not asking them to go up there and freeze their butt and me
sitting in a trailer, looking out the window.  If they were working there, I was working there.  I
found that I think guys respected that.  I was able to get them to work by respect more than
screaming at them and telling them “Get doing this and doing that.”  I always said “If that’s what
a foreman has to do, if I have to scream at people and make them ugly to get them to work, then I
don’t want the job.  I’ll just be one of the guys that works.”  It seems to have worked out for me. 
I was real fortunate in my later years and I would go to work for people who had work for me. 
They would say, “What do you want to do?”  And I’m like, I thought I was supposed to be told
what to do.  I felt good about that…that I didn’t burn bridges behind me because there were
people out there that would play the big time and then you’d learn, if you were in the trades as
long as I was, that you can be top dog one day and the next week you might be down here--
because I see the cycling in the company.  One company could do no wrong for a while.  Get
every job that they bid.  Then they get enough work so they coast a little bit.  So then the next
guy steps in and he starts sharpening his pencil.  So he might be the big dog here, but then all of a
sudden, “Oh, this is the last job we have and I don’t know where we’re going next week.”  You
might be the top dog, but see ya.   Now you’re over there, working for that guy and someone else
is up there…  So you learn quickly, don’t burn too many bridges in one place.
47:24   [Did you boom around to many places?]  I didn’t…well…  I don’t know if you’d call it
booming out but the first…  I worked for Kupfer’s for 25 years.  The first 15 or 20 of that, I
mean, I spent more time out of Madison than I did here.  We had a lot of work in Kenosha. 
Rockford, north Chicago even. We went as far as north Chicago.  I had guys from Local #1.  I
had guys from #63.  Local #8, #498 in Rockford.  We were pretty much gone a lot.  Being that
my father being the superintendent, and he was telling me where to go, I didn’t really bitch too
much.  I’d say, okay…  I thought about it a lot of time but I figured he had a lot on his plate
anyway.  There were guys who would whine…  “Why do I got to be the guy who goes there?”  I
was down in Kenosha.  I was stuck there doing 3-4 jobs in a row.  One would start one after
another.  “Well, you’re down there, you can do this.”  I was ready to come home and have
someone else do one.  But that’s the way it was.
49:00  [Would you live in a motel or…?]  Mostly.  Yeah.  We started back in the days before we
had… When I started in 1960, there was no nothing.  The contractor didn’t have to pay you
anything.  If you decided it was too far for you to drive, you stayed over.  So we’d find the most
cheap motel.  I remember staying down in Kenosha in a motel for $2.50/night, no bathroom
…one down the hall.  Sink in the room, no shower.  Living on a second or third floor of a rickety
old hotel.  One of the first jobs…a big school, Tremper High School in Kenosha.  We had this job
trailer, they bought a new semi-trailer and we outfitted the thing.  We put bunks in it.  It was the
job trailer but we put bunks in it, three of us slept in it.  We had a plug in.  They hooked power up
and we had an electric heater which was sufficient.  But we’d bring a camp stove and everybody’d
bring something along.  We’d eat at least a couple three meals in there.  We’d stay in this job
trailer basically.  At that time, I was working out of the Milwaukee local and they did have… You
got…  First it was $3/day and then if you went back on Monday, you would get paid for Saturday
and Sunday.  So that was, 3 bucks, that was $21/week.  That was your money to stay out of
town.  Then Milwaukee went up to $5, and that was $35/week.  Working in Milwaukee, the scale
was higher…then the $35/week, I did pretty well.  It didn’t probably cover drinking beer at night,
but we rented an apartment over a tavern in Kenosha.  There were five of us and it cost $80 a
month and they had enough beds for five of us to sleep up there.  We had a kitchen and two
bedrooms and a living room.  Five of us slept up there.  It did have a shower and a bathroom
upstairs.  And with that, we paid $16/month, 5 of us paid $16/month [each].  That was about as
cheap as you could get.  That was about half of our $35/week and the other was spent on food
and beer.
52:26   [Was there a lot of beer drinking?]  Yeah, that’s part of the thing when you were young. 
That’s another thing you have to learn how to pace yourself with that.  So many of them… 
Luckily I got through it or had enough brains or what and made it through.  After I started
teaching the apprentices, I would come in after drinking…  I have to admit that the 60s was a
much milder with drunk driving and all that.  I mean now they are all over.  You get stopped,
you’re had.  Back in those days, they might tell you, “Get your ass home” or “Get off the road.” 
They don’t do that anymore.  I would see it in some instances…I could see it coming with
premises.  The last one all I can remember is down at University Hospitals.  We were working
there and we got rained out early, like 10 in the morning.  “Oh, let’s go to the tavern.”  We went
out on University Avenue, had a drink, and then we got just about to noon and I thought, “It’s
time for me to get out of here because I could see this coming.”  So about that time, here comes
one of our bosses, we were working for Findorff’s then.  So one of our bosses came in.  He had
left me in charge and he comes.  Fresh money.  So he buys a couple of drinks.  I had two more
and then I got out.  The next morning, we get to the job and this one young dude…  “I wonder
where Dean is today?”  “Dean didn’t show up.”  About 10 here he comes, head hanging down.  “I
got drunken driving ticket last night.”  “I don’t like telling you this but I could see that coming.” 
And then...  I don’t know how you…  Either you’re lucky or you’re a little bit smart but he got
clocked going 55 on a city street.  To me, that’s not too smart, especially if you’ve been drinking. 
You better follow the rules.  That kind of thing happens.
55:11   [Years ago, you hear about some guys drinking on the job…]  When I first started, the
joke was…  If you said, “Well, we have a job in Platteville.”  It wasn’t 80 miles to Platteville, it
was how many six packs it took to get back from Platteville.  That was the standard.  “That’s a
three six pack job,” so then you knew it was at least 80 miles away.  I thought that was kind of a
joke.
56:00  [So did you work with or meet some characters…?]  Oh definitely, there are a lot of
characters in the ironworkers.  I enjoyed working for the guy because he was fun to be around. 
By the name of Charlie Miller.  He lived down by Edgerton and worked at Kupfer’s a lot.  I
worked with him on and off.  Then he moved up by La Crosse and my parents lived up along the
river so I had a project up on the St. Francis Hospital in La Crosse.  Charlie lived on Stoddard
and my parents lived at Victory so he came to work for me up there, working out of La Crosse.  I
said, “Charlie, I’m driving the company truck and living with my folks.  I drive right by your place
so you might as well ride with me.”  So yeah, that sounded good to him.  I’d pick him up in the
morning.  That was a hot time of the year and there was a little tavern down the street.  We’d stop
and have a couple of glasses of beer.  We’d usually have 2-3 and then head on down the
[Mississippi] river.  I was sitting there one night and I told him when we went in, “Charlie, my
parents are going to Prairie du Chien.  I have relatives down there and I’m riding down with them. 
I can only have a couple and then we’ll hit the road.”  So every time I’d turn and talk to someone,
and every time I turned my head, I’d look back and my glass would be full of beer again.  So…we
had about 4-5 and Charlie said, “Okay, are you ready to go?”  I said, “To hell with you.  Do you
think you’re pulling the wool over my eyes?  I see what’s going on over here.  You just think I’m
going to leave now.  I’m too late to go with my parents.  I’m staying now.”  So he continued on
for another hour or so.  I dropped him off at Stoddard.  The next morning I come and I pull up in
front of the house.  No Charlie comes out.  I wait a little bit and pretty soon the door opens and
he comes out.  He’s humped over and gets in the truck and says, “My chest hurts so bad.  I got
home last night and I sat at the kitchen table and I got one shoe off and I passed out and fell
down.  I laid on that shoe all night long.  My wife wouldn’t even get me up.  I laid on that shoe. 
It feels like it’s right through my chest.”  I said, “Serves you right.  That’s the pain you get for
being like that.”  He was a character.  Tell jokes…he could tell jokes.  Just mention a subject and
he had six jokes…  He worked for me with another job by Hales Corners.  We used to drive that
and stop…  He’d come from a different direction and we’d get there early.  We’d stop and have a
cup of coffee before we got to work.  We’d go in this restaurant and its busy.  There’s a couple of
waitresses and they’re just working their tails off and their ugly.  They’re not happy.  Charlie
comes in there and starts telling jokes.  First no one would make a sound.  Then a couple of
people at the counter would start laughing.  Before we left, he had both them waitresses just
about falling down in the aisle.  They were all happy and when we first came in, they were about
as ugly as you could get.  He was quite the guy.
1:00:19   [Did nicknames come into play much?]  Oh, yeah.  I think you talked to Dave Nelson,
he always went by Tinker.  I worked a lot with Arnie Freitag and his actual name is Harlan and
hardly anyone called him…  It was either Arnie or Harnie…or…  Nick Rochon, we worked with
him.  He had long hair and a big beard all the time.  We called him The Roach.  So there were lots
of nicknames and stuff.
01:01:10    [We’ve talked for over an hour…and it was a pretty good session.  Do you have
something that I didn’t bring up that you’d like to mention?]  I guess…you know…talking about
the general working situations…  I felt like I was very fortunate, like I explained.  I got my start
and then my really working at learning…and doing extra curricular things to learn more.  Just
pure luck of going through probably one of the early 80s, which was about as bad as it is today.  I
happened to be sitting in a good position.  I had a good job and I was foreman and they still had
work, so I slid right through that.  The 60s when I started, I mean…  There was a shortage of
good help.  They were looking, the jobs were just popping up.  Kupfer’s would get so many jobs. 
I remember my Dad saying that they had so many jobs on the list, and he’d say, “Bid it high.” 
And they’d still get it.  It didn’t make any difference.  They had these clusters of little contractors
in these little towns and they were all busy.  If they got a job, we got the job.  It was almost
automatic, even though it was done by a bid process.  They weren’t looking anywhere else.  They
were looking at Kupfer’s.  I remember in the 60s my Dad telling the foreman before I was a
foreman that if they were setting steel, putting up buildings, you don’t do any finish work like
stairways.  That was only done on rainy days when you could go inside.  Otherwise, they were
just put on the table.  When a rainy day came along, he’d reach in the pile and say, “Here’s an
inside job, you can go do this.”  But there was so much stuff going on that they couldn’t, they
needed to get it up in a certain point in time.  They had so many miscellaneous jobs like that. 
01:03:53   I remember working one period…  I think it was almost 6 months.  I’d put up a little
steel here and there, but basically did ornamental work.  Stairways, railings, cat walk here…  I did
that for almost six months.  Sometimes you have to write down notes, because I’d forget from
Monday to Friday…  I’d be saying to the guys, “Where were we at?  What were we doing?”  We
might’ve had three jobs on Tuesday.”  And if you don’t write it down, pretty soon you’d have it
all jumbled in.  I didn’t even know what to put down.  So you had to, I’m sure you had people
with equal talent as me just weren’t as lucky and didn’t hit in the right places.  I was very, very
fortunate and the other thing was that I didn’t burn any bridges.  I kept…  I never was turned
away.  If I got laid off from a company and the next time they called for a man, they didn’t say,
“No, I don’t want George.”  I went back to work there because I didn’t do anything to mess that
up.
01:05:28   [Is this trellis or swing set your work?]  Yeah, I just built that swing set for a little girl. 
[Was that pretty common for ironworkers who were welders?]  Yeah, some do.  Eddie [Smith],
who you just saw.  He’s really into it.  He sells at shows and stuff.  He’s made a lot of that stuff
over at that electrical thing.  He’s getting very talented at that.  I made that trellis there.  I
volunteer over at Habitat [for Humanity] at the store over there.  I found that stuff over there that
came from Springs out here, the place that makes the blinds.  When they brought those things in,
they were curtain rods.  I thought I could do something with those…so I made that trellis.  I made
a couple more of them and they sold ‘em.  They were having kind of an art project sale and I
made a couple and sold ‘em at their thing. I don’t know what they were sold for…$35 or
something.  It didn’t take that long.  And I’ve got a trellis thing and a gate over on the other side
that I built.  That light post out there, I put that together.  [I want to take a few pictures here.] 
The stuff I picked up and cut it down and made it to fit what I do.  I’ve been doing…  Tomorrow
I probably got to call this guy from Habitat.  I do some welding for them.  On their jobs they have
things to store, propane tanks and stuff.  And OSHA of course wants them to be in a cage.  I
made some frames and he was going to bolt them together.  He called back and he said, “I think it
would be a whole lot easier if we welded that together.”  So I got to do that now for him.  That’s
what I prefer to do.  I’ve got a little scroll-bender, like Eddie [Smith], some of the stuff that he
does.  I haven’t tried to…  I’ve done projects where people will pay me for my time but I’ve tried
not to get into it as a business because then, to me, it’s like I’m back working again.  And I like it
where I am now.  So I love to do…to fix things for people and weld things for them.  Most of the
time I don’t charge them anything. 
01:08:28   [Years ago, would there be much scrap on the job?]  Oh yeah, and that was another
thing about working at Kupfer’s.  They were a fabricator.  The trucks, we always carry extra
angle [iron].  Every job had something left over.  Pretty soon the truck would have a ton of iron
on it and what am I going to do with it?  So I stored it in my garage.  I’d put piece of angle scrap
out of the railings that came out with a piece of strap on it to keep the pipes spread.  You knock it
off and what are you going to do with it?  You throw it on the truck.  I had all this iron.  So my
wife was saying, “What are you going to do with all of this stuff?”  I told her, “Don’t worry,
someday I’ll use it.  And gradually…I built a lot of things out of that.  It just blows my mind when
I go to the store and buy from Wiedenbeck’s and I’ll take the bill and I’ll say, “See why I kept
that stuff?  See what that piece of angle cost?”   “Oh” she’d say.  LAUGHS 
01:09:44 [I’d love to make copies of these.  Is that you in that picture?]  No, this is a gal…and
was taken in Kenosha.  She came out of…  She was an ironworker from Alaska and a lady… 
This is back in the early 80s, so women were pretty new to the trade.  She came out and worked
on that job. 
01:10:25  This is Baraboo, the courthouse in Baraboo.  That was a job that I went in the hall. And
that’s McFarland’s and Sauk was the fabricator.  I went into the hall, I was out of work and Sam
[Wilcox] said, “This Marcon & Johnson [sp?] is going to build this building up in Baraboo… 
This is a picture of it here.  And they want a foreman to run the steel for a couple of weeks
because their major foreman setting steel is going on vacation.  So I said sure…I’ll go up and see. 
Someone from the company didn’t tell the superintendent.  So I go up there and go in the shack. 
There’s no one in there so I’m looking at the prints to see what it consisted of.  The
superintendent comes in and he’s like, “Who are you?”  And I told him that Sam sent me up here
because you needed a foreman.  Well nobody told him, he didn’t know anything.  So I just left
and went home.  I get home and Sam calls and then the superintendent calls and he goes, “I’m
sorry.  I didn’t know.  I didn’t know that you were supposed to come here.”  So the next day I
went back and as it turned out, apparently they were pleased with what I did while the guy was
gone.  So they had me continue to erect the iron, and when he came back, he did the detail work. 
It was a nice job. 
01:12:39   [These are some topping out…]  Yeah, that was the beam, the last beam.  There’s a
picture of it going up from there.  That was something I took on a vacation.  When I go on
vacation, I’m always looking at iron.  [Is this one, the one with the beam…]  Yeah, that’s the last
beam.  [In Baraboo there?]  Yeah.  There’s a picture of the connectors waiting for the last piece. 
PAUSE
01:13:20   This is kind of a different deal here.  This was in Sparta and this fence was around a
square in Sparta.  We took…  This Jim Hind, who was a Findorff guy that got killed on the job… 
We were out there and we had to cut this all up in sections.  They sent it back to the shop here at
Kupfer’s.  If you go by the governor’s mansion, this is the fence from there.
01:14:09   [That is kind of spear looking—in reference to a fence.]  Yes, and it’s all cast.  They
took the parts and made enough so that it could be put up around the governor’s mansion, all
across the front.  [This is you here…]  Yes, this is me and this is young Jim Hein there.  I look a
little younger there for some reason.  LAUGHS   [Leary does some copy photo work and talks
about working in a foundry. George shows photos, including one of his apprenticeship class.] 
This is Everett, the one that you’re going to talk to…when we were young dudes.  And here is a
guy by the name of Jimmy Carter.  [Did that come into the trade much, a sense that some people
were Irish or German…?]  PAUSE 
01:16:38  This was at St. Francis Hospital up in La Crosse.  [This is lunch with people…]  Yeah. 
This was the bunch that we had up in Baraboo.  [What building is this up in Baraboo?]  It’s the
county courthouse.  Yeah. 
01:17:55  [That would have been in 1960…]  That would’ve been in 1963.  I started in 1960 and
this was our finishing up the apprenticeship.  That’s the governor’s mansion or the remainder of
it.  I had a piece of…right where that trellis is there [from the ornamental cast metal fence].  I had
it up and using it as a decoration in the thing because it was pretty historic.  We had a tornado go
through here in 2004 and blew a big limb out of the tree and just smashed the thing.  Bent it all
over.  I finally ditched it.  [Oh no.  Okay, I think I’ll turn this off and play it back…]