Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
1 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
Project: Nursing America’s Veterans 
Name of person interviewed: Dana Duncan (DD) 
Facts about this person: 
Sex: Female 
Occupation: Registered Nurse 
Residence: Washington, DC 
Interviewer: Alana Glaser (AG) 
Transcriber:  Laura L. Becker (LLB) 
Interview location: remote 
Date of interview: 
3/19/21 
Key Words 
Queens, New York; Long Island Jewish Hospital which is now Northwell Hospital, the New 
Hyde Park Campus, personal history, father with end-stage renal disease, dialysis, disability, 
African American, College of New Rochelle, nursing school, want to help people, St. John’s 
University, Master’s in Public Health, Master’s in Community Health, teaching, veterans, 
Veterans Administration (VA), COVID, road warrior, safety issues in the community, scope of 
practice, vesting at the VA, inequities in health care, empowerment of the individual. 
Abstract 
In this interview, Dana Duncan describes her experiences growing up in Queens, New York.  
She discusses her father’s diagnoses of end-stage renal disease, and how she learned how to help 
take care of him and did not want to go into the medical field.  Dana says the only thing she 
really wanted to do was to help people.  She discusses how her father’s illness shaped her into 
the nurse that she is, and how she ended up working in the Veterans Administration (VA) and 
Community Health Care field.  Finally, she discusses her hopes for families of veterans getting 
the care for their loved one that they need, and giving directions on where to start. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
2 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
Index 
[0:00] Introduction of Dana Duncan, where she works, and how long she has been an RN, brief 
history of her early history and educational background. 
[1:32] Dana’s most interesting academic subjects, extracurricular activities growing up. 
[02:28] Dana describes her personal memory of her father being diagnosed with end-stage renal 
disease, how it was like taking care of him, both parents being in the medical field and how his 
illness shaped her experiences. 
[07:27] Dana describes when she finally decided to pursue nursing as a career instead of being 
the attorney that she originally planned to be.  
[11:40] Dana describes where she went to college, undergrad and graduate school, her first job as 
a nurse, and the degree she decided to pursue in graduate school.  Dana also describes how an 
instructor got her started in teaching and became an Adjunct Clinical Instructor. 
[21:42] Dana describes what Community Health and Public Nursing means, and the difference 
between patient care in the hospital versus in their own home. 
[23:32] Dana described what she does as the RN Case Manager for the VA, describes a typical 
work week, the area that she works in, safety issues in some of the areas.  Dana also describes 
the types of patients she sees when she visits veterans in their homes, typical diagnosis. 
[37:04] Dana describes being a part of the Interdisciplinary Team, what the benefits and 
drawbacks are of working in that way.  Dana also talks about liking her job. 
[42:43] Dana describes the day to day changes that came with COVID, being safely creative to 
take care of patients in the their home versus a hospital, describes the challenges of home health 
aides and telehealth visits, gives a parallel to being in “war”. 
[53:02] Dana describes what made the VA so appealing to work at versus the private sector, 
compare health care plans during President Obama’s term, talks about the Lombardi Program in 
NY and getting into the federal government.  Dana talks about teaching at Howard University, 
and how that led her to the VA.  Dana also talks about taking her career to the next level and 
becoming a nurse practitioner. 
[59:01] Dana describes the difference between a nurse practitioner and an RN, describes DNP 
(doctorate in nursing practice).  Dana also talks about how her role will change when she’s a NP. 
Dana describes the challenging and rewarding aspects of her job. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
3 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
[1:08:57] Dana describes the services that are needed to improve or provide care for the elderly 
population, particularly veterans towards the end of life.  Dana describes the changes that she has 
seen over her 8 year career with the VA. 
[1:12:09] Dana concludes by describing what she hopes for her “legacy listeners” regarding 
finding a career that they love.  She also hopes that families will come to the VA for the 
veterans. 
[1:14:07] End of audio 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
4 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
AG:  Okay.  Hi Dana.  Thank you so much for participating in the Library of Congress Oral 
History Interviews.  Can I ask you to introduce yourself? 
DD:  Sure.  My name is Dana Summer Duncan.  I’m a registered nurse currently working at the 
Washington DC Veterans Administration (VA) Hospital, and I’ve been there for eight years, but 
this year I’ll be a nurse -- a RN for 19 years. 
AG:  Oh wow.  Nineteen years.  That’s terrific.  Congratulations. 
DD:  (Inaudible 0:00:30.6) happen.   
AG:  Time flies right?  Can we start by talking a bit about like your early history, and your 
educational background? 
DD:  Sure.  Like how far back you want to go? 
AG:  Yeah. Well (inaudible 0:00:42.7) -- 
DD:  Like elementary school? 
DD:  Okay. 
AG:  Where did you grow up for example? 
DD:  I grew up in Elmont, Long Island, which is the beginning of Nassau County borderlines 
Queens, New York or one of the five boroughs of New York City.  I went to a local elementary 
school, Alden Terrace, until sixth grade, and from seventh grade to twelfth grade, I went to 
Elmont Memorial Junior and Senior High School.  A lot of people were like “is that a private 
school?" 'cause I went there from seventh all the way to twelfth grade in the same building with 
the same people, but no -- that’s where I went to junior high school and high school, and then 
after that I went to college. 
[01:32] AG:  Do you remember what subjects you were most interested in growing up?  Like 
what academic subjects? 
DD:  Oh, yeah.  Definitely.  I loved Social Studies, and I loved Science.  Let me be specific 
because I did not like Earth Science, but I loved anything that dealt with the body.  So Biology 
was my thing.  Yeah.  Those are my favorite subjects. 
AG:  Did you have any extracurricular or social activities that you did growing up? 
DD:  Most of my teachers thought I was a social butterfly.  So I would say that was one of my 
social activities, but I ran track for a very long -- track and field for a very long time.  I ran -- 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
5 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
started running track at the age of seven, and I ran track until I was 17, until my senior year. 
Mm-hmm. 
 
[02:28] AG:  Oh wow.  Excellent.  And do you have any memories when you were growing up 
of visiting like a doctor or a medical facility for yourself or illness or injury? 
 
DD:  Yes.  Personal story.  My father had end-stage renal disease.  He was diagnosed, I want to 
say in his 30’s, maybe like 32 years old.  At that time, he was someone who was working a full 
time job.  He was actually a hospital administrator, and my mother -- and then it was my brother, 
and myself at that time so that was circa 1984, and for a couple of years my father used to go to 
the dialysis center, but this is somebody who was still high functioning, and he wanted no parts 
of going there.  So we transitioned him home to be on a dialysis machine -- a hemodialysis 
machine so the technology is not what it is today.  So that responsibility, in a weird way, fell on 
my siblings and I; both my brother and myself.  My mother had to work a full time job.  At that 
point, my father, you know, went out on disability because he could no longer work, and it 
literally became -- you know like how children have chores?  It literally became that, you know, 
and it wasn’t anything I thought about on, you know, managing that until I got older, and I 
remember my father saying -- I said to him “I want to give you my kidney.  If this is going to fix 
you, I want to give you my kidney”, and he said “I don’t want you to do that.  I want none of that 
from my family, but what I do want you to do is to either be able to change people’s lives who 
have end-stage renal disease or become a scientist and figure out how to make a artificial 
kidney.”  And I remember this -- this is when I’m four years old at this point.  So I like to say 
that we had a mini ICU in our house.  I learned about, you know, you know, change in 
hypovolemia where, you know, the person is passing out in front of me, and what to do to, you 
know, recline the chair that he would dialyze in, and elevate his legs, and -- yeah.  So this was a 
lot, but like I said, you don’t think anything of it because it became such a norm, you know, for 
us.  It was all part of our life.  We knew this [0:05:00] literally was keeping my father alive.  So I 
want to say that kind of catapulted me into that world.  Both of my parents were x-ray 
technologists, and most of my other aunts are RN’s so I come from a family who has been in 
health care although I did not want any part of it despite all of that so.   
 
AG:  It’s like the family profession, but you were -- 
 
DD:  -- yes. 
 
AG:  -- you resisted going in to it? 
 
DD:  Yeah, up until my senior year in high school.  I wanted no part.  I wanted to be an attorney. 
 
AG:  When you think back on how sick your father was when you were so young, did that shape 
your experiences either in nursing or throughout school?  Did it have a strong impact on where 
you ended up, do you think in your career? 
 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
6 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
DD:  Oh, oh yeah.  Definitely.  It -- compassion, understanding tolerance for individuals and 
their medical needs, understanding why people may be resistant, understanding listening to the 
patient.  If anything I learned from my father -- because that was his biggest frustration, you 
know.  This is -- by the time my father passed away, he had been on dialysis for 32 years.  He 
was like a gnome to, you know, when I would tell residents, you know, when they’d been, you 
know, a doctor for a year, two years, they’re like “how’s he still alive?” and I’m just like “yeah”, 
and my father would educate them because they would want all these new interventions, do this, 
do this, do this, and he says -- he used to say “before you were even born, I was on dialysis so I 
know my body.”  So learning to listen, and not always thinking that the provider is right or the 
clinician is right, you know.  So, yeah, that definitely helped to shape.  I always have a soft part -
- soft spot in my heart for patients who are on dialysis especially younger, and if they’re African 
American.  Yeah, it triggers something for me, you know.   
 
AG:  It’s personal. 
 
DD:  Yeah, definitely. 
 
[07:27] AG:  Absolutely.  And you said initially you were resistant to kind of following in your 
parents and your aunt’s footsteps.  Do you remember when you decided to pursue nursing as a 
career? 
 
DD:  Oh, when my parents decided nursing as a career.  Yes, I do.  It was senior year, and I 
remember one of the courses I had to take was physics, but I had already -- in New York we 
have what is called a Regence Diploma.  So you have a local regular diploma, and then if you 
take these higher level courses I want to say then you graduate with a Regence Diploma.  I had 
already met my requirements for sciences so I was kinda like “I’m done, like senior year I’m 
going to law school.  What does physics have to do with law school?”  And so I dropped physics 
‘cause it was that first class, and I was like “what is this velocity? Uh-uh, mm-mm-mm”.  I went 
home that day, and my parents said to me “I want to talk to you” and I was like “okay, about 
what?”  They were just like “we think you should go to nursing school”.  I was like “nursing 
school?”  I said “the only thing I know about nursing is all the nurses in our family aren’t 
married.  Period”.  So I was like -- and honestly -- and this was -- you know, we have come a 
long way on how nurses show up in the main stream, right?  It was overly sexualized or you 
know it was the maid “go get the bed pan”, “go get this”, you know.  It wasn’t in these roles that 
I see now as a nurse, you know.  So I told them “mm, yeah.  That’s not a plan” and they said “no, 
no, no.  You can always go to law school”.  They said “what we want you to do is to be able to 
survive, and to eat when you get out.”  And my parents were very savvy.  They saw the shift in 
nursing happening.  They said “nurses are retiring, and there’s going to be a shortage.  They are 
going to need nurses.”  My father would tell me, he said “attorneys are a dime a dozen, and some 
of them are starving.”  So he said “I’m not telling you not to do it.”  He said “but it’s a graduate 
school degree anyway.”  He said “so just go ahead, do nursing”, and I guess -- you know when 
you’re young, and you don’t really have an understanding of what that profession is so in turn I 
always -- I remember always saying I want to help people, and in my head, an attorney was 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
7 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
[0:10:00] somebody who helped people.  That I was always consistent with.  I said “I want to 
help people”, and my father said “no, you want to be a professional liar.”  I was just like “no.  
No, I want to help people.”  So my parents are from Jamaica too so there’s that strong sense of 
“this is what you’re going to do, and you’re gonna say yes” with still supporting my dream.  You 
know, they had lived a life that I hadn’t lived so they were trying to guide me in the best way that 
they knew how.  So every school I actually applied to, really didn’t have to do with nursing 
because I was set on law.  You know, I actually wanted to go to St. John’s University.  I had it all 
planned.  I wanted to run track for St. John’s.  I wanted to go to undergrad there.  I wanted to go 
to law school there.  That was the plan, and that didn’t happen.  So, yeah.  So they told me that, 
and I then started to make the shift, and I remember freshman year, I was (inaudible 0:11:07.2) 
“yeah, I don’t wanna do this either”, but it was after the first biology course, and you’re just like 
“oh my God”.  The teacher actually was detailed or -- you know, she teaching in graduate school, 
a cancer researcher, and now she’s teaching undergraduate Biology, and I was like “nobody’s 
gonna pass this class.  No one”.  And I actually was one of the few that passed so I continued on. 
 
[11:40] AG:  Where did you end up going to school for college? 
 
DD:  I went -- okay.  So I ended up going to a all girl’s school, the College of New Rochelle 
which actually closed their doors in -- this is 2021, 2019 I believe that they closed their doors. 
Very sad.  Excellent, excellent nursing school.  I really had a amazing education.  I received an 
amazing education from there.  I, you know, hands down.  Their goal was to prepare nurse 
leaders.  That’s what they would constantly tell us, and of course, you know, 17, 18, 19, I’m like 
“yeah, whatever”.  I’m just trying to pass.  I’m just trying to get out, but even their requirements 
for GPA was higher than most because the goal was to go to graduate school.  So if you had a 
certain GPA, they’re preparing you already for that, you know.  A lot of written work.  A lot of 
research.  Things that by the time I got to grad school, it wasn’t so far gone because I had 
experienced it.  Yeah. 
 
AG:  Did you go directly after undergrad to grad school or did you work in the in-between time? 
 
DD:  Oh, no.  I just told you, my parents are Jamaican.  They’re like “straight to college”. 
 
AG:  Straight. 
 
DD:  “Do not stop go, do not collect $200”.  Straight.  There was times that I did think about -- 
because I’m looking at the -- my brother was in college as well.  I think there was always -- 
maybe a year -- by the time I was a freshman, he may have been a junior. So maybe we were in 
school for a year, two years at the same time, and I’m that child. I’m always like “oh my God.  
How is this going to help mom and dad?  Are they gonna be stressed out about it?” And my 
mother used to tell me “if I tell you how much school is, you would probably want to drop out. 
So don’t worry about.  That’s not your responsibility.  That is ours”.  And, yeah.  So from -- I 
graduated in 1998 from high school.  At that point, I was 17 years old, and then started college, 
and then graduated August 2002. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
8 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
 
AG:  And then is that when you began -- did you -- you said you went to graduate school after? 
 
DD:  Yeah.  So I went to graduate school maybe about a, I want to say like a year, year and a 
half after I graduated.  So I did get some experience at that time.  Mm-hmm. 
 
AG:  Oh, do you recall your first job as a nurse? 
 
DD:  Oh yeah.  I don’t think any nurse ever forgets their first one.  I worked at Long Island 
Jewish Hospital which is now Northwell Hospital, the New Hyde Park Campus.  I worked on 5-
North which was what they called a medical step down unit.  Basically we got every and 
everything, you know.  The next step up was the ICU so if you were unstable there, you were 
going upstairs to the ICU.  An amazing, an amazing experience.  I was the youngest on my unit 
so [0:15:00] I don’t want to say they babied me.  They supported me.  They supported me.  They 
supported me as a new grad, and I stayed there for maybe about close to three years.  Mm-hmm. 
 
AG:  And that was like a full time job as an RN?  Was that your (inaudible 0:15:21.6)? 
 
DD:  Yes.  That was a full time staff RN position.  I was initially, you know, I feel like most 
people work nights initially, and then I remember before my orientation was up, and then I 
would transfer to nights ‘cause the orientation’s normally done in the day.  My nurse manager, 
Marianne, came to me.  She goes “I want you to put in position for the day -- I want you to put in 
a request for day position”, and I was just like “but I was hired for nights”.  She said “you’re not 
a night nurse.  You’re a day time nurse”.  And she was just saying there -- there is a personality, 
and most night nurses will tell you that too.  There is a different personality like when you’re 
into day, and I wasn’t a night person at all.  So for a short period of time, I did have to work 
nights, but -- yeah, I wasn’t a nice person as my mother said when I worked nights.  I’d rather 
my sleep. 
 
AG:  Absolutely.  And so then what degree did you pursue when you went for the graduate 
school? 
 
DD:  Yeah.  So this is, remember, dad’s plan.  The plan was for me to go to law school.  So I 
went to an open house -- at that point, you know, I’m already coming out of undergrad.  I had 
some loans, not an exuberant amount.  Most of my -- my parents took -- you know, they used to 
say “the first degree’s on us.  Any other letters you want behind your name, that’s on you”.  
That’s probably why they didn’t choose law school.  They knew I should pay for it.  Anyway, so 
I went to open house at NYU, and I was like “yes, this is what I want to do”, and I sat in the 
room with, you know, people who were looking to get a JD -- a Juris Doctorate, and I was just 
like “this is not for me”.  Like, it -- I took myself, and I walked down the street to Hunter College 
-- City University of New York, Hunter College, and I went to their open house for a Master’s in 
Public Health and Community Health Nursing, and I was like “this is I.  This talks to me”.  And I 
enrolled, and so I started there -- so maybe it was close to two years now ‘cause I graduate -- 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
9 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
2004 I believe I started there; 2003, 2004, and I ended up getting a Master’s in Public Health, 
and a Master’s in Community Health Nursing.  So after I had left the hospital -- so when I 
worked there for like a year and a half -- in between this time, I also started teaching nursing.  
Yes.  Where I went to school, the College of New Rochelle, there was a professor, Dr. Connie 
Vance, and our last -- our senior cohort, she enrolled us -- asked us to participate in her research 
study, and her research study was on mentorship.  So she would interview you before graduation, 
maybe six months after graduation, and a year after, and by maybe six months after me being a 
nurse, I was already precepting new grads.  Nurse residents would come on.  I was a charge 
nurse, and this is six months in so Dr. Vance was saying -- she said “you clearly have a bug for 
teaching or a knack for teaching.  Do you want to do (inaudible 0:18:53.1) I was like “teach?  I 
didn’t say I had a 4.0 graduating here.  Why would I be teaching people?”  And she said “that’s 
not what it’s about”.  So literally she took me out of that interview.  We went -- our School of 
Nursing was a house so she took me upstairs in the house to meet the Dean, and she goes “I want 
her to teach clinical”, and I was like “me?”  And she said “you’re home grown meaning you 
went to this establishment, you went to the College of New Rochelle.  You know what we’re 
looking for”, and then I started to be an Adjunct Clinical Instructor, and I remember my mother 
said “they’re not paying you much”, and I said “I’m not doing it for the pay.  I’m doing it for the 
experience”, you know.  I want to add to our profession.  I want to be able to contribute, and that 
means fostering new, you know, new nurses, nurturing them, you know. 
 
AG:  Yeah.  That’s terrific that you had that opportunity.  Did you do that for a while or was it 
fairly short term? 
 
DD:  [0:20:00] It was kinda intermittent.  At some point, I ended up going back to education to 
teaching full time actually, but in that time -- so I went to -- so around maybe a year and a half 
after working at Long Island Jewish because of the position that I had where I used to bring the 
students for clinicals, one of the sites that I used to bring to clinicals -- the students to, the 
Director approached me about a job, and I said “I work full time in a hospital now, and you 
know I’m used to these 12 hours shifts and stuff.  I’m not too sure about coming to anybody’s 
job Monday through Friday”, and she sweetened the pot, you know.  It looked good on paper as 
far as salary.  She was going to give me time to go to school, and I was doing my other love 
which was Community Health Nursing.  So that was okay, I’m making the shift because from 
senior year -- in your senior year in undergraduate nursing, you do a rotation in Community 
Health Nursing, and my rotation with my preceptor, I was like this is it.  This is what I want to 
do.  I want to go to community -- I want to do community health.  So fast forward back, after I 
started working -- this was called Morning Side House.  It was in the Bronx, New York. I 
worked there for a time, and I was going to graduate school at the same time.  Yeah. 
 
[21:42] AG:  Can you tell or kind of define what Community Health Nursing and Public Health 
means? 
 
DD:  Right.  So, you know, Public Health you want to look at the public.  It’s more of a -- it’s a 
greater aspect of it, right.  You’re looking at the whole population per say whereas Community 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
10 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
Health Nursing can be a little bit more specific right, to the individual because I’m still a nurse, 
and I’m caring for that patient, but they’re within the community.  So what resources I’m going 
to provide for them within the compounds of where they’re living, right.  Whether they’re living 
in a senior building or if their resources go to city or state.  So when you’re -- as a nurse, if I’m 
making interventions for a population, it’s very broad, right? Because I can’t meet the individual 
needs of everybody else, but when I trim it down to a community health nurse level then I’m 
looking at the individual.  I may be looking at the subset of their family, and like I said, what 
other resources are available to that individual within their community.   
 
AG:  So it’s different than, for example, like bedside nursing in a hospital? 
 
DD:  Oh yeah. 
 
AG:  It’s looking at the systems. 
 
DD:  And you’re looking at somebody in their home. 
 
AG:  I see. 
 
DD:  What they’re defining as home, and home may be a homeless shelter.  Home may be an 
apartment building.  Home may be literally a box on the street.  That’s what they’re defining as 
home, and I have to meet that person where they’re at. 
 
[23:32] AG:  Is that the kind of work that you’re doing for the VA or do you do something 
different currently? 
 
DD:  So at the VA my title is an RN Case Manager, but it’s kind of a dual role.  So I see patients 
actually in their home.  The title of the program is Home Based Primary Care so I like to say it’s 
your primary care needs on wheels.  So instead of you going into the clinic or how people 
traditionally see their provider in an office setting, I’m meeting that person at their home.  Okay?  
So, yeah.  So as a Case Manager, I like to say I’m the glue that holds the team together.  I work 
in the Interdisciplinary Team so we have the nurse practitioner, it’s a nurse practitioner led 
program.  We have our medical director who works in collaboration.  We have our social 
worker, physical therapist, pharmacist, psychologist, dietician, recreation therapist so it’s a full 
complement team, and I kinda, you know, we talk amongst ourselves respecting everybody’s 
expertise, and trying to put all together in order to meet the needs of the patient.  But that’s more 
of the case management piece, but in the home when I’m going, I’m doing a full head to toe 
assessment.  You know, I’m reviewing their medications.  I’m providing education for [0:25:00] 
safety as they’re in their home, you know.  I’m doing anticipatory guidance, you know, before 
things kinda fall apart.  What can we do now? 
 
AG:  So it sounds like in your role, you’re in the field predominantly? 
 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
11 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
DD:  Yes.  Mm-hmm. 
 
AG:  So what’s a typical week for you schedule wise? 
 
DD:  There’s pre-COVID and post-COVID.  So pre-COVID, it’s an autonomous job, but you 
have to be organized.  I like -- you know, I don’t know if you’re familiar with Chick-Fil-A likes 
to say “it’s my pleasure.  Is there anything else I can help for you?”  That’s how I close out my 
visits.  That’s how I make sure -- I want to make sure that if I’m here for an hour that by the time 
I leave that I have met all of your needs, right.  So if I have a patient for the day, I’m calling 
them maybe the day before just to confirm that they’re going to be home, you know.  That 
there’s no, you know, construction because once again I’m not dealing within the hospital where 
you’re coming to visit me.  I’m coming out in the community.  I still have to make sure that I’m 
safe, and it’s safe for me to come and visit you, right.  After that, its confirmed -- usually -- my 
patient’s I have them indefinitely until, you know, unfortunately they pass away or they require a 
higher level of care like a nursing home, and then they’re no longer mine.  So I -- a lot of my 
patients, I’ve been with the VA for eight years, a lot of my veterans I’ve had for eight years.  So 
it’s almost become -- I’ve become like second family.  I know more than I want to know.  So I 
take care of them. So when I go to visit them, it’s probably about a hour visit, and like I said, 
sometimes they’re isolated.  Now this is even pre-COVID that they feel isolated.  Now add 
COVID to it, they’re like “are you leaving already?” and I’m like “well, I been here an hour”, 
you know or -- yeah, so in that hour is spent doing the head to toe assessment, reviewing their 
medication, addressing any, I like to call them issues in tissues, you know.  Any issues or things 
that may bring tissues like tears that they want to address, and just making sure that realistically 
whatever needs that that they have that I can hopefully meet them. 
 
AG:  When you’re out in the field like this, how far are you driving typically to go from patient 
to patient?  Is it like you have a special area or (inaudible 0:27:55.1) driving hours and hours? 
 
DD:  So it depends.  I live in the DC, Maryland, Virginia area, and I remember when I moved 
from New York here, my mother’s like “you’re moving to worse traffic.  I’m not too sure why 
you would do that”.  The caveat for our program is 30 miles from our base which would be the 
DC VA.  So I can go as far, but my (inaudible 0:28:21.1) area is primarily northwest DC, and 
what I like to say lower Montgomery County, like Silver Spring area, Wheaton.  You know, I tell 
people I’m a road warrior.  Literally that’s what it is.  It really depends on traffic.  You know, 
you try to navigate.  Some of my appointments don’t start ‘til after nine just because I’m trying 
to avoid sitting -- what, an hour worth of traffic that would then take me only 20 minutes to get 
to where I need to go, and it just varies, you know.  That’s a big hiccup, you know.  The longer 
that I’m in here is that you realize it’s -- there’s a lot of safety that goes into there.  I have to 
constantly be alert, paying attention.  You know, it’s not to say I can turn off my phone because 
I’m still at work, but people sometimes don’t get it, that I’m not sitting in an office, that my 
office is mobile.  I’m literally driving to your house or, you know, there’s safety issues in the 
community.  Not all these communities -- you know, every community comes with their issues, 
some more than others, and then when you’re faced with that you’re just like “okay.  Yes, I made 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
12 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
this appointment for this patient, but”.  Just recently with the insurrection that happened in DC, 
like we live and work in our Nation’s Capital, I had to be mindful of I can’t go downtown DC 
today, you know.  Is the patient safe?  Is it -- if they’re having chest pain, I need to be [0:30:00] 
calling 9-1-1 for you.  Me coming to your house is not gonna change the situation.  It’s just 
gonna make you a little bit, you know, hopefully less anxious, but you probably still need to go 
in.  So all of those things kind of play into, you know, going to see a patient in their home. 
 
AG:  Have there been instances where you’ve had like car trouble or felt unsafe entering a 
patient’s home like because of the insurrection for example this past couple months?  Are there 
instances like that where you’re not able to make it because the circumstances aren’t safe for 
you? 
 
DD:  Mm-hmm. 
 
AG:  Because I think you’re going by yourself right? 
 
DD:  Yeah.  Yep.  Mm-hmm. 
 
AG:  (Inaudible 0:30:40.8). 
 
DD:  I’ve had it.  I did community health nursing when I worked at Morningside in New York.  I 
had it in New York.  I’ve had it down here.  I don’t care if it’s the most affluent area.  That 
comes with its own set of issues, you know, versus a more urban area so to say.  That comes with 
their own set of issues, you know.  When I go see my patients in a certain part of Maryland, you 
know, I’m very aware that I’m a black woman with locks in my hair.  You know, I think the only 
time I probably get favors kinda like “well, she has a nice car”, you know, but other than that 
sometimes it’s “what are you doing here?” you know.  You know, I don’t drive -- we have access 
to the government vehicles.  I don’t drive them because I would have to go to the VA, and it’s a 
whole ordeal, but I have co-workers who do that, and they do that because “well at least if I’m 
coming in a government car you’re not going to think that -- hopefully, you’re not going to think 
that I’m here to do something different” right.  But then in other areas, you know -- just the other 
day I went to see a veteran, and on the block there’s a soup kitchen.  So there’s a whole different 
element, and when they finish having their meal they’re congregated outside, and it’s very 
uneasy, you know, but I have learned there’s certain neighborhoods don’t go in there thinking 
that you’re better than them, you know.  Learn to speak.  So I was raised like that.  I open my 
mouth.  Whether or not you want to respond back -- because I have to make you feel that 
although you may look like me that I don’t feel like I’m better than you coming into your 
neighborhood, right.  So there’s so many layers to it.  So I laugh when I hear -- my whole team, 
you know, the whole program laughs when they hear individuals or clinicians that work on the 
inside, and like “oh, your job is easy” or “there’s no problem” or they create these very -- in -- 
with good intent, they create these plans, then we get them home, and you’re like “this is so 
unrealistic” ‘cause you don’t see them in their home.  So I need you to do this.  I need you to eat 
this good food.  You don’t realize that they live in a food desert.  The closest food to them is 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
13 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
about 20 miles out of their local area.  “Oh, you want them to come back to -- for all these 
clinical appointments on different days?  Well they already have transportation issues so I’m not 
too sure how that’s gonna work out for them”.  So our brain works a little bit different, you 
know, just because we know the needs of our patients in the community. 
 
AG:  Exactly.  And when you are visiting the veterans in their homes, is there a kind of like 
typical patient that you see?  Are there issues that -- either health issues or injuries that are 
keeping people in their homes?  Is it the older veterans or can anyone receive service in the home 
versus like in the clinic? 
 
DD:  So we -- one of the criteria’s is that the patients have to be homebound.  Meaning that it 
takes a taxing amount of effort for the individual to leave their home.  So because that has 
happened, has resulted in them maybe missing a follow up visit coming to the VA, not being 
adherent to medication, you know, or they have come to the VA looking a little unkempt, 
looking like they, you know, like they haven’t showered in a couple of days, and not to say that 
is a true criteria for us because that person may just need a referral for a home health aide, but 
somebody who may be is, you know, early mild cognitive deficits.  You know, maybe a early 
dementia.  They’re -- like “uh, I’m not sure if they’re taking their medication” [0:35:00].  But 
we’ll do an evaluation to determine.  Most of our patients -- most of my patients -- my patients I 
call them.  I tell them they’re young though.  Their probably like 80.  Eighty and up, you know.  
My oldest patient I’ve had is 105, you know, and working with this population if I told some of 
my friends who work in pediatrics like “oh, I had a 105-year-old” most people’s mindset goes to 
somebody whose very frail, debilitated, unable to hold a conversation, and I told you I liked 
history, like that was one of my favorite subjects.  They’re like walking history books.  You’re 
just like “sit down.  Let me listen.  Tell me again.  Wow.  How’d you even know?” 
 
AG:  And with that population, what kind of diagnoses do they typically have?  Is there -- are 
there any or could it be any range of health conditions?  Or there’s like common ones that you 
encounter? 
 
DD:  It runs the gamut, but the most typical that you get is, you know, is the diabetes, the 
hypertension, the chronic heart failure, COPD, emphysema, arthritis.  You know, we’re talking 
about the veteran population.  A lot of them have PTSD, PTSD with depression, adjustment 
disorders.  Yeah, so, you know, it comes full gamut.  You know, and then there’s the outliers 
who will, you know, have the cancers or may develop wounds that require -- where there’s a 
pressure ulcer or vascular wound that requires attention.  Some with neurological deficits 
whether from a stroke or ALS type disease or MS.  Mm-hmm. 
 
[37:04] AG:  I know you mentioned that you’re part of an interdisciplinary team. 
 
DD:  Mm-hmm. 
 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
14 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
AG:  What do you think about the benefits and draw backs of working in that kind of 
interdisciplinary team way? 
 
DD:  I definitely can see more benefits than -- more pros than cons, and the pros are that you -- 
so I -- let me caveat with this.  I have worked in places that said that they’re interdisciplinary 
team, and then I worked for a homebased primary care, and I was like “oh.  This is what you 
meant by Interdisciplinary Team”.  So it sounds good, right, but a true interdisciplinary team 
shouldn’t be that you’re still working in silos, right?  That there should be very good 
communication which I believe our team -- that’s one of our strong points is to be able to 
communicate amongst team members, to be able to respect the individual’s thoughts, and their 
scope of practice as a clinician.  I’m not a physician, but I’ve been a nurse long enough to say 
“oh, well, you know, maybe we should think about it like this”, right?  But I’m not going to try 
to trump our Medical Director.  You understand? But I’m going to say “well, you didn’t really 
go to the house today.  I did, and this is what I’m seeing, and I’ve known the patient for this 
many years” right.  It also -- we -- you bring different perspectives.  What I may be seeing 
another clinician may say “well, no I don’t really see it like that” or you have the ability to go out 
on joint visits, right.  To meet the individual’s needs.  So, you know, sometimes it’s -- I go out a 
lot with the social worker ‘cause a lot of our jobs kind of parallels so we may be trying to talk 
about advanced directives with the individual, right.  So it may be better to -- you see the patient 
declining, and you’re just like okay. There’s a nursing aspect to this.  There’s a social aspect 
because if they’re declining at home, they may need additional support.  “Ah, they’re not really 
eating”.  Okay, let’s tag the dietician in here, and let’s see how we can come together and create 
a plan that’s realistic for this individual.  Some cons is literally, you know what people say, is 
when people don’t stay in their lane.  That is not your scope of practice.  I won’t tell you how to 
do what is in your scope of practice, but I need you not to tell me about mine.  Also not listening, 
and just basically the opposite of what the pros are.  Poor communication, you know, because 
literally I’ve seen outcomes where, you know, communication may have stopped [0:40:00] or we 
needed maybe a certain discipline to be more -- to add their expertise because really what the 
issue is has to do with the expertise, and they’re very much a side line to it, and then the issues 
blow up, and at the end of the day we’re like “I needed you to have chimed in at A and B.  We’re 
at Z now, and the family’s upset.  The veteran’s upset, and we could have, you know curtailed 
this event”.   
 
AG:  That makes sense.  Absolutely.  And do you -- when you think about your job, do you like 
going to work? 
 
DD:  Uh-oh.  Okay.  This is being taped.  No, I do like going to work.  I like my veteran.  I love 
what I do, period.  I do.  You know, there’s times where I thought about like “oh, maybe I should 
go back in the hospital”, and I’m just like “with the four walls, like all day, like in one spot?”  
I’m a road warrior.  I’m used to seeing my veterans -- you know, like they bring a smile to my 
face.  When they’re just like “I miss you”, and I’m like “oh my God.  I missed you too”, you 
know.  And you’re just like “I don’t know if they told me to say that in nursing school”.  I have 
veterans when I leave, and they want to give me a hug or they tell me “I love you” you know, 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
15 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
and I’m just like “oh.  My heart is like crumbling.  Oh my God”.  You know, I have -- I’m that 
nurse who when I’m on home visits, you know, if the patient seems a little anxious or may be 
their home health aide and them just got into it or their family members, I’m like “what music 
are we listening to today?” and I go right on my Pandora, and I try to find something, you know, 
maybe from their era.  I’m like “what kind of music do you like?” And I have danced with 
veterans in their home, you know, just to break up the monotony, you know, of whatever you’re 
upset about now.  Or I’ve, you know -- yes, I do.  You know, I’ve played cards with them, not 
recreational therapy, but I have a veteran who -- he’s a huge Red Skins fan or what is the 
Washington football team now respectfully, and I had promised him, I said “you know, I’m 
going to come, and we’re gonna watch a, you know, game together”, and then COVID hit, you 
know.  So I remind him, you know, the offer is still on the table.  We just have to make sure that 
it’s safely done so, yeah. 
 
[42:43] AG:  Yeah.  So can we talk a little bit about how you’re day to day may have changed 
with COVID? 
 
DD:  Yeah, most definitely.  Patient’s don’t stop getting sick. 
 
AG:  Right. 
 
DD:  You know.  As much as we wish we could have pressed stop on the world, and let COVID 
just pass, it didn’t.  We had to be creative.  I always believe that people who work in a 
community health setting, we are kind of creative because we just have to.  You’re -- it’s almost 
-- you know its traditional nursing in a sense.  Nursing wasn’t always institutionalized.  It wasn’t 
always in a hospital.  We’ve just made it kinda come back 360.  So there are sicker people in the 
community, and I always say who’s going to take care of them.  So, once again, we’re dealing 
with a vulnerable group, and not just because of age, because of their co-morbidities.  The longer 
-- if you get them to the hospital, they want to get you in and out because the longer you stay the 
most likely it increases the chances of you probably getting something that you didn’t come in 
there with, right.  So we have 70 years, 80-year-olds, 90-year-olds listening to the news.  They’re 
scared.  It’s them that they’re see their friends, you know, dying, and now you’re calling me, and 
you’re saying “I haven’t urinated in 24 hours”.  Normally I may go out and, you know, 
catheterize them.  If this is something new, I’m not -- we’re not playing those games.  We’re 
usually sending them in, but we had to be more creative in “okay, well maybe we can send out 
somebody for a bladder ultrasound.  Let’s see what it comes back”.  So you start managing -- 
you know, we started calling it like blind medicine because no matter what then we’re like 
“okay, you may need to go to the hospital”.  I can’t force them, and they’re just like “I don’t 
want to go”, and you know the teams is just like “okay, we’re kinda tied, you know. We’re also 
not comfortable to continue just throwing medications at you without getting more diagnostic 
tests”.  So we were very creative -- safely creative. [0:45:00] Families truly appreciate it because, 
I mean, if you could hear the fear in individuals.  I can’t tell you I wasn’t fearful, you know.  
Especially individuals who have home health aides coming in, and if anybody knows about the 
home health aide, and their challenges with their work, you know.  They’re four hours at one 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
16 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
house, maybe four hours at another house during COVID, in and out.  Then they go home to 
their families.  It was challenging.  A lot of our patients also have what we call dual provider 
ship where they’ll receive -- to keep their, what they call vesting at the VA, they have to have a 
yearly at least contact visit with a provider.  So a lot of them still want to keep their private 
provider in the community so we had to make the shift.  We were seeing people in the home.  
We had to make the shift very quickly into telehealth visits.  What happens is -- what started to 
happen is a lot of these individuals who were under dual provider ship, their providers in the 
community were unable to make that shift to telehealth.   So where their calling their doctors 
office, and they can’t get in touch with them.  They’re trying to get their medications, and they 
can’t get them.  They hadn’t seen their doctor for a year.  Now, you know, now we’re deep into 
COVID, maybe close to a year.  You know, maybe telephone visits, you know, but once again 
you’re talking to individuals who tend to have a lot of hearing deficits.  They’re not seeing you 
so being able to at least see you sometimes they fill in for their deficits by reading your lips, and 
they can’t do that, right.  The technology was a challenge.  At some point, I think I was just -- 
I’m like, it is -- I just -- it’s like you go into survival mode.  Literally.  You know, I have friends 
who are not in health care and, you know, we’re on text messages, and I literally had to mute 
them because when I tell -- I told -- I made a parallel to being in war.  When you’re in war, you 
don’t have time to kinda -- and I’ve never been to war, but I’m assuming there’s a parallel here.  
I’m not thinking about every day am I going to die because then there’s that chance, right.  But 
I’m thinking like I need to survive.  How am I going to survive?  How am I going to get out of 
there safely, and that’s the mode I was in.  So all of the propaganda was on, you know, people 
can’t get it like this, people can’t get it like that.  I knew off the bat, I need to cover my mouth, 
my nose, and my eyes.  I remember it had -- we weren’t even on lockdown yet, and I walked into 
a building, and everybody looked at me like I had the plaque.  I knew I didn’t have anything, and 
I went into my patient’s home, and I said it’s not about only you protecting me, it’s about me 
protecting you.  I’m going from here to here to here, and everyplace else, you know.  So one year 
later we say still we stand, and thankfully nobody on our team has gotten sick in our -- as far as 
the clinicians, none of us have gotten sick.  I think our patients were still very satisfied if not 
more especially the ones who weren’t used to us being their primary care provider per say, you 
know.  Now they’re like “I didn’t know you did all this”.  You wanted your doctor, and that’s 
fine, you know.  Everybody’s entitled.  I mean I had a doctor for, I don’t know, maybe like 15 
years, and (inaudible 0:48:45.8) you know, only ‘cause I moved out of New York.  I was trying 
to give him up, but things happen, and you make shifts and, you know, that’s what it’s about.  
You have to be flexible in what we do.  If you’re looking for something that’s like this, you’ll be 
very sad. 
 
AG:  Are you taking any lessons, you know, from the way that either the pandemic affected the 
VA or the way it affected patients in the US more generally?  Are there any like big lessons from 
COVID-19 that you’re taking with you? 
 
DD:  Big lessons.  That’s a good one.  The inequities in health care, you know.  If we didn’t 
know before, I’m hoping people pay attention.  I was never unrealistic to this.  Being, you know, 
somebody of color, being African American female with roots in Jamaica and, you know, 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
17 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
working in those communities, and then now seeing it, you know, or being a recipient [00:50:00] 
of people not wanting to listen to me.  You know, that, you know, that we’re not less than.  You 
know, I was listening to a song before we started this recording, and he said -- he made a 
reference of “cut me so you can see my blood ‘cause my blood looks like yours ‘cause we are 
brothers and sisters, one in the same”, you know.  So I’m like are we really dwindled down to 
skin color only?  Because at the end of the day when I have patients who can’t breathe, they just 
can’t breathe, you know.  Of course, you know, biologically and genetically there are somethings 
that, you know, our treatment may need to be altered a bit.  But it’s almost like the vulnerable 
became sacrificial lambs during this.  You know, the haves and the have nots.  You know, and 
that’s a shame, you know, but I believe in accountability too.  You know, and just taking 
responsibility of your health is important.  That’s -- it’s not a responsibility. I always tell my 
patients I have a responsibility to you.  I’m not responsible for you, you know.  So I have to 
encourage you, and I believe in empowerment of the individual.  If you’re obese, let’s find a 
reason -- the underlying issues to why.  Why are you overeating?  You know, understanding your 
smoking.  I mean, they said a lot of this was linked to people who have comorbidities.  Yes, a lot 
of time the older you get, you gonna get something, but are they managed.  You know, those 
were the people who probably came out a little bit better, you know.  So there’s no one answer, 
but yes from, you know, local leaders to what we have in place.  You know, putting more 
emphasis on people who -- to go back to school, to get that education so you can get more 
providers out there who, you know, research shows people respond better sometimes from 
getting care from people who look like them.  You know, or education to individuals who are not 
going to see the person as color or, you know, or their social economic status, but more or less 
this is somebody in need, and what do I have at this moment to assist them with that? 
 
AG:  That makes a lot of sense.  Thank you so much.  This has been so informative.  I wondered, 
you know, in the next like 10-15 minutes I could ask you some questions sort of looking back 
over your career as a whole, and sort of where it’s taken you? 
 
DD:  Yeah, sure. 
 
[53:02] AG:  Okay.  Sounds good.  So the first question is just when you think about the 
different places you’ve worked as a nurse, what made working for the VA appealing to you as 
opposed to like the private sector or something? 
 
DD:  Well, so, yeah, this goes back to grad school.  So after I left grad school, this was when 
Obama was first -- his first -- when he first ran for President the first time, and we had to 
compare health care plans between all the perspective candidates, and at this time it was Hilary 
Clinton, Barack.  I don’t remember who else was there, but we had to compare the health plans, 
and what I noticed was they were missing out the population that I took care of, and I said 
“nobody’s talking about the older adult”.  Medicare’s not cutting it guys.  Medicaid’s not cutting 
it.  There needs to be more support.  I work in community health.  I get it. It’s cheaper to keep 
the person at home.  I work for a program in New York that was called Lombardi Program.  
That’s what we did.  So I moved from New York thinking that I was going to work on Capitol 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
18 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
Hill.  I wanted to work in health care reform, health care policy.  That didn’t really happen 
because a lot it was who you knew.  DC is that connected.  It’s literally who I knew.  If I’d 
known better, I would probably have done a fellowship leaving when I left New York just to get 
my footing.  So my -- because it was federal, in my head I still needed to be in the federal 
government and for years, once again, federal government jobs a lot of times it’s a connection.  
It’s who you knew.  I applied.  You know, coming from New York, New Yorkers have this thing 
like “well I worked hard [00:55:00], and my resume speaks for itself.  I should have access to 
this job”.  Yeah, that wasn’t the case.  So it took me a long time to get into the federal 
government.  Yeah, I worked as a Director of Education in a local nursing home, and while I was 
there everybody kept telling me “well, why don’t you teach?”, and I was like “I’m teaching here.  
I’m the educator”.  They were like “no. You need to teach in a classroom”, and so you remember 
I said, like I, you know, I had left that clinical aspect when I was taking the students, and one of 
my things -- one of my goals when I first started that job, I said “do you have nursing students 
coming here?”  They were like “oh, no.  We haven’t had nursing students coming for a while”, 
and I said “so you have to cultivate what you want to see in your staff, and where that starts is 
allowing nursing schools to come back into the facility”.  So I renewed all the contracts, spoke 
with them.  So I started meeting a lot of individuals so I then left there, and I went to the 
historically black college of Howard University, the illustrious Howard University.  So I taught 
there, and during this time I was still moon lighting -- that’s what nurse’s say, at another job, and 
my friend actually worked at the VA.  So she’s like “oh girl.  They have this position”.  I was 
like “oh, the VA?  Okay”.  So I applied, and at that time my supervisor, she jokingly said that she 
wasn’t going to hire me.  She thought I was over qualified.  She was like “I thought you wanted 
my job”, and I was like “no, no, no.  You’re bosses job thought, but not yours”.  So I came there, 
and yeah.  So it -- kinda like I fell into the VA.  You know, it wasn’t just like “ah, I have to have 
a federal government job”, and honestly I didn’t think I was going to stay as long in this role, 
you know.  So actually I’m back in school because nurses are life-long learners.  That’s what we 
call ourselves.  It doesn’t mean it has to be formal learning, but I, God willing, by June of this 
year, I’ll be a nurse practitioner.  So for years I’ve had individuals -- because even when I taught 
at Howard, I was that go-to geriatrics person.  You know, anything community health, anything 
geriatrics, everybody was coming to me and, you know, they already deemed me as this expert 
per say, you know.  And I’m saying -- I know we’re recording, but I put up air quotes around 
“expert”.  I don’t think you’re fully an expert in everything.  I may be knowledgeable, but there’s 
always room to learn something.  So when I transitioned to the VA, it was, once again, I was 
able to do all my loves kind of sort of.  Geriatrics, community health, and there’s aspects of 
teaching that goes into it so I was like “ah, I’m kinda happy”.  But, you know, like I said, I’ve 
been doing this 19 years so for me, I reached a point that where I’m at now, yes I love what I was 
doing, but there was a part of my brain that I didn’t feel like it was being stimulated, right.  You 
know, do I think I was still having effective change?  Absolutely, but at this point in my career, I 
think I could add to that by being in a provider role, right.  Even some of my preceptors have 
been younger than me as I go through this NP program, and they’re just like “but you have so 
much knowledge”, and I said ‘cause I’ve been a nurse a long time.  It’s not because -- I said, but 
a provider role is something different.  Now I am responsible for this patient.  Or I have a 
responsibility to this patient on a higher level, you know, so. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
19 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
 
[59:01]AG:  Can you explain the distinction between like a registered nurse and a nurse 
practitioner in terms of like your responsibility or the clinical interaction? 
 
DD:  Okay.  So a registered nurse can’t independently -- there’s certain things that are common 
nurse practice things like safety in the home, interventions on falls, but I can’t diagnose a person 
as an RN.  I can’t prescribe as an RN.  I can’t say “you need to take this”.  I can’t interpret 
diagnostic results such as an x-ray, an ultrasound.  So we work -- as an RN, you work under 
orders.  So order is given to you to do this.  You know, [1:00:00] and not to say that it -- it’s like 
we -- like RN’s can’t critically think without being told what to do, but that’s just our scope of 
practice.  So there is some collaborative effort because there’s times that I’m out, the medical 
director’s not there.  He’s going to need my assessment skills to be able to tell you “okay, this is 
what I’m seeing here”.  He or she may ask more questions.  So a nurse practitioner is still a nurse 
with additional training, and additional training hours that require -- that gives you that ability to 
have a higher level of assessment skills, be able to diagnose, be able to treat, to be able to 
prescribe, and then you get the best of both worlds.  It’s a hybrid of medicine, and a hybrid of 
nursing, and this is why you’re seeing more nurse practitioners especially in primary care, and 
people are happy, you know.  I have this back and forth with my family all the time.  My brother 
and my sister-in-law are physicians, you know, and their like “ah, nurse practitioners want to be 
doctors”.  I said “no.  I just want to be a good nurse practitioner”.  I’m never gonna take anything 
away from a physician, but we do have a lot to offer.  We do, you know.  One thing patient’s 
always say is that you guys listen.  I been to doctors.  They’re in and out, and I’m like “did you 
hear anything I said?”  You know, and that’s -- with geriatrics, I can’t do a 15 minute visit with 
them.  They’re still on their first story that they already told me about 22 times.  You know, and 
at that point you want to build a rapport.  So I’m not saying at some point the visits don’t become 
shorter, you know.  So that’s the difference, you know, which nurse practitioner is still different 
from DNP, the new term that’s running around.  A Doctorate in Nursing Practice.  You can have 
that and not be a nurse practitioner, right.  ‘Cause when I’m telling people (inaudible 1:02:20.0) 
you want to be a doctor”, and I was like “no.  I’m not getting a doctorate”, and there is people 
who have -- I don’t know why nursing use the same letters ‘cause it is kind of confusing to the 
public if you don’t know.  But I find myself educating people just in the clinical setting ‘cause 
they don’t know. 
 
AG:  Do you think that your role will change when you complete the nurse practitioner 
(inaudible 1:02:47.2). 
 
DD:  Yeah.  Most definitely.  I would like to stay in the current program that I’m in because once 
again I’m kinda home grown, you know, in the sense that I know the policy, procedures of the 
program.  I know what the expectation is as far as the providers, you know.  The limitations of 
our program.  You know, this is my love.  Like I already have a Master’s in Community Health.  
Like I -- this is what -- if somebody said “what did you dedicate your career to?”  It’s to the life 
of older adults in the community.  That is what I have done.  So to shift me into -- I don’t know.  
I don’t know what else I would do.  You know.  This is what I do. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
20 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
 
AG:  When you think about your career and particularly the role that you played in, you know, 
like older adults in the community, what’s the most challenging aspect of your job? 
 
DD:  The most challenging.  There’s a lot that come to mind, but I think it’s too support 
sometimes of older adults, you know, and sometimes there’s a personality thing of the 
individual.  Why their fam- -- you know, I used to -- let me just back up with this.  When I 
worked -- my first job at North Shore -- not North Shore, at Long Island Jewish, I remember 
seeing older adults in the hospital by themselves.  You look in the chart.  There’s a name, 
daughter, son, and I’m like “really?  This is how they treat their family?  This is awful”, and then 
I had to take a step back, and I’ve learned that sometimes -- and I’ve had patient’s children tell 
me this, “you don’t -- the person you see here today is not the person that raised me.  You don’t 
know our dynamics”.  So I had to stop judging and understand it comes with family dynamics.  
But to answer your question, some of my biggest challenges is patients who don’t [1:05:00] -- 
there’s a bump stop in home care, right.  And at some point when you go over the bump stop, 
you probably need a higher level of care, but people want to stay in their home, and I’m all for it.  
This is why I do what I have to do, but I say “while you want to stay in your home you have to 
put things in place.  You have to anticipate”.  These are things that are not going to miraculously 
come, you know.  If you live in a -- all the bedrooms are upstairs in your house, but now you 
can’t walk up and down the steps, you know, that nice living room may have to be converted into 
a bedroom.  You know, just anticipating those things.  Getting the patient to be realistic, and 
sometimes they’re not, and sometimes the family tries, and it takes for us to be the “bad person” 
to come in and say we can no longer service you in the home if you don’t do x, y, and z.  Once 
again holding the individual accountable and responsible.  Yeah. 
 
AG:  Yeah.  What would you say is the most rewarding aspect of your job? 
 
DD:  (Inaudible 1:06:05.1) letting -- allowing individuals to age in place, to be able to stay at 
home.  I wanted that for my parents, you know.  Before they passed, I said if what I could do is 
for them to pass away in their home, and unfortunately they both -- but to stay at home as long as 
possible, you know.  I remember our grad school project.  It was just like how do you want to 
die?  Like how do you want that part of your life, and everybody says “oh, I want to be in the 
hospital with no pain.  I want this”, and I was like the only one in class whose like “I wanna be 
home.  What do you mean?”  I want to be home with good care, you know.  If I can eat, with 
good food, and whatever I want to eat at that point, and let me go.  But most people don’t get to 
live that out, and I think a lot of times is because they haven’t planned so it’s usually like those 
last 30 days that’s very tumultuous.  There’s a lot going on.  This is happening, this is -- and 
families are trying to figure it out because they haven’t had that conversation, you know.  So it 
becomes very challenging, but my goal is always to keep people in their home as long as 
possible, as long as it’s safe. 
 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
21 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
AG:  What do you think of when you think of your role in patient care, how do you think of 
yourself?  Or it sounds like you -- I might have a guess of what you’ll say, but how do think of 
your role as a patient advocate or patient care? 
 
DD:  I believe that I’m an advocate for my patients first and foremost, always.  And I think you 
asked the question earlier, you know.  I have been in that role -- I’ve been a patient, and I don’t 
feel like I’m being heard, you know or I have this patient, and they’ve had a stroke in the past, 
and I have a rapport with them.  So I know their language may be brash to other individuals, but 
that’s not their intent, you know.   So it’s always to advocate for them.  Call people out on their 
stuff so that they can be responsible ‘cause some people have literally skated through life with 
nobody, you know, setting boundaries for them, and they just want to wreak havoc, and I’m like 
that’s not what this is about or it be whether the boundaries are to tell me what they think I 
should do.  No that’s not going to stand up in a court of law because you Googled it.  That’s just 
not going to work.  So, yeah.  So advocacy definitely.  Yeah. 
 
[1:08:57]AG:  What services, if any, do you think should be improved or provided for elderly 
populations or particularly veterans toward the end of their life maybe? 
 
DD:  The research shows it’s cheaper to keep somebody at home.  Pay -- increase the amount of 
home health aide services that individuals get.  Veterans are blessed, and I mean blessed in the 
sense that they gave service to this country.  They get some home health aide hours.  So, you 
know, I think they can get up to like 21 hours.  Great.  If they were civilians they wouldn’t get 
anything, and this goes back to my point of when I wanted to work on health care reform.  One 
of the last pieces in the Affordable Care Act that was striked had to deal with the advancements 
of care for the older adult in the community.  It would have been a game changer.  Game 
changer.  There [1:10:00] are certain states -- because under Medicare it falls more on the states 
so there’s some states that are a little bit more lenient with what they give as far as support for 
their older adults, and there’s other ones that just good luck.  You’ll be waiting on a waiting list, 
you know.   So you put them institutionalized.  You separate them from their family, you know.  
Like I said, I worked for -- this was a New York program.  It was under Medicaid.  I know the 
program has changed the name since I’ve worked for it, but it was the Lombardi Program, and 
you get to keep people at home as long as they met a certain threshold to stay at home.  So, yeah, 
that’s definitely one of the interventions that I would put in place. 
 
AG:  When you think back over your eight years with the VA, have you seen change any?  Have 
there been shifts in your experience? 
 
DD:  Yeah shifts in that I’m just like let me just fall in line.  I came from the private sector.  
That’s what they refer us, you know, whoever worked in the VA.  So in the private sectors things 
move a little differently, you know.  Anybody who knows a federal government it’s not the 
quickest moving machine, you know. So it can be very challenging in the sense that sometimes I 
tell, you know, I just want to do my job.  I’m not asking for all the bells and whistles, but you 
know, I try -- you know, I feel like if it’s challenging for me as an employee at times, I can’t 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
22 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
image the challenges for my 90-year-old veteran who you want to call and wait on the phone to 
make an appointment.  So I step in, and I do what I can do for them, but, yeah so there’s 
challenges.  Have I seen a change?  I believe sometimes working in our program you become 
very -- kind of shielded from the rest of what goes on at the VA sometimes.  I’ve had people, 
they’re like “we have home care here?  You sure you don’t work for another agency?”  I said 
“no.  I work for the VA”, and it’s not really traditional home care.  Its home based primary care.  
You know, there is a difference.  So to say it’s changed, it possibly has, but like I said I feel like 
I’m kinda isolated which is a good thing at times. 
 
[1:12:40] AG:  Oh, Dana.  Thank you so much again.  Is there anything you’d like to add before 
we conclude? 
 
DD:  Not that I can think of.  Well, maybe.  To my legacy listeners.  Whether it’s my family or 
somebody else, I hope that this gives you insight of hard work, a dedication in finding something 
that you love, and passionate about it, and being able to make a career out of it because this has 
been a career.  And, you know, to all my families or patients who, if you’re listening and you’re 
struggling with the care of your loved ones, know if you’re a veteran start there.  Come to the 
VA.  Make sure they get all of what they provide a service to this country, and they get 
everything that they deserve, and if you’re not and you’re in a community reach out to your local 
Department of Aging, and we pay taxes.  Put people to work. 
 
AG:  Thank you so much for your time Dana.  This was wonderful. 
 
DD:  No problem.  Thank you Alana. 
 
[1:14:07.0] End of recording