Back of House: Kitchen Workers in Central Ohio
Archie Green Fellows Project, 2017 
Occupational Folklife Project || American Folklife Center 
Interviewee: Juan Carlos ‘Armanii’ Soriano  [Worker, La Poblanita Food Truck] 
Interviewer: Jess Lamar Reece Holler 
Date of Interview: Thursday, June 14th, 2018 
Location: La Poblanita Food Truck’s Picnic Table -- Along Indianola Avenue; Clintonville 
// Columbus, Ohio 
SOUND QUALITY NOTE: The interview takes place, by the interviewee’s request, after close 
immediately at the picnic table (for customers) outside the stable location of La Poblanita Food Truck, right along 
busy Indianola Avenue in the Clintonville neighborhood on the North side of Columbus, Ohio. As such, we pick up 
quite a bit of traﬃc noise from Indianola (which is maybe ﬁve feet behind Armanii); and also noise from a nearby 
train track. Several trains go by during the course of the interview. 
INTERVIEW NOTE: This interview is also abbreviated; Armanii originally had less than an hour to talk, 
but he generously agreed to continue speaking to ﬁnish out his story. But, because the interview is shorter than 
others, signiﬁcant swathes of his and his family’s stories, and discussion of occupational and material culture on the 
truck, are more condensed than they might be in more luxurious encounters. 
Interview Index 
00:00:00 -- Introductory Slate // Interview Lede 
00:01:00 -- Early Life & Childhood: Growing Up in Chicago; Leaving Chicago to Avoid 
Gang Violence 
●
Armanii describes growing up in a Mexican-Italian family in Chicago; and growing up on the 
South Side of Chicago, near the epicenter of what Armanii describes as lots of gang violence
●
00:04:00 -- Armanii describes his parents’ experience being held-up and robbed at gun-point
●
Family “moved around alot … made a lot of friends; lost alot of friends along the way … you 
get that feeling that everything is temporary; and you’re just along for the ride.” Family lived 
in Virginia (younger brother Leo born there); Providence, Rhode Island (where Armanii’s 
dad’s family lives)
●
00:06:00 -- Armanii shares about connecting with Newport, Rhode Island, where his dad 
started oﬀ washing dishes when he came to the U.S.
●
00:07:03 -- Armanii discusses his parents’ journeys to the U.S.; and following his dad’s cousin, 
eventually, to Columbus
●
Renting out a single room as a whole family; Armanii shares that his family didn’t get their 
ﬁrst apartment until around ﬁve years after they’d arrived in Columbus
00:08:22 -- Life in Columbus & Family Work Cultures // Family Food Cultures & Mom’s 
Cooking 
●
Armanii discusses his family’s cultural belief that, traditionally, only the man should work out 
of the home, and should come home to a housewife; so, for a long time, only his dad worked
●
Armanii discusses the language barrier his dad faced to ﬁnding work; and eventually worked 
in construction, and then launched his own business as an independent contractor after a 
couple of years in the U.S.; as a result of this, his family was able to buy their own house 
(Armanii was in elementary school; “I remember, we were so broke at the time, we didn’t 
even get to celebrate my birthday; because we had just bought the house, so all our money 
went into the house. So, we have very humble beginnings …”)
●
00:10:14 -- Armanii discusses his mom’s journey into the U.S.; working at a family-owned 
business called Los Comales, which has now become one of the biggest taco franchises in 
Chicago; “it’s like the go-to spot”; when his mom worked there (at seventeen), it was a two-
story, twenty-four-hour business; “She was a waitress there … that’s where she learned 
everything … when it comes to Mexican food, the whole cuisine, how to prep salsas, the 
meats … that’s where she learned alot of recipes; just: the whole taste, of everything. It all 
originates from Los Comales.” Armanii describes his mom’s connection with the owner, 
purchasing her own car. “This all wouldn’t have been possible without her working there, 
because that’s where she got a good eye … a good taste … of her signature style.” 
●
00:12:00 -- Armanii describes his mom’s gift for cooking and knowing, from an early age, 
that she’d someday do something in the restaurant industry; watching television shows and 
preparing dishes; “I already knew -- she had gold in her ﬁngertips. It’s crazy.”
●
00:13:40 -- Armanii shares that his mom is a three-time breast-cancer survivor, and describes 
his fear and pain watching her battle cancer throughout his childhood; “That’s one of the 
main things that terriﬁed me, growing up -- just, losing her. But, she made it, Thank God.” 
●
00:14:00 -- Armanii describes his parents’ divorce and the diﬃculty of that experience, 
especially as a ﬁrst-generation family; and his own diﬃculties growing up without the beneﬁt 
of parents or family members who had been in the U.S. for a long period of time, “I had no 
mentors, I had no guidance, I had no one to help me with homework … it was tough.”
●
00:15:40 -- Armanii discusses how hard his parents work; and his parents’ eﬀorts to help 
others in the community; discussion of his parents’ dedication and passion
00:16:00 -- Origins of the Food Truck // Food Truck Culture // Being at the Beechwold 
Barber Shop 
●
Armanii discusses the early days of the food truck, and its installation at its previous 
location, outside a dry cleaner // laundromat (no bathroom, etc.)
●
Discussion of La Poblanita’s relationship with Beechwold Barber Shop
●
00:18:00 -- Armanii discusses his mom’s search for income after his parents’ divorce so that 
she could save the house for his little brothers; she reached out to project managers and 
began selling tamales at construction projects where Mexican and South American workers 
tended to be and started “making a killing”; then, people started complaining that she didn’t 
have the proper licenses (00:21:24), and shut her down
●
00:22:30 -- His mother’s purchase of a small trailer for her ﬁrst food truck; doing all of this 
launch-work without being connected to the wider Columbus small food business incubator 
community; “she did everything on her own will … I couldn’t even tell you how she did half 
the things she did, to get this thing up and running. There was so much behind it, that went 
into it.”
●
00:25:00 -- Early struggles, and Armanii’s experience working on the smaller truck as soon as 
it was up and running; diﬃculties of making good money, depending on the location
●
00:27:00 --Narrative about encountering racist customers when the truck set up across from 
the family’s home, on the West Side, near Briggs High School // on Briggs Road -- “People 
play about racism; and I didn’t think it was still a thing; but it’s very much still alive. 
Especially now, with Trump being President … it kind of reassured everyone: it’s still alive. 
It’s OK for it to still be alive. I don’t know. It was crazy … that lady … made us go thru hell, 
pretty much. All my  brothers … they would go to school worried about what my mom was 
going to encounter, if she was going to be safe. I would go to school worried, if my mom was 
going to be safe; and I would always rush oﬀ, to make sure that she wa safe. And she would 
always tell me, ‘Today she did this; today she came over here and said all these nasty things, 
and she brought her husband, and her son, and they started saying nasty things …”
00:31:00 -- Moving to Clintonville: the Laundromat, and then Beechwold Barber Shop 
●
00:31:00 -- Moving to Clintonville, near a dealership and a laundromat; “Spanish ladies” at a 
dealership recommended that the truck come in, because there’s only a Burger King for food 
along this entire strip of Indianola, but there’s a huge factory here (the Marzetti salad 
dressing factory)
●
00:33:50 -- Setting up contact with the owner of the barbershop; relationship with Susie, at 
Beechwold Barber Shop; “Susie, the owner, being a businesswoman -- she’s very smart. And 
she gave my mom an opportunity to set up at this location. And this has become our iconic 
location; we’ve basically become Clintonville itself; we’re known as the Clintonville food 
truck. The big yellow Clintonville food truck.”
●
00:35:00 -- Relationships with neighboring schools on this block of Indianola; exposing local 
students to authentic Mexican food 
00:36:30 -- Material Culture: La Poblanita Food Truck Itself 
●
Armanii describes he and his mom’s purchase of and conversion of a horse trailer, which has 
become their current food truck
●
00:38:30 -- Setting up the interior of the food truck, to regulation; getting help in setting up 
the food truck
●
00:39:40 -- Origins of the name, “La Poblanita”; Armanii’s parents are from Puebla
●
00:40:30 -- Armanii describes the mural (his design) on the side of La Poblanita truck; 
representing his mom as the American dream, between “both of those worlds”; “...she made 
it, and she did it the right way. There are people who come here, and they turn into 
criminals, and they go on the wrong path … but not everyone can just follow their dreams, 
and overcome every obstacle that comes with entering a new country, a new lifestyle … no 
education, no nothing. I feel like I’ve seen her overcome so many things; and I feel like this 
woman: … is unstoppable.” Discussion of his mom’s tradition dress in the truck’s mural, and 
in La Poblanita icon; his aunt made the outﬁt herself.
00:45:00 -- Work Culture on the Food Truck; Working Alongside Family Members // 
“Working the Window” and Delivering a Good Customer Experience 
●
Armanii describes working on the food truck alongside his brothers, who have all worked on 
the truck “since day one,” since they were in high school; “it’s been amazing … some of the 
best memories I’ll ever hold. I never thought I would create a business with my mom, my 
brothers … and everyone who works with us is family.”
●
00:46:20 -- Roles/responsibilities on the truck 
●
00:47:00 -- Armanii’s social attitudes and learning “front-of-house” customer service roles 
required for the truck; past experiences working in the corporate world and as a supervisor; 
“I do that every day, here … it all helped me become such a good customer service rep, when 
it comes to working the window … we like to give people an experience, a feeling …” // 
Customer service and “window work”
●
00:48:50 -- Armanii discusses La Poblanita’s regulars and connections with diverse 
customers; reﬂections on the culture and community of Clintonville; and being surprised 
how many people are “well-rounded” and speak Spanish
00:51:00 -- La Poblanita’s Menu & Preparation On the Truck: The Back-of-House Line 
●
Discussion of the full menu, combo oﬀerings, dinner platters, and specials; weekend tamales
●
00:53:30 -- Gluten-free and vegetarian oﬀerings; specialty meats; “clean eating”
●
00:54:30 -- A La Poblanita order: from window-to-window; space, set-up and routine back-of-
house in the truck; Armanii recommends the movie The Founder
●
00:56:00 -- Discussion of before-open prep (4-5 hours); “We open at 11; but our day starts at 
7 in the morning … so, we’re in their prepping, chopping up fresh veggies every day; 
marinating and seasoning stuﬀ, pre-cooking stuﬀ … but she just likes to have it fresh. And I 
think that’s just what every restaurant likes to oﬀer … she deﬁnitely doesn’t try to take 
shortcuts at all.”
●
00:57:30 -- Description of the diﬀerent stations on the truck : grill, toppings, bagging the 
orders; requires ﬁve staﬀ members, “... but, we try to make it work, with three or four”
●
00:58:00 -- Discussion of family staﬀ and non-family staﬀ; “We’re like family … blood 
couldn’t make us any more thick”; Armanii discusses being able to give non-family members 
and other kids in high-school, especially bilingual kids, the opportunity to work the window. 
Narrative about a bilingual employee who “killed it” at the window because of her ﬂuency in 
both languages; hiring a neighbor, Nick; “... he’s that kid … who calls my mom ‘mom,’ too.”
00:01:00 -- Handling Wages, as a Family Employee on the Truck; Finding Success 
●
[Recording cuts out due to a full card; recording resumes after an old recording is deleted.]
●
[New lede // intro to Part 2 of the recording]
●
Armanii describes watching the success of the truck, without marketing or promotion; “our 
whole traﬃc has just been word-of-mouth”
●
Lessons from working with family and learning responsibility; “... at the end of the day, 
family is family; and you’re just happy to be with your family. To see my mom happy and 
active, after surviving cancer three times, is just a miracle and a blessing. It’s just been an 
honor to watch her … create her own legacy. Everyone will talk about this food truck … 
forever. Everyone who had the chance to try it.”
●
00:04:30 -- Connection with other food trucks in Columbus; being a stationary (-vs.- a 
mobile) food truck and commitment to consistency; “we’ve keep it exclusive, in that way.”
●
00:06:03 -- Catering client weddings and deepening connections in the Columbus 
community; plans for using the original food trailer to become involved in festivals and the 
Ohio State Fair; “... we want to not have to shut down.”
●
00:07:00 -- Hiring decisions and managing a growing team
●
00:09:00 -- Reﬂections on the diﬃculty of Armanii’s childhood; his parents’ path to 
citizenship and discussion of fear of deportations for immigrant families; “... everyone comes 
here looking for a better future, a better life; but not everyone gets the chance. It’s one thing 
to get here; it’s another thing to be able to pursue that … I just hope my mom’s story 
motivates people … my parents come from nothing; they literally come from nothing …”; 
reﬂections on the hard work ethic of Mexican and Hispanic immigrants
00:12:00 (Pt. 2) — Concluding Slate, Thanks & Goodbyes