1 
 
Transcript of Interview with Rob Capley, September 29, 2020 
By Ethan Sharp 
Ethan (00:00:01): 
All right. I'm Ethan sharp. I'm here with Rob Capley. Today is September 29th 2020. I'm here in Lexington. 
And Rob, where are you? 
Rob (00:00:14): 
I'm also in Lexington. 
Ethan (00:00:16): 
Oh, you're in Lexington. Okay. I didn't know if you were, I didn't know where you were working. Okay. 
That's great. 
Rob (00:00:25): 
[Inaudible] 
Ethan (00:00:25): 
Okay, awesome. So, to get us started, Rob, could you tell us a little bit about you know, your, your personal 
background, where you were born, where you grew up and then, your, your personal journey of recovery? 
Rob (00:00:38): 
Yeah, so, my name is Rob Capley. My sobriety date is March 20th, 2019. I'm born and raised in Lexington, 
Kentucky, where I still live today. So I've been here all 30 years of my life. But... sorry, I was born and raised 
here, and I had a really great childhood. I had a dad who worked full time, and my mother was a stay-at-
home mom. Also have a little brother, and you know, we were very white picket fence family. We went 
to church five days a week, and we were raised very well and pretty much anything that we wanted, our 
parents gave us. I was a little spoiled growing up, but I had a wonderful childhood, and I really have no 
complaints as far as being raised and my parents are absolutely wonderful. 
Rob (00:01:39): 
So, at the age of 13, I came out to my family. I am gay, and when I came out to my family like I said, I went 
to church five days a week, and we were very religious growing up, and it was a little bit of a shocker to 
my family. And so that really is what started, I think, that's kind of what started my addiction in a way. So, 
like I said, growing up I was a really, a really good kid. I followed all the rules. I was a straight A student all 
through high school. I was in the marching band. I was on the swim team. I did chorus. I was involved in 
like every club you could possibly think of. And I went to the University of Kentucky at the age of 18, and 
my first semester there, I was very involved in the frat and the fraternity lifestyle. 
Rob (00:02:37): 
And that is actually where I got introduced to methamphetamine for the first time. Now in high school, I 
did experiment with smoking weed and drinking and stuff like that, but it was kind of just a social thing. It 
wasn't really a big deal. My dad's side of the family is Italian, and they're heavy drinkers, but not 
necessarily alcoholics. But that's kind of our heritage and the way that we kind of celebrate things. So, I 
2 
 
experimented a little bit in high school, but really it was when I got on my own. My mother and father, 
when I first came out of the closet, they weren't super accepting of it. I would come home every day and 
have Bible verses on my bed. And it was a very big thing. They didn't speak to me for a few months, even 
though I still lived in the house. 
Rob (00:03:29): 
But through time they began to accept it, and we started to build a relationship, but that really stemmed, 
part of my addiction issues was because ever since then I've struggled with acceptance, struggled with 
people liking me for who I was. So, I would put on fronts and be someone that I wasn't. Growing up, I was 
friends with like every friend group possible. But I would change myself. Like I was friends with the Goth 
people, but I'd wear black all the time, and the, the theater people and I'd like do fake accents. Like I 
basically would manipulate myself into being a part of the group. So, I went to college, like I said, to the 
University of Kentucky, and I went to a frat party, multiple frat parties. And that's where I got introduced 
to methamphetamine. And that was in 2008. 
Rob (00:04:28): 
I was off and running, like as soon as that methamphetamine hit my body, I don't know what it was. I 
honestly cannot explain that overwhelming sensation, but it was an instant, an instant addiction. I'm an 
upbeat person, and I like to talk anyway. So when I got introduced to meth, I was just off to the races. I 
went to college, and I had a swim scholarship for swimming. It was really cool. I swam from the time I was 
five all the way until I went to college, but I ended up losing that scholarship because of drugs. So that's 
just a little bit of my childhood. So, I struggled with drugs from the age, really bad from the age of 18 to 
28. Ten years straight, I struggled with all sorts of addictions. Methamphetamine and heroin were the 
biggest two. 
Rob (00:05:27): 
But I've done every drug under the name of the sun. Literally, you name it, I've done it. Cause I used to 
always say, why not just try it once? But that usually did not roll out very well for me. So, I started doing 
meth at the age of 18, and within the first six months of doing meth, I got into a lot of trouble, and I ended 
up getting a possession charge and paraphernalia charge and a bunch of other things and went to jail for 
the first time at the age of 18. And they gave me drug court as an option, Fayette county drug court. I did 
the drug court program completely perfect. I had no issues. I graduated in 18 months, and when I 
graduated drug court, I was 21 years old. I stayed sober the entire time I was in drug court. 
Rob (00:06:19): 
But as a freshly graduated from drug court and a fresh 21 year old, what better thing to do when you're 
21 than to go party. So, I was going to the bar scenes, and I was doing the whole club scene at 21. And I 
ended up getting into a little bit of minor trouble, like public intoxication. And I ended up getting a DUI 
when I was 23, you know, just a slew of different issues. At the age of 24 is when I got introduced to 
heroin. I'm one of probably the only people that will talk about opiates. I was not introduced to opiates 
from the pill pandemic. I did not do Percocets or Oxycontins or anything like that. I started doing drugs 
just straight out of the gate. So I started doing heroin at the age of 24, and that's when I really hit some 
dark, dark moments. 
Rob (00:07:21): 
3 
 
I was lying, manipulating, stealing, prostituting. I mean, literally everything you can think of I did. So my 
story actually starts as far as getting into recovery. So, I don't want to focus too much on the war stories. 
[Inaudible] I've done a lot of bad things, still paying for my consequences, but my journey to recovery is 
the best part. So, at the age of 28, my mother kicked me out of my house, and my complete, my whole 
family had nothing to do with me. I totaled two vehicles within 60 days. And that's when my parents finally 
kicked me out and was like, "We're not helping you anymore. You need to figure this out." So, I was 
homeless for three months. I lived in a cardboard box. I would climb on the roof of Rite Aid convenience 
store, off Pimlico road. 
Rob (00:08:18): 
It's not a Rite Aid store anymore, but it used to be, and I would sleep up on the roof at night. And then 
during the day I'd climb down and steal cigarettes from the McDonald's ashtray. Yeah, it was, it was really 
rough. I had a suitcase to my name, but that's literally all I had. Now, the one thing I did get to keep though 
was my cell phone. My mother never cut my cell phone off because she wanted to keep track of me, even 
though she wanted nothing to do with me. She wanted to keep track of me. So, the entire time that I was 
homeless, she would send me text messages and Facebook messages on different rehab centers and 
different options to get sober and church groups and Celebrate Recovery, AA, anything she thought would 
help me. So, in August of 2018, I think I just finally had enough, and my mother sent me a link about the 
Isaiah house treatment center. 
Rob (00:09:18): 
And I decided to call them. I called them with no intention to go. I only called them because I was going 
to say, "Mom, I called them, can I have $20 now?" But ,when I called them they said they were full at the 
moment. They didn't have any open spots, but they were going to be doing a trial on this new form of 
treatment that's not yet regulated in America. If I was interested, I could do an application on the phone, 
so I did that application on the phone, and I ended up getting approved. They did not seek me out. I 
actually, like I said, I was [inaudible] and they ended up approving me. So I went to the Isaiah house, and 
I basically got to do this new form of treatment. The treatment was called neuroelectric therapy [NET]. 
Rob (00:10:10): 
And it's been used since 1975 over in Europe, but it is regulated in America. The federal government has 
not recognized it as an actual form of treatment quite yet. So it's still in its, I guess you could say, trial 
basis. But they did a trial run on five people here in the state of Kentucky, and I actually got to be one of 
those people. They documented the entire process on a film called the Final Fix, which is on Amazon 
Prime. And, it's really cool because it explains exactly what the treatment is, how it works, what it does 
for people. And that really started my recovery journey. 
Ethan (00:10:55): 
Can I ask you a question? So did you know that they were going to be filming that when you went in? 
Rob (00:11:03): 
So, whenever they did the application on the phone, they, when they called me back and approved me to 
go, they went through a slew of things and the biggest thing, and I tell people this, is I signed all my rights 
and royalties away. I did not make royalty from the film. I did not make money from the film. I did it in 
order to get treatment. I had tried many rehabs before. I've tried Suboxone. I've tried methadone. I've 
4 
 
tried counselors and therapists, and I just couldn't figure it out of why I couldn't stay sober. So yes, they 
did inform me. 
Ethan (00:11:45): 
Right. Right. So, you need to go? 
Rob (00:11:50): 
No, I'm sorry. I have to walk and get my charger. My phone's at 10%. I apologize. 
Ethan (00:11:57): 
So you had already had gone... I'm sorry. 
Rob (00:12:03): 
I did not, I did not plan for my charger. I so apologize. 
Ethan (00:12:09): 
You're fine. You're fine. But so, you didn't, you had already experienced withdrawals without the, without 
the NET? 
Rob (00:12:15): 
Oh 100%. Throughout the 10 years of addiction, I've had many, many, many painful withdrawals. Many. I 
literally couldn't walk, couldn't move, couldn't function. I knew what withdrawal was, and I was very, very 
scared of withdrawal, but I knew what I was walking into before I went to the film. I'm so sorry about that. 
I got that fixed now. 
Ethan (00:12:47): 
You're good. So, but, but, so when you, when you went in, you, as you said, you weren't really sure where 
it was going to lead. Right? 
Rob (00:12:59): 
No, when I went to treatment, honestly I didn't even think it was going to work. I had never heard of it. 
I'd never researched it, literally when I called and she told me about it, it was the first time I'd ever heard 
of it. And honestly, like 90% of people that I tell don't even know what it is. It's been kind of kept hush, 
hush. So I had every intention that it wasn't going to work. Even in the film, if you do watch it, there's an 
interview part of it where I clearly state that when I got there, I didn't know if it was gonna work, and if it 
didn't work that I was going to make them give me a Suboxone. But it worked, and I didn't need the 
Suboxone, and my cravings went down. And I don't know, it, it just somehow it clicked. 
Ethan (00:13:54): 
Right, right. It's a great, it's a great story. And then you had also tried Suboxone, as you had said, and that 
didn't really work for you either. Is that right? 
Rob (00:14:02): 
5 
 
No, well, I did Suboxone. I did an outpatient treatment here at Lexington through ARC, Addiction Recovery 
Center, Addiction Recovery Care is what it's called. And I did Suboxone outpatient for almost a year. And, 
it worked to an extent. Did it make my, my life better? Yes. But at the end of the day, I still felt like an 
addict because I was still doing a drug. So even though I wasn't necessarily out robbing people, and even 
though I wasn't out, you know, doing necessarily criminal activities, I still felt like I was addicted. So it 
helped to an extent, but it didn't completely help me. 
Ethan (00:14:59): 
Right, right. Right. Well, so we can go back a little bit to, so you did the trial, and then what was the process 
like after that for you? 
Rob (00:15:09): 
So, it was a whirlwind for me. I, once I went to treatment, like I said, I went in August of 2018 and did the 
NET trial. Extremely successful. After leaving the program, I was home for a total of two days. And I had 
some criminal past that I was still, I had to take care of. I had two felony warrants through Fayette County. 
So upon returning home, an old friend of mine actually turned me into the police. So, I was arrested two 
days after getting back home from the treatment. So, I ended up doing three months in Fayette County 
jail, and they let me out on probation, and this is where my story starts to get into where I joined peer 
support. 
Rob (00:16:02): 
So, I went to jail for three months, and after getting out I stayed sober the entire time I was in jail. And I 
got out in December of 2018, and I was on probation for a few months. And, and March of 2018, or I'm 
sorry, March of 2019, I actually relapsed. And it was, it's weird to explain because I didn't crave getting 
high, and I didn't relapse because I wanted to get high, but I relapsed because I hadn't changed anything 
in my life after coming back from treatment. I did not change any people, places or things. And I went 
right back into the same lifestyle, and it wasn't that I sought out the drug, but it was like, it was almost 
part of the lifestyle, the people I was hanging out with, even though I wasn't high, it was still there. 
Rob (00:17:06): 
So, I actually relapsed on March 19th, 2019. And as soon as it happened, I called my probation officer, and 
I self-reported, and we had a long talk about it. Well, they ended up locking me back up for another 90 
days, and they actually offered me drug court again. Typically, the law actually just changed in the 
Commonwealth. It used to be if you were a drug court participant, whether you graduated or not, they 
would wait 10 years until you'd be eligible to do that again. But they changed the law a couple years back, 
and I'm not sure the exact, the exact date, but they changed the law where you can now do it every five 
years. So, where I had graduated in 2011, when I was younger, it had been plenty of time. So, the judge 
actually said that I could either do a 12 month inpatient treatment rehab center, or I could do drug court. 
And I took drug court. I had already done it once, and I was extremely successful. I had stayed sober the 
entire time. I just felt like it would be the best thing for me. So, that led me to drug court for the second 
time. 
Ethan (00:18:26): 
When you were at Isaiah house, you didn't end up staying there very long? 
Rob (00:18:31): 
6 
 
So, I completed the 28 day program. Yeah. So, the film itself only follows us for seven days, but I actually 
did the 28 day program. And then after leaving, that's when I got arrested. But it was really successful, 
like I said. So, I want to put this in here with the whole NET stuff. So, I highly suggest watching the film. It 
is, it's amazing. And it truly needs to be something that we implement in this world. Now, here's the thing 
with NET, it's not a cure. There is no cure for addiction and really what NET's main purpose is it helps with 
the elimination of detox and withdrawals. I had zero detox and withdrawal symptoms receiving the 
treatment. So it made the fear of going to treatment and the fear of withdrawal completely eliminated, 
where I was able to really open up and accept it. 
Rob (00:19:35): 
Now what it doesn't say in the film, and I always make a point to talk to people about this, is once you do 
receive the treatment, you have to, have to, have to, continue in some sort of program. So whether you 
decide to do AA and a fellowship, or whether you decide to seek a counselor or a therapist, or whether 
you decide to seek a church atmosphere, you need to continue to stay involved because the temptation 
and the devil is always [inaudible]. So even though I did have a relapse, I think that the NET really helped 
me immediately recognize it and immediately realize how to go about fixing it in the proper way. So I 
always make sure I tell them that. 
Ethan (00:20:24): 
That's good you've mentioned that. So when you were in the drug court program, you did have to go to 
meetings and...? 
Rob (00:20:31): 
Yeah. So I actually am in drug court right now. But as far as being a drug court participant, yes, it is a very, 
very extensive program. And that's why I actually opted for it because it is so strict. You are required to 
go to so many outside meetings per week, which are either AA or NA based programs. They also require 
that you do in-person classes and groups that are specifically for drug court participants, but are run by 
therapists and clinicians themselves. We, at the beginning of the program, you are drug tested three times 
a week. You have court every single week. You have to meet with your caseworker every week, your 
recovery coach every week. And it's very good accountability for someone going into recovery. You know, 
after leaving treatments, you know, I was just back in the real world, and I didn't really have that structure. 
Rob (00:21:33): 
And that's why I knew going into it the second time that I'd be successful because I'm good with structure, 
but yes, it's a very extensive program. As you get through the program, it does become easier. You know, 
now I only go to court once a month. I don't want to get drug tested once a week. I only have one group 
a week, instead of two or three. So the, it's rewarded by the length of time and how well you're doing in 
the program. So as you move up in the program and phase up to the higher phases, your requirements 
become less. 
Speaker 1 (00:22:10): 
Right. Right. And so that's how you got introduced to being a peer support specialist through, through 
drug court. Is that right? 
Rob (00:22:16): 
7 
 
Yes and no. So actually a little bit of my backstory, so when I went to college and went to the University 
of Kentucky, the degree that I was seeking actually was to be a LPSW because I wanted to be a social 
worker. Now as a social worker, I was more intrigued by the mental health field and working with 
adolescents with mental disabilities, such as mental retardation and autism and different forms of that. 
So that's actually what I went to college for. I didn't finish college. I dropped out. And when I was 24 in 
the madness, I, as a heroin and a meth addict, I went to Bluegrass Community Technical College, and I got 
my associate's degree. I don't know how I did it, but I did it. And I actually enrolled at Lindsey Wilson 
College, and I went into their human services and counseling program to be an LPSW, sorry, an LPCC, 
which is a licensed professional certified counselor. 
Rob (00:23:27): 
Again, I shied away from the addiction field because I dealt with my own issues, and I did not feel like I 
wanted to work in addiction. So again, even as an LPCC, I was seeking to work with mental disabilities, 
mental health, behavioral health, somewhere such as Charter Ridge or, you know, Eastern State Hospital, 
in that kind of field. So now, again, back to the future, when I was in drug court, as I was going through 
the phases and doing really well, my recovery coach, her name's Amber Bishop. She's amazing. And she 
actually asked me about the peer support class, and I had never heard of it before until she mentioned it. 
And so I was like, "You know what, that kind of goes along the field of counseling and social work. So sign 
me up, or down." So that is, drug court introduced me to peer support. I did have a little bit of background 
in it. 
Ethan (00:24:39): 
Right. And so for the certification, where did you do that? Was that through drug court? 
Rob (00:24:46): 
It was not. So, I actually did the adult peer support specialist class through NAMI Lexington. NAMI, which 
is the National Association of Mental Health, or Mental Illness, if I'm not mistaken. So, I actually did my 
certification with them. They are amazing for what they do. I actually have a family friend who is very high 
up in that department, in that program. And it was an amazing experience. It was an intensive 30 hour 
training week, 30 or 40, I can't remember the exact number it's been a while. But it was an intensive 
training. It really broke down both aspects of behavioral health and substance abuse at the end of the 
day. And when I was going through the class, that is when it clicked for me that I needed to work in 
substance abuse. Everything that I had gone through, all the struggles I had gone through, all the 
addictions and the treatment centers and the rehabs and just the dark moments, all kind of came full 
circle. I had shied away from substance abuse for so long that, something in that class just was like, "What 
are you doing? Why are you shying away? You can thrive in this." And as soon as the training was over, I 
knew that's what I wanted to do was substance abuse. 
Ethan (00:26:23): 
Yeah. So, you did that this year, or was that last year? 
Rob (00:26:27): 
It was actually this year, so interesting story. So, I did my training for peer support in February of 2020, 
and yes, February of 2020. And so, whenever I did my training, I got done with training at the end of 
February. And I began looking for work in the field. I have been working in restaurants my entire life. I still 
8 
 
work at a restaurant part-time. But I work in a restaurant that's actually based in recovery. I don't know if 
you've ever heard of DV8 kitchen. 
Rob (00:27:05): 
So, I worked there part-time, and they believe in giving people second chances and working with addicts 
and stuff. So an amazing, amazing job. But after I got done with my training, I started looking in the field, 
and I ran into two problems. The first problem was, the majority of people will not hire a recovering addict 
into the field of rehab or substance abuse until you have a minimum of two years sober. And after I 
finished my training, I had only had 15 months sober. So, I was like, "Wow, okay." So I did all this training, 
and nobody wants to hire me because I don't have a long enough sobriety date. So, there was my first 
issue. And then my second issue was in March of 2020, COVID-19 hit, and the world shut down, and even 
though treatment centers and rehab are still running, the availability of jobs and people coming into a 
business almost depleted immediately. 
Rob (00:28:06): 
So I really ran into, like a bus, at the middle of my training. And then this is like for me, you know, working 
a program, I work AA. That is the program of my choice today. I do have a home group and a sponsor, and 
I've worked the 12 steps. And I was in a sober living house for 13 months. And we did AA and Celebrate 
Recovery residing together. So Isaiah house, which is faith based and going to sober living, which was the 
Johnson House, I continued my faith-based and also did AA. 
Rob (00:28:47): 
So after everything hit with the whole COVID thing, this is a really cool story. This is how God works in my 
life and how I knew that the job that I have today was the job that I needed. So, throughout my recovery, 
I've been sober now for, September 20th was 18 months for me, so a little over 18 months now. And when 
COVID 19 hit and the world shut down, I was still working at my job. And then, of course I got 
unemployment, and then here's how I got my job today. And I can go more in detail. Long story short, 
which is amazing. So, me and my father, like I told you all at the beginning, when I came out of the closet 
and he struggled with accepting me, and my mother and father actually got divorced when I was 17 years 
old. 
Rob (00:29:43): 
And, after my parents got divorced, my dad struggled with his own addiction with alcoholism and cocaine. 
And he basically fell off the face of the earth. I did not speak to my dad for almost 10 years, and that was 
not only by my account, but his also. I tried numerous times to reach out, and there just wasn't anything 
there. And I think he was dealing with his own issues at the time, as well as me going through my own 
issues. So, I get a call in May of 2020, so this year, from my aunt saying that my dad was basically living in 
a quote, unquote trap house and that he was drinking really heavily and he had fallen and he had hurt his 
hip and he couldn't walk. And he was basically sleeping in his own feces and urine. 
Rob (00:30:38): 
And as most of us know, alcoholism and addiction can take us to that place. So when my aunt called and 
told me about that, you know, I hadn't spoken to him in 10 years, but I felt, I felt empowered and inclined 
at the same time that I had to see him and help out as much as I could. And you know, if you work a 12 
step program, it says to continue to share the medicine [inaudible] for an alcoholic, whether that's a 
friend, a family, a stranger, whoever it may be. So, I decided to just waltz on over there and go see my 
9 
 
dad. And I took some support with me, and he was really bad off, but I ended up getting him to go to the 
hospital. And while he was in the hospital, I went to visit him every single day and just made small talk. 
Rob (00:31:26): 
And I told him about my journey. I told him about the things that I did in my addiction, about the 
relationships I had broken, and all the charges that I had had in criminal activity. And I told him about the 
NET treatment, and I told him about Isaiah House. I told him about my sober living house. I just told him 
about my life. And he ended up staying in the hospital for almost three weeks. And the day before his 
discharge, I went to go visit him. And he said that he had been thinking a lot and that he wanted to go to 
the Isaiah House, which I was like blown away. "That's amazing." So I called Mark LaPalme, he's the owner 
of the Isaiah House, CEO of Isaiah house. And me and him are really good buddies. 
Rob (00:32:17): 
We've traveled to Washington to talk about the NET, and he was a big support for me and really helped 
me on my journey. So, I called Mark, and I told him the whole story about how God placed me back with 
my dad and my dad wanted to go there. So, I ended up taking my dad to the Isaiah House for treatment. 
And when I got there, Mark met me. And as soon as I saw him, he, he could see something in me, and he 
offered me a job as a peer support specialist at the Isaiah house, on the spot. Yeah. Right there. And he 
was like, if you want it, you got it. I was like, man, COVID-19 hit. And nobody would hire me because I 
didn't have two years sober. And I was like, "You know what? I was like, what better place to work than 
the same place that I got sober." So Mark offered me a job, and I've been working at the Isaiah House 
women's center. I worked with the 28 day program for the women's facility. I am a peer support specialist 
with the women, and I've been there for almost four months. . 
Ethan (00:33:27): 
Okay. Awesome. And so that facility, is that in Lexington? Is that... 
Rob (00:33:32): 
No. So, actually, the one, Isaiah House is a really big company now. Their main campus is in Willisburg, 
Kentucky. But they have all different facilities throughout the state of Kentucky. I work at the women's 
center, which is actually in Harrodsburg, Kentucky. And here soon, actually, actually starting Monday, 
October 5th, I'll be working at the Versailles center because they're opening another rehab for the women 
in Versailles and that opens October 5th, but I've been working in Harrodsburg. 
Ethan (00:34:05): 
Is that the same kind of facility they're opening? 
Rob (00:34:08): 
Yeah. It's actually a little bit more extensive. So, the facility that I work at now is a 28 day phase one 
program, so it deals with immediate detox and withdrawal and the beginning of their recovery journey, 
basically. We do offer a three-day Suboxone taper for people that are coming in on opiates, but after that 
we eliminate it completely, and we teach peer support classes, Celebrate Recovery. Isaiah House is faith-
based. They have clinician groups and therapy and stuff like that as well. So, the one I'm at now is a 28 
day program. The one that is opening in Versailles on October 5th has two programs in one. It's a bigger 
facility. There will be 18 beds for the 28 day phase one girls. So, they would be again, the detox withdrawal 
and basically the first 28 days phase one. And then we're also offering a phase two in that facility, which 
10 
 
is 15 beds, and that is a residential IOP program, which will be an inpatient IOP that will last six to eight 
weeks. So total, the females, I'm sorry, the women that come into this facility can be there for up to nine 
weeks. 
Ethan (00:35:24): 
Well, can you tell us a little bit about what your work is like as a peer support specialist in the facility? 
Rob (00:35:35): 
Yeah, peer support is awesome. I've, I've said this since day one. I think it truly is my calling. I also wanted 
to say this, so when Mark offered me a job with peer support, originally he offered me to work with the 
men's facility, and I felt something spoke to me to work with women. Most places do not, do not allow 
men to work with women, but where I am open about my sexuality, a lot of my struggles and addiction 
are very similar to what women have gone through. So, for me to be able to work with women I just felt 
would be a little easier far as being able to really relate to some of the issues that they were going through. 
So, I absolutely love working as a peer support specialist. 
Rob (00:36:26): 
I am blessed with the opportunity to be a positive male role model within a female facility. Most women 
that come into a facility are broken by men, whether that's a relationship or past experiences or trauma 
or whatever they've gone through. And I'm able to be that male figure for them where they can start to 
begin to build trust, but they can also get honest with, because they know that I've got similar stories. So, 
my job working there really is anything the girls need. So, I am a peer support specialist, but throughout 
the day I do other things as well. So, in the mornings, right now I work first shift there. I've worked first 
and second shift, but it's a very structured program. We run meditation in the mornings. We have praise 
and worship. 
Rob (00:37:22): 
We have chores, we have class, a peer support class every day from 10 to 11:30, which I teach. So I either 
teach things on, really whatever topic it can be Celebrate Recovery. It can be Recovery Dynamics. It can 
be Living in Balance. It can be any sort of program. It can be AA based. It can be really anything that I feel 
could help them with their struggles. I really get to know the people that I work with. So, I know a lot of 
their history, and I can really kind of personalize the class to what I think they need. For example, here in 
the past, here recently, I've had a lot of girls come in that deal with co-dependent issues, especially with 
managing relationships in their life. So this past week, I was teaching class on codependency all week. 
Rob (00:38:20): 
So again, it kind of depends on what I feel will work for that day. 
Ethan (00:38:27): 
And you do that everyday? 
Rob (00:38:27): 
Every single day. I work Monday through Friday, and the topics are different every week. Maybe even 
every day. I try to, I try to mix it up so they don't get bored. But it's amazing. It's a daily reminder to me 
about how broken you can be when you first come into treatment. Whether, I've been to the men's facility 
11 
 
many a times and being a client myself. But seeing people come into rehab fresh off the street is a daily 
reminder to me of where I used to be and where I don't want to go back to. Now work is not what keeps 
me sober. Now my workplace is my worship place because I get to worship every day at work, which is 
awesome, but I still work my own individual program when I go home. I still go to meetings. I still volunteer 
at sober living houses. I still do whatever I can do to maintain my recovery as well. 
Ethan (00:39:30): 
Is that something they encourage you to do at Isaiah house? 
Rob (00:39:39): 
No. They do. They cater to a lot of that. If you feel that you need, I'll say this, Isaiah House is an amazing 
company, because my favorite part is we have what's called flex scheduling. So, for example, let's say I 
have to be at work at two o'clock and I'm working 2 to 10. But I really need a meeting. I've been struggling 
with something in my life, and I need to go to a meeting because I feel like it's really going to help me. I 
can leave work early to go to a meeting as long as I make those hours up the next day or sometime before 
my week is over. So, it's really cool because they continually offer help. They do offer IOP for staff 
members if they feel like they need some extra help with a certain issue. We do have grief counselors and 
chaplains that will help us through personal issues if we have any. So it's a great company because they 
realize that as peer support, we obviously have gone through it. And, you know, really the only difference 
between me and the girl in rehab is I have a few more days sober. That's really the only difference. 
Ethan (00:40:56): 
That's great. I'm glad to hear they do those things. So you, do you also meet one-on-one with, with some 
of the women? 
Rob (00:41:05): 
Yeah, so we do. During, like I was telling you my schedule, I do teach an hour and a half class every day, 
Monday through Friday. That is a group activity. So, we do group things together, whether that's crafts or 
class or discussion or whatever it might be. At one o'clock, after they get done with class, they have lunch. 
And then after that they have clinician group, which is with a licensed counselor, but during the licensed 
counselor group, the girls can decide to meet one-on-one with the peer support, to either talk through an 
issue that they may have be having, or maybe help them with like their aftercare plans, whether they 
want to go to long-term or whether they want to go to sober living and what our experiences are with 
that. So, really we, we at Isaiah House's peer support don't necessarily take notes on the individual 
aspects, but we do on the group aspect. So, we do leave staff notes for the clinician based on the group 
and what we talked about, but individual stuff, we tend to, only really for confidentiality really, only tell 
them if it's a threat to them. We keep it kind of between us unless they feel like we have something 
[inaudible]. 
Ethan (00:42:29): 
Right. So that kind of fills out your day then? 
Rob (00:42:34): 
Yeah. I mean and all throughout that day too, let me just say this, even though I'm a peer support 
specialist, our, our actual title is considered house assistant, even though I do more, we're an assistant in 
the day. So as the house assistant in treatment, I make sure that they are following their schedule. I make 
12 
 
sure they take their smoke breaks and they eat their lunch. We administer drug tests for people that may 
be having CPS cases. We do random searches of the dorms and of the place. I might have to help with 
case management and legal stuff. If they have like a zoom meeting on court, or probation officers they 
have to meet with, I may, honestly it's whatever happened that day. Like today, for example, we have a 
girl that is currently with us, who's pregnant. So she had a pregnancy doctor's appointment. So, for today, 
after I got done with class, I transported her to the doctor's appointment, stayed with her, and then 
returned back to the facility post appointment. So it's honestly, it's whatever they need to help them to 
sober during the day. 
Ethan (00:43:53): 
I get it. Well, is there, is there a particular story of something really positive that you'd like to share about 
your work? You know, something that, if there's nothing that comes to mind, that's fine. I'll just give you 
the opportunity. 
Rob (00:44:14): 
Oh I mean, honestly you know, can I give... 
Ethan (00:44:20): 
Without mentioning names. 
Rob (00:44:21): 
Probably. Yeah. So can I give a bunch of specifics? Probably not. I'll say this though, my job is truly 
rewarding because most of the girls, and obviously we do have people that don't stay, but most of the 
women that come into the facility complete and graduate. And I usually will be one of their first contacts 
when they come in because I help with the intake process. So, I don't do the drug test or the strip search 
or anything, but I help with the paperwork and the initial and making them feel comfortable when they 
walk in. So, when I see these girls and women come in here completely broken, scared, crying, pale, marks 
all over their body. I mean, literally just not living. 
Rob (00:45:18): 
And then I get to see them graduate after they've completed the 30 day 28 day program, it brings tears 
to my eyes. We, we do a prayer when they leave, and then we sing a song. We sing “Lean on Me,” and we 
do it in a group setting and a circle. And it's kind of like their rite of passage that they graduated, and to 
see the light come back on is the most rewarding part. And sometimes that light happens during the route. 
Sometimes it doesn't happen until they graduate. But to see them get vulnerable and honest and just 
really become open to spirituality and recovery is probably my favorite part. The most rewarding part of 
my job is probably this. I love seeing them graduate. I love seeing the light come on. My absolute favorite 
though is when I get a message on Facebook, 2, 3, 4 months down the line, and they're still sober, they're 
living their best life. 
Rob (00:46:21): 
They're truly happy. And you know, they're involved and doing whatever they need to do for themselves. 
You know, I, our company, we typically, you will not make contact with the client after they graduate, 
unless, unless they graduate. If they don't complete the program, we're not inclined to make contact, but 
if they complete, we are able to be a source for them after they leave. And when you get that random 
text message at, you know, four in the morning saying, "Hey, I'm waking up to go to work. I'm happy 
13 
 
today. And I've been sober for 120 days." That just makes everything worth it. It makes those hard days 
worth the effort. 
Ethan (00:47:08): 
That's perfect. I wanted to address some of the positive, lots and lots of positives, of course. But I also 
wanted to segue a little bit into some of the challenges for peer support specialists. And I don't know, I 
don't know where we could start with that. You know, one thing I wanted, I wanted to ask you about is 
how do you see the role of peer support specialists changing and growing over time? And you, you know, 
have that experience of, you know, studying human services. So, you know, a little bit about what are the 
different roles out there and how the, how they can work together. So I just, I wanted you to address that 
a little bit, you know, what are maybe some issues that you would like to see worked out, and how do you 
see the role of peer support specialist changing? 
Rob (00:48:06): 
Yeah. So I'll say this peer support is fairly new. It's not something that has been around for a long time. I 
think it just became billable within the past two years. So it's a new thing for a lot of companies. I think it 
is vital to any company's success to have a peer support specialist. To have an individual that has gone 
through the struggles that other people have gone through, it creates a warm and welcoming 
environment. It creates understanding and sympathy and empathy, and it just really opens up the door 
to trust. Coming from somebody that's been through programs, if I go and talk to a counselor that doesn't 
struggle with the struggles that I've been through, I feel like they are better than me, and I feel like they 
are higher up on the scale than I am, and I don't relate. 
Rob (00:49:03): 
I need someone that's gone through it and can be that role model for me and just show me that like, 
"Okay, you did it. So if you can do it, I can do it." So, I think that's why peer support is so important to 
have. Here's my struggles with peer support, and this is, these are personal takes on peer support. So, I 
find that peer support get thrown into group settings with really not a lot of guidance. We, there's really 
no sort of structure for peer support. There's not like a binder you follow. We don't advise or help or tell 
people what to do because we're not licensed to do it. So I'm not going to go and say like, "You're 
diagnosed with this, or you're this." Because that's not what I'm trained for. 
Rob (00:49:57): 
But there's really no manual as far as what a peer support specialist should follow. Now Isaiah House has 
a stronger group, I guess you could say, of peer support and the idea of what it offers. But I don't think 
every company has that balanced out yet. So, I find the issue of there's really no core curriculum to go 
with. A lot of the time it's on the fly and it's stuff that we've gone through. I think it might be more 
challenging for a peer support specialist working with someone for a year or two years versus a short 
amount of time. It's not hard for me to work with someone for 28 days because, you know, in 28 days 
they're, they're going to be gone, and I can do some subjects, but if I'm working was someone for a year, 
two years, I need some structure to go by. 
Rob (00:50:53): 
I also find this, I see more and more importance of peer support and less importance of an actual therapist. 
And here's why I say this. So, a therapist is absolutely vital and crucial to getting down to some of those 
core diagnoses. So like, you know, diagnosing them with what mental illness they may have or what 
14 
 
trauma they have gone through. That is very important. But, I find in my experience over the past four 
months that the participants are more willing to open up to a peer support specialist than they are a 
therapist. So, they're going to disclose information to me, where they're probably not disclosing it to a 
one-on-one therapist. So I find it hard because as peer support, there is a little bit of a line of 
confidentiality, but then there is also the fact that we work alongside these people. 
Rob (00:52:00): 
So I have to disclose information, but I can't disclose based on discrediting the relationship that I have 
built. So, it can get a little hazy. And that's really my only struggle as far as communicating to higher staff 
such as therapists or social workers, because they seek out trust and guidance in us, but I am not, you 
know, legally supposed to go to someone else and tell what they've told me, unless again, it's a threat of 
harm to themselves or others or something like that. So, I think those are the two big things. I think a 
curriculum of some sort to come up with a good guidance for us to continue to grow. And I think just the 
haziness of what we offer. I just see in the past four months, the therapist is vital. I'm not saying they're 
not, but I see that they are more willing to open up to a peer support specialist than they are therapists 
on any given day. 
Rob (00:53:13): 
Because again, you know, we can relate. So that's one of the reasons why I want to go back to school and 
finish because with experience of peer support and being someone that lived through all of that, getting 
more education as a therapist, but still being able to relate can only help me. And I'm not saying you can't 
do your job as a therapist if you haven't gone through what I've gone through. I'm just saying that it's 
harder for, it takes a lot longer to build trust with someone that hasn't gone through it than someone who 
has. 
Ethan (00:53:47): 
No, yeah, I, I totally get that. One thing I didn't ask you and this, I think this is related. So when you're 
working with the women, do you talk about your personal story, your personal experience? Does that 
come up a lot? 
Rob (00:54:05): 
A hundred percent. Anything that I talk about, verbatim, anything, and relate to something that I've done. 
So I, I disclose everything, and in order for me to continue to be well in my program and continue to stay 
sober, honesty is a complete virtue for me. They know, at any given moment, if they ask me a question, 
I'm going to tell them the truth about what happened in my life. But also, anytime I teach a class, no 
matter what the topic is, whether it's fear, I relate fear to my story. If it's codependency, I relate that to 
my story. If it's mental health, I relate that to my story, because having direct examples of what I've gone 
through alongside what I'm teaching gives them a more relatable situation. 
Ethan (00:55:00): 
Yeah. And well, we're running out of time, but I did want to ask you about the group that you created at 
Voices of Hope. And maybe more generally, if you could talk about, you know, as a gay man, some of the 
particular challenges that you've faced, that maybe other people didn't face in your process of recovery 
and going to work in the recovery field. 
Rob (00:55:30): 
15 
 
So, I'll be quick so I don't run out of time. So, to continue to stay involved, me and Shanda Dunn, who is 
one of my best friends, we've gone through a lot together. We really wanted to start an LGBTQ all-inclusive 
meeting for people that struggled with addiction. And it just so happened that the right moment, at the 
right time, Voices of Hope was on board with holding this meeting for us. I don't physically work at Voices 
of Hope in Lexington, but I am a volunteer with them. But I just felt that it was something needed in our 
community, and there wasn't enough of it. And in order to continue to offer support at any time of day 
for people, I thought it was important to establish.  
Rob (00:56:20): 
So now for me, I'll be honest, my struggles as a gay man have been probably a lot harder than a lot of 
other men in addiction. I'm not saying my life's harder than theirs, but the struggles were a little harder 
because of this. Growing up in Kentucky, I grew up in Lexington, which is very progressive and they do 
believe in equality, but all the outskirts of Kentucky and in the smaller cities are still very, very on the racist 
side, to be totally blunt and honest. Not everyone, but as a whole it is. So, getting into the recovery scene 
was hard because I didn't associate well with males. So going to an all male rehab facility scared me very 
much because I, again, struggle with acceptance and being a part of a group, and I never had a lot of male 
friends. 
Rob (00:57:15): 
So it was a struggle for me to be myself around these people. And I would again, find myself lying about 
things, just fit in. I also dealt with a lot of just, you know, discrimination and bashing, and you know, it's 
part of growing up, you know, people get bullied a lot of their lives and that's something I was bullied for. 
Today, not so much, because I think people realize that I've established who I am in my own skin and I'm 
confident with it, but it's been really hard to get accepted in the male role. That's one of the reasons I 
decided to work with women actually, because even today I still struggle with the male role, and I could 
work with men and I can relate to men, but it, again, it takes longer to build a relationship. And you know, 
it, it all falls back on morals and beliefs and how we're raised. 
Rob (00:58:19): 
And I'm not saying anybody's wrong, but you know, it's some of those things you have to break and it's 
harder to break them quicker with the males. So, you know, I've dealt with a lot. I've dealt with 
discrimination. I've dealt with bashing. I've dealt, I was beat up as a kid. I was made fun of as a kid. I was 
not accepted into male facilities. It was a struggle, but typically, what I found was usually I was in my own 
way, because I did go to an all-male facility for rehab, and it was extremely successful. And I lived in an 
all-male sober living house for 13 months, and it was extremely successful. Now, you know, again, you 
know, are they 100% on board with my lifestyle? No, but today, and I think it's important in this world is 
you don't have to necessarily believe what's going on in someone else's life, but you can get to know them 
as a person and just respect them. I'm not influencing their life, and they're not influencing mine. We just 
happen to be on the same path. But understanding and honesty and vulnerability and emotions, we're 
human, we all feel it. 
Ethan (00:59:34): 
I'm sure that you you've helped to create broader spaces of acceptance, you know, within the recovery 
field. So, I think that's a good thing that you've, that you've probably done. And then also just creating 
that group, I think, as a way of recognizing the unique challenges that the LGBTQ community faces in 
recovery. 
16 
 
Rob (01:00:01): 
Yeah, you're right. Like you know, I started to build this own identity of what it is to have a gay male in the 
recovery community. And there were a lot of the time a stigma to be a certain way or act a certain way, 
or everything's a sexual manner, and that's not the case. We're people, and we have struggles, and we're 
just looking for an outlet of acceptance and a way to express ourselves. So, I've found that men are very 
upfront nowadays and it's created this awesome atmosphere, but also the LGBT meeting is open to 
everyone in recovery. It's not just LGBTQ. We put the name in that title so that people in the community 
felt comfortable dealing with stuff with people of that community. 
Ethan (01:00:56): 
Yeah. Yeah. Awesome. Well, I think we can end it there. I took up a lot of your time. 
Rob (01:01:02): 
I told you I could talk for two hours at least. 
Ethan (01:01:06): 
I don't know if there's anything else that you want, want to add for posterity. 
Rob (01:01:10): 
Well, I think just hope, and I think peer support just continue to give hope to people. I think that we need 
to be more open about the idea of peer support in all aspects, not just rehab. I think it's very important 
for mental health and very important for prisoner and jail settings even, to have people come in and talk 
about their experiences. Peer to peer services is only going to keep growing. So to block it off or to not 
recognize it would just be a shame to the community. 
Ethan (01:01:48): 
Yeah. That's a great way to end. Thank you so much, Rob. And I'll follow up by email. 
Rob (01:01:56): 
Perfect. Thank you so much.