AFC 2010/039: CRHP0120 
12/04/2016 D. & P. Crosby, Long, J. & C. Miller 
Civil Rights History Project 
Interview completed by the Southern Oral History Program 
under contract to the 
Smithsonian Institution ’s National Museum of African American History & Culture 
and the Library of Congress, 2015 
Interviewees: David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, James and Carolyn Miller 
Interview Date: December 4, 2015 
Location: Port Gibson, Mississippi 
Interviewer: Emilye Crosby 
Videographer: John Bishop 
Length: 1 file; approximately 3 hours and 20 minutes 
START OF RECORDING 
Female 1 : From the Library of Congress and the Smithsonian National 
Museum of African American History and Culture. 
Crew: We’re rolling, so—. 
EMILYE CROSBY: Okay. 
WORTH LONG: — see, [you’d?] already taken the money. 
JAMES MILLER: What can I say? 
WL: They gave you your salary for the year before. All of your salary. 
JM: Oh, man. And I got to see all the United States and go all over the place. I 
mean, Midwest Academy, man, [laughter] ( ). 
EC: Okay, so I’m Emilye Crosby. This is December 4, 2015, and we’re in 
Mississippi Cultural Crossroads in Port Gibson, Mississippi. We’re here with the Civil 
Rights History Project, co-sponsored by the Library of Congress and the Smithsonian 
National Museum of African American History and Culture. And we’re here continuing 
and expanding on the interview with James Miller and Carolyn Miller that we had this 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
1 
morning, and we also have, today, Worth Long, David Crosby, Patricia Crosby, and 
we’re going to talk about primarily Mississippi Cultural Crossroads and the work that it 
did, the sort of cultural and historical and artistic work that it did, both documenting and 
in the tradition of the Civil Rights Movement. 
Can you—can we start by some of you, whoever is so moved, to tell us how 
Cultural Crossroads was born? 
DAVID CROSBY : Well, maybe I should start, because I was the evil genius 
behind it. [Laughter] I got—across my desk came a notice from the National Endowment 
for the Humanities that was offering youth grants in the humanities for young people to 
get together and study humanities when they weren’t in school or whatever. And I think 
the grants were for $2,500. I immediately thought that Port Gibson was a kind of unique 
situation for young people to look at all the various cultures that kind of intersected here 
in Port Gibson, from the Spanish land grant of the Natchez territory to the French culture 
of both the Natchez territory and the US flag flew and the British flag, and it was a whole 
mixture of things; of course, the Native Americans, who were here when the French 
arrived in the 1730s. 
So, it’s—I also thought that my wife Patty, who was unemployed at the time, 
would be the ideal person to manage such a grant. And as it turned out, they gave it to 
us, and then at that point, Patty took over and ran. And I just kind of stepped into the 
shadows and gave moral support and material support that I could. 
But the basic idea, I think, came from a sense that there were a lot of voices in the 
history of Claiborne County and Port Gibson that were not really reflected in the official 
stories that were told by people who had concerned themselves with the history of the 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
2 
region. And the most important story that was left untold was that of the African 
American presence. So most of our activities were designed to try to engage both white 
young people and black young people in conversations about that heritage. And Patty 
can tell you what some of the first activities were, if you want to go on to that right now. 
EC: So, what year is this? 
DC: This was—. 
PATRICIA CROSBY: Nineteen seventy-eight. 
DC: -nineteen-seventy—it was a little earlier than that. [19]76, probably, that 
we first started—for—wrote the first proposal, and then it went through bureaucratic 
channels and so on. But the first work of Cultural Crossroads, actually, was probably in 
1977, [19]78. 
EC: And it’s probably helpful to know in this context that Claiborne County is 
an eighty percent African American community, and in [19]78, if we connect this [19]76 
through [19]78, if we connect this to what we were talking about earlier, this is about 
three years after African Americans win a majority on the policy-making board in the 
county, after years of exclusion. And so, the community—can you—does somebody want 
to try to describe kind of what the dynamics of the community was like at the time that 
Cultural Crossroads is bom? 
JM: It was just so much going on, and as you reflect back on it, right, I mean, it 
was like two or three revolution[s] going on at the same time. All right? You had the 
influx of Grand Gulf, right? You had a black political takeover. You had established 
white power that was fighting tooth and nail to maintain control, right? You had the 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
3 
emerging of a baby organization in the community, Mississippi Cultural Crossroads, ran 
by a white woman. [Laughter] Okay, in a predominantly black community, right? 
EC: The worst of all possible worlds. 
JM: But not just your average white woman, mind you. [Laughter] Anybody 
know Patty—y’all, going to tell the truth, right? She’s a very strong, opinionated person, 
right? And not easily intimidated. So, that—you had them dynamics going on, and mind 
you, all of the people that we had control, politically, were males. Okay? So, you got the 
chauvinistic thing going on, you got—you got Patty pushing hard, trying to get stuff done, 
you got an evolving evolution of black leadership, all right, that’s coming into power 
that’s never been there before, right? Trying to figure out how they fit into the mix. 
Then you got a bunch of little fools running around talking about, “Why this white 
woman running this? I thought there’d be some black person, right?” They got all they 
going on, right? So, it was, I mean, lot of friction. Lot of dynamics. 
PC: There was Julia Jones. I mean, in terms of—. 
JM: Oh, okay, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. But 
I’m talking about in policy-making positions. 
PC: Yeah, okay. 
JM: You know, Jones was the—. 
PC: Circuit clerk. 
JM: Circuit clerk. All right? But the folks that had the money, [Laughter] they 
were on the Board of Supervisors. We didn’t go in the—. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
4 
EC: So, what were some of the early organizations, and what’s the relationship 
between the—I mean, not organization—early activities, and what’s the relationship 
between the grant Cultural Crossroads and those early activities? 
PC: The $2,500 planning grant we got from the NEH enabled us to say we had 
a grant, say we had money, which was absolutely critical. Nobody ever asked how much. 
And then to gather together people in the community—Dave was teaching at Alcorn in a 
master’s program, so he was teaching some of the teachers in the community. So, that’s 
how he got to know both your teachers and others in the community. 
And Em not sure how we made a contact with Chamberlain Hunt Academy, but 
on that early board there were a couple of people. And Worth was in and out of town in 
those days. So, we gathered together that group of people—and there were high school 
kids on that board—and said, “What do we want to do?” 
EC: So, what’s Chamberlain Hunt Academy? 
PC: Well, it was the private segregationist academy. I mean, it had a history 
before the war where it was a military academy for boys, but when the court said finally, 
“You must—.” what did they say? Integrate or desegregate? I don't know which word— 
the schools, then Chamberlain Hunt Academy, started accepting white girls and local 
boys that had not before that been there. So, it was an alternative school to the public 
schools. 
EC: And so, what—go ahead. 
PC : So anyway, we just met every couple of months and talked about what we 
wanted to do. And the upshot of that was, the high school kids essentially said, “We’ll do 
anything, even talk to the old people, if you’ll get us cameras and show us how to use 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
5 
them.” And that was a time before everybody had a cell phone with a camera on it, so 
that those Canon 3 5-millimeter cameras and the darkroom that we set up were really an 
important thing for the high school kids, I think. 
And then just very early on, Worth, who sat at the table with us, was at that point 
on—a panel? Panels—for the NEA folk life folklore program. And so, we talked about, 
what did we want? We wanted tape recorders, we wanted a darkroom, we wanted 
cameras. And Worth, on a panel, got us $9,000,1 think. But then again, dynamics were 
there. You couldn’t—I couldn’t, as a person, apply to the NEH. But there was a library in 
town, and we had asked Nancy, the librarian, to be on our board. So, we said, “Nancy, 
can the board—can the library accept this $2,500 if we get it?” She said, “Sure.” None of 
us even ask what the NEH was going to require, and they require a 501(c)(3) or 
something else. This library was just a library. The oldest one in the state, but it wasn’t 
what—so I went to the supervisors and I said, “I’ve got this money, but I can’t accept it 
for the community—I need to have a government body or a 501(c)(3).” Do you remember 
the white lawyer from Natchez who was the board lawyer in those days? Anyway, he 
was sitting at the table, and I went in, hat in hands—. 
JM: [Zakario?]? Zakario? 
PC: Yes, exactly. 
JM: Zakario. 
PC: Good job. And I said, “I need somebody to accept this grant.” And he 
looked at the board and he said, “What can she do with $2,500?” [Laughter] 
DC: Well, actually, that wasn’t the 2,500. This was the—. 
PC : No, that was the first one. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
6 
DC: Oh, okay. 
PC: And then—that was the first one. Because the library had said they could 
but couldn’t. And then, when we got the NEA money, we had already figured out at the 
house that we needed to be a 501(c)(3). I couldn’t go around asking people to accept 
money for us. But the second money came through the school board, which is another 
major miracle, because I really never had a good relationship with the superintendent, but 
they accepted that money. 
Then he wouldn’t give it to me—I don't know whether you remember that— 
because, well, I assume you’ve talked about the school issues, but—. 
EC: We haven’t, really, so you might be the—. 
JM: Mmm-mm. It was a good thing, right? [Laughter] 
PC: At just about this point, the schools lost their accreditation. And Emily 
and some of her classmates were playing basketball. And the major upshot of losing your 
accreditation is that you lose the right to play in high school athletics, so that these kids, 
who are very good, were bumped aside. So, Dave and I and Reggie Porter’s mother—and 
did Frannie’s mom, Katie Young, join that party? 
DC: Yes, I think so. I think it was just us and Porter—. 
CAROLYN MILLER: I’m not sure. 
PC: At any rate, we filed suit against the high school activities association. 
And the superintendent took that as a personal affront. We said it wasn’t him, it was the 
children, but—. So, he had this money from the NEA and he wouldn’t give it to us; for 
about a year it sat there, and we just kept spending and hoping. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
7 
So anyway, that would—then we got started interviewing people, and I Ain’t 
Lying, and that was a start. 
EC: But some of that was going on before the school stuff, because I was 
almost—I was about to graduate when that happened, and Octavia and all of them were 
doing I Ain 7 Lying long before that, right? 
DC: Yes, I think so. 
PC: Yeah, yeah. You’re right. 
DC: I’d like to go back and provide a little background to those activities. 
Because Patty and I had come to Claiborne County in [19]73, and we had been reading 
the Whole Earth catalogue and that kind of thing, and we had—through them had learned 
about Wigginton and the Foxfire Project. And so, we were—we had really that kind of 
model in line of going to the elders in the community, and in our case particularly the 
African American elders in the community, to get them to talk about their lives and their 
crafts and their traditions and things like that. 
So, that’s kind of where I started, but then we got in touch with Brother Worth 
here, and he enriched that a lot by infusing us with this sense of the—what was maximum 
feasible participation, so that the institution tried to be as representative as it could be of 
the people that it was trying to reach. 
WE: It’s—participatory democracy is the concept. 
DC: Yeah, exactly. 
PC: And shortly after we moved here the Chamber of Commerce published 
something called Claiborne County: The Promised Land. And there was a big book 
signing and opening at the Chamber, so Dave and I, on a Friday afternoon, went. Why 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
8 
not? We were new in the community. You could read that several-inch book and not 
know that there were any African Americans in this community except the [Pages?], 
because the Pages had caused trouble. 
CM: That’s in Reconstruction, or slavery. 
PC: Yeah, yeah, they had caused trouble, but they still made the book. But, 
so--. 
DC: Well, so did the slave who saved the family from burning when the 
chimney caught fire. 
PC: That’s true. He was the other one. But I said to people, “You could read 
this book in Michigan and not know that eighty percent of this population in this 
community is African Americans.” So, that was another kind of driving force for 
encouraging people to talk about their lives, to tell their stories. And we started out 
interviewing just whoever the kids wanted to interview. 
DC: Yeah, we let them take the lead very much. And they—as you said, they 
were so thrilled to get a hold of a tape recorder and a camera and be able to do something 
with it that they became eager to do that. But—may I go on? The—. 
PC: Or did you...? 
DC : — the—I think most important thing that happened during that first year 
was that by the end of it, we realized that the people—one of the strongest artistic 
traditions in the county was quilting. And that there were a lot of parents and 
grandparents of these children who were quilters. And so there was a kind of critical 
mass of artists who were going completely unrecognized in the community. And so, we— 
one of the first things was Patty and I wrote a paper, a kind of show-and-tell that we took 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
9 
to a meeting of the Mississippi Folklore Society. And we showed a number of—well, 
before that, I guess, there was the—. 
PC: Yeah, where the kids were. 
DC: — we were able to go to the Mississippi Arts Commission then and get 
some grants, small grants, to work in the schools with resident artists. And our resident 
artists were folklore artists, folk artists. And the most popular one was the quilting. We 
also had a blues and sculpting one with Son Thomas, and—Fm not sure how this fit—we 
actually got the old blues singer from the Delta— 
EC: Sam Chatmon? 
DC: Sam Chatmon. 
JM: Yeah, Sam Chatmon. 
DC: Sam Chatmon performed at the movie house—. 
PC: That was different money, but—. 
DC: It was different money, but it was—but that was the basic idea, getting the 
kids involved, being taught by the people who were actually the artists in the community 
or in nearby communities—the extended black community, if you will. And that led to, I 
think, a recognition that—oh, going to—the paper we wrote, trying to show that, basically, 
black quilts operated on a kind of different aesthetic level than the traditional white 
quilts, which were based on squares that were perfect and added together, all contributed 
to one pattern. Whereas the African American quilts, by and large, grew kind of 
organically from a set of procedures or way of building a quilt that led to different things, 
like quilts that were based on long strips of material rather than squares, or if they were 
squares, they were then made into long strips before they were put together, and so on. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
10 
But we presented this paper up at the Mississippi Folklore Society, up in Oxford, 
that particular year. And I remember going to the restroom after the presentation, and the 
chairman that year of the Folklore Society looked at me from the next urinal and said, 
“You don’t really believe all that crap, do you?” [Laughter] And I was certainly taken 
aback, because he was a—. 
PC : Because he did believe it. 
DC: — a friendly young fellow, and I did believe what I was saying. I thought- 
-but there’s a disconnect here somewhere. Fm not making myself clear to the people that 
I would think would be most sympathetic to the point Fm trying to make. And we’ve 
been kind of trying to make that disconnect into a connect ever since. 
But that’s how we really got involved, I think, in the kind of programming that 
Cultural Crossroads then became known for—a quilting program, the theatre arts 
program, the documentation. 
EC: Can we—? I want to—we’re kind of—. 
DC: Go right ahead. 
EC: — because of our timing—I want to come back to some of that—[break in 
audio] file—. 
Worth, can you say—Worth, can you talk about—your coming out of working with 
SNCC in the [19]60s—. 
WE: Right. I can do—mm-hmm. 
EC: — and then how do you come into contact with Cultural Crossroads, and 
what’s in your mind at this—at the birth of this organization and this work? 
WE: All right. Tell me when. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
11 
Crew: We’re on. 
WL: Yeah. My background was in the Civil Rights Movement, and organizing 
with the Civil Rights Movement, working with the Student Nonviolent Coordinating 
Committee, or SNCC. And during that particular time, during the period in which the 
Cultural Crossroads was developed, I was already involved in trying to do, in southwest 
Mississippi, a program that was—I came on the board in 1980, so in 1977,1 was involved 
in a Ford Foundation program that was called—what? 
JM: Leadership and Development program. 
WL: Leadership and Development program, in which they funded me to do 
some study and research. Part of that study was with Alan Lomax at Columbia 
University; he was there at that time. And what the study—what my study was about, 
basically, was the whole question of how can you—and this relates to Cultural 
Crossroads—how can you, in communities that are not empowered, legitimize the 
program that is already culturally compact and developed within the community, but is 
not respected in the larger community? It’s almost a parallel in terms of what the Civil 
Rights Movement was trying to do during that same time. So, you’re asking the 
question—you’re talking about—in the Civil Rights Movement, we’re talking about racial 
equality, but here we’re talking about cultural equality. How can we be sure that people, 
but especially oppressed people, people who are outside the limits of the society, how can 
they, in fact, be respected not just based on their numbers and the work that they do, but 
on what they contribute to the education, arts, and culture of their communities and of the 
larger communities? 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
12 
So, those were some of the things that I was looking at, and trying to see—what 
are the forms that can be developed that can address that? What are the institutional 
forms that can do that? Institutional and cultural forms that can do that? And when I saw 
people talking here in Southwest Mississippi about trying to do something for a 
community that had legitimate cultural expression but did not have an avenue for even 
passing that Ford to their own—within their culture to their own kids, right, and could— 
and were looked down on by the local gentry. Then what I said was, “What you can do 
probably is you can organize people in a grassroots way so that they can be exposed to 
not just the classics of—European classics, but also of the classics of—that develop and the 
culture that develops just in the local community.” And we talked about some of that in 
1980 when I first came in. 
The other thing that I remember contributing at that time was my experience as an 
organizer, and trying to be sure that everybody was involved at every level in—of the 
organization. So, that when you start to organize something, then you’re not just dealing 
with the preachers and the teachers. You’re not—and the people who sell things in the 
community. But you’re dealing with the grassroots folk, who are just ordinary working- 
class people who have a wealth of culture and are the real foundation for the entire 
community, not just in terms of economics, but also in culture. So, how can you deal 
with organizing them in such a way that the wealth of their community, the treasure of 
their community, can be passed forward? 
And Cultural Crossroads was talking about how they could do that by showing 
them, by reflecting to them, the beauty of what they had. Right? And you can do that in 
two—several different ways. You can convince them by showing—by comparing what 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
13 
they have with something else, but one of the most important ways you can do it in many 
cases is that you can popularize it in a larger society, and then they say, “Well, wait, this 
stuff that I thought didn’t mean anything, in this case, a hill of beans—that didn’t mean a 
hill of beans is really something.” And quilting is the best example, I think, of that. 
Because once—once somebody is dealing with something that they consider is just 
something to keep you warm, and they see that it gets a national prize, then you don’t 
have to convince people to have more quilters. Right? 
And so, notice I did not use the economic element—that there is an economic 
value in that. That comes along, but the cultural element—and then I remember, once you 
had begun to organize, the storytelling quilt started to develop within the repertoire of—I 
can’t—oh. 
EC: Can we redirect—can I redirect for a moment? 
WL: Yeah, uh-huh. 
EC: Because I want to come back to this, but in the next fifteen minutes or so— 
some of the—some of the things, though, that seem—that stood out for me as really 
important, historically and in engaging the history, are the two exhibitions, Picturing Our 
Past and No Easy Journey, and the day-long—well, in one case, multi-day, or maybe both 
cases, but the forums, the humanities forums that accompanied the opening of those 
exhibitions, and then there’s, of course, also the I Ain’t Lying magazine, which I think is 
probably the first publication to document the local Civil Rights Movement outside of the 
newspapers, probably. And then What It Is This Freedom? that came with No Easy 
Journey in the opening, and then also the Romeo and Juliet production; there may be 
other things, but in—. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
14 
PC: Telling the People ’s Story, I think, is the one that was the several-day that 
you’re thinking of. 
EC : Yeah, and I j ust—and Picturing Our Past, I mean—not Picturing—No Easy 
Journey, there was the play and then there was the forum. So, can we talk about those 
programs, and how they developed, and sort of the community context? 
JM: Can I just add one quick point to what we’re saying about how the larger 
community don’t seem to recognize the culture that exists in relationship to the 
suppressed community, right? I mean, there’s no other classical example than the blues. 
I mean, the Rolling Stones got their name from Muddy Waters, right up the road here. It 
came out of Mississippi and the Delta, okay? Eric Clapton, them boys, all them old blues 
things that came out of the Delta, right? Okay? They embraced them, when over here 
we in the United States were saying the blues was a bunch of crap. Over in Europe, them 
brothers was having a good time hanging out with them all brothers. They used to go 
over there and play in them clubs, man. They were superstars in here, right? The 
Beatles. I mean, okay? The Yardbirds. I mean, you can go—the list goes on and on and 
on. And any of them—any of them rich white boys [Laughter] that make all that money, 
okay, if they tell the truth, they will say it, that the roots of their stuff came out of the 
blues, out of the blue. So, you’re so right. Our culture is rich. And when people tell us 
that it don’t amount to a hill of beans, right, well, that’s a bunch of bunk. All right? You 
know, but—. 
WE: Beatles was opening for Little Richard. 
CM: Yeah! Little Richard, yeah, yeah! 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
15 
JM: I mean, look what James Brown did when the Beatles come over here. 
I’m just saying, classic—I mean, those are classic case in points, right? But hey, welcome 
to America. How—the rich—the culture was rich. And I think what Mississippi Cultural 
Crossroads did here locally, right? Okay? 
[In Penn?], now, we had a lot of discussions about this, right? The whole issue, 
again, of race reconciliation and how we get the white folk to come to the table and say 
“Our stuff [is] just as good as your stuff.” It wasn’t an issue about the—deciding always 
what’s good and what’s bad. It wasn’t an issue about that American Bandstand, Said 
Train. Okay? American Bandstand, different. Soul Train, different. They are not—one 
is not better than the other; it’s how people express themselves. It’s how people express 
themselves, right? And so, they both should be complimented and be a part of history. 
But ( ). [Laughter] 
PC : With the exhibits, I believe Picturing Our Past came first, right? 
JM: Mm-hmm. 
PC: Picturing Our Past, there was a photographer named James Allen? Or 
some Allen—Mr. Allen. 
JM: Briscoe Allen, right? 
PC: Yeah, right. In the early 1900s, he had a view camera, took zillions of 
glass negatives of this community, and a lot of them still existed, both locally and some 
of them were already at archives. So, we said, hey, not every little town has a 
photographer who took pictures of the community in the 1900s. So, we got a little money 
from the Humanities Council and put together an exhibit of—somewhere in the twenties? 
DC : More than that. I think it was about fifty. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
16 
PC: Photographs that Mr. Allen had taken. And those—I used to say to people, 
“That’s one picture of what this community looked like at a certain time.” Now, Mr. 
Allen was a very wealthy white man. He was in government, he sold, among other 
things, Chevrolets. So, those photos were taken through his eye. He held the camera. 
And we got a lot of flak from members of the black community who said, “Those photos 
don’t—“I don't know. “Those photos don’t picture us well. They don’t depict us. We are 
living in pretty minimal housing, and Mr. Allen’s got a two-story entry to his house,” and 
all this kind of business. There were pictures of black men fishing. What do you call it? 
EC: Seining or seining? I don’t know how to say it. 
PC: Seining, yeah. Anyway, we got a lot of flak from members of the black 
community for celebrating Mr. Allen’s photos, and they’re still over at City Hall now. 
Within a year of that, we were beginning the work on No Easy Journey, the civil rights 
exhibit that is across the street. And all of a sudden, the people we were getting flak from 
were different. We were getting flak from the white folks about celebrating this story. 
And we were working with Patty Black at the Old Capitol Museum, and we were trying 
to get it right. Local stories, pictures, things that could tell that story. And after one day, 
when James and I—who often were the brunt of people’s—. 
JM: Bullshit. 
PC: — anger, we—. 
DC: Well, maybe we ought to mention at this point that James was for a long 
stretch the president of Cultural Crossroads, while you were the executive director. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
17 
PC: Right. So, I guess it was reasonable that we got the flak. But James said, 
“Why, when we celebrate our history, is it that old mess?” And that’s exactly what 
people were saying. “Why are you putting that old mess in the courthouse?” 
EC: I think it’s also important to say that even though Cultural Crossroads 
always welcome anybody, regardless of race, that it was perceived in some ways as 
leaning towards the black community, probably. 
PC: Sure. 
EC: Or certainly whites were much more reluctant to participate. 
PC: Sure. 
EC: And Picturing Our Past was the first real embrace by some of the white 
community in terms of being willing to work with Cultural Crossroads, right? And that’s 
part of the context. 
JM: Well, when you learn about a history—you learn about a history, and you 
are looking at the footnote, right? And you never put any resources into documenting 
any of the history of eighty percent of the people who live here, obviously, we got to step 
up to the plate and—I mean, we’re behind here. Your stuff has been documented time and 
time again. All of these buildings, right, around here, that black folks built, right, that 
you lived in, all right—that’s part of black history, but it’s never been documented, right? 
That’s what I’m—it’s the racism and the arrogance, okay, to say that you’re not worth 
anything, okay? I mean, we are here. We are human beings. Look at us. 
PC : And in conjunction with that exhibit, No Easy Journey, we hired Nayo 
Watkins, a poet and playwright, to write a play, What It Is Is Freedom! Is that what— 
yeah. What It Is Is Freedom. Nayo said I’d learn to say it someday. Anyway, Nayo 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
18 
wrote that, and we hired a director, a professional director from Harvard School of 
whatever, and—to come in and do it. So, we had a celebration of it. We didn’t just slap 
stuff on the wall. We gave people the opportunity to see a play and then to have a 
conversation about what that history is and means and how it’s part of the community. 
EC: I guess part of what I was thinking about is it seemed like, with the Allen 
photos, Picturing Our Past, that at least some whites in the community embraced that and 
portrayed it as the beginning of a new interracial collaboration. Am I right about that? 
DC: Well, I think the—. 
EC: Main Street? The whole economic development piece? 
DC: Main Street, A1 Ho—what was his name? 
PC: Hollingsworth. 
DC: Hollingsworth. A1 Hollingsworth was the head of the Main Street 
organization. And he—what? 
PC: No, you’re right. I was just thinking about something. Go ahead, honey. 
I’m sorry. 
DC : He was actively involved in the whole Picturing Our Past—. 
PC : Choosing the photos. 
DC: — yeah, choosing the photos, and he helped build some of the display 
panels and things like that—paint them, at least. And as part of the forum for that, we 
invited Alan Trachtenberg from Yale to come down and to talk about photography and 
the uses of photography, repurposing photography and things like that. And he was 
wined and dined and feted by the white community and invited to come back whenever 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
19 
he wanted to and so on and so forth. So, when we got around to No Easy Journey, we 
invited Alan back again, and he came, and—. 
PC: Because we got those photos from the highway patrol and others that—. 
DC: And Alan, after the weekend was over, came up to me and said “What, 
what’s going on here?” He said, “The last time I was here, everybody was very friendly. 
Nobody’ll talk to me now.” [Laughter] And Patty explained to him what was going on. 
PC: What should have been obvious. [Laughter] 
EC: He’d crossed the tracks. 
DC: Yeah, he had crossed the tracks. 
PC: Exactly. 
DC: And we’ve had similar experiences from others. We always tried, with 
our forums, to try to bring some outside voices to bear on the—what the value of whatever 
it is that we were trying to do, and to analyze it and to stimulate conversation. And 
sometimes they found it easier to do than other times. 
And Trachtenberg, although he’s white, is just one example, because we had 
many black commentators and analyzers, who—. 
PC: Well, we’ve just slid over [Roland?] in talking about the quilts. 
DC: Right. Of course. Yeah. 
PC: I mean, we knew about—. 
EC: Can we come back to that, though? Like, just—. 
PC: Not now. Okay. Sure. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
20 
EC: I mean, I think we’ll definitely address that and talk about that. But with 
Picturing Our Past and No Easy Journey, what’s the organization trying to do with those 
exhibits? Why do they matter to the community? Why are they important? 
JM: Okay. I think maybe at that time, what we were trying to do—again, we 
were trying to mend the community and trying to do it by way of the culture of arts in the 
culture, right? And working in conjunction with Patty and the members of the Board. 
But the mayor—okay. Again, you got to go back to that time frame, right? Okay. The 
Grand Gulf monies were—we were headed toward bankruptcy, because they had taken 
the money away, all right? The Grand Gulf money, the state legislature, right? And so, 
we were faced with having to reach a compromise, some kind of compromise, with the 
powers to be. And what was there going to be? So here comes the boogity-boogity 
mayor, James Beasley, right? He comes over, and all of a sudden now he wants to sit 
down around the table and negotiate. Well, so he came to my office. Now, why he came 
to my office as opposed to going to some supervisor, I don't know. But he did. 
EC : What was your j oh at that point? 
JM: I was county planner then, okay? I was county planner. And he came in 
and said, “Somehow we got to get along, and I have done some things that was wrong in 
the past, and blasé, blasé,” confessing, like, you know? I didn’t—mm. So, I’m saying, 
“You scared the shit out of me, man, what do you want to know?” So, I’m sitting there 
listening to him, and I said, “Mr. Mayor, what [do] you want me to do?” He said, “Talk 
to your supervisor.” I said, “Well, yeah, we—.“ Said, “We got to save that Grand Gulf 
money.” But, see, he was old-gangster, old-school gangster back from way back when. 
Beasley was, right? And a racist, too. And so, he wanted to—he wants to get his cut of 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
21 
the money, before—because the city wasn’t getting any money from Grand Gulf or for 
nothing. 
And so anyway, make a long story short, there was a coalition that was built, a 
fragile coalition that was built between the city and the county and the leadership here 
locally, to sell the Grand Gulf situation. To the point that there were some pickets down 
at Grand Gulf, right, and eventually it would sell, so we got x number of dollars. Then 
he—. 
EC: And let me just say, at this point you’ve got—the county government is 
majority black and the city government is still controlled by the white community, sort of 
in continuation of the Civil Rights Movement. 
JM: Yes, yes. It was the last remnants—yeah. 
EC: The city/county dynamic. 
JM: Yeah. That’s the last remnants of power for the whites, the city of Port 
Gibson, okay? The county that—blacks took over the county. 
EC: And so, that’s what that tentative compromise, their coalitions—. 
JM: Yes, exactly. That’s what that was about, right? And so he really played 
ball on that. So, we sat down and talked, and then he sends his wife. And so now all of a 
sudden, she becomes the—. 
EC: Emissary? 
JM: Thank you. All right? And so [Laughter] as a result of that, she said—I 
said, “Well, how [are] we going to institutionalize this piece?” Because we’ve got to 
work within a structure, right? And so, we thought we came with the Main Street 
concept. And it was just kind of populating the state at that time. And so I said, “We[re] 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
22 
going to—.” he said, “I got my—I know some guy from Connecticut,” and that was 
Hollingsworth. 
And so, they brought him in to be the mainstream manager, because they had to 
be sponsored by the city. They—it couldn’t be sponsored by the county. It was a city 
concept, came by the cities. And so, A1 came in then and started working, right? And it 
never fails, man. And I—because it’s the fact. And he came in knowing everything to do. 
He’d do this when he’d do this, then he’d do that, right? So, I’m sitting here listening, 
right? I said, “We’re not compromising; you are dictating. You know, when you said ‘I 
need to talk about this,’ the library you talked about was all white. Okay? Bunch of little 
white women was on the board. Now that they got to get out of City Hall because they 
got to renovate City Hall, where are we going to put the new library? Mm, a chance now 
for compromise. Now a chance to expand the library board. Now a chance to do 
something downtown. Revamp an old downtown building—still part of the Main Street 
program. We helped to build them because all the downtown area was blighted because 
we just came out of the boycott on—the last end of the boycott, prior to it being settled in, 
what? [19]84,1 believe it was. 
EC: [19]82. 
JM: [19]82, it would be. Okay. 
EC: And downtowns are dying all over the country. 
JM: Yeah, but more so here, though. It was—I mean, it was—this place was 
blighted, man. It was gone, all right? 
And so, we got big-time white folk from DC coming down; y’all know the name 
of them cats at the National Trust and stuff coming down, big—we all up in white folks’ 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
23 
houses and stuff, drinking wine and talking shit, you know? [Laughter] And getting 
along. Acting like human beings. [Laughter] And all this is going on. 
So, to make a long story short, basically what happened at the end of the process, 
we were able to use the Main Street program, work with Beasley and the city. And that 
was—it was—there were issues along the way. You always got to fight for your position. 
But we were able to do the building, make the connection with Mississippi Cultural 
Crossroads, bring it into the mix, right? Able to get more funding for Mississippi 
Cultural Crossroads. They helped expand the programs, because the part of—No Easy— 
no, not No Easy Journey. Ah, Picturing Our Past. And also, the play we did, and 
Carolyn, I think you was a part—you was in that, wasn’t you? 
CM: Mm-hmm. 
JM: You was in a play, okay? And we got community interaction going on, 
but there were local whites that were part of the play. And some other people can talk 
about those experiences, but I’m still saying, we’re trying to develop good relationships. 
And somehow or another, we came out of that whole process with a somewhat-stable 
Cultural Crossroads that had made a point, downtown redevelopment. We still ain’t 
where we’re supposed to be but we’re making a little bit of progress. Okay. And then it 
changed. 
Crew: Can we pause for a second? (break in audio) And we’re back up. 
JM: Patty, we talked some about that—I don’t want to—I’m not going to have 
this conversation. 
EC: So, when you—so you put up Picturing Our Past, which is something that 
the white community felt strongly about, was excited about, wanted to see happen, and at 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
24 
least some members of the black community were not thrilled with it. But Cultural 
Crossroads decided it was important to do—. 
JM: But they did it and went along with it. They did. 
EC: And why does Cultural Crossroads decide that’s important to do? 
PC: I—, (pause) 
DC: First of all, it’s available. 
PC: Yeah. 
DC: It’s local. It’s historical. And it’s—it involves the arts. So, it just seems 
like a—. 
PC : He was a pretty good photographer. 
DC: — a real good fit with what Cultural Crossroads was trying to do. Andas 
we worked on it and saw more and more and more of the photographs, and—I’ve been 
told later that we didn’t see all the photographs. That the more racist photographs were 
already censored out, and we never saw them. Including one that involved the lynching 
of a black man from outside in the county a little bit, that happened in the—around 1910, 
1912, something like that. 
EC: Who was lynched? Do you know? 
DC: I’ve forgotten the name now; it’s been a long time. But he talked about—I 
have an interview with—. 
PC: Mr. Allen? 
DC: — Mr. Allen, yeah. 
PC : The son of the photographer. 
DC: The son of the photographer. Who talked about how—. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
25 
EC: That would be Jimmy Allen. 
DC: Yeah. How he was chased from where he committed whatever crime he 
did—he was accused of raping a woman, and he was chased from Hermanville, all the 
way around the country, across the—into a lake somewhere down around Bruinsburg. 
And he was—he got into the lake and was breathing through a straw, according to this. 
And they knew he had gotten onto the lake, so they got in a rowboat and went out there 
and then he came up behind them and they shot him. And then they brought him into 
town on a board of some kind and displayed his body right out here in front of the 
courthouse for a day or two, and the people came and took their pictures, and Mr. Allen’s 
father had been one of the photographers who photographed that incident. That we didn’t 
see at all. 
PC: We never saw that photograph, but apparently, it was shown to 
Trachtenberg when he was here. They thought a man of his importance would—should 
see that photograph. 
EC: Why? 
DC : Well, they were—I know that they were courting Trachtenberg because 
they wanted to get the materials, in a sense, out of the hands of Cultural Crossroads and 
into the hands of somebody with a prominent name, so that they could get them published 
and make money off of them. 
EC: And they thought that he would appreciate this picture of a lynching? 
DC : I have no idea, Patty. 
PC: We can’t, we can’t—. 
DC : I can’t even begin to wrap my head around that. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
26 
PC : — we can’t speak to what—why—. 
DC : But I mentioned it just to say that we had a lot of photographs with a lot of 
different subject matter, and not a lot of them involved black folks. There was one that 
some people found offensive because it depicted—well, two of them, actually, because 
they depicted—no, just one; depicted a black woman in a kind of menial position as a 
caregiver to this young, white Jimmy Allen. But there were some others. One was a 
genre picture of, I think, four black men—shooting dice, were they? Yeah. And then 
there was—. 
PC: Seining. 
JM: The water one. 
DC: Yeah, one of the pictures that I thought was among the best of the shots 
was the fishing, but the black men who were fishing were naked, and they were depicted 
that way, I thought, without any particular prejudice to them. But it was not seen that 
way by everybody in the community. So, it was really the—the blacks felt—the blacks 
who complained, at least, felt that we had allowed this black man to show them in ways 
that were not—. 
PC : This white man. 
DC: — white man, to depict them in ways that were not the best, and that 
therefore they didn’t think that we should continue to support that kind of thing. 
PC: You ask why. It seemed to me that that community was and is still 
incredibly divided. And I thought that maybe if we could look as a community at what 
we looked like in various times and through various sets of eyes, we could figure out—I 
mean, Mr. Allen’s photos showed a lot about what life was like. He was not privy to 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
27 
black folks celebrating or anything, so that part of the picture is missing. But—so I just 
thought that—and what Dave said, they were available. I mean, we wouldn’t have gone 
after some photographic exhibit if we’d had to grab a photo from here and there and 
whatever. But we had these. 
JM: You got them stored someplace? 
PC: And there was a lot of conversation about juggling back and forth. When 
you talk about compromise, we had all these photos that we were looking at; most of 
them were four-by-five that we were looking at, and then printed much larger. And so, 
A1 was at the table. A1 wanted downtown pictures. Dave was at the table; he wanted 
images that showed people and—so anyway, there was a lot of give-and-take. Had I sat at 
the table alone, I would have picked a different fifty photographs, but we were all in it 
together, and I don’t think that’s a problem. It just spreads out the point of view of that 
exhibit. 
DC: Well, and it—obviously, though, at the same time, during that whole 
period, we were displaying the work of Roland Freeman, and—a prominent black 
photographer, so that—it wasn’t as if we weren’t showing as many sides of the thing—I 
think the most important thing we thought would happen would be there would be a 
dialogue about race. 
JM: Exactly. Exactly. 
DC : And there—I found that the black folks who wanted—who obj ected were 
not willing to say that out loud, not in public. I mean, not where white folks were 
present, anyway. And the white folks didn’t think there was any problem, so, the 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
28 
dialogue never really got going on the surface, but I think it started to roil the 
underground a little bit. 
JM: Yes. Those forms, man. ITl never forget those forms, if I live to be a 
hundred. When we sit over there and we had those forms, and the people from the white 
community came in and the black community came in, and they talked about this 
community—Percy was there, Gage was there, Beasley was there. And it was so apparent 
to me, right, that y’all just don’t get it. You just don’t damn get it. 
EC : I think that’s the forum that went with No Easy Journey. 
JM: Yeah, yeah. 
EC: And it’s got Mayor Beasley, I mean, Beasley’s wife, Joan—. 
JM: Beasley’s wife, Joan, yeah. 
EC: Robert Gage the fourth, the fourth generation to be president and owner of 
Port Gibson Bank. And Percy Thornton, who was an African American Board of 
Supervisors and previously a history teacher, and you, as county planner and chair of 
Cultural Crossroads, talking about the community’s civil rights history, what the 
community looked like today, and visions for the future. And you were on one of those 
panels, Worth. 
WE: Yes, I remember that. Yeah. 
JM: I mean, we didn’t create what was in place. See, that’s what I’m saying. 
And the white folks don’t seem to get that. I mean, you created two equal societies. We 
didn’t create that. And then, when you create it, and then the fallout from it grows. Then 
you want to come back and blame somebody else for what you did. And we are saying, 
okay, look, we didn’t create this. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
29 
Case in point—classic example, all right? There’s a dual education system in this 
state for higher education. White folk, big time school, Ole Miss, Alcorn. [Laughter] 
Okay, now, who created this institution? It wasn’t no black folk. Okay. And so now a 
hundred years later, some decisions have got to be made—a state as poor as this state 
can’t support all of these higher institutions of learning. What are we going to do with 
them? We’re going to just cut out the black ones and save the white ones. And those 
blacks that can afford to go to Ole Miss go there, or you don’t go. [Laughter] You know? 
No. No, no. No, no. No, no. 
We have to sit down and talk about this, and the implications of this. And it 
needs to be understood that this was a monster that you created, not a monster that we 
created, but we’re willing to sit down with you and talk about how we need to solve this. 
But we’ve got to have some parity here. Worth, you see what I’m saying? I mean—. 
WL: I know. I did attend the discussions, but one of the things that I remember 
that—one of the questions that came to my mind was, there was dialogue. But not—there 
was talk of dialogue but not of interaction, you see. And for a change—you cannot have 
change with dialogue and no interaction. The whole question of social interaction is the 
foundation for change, it seems to me. And that—it wasn’t even visualized in either 
community. It was not well-visualized in either community; I need to say it that way. It 
was not well-visualized in either community. Yeah. The pulling together of people to 
come together, though, was—it was a great idea. In fact, it was fairly well-programmed. 
But then when the time comes for where do we come from here—and that leads to that 
you have to be side-by-side, or—. 
EC: Or that the compromise has to go both ways? 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
30 
WL: It has. And—it has, but the—in a compromise between the powerful and 
the powerless, who compromises, is the question. Right? I hate to try to be philosophic, 
but—. 
DC: Well, could I go on to talk a bit about Romeo and Juliet? Because, I 
mean, it represented a very similar kind of thing, where the interaction between white and 
black communities—. 
EC : Yeah, hang on. Let me j ust say—so Picturing Our Past was around 
[19]92? 
DC: I think so. 
PC : If you want to know for sure, I’ve got the timeline over there. 
EC : And No Easy Journey, I know, opened in December of [ 19]94. 
DC: Okay, well, this is earlier. 
EC : And Romeo and Juliet was earlier. 
DC: It was—it began in 1988, and the performances were in 1989. But it was 
one of those things that happens once in a lifetime for an organization, because we had 
the opportunity, and that’s—there’s a backstory to that, but we had the opportunity to 
bring eleven highly-trained professionals in theatre to Port Gibson to plan a play with the 
cooperation of the community, a classic play revisioned through the eyes of the 
community today. And the play that was chosen was Romeo and Juliet, and when the 
Cornerstone Theatre Company came to town in November of [19]88, they began a 
casting call, and people were auditioning, and people were volunteering to serve on the 
crew, and to—the front office and stuff like that. 
PC: To make the dresses and—. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
31 
DC: To be part of this thing. 
PC: Carolyn’s mom. ( ) 
DC : And a lot of the white community were just absolutely dumbstruck by this 
wonderful thing that was happening, all these bright Harvard kids coming into town to 
help us do culture. 
EC: Dumbstruck in a good way. 
DC: In a great way. 
PC: Yeah. Oh, absolutely. 
EC: Clarify. There’s all kinds of “dumbstruck.” (laughter) 
DC : But then, when it became clear that Cornerstone Theater was going to cast 
their lead performer—. 
PC: Amy Brenneman. 
DC: —Amy Brenneman as Juliet and cast Romeo as a local black high school 
student, the attitudes of the white community changed pretty quickly. Not all of them—. 
PC: Not all. 
DC: —but one of them was the mayor’s wife. 
EC: And Amy is white. 
DC: And Amy—yes, Amy is white. I forgot to mention that. In fact, all of 
them were white, all of them—. 
PC: Yeah, in those days. 
DC: —in those days, so that was something that changed later in terms of 
Cornerstone’s history. But there was still enough white participation in it to make it a 
community-wide thing, and it showed for, like, thirteen performances—. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
32 
PC: Thirteen performances, I think. 
DC : —in March, and everybody who was connected with it thought it was a 
great artistic success. Bill was a terrific director, and the—we had one of those wonderful 
forums sponsored by the Mississippi Humanities Council. 
PC: Humanities Council. 
DC : In some upstairs room—I kept trying to remember where that was. It 
doesn’t matter, of course, but I often—I can picture it. 
PC: Wasn’t it just in the theater? 
DC : I don’t think it was, but—. 
PC : I think it was in the theater. 
EC: The discussion? 
PC: Yeah. 
EC: Yeah, it was in the theater. 
PC: Yeah, it was in the theater. 
EC: It was in the theater up on the stage after the performance. 
DC: Up on the stage, okay. 
PC: Yeah, they were on the stage, and the audience was in the audience. 
DC : I don’t know. But that was really the one time that race became kind of 
overtly recognized as a source of trouble, but also trouble that could be overcome by this 
kind of collaboration, until the woman who played—the mayor of Mississippi. What was 
the—. 
PC: Verona. 
DC: —Verona, Mississippi. Tell me her name. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
33 
PC: Mary [Curry?]. 
DC: Mary Curry, who is the peacemaker at the end of the play who says, “This 
has got to change. This has got to change.” We’d all be together and shake hands with— 
anyway, it’s a big peaceful reconciliation, although people are dead. 
PC: Sounds about right. 
DC: Right? But anyway, at the discussion afterward, Mary Curry stands up 
and says, “Yeah, you know, this is all good and wonderful, but, you know, tomorrow 
your son is going to walk past—.” 
PC: “My son Allen.” 
DC : “My son Allen is going to walk past your daughter and—.” 
PC: “Your daughter,” [Anthony Dodgins’?] daughter. 
DC: “And they won’t speak to each other. And, you know, this will all be gone 
tomorrow. Forget about it.” And awe and shock among the white community, in my 
poor little heart, too, because I was willing to believe that, you know, we could progress 
from that as a starting point. But I still think that, to this day, that performance had—an 
experience of putting that performance on had a huge impact on this community and how 
issues like that were dealt with even though these things that we’ve been talking about 
happened later. I think they were provided with a kind of floor to operate on, maybe. I 
don’t know, but—. 
PC: But Mary was right. She just recognized that even though there had been 
months of people working together the way you have to work together and trust if you’re 
in theater together, even though that had happened, they had hashed out together 
language, I mean, whether—what’s Shakespeare’s person—anyway, whether they should 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
34 
use the word “nigger” or not in performance. And then, there was all this discussion of 
history and what the word that Shakespeare used meant and blah, blah, blah, so that there 
were a lot of conversations like that that the cast and crew had input in. They didn’t 
always get the last word, but they had that kind of input, so there was, I think, genuine 
working together during that period, but Mary spoke to the reality that once this play is 
over, once Allen doesn’t—because Cornerstone Incorporated, Allen and [Dwayne?] Nash 
and a few of the little kids in the play, once there is not that mechanism, we will go back 
to our worlds, and that doesn't include our children going to school together or anything. 
DC: But it was shortly after that that the first white students auditioned for 
Peanut Butter and Jelly Theater, and three were in one eight-person cast of Peanut Butter 
and Jelly. Maybe we could talk about that another time, but a local theater group that 
performed around the state. 
WL: And didn’t one of the cast members from the Harvard group, one of the 
local persons, join that cast? 
DC: Yeah, for a reunion show. They did a production of The Winter ’s Tale 
that they performed at every spot that they had performed in during their tour of the 
United States, and it was the boy who played Romeo. 
PC: Brinston. 
WL: Right. 
DC: Brinston. 
PC: Edret. 
WL: So, I brought that up to show how interventionist—how it can be both 
external and internal. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
35 
PC: Okay, and we shouldn’t be negative about this, and Carolyn is probably 
saying we have to quit. But when Winter ’s Tale came back here with Cornerstone and 
Brinston was coming back home—he’d been on the road with these guys for a while, and 
they’re setting up in the empty lot across the road. Peanut Butter and Jelly had been 
inside rehearsing, I think—yes, because they were going to do a little bit of a show for 
Cornerstone, so Dave had them back in here. So, he had Genni McKey with her long 
stringy blonde hair down to her waist, and Robert— 
DC: I wouldn’t call it stringy, but go ahead. 
PC: All right, straight, (laughter) Robert [Hamlin?], those two had not seen 
each other since they had worked together, one black, one white. So, they’re standing out 
there in the middle of the street—. 
EC: Black male, white female. 
PC: Black male, white female. Okay, sorry. And they’re standing out there 
where there used to be a stoplight, in the middle of the street, hugging. Okay. A1 
Hollingsworth came into the building and said, “How can you allow Cornerstone to 
disrespect us like that?” It was the day Cornerstone had arrived back in town, and I said, 
“Al, what are you talking about?” So, we went out there, and Genni and Robert were still 
talking, and I said, “Oh, those two? That’s Genni McKey. Her dad works down at Grand 
Gulf, and that’s Robert. They are Peanut Butter and Jelly.” But, you see, the assumption 
was that if there was a black and white standing—teenagers standing out there, it was 
these outsiders who had done that, not their own. 
JM: I think that’s a crucial point, because it goes back to what you were saying 
earlier. I mean, most of the kids—it was very few of the local kids that were participating. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
36 
Most of the people that were white were from outside of the community, and there was—I 
mean, there might be some people. Genni McKey might be an exception, right, and there 
might be one other kid locally. 
EC: Let me ask—so with Romeo and Juliet was maybe the strongest white 
participation in the theater stuff that Cultural Crossroads has done? 
PC: Well, Carolyn might be able to speak to the one that Joe Carson— 
EC : The Deal Rocked Upl 
PC: —DealRocked Up, yeah, that Maya directed—. 
CM: Maya—it was more. 
PC: —and Joe wrote. 
EC: And that comes later. 
CM: Yeah, much later, much later. 
PC: Yeah, much later. 
JM: Yeah, much later. 
EC : So—but when you go to What It Is, This Freedom—so Romeo and Juliet is, 
like, ’88. 
DC: Eighty-eight, eighty-nine. 
EC: Eighty-eight, eighty-nine, and What It Is, This Freedom, which was with 
the opening of No Easy Journey, so that’s December ’94,1 remember there was the little 
boy who was Francis Nelson’s grandson. 
PC: Chad. 
JM: Yeah, Chad. 
EC: And his dad owned a service station. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
37 
PC: Grandfather. 
EC: Grandfather. He was one of the only white—. 
PC: Right. Chad, as far as Chad was concerned, was born to do theater, and 
Chad pretty much got what he wanted out of his parents, and he knew—Chad used to 
come do art with us. He was kind of the same age as [Leconte?], and, anyway, Chad 
wanted to be in that play, so he came and auditioned for Tim Banker, and Tim said, 
“Sure, we can find—I mean, the kid has got skills.” So, they cast him as a senator from 
before Reconstruction or something. I don’t know, not a kid’s part, but Chad got it. 
Well, his mom came in a couple days after he’d been cast, and he said—she said, “People 
are telling me that I shouldn’t let Chad do this. This will not be good for Chad. Chad 
will be mistreated. He may be harmed. He may be—,” and I just said, “Melissa, he’s 
been coming to our art programs after school. Has he been harmed? Has he—you know, 
is there a problem?” And she said, “No.” And I said, “Well, then why would you assume 
this is not a safe space for your kid?” And Melissa let him hang in there, and the night— 
the opening night of that play, his mom and dad were here and Mr. and Mrs. Cleveland 
were here to see their grandson perform, but— 
EC: Was there any other local white audience? 
PC: Yeah, we had some. 
DC: Oh, yeah. 
PC: I mean, not a lot, but there are people who want to do theater, like your 
father. There are people that want to do theater, and if you live in this little town there 
aren’t a lot of opportunities. So, if you really want that, you come, and you do theater. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
38 
So, most of our white participation in theater was people who really wanted to do theater, 
and then their families come, you know. 
JB: I need to pause for a second. 
(break in audio) 
JB: Okay, we’re back. 
EC: So, James, when did you get involved in Cultural Crossroads? 
JM: I think the first time I ( ) when you were over from the high school. 
Yeah, over near that little—. 
EC: Hut. 
PC: Quonsethut. 
JM: —yeah. I wandered through there one day, and I saw ( ) going on up in 
here, man? There were just kids doing everything. It was just like bees, little bees just all 
over the place. They were doing I Ain’t Lying. They were doing photographs. They 
were doing—. 
DC: Art. 
JM: -silk-screening, yeah, art and stuff, just all kinds of stuff. And I said, 
“Damn, and a white girl is running it.” (laughs) ( ), but, it was beautiful. It was 
beautiful, man. It was beautiful. I mean, what Patty had them kids doing, man, it was— 
these kids—I don’t think Patty even realized the impact that she has had in this 
community in terms of children that have gone through here, I mean, like, [Little Red?]. 
What was her name, ( ) little brother, right? 
EC: Rod? 
PC: Rod. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
39 
JM: Yeah, but it’s not just him. It was just [goo-gobs?] of kids who got to do 
stuff they never would have had the opportunity to do, okay, and it was, yeah, a safe 
place for them to come, a safe place. 
PC: And we insisted from the start that every kid, every adult, should be 
welcome. I mean, there was a time when Jimmy Smith, who was then president of the 
school board, came to me and said—I mean, we were always struggling to pay whatever 
bills we had, and Jimmy came and said, “I can just give you a big space in the school. 
We can build you a dark room. You can do that in the school.” And I said, “Well, yeah, 
but if we do it in the school I’ll be teaching photography. We won’t be doing Cultural 
Crossroads.” And it wasn’t long after that that a president—and I have no idea which one, 
because they used to come and go—at Chamberlain-Hunt Academy came to me the same 
way and said, “If you’ll do that up on the hill at Chamberlain-Hunt, we’ll give you a dark 
room. We’ll build you a dark room,” because at that point we had three kids from CHA 
who were coming to Cultural Crossroads, and I just said, “No, that’s not what we’re 
about,” so we didn’t do it either way. 
JM: In fact, can I make an observation on that, Patty? 
PC: Sure. 
JM: I never knew that happened, right, but I’ll tell you this. That was a wise 
decision you made not to, because you would have been the slave of both of them. 
PC: Absolutely. 
JM: And you would not have had to do—been able to do none of what you 
wanted to do. What you would have been doing is what Dave wanted you to do. 
PC: Exactly. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
40 
JM: And especially [Jim?]. 
DC : Well, it’s interesting to me that with all of this the last big show that we 
did was How the Deal Rocked Up, where we actually—we commissioned a playwright, 
Joe Carson, to come into town, listen to people’s stories, and then create a drama based 
on that that local people could perform. We hired a professional director to come in and 
direct, and in and among the stories that we dramatized was one in particular that had to 
do with the Civil Rights organizing in this community, and that was [Ms. Gusta’s?] story 
about going around registering people with Rudy—Rudy’s last name? 
EC: Shields. 
DC: Shields. And I got to play the plantation owner (laughter) in that story. 
JM: I know you’re a good actor, (laughter) 
DC : But that was—that was—. 
PC: That was Maya’s ( ). 
DC: Yeah, but that one story dealt so specifically with the Civil Rights 
Movement, which, of course, is the topic of this interview, but it was there, and it was in 
context part of a whole lot of other stories told by people about this community, so it 
wasn’t a question of that being the whole play, but it was—and I think that’s, in a way, 
what some of these other things were that we’ve been talking about. They were bits and 
pieces of stories that we tried to tell or tried to—there were other stories that we, of 
course, tried to introduce people to, like when we hired theater troupes to come to town, 
like the one in Nashville that—. 
PC: Carpetbag. 
DC: —Carpetbag Theater. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
41 
PC: Nubian Theater, both of those. 
DC: But Carpetbag particularly affected me because their storytelling process 
with the [crick-crack?] and, you know—it was wonderful the way—what they were doing 
meshed with what we were trying to do. But then, at the same time, we would bring in 
white—the Kentucky place. 
PC: Appalachia—you know, Worth. 
JB: Apple Shop. 
PC: Apple Shop. Thank you. 
WL: Apple Shop. 
PC: Apple Shop. 
DC: Apple Shop’s theater thing, which was called something different, but you 
know what I’m talking about. And they did a kind of—like, mountain stories. They did 
the Jack stories and things like that, Pretty Polly, so it wasn’t that we were exclusively 
looking at stories that involved black material. And when we programmed Peanut Butter 
and Jelly Theater, we repurposed some classic stories. Like, there was a Welsh story 
called somebody—(W/// and the Pot of—and the Pot of Brains, I think. 
PC: Yeah, I think that’s what it was. 
DC : Colin and the Pot of Brains, and we rewrote it as Willy and the Mess of 
Brains. 
PC: I think you helped with that, (laughs) You were home that summer. 
DC: Yeah, you were. You were. 
PC: You were home that summer. 
DC : You were our fact checker on linguistic propriety. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
42 
EC: And you listened? (laughter) 
DC : So we would—because we knew our audience was predominately black, 
we thought that they would like to see that story from a black perspective because it was 
universal kinds of things that it was dealing with, but other times, you know, we would 
tell Aesop’s fables as rhymed by Tom Paxton and, you know, “The Goose That Laid the 
Golden Eggs” and “The Tortoise and the Hare” and “The Grasshopper and the Ant,” 
things that had no racial component particularly, and the kids had fun doing all of them. 
Our audiences responded to all of them, and we got our best multiracial audiences with 
Peanut Butter and Jelly Theater even though this was a theater troupe that many years 
was—. 
PC: Entirely African American. 
DC: —entirely African American. When we went out into the world to Boys 
and Girls Clubs or to— 
PC: Libraries, feeding stations. 
DC: -dibraries. 
EC: But not here. 
DC: No, not locally, but Mississippi. 
EC: But still, to clarify. 
DC: But, you know, in Tutwiler we probably had 500 people in our audience, 
at the Bass Auditorium in Cleveland—or was that—not Cleveland. 
PC: No, Greenville, Greenville. 
DC: Greenville. I know we had 500 people in our audience, and they did a 
little poem by a black author—. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
43 
PC: Eloise Greenfield. 
DC: —Eloise Greenfield, yeah, which was what? 
PC: “Honey, I Love” is the one we always do. 
DC: “Honey, I Love,” “Honey, I Love,” which, you know, was done in 
basically a kind of African American dialect and style, but it didn’t address anything but- 
PC: The honey I love, (laughs) 
DC: —it’s—no, but, you know, what rural issues—what it’s like to grow up in 
the city but have memories of the country and stuff like that, and that audience in 
Greenville was rapt. I mean, they—when they delivered the last line, “But honey, I love 
you too,” and the place just exploded. I mean, it was—so that, I mean—I believe it was 
Auden who said, “Poetry does not make anything happen,” but I’m not sure I agree with 
him. (laughs) Some things do happen. 
EC: Carolyn, you were in some of the plays, one of the plays. Which plays 
were you in? 
CM: How the Deal Rocked Up, and there was another one. 
DC : I think it was What It Is, Is Freedom, wasn’t it? 
CM: The one we did—. 
DC : The one we did over there. 
CM: —yeah. 
JM: ( ) Customer. 
CM: No, that’s—yeah. 
DC : Oh, the dinner theater? 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
44 
CM: Yeah, the dinner theater. Yeah. Yeah. 
PC: Oh, that’s right. 
JM: Oh, yeah. 
EC: What was it like to be in the plays? 
CM: Oh, it was a lot of fun to be in the plays, and then it also—I also got to 
interact with local whites that I had never had conversations with before or limited 
conversation. And actually, Nancy [Batton?] and I developed a relationship just from 
being in one of the plays. One of her daughters—. 
PC: Beth. 
CM: —yeah, Beth was in one of the plays with me. 
EC: ( ) Nancy. 
CM: Yes. 
JM: I used to drop her off, man, at practice. You all would go to the houses, 
remember? 
CM: Yeah, and from that I became a library board member. ( ). 
JM: Yeah, after we restructured the library when it was put downtown, and we 
put black folks and white folks on it, too, not just all whites. 
EC: And Nancy was the librarian ( )? 
CM: She was the librarian. Yeah. Yeah. 
EC: Did-? 
WE: No, I was just thinking about that period. Go ahead. 
EC: Did any of your kids do any of the art programs? 
CM: Yeah, my youngest ( ) was in it. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
45 
PC: And your granddaughter, right? 
CM: Oh, yeah, two or three. 
JM: Maya and ( ). 
CM: Maya and ( ). Yeah. 
EC: What was your sense of Cultural Crossroads through that? 
CM: Oh, well, like Patty was saying earlier, I knew it was a safe space for the 
kids to be, and they were actually learning something and getting exposed to some 
technology and stuff that they weren’t going to be exposed to in the school system. And 
even after I became a schoolteacher, I developed a relationship with Patty, and I would 
bring my students up. 
PC: To bake bread. 
CM: Yeah, to bake. I still have those pictures. 
DC : Who did you bake bread with? 
PC: You. 
DC: Oh, ( ). 
CM: They baked bread, and it really—it meant a lot to those kids, because they 
didn’t even realize where bread came from, you know? And first grade, I’m still teaching 
first grade. But it was a very profound experience for them. Mrs. Gusta—no, Gustina. 
PC: Gustina Atlas. 
CM: Gustina Atlas, who was my algebra teacher—how could I not remember 
her name? (laughter) Anyway— 
PC: She’d throw you out the window, (laughter) 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
46 
CM: Yes. Ms. Atlas was my algebra teacher many years ago, but she was here 
then quilting. I actually have a quilt, two quilts, two small quilts that we made—my class 
made. She came—she and a couple of other people came to my classroom and did some- 
had the kids draw, and she brought all the materials back up here and put them together 
and brought them down and presented it to the class, and I actually show it off now in 
Texas in my classroom. 
EC: What did the kids think of the ( )? 
CM: Yeah, and they were like, “Ms. Miller, your kids made that?” I said, “Yes, 
my students made that. Can you do this?” “That’s a quilt?” “Yes.” “Did you sleep on 
it?” Oh, God. (laughter) But, yeah, it was a learning experience for me as well as for the 
kids, you know, and during the summers when I had the chance I would come up and 
volunteer and help out and work with the students. 
EC: On the summer art? 
CM: Yeah. 
PC: I mean, you— 
WE: I did mean to kind of ask you, since you were here, how did the space add 
to the experience that you had? 
CM: The space? 
WE: Yeah, you said you had a good experience, this space with the windows 
and the sections, the quilting here. How did it work? 
CM: Well, believe it or not, it’s so much different from when we were—now, it 
looks a whole lot smaller than it used to, but this space was where we baked the bread, 
and we had—there were several stations set up so the kids could move about, and I know I 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
47 
had at least 15, 20 kids, little first-graders in here. So, it worked well in here, and when 
we did the summer art program we made—bound some books. 
PC : Books, that’s what I was thinking. 
CM: Yeah, we did—. 
PC: When Maya was here, it was one of the years we did books with Amy and 
her sister. 
CM: And that was a great space. I mean, it looks a whole lot—. 
WL: And you could see out the open windows—. 
CM: Oh, yeah, and people could see us. 
WL: —and people could see you. They could see you. 
CM: Yeah. Yeah, they could see us working in here, and I think with them— 
since you mentioned that—with other people walking by and seeing who’s in here and 
what they’re doing, that kind of affected some people or had an impact on some people to 
wonder, “Well, what’s going on in there? I want to go in,” because, actually, that did 
happen when we were doing the bread, because there was always an issue that, “What are 
you doing with those white folks?” Even as a teacher with my students—that was, you 
know, a whole lot of years later—that question was still being asked, “What are—why is a 
white woman still running that? It ought to be this person, or it ought to be that person.” 
Well, does it matter? 
PC: Where are those people right now? 
CM: Exactly. 
PC: I could use somebody, (laughter) 
JM: Well, see, that was—. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
48 
CM: They’re walking around here right now, not knowing anything but 
complaining. 
EC: I’m wondering how come—. 
JM: That was one of the embarrassments I was never able to get over, get past, 
right, in terms of Cultural Crossroads, right, as an administrator working in the system. I 
could never generate a consistent funding source for Cultural Crossroads because of the 
politics that existed on the board, which was all black at the time, because of foolishness, 
right, for whatever reason. And I don’t know if it had a lot to do with the constituency 
they were adhering to, was it personal kinds of relationships kind of going on, right, but 
we had some—we had fairly strong success in getting the funding stream to Cultural 
Crossroads when [Percy?] was there. Do you know what I’m trying to say? Okay, we 
( ), and we’d twist Albert’s arm from time to time. They would. I wouldn’t, because I 
worked for him, but from time to time, to get some consensus. And usually, during that 
time, we went to them with good projects like No Easy Journey and stuff like that. We 
got some funding and stuff, but they never would make it a line item on the budget. 
CM: That was just ignorance. 
JM: I know. 
CM: It was ignorance and prejudice reversed. 
JM: Yeah. Yeah. 
CM: That’s all. 
JM: Well, let’s call it what it was. There’s a certain element in the community, 
right, even within the black leadership that do not want to see progress because it goes 
against their agenda. You know, okay, so they’ll use Patty as a scapegoat, right, and say, 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
49 
“Why are you—why does this white girl got to run it? What’s up with that?” A case in 
point, when you wrote your book, okay, that’s a classic example, right? I’ve heard and 
been part of conversations with numerous people in this community. “Why is this white 
girl writing this book about the black experience?” My comeback was, “Damn, you write 
one. You’re black. You write one.” And then, the conversation quits, and there’s just 
nothing—no comeback. Do you know what I’m saying? I mean, what does it matter? 
(laughs) What does it matter? I mean, what—here is something that’s documenting about 
our history, and it’s factual. Now, if you’ve got issues with it and you want to punch 
holes in it, go do that. I welcome it, no problem, you know, but the books you read as 
you went through high school, most of them were written by white folk. So, what’s your 
point with this foolishness, with this foolishness? If it’s objective, good, written material, 
and it’s quantitatively ( ) stuff it’s doing—the numbers are there, they’re factual, and 
they’re all interviews with folks who lived here. 
PC: Worth asked about space. Before—we bought this side of the space in 
1989 and bought that the next year, because that kept flooding into this, and we had to get 
control of that roof. But before that, we had—and I don’t know whether you remember 
this—we had what the girls called guerilla art. We would have art in the National Guard 
Armory. We’d have art up here in the—what is that thing on Highway sixty-one? 
DC: Civil Defense. 
JM: Civil Defense. 
PC: No, no, no. 
JM: On sixty-one? 
PC: It’s on sixty-one. It’s outside. The farmers bring their stuff there. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
50 
JM: Oh, oh, oh. 
DC: The fairgrounds. 
JM: The fairgrounds. 
PC: The fairground! Thank you. Okay. 
EC: ( ) there. 
PC: Yeah. We would have it at the National Guard Armory. We’d have it 
there. The high school kids used to meet over in what was called Sheriff Two, and we 
shared the space with the parole officers and things in the afternoon. There was—and 
then, Peanut Butter and Jelly Theater we just did wherever. The kids used to rehearse out 
in somebody’s front yard, and we’d do it wherever we could move so that when we 
bought this building and moved in here, people would say to me, “Oh, are you the people 
that do summer art? Are you the people that do Peanut Butter and Jelly?” So, at one 
point, I put a sign in the window that said, “We are the people who do,” and then, you 
know—(laughter) and we did I Ain’t Lying over in the Quonset hut, and the quilters. 
That’s where Mrs. Rankin and Geraldine started, over in the Quonset hut, so it was kind 
of all over. But when we bought this corner and put a roof on and then started doing the 
work, we were staking a different presence downtown. 
EC: Can we do—. 
JM: And what started the Renaissance. 
EC: Yeah, started the revival of downtown. 
JM: Yeah, the revival of the downtown area. 
EC: Can we do one more thing really quick and then take a break? 
JM: Okay. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
51 
EC: The mural. So, you’re talking about this space, right? If you drive into 
Port Gibson, the mural on that wall is just so eye-catching, so can you tell us about the 
creation of that mural and about Ms. Gustin and the [Bollards?]—. 
PC: Ms. G. and the Bollards. 
EC: —I mean, Ms. G., Ms. Gustina? 
PC : What was the year that we did No Easy Journey? 
EC: [Nineteen] ninety-four. 
PC: [Nineteen] Ninety-four. Okay, in [19]94, Dennis Sullivan came to see the 
play that opened, No Easy Journey, and Dennis is an architect and an artist. So, while he 
was here, he was looking around, and he saw that—I think it’s a 140-foot wall. 
EC: And it’s on [Fair?] Street, which we were talking about this morning that 
used to be the center of black business in town. 
PC: And the whole wall, the paint was flecking off. I mean, it just was awful. 
I have a before picture. And Dennis said, “Eve got some time this summer. I’ll come 
down during your summer art program, and we’ll put a mural up there.” So, Patty, never 
wanting to think small, in this case did think small. I thought, “Okay, four-by-eight 
mural,” on this 140-foot wall, you know. But in order to paint, even on Fair Street, I had 
to go get permission from the preservation commission to do this whatever. So, they 
wanted to know—well, Dennis said, “Patty, I can’t give you a design of the mural until I 
get down there and I meet the kids and I do whatever, but you can tell them we’ll use 
high-quality paint. We’ll use primary colors, and it’ll be good.” So, Dennis gets down 
here with about twelve high school kids in the all-day and little kids in the morning, and 
they start drawing all kinds of things, just themselves playing music, doing this, doing 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
52 
that, whatever, and they’re doing all of this on the floor, life-size stuff with the little kids. 
And then, in the afternoon, Dennis and the high school kids would kind of put this stuff 
together. It became clear to me that this was not a four-by-eight mural. This was from 
the comer to the shoe store. This is what this was going to be. But because I couldn’t 
bring them a design or anything ahead of time, they put Keith Alford, an artist out at 
Alcorn, in charge of watching us. (laughter) So Keith would come in. Keith, she would 
come in, and she’d just kind of see what we were doing, and we’d do it. And so, anyway, 
we started doing the painting and all, and I, until this summer, didn’t know what a 
Bollard—well, let me not jump to the Bollard. So, during the day, the lot across the street 
from us is empty. It’s empty all the time. There would be people in their lawn chairs 
kind of watching us, and the—yeah. 
EC: Watching the paint dry. 
PC: Exactly, (laughter) And the first thing, we—Dennis said, “You don’t even 
have a sign up saying what this place is. We’re going to say this is Mississippi Cultural 
Crossroads.” And Mississippi is, in that way, a great word, so he and the kids made letter 
about this call, and they danced, you know, S’s and I’s, so it’s—. 
DC: Up and down. 
PC: —up and down, and the whole length of the 140 feet it says “Mississippi 
Cultural Crossroads,” in these big, easy to read, dancing letters. 
DC: So kids and animals can poke around ( ) noses—. 
PC: Yeah, and then the kids and animals would be in the center and around 
and all. So, I got to work once morning about 7:00, and Russ Miller, who was on our 
board—he worked for the bank. He’s since deceased. Russ was standing there waiting 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
53 
for me, and he said, “I got a lot of phone calls last night, Patty.” And I said, “Yeah?” He 
said, “People are complaining that you couldn’t even get the letters straight.” (laughter) 
So I said, “Well, maybe they could wait until we’re finished, but we had something in 
mind,” and, of course, I didn’t have a clue what Dennis had in mind. Nobody ever had a 
clue what Dennis had in mind. Nobody ever had a clue what Dennis had in mind, but 
anyway—then, as Dave said, the kids did kind of self-portraits. Their face would pop out 
of the letters that were this, or they’d be around the corner and all. So, anyway, I just 
said to Russ, “We’ve just got to let this go,” and he said, “Okay, I’ll just keep them kind 
of at bay,” and we kept on going, and we never violated anything that we said we would 
do. We used primary colors. It was clear and easy and all of that, so— 
DC : Are you going to tell them about when Dennis realized the little kids 
couldn’t reach up high to paint? 
PC: I don’t remember. 
EC: The sidewalks. 
DC: They painted the ( ). 
PC: Oh, no, that wasn’t that. We ran out of space. I mean, we ran out of 
things for the little kids to do, because—you’re right—it was—the high school kids would 
paint the high stuff on ladders. 
EC: You didn’t put kids on ladders? 
PC: No, we did not put little kids on ladders. So, the sidewalks in this town at 
that point were the pits. They really were. A lot of them have been replaced. So, Dennis 
came home to dinner. He was staying at our house. He said, “Patty, I’ve got it. 
Tomorrow, we’ll have the little kids design what used to be on Fair Street,” so there were 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
54 
juke joints. The kids did horns and things. There were stores. So, the little kids in the 
morning made drawings that fit a kind of sidewalk square, and then we painted them. It 
never occurred to me. I had permission to paint, but I had permission to paint a wall, not 
the sidewalks. 
EC: Not the sidewalks that were, like, a walking hazard. 
PC: So, I walked into my office, and [Kathy Dodgin?] called and said, “What 
do you think you’re doing over there?” Of course, how do you answer that question? So, 
I said--. 
DC: “Good. We’re doing good.” 
PC: I said, “I don’t know, Kathy. What do you have in mind?” And she said, 
“Well, I’m with the chief of police right now, and we’re trying to figure out what to 
charge you with.” (laughter) And I said, “okay, what are the categories?” And she said—. 
EC: ( ) arrest you and figure it out. 
PC: She said, “Defacing public property.” We had painted the sidewalks, and 
there was no getting it up. I mean, really, they could—I mean, we could have painted it 
all one color. So, I said, “Look, I—” 
EC: Now, and this is—but, wait, this is an abandoned street. 
JM: Yes. Yes. 
PC: Yes. Yes. 
EC: There is not a business on this street. 
JM: On the street. 
DC: And ( )wall. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
55 
EC: ( )wall. The sidewalks—somebody will walk down. TheyTlsuethe 
city for tripping on them. 
PC: That’s right. 
EC: Okay. 
PC: And so, my high school kids, this joyous bunch of kids, are working in the 
Mississippi sun all day long to do this, so I think they ought to get a medal, and they’re 
trying to figure out what they’re going to charge me with. Well, they apparently never 
could figure out what to charge us with, so the side—the painting was there, though years 
later, when yet another mayor was getting sidewalks done—and our sidewalk wasn’t 
being done in the front or anything, and we have those handicapped ramps and things. 
Anyway, they were—. 
JM: That’s the result of the grant ( ) money that we [sold?] when we did the 
compromise. Now, we’ve got money, so we’re going to ( ). 
PC: That’s right. So, at any rate, I called and complained that the sidewalk, 
our sidewalks were being ignored. 
EC: In the front of the building and the side, I figured, and I had to sign 
something for [Imelda?], the mayor, saying that if they put a new sidewalk down I would 
not paint on it. I would not paint on it. Well, I figured a new sidewalk was worth it, and 
that was kind of faded anyway. I mean, the mural you see out there now is not the mural- 
-not the first mural we did. That was a second one. But then, the kids are painting, and 
they’re kind of finished, and Dennis is a loose goose at best, so Dennis says, “Why don’t 
we just paint the bollards in front of the building?” Are they still there? I don’t even 
know. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
56 
EC: Do you know what a bollard is? 
PC: Yeah. I did not know what a bollard was, but Dennis taught the kids and 
me what a bollard was. And they went out there, and at the end of painting, if they had 
blue they’d paint the bollard blue. If they had red, they’d paint the bollard red. You 
know, they finished—. 
DC: Candy-stripe or—. 
PC: No, no, they were all solid colors, (laughter) We were really—we were 
pretty [tame?]. 
EC: ( ) careful, (laughter) 
PC: So, the next morning, Russ Miller, our banker, board member, and friend 
again—and Russ really was good. 
JM: He was good. 
PC: He must have just hated it when we did anything because nobody would 
ever call me. They would just call you or Russ. 
JM: Yeah, (laughter) 
PC: So, anyway, Russ came, and he said, “Patty, the bollards have to be white 
by five o’clock tonight. You do not have permission to paint on Main Street.” We could 
paint on Fair Street, and there probably wasn’t anything they could do about it. 
EC: He said—somebody said, “White only on Main Street.” 
PC: That’s right, and so—that’s right. So, he said—. 
JM: ( ) history. You’ve got to know the history. 
PC: That’s right. He said that. So, Ms. G., Carolyn’s math teacher, Emily’s 
math teacher, quilter extraordinaire, was up here working. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
57 
EC: And not somebody that you would think is a radical if you [didn’t know?]- 
PC: She was apolitical during the whole business. 
JM: Oh, yeah. 
PC: So, anyway, Ms. G. said, “You paint those white. I’ll paint them black.” 
(laughter) Now, she never did, but it put it right out there for everybody to know what 
was going on. So then, I got to explain to the kids that we were going to paint these 
white and that there were battles that we could fight, that we couldn’t fight, and those 
bollards weren’t worth that to me, and Emily got a published article out of it, so it can’t 
all be too bad. (laughter) 
JM: That’s amazing. 
PC: But then, that paint—that faded, that one, so we hired another man to come 
work with the kids, and they did that mural that’s there—. 
EC: ( ) now. 
PC: —and there were adolescent boys that would bring their dates to that wall 
and say, “This is what we did this summer.” Vincent Reynolds is the first one I saw out 
there one night sharing his work. I mean, high school kids that proud of painting a wall 
in ninety-degree heat? 
DC : Wasn’t there some complaining about the black and white hands? 
PC: Oh, yeah. Joan Beasley told me. One of the images up there on the mural 
that’s there—well, but Dennis started that. I think we kept that part, but there is a kind of 
outline of a black hand, white hand, and we were told that that was insightful—inciting, 
not insightful. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
58 
DC: Too much like a ( ). 
PC: Yeah. 
EC: Incitement? Inciting to riot. 
PC: I guess. 
EC: So, this—so Dennis came to the exhibit that was in—the opening, so that’s 
December [19]94, so is this summer [19]95? Yeah, it is, because I was home that 
summer. 
PC: Yeah, that was his first summer. Yeah. Yeah, I mean, Dennis came back 
a number of summers to work, but the first one was out there. 
EC: Yeah, but the one—the mural was done the summer of [19]95. 
PC: And I really—I had to say to people I really thought it was going to be a 
four-by-eight patch on that wall. I had no clue that we—I mean, he had the kids out there 
scraping the paint off and painting, and it was incredibly hard work. 
WE: Summer of [19]95, we went to the Smithsonian probably. 
DC: No, [19]96. 
WE: [Nineteen] ninety-six, with quilters. 
DC: Right. 
WE: Right. Who can summarize that quickly? I mean—. 
EC: The quilting? 
WE: —could you—. 
EC: The quilting at the folk life festival? 
PC: Summarize what? 
DC : The folk life festival? 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
59 
WL: That episode, could the two of you—. 
DC: The folk life? 
WL: —yeah, why that happened. Why would Mississippi Cultural Crossroads, 
a little speck on the map of Mississippi and the world, have its quilters invited to come to 
the Smithsonian Institute? 
PC: Because we have friends in high places. I mean, I—. 
WL: [Well, then?] say it. (laughter) 
PC: I would think we got that invitation because of the work that you and 
Roland did with us, with our quilters. No? 
WL: No, not really. 
PC: Who? 
WL: I don’t know. 
DC : It wasn’t Kate, was it? 
WL: I didn’t do it. 
EC: So, what happened? 
WL: But what happened then? 
EC: So, what happened? So, you got invita—Cultural Crossroads got an 
invitation? 
PC: We got an invitation, and we were asked to come as an organization, not 
as quilters, okay? So, we were asked to come as an organization, so we kind of talked 
about it, and they kind of said they wanted us to kind of set up like we were at Cultural 
Crossroads but in a tent on the mall. 
EC: This is the folk life festival [on the mall?]. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
60 
PC: Folk life festival. So, Geraldine, an excellent young quilter, was eager to 
go—an African American quilter. [Marianne Norton?], a much older white quilter, 
excellent quilts, probably the best one of her category that this community ever produced, 
and she had spent her whole life wanting to go to the Smithsonian and had never been 
there. 
EC: And you—and she was one of the whites whose kids stays in the public 
schools longest after desegregation— 
PC: Yes. Yeah. 
EC: —and she worked in the schools, too, as an aide after—. 
PC: She worked as an aide when you and your sisters were at Richardson. 
EC: —so they were among the few whites that were in the—what was then the 
public schools after most of the white community fled. And that was earlier, but that’s 
part of her background. 
PC: Yeah, that’s part of her background. So, Marianne Norton wanted to go. 
Geraldine wanted to go. Essie Buck, an older black woman, wanted to go, and then there 
was a fourth slot, and I think it was Geraldine who said, “Well, if we’re going to 
reproduce Cultural Crossroads on the mall, you need to be there.” Well, whoever we 
were dealing with at the Smithsonian wanted us to be an integrated group, so they were 
really glad that Marianne Norton wanted to go, but they didn’t want me to go. And I got 
a phone call saying, “We’re just—” it was Newt Gingrich time in Washington, (laughter) 
And they said, “We’re just—we just don’t think it would be good if you came. We think 
it should be another black person.” And I thought, “Huh,” and I was, of course, miffed 
on the phone, but I said, “Well, we’ll talk about it.” And then, I got a lecture about 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
61 
politics. That’s why I know it was Newt Gingrich time, and I just said to whoever was on 
the other end of the phone, “Listen. Every breath we take in Mississippi is political. 
Don’t you talk to me about politics.” But I got off the phone, and we came in here and 
talked about it, and Geraldine just said, “Look, if we’re okay with you, they need to be 
okay with you, so you tell them we’re not coming if you’re not coming,” which was 
pretty high and mighty for us, I think, but we did. We said it, and they said, “Fine.” And 
we—it was a glorious two weeks, but we worked our butts off. We were the first people 
to get there and the last people to leave, and we had that big tent full of kids, nursery 
schools, families, whatever. We still have about—and then we brought—they said, “Bring 
material. We want you doing stuff.” So, Ms. Buck and Marianne sat in the middle. We 
hung their tent from the middle—or their quilt from the middle of the tent, and those two 
sat and quilted with the people who came and wanted to quilt, and then Geraldine and I 
did the work with the kids, and Geraldine sewed the stuff together and—. 
EC: What did you do with the kids? 
PC: Well, we did all the kind of quilting activities with kids we do here. I 
mean, kids—. 
EC: We haven’t talked about any of that yet. 
PC: —kids drew with fabric markers on their kind of—on the fabric that’s good 
for that. We had triangles and squares cut out, and the kids made whatever, and each 
kind of group of kids we would bag up what they’d done either in a given day or if it was 
a given nursery school or something, and we brought them home. And so, for a long 
time, the quilters just kind of put them together. Some of them were this big. Some of 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
62 
them were much bigger. We’ve still got about twenty, twenty-five pieces that the women 
made out of the stuff we did at the Smithsonian. 
JB: What size are those pieces? 
PC: Well, the smallest one is about inside my arm. I don’t know. What is that, 
a foot by two feet? And some of them are five-by-six or—. 
DC: Four-by-six. 
PC: —yeah, something like that. They just were whatever they worked out to 
be. They’re in the—. 
DC: So, like, [album?] quilts. 
PC: Yeah, they’re in the back. And then—. 
WL: So, were you well received at the Smithsonian? That’s the last thing. 
PC: Oh, I think so. I mean, I don’t know. Weren’t we? I think we were. 
WL: I think you were celebrated, (laughter) 
PC: I mean, we felt great. We felt great, so I don’t know. Yeah, the only 
issue, if we’re talking about issues that we had, we brought a certain amount of material, 
but we had not reckoned with the population of Washington, DC that comes to the 
festival every year, so that, where we started with pieces that were about a foot-by-a-foot 
square, we ended with pieces that were about this size, (laughter) because we kept saying, 
“We need more material,” and they kept saying, “Okay, we’ll—I don’t know what— 
commission it. We’ll requisition it.” 
DC: “We’ll requisition it.” 
PC: Anyway, it never showed up, so—. 
CM: It’s going to show up one of these days. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
63 
Well, good. 
PC: At a certain point, the women said, “We’re done. We have made all the 
quilts out of this stuff from the Smithsonian we’re going to do.” And I got an address, 
and we sent it back, and we said, “If you don’t want it, pitch it, but we’re not going to do 
any more with it.” 
JM: Well, I think the only other organization in this community that has more 
impact in terms of people’s lives from a positive perspective and cultural crossroads has 
been the NAACP, really. I mean, nothing—and they were so ( ) about it. The people 
who were in positions of power when all of that was going on had no earthly idea what 
the hell was happening right across the street. That’s sad. That’s sad. 
PC: One of the hardest things the supervisors ever did to us—there was a jobs 
program. I mean, we got a variety of federal jobs program money early on until people 
realized what a plum that was, and then we were out of the running. But the supervisors 
many summers would pay kids to work two weeks, or they’d pay them five hundred 
dollars, however long you could stretch that five hundred dollars. So, kids would come 
here, and they would have to apply for a job, fill out an application. They’d have to go 
through an interview process, generally, with Geraldine and me, and then we would pick 
a dozen kids, whatever number we were—we had money for. And often, if you got a job 
with us when you were thirteen and you did a good job, you were at the head of the line 
to get that job the next summer so that we always had older kids teaching the younger 
kids what the rules were, what was serious about all this business. And then, the 
supervisor said, “If you work for Cultural Crossroads one year, you can’t work for them 
the next year.” And that just—it was devastating, and it was not that we didn’t want more 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
64 
kids. It was just that there was that maturing and learning that went on and teaching of 
the younger kids that then couldn’t happen. 
CM: Kind of like ( ) little dynasty. 
PC: Probably. 
DC : Yeah, but there was also an attempt by them to control who you took. 
JM: Exactly. Exactly. 
PC: That’s right. 
JM: Yeah, exactly, exactly. 
DC: And that was one of the first run-ins, really, you had with the board, was 
when they said, “You’ve got to take so-and-so,” and she said, “I don’t think we can use 
him.” And they just—they were—. 
PC: They weren’t used to being told no. 
JM: ( ) my job on the same ( ). What you just said, I’m serious, man, I 
remember that clearly like it was yesterday, because that whole concept of those kids 
coming over—you know, ( ), okay, but my point is that when they did—when they 
pulled that old bullshit, you know, I said—I worked for these guys? Okay, that’s my 
livelihood and ( ). And I said, “What are y’all doing? This is ludicrous. This makes no 
damn sense.” 
DC : That’s a good political way to talk to the board supervisor. 
JM: Well, you know, it wasn’t an open session. It was behind closed doors, 
(laughter) But—okay. 
PC: But, clearly, their jobs program—. 
WE: What would happen if you had ( ) is with people—you can’t do—. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
65 
PC: If you worked for us once, you were done. 
WL: Oh, you can’t ever—. 
PC: That’s what they decided at a certain point. 
JM: It was about control. It was about control. 
DC: It was about control, but it was also about pleasing constituents. 
CM: Exactly, ( ). It was about votes. 
DC : It was about votes. 
PC: Yeah, exactly, it was about votes. 
DC: “We got a job for your kid, so you vote for me.” It’s perfectly sensible. 
PC: And there—I must admit there were some times we—a supervisor made a 
case for a kid, and we took them, and sometimes it was a mistake, and sometimes it 
wasn’t. But, it was clear we were going to interview the kids. They were going to apply. 
If this was a job, then we were going to treat it like a job, and the kids were going to be 
there. The kids signed contracts and their parents saying, for example, that if they didn’t 
finish the program they didn’t get paid for any of it, because they’d work a week and then 
they’d want to be off to wherever, and we just said—we started that with Peanut Butter 
and Jelly, and then we extended it to the summer program. 
JM: See, they think they’re little feudal lords. They’ve got a feudal lord 
mentality. They really do, and even to today, right now, as I speak, that ( ). 
DC: Well, I don’t know about you, but I made some mistakes choosing kids for 
Peanut Butter and Jelly [Theater?]. 
PC: Sure. You always make mistakes. I mean, they’re teenagers, and we’re 
not infallible. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
66 
EC: So, before we take a break, James and Carolyn, can you say—kind of sum 
up what you think is most important about cultural crossroads and the community and 
sort of—. 
JB: I’m going to pause the tape, and we’ll go on. 
JM: I think Cultural Crossroads having been here in this community has 
added—has brought value added to the lives of the people, okay, who heretofore would 
not have had the chance to do that. All right. Do you know what I mean? I mean, just 
go back and chase—and trace the history of the kids who have come through here, man, 
and the things that they’re doing now. Okay? I mean, I think this is a classic example of 
it, and it did, I think, create an environment where some dialogue did go on in the white- 
in the black community around certain issues. You can’t all of what Cultural Crossroads 
did, right, and not have some kind of impact, you know, and I hope it was positive, and I 
think for a lot of kids it was positive. And again, I ( ) in terms of when she was ( ), 
how I remember taking her and dropping her off at people’s—different people’s houses 
when they were practicing for the play, and I would say, “Damn.” I’d go to one of her 
black friend’s house who’s in the play, right, and I’d see two or three other white folks 
driving up and going in the house. I mean, this was unheard of kind of stuff, and they 
would be there for—everybody has got a bottle of wine or something, and some cheese, 
and they’re up in there chilling, man, practicing for the play. 
EC : Y ou thought they were practicing. 
JM: Well, I thought they were. I thought they were practicing. 
EC: They were. 
JM: Yeah, well, she’d know what they were doing. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
67 
PC: Maya was a tough taskmaster. 
CM: She was. She was. 
JM: Yeah. Yeah. 
CM: But it was fun. 
JM: And—last point—I think it broadened people’s perspectives and it enriched 
people’s lives, right, and it was a happy place to be. It was a safe place to be, good 
interactions, good positive interactions. 
CM: Yeah, it was great. It wasn’t just a wine-drinking session, but, that helped 
after we finished practicing. And, like James was saying, it gave people who normally 
would not have an opportunity to have any dialogue to have honest dialogue, and we had 
some conversations about race. 
JM: ( ) [preacher?]. 
CM: Yeah. 
JM: Didn’t we have the little— 
EC: Oh, yeah, [Harold?]. 
CM: Yeah. Oh, yeah. 
PC: Michael Harold. 
JM: He’s the ( ), right? 
CM: Yeah, so we got to talk with—even within those session when we weren’t— 
after we were done practicing or sometimes in the middle of practice we might have a 
conversation about race relations in ( ) County, and I got—like I said before, I got to 
know people that normally I would not have, and I had been here all my life, and they 
had been there all their lives, and had not even spoken to each other. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
DC: Let me say a word about that play. The premise of that play was that Patty 
Crosby had been murdered, and who—. 
EC : Was that the dinner theater? 
DC: That was the dinner theater, and who of the many, many people who hated 
Patty Crosby—. 
PC: Might have done it. 
DC: —had committed the crime. 
JM: Had committed the crime. 
EC: Well, see, I planned to do a murder mystery series that has James and 
Mom and ( ) as the detective, (laughter) 
WE: ( ) do it. (laughter) 
DC: The Albert ( )? 
JM: ( ). 
PC: Yeah, I was going to say, did I really die? I can’t remember. 
JM: Did she die? 
PC: Who killed me? 
JM: Who killed her? 
DC: There was a scream at the beginning of the play, you being dead. 
PC: ( ). Yeah. 
DC: But who did it? 
68 
(break in audio) 
DC: Okay. Ask me a question that doesn’t ( ) it. 
PC: Just don’t ask him any questions. Worth and I will do this. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
69 
EC: Are we rolling, John? 
JB: And we’re rolling. 
EC: This is Emily Crosby. It’s December 4th, 2015. We’re at Mississippi 
Cultural Crossroads in Port Gibson, Mississippi, with Worth Long, Patricia Crosby, 
David Crosby—who was born many years ago—and we’re here with the Civil Rights 
History Project, which is co-sponsored by the Library of Congress and the Smithsonian 
National Museum of African American History and Culture. And John Bishop and Guha 
Shankar are also here, and this is our third conversation today. We started with James 
and Carolyn Miller, and then we talked with James and Carolyn and the three people here 
about the history of Cultural Crossroads, which is a cultural arts organization in 
Claiborne County that is in some ways born out of the Civil Rights Movement or some of 
the themes of the Civil Rights Movement, and it’s also an organization that has 
documented Civil Rights Movement history through art, culture, music, and various other 
artistic forms and cultural forms. So, we’re going to pick up the conversation with some 
of the earlier days, earlier history of Cultural Crossroads and what it grew out of, some of 
the cross-fertilizations. And I think you were starting to talk about when and how you 
met Roland Freeman and, later, Worth Long, who were in Mississippi doing their own 
cultural work, and how sort of meeting them influenced the founding of the organization 
and some of the work, what you brought, what they brought, and how it intersected. 
Does somebody want to kick us off? 
DC: Yeah, there are a couple of things. One, we were familiar with the Eliot 
Wigginton Foxfire project over in Georgia and the whole concept of cultural journalism. 
Patty was a photographer by this time and had been introduced to that in Chicago but 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
70 
became very avid about it a little later in Mississippi, so the idea of photographing our 
new environment—everything was new to us—and learning about it was part of the 
beginnings, and it kind of led to this grant proposal to the—what is it, the arts? 
PC: The first one? The NEH, or the second one, the NEA? 
DC: Yeah, National Endowment for the Humanities for a youth project in the 
humanities. And so, to make a long story short, we kind of put Patty’s interest in 
photography and my interest in cultural journalism together with a group of young people 
in Claiborne County who would be able to work on that kind of thing. So, that was really 
the inspiration, was cultural journalism, and that, of course, has its limitations, and we 
were aware of them, but we weren’t sure how to handle them. But the first time I 
encountered Roland Freeman, who became, you know, an integral part of Cultural 
Crossroads history, was at a football game at Alcorn State when he was working the 
sidelines, and I was working the sidelines with Patty’s camera, basically, (laughs) And as 
was common in those days, I invited him to come to dinner at our place, and our place at 
that point happened to be back in the woods, and it was probably not more than a month 
after we had—it had to have been, because we moved into the house in the—. 
PC: March. 
DC: —in March of 1976, so this probably had to be the fall of 1976, and he 
came back, but he wasn’t so sure about himself. So, he—. 
PC: He backed the car in. 
DC : No, not that particular time, but he was very impressed with our road, 
which, as you know, is a mile and a quarter off the highway and, at that time, was 
particularly rutted, because all the—. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
71 
PC: Treacherous. 
DC: —construction vehicles had been on it to build our house. But anyway, he 
came, and we talked, and I can remember sitting at the kitchen table arguing about this, 
that, and the other thing, including—well, maybe I shouldn’t—. 
PC: Yeah, you should edit that out. 
DC: I shouldn’t go there. 
JB: Could you take your sunglasses off? 
DC: Sure. 
JB: I just noticed. 
DC: They were on for the entire other thing, (laughs) Okay, arguments about 
authenticity in the representation of people and people’s traditions, it was just 
exhilarating to meet someone of Roland’s obvious talents as a speaker and talker who 
was interested in a lot of the same things we were in, but he had a different point of view 
about them. So, that was really the beginning of our contact with him, and he was in 
Mississippi following up, really, the first big project that he and Worth Long did together 
called Folk Roots, and that was done for the Smithsonian. Is that right, Worth? 
WL: In part, and I’ll elaborate on that. For the 1974 Festival of American Folk 
Life, Mississippi was the state that—. 
DC : The designated state? 
WL: —designated state, and I did field research, six months of field research, 
and one of the areas that we saw that was very important was, of course, southwest 
Mississippi. Roland came in at the end of my research, after six months, and was hired to 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
72 
come in as a research photographer to photograph the people that I had selected to come 
up and— 
DC : Was that mostly for material culture? 
WL: It spanned—it would—he had a mandate that was broadly written, but, after 
conversations, we decided we would include—and the fact that he only had three days to 
do a photographic study—that we would do most of it, and north—the more northern area 
of Mississippi, even though the treasure trove that I was really impressed by from having 
done the statewide research was southwest Mississippi. And then, so I can follow up on 
that. 
DC: Okay. Well, anyway, we got enmeshed with them, and we at the same 
time were developing this folk grant in the humanities and doing the cultural journalism 
thing, and Roland was very encouraging about that, and he suggested that, in order to go 
beyond what we were able to do in this one-year project, we needed to write a proposal to 
the National Endowment for the Arts, because what we were finding when the kids went 
out to interview people was a considerable amount of art, anything from blacksmithing to 
quilting to chair-weaving and things like that. So, we did that, and that led to then some 
further—well, the grant, I think, was helped through the process by the connections that 
Worth and Roland had with the Smithsonian and that whole Washington folk life crowd. 
But with that new grant that Patty mentioned in our earlier interview, we were able to 
create some projects. The most important one in my mind was one that brought four folk 
artists to the schools to do one-week residencies with schoolchildren, and we chose folk 
artists because that was what the grant was about, but also because we wanted the 
Claiborne County kids to see people who, although they were much older, looked like 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
73 
them and came from the same kind of places they did. And in particular, with the 
quilters, these were four women who often enough were the grandparents or— 
PC: Or parents. 
DC: —aunts and uncles or parents or whatever of children who were actually in 
the schools. So, when they were doing these quilting projects, we were discovering that 
the quilting was not a lot like any quilting that we had seen before, so we decided that 
this was something that we needed to give a broader audience to. 
EC: Can I get you to—so when you say “we,” at this point—so you talked in the 
earlier conversation about a community board that had students, so what’s the 
organizational structure looking like at this point? 
DC: Well, we had the committee. 
PC: Yeah, we had the community board, which included Worth by this time. 
DC: No, I’m not sure it did. 
PC: Well, I went—. 
DC: Eighty-one to—. 
PC: I went back and looked. I cheated. 
WE: Eighty-one. 
PC: I looked at the database this morning of board members of Cultural 
Crossroads, and by the time we had a board, which I told you was 1980, Worth was on it. 
He’s on the list, and, essentially, Worth and Paula Tadlock—. 
DC: Excuse me a minute. Wasn’t the board after the incorporation? 
PC: Probably, so, yeah, we had to incorporate. 
DC : We had two incorporators and—yeah. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
74 
PC: Yeah, Sarah [Chandless?] and Nancy and I. 
DC : Okay, but I don’t think we were incorporated by then, because that arts 
grant, you said, was administered by the public schools, because we weren’t a 501(c)(3) 
at that point. 
PC: Do you want us to sort this out or to go on? 
EC: No, ( ). 
PC: OK. Yeah-. 
DC: Well, whatever. 
PC: Yeah. But the community board, if you want us to talk about that, we had 
from outside the community Worth and Paula Tadlock, who was what’s called—. 
WL: The state folklorist. 
PC: —state folklorist at the time. And then, we had—. 
DC : She was at that Oxford meeting too. 
PC: Right. And we had, then, local folks. We hadn’t lived here a long time, 
but they were teachers. Your dad was teaching. There was a connection with 
Chamberlain-Hunt Academy that got us a couple. I think that was really pretty much 
who was—and high school kids. Pat Morris and Carl [Dorsey?] and Wickes—. 
DC: [Daryl?]. 
PC: —Daryl Wickes were the three high school kids, and just structurally that 
was the hardest thing to maintain. We had to finally give up having high school kids on 
the board because by the time they’d get on the board they’d be going off somewhere. I 
mean, it just—so we just had to decide that high school kids would have an impact on the 
organization and what we did, but it wouldn’t be at the board level, because it just—it 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
75 
really didn’t work that way. Though you asked what your dad meant by “we,” I mean, 
part of what was happening was we didn’t have any full-time staff or anything. I was 
written into grants as part-time staff, usually as in-kind match, so that there were 
discussions by the board about what we wanted to do. But, in all honesty, what the 
Mississippi Arts Commission offered, what the NEA offered, the Folk Life Program, that 
guided what we could afford to do. You were talking earlier about the program that Pat 
Morris and that bunch of kids was in. 
JB : That’s the first group of kids you worked with, right? 
PC: Yes, and that was money from the Mississippi Arts Commission. They 
had these artist-in-residency things, so we were able to engage Eloise Philpot Black and 
Chuck Black to come and teach video and animation. Eloise did the film. Chuck did the 
video, and we got the kids out a day a week for about seven weeks, and they then learned 
how to use this equipment that was B-tape, beta tape, what that—. 
DC: I don’t know. It’s reel to reel. 
PC: —it predates cassettes. Yeah, it predates cassettes, and it was half-inch 
stuff. 
DC : It was about a half-inch reel to reel. 
JB: Half-inch [VIGA?] number one? 
PC: Probably, and I actually have some of it in my house because we’re 
hoping the archives will be able to read it someday. At any rate, those kids followed 
around, and they made films working on the river. They went down and interviewed the 
people at Grand Gulf, and the little kids who were involved did animations, a day at the 
zoo and the haunted house. You know the house by Richardson? 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
76 
EC: Oh, yeah, with Mrs. Richardson or—. 
PC: Well, they had way back when lived in it. Anyway, the kids, you know 
what a source of energy that was for the little kids, so they did an animation of the 
haunted house. But that was the first, and then we did—the kids did an interview. 
[Elvin?] was involved in this, did an interview with [Artemise Brandon?]. So, by this 
time—I mean, things were kind of interweaving, because by this time we must have 
known that Artemise was a quilter, because there we were, out there. 
EC: Did he interview her as part of the film project or—. 
PC: We have film of it. Yeah, but, again, things like that overlapped. He 
could have been standing there with the film when whoever did Artemise’s interview for 
I Ain’t Lying was there. I mean, we would often have a kid with a still camera, a kid with 
a tape recorder. And then, when we had money for film, we’d have somebody doing film 
as well. 
EC: You talked about this a little bit earlier, but what kinds of things drew kids 
to these projects, to these programs? 
PC: I think they were often curious kids. They weren’t always the smartest 
kids in the school, though some of them actually were, but they were kids who saw a 
camera, wanted to know how to use a camera. I think the camera was a big draw, and 
then, you know, they could—once they satisfied me that they knew how to use the 
camera, they could take it home. So, they had these cameras on the weekend, taking 
pictures of their family, or they could take them to school functions, anything like that. 
DC: Shoot fashion photography ( ). 
PC: Yes. Yes. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
77 
EC: We have the best documented set of public schools in the country 
probably from that era. (laughs) 
PC: Well, I wouldn’t say that, but Ellen Duffin, she was younger—well, she’s 
four years younger than you. The schools were, again, in difficulty when Ellen had a 
camera, and she would take the camera to school and photograph the bathrooms, 
photograph the peeling paint, just because she said, “Well, if it ever becomes possible to 
show people what our schools are really like, Ell have it.” So, Ellen did think of herself 
as an investigative—. 
DC: Journalist. 
PC: —journalist. But, anyway, so I just—I really think it was that, and then the 
kids had a certain amount of cache because they had the camera in the school. We did 
school programs where the kids were in it, so I think that later spilled over with Peanut 
Butter and Jelly, I mean, because I’d go to the Piggly Wiggly, and little kids would say to 
me, “Em going to be in Peanut Butter and Jelly when I grow up,” because they had seen 
it, and they wanted to do that as well. 
EC: I always wondered, you know, with I Ain 7 Lying—and maybe you should 
describe I Ain’t Lying. 
PC: Well, I Ain’t Lying is a cultural journalism magazine. I think that’s what 
they call it, but the high school kids would go in pairs. On most cases, I was in on the 
interview. On a couple, your dad was. We would go interview somebody that the kids 
wanted to interview, a lady down the street, a man, an auntie, or an uncle, somebody that 
they thought was interesting. 
DC : And they had to justify that—. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
78 
PC: Yeah, pretty much. 
DC: —to our satisfaction, but that didn’t take much. 
PC: (laughs) No. So, we should show up with kids shooting film and a kid 
doing the tape recording and interviewing, and we’d interview people depending on how 
much they had to say and what kind of a talker they were. I mean, you interview Rose 
Page Welsh, and you ask her one question, and, as Carolyn said, three hours later she 
took a breath. Some were not that easy. Carolyn just had gotten lucky. So, the kids did 
that, and then they did the transcribing. The transcribing was work, not generally 
enjoyed, and sometimes—I mean, Emily can tell you this—sometimes, kids would 
graduate without their transcribing done, so another kid would pick up the transcribing. 
And in those days, it was like dinosaurs still walked the earth. One of Dave’s—we paid 
one of Dave’s secretaries to type the handwritten transcripts at lunch. She would give 
them to us, and we would copy them, but then the kids would, with scissors, cut and paste 
the articles, tape them onto pieces of paper, and then we’d read to see if they flowed. 
And then, there were editing questions. I mean, your dad’s skills and knowledge of the 
English language were really quite helpful in helping us edit things, but we made a 
decision early on—and just the way I put it was—that the people in this community 
shouldn’t have to sound like me, and I couldn’t negotiate sounding like them. Em not 
verbally skilled that way. So, that guided a lot of our editing in Cultural Crossroads, I 
mean, in I Ain’t Lying. I can remember—who’s our state senator—Albert Butler, when he 
first saw/y4/>? ’t Lying, he said, “I trusted you to clean up the English.” 
EC: And he was a schoolteacher? 
PC: He was a schoolteacher at the time. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
79 
EC: And you interviewed him? 
PC: Have we interviewed him? 
EC: You interviewed him? 
PC: No. No, he saw it. 
EC: Oh, so he thought you should clean up other people’s language. 
PC: And I just said, “Albert, we cleaned up glitches. We cleaned up uh-huh’s 
and repeats and all that kind of stuff, but we—” 
DC: We’re not going to make subjects and verbs agree with one another 
necessarily. 
PC: If somebody else didn’t. And anyway, people were finally okay with that, 
but it was an early-on issue. And then, the kids—. 
DC: Let me add one thing about what made the kids interested. At that time—, 
and probably to this day—there was no art in the schools, visual arts. There were no 
performing arts in the schools, so any kids that were hungry for that kind of thing, the 
ability to lay out a page in a magazine or to perform something other than Martin Luther 
King’s speech in elocution class or something—. 
PC: The Creation by James Weldon Johnson. 
DC: Weldon Johnson, Annabel Lee by—anyway, that was a great part of the 
interest, the hands-on work of an artistic nature, that brought a lot of kids to it, and I think 
that accounts for the fact that they weren’t necessarily the kids who got the best grades in 
school, because that wasn’t something that the schools were offering. 
EC: I didn’t have time for it, but I never understood why anybody would want 
to do anything that would make them have to write extra, (laughs) 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
80 
PC: And the kids did have to write more than they did at school, because they 
had to write introductions. Even if they were only three paragraphs long, that was often a 
struggle. 
EC: So, Worth- 
WL: Yeah. 
EC: —when you’re—I know that you talked about that your dad did a circuit 
with his churches. 
WE: Right. 
EC: And I think when we met you, you were doing a circuit. 
WE: Right. Well, it has to do with how you structure your research, and I 
mentioned [19]74, and [19]74, by that time—well, in [19]70,1 had—Arkansas was the 
state that went to the Smithsonian, and I did just a few months of research, but I 
developed in that area that I was assigned a way to cut the state into quadrants and then to 
do figure-eight’s through the quadrants, and then do a big figure-eight imaginatively 
around the quadrants, and to do that in a way that coincided with my availability to do it 
and circle and to be in places where I wanted to be on the weekends. The weekend was 
very important in terms of doing folk life research, especially in African American 
communities, because you’ve got Saturday night and Sunday morning, you know? 
(laughs) So, in fact, I could take off on Monday, (laughs) But so, in [19]74, in 
Mississippi, having been assigned for six months and having the whole state as a 
resource, quadrants, I divided the state of Mississippi up into quadrants and did the 
figure-eight, the large figure-eight, and did the four segments. And southwest 
Mississippi was the gold mine of the area, not the delta, which I thought was going to be 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
81 
the prizewinner for me. I found both in terms of material culture and then also in terms 
of just the expressive culture that related to lullabies and song and stories, that all, that 
southwest Mississippi was fertile ground. 
So I—at the same time I worked going through the state, I said, “Well, I want to 
come back to this area,” and after meeting, of course, Roland Freeman, who was assigned 
and whom I mentioned, came in to catalogue the research and only had three and a half 
days because it rained, (laughs) he flew in, and, of course, I was not there to meet him at 
the airport but told him I would meet him in Jackson, and we went off up to Natchez 
Trace and did—he did—he found what he wanted, what he was—he not only found what I 
had located, but he found—he helped me develop further, to actually consolidate in a 
visual form what—how a particular culture might be depicted. 
And I learned a lot from him immediately, and, of course, we decided to team up 
and choose an area that I had mentioned, southwest Mississippi, which he had not seen 
and where I didn’t take him in those three days, (laughter) We also didn’t go into the 
Delta, because I had been doing work in the Delta since the [19]50s, the early [19]50s, so 
I knew the Delta and Civil Rights, and that’s important. I’ll say it in a couple of 
sentences. If you didn’t—you had to know where you were, and you had to know your 
environment for your own safety, so I knew not only the backroads. I knew the paths in 
many areas, especially in Mississippi, Arkansas, and Alabama. I knew how to get in and 
get out. I knew the bus schedules, right? I knew where I could hitchhike, and where I 
couldn’t. I knew where to say, “Yes, sir” and where to say, “Yes, sub.” I—so, it was very 
important for me. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
82 
I—having worked with the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, both as a 
field secretary and then later as a staff coordinator—then, I had five states. And what did 
I do? Divided [laughter] each state up into quadrants, [laughs] right. And what did I do? 
I divided the region up into quadrants. And I circulated. I did, as you say, CC riding. 
My father was a—and I’m through with it at that point. But my father was a presiding 
elder, and he had fifteen churches. And I copied from him, methodology for getting to a 
place and serving that place, and knowing the people in that place. And I applied that to, 
first, civil rights, and then secondly to culture. And then I passed that on to Roland, and 
then I shared some aspects of that with Cultural Crossroads. 
But Cultural Crossroads, they were developing—one of the things I liked so much 
about it—and I do—and again, I’ll say a couple of sentences—is that in bringing me on 
board, they asked, “Well, how should we further develop this—our organizational 
structure?” And one of the things that I could suggest, based on having been in the Civil 
Rights Movement, was that you include youth. You empower. You choose youth on the 
board, and then—and that happened. But you include grassroots people. You decide who 
is it that needs to be served? Who is it you choose to be—to serve? And then, who you 
going to serve? It’s different from choosing. Right, who you going to serve? That’s— 
I’m talking about long-range. And Cultural Crossroads had answered—asked and 
answered those questions succinctly, all right? 
PC: One thing I didn’t say, when you were talking about the board and the 
structure, is that Worth would come from wherever he was. [laughter] On the 
Greyhound, on the day of a board meeting. 
WL: [That’s right?]. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
83 
PC: And you know how plan-ahead I am. It would have been—I would have 
loved it if he’d come the day before, so I would have actually known he was going to be 
there. But Worth was always there. And the conversations before and after board 
meetings with Worth were the ones that helped Dave and me understand the community 
we were living in, and how we needed to do this if it was going to work, really. 
EC: Do you remember any examples? 
PC: My God, Emily, I’m seventy-three. Let’s see. 
EC: There’ll be a quiz later. 
PC: Yeah, [laughter] 
WE: ( ) 
PC: Well, I think the one thing—the—I don’t know, Roland and Worth always 
said, “You do work—fieldwork, in your case—you have to exhibit it first. You have to 
bring it back and show it to the people who generated it, the communities that produced 
it.” 
DC : As a matter of respect for the community. 
PC: Yeah. I mean, it just has to be a given, so that always—/d/// ’t Lying. You 
know, the kids did these interviews, kids took the photographs. I think it would have 
been fine with a lot of them if that had been the end of it. But we said, “You trusted us to 
do this interview, we’re going to publish your interview.” So, we only—I mean, things 
changed and the organization kind of grew out of hand. So, there are only four issues of / 
Ain’t Lying. 
But the quilts—I mean, we started—the women started teaching—demonstrating at 
the school, teaching, so we started having a quilt show, because—and the women were 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
84 
quite articulate about that, that, “We make these quilts.” And they put them on the beds 
or it keeps them warm. And we were saying, “We’re going to hang them on the wall. 
We’re going to treat them like art, we’re going to judge them. And then your kids can 
sleep under them if you want.” But—so that I think, though, those commitments on our 
part, as an organization, to always exhibit, publish, to produce a play, come from that 
notion that you have to show the work in the community where the work comes from, 
wouldn’t you say? 
DC: I would definitely say that. And after we did the workshops by the—with 
the folk quilters in the schools, we were also able, then—well, because people would 
come out of the woodwork and say, “Well, my mama quilts.” 
PC: “My auntie quilts.” 
DC: Or, “My grandma and my auntie would—.” So, we were kind of swarmed 
with people who could quilt. And so, we decided that the best way to return that to the— 
first of all, when the quilters finished a quilt, it belonged to the school, and the kids who 
made it, the—. 
PC: Well, we put every kid who worked on a quilt—we put their name in a bag. 
And then, they got to pull them. So, those five quilts went home with kids. A thing that 
makes me take a deep breath, because I didn’t photograph them before they went home. 
And I just—oh, how young I was. But we just—if a kid worked on a quilt, their name 
went in the hat. And those quilts, those quilts went home. But the thing we also learned- 
EC: It’d be interesting to find—see if you could find some of those quilts. 
PC: Yeah. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
85 
WL: Yeah. 
PC: I—we’ve been through a lot of that, Em. In terms of the paperwork—you 
know how many pieces of paper I have. And when I was going through it, I just—I didn’t 
even see a piece of paper that said, “These four kids took them home.” But when we did 
those quilts, as Dave said, people started saying, “My auntie quilts. Lady down the street 
quilts.” This—so, before we ended that residency, we said to the kids, “Bring the quilts to 
school.” And we transformed Addison. We hung them willy-nilly, up and down every 
hallway. And that’s when we said, as an organization—. 
EC: Who let you in the schools? 
PC: It was Mr. Watson, still, because Sarah was in the ninth grade. Yeah, 
Sarah was in the ninth grade. By that time, you were over at P.G., so—but what it said to 
us was that quilts are magic in this community. There isn’t just Melissa Banks, who 
Rowan knew, or just Geneva Gibson, who I met, or—and the other two quilters we found- 
-because our daughter Sarah went to school and said, “My mom’s got some money to pay 
some quilters, but she only knows two.” And Maria Farmer said, “My grandma quilts.” 
And Bonnie Rankin said, “My mom quilts.” So, the next day, I knocked—oh, sorry—I 
knocked on those doors. I knocked on the doors and said, “Hi, I’m Patty Crosby. I’m 
Sarah’s mom, and I hear you quilt.” And that’s how we got those two to come to 
school.” 
EC: So, where did Ernestine Rankin and ( ), so you got her name from 
Sarah’s classmates. 
PC: Yeah. Yeah, from Bonnie. 
EC: And then knock on the door. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
86 
PC: And I said to Mrs. Rankin, “Hey, I’m trying to get some quilters to come 
to school for a week.” And Mrs. Rankin, all of her children were in the Claiborne County 
public schools at the time. And she said, “I’m kind of afraid of those schools.” So, I 
said, “Well, I’ll go with you. I’ll be there every day.” And so, I did, and she was just a 
glorious hit, because she’s a natural teacher. 
DC : And you took a lot of pictures of that. 
PC: Yes, I did. [laughs] By that time. I’m not a--I do learn. Yeah, we have 
lots of pictures of that first residency. But one of the things I learned, because she was 
teaching the kids and me—she made a quilt with the kids out of, well, diamonds. They 
used triangles. Two triangles together to form diamonds. And I’m, all along—I, who 
believe you can do anything, am thinking this is not going to end up being a quilt. These 
kids are sewing and she’s teaching. And anyway, so—but by the end of a week, there was 
a quilt. In fact, by the end of a couple of days there was a quilt. She threw out the top 
and then she looked at it and said, “Oh, no.” Took a—scissors and cut straight through 
one set of the diamonds, and I just—. 
DC: Well, first of all, you have to say that the set of diamonds didn’t line up. 
PC: No, they didn’t. They didn’t, but—. 
DC: She did her diamonds in strips, like this. 
PC: But-. 
DC: And she cut across them this way. And she got three quarters of a 
diamond here and a half a diamond here, and a quarter of a diamond here. 
PC: Just—and for somebody with my toilet training, it was really hard to watch. 
But, you know, she then—and the kids quilted the thing. Each one of the four quilters 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
87 
needed a different quilt frame. They had to have their own structure. I had to take them 
to the—get the material in Vicksburg, because—now, these were women making quilts out 
of scrap. But here was this person saying she had money to pay. So, we went off and 
bought the kind of material they wanted, but—. 
DC: And they each got a stipend for being in the school. 
PC: Yeah, they got a stipend from the school. 
DC: Which again, gave them recognition as artists. They were—just like 
bringing a painter into school, they got the same kind of stipend that they would get. 
PC: And that may have been something we learned from Worth. It may not 
have been. But we always paid local people to work. In the schools, here, money was 
always pretty short, but we made sure that whenever we asked for money, it included 
payment for the—in this case, women—that were going to do the work. 
EC: And Miss Rankin, at a certain point, started doing story quilts. 
PC: Yes. I think Roland is really the person that’s responsible for that. Mrs. 
Rankin’s father was shot and killed when she was a very young girl. And Roland—she 
was telling Roland about that, and he—she took Roland to the spot where her father had 
been shot and killed. And he said to her, “Why don’t you do a quilt about that?” And I 
think that was her first story quilt of a kind. And then she started making what she called 
her story quilts, which were more often blocks of children walking to school, her mother 
churning butter, that kind of thing. Though she also did one—a big story quilt that was 
coming back from her father’s funeral. All the children in a cart, coming home. 
DC: I’m going to interrupt for a second and—. 
EC: So-. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
88 
Ml : I think Worth was about to say something. 
EC: Well, yeah—. 
WL: No, I liked the fact that—. 
EC: Is it—are we rolling? 
Ml : We’re rolling, yeah. 
WL: Yeah. I liked the fact—when I ( ) well, first of all, I liked the 
openness of the Crosbys to the whole idea of asking people what they want and then 
trying—and ask them what they need. And then trying to deliver to those needs, to those 
felt needs. And I think that was kind of a principle that was—. 
DC: Definitely. 
WL: —developed. Other principle was from the community to the community. 
From the community to the community, not from the community to the world 
necessarily. That will come. But from the community to the community. Once you 
started showing the community beautiful images of itself, whether it’s a picture, a 
photograph—. I remember when Roland took a photograph, and he always returned a 
photograph to—in the project in which we were—to the person he took the picture of, 
especially to the family. And they say, “That’s me!” [laughs] Or they would say, “Wow, 
that’s nice.” It’s almost like saying that’s store bought. 
When people—they make a prettier garment than anything in the world, and they 
say, “Oh, that looks store bought.” And [laughs] so, you—that whole store bought 
legitimacy was happening in this community. I was beginning to see it. Also, letting 
someone take a camera, of—something of value home with them—I can imagine what 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
89 
happened in some families. And I can see some of the kids sleeping with that camera, for 
more than one reason, [laughs] 
PC: I mean, I was fairly tough, and I just said, “You’re the one that came and 
learned how to do this.” 
WL: Right. 
PC: “You’re the one that gets to use it.” 
WL: Right. 
PC: “Somebody else wants to use it, you can tell them where we are.” 
WL: Right. 
PC: “And they can come.” But they—if they wanted it again, they knew they 
better bring it—. 
WL: Right. 
PC: —back this time. 
WL: So, the question is, would that happen in the school? And you can answer 
that? Would that happen in the school? 
PC: I think the right kind of teacher in the—with the right kind of stuff could 
have that happen in the school. I think it’s tough. I don’t know. 
WL: She might send the chalk home with the child, [laughs] 
PC: Well, all right. 
WL: ( ) 
PC: We’ll talk about Sarah later, [laughter] 
WL: Yeah. 
PC: But Sarah has had a number of programs in the schools—. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
90 
WL: Right. 
PC: —in Jackson where she has given the kids cameras. 
WL: Right. 
PC: Several hundred dollar cameras. 
WL: Right. 
PC: Little kids. 
WL: That’s right. 
PC: And they have taken them home and brought them back. 
WL: Right. 
PC: Now, she was an extra, but she was doing it through their classwork. So, I 
think it’s not impossible. 
WL: And she was trained through Cultural Crossroads. 
PC: Yeah, of course, [laughter] 
DC: Well, let me—. 
WL: Yeah. 
DC : —pick up something and try to bring us back to a place we were before. 
WL: Okay. 
DC: The-. 
EC: Can I—before you do that, we were talking about Miss Rankin. 
PC: Mm-hmm. 
EC: What was the big award Miss Rankin got? 
PC: National Heritage Award, in 2000. No. No, wait, 2000—2000 was—big 
year for us. We got Coming Up Taller in the Crossroads Quilters. I think it was about 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
91 
2000—was the actress—was Jane Alexander still chair? And Dan Sheehy? Yeah, it was 
kind of the year Jane was leaving that job, and I think that was 2000, but—. 
DC: It was 2000. 
PC: Yeah. 
DC: Yeah. 
PC: But Dan was the one—at that point, Bess had left and he was in charge 
there. 
WL: I was ( ) [laughter] 
PC: Yeah, were you? 
WL: So, I—right, that’s what I can remember about it. 
EC : Okay, I just wanted to get that—. 
DC: Right. 
PC: Right. 
EC: —on the record. 
DC : And that prompts me, before I go onto my other thing, to add to that that 
the main reason that Mrs. Rankin got that award, other than politics and stuff like that—. 
WL: Right. 
DC : —was that every time there was an opportunity to nominate one of our 
artists for an award, Patty would put the application together and work with the artist to 
provide the materials that were necessary, whether it was an award at the state level or 
the regional level or the national level. And so, there was an increasing recognition for 
the artists who came through or worked with Cultural Crossroads. Thing—awards that, 
first of all, just—the state arts commission had a program where it was an apprentice 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
92 
program. You could apprentice people to a master craftsman. And so, the—you had to 
prove that the person was a master, first of all, and then that there was somebody that 
wanted to learn that. Well, we had four quilters who were ultimately named master 
quilters through that. And we never hesitated to use that designation, master quilter. And 
then, there was a state award that the—Herron Award, which involved not just folk art but 
visual art ( ) well, Mrs. Rankin won a Herron Award. Gustina Atlas won a Herron. 
PC: And so, did [Jeannie?], yeah. 
DC: And so, that—then, when you have that kind of background of successful 
award-seeking, you get to the national level and you’ve got a track record, and things go 
from there, so—and that feeds back to the same thing you were talking about. It’s better 
than store bought kind of thing. 
WL: Oh, right. 
DC: But what—. 
PC: And we had photographs. 
DC: Right. 
PC: I mean, I think that was—. 
DC: Oh, absolutely. 
PC: —critical—. 
DC: The documentation—. 
PC: —to all these things. 
DC: —was always there, so—. 
WL: Right. And it was always good. The documentation was excellent. 
DC: So, let me go back now to the slitting of the diamonds in the quilt. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
93 
WL: Right. 
DC: Because—. 
PC: I have the part she cut off. 
DC: Because that was an a-ha moment for both Patty and me. Hers was one of 
shock. Mine was more one of recognition that, hey, we’re dealing with something here 
that we don’t understand. 
PC: Don’t have a clue. 
DC : Yeah, and that ultimately lead to that paper presentation at the Folklore 
Society meeting in Oxford, where we tried to account for the fact that symmetry, 
obviously, was not a particular concern. Regularity of pattern, even, was not a particular 
concern in the aesthetic of Mrs. Rankin, and that we could find other examples of that 
kind of thing in other quilters. And so, that was when I first began to develop this idea of 
two different sets of aesthetic principles working in the white community and in the black 
community. And Worth came to a presentation I made in—believe it or not, for the—what 
is that literary—that you wouldn’t even—. 
WL: Yeah. 
DC: —know, but we should—. 
WL: Whatever society it was. 
DC: Yeah. 
WL: Right. 
DC: Was-. 
PC: Are we talking about recent or ancient history? 
DC: No, recent, not—well, 2009. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
94 
PC: Oh, Atlanta, okay. 
EC: Oh, Atlanta. 
PC: Yeah, okay. 
DC: Yeah, but it was SAMLA. Modern Language Association, this—. 
WL: Okay. 
DC: It was the Southern Regional Modern Language Association, and they had 
a sub-section on crafts or something like that. And Worth brought it up the other day 
when I picked him up at the airport, that that—I—by that time, I had developed a much 
more coherent way of talking about the construction—. 
WL: The architecture. 
DC: —the architecture—. 
WL: Right. 
DC: —of black quilting that I had already kind of put together in a little quilting 
booklet called— 
PC: Quilts and Quilting in Claiborne County. 
DC: —Quilts and Quilting in Claiborne County, like, a very specific kind of 
focus. But that was—that a-ha moment that came out of, again, this—just the notion that 
we were working with people in the community, and we’re able to see things. And then, 
when the Folklore Society of Mississippi couldn’t understand what I was trying to say, 
that just provided more incentive to try to keep that kind of thing coming. 
EC: One of the things that was—couple years ago, you sent me a couple 
speeches that you gave about Cultural Crossroads. 
PC: Yeah. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
95 
EC: Maybe around the [19]90s? I don’t know when it was. But anyway—and 
you—. 
PC: Yeah, one was in Oxford. Dennis asked me to do one—and did, so it was 
probably around then. 
EC: And in it, you talked about some of the early racial dynamics that you 
were negotiating. And so, when Cultural Crossroads was founded, you’ve got, in 
Claiborne County—it’s eighty percent black, and the public schools are probably ninety- 
nine percent black. 
PC: Yeah. 
WE: Right. 
EC: And almost all the local whites go to Chamberlain-Hunt Academy. 
PC: Or CEE. 
EC: Or, yeah, or the sister elementary school. And yeah, Cultural Crossroads 
tried to be a space that anybody in the community could come to and be welcome. So, 
what was it like to try to create an interracial space in such a segregated context? 
PC: I think in some ways, ignorance is bliss. I mean, I really didn’t know how 
determined people were to keep things as separate as they were. One of the things we did 
after kind of getting started with the quilts, or really at the same time, the teachers on the 
board said, “We don’t have any art in the school. We want to have some art in the school 
or art for our kids.” So, that’s when Barbara Green walked into our life and we started 
having these residencies at school. But one of the things we did was a two-week summer 
art program in town. And Keith Alford, who was teaching art at Alcorn, on the faculty, 
said she’d be happy to help run a summer art program. And Keith is white and 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
96 
Episcopalian, in the community. So, Keith was a bridge, because even though Dave and 
I are white, our children were in the public schools. And so, that separated us out from 
the white community in a way that just wasn’t really bridged. So, with those early 
summer art programs, we had a lot of white kids, because Keith was the artist and 
Suzanne Disheroon and a couple of other white women were on the faculty with Katie 
Young and [Toney Wicks?] and Delores. So, we had a kind of—. 
DC : Who are black women. 
PC: Who are black women, right. So—. 
EC: Teachers? 
PC: Teachers. They’re teachers in the public schools and they were teachers in 
the art program. So, for the first couple of years, we had about sixty kids. And they were 
really—quite a large number of white kids for this community, for this space. And then, 
Keith sent her son to the private school. When he started school, she was no longer 
interested in working with Cultural Crossroads or the teachers at Richardson Primary, 
because her kid wasn’t going to go there. And by this time, we had about two hundred 
children coming to the summer art program. So, I met—and we had the white kids at the 
summer art program now were Emily—were Sarah and Jessie. I mean, really, we had 
dropped down almost—. 
EC : My younger si sters. 
PC: Yeah. Emily’s younger sisters. We had dropped down to almost none. 
And I met Suzanne Disheroon at the Piggly Wiggly. And I said to Suzanne—she had 
taught in the program; her kids had come initially. So, I said, “Suzanne, what would we 
have to do to get the white kids to come back to the summer art program?” And she said, 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
97 
“Oh, well, you’d have to keep the ratio one-to-one.” And I said, “My God, if all the 
white kids came, that would mean we’d have to eliminate about 150 black kids. That’s 
entirely too high a price to pay.” So, that, even though, initially, in that program, we had 
a balance of adults and kids and all of it—wait a minute, can I just ask, are you in trouble? 
Do you—. 
DC: No. 
PC: Okay. 
DC: I’m trying to stop ( ) but I can’t. 
WL: Yeah, okay. 
PC: Oh, okay. So, we just—we always tried to have the space good. We 
insisted on having the artist be as good as we could get, on the assumption that if the art 
was good enough, people would send their children. And that happened, sometime. 
DC : If you build it, they will come. 
PC: That happened sometime. Especially with theater, but also when Wyatt 
Waters came. A Jackson watercolor artist worked with us a couple of years. And the 
afterschool program, we had white kids because Wyatt Waters had a reputation. He was 
a known artist in Jackson. So, these are some of—this mural is some of the stuff that 
Wyatt did with the kids, so—but the reality was, Dave taught at Alcorn. You guys were in 
the public schools. So, anybody who cared about that stuff knew it. But we had white 
kids from CHA, couple of times, come down to work on I Ain’t Lying, but they were 
always boarding kids that were kind of desperate to get off the hill. And we were just 
there and offering cameras and excitement, so—I don’t know whether that answers your 
question, but—. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
98 
WL: Yeah. Just thinking about color separation versus social class separation 
now. Say something on that one. [laughs] 
PC: Well, Barbara Green, an artist, white woman from Colorado, came driving 
through town. This is the kind of luck we have. She’s driving her daughter from 
Colorado to Florida. Stops here, likes this town. On a Sunday afternoon. Stops in the 
chamber of commerce and says, “Fm an artist, I want to do some work with kids. I like 
this community, and who should I call?” She said, “Well, there’s that woman over there 
at Cultural Crossroads. You could call her.” So, she gave me her phone number. And 
Barbara Green came back for three, maybe four years as a volunteer. Worked in the 
public schools during the day. Sometimes came in the summer. She brought a friend of 
hers. So, we did all kinds of artwork. But the first time Barbara and I were over at 
Richardson, we were just—we were doing these gorgeous self-portraits with the kids. We 
were doing smaller things of them, what they wanted to be when they grew up. They did 
a series of, “When Fm angry” or “When Fm fearful.” All this kind of stuff. 
And then Barbara said to me, “Patty, you can’t not keep a record of this. There 
are some of these that are just absolutely wonderful.” Well, I had—I knew what I liked, 
but I never thought of myself as an art judge. So, Barbara starts picking out things. And 
she didn’t pick out the work of the teachers’ children. She picked out—she didn’t know 
who these kids were. She just picked, like, Nikita Jackson. [Hermanville?]. She picked 
one of hers one day—and I had a rule that if we picked a kid’s artwork, they got to do 
another one, so that the kid would leave one with us but got to take one home, okay? So, 
the next day—she picked Nikita’s, so Nikita did another one. And Barbara said, “Oh, my. 
We have to keep this one.” I said, “All right, we’ll keep this one. But whatever she does 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
99 
tomorrow goes home with her.” But Barbara didn’t pick the artwork of the teacher class, 
which is the—. 
DC: The nobility. 
PC: That’s the nobility in this community, really. 
DC: [Really?]. 
PC: So, early on, we had some problems with class. And then, we had kids 
who would come in here like Rochelle. Rochelle started coming in here when she was in 
the third grade, and figured—well, she came first with her class, because the princ—we 
were doing work at school, but the principal, probably wisely, didn’t want us doing batik 
with third graders in the public schools. 
DC: Yeah, [laughter] 
PC: Okay, but that’s what we were doing. So, Dolores got all the kids to get 
signed permission slips from their parents that the bus could drop them off at the comer 
and they could come in here. And then, if they burned themselves, it was on Dolores and 
me. And Rochelle happened to be in that class. So, she came in with her class, and the 
next day she came by, she came in and she said, “You really don’t have to pay to come in 
here?” And I said, “No, you don’t have to pay to come in here.” And she was probably 
here every day after that for the rest of her school. 
EC: Say something about her art? 
PC: Well, she’s—she does very interesting art, as well. And one of her pieces 
was chosen to be part of the governor’s wife’s GIVE Awards or something one year, 
which was a really big deal. We all got dressed up, but—. 
EC: Right. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
100 
PC: —went for the award ceremony in the capitol and all that kind of business. 
But Rochelle has a really interesting eye. I find it painful that we never had the resources 
to train her as an artist or to provide her—provide—I don’t know what’s missing. If I 
knew, I could have given it to her, maybe. But something so that she could’ve been an 
artist on her own terms, but—. 
DC: Well, a certain amount of stability—. 
PC: Stability in her life. 
DC: —in her life. 
PC: Yeah. 
DC : Because her family situation was just—. 
EC: Right. 
DC: —terrible, and—. 
WL: Yeah. 
DC: -so-. 
WL: I remember at one point—, [phone rings] 
Ml : Excuse me, can we stop for just a second? 
PC: Yeah. 
WL: No, you can’t. 
PC: Yeah. 
WL: But I remember—. 
PC: Here. 
EC: Okay. 
PC: I’ll just ( ) 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
101 
WL: Yeah. 
Ml : Okay, hang on a second. Hang on a second, Worth, I just—. 
WL: Yeah. 
Ml : —we got to answer this phone call or—. 
WL: No, no, I-. 
Ml : —cut the phone off. Sorry. 
WL: This wasn’t—. 
PC: Hello? Cultural Crossroads. 
WL: —but it had to do with—when the newspaper started seeing the success, the 
newspaper changed somewhat—. 
PC: It’s me, Carter. 
WL: -too. 
PC: But we’re interviewing, still. That’s okay. No, no. Okay. Bye. Okay. 
WL: All right. 
DC : What’s he going to do? 
PC: He’s—he just wanted to say hey. 
Ml : I just stepped all over Worth’s line, so—. 
WL: Okay. 
Ml : —got to do that one over again. 
PC: Sorry. 
Ml: Okay, Worth. 
WL: Yeah. I was—the—who—I was on the board, just [19]80 to [19]90 or 
[19]81 — 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
102 
PC: [Nineteen] eighty to [19]91. 
WL: —and to [19]90, but at a certain point, there was—seemed to be a—the state 
newspapers and the local newspapers seemed to view you in a different way, don’t you 
think? 
PC: Well, yeah. 
WL: What-. 
PC: I mean, the local newspaper, though, did start publishing our pictures. I 
would take to Edgar pictures the kids had done. 
WL: Right. 
PC: In fact, I just sent—. 
DC : You’re talking about photographs? 
PC: Photographs, sorry. Or pictures that I had done of kids’ artwork and all. 
DC: Right. 
PC: But he—it—I don’t know, he published the stuff when we brought it to him, 
ready to publish. 
DC: Right. But he put it on the black page. 
PC: Yes, that’s right, [laughter] I’m sorry, I—the Reveille, the local newspaper, 
when the girls were growing up, the back page was always white folks’ announcements, 
weddings, funerals. Just, you know, the white page. And then, when the black kids 
could—or black community in general could get in, it had its own separate—that news had 
its own separate page. So, Sarah was at Northwestern—our daughter, Sarah, was at 
Northwestern, and she had just been named a Rhodes Scholar. And so, that was 
something that the Reveille couldn’t skip. And so, he put a story in there. And Sarah 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
103 
said, “Oh my God, I’m on the white page!” [laughter] And it was the first time for her to 
be on the white page. But anyway, so—but—. 
EC: And, I know we’re winding down, but—. 
WL: Yeah. 
EC: —there’s one thing. YPCEP was a pretty—was it? 
PC: Yeah. 
EC : Was that the name? 
PC: YPCEP. 
WL: Yeah. 
EC: YPCEP? 
PC: I mean, David and Roland just really hated that we called it that. They 
wanted us always to call it the Young Person’s Cultural—the Young People’s Cultural 
Exchange Program? 
DC : Person’s, I think. 
WL: Right. 
PC: Person’s. I never got Person’s and People right, so ( ) 
WL: Right. 
PC: —go find the magazine. Yes, what about it? 
EC: Just say something about it? What it was? 
PC: Roland had friends—us—in Claiborne County. He had friends—or David’s 
sister, actually, worked with Yaqui Indian children in Tucson. And he had a friend, 
Christine somebody, who—a white woman who was a principal of a grade school in 
Vermont. And Roland had this notion, as he moved from one space to the other, that it 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
104 
would be a great idea to get these children together, these organizations together. So, he 
and David and Judith and the Group for Cultural Documentation raised the money to do 
what was initially a two-year program where we hired an artist and we did—we had 
meetings where we talked about culture and art and all this kind of stuff. All of us, the 
staff from all three places. We did it here once, once in Tucson, and once in Vermont. 
And-. 
DC : Vcry structured program. 
PC: Very structured programs, yeah. Judith and David are organizers par 
excellence. But then, we would come back and do artwork with the kids based on food, 
celebration—what are the other categories? God, fun, play, work. The things that make 
us people, okay? We would have a discussion with the kids about those, with the artist, 
and then the kids would do artwork. And sometimes, we were careful, we gave them a 
piece of paper a certain size and a—and paint or a marker. Sometimes, we just said, “Go 
for it.” 
DC : I did imagery for—. 
PC: Right. And what—I think the most powerful thing I learned from that first 
time was that with every piece of artwork, we asked the kid what they had done. So, 
every time, after they had done something, we had their words. And some kids talk a lot 
more than others. But we had their words about this painting or how it fit into celebration 
or food or whatever. And then, at the end, we were able to bring two of our children to 
the other two sites, and then two kids from each site and staff came here. I think what we 
learned—I probably shouldn’t say this, because it’s such a smart aleck crack—but what we 
learned about culture and food is that all kids in this country like pizza, [laughter] I 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
105 
mean, you know? Now, we learned all kinds of other things. It really was a powerful 
program, I think, for the organization, because it changed from then on what we expected 
when we were doing art. 
And then, at the end of it, David and Judith and Roland said to us—David Levine 
and Judith Katz, by the way—said to us, all of us, “Well, wouldn’t it be great if you could 
do this on your own, in the states?” Well, nobody took them seriously but us. And we, 
then, with their help, organized a program where we had a group on the Gulf Coast, 
Moore Community House—a group, a social action kind of group, Operation Shoestring 
in Jackson, where they—at that—up until that point had not really done much art with their 
kids. They had tutoring after school and daycare and that kind of stuff. And then, we 
had a group in Madison, Mississippi, which is the wealthiest, I think—either top or second 
wealthiest county in the state. So, we had a kind of mix in that. And so, for two years, 
we did our own version of the Young Person’s Cultural Exchange Program. 
WL: With decent funding from—. 
DC: The Group for Cultural Documentation? 
WL: No, the-. 
DC: No? 
WL: —the state said—yeah, I’m—we were in Biloxi together at a certain point, 
and I just realized that that—who had sponsored that conference there in Biloxi? They 
would—you had gotten some money from them—. 
EC: ( ) 
WL: —one time. 
PC: No, no, no. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
106 
WL: Starts with a K. 
PC: Kellogg. 
WL: Kellogg. 
PC: Yeah, thank you. 
WL: Yeah, right. That’s the commercial, [laughs] 
PC: Yeah. Kellogg helped with that and—God, the other one just went out of 
my head. But you’re right, we had a good bit of Kellogg money. 
WL: A decent—. 
DC: Was it George’s—. 
PC: So, that—. 
WL: Right. 
DC: —group in Jackson? Community—I forget it. 
WL: Right. 
PC: FMS. Foundation for the Mid-South. Yeah, I think we got some money 
from them for that, too. 
DC: Yeah. 
EC: So, been a full day. 
PC: Oh, God, yes. 
WL: Yeah. 
EC: Final—. 
DC: This guy is still eager. 
EC: Final thoughts? 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
107 
PC: Well, I’ll have to say this, and it’s really kind of embarrassing to me, but 
one of those early conversations with Worth, he said to me, “Well, what do you envision 
Cultural Crossroads doing?” And I said, “I don’t know, it seems like a kind of nice part- 
time job.” [laughter] But I don’t know. I think we did good work. 
When I was getting ready to retire in 2008, we went to archives and history and 
showed them our stuff, our administrative stuff, and made the case that this organization 
was a really interesting piece of this community’s history. And, to tell you the truth, you 
could figure out what the NEA was funding and what the state was funding by the 
programs we were doing, if anybody ever cared to figure that out. So, they agreed to take 
it. And at this point, they have about two hundred boxes of our—. 
EC: Administrative stuff. 
WL: —administrative stuff. 
EC : That’s not the other stuff. 
WL: That’s not the quilts. The Mississippi Museum of Art bought seventy-five 
of our quilts. And, for me—okay, so people say, what did you accomplish? I don’t know. 
We had a good time while we were doing it, we gave kids experiences. But, in addition 
to that, now the public record has on it—I mean, the public record includes the history of 
this organization, and by extension a lot of the history of this community that was going 
on. 
The state museum—well, it’s not officially the state, but the art museum in this 
state has seventy-five quilts made by women in this community. And we’re now 
working on—we have between 1,500 and 2,000 pieces of children’s art upstairs, and 
we’re looking for a home for it. That was our artwork done from between [19]80 and 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
108 
2008. And I just—I think it’s artwork that you wouldn’t find, I used to say, in the middle 
of Indiana, you know? It’s just a different place. So, we’re hoping—that includes about 
twenty-five quilt collaborations with the women and kids, and just all this YPCEP 
artwork. So, I think, in the end, we did good work, we had a good time doing it. And I 
think now, this community’s voice has a better chance of being part of the public record 
than it did before we started. 
WL: Right. 
PC: Don’t you think? 
WL: Yeah. I just say amen, [laughter] Okay? 
Ml: Say amen, somebody. 
PC: Yeah, yeah, [laughter] 
DC: Let me have one last thing. I think the thing I learned most completely is 
that no accomplishment is permanent, and that any of the good that we may feel we were 
able to accomplish here is reversible, and that we wish to God there was some successor 
who would take Cultural Crossroads, or some other organization in Port Gibson and 
Claiborne County to the next level. Because I think without that, there is the same kind 
of danger we find in our political life nationally, that progressive ideas are being 
challenged everywhere and need to be asserted as aggressively as they’re being 
challenged. 
PC: Well, maybe. We look—okay, a case in point. Dave did a lot of work on 
the Rabbit Foot Minstrel Show that was headquartered in this community. 
WL: Yeah. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
109 
PC: I mean, we—our kids uncovered some of those really horrible, racist 
images when they were researching for I Ain’t Lying. And I remember Worth once 
asking you, “What do we do with these?” And you said, “Well, sometime you’ll 
understand them.” I thought, well, thanks. But we didn’t publish them, because we 
couldn’t. 
WL: Right. 
PC: We didn’t have a context for them. Fifteen, twenty years later, Dave—. 
DC: Two thousand six ( ) 
PC: —really dug into the history of that minstrel show. Found out it was 
started by an African American, Pat Chappelle, in Florida. And so, we did an exhibit that 
puts that show in its context. 
WL: Context. 
PC: Took us a while to finally figure it out. So, on the one hand, parts of it are 
sitting over there, kind of a mess. It’s not anywhere hung up or—pieces. But the research 
is done. It’s kind of out there. So, if anybody ever wanted to know about that piece of 
this community’s history and the broader minstrel show business, the work has been 
done. Now, I’d be happier if it were hanging on some walls where people could actually 
see it and it was in order and made sense. 
WL: Right. 
PC: But nevertheless, it doesn’t go away, just because—. 
DC: ( ) 
PC: —right now—well. 
DC : Someone could walk in and throw it out tomorrow. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
110 
EC: Well, just so—. 
PC : It’s on your computer, too. 
EC: —the institution might not stay, but the work of the institution doesn’t get 
undone if the institution—. 
DC: Right. 
PC: Yeah. 
DC : I understand that. 
PC: See, I think that’s—. 
WE: Yeah. 
PC: —where I have to go. 
WE: And especially if it was education and arts and culture, and it generated 
youth, because somewhere down the line, you’re going to see another Crossroads. 
PC: Tammy, who was in here today—. 
WE: Right. 
PC: —kind of helping me with Cokes and ice and stuff used to work here pretty 
much full time. Now it’s sort of when somebody can pay her, or she comes up here and 
quilts. One of these is probably her. 
DC : Another master quilter. 
PC: Another master quilter. And she was born in [19]69. So, she’s the 
generation that’s the children of those other women. And Tammy had one of her quilts 
chosen to tour China for two years. Now, I don’t know, it doesn’t put bread on her table. 
But I think that’s a kind of—an important thing that you can’t take away. 
WE: Right. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
111 
PC: Tammy’s sisters, Tammy’s nieces, they know Tammy’s quilt—. 
WL: Right. 
PC: —was chosen to be one of two dozen from the United States that toured 
China, so—. 
EC: Right, and I know that even though we’ve been talking off and on about 
this for about five hours—. 
WL: Right. 
DC: God. 
EC: —that we’ve barely scratched the surface ( ) 
WL: Yeah, no doubt about it. 
EC: —in some ways, of the programs and the work and the—. 
WL: Right. 
EC: —folk that have made up Cultural Crossroads, but I think that’s a good 
place to call it a day. So, thanks, everybody ( ) 
DC: Well, thank you, Emily—. 
PC: Yeah. 
DC: -for-. 
WL: Yeah. 
DC: —providing this—. 
WL: And we also—. 
DC: —opportunity. 
WL: —want to thank somebody who has been holding—. 
PC: Yeah, right. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
112 
WL: -hold-. 
EC: And I should also say—. 
WL: Let’s acknowledge—, [laughs] 
Ml : That would be [Guha Shankar?]—. 
WL: Yeah. 
Ml : —who has been holding the boom. 
GUHA SHANKAR: It’s been an honor and a privilege. 
EC: And we’ll be doing a full interview with Worth Long, about his life and 
work in the Civil Rights Movement, the modem Civil Rights Movement, the [19]50s, 
[19]60s Civil Rights Movement—. 
WL: Yeah. 
EC: —on Sunday. 
WL: Yeah. 
PC : You know what? 
WL: It’d be-. 
PC: If we need—oh, go ahead, sorry. 
WL: No, no, no. No, go. 
PC: If we needed some justification, there’s always Charles Payne—. 
EC: [laughs] Yes. 
PC: —who called this place a freedom school. 
EC: That’s right. 
DC: Oh! 
EC: He did. 
David and Patricia Crosby, Worth Long, and James and Carolyn Miller 
113 
DC: There you go. 
EC: In 1994. 
DC: Redid? 
PC: Yeah. 
EC: He did. 
F1 : This has been a presentation of the Library of Congress and the 
Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture. 
END OF INTERVIEW 
Transcribed by the Audio Transcription Center 3/29/2017