GRETZEL STANSBURY 
 
INTERVIEWER:   
 
Candacy Taylor   
INTERVIEWEE:   
 
Gretzel Stansbury 
DATE & TIME:    
September 4, 2012   12pm 
LOCATION:  
 
 
1025 Thomas Jefferson NW Suite 155, 
                     
 
 
Washington, DC 20007 
RECORDER:   
 
Marantz 661 – 24/96 
LENGTH:  
 
 
00:03:22 
TRANSCRIPT:    
  
2 pages  
 
KEY:   
 
 
CT – Candacy Taylor (Interviewer) 
 
 
 
 
GS — Gretzel Stansbury (Interviewee) 
 
 
 
 
IK — Iku Kawashita (Interviewee) 
 
 
 
 
 
CT: Can you tell me how you met Iku? 
 
GS: Yes, we used to work together about 35 years ago. And the place was, in my 
opinion, an assembly-line type of outfit. 
 
CT: Where did you work? 
 
GS: I’m not saying 
 
IK: It’s okay. 
 
CT: What type of business was it? 
 
GS: It was in a beauty salon. 
 
IK: She didn’t want to say the company. 
 
CT: I understand. So it was a beauty salon. Do you do hair? 
 
GS: I used to yes. So what happened was we were encouraged to do people 
almost like every 10 or 15 minutes, it didn’t matter what we did, as long as you 
rushed and got somebody else on the line. So we used to count, I did 14, I did 
15…Some of the beauticians came with aspirin and Coca Cola and they drank 
the Coca Cola and the aspirin, just to keep up. Ok, low and behold, Iku gets 
hired, we were there about 2 or 3 weeks and immediately, we all knew that he 
was a different type of a person or beautician because he not only appreciated 
looking at your face for a change but he appreciated the artistry, the creativity 
about doing hair and all of us were flabbergasted because he didn’t follow the 
routine of the assembly line. And immediately he got all the clients because they 
recognized his value, so I never forgot him. And when I came to D.C. I looked for 
him everywhere. I had lived in Los Angeles, and Detroit and overseas. 
 
CT: So you met here in D.C.? 
 
GS: Yes in D.C. 
 
CT: So when you came back… 
 
GS: I looked for him, yes. So as soon as I found out there was a Japanese 
beauty salon, I asked if there was an Iku there and there he was [smile]. 
 
IK: We didn’t see each other for what 25, 30 years? 
 
GS: Oh more than 30 years. It was fun when we worked together but we all knew 
that something had to change in the beauty salon because of the stress and the 
philosophy was completely different. Their purpose was to make a lot of money. 
 
CT: So did you stay very long? 
 
GS: For a couple of years but then I saw that it really wasn’t my thing. 
 
CT: Can you state your name for the recording? 
 
GS: My name is Gretzel Stansbury and I’m originally from Boliva, South America. 
 
CT: Well he’s [Iku] doing a beautiful job on your hair. 
 
GS: Oh yeah, that’s why I keep coming.  
 
CT: Are you almost finished? 
 
IK: Yes, just about. 
 
CT: Well thank you.