Anchorage, 1989 
 
And now, that look on your face:  
the same residue you found on  
the murre eggs upriver, as if  
the damp earth left its fingerprint on your  
eyelids as we sat across from each other  
in the café.  And now, the length  
 
of your legs just short of touching  
my legs underneath the table, the memory  
of the way we wrapped our limbs together,  
eclipsed, like the old village on  
that island where we met.  And we  
would relocate ourselves, or what we  
 
thought it meant to be ourselves.   
In Anchorage, when the snow cracked  
beneath your feet, and the mountains  
seemed a little larger than usual, you  
offered your hands, opened.  I remember,  
not because I thought about taking them,  
 
but because when my hands lay cupped  
in yours—both browned of sun—it reminded  
me of hunting caribou upriver, squinting  
against sunlight, in that rock canyon.   
I did take your hands, because it was polite  
and you didn’t mean to hold them  
 
for more than a moment; it was the only thing  
you could offer then.  Now, I straighten  
my silverware set on the table, as if  
you might tell me what I really want to hear 
which was not that we were wrong,  
but that our weakness really means  
 
that we are linked somehow with history,  
the same history that has brought us 
together miles from the old village  
on that island where we met.  
Those mornings you’d wake up first  
to make coffee and listen to water fall from  
 
the edge of the roof in the spring,  
are as faint now as the smell of damp earth  
beneath concrete.  And I cannot look you  
in the eye, because sometimes,  
eye contact is more intimate than breath 
in whispers, like that trip we took upriver,  
 
when our daughter balanced on the edge 
of the boat, leaning out, dragging her fingers  
in the water, as meaningless now as this  
meeting today in the café, listening to  
our waitress swear under her breath  
as she takes our order, two mugs of coffee  
 
braided in her fingers. A gust of wind  
rips through the front door of the café  
when a short man in red Chuck Taylors  
smiles at me as he brushes the snow from  
his shoulders—the kind of man you were  
before I found you resting under the  
 
overpass of New Seward Highway this afternoon.   
It was an accident finding you  
there. I wanted that man standing  
next to the flashing jukebox to come over, sit in  
your seat and work the Sunday crossword  
puzzle with me, but he didn’t. And now, I  
 
leave you, like the old village on that island  
where we met, on the corner of Ingra  
and 5th Avenue after you asked me  
for twenty dollars, but I see now it is the same—  
the aluminum boat, the murre eggs,  
the coffee dripping over the lip of the mug,  
 
the dark of your eyelids—each held  
in drowned memory, the same way our mouths  
know the taste of salt, or not salt itself,  
but the memory of salt.  It is a narrow passage  
between breath and memory, leaning inward.  
And according to you it wasn’t our  
 
reflexes that failed us, that day on the river  
in that second she fell from the boat,  
but that we were inexperienced.  And now,  
in the cottoned quiet of my car, a snowplow  
scrapes against hard-packed snow, and 
I don’t know how to tell you that I need  
 
the story to take a breath.  As we told it  
to strangers, suffering the quiet of  
silt and current unmoving, doubting, 
in the same way, if she too, lay unmoving.   
I drove and I refused our directional relation,  
where the only word for backward  
 
meant stern and forward meant bow.   
And I heard your voice stretching over the  
curved tundra, telling me stories of swans  
who took flight and fell to the earth  
to become humans. It was simple then,  
like the old village on that island where  
 
we met. But, when I found you  
crossing the street, you were frozen,  
drunk, clutching your thermos, your clothes  
stitch-marked and thinned and you looked  
as though you might stand up to argue with me  
about life jackets and the way the shallows  
 
in the river had shifted those ten years before  
and I would have yelled back at you to slow down,  
but all that is left is the hum of my Buick  
as I wait for you to cross the street,  
your breath creating its own cloud formation.  
And now, every time I listen to Cat  
 
Stevens,  I think of her, so I have set out  
all the albums and even the record player  
on the street and listen in the morning  
to that snow plow that keeps me awake,  
thinking of caribou hunting and winding  
switchbacks under the 3 a.m. sun.  It was  
 
the way each song would sing to the next  
song and would sing to lungs filled with  
river water.  And our voices, alone,  
were not enough on the island in the old village  
where we met.  So I lit a cigarette,  
in the early grey light of morning and kept watch. 
 
 
—Cathy Tagnak Rexford