Off-Island CHamorus 
 
My family migrated to California when I was 15 years old.  
During the first day at my new high school, the homeroom 
teacher asked: “Where are you from?” “The Mariana Islands,”  
I answered. He replied: “I’ve never heard of that place.  
Prove it exists.” And when I stepped in front of the world map  
on the wall, it transformed into a mirror: the Pacific Ocean,  
like my body, was split in two and flayed to the margins. I  
found Australia, then the Philippines, then Japan. I pointed  
to an empty space between them and said: “I’m from this  
invisible archipelago.” Everyone laughed. And even though  
I descend from oceanic navigators, I felt so lost, shipwrecked  
 
on the coast of a strange continent. “Are you a citizen?”  
he probed. “Yes. My island, Guam, is a U.S. territory.”  
We attend American schools, eat American food, listen  
to American music, watch American movies and television,  
play American sports, learn American history, dream  
American dreams, and die in American wars. “You  
speak English well,” he proclaimed, “with almost no 
accent.” And isn’t that what it means to be a diasporic  
CHamoru: to feel foreign in a domestic sense.  
 
Over the last 50 years, CHamorus have migrated to  
escape the violent memories of war; to seek jobs, schools,  
hospitals, adventure, and love; but most of all, we’ve migrated  
for military service, deployed and stationed to bases around  
the world. According to the 2010 census, 44,000 CHamorus  
live in California, 15,000 in Washington, 10,000 in Texas,  
7,000 in Hawaii, and 70,000 more in every other state  
and even Puerto Rico. We are the most “geographically  
dispersed” Pacific Islander population within the United  
States, and off-island CHamorus now outnumber  
our on-island kin, with generations having been born  
away from our ancestral homelands, including my daughters.  
 
Some of us will be able to return home for holidays, weddings,  
and funerals; others won’t be able to afford the expensive plane  
ticket to the Western Pacific. Years and even decades might pass  
between trips, and each visit will feel too short. We’ll lose contact  
with family and friends, and the island will continue to change  
until it becomes unfamiliar to us. And isn’t that, too, what it means  
to be a diasporic CHamoru: to feel foreign in your own homeland.  
 
Even after 25 years away, there are still times I feel adrift, without  
itinerary or destination. When I wonder: What if we stayed? What if  
we return? When the undertow of these questions begins pulling  
you out to sea, remember: migration flows through our blood  
like the aerial roots of the banyan tree. Remember: our ancestors  
taught us how to carry our culture in the canoes of our bodies.  
Remember: our people, scattered like stars, form new constellations  
when we gather. Remember: home is not simply a house,  
village, or island; home is an archipelago of belonging.  
 
 
—Craig Santos Perez