BATON ROUGE FOLKLIFE SURVEY 
AUDIO RECORDING LOG 
 
 Interviewer(s): Jocelyn & Jon Donlon  
 
Date & Time  Dec. 30, 2014, 11:00 am; January 23, 2015, 1:00 pm 
 
 
 Recording Title (informant or event): Mr. Shavarsh Kaltakdjian 
 Location of Interviews: Shavarsh Jewelery Design, 711 Jefferson Suite 2B, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 
 Recording Equipment: Marantz PMD 660 
Format: WAV. 
  
Length of Interview: 1:02:40 
 
 
 
 Note: The primary interviewee is Mr. Shavarsh Kaltakdjian in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. The interviewer, Dr. Jocelyn 
H. Donlon poses questions and makes occasional comments (JHD). 
 
 
 
 
 
0 BSubject 
1 BInterviewee 
 
      Part I 
 
 
Shavarsh 
00:01 
Establishing material; name & background, contact information. 
Shavarsh describes his history (in Damascus, Syria & coming to the USA) 
and how he began in jewelry making. He notes that at first his family 
began a restaurant in Baton Rouge. He worked there then, later, was 
able to return to jewelry making. Shavarsh is Armenian, and says he is an 
Armenian Orthodox Christian. He apprenticed in Syria, at first doing basic 
work then, when he was sure this was his life’s work, moving to practice 
with the best craftsman in the region. 
 
08:39 
Details about the USA – the first year he could not work, because of 
working papers. Then, he did a little jewelry work, but very soon was 
fully engaged with a family restaurant start up. – His first shop was 
named the same as the restaurant, “Serops,” but the next several were 
his own name, “Shavarsh.” 
 
Part 2 
 
 
00:03 
The present location is not really a “co-op,” but several jewelers do share 
the rent. They help make working more economical. “Right now I am 
apprenticing my youngest son,” he says, describing how new people 
come into the business.  It is not always easy. 
 
 
00:10 
Transition to showing an example piece [this track is only 1 minute long] 
 
Part 3 
 
Shavarsh 
00:15 
Shavarsh explains and displays a bangle which, when finished, will have 
about 150 different gemstones (?). The CNC is used quite a lot with this. 
He recalls the history of learning computer-assisted jewelry making.  First 
he went in halves with a friend to buy a rudimentary $175 program to 
learn computer drawing.  Later, he mortgaged his house to get the CNC 
machine/software suite that cost $20,000, which carves a wax model of a 
piece of jewelry. He has now ordered a 3-D printer. 
 
I 
 
 
0 BSubject 
1 BInterviewee 
00:5:30 
Attributes of the machine – extraordinary precision, can travel tiny 
distances, absolute symmetry, endless repetition of design, no rest; vary 
scale with perfect precision. Much improved customer relations because 
there are fewer false starts. 
 
00:9:14 
Description of lost wax process – in detail 
 
00:11:19 
Traditional carved wax or high-tech machine sculpted, very much of the 
total production eventually goes via lost wax as a method to convert to 
precious metal – including casting components or parts. 
 
00:13:40 
Conversation about perfection and “that handmade look.” Every now 
and then a person wants the imperfect look, Shavarsh says. But many – 
especially men, engineers he pointed out in particular, want things to be 
absolutely perfect. Everything perfectly symmetrical. 
 
 
Part 4 
 
 
 
00:06:00 
[Continues remarks about lack of desire for  – the appearance of being 
made by hand] Shavarsh notes that most of his clients DON’T LOOK FOR 
the appearance of slight imperfection [wabi sabi] which is a common 
attribute in some craft forms. “It got to the point, a man usually, if they 
are engineers, I thought I was going to tell them, ‘go some where else.’” 
“So picky!” [this audio track is only about 1 minute long] 
 
Part 5 
 
 
00:01 
[Continue – description and explanation] The jeweler HAS described the 
process of lost wax. He provided an example of a piece, very complex, 
which was in process. He pointed out the various “stages” it would go 
through, including having the bigger sections “jobbed out” to another 
firm which did larger castings. He explained that once the “raw” casting 
would be returned, it would be finished and each stone individually set in 
the “points,” which would be turned and finished to hold the stone 
securely.  
 
 
00:09:39 
More discussion about how the client and the jewelers arrive at a 
potential finished design. Some still just want a drawing on paper. The 
computer is vey useful to help people “visualize.” Also, because the 
jeweler and the client come up with the finished product – they 
commission the work, the jewelry is actually economical, because as he 
says, “My prices are very reasonable, and I’m the one who makes it…” so 
presumably there is no “markup” for middlemen or further retailing. 
 
 
00:14:36 
Shavarsh thinks “there is exciting new technology that’s right on the 
horizon . . . “ for jewelry making. He imagines the new printers will be 
dealing directly will the precious material . . . 
 
Part 6 
 
 
00:08 
[Continue -- Shavarsh discusses new technology that’s right on the 
horizon] – Cutting machines would begin with source metal, still require 
hand finishing, but reduce this quite a lot; open new areas of design.  
 
1:40 
Working is, according to SK, like meditation. “Because when you are 
concentrating on doing something, your past and future just fades away. 
You’re only in the moment.