Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
1 
Project: Archie Green Project 
Interviewer: Sharrow, Gregory L. 
Interviewee: Blackwell, Spencer 
Interviewee Contact: 
Location: Elmer Farm, East Middlebury, VT 
Date: 4 March 2015 
Length: 01:27:29 
Recording Format:  
Accession: au2015-2006 
Collection: vfc2014-0005 
Indexer: Shannon Esrich 
 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
START-00:00:15 
Introductions. 
Introduction 
00:00:15-00:09:56 
Grew up in East Montpelier, VT. Mother and father still live there, 2 younger 
brothers Colin and Scott, grew up on dairy farm homestead on rocky 
hillside. Parents had periphery interest in agriculture but moved from NYC 
in 1970s, were city people. Had a vision to get away from city and start 
homestead, quickly found jobs in Montpelier. Did a lot of homestead 
activities but not for sustenance, more for embellishment. Had large garden, 
lots of vegetables, canned, cut firewood, built trails in woods, graded the 
property, built stonewalls, had beef cow for a few years. Had old tractor 
equipment from 1940s, rebuilt for fun in free time after day jobs. Mother 
didn’t work when kids were very young. Mother went back to school when 
Spencer was 16, got Masters and PhD and writes scholarly pieces on 
women’s suffrage.  Homesteading was fun, wanted to be full time farmer 
because he liked it so much. Dad felt like it was more of a job, but Spencer 
loved it. Parents had books, Rodale Organic Gardeners’ book for reference, 
their parents live in suburbia but also had gardens growing up and knew a 
Childhood, family, homesteading, 
processing, institution, Goddard, 
Outward Bound, Holderness 
School 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
2 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
little. Parents were not Goddards, were more conservative politically, were 
not resisters openly to Vietnam War. Parents’ friends cam through Dad’s 
work at National Life Insurance. Youngest brother Colin shared more 
homesteading interests with Spencer. As kid, did not envision agriculture as 
future, thought he would be forced into some other career from education 
system or family. Left 32 in 10th grade and went to boarding school for 3 
years because Goddard influence, free thinkers Spencer associated with, 
threatened parents’ thoughts of future. Boarding school was more 
structured, had more programs well suited like forestry, good to do because 
not good at sports. Cut firewood for low-income people in area as fall 
“sport”. Had Outward Bound program to take 10th grade class outdoors for 
2 weeks in winter, with 3 days solo hiking. Hiking trips every weekend too. 
Went to Holderness Schools in Plymouth, NH. Most of student body from 
cities, did not connect with majority of students but programs and teachers 
were good. Did not enjoy it greatly, but experiences were good. 
00:09:56-00:18:46 
Left boarding school, went to UVM, studied political science and economics. 
Motivated by parents’ discussions on politics, father involved with 
economics with investment. Also an easy minor. More of a social than 
academic education, but valuable experiences. Being able to write very 
valuable, assess politics, writing business plan. At UVM started working in 
summers on vegetable farm in Charlotte, was Bigham Brook Farm, no 
longer in existence. Poor soils, in mid 1990s knowledge of organic 
agriculture limited, learning curve was greater then. Person in charge 
couldn’t make it work there, hard to work there knowing it was failing, but 
very educational for how not to do things. Given some freedom to 
experiment with better practices. Produce was great, but getting it to grow 
was difficult because overworked clay soil. Aside about clay soil structure 
and management. Learned through observation of ruining land. Aside about 
managing soil to start gardens. Worked there for 5 summers. 
Institution, University of Vermont, 
Bigham Brook Farm,  soil 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
3 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
00:18:46-00:26:18 
Didn’t see farming as calling, but wasn’t feeling any calling. As you develop 
skills in any area, people start calling you. After Charlotte farm, worked for 
grower in Barre, Allen LePaige. Had girlfriend in Burlington, she was 
working on flower farm in Intervale, started working there as well. 
Intervale Center hired him for better pay than Allan, hired as assistant 
facilities manager. Eventually became facilities manager, started own farm 
there. Grew grain crops on new land rent free in exchange for bringing land 
back in to vegetable production. Winter Rye and hairy vetch, and oats and 
peas, soybeans, others grew best. No infrastructure for grains there. 
Purchased combine from Lorenzo Whitcomb for cheap, harvested grain but 
had no market for it. Stored grain in dump truck. Tried growing grain in 
current farm, but land not suitable and more work than it’s worth. Family 
and demanding business means no time for that. Found market for grains 
through cover crop seeds. Covered cost of equipment, probably not labor. 
Was seeking to own land for farm for 15 years, until found current farm. By 
then, parents understood career choice and are now proud. 
Institution, Intervale Center, grain, 
family, producer 
00:26:18-00:29:52 
Met wife Jennifer at Intervale while facilities manager. She grew up in St. 
Albans, began farming through father’s family in Ohio, had subsistence farm 
in summers. Intervale closest to that. Had vision to have farm together, she 
wanted education-based to teach kids and community with organic 
vegetable growing, Spencer focused on production, didn’t matter what 
crops at first. Were looking for farms separately, then looked together. Were 
often last 2 working at the Intervale, part of why they met. Having kids has 
added a lot of work.  
Family, business plan 
00:29:52-00:37:50 
Vermont Land Trust helps place people as agricultural producers. Jennifer 
had taken women and agriculture course in Burlington, VT, teacher gave 
link to Land Trust to offer of Elmer Farm. Had open house, went down, liked 
soil, wrote business plan, got farm in 2007. House was disaster, spent first 
year renovating. Had son 2 months after buying farm. Cover cropped land 
Institution, Vermont Land Trust, 
family, soil fertility, product 
quality, consumers 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
4 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
that had been in corn. Got to know soil, soil tests. Arranged for neighbors to 
hay property. 2008 started growing vegetables. Didn’t know a lot, in 
Intervale had very good soils, at Elmer had to bring soil back into fertility. 
Planted without helping soil, all vegetables turned out miniature for lack of 
nutrients in first year. Changed methods dramatically since then. Land Trust 
had loan fund for startup costs, second year a little less, not until 5 years 
paying most of their own costs. Parents helped pay bills for first few years. 
Very lucky. Moved to Middlebury without knowing anything about it, have 
been received and supported enormously. Haven’t had to work very hard to 
build their market. Not many vegetable growers in area, expected quality of 
vegetables has grown among consumers. Weren’t many farms providing 
that, experience in Burlington’s mature market knew techniques to create 
products of interest. 
00:37:50-00:42:40 
Did not start CSA until 3rd year of production. Before CSA, used Middlebury 
farmers markets as primary retail outlet. Met community, sold products, 
Middlebury co-op engaged farm to produce with a need.  First year co-op 
wanted asparagus and stone fruits and things that couldn’t grow in one 
year. Also Brussels sprouts and spring broccoli, which are hard but were 
undersupplied. Didn’t work on their farm, but close to co-op and in 
shopping there were able to understand signage preferences for local food 
over imported. Able to develop a relationship by selling what the co-op 
seemed to be missing, but being there on regular basis crucial. Co-op is 
wholesale, CSA and farmers market more retail. Retail solidifies customer 
interaction and relationship, but transaction costs are greater and profit per 
unit sold is the same as wholesale co-op products. Co-op gives best price 
possible, giving the price they would give a distributor. Better price than 
selling to Black River Produce.  
Retail outlets, CSA, farmers 
market, co-op, distributor, 
consumer 
00:42:40-00:55:00 
Currently in 7th growing season on farm, been there 8 years. Fairly steady 
progression, first 4 or 5 years sales doubled each year. Started very small 
Expanding business, soil science, 
soil health, institution, UVM 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
5 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
income, $12,000 first year. Last 3 years sales have still increased, but 
diminishing increases. 3 years ago realized could grow 2-3 times as much 
stuff on same amount of land with half amount of labor if pay attention to 
soil health. Feel more actively engaged in learning soil science, soil food 
web. Plants can grow with much less effort if soil is healthy, tearing up land 
is not good. Even letting weeds grow is better than plowing over land. Aside 
about soil structure and plant biology. UVM Extension has grown a lot since 
1990s, moving away from focus on conventional dairy farming to focus on 
soil health and other types of farms. Need proof that things are working, but 
soil health is not easily measured without disturbing it. If not tangible proof, 
university can’t stand behind it for funding purposes, but if sales increased 
and other expenses didn’t, yields are better and plants are healthier. Lack 
attention to detail and can’t afford to have on-site scientist hinder proving 
changes. Rodale Institute is a feeder service, VT Vegetable and Berry 
Growers collaborate with NOFAVT and Extension. Also other soil stewards 
in biodynamic growing community, but more things that can’t be proved, 
but it is an approach to growing and to dealing with people. Biodynamics 
includes cosmic interactions, don’t always understand it but starting to 
understand how small differences can make large changes, for example 
differences in compost. Went to conference in Massachusetts by Bionutrient 
Association, biodynamics with more scientific than cosmic perspective. Also 
Acres USA, a magazine and annual conference for agricultural organizations 
and people. Support ecological agricultural practices. Those are biggest 
sources of biodynamic information. NOFA has publication Natural Farmer, 
many articles also people who write about biodynamics.  
Extension, Vermont Vegetable and 
Berry Growers, Northeast Organic 
Farming Association of Vermont, 
biodynamic, Bionutrient 
Association, Acres USA  
00:55:00-00:57:35 
Vermont Vegetable and Berry Growers have very successful email listserv 
including people from outside VT. For questions, things for sale, comments 
on events, etc. Can engage growers community. Good at connecting people, 
you get to know them based on listings on listserv. Have annual events and 
Institution, Vermont Vegetable 
and Berry Growers 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
6 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
meetings, 2-day conferences for socializing and planning. Mixed group that 
attends, there are groundbreakers of organic movement who started 30-40 
years ago. Older growers, conventional too, 20 year olds, large variety. At 41 
years old with medium sized farm for VT, Spencer falls in the middle. 
00:57:35-00:58:35 
Don’t visit other’s operations as much as would like to. Workshops held by 
different agricultural groups usually held at other people’s farms, usually 
twice a year. Last year went to Jack Laser’s farm in Westfield to discuss soil 
health with 30 growers. Go to nearby farms as well more commonly. Been 
to 20 different farms with workshops.  
Workshops, soil health, visiting 
other farms 
00:58:35-01:02:22 
State Department of Agriculture does not have huge role in Spencer’s life, 
probably do more for him than he knows. Provide grant money for 
workshops probably, create food access for low-income people with Farm 
to Family coupons at farmers markets, but not a lot of direct interaction 
with the department. This year will be checking the water quality coming 
off the farms, regulatory. ACORN is really good, probably helped them get 
their current property. Since here, have been engaging them. Listed in their 
local growers guide, started putting on workshops for business planning, 
have weekly/monthly newsletter to promote farm’s products, match 
growers with restaurants. Have done the matching service, 2 accounts have 
come out of it, small but good to increase awareness. Greg’s Meat Market in 
particular people like their products there. 
Institution, State Department of 
Agriculture, ACORN, wholesale, 
Greg’s Meat Market, retail outlets, 
nutrition assistance program 
01:02:22-01:13:06 
“We are at a place where we are proud, we’re making a decent living. It’s not 
getting us rich by any means, but I don’t think it’s making us poorer. It’s 
somewhere in the middle there, between survival and declining. And our 
approach was not to get rich, so that’s okay.” Working on providing better 
employment deal, don’t want just minimum wage single season employees, 
more actively seeking agriculture-interested people who want to stay 
longer, paying them more in response. Would like to increase sales to 
support that. Not sustainable to do everything yourself, but hard to let go of 
Cash-flow, employment, wages, 
inputs, consumers 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
7 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
control, so trying to focus on better employment ability to make people 
want to come back. Have also been relying on inputs fairly heavily to build 
fertility, especially chicken manure and bulk available resources from 
factory farming, doesn’t like that. Would like tighter loop to grow more of 
own nutrients, where soil health comes in. Can’t grow everything, but can 
bring nutrients back in cleaner form such as hay where you know the 
chemical make up and reactions. Doesn’t fully trust manure from factory 
farms, it helps plants grow but not helping them be disease resistant.  
Would like to cut back amount of land under production for cash crops, then 
increase cover crops and sod. Working for now, but at this rate in future 
may not work. Carrots grow great and large, broccoli not at all. Still figuring 
out microbial and mineral balance in soils. Hard to test for, not what’s there, 
but which nutrients are available to different plants. Have narrowed down 
profitable crops, but have to grow others that don’t directly make money 
but have to be there otherwise would not be diversified and CSAs wouldn’t 
work. Trying to maximize wholesale profitable crops. Consumers want 
variety. Currently determining profitability, doing crop enterprise budgets, 
taxes, organic certification, ordering supplies. Check-writing season. CSA 
sign-up just began. “Fall sales buy all the inputs…and the CSA pays for labor 
until we can start making money at farmers markets. The cash flow works.” 
01:13:06-01:21:33 
Slower start this year with late spring snow, will be starting next week. 
Heating greenhouse to begin, don’t heat enough of it to make it worth 
putting in more efficient heater, just use propane. Within a month through 
mid-April will be in greenhouse only, seeding in unheated greenhouse ready 
for May to sell at early farmers markets. Not particularly profitable, but 
stating cash flow. Mid-April start planting in field, more variety. End of May 
put in frost-sensitive crops. By late June seeding fall storage crops. End of 
June harvest picks up, pulling in spring Brassicas, zucchinis by July have to 
be harvested every day. Weeding majority of June and July. Mid-July weeds 
Planting cycle, retail outlets, CSA, 
farmers market, employment, 
wages, learning 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
8 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
slow, then garlic and onions and winter squash plus lettuces and others. 
August is intense harvest month, plus seeding fall crops. September has 
little weeding, mostly harvesting carrots and other roots, packing things 
into storage. October has direct sales, CSA pick up. Farmers Market like a 
circus show displaying vegetables, sometimes bring over 2,000 pounds of 
vegetables to market just to make it look good. By Halloween, darker 
earlier, direct markets stop and focus on harvesting roots. By Thanksgiving, 
lay off majority of crew, keep a few through winter part-time for 
infrastructure work and repair work. At peak, last year had 4 full-time 
employees, this year 5 because all 4 coming back plus eager new person. 
Pay a good wage to get people to come back, but want to be able to pay even 
more. Can’t make a career off of low hourly wages. Employees feel like 
they’re learning and want to come back. Learning on both sides, wouldn’t be 
farming if weren’t still learning.  
01:21:33-END. 
From economic perspective, partially got into farming because saw parents’ 
land and surrounding land get developed fairly extensively during 
childhood, so wanted to make sure there would be more land for farming 
and needed to make more money from land from growing food than from 
selling the land for development. Wanted to make the land profitable in a 
sustaining way. Current production of food in USA is transformation of 
million-year-old energy through immediate consumption of energy in food, 
using fossil fuels. Spencer’s goal is to use higher percentage of solar energy 
to increase efficiency of photosynthesis to create immediately consumable 
calories. Only chance as a group to tighten gap between cost of extracting 
fossil fuels versus using freely available energy. “The only way we can do it 
is if we try. I think there’s a lot of people that for whatever reason don’t 
want to try. They’re comfortable and they don’t think that we can do 
anything about our fate, and they just aren’t interested moving in that 
direction. I don’t necessarily fault anybody for that, it’s just the way the 
Economic sustainability, fossil 
fuel, consumer, solar energy, 
future of food production 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
9 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
world is. Everyone has a different set of challenges.” With better margins, 
more people may be willing to try, which seems to be happening. “There’s a 
tide that’s turning, slow as it may be. I do think we’re being forced in that 
direction one way or another.”