AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
Civil Rights History Project 
Interview completed by the Southern Oral History Program 
under contract to the 
Smithsonian Institution ’s National Museum of African American History & Culture 
and the Library of Congress, 2015 
Interviewee: Julius W. Becton 
Interview Date: December 15, 2015 
Location: Unknown 
Interviewer: David Cline 
Videographer: John Bishop 
Length: approximately 3 hours, 10 minutes 
START OF RECORDING 
Female 1 : From the Library of Congress and the Smithsonian National 
Museum of African American History and Culture. 
DC : Are you ready, sir? 
JB: Sure. As best I can be. 
DC: All right. Well, good morning. Today is December 15, 2015, this is 
David Cline from the history department at Virginia Tech, also working with the 
Southern Oral History Program at UNC-Chapel Hill, and we are here this morning as part 
of the Civil Rights History Project of the Library of Congress, the Smithsonian’s National 
Museum of African American History and Culture, and the Southern Oral History 
Program. And I have the great honor of being with General Julius Becton this morning, 
and if you could just introduce yourself, and—this is the only time I’ll script you at all—a 
full sentence to start with, “I am,” or that “My name is.” 
1 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
JB: Fm Julius Wesley Becton, Jr., Lieutenant General in the United States 
Army, retired. 
DC: Thank you. 
JB: Happy. 
DC: [Laughter] Happy. Thank you, sir. So it, let’s just, if we start with y— the, 
where you were born and raised, and a little bit about your family, and then we’ll have a 
conversation, take it from there. 
JB: Okay. I was born in Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania, I went to high school—at 
Lower Merion High School, I just point that out because there are a few rather prominent 
graduates of Lower Merion. The Librarian of Congress, as an example, Jim Billington; 
A1 Haig, of some notoriety; Hap Arnold, the former commander of the Air Force, then 
Army Air Corps. If you live here in Washington, yeah. The anchor on channel four is a 
graduate of Lower Merion, and we have other, some prominent citizens. Kobe Bryant, 
some people have never heard of him, I understand he’s retiring this year. So— 
DC: That’s right. 
JB: —we have that kind of program, we have some outstanding academics. At 
one time, Lower Merion was in the top ten of the high schools in the country, and they’re 
still very high now, and have a great reputation. I’m happy to say that I got out of that 
place, did well. 
DC: And this is what they call the Main Line, right? 
JB: The Main Line of Philadelphia. It’s supposed to be—not supposed to be. 
It’s a very ritzy and well-to-do—I was born there because my father was a janitor in an 
apartment. And we lived in the basement of the apartment, and it’s a block and a half 
2 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
from Bryn Mawr College. And two blocks from Bryn Mawr train station, that goes out 
from Philadelphia. It’s a very—other schools, Rosemont, Villanova, Haverford, 
Swarthmore—just some of the schools that are in that area. So I grew up in an academic 
field. 
DC: And what were the sort of restraints or boundaries of race and class in that 
area, as you were growing up? 
JB: It was part of the segregation areas. However, the schools were not 
segregated. We could not go into certain restaurants, or could not—we’d go to the theater, 
we were required to sit down in front rows. And if they were filled, we just—depended 
how much the film had been going, we could member—mingle with the other folks, they 
wouldn’t, no one complained about it. But it was segregated. We’re talking, now, back 
in the [19]20s and [19]30s. It took some time to get through all of those things. 
DC : And so you went, you had your high school years there, and— 
JB: High school years. Lower Merion is located in Ardmore, Pennsylvania. 
It’s a township. There were very few things we could not do. We could not participate in 
the swimming program. I do not remember, in the four years I was in high school, 
counting ninth grade, having gone to a prom. It wasn’t encouraged, so we didn’t bother 
doing it. As far as the schools were concerned, academically, we were encouraged to do 
the best we could. I happened to be a member of the student council. The president of 
my class, we started kindergarten together, and he’ll be invited to my birthday party, we 
go back that far. 
DC: Wonderful. So, after high school? 
3 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
JB: After high school, I joined the Army Air Corps enlisted reserves, while a 
senior at high— at Lower Merion. And when I was, after I graduated, I came on active 
duty. 
DC : And what year was this? 
JB: Nineteen forty-four, when I came on active duty. My first duty station 
[5:00] was Biloxi, Mississippi, Keesler Air Force Base. As I sometimes say with tongue 
in cheek, a great place for young black, eighteen years old, to go to in those times. And 
taking the physical examination for flight school, I flunked the eyes test. I had 
astigmatism. I knew I had that problem, but when I walked into my testing in every other 
place, they had a big chart on the wall, big E and then scale down. In those days, I could 
take one look at that chart, and I had it memorized. Front, back, either way. They would 
say, “Okay, cover your right eye.” Covered my right. “Cover left eye,” fine. I got down 
to Keesler Field, new machine technology. In a darkened room with a machine right 
back here, and you walk in. I don’t see any chart. Room’s dark. They pushed a button, 
chart comes up. I had no chance, I—I flunked the test. And that sent me off to MacDill 
Field, which was an Army Aviation Facility, engineer. Excuse me. 
DC : What had you been hoping you might be able to do? 
JB: I wanted to become a pilot, in what turned out to be the Tuskegee Airmen- 
-didn’t have that name when I was there, but—I wanted to become a pilot because Hap 
Arnold had come out to our high school and convinced us, “Join the Army Air Corps, 
win your civil wings and gold bars.” And by God, I went down and when we, after he 
finished his spiel, about half the football team went down to take the battery of tests. Six 
of us passed, and on the 28th of December, 1943, we all were inducted into the Army Air 
4 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
Corps enlisted reserves. And that’s how I got into the flight program in the first place. 
After going through New Cumberland—New Cumberland was where the reception 
station—I went to Keesler Field, my five other buddies went to Florida. Keesler, where 
they had black Americans; Florida, they did not have. And so. I might add that none of 
us became pilots, for various reasons. After that, off to MacDill Field Army Avia—Army 
Engineering. 
DC: Well, let me ask, first, though—you know, you said it tongue in cheek. 
Biloxi, not the best place, perhaps, to be—could you tell us a little bit about what you, the 
conditions were there? 
JB: Well, a good example of the one weekend I took off, with leave, from 
Keesler Field, a buddy of mine and I went down to Keesler—to Biloxi, rather, from the 
base. And we’re, while walking down the street, we heard some noise coming from the 
rear. “There are two of them!” And we turned around, here’s a pickup truck coming 
down the pavement, driving at us. We flatten against the walls and they went by, and we 
thought, “It may be a good idea to get back on post.” And so we did. And that was 
typical treatment. And I point that out because, many years later, I went back to Biloxi, I 
am now a lieutenant general in the United States Army, I was invited by the National 
Guard of Mississippi, I was greeted by the adjutant general, I flew in in my own aircraft— 
the Army’s aircraft, rather, which I controlled—I was greeted by this AG, we went from 
the airfield to a small camp that they had, and I forget the name of the base, or of the 
camp, rather, spent the night there, and then we drove to the hotel where they had a 
meeting of National Guard and Reserves, for which I was to speak to. And I, my first 
comment, “My, how things have changed.” And I explained what I was talking about. 
5 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
“The last time I was down here, let me tell you what happened to me.” And of course all 
of them knew and understood what I, exactly what I was talking about. I had state 
trooper escort from the airport, to this camp, to the hotel. Left in great fashion. But that 
was a significant change. Still was not the best, at that time, but it was a hell of a lot 
better than when I was first there. 
DC: What were the barracks like in 1944? [10:00] 
JB: They’re wooden buildings, two-story, just like everyone up, but we were 
separated from the rest of the posts. Controlled by the camp—my company commander 
was a white first lieutenant, he had a white exec, and the rest were black. First sergeant, 
the rest of the cadre. As a matter of fact, it was there, after I—when I got down to 
MacDill, when, on an aviation engineering until, and with the same setup, basically, 
structure. The first sergeant had been, was told by the company exec that he’s heard that 
there’s an announcement for, applications for OCS. And that fellow, Becton, understand, 
was an aviation cadet, he might be interested. By that time I had become the first 
sergeant’s clerk. How did I become his clerk? One very wet day, the first sergeant came 
out and said, “Okay. I need a clerk, I need a volunteer. Who can type?” I had typing as 
a club, put my hand up, he said, “Okay. Come here, let’s go in.” Went into the first 
sergeant’s office, I found out that the first sergeant had a little problem. My job was to 
read the company roster to him, the company roster, because he could not read. And he 
had it memorized, basically, and he would get up in front of the company, and put that 
paper up, and call the roll. 
DC : As if he were reading, right. 
6 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
JB: That’s the kind of stories—army we had at that time. And because I was 
able to type and help him, “You’re my clerk.” “Yes, First Sergeant.” And when his 
lieutenant came back from post and said, “There’s a roster, there’s a campaign or 
statement on a board, bulletin board at post, that are going to be an OCS application 
board, you might, Becton might be interested.” First sergeant came in and said, “You’re 
going to go down and take a test.” “You’re going to go down and appear at that board.” 
“Yes, First Sergeant.” I went down—and this is one of the weird things—the president of 
the board had been through the township of Lower Merion. And when I mentioned that I 
had gone to Lower Merion, played football there, I had at least one person on my side. 
And I didn’t do poorly, but that made me feel pretty good when I was trying to answer 
the questions. That’s how I started to get my process out of Keesler F—out of Biloxi— 
wait a minute. Out of MacDill Field, and I passed the OCS test, passed the board, and in 
January of 1945,1 went off to Fort Benning, Infantry OCS. Got there in December, as a 
matter of fact, of 1944. School started in January of 1945, and I graduated from OCS in 
August of 1945. Fifteenth of August, as a matter of fact. And interesting part, they had 
dropped the bomb. And we were destined to go off to become infantry lieutenants, and 
matter of fact, when Germany quit about April of 1945, we started getting concerned 
because, hey, they might cut off OCS and whereas, “No, we want to keep OCS going.” 
As a result, when the Japanese dropped it, we said, “Well, we’re this close, they wouldn’t 
dare cut out OCS.” Now, they didn’t and we graduated on the 16th of August, 1945. I 
was sent off, briefly, to Alabama for basic training duty, and within three weeks I was off 
to the Pacific. 
7 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
DC: Wow, yeah. Now, OCS—and this is sort of a quirk—OCS is not, were not 
segregated, correct? 
JB: No. Officer Candidate School. And they had officers’ candidate school, 
and it’s designed to fill these voids when they drop off [15:00] sufficient—not, don’t have 
sufficient officers coming out of West Point or ROTCs, and there’s still a need for more 
officers, Officer Candidate School is the group that they turn to. 
DC: Right. And that’s, but that was an integrated— 
JB: That was integrated. When I got there—integrated to a point. 
DC: You always have to make ( ) clear. 
JB: Once we got inside the officer candidate regiment, we were just like 
everyone el—every other soldier. Our training, we lived in integrated billets, we got 
integrated everything. However, you step outside of that regiment area, you’re back to 
the South. You waited in your line to get on a certain bus, even there, going to the theater 
outside the regent area, you sat at a different location than your fellow candidates. But 
inside the training itself, completely integrated. 
DC : And were there service clubs on the base? 
JB: Yes, service clubs in the base, but we went to a black service club, and the 
white, my white counterparts went to the white service club. Same thing for the officer- 
officers’ club, and—. It was the big, the Southern way of doing business. 
DC: Okay. So then, off to the Pacific. 
JB: Off to the Pacific, joined the 93rd Infantry Division, all-black division 
except for the division commander and his key staff. One of the more interesting parts 
about that, we went overseas on a—well, first let me back up a little bit. Before leaving 
8 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
the States, I went to a place, staging area, in California. And Fm groping now for the 
name of it, but it was the place to go from, that staging area, overseas. I met a couple of— 
there were about fifteen of us officers, two of them were West Pointers, and we became 
very good friends while we were en route to the Pacific. So much so that they convinced 
me, during our transit, if I ever had a chance to go to West Point, I wouldn’t do it. 
Already had my commission, and I was not about to go through what they had to go 
through, the silencing treatment and the other things. They also taught me how to shoot 
crap. Took my money, because they taught me how to shoot crap on a blanket—if you 
know anything about shooting crap, you, that’s the last thing you want to do. And they 
took my money from that, and I reminded them of that, later, when I had a chance. Went 
off to the Pacific. The war was just over but there still were—I went to a place called 
Morotai, which is south of the Philippines, north of New Guinea. There were two 
divisions on Morotai, the 93rd Division and the Dickson Division. Why the Army ever 
put those two divisions together, I’ll never know. I tried to find out since then, no one 
has given me a satisfactory answer. But during the fighting, they did very well against 
the bad guys, the Japanese—keep it in mind, this is a war, now, going on, we’re fighting 
the Japanese—when there were no fighting going on with the Japanese, they fought each 
other. So much so that I almost pulled out of my regiment, I was in C Company, 1st 
Battalion, 369th Infantry, and sent on detail to the post marshal, and the Dickson Division 
had a lieutenant come up and we rode patrols together, to try to make sure, maintain a 
little bit of peace. 
DC : Peace between the two? 
9 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
JB: Keep in mind, I was a nineteen-year-old second lieutenant, this guy from 
Dickson was the same age I was so we were two characters, stuck out there. 
DC : Driving around in a j eep. 
JB: To drive around to keep peace. Another interesting situation. 
DC: The Dickson Division flying Confederate flags, and things like this? 
JB: Oh, yes. Their Confederate flag as well as their regimental flag. One of 
my combat activities was, I was required to take a patrol into the hills, and they knew the 
Japanese were someplace up in the hills, up in the mountains. The war was over so we 
had a Japanese translator, we went out, I had my platoon, the Japanese translator had a 
bullhorn, announcing the fact that “War is over, give up, come on, we’ll take care of 
you.” For that we got shot at, and we were told not to engage. [20:00] We had weapons 
to protect ourselves, but “Do not engage.” We got shot at, we knew where they were, 
came back, reported that to battalion commander, he in turn reported it to regimental 
commander, the regimental commander said, “Hey”—no. The division commander said, 
“They’re up there, we know where they are, we’ll just starve them out.” That took care 
of my first combat experience of being shot at. And that went on for a time, to deactivate 
the division, January of 1946. And if you had a certain number of quality points, 
promotion or overseas points, you came home. I did not have any of those things, I had 
just gotten there. So I and a few other folks were sent to the technical services, I went to 
Manila as a, to a signal unit. And I report in, company, there were six officers, the 
company commander was a captain, I was the junior lieutenant. The company 
commander was an infantry officer, the three of the officers were signal officers, and the 
rest of us were infantry. This was a heavy construction company, the kind of company 
10 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
that goes out and put up overhead wire and cable. Drilled the holes in the ground, put in 
the poles, and then string cable. I never drilled a—Fd never been in a signal unit before, 
but wasn’t very much, very difficult, I knew what I had to do. I had a platoon of thirty- 
odd soldiers, all of them were signal officers, signal soldiers. And they were happy to get 
a youngster in that could help them with many things, so they taught me how to climb 
poles, how to go up there and hang wire. We drilled a lot, I taught them how to do that. 
And I did something the other lieutenants would not do. Fd climb the pole and check it 
out. We had a chance, on one occasion, to put in poles for—we’re talking, now, Manila— 
for radio or commercial radio, televisions too. And we put in one-hundred-foot poles. 
To put in a one-hundred-foot pole, you’ve got to put about ten feet into the ground. Once 
you get a pole in the ground, now you have to go up and hang the wire. And I didn’t 
have much choice to, were I going to go up or stay down? My soldiers are up hanging 
wire, Fm going to climb the pole, too. I have never—I don’t like heights—I got up that 
pole, went to the top of it, saw what they were doing, and came back down. Now, do you 
know anything about pole climbing? 
DC: Not at all. 
JB: Pole climbing, if you do tend to fall, or slip, the last thing you want to do it 
grab. You don’t. You push yourself away from the pole, and you have gaffs on your 
feet, shoes, which forces your feet into the pole and keeps you from falling. My other 
lieutenant wouldn’t go up, and my platoon was so happy, a ( ) in the company said, 
“My lieutenant does that. Look at him.” Well, I went up once. Have not been up that 
high again on a pole, but I proved that I could do it. And that’s the way we operated. 
The company commander, as I said, was an infantry captain who I later ran across in 
11 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
other services, but my tour there ended when I was, reached the going-home point. I 
separated in 1946, came home, went to—I stayed in the Reserves although I could have 
been separated, and for some reason I just felt that I liked what I was doing, I stayed in 
the Reserves. And in order to do that, I had to become a signal officer because I was 
infantry, transferred to signal corps, doing this assignment. And went into the Reserve, 
went as a signal officer. Stayed active in the Reserves, and went through Reserve 
training. I had a chance to go to college—mind you, I had no college at this time, and so I 
enroll in Lincoln University in Oxford, Pennsylvania. Lincoln College, excuse me. And 
at the week that I was supposed to report for class, which would have been in February of 
1947, [25:00] I got a call from my old football coach at Lower Merion. “How would you 
like to go to Muhlenberg?” “Where in the hell’s Muhlenberg?” “It’s in Allentown, 
Pennsylvania.” “Why Muhlenberg?” “They’ve got an excellent pre-med program,” I 
wanted to become a doctor at that time. And I said, “Hmm. Okay, sure.” And so I went 
to Muhlenberg College, the first black American to go to Muhlenberg, I was on a football 
scholarship, I used to collect about thirty-odd dollars a month, stipend, which took care of 
my incidentals. The— 
DC : So rather than go to Lincoln, which is— 
JB: Yes. 
DC: —an HBCU, maybe the first HBCU— 
JB: Which is a black school. 
DC: —yeah. To— 
JB : I went to Muhl enb erg. 
DC: —Muhlenberg. 
12 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
JB: In Allentown. First black student. Did very well, as a matter of fact. 
However, let me back up a little bit. Muhlenberg, this is—I went there in February of 
1957. Excuse me, 1947. And the coach at Muhlenberg had just gotten there, he came 
from a prep program, prep school, and he brought a couple of his own players, and they 
were really good players. He had spring practice, and we’re out there, under the lights, 
spring practice, contact. And I injured myself, my shoulders. Parter—reason I injured 
myself, how it got, happened, my equipment was not properly fitted. The trainers who 
gave me the equipment had given me in appropriate equipment, and I suffered a shoulder 
separation. 
DC : On—they purposely gave that to you? 
JB: I won’t say on pur—just that’s what, I ended up by getting it, let’s put it 
that way. 
DC: Okay, okay. 
JB: And I couldn’t play football any more. And I decided, then, that I really 
don’t need this because I was doing quite well academically, and I found out that I could 
stay in college, I was there on the GI Bill of Rights, so I didn’t need to—money from that 
standpoint, I didn’t need the thirty dollars, thirty-one dollars for sti—for incidentals, so I 
just dropped my football scholarship and got serious about playing academics. Of 
course, I forgot to mention, between the time I got home and going to Muhlenberg, I met 
a young nurse from suburban Philadelphia, she was in nursing training, and we decided to 
get married. So in 1948, January of 1948, 29th of January, 1948, we had our wedding. 
I’ll point out that, that morning, day before that, I’d taken the final exam in analytic 
geometry, I’m on a pre-med scholarship, pre-med student, and I did not do well. As a 
13 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
matter of fact, I went into that, took that test, I read the questions, [Gasp], Re-read them, 
in my answer on the sheet, I re-wrote the question and took a guess with each question, 
and turned it in, and the professors called me in and said, “Becton, you know you didn’t 
do well.” “Yes, sir.” “I know what you--I know exactly what you’ve done. You have 
been memorizing formulas in liquid geometry.” And he’s right, I’d been memorizing, 
not understanding it. And up until that time I’d been doing quite well. He said, “Okay, 
you’ve been making A’s, but I’m going to give you a B for the course because you 
flunked the final exam.” “Yes, sir, I understand that.” The very next day I had my 
wedding. And a lot of friends say, “I know you flunked the test, you were getting 
married.” So that makes a long story short. 
We got married the 29th of January, and started off on our honeymoon, and on— 
we just had a great time. I might add that, on our honeymoon, which is a rather unique 
story, my brother who—younger than I, dropped out of school during World War II, 
joined the Navy, frustrated his parents and everyone else, but he had dro—he had run 
away from home a couple of times, so Mom was convinced that he would not do well 
staying there, and so he went to j oin the Navy. She approved of him to j oin the Navy, 
and he went off, going off to college. And he was going to college in Shaw University in 
North Carolina. To get down there, we were driving down. [30:00] And so my mother 
drove the car, and my brother, Joe, my wife, Louise, and I went down—unique story, your 
mother going on your honeymoon as—but that’s the way we operated in those days—and 
dropped him off, came back up and everything went fine from then. But that was in 
January of 1948. Stayed and did quite well in school. 
14 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
Harry Truman, later that year, issued Executive Order 9981 to integrate the 
military. I really had enjoyed being in the military, and I was in training camp at 
Aberdeen Proving Ground during the summer when the order was issued. And I came 
back home and told my wife, “Well, I have a chance to go back into active duty,” and I 
really liked what I was doing, and I couldn’t, not going to be a doctor anyhow. I wasn’t 
doing well in chemistry, which is not very good for a doctor. And so she was happy, 
excited if I went. Because she was a nurse, working, so we weren’t going to starve. 
While I was at Aberdeen Proving Ground, when the order was issued, the commander of 
the post called all the officers together. He read the executive order signed by the 
president, and after he finished—and Aberdeen, by the way, was a completely integrated 
post—read the executive order, he called the, two of the officers in and he said, “As long 
as I’m here, there’ll be no change.” By that he meant, Officers’ Club Number One, 
Officers’ Club Number Two. Swimming Pool Number One, Swimming Pool Number 
Two. NCO Club Number One, NCO Club Number Two. All the ones are white, all the 
twos are black. And during his period as the commander, after the order was issued, no 
change. So. When I went back on active duty, we were expecting our first child. I was 
now at, I was on orders to a signal unit at Fort Bliss, Texas, I—being, I was recalled as an 
infantry officer because I wanted to go to infantry, and— 
DC: Can I interrupt just for one second to ask a, are we— [Recorder is turned 
off and then back on] Okay, so. Pardon my interruption, but I just wanted to follow up. 
Having heard the president’s executive order, and I imagine having some reaction to that, 
and hope for— 
JB: Sure. 
15 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
DC : —a career— 
JB: We’re happy, black people were happy. 
DC: —possibilities opening up, and then hearing the response of the, the 
commander— 
JB: Post commander. 
DC: —the post commander. Can you walk me through the range of feelings 
that you went through? 
JB: Well, let me back up a little bit, a little bit of history. World War I, the 
black soldiers were fighting in segregated units, the commander in Europe, Pershing, did 
not want black troops, black commands. The 369th, my unit in World War II, had fought 
with the French because they preferred, they wanted us, and did well. Came back well- 
rewarded. And when the 369th got back in the States, they were not greeted as heroes, 
but they came back through New York, and jeered. In 1925—1 could be off by a year— 
there was a study done at Carlisle Barracks, the Army War College, basically saying that 
the black soldiers, while they may be good doing stevedore work, laboring, they were not 
good for thinking through a project or being able to officially control soldiers, and could 
not do certain other things, technical things. That study stayed around for a long time. 
So when World War II came along, that was the mentality of the officer corps, of 
leadership, of the War Department. No reason to change it. When Neil Davis became a 
fighter pilot, he had some major problems but—because the 93rd, the 99th Pursuit 
Squadron did very well. Were able to shoot down aircraft and not lost an aircr—not lost a 
fighter that they were escorting. Or a bomber that they were escorting. [35:00] So it 
doesn’t surprise me or anyone else that some, there were certain beliefs in the military 
16 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
leaders that—well, just a president, that we can do, this is our army and we can do what 
we want to do. May I point out today, in 2015, you have attitudes where folks are saying 
one thing and the president’s saying something else? It’s not much different. So the 
army—soldiers are, and leaders are, do what they’re told to do, and once the word came 
out and it set to mind to do a certain thing, to get on with the program. Their job is to be 
loyal. And no one contested, that I know of, this post commander. I’m not even too sure 
that the Army War Department knew about it. I’m a lieutenant, I’m not going to get up 
there and challenge it, and no one else wanted to challenge it, so. I left that post, by the 
way, when—I’m ahead of myself, now, but that’s what the attitude was. When— 
DC: And the executive order didn’t have a timeline, it just— 
JB: No, it didn’t. 
DC: —yeah. Right. 
JB: It basically said, as I recall, [Pause] the, I’m—I can look at that book I have 
over there, and tell you what it, I’ve got the order in there, but it basically said, “With all 
deliberate speed,” was the term that was used. 
DC: Right. Very similar to the Brown decision, all deliberate speed. 
JB: Yes, that’s exactly right. And so, I’m now back on active duty, went to 
Fort Bliss as a signal officer. I had applied for infantry, and I applied to become a regular 
army officer. The difference between being a regular army officer and a reserve officer 
is, I hope, is understood. It’s a, it’s the way to go if you want to be a career soldier. 
While at Fort Bliss, I was in a signal unit company. I was the junior officer, and our job 
was to go from Fort Bliss to Fort Bragg and participate in the maneuvers. To do this 
you’ve got to drive by road, and we took our signal unit, trucks and all, from Fort Bliss to 
17 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
Fort Bragg as a—see, Fm the junior officer, so Fm the guy in charge of the mess hall, 
kitchen. My job was to be with the cooks, to go out, cook, and when the soldiers join us, 
feed them, and then move to the next point while they’re coming along behind us. Cook, 
prepare a meal for them, select a bivouac area. Driving by road from El Paso to Fort 
Bragg is not easily done, particularly when you don’t have your radio communication. 
We’re a signal unit, but we don’t do a radio, just telephone. The very first place out, Van 
Horn, Texas, very unique place. They didn’t cotton to blacks at all, no matter with the 
army or not. It so happened that I had a, I’d go out, set up our bivouac area, set up the 
kitchen, do the kitch—doing the cooking, when the company came in, then I had to take a 
listing of things, what they wanted from downtown. Okay, that’s easy. I took a list of 
things they wanted. Of course, soldiers want things they don’t provide, like cigarettes, 
and candy, and you name it. I had a list. I went down to a local drug store and was—I 
gave the list to the store owner, and he was happy, see, this great big list of things he was 
going to sell. And I went to the w— 
DC : And you’re in uniform. 
JB: I was in uniform, naturally. Field uniform. I went to the fountain, soda 
fountain where they make ice cream sodas, stuff like that. I was enjoying myself. And 
my sergeant with me was collecting things that we were going to buy. All of a sudden 
the guy behind the counter stiffened up. I didn’t pay any attention to that. And next 
thing, the guy was tapping me on the shoulder. “Get away from the counter.” “Why?” 
“I said so.” I turned around, great big badge here and a great big fellow in uniform with a 
weapon. [40:00] And, “Okay.” I understood what he was saying, and I understood why 
he said it. And I said to the sergeant, “Have we paid for anything yet?” “No, sir.” 
18 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
“Okay, we’re leaving.” And we walked out. And the sheriff had gotten back to the 
bivouac area—by the way, I forgot to mention my company commander was a major, 
white. We got back to the bivouac area and the sheriff had gotten there before I got there. 
And he had telling, was telling this, the sheriff was telling this major that “This boy you 
got over here doesn’t understand what goes on down here.” And the major said, “That 
boy is a lieutenant, he’s not from here. He’s doing what I told him to do.” And he said, 
“You’d better tell him something differently while he’s here.” “Okay.” Sheriff left, I get 
back, I’m told what took place. 
The very next morning we’re heading out, continuing our route, and a sedan— 
Studebaker, as a matter of fact—had an accident. It passed us flying like a bat out of hell. 
And I—by the way, a jeep and a three-quarter ton, whole pickup truck type thing—he 
passed us like a bat out of hell, had and she’s, had an accident. Clobbered. And we get 
up there to where it was, saw what happened, took the—no emergency around, we took 
the two women out of the truck, out of their cars, put them in our pickup truck and I 
continued in my jeep, on my way. My truck took these women back to the hospital in 
Van Horn, Texas. The doctors said that the action of these soldiers saved these women. 
And when the sheriff came into the hospital to hear about the accident, started checking 
on it. Wanted to find, “Okay, how did it happen, who brought them back?” And my 
sergeant who had whipped me the night before, “That lieutenant who you chased out of 
town is the one that saved these women’s lives.” There was a message there, too. We 
went on our way from there, on time, in fact, on to Fort Bragg. 
But that was a unique experience for me, to go through that. It changed the minds 
of some people, too, to include that sheriff. That, “Hey, maybe they’re not all bad for 
19 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
these soldiers.” That went on until we went to, we got to Fort Bragg, went through the 
drill of putting up communications. It was shortly thereafter, my orders came through, 
my assignment came through to go to an infantry unit. And I was then transferred from 
the 29th Signal to the 2nd Division at Fort Lewis, Washington, on competitive tour, 
competing for regular army appointment. And we did quite well at Fort Lewis, still a 
segregated unit, the division, 9th Infantry Regiment, had three battalions. One battalion 
was black, the other two battalions were white. I was assigned to L Company, third 
battalion, 9th Infantry. We trained and were prepared to keep doing what we were doing, 
and the Korean War broke out. 
DC: Now, did the fort, again have— [Recorder is turned off and then back on] 
JB: Okay. 
DC : So, I was just asking about the facilities, right, at Fort Lewis. 
JB: Ready to go again? 
Ml : Yes, we’re going. 
JB: At Fort Lewis, 2nd Division, Infantry Division, had a complete 
complement of three regiments, and the only regiment that had blacks were 9th Infantry, 
the other two division—the other two regiments did not, and division artillery had a black 
battalion. The black battalion in the 9th Infantry, the third battalion, I would say it was all 
black except for the—battalion commander was black, too. Another story about that. 
And the battalion, artillery battalion, one of the sergeants [45:00] turned out to be a pretty 
important person, he became a member of the Congress, Charlie Rangel, that name may 
ring a bell? 
DC: Yes, yes, it does. 
20 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
JB: He was from the F Battalion, and we talked about this many times since 
that time. But. When—as I said, we trained very hard at Fort Lewis before the war broke 
out. I was, among my regular duties of infantry platoon leader, I was also in charge of 
the battalion that later became the regimental drill team. And we had a tremendously fine 
unit, went out and put on performances, not only for the soldiers, but also for the 
civilians. Did quite well, and I got quite a reputation for doing that. 
DC : And your equipment was up to date? 
JB: Equipment was up to date, everything is reg—like the rest of the unit, the 
rest of the army, but we’re still black ourselves. I asked for the battalion commander, he 
said, “Go ahead, do it.” I said, “Let’s—we’ve got some soldiers, white soldiers from the 
rest of the regiment that wanted to join our team.” Hell, I was fine, happy with that. But 
I had to go to the regimental exec. And I’ll never forget what he said. Said, “Are you the 
lieutenant op? I like the way your team, what they do. They look good, and they’re good 
for the army, and certainly good for the soldiers. But if you put white soldiers in there, 
it’ll break up the appearance in the colors.” Lieutenant colonel is saying that, I’m a 
lieutenant, not much I can say about it. “Okay, fine.” Again, we’re talking 1950. We 
trained, and right about the time when the, April of 1950, our battalion commander got 
orders to go to be reassigned. And it was—the war broke out, as you may recall, in June 
of 1950. And bef—he had just—still in the post, but not moved. And when the word came 
up that we’ve got to be, we were going to be sent overseas, alerted for war, for combat, 
we had a white battalion commander in now. And we thought that the army would do the 
right thing, bring our battalion commander back, who we had before, who had trained us, 
did a very fine job doing that, and put it back, put us with our old commander. He was 
21 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
the only lieutenant colonel that I knew of that had a PhD. He happened to be a zoology, 
biologist. And doing a—he was also a very hard-nosed person, for demanding excellence. 
And he’ll fire you in a heartbeat and cause you major problems. But we were pleased 
with that because we knew that he was on our side. The person they brought back in to 
command was the commander that we had before he got there, he was still doing 
something else. And our, a lot of us thought that, “Hey, bring back our commander 
because he had done so well.” It didn’t work that way. Now, June of—we’re deployed, 
of 1950, the 9th Infantry were the first unit to leave the States to go to Korea. 
DC : Did you know where you were going? 
JB: We knew it was a Korea, there was a war going on. 
DC : Did you know any, but did you know anything about Korea? 
JB: No, no. I didn’t know where Korea was. Hey, I’m a, I’m now nineteen, I 
guess I was twenty by that time. But I quickly found out where it was and what they 
were doing. I knew what we had to when we got there. Be prepared to fight. And we 
were on warships, heading off to the combat zone, landed at Pusan, Korea. My unit was 
the L Company, we were the first to land. Went into a bivouac area while the rest of the 
battalion and regiment came on. Interesting enough, while we’re sitting there we got 
word that we were going to be removed from the regiment on a separate mission. This is 
in 1950, and no one asked the question why because it came from higher headquarters, 
MacArthur’s headquarters, saying, “We want a battalion to go up to P’ohang to protect an 
airfield.” [50:00] “Okay.” So, as we were getting our gear ready, I got called to 
regimental headquarters. “Lieutenant Becton, we want you to take a patrol with 
communication gear to set up a command, a command post, CP, communication, rather, 
22 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
so that when we close down, when your battalion goes into it, that we’re ready to go.” 
And so I got my sufficient number of men, small platoon, and took communication gear, 
a couple of three pickup, three two-and-a-half-ton trucks with communication gear on the 
back of them. And we drove from our airfield to the site where we were sent to protect 
the airfield. And we got there, I asked a question, by the way: “Any activity in the area?” 
“Nope, no one, no bad guys there.” And we got up to P’ohang-dong, set up a communi— 
our gear, and as the nec—that morning, we’re waiting for the battalion to join us and we 
got a report in that the battalion got ambushed. And lost some people, and they finally 
joined the area which we were in, the same area that we had driven through, and that the 
guys had, bad guys knew who we were. They could have done serious damage but let us 
go through, thinking is they could take care of bigger things later. When they then came 
up, they got ambushed. And we survived that. My first close call. 
We stayed there, had a couple patrols protecting the airfield. And then the orders 
came in for the battalion to move back and join the regiment. It is now September. We 
are breaking out of, the emphasis was now to break out of the Pusan Perimeter, which has 
some notoriety, that the forces were driven back into that. And we re-joined the regiment 
and prepared to go to serious combat. We’ve had some combat up until that time. L 
Company was to be lead battalion, lead company in the battalion if we attacked the area, 
after we joined the regiment. My platoon got selected to be the lead platoon in the 
company. And as we were moving out, with all of our armor and everything else, ran 
into a ( ) attacking a hill called 201. This hill was well protected, we got halfway 
up the hill and we got, ran into tremendous enemy fire and had to protect ourselves and 
seek cover. And while we’re there, the adjacent battalion, second battalion, engaged 
23 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
because no one had told them that US forces were going to be out there. One of those 
crazy things. So the bad guys are firing at us, our second battalion is firing at us, and we 
had nothing to do but hunker down until we could, night came. And we returned the fire 
on the bad guys, and prayed that we were able to do some damage on the bad guys, but 
we got hurt. When darkness came, we withdrew back into the battalion area. I had lost 
some people, but we brought them with us. But that breakthrough was sufficient enough 
for our battalion to move out. The—I might add that while we’re in this [also?] battle, we 
had support by our air force, and they mistook us for enemy. So they also attacked us, 
too. Fighter aircraft. And no matter what we did, they kept going to some—my 
messenger, my, as, Fm a lieutenant now, [55:00] he grabbed panel, marking panels, got 
out in front and waved them up and down at the air force, they’re coming back at us. 
They understood that, “Wrong hill, get the next hill.” The guy got back that, we gave 
him an award, by the way, for that. And he probably saved our lives. 
The interesting part about that, I had told my men that, once we get in combat, 
we’re going to stick together as a team. Don’t start running to the rear. If you do, I’ll kill 
you. And, you know, tongue in cheek, they thought. And when the plane came back, 
some of my soldiers start to get up and shoot—I mean, run, move back to the rear. And I 
took a carbine, a small rifle, and unloaded the magazine in front of them. And they 
looked at me, and looked at the planes. And they knew that I was closer to them than the 
planes. They got back on the ground. In the meantime, the soldiers, the fighter pilots 
also recognized that we’re good guys, and so they went elsewhere. My soldiers got back 
on the ground, and we—when we got back into camp, recovered, we had a little 
discussion. “Lieutenant, would you have shot us?” “You’re here, aren’t you?” “Well, 
24 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
yeah.” “You didn’t keep running, did you?” “No.” “Well, you make up your own 
mind.” 
It was also, during that period, that I had gotten wounded. And that was my first 
trip to the hospital. I went back to Japan, as a matter of fact, ended up in Sendai, Japan 
for my recovery. And I’m pointing that out because I came back on ac—came back to 
join the unit as soon as I could because General MacArthur said we were going to be 
home for Christmas, and I wanted to be back h—victory, wanted to be home for 
Christmas. It didn’t work out that way. I re-joined the regiment from the hospital. And 
by that time, the regiment had done, the division had done quite well. We had moved 
north, into North Korea. And I was in the battalion, third battalion, 9th Infantry, and one 
of the lead regiments in the attack going up north. And, once again, my company was 
selected to lead the battalion, and it was cold, then. Remember, we left the States in the 
summertime, we didn’t have winter gear, and we’re now up, north of the 38th parallel into 
North Korea, not too many miles from the northern border. Again, we had our battles to 
do. 
DC: And it’s mountainous, and it’s cold. 
JB: That’s right. And no winter gear. But we were able to take care of 
ourselves. We were now in November, it’s cold, digging in to fight, to continue to fight 
going north. It was Thanksgiving time. And I remember that because they had turkey 
dinner. However, by the time the meal got to where we were, the turkey was a little bit 
cold, like, frozen. And we found we can take care of that, our kitchen did the best they 
could, and we had dug in, had our fires out, and trying to stay warm, and the Chinese 
entered the war. The date, you can check that, find what—because it was pretty specific 
25 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
when they came in. We contained the battle against the Chinese and the North Koreans. 
I was, again, my platoon was picked to lead the company in the attack, and we were told 
to reconnoiter a ground, high ground in front of us. 
DC : Did you ever wonder why you kept getting chosen to lead? 
JB: Say again, please? 
DC : Did you ever wonder why your unit kept being, getting chosen to go out in 
front? 
JB : We were pretty good. 
DC: Yeah? 
JB: Hey, remember, I said I was on compet—the tour, I was competing for 
regimental appointments, so the battalion commander, even the new battalion 
commander, said, “Okay, Becton’s can make it happen.” [1:00:00] Where the other guy 
could do the same thing, but no. And my company commander, who was a pretty good 
friend of my dad, he had other lieutenants he could pick on, but they had, two of them 
had been in combat in World War II, and Fm now a twenty-year-old, and eager, and 
everything else. I had a good unit, we had trained well, my soldiers trusted me and I 
trusted them. And I, hell, I was prepared to do it. 
DC: You were ready? Yeah, yeah. 
JB: The next time, we were making an attack up a hill, and as I was—before I 
left, my battalion commander had been approached by the adjacent battalion commander 
from the 25th Regiment, which happened to be a black until, too. The 25th Division. And 
the battalion commander and my battalion commander were collaborating, talking about 
many things, I guess. Fm heading up the hill, running the contact. And I was told to not 
26 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
engage because you, you’re out there by yourself with your patrol, return to the battalion. 
I came off the hill, and report to the battalion commander, and the other battalion 
commander, “Huh, there’s nothing up there, I know better than that.” And my colonel 
looked at me and looked back at him. And I got orders, “Okay, get back up there.” And 
I start back up the hill again, with my unit. This time picked up a wound. One of those 
million-dollar, yeah. A thousand-dollar wound. The bullet, it went, bullet went through, 
between my tendon in my left ankle, and the bone, it did not touch the tendon, nor did it 
touch the bone. Now, how much space is down there? Not much. Bullet went through 
there, nothing, no damage done to either. I came back down, that battalion commander is 
still there, “Are you satisfied, now, Colonel?” And he, “Grr,” so I got evacuated from the 
battalion. 
That’s when history will tell you that the army had its first defeat. When the 
Chinese and the North Koreans attacked US forces and chased them out of North Korea. 
I got evacuated by air. The battalion and regiment suffered severe damage. The final toll 
were, I think, as I recall, out of our battalion, five officers survived. The others were 
captured or killed. I fall in the category of one of the five who survived because I had 
been evacuated, and am now back in Japan. The US forces were pulled, pushed back 
south of the 38th parallel and regrouped. I am now back in Japan, back to the same 
hospital I’d been in before, which I rushed out of. Went to the same ward, as a matter of 
fact, and they’re s—“You? Back here, again?” “Yes, I’m back here again. And this time 
I’m not going to rush home.” They understood, I got very good treatment and care, and 
during that period, the army regrouped, recovered, prepared to take care of business. I 
was told to “Rebuild your strength by going out and learning how to ski.” Sendai is 
27 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
known for its slopes and stuff like that, and so, fine, Fd go out and try it. I never skied 
before, you understand. Went out to the training area where they teach skiing, and they 
gave me skis, flat board, two straps. One across the instep, one across the heel. No 
boots, nothing else. And I did like you might expect. You ski, by the way? 
DC: Yes. 
JB: So you understand what kind of trouble I had. I did not do very well at all. 
But I managed to get back off the hill, and went back to the hospital area. But that taught 
me a lesson about trying to how, trying to ski with that kind of equipment. I eventually 
come back to the unit, now it is March. Back to the regiment, and the, back in the base 
camp, before I moved up the regiment, they had a new executive officer in the regiment. 
Lieutenant Colonel [Oriento Barsani?]. And you’ll see why I remember that name in a 
few minutes. And when I get back to the regimental rear, and I meet the battalion, 
[1:05:00] the exec, and he introduced me to this regimental exec, and the battalion exec 
said, “We’re going to put Becton in to back the battalion because he’ll put them into the 
[history?] operation, he’s been in combat, he understands, he can help us there. Barzani 
took one look at me. “Lieutenant, how do you feel?” “I feel pretty good, sir.” “Oh, 
we’re going to put him in the Company.” Why? Because the company he picked for me 
was L Company, sound familiar? The company I was in before. They had lost all their 
officers and a few of their NCOs, they needed some leadership up there. Battalion 
adjutant said, “But, sir, he just got—” “He’s going to go to the company.” “Yes, sir.” So 
I ended up, now, going back to L Comp—K Company—L Company, excuse me, and he’s 
correct, we had all the officers had been gone, I guess lost, some of the NCO, I had a 
couple key NCOs that knew me and I knew them. So I’m now the company commander, 
28 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
and we organized what we had, got in some new lieutenants, second lieutenants, and all 
the forces in the ( ). 
DC: Still all-black, or white replacements at this point? 
JB: By that time, we are integrated. I failed to mention one point. Let me go 
back a little bit. Back in August, before I got 201, when I got my first wound, the 
regimental commander, a Colonel C.C. Sloane, had been told by the adjutant, “We’ve got 
incoming replacements,” qualified by MOS, Military Occupational —Military Specialties, 
but not by race.” And Sloane said, “Put them where they’re needed. Put them where 
they’re needed.” That took care of the integration within the 9th Infantry. We went to the 
battalions, spread them out, and when I got my first integrated soldier, he was an 
American, Mexican American from Texas, and when he came in I told my platoon 
sergeant, “Don’t let anything happen to that guy, he’s our first one non-black, we’re not 
going to hurt him at all.” And he said, “Yes, sir. We’ll take care of that.” And with that, 
we became integrated. And so, now, the division’s integrated, and by the time we’re in 
the fighting, we’re, we had black company commanders and white battalions and so 
forth. So we were doing quite well. When I got back to the— 
DC: So it was military necessity that really changed— 
JB: Say again? 
DC : It was military necessity, it was the need for bodies? 
JB: Yeah there was no question about it. It was, it was, had nothing to do with 
the executive order. The fact that we were, we were combat, where people are qualified 
and the commanders recognized their soldiers, put them where they’re needed. Military 
necessity. And that’s the way we operated. By the time I got back to the regiment, it 
29 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
would have been about, I guess, April. I’ve got to check my book for, to find out, but 
that’s about what time it was. And we were in a base area, the division was still engaged, 
I am now a company commander, lieutenant, first lieutenant, and we got a white officer 
captain assigned to us to be the company commander. And he had not been in combat 
before, the company was completely integrated by this time, and we had long 
discussions, the captain and myself, and he said, “Okay. I want you to keep doing what 
you’ve been doing, to be in charge, I’ll take care of the base area and support you.” And 
that’s how I finished the war in Korea. With that arrangement. I should point out that, by 
that time, I had received two Purple Hearts, I received a Silver Star for the operations 
back in the breaking out of the Pusan Perimeter, attacking Hill 201, where I got my first 
wound, and it’s now into May, things are going, we’re moving gradually ahead, but by 
that time they started rotating people home. And I was able to rotate home, leaving the 
regiment, [1:10:00] came back to the States, went off to, I was assigned to Camp 
Edwards, in Massachusetts. 
The army’s completely integrated now, up to a point. Up at Camp Edwards, there 
was one black company. And their job was post police and kitchen work, kitchen, 
cooking for the soldiers, small base. And our job was to police the post, police, picking 
up trash and cooking for these white soldiers and other white units. Oh, that unit was all 
black, I might add. And I did not cotton to that very much, because I had been in combat, 
I had done a pretty good job, I thought, now I’m back in this kind of situation. And so I 
start complaining. I called my branch by telephone, saying, “Look. I know what you 
got, got me out here, I’m still on competitive tour, I understand that too, and—but don’t 
you think I deserve something better than this?” Within an hour I got a call back. 
30 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
“You’re being transferred to Indiantown Gap, Indiantown Gap Military Reservation,” 
which is a basic training for soldiers. And I went from Camp Edwards to Indiantown 
Gap, as a company commander, basic training. It was there that I got, I’d been promoted 
to captain, it was there that I got integrated into the regular army. Orders come in, and 
I’m in tall cotton, happy about that, training my unit, we’re doing a great job turning out 
basic trainees. And it was then that—can I take a break, now? 
DC: Yeah. Sure. [Recorder is turned off and then back on] 
JB: All right. I was also, after initially training soldiers, I was also selected to 
go to signal officer communication course infantry, learn how to become a combo 
communication officer in an infantry unit. Why was I selected for that? Because I had 
been a signal officer, and they said, “Okay, he can do that.” Big difference between pole¬ 
climbing and stringing wire and being a guy in charge of communication on the ground. 
But I went off to school. I come back to Indiantown Gap, after the period of school 
training which was about maybe nine weeks, and it was then—my family stayed, by the 
way, when I was at Indiantown Gap, they stayed in Philadelphia, and I was going back 
and forth. Got orders to Germany. So this, “Okay. We can do that.” Packed up the 
bags. We now have two daughters. I’m not sure—did I mention the fact that when my 
first daughter was born, that I was going back on active duty? If I didn’t mention that, I 
was heading to Fort Bliss, and my wife was expecting, momentarily. They put my orders 
in delay, permitted me to stay in the Philadelphia area while she delivered. By that time 
I, they sent me to Fort Monmouth, which is not too far away. I was sent to a signal unit 
there, while we waited. 
31 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
Our first daughter was born, Shirley, and then I went to Fort Bliss, and the family 
never came down there because it was just ri—it wasn’t right for the family to move and 
stuff like that. The second daughter was born when we were heading off to Korea. She 
was born on, in July, in Sep— we took off from Fort Lewis in July, she was bom in 
September. And still told my rich relations, when I left the post at Fort Lewis, we had to 
stay, my family had to stay at a guest house. And I had made arrangements for them to 
stay there and by the time that we had, I was heading overseas, and my wife had a 
problem with the manager at the guest house, [1:15:00] one of those things which you 
sort of deal with. While army, military portion, was segreg— integrated, some of the post 
facilities weren’t, still had the mentality of our civilians. And my mother had flown in 
from Philadelphia to drive my family back to Philadelphia. My mother is a very 
interesting, was a very interesting person, she’d go any place, fly, drive, whatever. And 
so she drove the car, with my wife, our first child, my company commander and his wife, 
who was also pregnant. Which may speak to why my company commanders kept 
picking me to—he could trust me—and our dog. And they drove back from Fort Lewis to 
Philadelphia, had no problems en route, they got tremendous treatment, went to 
Columbus, Ohio, where my company commander’s wife was going, and their child, and 
they continued on to Phila—excuse me—Philadelphia. Our mother got her first trip 
speeding ticket on the Pennsylvania Turnpike, and they explained it to, who they were, et 
cetera, the trooper was very polite, said, “Okay, go on, but take it easy.” But my mother 
wanted, she liked to drive. Heavy foot, and I got to the point that I had to, since I was the 
one in charge, now, and she was living in our house, “Mom, the next speeding ticket you 
get, that’s going to be it because I control the insurance and we can’t go through that, 
32 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
you’ll kill yourself.” “Grr.” But she, “Okay.” Now, I’m heading off to--I had to put that 
in because she was part of the program. I go off to Germany— 
DC: I was probably more scared during that conversation than during some of 
your combat material. [Laughter] 
JB: Oh, yes. We’d gone off to Germany and joined the second army division 
in West Germany. Mainz, Gonsenheim is our location, where my co—my unit was 
located, and I was in Combat Command B, CCB. I’m now a captain, communication- 
trained, and I became the communication officer for the battalion. 42nd Army Infantry 
Battalion, and I did a pretty good job. Learned how to do things with the 
communications, I became a MARS, Military Amateur Radio, and I set up the MARS 
station for the regiment, and we named the station after CCB, the regiment, and the 
commander, I’m convinced, “I’ll be happier because—.” His regiment had a MARS 
station, no one else had one. And so I became a tall cotton, I got things not many other 
people could have gotten. And container training, at this time in Mainz, Germany, I now 
had been over there long enough to come home. And during this training, I, after having 
my communications training, I became the company commander, which made it my third 
company, company in combat, even though it was terminated, a short time, but still did 
the work. Company at Indiantown Gap, training company, and now I’ve got another 
infantry company, armored infantry, and we trained pretty hard. Had personnel carriers 
and some movement, armored plates and so forth. I returned to the States. It is now 
1957. I had gone to, by the way, at Fort, back to Fort Benning for advanced course 
training before going to Germany, and I failed to mention that we had our third child 
there, at Fort Benning. [1:20:00] 
33 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
DC: Now, are you seeing racial change in the army post-war? 
JB: The army? Yes. It’s going through many changes, and by this time, at 
Banning, my n— at that time, I was completely integrated, in an integrated unit, and by 
the time I got to Germany, totally integrated. Integrated but, yet, absolutely at a certain 
qualified, certain people. So our, the signal officer, the senior block officer in the 
division was a black lieutenant colonel assigned to our technical service trainings, as we 
call them, and when it got time for a battalion commander to change, we were 
encouraging him to become the new battalion commander. I knew enough people at the 
division because I had, as a signal officer, I used to—as a communicator, I used to deal 
with folks at the division, and when I was in operations, I dealt with the people there. 
And I tried to encourage this lieutenant colonel to come down and join us because we had 
a fine battalion, and he was qualified, and the interesting part about that, his name was 
Johnson but his wife was, you may have heard of a baseball player, Campanella. His 
wife was from that family, and with that name, he could have gotten anything he wanted 
to, but he decided, no, he would just stay where he is because the company we had ( 
) but the exec officer of a unit—not a combat unit—and so that, he stayed up there and so 
we did our thing. 
It’s now time for me to come back to the States. I was assigned ROTC duty. And 
mind you, I did not have a degree. And I was assigned to a place called Prairie View. I 
went there as a captain, assigned to the military science department, the only captain in 
the unit, a lieutenant colonel, three majors, and me, captain, the junior officer. Couple of 
challenges. When I went to that job, I was sent there by a very good friend who is now at 
the Department of the Army, he said, “You go down to Prairie View and get your, go to 
34 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
school, take classes, get your degree.” “Roger that.” So I get, we get to Prairie View, 
and—oh, by the way, while—well, from a racial standpoint while driving down there, we 
were told by some friends from Germany, “Now, when you go down there, you stop by 
white friends. When you go through Mississippi, stop by this place, my parents are there, 
see them, and they’ll take care of you, drive you through. Now, make sure you don’t talk 
to two people. One is the mother—just talk to my father, just don’t talk to my mother— 
and he’ll understand, don’t talk to her, she won’t understand,” because I’m still black and 
they still haven’t gotten to that point. We dro— and my, I might add also, going there, 
that while we’re in Germany—I keep forgetting these things, now—while in Germany, my 
mother and mother-in-law joined us. They came over to visit with us, to see Europe, a 
trip over there, and we convinced my wife’s mother to stay with us. My father finally got 
tired, he said, “When are you coming home, Rose Becton?” And she got the message, so 
she got on a boat and came back. And she had a good time, Mom had a good time, 
staying with us. And that made the family comfortable because my mother-in-law went 
with us, she took care of things, and she stayed with us until she died. And I might also 
add that, while she was with us, whenever there was a disagreement in my family, my 
wife and myself, Mom was on my side, which irritated Louise to no end. That’s no story. 
By that time, we get to Texas, Prairie View, with three daughters. The third one 
was born while at Fort Benning, and she’s from, her background, birth certificate reads, 
Georgia, and [1:25:00] it was also in Columbus, Georgia that my wife learned how to 
drive and get her driver’s license. And the policeman who checked her out for driving, 
he got into the car and Louise got on the driver’s side, and he said, “Okay,” told her to do 
certain things, and she drove probably less than a block, turned around because the police 
35 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
officer told her, parked the car, and got out, “You pass.” And I later found out that the 
officer was so impressed by the way that she controlled herself, the way she got into the 
car, the way she adjusted everything and how she made the U-turn and parked the car, 
that’s enough for him. That was her driver’s license. Okay. We’re now at Fort—down at 
Prairie View. We got a house, rented from an old math professor who had a little second 
house. My professor of military science, my boss, was a lieutenant colonel. I said we got 
three majors and myself, and I had, my struc— my group was the, teaching the juniors— 
Military Science Three was the specification. There are no white students, a few white 
faculty, and I was the only combat-experienced officer in this group, of the late war, we 
had some World War II. And when I announced to the professor of military science that 
I’m going to take courses, and he blew up. “There’s no way in the world you can take a 
course and work for me.” “Sir, I was sent down here—” “You’re assigned here, right?” 
“Yes, sir.” “You can’t take courses. The work is too demanding.” And I should also 
point out, in addition to being an instructor, I was also his adjutant, which meant that my 
desk was right outside the office where his was located. The next day, after we had this 
little blow-up, I report in about 7:30, the colonel comes in about thirty minutes later, 
closes his door, which is not, which is usual, and a few minutes later I get a call, “Becton, 
get in here.” “Yes, sir.” I go in his office, reported, “All right, you can take the courses. 
But let me tell you one thing. If there’s any indication whatsoever it’s interfering with 
your being an instructor, you’re in trouble.” “Yes, sir, I understand that.” “No questions 
about it.” “No, sir.” I came back outside, and my couple of sergeants, they knew what 
was going on, they smiled. And two of the three majors were roaming back and forth, 
they got word that I could take courses now, and the third major was the exec, and he had 
36 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
his own office. And Fm pointing all these things out to present the climate because I am 
now a regular army captain, the only regular army officer in the group, the only non¬ 
college graduate, the only one who had been in combat recently, and now I got my way 
by going and taking courses. So Fm sort of a target for a lot of people to shoot at. But I 
was pretty good at what I did. I was a good instructor, and I did well academically, and I 
should point out that I developed a relationship with the students that, even to this day, 
we’re still very close to each other. 
I am now approaching graduation, been there for two years. The last year Fm 
there, the army pays for my going to school, they had a final semester plan. When you 
get within your final semester of graduation, the army foots the bill for books and 
everything. So that took care, no worries from that standpoint, I was able to do my job, 
being an instructor, able to get what the, do my classes quite well, I was able to influence 
the professor of military science—a new one came in by that time [1:30:00]—and he 
understood what I was doing, he was a very fine, he was then a colonel, that came in to 
become the professor of military science, and he was able to influence the person coming 
in to be the commencement speaker, who I had met back when I was in Washington. 
And we’re now 1960, time for commencement, received my degree, the commencement 
speaker made some reference to Captain Becton, such a good man, great reputation, just 
did not hurt anyone’s reputation, the school’s, my fellow students smiled, and the 
professors smiled and stuff like that. And when I crossed the states to get my diploma 
degree, the person reading off the graduate, list of graduates, stopped the movement, 
“Wait a minute. Captain Becton is the five thousandth graduate of Prairie View A&M 
University.” Now, the chance of my being the five thousandth graduate is like a still ball 
37 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
[on a hill?]. I don’t believe it, but the five thousandth graduate took place during that 
period, and it’s convenient for the army and for the university to use that opportunity. I 
walked off the five thousandth graduate, smiling, and got my degree, we’re in tall cotton. 
Okay. I now have a diploma, went back into the army, and went off to the command 
general staff college, a school for spec— particularly selected young captains and majors 
and lieutenant colonels, but particularly young captains. I’m now a regular army officer 
in the school, at Command and General Staff College at Fort Leavenworth, and peers’ 
support, could not ask for more because I met people in Germany, at Indiantown Gap and 
elsewhere, my student company commander at the Fort Benning, who was a lieutenant 
colonel, he maintained a relationship with me, he later became a division commander, 
which is rather important, I’m now at Fort Leavenworth, tough academic work, working 
very hard to get through. While there, I had become a major. The army is still not that 
overrun by black officers, but in my class at Leavenworth, we had sixteen black officers 
out of six hundred. And we sort of kept together as a group except for one, he was 
lieutenant colonel and he felt that it was above him, didn’t need to associate with us 
majors, junior to him. So, to make a long story short, we got through, he failed 
academically, the rest of us made it because we studied for exams, and he refused to join 
us for studying. And we got through. 
DC: You worked together, right? 
JB: Worked together. From Leavenworth, it is now in the 1962,1 graduated in 
1961. Kennedy had become the president, after the little fracas down in Mexico, Cuban— 
whatever you want to call it, and they start their little messing around in Germany, and 
before we left Leavenworth, we had orders to France. Of that group that went to France, 
38 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
six of us went to the Communications Zone in France, A1 decleaf? [I’ll declare?], which 
is, for a combat armed officer, is not all that good, we thought. And we start, [1:35:00] 
“Why us? Why aren’t we going to Germany to become, you know, where the real army 
is, not technicians and logisticians and stuff like that?” I finally got the message, 
someone else got it, that the commander in the Communications Zone, France, had 
complained about not getting his fair share of talent. And of the six of us going into 
France, two of us were black, one was this lieutenant colonel who failed at Leavenworth, 
and I end up in the same unit that he was, which is a very interesting story, another story. 
He finally decided to talk, and I got a pretty good job, he went to logistics G4, and I was 
in operations G3, became eventually a chief of plans and operations in France. My job 
was to prepare for an evacuation of US forces’ families from Germany after passing 
through ( ) if the Russians had crossed the border, or East Germans had crossed the 
border, we’d get them out, back to the States. And I got pretty good at doing that, too, I 
might add. In the meantime, this lieutenant colonel who had failed Leavenworth, he sort 
of got in more troubles in his job, and I just ignored him. His wife was livid because we 
were doing so well, in fact, doing so well with—. And we had our for—and we had, I 
should point out, at Leaven— at Prairie View, our fourth daughter was born. And I might 
add—I keep forgetting to say, my wife, during that period, she worked to get her degree 
and became a staff nurse in the college of nursing, and was doing such a great job so that, 
when the dean left, my wife was asked to be the acting dean for the period while the dean 
was back getting her doctoral studies complete. So you got this young RN, BS, who had 
done so well that the president of the college says, “Okay, you be the acting dean.” That 
did not make the other nurses very comfortable, who had been there for some time, but 
39 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
they respected her. And Fm making a point of this because that’s when my fourth 
daughter was born, my wife took time to do that, and she had developed a relationship 
with a doctor so that he suggested she go to Hempstead, which is a nearby town, rather 
than having the birth at the university. So she delivered there, the very first male to see 
her was the professor of military science, the new colonel who came in. And he be—as I 
said, he was a great guy, he was there when my wife was born—I was on the campus, 
working it off in class. He later became her godfather. I might add that this daughter 
went on to become a colonel, air force, and she’s now colonel of air force, retired, so 
time, that goes on. Okay. 
DC: Let me ask you one question, or a couple of questions. 
JB: Sure. 
DC: During this period, were you keeping track of, of—I mean, you’re in the, 
you’re in a military world in some ways, but there’s the wider world as well, and there’s 
a lot of change going on— 
JB: There are. 
DC: —so, especially in terms of race issues, and with the Montgomery bus 
boycott in 1955— 
JB: All of those things came up and we were, I’d say, keenly aware of it. And 
many of I and my peers, black, we decided, “We’re demonstrating how good we can be, 
doing our job in the army. We don’t have to get out there and parade with a placard, or 
join any sit-ins and stuff like that, because we think we’re doing a better job helping race 
relations by proving that we can make it.” And that’s, was our relationship with the 
public, and with peers who are no longer in the military, and they understood. And I— 
40 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
when I later became a president of a college—a univ— president of Prairie View A&M 
University, and that question came up. “Well, what were you doing during the war?” “I 
was fighting to protect you, that’s what I was doing.” And they understood that, too. 
And it helped. We saw, we had friends who, not military, who were involved, fraternities 
got involved, my wife was in a sorority—an academic sorority, I might add—her group did 
things for the sit-ins and for other people, [1:40:00] but did they get involved in those 
kinds of things? No. Where it came home to haunt us, I might add, was when my 
daughter, Karen, who was the second daughter born and she went off to South Dakota. 
Don’t ask me how she got to South Dakota, I still don’t know, but she had heard that 
good schools, and a couple of her friends suggested she go there, so she went there. And 
this took place when I was in Korea, and I, when [Pause] I heard that she was, gotten 
very good student, and her participation was writing letters for the local newspapers, 
campus newspapers, anti-war articles. And when I heard that, I, of course, you know, I 
blew up, reminded her where she’s from, what she did. I never want to see an article 
written by you about anti-military. And she stopped writing. Naturally, she stopped 
writing because we were paying the bill for her going to school. That was one thing. We 
had, there were marches. We did not participate, we understood what they’re doing and 
we maintained, by doing our job in the military to the best of our ability, helped the 
overall opportunity, what they’re trying to do. I still believe that today. 
DC: Was there some pr— was there some pride in the fact that the military had 
pioneered in integration? 
JB: Yes. 
DC : Even though it was bumpy, of course- 
41 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
JB: Yes. 
DC: --but, but it did-- 
JB: It was realized, by a lot of people, certainly us in the military, but to the 
public, too, that the integration of the military, and what black majors, black students, 
academicians were doing on the college campus and in the military itself, were making 
things happen, good things happen, because it went from the Tuskegee Airmen proving 
that they could do that, what they’re doing, we had senior officers who were able to get 
things done, and it wasn’t too long thereafter because I became a major general. I mean a 
brigadier general. Colonel first, then a brigadier general, and I had command in, my first 
command was at Fort Hood, as a brigade commander, colonel, in the same unit that I was 
a communications officer for back in Germany. Excuse me. The same relationships I 
had made in Germany, I was still continuing. And, again, how the military was back at 
Leavenworth, and when I left Leavenworth in France because—in the military, we fooled 
around. We ( ) each other and things, we get to know each other. It’s a great 
relationship. And as I said, in France I was able to help to develop a relationship. I did 
my job very well, the lieutenant colonel, then colonel, of the unit I was in in France, 
became a colonel and later a brigadier general, and we still maintained relationships even 
though I was, by that time, a major lieutenant colonel, he’s just a good guy. He was able 
to help me to get some of the things done later. He spoke up for me on certain occasions. 
And it helped. And my peers, black peers, were able to get the same thing. We worked 
hard. We knew what we had to do, we had our jobs to prepare for, and we advanced in 
the ranks and were respected for what we did, we got to certain schools because of what 
we had done. Not because we were black, but because we were good at what we did. 
42 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
And, to this day, I have a relationship with people that call, I just had, Fm going to 
return, this is from a colonel who has retired from the army, is now a civilian in the 
Department of the Army—they call them SESers, [1:45:00] these days—a senior person 
working in personnel, he’s going to tell me something, what’s taking place in the army 
today. He understands what I’ve been doing, what I have done, and going to head a little 
bit high, I’ve been asked to do certain things by the Congress. Several years ago, the 
Congress set up a commission for diversity in the military. Military leadership diversity. 
The chairman of that commission was a general, four star, Les Lyles. I was the vice 
chairman, lieutenant general, and we prepared this study for the army, for the military, to 
deal with diversity. Now, is that race relations? Not really. It’s diversity. Because 
there’s a big difference, and some of our people, military and civilians, were unable to 
understand that difference. Affirmative action has certain gate posts. It’s so many perf— 
it had a formula. How many folk can you have, or what should they be doing? Diversity 
is not so much how many blacks you have, but is, what are you doing for the total 
population, to demonstrate that we’re all qualified? And diversity is a function of 
learning from each other, and a lot of folk never got that message, even to this day. And 
so I’ve had a chance to work at those levels. 
DC: What do you think of these—I mean, we’ve seen some tremendous 
changes, recently, with the combat positions for women being totally opened, and— 
JB: Fm smiling because it was our commission, military leadership diversity 
commission, that made, that came down very hard. Get rid of the restrictions for women. 
If they’re qualified, put them in the job. And we sold it. It went so far as to what just 
happened, with the Secretary of Defense, but up—we had, when women went to ranger 
43 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
school, I could not have been happier. Some folks, even in this building, were livid about 
it because we’ve got some very senior officers here who think they know what’s going 
on, and they blew up, and I blew up, too. In this very room, we had a meeting, one day, 
Rotary had a meeting, and I’m not a Rotarían, but I announced the fact that, of the 
bringing in military, the milit—not only in the military, in the army, but putting them in 
where they’re qualified. And women had just been integrated into the ranger school, and 
I could not have been happier. And I was sitting in the next room for dinner with the 
Rotarians, I got a telephone call from my son, who I forgot to mention when he was born, 
but he was a captain in the Old Guard, in Washington, as a company commander, Honor 
Guard company commander, and he resigned his commission because he was never 
convinced that what he got, it was on his own. His name is Julius Wesley Becton, III. 
And every time he went anyplace, “Becton, I know your father! How is he doing?” And 
he—you can take that only so much. And he finally got fed up with it. 
DC : He wanted to make his own? 
JB: He wanted to make his own. Let me break for one story, he, as a company 
commander, captain at the Pentagon, was— 
Ml : Want me to turn this off? 
JB: No. At the Pentagon parade—preparing the ground for a parade for the 
Honor Guard, Old Guard, that was for the military, he was out there preparing the 
grounds, putting in flags, markers, and two senior officers come out. One, a fellow 
named Gordon Sullivan, Chief of Staff of the Army, and a fellow named Colin Powell, 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. And they see Wes, he comes up to him. “Wes, 
how are you doing?” “Fine, sir.” “How’s your father?” “Fine, sir.” “What’s your 
44 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
mother doing?” “Sir, she’s—” they kept on with this crap. [Laughter] He finally said, 
“Sir, I’ve got to go to work.” “Okay.” Take up all of his time. His colonel is literally 
looking, glaring at him, but he’s stuck with these four-stars. That’s the kind of 
relationship that we’ve had over the years, and we’ve still got that relationship to this 
day. But okay. Where am I now? [Pause] 
DC: Oh I had been at, we had been talking about the change in the diversity 
commission, and the— 
JB: Yeah. But before I got into that— 
DC: —ranger school, and the women in the rangers. 
JB: Yeah, well, that—. But that had worked very well. I think the proof of it, 
those two women got through ranger school. And the interesting [1:50:00] part about 
that, one of our senior—one of our, not senior. There are one, two, three, four lieutenant 
generals in this place. One is senior to me—older than I am, by a couple years—he was 
sitting at this dinner table when I, sitting there, and my son calls me, he said—he’s a 
ranger, too, I might add, my son—”Hey, they just got through.” And I walked back in, 
just smiling, and said, “I just got the best news you could think of. My son called me and 
said, ‘Those two rangers, female, just got through.’” And there are maybe fifteen of us, 
twenty, except for this colonel. “Ha. Enough, a bunch of lesbians.” And I blew up. I’m 
at one of the table, he’s at the other end. “How in the hell can you say that? They’re 
qualified, they’ve proved it.” And these civilians sitting right—civilians, they’re these 
non-army types, they’re listening to this, and right now we’re at the point, we may speak 
to each other, but I made a point to prove, I got a piece of paper that said, not only were 
they qualified, they’ve proven that they met the standards, they’re doing the job, and he 
45 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
now, he’ll grunt. And my wife accused me of being inappropriate, because I just refuse 
to talk to him except to say hello. Until he apologizes, something else. But anyhow. 
They’re qualified and that’s what we expect, that’s what we want them to do. And so, to 
answer your question, yes, I’ve faced that, here, we have it, there are five hundred and 
eighty people here, one, two, three black American families, two, and two s—three wives, 
spouses, who are here, they’re spouses, male or deceased. The other family, Leo Brooks. 
The name may not mean anything to you, but his son just got promoted to four stars a 
year and a half ago, and he is doing superbly well. Leo, the father, is retired brigadier, 
his other son is a retired two-star, one-star, and so they got two sons, one brigadier and 
one four stars, and they all talk about their two sons, and what they’re doing, and other 
people talk about that, too. And I get irritated, I say, “Wait a minute, hold it. They’ve 
got a daughter and she’s my lawyer, she’s better qualified than they are.” Okay. So we 
have an understanding. If you are going to talk about the Brooks, you’d better talk about 
Marquita. She is our lawyer and she’s doing a fine thing. 
DC: Terrific. 
JB: And so she has a big law firm downtown, and so. But we have that kind 
of relationship, here. Interesting enough, I’ve been here since 2008, and since then, Leo 
came in two years later, and, amusingly so, he got here because Louise had a luncheon 
for some general officer wives here, black, and that luncheon rotated around, and Naomi, 
who is Leo’s wife, was in a group. The person in charge of apartments and renting and 
getting folks in was invited to this luncheon to talk about opportunities to come into the ( 
). And she did a great job. Naomi goes home that night and said, “Leo, we’re moving.” 
“We’re what?” “Leo, we’re moving. I just saw the place.” “We’re not moving, we can’t 
46 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
afford to move. We’re not moving.” “Did you hear what I said, Leo? We are moving.” 
And so we’ve known the Brooks for a long time. Ever since Leo comes here, every time 
he thinks about it, “I hate you. Talking my wife into moving.” She smiles, and so. 
DC: That’s funny. 
JB: You may see him just going by in a wheelchair, neck in a brace, and that is 
an air force brigadier, injured, severely injured, and his—well, that’s the kind of folks we 
have here. But anyhow, the Brooks are, we’re good friends. And their son is just doing a 
superb job, he’s the commander of the Pacific, you can’t get much bigger than that. And 
I’m so happy about it because I knew, I’ve known him since he was a teenager, as I’ve 
done their daughter, who is also [eighteen?], we met them at Fort Hood, and he just, 
every time something happens good, I feel great. 
DC : So there’s a real fraternity among— 
JB: Oh, there’s no question about it. Matter of fact, [1:55:00] when I—when 
Vince got his promotion to four stars, I had a four-star brace, pin, given to me by a 
former boss, who gave it to me after I got up and went to three stars, and he said, “I’ve 
missed all your promotions, I’m going to have, be there ahead of time. Pin this on when 
you get promoted.” “That’s not going to happen.” But I kept it. When Vince got 
promoted to four stars, he pinned on my four stars, I gave him. That kind of relationship 
we have, we have fun. 
DC: That’s terrific. 
JB: And—I’m trying to figure out where I left off at. In Germany, I think— 
DC : Oh, we’ve gotten up to about 1961. 
47 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
JB: Okay. Good, good. I went to France, came back from France, and in 
1963,1 was in France, we were in France, Verdun, France, when Kennedy got shot. And 
we listened to the old radio. And something which the American people don’t realize, 
that when that happened to our president, every radio station in France started playing 
music that was appropriate for our death, back here, for our leader. And you could not 
ask for, be more proud of what, for us, of what they did for us. Okay. I get back from 
France, go off to the Armed Forces Staff College, down in Norfolk or—yeah, Norfolk, 
Virginia. Armed Forces, all schools, all services. As was Leavenworth, but primarily 
army, but other services were there. Armed Forces Staff Colleges teach about each of the 
services, and to become joint staff officers. Okay? There, the daughter that was bom at 
Fort Benning, living on the post at Armed Forces Staff College, the military used a 
school in the local community. And we had the only blacks at the Armed Forces Staff 
College, so when our daughter, in the third grade, riding the bus from the school, that 
school was just integrated, so she became the first black to go to that school as a student. 
She was met at the door, when the bus pulled up, by the principal. And he got her off the 
bus, escorted her into the class, and the teacher was told about who’s coming in, and he 
made sure she got back on the bus, no problems, and that’s the way her class went. She 
was a great student, she did very, very well. She moved from, in the first semester, from 
being in a third grade, she moved to, advanced to a fourth grade because of what she’d 
been doing before that. And she continued to have this escort by the principal. It got to 
the point where we got out of that environment, back into Washington, she felt so, pretty 
good about herself. She had a principal taking care of her. I’m now in Washington, 
assigned to Desk Per, the Office for Personnel, the same office as this colonel I’m going 
48 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
to be talking to later. My first job was dealing with National Guard and Reserve Affairs 
for the army. It was during that period that the Alabama battle took place, going to the 
bridge, and the riot— 
DC: In Selma? 
JB: Rosa Park. The Army Operations Center was made up of, not assigned 
persons, most of us came from volunteer, people elsewhere, pulled together and worked. 
My job was to contact the National Guard commander on the ground, and maintain 
communications for him, with him, for the army staff. The very first night out, the chief 
of staff wanted to find out, okay, where were the marchers, and what was the army doing 
protecting it, and where, their deployment. And the general who represented us, with the 
chief of staff, had no idea, nor did I, but Fm the guy [2:00:00] sitting in the operations 
center, “Find out.” Got that. Get on the phone, I call this army commander, National 
Guard, he probably was a brigadier general, and I told him who I was, Fm now a 
lieutenant colonel, said, “This is what we need to know. What is the location of your 
[cruiser?] weapons, what is the location of the other people? We need to report to the 
chief of staff.” “What the hell do you folks need that for?” I said, “Colonel, I mean, 
General, Fm only calling. The chief of staff in the army wants to find out. Fd be happy 
to tell him that you refused to give it to me—” “No, IT1 tell you.” So he gave me the 
location of the [cruiser?] weapons, I report that back to the, my boss, the general, he went 
up and reported it to the chief of staff. Now, we’re talking, still, sensitivity of, about 
race. Because that was what it was about. And my job was to make sure we knew where 
they were, and how they got there. I then went back to my job as a guy in charge of race, 
of guards and reservists in the army staff. During the meantime, the army comptroller, 
49 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
colonel, was an air force—I mean, a colonel from West Point. He was the colonel who 
taught me, officer who taught me how to shoot crap, as I think I mentioned to you, going 
over? And he is now a colonel, and now Fm a—yeah, at this time I was a colonel, and we 
got together quite often. And he’d laugh about it, taking my money, I said, “Fd laugh if I 
had that, too, because Fm not higher than you.” We smiled about that. 
Fm back in the Pentagon, as a lieutenant colonel, working hard. I went from 
there to [Pause] a graduate program that the Department of Defense has started for 
systems analysts. And that’s when they had McNamara Whiz Kids, and they were 
creating problems for the army. And the army, the military set up a small group of 
qualified systems analysts. I was selected to go along with five army officers to this class 
of some thirty-one, thirty-two people off of IDA, Institute for Defense Analyses, they ran 
the program. I was the senior officer, and so all that meant that I was, I spoke for the 
army, for the military, in this class, when that was necessary. I’m smiling because, in 
setting up this group, I got over to this, as a student, because I had been a math major at 
Prairie View, even though I did not do well in analytical geometry years ago. And 
economics is a function of math, in many respects, and so I had my math background, I 
got selected to go to school, went off to school full-time, graduate school run by the 
University of Maryland, this program, finished there a year later, came back to the army 
staff, and was assigned to the office as assistant secretary, assistant chief of staff of the 
army. A group set up to, as some people have said, rewrite what the staff said. Because 
our hires didn’t like what we were giving them, so they rewrote it themselves. That 
meant that we were required, before it got to them, to make sure it fit the category that 
they needed. They got—my biggest problem was a particular general, whose widow is 
50 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
here, and we see her every once in a while and she’s a best friend but I said, “You know 
what your husband did to me?” But anyhow, another story. 
We worked at that staff, that group, until it was time to go to Fort Hood as a 
colonel brigade commander, [2:05:00] which is something we, a lot of folk look forward 
to doing. Let me back up from that. Before doing that, after leaving this graduate 
program, I got selected for the National War College, senior service college, the highest 
schools for any soldiers—army, navy, marines all have their own schools, except the 
National War College is all of them together. And I went off to that school and was the 
third black American army to go to the National War College. The first to go there, at 
that time, was a Roscoe Robinson, who was the first to go to, from West Point, to get the 
four stars. His wife is here, she is a, sad to say, suffering from dementia and does not 
recognize anyone. And while I was at the National War College, he had gone off to 
Hawaii and he sent back and said, “Hey, can you send me a sweat suit? Because my wife 
put my sweat suit in and it bleached, and I can’t recognize it.” So I went off, bought one, 
sent it to him. But, well, now, at the National War College, again, academically, it’s a 
great school, I enjoyed it and did well. I went from the National War College— 
DC: Now, what’s happening in Southeast Asia at this point? Where, what year 
are we in? 
JB: We’re now—1961. I graduated in 1961 from the National War College, 
and so whatever happening then, it’s, we got folks over there. I’m not too sure, back in 
1961, it wasn’t, I was not involved, and so I got, doing other things. But when I last, 
when I left the National War College, I went to Fort Hood as a brigade commander, I 
think I mentioned that, and we transferred, we trained for, very hard. And I enjoyed what 
51 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
I was doing, I had a good staff and good troops, came over to the Chief of Staffs office. 
I left there as a lieutenant colonel. Rather important period because I went out to 
Campbell as a squadron commander in the 101st Airborne Division, which is the—there 
are two airborne divisions, 82nd and the 101st. And we happen to think that 101st is the 
best of them. And, on top of that, I was a lieutenant colonel, armor, leaving the National 
War College, going off to command a squadron, and the, there was only one cav 
squadron in the division, and only two cav squadrons like that in the army, one, the 82nd, 
the other, 101st. Andnowit’stimeto—and we trained very well, very hard. Now, Fm 
not, I was not airborne qualified. I got airborne qualified when I left the armed forces 
staff, because I went to Jump School and qualified as a paratrooper. You remember, I 
said when I’m on a pole, I don’t like heights? 
DC: Yeah. 
JB: Why do you jump off airplanes? It’s a challenge, that’s why I did it. 
DC: So you were continually training, even through all these— 
JB: Well, that’s right. Hey, that’s what we’re all about. But Fm now airborne 
qualified. On the Command A Armored Unit, I spent most of my time as infantry except 
with the 2nd Army Division, I was in armor infantry but not in an armor unit as such. 
Never commanded a tank unit, never even fired a tank gun. But I go off to the 101st 
Airborne Division. We trained hard, Vietnam. I am the only black commander in the 
division at that level, no other battalion commanders. We had one black colonel, and he 
commanded the trainings, logistics. Went off to Vietnam, did very well. Battalion 
squadron commander for the first part of my tour, and then the last part of my tour, I was 
deputy brigade commander [2:10:00] and I had a chance to meet some very important 
52 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
people. As a squadron commander during the war, I got visited by a fellow named 
Creighton Abrams. Military assistant commander, MACV, in Vietnam. I was the only 
armor unit in his area, in that area. And when he came out, he came to visit me. He’d 
land his chopper, get out, flew them, come over and sit on the jeep. “Okay, Julie, what 
have you done now?” And I’d talk to him about what we’re doing, how well we’re doing 
and so forth. Got a great relationship, which proved to be very important later on. 
Fought the war, got a couple of citations, medals and stuff like that, came back to 
the States, assigned to the army staff, again, as a colonel. I get promoted to brigadier 
general, and assigned to Fort Dix, New Jersey. Now the interesting part about that, Fort 
Dix is not too far from Philadelphia. I am now the deputy commander of Fort Dix. My 
job is to—to, really, to be the guy in charge of training the post commanders in jobs, 
everything else. And I had, we worked very hard, drill sergeant worked for me. And I 
had a superb boss. Early on, he asked me to—not asked me. Sent me to Washington, to 
convince the army not to close Fort Dix, during the phase-down. And the folks in the 
army determined to close it, and our argument was, “This is the major training center in 
the whole northeastern part of the United States, where parents send their youngsters to 
go in the army, train there, now you’re going to close it?” And I had beat up by a fellow 
named Rizzo, from Philadelphia, the mayor, “You go down and tell them they can’t close 
it because we need it.” All [on account of my?] civilians who live, work at Fort Dix. 
What are you going to do if you close it? I’m a brigadier—I’m not a colonel—brigadier 
general, rather, and I go to Washington and try to explain, and, “Becton, we hear what 
you’re saying, now go back and go do your job.” “Yes, sir.” Go back to Fort Dix, I tell 
my boss, Bert David, he tells everyone else that. So what do they do? They turn the 
53 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
politicians loose. And guess what? Fort Dix is still open today, is it not? When the 
politicians get involved, sometimes good things happen. Training’s no longer there, but 
Fort Dix is still open. Anyhow. 
At Fort Dix, Fm deputy commander. We worked very hard, my boss, Bert David, 
gets transferred to Washington, to logistics. His replacement comes in, is a guy who got 
promoted to maj— to brigadier general at the same time I did. But in the meantime, he’d 
gotten promoted to two stars. Now he’s my boss. I’d been there about a year when he 
got there, so I know most of the people, everybody, and everybody knows me, and he’s 
incoming. So when, although he’s the commander and I’m still a deputy, when things 
happen, who did they come see? Fm the stuckee, okay, fine, I understand that. Time 
moves on for—he’d been there for about six months, and the two-star list comes out, 
major general, and I get promoted to major general. Now, he doesn’t fuss about that but 
he does say, “Okay, I’ll get rid of him now.” Because the job Fm filling is that of a 
brigadier, not of a two-star. Fm still there, and no one tells me where Fm going to go. I 
stay at Fort Dix for about six months as a two-star, and he’s a two-star. A little bit 
discomfort on his part. [2:15:00] Because he wanted to be the sole guy in charge, when 
Fm not in—Fm not trying to fuss him, or cause a problem. But when people come in, I 
get to be the guy. His two sons got in a problem one day, the [pro marshal?] come see 
me. “Don’t see me, go see him. This one’s not mine.” No, but—okay. I now get orders, 
I get promoted to two stars in August, and Fm still sitting at Fort Dix. And I went for 
about three months before I find out what I’m going to do. I find out Fm going to go to 
Fort Hood as a division commander. Now, why am I shocked by that? Because Fm 
going to command an armored division, and I’m also going to go—when you got a lot of 
54 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
other two stars who want that job, because this army division is being converted from a 
triple-capability division to a pure army division. My army experience is not very much. 
My boss at Fort Dix wanted a division, but he got a training center. Big difference 
between those two. Two-star ( ) but Fm going to a division and he is stuck there. 
And so, okay. I find out, in the final analysis, that Creighton Abrams, the fellow I said 
came out to visit and so forth, four-star, had deceased. And he has written notes, “Becton 
gets the armored division, 1st Cav.” And it went into the record that way. 
And so, now, I am heading off to Fort Hood to command a division. However, 
when Fm leaving Fort Dix, my boss wrote the worst report card Fd ever gotten, OER. 
“Becton is great at dealing with the civilians, great at dealing with community affairs, 
great at dealing with other things. He is horrible in training. No training discipline 
whatsoever.” I’ve already left the training, I’ve been—okay. Fm down at Fort Hood, 
going to take command of a division, and this report card goes up the chain. And when I 
get to Fort Hood, I’ve been in command of the division maybe two weeks. And oh, by 
the way, Fm the only, there are only two black division commanders at that time. And 
we communicate with each other. Harry Brooks, who was out in Hawaii, 25th Division, 
when I got the 1st Cav division, the—I had three superb battalion commanders, brigade 
commanders. My chief of staff of the division happens to be also a resident here, today. 
Well, I never knew the guy before, but he did a fine job and I was happy with him, and 
he’s now a four-star, I might add, how he got there is no story, but we have a great time 
around here. I get the—at Hood we did a lot of hard training, spent a lot of time in the 
field, trying some new concepts. Worked and worked and worked, and it’s time, now- 
been there for about two years, race relations during that period, we’re talking in the 
55 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
community, is—took command in 1976, of the division, and in 1978—well, let me back up 
a little bit. Early 1976, early—yeah, 1976, early 1976, January. And it’s—my wife’s 
having a good time, the family’s having a good time, the fourth child has been born, I 
mean, fifth child, the son, the one I mentioned, he is on active duty. Everything’s right 
with the world. It’s time for me to be transferred, and my, I lived next door to the corps 
commander, he calls me up, said—oh, interesting [2:20:00] story. When I took command 
of the division, I replaced the guy who became the corps commander. But we knew each 
other as brigadiers, so he’s a good guy. And as we prepare for my taking command of 
the division, he said, “Okay. When you get here, Julius, we’re going to have a change of 
command, mount a—count, command chain, mounted change of command, and we’re 
going to troop the line, mounted, and then you take command.” “Bob—his name—hey, 
look. My experience riding a horse is not all that great, and I’ve been trained here, at 
Fort Hood, how to ride a horse because my—you know your wife taught me how to do 
that, she’s a great horseman—but why don’t you march on a horse and I stay on the stand, 
and then when I’m in charge it’ll go back to an armor division? Armor divisions don’t 
ride horses.” “Okay. We’ll do it that way.” And then before I get there, I get word 
who’s going to be my boss. He could be my boss. He called me up again, “Julius, guess 
what. I guess I should tell you I’m going to be the corps commander. And on the subject 
of change of command, this is how we’re going to do it.” And you see a book, a picture 
of me on the back of a horse, and when you get to the ( ), stuff like that. But. We 
go through this— 
DC: You survived it, yeah. 
56 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
JB: Yeah. I moved from that division to a place in Springf—outside in 
Bailey’s Crossroads, OTEA, Army Operational Test and Evaluation Agency. Our job is 
to test all army equipment and concepts. In the hands of soldiers, what happens when 
soldiers put their hands on it? Does it still work. Of course, there’s no one else that 
looks like me in that job, I have close ties with my counterpart in the air force and the 
marine corps, each of them have such a unit. My technician, a civilian, a real engineer, 
Walt Hollis, when I get there, he’s been there forever. And when I walk in he said, 
“Congratulations General, glad to have you here. May we talk?” “Sure.” “Okay. I’ll 
support you any way I can. One thing I expect. If I make a decision or make a 
recommendation and go before the Congress and you change that, don’t expect me to not 
tell them what I think.” “Walt, I understand that. Because I’m not going to make any 
decisions that you don’t agree with.” He said, “Okay, fine.” And that’s the relationship 
that we had. We tested the Ml tank, the new tank—not new, it was new then—Abrams 
tank, at that unit. The program manager for that tank is also a resident here. 
DC: This is quite a collection of people, here. 
JB: He’d take great delight in telling people how I had him do this, had him do 
that. We got a good tank out, didn’t we? Okay. No, sir, but I’m now, I’m ov—at that 
unit, doing very well. It’s now 1977, going into 1978, and I get orders and a promotion 
to three stars. Then I get invited to—invited, I’m told to come over to the chief of staff, 
we had a long conversation, did not know what the job was going to be, but I was told 
you get promoted to three star, but there are a couple of billets I could go to. And I end 
up by getting the largest combat corps in the army. Combat corps in the army, in Europe, 
VII Corps. Our job was to be, take the lead if the Russians crossed the border. And, hell, 
57 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
Fm just as happy as I could be, ready to go. From a racial standpoint, there are no other 
black corps commanders. The announcement of my being a corps—that corps 
commander was held up an extra several months while the army told a USRA 
commander, who then told a German that “A Lieutenant [2:25:00] General Becton is 
coming in as commander of the VII Corps—and oh, by the way, he’s a black American,” 
to see how they took to it. Didn’t bother them, and so that was done. I get over there 
and—oh. I go, no, I think you’ll find amusing. 
While Fm getting ready to go to Germany, you’re required to go to language 
school if you’re going to go to a language that you don’t speak. And while Fm in, my 
language training in German was delayed because they didn’t want to make the 
announcement, Fm going to be the corps commander, the German corps commander, 
until I could get the language in. And I couldn’t do that until I went to school. And so, 
while Fm in school, I am learning how to speak German. I spend my entire time—most 
of my time—preparing my remarks for when I get there, because you have to go through 
that. And I had German in Muhlenberg—matter of fact, I became the president of the 
German American club because I was doing so well in German—and as Fm preparing my 
remarks, going from English to German to English to German, and by the time I got to 
Germany, I had that down pat. At the change of command, I was on the platform, 
German press, German public, soldiers out in the field in front of me, and I went through 
that spiel about using Deutsch and English, going from English to Deutsch, back and 
forth, for about fifteen minutes. And when I finished, so proud of myself, I got off the 
platform, parade’s over, I’m beset upon by the press. Guess what they’re speaking? 
They’re not speaking English, they’re speaking German. And I’m prepared to—from my 
58 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
remarks, prepared. And I flubbed it, big time. And, of course, I made it very clear. They 
understood what I was faced with, what I had done. And I made it very clear. Whenever 
I went to talk to any group in the future, I never attempted to speak German. Because—I 
could make it, I could say, “Guten Tag,” and “Auf Wiedersehen,” and stuff like that, but 
no conversation. 
But once I took command of the corps, we had a great, three great divisions. One 
commanded by a guy who was a very good friend of mine who had been on my, we had 
been classmates together, he was one of the division commanders. He retired as a four- 
star, I might add. The other was a very good friend, infantry, he was a 3rd Infantry 
Division. And I had a division back here, in the 1st Infantry Division, out in Colorado, 
but they would have joined us if war broke out, so I had two divisions, an armored cav 
unit, cavalry unit to do reforger—re-do the covering forests, and relation—doing the thing 
what cavalry normally does, and as I joined this corps, the deputy, my deputy is a fellow 
named George Patton. George and I had a great relationshi—an interesting relationship. 
Back when I was in Vietnam, George had a regiment and I had a squadron. But he had a 
different area, and when Abrams would come out and see me, it irritated George to no 
end because Fm getting all the attention. Okay. George moves up, he gets promoted to 
brigadier general, and he goes off to Fort Knox and becomes the assistant combatant. In 
the meantime, I become the branch chief while he’s there. When I left the brigade and 
went back to Washington, I became Armor Branch Chief, in charge of the assignment of 
all armor officers. That shocked people, too. Fd never been to Fort Knox as a school, Fd 
never had a great deal of experience dealing with assignments. I did have the support of 
the guy who sent me there from Fort Hood, and I had the support of the staff in the 
59 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
Pentagon, and I became branch chief, and it irritated George Patton to no end. Because 
he’s sitting up there at Fort Knox, in charge of all armor officers’ school, I’m in charge of 
their assignments. And normally the branch chief gets invited to the branch school to talk 
to the students. Patton, hell no. “Damned not an armor graduate, [2:30:00] not a—never 
been to Knox, why should I invite him here?” “Okay, George, that’s your business, sir.” 
So I’m fine, I’m happy with that. I now go to Fort Hood as a division commander, and 
he comes in, command of the 2nd Armored Division, we good, get along well together, 
and I had done my job, he’d done his job. I go from there to the ICAP, to the OTEA, 
training, testing unit, George goes to Germany and becomes the deputy commander, VII 
Corps. Time moves on, I come in as his new commander. George comes in, “Boss, glad 
you’re here. Support you in any way I can. You tell me to do something, I’ll do it.” 
“George, the only thing I’m going to tell you is, just do your job. You know what it is, 
you’ve been here, I have not been here before, you understand what’s to be done, got it.” 
And we worked together quite well. He never said, “Sir,” one time. “Boss,” always. 
Okay. This is now October, November, December. George comes in and says, 
“Boss, I like the way you’re doing things but I’d like to send my family home.” “Okay, 
fine.” In the meantime, oh, and right before that, he said, “Fd like to go—be transferred 
back to—” no, no. Yeah. He said, “Fd like to do, I think I’ll transfer back to the States, if 
that’s okay with you.” I called my boss at Heidelberg, United States Army Europe 
commander, the same fellow who was a company commander, student company 
commander, when I was at Fort Benning, Blanchard, and the same guy who commanded 
the 82nd Airborne Division when I was getting started with the 1st Cav. And he’s now 
60 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
the four-star in charge of Europe. “Sir, George wants to go home.” “Good.” “Okay.” I 
go back and tell Patton, “The boss said okay.” “Fine.” 
And then we have an exercise, reforger, return the forces to Germany, which is an 
exercise proving that we can move forces from continental limits of the United States to 
Germany, form their prepositioned equipment, and fight the war. That’s George’s big in 
charge of, back in the VII Corps, the equipment. There was a reforger exercise, and now 
we’re going to have field operations, reforger unit come in from Colorado, George is in 
charge of corps [rear?], and some other administrative things, and the equipment that the 
incoming troops fall in on, and I’m out fighting the training battle. We get along 
superbly well. However, one minor thing. This is being done in February, this exercise. 
George’s family is back in the States, and the weather turned, like it is today, no frozen 
ground—this is unusual for us, this weather’s unusual for us in Germany, back in those 
days—and the weather turned warm. And I got hundreds of tanks out in the field, tearing 
up German property. And we decided we could, just got to stop this. So we’re going to 
cancel, we’re going to terminate. And I checked that with my boss, he agreed, and I said, 
“Okay, I will announce the fact that we’re going to terminate.” And Blanchard said, “No, 
I’m the USAR commander, I will take care of that.” And all of a sudden a fellow named 
A1 Haig flies in. You may remember, I mentioned Haig was a graduate of my high 
school? He flies in and lands, “Hell, I guess I’ll make the announcement, then.” It is not 
Becton, our corps commander, it is not the four-star USAR commander, but the Supreme 
Allied Commander Europe is going to make this announcement. “Okay.” 
In the meantime, we’re out, talking, while the troops are doing what they 
normally do, and the staff thinks that we’re talking tactics. We weren’t talking tactics, 
61 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
we’re talking [2:35:00]—A1 Haig was telling me, when he was in high school, he got 
kicked out of school, being caught for smoking, and the principal told his mother, “You 
will never become anything.” And so, hey—I mean, A1 Haig got promoted pretty good. 
And that’s what we’re talking about, and we became, stayed friends until he died. Okay. 
The weather turned warm, exercises cancelled, we did a lot of damage to the 
German real estate, tore up the crop. Big property damage, and we had our units back to 
the field, back to their locations, trying not to tear up the Germany streets because the 
streets are no longer frozen, and you’ve got tanks going over, and a tank will do severe 
damage to anything. We got back and recovered, and I liked the way George operated so 
well, George came in to see me. “Sir, I’d like to stay with you, I like the way you 
operate.” You remember that word I said, “Sir?” First time he’d ever use that word, 
ever, when he asked to stay on. “Sure, I’ll let you stay here. Let me call Blanchard.” I 
called Blanchard, “Sir, George wants to stay here.” “Hell, no, he’s going home.” “Oh, 
okay.” I go back and tell George. “George, USAR commander said no.” “Hmm. 
Okay.” So, he goes off and doing his thing. In the meantime, I start getting in 
replacements for him. My very first one came in when George was leaving. He was off 
at the officers’ club, at the club in Stuttgart, and spent the night, his family’s going home, 
and the next morning, I, my staff, other major commanders, and the band comes out to 
play, welcome him, farewell. The one thing that George really resented more than 
anything else, when he was division commander, was the “Garryowen,” which is our 1st 
Cav Division song, cavalry song. And guess what song the band played? George walked 
down the steps, “What?!” And I almost died because they were about to—I couldn’t do 
anything about it, and I never told the bandmaster, “Don’t play that,” I thought—well, 
62 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
never mind. ( ) I thought. He gunned his car, and vroom, driver drove off. Madder 
than hell. And it took me some time to ov—recover that, after he got back to the States, 
but I tried to explain to him, “We didn’t, I didn’t arrange for that.” 
DC : Did he, he thought that— 
JB: He thought I did it. So I stayed on as corps commander, the Russians 
never attacked, we were prepared, we worked very hard. And when it came time to come 
home, I came home to training and doctrine command, located at Fort Monroe, Virginia. 
I was the deputy commander, the only black American at that level. Jack Merritt, my 
chief of staff from the division, in the meantime, had gone from that position to two-star 
at Fort Sill as the commander, from that position to the director of the army, the joint 
staff, a three-star billet. And from that position, he went to Europe to work, to be a 
representative for the ambassador and the NATO forces, and became a four-star. And so, 
while he is doing that—he’s a three-star now, excuse me, jumping ahead. He’s three-start, 
and I’m at two—he’s at Fort Leavenworth, as the deputy commander for training and 
doctrine command at Leavenworth, and I’m the deputy commander for training at 
Monroe. He’s in charge of all officer training, and I’m in charge of all training centers. I 
point that out because the relationship that we have, he left there and then became the 
four-star at, in Brussels. I’m back at the Monroe three-star billet. I not only become the 
deputy commander for training and doctrine command, I become the army inspector for 
training, a new position that the chief of staff of the army want to try out. And now, not 
only am I in charge of training, but I’m also in charge of units in the field, training. 
[2:40:00] And which means, I get a chance to mark up not only the training that I, that we 
conduct for our soldiers, but also how well they’ve been doing that. And I get the chance 
63 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
to inspect them, the units. That also irritated a few folks because they’d never had one of 
these before, until I got that job, until I was told to do that. Again, racial standpoint, by 
that time there are three lieutenant generals: Roscoe Robinson, ( ) as a four-star, Art 
Gregg, who is now the J1 in the joint staff, and then the commander [Pause] he went to 
the three-star at the chief, in the army staff, at the G4, three-star billet. Okay? Roscoe 
gets promoted, Art and I stay in our three-star billets. And I stay at that job until I retire. 
Some interesting things took place during that time. I had a chance to represent the army 
in some interesting positions that required dealing with the public. I might add, before 
that, I dealt with a mission to deal with the National Guard. Now I’m dealing with the, 
what takes place in the field at the highest level, but only as a lieutenant general. 
I retire from the Army in August of 1983, and move into a civilian activity, but 
still as a retired lieutenant general. Looking for a job as a retired lieutenant general was 
eas—was not as easy as I thought because, when I talked to corporations, I don’t have any 
experience at the corporation level. I certainly don’t have a—I’m still a, I got a masters, 
but so what? I’ve commanded many units on the ground, but industry someti—at that 
time, were not interested in soldiers, what they could do. I finally get a job, AID, Agency 
for International Development, and become the director of disaster assistance, that the 
United States government has for helping other countries when they have major 
problems. I am now the guy in charge of that. Okay. I did that job from January of 1984 
to the summer of 1985. And during that period, we, I had quite a few disaster—major 
disasters overseas, my biggest one was the famine in Africa, and we provided major 
support there, and I became the guy in charge of that support, from all agencies, going, 
providing the support. Racial thing. The ambassador from South Africa came over to 
64 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
request assistance, and the agency director for AID, “Sure, go down and see Colonel, 
General Becton, he’ll take care of you.” And I told my secretary, “This is going to be 
amusing.” Facetiously I said that. The guy walks in to report to me, the director, to ask 
for assistance for the African support. He took one look at me, “Uh-oh, I forgot 
something,” and he went out. And left. And I called my boss at AID and said, “I think 
we got a problem, I don’t think we’re going to see him back here.” We didn’t, because 
the last thing he expected to see was a black American in that position, to provide support 
for him. Because I would have provided the support, but it would have been, he would 
have gotten an earful about what I think about what his country is doing, from a racial 
standpoint. You may remember those days, apartheid was high. 
I stayed in AID, [2:45:00] we had a lot of interesting work going on. I did the job 
quite well. The agency, Federal Emergency Management Agency, FEMA, it’s the 
highest level in the government for providing support for the country. And I had made 
contact with some interesting people when I had that job in AID. One, the vice president, 
because of what we did for other countries. Two, a fellow named Gore, who was then a 
senator from Tennessee. And a couple representatives on the staff, the congressional 
staff. And when it came time for me to go into FEMA with no political support, I had to 
get somebody to support me. And I had the vice president, spoke on my behalf, Gore 
came over and spoke on my behalf, and several other people. I went through with no 
sweat at all, and I became the director of FEMA. Most interesting because I had a staff 
of political appointees, and the last thing they expected to see was a soldier coming in, 
who had no political background as such. I said, “Guys, hey, I’m going to do the job. 
I’m here to help you, you to help me. Anything you can do and you think that I’m not 
65 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
doing it right, tell me about it, I’ll be the first to listen to you.” And we got along very 
fairly. As a matter of fact, interesting enough, we just got Christmas cards from three of 
those political appointees this week, that’s a long time ago. Anyhow, we go along to 
FEMA, and we now have all kinds of challenges. Floods—I was there less than a week 
when a major flood took place in northern Virginia, not too far from here. And I got 
Warner called, “I want this kind of support.” Well, my job was to advise the president 
whether the damage is sufficient that we should provide the support that they’re asking 
for. And so I got Warner, came in the helicopter using National Guard, Virginia National 
Guard chopper, we went up, took a look at the flood, it’s pretty bad. I mean, it was really 
bad. Came back, landed, I made my report to the president, approving the 
recommendations from the state that they should have a declaration of disaster. And that 
went through. And of course, from that time on, any time a major disaster occurred, I 
would be the one who had to recommend to the president, yes or no. Sometimes we said 
no, sometimes we said yes, based upon what my staff told me. Because they’re the 
experts, they’re out there on the ground. Now, FEMA did not go out and do the work 
themselves. FEMA’s an organization that collaborates, coordinates, makes contacts. But 
we have nobody that can go out and dig a ditch or do anything else, we just had the 
contacts, and we also controlled those folks on the ground. And so I spent, from that time 
until 1989 as the director of FEMA. Thoroughly enjoyed it, had good contact, made 
good relations. 
And then, an interesting thing occurred. The governor of—while I was at FEMA, 
the governor of New Hampshire, guy named Sununu, got very irritated with the way that 
we were trying to support his installation of nuclear power plants. And we were 
66 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
responsible for—not putting the plant in, but providing the security for that plant. And so 
we exercised that. And my staff were not satisfied with the way they were doing it, so we 
did not approve it. And he went blitzy—ballistic. 
DC : Thought you were meddling with his plan? 
JB: Oh. He came down one day, into my office, and demanded that I change 
it. “Governor, I hear what you’re saying but we’re not going to do it until these things 
are done.” “I’m going to the White House.” “Be my guest, sir.” He started off to the 
White House, and they said nothing to me because they knew what I was doing. And oh, 
by the way, while I was director of FEMA, I saw the president probably less than a half a 
dozen times. I didn’t take the papers over to him in person, my contact with the White 
House [2:50:00] presented my recommendation to the chief of staff there, and they talked 
about, then up to the president. It wasn’t me going in front of the president, saying, “This 
is it.” Sununu went over and apparently did the same thing, but didn’t get anywhere. 
Okay. Now, George Bush becomes president of the United States. Who did he 
select for his vice—chief of staff? John Sununu. Because his political influence in New 
Hampshire, and the importance of New Hampshire is to the Republicans, and Sununu 
now becomes the exec—to the pre—chief of staff to the president. And he had made it 
clear, if he ever got a chance to do something to me, he would do it, Sununu. It became 
very clear that his first action would be, I’m out of FEMA. Now, the president didn’t 
step in and stop him. But George Bush did something very interesting. He called me 
and said, “Would you like to be ambassador?” “Sir, yes, sir.” And I went home, told my 
wife, and she was not happy about that because she’d spent enough time being a potted 
plant, as she says, standing around the corner as a commander and everyone else is going 
67 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
on. Now Fm becoming an ambassador? And Fm at home listening to this. I get a call, 
after Fm no longer director of FEMA. Bush did not stop him from, Sununu, from 
changing me from being director of FEMA, but he did make it possible for me to become 
an ambassador. Because that would not bother Sununu. I get a call. “Julius, the 
president-elect has had to change his mind. A friend of his in the Congress got defeated, 
Ed Derwinski, and he can no longer put you in the job of being, working for the 
administration, where he was going to put you. And that’s when the subject came about, 
who would take over FEMA. Sununu said you’ve got to go. And I get the call that, after 
Bush wanted me to go to become an ambassador, that this guy got selected, and he was a 
failure in the job that followed me, in FEMA. And I could have predicted that, a lot of 
people could have predicted that, but politics being what they are. And so— 
DC : And the ambassador position got taken off the table? 
JB: I got taken off the—no, my wife took me off that. Because, when I got the 
call about going and becoming ambassador to Hawaii—to Caribbean, we’re not going 
down there. “Hell no, we’re not going.” My wife doesn’t swear often, but she said, 
“We’re not going to go down there.” And I told the guy who was telling me this. “Okay, 
we understand.” And that terminated my relationship with the White House, and... 
DC: That was it, right. 
JB: And that was it, and that’s when I became a civilian, happy with what I 
was doing, I was—been there not very long before I get this call about, “Would you be 
interested in helping us out? School system. District of Columbia.” And I had assumed 
they wanted me to come down and talk about a board, because they’re trying to set up a 
board to take over, get in new, running things. And as the—you might remember, there 
68 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
was a time when the government was controlled by a control board. And the control 
board is the one that controls the school system. And they’re the ones that were calling 
me, and I thought they wanted me to become part of a board to run the school. As they 
were describing to me the situation, one of the members said, “Now, when you get there— 
” “Whoa, time out. What do you mean when I get there?” “Oh, we want you to become 
superintendent. Didn’t we tell you that?” “I thought you said, run to be a part of the 
board.” “No, superintendent.” “Okay.” I said, “Well, hmm. Let me go home and see 
how it works out.” As I’m driving home in my car, I call my wife, say, “Guess what. 
I’ve been offered a job as superintendent.” We’d moved from [2:55:00] Washington, our 
home there, out to Springfield, we got great relationships with the neighbors and 
everything else, and my wife said, “Two conditions. Don’t bring your anger home, and 
we’re not moving.” I said, “Okay, I can handle that.” And when I got to the schools, I 
made it very clear. No matter what they say, we’re not moving from Virginia. I know 
what the rules are, but if you want me as the superintendent, I’m staying here. This is an 
emergency, you said, I’m staying here. The control board understood that. I stayed on, 
in northern Virginia, Springfield, and stayed on, got into the school system. Now, keep 
in mind the only school training I’ve had, in school, was the university president. Which 
is not all bad, but being university president is a lot different than running a school. Also, 
I had a system in which the—we’re running out of money, we’re—and made enemies with 
the mayor who was under contr—a fellow named Marion Barry, you may have heard that 
name. He was the mayor, but he had lost control because the control board is in. And 
when he’d go before the congress, for sch—money, I’ve got to go for the schools. Not the 
mayor. 
69 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
DC: Right. So you come in at a real time of crisis. 
JB: Say again? 
DC: You came in at a time of crisis. 
JB: Yes, I did. 
DC: Yes. For the city. And for the school. 
JB: Matter of fact, he had a few challenges too. He spent time in jail, he had a 
few other things too. But I got along with the mayor fine, up until a point. When he 
started getting into my business, and I said, “Mr. Mayor, that’s not your job. This is my 
job.” “I’m the mayor.” “Well, fine, but I’m still the superintendent. You want to control 
that, go to the control board.” “Grr.” I got through that, and come, had some challenges 
in the school system. After being there for about eighteen months, my family had a 
caucus. And they said, “Dad, Julius,”—my wife—’’we’re tired. We’re tired of seeing the 
name, Becton, in the press, we’re tired of seeing the beat-up you’re taking in the press, 
we’re tired of this, we’re tired of that—you’re retired. Why don’t you give it up?” And 
being a practical man as I am, was to understand that I’m in trouble if I stay home. 
“Okay.” I report into the control board, and to the media, “Fm going to go home and 
become a private citizen.” “Why are you leaving?” The press said. “Hey, you see what 
I’ve been faced with. You know what I’ve done, and what Fm faced with, but I got 
problems at home and I’m just going to—Fm tired, and I want to go home and enjoy it.” I 
think I have brought you up to date. I don’t think I’ve covered that much time— 
[Laughter] 
DC: That was wonderful. Let me ask just one final question? 
70 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
DC: And this isn’t so much a specific question, as to ask you to comment 
about—because I was struck, in your incredible life story, you know, the number of times 
that you were the first, or one of a very few. And if you could just sort of comment about 
a life led like that. 
JB: Well, I’ve been told that many times and I’ve thought about it, too. I’ve 
had a lot of help, I’ll be the first to admit. One is from the fellow upstairs, and I would 
talk to that. I’ve always complained about the help I had with my ankle being shot up 
and missed the ankle tendon and a bone, and other things in combat. And some battles 
I’ve had in the political arena. But I try to be very practical in what I’m doing. I have a 
very supportive family, they make it d—they’ve made moves that I think, if I was a 
youngster being moved as much as they have, to enough different schools they’re going 
to, I’d have been pretty upset. They dealt with that. Financially, the jobs I had were not 
all that rewarding, money-wise. FEMA, and working for the AID, I received no 
retirement pay. As a three-star general. Why? Something—and I went to FEMA, dual 
compensation. I cannot draw the salary that a director would get, and keep retired pay. 
Because the federal government has a rule, you cannot be paid [3:00:00] by the federal 
government for two jobs. One retired, one ( ). That’s to be changed, by the way, 
since then. So we’re not making a lot of money. And when I finally left FEMA, I was 
able to get a couple boards. During that period, I’ve gotten—I end up by joining four 
corporate boards. First one was Illinois Tool Works, down in headquarters in Illinois, 
and a fellow named Jack Vessey, former director of, former chairman of the joint chiefs 
of staff, former division commander, and a good friend, called me and said, “Julius. How 
would you like to be on a board?” “Come on, Jack, I’m on a—I’ve got enough boards 
71 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
now.” “This one pays money.” “Oh, now that’s different.” That one, the second board, 
Wackenhut, you may have heard about them, security. Fellow named P.X. Kelley, 
marine corps commandant, called me and said, “Hey, we need you down here. There’s a 
position down here, they’ve never had a black on the board before, we want you to come 
down to be on the board.” “They pay money?” “Sure.” “Okay.” I joined Wackenhut. 
Next one I’m on, Military Spill Response Corporation. They’re the agency that was 
being formed to deal with floods, when a ship has a problem with spills, the big spill that 
took place down in the gulf, MS, Military Spill Response Corporation. My contact was 
there when I was at TRADOC as the deputy commander, the coast guard on the coast, 
commander, was a retired vice admiral, and he was now the president of this new 
organization, Military Spill Response Corporation, and “Sure, I’ll come out there, Jack. 
You pay money, I’ll be there.” And the last one was something called GD, General 
Dynamics. And I got a call one day, from a fellow named Jack Merritt, that name ring a 
bell again? 
DC: Mm-hmm. 
JB: And another civilian whose name I cannot think of right now, they were 
on GD boards. And they were looking for, they’d never had a minority, and they had a 
vacancy. “How would you like to join us?” “Jack, if you say so and it pays real money, 
I’d be happy to.” I joined that board. GD, Wackenhut, Marine Spill Response 
Corporation, and [Pause] I’ve already recalled four. 
DC: Yeah, you got it, but I, yeah. 
JB: General Dynamics, Wackenhut, Marine Spill Response Corporation—it’ll 
come to my mind pretty soon. But we were sitting in tall cotton, financially speaking. I 
72 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
was able, very quickly, to pay off my house, I was in the position to go out and buy two 
cars, one for myself, one for my wife. Pay it in cash. And what else can you—I mean, 
Fm in tall—my kids are in school, enjoying what they’re doing. We’re just having a great 
time. And you think back, and all those positions, I was the first black American at the 
corporation, each of the corporations. First black American to be a corps commander, 
certainly the first black to become the army inspector of training. I was not the first black 
general for the division commander, but the second or third, in that group. And it’s 
something that we were aware of. I mean “we,” because the family’s involved. But I 
don’t lord it over everyone’s head because I know I was lucky, I was fortunate to be in 
the position at the right time. But so what? I think that doing that, I had those jobs, I 
demonstrated that a black American could get the job done. To me, that was the most 
important thing. And we worked very hard. When we knew that we’re under a 
microscope, people are looking at what we’re doing, every time we did, stepped out of 
line, we knew it. And somebody told us about it. We knew—don’t try and do it again. 
DC : That’s a lot to carry. 
JB: What choice did I have? Go home and sit, and drink myself into a stupor, 
and not enjoy what I was doing? I enjoyed what I was doing. And I was good at what I 
did, and I had good friends. And one interesting thing, we’re working on our, my 
ninetieth birthday [3:05:00] party in June, and I’ve been told, “You just pay for it, but be 
there. And we’ll take care of everything else.” And so right now, they’re working on 
who’s going to, who they’re going to invite, and many of the people that are being invited 
are the same ones I worked with—whether it’s in the army, whether it’s in the 
corporation, or whoever. Even a couple folk from here. Because we developed a 
73 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
relationship with these folks. It’s important to me. People-to-people is something which 
I think I do well. We’re sitting in this room right now because the administrator, deputy 
administrator, when I saw him this morning, “I need a place.” “You got this.” “Hey, I 
was told you’re the—is—” “No, you got it, you stay here as long as you want.” When the 
Fairfax want to get a radio announcement made, I got to be the stuckee. Well, I do that. 
You may have heard it over the radio, about, advertising about the Fairfax. And I went 
down to a radio station, NBC, with the woman who’s in charge of that, and housing, and 
matter of fact, I did it, and I’d heard the tape, I never heard the broadcast. And one of my 
friends called me one day, “Hey, I just heard you on the radio.” “You did? What’d it 
sound like?” [Laughter] And I got calls from all over the country, people who heard it, 
until finally my wife heard it on the radio, not just from a tape. So it’s that kind of 
relationship that we have. The ARMY Magazine, you probably have never seen it, but it’s 
a monthly publication put out by the Association of the United States Army, in which a 
fellow named Jack Merritt was the first publisher, the second publisher was a fellow 
named—certain—first president, the second one was a fellow named Gordon Sullivan, 
these names ring a bell? And these are people that I worked with all my life, that we 
have a very good relationship. And I was asked—there was an article published, which I 
still have never seen it published, the writer, yet, but talking about my efforts back in, on 
the Pusan Perimeter, and the breakout, going to 201, and how, what we did, made the 
push through for the division to get on to where we ended up by doing. And I didn’t do a 
lot except lead my unit, they thought that I led the charge. So they published that, and the 
first time I heard about it was when a friend down in Texas, “Hey, congratulations.” 
“What the hell are you talking about?” “You haven’t see the Magazine?” “No, I 
74 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0135 
Julius W. Becton 
haven’t.” “You ought to take a look, page nineteen.” There is my picture, and the story 
of what I—they said I thought I had done. Those are the kinds of things which make me 
feel pretty good about what I’ve done. So when I finally go into the great beyond, I think 
I’ve done everything I could do to help myself, my family, and no just race, but also the 
country. Does that answer your question? 
DC: That is a perfect place—yes, it answers my question, and it’s a perfect, I 
think, note to end on, so. 
JB: Great. 
DC : That just leaves me to thank you very much. For your service, and for 
your time. 
JB: Well, I’ve had fun doing what I’m doing, because when I get to the point 
where I cannot have fun, I stop doing it. And if you read in the—that book I have, I got a 
philosophy of command, some thirteen points. Maintain your sense of humor. And if I 
can’t do that, I’m in the wrong job. 
DC: That’s the most important, yeah. 
JB: Okay? I enjoyed it. 
DC : Thank you, thank you, thank you. 
Femalel : This has been a presentation of the Library of Congress and the 
Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture. 
END OF RECORDING 
Transcribed by Audio Transcription Center, March 23, 2017 
75