Stable Views--Voices and Stories from the Thoroughbred Racetrack  
Archie Green Fellows Project, 2012-2013  
(AFC 2012/034: 00376)  
Archive of Folk Culture, American Folklife Center, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. 
 
Jerry Delhomme interview, 2012-10-23 : interview conducted by Ellen E. 
McHale 
 
INTERVIEW LOG 
 
Jerry Delhomme 10/23/2012 Ellen McHale, Ph.D. - interviewer  
 
0043 Jerry's father was a trainer. Jerry started as a jockey, rode his first 
race in 1954 at the age of 8. There were no regulations. They (the 
family) trained quarter horses. Before retirement, Jerry was a food 
specialist with the Agriculture Department. He had a track at his house 
and trained while he was working with the Agricultural department.  
 
2:05 They switched from quarter horses to thoroughbred. Thoroughbreds 
are more interesting.  
 
2:46 His boys were raised around the barn. They both liked to work with 
the horses and his two boys are working with him. He says that they all 
work together really well. Jake has an owners license, Jeff has a trainers 
license. They are together. They split the horses. They all run under the 
name --Set Hut. All of the horses are named with football terminology. 
They have 8 horses in training. There are brood mares on the farm. They 
have 3 babies being broken. He'll be bringing in five more in January. 
Two of these will be running "out of condition." He explains what that 
means: If a horse is "out of condition" and you wait and let them rest, 
than you can enter in another category.  
 
1 
 
6:10 Jerry started as a rider at match races – local races which are 
arranged between owners and often raced within a community setting. 
When Evangeline Downs was built he was too heavy. You have to be 
110-115 pounds to be a jockey.  
 
6:50 His father was knowledgeable about horses. He says you have to 
learn something every day. He says it’s in his blood.  
 
7:38 Training is not hard. The horse makes you.  
 
7:54 His son, Jake, is always looking to improve. He likes to start with a 
young horse and work with it. He starts with them being green.  
 
8:37 Jerry worked for the state of Louisiana all the time he was training, 
for 38 years. Jake was a ball player for 13-14 years. He is gradually 
placing his sons in more positions of authority.  
 
9:30 They race at the Fairgrounds in New Orleans and Delta Downs. To 
run in the Kentucky Derby is not a goal. You have to have different 
bloodlines to do that. He talks about the difference in blood lines. The 
difference is in the horses' endurance.  
 
10:46 He talks about the grass in Kentucky as advantageous. Breeding is 
important. If a horse does well, it's his breeding.  
 
11:36 A good horse makes a good trainer. A trainer with mediocre 
horses is an average trainer. If you start with a good horse, that makes 
you successful. With Jake's success in football, they are able to buy 
better horses.  
 
2 
 
12:30 Speaking about gender roles--the man was domineering in the 
1950s and 1960s. His father was in the business and he had a house 
behind their house where he housed Black jockeys. He talks about 
drugging horses and it being prevalent. Jerry's father made sure his son 
didn't ride drugged horses. His mother had no say in her son's riding.  
 
14:21 There are more Black jockeys and they have more say-so than 
years ago. The industry relies on the Latino population. There are whole 
families living in tack rooms. Racing people have become more 
knowledgeable. The business has become technical. To be in the game 
today you have to have good owners and good finances.  
 
16:00 He talks about staying in Louisiana and how it is different from 
other places.  
 
16:35 The audiences have dwindled. Casino gambling has changed 
things. Young people are no longer going to the track. Keeneland gets 
students coming to the track, but you don't have little kids accompanying 
their parents. Blacks and the Spanish-speaking people are getting into 
the game but the younger White folks are not going.  
 
17:58 He talks about his son's silks. (White with a football.) His silks 
had a JD on the front and back.  
 
18:30 Years ago, the race track would furnish the silks. Now you have to 
register your colors every year.  
 
18:55 He talks about the finances of the horse industry. The costs are 
always going up.  
 
3 
 
19:40 Jerry talks about the book "Cajun Racing" by Ed McNamara. His 
father is in the book. His father was in the movie, "Casey's Shadow." 
The film maker saw him at the bush track over in Carencro.  
 
22:15 End of interview. 
4