American F
olklife Center, L
ibrary o
f Congress
 
Bess L
omax Hawes Collection (
AFC 2014/008)
 
f
older 20.15
 
writings
 
a
rticles, unpublished
 
Revised
 
Remarks by Bess Lomax Hawes at opening of Smithsonian Festival  6
/26/85
 
I
'm by way of being an old-timer at Smithsonian Festival openings.  And
 
I find, too, that I
'm getting to be a bit of an old-timer in Washington.  I first
 
came here forty years ago for a few years and I can tell you that things have
 
changed since then.  You wouldn't have heard the sentiments expressed then that
 
we've had the privilege of listening to for the past twenty minutes.  We've
 
really come quite a way.
 
Forty years ago, we saw ourselves as totally different, with a totally
 
different problem.  We actually thought of ourselves here in the United States
 
as culturally impoverished.  We worried that we weren't as good as Europe, the
 
"civilized continent," that we'd never be able to catch up with /the place from
 
which we had come, \h compared ourselves denigratingly with the Old World, with
 
i
ts arts, its graces, its refined delicacies.
 
But during the enlivening period of the Roosevelt years, we began to
 
look around instead of back and began gradually to recognize the extraordinary
 
gifts our generally open  immigration policy had provided the United States.
 
The word "grassroots" came into use and even into fashion, and we began to think
 
about the breadth of this country.  So as we began to look across the land at
 
our grassroots, we began to realize that we were not made of a piece but a
 
patchwork, a sometimes harmonious, sometimes clashing amalgam of different
 
peoples who were trying to live together democratically by promising each other
 
the right to be peaceably different, if and when we wanted to be different.
 
When I came back to Was in
cr forty years later, I found that the argument
 
had advanced a little.  We wre )
:
nning to do more than just promise, we
 
were exploring actively
 those differences could be kept alive
 
2
 
and cherished.  This was a truly extraordinary reversal of policies of the 17th,
 
18th and 19th centuries when Europeans had marched over the surfaces of the
 
world learning how to eliminate local differences for the sake of speeding up
 
the development of the international communication and economic distribution
 
systems we now enjoy.
 
So now here we are -
-
 as Archie Green recently commented -
-
 a nation
 
ambivalent about its past and restless about its future -
-
 trying to learn how
 
to do something that's pretty close to brand new: how to conserve our differences,
 
our small cultures, rather than to drown them out, take them over, or mash them
 
flat.  And when we look around us, we see that the other nations of the world
 
are working at the same issue; certainly the example of the great government of
 
India with its many internal languages and cultures comes immediately to mind.
 
The preservation of cultural differences may in deed be the primary problem
 
of our times, our own great adventure. In the United States we've barely
 
started, but that means that the sky is the limit.  During the next two weeks
 
on the Mall, we will be hearing from some of the original pioneers in this
 
endeavor, the courageous ones who continue to practice and present their own
 
indigenous art forms in spite of all the loudspeakers of Hollywood and all the
 
art galleries of Manhattan: the Dewey Balfas of southwestern Louisiana, the
 
Duff Severes (
saddlemakers) of Oregon who keep on, as Duff will tell you taking
 
"ugly, bloody old hides and working with them until you make something really
 
beautiful out of them."  They will join with their counterparts from other
 
continents -
-
 the Highland Maya of Guatemala, the Rajistanis of India.
 
3
 
We have a chance during the next two weeks to learn from these original
 
artists-strategists, to conceive perhaps of new and better techniques for
 
supporting them and their art forms, and to refresh our spirits by revelling
 
in the remarkable, varied, and even new ways in which human beings, through
 
their art, continue stubbornly and bravely to make evident just who they are
 
and from where they come.
 
The Folk Arts Program at the National Endowment for the Arts greets
 
the birthing of this new section -
-
 Cultural Conservation -
-
 at the Festival
 
of American Folklife.  We are proud of the long and cooperative relationship
 
between the Folk Arts Program and the Folklife Festival, and between our
 
parent institutions, the National Endowment for the Arts and the Smithsonian.
 
And now for two whole weeks let us rejoice together in the spirit of infinite
 
huirin L
re.tivity made manifest in so many and such glorious ways right here
 
on our national Mall.
 
0