Page 1 of 11 
 
Interviewee: Kerry Kosmoski-Goepfert 
Date: 03-07-2019 
Interviewer: Charitie V. Hyman 
Location: Muskego, WI 
File Name: afc2018032_05005_ms01 
Background Noise: We were in a café and for the first part of the interview it was crowded. 
There is a large amount of background; people talking, plates clattering, waiters moving about.  
 
Summary of Interview: Kerry Kosmoski-Goepfert talks about college; she triple-majored in 
French, Spanish, and Political Science. She says that her mom knew she loved working with 
people and encouraged Kerry to move to nursing. She describes initially working in pediatrics 
and shares memorable stories. She emphasizes taking care of the whole person; she believes that 
mental health permeates all fields of nursing. She describes learning skills on the job and 
learning to navigate the “culture of healthcare.” She notes achievements in mental health 
nursing. 
 
Time 
Content Description 
0.00.00 
Introductions 
0.00.38 
Grew up in southeastern Wisconsin, in Milwaukee proper. Spent life in 
Milwaukee, except for eight years in Madison. Went to school in Madison, for 
undergrad and master’s. Took doctorate at University of Illinois Chicago, and 
graduate coursework at Kellogg Graduate School of Management at Northwestern 
University. 
0.01.19 
Returned to live in greater Milwaukee area, to be close to family, with parents 
getting older and making sure everything was in place and they were being taken 
care of. 
0.01.36 
“I think my memories are really the caring and the lovingness of our family, and 
the support that we always got. So, it wasn’t like a particular place—I could say 
vacations, yes, and all those things—but it was rather something that throughout 
all those experiences was the best memory. And people always being there, being 
supportive to talk things through, but to make decisions, and you were the 
decision-marker.” 
0.02.13 
No one in family worked in healthcare. Father was tool and die maker, and 
mother stayed at home at that time.  
0.02.47 
“I should say I’m probably potentially different from any of your interviewees, 
because when I went to school, I had a triple major, because I wanted to work in 
international relations. My majors were French, Spanish, and political science, 
because I had the dream of working at the United Nations at the time. Through 
school, my strong suits were really math and sciences. But senior year, I switched 
and thought I’m done with that, and took more arts and languages … Went to 
college with the triple major, and what really happened—into the first semester, it 
was really easy, the languages were easy and poli-sci was easy, and I wasn’t 
challenged enough, and I missed the sciences. And at the end of freshman year, I 
had a conversation with my mother, a good conversation that really helped me 
out. And she said, ‘You really love people—love helping people. Have you ever 
thought of nursing? That would be a good match for you.’ And she could have 
Page 2 of 11 
 
suggested probably almost anything, and I would have taken the turn at that point. 
So, the influence was really my mother’s suggestion. Took more sciences then, 
got more familiar with what nurses did, and thought, ‘Oh, not bad’ and decided to 
do more of that.” 
0.04.25 
Found this more challenging and engaging than previous work—especially 
because of the sciences (anatomy, physiology, biochemistry, chemistry, etc.). 
0.04.40 
First degree at Madison was a Bachelor’s of Science, with concentration area in 
nursing. This different from a BSN. “The difference is in Madison you get a 
bachelor of science global degree, because you’re more heavily seeded or 
educated in the sciences. Where schools give a BSN, their sciences are more 
intense, and they get a nursing—that’s the differentiation.” So, the difference is 
sciences focused on nursing vs sciences that could be put to use in any career. 
Took classes with pre-med students, pre-microbiologists. “So, you’re taking what 
I call hardcore sciences, much more in depth and breadth. Whereas programs in 
nursing still have sciences, you may and may not be taking with people in your 
discipline; however, the discipline in the multidisciplinary grouping would not be 
pre-med. So, a speech pathologist might take that.” 
0.06.37 
Madison and large universities tend to be a ‘2 plus 2’—at first two years at 
university, you take all the prerequisites to get into your program of 
specialization. So, there’s a two-tier system: first admitted to university, and then 
at the end of sophomore or freshman year, you apply to get accepted into the 
actual school. “There may be an introductory nursing course during those first 
years, but normally you’re taking your sociology, anthropology, sociology, 
English, math, and all of your sciences—that’s what it was like in the school 
where I went. And then your last two years are all nursing courses.” 
0.07.50 
On the nursing courses at Madison in last two years of degree: “For me, it was 
working with patients, working with people, and it was constantly being 
challenged. I think being an educator right now of nurses, things haven’t changed 
in that, the first clinical are you get where you have patients, all of a sudden you 
have to synthesize the anatomy, the physiology, the pharmacology, the sociology, 
the psychology, the growth & development, just to name a few, and you have to 
come up with plans of care to work with people and their families … So, it’s very 
challenging, very exhausting, because you have to learn how to put all those 
pieces together, and there isn’t a magic wand to let you put those pieces together.” 
0.08.50 
In the ‘2 plus 2’ program, clinicals begin once accepted to school—junior year—
and you have these until you graduate, and then you continue with your theory or 
didactic courses which address nursing needs. 
0.09.18 
Clinical experience: “At the time we did two in complex acute med/surg units. 
They were step-down units from the intensive care units—a lot of post-surgical 
patients. Also did it on a hematology/oncology floor, and had a community 
rotation, where we worked with family and the community on the east side of 
Madison. They started off in Middleton, and then they moved to the east side. 
And also did a pediatric rotation at that time—schools had peds as rotations 
specialized, so we did it there. Some of my colleagues might have done a mental 
health rotation in place of one of their med/surg rotations.” 
Page 3 of 11 
 
0.10.19 
On rotations: “At that time, there were clinicals available in the specialty areas—
pediatrics, community health, and psychiatric/mental health.” 
 
  
0.10.44 
“Probably my most memorable was from my peds experience, actually. There 
was this little baby … and his name was Nicky. And Nicky was a failure to cry 
baby. And I remember shaking because I got assigned to him and walking into the 
room. And if you opened up a washcloth, he did not fit corner to corner; he was 
so tiny. And the nurse said, ‘Can you come all the time? Because when you hold 
him, he stops crying … And then I was appalled, because I had some 
communication with parents, and they just didn’t want to come and see him. And 
normally failure to cry happens if you’re neglected. And I never knew what 
happened. And then there was a young girl—I did not take care of, and don’t 
recall her name. But she was kind of a life around the unit at the time, where she 
had so many chronics and had to have so many surgeries … that she was just 
never going home in the near future. And so, the nurses actually became almost 
like surrogate mothers. And so, they would bring her on their hip, with all her 
tubes … to report. And then they would carry her around the unit, and that’s how 
she got her love and touch. Those were probably the two most memorable.” 
0.12.38 
“And probably the other one, when I was a senior, there was a young girl who had 
lupus. And one of the side effects, or comorbidities, that you can get if you have 
lupus is kidney failure. And her kidneys indeed failed, and she had a kidney 
transplant. But she was sick of living her life being connected to a machine. And 
she couldn’t even come in three times a week—she couldn’t stand it anymore. 
And one day when we walked into her room in the morning, she had disconnected 
her shunt in her wrist. If you disconnected your arterial-vena shunt, you bleed out 
in less than three minutes. And she was gone. And I just remember being so 
shocked, because she was so young.” 
0.13.28 
“And I guess I have another one too as I’m thinking back. There was a young man 
when I worked at the oncology unit. And he was dropdown-dead gorgeous, and 
he was a farmer, and he was 18. And he was diagnosed with an acute leukemia, 
and his prognosis was very dim. So, he came in exceedingly healthy, and I got 
assigned to him, and I kept thinking, ‘What are we gonna do?’ Because in the 
beginning years you want to do things with tube and things, and you don’t focus 
on therapeutic things. But we were assigned to talk. And we played euchre—he 
tried to teach me euchre—I was horrible and all that. But our biggest 
conversation, the learning, was he was agnostic, and he had no belief system. And 
me coming from a really traditional Catholic upbringing, it blew me away that 
somebody could be that sick and have no belief system. And I asked him, ‘What 
do you think will happen once you pass away?’ And he ceased said, ‘I’ll cease to 
exist’—I’ll never forget his words. And I wanted to say, ‘Oh, doesn’t that bother 
you? That there’s no afterlife?’ And he said, ‘It’s just the way it is; that’s what I 
believe. You have your belief system and I have mine.’ And I said, ‘Okay,’ and 
he continued to play euchre with me. And over the course of that semester he got 
increasingly ill. And you’re rotated to other clinical patients. And I came in on the 
last clinical day with my patient preps all done, and my instructor called me aside 
and said, ‘You know what, Carrie, one of the patients on the floor requested that 
you have him today, and so we’ll switch your assignment.’ And I thought, 
Page 4 of 11 
 
‘Great’—because I’m not prepped. Well, it was this gentleman—this young man 
who I’d had way back in January. And I’ll never forget that either, because I 
walked in and he grabbed my hand and said, ‘I am dying, and I know that, and I 
think it’s probably today or tomorrow, but I wanted you to take care of me today, 
and will you just sit with me?’ And we had some wonderful conversations. And 
patients give you gifts. It’s not monetary, and it’s not something that’s tangible. 
But they give you un-tangible gifts. And the gift from him to me that day—I’ll 
never forget it—he basically said, ‘You know what? I’ve seen the light.’ And I 
said, ‘See the light?’ And he said, ‘I’ve crossed over. I saw what it’s like when 
one dies, there is a life after, and I do believe, and I wanted to share that with you. 
And I will be okay, so do not cry for me, but can you just sit?’ And I just sat. And 
he died that morning, and—yeah. I just remember him. But what a gift. I’m 
starting to cry. And some people might say that he did that just to do it. But I 
don’t believe that. And at that time, that was in the seventies, and at that time, 
conversation regarding death and dying were just beginning. And Dr Kübler-Ross 
was interviewing thousands of people, to put together her theory of what you’re 
going through in death and dying … And I really believed that there was a science 
and that people did go through different stages. And so, for him to do that, that 
was unbelievable. But you do carry that with you.” 
0.17.46 
“So they gave me gifts. And I figured out that just being there—just being present 
with people—is so important, versus the physical care, sometimes. So, he gave 
gifts. That young girl who committed suicide gave a gift of having a peek into 
someone’s world who’s ‘I can’t do this anymore’ and making that decision.” 
0.18.22 
On how these experiences influenced interviewee: “I think so [that these 
experiences caused interviewee to think more about mental health]. When I reflect 
back, I always was a people person. And I think when you look at my personal 
belief on mental health even back then was the fact that if a friend called you in 
grade school and needed you, you were there for them. In high school, somebody 
had difficult in math or broke up with a boyfriend, you were there for them. And 
this is looking back—there was something there. But you recognize that we exist 
on so many planes and it’s not all physical. And you have to be okay mentally to 
go on physically. So, it might not have been classified that way, but it was always 
important for me to make sure that everybody was okay. And then the experiences 
you went through in nursing school, you became more and more aware of how 
important … body, mind, and spirit, the whole person, is. Back then we used to 
say you have to take care of the entire person, including their spirit. That all 
influenced the importance of mental health.” 
0.19.53 
“And I think the other thing, going into practice, I knew as an undergrad that I 
was going back to graduate school. Because I wanted to teach—I didn’t 
necessarily like all the teachers I had, I didn’t think they knew what they were 
talking about. But that’s a young person’s perspective.” At the time, had to 
practice for seven years before you want into education. “So, I fought the system. 
And my thinking was, ‘Why? Why does this only pertain to nurses? Because MDs 
take no time. So, when I got out, I truly practiced fulltime for a year, because I 
knew I was going back to grad school after that. So, I said, ‘How can I get the 
best experience from a physical, physiology, pharmacological, psychosocial 
Page 5 of 11 
 
standpoint, that I could best prepare myself to go back that quickly?’ And so, I 
chose to go into a step-down cardiac floor, because at that time you could enter 
directly into the ICU. Now you can. And I did that for three months and applied 
for transfer into the intensive care unit. And then to further prepare myself I used 
to moonlight in the burn unit. And I thought, ‘Okay, I’m at an acute care center—
I need to have community experience.’ And so, I also moonlit at a hospital that 
was based in the community. I wanted to see the full continuum and see how 
everyone was affected.”  
0.21.50 
“And mental really permeated all of that. Working with burn patients, there was a 
lot of death; there was a lot of disfigurement. Just maintaining emotional stability 
for them. Intensive care unit patients—again working with death, working with 
their family. I had the fortunate or unfortunate experience of working with the 
very first toxic shock child in Wisconsin … It was a new disease back then. It 
wasn’t even coined at that point. But at that time, there was a tampon on the 
market. They were really thick—I can’t remember the name … And what the girls 
were doing, and they weren’t changing them each time they were going to the 
bathroom. But then when they did change them, they caused an abrasion in their 
vaginal canal. And that opening allowed bacteria to get into their bloodstream, 
and they became toxic and went into shock. And at the beginning, people were 
dying—and I want to say dying right and left—but there were a lot of people who 
died, because nobody knew what this was. And I still remember—she was 16 
years old, a basketball player at one of our Catholic schools in town—came in 
Sunday night not feeling well, high fever, vomiting. And she had been vomiting 
all day. They thought it was the flu. But because of her temperature and just the 
way she looked, they brought her to the ICU. We were all dead tired, it was the 
end of our shifts, and honestly nobody wanted to take on another patient. But 
some of us stayed and took on, and I left. My colleagues stayed because they were 
on second shift. And then we were jointly assigned to her, I want to say over the 
next 30-45 days. And over that time, we worked with the CDC, took blood 
samples, and nobody knew what it was. And the same thing started popping up in 
Madison, on the east coast, on the west coast. Women were coming in with signs 
of shock … And we would hit them with everything … But in those days, kidneys 
would shut down, the antibiotics weren’t effective, and that little girl passed 
away. But again, spiritually, emotionally, being there. And knowing as a nurse 
you don’t pass it off to the clergy, because they’re not always there. But that’s 
part of our role as well.” 
0.24.44 
On mentoring during clinicals: “Oh yes. Actually, my mentor is one of my best 
friends now. And it was my very first clinical, fall of junior year. And right now, 
she’s in Utah, finishing her career there. And she pushed me like the dickens—
matter of fact, I got migraines that semester. But she just kept pushing me, and we 
laugh about it to this day. But somewhere along the line … we had conversations 
and I’d say, ‘Why did you do that?’ And she said, ‘Because I knew you had 
potential, and wanted you to work to your potential.’ … She’s a force to contend 
with … She was very hard on me—expected a lot. The bar was set very high. She 
did Socratic questioning. And so, once you demonstrated you knew this, there 
Page 6 of 11 
 
was always one more question, and one more question, and one more question. 
And as a student this really raises your anxiety!” 
0.26.23 
On memories of first days at work after graduation: “I think it’s the assimilation 
into the role of an RN. You know, because you’ve been educated for so long to 
become one. And you take your last exam—and I remember one of the professors 
saying, ‘There’s no drum roll. No one shouts from the mountains. But suddenly, 
magically, you are this.’ But that happens in every professional’s life. I think it’s 
the same thing. And all of a sudden, you’re at the job, and you’re with all of these 
people you don’t know. And you’re expected to be on your own, so that’s 
challenging. They had a three-month orientation period, which was nice. But 
because nursing has always been a profession that there’s not enough of us in, you 
know, in my orientation program when I went to nights, there was times I was the 
only person on nights. So, I’m not sure who was orienting me! So, it was trial by 
fire. So, it was just challenging, anxiety-provoking. Also, during that time you’re 
prepping to take your licensure exam, and at that time everybody was herded into 
the arena downtown. And when you walk in you have to have picture ID, and 
they check your picture. And people walk back and forth around tables when 
you’re taking this exam over two days. So, a lot of anxiety. So, it’s just learning to 
become confident and competent. And just learning to navigate—you’re hard on 
yourself, because you expect yourself to be perfect. And I did a lot of research in 
my later years on the culture of nursing and healthcare. And unfortunately for me 
and for all of us, we tend to be perfectionists. And so, we tend to be hardest on 
ourselves. But on the flip side, if you’re taking care of people, I would hope you 
would want to be really, really good.” 
0.29.07 
On learning about culture of hospital: “It would have been nice to have a mentor 
there, to say ‘Look out for this or that’. But that doesn’t occur. You learn it as you 
experienced it. And then you had to sit back and reflect on it. ‘Did my day go 
well? Did it not go so well?’ If it did, ‘What was under my control?’ You learn 
quickly who you want to go to for help, because they’re more relaxed about it 
versus expecting perfection all the time. So, you learn over time, I would truly 
say. No one tells you what it is. You get a mission and vision—the organization’s 
mission and vision. And the people who work within the organization do not 
always emulate it.” 
0.30.18 
On the community of nurses within the hospital: “I think there were unspoken 
boundaries. The commonality was your orientation class. So, when you were in 
big group initially, everyone was mixed. Then you get assigned to units. And I 
worked in a hospital that was circular and had four quads—orange, yellow, blue, 
and green. And I worked on the orange quad. And over time, the orange people 
kind of sat with the orange people. And the cultures kind of assimilated that way. 
And then how you learned about what was going on in the other units was really 
through conversations with your friends who you had initially come in with, who 
were on the other units. And then there were times that you’d wish you were on 
the other units, because the manager was more understanding. We were fortunate 
that the unit I worked on, our manager was a ‘lifer,’ and she was just well 
grounded and just really relaxed and never got flustered, because, you know, she 
saw it all. So, we were very fortunate and had a good culture.” 
Page 7 of 11 
 
0.31.57 
On working with other staff in the hospital: “This depended on the person. There 
is a hierarchy that exists in hospitals and always has. And depending on what 
person occupied what role, the hierarchy could be more pronounced or less 
pronounced. And you just knew which—it was passed on by word of mouth 
through the other nurses, ‘Stay away from so-and-so;’ ‘Don’t call so-and-so at 
this time of night;’ ‘This is what this person likes.’ So, they’re kind of teaching 
you how to kind of live within the culture. But by doing that sometimes there was 
poor interactions; for instance, there was one physician who would just scream at 
the nurses no matter what and was just so obnoxious. But instead of anybody 
confronting him, they would just let it perpetuate. So that culture was not good 
when he came on the unit. When other people came on the unit, it was just really 
relaxed and free-flowing and collaborative, and you were part of a team. So, you 
kind of learned—you also got verbal cues, or you just look at the faces, the body 
language.” 
0.33.38 
On the hierarchy: “The hierarchy has changed over time. However, it still exists. 
And the strength of it, again, depends on who’s in what role. The differences 
that’s caused the change in what’s occurred, the shift, was the healthcare 
environment and also all of the quality improvement, and patients getting more 
involved in their care. Partly there’s more collaborative interaction with 
physicians. But we also academically teach people how to collaborate. So, there’s 
more being done at the front end to mold what I call being a good citizen. And 
sometimes it doesn’t work.” 
0.34.40 
“Well, it’s interesting, because healthcare—if you look back at the culture of 
healthcare, the first hospitals were established by nurses around the turn of the 
century. And the physicians got more involved in a business sense when they 
realized it could be more profitable.” “Healthcare organizations mirror to a great 
extent the service—the military—where military is hierarchical, very 
patriarchal—and that’s what hospitals were in the ‘20s, ‘30s.” Some studies 
suggest that there are important cultural similarities between hospitals and 
military environments; including some crossover of personnel between medical 
and military professions. Also feels that to some degree changes mirror the 
progress of the women’s movement. For example: Maude traces a life from late 
nineteenth through twentieth century and reflects the generally drastic changes of 
the times. 
0.38.06 
Interviewee worked for one year fulltime before going back to school. And then 
went back to school and made sure that continued to be part-time for 8-10 years at 
two different jobs, “because I still wanted to increase my skills and maintain my 
confidence in practice”. Taught in spring and fall, but in summers worked fulltime 
in hospital, moonlighting on weekends at community health hospital. 
0.38.54 
On ‘fighting the system’ to go back to school: “Academically, I was strong. 
Academically, I had gone to Madison as an undergrad. And I think people just 
listened. There was that criterion that was in the books, and it was addressed, and 
I explained, ‘This is what I’m doing, why I’m doing it, and this is my goal.’ And 
it just went away. And if I’d just sat back and waited, they’d have been fine with 
that too [laughs].” 
Page 8 of 11 
 
0.39.49 
Bachelor’s and Master’s received from UW-Madison, and PhD from University 
of Illinois, Chicago, with coursework at Kellogg Graduate School of 
Management, “because I wanted the lead person there on my dissertation because 
of his background, and he actually is one of the lead guys at Kaiser Permanente 
now, in California.” 
0.40.28 
In Master’s, took a Master’s in Science with a focus in nursing. “I was an 
overachiever, so I did a triple Master’s. What it was a Master’s of Science, but 
with three concentration areas. And so, for practice, it was a cardiovascular 
clinical nurse specialist. I knew I wanted to educate, so adult education was the 
second one. And the third one, because I wanted to research in healthcare, was 
healthcare systems leadership. And in that prong, I was able to take a number of 
courses … through the College of Business, which I absolutely loved.” 
0.41.22 
On the idea of teaching nursing: “As a student, I really developed it as a student. 
And then the other thing then that I began to develop, and probably developed 
more fully when I was in my Master’s program, is that I always wanted to join 
education and practice or service and education, whichever way. Because at that 
time, there was a split, meaning they worked parallel to each other. It was almost 
in my mind like toddlers in parallel play. And yes one fed the other. But in order 
for education to feed service or practice, you have to understand what practice 
means—in my mind, more in depth than what we are. And even at that time, I 
was shocked to find that there wasn’t joint meetings … But in hindsight now, I 
understand it more. Because at that time, nursing was still trying to find its 
ground. So, in the ‘70s and ‘80s—it wasn’t until the ‘90s that this changed—they 
would have the administrative staff of the hospital, they could be in one tower of 
the hospital and then nursing would be in a separate ... and they didn’t have the 
same support. So, it’s kind of like everything was evolving.” 
0.43.14 
“Because how do you communicate? How do you run down the hall to say, ‘I just 
had this brainstorm idea’ or ‘Help me with this.’ And it’s just the hierarchy again. 
And it’s really reflective of a lot of things going on in society. We were very 
different. I’m pleased to say though I’ve realized what I wanted to do. I mean, I 
was able to do lots of things, and you know, after my PhD, I opened up my own 
consulting firm, and became an external consultant to healthcare systems. And we 
were a thinktank to envision what healthcare of the future—which is now today—
should look like. And I’m pleased to say that things are in place. Still need to be 
tweaked a lot, but they’re there. And I knew that I wanted to be in academia. So, 
after making my inroads on the service side, knew I wanted to be back there … 
But the fun part is in the last 20 years, I’ve been able to be on the academic side, 
but be involved in an administrative position for 10 of those 20 years, where we 
could shape curriculum and policy. And we were part of a strategic planning 
group that actually formulated a committee across the state of Wisconsin, where 
the nursing administrators and the academicians meet 2-4 times a year in the 
different regions, to work on initiatives that are collaborative. We’re at the same 
table, talking. It’s really fun. So, I was president of that for a while. And I also 
had the opportunity to be chair of the American Association of Colleges and 
Nursing, and education group, and through that worked with educators across the 
country to shape the curriculum moving forward. 
Page 9 of 11 
 
0.46.04 
As a holistic practitioner, felt that needed to know the family and patients; felt 
that can use those things to help them get better. Holistic practice is getting to 
know people from a 360 view. And interviewee imparts that on to students . 
“Therapeutic communication: the mental health of a patient is equally as 
important as their physical health, because the two are intertwined. And so, 
always practice that. Always do projects where they had to address those aspects.”  
0.47.42 
In 2007-08, interviewee ran for Associate Dean position at Marquette, 
transitioning out after 10 years. “This was at the time when care was too 
expensive and wasn’t necessarily the highest quality. So, the question was how 
we get our students to be better clinical decisionmakers and see people and reach 
out to people holistically, so that we’re getting them ready to take care of patients 
for the next generation. So, we had thinktanks at the college with people from 
every specialty present. Lots of headaches, because we had to work progressively. 
And we develop a curriculum that we thought was strong in critical decision 
making. And part of it was we wanted to de-stigmatize certain areas in health. 
And so, we looked at, as a thread, freshman to senior year, we threaded mental 
health concepts. The other thread we put in there—we believed people needed to 
understand that only a percentage of the time does a person interact with the acute 
care sector; they need to know what comes before or after … So, we had a project 
that required thinking about community health and think about that holistically. 
And we looked at leadership, because they needed to be leaders. And we looked 
at ethics, because we wanted to develop them further on their ethics. And we did 
spiritual development … We also deliberately infused quality and safety 
education as a thread.” 
0.50.59 
“So let’s talk about mental health. Out of all of them, mental health is probably 
the most disenfranchised. Traditionally in curricula, we would offer mental health 
as a course. And you may or may not have gotten a clinical rotation. That’s how 
curricula were structured, and it was almost a silo-ing of that. ‘Okay, I’m learning 
about mental health this semester, and I’m done with that and I passed.’ … But 
how do we get them to realize it’s important in the total picture. And that’s why 
we threaded it. So, freshman through senior year, we made sure we had simulated 
experiences and we also had patient care on assignments that really helped 
students understand and work better with patients with mental-health conditions. 
And you know when you’re thinking about mental health—not everyone has 
schizophrenia or psychosis … Anxiety is one of the biggest. And we still have to 
learn to deal with it. And the goal was—we also instituted where they had a 
standard assessment of the status of someone’s mental health. And we wanted by 
the end of the four years for that to be just second nature—when they did a 
physical assessment, those questions would just be added in.” 
0.52.38 
“And part of mental health is safety too.” Instituted idea of keeping “going 
upstream” with other questions to probe safety (seatbelts or funs). “And in 
essence, after all this, seeing how stable is the individual.” 
0.53.32 
On stigmatization of mental health: “For me, it means you label someone and it’s 
a bad label. If they have a mental health issue, you avoid it. If they’re mentally ill, 
they’re different from you and therefore they’re not part of the community in 
which you live. So, trying to get them to recognize that we all have something as 
Page 10 of 11 
 
part of us, our past, or our relationship. And it doesn’t mean that it’s bad. Like, 
someone had an appendectomy or appendicitis or a heart attack; this person had a 
nervous breakdown. Somebody has psoriasis; this person is a manic depressive. 
So, normalizing it more, if that makes sense, so that they’re not giving any 
negative vibes to it but instead trying to treat it and trying to help the people deal 
with it so that they can function.” 
0.54.50 
On where the stigmatization occurs: “I think it’s everybody [both general 
population and medical professionals]. I think yes. I’m gonna say yes. And I had a 
think in my head about factual data that made me arrive at that decision. Because 
you know, when you did your mental health training, you always heard about the 
worst-case scenarios. And then, you know, nobody wanted to go to, like, 
Mendota, the state hospital, or who wants to go on a locked ward. I mean, there’s 
something wrong with them, so why would we deal with them? So, treated very 
differently. And because our instructors might have been anxious around them, 
that is passed off to you. And it’s the same thing. So, we have to have the teachers 
be sensitized to it and to recognize it.” 
0.56.08 
On changes in healthcare in Wisconsin: “It’s too early yet to say. But what I can 
say that there have been huge movements.” Interviewee used to be on statewide 
board looking at how to care on people with mental-health issues in the 
community and noticed the big change from an in-patient to out-patient focus, 
except for the criminally insane. “Because, again, it exists on a continuum.” 
0.57.09 
“A lot more people wanted to go into psych. Another change is that people freely 
talk about conditions in class, and it’s not necessarily hidden. Or students will say, 
‘So-and-so is on this antidepressant medication.’ It’s conversational, versus 
something that’s taboo.” 
0.57.43 
“It’s just conversational and it’s also done from the perspective of ‘Okay, they 
have it. So, what can we do to help? Is there something that can be changed in the 
environment?’ Reminds interviewee of the changes in attitude towards service 
animals over time. 
0.58.14 
“They’re normalizing it, and you can see it. They’re not nervous around it. The 
behavioral patterns, you know, they don’t ostracize. They include.” 
0.59.03 
On challenges for healthcare and nursing in Wisconsin: “We’re so short of nurses. 
The shortage is huge. And the problem with the shortage, while you’re trying to 
decrease the shortage, the shortage stays the same and gets worse because people 
are tired out there and so they leave. So, I would say the shortage is huge. The 
other thing is how do you get the supply up. Faculty are aging, and it’s not a high-
paying profession [faculty]. There’s not enough space on academic universities to 
have larger classes necessarily. And then if we don’t stop teaching traditionally—
you have to have so many hours working with clients in a healthcare facility. It’s 
not mandated, but people come up with a magical number and say, ‘So much.’ 
And I question if it has to be that, or if we can be creative and, say, use simulated 
experience. Some of these conditions are rare and might only be encountered once 
or twice—and simulation might be a good way to go.”  
1.01.11 
On simulated clinical experience: Worked with engineers to design a mini-
hospital in our college, “and they’re very fine-tuned. We hired someone who’s the 
president of the National Association of Simulation to look at how do you 
Page 11 of 11 
 
develop these scenarios. It’s taking them through a patient-care situation when it’s 
not real life, and so therefore the danger—the risk if they do something wrong—is 
minimal. But even going through the simulation, it helps them function when they 
come to it.” 
1.02.53 
On something that the interviewee would change about nursing in Wisconsin: 
“You know, I think at the advanced practice level, the education really could 
function in a general practitioner sense—like, a family physician—they could 
function independently, versus having a co-signer or a person who oversees 
them.” This is a state-by-state variable requirement. “Probably the other thing is, 
it would be really cool if all of the boards of nursing across the states could get on 
the same page and function under their own charter, so to speak. The problem is 
that every state has a state board of nursing—and that’s not itself a problem—the 
problem is who sits on that state board, and the requirements vary from state to 
state. There’s some states where the board is entirely comprised of MDs, and 
other states where the board is almost entirely consumers, and maybe one medical 
professional. And because of that, we’re not necessarily in control of our own 
practice. Now, I think you need to have oversight without a doubt … But it’s very 
hard to get everyone on a consistent playing field.” For example, every time the 
nurse practice act opens, they’re afraid they’re going to lose privileges. “Doing 
this would open more opportunities and would help provide more healthcare for 
individuals” if everyone could function doing what their license allows and what 
they’re competent to do, this could help to decrease the backlog in healthcare 
systems and the shortage in nurses. 
1.06.01 
Feels that Wisconsin is one of the most progressive states in nursing, insofar as 
nurse practice acts are not restrictive, and there’s a lot more in terms of what 
nurses can do, in terms of oversight or an order from a doctor. “To bring it down, 
I can remember when I was in Texas—I was speaking at something or other—and 
I was talking about what people can do. Here, if you look pale and woozy, we’d 
put you on a chair and check your vital signs. That’s an independent action that I 
would do, based on what I saw. And a friend who moved down there, and was 
practicing, she can’t independently make that decision to do that. That’s just 
crazy.” Generally, differences between what nursing and advanced practice 
practitioners can do, even though RN certification is national; different states have 
different pass rates. So, students encouraged to take exam where expectations 
highest, so that it would be easier to move from state to state. License bears seal 
of state where you’re licensed, so would still be subject to their rules. Some states 
are ‘compact states,’ meaning that no re-licensing required if you move to them, 
although you may have to do a continuing ed class. In other, ‘non-compact’ states, 
requirements are more onerous. 
1.09.53 
Feels that this arrangement is very limiting for nurses and healthcare provision, 
but that things are better than they used to be, with more ‘compact’ states.