Finding Roots: Asian American Farmers in Contemporary America 
Ariana de Lena 
December 14, 2020 
Interview conducted by Katelyn Reuther 
Ari de Lena is the founder and owner of Kamayan Farm in Seattle, Washington. 
This was a 
remote interview conducted during the COVID-19 pandemic. Ari de Lena joined the 
interview from Seattle, Washington, and Katie Reuther joined from Chittenden, Vermont. 
Interview Log 
00:00:00 
Introductions 
00:00:31 
Ari's family loves food. She is the youngest of five kids, so there were always a 
lot of people to feed amidst many moving parts. The one time they would come 
together during the week was around weekly family dinners. Cooking was all 
hands on deck. Every person was responsible for sharing the cooking load, no 
matter their age. This meant that Ari started cooking from a 
young age. She likens 
living in a 
communal house and cooking communally to growing up in a 
large 
family. 
They grew up cooking a 
lot of different kinds of food. Ari's dad is Filipino, so 
they cooked a 
lot of Filipino food. Food was the foundation of their relationships 
growing up. 
00:02:10 
During that time, Ari was not thinking about the origins of their food. She 
classifies her parents as hippies. As kids, they weren't allowed to eat a 
lot of 
things, including sugar. However, they didn't talk very much about where their 
food was coming from. Because they were pretty low income, they usually ate the 
foods that were the most affordable. The meals they ate were robust, but not a 
lot 
of them were expensive foods. 
00:03:15 
When Ari was seventeen years old, she moved to Los Angeles to go to school and 
study environmental justice. She had a 
professor that took the class on "toxic 
tours" of Los Angeles to show them communities experiencing things like 
disparate levels of pollution and increased freight traffic. One of the communities 
they visited was the South Central Farm, which at the time, was a 
fourteen-acre 
farm in the middle of south central Los Angeles. 
Ariana de Lena Interview Log, December 14, 2020 
1 
After the riots and protests in 1992, it was given to the community as a 
form of 
reparations and to pacify the community members there. A 
concrete parking lot in 
the densest and most industrial part of Los Angeles was converted into a 
garden. 
One of her most distinct memories was speaking with a 
grandfather there that 
migrated across the border from Mexico. He brought seeds with him from his 
culture, and he was teaching his grandchildren how to cultivate those seeds in Los 
Angeles. For Ari, that was a 
catalyzing moment for the way she thought about 
food and connecting it back to her own culture. She started to think more about 
where food comes from, and what it means to have access to ancestral foods and 
seeds and know how to grow them. It sparked a 
lot of curiosity for her, and she 
still thinks about that moment often. 
00:05:42 
Moving to Los Angeles to go to school was a 
hard choice for Ari. Her dad moved 
to California when she was young, so she was able to get residency as a 
minor if 
she went to school there. After much consideration, she decided she wanted to go 
farther away from home for school. The school she went to had an environmental 
justice program, and at the time, she thought she'd be an environmental lawyer. 
00:06:54 
The transition from Seattle to LA was hard. As the youngest of five, it was hard to 
make the transition away from her family. Most of her family lives in the Seattle 
area, so it felt like an enormous leap to go so far away. She grew up spending a 
lot 
of time outside, and that was a 
huge point of connection for her. Moving to a 
desert, and to a 
city much bigger than Seattle, was a 
stark transition. It took 
several years to feel like she had some sort of relationship with that place and 
ecosystem. 
00:08:30 
Ari spent a 
lot of time in the research realm studying food, mostly focusing on 
food access and how disparate the costs of food were in low-, middle-, and 
higher-income neighborhoods. For one extensive research study, she and her 
group members went to dozens of grocery stores around LA 
to record the cost of 
basic grocery items and compare them across income levels. She was steeped in 
the world of research as she gained an understanding of how inaccessible 
and costly food is for poor people. 
Over the course of the next couple of years, she also looked at how immigrant 
farmers were carving out space in the city for themselves through urban gardens. 
They used them as spaces for cultural resistance and resilience. Ultimately, she 
ended up doing a 
lot of urban agriculture herself. She moved to Berkeley to finish 
school and participated in a 
lot of urban growing there. At the community level, 
she focused on how to create food and cultural resilience simultaneously, 
specifically in urban areas. 
Ariana de Lena Interview Log, December 14, 2020 
2 
00:10:32 
Los Angeles laid the foundation for Ari's understanding of how food works in the 
United States, and how unjust the systems are at every level (growing, transport, 
distribution, access). There, she developed her political consciousness around 
food. Because Los Angeles is a 
place that's so informed by Latinx immigrants, it 
was also the place she began to recognize that food is critical for us to understand 
and continue our own cultures. 
At the time, she was also starting to understand her mixed identity as someone 
who is half Filipino and half white. It tapped into some of her longings of wanting 
to know more about both cultures. That wasn't something they talked about in-
depth while she was growing up. 
00:12:16 
When Ari moved to LA, she started school at a 
private college. It was the first 
time she was exposed to wealth in a 
very day-to-day, real way. A 
lot of her friends 
and peers were incredibly wealthy, and there was a 
lot of culture shock there. 
There were also tensions on campus at that time around students of color and 
white students. She remembers it being a 
confusing time for her, in terms of 
her own racial identity and how she identified. 
00:13:56 
After finishing school in Berkeley, Ari started working at an organization that was 
supporting community groups in documenting and lifting up their struggles to 
people in power. She worked a 
lot on issues around freight transport, incarcerated 
people trying to re-enter society, and climate justice. Her job was to create 
workshops and educational materials to allow people undergoing different types 
of oppression to document their experiences and do power mapping. 
She's grateful every day that she started her professional career there. It gave her 
a 
lot of insight, and she realized there that your work can't be that effective unless 
you're starting from the people that are most impacted by the issues you're 
working on. That period was a 
real education in her life. 
00:15:52 
At that time, Ari was also running a 
youth agriculture program where she taught 
high school-aged students how to run a 
garden in San Francisco. After hitting a 
point where she wanted to do more in the food world and try farming, she went to 
Argentina for four months to work at a 
small, organic farm and orchard. There, 
she learned about the day-to-day lifestyle of a 
farmer. 
00:17:18 
When Ari was at Berkeley, she learned a 
lot more about the techniques of urban 
agriculture through working in the student garden. 
00:17:41 
Ari minored in Spanish, and she wanted to go to a 
Spanish-speaking country for 
her farming stint. During a 
year off between her sophomore and junior years, she 
Ariana de Lena Interview Log, December 14, 2020 
3 
traveled around Latin America and went to Argentina. It felt like the most 
comfortable place to go by herself. 
00:18:31 
When Ari went to Argentina, she was twenty-two or twenty-three years old. 
00:18:50 
Next, Ari went to Chicago to work at an organization called Growing Power. She 
went there through a 
fellowship program with the Congressional Hunger Center. 
The program aimed to place people working on issues of food and hunger in a 
grassroots organization for six months. The fellows then went to Washington, 
D.C. for six months to work on the federal level. She was placed in Chicago to do 
urban agriculture and educational work. Not only did she develop a 
curricula for 
school garden educators, but she also spent a 
lot of time tending to the acres of 
farms around Chicago. 
00:20:39 
That experience didn't necessarily shape Ari's desire to be a 
farmer. Outside of 
farming in Argentina, it was the most time she had spent on the ground doing 
things like planting, harvesting, and hands-on technical work. That was a 
hard 
period of time, because it was a 
hard organization to work for. There were a 
lot of 
challenging internal dynamics. She was also alone in a 
city she had never been to 
and didn't have community in. Ari learned a 
lot about personal perseverance and 
resilience, but it wasn't really an experience that made her feel excited about 
agriculture. In a 
lot of ways, it was very depleting and took a 
long time to recover 
from. 
00:21:59 
After working in Chicago, Ari went to D.C. to do federal policy work and 
research for the National Family Farm Coalition. The Coalition represents farmers 
and fishers from across the country. There, she learned about what the landscape 
of agriculture looks like nation-wide. Having mostly worked at the urban-scale in 
the past, this was an eye-opening experience for her. She learned a 
lot about the 
urban/rural divide, where it comes from, and how little people know about the 
day-to-day experiences of our food producers. Specifically, she learned a 
lot about 
farmer suicides and the struggle of Black farmers in the South. 
Ari's work at the Coalition gave her a 
broad-lens view of agriculture, and it made 
her feel like she wanted to know more. Farming on a 
much bigger scale was the 
way to do that. Simultaneously, she had been working at several nonprofit jobs for 
years, and she was feeling pretty burned out. She realized she might not be well 
suited to five days a 
week in an office. A 
lifetime of chronic health issues also 
pushed her to work outside more. 
Ariana de Lena Interview Log, December 14, 2020 
4 
At the time, she didn't think of it as becoming a 
farmer and owning her own 
business. It felt like another stage in her learning. She wanted to explore and get 
to know another area she was curious about. 
00:25:21 
Ari managed another farm for a 
couple of years before she started her own farm. 
After an important sales partnership fell through at the farm she was managing, 
she was tasked with figuring out how to sell the vegetables they were growing. 
She started a 
small CSA (Community Supported Agriculture) with her family and 
community members in Seattle. Eventually, it became clear to her that her 
community was behind her and would support her in the work she was doing. It 
gave her confidence to move on and start her own business. She already knew she 
could have at least a 
fifteen-person CSA. 
She ended up leaving her farm manager job, and around the same time, a 
spot 
opened up on a 
nearby piece of land that was used for new farmers. She decided 
to make the leap. She was already managing all of the different facets of a 
CSA, 
so she wanted to do it with her own values and under her own name. That was the 
beginning of the last five years. 
00:27:41 
Ari describes the process of starting her own farming business. She says it has 
been brutal in a 
lot of ways; exciting to feed so many of her community members; 
and fun to have her own business and be able to dictate how things operate. She 
loves the business and marketing side of things. It's a 
way to incorporate art into 
her farm. She took a 
less traditional route to farming than others. Not having 
apprenticed or worked under anyone who knew what they were doing before she 
started her own farm, she learned and built a 
lot of things from scratch. She found 
more informal ways to learn, like through Youtube, and got comfortable with 
asking about things she didn't know about. She says it has been a 
long road. 
00:29:46 
Ari talks about how her identity has influenced her farming journey. First, her 
farm has a 
Tagalog name. She wanted to state from the beginning that she intends 
to farm in a 
way that is culturally relevant for people in her community, and that 
honors her ancestors and the knowledge they carried. A 
lot of the things she 
learned how to farm are Asian crops. 
Learning how to grow foods that are part of her culture has been a 
path back for 
her. For example, she grows a 
lot of bitter melon. Although she didn't grow up 
eating it, it's a 
very important crop in Filipino culture for food and medicine. In 
some ways, she reverse-engineered her understanding of culture through growing 
crops like bitter melon and ginger. The experience of growing a 
plant that many 
people in her culture eat, but never see or experience before it's consumed, is a 
way for her to connect with and feel a 
part of the greater diaspora. She says she 
doesn't know a 
lot of pieces of her culture, but she does know this integral piece. 
Ariana de Lena Interview Log, December 14, 2020 
5 
Ari farms in an area that is predominantly white. Because she is mixed and light-
skinned, she has a 
lot of ease of movement in and out of white spaces that many 
other folks of color don't have. When there are relationships or run-ins that feel 
weird, she doesn't always know if it's racism or just a 
strange encounter. On the 
upside, claiming that her farm is going to be a 
place of cultural and ecological 
restoration has brought a 
lot of people and rich relationships to her. 
00:33:14 
Ari named her farm Kamayan Farm. In Tagalog, kamay is the word for hands. 
Typically when Filipino people reference kamayan, it's a 
meal that's eaten at a 
large table covered with banana leaves. The food is put on top of the banana 
leaves, and everyone eats with their hands. 
She decided on that name because it's the most intimate and most communal 
way of eating. It's a 
celebration and way of eating that Filipinos used before 
colonization. She wanted to invoke that her farm would be a 
place of community; 
a 
place of closeness with their food; and a 
place trying to heal or break up the 
impacts of colonization (on diets and mentality around land and food). 
00:34:52 
Ari has grown Asian crops from the beginning, especially more traditional East 
Asian crops. She got really into bitter melon and ginger three or four years ago. 
She also grows a 
lot of eggplant, which is commonly used in Filipino cooking. In 
2020, she was able to grow some chilis that are used in the Philippines. Filipino 
food isn't really spicy, but there are two types of chilies that people commonly 
use. 
The longer she does it, and the more she learns about different Asian crops, the 
more interested and committed she is to growing them. In the U.S., a 
lot of the 
seed providers really flatten what Asian crops are. They remove them from their 
cultural and culinary contexts, so part of her growing Asian crops has also been 
trying to deepen her understanding of what those foods are used for. 
00:36:50 
For a 
lot of the Asian greens she grows, Ari buys seed from local seed growers in 
the Pacific Northwest. There is also a 
lot of seed trading among Asian growers, 
specifically on the West Coast. She has gotten seed for bitter melon and long 
beans from Kristyn Leach at Namu Farm. She often sources seeds that are harder 
to get from Kitazawa Seed Company. She would most like to source seeds from 
Asian growers, but she thinks that's part of a 
vision for the future. 
00:38:10 
To learn about growing Asian crops, Ari has primarily relied on internet research 
and talking to other people who grow them. The climate in the Philippines and the 
climate in Seattle are very different. The Seattle climate is much colder, and the 
season is shorter with less sunlight at certain times of the year. Ari says a 
lot of 
Ariana de Lena Interview Log, December 14, 2020 
6 
times it's just trial and error. It's helpful to talk to Filipino growers about what 
they're doing and how they're accessing seeds and growing things. In this day and 
age, a 
lot of information is on the internet and Youtube, and you can find growers 
around the country or in other parts of the world that are making it happen. 
00:39:19 
Growing ginger is especially meaningful to Ari. It's unique to be able to grow 
fresh ginger in her area, and it's very important in Filipino food. You also can't 
find fresh ginger in grocery stores. Fresh ginger and store-bought ginger are very 
different. The Filipino chefs she works with get really excited about it, because 
they can't find it anywhere else. 
00:40:42 
Grocery store-bought ginger is a 
beige color with a 
rough, papery skin. When you 
open it, it's very fibrous and is generally pretty spicy. Fresh ginger, depending on 
the variety, has beautiful long stems when you pull it out of the ground, and it's 
very aromatic when it's still in the ground. You plant what looks like the ginger 
you buy at the store, and when you pull it out of the ground, you pull out the seed 
ginger and a 
clump of rhizomes similar in shape ("hands"). The variety that Ari 
grows has tinges of pink and light yellow. It doesn't have a 
flesh on it yet, so you 
can cut into it and eat the outside. It has a 
light gingery flavor that's sweet and a 
little bit perfume-y. The pickled ginger eaten with sushi is fresh ginger. It hasn't 
developed those fibers yet, and you can cut through it really easily. 
00:42:50 
Ari sells to a 
number of restaurants, but she has particularly close relationships 
with two of them. The first restaurant, Archipelago, is an upscale, eight-seat 
restaurant that serves a 
multi-course meal. Headed by chef Aaron Verzosa, they 
cook Filipino food with ingredients sourced only from the Pacific Northwest. Ari 
describes it as an homage to growing up in the Pacific Northwest as a 
Filipino 
American and trying to find a 
cultural home there. She has been working with 
them since they opened about a 
year and a 
half ago. They connected, because 
Aaron is a 
storyteller who tells the stories of Filipinos in the Pacific Northwest 
through his food. They're always excited about the more interesting things Ari 
can bring them, which makes them fun to work with. 
The other restaurant, Musang, also serves Filipino food. Ari says it's a 
beautiful 
community hub. There used to be a 
lot more Filipino restaurants in Seattle, but as 
gentrification happened and a 
lot of the Filipino community got pushed out, those 
restaurants went with them. The ones that were there more generationally were 
shut down, so Ari says it's been cool to see this resurgence of a 
new generation 
bringing Filipino food back in a 
different way. 
00:45:39 
Ari had a 
fifty-member CSA 
last year. 
Ariana de Lena Interview Log, December 14, 2020 
7 
00:45:52 
Ari describes her customers. She has a 
pay scale for how her customers can 
purchase CSAs. That means having target customers who are on the higher end of 
the paying scale and can subsidize folks that need to get food at a 
reduced cost or 
for free. More and more over the years, she has attracted CSA customers that want 
more Asian produce. There are a 
lot of folks that are part of her larger community 
in Seattle, including many folks of color, queer folks, and people doing social 
justice work. There are other folks mixed in there that have found her and stayed 
with her over the years. It's a 
group that really cares about some of the cultural 
and soil building work she has been doing. 
While other farmers complain about how demanding their CSA members are, Ari 
has cultivated a 
specific community around her farm through the CSA. She 
typically does a 
land blessing at the beginning of the year and a 
harvest 
celebration towards the end of the season. CSA members are invited to these 
events in order to ground them in where their food is coming from, and to show 
them that they're participating in a 
cycle that's attempting to give back to the 
land, not just extract from it. 
00:48:44 
In 2020, Ari got some incredible feedback about the work she is doing. Her CSA 
members told her it was the best part of their week. It helped them track time 
within the course of a 
week, but also over the course of the year. While many 
people's lives were paused, the farm was continuing to shift and change with the 
seasons. It was a 
way for people to check in week-to-week with how they were 
doing and with the time of year. At the farm, they also run a 
flower CSA, and 
many people relied on the flowers as a 
source of emotional support or upliftment. 
When they've done workshops on the farm in the past, there have been moments 
when people pull their ancestral foods from the ground for the first time. A 
Taiwanese CSA member pulled a 
daikon radish out of the ground for the first time 
at a 
workshop, and it catalyzed a 
lot of memory and ancestral research for her. 
She now grows daikon in her own garden. There have been a 
lot of moments like 
that where people come to the farm and get to see a 
food that they have some kind 
of relationship with, either in the present moment or historically. That's a 
good 
motivator for Ari to keep growing foods that are culturally important to people. 
00:51:02 
Before she started farming, Ari hadn't seen any other Asian American farmers. 
She had seen depictions of Filipino farmworkers (her grandfather was one of 
them), but she didn't see anyone who was currently growing. 
00:51:39 
Not seeing any other Asian American farmers impacted her decision to be more 
vocal about being a 
Filipino farmer. That felt really important for her to say and to 
show. Before she started farming, she didn't feel the need to plant a 
flag in the 
ground for Asian American farmers. However, the longer she farms, the more 
Ariana de Lena Interview Log, December 14, 2020 
8 
apparent it has become that that's a 
really important thing for people to see. That's 
a 
role she's had to learn to step into, even though it's not the most comfortable 
thing for her. 
00:52:53 
When she and other Asian farmers go to farming conferences, it's necessary to 
have each other there as touchstones. A 
lot of the farmers on the West Coast have 
been organizing and working on projects around Asian American seed restoration 
to Asian American communities. It has been another important phase in her 
identity development and understanding of how to make Asian Americans in 
farming more visible. There are a 
lot of non-Asian farmers growing Asian crops, 
and the way they and seed companies talk about it and represent these crops is 
really flattened and devoid of context. It has been special for Ari to develop 
connections with other Asian farmers, to learn from them, and to have a 
cohort to 
bounce ideas and experiences off of. Ari has heard from other folks about a 
lot of 
the racism that they've experienced working for different people. It's critical to 
have spaces to share those things together. 
00:54:43 
Ari has learned a 
lot about community through farming. Particularly where she 
farms, there are people with very different political values and world views. 
However, they're all integral to each other's survival. You need the person who 
comes to fix your tractor, and the people who are going to help you share delivery 
responsibilities. Being a 
more rural farmer has opened her eyes to the affinities on 
which people can build relationships. There is also a 
robust community of queer 
farmers where she farms that do share more of her politics and values. A 
lot of 
other farmers of color in her area have been integral to her sanity. Those are the 
people she's been able to share her experiences with most honestly. 
Predominantly, the folks of color and queer folks she organizes with in the 
farming community have helped ground and teach her. It's a 
community that's 
committed to learning from each other. 
00:57:06 
Ari says she is lucky that her family is very supportive of her decision to go into 
farming. They've been on her team from the beginning, and they're excited about 
it. On her mom's side of the family, which is the white side of her family, her 
grandma and great-aunt were avid gardeners. She spent a 
lot of time around them 
growing up. They were comfortable outside and were always engaging with the 
forests and gardens around them. When she started farming, that was a 
big 
affirmation of them and the values and ethics they had instilled in her. 
Ari's decision to farm has also been meaningful for her dad. It has been a 
way for 
them to make connections to her grandpa, who was also a 
farmworker, and to 
recover information about that generation. A 
lot of other Filipino folks who farm 
get pushback from their families, but Ari is enough generations out from 
Ariana de Lena Interview Log, December 14, 2020 
9 
immigration (second generation) that her dad really understands the calling and 
where it comes from. He has appreciated the cultural work she has done around it. 
00:59:40 
Most concretely, growing plants and being able to share them with folks in 
community connects Ari to her culture. It's exciting for other Filipino folks to see 
the fresh ginger, bitter melon, long beans, and other crops she grows. It also 
compels her to figure out how to tell the stories of the plants, what they mean to 
their culture, and what foods they cook with them. 
For her, having the farm has been a 
commitment to learning the history of both 
sides of her family and to learning and sharing the robust and often untold history 
of Asian and Filipino farmers in the Pacific Northwest. When Ari is working on 
the land, she is constantly thinking of her ancestors; what the same type of work 
looked like for them; and what conditions they were doing it under. She tries to 
tell those stories through her work, either to CSA members or in presentations to 
other folks. It's a 
tapestry into which she is constantly weaving more things. 
1:01:45 
Ari is most proud of the community that has been built around the farm, including 
CSA members, the chefs she works with, and other Filipino folks that the farm 
has brought together. A 
few years ago, she did a 
series of workshops for Black, 
Indigenous, and folks of color that were tied to the seasons. 
There was a 
workshop in each season, and at each one, they would talk about 
what's going on on the land and within their bodies at that moment. They would 
practice land skills, such as learning how to plant and harvest, and then make 
medicine. Those workshops felt and feel like one of the most special things Ari 
has done, in part because they were the most tangible manifestation of the way 
she thinks about her work and the different facets it encompasses. It was also a 
time when she was receiving a 
lot of reflections back from people about how 
meaningful it was to be on the land and to have agency over how they were there 
and what they did. Those are the moments, people, and community she's most 
proud of. 
1:04:07 
Ari talks about how the events of 2020 have impacted her work. Many of the 
challenges that some farmers have been facing around COVID were not as much 
of an issue for her. Her business model is about feeding community, so those 
channels were still open to her. She still had to do her CSA, and a 
large bulk of 
her food goes to organizations that directly feed the community members they 
serve. She was lucky to be able to spend a 
lot of the year continuing to feed 
community members, specifically low-income folks. 
Ari has noticed a 
lot of people in the agricultural community reckoning with the 
legacies of racism in the work they do, and she has been called forward to speak 
Ariana de Lena Interview Log, December 14, 2020 
10 
to that. She often thinks that as a 
mixed white and Filipino person, her identity is 
to be somewhat of a 
bridge builder. She's able to move between white spaces and 
spaces of people of color with some degree of fluidity, which is a 
huge privilege. 
She also thinks that in many ways, it feels like a 
responsibility she wants to carry 
to support white folks in their education and learning, while also opening as many 
doors and providing as much space as possible for folks of color. 
2020 has brought a 
lot of learning for people around her and a 
lot of moments 
when she has had to navigate how she wants to show up; how she wants to bring 
those issues to the surface; and what she wants to offer for people's learning. 
There has been a 
lot of work going on alongside the actual farming. 
1:07:15 
In the future, Ari would like to continue operating more spaces for BIPOC (Black, 
Indigenous, people of color) folks. The trajectory of the farm feels like it's 
moving in a 
good direction. She wants to offer more to her localized farming 
community and make real, tangible changes that positively impact farmers of 
color. A 
lot of the farmers of color in her area struggled more in 2020 than some 
of the white farmers, so continuing to figure out how she can support lessening 
those disparities is the direction she wants to go. 
1:08:32 
Ari's ideal food system is one where local food economies are supported, farms 
are funded for their climate mitigation work, and farmers are given equity in their 
land whether they own it or not. This ideal food system provides equal access to 
fresh, healthy, culturally relevant food for folks. It also supports and uplifts 
cooperatives, unions, and farmworkers. 
We can't have this food system without those things. It's not sustainable the way 
it's currently running. This year (2020), in particular, highlighted the weaknesses 
in our national and global food systems and the strengths of having a 
strong, local 
economy and farmers and farmworkers that are able to take care of themselves. 
COVID highlighted how integral it is that farmers also have the opportunity to be 
healthy and safe. 
Having a 
more diverse food system is the way of the future. This includes 
growing diverse crops and supporting diverse farmers, the different technologies 
they bring to their work, and the cosmologies and belief systems around what it 
means to be tending the land. 
Ari often talks about her work as care work. Farming is care work. Creating a 
healthier food system will require us to see this work as care work and value it as 
such, much like other caring professions such as teachers, nurses, or doctors. In 
order to create a 
more robust and resilient food system, it'll take a 
subversion of 
the way we currently run our economy. 
Ariana de Lena Interview Log, December 14, 2020 
11 
1:11:39 
Ari advises other BIPOC who are trying to get into farming to find the mentors 
you need. That might not necessarily be people in your community, and it might 
not be farmers. It might be people that you need to support your mental or 
physical health. A 
huge part of doing this work is being able to support your mind, 
spirit, and body. Those are some of the harder things to do when you're a 
farmer 
of color. There are many different ways to look for mentors and apprenticeships 
now that don't look like hands-on work at someone's farm. For many BIPOC, that 
isn't a 
realistic avenue for learning, because it takes such a 
toll. Look where you 
can to find the people that will be able to support you, whether that's in your 
technical knowledge or in your resilience. 
1:13:07 
Ari describes the communities that have been integral to her journey as an Asian 
American farmer. In her life, Ari has had a 
number of farmers who have been very 
giving of their time and energy. In terms of emotional support, she has a 
lot of 
friends, family, and farmers of color who have been crucial in her journey. She 
has worked to seek out the people she needs, which has looked different than for a 
lot of other white farmers. 
1:14:30 
End of interview 
Ariana de Lena Interview Log, December 14, 2020 
12