Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
1 
Project: Nursing America’s Veterans 
Name of person interviewed: Kim Foote [KF] 
Facts about this person: 
Sex: Female 
Occupation: Registered Nurse, Patient Safety Consultant 
Residence: (Town where lives) Las Vegas, Nevada  
Interviewer: Alana Glaser [AG] 
Transcriber: Taylor Normington [TN] 
Interview location: remote 
Date of interview: 2/28/21 
Key Words 
Registered Nurse, Las Vegas, Nevada, Dallas, Texas, vocational nurse, licensed nurse, Veterans 
Affairs, spinal cord injuries, Paralyzed Veterans of America, LVN to RN bridge program, 
upward mobility, patient safety consultant, National Center for Patient Safety, root cause 
analysis, High Reliability Organization, COVID-19, National Patient Safety Awareness Week, 
work culture, patient advocacy, VANEEP, MNEI, CDC, MISSION Act.   
Abstract 
In this interview, Kim Foote describes her upbringing and path through nursing education, her 
first nursing role on the Spinal Cord Injury Unit, and her movement from a licensed vocational 
nurse to a registered nurse.  Kim details various government and collegial programs designed to 
guide nurses along a path of upward mobility, the changing role of a nurse as further titles and 
degrees are acquired, and the importance of fostering a culture of high reliability. Finally, Kim 
discusses the responsibilities, challenges, and rewards of working as a Patient Safety Consultant 
both in general and through the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Index 
[0:00] Kim's mother's military service and her career, Kim's education background, her decision 
to become a nurse and not a doctor, the differences between vocational, licensed, and registered 
nurses.   
[6:11] Kim's first job as a vocational nurse for the Veterans Administration (VA), hiring on in 
the spinal cord injury department, the holistic care necessary for spinal cord injury patients and 
the physical and mental toll on nurses performing such care, the importance of keeping calm 
while managing difficult patients, the foundational role that spinal cord injury care played in 
Kim's career.  
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
2 
 
 
[18:37] Kim's path to becoming a registered nurse, the VA's program to bridge LVNs and RNs,  
the grading system implemented, and Kim's place among the first graduates of the Dallas VA 
bridge program.   
 
[27:55] Completing a bachelor's of science in nursing at the University of Texas at Arlington 
while working as a wound care nurse. 
 
[32:11] Kim's shifting nursing responsibilities as she acquired new titles and degrees, differences 
in nurse practitioner, administration, and education degrees.   
 
[37:50] Kim's current role as a patient safety consultant, and the goal of a High Reliability 
Organization. 
 
[41:41] A typical day as a patient safety consultant, the shifting work schedule during the 
COVID-19 pandemic.   
 
[46:13] The challenge of changing work culture as a patient safety consultant, National Patient 
Safety Awareness Week. 
 
[50:03] The rewarding aspects of a patient safety consultant, changing the reputation of the VA, 
the importance of patient advocacy as a nurse. 
 
[53:43] How Kim has seen the VA change over her career, the progressive nature of the VA, and 
the way it supports its staff with various programs to facilitate education and career 
advancement.    
 
[58:11] Kim's respect for veterans and her joy in treating them, the shifting roles of a nurse 
during the COVID-19 pandemic to stay in accordance with the shifting guidelines of the CDC. 
 
[67:09] Lessons learned from nursing through the COVID-19 pandemic, the importance of 
educating family and friends on COVID-19 guidelines. 
 
[71:28] Kim's desire to further integrate disparate VA providers, and the many various services 
the VA provides to its veterans.    
 
[75:41] Kim's gratitude for her job, her patients, and for serving veterans.   
 
[76:04] End of audio 
 
 
 
 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
3 
 
 
AG:  Okay.  Hi, Kim, thanks so much for taking part in these Library of Congress interviews.  
Can I ask you to introduce yourself? 
 
KF:  I'm Kimberly Foote.  I am a registered nurse.  I live in Las Vegas, Nevada currently.  I was 
born in Dallas, Texas.   
 
AG:  Wonderful.  Now, were your parents also born in Dallas? 
 
KF:  Yes. 
 
AG:  And did you grow up there?  Is that where you spent most of your childhood? 
 
KF:  Yes.  Yes, I moved to Las Vegas, Nevada in June of 2014.   
 
AG:  I see.  So, growing up in Dallas, what kind of jobs did your parents have? 
 
KF:  So, my mom -- I grew up in a single parent home, and my mom was -- actually, she's retired 
from the bail company, Southwestern Bail.  She's a Vietnam veteran. Vietnam veteran, Air Force 
veteran.  And yeah, she -- once she got out of the military, she worked for the bail company.  
[Inaudible -- 1:16] 
 
AG:  That's amazing.  She's retired from the military and from the bail company? 
 
KF:  Yes. 
 
AG:  Did your mom go to school as well? 
 
KF:  She went to -- she did some college.  She has an associate degree from Dallas Baptist 
University, but I think because she had such a great job -- because the bail company back then 
was a great job, you know, great benefits.  She just kind of stayed there and kind of moved up 
the ranks through that.   
 
AG:  And did you attend school in Dallas? 
 
KF:  I started going out to the community college, Dallas Community College, and received my 
Associate's Degree in Nursing, and then I went on to the University of Texas in Arlington to get 
my Bachelors of Science and Nursing and my Masters of Science and Nursing.   
 
AG:  I see.  And even early on, what kind of courses were you interested in either at the 
university level or secondary school level? 
 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
4 
 
KF:  So, initially I've always wanted to be a doctor and I wanted to be a medical physician.  And 
when I started out in school, there was a lady that, you know, she talked to me about nursing.  
And I really wasn't interested.  I was like no, I want to be a doctor.  And so I started out going to 
school to take courses for premed, and I ended up married, started a family, and I kind of stopped 
going.  And then one day I was working for this contract company for the Department of Labor, 
but I really didn't feel fulfilled, and I talked to my husband one day and I said I think I still want 
to be a doctor, and he said okay.  I say well, I think I'm a little too old now.  I was in my late 20s 
I believe, and he said oh, well, how old will you be if you don't go?  And so, I thought about that 
and I was like hmm, that's kind of profound.  So, I went back to enroll into the community 
college, and so you know, when you enroll you speak to a counselor and when I spoke to the 
guidance counselor she talked to me about nursing also, and so this was the second time this had 
come up and I was like hmm -- and so what she said to me was well, if you're going to be a 
doctor, you know you can get a Bachelors degree in anything and take the MCATs, the entrance 
exams to be a physician, and still be a doctor.  So, at least you could know something about the 
medical profession, have worked in it as a nurse and then go on to be a doctor.  And I thought 
about it and I was like okay.  So I started taking prerequisites for nursing, and once I completed 
that, I spoke to a lady who was in one of my science classes.  My anatomy and physiology 
classes.  And she talked to me about going to this school to get our -- so there are two types of 
nurses.  Well, there's several now, but there's a licensed practical nurse or licensed vocational 
nurse -- it depends on what state you're in -- and then there's a registered nurse.  And so for the 
licensed, vocational nurse -- in Texas it's a vocational nurse -- you only -- once you finish certain 
prerequisites you can go on and start the program for the vocational nursing.  So, I went with her 
and took the exam to see if I could get in.  You know, the entrance exam.  I did.  She did as well.  
And so, we went through the program for a year.  Once we graduated we took the nursing boards 
for vocational nursing, and we received a vocational nursing certificate.  It's not a degree but it's 
like a certificate in nursing.  And so there are certain scopes of practice through the Board of 
Nursing -- the Texas Board of Nursing -- that a licensed vocational nurse can perform versus a 
registered nurse.  So, I went through that program with her. 
 
[6:11] AG:  I see.  Wonderful.  And do you recall your first job as a licensed vocational nurse? 
 
KF:  Yes, it was at the VA.  Veterans Affairs. 
 
AG:  Oh, can you tell me a little bit about that role? 
 
KF:  So --  
 
AG:  That first role? 
 
KF:  Yes.  So, when we graduate -- before we graduated, there was a -- I always knew that I 
wanted to work at the VA, and it was because -- so I had two goals.  I either wanted to work at 
the VA or I wanted to work at -- there was a prison system in Galveston, Texas and so it was a 
state job.  The reason that I wanted to do that is because I knew I wanted to continue in nursing, 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
5 
 
pursuing my degree in nursing, and I knew that they offered benefits that would help pay in like 
an upward mobility kind of situation.  So, I wanted to do that and so what happened was before 
we graduated from the vocational nursing school -- and that was at Navarro College in Texas.  
We ended up -- they had like a job fair.  Well, the recruiter -- the nursing recruiter for the VA is 
there.  That's the only table I went to.  And so, when I went to that table, she talked to me and 
gave me -- I only knew about the benefits of higher education, but I didn't know about all the 
other benefits that were associated with a job there.  And so I told her that I was interested.  She 
scheduled me -- she asked me when I graduated.  I told her the date of my graduation, and she 
scheduled an interview for me right on the spot and said well, once you graduate, and you get -- 
because we receive a temporary nursing license before we take our nursing boards, and so she 
told me that you know, I could work at the VA under my temporary license.  The only thing that 
would -- if I didn't pass my boards, I would lose my job, of course, because they would hire me 
as a nurse and if I didn't have a license I would have to -- you know, so that was a lot of pressure, 
but it worked out.  I did pass, but -- so I got the job.  When I got there, she -- for the interview, 
she asked me what department I wanted to go into, and so I didn't know -- you know, I was fresh.  
I had never worked in the medical profession at all.  Like a lot of people who are in nursing, they 
usually work as, like, a nursing assistant or a patient care tech or something like that.  I had never 
done any of that, you know, and so she told me that they usually don't hire new grads in nursing 
on certain floors.  And -- but because I scored so high, because you take an entrance exam when 
you're hired in nursing for hospitals, and so because I had scored so high on the exam -- I think I 
only missed one -- she offered me several departments, and so one of the departments was spinal 
cord injury, and because we had not learned a lot about it in school -- you know, there was just a 
small section -- I was very intrigued and I was interested in learning more.  She told me that if I 
chose that job I would be the first new graduate that would be hired in that department, and that I 
would have to go through a -- everybody that's hired there goes through an extensive training 
program.  So, it was like a 12 week program where we had to learn everything about spinal cord 
injury because it was a special population of patients.  And so there was special skills that you 
needed to work in that department.  We took care of -- that was the only department besides ICU 
that had ventilator patients that they took care of.  So, you know, I was interested in it because I 
was like oh, this will help me in my career.  You know, my skills -- it will help me with my skills 
because you perform wound care, you perform -- you worked with ventilator patients, so you 
learned how to set the ventilator, and when we pretty much took care of every disease process.  
So, usually there are specialty clinics that you go to when a patient is ill.  We call -- what's called 
like a medical surgical floor, and so that's all of the disease processes.  If you had cancer you 
would go to medical surgical floor.  If you had surgery -- post-surgical patients would go to that 
floor.  People with wounds would go to that floor.  That's where you really get your basic -- the 
foundation of your nursing skills.  And so the Spinal Cord Injury Unit was pretty much a medical 
surgical unit with a specialty.  So you had everything, because on the medical surgical floor they 
did not have ventilator patients, and they would have patients with wounds but the wound care 
team would come and perform the wound -- there was a special team that would come and 
perform those wounds.  On the spinal cord injury floor, we perform our own wounds as well as 
bowel care and -- you know, just everything that's dealing with the spinal cord injury patient.  
Because when those patients are severely ill we can't send them to ICU, usually, because you 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
6 
 
know, it just depends if the benefit outweighed the risk -- in other words, if they were, like, so 
severely ill and they needed a higher level of care for, like, you know, different IVs and things 
like that for life-sustaining treatment, they would go there, but then their spinal cord injury 
diagnosis would be, like, on the backburner, pretty much.  And sometimes when those patients 
went there, we would still have to go up to that floor to perform the things that -- because spinal 
cord injury patients, when they're -- depending on the level of spinal cord injury, they would 
need -- they can't have bowel movements on their own.  So, we would have to manually -- what's 
called digitally stimulate their bowels.  So, I know that sounds a little gross, but as a nurse, 
nothing grosses me out, so -- forgive me, you know?  But we would have to go there if they 
needed that higher level of care.  Like, if they were intubated.  We did not keep intubated 
patients, but we would keep ventilator patients.  So there's a difference sometimes when you're 
intubated, like in a coma -- we couldn't care for those patients, but we could care for someone 
who had a spinal cord injury that -- where they were -- their injury was from the neck down.  So 
they would have to have -- be ventilator dependent in order to breathe.  So, we would care for 
those patients, but they were more alert.  The ones that were not alert, we did not.  So, it was a 
very, very interesting job.  I stayed in that department for seven years.  I loved that department, 
actually.  It was very physically demanding, because at that time -- this was in 2002 when I 
started there, and at that time, you know, medicine progresses.  And so at that time, we didn't 
have what we have -- like if you go into a hospital now, you'll see in mostly every room a ceiling 
lift.  Which means if a patient needs to be turned or picked up out of the bed, we put a -- we kind 
of like help them flip over and we put a mat or pad under them to put on the lift to pick them up 
and get them out of the bed.  Well, back then, we were the lift, you know?  We did a lot of lifting 
and turning and things like that.  So, it was physically demanding.  Not just physically, but it was 
also mentally demanding because a spinal cord injury patient -- we had a lot of patients that were 
-- during that time it was a -- there was a war.  I can't remember which war it was.  Desert Storm 
or something like that, where we had a lot of patients coming back from those, you know, wars 
that were injured with shrapnel metal.  And so they would be injured from the neck down.  These 
were like 19 -- at one point, we had, like, patients that were 19 years old that were now paralyzed 
from the neck down permanently.  And so, when you have a patient that is -- that's not able to 
perform the activities of daily living like brushing their own teeth and going to the restroom on 
their own and walking, it's life changing.  And so, sometimes mentally, they can't process that.  
And so they lash out at the closest thing to them.  And so because we spend a lot of time with 
them -- it was like a family.  We had our own clinic in the spinal cord injury department.  You 
have your own spinal cord injury doctors.  You know, and nursing staff, because it's a 
specialized unit.  And so, they would -- you know, it would be tough sometimes.  You know?  
They would -- the way that they would speak to you and -- you know, you just have to set 
boundaries and we had a lot of difficult patients, but one of the things that I loved about spinal 
cord injury is that the training that we received -- because I did go into a -- it was my first 
nursing experience, it gave me the foundation to how to treat other patients.  Because we had the 
Paralyzed Veterans of America -- that association -- they were stationed for the VA -- they were 
stationed in our department.  And so, they really, really, really stressed that these patients are to 
be treated with dignity and respect.  And it was like a -- from the beginning in that 12 week 
training -- they stressed this and was like you will lose your job for -- you know, losing your 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
7 
 
cool.  It is your job to learn -- to know how to have the difficult conversations, and to manage the 
care of patients -- difficult patients.  And it's not just because it's difficult because of the patient's 
attitude, but because of their disease process.  You know?  And so they gave us extensive 
training and they really, really, really cared about the staff.  It wasn't just that you let the patients 
treat you any kind of way and we're not going to do anything about it.  No, they would go have 
conversations with the patients.  If we reported that, look, this patient is difficult, you know -- it's 
nothing that I can do.  I'm coming in the room and they're cursing at me -- you know, they would 
go and have a conversation with the patient as well.  Because they wanted to make sure that they 
treated the staff well, because you know -- you treat the staff well, they'll treat the patients well.  
And it was a culture.  That's what the culture was there.  So it really set the foundation for me as 
to how to treat every patient that I encounter and how to deal with difficult patients.  Because 
you know, you do have people that are just -- when they're sick, you know, you just different 
sometimes.  You don't feel well, you're tired of the nurses coming in and checking your blood 
pressure every hour.  You know?  It's just a lot that goes on.  People think that they come to the 
hospital for rest, but no.  We don't let you get any rest.   
 
[18:37] AG:  Wow, it sounds like you started in the deep end, as they say --  
 
KF:  Yes. 
 
AG:  -- with that first position.  My goodness.  Wow.  And it sounds like it was really wonderful 
as, like, a training --  
 
KF:  Yes. 
 
AG:  -- process with all the different experiences.  And so you said you were there for seven 
years.  How many years have you been a nurse overall? 
 
KF:  So, I've been a nurse for 19 years. 
 
AG:  19 years total.  And after you -- when you were -- those seven years, were you a vocational 
nurse that whole time, or is that when you went back for your master's degree? 
 
KF:  So, I was a vocational nurse while I was in spinal cord injury, but the whole time I want 
taking my prerequisites to become an RN.  So, there's different prerequisites that you need in 
order to go into -- to be a registered nurse and to be accepted into school as a registered nurse.  
And what happened with that is the -- so, the VA had always been talking about there really 
being an upward mobility.  And so they had been talking about having a program where you 
have an LVN to RN bridge program with the community college.  Partnering with the 
community college.  And so they talked about it for a couple of years, and so I just kept taking 
classes towards my bachelors of science opposed to my associate degree, because community 
college would be an associate degree.  And so, actually the VA offered classes through the 
community college.  Prerequisite classes.  So, you had to take, like, two history classes.  You had 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
8 
 
to take American history, and in Texas you have to take a Texas history class.  You have to take 
American government and Texas government.  So, those types of classes they would offer on the 
campus at the VA.  They would have -- they paid for it because we would get a stipend every 
year for so much money for education.  And I think it's like maybe $500 and I think it was about 
$500 a year during that time.  And so, those classes through the community college were not 
very expensive, but we could use our education stipend to take those classes.  So, they offered 
them in the afternoon, in the evening time, I think around 6:00 in the evening, and we had -- at 
the Dallas VA we had a community center built on the campus.  It was like an education 
building.  And the community college instructors would come to the campus VA and teach us, 
and so when we would receive our grades it would be through the Dallas County Community 
College.  And so, they partner with them, and so they started -- they had a meeting because they 
had talked about the bridge program between the LVN to the RN.  And so they had this big 
meeting and they wanted all of the LVNs to -- because they wanted them to see if they could 
qualify for this program.  Well, the reason that the VA decided to partner with the school is 
because in nursing, you know, during that time, even now there's still a high demand for nurses.  
And so, the problem with -- the reason that there's such a high demand and there's only a limited 
amount of students that you can take in a year is because of the instructors.  You need more 
instructors.  And in nursing, you know, we had to go through clinical, so it's not like if I'm going 
for, like, a business degree, you can have thousands of students in the classroom.  But in nursing, 
because we're going to the clinical site, you can only have so many students under you in a 
clinical site.  So, that was the issue.  So, what happened was we had this meeting, they said that 
okay, we're thinking about doing this program, but we can only take 10 students, because they 
had two of their nurses that worked for the VA that would be our clinical instructors.  So, they 
would pretty much get a job at the community college, but their students would only be the 10 
students that they accepted in the program for that year.  We would go to class at the community 
college for the theory part of the class, so we would go -- actually go to the community college 
and take those classes, and then for our clinicals, it would be at the VA.  The clinical site would 
be at the VA and it would be those two instructors that would be our instructors.  So, we get a 
grade in nursing for your theory part, and you get a grade for your clinical part.  It's kind of like 
you know how a class would be -- like, in my anatomy and physiology we got a theory grade and 
a lab grade, so that's pretty much how nursing was.  And then those -- you pass or fail based on 
those grades collectively.  And so I thought about not applying because you know, I was like -- 
I'm almost finished with my prerequisites for my bachelor degree and you know, I can go into a 
bachelor's program, but the last day for the deadline of the application I -- after work I said ah, 
I'll just go drop the application off and see what happens.  And I dropped the application off.  
The next day they call.  And said you're accepted.  And tomorrow, we need for you to go to an 
information session.  And so, I was like what?  You know, so I guess they didn't -- I don't know 
if they expect -- because you do have to have certain prerequisites, so I don't know if they didn't 
expect to get enough students or what.  But it was like everything was now, now, now.  So, the 
next day we went -- there were 10 of us and we went to the information session.  They said okay, 
so we need, like -- we have to do a skills lab, which would be the bridge -- would help us bridge 
between LVN to RN to get into this program.  Okay, you have all the prerequisites but we need 
to see if your skills levels are up to par.  So, we -- they were like so you're going to have to pay a 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
9 
 
skills fee -- the fee -- and then you're going to have to make sure that you're able to go to the 
skills lab for two days, and we were like -- but what happened -- because we were like -- we're 
working, you know?  How are we going to do this because it's during the day?  Well, because 
they wanted this partnership to succeed, they said if you're serious about this we will work with 
your supervisors to get this taken care of.  You can take your leave and you can go to the skills 
lab.  So, they did.  We went to the skills lab, we did the skills checkoff for two days, and then 
they told us that we would -- those -- if we passed, we would be starting I think it was like the 
summer.  Like the end of July or something like that.  And so, we did.  And it was for a year.  
The program was for a year because we were already -- pretty much, we've already performed or 
completed the first year or the associate degree nursing because we were LVNs.  And so, we 
would start like in the second year with those generic students who were not -- who had not been 
nurses before.  We would start their second year with them, so we went to class at the 
community college, and with our clinicals -- we had our clinicals at the VA, and so we started 
out with -- there were 10 of us in the class, but three of us -- like, every semester somebody 
would drop off.  You know, because it was extensive.  It was an extensive program.  And we 
were the first class for the Dallas VA -- three of us that graduated, we were the first class for the 
Dallas VA that started that program.  They still have that program today, too.   
 
[27:55]  AG:  Oh, wow, that's terrific. 
 
KF:  Yeah. 
 
AG:  How long did it take you to complete that program? 
 
KF:  It was one year. 
 
AG:  It was one year. 
 
KF:  Mmm-hmm.  
 
AG:  Wow, and then from that program did you go for a bachelor's -- or that program -- that 
resulted in the associate's --  
 
KF:  Mmm-hmm.  
 
AG:  -- and then you went on to do -- your bachelor's at University of Texas? 
 
KF:  Yes.  So, after that program, you know, you are able to -- once you graduate from that 
community college, you're able to sit -- what we call sit for your boards.  In other words, go and 
take your nursing board exam.  So, we went to take -- I went to take my nursing board exam and 
I received my license as a registered nurse.  And once I received my license as a registered nurse, 
the University of Texas had a program that you could -- so, you had generic students, like 
students that start with a four year plan, and you have students that are bridging from associate 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
10 
 
degree nursing to a bachelor's degree.  And so, I had all of my prerequisites for that, and so I 
enrolled in the University of Texas at Arlington, and so you had to -- I believe that I had to work 
for a year as a registered nurse in order to apply for that program.  And so after I worked my 
year, I applied for the program for the bachelor's of science in nursing, and I took that -- I 
completed that program, and that program also was -- I want to say that it was only a year also, 
because I had taken the prerequisites.  Remember I had already taken all of the prerequisites I 
needed, and so I didn't have to take the classes that I would have normally had to take for the two 
years, so I finished that program in a year also.  And after that, I waited -- probably I applied to -- 
no, I applied for my -- for the master's program at the University of Texas within -- maybe within 
six months, because the University of Texas had a program also where I didn't have to take the 
GRE because I was already an alumni, and my grade point average was a 4.0.  So, I didn't have 
to -- because my grade point average was high and I was an alumni.  I didn't have to take the 
GRE, the graduate exam.  And so I was accepted into the master's program, and then I received 
my master's degree -- I think it took me -- it was an 18 month program.  So, I --  
 
AG:  And so, the whole time you were also working full time in the spinal cord unit? 
 
KF:  Yes, so I wasn't working in spinal cord at that time.  I had transferred to wound care, so I 
was a wound care nurse while I was in school for my bachelor's degree.  And then when I 
received my -- so, when I got my master's degree, I was actually transitioning here to Las Vegas.  
And so, yeah, I was working here and I was a primary care case manager.   
 
AG:  And so just to back up one quick second, did the role you played as a nurse change when 
you moved from the LVN to the RN to the bachelor's to the master's?  Does the kind of day to 
day shift with those different titles and degrees?   
 
[32:11] KF:  So, with the LVN to RN, it did change because as I stated before, the scope of 
practice is different.  So, in the state of Texas, you -- an LVN cannot complete an initial 
assessment.  That's a registered nurse role.  There are things like you cannot start blood as an 
LVN.  You can monitor the blood when someone is receiving a blood transfusion but an LVN 
cannot start the blood.  There were certain IVs, like if there were IVs that had to be mixed, an 
LVN could not do that.  That was a higher level nurse, which was a registered nurse.  As far as -- 
so, there were differences in the scope of practice for that.  Inside of a hospital setting, the LVN 
could not be the charge nurse.  That would be in charge of the whole unit.  So, there were 
different scopes, like you could not be -- of course, like any of the -- pretty much the leadership 
roles in nursing.  At the VA especially, you couldn't do that.  And so, there were differences in 
those roles.  As it relates to the associate's degree and bachelor's degree -- during that time, as far 
as the scope of practice, there's no difference.  Once you're a registered nurse, if you're a two 
year nurse, a four year nurse, there's no difference.  The difference was more leadership classes.  
When I got my bachelor's degree, you learned more nursing leadership skills and roles.  And so, 
I did not -- once you receive your -- you become a registered nurse, I only had to take the nursing 
boards once.  So, when I got my associate degree and I sat for my registered nurse license, and I 
passed, once I got a bachelor's degree, I didn't have to go back and take the boards over, because 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
11 
 
it's the same board for the registered nurse whether it's an associate's degree or bachelor's degree.  
When you become a master's level nurse -- in my specialty, because my master's degree was -- 
it's a Master's of Science in Nursing Administration.  So I went more for the leadership role.  
And I did not have to take another board, nursing board for that.  In my same program.  So, we'll 
say, like a two year program, but it's like 18 months, but the first year everybody that's enrolled -
- whether you're going to be -- your specialty would be nursing administration -- a nurse 
practitioner, a nurse educator -- if you want to have a nurse educator degree -- we all start the 
same track.  So, the first year is basically the foundation, like you're doing like statistics and 
you're doing research and things like that.  The second year -- after the third semester I guess I'll 
say -- is where you branch off into the different various areas.  And so I went to the 
administration leadership side.  The nurse practitioners went into their clinical side because they 
have to do clinicals again.  You know, they have to go through clinicals.  Now they're 
transitioning into a provider role, and the educators, they went to the education side so they're 
learning about nursing education.  And so, the nurse practitioner -- they do have to sit for the 
nursing boards again, because remember they're going to be providers now.  So that's a different 
-- you're a nurse but you're a nurse provider.  And so you're going to have to take the nursing 
boards and be certified again.  So, the same way that we took -- but it's a different nursing board 
than just a registered nurse.  It's an advanced practice nurse, basically.  And so it was not any 
different -- there is a difference as it relates to -- now, my main reason for getting my master's 
degree -- because I could have just had my bachelor's in nursing if I wanted to just stay a staff 
nurse or be a clinical nurse.  Well, I did not want to leave the VA and go outside.  Outside of the 
VA, you can work with a bachelor's degree in leadership.  Inside of the VA, it's very progressive.  
And so, you have to -- in order to get to a certain level in leadership or administration, or even 
practice, you have to have a master's degree.  And so, like -- for instance, the role that I'm in 
now, I'm in the quality department now, and I'm a patient safety consultant.  And so I -- it's a 
master's level job.  You know?  A requirement is a master's degree. 
 
[37:50] AG:  I see.  So, you're a patient safety consultant.  What facility are you -- and now 
you're in Las Vegas? 
 
KF:  Correct.   
 
AG:  So you also moved.  What facility are you in that houses that position? 
 
KF:  So, it's the main -- it's for the main hospital.  So, we are -- the patient safety consultants, we 
are in -- our department is the Quality Service -- I'm sorry, Quality Safety and Value 
Department.  So, when we have the accreditations that come from joint commission -- that's our 
crediting accreditation facility -- our department basically -- we make sure that the checks and 
balances are together.  You know?  And for a patient's safety, there's a National Center for 
Patient Safety.  And when we have incidents -- our role is to ensure that we have a safe and just 
culture inside the VA.  So, we want to make sure that if there are any near misses -- we want to 
make sure that there are no processes that we have at the facility that are -- that have gaps in 
them.  So, for instance, we have a system there where if there's a patient safety event -- what we 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
12 
 
call a patient safety event where maybe it's a near miss or maybe it was actually a patient safety -
- like a patient fail, and they sustained an injury, we perform what's called a root cause analysis 
for that, and what we're looking for in the root cause analysis is our process.  We're not looking 
for people.  Like, we're not looking to see oh, you made a mistake.  We're not looking for that.  
We're looking to see what process -- were our policies followed, do we have policies that will 
ensure that our patients are safe?  You know?  And so, we come up with action plans and the 
action plans -- they go to the National Center for Patient Safety, and this is where we are able to 
implement changes in our processes and standardize processes and things like that.  And so, 
we're trying to be what's called a High Reliability Organization.  So, if you look at -- we call it 
HRO.  So, if you look at organizations now -- and high reliability means that we cause no harm.  
You know?  We're high functioning.  That means that it's not just with patient safety, but it's 
throughout the whole facility.  It's a whole culture.  And so we're looking to -- we have huddles.  
We make sure that we huddle with the director every day.  We have daily huddles.  We have 
huddles within the Patient Safety Department.  We have huddles within the Quality Department.  
And then we have huddles with our director, with all of the heads of all of the departments in the 
hospital.  We want to know what's going on today.  Is there anything that we need to be able to 
assist with throughout the hospital?  If there's a door jamb that's not working, let's see -- this 
department -- the safety department -- not the Patient Safety Department, but our Safety and 
Occupational Health Department -- they need to go over and see about getting that fixed.  You 
know what I mean?  Is it impacting patient care today?  You know?  Do we have one of our 
telehealth machines down, where we can't perform telehealth appointments with our patients?  
You know, we need to make sure that we're a High Reliability Organization, that our patients are 
safe and that they can depend on us.   
 
[41:41] AG:  So, what is a typical day like in this role that you have currently? 
 
KF:  So, we -- in this role, I'm looking at -- we have meetings all morning, it seems like.  They're 
robust and meaningful meetings.  I mean, it's necessary.  And so, we're -- after meetings, we're 
looking to see -- we're reviewing our events that have come in, and how we can get the events 
taken care of.  So, when the event comes in for us, we're reviewing them and we're sending them 
to the various departments, the managers, the chiefs of the departments, to say hey, this event 
was reported.  We need you to do an investigation and we need you to review it and get back 
with us and let us know what the outcome is.  And sometimes there are -- maybe it's like oh, 
well, the patient -- the employee looked in the patient's chart and X, Y, and Z.  So maybe there's 
no outcome.  We did everything that we were supposed to do.  Or maybe there is an outcome and 
maybe there needs to be retraining.  You know, maybe a patient needs retraining.  I mean, I'm 
sorry, an employee needs retraining or whatever, or the department needs to be retrained.  And 
so, we form action plans and we give them a timeframe to perform the training or to correct this 
issue, you know -- or whatever.  And then, if we have -- we also go to all of the committee 
meetings.  We have certain committee meetings that are assigned to each consultant, and so we 
give them a report of how many events were reported for their department and what the outcome.  
And we do a follow up to see -- to make sure that this was taken care of and corrected.  So, we 
track and trend every event, and -- because we have to report it to the National Center for Patient 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
13 
 
Safety, and it's like we don't -- it's not like a facility level tracking.  It's a national tracking center.  
So, yeah. 
 
AG:  Wow.  So, what is your weekly schedule like?  Is it like a Monday through Friday 9:00 to 
5:00 role? 
 
KF:  So, tomorrow I start a new schedule, but we work -- I was working Monday through Friday, 
7:30 to 4:00, and then we're going to 10 hours on -- tomorrow we actually start 10 hours, so I 
will work from 6:30 till 5:00.  And during the pandemic we were teleworking and working in the 
hospital.  So, what we did was we rotated, because in our quality department, it's not just patient 
safety in there.  We have, like, the accreditation nurses, we have the infection control nurses.  We 
have a lot of people, like risk management -- we have a lot of different people in our department, 
and so it's a closed in office with just cubicles.  So, during the pandemic, of course you didn't 
want to have everybody in the office at the same time, so we teleworked.  We had three patient 
safety consultants.  So we would -- maybe one day of the week we would be at the hospital at the 
same time, but usually someone would telework like Monday and Tuesday, someone would 
telework on -- one of the other consultants, he teleworks on Wednesday -- Monday and 
Wednesday.  And I telework on Thursday and Friday.  And so one of the other days we were 
going to the clinic, so we had four clinics in the city and so we wanted to have the presence of a 
patient safety consultant in each clinic just in case they needed -- they had questions, you know, 
about event reporting or we needed to give them the national patient safety goals for the year.  
You know?  Whatever they needed, we made sure that we worked from that clinic, so we had our 
laptop and we'd go there.  So, I would work from the clinic on Wednesday, so I was at the 
hospital on Monday and Tuesday.  And I worked from the clinic on Wednesday and I teleworked 
on Thursday and Friday. 
 
[46:13] AG:  I see.  What would you say are the biggest challenges of this current role that you're 
dealing with daily or weekly? 
 
KF:  So, it's challenging -- the biggest challenge that I have is the patient -- the safety event 
reporting system -- the Joint Patient Safety Reporting System -- that's the biggest challenge, 
because there used to be -- we used to call it, like, an acronym was EPER.  E-P-E-R.  And the 
EPER was more punitive.  You know, if a nurse had a medication error, it was like we send it 
back to the nurse manager and it was like punitive.  You know, make sure -- this nurse needs to 
be written up, or you know, for making this mistake.  But in a High Reliability Organization, 
that's not a good practice.  We found evidence-based practice told us that that wasn't a good 
practice to have, and so -- instead of -- but the culture is still there, because if you've gotten 
written up before for an event, you're not going to -- you're going to be less likely to report an 
event that happens again, you know what I mean?  Or people are like I don't want to get them in 
trouble.  And so just change the culture so that people know -- the next month is National Patient 
Safety Awareness Week, and so we're planning on doing a lot of different things to let people 
know that -- you know, just get the information out there to let people know that it's not punitive.  
We need to know what processes are not working here so that we can fix them and we can 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
14 
 
definitely be a High Reliability Organization.  So I would say that that's the hardest challenge, is 
changing the culture to having people to report it.  Because of course we don't want people to 
fall, and we're like oh, we want these events because we want people to fall.  No.  We want the 
near misses.  We want the things that happen, like, you see a medication that was ordered by a 
provider and then the pharmacist, once they were reviewing it, they noticed that hey, this order is 
not correct.  We've had situations like that where the order set was entered incorrectly, and when 
the doctor ordered it, they just ordered it because they see oh, this is the order set for it, and look, 
this is it.  But when the pharmacist sees it, they're like oh, no, this order set is not correct.  So 
then they call the doctor back before they even discuss it to the patient.  And say hey, this order 
set is not correct, we're going to need this corrected.  And then the doctor corrects it, so it didn't 
ever reach the patient, but it's a near miss.  It could have.  So, we need to make sure that we get 
this corrected.  And we've actually had to go in and correct the -- because it wasn't the provider, 
it was the fact -- whoever put the order set in put the order set in incorrect.  So, in other words, if 
it's a five day antibiotic, and sometimes you know how -- I don't know if you know, but 
sometimes there's what we call a Z-Pak, and so it's an antibiotic that you may take five pills 
today, four pills tomorrow, so it's titrating down.  And so, maybe they had it where it's five pills 
today, five pills tomorrow, so that order set was incorrect.  So, yeah, we've gotten things -- that's 
a near miss.  We need to know that, because that could potentially harm a patient. 
 
[50:03] AG:  Absolutely.  I think I'll probably have a sense of what you'll say, but what do you 
think the most rewarding aspects of this current role are? 
 
KF:  Oh, it's preventing safety issues.  Safety events.  You know, just keeping the patient safe.  I 
mean, it's very rewarding to be able to -- because it's not just a facility-wide issue.  These are not 
facility-wide events.  When we're reporting these events to the National Center for Patient Safety 
we de-identify the events so you know, we don't put names in there when we close the events 
out, because it's for a learning tool, so the National Center for Patient Safety -- when they're 
performing training or information, they're using these events to -- they're used throughout the 
world, so we de-identify the location, we de-identify the staff, we de-identify the patients, so 
everything is de-identified and then it's like helping the whole -- you know, nationwide, so that's 
really rewarding to me to get to a place -- because you know, I've been a nurse a long time, and 
so I've seen a lot of things, you know, and the VA didn't always have a great -- what am I trying 
to say?  They didn't always have a great -- oh, I can't even think -- you know, I can't remember.   
 
AG:  Like reputation? 
 
KF:  Reputation. That's it.  I'm sorry.  Yeah, we didn't always have a great reputation, and we're 
trying to change that culture.   You have a lot of people that won't use the VA because back -- 40 
years ago, you know, they -- oh, no, no, no.  The VA -- you know?  So, we're trying to change 
that, and we've really progressed over the years and I'm proud to be a part of that. 
 
AG:  Absolutely.  How do you think of your role as a nurse in terms of your patient advocacy or 
your role in the lives of patients in this position or in any of the previous positions? 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
15 
 
 
KF:  I always put myself in the patient's shoes, and so I always want to make sure that I'm doing 
the best that I can for the patient.  What would I do if it were me or my parent, or my sibling?  
You know, my family in this situation?  And I've always -- you know, like I said before, the 
foundation that I received from spinal cord injury -- it taught me to treat everyone the way that I 
would want to be treated.  How would I want to be as a patient, you know?  And so, to be in a 
position that -- you know, we don't always as a nurse -- we don't always hear thank you.  And so, 
I never really even needed to.  Because for me, it's a calling, you know?  And so, I'm meant to do 
this.  So, I just try to make sure that I treat the patients in every situation that I'm in as if I want to 
have received the same thing. 
 
AG:  Certainly.  Oh, so you've been at the VA your whole career.  Have you seen changes to the 
institution itself?  You kind of alluded to some of that.   
 
[53:43] KF:  Oh, absolutely.  Absolutely.  Every day -- the VA is very innovative.  The VA is 
very progressive.  It's a different culture than working on the outside, because I have worked jobs 
-- you know, like moonlighting, I guess you could say, at other facilities, but there's -- for me, 
there's no place like the VA.  And because I started at the VA in my career, I guess some of the 
challenges that people who come from the private sector into the VA -- they're like oh, lord, uh-
uh.  I don't think I can take this.  But for me, it's what I knew, and when I've worked -- you 
know, moonlighting in the private sector, I'm like no, this is a different type of -- you know what 
I mean?  Like, the care that -- you know, I always say that there's no better care anywhere for the 
veterans than in the VA.  We really are progressive, we're really trying to ensure that the veterans 
are our top priority, and I have seen from the time I started until now -- even in the fact that you 
want your staff educated.  You know, you're providing -- if I wanted to go back right now to get 
my doctorate, the VA -- there's a program where the VA will pay for it.  And I forgot to tell you 
when I received my -- the program that I went through with the VA for my associate's degree, 
the VA paid for it.  I did not even have to work during my associate degree.  The only time -- 
they have a program that's called the VANEEP and it's the VA Nursing Education -- I don't 
know what the other E is, but program.  But it's a program where you are -- I still received my 
paycheck, my full paycheck, and they paid me to go to school to get this degree.  And so, the 
only time that I had to come to work -- because I got my associate's degree in one year, so the 
only time that I had to come to work was if I was going to be off -- like, if there was a holiday 
where I would be out of school for more than I think three days -- so, I think I worked during 
Christmas break, and that was it, because it was just a year, and so -- but I received my full 
paycheck and I was still receiving my -- accumulating my leave, like my sick leave and annual 
leave.  So it's a very great program.  And then they had the program when I received my 
bachelor's degree -- it wasn't the same as the VANEEP because the VANEEP allowed you to not 
work during school, but the nursing -- MNEI is what it's called -- that program, they pay for 
everything.  They pay for the books, and they pay for your school tuition.  And so, the only 
requirement is that you work -- you know, like, you sign up to work for the VA -- we're going to 
pay for your education so you're going to have to sign a contract to say that you're going to work 
here for at least three years, you know?  And so I'm like okay, I'm not going anywhere.  You 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
16 
 
can't beat this.  You know?  And so, the MNEI program -- you can get that program on any level.  
I have a friend right now who's trying to beg me to go back to get my doctorate, but I'm like no 
thank you.  But she's in the program right now for her doctorate, and her doctorate of nursing 
practice, and the VA's paying for it. 
 
AG:  That certainly is terrific. 
 
KF:  Yeah, to educate your nurses to progress -- you know, I don't know of any job outside of the 
VA that is doing that.   
 
[58:11] AG:  No, those are terrific benefits.  It sounds like the benefits, the education benefits as 
well as the stability, are part of what made the VA appealing to you? 
 
KF:  Yes. 
 
AG:  Were you also drawn to the VA because your mother was in the military? 
 
KF:  I was.  So, I always talk about -- you know, there's no patient like a veteran.  I'm telling you.  
The stories that you have, the fulfillment and gratitude you get just knowing that these people -- 
I'm not a military person, so to know that these people went out and fought for you -- you know, 
and when we say thank you for your service, I really mean thank you for your service, because 
you've done something that I don't think I could do.  The first time they'd tell me I have to go to 
war, I'd probably be AWOL.  So, you know, the sacrifices they've made -- it's rewarding.  I'm not 
in patient care right now.  I don't have a day to day contact with the patients, but you know, 
during this COVID time, we're giving the vaccine now, so my department is responsible -- we go 
down and help what we call -- we have pods for the vaccines, and so we go down in a -- we don't 
administer the vaccines but we help the veterans with their paperwork to fill out their paperwork.  
So, we sign up in the department to go -- it is so rewarding just to go and interact with the 
veterans, so -- yeah.   
 
AG:  I'd imagine.  Are there other aspects of your role that were impacted by the pandemic or did 
you see more of these safety incidents with nurses and patients getting sick, that kind of thing? 
 
KF:  Oh, absolutely.  So, before -- I've been in this role since August, so before I was in this role 
I worked as an RN care manager in the primary care clinic.  The pandemic, you know -- we 
started with the pandemic in -- I remember vividly it was the week of March 8th that we started 
screening people coming into the hospital.  We started screening patients when they came into 
the clinic.  And we pretty much stopped seeing patients face to face.  We started in the clinics 
video telework with the veterans.  Well, the providers did.  The nurses were still at the hospital.  
They actually took the LVNs because the LVNs in the primary care clinic -- they were the ones 
that are responsible for rooming the patients, checking the blood pressure when the patient 
comes in for their visit, and the care managers, which is the role that I had -- we were more -- my 
role was more managing the care of the veteran, you know -- making sure that -- giving the 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
17 
 
education.  I'm on the phone, calling my patients, making sure that they're taking their 
medications and just helping them through their disease process.  Well, when the pandemic 
started, we at the Las Vegas VA do not have LVNs in the hospital setting.  Like, they can only 
work in the clinics.  Well, when the pandemic started, they sent them -- they detailed them to the 
hospital because you had an influx of patients coming in, and so they did what was called team 
nursing, and so they took all of the LVNs out of the clinics, and so we would have to -- okay, so 
now I have to go out for patient care, so I have to -- if a patient walks in, we can't turn a veteran 
always, so even though the providers were not seeing a veteran face to face if a veteran came to 
the hospital -- I was the charge nurse so I had to make sure that I went out to screen the veteran.  
So, it was a very trying time, because if you remember back then, we didn't know a lot about it.  
They kept saying that it wasn't airborne, but you need an N95 mask.  And so, you know, the 
CDC [inaudible -- 62:30] and so I'm thinking huh?  What do you mean?  That doesn't make 
sense.  So, we were -- I was going -- so, I was responsible as a charge nurse for screening all of 
the patients that came in that said I think I have COVID.  So, I had to go -- we had a room set up 
and I had to go into that room and at the beginning, they told us not to -- we didn't need our 
gown.  We just needed a mask, an N95 mask.  So, I was going into the room with these people 
every day with just the N95 mask.  You know?  And gloves.  I did wear gloves.  You know, it 
was very trying.  I can just say that because every day there was something that changed with the 
CDC and the VA followed the CDC guidelines to a T, and so everything that they said -- there 
would be several changes in a day.  You know, like okay, the CDC says no, now we do need a 
gown, and so -- or you need a papper [ph], the moon suit is what we call it.  Yeah.  And so, it 
was something to behold.  I just remember every day coming home thinking -- because the 
patients were scared, we were scared because of the fear of the unknown, you know -- I was 
never afraid to go into the room.  I'm a Christian, so I pray, so I would just pray and you know, I 
signed up to be a nurse, you know?  And as long as they -- we provided -- we never ran out of 
PPE.  You know, the personal protective equipment, so they were providing the PPE.  As a nurse 
I've taken care of patients who have tuberculosis.  You know, that's an airborne infection, you 
know?  I've taken care of patients with a lot of different diseases and -- that were airborne and 
things like that, so you just kind of -- I just kind of relied on my nursing skills and nursing 
practice to maintain safety.  And so, I think it was just really scary because of the unknown.  You 
know, this is a pandemic, we didn't know a lot about COVID.  And so, I remember coming home 
every night and just kind of sitting.  Especially when they closed everything down that week of 
March 8th.  It was -- I'm in Las Vegas, you know -- it's a tourist town.  And to drive down the 
street and not see anyone, that was like -- you know, you have a lot of things going on in your 
mind, and so the patients were coming in every day, oh, I think I have COVID.  You know, they 
have a slight cough.  You know, they were just paranoid, and rightfully so, you know?  We 
would -- and then, you know, the CDC would give us guidelines as to who should be tested.  
Like, what symptoms should be tested.  And so a lot of people that came -- you know, you didn't 
have -- a fever was one of the number one symptoms.  You know, you don't have a fever -- you 
say you have a cough but you said you've had a cough for the last 20 years, you know?  What's 
different about this cough?  You know, you have to really assess these patients, and so it was 
pretty scary initially.  You know?  Because you have to make sure that -- well, you try to educate 
the patient but we didn't have a lot of education.  You know?  We just had what the CDC was 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
18 
 
telling us, and we sometimes didn't have the answers to give them.  You know?  So, it was -- 
yeah, and then we -- and then when I transferred over to the Department of Patient Safety 
Quality -- we did see a lot of events that came in and it basically had to do with, maybe, like 
things that were, you know, like the swabs and things like that.  So, just in that aspect, we really 
didn't see a lot of -- and we still haven't seen -- I don't remember seeing any evens that related to 
a reaction to the vaccine or anything like that.  [Inaudible -- 67:09] 
 
[67:09] AG:  That's good.  Was there any -- right.  Yeah.  Are there any lessons that you're taking 
from the COVID-19 experience?   
 
KF:  Oh, yeah.  Absolutely.  So, just the fact that as a nurse, you know, people call you when 
they have an issue and they've looked at Dr. Google, and they're like I think I'm dying.  You 
know, and I'm like stay off the internet.  But they usually call you with things like that, but I took 
everything that was -- the information that was being provided to us, I made sure that my family 
and my friends had the same information.  You know, because everybody is not -- you know, 
they would -- a lot of times people listen to other people.  You know?  No, you need to listen to 
the experts.  And what we had to rely on was the CDC.  You know, that's what they do, it's the 
Center for Disease Control, you know?  So not to your neighbor who said X, Y, and Z.  So those 
things I took and I tried to make sure that everyone that I knew was receiving the correct 
information.  You know?  As far as protecting themselves.  When you see people going to the 
store, it would drive -- in the medicine profession, it would drive us nuts to see people at the 
store with gloves on and I'm like you're contaminating everything that you touch.  You know?  
And then you see them go to their car and they're getting in their car, touching their steering 
wheel and I'm thinking what was the point of you wearing those gloves?  You know, so we 
couldn't stress enough -- we've always told people wash your hands.  You know?  But this 
pandemic, I think, told them a lot.  And then you have people who were, you know -- at the 
beginning, that would say things like the flu would kill more people than COVID and I'm like 
not this rapidly.  This has been a month and look how many people have died.  The flu didn't kill 
this -- you're talking about over the flu season.  We're talking about within a month.  No, there's 
something -- this is not a hoax.  This is not -- I'm looking at people firsthand.  I have friends that 
are working in the ICU who are every day living this.  You know?  So, just the fact that you have 
to trust the process and it helped me to provide more education.  To be more proactive in giving 
the education to my family and friends.  Because a lot of times you think -- you know, when you 
work in -- I don't like hospitals, I don't really like to go visit people in hospitals.  I work in a 
hospital, I don't want to go -- you know?  And so, to -- when you have your things that you learn 
in nursing, you just kind of like help people when they ask, but it made me more proactive in 
trying to ensure the safety of my family and friends and anyone that I encounter.  You know, if 
someone sees me and I was at the post office and just talking to people, and when you talk and 
they say oh, what do you do and I'm like I'm a nurse.  And so they always want to -- what do you 
think about the vaccine?  What do you think about this?  What do you think about that?  And one 
of the things that I always tell them is that as it relates to the vaccine, you have to decide for 
yourself.  Because I don't want to be the one to say get it and then you still get sick or don't get it 
and you still get sick.  You know?  You have to be the one to decide for yourself, it's just like 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
19 
 
deciding for any other vaccine like the flu vaccine or the shingles or anything like that.  I can't 
make that decision for you.  You know?  It's an individual decision to make.  And I can tell you 
what the experts are saying about it and give you the information, and then you have to make 
that informed decision. 
 
[71:28] AG:  Absolutely.  Thank you so much, Kim.  This has been so wonderful. 
 
KF:  Okay. 
 
AG:  I just have a couple of kind of wrapping up questions -- 
 
KF:  Okay. 
 
AG:  -- before -- I know we're getting a little long, but I wondered, are there any services that 
you would like to see the VA provide to veterans or that you think could be expanded? 
 
KF:  No, the only thing is integrating our system for the veterans.  Because when a veteran is -- 
for instance, my mom, like I said, is a veteran.  And so, my mom has a provider here in Las 
Vegas and she has a provider in Dallas.  The problem is that we do have a system where we can 
see all of the VAs, but it's a separate system from what -- where we do the main documentation, 
so you have to actually go out of that system to click on a button at the top of it and then you go 
over to the other system, and if you're not looking for -- it should be just one system.  That's the 
only thing that I think I have an issue with, because the VA provides a plethora of services.  You 
know, like people don't know everything that -- it's kind of like Walmart.  One stop shopping.  
You know?  You do have patients that have to be seen outside of the VA, which is awesome that 
we're allowing the MISSION Act for people to go out in the community when you can't be seen 
inside of the VA, and it's because -- so, when you think about the VA, and you think about how 
many patients you have -- let's just take Las Vegas for instance.  We have a certain amount of 
patients that are registered to the Las Vegas VA.  Las Vegas is a transient city, so we have 
people who are what we call snow birds, like my mom.  My mom comes here in the winter and 
she goes home in the summer.  You know?  So, we call those snow birds.  They flee the snow 
and they come here to Las Vegas because the winter is a lot better.  The summers not so much, 
so they go back to those places that are very, very cold and they have great summers.  You 
know?  So, we call those snow birds.  Well, they usually have -- get care at two different VAs, 
and so when you have someone that -- they're registered to us.  So, you may have three GI 
doctors -- gastroenterologists.  Well, three gastroenterologists may not be able to see 10,000 
patients.  You know what I mean?  And so, this is -- in the community, you have so many GI 
doctors, you know what I mean?  And so, you can -- maybe if this doctor can't get me in, I can 
go and call another doctor, you know what I mean?  Well, at the VA we have our own set of 
doctors so that's how the people are having to go out.  If you're going to wait more than 30 days, 
we're saying you have the option.  You can wait if you want to.  But there's an option for you that 
you can go and see someone in the community to get the care that you need.  But I would like to 
see -- I really would like to see our system -- and we are coming up with -- they do have a new 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
20 
 
system that we have.  I don't know the ins and outs.  I'm just hoping that you're able to see the 
patient's history across the board without having to go in and look it up.  It's a great system.  It 
really is.  It's one stop shopping.  Everything that you need, we have it at the VA for the veterans.  
It's really, really progressed.   
 
[75:41] AG:  Is there anything you'd like to add before we say goodbye? 
 
KF:  No, just I love my job, I love serving the veterans.  To me it's my way of saying thank you 
for your service to America.  You know?   
 
[CROSSTALK] 
 
AG:  Thank you so much.  This has been terrific. 
 
KF:  Thank you. 
 
[76:04] End of recording