Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
1	  
Project: Archie Green Project 
Interviewer: Kolovos, Andy 
Interviewee: Buley, Joe 
Interviewee Contact: 
Location: Screamin’ Ridge Farm, East Montpelier, VT 
Date: 2 April 2015 
Length: 01:04:57 
Recording Format:  
Accession: au2015-1010 
Collection: vfc2014-0006 
Indexer: Shannon Esrich	  
	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
START-00:00:24 
Introductions.	  
Introduction.	  
00:00:24-00:08:00 
Family	  goes	  back	  7	  generations	  in	  VT,	  all	  farmers.	  Grandfather	  on	  mother’s	  
side	  ran	  dairy	  arm	  and	  butcher	  shop	  in	  East	  Randolf,	  VT.	  Parents	  graduated	  
from	  college,	  moved	  away,	  no	  work	  in	  VT.	  As	  a	  kid,	  started	  cooking,	  went	  to	  
France	  for	  3	  years	  training.	  Came	  back	  to	  US,	  worked	  in	  restaurants	  and	  
hotel	  food	  service	  for	  25-­‐30	  years.	  16-­‐17	  years	  ago	  began	  burning	  out,	  took	  
job	  teaching	  at	  culinary	  school	  in	  VT	  for	  9-­‐10	  years.	  Didn’t	  want	  to	  retire	  
from	  cooking.	  Didn’t	  want	  to	  move	  because	  of	  kids,	  so	  started	  vegetable	  
farm,	  has	  been	  going	  for	  14-­‐15	  years	  now.	  Original	  business	  plan	  was	  to	  use	  
culinary	  background	  to	  do	  catering	  with	  own	  produce,	  started	  making	  soup	  
for	  farmers	  markets	  with	  farm	  vegetables.	  Red	  Hen	  Bakery	  asked	  Joe	  to	  
make	  soup	  for	  them,	  got	  first	  wholesale	  account.	  Cooked	  out	  of	  kitchens,	  
church	  kitchens,	  bootstrapping	  it.	  Mad	  River	  Food	  Hub	  helped	  get	  USDA	  
inspection,	  scale	  up.	  Been	  making	  soup	  seriously	  for	  5	  years,	  pretty	  big	  part	  
of	  farm	  business.	  Shifted	  farm	  from	  local	  farmers	  markets	  and	  CSA	  and	  
wholesale	  to	  2-­‐3	  wholesale	  produce	  accounts,	  and	  everything	  else	  goes	  into	  
Family,	  generational	  farming,	  
butcher,	  chef,	  culinary	  school,	  
institution,	  Red	  Hen	  Bakery,	  Mad	  
River	  Food	  Hub,	  retail	  outlets,	  
wholesale,	  United	  States	  
Department	  of	  Agriculture,	  CSA,	  	  
expanding	  business	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
2	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
the	  soup	  business.	  No	  farmers	  markets	  or	  CSA.	  CSAs	  are	  flooding	  the	  
market,	  no	  barrier	  to	  entry,	  new	  young	  farmers,	  all	  competing	  for	  same	  
number	  of	  accounts.	  Started	  buying	  others’	  products	  to	  go	  into	  soup,	  
keeping	  farm	  small	  while	  growing	  soup	  business	  and	  creating	  new	  market	  
for	  growers	  in	  the	  state.	  Vegetables,	  beer,	  proteins,	  cheese,	  etc.	  Own	  7.25	  
acres,	  3.5	  in	  production.	  Of	  the	  3.5,	  3	  30x100ft	  greenhouses.	  Grow	  year	  
round	  in	  those	  with	  passive	  solar	  heating.	  Fall	  is	  busy	  to	  start	  growing	  
greens	  in	  greenhouse,	  will	  regenerate	  in	  winter	  every	  4-­‐6	  weeks.	  This	  past	  
winter,	  everything	  stopped.	  Harvest	  spinach	  in	  winter.	  April/May,	  take	  
spinach	  out,	  move	  into	  traditional	  summer	  crops.	  Process	  them	  when	  they	  
come	  in,	  roasting,	  dicing,	  and	  freezing.	  Soup	  season	  in	  September/October	  
takes	  product	  out	  of	  freezer,	  make	  soup	  and	  sell	  in	  winter	  months.	  Co-­‐ops	  
serve	  soup	  every	  day.	  Initially	  soup	  was	  seasonal	  to	  keep	  farm	  moving	  in	  
winter,	  now	  expanded	  into	  enchilada	  sauce,	  gazpacho,	  selling	  to	  NYC,	  
Boston,	  buying	  constantly	  year-­‐round.	  Very	  consistent,	  gaining	  new	  
accounts.	  Farming	  still	  happening,	  but	  soup	  business	  taking	  over.	  
00:08:00-00:10:45 
Didn’t	  know	  about	  farming	  when	  starting.	  Very	  stubborn	  and	  persistent,	  did	  
much	  internet	  research,	  many	  were	  skeptical	  about	  size	  of	  operation.	  
Growing	  spinach	  in	  winter	  was	  questioned,	  now	  a	  little	  more	  popular.	  First	  
5-­‐6	  years	  difficult,	  more	  error	  than	  success.	  Now,	  4-­‐5	  former	  employees	  
running	  their	  own	  farms	  with	  similar	  greenhouses.	  Built	  first	  greenhouse	  in	  
February,	  have	  added	  more	  since	  then.	  Farm	  is	  stable,	  runs	  itself,	  just	  needs	  
some	  labor	  in	  summer	  during	  busy	  months.	  Give	  lost	  of	  seminars,	  asks	  
questions,	  lots	  of	  research.	  “I	  think	  part	  of	  why	  it’s	  worked	  for	  me	  is	  that	  I	  
didn’t	  know	  what	  I	  was	  doing.”	  Open	  to	  experimentation	  and	  innovation.	  
Some	  more	  traditional	  older	  farmers	  think	  Joe	  is	  insane	  for	  his	  practices	  
and	  timing	  of	  plantings.	  
Lack	  of	  knowledge,	  challenges,	  
stability,	  experimentation,	  
innovation	  
00:10:45-00:14:20 
One	  bad	  failure	  with	  one	  greenhouse	  where	  plants	  didn’t	  even	  grow,	  just	  
died.	  	  UVM	  Extension	  couldn’t	  figure	  out	  why	  plants	  weren’t	  growing.	  Turns	  
Trial	  and	  error,	  	  failure,	  
institution,	  UVM	  Extension,	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
3	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
out,	  was	  a	  small	  insect	  with	  no	  known	  way	  to	  control	  it.	  Was	  told	  to	  
abandon	  the	  soil	  and	  move.	  Happened	  1.5	  years	  ago,	  so	  30%	  of	  production	  
deemed	  useless.	  Insect	  came	  in	  on	  compost,	  likes	  organic	  matter.	  Spent	  last	  
2	  years	  trying	  to	  make	  up	  that	  lost	  production,	  so	  goes	  back	  into	  catering,	  
teaching.	  Farm	  was	  self-­‐sustaining.	  Soup	  business	  means	  that	  even	  if	  
greenhouse	  can’t	  pay	  for	  itself	  immediately,	  business	  is	  stable	  enough	  that	  
there	  is	  till	  room	  to	  grow.	  
stability	  
00:14:20-00:19:20 
Late	  Blight	  disease	  migrates	  south	  to	  north	  on	  storm	  fronts.	  Affects	  
nightshade	  family.	  Nursery	  plants	  bought	  by	  home	  growers	  in	  VT	  were	  
contaminated,	  showed	  up	  in	  June	  before	  harvest.	  Lost	  600-­‐700	  plants	  
before	  ripening.	  Decided	  to	  move	  canning	  tomatoes	  to	  greenhouse,	  
harvesting	  6	  weeks	  earlier	  than	  normal,	  yields	  30%	  higher	  with	  fewer	  
plants	  and	  less	  labor.	  By	  the	  time	  Late	  Blight	  arrives,	  plants	  are	  pulled	  out	  
and	  does	  not	  affect	  harvest.	  Figured	  it	  out	  by	  observation.	  Tomatoes	  in	  
greenhouse	  not	  affected	  by	  the	  disease	  even	  if	  plants	  in	  fields	  killed	  by	  it.	  
Late	  Blight	  permanently	  in	  Vermont.	  Breeding	  plants	  to	  be	  resistant,	  and	  
resistant	  fungicides.	  
Success,	  Late	  Blight,	  problem	  
solving	  
00:19:20-00:26:23 
Not	  certified	  organic,	  but	  follow	  more	  than	  organic	  practice.	  Some	  things	  in	  
organic	  certification	  allowed,	  but	  he	  will	  never	  use.	  Example:	  copper,	  it’s	  
highly	  toxic.	  Organic	  is	  not	  supposed	  to	  cause	  harm.	  Certification	  also	  allows	  
black	  plastic	  “mulch”,	  but	  it’s	  petroleum-­‐based	  and	  goes	  into	  landfills	  and	  
gets	  stuck	  in	  soil.	  Organic	  does	  not	  do	  DNA	  testing	  to	  certify	  non-­‐GMO	  
contamination.	  Follow	  bio-­‐rational	  approach.	  If	  chickens	  are	  sick	  will	  treat	  
them	  accordingly	  and	  not	  use	  their	  eggs,	  will	  return	  chicken	  to	  flock	  once	  
healthy.	  Don’t	  use	  black	  plastic,	  use	  other	  Biotello,	  non-­‐GMO	  corn,	  certified	  
for	  organic	  use	  in	  EU	  and	  Canada,	  which	  have	  stricter	  organic	  standards	  
than	  US.	  Degrades,	  is	  photosensitive,	  tilled	  into	  the	  land.	  Issue	  with	  gaps	  in	  
organic	  values.	  Don’t	  spray.	  New	  field	  in	  organic	  pesticides	  for	  biological	  
controls,	  moving	  away	  from	  natural	  chemicals	  that	  were	  allowed.	  
Organic,	  certification,	  GMO,	  
Monsanto,	  producer,	  Integrated	  
Pest	  Management	  (IPM),	  values	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
4	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
Monsanto’s	  Bt-­‐resistant	  corn	  so	  prevalent,	  becoming	  ineffective.	  Need	  to	  
constantly	  do	  research	  to	  keep	  up	  with	  changes	  and	  inventions.	  Use	  IPM,	  
beneficial	  insects,	  nematodes,	  bacteria,	  etc.	  Usually	  only	  spray	  once,	  trying	  
to	  minimize	  that.	  Some	  growers	  are	  no-­‐spray,	  greenhouses	  have	  screens,	  
plants	  are	  covered.	  Possible	  to	  grow	  successfully	  without	  spray.	  Integrity	  
about	  farming	  food	  without	  harmful	  substances.	  His	  kids	  eat	  it,	  he	  eats	  it.	  “I	  
farm	  on	  a	  small	  scale	  for	  a	  reason.	  It’s	  manageable,	  the	  variety’s	  there,	  I	  
make	  a	  viable	  living	  off	  of	  it.	  I’ve	  been	  offered	  more	  land	  –	  I	  just	  don’t	  need	  
it.”	  Friends	  with	  larger	  farms	  hire	  other	  employees	  and	  use	  machinery,	  but	  
still	  use	  hand	  labor	  too.	  “I	  want	  to	  know	  what	  I’m	  eating,	  and	  I	  want	  to	  eat	  
healthy	  food.”	  
00:26:23-00:29:49 
Business	  plan	  for	  farm	  ~10	  years	  ago,	  now	  51	  years	  old,	  getting	  old,	  can’t	  
pull	  weeds.	  Need	  employees,	  can’t	  do	  hard	  physical	  labor,	  have	  culinary	  
background.	  Living	  in	  France	  also	  big	  driver,	  saw	  what	  high	  quality	  small-­‐
scale	  agriculture	  was	  capable	  of.	  Very	  prevalent	  there.	  Farming	  part	  time	  
and	  teaching	  part	  time,	  went	  with	  farming	  full	  time.	  Asked	  CSA	  customer	  if	  
interest	  in	  tomato	  sauce,	  responded	  positively.	  Started	  with	  value	  added	  
products	  for	  CSA	  to	  add	  more	  value	  than	  a	  box	  of	  vegetables.	  More	  young	  
members	  (under	  age	  50)	  were	  busy	  and	  wanted	  to	  eat	  well,	  could	  do	  some	  
cooking,	  but	  wasted	  food	  because	  didn’t	  have	  time	  to	  cook	  it.	  More	  value	  
added	  products	  added.	  Bakery	  owner	  made	  offer,	  was	  going	  to	  start	  doing	  
soup	  for	  CSAs	  anyway,	  found	  niche	  market	  and	  expanded	  from	  there.	  “I’m	  a	  
very	  rare	  farmer	  in	  that	  I	  know	  how	  to	  cook…I	  know	  the	  marketing	  end	  of	  
things	  very	  well	  because	  I	  ran	  restaurants	  for	  25	  years.	  I’m	  the	  oddball	  
farmer	  because	  I	  probably	  know	  the	  least	  about	  farming	  but	  I	  know	  how	  to	  
manage	  and	  run	  a	  business.	  I	  came	  at	  it	  backwards…I	  came	  to	  it	  knowing	  
how	  to	  run	  a	  business;	  I	  had	  to	  figure	  out	  how	  to	  farm.”	  
Business	  plan,	  employees,	  value	  
added,	  marketing,	  CSA,	  retail	  
outlet	  
00:29:49-00:36:10 
Regulations	  for	  making	  soup	  very	  complex.	  Food	  Safety	  Modernization	  Act	  
will	  simplify	  it	  some,	  but	  home	  catering	  exemption	  will	  go	  away.	  Small	  food	  
Regulations,	  Food	  Safety	  
Modernization	  Act,	  institution,	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
5	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
businesses	  will	  never	  be	  able	  to	  get	  started	  because	  will	  need	  to	  have	  
licensed	  facility	  built	  specifically	  for	  food	  production.	  In	  part	  why	  Mad	  River	  
Food	  Hub	  or	  Food	  Venture	  Center	  in	  Hardwick	  came	  into	  being,	  need	  driven	  
by	  regulation.	  At	  the	  time	  of	  start	  up,	  because	  soup	  was	  going	  only	  to	  direct	  
CSA	  members,	  considered	  a	  retail	  exemption	  as	  long	  as	  under	  $10,000	  in	  
sales	  per	  year.	  Outgrew	  that,	  food	  hub	  in	  Barre	  called	  Lace,	  got	  in	  to	  make	  
vegetable-­‐based	  soups,	  no	  meat.	  Once	  wholesaling,	  have	  to	  have	  USDA	  or	  
state	  inspection	  because	  selling	  over	  the	  state	  line.	  Food	  Hub	  became	  
defunct,	  asked	  to	  rent	  church	  kitchens,	  had	  health	  inspection	  for	  catering.	  
Sold	  soup	  at	  farmers	  markets,	  bakery,	  then	  Mad	  River	  Food	  Hub.	  Slow	  
progression	  and	  new	  challenges	  to	  scale	  up,	  find	  a	  facility,	  deal	  with	  
regulations.	  Mad	  River	  Food	  Hub	  4	  years	  ago	  started,	  got	  state	  and	  USDA	  
inspections.	  Got	  funding,	  grant	  money,	  about	  to	  sign	  lease	  and	  move	  into	  
own	  facility.	  All	  within	  course	  of	  5	  or	  6	  years.	  Will	  sublease	  factory	  to	  other	  
food	  processors	  who	  are	  starting	  out	  because	  won’t	  need	  full	  capacity.	  
Returning	  favor	  of	  help	  in	  the	  past.	  New	  facility	  in	  Montpelier.	  Currently	  
driving	  3-­‐4	  days	  a	  week	  40	  minutes	  each	  way	  to	  get	  from	  farm	  to	  cooking	  
facility.	  Huge	  inefficiency,	  office	  for	  business	  at	  home,	  facility	  has	  storage	  
and	  kitchen	  but	  no	  office,	  paperwork,	  labels.	  Too	  disjointed.	  Very	  
challenging	  to	  run	  between	  the	  two.	  Having	  new	  facility	  within	  10	  minute	  
drive	  in	  Montpelier	  very	  appealing	  and	  helpful.	  Almost	  over	  the	  last	  hurdle.	  
Very	  hectic	  schedule	  currently	  with	  two	  distant	  locations.	  
Mad	  River	  Food	  Hub,	  Lace	  Food	  
Hub,	  retail	  outlets,	  farmers	  
market,	  Food	  Venture	  Center,	  new	  
facility	  
00:36:10-00:41:38 
Produce	  at	  farmers	  market	  expected	  to	  be	  cosmetically	  perfect,	  but	  not	  
possible	  with	  all	  yields.	  Value	  added	  products	  a	  way	  to	  not	  throw	  things	  
away,	  increase	  yield	  per	  acre	  and	  be	  more	  efficient	  in	  growing.	  People	  want	  
value	  added	  products.	  Don’t	  grow	  labor-­‐intensive	  crops,	  so	  contract	  with	  
larger	  growers	  to	  get	  those	  ingredients.	  Eliminates	  storage	  loss	  for	  others	  
farmers.	  Soups	  are	  50-­‐90%	  local	  ingredients	  depending	  on	  type	  and	  season.	  
Currently,	  buying	  in	  organic	  tomato	  product	  because	  running	  out	  of	  own	  
Consumer,	  value	  added,	  sourcing	  
ingredients,	  expanding	  business	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
6	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
product,	  but	  don’t	  like	  added	  ingredients	  in	  canned	  products.	  Process	  and	  
freeze	  local	  products	  until	  needed.	  Surpassed	  tomato	  growing	  capacity,	  so	  
contracts	  out	  and	  pays	  normal	  price	  but	  only	  if	  still	  a	  high	  quality	  
ingredient.	  Sales	  increased	  20-­‐30%	  each	  year.	  Guess	  what	  is	  needed,	  
increase	  amount	  of	  ingredients	  and	  products	  bought,	  but	  also	  expanding	  
own	  production.	  
00:41:38-00:45:00 
Mostly	  work	  in	  kitchen,	  and	  works	  as	  production	  manager.	  Has	  2-­‐3	  
employees	  in	  kitchen	  cooking	  3	  days/week,	  scales	  back	  to	  2	  days/week	  in	  
summer,	  other	  days	  work	  on	  farm	  3-­‐4	  days/week.	  Alternate.	  
September/October	  still	  full	  time	  but	  move	  back	  into	  kitchen	  all	  winter.	  
First	  started	  hiring	  outside	  help	  for	  farm	  in	  2006,	  hired	  part-­‐time	  employee.	  
Have	  had	  2-­‐3	  employees	  every	  year,	  most	  want	  to	  stay	  on.	  Seasonal	  labor	  
hit	  or	  miss,	  lost	  some	  soup	  employees	  to	  other	  part	  time	  work.	  Now,	  about	  
to	  be	  able	  to	  hire	  2-­‐3	  full	  time,	  year-­‐round	  jobs	  instead	  of	  seasonal	  and	  part	  
time.	  Gradually	  increased	  every	  year.	  Used	  to	  work	  winters	  alone,	  now	  even	  
have	  help	  in	  winter	  for	  harvesting	  spinach.	  Plus	  new	  employees	  in	  winter	  
could	  share	  labor	  to	  work	  for	  other	  processors	  in	  shared	  new	  facility	  to	  
create	  a	  full	  time	  job.	  New	  and	  experimental,	  will	  see	  what	  works.	  
Employees,	  schedule	  
00:45:00-00:50:48 
Joe	  created	  the	  soup	  recipes.	  Has	  worked	  in	  restaurants	  and	  run	  kitchens	  
for	  25	  years,	  keeps	  recipes	  in	  head.	  Writes	  down	  ingredients	  to	  get	  general	  
amount,	  not	  detail	  oriented	  or	  scientific,	  tweak	  it,	  develop	  label.	  Did	  much	  
marketing	  research,	  took	  new	  soups	  to	  farmers	  market	  to	  understand	  
consumer	  demand.	  Put	  it	  in	  CSA	  boxes.	  Got	  really	  good	  feedback.	  Did	  about	  
8	  soups	  to	  start,	  up	  to	  about	  25	  different	  soups,	  plus	  different	  broths,	  
sauces,	  salsas,	  refried	  beans.	  Typically	  make	  product	  in	  minimum	  35	  
gallons.	  Scaling	  is	  difficult,	  taste	  changes	  with	  amounts,	  so	  tweak	  recipes.	  
Because	  dealing	  with	  inconsistent	  local	  product,	  taste	  every	  batch	  of	  soup	  
before	  packaging	  to	  tweak	  again	  because	  products	  vary	  from	  batch	  to	  batch,	  
farm	  to	  farm,	  year	  to	  year.	  Packaging	  is	  24oz	  plastic	  container.	  Bigger	  
Recipe,	  scale,	  consumer	  feedback,	  
sourcing	  ingredients,	  retail	  
outlets,	  CSA,	  co-­‐op	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
7	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
institutions	  get	  .75-­‐gallon	  cryovac	  boil-­‐able	  bag,	  frozen.	  Enables	  bulk	  sales	  
with	  3	  gallons	  to	  one	  case	  sold.	  Co-­‐ops	  and	  small	  retail	  stores	  want	  to	  sell	  
local	  products	  but	  don’t	  have	  time,	  so	  by	  having	  premade	  soup	  have	  their	  
own	  employees	  do	  things	  more	  beneficial	  to	  their	  own	  work	  and	  creates	  
business	  for	  local	  producer.	  
00:50:48-00:52:48 
3	  wholesale	  produce	  buyers.	  University	  of	  Vermont	  Medical	  Center,	  CSA	  in	  
Boston,	  Intervale	  Food	  Hub	  in	  Burlington,	  VT,	  American	  Flatbread	  during	  
summer	  if	  excess	  of	  slicing	  tomatoes,	  1	  or	  2	  restaurants	  will	  buy	  cilantro	  or	  
one	  or	  two	  other	  items.	  Too	  much	  headache.	  Miss	  direct	  retail	  somewhat,	  
will	  go	  out	  and	  do	  demos/soup	  tastings.	  Fun	  to	  interact	  with	  customers,	  but	  
doing	  farmers	  markets	  was	  becoming	  saturated,	  sales	  were	  decreasing,	  
takes	  away	  all	  day	  Saturday,	  Friday	  getting	  ready.	  Good	  way	  to	  launch	  
business,	  but	  after	  growth,	  don’t	  need	  the	  farmers	  market,	  time	  to	  let	  
someone	  else	  have	  your	  spot.	  
Wholesale,	  retail	  outlets,	  
institution,	  University	  of	  Vermont	  
Medical	  Center,	  CSA,	  Intervale	  
Food	  Hub,	  American	  Flatbread,	  
farmers	  market	  
00:52:48-00:53:44 
Used	  to	  have	  400	  chickens.	  Sold	  eggs	  for	  CSA,	  farmers	  market,	  60-­‐70	  dozen	  
a	  week.	  Grain	  was	  very	  expensive,	  keeping	  them	  penned	  too	  much	  hassle.	  
Would	  need	  more	  grain	  to	  expand	  chicken	  business,	  didn’t	  want	  to	  do	  
livestock.	  	  
Livestock,	  chickens	  
00:53:44-00:54:36 
Joe	  was	  first	  one	  to	  live	  on	  street,	  was	  empty	  dead	  end.	  Last	  6-­‐7	  years	  field	  
was	  purchased,	  was	  bad	  farmland	  and	  turned	  into	  co-­‐housing	  development.	  
Went	  from	  3	  to	  10	  houses	  on	  the	  road.	  Great	  neighbors,	  support	  the	  farm,	  
ideology	  aligns	  with	  farming.	  	  
Neighbors	  
00:54:36-00:55:57 
Daughter	  does	  books,	  helps	  with	  marketing.	  Kids	  were	  never	  very	  
interested	  in	  farming,	  helped	  work	  farmers	  markets	  and	  organize	  CSAs.	  
Wife	  works	  off	  farm	  but	  also	  helps	  with	  marketing,	  website	  design.	  Help	  
frees	  Joe	  to	  do	  sales.	  Family	  business	  on	  certain	  level.	  Oldest	  daughter	  
graduated	  from	  college	  and	  had	  worked	  for	  him	  for	  a	  few	  years,	  now	  lives	  
and	  works	  for	  Levi	  Strauss	  in	  San	  Francisco.	  Youngest	  leaves	  for	  college	  in	  
coming	  summer,	  all	  will	  be	  out	  of	  house.	  
Family,	  marketing,	  support,	  CSA,	  
farmers	  market,	  retail	  outlet	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
8	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
00:55:57-00:58:28 
UVM	  Medical	  Center	  connected	  through	  executive	  chef	  Richard,	  who	  loved	  
the	  spinach	  and	  sanitation	  processes.	  At-­‐risk	  patients	  can’t	  be	  given	  
contaminated	  food,	  asked	  to	  buy	  Joe’s	  spinach	  because	  of	  high	  quality.	  
Started	  selling	  chicken	  stock,	  doing	  some	  vegetable	  processing,	  exploring	  
different	  connections.	  Best	  business	  in	  state	  for	  buying	  locally	  grown	  foods,	  
lots	  of	  green	  washing	  in	  general	  outside	  of	  it.	  	  
Institution,	  University	  of	  Vermont	  
Medical	  Center,	  sanitation,	  quality,	  
value	  added,	  processing	  
00:58:28-01:02:03 
Market’s	  become	  too	  flooded	  for	  CSAs,	  went	  from	  250	  members	  to	  65.	  
People	  say	  they’re	  growing	  their	  own	  food,	  going	  to	  farmers	  markets,	  
neighbor	  with	  farm	  doing	  own	  CSA.	  Becoming	  saturated.	  Land	  is	  so	  
expensive,	  more	  small	  farms	  under	  10	  acres	  looking	  at	  value	  added	  product	  
to	  remain	  viable.	  That’s	  why	  there	  is	  huge	  explosion	  in	  food	  businesses	  up	  
here.	  With	  successful	  local	  sales,	  then	  expand	  regionally,	  and	  it	  works	  
without	  actively	  pursuing	  those	  markets.	  In	  perfect	  world,	  would	  never	  
have	  to	  sell	  outside	  of	  VT.	  More	  large	  co-­‐ops,	  UVM	  Medical	  Center	  have	  
more	  opportunities.	  Understands	  that	  buying	  local	  is	  tough	  with	  low	  
margins,	  will	  take	  time	  to	  incorporate	  local	  food	  into	  large	  institutions.	  End	  
consumer	  doesn’t	  understand	  pricing,	  just	  looking	  for	  best	  deal,	  but	  local	  
prices	  are	  still	  really	  close	  to	  cost	  of	  production.	  Not	  getting	  rich.	  	  
Retail	  outlet,	  CSA,	  farmers	  market,	  
value	  added,	  production,	  regional	  
market,	  co-­‐ops,	  institution,	  
University	  of	  Vermont	  Medical	  
Center,	  consumer,	  low	  margins	  
01:02:03-END. 
Black	  River	  Produce	  has	  Joe’s	  products	  in	  their	  catalog.	  Joe	  gets	  accounts	  on	  
his	  own,	  but	  they	  do	  pickup	  and	  distribution	  for	  him.	  Very	  helpful.	  “They’re	  
the	  ultimate	  food	  hub	  in	  the	  state,	  it’s	  what	  they	  do.”	  They	  stand	  by	  the	  
vendors	  they	  buy	  from,	  they	  help	  Joe	  grow	  the	  business	  by	  allowing	  for	  
distribution.	  Been	  doing	  business	  with	  them	  for	  20	  years,	  worked	  with	  them	  
in	  culinary	  school	  for	  purchasing	  too.	  “I’ve	  got	  to	  admit,	  when	  I	  got	  into	  it,	  
probably	  the	  best	  thing	  was	  that	  I	  was	  very	  naïve	  about	  what	  I	  was	  getting	  
into,	  because	  if	  I	  had	  to	  start	  all	  over	  again,	  I	  probably	  wouldn’t	  do	  it.”	  Much	  
more	  support	  for	  beginning	  producers	  and	  farmers	  now,	  a	  bit	  easier,	  but	  
10-­‐12	  years	  ago	  not	  that	  much	  support.	  
Institution,	  Black	  River	  Produce,	  
distribution,	  food	  hub,	  support