Finding Roots: Asian American Farmers in Contemporary America 
Amanda Wong 
February 3, 2021 
Interview conducted by Katelyn Reuther 
Amanda Wong is a 
partner at Star Route Farm in Charlotteville, New York. 
This was a 
remote interview conducted during the COVID-19 pandemic. Amanda Wong joined 
the interview from Harlem, New York, and Katie Reuther joined from Boston, Massachusetts. 
Interview Log 
00:00:00 
Introductions 
00:00:33 
Amanda grew up in her dad's restaurants. He had a 
deli in Chinatown and a 
Thai 
restaurant in Brooklyn, and it continued to evolve into different restaurants 
throughout Brooklyn and Manhattan. Food was a 
social part of Amanda's life. She 
eats as a 
way to socialize. Her grandma would cook homemade Cantonese food 
for them almost every night. Her dad would also cook, and her mom would cook 
both Taiwanese food and more American dishes. Amanda grew up eating a 
large 
variety of incredible food in New York. It was a 
big part of her life. 
00:02:01 
When Amanda thinks about her relationship with farming, she thinks about how 
she is drawn to it because of its simplicity and how it meets an essential need. 
00:02:34 
Amanda and her partner decided to build a 
treehouse together on her friend's 
abandoned nine-acre farm. She learned how to garden on Youtube. She never did 
any classes in agriculture or grew up leaving the city. Amanda taught herself how 
to start seeds on her balcony in Bushwick (New York City) and then brought them 
to the abandoned farm. They started the garden there, and once she began eating 
her own food, she got completely addicted to the process. She has changed her 
life since then to prioritize access to her own food over everything else. 
00:03:44 
Amanda came from an art background, and a 
lot of the art she was making was 
about nature. She was making landscape paintings and sculptures that referenced 
uncanny natural phenomena, but she never felt that her work did what it was 
supposed to do. If she wanted to understand nature, she needed to be in it. 
Amanda Wong Interview Log, February 3, 2021 
1 
00:04:25 
Before moving to the farm to build the treehouse at twenty-two, Amanda had 
spent her whole life in New York. 
00:04:43 
Amanda loved her experience with the treehouse. They camped, were outside all 
the time, and were really scrappy. There's something about being outside that's 
really primordial. Although she felt great, it was also hard. She didn't know how 
to take care of herself, and she got an infection that sent her to the hospital. 
00:06:05 
She and her partner were there working on that project for two years. After that, 
she lived year-to-year in her early twenties doing different projects and traveling. 
However, each summer she had a 
garden. 
00:06:29 
Amanda grew the conventional stuff in her garden, including lettuce, tomatoes, 
peppers, kale, cabbages, arugula, herbs, squash, and cucumbers. 
00:07:08 
Amanda's best friend, who is also from Queens, left college and became a 
farmer. 
Amanda got to visit her a 
few times, and although she didn't relate to it at the 
time, she always enjoyed spending time with her. Mary is definitely a 
big 
influence on Amanda being a 
farmer now. 
00:07:55 
After that, Amanda and her partner ran a 
bar in Lake George called The Casino. It 
was a 
weird community of people who were all sort of related, and it was a 
stuck-
in-the-past sort of place that lacked any sort of modernization. She also split her 
time between traveling and living in Brooklyn and Bushwick with her partner and 
roommate. 
00:08:56 
During that time, Amanda traveled to Kansas City and Detroit to help her friends 
with an art school. She also went to Mexico. 
00:09:15 
Amanda was invited to do an art show in Mexico, and she fell in love with it and 
dreamt about being able to live there one day. 
00:09:33 
She loved the patina, the food, and how open people were. She also likes being 
around brownness and people who look like her. She enjoys experiences that 
humble her, ask her to dismantle her ego, and take her out of her conditioning 
(like living somewhere you don't know anything about or farming and trying to 
work with or against nature). 
00:10:30 
In Mexico, Amanda made friends who only spoke Spanish, and they would paint 
graffiti together. She wandered around looking for work, until she eventually 
found a 
carpenter who would let her work in his shop. She worked there in a 
lumber yard three days a 
week and cooked in a 
kitchen five days a 
week. On 
Sundays, she volunteered at the Chinampas. The Chinampas are floating gardens 
Amanda Wong Interview Log, February 3, 2021 
2 
that are organically farmed. She made one hundred and thirty-five dollars a 
week 
for over forty hours of work. 
00:11:46 
Amanda spent time in Mexico in 2016 and 2018. 
00:12:03 
She lived there for about two years in total. 
00:12:13 
The first time, she went for four months, and then she lived there for a 
year and a 
half. 
00:12:34 
Amanda says she was really confusing for people in Mexico, because they tended 
to think she was Mexican. Once she started talking, they wanted to know where 
she was from. She was called out as "la chinita," but her close relationships were 
all very respectful. When she was in the Chinampas, it would get more confusing. 
People who are now her friends didn't understand how she could be American if 
she was Asian. However, she felt a 
closeness and peace there. She loved taking 
the all-female subway and blending in with everybody. 
00:13:59 
Amanda talks about her experiences volunteering at the Chinampas. She had 
never seen an ancient agricultural practice in that way. The simplicity of it 
changed the way she thought about farming, and it made her realize that there are 
many ways to farm. The hardest thing was seeing the way the environment is 
neglected in our world. In the Chinampas, you can see the impact of pollution 
and the lack of care towards the environment and the people who take care of it. 
Amanda would walk around and talk to people, and they were always open to 
talking to her about their crops. She can't wait to go back and continue learning 
about them. 
00:15:29 
The Chinampas are built on a 
grid, but the plots of land are divided by canals. To 
get to each canal, you have to take your canoe. Because it's all canoe work, 
everything is done by hand. There are no tractors or greenhouses. The farmers are 
interested in preserving their tradition and are sort of anti-modern technology. 
Amanda says that it's like typical farming, but all of the vegetable crates are 
stacked on a 
boat. You have to bring your tools and supplies with you, or someone 
will steal them. There are also cows on some Chinampas. It's outside of the city, 
so you're in a 
really rural area, but you get an intense view of the city and the 
mountains. 
00:17:11 
Amanda worked with one group called La Casa de la Chinampa. It was two 
activist girls who were doing community activism to encourage the community to 
embrace their heritage instead of going to work in the city. They did a 
lot of work 
to combat the negative cultural perceptions of the Chinampas. They ran their 
Chinampa as a 
co-op to give people access to land and teach them how to grow 
Amanda Wong Interview Log, February 3, 2021 
3 
food. In that system, the amount of hours you work, or your dedication, determine 
your plot of land on the Chinampa. 
00:18:49 
Amanda connected with the people she was working with on the Chinampas 
through an artist friend. After being in Mexico for a 
while, she realized she really 
missed farming. She tried to see what community gardens she could get involved 
in and started reading about the Chinampas. Six months later, she went. Although 
she didn't really speak Spanish at that point, it was fine. 
00:19:44 
At the Chinampas, Amanda did a 
variety of tasks, including digging out the dead 
fish in the river and composting them; weeding; preparing beds for seeding; 
bringing in clay from the canals for seed blocking; cleaning the canoes; helping 
them set up events; and cleaning algae from the canals and making compost with 
it. 
00:21:06 
Amanda worked with a 
mix of ages. It was also fairly diverse because of its 
connection with Amanda's art friends who do the Chinampas work. She met a 
good friend who is French, but lives in Mexico and is a 
Chinese translator. There 
were a 
lot of people from the city and surrounding area who wanted to learn about 
the Chinampas. 
00:21:56 
Amanda hasn't been able to apply anything technical that she learned at the 
Chinampas. She would be interested in building an island at some point, but it 
wouldn't be a 
Chinampa, because it's not in Mexico and they have very specific 
soil composition. Amanda says the soil is super black, and it grows the best food 
because it's so rich in organic matter. 
00:23:13 
After Amanda returned from Mexico, she went back to Star Route Farm. She 
missed nature and being connected to a 
green scenery. It was a 
hard lifestyle in 
Mexico, and she ran out of money to live. Anyone from the United States operates 
with a 
lot of privilege when they go to Mexico, because they can leave those 
conditions and come back. Her coworkers couldn't do that. The pollution was 
getting to her health, and she felt she had run out of time on the things she wanted 
to do. Amanda was hoping to learn how to make fireworks in Mexico, which is 
something she wasn't able to do. 
00:24:43 
Amanda talks about how she got into farming. She built the treehouse first and 
then started farming in 2017. 
00:24:59 
She wanted to learn the scientific aspect of what she was doing when she was 
gardening. She loves learning with people as education. One of Amanda's bigger 
reasons for living is learning, and she learns more from being in a 
context versus 
thinking about something theoretically. She started reaching out to farms, and 
Amanda Wong Interview Log, February 3, 2021 
4 
Tianna at Start Route Farm got back to her. Tianna offered for Amanda to come 
try it out or just come live with her. Amanda wanted to get out of New York City, 
so she packed a 
bag and went. 
00:26:47 
Amanda went to the farm in April of 2017. 
00:27:00 
Amanda loved her first season at Star Route. She thinks it's the happiest she's 
ever been in her life. She was so enamored with everything and everyone there, 
and she enjoyed being in that area culturally. It was also really hard and stressful. 
They had her crop plan the farm, and she made a 
lot of mistakes. Mid-season, she 
realized she didn't grow enough food, because she didn't know what she was 
doing. She learned so much from the failures they allowed her to have, and she 
made great friends there that feel like family now. 
Amanda didn't know how to take care of herself. Back then, they didn't have 
chefs coming to the farm to feed them all the time. While there are some farmers 
who farm for culinary reasons, there are others who farm because they like the 
work. It was just them farming and feeding themselves, so they would eat salad 
and eggs. It was not a 
nutritious diet at all. 
00:29:13 
For the first season she was there, Amanda bounced around a 
lot. She lived in a 
beautiful off-the-grid cabin, house sat, and went back and forth between different 
places. 
00:29:48 
Amanda talks about some of her biggest takeaways from that first season farming. 
First, don't grow napa cabbage in the spring, because it'll bolt. Also, celery and 
onions need a 
lot of water. Farming is challenging, and you have to realize that 
you're always going to have crop failure. The more you fight with that, the harder 
the work is going to be. Her biggest takeaway, though, is that she loves farming, 
and she thinks everyone's life would be better if they had access to it. 
00:30:48 
Amanda loves the physicality and camaraderie of farming, in addition to being 
outdoors. Through farming, she came to believe that spirituality, understood as an 
implicit human connection with nature, is real. You're in the dirt, and you're 
deeply connected to the land. You forget a 
lot of the things we're conditioned to 
want in the consumerist world. It made Amanda less invested in materialism. 
00:32:11 
When Amanda came back from Mexico, she was splitting her time between the 
treehouse project and farming with Star Route. She and her partner were also 
building a 
cabin together. 
00:32:45 
At the end of that season, Amanda decided she wanted to work on a 
different farm 
to understand other people's systems and ways of doing things. Because she loved 
Amanda Wong Interview Log, February 3, 2021 
5 
Tianna and Walter, she thought she might return to Star Route sometime, but she 
began looking for other farming opportunities for the 2020 season. 
In the winter, she worked in New York City with her godfather, who is an 
acupuncturist. As she has gotten older, Amanda has realized how much racism she 
has internalized. She wants to dedicate her life to undoing those things, and she 
decided she needed to learn how to be Chinese again. She feels very 
whitewashed, and she wants to understand Chinese mysticism and understanding 
of the body. She grew up with all of those things through her grandma, but she 
took it for granted. 
Amanda spent a 
few months in New York City doing that and going to Chinese 
school. She also infiltrated a 
temple in Chinatown and spent time with the monks 
there. They allowed her to come to the service and eat with them, but then she had 
to mop the floor. Everything in Chinese culture is a 
test. It's not like Mexican 
culture where everyone wants to share everything. In Chinese culture, you have to 
prove yourself to get the knowledge you want. 
00:36:04 
Amanda wanted to farm for other people, but that never felt like a 
sustainable 
thing for her. It's hard working for other people farming when the compensation is 
so low. She thought less about having her own farm and more about having a 
subsistence garden. Her dream farm would be Asian greens, rice, and beans, but 
she wonders what the market is for higher priced Asian food on the East Coast. 
She thinks it's different on the West Coast, because the Asian people there came 
first and thus have more money than the newer immigrants on the East Coast. She 
didn't need to do another market garden-style farm, because there are so many of 
them already who do it well and care about business. Amanda farms because it's 
evocative to her, so she thought she would be content as a 
subsistence farmer. 
00:38:11 
Amanda worked at another farm for a 
little bit last year (2020), but she felt like 
she couldn't connect to the land. She was having nightmares and reading into 
premonitions. It was confusing to her, because she thought she really wanted to be 
there. She ended up leaving, because she didn't think she was supposed to be 
there. 
00:39:00 
Walter, Tianna, and Amanda are farm partners now. They offered to add her to the 
LLC (limited liability company) with them, and in the wake of the pandemic, 
they've transitioned to farming in continuity with the mutual aid and solidarity 
movement. They are pivoting into supporting grassroots groups that are feeding 
people in the city and upstate New York, and they're doing their own fundraising 
to support them. It feels like a 
way for Amanda to work on her identity issues, 
because they get to redirect who has access to the food by sending it to groups 
Amanda Wong Interview Log, February 3, 2021 
6 
that are working with communities of color. She relates more to what they're 
doing now than she has related to other things. 
00:40:34 
Amanda thought it made sense for her to join Walter and Tianna, because she had 
always put in equal work to them. She also thought it would help the farm if she 
attached her name to it. 
00:41:10 
As a 
partner in the farm now, Amanda is stressed out. She feels like she has 
endless work to do, becomes paralyzed, and doesn't do any of it. However, it's 
also a 
huge learning opportunity to be more serious about financing, crop 
planning, becoming a 
better communicator, and thinking about their actions and 
what they do and don't do. It's been eye-opening and humbling to really 
understand how the food system is designed and what they can do to make 
change. 
00:42:46 
Amanda talks about how they decided to move their farm to a 
donation-based 
model. She says Walter applied for a 
grant to put many of their long-held ideas 
into place. He was determined to pivot the farm towards more social justice. At 
the same time, they lost their business through Tianna's CSA (Community 
Supported Agriculture). Tianna bought their food and sent it to free fridges and 
other groups they reached out to. They began fundraising, because they didn't 
have any other option. Amanda doesn't know how sustainable the model is, and it 
feels sort of ridiculous to be fundraising one hundred thousand dollars to give 
away. But why not? 
00:44:38 
In terms of funding sources, they have a 
GoFundMe, and they're applying for 
more grants in the future. They will also hopefully have some business. 
00:45:15 
Before shifting their farm's model, they did some local sales at a 
farmers market 
and to grocery stores, restaurants, and local people. They also split a 
CSA 
for two 
to three hundred people and had restaurant sales in the City. 
00:45:56 
This coming year, Amanda says she hopes they break even. They're going to give 
away the majority of the food, but hopefully some of that will be financed by a 
friend who works at a 
pantry and is interested in buying their food. They will also 
plan more crowdsourcing and events to make larger chunks of money. 
Amanda's co-worker, Danny, is a 
chef, and he likes doing events. These events 
contribute so much to the culture of the farm that they want to see how they can 
integrate that into the farm. Specifically, they would like to have different chefs 
come to live, work, and do events. The proceeds would then go toward buying 
their food. 
Amanda Wong Interview Log, February 3, 2021 
7 
00:47:23 
To find places to donate their food, Amanda reached out to different groups on 
Instagram. She has met a 
lot of them in person since she's in New York. One of 
the organizations is in Bushwick, and they serve about three hundred people there. 
Amanda used to live in Bushwick, but she didn't think about the implications of 
her living there as someone who isn't from the area. This is her way of resisting 
gentrification, even if it's small. 
They also send food to the free fridges and to Heart of Dinner in Chinatown. 
Heart of Dinner brings groceries and prepared meals to elderly Chinese people 
that can't leave their homes because of the pandemic. When there are people like 
that who want it, that's the way for Amanda to grow Asian food. All of the Asian 
food she grew before would just be eaten by her and others on the farm, because 
people wouldn't buy it. The farm is about three acres of vegetables, so it's even 
hard for them to meet the requirement of three to four hundred people a 
week. 
00:49:29 
Amanda hopes to have five people working on the farm: herself, Walter, Danny, a 
friend of hers, and one other person. Tianna runs The 607 CSA, which is a 
multi-
farm project that serves about four hundred people in New York City. 
00:50:32 
Amanda grows the Asian heritage crops she wants to eat. She also wanted to learn 
more about the plants. She feels like the standard vegetables found in grocery 
stores is a 
colonized perspective on food. There's so much food, and if they can 
use their land to diversify what people think good food is, that's important. People 
should know what is available. 
Growing the food she grew up eating, including Chinese broccoli, fuzzy and bitter 
melons, Japanese eggplant, and Chinese scallions, is a 
way for her to connect to 
feeling Chinese. There are so many amazing plants in the world. Why do we have 
to eat kale? Amanda didn't know what kale was before she started farming. They 
don't grow kale on their farm anymore. 
00:52:18 
About forty percent of their vegetables are Asian vegetables. They grow things 
like napa cabbage, Tokyo Bekana, scallions, yard beans, fuzzy melon, Korean 
melon, Chinese leeks, gai Ian, lots of mustards, and more. 
00:53:17 
They buy seed from Kitazawa Seed Company. 
00:53:45 
Like everything else, Amanda uses trial and error to learn how to grow Asian 
crops. This is her first time growing a 
lot of the things she's growing this year. 
She's not sure what the yields will be, or how they will react to the different 
temperatures and seasons. 
Amanda Wong Interview Log, February 3, 2021 
8 
00:54:35 
Amanda is growing these Asian crops specifically with the intention of donating 
them to Asian American communities. For Chinese New Year, she is working with 
a 
Thai temple to donate food. They decided to take one thousand dollars of their 
fundraising money to buy food from Tianna's CSA and another farm for donation 
to the temple. 
This is important for Amanda, because she's getting to serve people who look like 
her and with whom she actually identifies. She feels like so much of the small, 
farm-to-table market is very gentrified. She would never go to that restaurant 
when she can't afford to buy her own food. It really upset her before that she has 
this lifestyle that isn't fully integrated. However, she's working towards it now in 
a 
way that's about her story and her understanding of the world. 
00:57:18 
Amanda doesn't know if she thinks about her identity in her work too much. She 
doesn't know if she can, because it's too painful. It makes her feel alienated 
being surrounded by white people most of the time. Sometimes she feels like 
she's having a 
completely different experience than everyone else around her. 
Amanda does respect and learn from the visibility of activist Asian farmers. 
Through that visibility and conversation, it has shown her the importance of 
having systems (like the food system) led by people of color. That's what she 
wants to see more of. She would be honored to participate in that kind of 
conversation, and she wants to challenge the things that have been really 
traumatic for her. 
00:59:05 
Amanda lists people who have been integral to her journey as an Asian American 
farmer. They include friends in Mexico City, those at Star Route Farm, including 
Tianna, Walter, and Danny, her friend Mary, who started farming when they were 
twenty, and her friend Andrew, who lived upstate with her. She thinks about this a 
lot. Her mom said that all Chinese people's grandparents and great-grandparents 
are farmers, so it does feel like a 
way for her to be in touch with her ancestry. She 
feels like what she's doing now is more real than anything else she's ever done. 
1:00:17 
Amanda never saw her race or ethnicity as a 
barrier to becoming a 
farmer. 
However, she feels like white, liberal racism is undercover. She never thought she 
couldn't apply to jobs because they were white, but she knew microaggressions 
were going to happen. She tends to stay away from places she knows are 
conservative, in addition to predominantly white spaces. 
1:01:22 
The other side of that is when she does encounter white people, and she can't tell 
if they're racist or not. She's just waiting to see if they're going to hit on her or 
make racist remarks. In some way, we all exploit ourselves or benefit from 
racism. It's more with the female experience that she can be upset that there's an 
Amanda Wong Interview Log, February 3, 2021 
9 
injustice, or she can take advantage of it. She jokingly says she's not sure that 
being Asian has helped her yet since she hasn't gotten any money from it. She 
does note, though, that there's twenty-five thousand dollars in their GoFundMe. 
1:03:27 
Amanda says she's only ever farmed with partners. She farms because she likes 
the communal aspect of it. Since everyone brings different knowledge into it, 
she doesn't want to do it alone. There are so many people who will always be 
better farmers than her, so it's always worth pursuing those connections. 
1:04:20 
Amanda's race or ethnicity hasn't really come up in an intense way with her 
partners. She can't always tell what is the result of racism and what is just 
someone's reaction. She doesn't think it's the most important thing, because she 
was at a 
farm that is more diverse than where she is now, and she left. That was a 
big surprise to her, because she thought she was getting what she wanted. It made 
her renegotiate the things she was upset about in the farming world. It's definitely 
a 
goal to be around more people of color. She would love to farm in China, or to 
work on an Asian farm in New Jersey where no one speaks English. 
1:06:10 
Amanda's family is happy for her, because they see her at peace doing something 
she loves. They've always respected and encouraged her instead of trying to mold 
her into something else. She feels grateful for that, especially because she really 
devalues capitalism. She has no money, and she's transient. Sometimes her 
lifestyle is dependent on people helping her, but she does it because she thinks 
farming is more important than other things. 
Her family is proud of the work they're doing now at Star Route. Her dad, 
especially, sees the way Asian people suffer but don't get acknowledged for it. 
With the intense xenophobia due to COVID, her dad is happy that Amanda is 
doing this work right now. Amanda is proud that she can make her parents proud 
of her for not making money, but for doing something she really believes in and 
that connects her to where she comes from. 
1:08:18 
With Black Lives Matter, Trump-ism, and more conversations around identity 
politics, Amanda can't view the world without thinking about how whiteness 
informs everything we do and everything we think is right. She also intuitively 
feels that that isn't the only model. That model of society comes from a 
very 
specific history, but it doesn't have to be the role that we inhabit. Their loss of 
business at the farm and the intense need of food pantries due to the pandemic 
points to the ways that the food system is disconnected. The market that drives 
farming is controlled by Big Agriculture corporate interests, and it's up to smaller 
farmers to challenge that. There are so many people who are doing that with 
things like food access, food sovereignty, and social justice. 
Amanda Wong Interview Log, February 3, 2021 
10 
For all of the surreal pain of the pandemic and the complete mishandling of it in 
the United States, Amanda feels that it's an opportunity to re-examine and change 
our unsustainability. She thinks they're doing that in a 
small way, but they're only 
at the beginning of a 
bigger conversation they will have as a 
farm and that she 
will have as a 
person. She's not sure what that transformation will look like, but 
her language is changing so much already. 
Amanda never thought that the way she felt her whole life would actually be a 
conversation among everyone. No one talks in a 
deep way about how we're 
all racist and hate women, but that's actually happening this year. It feels 
empowering for a 
lot of people of color. 
1:12:29 
Amanda talks about the changes she would like to see take place across the 
food system. First, farmers need to be paid a 
living wage. At this point, you 
need to fundraise and find grants and philanthropy to do that, because prices 
are set up not to reflect the actual value of labor. She also hopes for more 
people of color on the farm, and to continuously develop their agricultural 
practices so they're growing soil over growing plants. That's all still very new 
to Amanda, but she tries to read and think about less impactful and damaging 
ways to farm. She also hopes that we can find ways to keep the beauty of the 
work with us, enjoy it, and not get too caught up in the stress. 
1:14:49 
Amanda gives advice to other people of color who are trying to get into 
farming. At this point, unless you're going to farms run by people of color, 
you have to accept that you're going to be around a 
lot of well-intentioned 
white people who aren't going to understand what you're going through. Your 
experience might be completely outside of what everyone else is feeling. It's 
not okay, but you have to realize that it's not necessarily the rest of your life. 
Hopefully, the movement towards decolonizing our imagination will make 
material impacts on farm culture. 
1:16:34 
End of interview 
Amanda Wong Interview Log, February 3, 2021 
11