1 
Kentucky Folklife Program 
 Interview Transcription 
 
Project name:  Ranger Lore (LOCRP) 
Field ID and name: #0014; Darlene Owens interview 
Interviewee:  Darlene Owens  
Interviewer/Recordist:  Brent Björkman 
Date:  4/16/2014 
Location:  Mammoth Cave National Park, KY 
Others Present:  N/A 
Equipment used:  EOS 70D DSLR Camera 
Microphone:  Rode, VideoMic Pro Compact Shotgun Microphone 
Recording Format: .mov (converted to .wav audio file) 
Recorded Tracks in Session: 1 audio track (compiled from 7 video files) 
Duration: [00:36:35] 
Keywords: firefighting, Methodist Church, Lion’s Head 
Corresponding Materials:   
Forms: KFP2014LOCRP_0014_BBms0001 - KFP2014LOCRP_0014_BBms0003 
Audio recording: KFP2014LOCRP_0014_BBsr0001  
Video files: KFP2014LOCRP_0014_BBmv0001 - KFP2014LOCRP_0014_BBmv0007 
 
Context:  
Technical Considerations:  Audio file was created from the compiled video files for the 
purpose of transcription 
Transcription prepared by: Jennie Boyd 
 
Transcribing Conventions:  
Use of square brackets [ ] indicates a note from the transcriber. 
Use of parentheses (  ) indicates a conversational aside.  
Use of em dash — indicates an interruption of thought or conversation. 
Use of ellipses … indicates a discontinued thought. 
Use of quotations “ “ indicates dialogue within conversation. 
Use of italics indicates emphasis. 
Use of underline indicates movie, magazine, newspaper, or book titles. 
Names of interviewee and interviewer are abbreviated by first and last initial letters. 
Time is recorded in time elapsed by the convention [hours:minutes:seconds]. 
 
Note:  This transcription is as accurate and complete as possible.  In any question of 
interpretation, the researcher is referred to the recording itself as the primary document 
representing this event. 
[time elapsed in hours:minutes:seconds] 
 
[00:00:00] 
 
 
2 
[NO AUDIO UNTIL 00:01:17] 
 
DARLENE OWENS: Looked just like him. And I got to a point in my career where I was not 
working inspecting meat and poultry. And I thought, I need to be outside and I need to do 
something more fun. So I put an application in for Mammoth Cave and been here for nineteen 
years. (laughs) 
 
BRENT BJÖRKMAN:  Okay, that was in eighty-something, maybe? 
 
DO: Eighty-, yeah, ’96, I think. That sound right? 
 
BB: Right. Where were, where were you living at the time? Are you, are you a local person? 
 
DO: Actually, I grew up in Southern California, but I’ve been in Kentucky since ’79. I went to 
Western Kentucky University. I thought I wanted to be a veterinarian, but I just fell in love with 
Mammoth Cave.  
 
BB: Um-hm. What was your first time up to this particular location?  
 
DO: My first experience at Mammoth Cave was when we came as a family and went on a cave 
tour. My youngest daughter was five at the time and the thing I remember most is the guide 
going to do a black-out in the cave and asked everybody to close their eyes, and after, after 
everybody had already experienced the single match, the single candle, the lights were back on, 
my daughter says, “Can I open my eyes now?” And, and the entire group just laughed, (laughs) 
you know. But that was really a wonderful time for me. Had no idea that I was going to be 
working here.  
 
BB: Yeah.  
 
DO: Yeah. 
 
3 
BB: What was that process? Some people have spoke about taking a couple of years to make, 
until their application got through the process. Was it— 
 
DO: I was told it’s extremely competitive. You’ll never get your foot in the door. I made an 
application in February and was called in March to see if I was available. I started working in the 
ticket office, did the phone room, did the information desk. Joy Lyons came out and said, “I’ve 
heard you talking to folks. Will you guide for me?” I said, “Yes, I will.” (laughs) 
 
BB: So the information desk, was that just part of the first year you went into interpretation then? 
 
DO: Then I went into er-, interpretation.  
 
BB: Huh. So how were your colleagues and your, your training in interpretation. You spoke that 
Joy Lyons was somebody who was astute enough to, you know, figure out you, you had what it 
took, probably. But then how does that, how does the training work and how would you describe 
that in your own way?  
 
DO: The training was, I thought, really didn’t lend itself to guiding. We did a whole lot of what 
everybody at the park does, administration, and we did our first aid and CPR training and what 
have you. They took us on a couple of cave tours. Basically said, “Hey, there’s, there’s the 
library. There’s the cave. Now, put a program together.” So it, I think it was made challenging 
on, on purpose, just so that they could see how we’re going to develop ourselves.  
 
BB: So, so was there a, was there a script about a certain, let’s say you’re training to do a certain 
tour. Was there a script or did it, is it something that, that you had to put together from the 
ground up?  
 
DO: We put them together from the ground up. We go with somebody that’s been doing this a 
couple of years, get some good ideas, and then we’re pretty much on our own.  [00:04:59] 
 
4 
BB: What are some memories of, of, is it start as, am I correct to think that there’s a leader of the 
tour and then oftentimes a, most of the time there’s a trailer? There’s, so there’s, there’s two— 
 
DO: Yes.  
 
BB: Service ranger employees guiding? And for, do you start as the trailer and, and listening to 
the, the work of the other? 
 
DO: That’s typically how it starts. They encourage you to stand up in front of a group as quick as 
you can and I think the longer you wait to do that, the harder it is. So, if you can jump up and do 
it right away, you’re better off.  
 
BB: Um-hm.  
 
DO: One of the most difficult things for people to do is stand up in front of a large group and talk 
and if you can just get the first one over with it’s a lot easier. (laughs) 
 
BB: Did you have any prior experience in speaking, public speaking?  
 
DO: Not at all. I had no experience in public speaking.  
 
BB: Was it stressful? 
 
DO: Not really. I’d had so many contacts with people at the information desk that, you know, 
pretty much a people person. Standing up in front of a large group is a little bit different. They’re 
closer in contact with you, you know, so you don’t have that information desk as a barrier, but 
it’s not that bad.  
 
BB: Um-hm. So what were the co-workers like as you were going through this process? Did a 
few things at the desk, then got put into interpretation and guiding. Was it, what, what was, what 
is that process among rangers, pushing you forward and that sort of thing? Was it just certain 
5 
individuals that are, that stand out or, I mean, you don’t have to name names, but if you would 
care to…. 
 
DO: I think some of the older guides that have been here, that, there, they just take you under 
their wing and, you know, give you all the encouragement they can. That’s, that’s just how I st-, 
the process starts that way. But everybody encourages everybody else. It just seems to work that 
way.  
 
BB: How about those first few years of, of interpretation? Do you have any special memories of 
an event that happened with some visitors or something that solidified, “This is why I do what I 
do.” Or some, maybe some satisfaction or some, some stress that made you ponder. Is there, do 
you have any— 
 
DO: It’s like that “A-ha!” moment. Like when you get it. Gosh, I’d have to think about it for a 
couple of minutes to think of something really good.  
 
BB: Sure. 
 
DO: But I, I know I’ve had that “A-ha!” moment too. Like, “They got it! This is what I do! Woo-
hoo!” (laughs)  
 
BB: You’ve done interpretation, and I think some folks have also expresse that they’ve done a 
lot of things. They’ve guided different tours, more strenuous tours, less strenuous tours, and 
things evolve over their careers. But you’ve also done a lot of other things that I don’t know if, if 
we talked before about doing some fire-fighting and things. Were those things prior to coming 
here? Or were they because you worked for the Parks Service?  
 
DO: I got involved in a lot of different things because I worked for the park. But things I might 
be interested in. I’ve had coworkers that said, particularly my friend Bryce, who said, “You need 
to be doing fire. I think you’d like it.” I’m like, “Well, what do I need to do?” And he said, 
“Well, you have to carry this forty-five pound pack for three miles in less than forty-five 
6 
minutes.” And I said, “I’m not going to carry a forty-five pound pack anywhere.” (laughs) But 
then I found out I really, really like doing fire and I actually made the team to be a public 
information officer. I haven’t been doing much of that. I’m just a trainee right now. But 
hopefully I’ll get back on the team and still be able to do something with fire.  
 
BB: This is fire training? How does that work? Because, you know, I’m just learning as I go 
here. Does that mean you would be fighting fires locally? You would be dispatched anywhere 
that the park service might want to, and if so, have you, and, and those sorts of things?  
 
DO: Absolutely. I have helped with prescribed fire here at Mammoth Cave. I went down to 
Congaree Swamp in South Carolina to help them with the prescribed fire. We took a group of 
Job Corps students with us, so I got really involved with helping Job Corps students, helping get 
their feet wet in fire. That was kind of an interesting thing (laughs). I’ve been out west on a few 
fires. The very first fire I went on was 2006. And fell in love with it. If we think the Park Service 
is a family unit, firefighters are even closer. A little bit closer, a more intimate family unit. So 
that’s why I liked it. It’s really fun.  [0:10:15] 
 
BB: So you’ve met up, were you traveling there with other firefighters from our region or did 
you just get thrown out there and, and you started to create this whole other folk group for 
yourself? 
 
DO: We travel as a twenty person crew. So the first fire I went on there were three of us from 
Mammoth Cave, somebody from Great Smokies, somebody from Land between the Lakes, and 
the rest of the guys from Alabama. They called themselves the Alabama Burners. The Bama 
Burners. Great guys. (laughs) 
 
BB: I don’t think this is jumping around but one of the interesting things about this project is to 
talk to all the different, so many different rangers, temporary, excuse me, seasonal— 
 
DO: Yes. (laughs) 
 
7 
BB: Permanent, working in law enforcement and, and all sorts of things, but, and talking to 
women and, and how that’s changed. You said you have nearly twenty years in here. And from 
talking to you, you’ve done a lot of things and a lot of, it’s almost, maybe you can speak to the 
fact that, you know, was this, is this a, a, a male-oriented occupation, either as you’re doing 
interpretation, as you’re doing public information training, as you’re doing firefighting? All 
those things are so interesting to me about the evolution of equality or perception of opportunity.  
 
DO: I think this used to be male dominated and it’s totally turned. It seems to be more female 
oriented nowadays.  
 
BB: How so? 
 
DO: It seems like we have a lot more women that come on staff than, than we see men hired on. 
And I think more women stay with it once they get in. Maybe it’s just here at this park but we, 
we see a lot of women coming into this. We like to talk, you know. (laughs) 
 
BB: And the firefighting aspect, you know, and I’m, I’m stereotyping, but I, I’m thinking about, 
and I’m stereotyping because of the physicality, I guess. And you had— 
 
DO: Um-hm. 
 
BB: You mentioned it, about the forty-five pound pack and, and the testing. You started that in 
the ‘90s?  
 
DO: Two thousand six.  
 
BB: Okay,  
 
DO: And I, you know, should have taken Bryce’s advice and done it, started much earlier with it. 
But— 
 
8 
BB: How were those colleagues, I mean, once you get out in the field? 
 
DO: Oh, gosh. Those guys are great. My first experience was the best fire detail ever. We— 
 
BB: Tell me about it. 
 
DO: We went to Oregon. We were on the Cascade Mountain Range, hiking at 6000 feet. First 
few days a little rough on this flatlanders. But after we got that elevation taken care of, we just 
had a great time. Wonderful guys to work with. I was the only woman on, out of the twenty 
people crew. So I think more women are starting to get involved with fire, but my second fire, 
there were two of us on a twenty person crew. Two women. So it’s not as predominately women 
as it is men. It is hard work, you know. It’s very physically demanding. But I enjoy that. I like 
the challenge.  
 
BB: This job allows you to try new things and new challenges? 
 
DO: It really does. If you’re in a fire, if you have a red card, sh-, showing that you’re a 
firefighter, if we go to level five in the nation for, you know, catastroph-, catastrophic fire, then 
they, they say, yeah, you can be available. And pretty much all hands are on deck. It’s not just 
for fire though, because I got to go to Hurricane Sandy detail. About three weeks in New York 
doing, just helping them get their, you know, footing again.  
 
BB: Tell me just some of the daily duties of, of that particular— 
 
DO: That, I was actually on a camp crew, so I was the camp crew leader and we were basically 
taking care of the facilities to enable our folks to get the job done. So sometimes it’s a low-life 
job, but, you know, all, all work has to be done. I actually had somebody on that, I was emptying 
trash and, and one of the firefighters said, “Aren’t you a firefighter?” I said, “Yes, I am.” “Why 
are you emptying trash?” “Because it needs to be done.” And, you know, no job is really too 
small. I think it all needs to be done. Everybody plays their part. So I got a letter of 
9 
commendation from the park police up there because I went and scrubbed down their bathrooms 
for them. So that was kind of neat, you know. [0:15:31] 
 
BB: It’s about teamwork, isn’t it?  
 
DO: It is all about teamwork. And I don’t know too many people that got a commendation for 
scrubbing a bathroom before, so. (laughs)  
 
BB: So you’ve explored a lot of things that you’ve been asked when you do interpretation to 
kind of find your own way.  
 
DO: Um-hm.  
 
BB: Listen to other guides as you do. But I think Joy Lyons was a big proponent of, you know, 
making that an, a crucial part because you had to really figure how you were going to present it 
in your, in your way. Can you tell me a little bit more about your natural, your natural, 
naturalistic approaches and, and what you’re drawn to. I know that, that you know a lot about 
plants. And how did that come about? Is that something you brought here? Is it something you 
started to explore once you got here? Can you tell me about how you, how you shared that with 
people and, and in what ways?  
 
DO: Sure. I took a course when I lived in Florida. It was a greenhouse operations, nursery 
management, landscaping type course. Learned a lot about plants because I really like having my 
hands in the dirt and gardening and what have you. And I just kind of lost that information for a 
little bit, and then I kind of went back into it once I got up here in Kentucky. Went to school, 
learned a lot about animals. Put those two things together and did a lot of farming and those 
kinds of things. Then when I got here to the park, we have over a thousand flowering plants here. 
I’m very interested in how these plants had been used medicinally by native people and by early 
Europeans to come to the country. So I put th-, all of those elements together into a program, 
Folk Medicinals, and did an evening program about that. May get to do that again. As we get 
closer to the centennial, we’re going to be doing some costumed interpretations and I had an idea 
10 
to do something like grandma’s herb garden or something. And, you know, just do something 
kind of interactive with people. I’ve even taken sewing skills and turned that into a program 
where we were doing a quilting bee and talking about folklife and how people come together to 
do different activities. I even got a group of Boy Scouts to piece a quilt together. And I thought, 
how is, how is this going to work? I’ve got a whole auditorium full of Boy Scouts, I don’t know, 
you know. But it worked and they were great. So I was like, this works for a lot of people, you 
know, just showing how communities can come together through plants, through sewing, 
through all of these horrible chores that you had to get done, you know. Talk about pe-, how 
people do that as a community and take kind of the burden off of each other and make a party out 
of it, so. One program I did one day was with the kids’ program. And one of the bus drivers had 
brought a big watermelon. And I thought, how can I eat watermelon and do this kids’ program at 
the same time. And I figured out a way to do that. And I took everybody out back. Everybody 
had their own watermelon. We talked about gardening and canning and putting up food. And 
then I talked about the fun side of having a watermelon seed-spitting contest. So I had even 
Grandpa and everybody out there spitting watermelon seeds, so. (laughs) I just kind of do stu-, 
stuff impromptu sometimes.  
 
BB: Your “A-ha!” moments.  
 
DO: My “A-ha!” moments. (laughs)  
 
BB: That’s right. [0:19:59] You said you mentioned you had, when you first came to the park, 
you had, it was on a family trip, meaning your family.  
 
DO: Um-hm.  
 
BB: And it was, you had a five year old child, at least. We’ll get one child, at least, one child. 
Has your, has your family been, how have they approached this, on your journey here, your 
occupational journey working here? Have they been drawn to it? Have, have they followed in 
your footsteps? That’s maybe not the right thing to say, but, you know, is it something that has 
given them a specialized passion or respect or can, can you speak to that, if it’s appropriate? 
11 
 
DO: Absolutely. I think national parks are, lend themselves to be family-oriented. Everyone here 
embraces family, so my daughters, as they have grown, they’ve been out here at the park a lot. 
They’ve brought their children out here to the park. Both of them got into natural, outdoorsy 
kinds of things, you know, as recreation. So I, I think just the whole setting of national parks 
lends themselves to be family-oriented. And I know a lot of people here raise their families in the 
park and some of them, as you say, some, some of them love this and some of them, you know, 
just kind of push it away, but I think for the most part they embrace it. How can you not love a 
park? 
 
BB: Right.  
 
DO: You know.  
 
BB: How old are they today? Well, twenty-four and — 
 
DO: Yeah, it’s like you’re making me think now. (laughs) 
 
BB: Five plus nineteen is twenty-four, probably or something— 
 
DO: Actually, let’s see. We came before I even started here, probably a good ten, twelve years 
so, yeah. My girls are grown. I have six grandkids. The oldest granddaughter just turned eighteen 
in December, so, and then the youngest grandson is six, so. And they’re all involved with the 
park too, so.  
 
BB: Satisfying. Yeah. When you think about your concept of stewardship. You know, I was 
watching that Ken Burns piece and just thinking about that as a touchstone, you know, for, for 
why you, you do what you do or, is that something you could speak to? 
 
DO: Stewardship to me means not just for the park but the planet. I’m one of those people that 
picks up trash as I walk up the road, you know. I’m taking my dog for a walk, I’m picking up 
12 
trash. Sometimes I have so much of it that I have to go back with the truck and load it up, but st-, 
it, it, it means much more than just taking care of the park. If we, if we don’t work together and 
take care of our planet, we’re not going to have anything here.  
 
BB: Um-hm. 
 
DO: So, just teaching other people how to do, take care of it and igniting something in them that 
makes them care enough to do that.  
 
BB: After almost twenty years, has there been a change in visitors’ perceptions? They way that, 
maybe not, you teach, you evolve, just like we all do. Have you seen a change in, in how we, 
how you present, your, you and your colleagues present the park or an increased awareness about 
special subjects about the planet, the park, the environment?  
 
DO: I would like to say I’ve seen an increase in people caring, but I’ve seen an increase in 
people caring about their electronic devices. And they seem to be learning about the world 
around them by something electronic and that’s disturbing to me. Learning about the planet 
means getting out and touching things, not holding something in your hand. I don’t know where 
we’re going to go. This last summer I almost had a fist-fight break out at my program, one of my 
programs, because a lady answered her cell phone and was talking really loud. So somebody, 
“Please step away from the group.” And they started an argument at the back, (laughs) at the 
back of the amphitheater, so I don’t know how to address that, you know. I just kind of laughed 
about it and just kept on talking. (laughs) 
 
BB: And they finally resolved to cooperate or something.  
 
DO: It, it sort of resolved itself. The lady wasn’t going to let it go real easy, [0:25:00] 
so she continued with it even after the program and finally the guy says, “You know what, I’m 
sorry for starting trouble at your program.” But he wrote a little, nice little note later, which was 
kind of neat. Sent me a, sent me a CD, Woody Guthrie. I was doing a program about the Civilian 
Conservation Corps, so.  
13 
 
BB: Nice. 
 
DO: Had some Woody Guthrie music.  
 
[INTERRUPTION—RECORDING STOPS] 
 
BB: So, Darlene, we were talking a little bit about other things, or you know, maybe some 
stories, and you mentioned something about a personal experience narrative that you had in the 
cave. Can you talk about it?  
 
DO: A few people have already had an experience in a place called Methodist Church, where 
most of us believe there’s something going on there. Maybe it’s haunted. I had a personal 
experience while I was standing at the church one day. My partner was going to do a blackout. 
And I heard shuffling around. I was getting ready to turn off the light. I heard shuffling around, 
and I glance over, and I see somebody kind of moving around. And I wait until they get back to 
the group. And I turn the light off. All of a sudden, footsteps are coming straight towards me, 
like somebody’s going to run right into me. And I [gasping sound] held my breath because it 
stood like right face-to-face with me. And what I noticed was I couldn’t see the lantern lit across 
the room. And then I realized that I was holding my breath. And as I let my breath out, all of a 
sudden, it vanished, whatever this thing was. Much later, the same guy and I were on a different 
tour, this might have been a couple of years later, right after the new lights were installed in the 
cave. And the guy that was doing the lighting project said, “I can’t understand what happens 
there. The church with the lights. But all of the lights are off right now, so you’re, should have a 
tour because we have a lantern tour.” Well, we get down there. Bobby’s leading and I notice, as I 
look up the boardwalk, that the light is on at the Church. And I think, okay, I’m going to walk on 
up there and turn it off. I took two or three steps and the light went off. I’m like, okay, whoever’s 
back there’s going to be coming up here. I’ll just wait and see who it is. And nobody ever came. 
Bobby finished talking. We started walking. And the light was on at the Church again. Like, I 
don’t, I don’t get it. So I turned the light off as we go through. We go back to Star Chamber and 
on our way back the light is on again. So I turn it off. We go up into Gothic Avenue. And on our 
14 
way back out, we have to, have to use a key to turn that off, so I turn that light off. And I’m like, 
there’s still a light on. The light was on at the Church again. So I turned it off and I told Bobby, I 
don’t know what’s going on, but we’re leaving now. And nobody can explain the light at the 
Church. Mysteries. Mysteries of Mammoth Cave. (laughs) 
 
BB: So you have something connected with Bobby, that very special thing, because he exper-, I 
mean you experienced it in your own ways, but you experienced it together. Bobby Carson?  
 
DO: Actually, it’s Bobby Beams who was standing at that particular light switch with a different 
partner getting ready to turn the lights off. Another guide noticed that he was standing there and 
ra-, because he cannot hear very well, snuck up on him in the dark and grabbed ahold of him and 
made him scream like a little girl. (laughs) So we all still laugh about that too. So we individually 
have issues there. And then together had some, twice now.  
 
BB: It’s a close-knit group, some more than others. Of course you probably have disagreements 
with people, but can you tell me about some of the, can you tell me about camaraderie, maybe 
that’s—and again, I may be putting you on the spot, but it’s just, I’ve had little de-, little details 
about how people take care of one another or, or do things, or these s-, little things. I don’t know 
if that’s— 
 
DO: I think we do have a tendency to kind of take care of each other, you know, like a family 
group. One guy got a foot problem one day, said, “I’m afraid to go tell them,” because, you 
know, [0:30:00] whatever, for what-, whatever reason, so I said, “Well, I’ll go ask if I can take 
your place,” you know. The other day I had an issue and I said “My neck has been bothering 
me,” and my coworker says, “Hey, well, you know, I’ll do that for you then.” You know, so I 
think we really kind of work together and try and take c-, care of each other.  
 
BB: So your career’s been a, a period of exploration and education, you educating others, you 
being educated. Nineteen years in, where are you now? What are you, what are your hopes and 
aspirations for the future as you, you know, go forward in your career?  
 
15 
DO: I think I can do interpretation just about anywhere now. I’ve been doing interpretation for 
our fire workshop, fire interpretation workshop. I’ve done interpretation for National Association 
for Interpretation. I mean, I think that just carries over. People, people see you walking down the 
street and ask you questions. You have no idea who they are. And you’re not in uniform, but 
maybe there’s some glow about you that says, hey, I know the answer to this, or you know 
(laughs), I can help you. That, I just really see kind of see just continuing with this whole process 
of getting the word out about whatever needs to be talked about. I can talk about anything. 
(laughs) 
 
BB: And make it engaging.  
 
DO: Hopefully.  
 
BB: Is there anything else you’d like to talk about? I mean it’s just been a, seems like it’s been a 
rich experience for you. And anything about this working culture we call park rangers? 
 
DO: Huh…I can‘t think of anything right now, of course, because I’m sitting in front of the 
camera. (laughs) 
 
BB: Well, it’s been a great, thank you for your time.  
 
DO: You’re welcome. Thanks for having me.  
 
BB: Okay.  
 
[INTERRUPTION—RECORDING STOPS] 
 
BB: So as you’re guiding and doing interpretation on a cave tour, it’s pretty important to listen to 
any stories about how people listen or don’t listen or, or, or something like that?  
 
16 
DO: You bet. Crawling tours are really important to follow instructions and you get people down 
there that don’t pay attention. They’re not following instructions. And I had one guy that fell on 
his head and pile-drived his helmet and scalped him. He ended up with a concussion. But 
miraculously he was able to walk out of the cave on his own.  
 
BB: So how did he fall or what was the— 
 
DO: He was climbing up a place called the Lion’s Head. And it, as he tried to sit on the top of 
the Lion’s Head, like we do, he had a water bottle in his pocket that caused him to roll off. It was 
pretty scary. I had a guide, the guide working with me that day was freshly trained. This was his 
very first trip. And I said, “Spencer, can you get to Grand Central from here to the telephone?” 
And he says, “I think so.” And I said, “No. Can you get there?” And he says, “Yes.” And, and he 
took off. Miraculously, he got to Grand Central in like thirty minutes, just record time. He’s real 
tall, gangly guy. I also had a guy with me on the tour who has been on the tour about a hundred 
times. And he asked me if, “Should I go with him?” And I said, “No, Tom, I think I need you to 
just do group entertainment up there while I’m down here dealing with this.” So we were able to 
make it all work and got the guy out and— 
 
BB: So did he need medical attention? Was there anything going on outside? Who was, what 
was going on at the park when he, when you had, when you exited? 
 
DO: This was Fourth of July weekend, so we had a lot of Cave Research Foundation folks there. 
They were surprised that the guy was walking out on his own. I was supposed to go to a party 
that night, but I was like, you know, I think I’m a little stressed out for that. (laughs) So I didn’t 
go to the, the Fourth of July party. But, and it took me a while to be able to get over the fact that 
this guy had gotten really hurt. I mean, it could have been even worse than it was. When I first 
looked at him, I thought he was dead. So, thought he had maybe broke his neck. And he was 
breathing horribly, like “eek, eek.” [0:35:00] And his girlfriend was up on top of the rock with 
me looking down and I had to pre-, grab her from being a victim. Because I’m like, no you can’t 
just jump down there, you know. So there’s a certain way you have to do that climb up and down 
and if people are not listening—I know a lot of people do not climb up the Lion’s Head anymore 
17 
because of that. And we, we do have good caving helmets now because of that incident, so out of 
the bad, something good happened, you know. But, yeah, that was, it could have been a tragic 
incident, but [ ].  
 
BB: That was probably the most intense time of all your many, many cave— 
 
DO: That’s probably the most intense moment in my career here at Mammoth Cave.  
 
BB: Do you see the Lion’s Head as a different place after that?  
 
DO: I climb up and down it. I wouldn’t ever take a group back up it after that. It was just, just 
left, kind of left its mark on me. Maybe, maybe people shouldn’t be doing something that is that 
unsafe if they’re not going to listen. If they listen, they can do it fine. But if they don’t, bad 
things can happen.  
 
BB: Let this be a lesson.  
 
DO: Let that be a lesson to you. (laughs) 
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]