1 
 
Serphina Ililau Bi-Lingual Questionnaires  
 
Interview Location: Falalop Island, Ulithi Atoll 
Age of Interviewee: 75 years 
Island of Birth: 
Falalop Island, Ulithi Atoll 
Audio Language: 
Ulithian 
Recording afc2022011_005_sr001 
00:09 Question 1 
1.   Thinking back, what are your very earliest memories of, or about, weaving? 
A. Ulithian:  Hobe luluwal tefal ngo mada mele hochil mem‟mangi hare gulayem mo irel yam 
la Kai mo gula doh deur? 
Interviewee Ulithian: 
00:26 Way back in 1959, mala ngo ngang ichil tarfefel. Ited yaya 
gow. Iwe ngo isa kai doh yengang le ibele bidi luwulur fafel 
epol isa komahoi yar fef‟feur yengang, yuch hare gulfei ka. 
eloh ngo ila maro ngal yal semal deur, isa budoh fathmasowa 
emulwe. 00:58 Yesa mel depei mathalbo ibe kai imulwe. Ngo ila 
koloh irel yarmat ngo tor mele mol le reyaya bo, be tepath 
guluch ngo ilutul gulfei meka yach fafel. 01:10 Tor le mayaya 
mol. Isa interest le ibe. 01:14 Sabuthoh katabdoh, isa budoh irel 
elulap kala wulyetigiy.  Rebefarudah yi-cho kala yar ngo ngang 
ibudoh ngo ila morodi, “hakangal yei”.  Hasigsig ye la 1960, 
wolmol malmulwe, wolmol Ovilia. Iwe ngo sa-mwol le ngang 
ibe, isa feur yai yuch, isa faru sew peg, ye wachich, te holngol, 
towemwol le yarmat rebe yaya iyang bo-yai kai. 01:47 Isa faru 
mala bo-yai sa-mwol le ngang ibe chogu, sa mol le, isa gula 
mele tapang, ngo igula mele ngung le bemos. Ngo ila mala 
rema kangalgich bo, ila lobsla sima kai, ah… yarmat remasor 
bo (yelelmos) mil tapang mo ngung. Sima sor bo dol, igla iye 
sapal chog mele tapang tai ma mos bo sa mol. 02:13 Iwe ngo ila 
hobelesor bo dol mo ngung… Dol mo ngung. Ila, ila lobosla 
sima gula mil yengang mo iyang. Iwe isa kai deur ye… ila gula.   
 
02:27 La 19 somwhere, sa katabdoh, itugla hare 1961 ngo isa 
yaya gow. Isa yaya gow le yengangel chog fulyach. 02:46 Tor 
yai mol. Tor mol le yelah yath la. Pangmem lefechig kala ha 
yaya gow irel yathla iwe ngo yengangal fulyach. 02:55 Tor wol 
lomlulthiy le hobe wiri sew mol lerebe yali.  Iwe chilmel 
malpawe Walter, Padre Walter. 03:06 Ila lobosla yarmat rebele, 
yebele komahoi meka yesa chumong mol.  Yor rochokola resa 
feur fathal iwe ngo hamem tor lomem salpi mo wulyetigiy, iwe 
tor yamem mol. 03:17 Ye samoch budoh mol ka yarmat resa 
k‟kai doh yengang iyang. 03:20 Mla ngo ngang isa fasol gula 
meka yar fafel mo mwaal. Mela difference iyang. La katabdoh, 
ngo isa waloth ngo isa moch kai machi. Ila mla sibe sor bo 
deur kala yal yarmat. 03:39 Isa gula ifasangal dedeur, iwe ngo 
mala isa gula sangal sew deur le madal bo tayor le yegula igla.  
Itugla hare chil yor mo wol fului kalai ngo wol falyei taror le ye 
gula bo sangang chog mele igula ngo iye itai ma dedeur.  
Rema sor bo deurel wolfal.  Tor le yegula mala. 03:59 Ngang 
chog mo mla seley mom la bsil le sames. Le itugla hami mo 
2 
 
wol fulukai, ngo deurel wolfal, ma ruyai ngungul, ruyai dibal, 
ngo smat chol, yengangal fulyach. 04:21 Isa hagela ngal mol iwe 
ngo ye work.  Iwe ila mele ngang isa gula deur mo iyang. Sa 
kai fethal yarmat mo iyang. Semal ngo la tongtong fathal yal 
mal. Hamem ralakawe le ha dedeur fathal chog le yengang 
fulyach. 04:39 Yi moch dedeur mol irel mele isa yengang ye isa 
lolei.  Sa 1971, „72, „73 yai yengang mol bo sa mol mele 
yarmat resa yaya. Isa keyayalir meka layi. 
 
Interviewee English:   
Way back in 1959, I was still a young girl,  I had not yet worn 
lavalava. I learned to do the weaving by going down to the 
women‟s house where the ladies gathered to weave, and I 
watched them weave. Usually, they wove using banana or 
hibiscus fibers.  I would go and sit by one of the ladies and 
stare at what they were doing, and then feel like wanting to 
learn. When I looked around, nobody wore the thread lavalava, 
but local lavalavas which are called either “pathguluch” or 
“iltulgulfei”, the ones for women.  Nobody wore woven thread.  
 
I was interested in learning. Then later, when my parents did 
their warping (Cho), I would come sit down with them and tell 
them to teach me. So, in 1960, before typhoon Ophelia, I made 
banana fibers, and wove a small lavalava, not to be worn, but 
just to learn by doing it. So, I learned the parts of the loom, like 
the heddles (ngung), shed rod (tapang) that identifies the place 
if a string is broken which they call “yelelmos”.  But now the 
string does not break because it‟s thread. So, somewhere 
around 1961 was when I started wearing lavalava, but the local 
ones.  I did‟t have thread at that time. Most of the girls that 
wore lavalava in those days wore the local ones.  You wouldn‟t 
see anybody in Ulithi wearing lavalava made from thread in 
those times. Fr. Walter was the one that started observing the 
local fibers, and then he ordered thread.  
 
So, some people got thread and wove, but my parents and I 
did not have money, so we did not get any. By that time, I 
knew the difference between women‟s and men‟s lavalava.  
Later on, I started learning how to make “Machi” (a sacred type 
of weaving done for the chiefs). By then, I also learned how to 
do another type of weaving that maybe the other islands still 
know how to do it but not the people from my island which they 
call “deurel wolfal”.  Nobody knows how to do this type of 
weaving anymore except myself and my mom. This type of 
weaving has two (2) heddle rods, and 2 pattern stick and a 
different warping. This type was done with the local fibers, but I 
tried the thread and it also works. So, people learned how to 
do it, and some just made up their ways. I started using thread 
when I started working and having kids.  So, from 1971, „72, 
„73 until now, I weave with thread because that is what people 
are wearing. 
05:00 Question 2 
2.   In your mind, who is the one person you most associate with weaving in your life and 
why? 
3 
 
A. Ulithian:  Lol yam luluwal, itei semal le ye kael yam fel ngali irel yam fefaru doh deur hare 
yam deduer doh?  Bo mada fal? 
Interviewee Ulithian: 
05:10 Tor… pangal yaramat ngo ifel ngalir. Mada fal? Fal mala 
hare ngang itugla sew formel ngo itema le ibe kasi. Hare mo 
mokawe yarmat roma ma iyang, bo “ay yeremtala togla deur 
ngo… iwe ngo imaloh.  Hafedeg ngal chog hagech. Semal le 
igula le ye mommai yal fasfosol hagech ngo ibe mari.  Haremo 
semal reyasor ngo ibeloh ye isla kasiya, yarmat rema‟ma iyang 
ngo ngang ite ma iyang bo itugla. 05:38 Ngo ila pelal le pangal 
formel ngo igula bo tetugil le ye budoh ngo ibe dipli mulwe ngo 
itugla ngo ima darlog isla, “ay ifasangal tabol peg la ho bo iye 
sangal? Ifa sangal mulwe iye sangal? Bo ite ma bo ibe sor bo 
itugla. Ila pelal le te semal chog yarmat mele ifaru ngalir bo 
pangal loh yarmat ngo ifel ngalir.  Re ma maligili yei ngo tor 
pelal.  Mele chog ibe gula. 
 
 
Interviewee English: 
No one in particular. I associate it with everyone, why?  
Because when I didn‟t know something, I am not ashamed to 
ask. I don‟t mind what people think of me, so if I don‟t know 
something, I ask so I can learn.  It‟s the same with weaving 
baskets. When I see someone weaving a perfect basket, I look 
for her. If she is from Asor, I will go ask her to teach me.  
People are ashamed to ask because they don‟t want people to 
think that they don‟t know, but I don‟t think that way. I ask so I 
can learn something I don‟t know, and that‟s why I know most 
of those things. If I see a design on the ends of a lavalava that 
I like and I don‟t know how to make it, I will ask.  People laugh 
at me, but I don‟t mind because I just want to know. 
06:02 Question 3 
3.   Why is weaving so important to you? 
A.   Ulithi: Mada mele dedeur ye kael yal palengpelal ngalug iyang? 
Interviewee Ulithian: 
06:16 Ngal yei chog hare ngal pangal yarmat?  Hal ila sew 
formel le pitgich.  Very valuable irech wol outer island.  Si 
taptap irel dugdugl mass, especially haplech mo mengaguch 
bo ila mele mengaguch. Tor yach mengag. Situgla sangal 
fereul mengagul yepsach iwe ngo temadoh long. Iwe ngo gich 
sigula sangal le ila mala sichapidah irel fibers, yuch and gulfei 
bo ila mala yor yach. Sitaptap yach dugdugul mass, sitap 
haposol meka yewahaha le yebudoh wolfului, wenig. Pangal 
metmatal. Sibe sor bo ila mele salpi irech. Tapel palang irer 
riyap. 07:03 Tor mele green paper le gich bo ila chog mele loch 
salpiy. Paleng pelal ngal gich Outer Islands. Site chuwayii bo 
si-far hasi mirel ahh si-feuru ngal peoch mo irel meka local. 
Ngo gich siwol feur. Igla iye safar pangal formel ngo siya 
taptap salpiy iyang. Sew farmel le ye palingpaling pelal. Ngo ila 
mala gula yei mo iyang. 
 
4 
 
Interviewee English: 
Just me or to everybody? It is one thing that is very valuable in 
our culture. We use it when somebody dies (funerals). It‟s our 
clothing, because before we didn‟t have thu (a loincloth made 
from a length of fabric). We don‟t know how to make the 
modern cloth and there was no means of getting it. But for us, 
we know how to make our clothing by weaving the fibers from 
hibiscus and bananas.  
 
We use lavalava to make peace when there are tributes due 
between island, clans, or families. There are so many things 
that we use lavalava for.  We use them like our money also.  
Lavalava, or weaving, is something very important to us in the 
Outer Islands.  It‟s something that we don‟t buy because we 
make it ourselves with our hands and from the local materials 
we have. It‟s something that very important to us.  Nowadays, 
we are using money, as well. 
07:38  Question 4 
4.   How has weaving or woven skirts changed over your lifetime, or since the lifetime of 
those who taught you? 
A.   Ulithi:  Ifa sangal yal deur mo dedeur susuwel doh irel yam bubudoh yesa holadoh igla? 
Hare sa change tangi yathkawe ho k‟kai mor irel sensei kala yam? 
Interviewee Ulithian: 
07:58 Yak… dedeur mo mael… te change dedeur samat loh 
chog dedeur, wulullul yach durngu, chogu siya durngu.  Yach 
color mele sa yisuwel fadal. So cholop metmetal color igla 
mimol ralakawe. Ralakawe le tor yach rochupung bo bech ila 
sitaptap yuch.  Ngo meka yesar mwau le yesar brown le 
sitaptap gulfei kae ye mwau. Iwe ngo Peuch mele yach color. 
Hal sew loh chog.  08:31 Peuch iye sima fag meka, parang kea 
sayew siya ige. Ige, ige ye la mormor fadal siya kak, Tirigi 
sehai lol kawe siya mari mulwe maelyelpal, mokaw wahral we 
yemel falbol siya yosadi iyang siya mela ngal chael. Siya 
hamela irel sobonb hare ruwbong lebe kapes ngali mulwe ye la 
turn out le sa ruchupung kowe, ye samat te halngol black bo 
rochupung irel mala milal. Ikala makla yach color. 09:06 Samat 
loh chog, hasigsig ye la budoh mele, fal yothle sa cholop color, 
sa yor blue, green, yellow, iwe ngo yach ahh, mele parangrang 
le rangal Yap mele sima, mele sitaptap. Rangal Yap mele 
sitaptap. Ngo hal ila yema faith. Tica mo rangal Yap le hobe 
hamela hosa, tapel mulwe sima hamela ngal ubuth.  Iwe ila 
mele ngang gulayei.  
Interviewee in English: 
How we weave is still the same. It‟s the color that has 
changed. We have so many more colors these days than in 
the old days. We didn‟t have true black in those days. We had 
white because of the white banana fibers. We had light brown 
because the first layer of hibiscus fiber is kind of light brown.  
And, we had this color that is dark – more like black – which 
we called “Peuch”. This color is made of dirt (like clay that is 
found only in the main island of Yap) mixed with the scraped 
yellow inner skin of the Noni tree root and some water. Or it 
could be made from the scraped inner skin of Noni root with 
5 
 
some scraped rust from rusted metal and left to rest for one or 
two nights. We also had the color yellow from dried ginger root, 
but we could only get this color from the main island of Yap. 
This color also does not last; it fades away. Nowadays, there 
are so many colors, like blue, green, and others. 
Interviewer in Ulithian:  
09:40 Ila chog? 
Interviewer in English: 
That‟s it? 
Interviewee in Ulithian:   
09:41 Ngo ila chog , igula chog le halsamat loh chog yach ngel.  
Sa change fathal ngel igla irel mele sa repsach le siya. 09:49 Ila 
hafedeg chog bele hobela yitedoh babior ka mel yach color 
mel, ngo tor harawraw bo smat log chog, harawraw, dulal tad, 
dulal falmad, iye ika meka sa samat mo samat fathal ngo tor 
idal irech. 10:09 Delul flak meka gich siya tongtong dah chog 
idal. Iwe ngo halsew loh chog yach color, peuch. 
 
Interviewee in English: 
Yes that‟s it, I know that before modernization we only had one 
dye (Puech). Now we have different kinds of dyes due to 
modernization. Before we used carbon papers to make a dye, 
which is dark blue. Now we have dyes the color of the dark 
blue ocean, the color of the blue ocean, and the color of the 
light blue ocean. We don‟t have names for these colors. We 
just make up names of our colors, like US flag blue. But the 
only color we used to have was “Puech”. 
  
10:20 Question 5  
5.    If you could talk to your great-granddaughter about weaving, what would you want to tell 
her? 
A.   Ulithian:  Hare wochog bo hobe malili ngal lol lom tarfefel irel deur, mada mele hobe 
kangalur hare hodipli hobe kangalur? 
Interviewee Ulithian: 
10:35 Idipli le ibe kangalur pangal meka ngang igula mo irel deur.  
Igula bo te pangal yarmat ngo regula.  Iwe ngo te meka chog 
layi mele ibe kangalur, bo dela tomol le yor le te interest 
hames le ibe kangalu ngo be maliglaloh hare yetahcheloh bo 
tor fal ngali ngo ye paling pelal le rebe gula meka ngang igula. 
10:55 Iwe ngo pangal yarmat ngo ngang idipli le rebe gula meka 
ngang igula hare ibla mes ngo be yog le rebe hadayu, rebe 
kangalur ikla retogla. Meka ngang igula le yir rebegula. Ye 
cholop cholop gich ralakawe le sima lebagli yach tafei, iwe ngo 
siblibagili salapach. 11:17 Site dipli sibe fang repiyach, sitedipli 
sibe fang ngal yarmat bo hamela mulwe robe gula bo be 
tobtob loh chog.  Iwe sala gel chog mele ho gula mulwe. Hosa 
mes hosa hasi loh falbol le tor le yegula. Tapel deur igla. 
Cholop le yegula tot deur le resames sa hasiloh falbol te 
kangalur mokawe layur. 11:40 Iwe ngo fal mele igula pangal 
meka iyang le mil mala itema ma ngo ite ma le hare hobe sor 
bo itugla deur, isa hamda loh irel rochokala regula le robudoh 
mo israe failing isla kasi.  Resa kangal yei ngo hare redipli rebe 
kangal yei mala holngol katosol, iwe ngo ngang isa wol 
6 
 
komahoi mirel makla yar. 11:59 Ilang ngo, hare ho kachapra yei, 
ila ngo yehatfa le iye sangal mirel deur le yam, ngo te ila 
sangal le ngang ila faru.  Iwe rebele habungu ngaliyei. “ilang 
iye sangal mala macheyal.” Ila fal le igula iyang bo itema le ibe 
kasi.  Ngo halila, pangal meka igula ngo idipli ibe kangal meka 
layi mo yarmat, pangal yarmat.  Idela mes isa hasiloh falbol tor 
le be gula.  Sala tapel igla le siya lut-lut fadal le tor mele sigula. 
 
Interviewee English: 
I would like to teach them all that I know about weaving.  I 
believe that not everybody knows what I know, and I would not 
only teach my great-great granddaughters, but all the people 
that would like to learn in case my kids are not interested. I 
want to share my knowledge of weaving because it‟s 
something very important for people to know so they can pass 
it on. I don‟t want to die and take my knowledge to my grave. 
Some people don‟t want to share their knowledge, like 
medicine and many other things, so when they die they take 
this knowledge to the grave, and that is the end of their 
knowledge. They don‟t want to tell people so that the 
knowledge will continue. It‟s the same with weaving. Some 
people have died, and they took their specialties to their grave. 
 
 
 
For myself, I am not ashamed to go and ask people that come 
from other places and know things that I don‟t know.  And all 
these things that I know, I would love to teach my kids and 
other people, so that I don‟t keep it to myself and take it to my 
grave.