Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
1	  
Project: Archie Green Project 
Interviewer: Sharrow, Gregory L. 
Interviewee: Wilson, Clark Bill 
Interviewee Contact: 
 
Location: Pawlet, VT 
Date: 12 March 2015 
Length: 01:53:29 
Recording Format: digital 
Accession: au2014-2008 
Collection: vfc2014-0005 
Indexer: Shannon Esrich	  
	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
START-00:01:54 
Introductions.	  Aside	  about	  local	  photography	  project	  in	  town.	  
Introduction.	  
00:01:54-00:24:45 
Grew	  up	  on	  same	  farm,	  family	  came	  in	  1848.	  Grew	  up	  in	  late	  Depression,	  
Dad	  needed	  help	  working.	  Grandfather	  in	  1930s	  had	  hay	  raker,	  worked	  that	  
with	  one	  horse	  and	  by	  hand.	  Didn’t	  have	  hay	  roller	  until	  late	  1940s.	  Went	  
out	  to	  sugar	  woods	  to	  cut	  wood	  for	  heat,	  other	  trees	  as	  well.	  Helping	  8	  and	  
10	  years	  old	  with	  younger	  brother,	  cut	  small	  trees.	  Then,	  no	  sugaring	  on	  
farm.	  Mainly	  milking	  cows,	  dairy	  farm.	  Fall	  1941	  Grandfather	  passed	  away,	  
war	  started,	  tightened	  up	  labor.	  Mother’s	  father	  split	  wood,	  1942	  moved	  in	  
with	  family.	  Grandmother	  went	  to	  Rutland	  as	  companion	  for	  a	  lady.	  
Grandfather	  was	  strong	  through	  old	  age,	  still	  cut	  wood	  at	  80.	  Carried	  milk,	  
loved	  gardening,	  flowers.	  1942	  began	  having	  sugar	  bush,	  help	  was	  scarce	  
because	  of	  war	  factories.	  When	  war	  started	  US	  was	  subordinate	  nation,	  
many	  changes	  in	  factories.	  1943	  didn’t	  have	  enough	  sugar,	  borrowed	  138	  
buckets	  from	  neighbors,	  made	  15-­‐20	  gallons	  of	  syrup.	  Fall	  1943	  huge	  
blizzard	  before	  Thanksgiving,	  long	  cold	  winter,	  broke	  up	  March	  20th,	  very	  
muddy,	  closed	  schools.	  Little	  brother	  and	  Bill	  helped	  Dad	  make	  sugar,	  
Great	  Depression,	  producer,	  
family,	  childhood,	  maple	  
sugaring,	  expanding	  business,	  
logging,	  institution,	  The	  Country	  
Gentleman,	  World	  War	  Two,	  
Land	  Corps	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
2	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
tapped	  85	  buckets.	  Bill	  boiled,	  brother	  Jack	  gathered	  sap.	  How	  sugar	  
business	  started.	  1944	  summer	  Dad	  needed	  more	  help	  on	  farm.	  Land	  Corps	  
ages	  16-­‐18	  formed	  during	  war	  to	  help	  farms	  with	  labor,	  because	  couldn’t	  
draft	  under	  age	  18.	  Kids	  from	  NYC	  came	  up.	  3	  boys	  came	  from	  the	  Bronx	  to	  
Rutland	  boarding	  house	  looking	  for	  farm	  work.	  All	  three	  wanted	  to	  work	  
together,	  farmers	  wouldn’t	  hire	  them.	  Dad	  liked	  2	  out	  of	  3,	  picked	  one,	  
worked	  well.	  Pines	  moving	  into	  pasture,	  and	  cows	  don’t	  like	  pines,	  so	  
logged	  pines	  for	  2,000	  feet	  of	  lumber	  to	  build	  first	  sugarhouse.	  Really	  
wanted	  to	  sugar	  as	  a	  kid,	  every	  year	  added	  pans,	  1946	  got	  evaporator	  and	  
kept	  expanding.	  Late	  1940s	  got	  old	  car	  batteries	  and	  headlights	  to	  boil	  at	  
night.	  1947	  Foot	  family	  had	  telephone	  line	  for	  area,	  man	  came	  in	  and	  
bought	  system	  and	  put	  in	  new	  lines.	  Asked	  to	  use	  old	  lines	  for	  telephone	  
line	  between	  sugarhouse	  and	  home,	  picked	  up	  almost	  2	  miles	  of	  telephone	  
line.	  Finished	  in	  middle	  of	  night	  building	  poles	  and	  lines	  across	  property.	  
Someone	  gave	  2	  phones,	  worked	  well.	  Sugared	  there	  until	  1957,	  phone	  
worked	  through	  then.	  In	  high	  school	  then,	  switched	  to	  electricity,	  took	  gas	  
washing	  machine	  to	  build	  first	  power	  tree	  tappers	  in	  VT,	  used	  pullet	  to	  start	  
it.	  Used	  for	  next	  10-­‐15	  years,	  weighed	  35	  pounds,	  straps	  to	  carry	  in	  front	  of	  
you.	  St.	  Albans	  created	  tapped	  mounted	  on	  your	  back	  with	  flexible	  cord,	  but	  
if	  caught	  on	  fire	  you	  were	  attached	  and	  thought	  more	  dangerous	  than	  theirs.	  
Had	  good	  sugar	  woods	  until	  1893,	  grandfather	  decided	  needed	  new	  barn,	  
and	  great	  grandfather	  invented	  first	  horsepower	  in	  country.	  Great	  
grandfather	  traded	  maple	  lumber	  for	  spruce	  lumber,	  grandfather	  upset	  and	  
wouldn’t	  let	  anyone	  else	  cut	  down	  maple,	  so	  got	  back	  into	  maple	  business.	  
Never	  went	  to	  school	  during	  sugaring	  season.	  High	  school	  teacher	  found	  out	  
about	  it,	  always	  asked	  about	  it,	  kids	  thought	  it	  was	  funny	  because	  he	  was	  
considered	  a	  hick.	  $3.39/gallon	  of	  syrup,	  high	  school	  music	  teacher	  wanted	  
4	  gallons	  of	  syrup.	  Didn’t	  do	  wholesaling,	  but	  people	  bought	  it,	  and	  didn’t	  
have	  a	  lot.	  1945-­‐6	  2	  worst	  sugar	  years	  on	  record.	  Cold	  winter,	  short	  season.	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
3	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
1947	  better	  season,	  Vermont	  Sugar	  Makers	  Association	  held	  contest	  within	  
first	  county,	  then	  state,	  for	  best	  sugar	  bush	  with	  conservation.	  Won	  first	  in	  
Rutland	  County.	  1948	  cold	  winter,	  traded	  evaporators,	  not	  good	  year.	  The	  
Country	  Gentleman,	  national	  farm	  magazine,	  wrote	  article	  about	  Clark	  
brothers.	  Got	  customers	  from	  across	  country,	  got	  them	  started	  in	  mail	  order	  
business.	  Customers	  in	  Florida,	  California,	  Kentucky,	  Minnesota,	  Texas.	  
Texas	  man	  even	  visited	  farm,	  showed	  supposed	  grave	  of	  Coolidge	  to	  him.	  
00:24:45-00:43:10 
After	  war,	  neighbor	  wanted	  to	  expand	  in	  1948,	  Dad	  went	  to	  Blakely	  farm	  to	  
add	  young	  cattle,	  got	  up	  to	  60-­‐70	  milking	  cows	  through	  1950s.	  Brother	  Jack	  
not	  as	  interested	  in	  farming,	  plus	  1947-­‐1950	  hay	  bailers	  came	  onto	  scene	  
and	  Ford	  harvester.	  Neighbor	  went	  into	  Mobile	  bailing	  business,	  worked	  for	  
him	  for	  a	  few	  years	  in	  addition	  to	  dairy	  and	  sugaring.	  Aside	  about	  
innovations	  in	  hay	  bailer	  technology.	  Bought	  Abraham	  Lincoln’s	  great	  
granddaughter’s	  hay	  harvester.	  Chopped	  corn	  with	  it	  for	  25	  years.	  Did	  
customer	  work	  through	  1950s.	  After	  high	  school,	  Jack	  worked	  driving	  milk	  
trucks	  for	  2	  years.	  1954	  with	  end	  of	  Korean	  War,	  Jack	  stopped	  working	  to	  
be	  drafted.	  Never	  left	  country,	  came	  up	  every	  3	  or	  4	  months	  on	  furlough.	  	  
H.P.	  Hood	  Company	  wanted	  to	  convert	  milk	  cans	  to	  bulk	  cans,	  Clarks	  
shipped	  down	  to	  NY.	  Prices	  got	  better	  when	  war	  interest	  came,	  put	  in	  bulk	  
tank	  in	  1955.	  After	  army	  1956	  Jack	  went	  into	  bulk	  milk	  hauling.	  In	  spare	  
time,	  Jack	  and	  other	  brother	  Leon	  in	  high	  school	  helped	  till	  silos	  for	  10-­‐12	  
years	  while	  dairying.	  1958	  father	  passed	  away	  suddenly,	  then	  grandfather	  
passed	  away.	  Milk	  prices	  weren’t	  good,	  maple	  was	  main	  interest.	  Fall	  1957	  
built	  new	  sugarhouse	  with	  new	  evaporator,	  wanted	  to	  start	  having	  visitors	  
so	  built	  for	  100	  visitors	  to	  watch.	  Got	  ideas	  from	  Martin	  Brown	  in	  
Wilmington,	  VT	  who	  had	  8-­‐9,000	  taps.	  Wanted	  as	  many	  as	  possible	  to	  
entertain	  public.	  Had	  parking	  lots,	  signs	  to	  direct	  people.	  Had	  2,000	  in	  one	  
afternoon,	  blocked	  neighbor’s	  driveway	  with	  their	  cars.	  Spent	  $400	  
advertising	  on	  radio	  around	  1961,	  wasted	  money	  in	  a	  way	  because	  more	  
Farm	  technology,	  Korean	  War,	  
distribution,	  dairy,	  consumer,	  
tourism,	  advertising,	  expanding	  
business,	  family	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
4	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
than	  2,000	  people	  and	  no	  more	  than	  1,000	  could	  get	  there	  because	  so	  
crowded.	  People	  stopped	  at	  any	  sugarhouse	  they	  could	  find.	  People	  drove	  
from	  Utica,	  NY	  just	  to	  see	  it.	  Then,	  still	  had	  woodshed,	  so	  built	  bridge	  over	  
where	  wood	  collected	  to	  take	  pictures.	  Sister	  in	  law	  wrote	  script	  of	  story	  of	  
evaporator	  on	  board	  for	  tourists	  to	  read,	  still	  there.	  Explained	  making	  
different	  grades,	  boiling	  process,	  filtering,	  grading.	  1965	  put	  in	  oil	  burners	  
to	  eliminate	  some	  help,	  tapping	  8-­‐9,000	  trees	  and	  other’s	  sugar	  bushes.	  Oil	  
was	  11	  cents/gallon.	  Built	  woodshed	  into	  theatre,	  had	  artifacts,	  antiques,	  
sales	  counter,	  sugar	  on	  snow	  syrup,	  slides	  and	  video,	  samples,	  ole	  
equipment.	  Starting	  to	  get	  into	  plastic	  tubing.	  Wife	  from	  Ganser,	  NY,	  
brought	  4-­‐5	  school	  buses	  from	  NY	  to	  teach	  kids	  about	  sugaring.	  Christmas	  
1945	  Dad	  named	  Clark	  Brothers	  Maple	  Sugar	  Company,	  but	  bought	  Jack’s	  
share	  in	  1941	  when	  we	  went	  in	  army.	  Since	  1980,	  Clark	  Farm.	  Married	  
1960,	  had	  kids.	  Youngest	  brother	  Leon	  helped	  Jack	  haul	  milk,	  helped	  Bill	  
too.	  Hired	  kids	  from	  all	  over	  region	  to	  work.	  Had	  open	  houses	  on	  weekends,	  
had	  visitors	  from	  UN	  in	  NY	  from	  20-­‐30	  countries,	  5	  continents	  in	  one	  
weekend.	  Neighbor	  who	  was	  a	  doctor	  picked	  up	  used	  spoons	  from	  sugar	  on	  
snow,	  helped	  wash	  them	  to	  reuse.	  1980s	  put	  up	  sign	  that	  said	  over	  20,000	  
people	  have	  been	  there,	  but	  real	  number	  over	  40-­‐50,000	  people	  over	  course	  
of	  50	  years	  from	  every	  continent.	  Very	  special	  to	  have	  than	  many	  visitors.	  
Best	  advertising	  was	  Glens	  Falls	  Post,	  also	  in	  Schenectady.	  Weren’t	  many	  
public	  sugarhouses,	  so	  very	  popular.	  People	  in	  VT	  not	  so	  interested	  because	  
everyone	  did	  it	  for	  themselves,	  but	  people	  from	  NY	  very	  intrigued	  so	  did	  all	  
advertising	  for	  NY.	  Roads	  were	  bad	  back	  then	  too,	  people	  got	  stuck	  in	  mud	  
trying	  to	  visit	  but	  didn’t	  mind.	  	  People	  that	  visit	  today	  as	  grandparents	  
mention	  coming	  when	  they	  were	  children	  too.	  
00:43:10-00:46:17 
Dairy	  prices	  weren’t	  good,	  didn’t	  have	  permanent	  help,	  stopped	  dairying	  in	  
1963.	  Had	  beef	  cattle	  for	  10-­‐15	  years,	  then	  did	  construction,	  masonry	  with	  
fireplaces.	  Built	  3	  houses	  in	  Rutland	  1970s,	  repair	  work	  in	  region.	  Quit	  
Dairy,	  beef,	  construction,	  
masonry,	  retail	  outlet,	  
wholesale,	  maple	  sugaring	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
5	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
custom	  harvesting	  in	  early	  1960s,	  except	  for	  one	  farm	  cut	  corn	  for	  10	  years	  
on	  30-­‐cow	  dairy.	  Ended	  custom	  work.	  Had	  retail	  maple	  route,	  really	  
wholesale,	  some	  customers	  bought	  $10,000	  worth/year	  in	  bulk	  barrels.	  
Sold	  3,000	  gallons/year.	  
00:46:17-00:53:32 
Has	  good	  relationship	  with	  Shorty	  Danforth,	  ran	  pancake	  house	  in	  Royalton,	  
VT.	  Brought	  oranges	  from	  FL	  annually.	  Clark	  was	  president	  of	  Vermont	  
Sugar	  Makers	  Association	  for	  32	  years.	  Shorty	  ran	  massive	  business	  in	  
Eastern	  States,	  VT	  from	  1973	  into	  1980s.	  Great	  job,	  loved	  working	  together.	  
Shorty’s	  son	  Nate	  also	  had	  sugarhouse	  in	  East	  Montpelier,	  Shorty’s	  daughter	  
passed	  away	  already,	  no	  more	  family	  in	  the	  sugaring	  business.	  1971	  
development	  department	  losing	  money	  on	  fishpond	  in	  town,	  wore	  it	  out,	  
gave	  responsibilities	  to	  Department	  of	  Agriculture	  for	  1	  year.	  Got	  rid	  of	  
fishpond,	  then	  decided	  to	  buy	  the	  building.	  Department	  then	  wanted	  a	  new	  
entity	  to	  run	  the	  Eastern	  States	  building	  for	  half	  education	  half	  retail	  area	  
for	  Vermont	  food	  producers.	  Group	  put	  some	  money	  up	  front	  to	  build	  new	  
façade	  on	  building.	  Commissioner	  of	  agriculture	  met	  with	  group	  in	  
Montpelier	  to	  discuss	  changes.	  Clark	  never	  sold	  to	  Shorty.	  Vermont	  Sugar	  
Makers	  Association	  only	  entity	  that	  has	  continuously	  been	  in	  Eastern	  States	  
building	  since	  it	  was	  built	  in	  1920s.	  Rebuilt	  1998.	  Shorty	  ran	  that	  building,	  
and	  was	  a	  great	  manager.	  Eastern	  States	  Exposition	  Fair	  (The	  Big	  E)	  in	  
Springfield,	  Massachusetts	  was	  only	  10	  days,	  now	  17,	  but	  Saturdays	  were	  
most	  popular.	  Vermont	  Maple	  Sugar	  Makers	  Association	  would	  treat	  
volunteers	  and	  workers	  on	  Saturdays	  to	  food.	  
Shorty	  Danforth,	  Eastern	  States,	  
maple	  sugaring,	  institution,	  
Department	  of	  Agriculture,	  
Vermont	  Sugar	  Makers	  
Association,	  The	  Big	  E,	  Eastern	  
States	  Exposition	  Fair	  
00:53:32-00:58:23 
David	  Marvin’s	  father	  had	  idea	  to	  start	  maple	  lab,	  Proctor	  Maple	  Center,	  
Marvin	  family	  owned	  some	  land	  there.	  Dr.	  Marvin	  and	  Fred	  Taylor	  both	  
from	  the	  college	  (UVM?)	  went	  in	  1947	  to	  start	  research.	  David	  and	  brother	  
Jim,	  plus	  two	  sisters.	  Jim	  did	  business	  with	  Butternut	  Mountain	  Farm,	  where	  
David	  started	  out.	  Used	  to	  do	  maple	  schools	  in	  January	  in	  all	  12	  counties	  of	  
Vermont.	  As	  president	  of	  Association,	  stayed	  around	  state	  running	  schools.	  
Institution,	  Proctor	  Maple	  
Center,	  Butternut	  Mountain	  
Farm,	  producer,	  Vermont	  Maple	  
Sugar	  Makers	  Association,	  
education,	  retail	  outlet,	  
Department	  of	  Health	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
6	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
David	  Martin	  was	  one	  place,	  he	  was	  out	  of	  college	  1973/4,	  was	  bartender	  
and	  had	  sugarhouse	  and	  old	  farmhouse.	  Family-­‐owned,	  leasing	  sugar	  
woods.	  Opened	  retail	  store	  on	  Main	  St.	  in	  Johnson.	  Wasn’t	  married	  then,	  
Clark	  stayed	  there	  a	  few	  nights	  in	  January.	  David	  interested	  in	  learning	  
about	  maple	  business	  and	  sugaring	  season.	  Then	  bought	  into	  industrial	  
park	  where	  facility	  is	  now	  in	  Morrisville,	  expanded	  from	  there,	  built	  
sugarhouse.	  Do	  14-­‐15,000	  taps.	  Brother	  died,	  David	  maybe	  bought	  out	  
sisters	  too.	  David	  was	  youngest.	  Now	  plays	  large	  role	  in	  Vermont	  Maple	  
Industry	  Council,	  worked	  in	  1990s	  working	  with	  Department	  of	  Health.	  
00:58:23-01:01:46 
Clark	  doesn’t	  boil	  syrup	  anymore.	  Neighbor	  put	  new	  tubing	  system	  in	  10	  
years	  ago,	  get	  syrup	  from	  him.	  Still	  can	  syrup,	  now	  focus	  on	  farmers	  
markets	  and	  mail	  order	  business,	  but	  not	  huge	  sales.	  Likely	  retiring	  soon.	  
2000	  biggest	  year	  for	  selling,	  backed	  off	  since	  then.	  No	  more	  wholesale	  bulk	  
syrup	  since	  20	  years,	  used	  to	  sell	  in	  Lake	  George	  area,	  NY	  too.	  People	  from	  
suburbs	  bought	  more	  than	  city	  people.	  “New	  York	  City’s	  no	  place	  to	  sell	  
syrup,	  not	  the	  core	  city.”	  Tried	  selling	  at	  Connecticut	  fair	  in	  late	  September	  
1960s,	  Rutland	  County	  had	  summer	  maple	  festival	  for	  2	  years,	  back	  then	  
couldn’t	  get	  much	  support,	  dairy	  farmers	  running	  maple	  festival	  had	  to	  do	  it	  
on	  their	  own.	  	  
Retail	  outlet,	  retirement,	  
wholesale,	  New	  York	  City,	  
consumer	  
01:01:46-01:12:06 
1964	  neighbor	  in	  college	  went	  to	  England	  in	  summer,	  on	  boat	  coming	  back	  
met	  English	  man,	  convinced	  him	  to	  see	  Cooperstown.	  Elizabeth’s	  parents	  
picked	  her	  up,	  offered	  him	  ride	  to	  Albany,	  decided	  to	  stay	  with	  them	  during	  
fair.	  He	  came	  to	  Clark,	  interested	  in	  working	  across	  the	  country	  while	  
traveling,	  interested	  in	  sugaring.	  He	  stayed	  1-­‐2	  weeks	  then	  left	  to	  hitchhike	  
across	  country.	  Week	  before	  Christmas	  came	  back,	  John	  Reardon.	  Brother-­‐
in-­‐law	  of	  President	  Kennedy.	  Went	  to	  Canada,	  had	  relatives	  in	  Ontario,	  came	  
back	  again	  broke.	  John	  came	  every	  year	  after	  that	  for	  10	  years,	  age	  28,	  built	  
camp	  for	  English	  boy	  scouts	  to	  grow	  vegetables	  and	  sell	  them	  wholesale.	  
Weather	  here	  different	  than	  England,	  didn’t	  have	  time	  to	  work	  plants.	  
Transition,	  diversified	  farming,	  
producer,	  retail	  outlet,	  Rutland	  
Farmers	  Market,	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
7	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
Ordered	  thousands	  of	  seeds,	  never	  planted	  all,	  failed.	  Owed	  Clark	  money,	  
but	  gave	  seeds	  instead.	  Clark	  decided	  to	  plant	  them	  and	  sell	  everything	  at	  
the	  farmers	  market.	  Since	  1977,	  farmers	  market	  has	  been	  Clark’s	  largest	  
source	  of	  income,	  were	  biggest	  vendor	  in	  Rutland,	  then	  other	  towns,	  joined	  
Christmas	  fairs,	  etc.	  Only	  vendor	  left	  that	  was	  in	  Rutland	  market	  when	  it	  
started.	  This	  will	  be	  39th	  year	  there.	  “People	  say,	  what’s	  your	  number	  one	  
product?	  And	  I	  say	  our	  number	  one	  product	  is	  diversity.	  We	  sell	  more	  
diversity	  than	  anything	  else.”	  Sell	  a	  lot	  of	  berries,	  longer	  season	  and	  higher	  
quantity	  than	  others.	  Wide	  range	  of	  vegetables,	  maple	  products,	  wife	  in	  
1970s	  started	  making	  jams,	  164	  varieties	  over	  time,	  70-­‐80	  in	  summer	  alone.	  
Don’t	  sell	  meat,	  many	  other	  meat	  vendors,	  cheese	  and	  wine	  too.	  Mainly	  sell	  
jams,	  maple	  products,	  and	  produce.	  Came	  into	  farmers	  markets	  by	  accident.	  
Kids	  helped	  for	  a	  while,	  difficult	  to	  find	  help	  now,	  especially	  young	  people.	  
Wife	  also	  sold	  bread	  at	  market	  when	  they	  started,	  today	  no	  market	  for	  it.	  8	  
varieties	  in	  height	  of	  bread	  business,	  but	  not	  worth	  bringing	  to	  market	  since	  
can’t	  resell	  after	  day	  it’s	  made.	  Liked	  to	  make	  pie	  but	  didn’t	  have	  time	  to	  
make	  them	  to	  sell.	  Same	  thing	  with	  pickles,	  relish,	  not	  popular	  sellers.	  
Sampling	  jams	  and	  jellies	  helps	  sell	  them	  somewhat.	  
01:12:06-01:19:06 
Grew	  up	  in	  WWII	  when	  everybody	  had	  victory	  gardens,	  slowed	  down	  after	  
that.	  Always	  had	  garden,	  but	  didn’t	  focus	  on	  it	  until	  later.	  Raised	  5	  acres	  of	  
produce.	  Last	  year	  sold	  1/10	  of	  produce	  that	  went	  through	  RAFFL.	  
Especially	  cabbage,	  people	  don’t	  like	  to	  buy	  at	  farmers	  market,	  so	  RAFFL	  
likes	  them.	  3	  hippies	  started	  Rutland	  Farmers	  Market	  in	  1974,	  like	  to	  call	  it	  
first	  in	  state	  but	  wasn’t,	  one	  in	  Pawlet	  as	  well	  started	  then.	  Rutland	  County	  
Farmers	  Market	  is	  oldest	  continuous	  farmers	  market	  in	  Vermont	  since	  
1974.	  1976,	  market	  moved	  for	  bigger	  location,	  then	  Andy	  Schneider	  wanted	  
to	  build	  food	  co-­‐op	  in	  west	  Rutland,	  looking	  for	  syrup.	  Schneider	  offered	  to	  
reorganize	  farmers	  market.	  Washington	  County	  started	  great	  farmers	  
market,	  got	  people	  to	  come	  talk	  to	  Rutland	  as	  inspiration	  and	  direction.	  
World	  War	  Two,	  victory	  garden,	  
producer,	  retail	  outlet,	  Rutland	  
Area	  Farm	  and	  Food	  Link,	  
Rutland	  Farmers	  Market	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
8	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
Decided	  to	  keep	  farmers	  market,	  move	  to	  Center	  Street	  in	  1977.	  Clark	  
started	  then,	  went	  through	  middle	  of	  October.	  Market	  moved	  into	  Depot	  
Park	  because	  town	  liked	  it,	  1978	  opened	  there,	  eventually	  started	  with	  
Mother’s	  Day	  weekend	  since	  then.	  Started	  Wednesday	  	  market	  later	  on.	  
Joined	  other	  markets	  too,	  Manchester,	  Fair	  Haven,	  Poultney.	  
01:19:06-01:23:24 
RAFFL	  celebrated	  10	  anniversary	  last	  year.	  Extension	  Service	  called	  
meeting	  inviting	  consumers	  to	  teach	  them	  how	  to	  shop	  at	  a	  farmers	  market.	  
Clark	  was	  interested	  in	  who	  was	  qualified	  to	  do	  this,	  went,	  didn’t	  know	  
people	  there.	  Mixed	  group,	  from	  Rutland	  Planning	  Commission,	  Green	  
Mountain	  College,	  conservation	  people,	  farmers.	  Were	  looking	  at	  declining	  
agriculture	  in	  Rutland	  economy.	  Decided	  to	  form	  organization	  to	  do	  
something	  about	  it,	  hence	  RAFFL.	  Had	  no	  money,	  one	  idea	  to	  get	  land	  like	  
Intervale,	  or	  commercial	  processing	  kitchen.	  Tara	  Kelly	  worked	  for	  planning	  
commission,	  managed	  to	  get	  small	  grant	  for	  hired	  management.	  Now	  
fulltime	  employment,	  several	  employees,	  mission	  to	  bring	  farmers	  and	  
consumer	  together,	  and	  to	  educate	  young	  people	  to	  begin	  farming.	  Have	  
Farmers	  Day	  at	  Green	  Mountain	  College	  to	  discuss	  farming.	  GMC	  also	  
offered	  commercial	  kitchen	  for	  processing.	  Had	  board	  running	  RAFFL,	  
everyone	  was	  too	  busy,	  hated	  to	  leave	  board	  to	  too	  many	  commitments,	  was	  
also	  president	  of	  Vermont	  Farmers	  Market	  at	  the	  time.	  RAFFL	  continued	  to	  
expand.	  	  
Rutland	  Area	  Farm	  and	  Food	  
Link	  (RAFFL),	  consumer,	  
producer,	  institution,	  Rutland	  
Planning	  Commission,	  Green	  
Mountain	  College,	  Intervale	  
Center,	  processing	  
01:23:24-01:33:00 
2009	  temporary	  women’s	  shelter	  reached	  out	  to	  get	  fresh	  vegetables	  for	  
residents	  from	  local	  farmers.	  Wanted	  one	  role	  (?),	  seemed	  easy.	  Decided	  
farmers	  market	  would	  help,	  RAFFL	  helped	  with	  pick	  up	  and	  distribution	  of	  
leftover	  produce	  at	  Rutland	  Farmers	  Market.	  Saturdays	  not	  good	  for	  
workers,	  then	  dairy	  established	  pre-­‐cooler	  space	  in	  Rutland,	  could	  
redistribute	  produce	  while	  fresh.	  Expanded	  contributions	  of	  produce,	  but	  
Irene	  ruined	  many	  crops.	  This	  year	  collected	  24,000	  pounds	  of	  food.	  
Rutland	  Food	  Bank	  wanted	  base	  in	  Rutland,	  now	  have	  facility	  running	  for	  
Women’s	  shelter,	  RAFFL,	  
institution,	  Rutland	  Farmers	  
Market,	  retail	  outlet,	  glean,	  
Rutland	  Food	  Bank,	  distributors,	  
processors,	  farmers	  market,	  
consumer	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
9	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
processing	  and	  distribution	  center.	  Work	  with	  RAFFL	  on	  weekly	  basis,	  try	  
to	  encourage	  more	  home	  growers	  and	  farm	  stands	  to	  donate	  to	  RAFFL	  
gleaning	  efforts.	  Clark	  raises	  1	  acre	  just	  for	  gleaning,	  but	  in	  sense	  that	  it’s	  
fresh,	  not	  unwanted.	  Winter	  farmers	  market	  took	  away	  some	  gleaned	  food	  
because	  presented	  market	  for	  previously	  gleaned	  food	  or	  leftover	  crops.	  
Winter	  market	  miracle	  though	  in	  terms	  of	  getting	  local	  food	  to	  people.	  
Rutland	  runs	  year	  round,	  also	  have	  mid-­‐week	  winter	  market.	  Products	  now	  
much	  more	  varied	  than	  even	  10	  years	  ago.	  Raw	  milk,	  cheese,	  meat	  booming,	  
wine,	  ethnic	  foods.	  Variety	  is	  incredible.	  Did	  winter	  market	  for	  2	  years,	  had	  
issues	  with	  paying	  for	  space,	  getting	  enough	  sales.	  Too	  expensive,	  more	  so	  
than	  winter	  market,	  needs	  to	  be	  redesigned	  to	  accommodate	  different	  
needed	  spaces	  without	  charging	  too	  much	  and	  without	  putting	  too	  many	  
vendors	  in.	  But	  still	  great	  business	  and	  service	  to	  Rutland.	  “I	  look	  at	  Rutland	  
and	  it’s	  a	  pretty	  good	  story	  up	  there.	  When	  you	  look	  at	  that	  winter	  farmers	  
market,	  when	  you	  look	  here	  for	  that	  matter…you	  can	  be	  pretty	  proud	  of	  a	  
lot	  of	  things	  going	  on	  in	  Rutland…When	  everybody	  decided	  don’t	  sit	  around	  
and	  wait	  for	  anybody	  to	  come	  in	  and	  bail	  you	  out,	  you	  just	  pick	  yourself	  up	  
by	  your	  bootstraps	  and	  get	  going,	  and	  a	  lot	  of	  people	  did,	  so	  it’s	  very	  good	  
that	  way.”	  Even	  if	  can’t	  do	  farmers	  market	  full	  time,	  will	  definitely	  continue	  
providing	  food	  for	  RAFFL.	  Clark	  is	  83	  years	  old.	  
01:33:00-01:33:34 
Break	  –	  Greg	  gets	  Clark	  glass	  of	  water.	  	  
Break.	  
01:33:34-01:43:56 
Works	  with	  people	  very	  different	  than	  himself,	  new	  farmers,	  out	  of	  state	  
people,	  young	  people.	  Vermont	  was	  big	  in	  sheep	  in	  1800s,	  then	  dairy	  
through	  20th	  century,	  but	  fewer	  now.	  Dairy	  worth	  $3.5	  billion	  to	  VT	  
economy,	  rest	  of	  agriculture	  over	  $5	  billion	  to	  economy,	  so	  while	  tourism	  is	  
important,	  agriculture	  very	  important	  as	  well.	  “I’ve	  heard	  people	  say	  it	  –	  my	  
age	  and	  younger	  ones	  –	  agriculture’s	  in	  decline	  in	  Vermont,	  it’s	  seen	  its	  best	  
days,	  it’s	  all	  done.	  Well,	  I	  disagree	  with	  them.	  Its	  best	  days	  are	  still	  ahead.	  
Here’s	  what	  you	  need	  to	  realize:	  Vermont	  agriculture	  is	  in	  a	  period	  of	  
Economy,	  dairy,	  future	  of	  
agriculture,	  local,	  food	  security	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
10	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
transition	  right	  now…as	  far	  as	  I’m	  concerned,	  with	  this	  change	  in	  
agriculture	  coming	  on,	  with	  the	  technology	  that’s	  out	  there	  today,	  and	  you	  
can	  make	  a	  lot	  higher	  profit	  off	  the	  land	  that	  we	  have,	  and	  we	  don’t	  have	  a	  
lot	  of	  land.	  It’s	  a	  relatively	  small	  state	  and	  a	  lot	  of	  it	  is	  mountainous,	  but	  
what	  land	  we	  do	  have…I	  think	  there’s	  room	  for	  everything	  here.	  I	  keep	  
seeing	  all	  these	  promotions	  out	  there,	  “Buy	  local,”	  “Keep	  the	  local	  economy	  
going,”	  which	  it	  does,	  and	  all	  the	  reasons	  why	  you	  got	  better	  and	  more	  
healthy	  food	  to	  buy	  local	  and	  everything	  else.	  And	  I	  said,	  yeah,	  you	  know	  but	  
you’re	  missing	  the	  main	  point	  all	  together.	  The	  reason	  you	  need	  to	  build	  our	  
agriculture,	  I	  think	  it’s	  got	  a	  very	  bright	  future.	  As	  far	  as	  I’m	  concerned,	  
Vermont	  needs	  to	  produce	  all	  its	  own	  food,	  at	  least	  10%	  more.”	  If	  anything	  
were	  to	  happen	  to	  major	  food-­‐producing	  regions	  of	  the	  country,	  will	  be	  
major	  food	  insecurity,	  and	  food	  will	  be	  distributed	  first	  to	  populated	  cities,	  
not	  VT,	  so	  VT	  needs	  to	  be	  prepared	  to	  produce	  its	  own	  food	  like	  early	  
settlers.	  “Growing	  our	  own	  food,	  having	  our	  own	  reason	  for	  doing	  it,	  that’s	  
the	  best	  insurance	  policy	  we	  could	  ever	  possibly	  have.”	  On	  our	  way	  to	  
producing	  all	  our	  own	  food.	  More	  farmers	  markets	  per	  capita	  and	  more	  
winter	  farmers	  markets	  than	  any	  other	  state,	  on	  cutting	  edge	  of	  agricultural	  
production	  and	  knowledge.	  “As	  far	  as	  marketing	  goes,	  there’s	  no	  name	  in	  
the	  world	  that’s	  a	  better	  sales	  pitch	  than	  the	  word	  Vermont…Once	  you	  put	  
the	  word	  Vermont	  on	  [a	  product]	  there’s	  no	  other	  word	  you	  can	  add	  that’ll	  
add	  to	  the	  sales	  any	  more	  in	  any	  shape	  or	  manner,	  period.”	  Many	  retired	  
famous	  people	  in	  VT	  because	  low-­‐pressure	  living.	  VT	  has	  done	  a	  lot	  for	  
peoples’	  rights	  more	  than	  other	  states.	  “Vermont	  has	  been	  a	  land	  of	  
opportunity…if	  you	  want	  to	  come	  up	  here	  and	  live	  your	  life	  the	  way	  you	  
want	  to	  live	  it,	  as	  long	  as	  you	  don’t	  interfere	  with	  my	  life,	  it’s	  not	  my	  
business	  to	  interfere	  with	  your	  life.	  And	  that’s	  kind	  of	  been	  a	  Vermont	  policy	  
for	  a	  long	  time,	  and	  I	  think	  a	  lot	  of	  people	  recognize	  that.”	  “I	  think	  there’s	  a	  
lot	  of	  things	  we	  need	  to	  do	  better…but	  that	  doesn’t	  mean	  we	  can’t	  do	  it.”	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
11	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
Rutland	  went	  from	  declining	  place,	  still	  has	  problems,	  but	  still	  has	  a	  future	  
and	  optimism.	  The	  opportunity	  is	  here.	  1970s,	  quarries	  turned	  into	  
industrial	  zone,	  today	  have	  unbelievable	  business,	  an	  asset	  well	  worth	  
saving.	  “Even	  though	  our	  fields	  are	  smaller	  than	  other	  places,	  sometimes	  
smaller	  is	  better	  than	  bigger.”	  Larger	  size	  means	  more	  room	  for	  mistakes,	  
smaller	  scale	  means	  close	  eye	  on	  production	  and	  not	  relying	  on	  someone	  
else	  to	  check	  quality.	  Able	  to	  scrutinize	  and	  produce	  much	  more	  quality	  
product	  rather	  than	  mediocre	  quality	  product.	  Public	  doesn’t	  like	  mistakes	  
in	  products,	  and	  recalls	  and	  food	  replacements.	  “Vermont	  has	  got	  the	  
greatest	  agricultural	  opportunities	  it’s	  ever	  had	  since	  it	  existed	  right	  now,	  
and	  I	  think	  it’s	  doing	  something	  with	  it…I	  think	  you’re	  just	  going	  to	  see	  it	  
expand	  more.”	  
01:43:56-01:49:51 
If	  Clark	  was	  younger,	  would	  do	  CSAs,	  work	  with	  more	  institutions	  and	  
restaurants.	  “There’s	  things	  that	  nobody	  thought	  could	  possibly	  be	  done	  10	  
years	  ago,	  they’re	  doing	  them,	  and	  there’s	  all	  kinds	  of	  optimism	  out	  there	  as	  
far	  as	  that’s	  concerned.”	  Wants	  to	  keep	  busy,	  body	  and	  mind,	  doesn’t	  want	  
to	  sit	  and	  call	  it	  retirement.	  Very	  active	  in	  church,	  organizations,	  senior	  
center,	  etc.	  Critical	  to	  be	  involved	  mentally	  to	  stay	  healthy.	  So	  many	  new	  
maple	  products,	  people	  wonder	  why	  people	  bother	  with	  tapping,	  but	  they	  
have	  business	  exactly	  because	  other	  people	  won’t	  do	  it.	  Tapping	  is	  great	  
therapy	  to	  get	  out	  and	  be	  active,	  wandering	  around	  woods,	  calm	  the	  mind.	  
Stress	  kills	  people,	  walking	  in	  woods	  is	  good	  for	  you.	  Physical	  stress	  is	  one	  
thing,	  but	  mental	  stress	  kills	  people.	  Like	  to	  think	  of	  VT	  as	  fairly	  stress-­‐free	  
state,	  even	  though	  obviously	  some	  people	  are	  still	  stressed	  and	  can’t	  help	  it.	  
Clark	  wants	  to	  help	  those	  people	  worrying	  about	  food	  or	  fuel.	  
Retail	  outlet,	  CSA,	  institution,	  
health,	  community	  engagement,	  
church,	  stress	  
01:49:51-END. 
Aside	  about	  Vermont’s	  importance	  in	  Civil	  War,	  fighting	  slavery,	  Vermont’s	  
history.	  Conclusion.	  
Conclusion.