Date 
October 14, 2020 
Time 
4:30pm 
Interviewer 
Edward Y. Millar 
Interviewee 
Jeff Anstett 
Location 
Jeff’s Garage 
Audio log 
Prepared by: 
Edward Y. Millar 
Collection 
Number 
AFC 2020/013    
The Ransomville Speedway: Dirt Track Workers in Western New York 
 
Archie Green Fellowship Ransomville Speedway Interviews,  
American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fieldnotes 
Pre-Interview 
I met Jeff at his garage in Lockport in the evening, slightly behind schedule as I got out of an earlier 
meeting at the museum late. Jeff set us up with two lawn chairs in his garage near his workbench. I got 
to setting up the gear I had schlepped from work, and made the remainder of my gear (camera and 
video camera) accessible for after the interview.  
Jeff’s garage is where he works on his karts, and also where he’s displayed on the walls photos from 
some of his different wins, cutouts from his old cars (preserving the number), and other racing 
memorabilia and mementos from his career. Jeff’s garage is immaculately organized, and I comment on 
its contrast with my own garage: every tool and work station is organized, with specific toolboxes 
devoted to each kart, ratchets in size order, bolts and nuts, etc. In the corner he has a TV setup with a 
music streaming app (Pandora). 
Everything is organized by Jeff in a way that he shares is so he can fix things as efficiently as possible, as 
he does a lot of prep work on his karts himself (though he does have a crew when he races). Jeff also 
shares the importance of cleaning the karts, and walks me through the process of that from 
boiling/steaming some of the different parts to using a toothbrush to clear out others on the 
frame/chassis itself.  
After the brief garage tour, before we started the interview, I walked through the basic guidelines for 
conducting an interview that will be archived in the Library of Congress as public record, including any 
need to pause or any of that, and filled out release forms ahead of time. I also walked through with Jeff 
the general structure for the interview, in an attempt to ensure that we cover his occupational 
knowledge and history relating not only to track operations, but also kart racing, which he has been 
doing for over two decades.  
In following with pandemic regulations and social distancing, we were seated a bit farther apart than 
typical for an interview, with my Zoom H5 setup on a tripod. As we were right off a busy road with cars 
and trucks going by, I opted to use a shotgun / directional style microphone to try and minimize that 
background noise. I opted to leave my mask on despite the distance and despite it muffling my voice 
somewhat, due to the large number of students that I come into contact with daily working at the 
university. 
Interview  
During the interview, we spoke briefly on his family history and early years in racing, before diving into 
his work history relating to track operations. Jeff has worked in a few different roles and responsibilities, 
working first on the back stretch and then as the race director, following some years spent racing street 
stock. Jeff’s expansive knowledge on track operations included a discussion on the huge impact of 
technology on dirt track racing, and doing a deep dive into a lot of the minute details of the various 
responsibilities of a race director. We talked a bit about the immense amount of data that is tracked and 
updated constantly in racing, which was never on my radar before: as an example, scoring is updated 
every single lap, which means each individual racer’s position is tracked and updated at the Ransomville 
Speedway roughly every 17 seconds. 
After focusing on the track operations side of his occupational knowledge, we switched to talking about 
kart racing, which he had been doing for around two decades now. We spoke equally at length about 
kart racing, which he picked up after some time away from racing, and about his preference and 
enjoyment of kart racing over other classes at the moment. Jeff walked through the ways to maintain 
and clean the karts, and pointed out how not only his prior racing experience but also his knowledge in 
scoring and from being a race director, carries over into his current involvement with kart racing. 
Post-Interview 
After the conclusion of the interview, Jeff walked me through his karts and how they worked, and we 
talked a bit more about how kart racing in general and some of its challenges, continuing an early 
discussion from the interview. I asked Jeff it was alright to take some photos and video as well, which 
was confirmed, so I took some brief shots of his garage, focusing on his wall decorations and victories, 
his workspaces, and the karts themselves. And we took a portrait shot of Jeff as well for the archives. I 
opted mostly to focus on still photography, although I did use a video recorder for some small / brief 
shots of the karts as well. As the sun was setting, although there was good fluorescent lighting above the 
low light was starting to have some effect on my camera settings, but none too severe. 
After bidding Jeff a good night, I made my way back home across 104, with the dim light of the early 
evening fast retreating behind the Niagara Escarpment, casting night on the vineyards, farmhouses, and 
fields that guided me home to Lewiston.