Oral History Interview 
 
with 
 
Mike and Martha Moore 
 
 
 
 
 
Interview Conducted by 
Juliana Nykolaiszyn and Tanya Finchum 
October 8, 2011 
 
 
The “Big Top” Show Goes On:  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oklahoma Oral History Research Program 
Edmon Low Library ● Oklahoma State University 
© 2011 
 
 
2
The “Big Top” Show Goes On  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
Interview History 
 
 
Interviewers: Juliana Nykolaiszyn, Tanya Finchum 
Transcriber: 
Ashley Sarchet 
Editors: 
Miranda Mackey, Tanya Finchum 
 
The recording and transcript of this interview were processed at the Oklahoma State 
University Library in Stillwater, Oklahoma. 
 
Project Detail 
 
The “Big Top” Show Goes On: An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the 
Canvas Circus Tent aims to preserve the voices and experiences of those involved with the 
work culture associated with Hugo, Oklahoma’s tent circus tradition.  
 
Funding for this project was made possible by the Library of Congress American Folklife 
Center as part of a 2011 Archie Green Fellowship awarded to researchers Tanya Finchum 
and Juliana Nykolaiszyn with the Oklahoma Oral History Research Program at the OSU 
Library. 
 
This project was approved by the Oklahoma State University Institutional Review Board on 
May 6, 2011. 
 
Legal Status 
 
Scholarly use of the recordings and transcripts of the interview with Mike and Martha 
Moore is unrestricted. The interview agreement was signed on October 8, 2011. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
The “Big Top” Show Goes On  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
About Jack and Angela Moore… 
 
Jack and Angela Moore were married in 1939. After Jack returned from serving in the navy, 
he found a partner and began a tent picture show that had a circuit in east Texas and west 
Louisiana. They started acquiring animals, and named their show the Jack and Kelley’s Bear 
Track Shows. They started de-emphasizing the movies and emphasizing country western 
and animal acts that they contracted for out of the Louisiana Hay Ride. They soon changed 
the name of the show to Tex Carson’s Jamboree and Wild Animal Show, dropped movies, 
and mainly showed in Texas and Louisiana.  The family moved to Hugo, Oklahoma in 1952. 
 
When the Moores arrived in Hugo, Jack struck up a friendship with D.R. Miller, who was a 
partner in the Al G. Kelly and Miller Brothers Circus, and they formed a partnership. Jack 
had the Tex Carson show, which was already an existing show, and D.R. leased Mabel the 
elephant to the show, contributed some equipment, canvas and some other items to the 
show. With the addition of the elephant, in 1953 the name was changed to Tex Carson’s 
Circus. In 1958, Jack changed the name to Carson and Barnes Circus. 
 
Jack died in 1969 at the age of fifty, leaving behind Angela and their four children, Wanda, 
Mike, Martha, and Madelyn. Jack is buried in Showmen’s Rest, part of the Mount Olivet 
Cemetery in Hugo, Oklahoma. In 1970, Angela Moore sold her half of the show to D.R. 
Miller and retired from the road. She later married Ted Akeman, a former magician and 
clown. Angela died in 1997 after having spent much of her life in the circus business. 
 
About Mike Moore… 
 
Mike was born in 1942 in Marshall, Texas. At the age of six, his first job in “show business” 
was to sit by the projector and keep it from jumping when his parents owned a tent picture 
show. Around the age of eleven, Mike’s first circus job was caretaker for the show’s beloved 
elephant, Mabel. A year or two after that Mike and his sister, Wanda, performed in the show 
with Mabel. From there he held various other jobs such as candy butcher, prop boss, water 
man, sideshow canvas boss, and eventually took on management tasks in the business office 
of the circus.  
 
Mike enrolled in Oklahoma State University (OSU) in 1960 and paid for much of his 
schooling by continuing to work with the show during the summer months. He married his 
wife, Kay, in 1964 and they trouped the summer of 1965 together. Mike earned both his 
bachelor’s and master’s degrees from OSU. His career took him away from the circus into 
the area of computer software. He is now retired. Mike and Kay have three daughters and 
reside in Rockwall, Texas. 
 
 
 
 
4
About Martha Moore… 
 
Martha Moore was born in Jefferson, Texas in 1950. She first performed at the age of six 
when she styled the Pick Out Pony act with her father. As she got older, Martha did other 
tasks and acts for the circus such as horseback riding, engraving jewelry, taking tickets, 
picking up trash on the lot after the circus had left, walking the tight wire, trampoline, and 
performing the swinging ladder, swinging anchor, the rolling globe, and the web. Around 
the age of thirteen, Martha began working with Mabel the elephant. She also did the “Miss 
Electra” sideshow act. As a daughter of the owner, she often did whatever needed to be 
done. Martha last trouped with the circus in 1969. 
 
After graduating from Hugo High School, Martha enrolled in East Texas State University 
where she majored in art. In 1971 she graduated from Bauder Fashion College and started a 
career in the art world which spanned being a colorist for a textile manufacturer to a 
commercial artist to the wholesale clothing industry to interior design. Today Martha is a 
working artist making her home near Lake Texoma with her husband, Joe Henderson. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
The “Big Top” Show Goes On  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
Mike & Martha Moore
 
Oral History Interview 
 
Interviewed by Juliana Nykolaiszyn  
& Tanya Finchum 
October 8, 2011 
Rockwall, Texas 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
My name is Juliana Nykolaiszyn. Also with me is Tanya Finchum. Today 
is Saturday, October 8, 2011. We’re in Rockwall, Texas, interviewing 
Mike Moore and his sister, Martha Moore. Thank you for having us 
today. 
 
Glad to have you. Go Cowboys! 
 
That’s right. This interview is part of the Oklahoma Oral History 
Research Program and our circus project, taking place in Hugo, 
Oklahoma. We’d like to begin by learning a little bit more about you and 
your family. Mike, I’m going to start with you. Could you tell me where 
you were born, the year you were born, and a little bit about your early 
life? 
 
Okay, well, I apologize for my voice because it’s hoarse. It doesn’t hurt. 
It’s what radiation will do for you. But anyway, I was born in 1942 in 
Marshall, Texas. My father, his family was from Marshall, and my 
mother and her family were from Jefferson, which was about fifteen 
miles away. They got married in ’39. Our older sister, Wanda, who now 
lives in Arizona, was born in ’40, and I was born in ’42. Martha, she will 
tell you, was born in ’50. 
 
My father was in the navy. My mother was a stay-at-home mom. After 
he got out of the navy, he formed a partnership with a former 
vaudevillian actor or magician or clown or whatever he was, named 
Kelly Swim. They secured an old army surplus tent, hospital tent. This 
was the days before television so they had a tent picture show that had a 
circuit in east Texas and west Louisiana.  
 
Dad would come over to Dallas here and rent some western movies and 
some colored revues, like Duke Ellington and others that would appeal 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to the market in east Texas. Then they would show these movies. My 
job, one of my jobs at the time when I was real little, was to sit by the 
projector and keep it from jumping, because that was something that 
needed to be done. So that, I guess, would be my first job in show 
business. I wasn’t even in grade school yet, but he started acquiring 
some animals. A wrestling bear, a monkey, a mean monkey named—
what was the monkey’s name? 
 
Which one? Fuzzy or the Rhesus monkey? 
 
The Rhesus monkey. 
 
I don’t remember his name, but he was mean. (Laughs) 
 
But anyway, they… 
 
I’ve got a story about that monkey. (Laughs) 
 
They called the name of their show Jack and Kelly’s Bear Track Show. 
They started de-emphasizing the movies and emphasizing some country 
western acts that they contracted for out of the Louisiana Hay Ride, 
which was the Louisiana version of the Grand Ole Opry, based in 
Shreveport. So they changed the name of the show to Tex Carson’s 
Jamboree and Wild Animal Show and dropped movies and still mainly 
showed in Texas and Louisiana. Where he got the name Tex Carson, it 
was a purely made up name. There wasn’t any person ever named Tex 
Carson, but it sounded interesting to my father. 
 
He had a good imagination. He said it had rhythm to it. 
 
He knew of the circuses that were based in Hugo, and how he found out 
about that, I’m not sure, but Marshall’s not that far from Hugo. So he 
moved us to Hugo in 1952. I’ll back up a little bit. Mother started going 
out and helping with the show in the late ’40s, early ’50s. They had a 
house trailer. The kids, which consisted of mainly Wanda and I and then 
Martha in the later years before we moved to Hugo, we would go out 
during the summer, three months during the summer, when we weren’t 
in school. Later, when we moved to Hugo, we would generally, before 
we got into high school, would leave when the show left, which was in 
March, and come back when the show returned, which was in October, 
which would mean that we would miss a month or two of school at the 
beginning and the end. Hugo, since it had to deal with so many circus 
families, was able to deal with that. They were very good at catching the 
kids up and helping them leave early, because it was like migrant farm 
workers. The kids have got to work.  
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When we were in high school we needed to be in school longer so we 
would stay in boarding houses, in Hugo, and then catch up with the 
show at the end of May and then come in early at the beginning of 
September. We had longer summers back there than they do now. Now, 
they start in mid-August and move into June. I don’t know what the 
circus kids do now. A lot of them are home schooled, but I don’t really 
know.  
 
Getting back to Hugo, the main circus family in Hugo was named the 
Millers. Obert Miller had a dog and pony show back in the ’30s and at 
some point, they moved to Hugo, either in the late ’30s or early ’40s. 
And at some point it became the Al G. Kelly and Miller Brothers Circus. 
Obert had two sons, Kelly and D.R., or also known as Dory. They ran 
that show and were partners in several other shows, also based in Hugo, 
Cole and Walters being one of them. Anyway, my father struck up a 
friendship with Dory Miller, and they formed a partnership. Daddy had 
the Tex Carson show, which was already an existing show, and Dory 
leased Mabel, the elephant, to the show and also contributed some 
equipment and canvas and some other items to the show. And since we 
now had an elephant, he changed the name to Tex Carson Circus. That 
would have been in, I believe, the summer of ’53 was the first year we 
trouped as the Tex Carson Circus.  
 
Later, in ’58, he changed the name to Carson and Barnes Circus. I’m not 
sure why or where the name came from, although Barnes is an old, old 
circus name, and so maybe he was trying to play off of that. And Carson 
and Barnes sounded better than Tex Carson for some reason. So that’s 
how it came to be called Carson and Barnes. My mother continued to go 
out on the show each year, and she helped mainly in business-related 
things and making the payroll and paying bills, and sometimes selling 
tickets, sometimes managing the front door, which is taking up tickets 
and dealing with the sponsor and all the business management side of 
things. And the kids, we were workers. We did whatever Daddy told us 
to do, and that was quite a bit. We quickly learned, unlike the other 
people on the show who could leave whenever they wanted to, we 
couldn’t leave. So we sometimes had to do some things we didn’t like, 
but we did them and probably overall, it was good for us.  
 
That became the modus of operandi all the way through school. Even in 
college I would go out, and I started college in 1960. I would go out and 
travel with the show. And by then, I was no longer performing with 
Mabel, the elephant, and others, which we’ll get into in a minute. But I 
was running the ticket office and paying bills and helping out on that 
end. My sisters tended to remain in the performing side, up until they no 
longer trouped. I got married in ’64, and my wife and I were in college 
at Oklahoma State, and we did troupe one summer of ’65. And my two 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
sisters, Wanda, who was married at the time, and, Martha, who 
graduated in ’68. So the last year I trouped was in ’65. The last year my 
sisters trouped was in ’69… 
 
I think ’69 was the last year I trouped.  
 
My father died in March of 1969. Fifty years old, he died of lung cancer. 
Mother trouped another year or two and wound up selling her half of the 
show to Dory. All of these years, up until that point in time, Dory was 
essentially a silent partner. He and Dad would work together each winter 
in putting together the show for the following year, but he was not an 
active manager of Carson and Barnes. He was managing their family 
show, [Al G.] Kelly Miller. So Mother sold her half of the show to Dory 
in ’70 or ’71, I’m not a 100 percent sure, and basically retired from the 
road. She wound up marrying Ted Akeman, who was a circus guy from 
way back, both as a magician and as a clown, and one time, he had his 
own show, back in the ’30s or ’40s. They moved to Jefferson, which was 
Mother’s old hometown and retired. He later died in ’85, and my mother 
died in ’97.  
 
In the meantime, Dory was running Carson and Barnes, and there still 
was a Kelly Miller. They combined the two shows. You’ll have to ask 
Barbara [Miller Byrd] what year that was. I’m not a 100 percent sure. It 
was in the early ’70s, sometime. They combined the two shows, and 
Dory chose the name Carson and Barnes as the name of the surviving 
entity. So it stayed in that name when Dory died in ’99 and his daughter, 
his only child, Barbara, who married and is now named Barbara Byrd, 
had two daughters. And so that family is running the show today and 
even as we stand, they’re performing at Fort Worth, Texas, about thirty 
miles from here. So they’re wrapping up their season this year.  
 
The Kelly Miller Circus was re-launched, I believe, in ’84 was the 
information I pulled off of their website, and that show was managed by 
David Rawls. And Kelly Miller continued up until 2007 when they sold 
it to John Ringling North II, a descendant of the Ringling Brothers, and 
that show is still going on as Kelly Miller, under the managership of 
John Ringling North II. So when you talk about Carson and Barnes, if 
you talk to different people, you’ll get two different perspectives. When 
you talk to the current version of Carson and Barnes, Barbara and 
looking back through the lens of time, sees the thread of history going 
back to Dory’s partnership of Carson and Barnes and to their family’s 
original starting of the circus in Hugo, and that’s all a single line that she 
identifies as Carson and Barnes. When Martha and I and my family sees 
Carson and Barnes, we see the line, the Jack Moore line. The beginning 
of the tent show in ’45 up to the time of his death and selling of the 
Carson and Barnes line to Dory. So when we talk about Carson and 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Barnes, that’s what we call Carson and Barnes. When Barbara talks 
about Carson and Barnes, she’s talking about our combined Carson and 
Barnes and Kelly Miller combination. Both views are valid, they’re just 
different.  
 
The old story is that the winners get to write the history, and it’s not 
unusual. I don’t view it as a lot different, then. We don’t talk a lot about 
Kelly being one of the founding members of our line. Likewise, they 
don’t talk about Jack Moore as being one of the founders of their line, 
but so that’s just different perspectives and it is what it is. We 
concentrate on the—we were influenced mainly by the circus and the 
formation of the circus in our growing up years, the ’40s, ’50s, ’60s. So 
that’s why it had a strong influence on who we are, although we’re 
dyed-in-the-wool towners now, and we don’t like to get up at daybreak 
every morning and drive to the next town. Been there, done that, don’t 
want to do that again, but I wouldn’t necessarily give anything for the 
experiences we had. I don’t know if that’s what you’re looking for. 
 
That’s fine, and we’ll get to the early years of Carson and Barnes, but 
first, Martha, could you tell us where you were born, the year you were 
born, and a little bit about yourself? 
 
Sure. I was born in 1950 in Jefferson, Texas, and I don’t remember, of 
course, some of the early things. I’ve got a few pictures, but we moved 
to Hugo from Jefferson when I was two. Daddy moved us to this old 
fairground [was actually the site of an old cotton gin with a round barn]. 
We lived in like a tin shack and a small trailer and a little wooden house. 
It was just really God-awful, and Mother was horrified. I’m sure her 
family was, too, because her family was pure towners, and they didn’t 
understand what Daddy was doing. He had the vision, and he had the 
dream. I remember bits and pieces about that fairground. There was a 
round, tin building that I think they used to have livestock in and that we 
sat up a ring in there, and it became like a practice barn.  
 
And then my first real memory of the circus and doing a job was when I 
was six, and there was an act called Pick Out Pony, and that’s where 
Daddy brought the small little pony into the ring and there was a rack in 
the center of the ring and it had numbers in the slot, these wooden 
plaques with numbers painted on them. And then the announcer would 
say, “What is two plus two?” and the pony would go over and pick out 
four and then drop it down in the dirt. My job was to be a pretty little 
girl and go pick up the thing and put it back in the rack. So I remember 
the very first time that I did that, Mother made me a little ballerina 
costume, and I went out. And whenever I went into the ring, in my eyes, 
it looked like it was in this huge coliseum and it was packed full of 
people, and it was way too much overload so I turned around and ran 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
out. (Laughs) I did get into trouble for that, too. But anyway, I went 
back the next show, and then that was my beginning of my performing 
career.  
 
And then the next strong memory, I learned how to do some trampoline. 
Then when I was ten, Daddy needed a bareback riding act, and Lucy 
[Loyal] wasn’t on the show by then. So he hired this man to train the 
horse and me at the same time. We didn’t know that the man had a drug 
problem and whenever he was having trouble, he would take it out on 
the horse so then the horse took it out on me. And I was ten, and we’d be 
standing, getting ready to go in the back door, and the horse would reach 
over and stomp on me, try to bite me. There was a trick where you’re 
going around the ring, and you’re riding on the horse, then you put your 
foot in a loop and fling your body back over, and your leg is up in the 
air. Well, you’re pretty vulnerable at that point. Well, he would wait 
until I got my leg all the way up, and then he’d reach around and try to 
bite my head. So I didn’t develop a love of horses because of that 
animal. It wasn’t the animal’s fault. It was the guy who was not treating 
it right. When Daddy found out what this man was doing, he fired him. 
So I had one brief season as a bareback rider. And also what he would 
do is when we were going around the ring, he would wait until I got 
comfortable and was standing up on his backside and then he’d—
(gestures)—there I’d go, spinning out. I’d go flying. But anyway, so that 
was when I was ten.  
 
When I was thirteen, I learned how to walk the tight wire. Jerry Presley 
came from an old circus family. I’m not sure where they’re all from. 
Anyway, she was very patient, and we started. That winter, Daddy 
moved the winter quarters to Hope, Arkansas. We do not know why he 
did it, but he did. We lived in a mobile home there on the fairgrounds 
and had all these barns. That’s where Otto [the hippopotamus] had a 
wonderful place to live.  
 
Well, and you transferred school to Hope. 
 
Yes, yes, that was really my first exposure of prejudice against me 
because I was with a circus. Really redneck, very judgmental. Teachers 
even made comments. 
 
Unlike Hugo that was used to circus people, Hope… 
 
I never thought that I was any different than anybody else until I went to 
Hope, and then in Hope, Arkansas, the teachers would make comments 
about me being a white trash gypsy. Really, it was just devastating to me 
because I had never experienced any of that in Hugo.  
 
 
 
11
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
Bill Clinton’s hometown. 
 
Well, that’s all right. I mean, it was a pretty town, and the fairgrounds 
was a wonderful facility. We had a place for Otto, the hippo. Most of the 
year he lived in this big semi truck that had a pool of water set into it. So 
he had a place to get out and get dry and then a place to stay in the 
water, because they like to be in the water a lot. Well, this one they built 
a ramp for him to walk down, and he walked down into this big old pen, 
and he had made a big wallow, just like a pig. Whenever it got really 
cold, he would get all snuggled down in his wallow, getting mud all over 
him and everything like that, and it would freeze over him. And you’d 
just see these two puffs of steam coming out. It was really a neat thing to 
see. Anyway, I learned how to walk the wire that winter. 
 
When did you start working Mabel? 
 
Maybe about fourteen or fifteen years old. Mabel was like the first big—
I mean, Daddy had the bear first, then he had the monkeys, then he got 
Mabel.  
 
Oh, yes, the chimp. 
 
The chimp. Anyway, Mabel was like a member of our family. She was 
such an endearing—and I’ll cry—an endearing… (Cries) 
 
If you seen the movie Water for Elephants that talk about Rosie the 
elephant, and the relationship people had, or the circus people had with, 
I think her name was Rosie, it was very similar. I remember my first 
job—I don’t mean to interrupt here… 
 
No, I need to not cry. (Laughter) 
 
…was when we first got Mabel, let’s see, in ’53, so I would have been 
eleven years old. We were trouping that summer, and my job was to 
basically graze Mabel because we couldn’t afford to buy much hay, and 
she ate a lot of hay. So Daddy had me take her around to anywhere I 
could find grass, trying to stay out of people’s gardens and things. 
 
She always could sneak out and spot a garden. (Laughter) 
 
But so, my first job on the circus was basically being a caretaker for 
Mabel. A year or two later, Wanda and I performed with her in the 
circus, and it was much more of an issue of looking like we were in 
charge but staying out of her way, because she knew exactly what to do 
and when to do it and how to do it. And as soon as she did it, she got out 
of there. But she was a very gentle soul and a very hard worker. She 
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
helped put up the tent, she helped take down the tent, she helped pull up 
the stakes, she helped pull trucks on and off muddy lots and everything 
in between, so… 
 
And she was ticklish. You could reach up underneath her right front leg 
and goose her a little bit and she would turn over and—[imitates 
elephant squeal]—squeal. 
 
Did your father have a choice of elephants? 
 
I don’t know how the deal was struck between Dory and him. Dory had 
the Kelly Miller troupe of elephants. I remember they brought out about 
ten or twelve at the time. The Millers always carried more elephants than 
most circuses did. She was already a mature elephant when we got her. 
I’m guessing she was in her forties, but… 
 
And very easy to handle. Mature is the best word, I think. 
 
So since we didn’t really have on our show, the first two or three years 
anyway, an experienced elephant man, it was a good choice because she 
was very easy to handle. She never once injured anyone or tried to injure 
anyone. 
 
No, in fact, one time I was doing—you saw that trick with Lucy [Loyal] 
standing up on top of Mabel. I was standing on Mabel’s head and there 
was a loud noise, and she turned her head like that and I went flying, and 
she came undone. She bent down, put her head right next to me, and 
kind of pushed me a little bit to see if I was okay. So she was truly 
connected to us. And you could walk up to her and pat her on the 
backside of the trunk, rub the underside. She liked that real well, and so 
then she’d take her—hand me your arm—she’d take her end of her trunk 
and just wrap it around and squeeze your ankle. It was wonderful.  
 
Anyway, I walked the tight wire when I was thirteen, fourteen, 
trampoline and web and ladder and elephants. What else did I do? Oh, 
also, when I think I was about fourteen, I would walk the rolling globe. 
That was the hardest thing I ever did. Walking up a ramp, walking down 
a ramp on a rolling globe is the hardest thing you can do. It’s the hardest 
thing I ever tried to do. When I was sixteen, I learned how to do an act 
that I did not do. That’s what they call the death slide. You learn to hang 
by your neck. If you don’t know how to hang by your neck, literally, you 
can kill yourself pretty easily. There’s a spot behind your ear where if 
you put the loop in the wrong way, you will not, so you really do have to 
learn how to do it. I was going to climb the ladder to the top of the tent 
and slide down. And for some reason, that act never happened even 
though I learned how to do it. Another act that my father wanted me to 
 
 
13
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
do, it’s the only time my mother told him no, after I told her I wasn’t 
going to do it. Me just telling him I wasn’t going to do it didn’t mean I 
wouldn’t do it. But we had—was it the Zacchini family who shot out of 
rockets? 
 
Cannonball.  
 
Cannonball? 
 
Human cannonball. 
 
Yes. And the reason I didn’t do it is because Mr. Zacchini was—what’s 
the right way to say it? He would not be safe for a young girl to be down 
in an enclosed space with, and so I wouldn’t get down into the cannon 
part with him. The hardest thing about that was learning how to land in 
the net. Basically, it was a big tube that two people, or one person, 
would get down into, and it was just kind of like a big spring. They let 
go of the spring and it would shoot you out. The dangerous part was how 
you landed in the net. But he was too much of a dirty old man for me, 
and I wasn’t going to get down in that cannon with him. (Laughs)   
 
I really enjoyed web a lot, and you don’t have to diet or anything 
whenever you’re climbing a rope twice a day. It takes a lot of strength, 
and we would always get the rosin on our hands to help us climb. And 
when you put your hand up in the loop of the web, you’d get rosin on 
your wrists so by the end of the season, you had almost like a brown 
scabby callus around your wrist, and then also around your ankle so you 
could put your foot up in the loop and hang upside down and then 
swivel. So you’d get that callus around your ankle and your wrist by the 
end of the season. But it was fun. It was a fun thing to do. 
 
Ladder was pretty boring. It was a thing just swinging back and forth 
and hanging upside down. That wasn’t that big a deal. I remember one 
time, I think we were showing somewhere in Kansas or something, the 
winds were terrible. And the wind was picking up, and I was hanging 
upside down and swinging back and forth. I looked down on the ground 
and the center poles, which were holding the tent, which is what was 
holding me up, were lifting about a foot off the ground. You don’t feel 
too secure with the center poles lifting up off of the ground. 
 
The wind had gotten underneath the canvas. 
 
Yes, the wind had gotten up underneath the canvas and was lifting the 
whole thing up. Basically, my day would consist of get up about five or 
six, depending on how long you could stay in that warm bed, and then it 
was my job and later on, my little sister’s job with me. We’d get up and 
 
 
14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pick up the lot. They would hire town kids in the evening to clean up the 
litter, but they always missed some things, and we had to leave the lot 
perfectly clean or we wouldn’t get our deposit back. And so picking up 
snow cone cones and cotton candy cones and popcorn boxes and old 
drink things in the wet dew was what we did. We had to get it clean, and 
I started doing that when I was about six, I think. We’d do that, and then 
we’d get in the car, and I started driving the car when I was about 
sixteen. It was the last car following up all the trucks so in case any of 
the trucks broke down, we’d go get a part from the mechanic.  
 
So I’d drive the car, get to the lot. Then you’d clean. I cleaned out a 
concession stand, and usually it was cotton candy or snow cones. And it 
was not pleasant, but it was something that had to be done. And then I 
would take up tickets or sell tickets on the sideshow. Then I performed 
in the sideshow a couple years. I did sword box and also, I was Miss 
Electra one year, where they have a copper plate. I stood on the plate 
barefoot and they ran electricity through it, and I held a florescent tube 
and it lit it up, and my hair would go out like this, and watches haven’t 
worked right on me since. (Laughter) Computers go crazy. Mike can tell 
you that. Electronic things and I don’t do together. They go crazy around 
me.  
 
Then I would go and sell coloring books between the front door and the 
tent. I’d sell coloring books before the show started, then I had a robe on 
because I had my costume on underneath the robe, and I’d go to the back 
yard and get ready for the spec. You all have heard about spec, where 
they call it Spectacular, where they would have a parade of animals and 
performers that were going to be in the show make a big entrance and go 
around the track and go out. And then whatever acts I was doing that 
season, walking wire, riding the elephants, doing aerial things, that sort 
of thing. And then the end of the show, we had a couple hours between 
shows, and that was about the only time we had off. When I was a kid 
growing up, there were varying amounts of kids on the show, anywhere 
from five to thirty, all together. We would kind of run around together 
like neighborhood packs, go exploring and everything. And then when 
the evening show started, that was the whole thing all over again. It was 
a very full day. We worked six and a half days a week.  
 
Sunday night was a ritual where you had to go out to eat and go to a 
movie. And sometimes we would follow the same movie from town to 
town to town, and it didn’t matter because that was part of the ritual. 
That was what you did. And sometimes Mother wouldn’t go, and we 
couldn’t understand how she couldn’t go to the movie. I’m sure she 
wanted some peace and quiet, because you imagine raising four kids and 
having a husband, and you working yourself, in a trailer that had no 
running water and sporadic electricity, and you have to do laundry and 
 
 
15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
 
Martha 
cook. She did all the laundry, cooked all the meals, plus worked 
fulltime, plus took care of all of us. She had a very hard life. 
 
Whenever you live in that environment, they call it mud shows, mud 
usually everywhere, dirt or dust blowing. You have to take baths and 
there’s no hot water so you have to heat up the water to take your baths. 
You never could get enough hot water, enough water hot enough. So 
today, I still, whenever I take a bath, I take it all the way up to the top 
and get it as hot as I can stand it because I can, and also I leave lights on 
because I can. (Laughs) 
 
Mike, your early life, did you do a little performing and then start more 
on the business-end? 
 
Yes. I know you can’t see this on the camera, but it’s for your 
information. I tried to summarize the various jobs I had. The elephant 
watcher I’ve already mentioned and the elephant trainer, done in 
conjunction with Wanda, was more or less my second job on the circus. 
My next job was what was referred to as the sideshow canvas boss. I 
was in charge of several working men that when we would get to the 
next lot, we would unroll the canvas for the sideshow and banner line 
and whatever and erect it and prepare it. The sideshow then was mainly 
a menagerie. It wasn’t Miss Electra-type acts that we had later. So it was 
mainly taking care of the animals.  
 
The scariest event I ever had was one of the working men was showing 
off in front of some local girls and was going to hand a piece of meat to 
the lion, and the lion nabbed him. Of course, the lion was up in the cage. 
The working man was standing on the ground, and so he had his arm in 
the lion’s mouth. I had to take a meat fork through the bars, get the lion 
off to let the guy go, which he did. And, of course, he was passed out, 
and there was blood everywhere. So that makes an impression on a 
young boy. The next type of job that I had—I might say, throughout all 
of this I did what was called a candy butcher, but I’ll get to that in a 
moment. Another job I had was prop boss. Other than work the 
elephants and sometimes work a pony drill, I didn’t do that much 
performing. I was what was called a prop boss. I was in charge of the 
people that were putting the elephant tubs in and out of the ring, putting 
up the wire walker paraphernalia.  
 
He was really important.  
 
Hanging the aerial rigging, doing all the stuff that you see guys screwing 
around doing at any performance venue, and that’s… 
 
The whole show was really about timing. Everybody had to do their job 
 
 
16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Mike 
 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
for all the other jobs to work so it wasn’t an option of just not showing 
up or calling in sick. You didn’t call in sick. I’ve taken up tickets with a 
temperature of 104 before. I’ve performed. When you’re sick, you go on 
anyway. That saying, “The show must go on,” is more real in the circus 
business, maybe, than any, I don’t know. And Mike was particularly 
good at making everything move and work and connected like you 
didn’t notice it. That’s when it’s really done well so whenever you don’t 
notice the prop man, when you don’t know, whenever everything just 
runs seamlessly. And in every lot we moved to, it was a different 
location. The sun was coming in a different way. All the electric lines 
had to be laid just right. Everything all had to work all the time.  
 
The job that I had for a number of years was as a candy butcher, which I 
don’t know where that name comes from, but all that means is you’re a 
seat vendor or you put up the stands out front. You prepare the popcorn, 
the snow cones, the cotton candy, the whatever, the Coca-colas, and you 
take it in and sell it in the seats. 
 
Would you have a pitch you would say? 
 
Not that much. It’s like the peanut vendor at the Rangers ballgame. You 
may holler, “Peanuts!” but I didn’t get much more elaborate than that. 
 
Michael is reserved. 
 
I didn’t have a comedy routine to put on. Another job that we all had 
was referred to as a sail maker. Frequently our route would take us up 
through Oklahoma and Kansas, Nebraska, the Dakotas, where there is 
nothing to stop the wind, and the wind tears the hell out of the canvas 
tents. And so what we would frequently have to do is we’d spread the 
canvas out in the morning and then get the stuff that sail makers use to 
sew canvas sails and then sew the tents back together and put them up 
again. (Laughs) That was a job, a behind the scenes job, but a necessary 
job that many people had to do.  
 
Another job that I had was as water boy, which for a number of years 
Daddy got an old fire truck from somewhere. Each morning I would go 
down to city hall and get a permit to open up a fire hydrant and fill up 
the truck and take it back to the lot and go around to the various animal 
locations and fill up their buckets. And then I would go around to all the 
house trailers. They would set their buckets out front by their door, and I 
would fill that up. I didn’t get paid by the show, but I did get tips from 
those households that wanted water. (Laughs) 
 
And they changed that. By the time I was in my teens—or I started at 
thirteen, I think—they started writing a paycheck for me. I think it was 
 
 
17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
probably more for tax and their business records than it was for me, 
really, but that meant, then, I had to pay for my clothing, and whatever I 
wanted came out of that money. It was, I guess, more like an allowance, 
but it was in a paycheck form. Really, all of us on the circus did multiple 
jobs. You weren’t just an aerialist or you weren’t just a sword swallower 
or whatever. Almost everybody did multiple jobs. That was just the way 
it was. And you’ve heard the saying, “cherry pie?” What that means is 
that when anybody hollers “cherry pie,” it means drop what you’re 
doing and come and help because everybody gets a piece of the action. I 
loved those kinds of [sayings]. “Hey Rube,” we didn’t hear very often 
because, frankly, I remember very few times when there were fights or 
trouble on the lot or anything like that. One time I had a lot of changes 
that were really fast together. The lot was always set up the same way.  
 
If there was room. 
 
If there was room. It was always maybe oriented one way or another, but 
there was the midway and then on the left-hand side, I think, is where 
what they call the front yard was, and that was where the management 
people parked their trailers, and then on the opposite side of the big top 
was called the back yard, and that’s where all the performers parked 
their trailers. Well, because our trailer was here and Daddy refused to let 
me go through the connector thing, I had to go all the way back around 
the back side of the tent to get back to the back door to go in. Sometimes 
I ran like crazy, but one time… 
 
Most performers were… 
 
Parked right there. 
 
…their trailers were in the back yard… 
 
… so you could make changes pretty easy, and sometimes it was scary 
because of the places that we were set up. But anyway, one night I came 
into the trailer, and there was a man sitting in the trailer. It wasn’t locked 
because I couldn’t carry keys anywhere, because I had on these 
costumes. And so I came into the trailer one night, and there was a man 
sitting in the trailer. And I said, “What are you doing here?” He says, 
“Oh, I have a meeting with your father.” I went, “Oh, okay. Excuse me 
just a minute.” I was going to go in the back of the trailer and change, 
and he started following me back there. I saw that he did not have good 
intent. So I leapt out the back door and went running and screaming for 
help. And, boy, I tell you what, everybody on the lot just kind of 
converged on that trailer and drug him out, and he was beaten up pretty 
badly.  
 
 
 
18
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
It was very much a protective environment. I thought I was worldly 
when I left the circus, but I was actually extremely naïve, because I had 
lived in a very structured, safe environment my whole life. And that’s 
probably the opposite of what people think circuses are growing up for 
kids, but everything was regimented. There was a time you had to be at a 
certain place, and there were no excuses for you not being there then. 
Everybody kind of watched out for you. I mean, there were lots of 
parents. All the eyes were your parents’ eyes.  
 
I’ll interject my job story here. There’s a couple of analogies that help 
people understand what it’s like living on a circus, at least back in the 
’50s and ’60s. Martha likes to use the analogy of it’s like a farm. You 
get up early, you do your chores, you take care of the animals, 
everybody’s got multiple jobs to do, everyone works very hard. And the 
parents, in particular, have a huge multitasking-type environment to go 
through. So there’s, I think, a lot of similarities between the circus life 
and farm. I’ve never been a farmer, but I can imagine what it’s like.  
 
The other analogy that’s particularly appropriate for Oklahoma is like an 
Indian tribe, a nomadic Indian tribe. You’re self-sufficient, you’re 
moving from location to location. You have a very tight-knit almost 
family-like feel, even though not everybody is a part of the same family. 
But it’s a one-for-all, all-for-one type of mentality, and so I think the 
combination of those two environments are pretty close to what it’s like 
growing up on a circus. 
 
There was a saying that we used to have that if you had someone on the 
show and they stole money, for example, if they were selling tickets and 
they stole money, you just didn’t let them sell tickets anymore. You 
found something else for them to do. They weren’t automatically thrown 
away or ostracized or sent away because they were caught doing 
something or did something that didn’t work. So I grew up with that 
belief that it’s a really, a very non-judgmental [environment], because 
there were all different types of people from all different countries, a lot 
of different countries. All different walks of life and types of people 
were on the show. It wasn’t that there wasn’t a lot of judgment. There 
was judgment from the circus people about towners, and that was really 
pretty strong, but I understand why. As far as judgment of how anybody 
lived their life, like I said, it just wasn’t there. 
 
Some circuses, basically, did not treat the public well and were cheaters 
and had pickpockets and had all kinds of thieves. So the image that 
“towners” had, particularly back then, was not very high of circuses. 
What they would frequently confuse, however, is circuses and carnivals, 
which to the average person, they’re the same. Circus people get really 
pissed off being compared to carnies. I’m sure carnies probably feel the 
 
 
19
 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
same way. 
 
Well, yes. 
 
But carnivals do have a little bit worse reputation than circuses do, and 
particularly these straight laced circuses, which I think ours was at the 
time, didn’t feel that we necessarily got a fair shake with the attitude and 
opinions of people who didn’t know. 
 
The circus people thought that carnies were thieves, and the carnies 
thought that circus people were fools, because they didn’t make as much 
money. So that was pretty clear. We both were still on—I don’t know 
what kind of scale you call it. In the hierarchy of things, we’re probably 
about equal, but one didn’t think too much of the other, but we still 
thought that we were smarter than the towner people. I don’t know what 
created that feeling, that we thought we were smarter. The reality is we 
weren’t smarter, we were more flexible and more adaptive. We had to be 
because whatever came your way, what—weather or conditions. When 
we went in to California every year, we had to change several things to 
be able to go into the state. So we had to stop on a dime, change some 
things about the trucks, and change the way some of the setups were 
simply to be legal in California. So we weren’t smarter by any means. 
Anybody who had lived that hard a life isn’t too smart, really, but we 
were very close and very tight. And on our show in particular, people 
seemed to like to come back, and they would want to come for more 
than one season.  
 
Other performers. 
 
Other performers, other families, and so they would ask to come back on 
our show many times. Not every time, but many times. So because of 
that, as I was growing up the kids, they were like my neighborhood kids 
because we kind of grew up together, like the Loters and the Rawls and 
everything. So we knew each other over a series of years, because they 
kept coming back on our show. 
 
Our father was a very Jekyll and Hyde-type person. He was extremely 
charismatic and charming when it had to do with the people that worked 
for him. And most people that worked for him, I would think as you 
interviewed them, probably spoke reasonably highly of Jack Moore and 
enjoyed their time on the show. The way he was with his family was 
quite different. He was a tyrant, because he figured out very early that he 
didn’t have to be nice to us to keep us around. He had to be nice to those 
other people or they’d leave. And so we sometimes got the brunt of [his 
anger]. Looking back on it now, having owned a business of my own 
and so forth, I’m not sure I would have acted any differently, but I didn’t 
 
 
20
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
like it at the time. (Laughs) Although, he was not as hard on Wanda and 
I as he was on Martha and our younger sister Madelyn.  
 
Getting back to my job description, there’s two other things. One thing I 
did very early, starting when I was around fourteen like Wanda, was 
drive a truck. These trucks were not always in the best condition. The 
brakes sometimes were problematic. And going through the Rockies, 
like we frequently did, it was actually scarier going down the hill than 
coming up, because coming up you just put it in the lowest gear you had 
and creep up the hill. Coming down, you know that the brakes are not 
good enough to always stop you so you put it in the lowest gear again 
and just ease on down the hills. We had very, very few accidents so I 
guess the trucks were okay. 
 
You know the term, “Follow the arrows?” Did you all talk to people 
before about that? Okay. 
 
My last few years, particularly when I was in college—and by the way, 
Martha mentioned earlier about earning money on the show. I essentially 
paid my way through college completely with the money I was able to 
earn during the summer. Luckily, I had some small scholarship from 
OSU because I was valedictorian in high school, and that was like two 
hundred dollars a year or something. Tuition wasn’t that much in the 
early ’60s, but it still cost several thousand dollars a year to go to OSU. 
So in those years I worked in the office, which consisted of selling main 
show tickets, checking up with the committee after the show, paying 
some local bills. I never did the payroll, Mother always did that. And 
then I was in college by then. I was no longer working inside the tent. 
But I’d say ’65 was the last year I trouped, so Martha and Wanda and to 
some degree, Madelyn, continued to perform up until the last year you 
were on the show. 
 
Yes, it was really a thing where if Daddy needed an act and he didn’t 
have it, then he had to figure out some way for us to create an act, or 
something, to fill the hole in the program, basically is what it boiled 
down to. So that’s how we ended up doing so many different things. By 
the time Madelyn came along, the show was bigger, and she didn’t have 
to do as much. She did a dog act, I think. Oh, the other thing I did, too, 
was a seal act one year when I was about fourteen. They’d bite. (Laughs) 
But anyway, it was wherever the hole was, whether it was in sideshow 
or in the big top. 
 
Starting around, I don’t remember which year in particular, but the early 
’60s, Daddy and Dory would go down to Mexico each year and book 
some acts. And these were frequently large families that really had their 
own circus in Mexico. They were playing real small towns and 
 
 
21
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
whatever, and they would close the show down and here comes ten of 
them or ever how many. And between six to ten people, they might do 
twenty or thirty acts. Well, when you’re trying to fill up three rings—
and in some cases we had five rings… 
 
How long was the show? Was it an hour and a half? 
 
Right. Yes, there’s a lot of content that you had to have, and these 
Mexican families, some of them were from Central America, but most of 
them were Mexican. So Daddy and Dory would go down there and get 
them through customs and then take them back at the end of the year, 
because they had to check them out. 
 
We provided the living quarters and everything for those families. 
 
And they ate in the cookhouse. So it was a good deal for them, and it 
was a good deal for us, but the… 
 
And I learned a little bit of Spanish, so that’s good. 
 
…the performance tended to have a rather Hispanic look, except for the 
blonde and the occasional other person that would show up. (Laughter) 
 
Yes, well, it was just a mixture, really, that’s what the thing was. And 
like I said before, it was in an environment, it really didn’t matter who or 
what or where you came from. You were a part of the show so you were 
a part of the show. You were dealt very much with on a person to person 
basis. Not to say that there weren’t disagreements, there were. There 
were family feud-type things that happen any time you get human beings 
together. But we were all working so hard, we didn’t have a lot of time 
for a lot of things like that, because the adults were generally, in the two 
hours we had between the show, taking a nap or resting a little bit, and 
the kids were out exploring. Sunday night was about the only time for 
any kind of social, true social activity.  
 
How would you learn to do the different types of jobs you’ve had? 
 
Well, like walking the tight wire, in the wintertime, the Presleys came to 
Hope, Arkansas, and every day after school, I went and worked in the 
barn, learning how to walk the tight wire. And on the death slide thing I 
learned, I was working on in between shows. And rolling globe I learned 
in between shows. I would use that as practice time. You know how you 
see circus movies and they show people walking around in their 
costumes all the time and practicing all the time? You’re not going to do 
that at all. First of all, you’re not practicing in wardrobe. It’s too 
expensive and too hard to keep clean and everything. But if you needed 
 
 
22
 
 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to do a new act, then in between the shows was about the only time you 
had to work on it. 
 
The animal acts were normally broken in during the winter. Sometimes 
the circus would book animal acts, like the seal act she referred to, 
[Walter] Jennier had a seal act, and also his daughter was a contortionist 
and did some aerial acts. So they would book that family on for the 
season. Other times, we would book a herd of two or three elephants that 
could go along with the three that we had. And that was a standalone act 
that came on. There might be a horse act or the Loyals may have a riding 
act or something. They have their own horses. So a lot of times you 
would book acts that in the summer they would go out with a particular 
circus. In the winter, they would go around and play independent dates, 
like Shrine circuses that would book a set of acts for Kansas City or 
something. If it were in the case of the Mexican families, they would 
have a whole plethora of acts that you would pick and choose from 
between juggling and acrobatics and aerial and whatever. 
 
Our father, in the later years, he didn’t enjoy that much operating the 
show on a daily basis, but he really enjoyed putting it together every 
year. Starting in January, after Christmas, they would start putting it 
together, painting the trucks and going to Mexico and booking the seal 
act and whatever, producing the show, if you would. Once it opened, it’s 
pure drudgery in terms of making it happen every day, but he really 
liked the creative aspect of putting the show together. (Laughs) 
 
And we do all admire him having a very large dream and accomplishing 
it. His father had a small grocery store in Marshall, [Texas] and his 
mother was kind of a religious fanatic. She started a mission in Marshall. 
(Laughs) He tried many different jobs that he just couldn’t settle in 
anything until he kind of went in the back door of show business. So I 
think all who knew him admired his drive to achieve his dream and his 
single-mindedness. It was not our dream, but because we were his 
family, we helped make it real. And so we’re all proud of our 
accomplishment in that what we contributed to make it all come true 
because when he died, it was the second largest tent circus, and that’s 
something in the country.  
 
Of course, during the winter, his job was putting the show together. And 
I’m sure he would start thinking about it before the end of the year, but it 
didn’t really get started until basically after Christmas. And the show 
would go out in March so there wasn’t a whole lot of time there, two or 
three months. He would have to determine what type of equipment he 
was going to take, trucks, and what type of canvas he was going to use, 
and then, of course, what was going to be the makeup of the people on 
the show. A lot of people, such as the Rawls and the Loters, would come 
 
 
23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
back year after year. I don’t remember exactly how many years, but 
those two families, in particular, were around for quite awhile. The 
Loyals actually were on the Kelly Miller show for many years and then a 
few years on Carson and Barnes.  
 
But anyway, so the personnel, there were essentially three or four classes 
of—not classes. That’s the wrong word—three or four different kinds of 
jobs on the show. There was, of course, the performers, which would 
sometimes do other non-performing related jobs, but more times than 
not were mainly doing multiple acts. Then there was the concession 
oriented people, the candy butchers, the people running the concession 
side of the business, both out on the midway and in the tent. The show 
owned the concession stuff and would basically hire a manager and hire 
candy butchers to do the concession related stuff. Concessions, like the 
movies today, are a significant source of income.  
 
The next category of employment was the management staff, who were 
generally people managing the workers. There was a canvas boss that 
was in charge of putting up and down the tents. And inside, there was a 
prop boss, like I played for a while. There were people in charge of 
putting up and taking down the sideshow. There were people in charge 
of taking care of local business, going ahead of the show and making the 
arrangements for proper licenses and all that. There was the twenty-four 
hour crew that would go a day ahead and put up the arrows. Many times 
drivers would leave the lot and not have a clue where they’re going, and 
if the arrows were not there, I always at least tried to remember the town 
I was going to. I didn’t have any maps in the truck, but I would be 
careful in following the arrows.  
 
So there’s the twenty-four hour crew that goes just ahead of the show, 
making sure the lot’s available and not underwater. And if it was, try to 
find an alternate. Going ahead about a week to ten days ahead of the 
show was the advertising crew that would put out the posters and slap 
the stuff on the side of the barns. We’d go by the various merchants in 
town and give them some passes, if they would allow them to put up a 
poster in their window and things like that. So there was the advertising 
crew. Part of Daddy’s job, of course, was getting all those people hired 
and organized. Those people, too, tended to stay with you awhile, but 
there was some goings and comings. Since there were sometimes five or 
six different shows in Hugo, there was a pool of talent to pull from. 
Some of the people liked working for Show A rather than Show B. 
 
Yes, there was a preference, generally, that people… 
 
There was some preferences. So there’s a lot of behind-the-scenes-type 
jobs, like… 
 
 
24
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
The fixer. 
 
…the posters. There was a guy that was called a fixer. If somebody got 
hurt or there was a beef or the lot wouldn’t get you your deposits back or 
some legal issue, then it was his job to BS the way through and try to get 
it resolved in your favor. Some of them were better at it than others.  
 
One of the best ones we had was Frank Ellis. I don’t know if you’ve 
heard that name before or not, but if you talk to some other circus 
people, ask them if they knew Frank Ellis. He was a larger-than-life 
character. 
 
So in this class of behind-the-scenes-type players, there were other 
issues like the water boy that I mentioned and the working men that 
worked for the canvas boss or whatever, putting things up. Amongst this 
collection of people that would gather, you would also try to figure out, 
“Okay, who can drive trucks?” And so Daddy would frequently have to, 
in January, usually figure out “Okay,” who his truck drivers are going to 
be. And if they didn’t have licenses, he knew a place in Arkansas you 
could send off for and get driver’s licenses for them, just give them their 
picture and then go back with kind of a driver’s license. (Laughter) You 
did what you had to do to get it on down the road. I’m trying to think of 
the other groups of people. I guess those are the main ones. And so part 
of his job in producing the show was essentially… 
 
There’s the mechanic. He was really important. 
 
Yes. We had a truck that, basically, it was like a wrecker. And 
sometimes we’d have to pull the trucks in, but you carry all your tools 
with you. And he was always rebuilding engines or transmissions or 
whatever, there in mud. 
 
I had to follow him. The electrician, that was really important. 
 
Yes, we carried our own light plant, and so you’d string cable all over 
the lot. And when Kay and I trouped, our living compartment was in the 
front end of the light plant truck. So you’re sitting there, big old diesel 
engine. And so when the lights went off, you finally had peace and 
quiet, because they shut the light plant down.  
 
There was somebody else that we haven’t talked about yet, and he was 
with the family for a long time. His name was Chief. We call him Chief. 
His name was Noah Newman, we think. We’re not sure. But he was 
American-Indian. He said that he was half Indian and half Cherokee, so 
I don’t know what the Indian part was, but that’s the way he described it 
 
 
25
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
himself. You know how back in the days, the medieval days, how people 
would kind of attach themselves to a duke or something like that? They 
would become like a vassal. He was, like, always there. He was with us 
all year long. So in the wintertime, like when we had the small little 
house outside the town of Hugo, it had a small barn, and we kept some 
of the animals there with us and some of them were out at D.R.’s. But 
some of them stayed with us, and he stayed in the barn with them and 
took care of the monkeys and took care of the elephants, primarily.  
 
One time, he was moving a monkey from one cage to the other, and the 
monkey bit him. And then he bit the monkey back and the monkey died. 
That’s how we found out that Chief had TB [tuberculosis]. That’s true. 
(Laughs) But he was always very, very kind, and he seemed to be able to 
communicate with the animals on a subliminal level. At some point that 
wasn’t conversation, he could get animals to go and move and llamas 
that are mean to calm down and everything. He would sometimes go buy 
presents for the children on the show, because he really didn’t have any 
family that we knew of or anything. He was attached to us, in a way, so 
he might go to town to a novelty shop and bring us back a salt and 
pepper shaker or a scarf or something. He was very proud that he had 
picked that out just for us. He was a real special person that was with us 
for a long time. Actually, there were a lot of people that came back year 
after year that became a part of the core group that, year after year, 
traveled together. 
 
So in addition to pulling together—getting back to what Daddy did to 
produce the show—necessarily populating the show, because every 
season was essentially a new season. It’s not unlike the Texas Rangers. 
Some of the people are the same, some of them are different. You get rid 
of some. You go out to acquire others. So there’s some similarities there. 
The other part that he would have to do related to that, of course, is 
figure out the performance. “Okay, the first act is going to be this, and 
the second act is going to be three rings and around this, this, and this,” 
and etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. In one of the eras, he got the idea that 
bigger is better so they went from three rings to five rings. All that did 
was…  
 
Complicate it. 
 
…make the rings smaller and make more issues about, “Okay, how do 
you fill up all this stuff?” Well, the answer is Mexican acts that could do 
twenty or thirty things… 
 
That’s whenever that changed.  
 
…and whatever. 
 
 
26
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Martha 
 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
Now, in the earlier years, you were mentioning that he was bringing in 
kind of famous people. 
 
Well, not early. Later, actually, is whenever he did the Tim McCoy and 
the... 
 
Tim McCoy started in ’58 or ’59.  
 
Was it then? 
 
Yes. And he was there for three years. And the Sky King was there in 
’64, ’65.  
 
What was the reasoning behind that? 
 
Name recognition. Tim McCoy was a famous movie star of the Tom 
Mix era. This was right after talkies began, and he was originally 
brought to Hollywood as an interpreter for an Indian tribe they imported, 
Hollywood did, from Montana, I think. And Tim came along as the 
interpreter and sign language and all that stuff. Some enterprising 
producer said, “You’re a tall, good looking guy. We’re going to make 
you a movie star.” So they did. And he was one of the top two or three 
western stars of his era. So that would have been in the ’20s, I guess. So 
here we were in the ’50s, which is thirty years later, but there’s still a lot 
of people around that remember the Tim McCoy movies.  
 
Back in the ’30s and ’40s, it was fairly common to have Wild West 
shows. Buffalo Bill was the best known, but Tim McCoy had a Wild 
West show also that was quite large, but eventually wound up going 
bankrupt after two or three years. So he had a history of road shows. I 
don’t know for sure how he and my father made connections, but he 
agreed to kind of be the headliner, if you would. And it was purely an 
attempt to—since our main routes were always in the midwest and in 
Canada—virtually every year we’d go to Canada, and the west. While 
Daddy had the show, we never once went on the East Coast or the 
southeast, in Florida or whatever. It was always kind of a Michigan, 
west… 
 
West of the Mississippi. 
 
We would go up into Ontario in Canada so that’s about as far east as 
we’d go. We started going into Canada in the late ’50s. There wasn’t 
very many paved roads up there. They were mainly gravel and mud. But 
there also wasn’t very much entertainment options, and so we had better 
luck showing the small towns in Canada than we did in the States. We 
 
 
27
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
 
got into the routine of going to Canada each summer. I don’t think 
they’ve been to Canada in a while.  
 
So the production of the show—essentially, you’ve got to fill about, at 
any point in the year, between one hundred and two hundred positions. 
That’s a fairly good job required, to do. Once the show went out, his 
main job was troubleshooting. If an issue came up with a truck breaking 
down or the canvas spool quit working or there was a local beef with 
somebody that felt they got cheated on something, then Dad would have 
had to do it. He was essentially a troubleshooter. During the 
performance he would pretty much serve as a ringmaster. I mean, he 
wouldn’t dress up in a fancy suit, but he would make announcements 
and kind of oversee the ebb and flow of the performance. 
 
And later, whenever he wasn’t doing the ringmaster duties, a little bit 
after Mike had left the show he would sneak into—well, I say sneak in 
because you wouldn’t know he was there—he would go into the tent and 
sit among a larger group of people so when you were in the show 
performing, you wouldn’t see him there. And if he saw something that 
he didn’t like, he would leave before the act was over with and be at the 
back door waiting on you whenever you got out. All the girls wore opera 
stockings, those mesh stockings, and you climbed the rope and you have 
rosin or you’d get on the elephant, you are going to tear them at times. 
Sometimes it happens during the performance. Well, that wasn’t 
acceptable. You couldn’t show up for an act with a tear in your 
stockings. 
 
We also wore canvas slippers many times in the acts, and you would 
wear what were called slop shoes, which were almost like wooden 
Dutch shoes. And then your feet were in the canvas like ballerina 
slippers, and then they would go into the slop shoes. When you’d go to 
the edge of the ring curb and take the slop shoes off, and then you were 
in the act in your canvas shoes. So especially if you climbed up and did 
an aerial act, if the soles of your shoes had any dirt on them, then you 
also got into big trouble. And you never knew when he was going to be 
there.  
 
So he was quality control manager.  
 
Yes. (Laughs) 
 
That was one of his jobs. 
 
And, really, if he didn’t like the popcorn or if he didn’t like the snow 
cone or if he didn’t think the cotton candies were big enough or he 
didn’t like the way the pitch was done, I mean, he wasn’t really a 
 
 
28
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
micromanager. There were times he was micromanaging and other times 
he wasn’t, but you never knew when he was going to be there. He kind 
of created this all-encompassing presence. You just never knew when he 
was going to be around the corner.  
 
The other type of job that he would do is a form of troubleshooting. 
General superintendent was another word for canvas boss. If he left for 
some reason, he would have to play that role until he was able to get 
somebody else to fill that role. So “fill in” type roles were part of what 
he did, too. He basically was the manager of it all, and whatever that 
entailed was whatever needed to be done. Now, what mother did… 
 
Well, in the wintertime, she was primarily concerned with the costumes, 
so the elephant blankets for the spec or any production number, which 
was usually the beginning and the end. Sometimes web, when girls came 
in and did web or ladder, they would wear the same costume, same style 
costume. For the most part, performers provided their own costume 
except when there were six or seven… 
 
Production… 
 
A production-type number. Mother and her sewing machine, and 
elephant blankets are big, and she would have Wanda help her many 
times and have other people help her and then always on the lookout to 
see where she could buy costumes. But they’re kind of scarce, and they 
cost a lot. So in years where there wasn’t a lot of money around then we 
made elephant blankets out of terrycloth and put big sequins on them. 
They didn’t look too good up close, but from far away they looked great, 
and you could wash them. (Laughs) So she had to take that into 
consideration.  
 
And the other thing, too, is that Mike mentioned earlier about the 
payroll. And people would come to her many times for loans, and she 
became the essential banker on the show. She did loan money out, and I 
don’t think she was burned very often. And she took care of the 
insurance and tax paperwork and keeping receipts and keeping 
everything in the office orderly. And then besides that, like I said, she 
had four children and a husband in an eight-foot by thirty-foot space to 
keep clean, take care of, feed and clothe. Just going to the grocery store, 
trying to find some place that had laundry—the laundry was a major 
production. Now, Wanda did a lot of it, also. As Mother was taking care 
of the office so much, a lot of the laundry-type or grocery shopping 
thing fell on Wanda. So Wanda worked really hard doing a lot of 
household duties, plus doing performing and other things, too.  
 
An interesting side note on the banking thing and the Canada thing is 
 
 
29
 
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
Finchum 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
that, of course, the circus is a cash business. You’re pulling in cash from 
selling tickets and whatever, and so you don’t have a local bank account 
you can go down to and make a deposit in. So there were times when 
sizeable portions of cash would be basically stored under our mattress in 
our trailer. 
 
The trailer got very heavy. 
 
And in Canada, usually a few days before exiting Canada back into the 
States, I remember on numerous occasions going with Wanda and 
Mother with bags of Canadian cash into Winnipeg or someplace like 
that, going to a local bank, carrying in cash, getting it exchanged for US 
dollars. And you’d really get some strange looks. Here were this mother 
and two kids coming in carrying bags of cash, trying to get it exchanged 
to US dollars. 
 
One time we were, I think it was, in Calgary, and Mother wanted to put 
it in a briefcase, and it was $100,000, and Daddy said, “No, you’ll get 
robbed if it’s in a briefcase, because you’re going to look scared. I want 
you to put it in a shoebox and two paper sacks.” And so Mother and I 
took—I carried the two sacks, she carried the shoebox, we walked into 
the bank, and we had $100,000 in cash. It did freak them out. (Laughs) 
 
Now, they’d arrest you for money laundering or something. (Laughter) 
 
Yes, yes. 
 
Most years did it make money—or at least break even? 
 
Well, no—mostly no. 
 
Well, it obviously did because we stayed in business, but, basically, my 
father plowed virtually all the money back into the show to make it 
bigger and better, bigger tent, another elephant, another whatever. So 
whatever money was made—it was just like I said. I paid my own way 
through college.  
 
It was very much up and down. There were seasons it was really great, 
and in those years he would go and buy an airplane. One time he had 
two airplanes, we had a brand new Lincoln, and we lived in a mobile 
home. Mother said we looked like white trash. (Laughs) And then there 
were other times whenever it was very tight. Things got sold during 
those years so it was very much up and down.  
 
The business directly affected everybody’s state of mind on the show, 
because the other performers who booked in had been on shows that 
 
 
30
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Mike 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Mike 
went bust in the middle of the season. And so everybody would kind of 
get scared. Everything would kind of get quiet. Everybody would kind 
of stay to themselves. In good years, there were a lot of parties on the 
lot. When you have a big circus tent and we had what you call a straw 
house, that means there’s so many people, all the seats are taken that 
they have to take straw from the animals and lay it around the 
hippodrome track so people can sit down to watch the show, it creates a 
fantastic energy. The performers perform better, the audience applauds 
more. It’s just that magic happens then. So it was very much an up and 
down thing.  
 
Again, it’s like farming. There’s good crops and bad crops, and so… 
 
Very similar. 
 
But we never closed in the middle of the season. We never went 
bankrupt, per se. There were some lean winters, but there was never a 
necessarily bad disaster like that. 
 
Like I was saying earlier, in the late ’60s, we were charging maybe 
$1.75 for an adult. And during that time period, it cost a minimum of 
thirty-five hundred dollars a day just to make expenses. We used to say, 
“to make the nut.” You know where that story comes from? But anyway, 
that was a lot of money then. What would it be these days? 
 
Well, I remember visiting the show, probably—well, Dory was still alive 
so it would have been before ’99. They were showing Carrollton, and I 
was in his trailer and he said, “Your dad would never believe it, but it 
costs us over twenty thousand dollars a day to keep the doors open.” So 
it’s probably more than that now. It takes money to do it. (Laughs) By 
the way, speaking of the trailers that they have now. Anytime I visit the 
show, which hasn’t been in a while, and see these, basically, large semis 
with the walls that come out and satellite dishes on top and the running 
water and all this other stuff. Well, we never had anything like that. 
(Laughs) 
 
No. 
 
What was your trailer like? 
 
Well, for many years it was eight foot wide and about twenty feet long, 
and there was a man and wife and four kids. 
 
And where did everybody sleep? 
 
Wherever you could.  
 
 
31
 
Martha 
 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
Well, by the time Madelyn came along, the trailer was longer. It was 
probably closer to thirty feet long, which is a lot… 
  
Still eight foot wide… 
 
…in a trailer, it’s still only eight foot wide. Madelyn and I had bunk 
beds in the back, and then Mother and Daddy had the center bed, and 
then the couch folded out. 
 
By then, Wanda was married. 
 
Wanda was married, but Mike was either sleeping on the couch, or then 
he was gone. Or we had a camper on the pickup truck. Now, some years, 
a cousin came and traveled one year, and then she and I had the camper 
on the pickup or Madelyn and I had the camper on the pickup. To get 
some kind of privacy was really wonderful. 
 
Still no running water. 
 
There’s no running water, and it was clean. We kept it clean. 
 
Yes, y’all had it easy. (Laughs) 
 
Yes. (Laughter) But it was clean, it was warm, and there was no air 
conditioning or anything. And we lived through it, I guess. (Laughs)  
 
Well, you can ask Kay. She trouped one summer, and we lived in the 
light plant truck with no running water and slop pot by the bed, or 
whatever. That was an experience for her. 
 
What happened because of living that way, growing up like that—in 
fact, one year, in ’65, Daddy changed the winter quarters from Hugo to 
El Centro. We stayed in Hope one year and then came back to Hugo, 
and then that was in ’63. ’64 we were in Hugo, and then ’65 he moved it 
to El Centro, California. Now, I don’t know why he was trying to find 
another place, but he was.  
 
Part of that one, I don’t know about Hope, but part of the California one, 
they ended the season on the West Coast. Rather than driving all the way 
back there, he decided to stay out there and open on the West Coast. 
 
Good business. We had good business in California, usually. Anyway, 
that year we spent the entire year in that small trailer. As where before, 
we would at least come back and have a mobile home where Madelyn 
and I at least had a… 
 
 
32
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Mike 
 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
 
A ten foot wide deal. 
 
Yes, I had a room. We had something with a door on it. But when I left 
home, privacy became really important to me because it was something I 
could control. If I could close the door, and I have my own private 
space, that was considered the best of all possible worlds. 
 
Where would you stay in Hugo when you were going to school? 
 
Wanda and I stayed in several places, I think, but one of them was a 
two-story house across the street from—was it the Village Motel?  
 
Yes. 
 
Right there on the main street. There was a lady that took in boarders, 
and so we would stay there until school was out and then come in. One 
year, I remember we were way up in British Columbia, and so Wanda 
and I had to take the train over to Minneapolis and then down through 
Dallas. An aunt who lived in Commerce picked us up and drove us to 
Hugo so that was a long train ride. 
 
I went to thirteen different schools in all. I went to more schools than 
Mike and Wanda did, but because our situation had changed by the time 
I came along. It was a little bit different. And whenever he needed the 
act or whatever I was doing, I had to stay in. And Hugo schools or 
whatever schools I went to, I was really pretty lucky. I made good 
grades so they let me get by with not being there the whole time. And I 
lived with a wonderful couple, Ruby and her husband, Ruby and Doyle. 
He was an electrician. I don’t even know how the connection was made, 
but they didn’t have children, and so she took me in. I stayed with her a 
couple of years. 
 
There in Hugo. 
 
In Hugo from like September until the show came in. And I stayed with 
my aunt one year, and I stayed with another, Pat Roderick. She was the 
secretary at the high school in Hugo. Wonderful, wonderful woman. I 
mean, I was very lucky with the families that I stayed with. People just 
took me into their homes and welcomed me in, and I was very grateful 
to not have to be out on the show right then, because if I could stay in 
and finish school, that meant I had electricity and running water a little 
bit longer.  
 
Did you ever live in the Modern Trailer Park? 
 
 
 
33
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No. 
 
No. Oh, there in Hugo? 
 
There are a lot of stories. I always thought that should be a novel. 
(Laughs) A lot of stories. I did, actually. I spent one fall. I stayed with a 
woman named Dorothy Turner, and I stayed with her. And she was… 
 
In her trailer. 
 
In her trailer, yes, at the Modern Trailer Park. And one night, a man 
came in to romance her, and she said, “Get out of here! Jack Moore’s 
daughter’s in here.” (Laughs) So there was always a lot scandal at the 
Modern Trailer Park.  
 
Did you think that this was the life you wanted, you wanted to continue 
in the circus business? 
 
Absolutely not. 
 
We both ran away from the circus and joined a home. 
 
Really, most of the kids that went to college didn’t go back. If you didn’t 
go to college, you stayed because that’s the world that you knew. But 
once you left that world and kind of created yourself in the town world 
in a new way, it didn’t happen very often. Now, what did happen is I am 
what I call a natural gypsy, and I ended up in work where I’ve traveled a 
lot. And I pretty much have to. My eyes need to see something new. 
They just have to. So I’ve traveled a lot because of that. I’ve taken the 
best from it, I think, because we were lucky enough to see the country 
like most people don’t get to see it. Because when you travel on the back 
roads, the blue highways, through this country, I mean, we are so 
blessed.  
 
The amazing things that you see, and you also get to see that there are a 
lot of different ways to do things. So the way that they may do it in 
Kansas is not the way that they do it in California or Oregon. But still, 
they’re lovely places. And people are really, I think, more nice than not. 
A couple of times, in some places you would jump. You’d go into town, 
and you would encounter prejudice or attitude because you were with 
the circus, but most of the time people were just curious about you. So 
the travel, to me, the gift of the travel and the way that we traveled is a 
blessing. I don’t understand why more Americans don’t just get in the 
car and take off to see this country, because when you get off the 
freeway and get off the plane, there’s amazing things to see.  
 
 
 
34
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
I have some photographs that are taken by state signs of Mike and I or 
some of the other kids, and those photographs are real important to me, 
because we worked so much and were so focused on the show. 
Everything was about getting on the road, getting to the next town, 
setting it up, getting the show on, tearing it down, taking it down, going 
to the show. Everything was just like tunnel vision that we traveled all 
over the country, but we didn’t get to see too many of the tourist-type 
spots. So when we did get to see them, they made a big impression on 
us. And any time that any of the kids on the show got to go somewhere 
off the lot, that was considered a big deal and a big adventure. So that’s 
why those photographs of—even by the state highway signs, “Welcome 
to North Dakota,” big deal, but it was a big deal to us to get to do 
something like that. (Laughs) 
 
Well, you mentioned another thing that’s a takeaway that is basically, 
we learned a work ethic that has stuck with us over the years. I think 
very similar to the kids that grow up on a farm. They learn what hard 
work is. Some of them go back into farming, some of them don’t, but the 
ones that don’t go back into farming still take those life lessons with 
them. It teaches you how to work with people you don’t necessarily like, 
but you realize you’ve got to work with them to get it done.  
 
It’s a great place to learn how to be on a team. A team or a tribe, it’s 
really the same type of mindset. All the parts have to work together.  
 
What do you miss the most? 
 
I think that’s one of the things I miss the most is that the working 
together to achieve a goal, because that doesn’t happen a lot. When I 
say, “out here,” I mean in the non-circus world. I’m married to a retired 
air force colonel now, and he said that that’s what he misses the most. 
So I’ve also found, besides people that were raised on a farm, that I have 
a lot in common with kids who were raised in the military that have 
moved a lot, because you learn to go to a new school and be the new 
person all the time. So you learn to meet people, and you learn to also 
kind of hang back and watch and wait and see what people do, rather 
than what they say. Where on a circus, generally, if someone told you 
they were such and such, that’s what they were. So that was probably 
my most rude awakening whenever I left the circus world and came to 
the town world. People didn’t always tell you the truth and that, really, 
was probably one of the hardest lessons that I had to learn, all the masks 
and everything. They’re more common in the everyday society. In our 
world growing up, what you saw is what you got. So that was a nice way 
to grow up. 
 
It was harder for any environment like that, whether it’s an Indian group, 
 
 
35
 
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a farmer, or whatever, it’s harder to wear a mask. People see through the 
other people, because they’re living with them every day. So both of you 
learn to accept them that way or you learn to stay away from them that 
way. You are rarely surprised by something they come up with, because 
you live with them. 
 
You know them, because everything is pretty close. It’s a tight-knit 
group, and you learn who works hard and who doesn’t. So when you 
need something done, who do you go to? You go to the people you 
know can do it.  
 
And the other thing that you learn is that the people that choose to be on 
the show, or that you choose to be around, have a genuine interest in 
each other. Show people are a fairly close-knit bunch, and it’s not just 
because of shared experience. I think it’s because of the nature of the 
beast that we just talked about. 
 
It’s a pretty precarious existence when you stop and think about it. So I 
mean, if you’re kind of living on the edge a little bit, it makes you 
appreciate some good things a little bit more, maybe, rather than if 
you’ve got a fairly safe path. You’re not as worried or stressed out about 
it. I’ve always been kind of surprised at reactions whenever I tell people, 
they ask me where I was born or how I was raised, and for a long time I 
didn’t tell them. I just said I was born in east Texas. And then as I got 
older, it didn’t really matter to me too much what they thought, and so 
I’ve always been kind of surprised at the reactions I’ve gotten whenever 
I’ve told people that I was raised on a circus.  
 
And there’s one thing that I really object to is whenever you see a pundit 
on TV say, “Oh, this is a circus.” I’m thinking, “Well, if it’s a circus, it 
was run pretty well. It operated like it was supposed to.” (Laughs) But 
they’re referring to chaos, and it was kind of like the antithesis of chaos 
because chaos wouldn’t have succeeded, wouldn’t have been able to 
pick everything up, pack it away, move to the next town, and reset it up 
again. I mean, actually, the circus is the opposite. So I think it’s very 
strange when they call a chaotic situation a circus.  
 
They’re really referring to the multitasking aspect nature of it, which 
definitely existed, but that’s not totally unique to the circus. I could 
have, obviously, at the time I grew up, I was still in college when Dad 
died and so forth, but it would have been relatively easy for me to step in 
and carry on with whatever, but I never really had a desire to. And I 
really felt at the time—this was in the ’60s—that there would not be any 
traveling circuses in another ten years from that time, because of the 
growing expense, all the laws, the PETA, all of the issues that were, 
from my viewpoint then, was not going to make it. It was going to 
 
 
36
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
become like a buggy whip maker, something they did at one time, but no 
longer works. So I’ve always been amazed that here we are, fifty years 
later, and Carson and Barnes is twenty miles from here, still showing. 
 
Cirque du Soleil has kind of taken on the newest version of it where it’s 
a mixture of more Broadway than it is circus. I mean, they don’t have 
animals so to me it’s not a circus, because they don’t have animals. To 
me, it’s a Broadway-type production, an amazing, incredible, 
entertaining—there’s a reason it’s so successful. 
 
But there are as many canvas shows today as there was in the ’60s. 
 
Really? 
 
Yes. There’s always been somewhere between ten and twenty shows in 
America that are out there slugging it out, which I would have never 
believed, then. 
 
Well, in retrospect, I can see how really, really lucky we were to have 
had the experience. I mean, it was really rich field experience. As a kid, 
in the middle of it, I couldn’t try out for cheerleader because I couldn’t 
go to cheerleader camp because I had to work on the show. It’s not like I 
had to work at the drugstore down the street. I was out on the show 
somewhere in Canada during cheerleading camp. Well, I lived because I 
didn’t become a cheerleader, but at the time, I was just devastated 
because I couldn’t try out for cheerleader. But I didn’t learn how to 
swim, and have a couple of bad consequences from that, because we 
were working.  
 
So it’s like a whole segment that you all experienced growing up of 
playing in the neighborhood or going to summer camp or learning how 
to go into the swimming hole or whatever, we didn’t have, but we had so 
many other experiences, too. So to me, I’ve never really understood also, 
why people are particularly interested in the circus business, because to 
me, that was my normal. That was the way life was. You got up in the 
morning, cleaned up the lot, drove to the next town, set up the show. I 
mean, that was my normal neighborhood, and I guess the unique 
situation of it still isn’t there. It’s not unique to me.  
 
Well, today, do you travel in a mobile home? 
 
No, no. (Laughter) But I would. I would definitely rent an RV. I 
wouldn’t buy one. I’d rent an RV and go somewhere and camp out and 
have a great time. I really would, but they have running water now. 
(Laughter) 
 
 
 
37
Finchum 
 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Mike 
 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
When you were performing, did you have a favorite venue, like a 
favorite town that you performed in? 
 
No. Many of the towns kind of ran together. There was an experience 
that we had that was really unusual. We showed up in—this was in 
British Columbia, Victoria, British Columbia, and it was there during a 
centennial of some sort, and we had a week long booking in one place. 
That was like nirvana. The most we ever got to stay someplace, 
sometimes we would have a two-day booking in a town, and everybody 
was ecstatic when that happened. But we had a whole week, and then we 
were performing the same celebration at this big centennial park where 
the Rocky Mounted Police… 
 
No, it was the Royal Canadian. 
 
Royal Canadian Mounted Police, and we got to meet all of them, and 
they showed us the film of their training camp, and it was a fascinating 
experience, and then we also got to go on TV. We did the circus twist. 
They had their own version of American Bandstand, and so there were 
about six or eight of us teenagers on the show, and they let us go on the 
TV, and we made up this silly version of the twist and called it the 
“Circus Twist.” So that particular week really stands out. And then I also 
loved California because of the weather. It was so much nicer. And 
anytime we could get near the ocean, it was just a wonderful thing to 
see. But in Canada it was illegal to show on Sundays, so in Canada, the 
other reason all of us liked to go there was we got a whole day off. So 
that was also fabulous. We worked six days a week instead of six and a 
half days a week.  
 
When your mother retired, did she want to continue on? I know she ran 
it for a little bit. 
 
She only went one or two years after my father died before she sold it to 
Dory.  
 
Yes, she retired. 
 
That was in ’70, ’71, and she died in ’97. So she had twenty years there 
of retirement in Jefferson. She did marry again, to Ted Akeman. He died 
in ’85, and so she went another twelve years after that. Her health was 
not good the last five or ten years of her life. She had some struggles, but 
I never heard her say that she hated the circus… 
 
I did. 
 
…but I never heard her say she loved it. 
 
 
38
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I heard her say that she—it was very hard. She had the hardest role of 
all. She absolutely had the hardest time. To do everything that she did 
and then—because also, whenever you take up tickets—she took up 
tickets on the front door many years—and whenever you’re working 
with the public, that can be quite hard. And sometimes people would be 
drunk and would come up and want to kind of charge their way through 
or somebody would be upset and start screaming and cussing at her. 
Mother was a very sensitive person, and she didn’t particularly like 
working with the public anyway, but to have to do it twice a day, and 
you have to stand on your feet for a long time. So it was physically hard 
besides being emotionally hard on her, because of her personality. She 
was really a fairly quiet person. And to have to have somebody in her 
face, screaming at her, cussing at her over something silly, it was hard 
on her. I think that she had the hardest job of all of us.  
 
Putting up with us didn’t help. (Laughs) 
 
I know. One of the greatest things about the whole thing were all the 
characters that we—all the people that were on the show, people like 
Oddy Doddy. He was the pitch man that after the show was over with, 
people would come down the midway, like, leaving and going back to 
their cars, and he would have this big platform thing set up with a big 
umbrella over it [with lighting]. He’d start talking on the mic, luring 
them to come over, and he’d start selling them things. Things they no 
more needed than the man in the moon, but he was so good that you 
wanted to buy something from him. (Laughs) 
 
Very much like pitch men you see at the state fairs these days. Whether 
they’re selling pots and pans or selling something else, they’re awfully 
good at what they’re selling. 
 
He was very, very good. He had a wife named Veda, who, to me, as a 
little girl she was just like the ultimate of a glamorous… 
 
Sophisticated. 
 
…sophisticated woman. She had Capri pants that were leopard. She had 
her hair all fluffed out like she wore a headband. She wore dangly 
earrings. I just thought she was the most exotic creature, and so I started 
following her around everywhere she went like a little puppy dog. And 
she had a jewelry stand, and so she taught me how to engrave the—
because it had like those little aluminum hearts and things, and so I 
wanted to help her. So she taught me how to engrave, and I still have a 
cake pan that I used to practice on where I wrote the names out with 
that. 
 
 
39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There were a lot of interesting people. There was also Vernon the 
tattooed man. He was tattooed all over, except for his face. Even the top 
of his head was shaved, and he had bright orange carrot hair, and he 
wore it with bangs all the way across and straight down here and then 
cut off here, kind of like a Dutch boy. (Gestures) And on top of his head 
he had a tiger face tattooed so he’d take off his hat and show his tattoo. 
Then he had letters tattooed on the whole inside of his fingers. He had 
this real complicated thing where supposedly he could write his 
sentences with his hands, and he never showed me anything I could 
read, but he was convinced. (Laughs) And I asked him, I said, “Vernon, 
why did you do that to your body? Doesn’t it bother you when you take 
a bath?” And he said, “No, after awhile you get used to it. You don’t see 
it.” And I said, “Well, why did you really do it?” He said, “Well, I 
wanted to be in show business, and I didn’t have any particular talent.” 
So he tattooed his entire body. (Laughs) 
 
Do you all have favorite circus memories that you always go back to and 
tell family when you all get together? 
 
Probably most of them revolve around Mabel. 
 
Yes, Mabel’s the best. 
 
Anytime I show a picture of growing up on a circus, I show the one with 
me standing in front of Mabel so about that and just the general stories 
that we’ve talked about here. I have more good memories than I do bad 
memories. The bad ones are pretty bad, but the good ones are also good. 
I’m proud and thankful for what I went through. I just wouldn’t want to 
do it again. (Laughs) 
 
Where do you see the circus going in the next ten to twenty years? 
 
Well, I’ve already told you I’m a pretty bad forecaster of where it’s 
going, although I suspect it’s getting tougher and tougher and harder. 
The Cirque du Soleil thing has created “a new interest in circuses,” if 
you will, or they wouldn’t have five or six of them, ever how many 
they’ve got in Las Vegas. So there’s an audience there and that has 
increased the interest in circus, but it’s also changed what people think a 
circus is into this Broadway-type—what I call a Broadway-type 
production with incredibly skilled performers. They have some really 
incredible acts, but to me, it is not the circus as we knew it, or even 
Carson and Barnes today, which is still a tent show.  
 
I really don’t know which one of those two will win out, whether it’s the 
Cirque du Soleil-type indoor show or the Carson and Barnes mud show, 
 
 
40
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
which still retains much of the look and feel. I don’t know what it’s like 
living with their fancy trailers and dish antennas and often staying like 
they are now for ten days in Fort Worth. That’s a different environment 
than we had, but it’s still a circus. And my thoughts go back to my 
freshman composition paper in freshman English at Oklahoma State, I 
wrote a paper called “The Ever-changing, Never Changing Circus.” And 
the premise was basically how things had changed over the years, but 
not really. And that the circus was still largely the circus, and that’s 
going on today which is fifty years later. So who’s to say it won’t be 
here another fifty years, in some form?  
 
I think, as humans, we just love live entertainment. I think it’ll just kind 
of morph and change, and I don’t think it’s going to be a whole lot 
different a hundred years now. I think there will probably be a virtual 
circus at some point. 
 
I think where it’s getting tougher is for the animal acts. There is animal 
abuse, just like there are people that abuse their dogs. 
 
Or other people. 
 
Or other people, but the point being is that as Martha mentioned earlier, 
the fact is that we depend on our elephants just like a farmer depends on 
their horse. And you’re going to take care of those because your 
livelihood depends on them. And I think that’s where the circus image, 
if you will, has suffered because of people that don’t really see that or 
don’t choose to see it or don’t understand it. I did not see a whole lot of 
animal abuse over the years with all the different people that were on the 
show for both the animals that we had or people that had their own 
animals like an elephant act or a seal act or whatever. 
 
It was like that man that I told you about with the horse. The minute 
Daddy found out about it, he fired him. He didn’t care what the man did 
on his own time, but he didn’t want him abusing the animal. And so the 
animals, I would say, were every bit or maybe even more important to 
Daddy than the people were, because he really took great care to make 
sure that the animals were fed regularly, always had water, that their 
cages were clean. There was always the sense that the animals came first 
because they couldn’t help themselves. So that was the number one rule 
in the whole show was the animals were taken care of. Anytime there 
are animals involved, unless they’re running free, if they’re in a human 
environment, there are going to be issues. But within that human 
environment, they can be treated cruelly or decently, and our experience 
was that they were valued and treated as well as they could be for that 
venue.  
 
 
 
41
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
Mike 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Martha 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Mike 
 
 
I think it’s really important that people get to see wild animals, and not 
everyone will go to a zoo, but they’ll go to a circus. So in a way, it helps 
like a little five or six-year-old little boy or girl to see a lion in person or 
to see an elephant. Then they get the idea, it makes it more real for them. 
So later on in their life if an issue comes up, maybe about being an 
environmentalist or not, they remember that their actions have 
consequences. So I always thought that any kind of exposure to a wild 
animal was a good thing for them to see. 
 
When we look at circus history, how would you like to see your family 
remembered? 
 
Well, I think Jerry Fox did a good job in pulling together this video that 
you saw earlier that kind of tells our story from our line on the tree, 
pretty much as it happened, as long as that story and whatever you all do 
and so forth. And if we ever wind up writing a book, which we may or 
may not do, because there are lots of stories to be told that people seem 
to have an interest in. I think that we’re in much better shape now than 
we were two or three years ago along those lines with the story being out 
there. So I’m not too worried about how the Moore family, if you will, 
will be portrayed now that we’ve gotten this far.  
 
Now. 
 
I think our legacy will be one of a family that built basically something 
from nothing. And yes, we had help along the way. We had partnerships 
along the way, as most people do. But the show that is currently called 
Carson and Barnes, there would be a circus out of Hugo if our family 
had never existed because there was a legacy there, and there was an 
ongoing family there, there would be a circus. It just wouldn’t be a 
circus called Carson and Barnes, because that got started this way. And 
as I said earlier, our interest in the circus, our understanding of the 
circus, our knowledge of the circus really spans about a thirty year 
history, ’40 to ’70. And so when we say circus, that’s what we’re talking 
about. When other people say circus, they obviously are coming at it 
from a different history and a different viewpoint and that’s valid, too. 
It’s just that when we say Carson and Barnes circus, we have a 1968 
image, which is now, what? Forty-three years ago. 
 
Well, to me, it died whenever Daddy died. 
 
Is there a story behind his stone at Showmen’s Rest? 
 
He died in March of 1969, and Mother made all the arrangements. There 
was a Showmen’s Rest, then. There weren’t very many people in it, but 
there was one there. I don’t know the story of how it got to be 
 
 
42
 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike 
 
 
Martha 
 
 
Mike 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Martha 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Martha 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
configured as a circus tent. 
 
I always thought it was kind of ironic because, actually, the tent itself 
used to torture him. That it would get dirty, it would get torn, and it 
really bothered him whenever the tent started looking raggedy. And I 
always thought it was a little bit ironic that his monument was the tent 
because that was kind of his… 
 
Well, but it’s a perfect shaped tent that doesn’t erode and doesn’t… 
(Laughs) 
 
Well, okay, okay. He actually was so much in love with the animals. He 
had asthma and… 
 
He was allergic to animals. 
 
…and dealt with them anyway despite—he would have terrible episodes 
of asthma after an act or whatever, but he would do it anyway because 
he loved handling, he loved the training of the animals. I’ve got some 
great photos of him with a bear and with the—we had a lion in our 
kitchen in Marshall, Texas for a while. (Laughs) And the lion would roar 
at night and really upset the neighbors. He obviously didn’t care so I 
think that the history and legacy is really his—it’s our legacy, but he 
started it, and he had a dream, and he made it come true. 
 
Is there anything else you’d like to add before we close out today? I 
know we only scratched the surface. 
 
Yes, I mean there are lots and lots of stories. There are a lot of characters 
that are larger-than-life characters. A lot of experiences we’ve had and 
what I’ve—if we do the book, it will probably be—the only way that I 
can start on it is by taking a photograph and just write everything I know 
about that photograph. That’s the only thing I can do about it so I 
thought if all three of us did that, that at some point we could pull it 
together into something.  
 
Well, we really appreciate you taking your time out to talk with us and 
help us fill in the gaps. 
 
Sure, was it what you wanted? 
 
Oh, absolutely. Thank you so much. 
 
------- End of interview -------