Fieldnotes 
 
Project: AFC Archie Green Fellowship Project/VFC2014-0005 
Accession Number: AU2015-1008 
Interviewee: Jack and Anne Lazor 
Interviewer: Andy Kolovos 
Interview Date: March 19, 2015 
Interview Location: Butterworks Farm, Westfield, VT 
 
This is another interview in a series aimed at exploring the network of growers and 
producers who supply Fletcher Allen Hosptial/University of Vermont Medical 
Center. 
 
From the Boyden Farm in Cambridge I drove north to Butterworks Farm in 
Westfield to interview the Lazors about the history, scope and current status of their 
operation. Jack is a legendary figure in VT organic farming—and organic farming in 
general.  He and Anne were extremely generous with their time.  Jack has prostate 
cancer and a result of it having gone untreated for a long period is that his kidneys 
have failed.  Since he still has cancer he is not a candidate for a transplant and as a 
result he must undergo dialysis several times a week.  I was aware of this ahead of 
time and we scheduled my visit so that his dialysis would already be done by the 
time I arrived, but that ended up not working out. The machine noise heard in the 
background during the interview is their home dialysis equipment running. 
 
When I arrived they were just in the process of getting ready to get Jack hooked up 
to the machine.  Not long after I started to settle in their granddaughter came down 
the hill for a visit as well.  I waited perhaps around an hour for the long and 
complicated dialysis hook up process to begin—and let me tell you it is complicated.  
Anne was remarkable in how she addressed her side of the task—I can only imagine 
the strain it might place on them and their relationship. As they went through the 
motions of setting up the machine and connecting Jack to it we talked casually about 
a range of things. Once he was hooked up and settled in we began the formal 
interview.  I came prepared to conduct it in stereo so I recorded in stereo but left the 
right channel disconnected until Anne was ready to join the conversation.  The 
interview begins with just me and Jack, with Anne and his granddaughter in the 
background preparing lunch.  Once that was done—and their granddaughter headed 
back home—Anne sat down and joined the conversation.  I was with them for 
around four hours total. I was blown away by the time they gave me. 
 
Jack provided an overview of the history of the operation and their goals regarding 
it. His interest in the grain side of the farm was apparent from the beginning, as was 
his frustration/regret that the next generation doesn’t seem interested in continuing 
it.  Generational transfer of the farm was a large part of our discussion—how to do it 
in an organized way, frustrations, difficulty letting go, etc.  After the two-plus hour 
interview session they took even more time to show me around the farm—from the 
granary, the grain elevators and grain processing to the yogurt making and 
packaging area to the milking stalls and their packed straw winter hoop house 
pasture.  They are warm and wonderful people. I left feeling a bit sad in regard to 
the succession issues and my sense that they (or at least Jack) was struggling with 
letting go and with his continued relevance to the farm. These are hard things.