afc2020009_009—Horace McKee interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
1 
 
Horace McKee, Ceramic and Crystal Restoration 
[interview set up, audio correction] 
 
Katy Clune  00:49 
So it is February 9, 2021. We're sitting outside of Replacements Limited. And this is Katy Clune with 
Julia Gartrell and Horace McKee. And we start with a very basic question and then kind of meander 
throughout the interview. But Horace, if you could introduce yourself by just telling us what you do for 
a living? 
 
Horace McKee  01:17 
I restore china and crystal. I do a little bit of help with—occasionally—with collectibles when they need 
extra sculpting on collectibles. And that's at the heart of it. I also do research and development on firing 
china, and which we refire to restore china as well. And that can,—some things are very easy. Some 
things are a little more complicated. 
 
KC  02:02 
Putting it simply, right? 
 
HM  02:03 
Yes. 
 
KC  02:06 
And you said, you grew up in Long Island? Where did you grow up? 
 
HM  02:11 
No, I lived in Enka Village in western North Carolina, just west of Asheville, until I was about 10. And 
around my 10th birthday, Dad was transferred to the New York office. And I lived in Baldwin, Long 
Island, for about three and a half years. And then we moved back to Greensboro. We moved back to 
New York. [laughs] 
 
afc2020009_009—Horace McKee interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
2 
HM  02:45 
We moved back to Asheville, so— 
 
KC  02:51 
What was your father's career? 
 
HM  02:54 
He was originally in technical services. Dad was born in 1915. Married during the Depression, and was 
had to stop working when he was in the eighth grade—or stop school—in the eighth grade to work, to 
help support family. His father was 52 when he was born. So he—you know, missed out on that kind of 
education. 
 
HM  03:36 
He was bright and he went up to Enka [rayon manufacturer, Enka Village was the employee housing]. 
And they gave him an IQ test. And they hired him to move up there from South Carolina ______ 
Carolina. And he got his GED about the time I was born. So. 
 
KC  04:09 
What does "technical services" mean? 
 
HM  04:11 
Well, any kind of problems that, either in house, in running the yarn—it was a yarn manufacturer, they 
were manufacturing rayon. And have you ever smelled a paper mill?  
 
Julia Gartrell  04:34 
Stinky. Yeah, in Michigan.  
 
HM  04:37 
You have? Yeah, the a rayon extruder—rayon is wood. Its wood pulp. So it smells the same. I didn't 
know it until I moved away and came back. [laughs] Anyway. 
 
afc2020009_009—Horace McKee interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
3 
KC  04:54 
Tell us a little bit about your path. I mean, I started at the very beginning—most things start at the very 
beginning in terms of your interests—but just tell us a little bit about your path into this field. 
 
HM  05:18 
I'm going to make it as quickly as possible. But I'll start with crawling out of my crib and sliding down 
the bars, and taking all the knobs off of the furniture and taking the outlet plates off and—before I could 
walk, so I was always busy. One point I took my watch apart, the unfortunate thing was, I couldn't get it 
back together. So. 
 
HM  05:48 
But art was not a possibility. [crosstalk] I beg your pardon? 
 
KC  05:53 
How old were you when you took your watch apart? 
 
HM  05:56 
I don't know, six or seven? [laughter] I wanted to see how it worked. [laughs] But anyway, I did a—
Mother asked me to wrap a present for my father to give to his secretary for Christmas. And back then 
you had to make your own bows, you didn't have pre-made bows. Yeah, this was just almost before the 
beginning of time. And so I did this beautiful job of wrapping it and father said, "I can't give her that, 
that's too fancy!" [laughs] So you can see that there was a little bit of sternness in the atmosphere toward 
anything that was creative. 
 
JG  06:51 
You didn't feel like being an artist was a possibility? 
 
HM  06:54 
Oh, no, absolutely not. They would not have supported it. But two things happened. When I was a 
freshman at Chapel Hill, I had non-paralytic polio, or coxsackievirus. And it really—I figured, "Okay, I 
afc2020009_009—Horace McKee interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
4 
gotta get serious about school." You know. So something else told me that, no, you're not gonna get too 
serious about it. [laughs] 
 
HM  07:22 
And it really didn't, I was in the hospital for almost two weeks, and could barely walk to the class after 
that, and didn't really feel well during the spring semester and didn't do well either.  
 
KC  07:37 
Was that your first year? 
 
HM  07:39 
It was my first year. And in the fall of my second year, my sophomore year, I had been out playing 
tennis with my roommate, and he came in, he was going out on a date, and I lay down, take a nap, and 
woke up and I couldn't move.  
 
HM  08:01 
And I didn't feel like I was breathing. And I struggled to move and then suddenly jumped and moved. 
Well, let's start—I didn't associate it with the coxsackievirus but I understand it is associated with it. 
Because there was a year's time difference.  
 
HM  08:24 
So the following spring, I was at home in Greensboro and gotten up eating breakfast and lay down to 
read and fell asleep. And I woke up again paralyzed and struggled to move. And suddenly I was 
standing in the middle of the room. There was only one problem. My body who was lying back behind 
the bed.  
 
HM  08:58 
And I thought. "I'm too young to die." And I walked over and shut and locked the door. Unlike in the 
movie "Ghost," I didn't have any problem [laughs] shutting and locking the door. 
 
HM  09:13 
afc2020009_009—Horace McKee interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
5 
Laid back down in my body and got it moving. Of course, it was both a frightening experience. And one 
that says to me, "Hey, there's some things people have not been telling me." I haven't learned this 
growing up in school, you know, I'm not going to walk up to say, "Dr. So-and-so, I will tell you about 
my out-of-body experience if you tell me about yours?" 
 
HM  09:45 
Though it's not an unprecedented occurrence. It's not a common one. So that altered my perspective on 
things a great deal.  
 
KC  09:58 
How old were you then? 
 
HM  10:00 
Excuse me? [crosstalk] I started school when I was five, started kindergarten when I was three and a 
half. The company had a kindergarten [chuckles]. So I guess I was [pause] 18 or 19. But I really didn't 
have anybody much to talk to about that sort of thing. But it really did alter the way I looked at things. 
 
HM  10:39 
And I had originally gone to school to probably be a mathematician or a chemist, something of that sort. 
That was what I was best at, I was the only one in the family that wasn't an avid reader. But there was 
that. And then the second thing, I took a drawing class, and I knew I had skill with my hands.  
 
HM  11:13 
My senior year at [UNC] Chapel Hill. And this was, of course, in 1965. This was in the middle of the 
Vietnam War. And I had not been an ardent enough student to just go to graduate school ____. But as 
long as—I still had a college deferment—so I decided to go to school and study art. And I thought, 
"Well, if I go to school to study art, my parents are gonna kill me. [laughter] And if I go to Vietnam, I'm 
gonna get killed." So I decided I would take a chance on my parents.  
 
HM  12:19 
afc2020009_009—Horace McKee interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
6 
So I got into East Carolina and sculpture seemed so very easy for me. So I started doing sculpture and 
did a piece of sculpture that was accepted—this was in my first year down there , in the spring—that 
was accepted at a show of southeastern artists at the Met Museum.  
 
HM  12:48 
Well, none of the teachers, or no student or teacher from East Carolina had ever had anything accepted. 
So I was feeling pretty good at that point. So anyway, then I was they put me very quickly in the 
graduate program. And I really did not like the sculpture teacher for the graduate program at that time at 
East Carolina. So I decided that I was going to go to Columbia.  
 
HM  13:28 
Well, I lived next door to the chancellor, or the person who was becoming chancellor, at UNCG. And I 
had dated his daughter before. But anyway he said, "Why go to Columbia? We're bringing Columbia 
here." 
 
HM  13:52 
So I went over and met Peter Agostini, who was the draw from Columbia. And he had three of his 
graduate students. And they kind of, walking together look like the mafia, you know?  
 
HM  14:12 
But they were ___[name unclear]__, you can Google him, you'll have no problem, he's a New York's 
studio arts. Jonathan Silver, and he was a sculptor, he died of cancer in 1992. And ____[name 
unclear]__, you can find him. He had a family to support, he went into design, and was successful, very 
prominent, in textile design. Of course textiles have pretty much gone away.  
 
HM  14:35 
[14:55] But anyway, so I was there, studying. The focus there was on Renaissance-type drawing. 
 
KC  15:10 
This is for your art MFA? 
 
afc2020009_009—Horace McKee interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
7 
HM  15:15 
I was studying for an MFA. Correct.  
 
HM  15:17 
[15:18] And so we would have we, the four of us—the followers from Colombia and myself, shared a 
studio but we would also have a drawing class at night. And we would spend two hours on one drawing 
about yay tall, with a number two pencil, fine line drawing, not shaded, but just with the lines.  
 
HM  15:53 
[15:44] And then I conducted his sculpture class, he would come down and be there three days a week. 
So we had a sculpture class, and we would sculpt small clay figures, about two hours, I think. And the 
focus there was not on the detail. But getting everything in the right proportion. 
 
HM  16:32 
[16:31] Everything, the links to the legs, the relationship to the knee, to the nose, to the shoulders, and so 
forth. So that was the focus at that point in time. I didn't realize, that was my failure, that the reason he 
hired me to be his graduate assistant, is that he wanted me to do his show for him. [lauhgs] 
 
HM  17:09 
But by the time it came time to do the show, we had a falling out. Anyway, I didn't end up getting a 
degree. So but in the long run, it matters not at all, because I didn't want to teach. So. . . and that would 
really be the only reason for having the degree.  
 
HM  17:39 
But anyway, I was avidly opposed to participating in the Vietnam War. And I didn't, I didn't even feel, I 
couldn't plead conscientious objection without, because I knew there were times that you  had to fight 
back. But, and also, if I did that, I would have to go over and be drafted as medical personnel, so.  
 
HM  18:22 
afc2020009_009—Horace McKee interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
8 
So then, something—another unusual thing happened. My mother went down to see a fellow being 
studied by the Rhine foundation at Duke [referring to the Rhine Research Center or the Parapsychology 
Laboratory, its predecessor, at Duke].  
 
HM  18:34 
Are you familiar? Is it still operating? They were they were. They were studying psychic phenomena.  
 
JG  18:44 
Parapsychology. 
 
HM  18:45 
Yes. And she had seen, which was surprising for my mother, even to acknowledge anything. She went at 
the instigation of my older sister. But— 
 
HM  19:04 
She had said, I" know this is not true." But he said such-and-such-and-such about me and I knew it was 
true. So I said, I think I'll go ________. And anyway, he started to do past life regression [?], and I didn't 
ask him to do this.  
 
HM  19:32 
But he said in your last lifetime, you were a battlefield surgeon in World War I.  
 
KC   
What did you make of that? 
 
HM   
I said, "okay," and I just sat and listened. I mean I was not unfamiliar 
20:02 
with the idea of multiple lifetimes. I had learned a lot of different things along the way since I popped up 
out of my body. But and then he said in the lifetime before that you were a history teacher in France.  
 
afc2020009_009—Horace McKee interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
9 
HM  20:24 
And before that you were a violinist in Germany. And he said, then you were a poet in Italy. And before 
that you were a painter in Italy.  
 
HM  20:41 
Well, I had heard about the painter in Italy, but I thought he was consolidating a lifetime. Because of I 
had been told I was both a poet—I was a painter, who was a poet in Italy. Anyway, so I told you I was 
gonna tell you some strange things. 
 
KC  21:00 
So two different people told you, in your life, that you were previously a painter-slash-poet, from Italy?  
 
HM  21:07 
Yeah.  
 
KC  21:08 
Wow. 
 
HM  21:09 
And I've had more than one person tell me that I was a battlefield surgeon in World War One too. And 
this, you know, without any instigation from me.  
 
HM  21:25 
So you know, life is strange, and then you pretend to die. So anyway, you know, I was on on two 
different paths. One which involved spirituality—as opposed to religion—spirituality. And the other, to 
do with the arts. 
 
HM  22:01 
When we were in New York, my father had the president of the company—I guess they were coming 
out on the Long Island Railroad, and they probably had left together, came [?] out for a drink, the 
afc2020009_009—Horace McKee interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
10 
president of the company lived a little further out on the island. And he said, "Young Frank, what do you 
want to be when you grow up??" I was in the 11th grade at the time.  
 
HM  22:40 
I said, "I want to be a retired businessman."  
 
KC  22:45 
Me too!  
 
HM  22:48 
Well here I am, 77 and still working, I've really been a failure! And then I thought, now wait a minute. I 
only really worked 15 years in business as a management-type person.  
 
HM  23:13 
The businesses went away, disappeared, like the textile industry. And I worked selling fertilizer in 
western North Carolina. And US Steel bought Marathon Oil Company, and I was working for the 
agricultural chemical division of US Steel. 
 
HM  23:41 
And it was when interest rates were 20%. So US Steel took all the money they had and bought Marathon 
Oil. 
 
HM  23:58 
Well, that meant we had no money to operate on because we had to make fertilizer year around. So that 
business went under. So after that, my mother in law's house burned down.  
 
HM  24:18 
Well I had been remodeling this old log house, 150-year old log house, and we've lived in close 
proximity. So I built her a house. I built everything from the foundation up with my own hands. 
 
KC  24:45 
afc2020009_009—Horace McKee interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
11 
Did you have to teach yourself? Was that part of the 'back to the land' mentality? 
 
HM  24:51 
Well, not like you see on these YouTube things [laughs]. Though I did have cattle. You know I did 
enjoy having cattle, but . . . Then we decided to put on an addition—[KC's cell phone rings, she excuses 
the interruption]—addition on the log house. And it ended up being three stories. And I was beginning 
to get fairly good at building by the end.  
 
HM  25:36 
So anyhow, I ran out of money. So I had to get a job. So I knew someone here in restoration at 
Replacements. And I came here 23 years ago and have been here ever since. Now, they showed me how 
they wanted to do a repair, me to do repair. And I did the repairs that way for a little bit. And they also 
told me, I would spend two weeks and restoration then I would be six months throughout the company. 
So one day, I said, "Okay, I'm going to do this for repair the way I think it should be done. So I did this 
repair, shaped things and blended things in.  
 
HM  26:42 
Because if you're carving wood—which is what I was doing before—and you're coming to a smooth 
surface, you always have to come down below that lowest point and blend everything in.  
 
HM  26:57 
So it was really, from carving wood that I understood how to take a chip out of a piece of china. So I 
handed it to the person who was the manager at the time, and he had been at Lenox. And he looked at it, 
and he rubbed it. And he said, "What a repair!"  
 
HM  27:23 
So I never left the department. I didn't get that six months [laughs] tour of duty. But at that time we we 
had, as I said, we were only buying old, used china. So we had a greater need for that kind of skill at that 
time.  
 
HM  27:45 
afc2020009_009—Horace McKee interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
12 
But I've since branched out. People have never been able to fire bone china, and I can't give you any 
details about how we do it, but I kept thinking about it, thinking about it, thinking about it. And then I 
had this kind of imagination of what was the process? After all, they fired it to begin with, why couldn't 
we fire it again? 
 
HM  28:20 
But the reason they can't fire it is because it has all these carbon spots . . when you refire it. So, you 
know, it was obvious to me. I saw it like a bucket brigade. 
 
HM  28:39 
Most of the feet [?] are open and this piece of this carbon, this calcium, that had carbon before—we 
were carbon bodies, so it's calcium carbonate, driven off—wanted one, needed one, wouldn't, I needed a 
carbon, you know? [laughs] I'm short of carbon!    
 
HM  28:55 
So it takes one problem from the from the air because the air is filled with carbon. And then the one next 
to him says, "I need that. He passed it on. Up into the china. Over a long period of time. But anyway, I 
developed a process to which we can—be fairly successful, generally—fire the bone china. 
 
HM  29:37 
And I'm working on a process right now where we can fire things with surface decals. Now, china you 
can have china where the decal has been applied and they glaze over the top of it. And usually we can 
find a way to fire those, not always. But if it has a surface decal, to get it hot enough to take the 
scratches out of the glaze, you end up burning the decal off. So I'm working on a process now for doing 
that. 
 
JG  30:25 
How do you practice those things, if someone brings in a one-of-a-kind piece that you're trying to repair 
the decal or repair scratch above the decal? 
 
HM  30:38 
afc2020009_009—Horace McKee interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
13 
Well, there are few one-of-a-kind pieces [laughter] in china, because they are generally mass produced. 
 
JG  30:48 
One thousand of a kind? 
 
HM  30:52 
Well, you don't do them all at once. [laughter] But we have parameters that you workaround. You know, 
you compare it, we got the log of everything we've done, and say everything we've done from that 
manufacturer. And so you make comparisons, first of all, see what is the likely possibility. 
 
JG  31:27 
It's very technical—that you have this long historical record that you can compare things against? 
 
HM  31:40 
Bob [Page] was an accountant. And he believes in keeping up with everything.  
 
KC  31:48 
The founder, the owner? 
 
HM  31:50 
Yes, yeah. So we're the older people. He and I are close to the same age, I'm a little bit older. But 
anyway, he—I think one of the aspects of success of the company is Bob's insistence on record keeping. 
 
HM  32:20 
We have a huge computer building that's separate from this building for the main computer frame. So 
we collect a lot of data.  
 
JG  32:39 
A brief interruption—do you want to move back into the sun, are you getting a little chilly? 
 
HM  32:47 
afc2020009_009—Horace McKee interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
14 
I'm relaxing, so that my legs don't shake. I'm okay. [Are you sure? ] Yeah, I'm alright.  
 
JG  32:54 
I wonder what your, so you said in undergrad you were considering studying chemistry. So this sounds 
like a process that involves a lot of chemistry. 
 
HM  33:16 
Well, I really only had two semesters of chemistry, I didn't really get that deeply into now my brother in 
law had his doctorate in organic chemistry with both postdoctoral work at Cambridge. So what that was, 
 
JG  33:34 
Bu the glaze chemistry, you've learned more on the job? 
 
HM  33:38 
 I beg your  
 
JG  33:39 
You learn the glaze chemistry as you go? 
 
HM  33:43 
I know a little bit about it. One of the vice presidents said, "Well, you know, that we talk to 
manufacturers, and they say 'We can't refire the china.' But you can refire, does this mean you know 
more about the glaze and china than they do?" 
 
HM  34:12 
I said, "No, they know a lot more than I do. I just know something that they don't know." So but this is 
not exclusively me. This is building upon years and years of experimentation. I'm just continuing along 
with that.  
 
KC  34:35 
afc2020009_009—Horace McKee interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
15 
How would you describe your skill sets? Because I can, I follow you through up through building, and 
working with wood, and sort of knowing the physicality of surfaces to have a knack for repair, but 
then—maybe take us along that journey of being here for 20 Three years and really becoming a 
specialist. 
 
HM  35:06 
Well, I've got to go back to East Carolina when I took out the book on transcendental meditation. 
 
HM  35:18 
So that allows you to—I guess one of the things people say now is to "be in the now."  And to be aware 
[clears throat], to be very focused on what you're doing at that moment.  
 
HM  35:51 
This was very difficult for me to think about this interview. Because I don't think about what happened 
before. I was trying to reconstruct my life a little bit, I think about what I'm doing right now and what I 
have to do in the immediate future. So it's a very different kind of focus.  
 
HM  36:30 
But well, for years, basically, I just repaired china. But I had a supervisor, who would,  really did not 
allow me to do anything but repair china. She knew I could do things besides repair china. But then, you 
know, you you, you get kind of pigeon holed.  
 
HM  37:05 
So Pat came in, when the other supervisor left. And she had, some bone china had come in. And they 
had asked if we could fire it. And she said, "Oh, it's bone." And I said, "I've got some ideas about firing 
bone." So that just opened up a whole new area. [background conversation] 
 
JG  37:45 
So what's a day in the life for you, do you have a stack of endless broken china? 
 
HM  37:54 
afc2020009_009—Horace McKee interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
16 
Well, I used to, I used to, but they've tried to kind of narrow down that. At the moment, we have been so 
busy, and we've spread out that it might be washing dishes. You know, doing some some very simple 
task. But starting this week, I'm supposed to get back on the decal china. We've gotten a new kiln in.  
 
JG  38:33 
During the pandemic the roles have shifted, just because people have to work further apart. And 
 
HM  38:42 
Yeah, we don't have enough people to go around. And we don't —we have I think, still about 50 temps 
working, which is—and in February, things usually drop off drastically. And, but we're still having 
strong sales. But it's just a matter of, we've had to take people out of our department and put them 
elsewhere. So it's been limiting, I haven't hadn't gotten to do the fun things that I like to do as much 
lately. But things change. They've always changed.  
 
HM  39:32 
One thing I want to say about Replacements. It is the best place I've ever worked. You know I worked 
for a division of Burlington Industries, I worked for a division of US Steel. I worked for NC&D [?] 
which became Bank of America. And there you have, you can vary about an inch center, you know. 
 
HM  40:03 
At Replacements, you can go about a foot from center. And I'm out here about three feet off center, 
[laughs],  but I still got along okay. 
 
JG  40:16 
Your lifestyle, or your outlook or what you are doing at work? Is the culture very accepting, or?  
 
HM  40:24 
The culture is very accepting. You know I have a lot of weird ideas outside of the realm of the work I 
do.  
 
JG  40:45 
afc2020009_009—Horace McKee interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
17 
Nobody is too phased? 
 
HM  40:48 
It's not an issue. You know, you think about going, being in college, you know, it's this mental focus or 
this mental focus. And you know, and you're this, I'm that other, but it's still all mental.  
 
HM  41:16 
But life is not all mental. There's an energy—everything's energy. And you don't know—I did 
meditation, a guided meditation, one time, that took me out to the area of creativity. And it was total 
chaos. But physicists, theoretical physicists, will tell you that chaos is a higher form of order. And they 
can put in all these random numbers, they always come out, eventually to a perfect circle. So— 
 
KC  42:14 
How would you connect your professional practice with your spirituality? 
 
HM  42:26 
Einstein said, "Imagination is more important than information." And you have to imagine, if it's a 
repair, that you can do this repair and how to do it. If it has to do with firing china, you have to imagine 
what's going on. You have to—I can't stick my head in the kill and see what's going on, you know? 
[laughs] I have to imagine what is going on. And how to possibly—First of all, I need to know what is 
going on. Then I have to imagine what can be done to resolve the issue. 
 
KC  43:18 
What do you find most enjoyable about the work you do here? What gives you that satisfaction? 
 
HM  43:27 
The people. I really enjoyed the people. You know, yes, there's all kinds of different work that I've done. 
But there is such a variety of people at Replacements. I don't know if you know anything about Bob are 
in the background a little bit. You know, they adopted Vietnamese twins, and he brings in people from 
all cultures, old colors, all ethnicities, so. . .  
 
afc2020009_009—Horace McKee interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
18 
KC  44:15 
Its not the first time that I've heard this is a really special place to work. 
 
HM  44:18 
It is. It is. It satisfies me both in the use of my skill sets and spiritually. If you go out to Caswell County 
[rural county northeast of Replacements and Greensboro, NC], in a sense, it's like Moses going out to 
the desert. [laughs] But here, you know there's a real cultural richness. 
 
KC  45:02 
How has the company changed in the two decades that you've been here? 
 
HM  45:18 
It's gotten better. It's become less narrow. It's become culturally richer— 
 
KC  45:39 
Because of the people? 
 
HM  45:41 
Because of the people. And all starts with Bob. 
 
KC  45:49 
What do you think—well, I'll ask another question first. Something we've encountered in interviewing 
repair professionals? Are you chilly? 
 
HM  46:05 
Yes, I am. [laughs] 
 
KC  46:06 
Do you want to move into the sun? Its really alright, everything is mobile.  
 
[46:13-48:10, interview set up moved, resettling]  
afc2020009_009—Horace McKee interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
19 
 
KC  48:10 
So I'm just gonna start with a small one. Have you had the opportunity to train people?  
 
HM  48:24 
Oh, yes. In fact, when I first started doing repairs, they were sending people back, trying to find 
somebody I could train. I had altered so much, the way they were doing things. And the first person that 
came back that really had some natural talent is the other person you're going to interview from our 
department, which is Grace Aiken, from Ghana. And I wasn't gonna let go of her.  
 
KC  49:03 
Is she kind of like your apprentice? 
 
HM  49:09 
She was at one point. I spent three months looking at everything she did. And critiquing and working 
with her on everything. [sounds of mic readjustments] (Before I would cut her loose to work on our 
own.) But she's branched out. She's got a lot of natural talent. And whereas they may have pushed me in 
one direction, she's spread out and she works a little bit in silver. Does color, which I don't do, you know 
there's only so much time. You can't do everything. 
 
JG  50:02 
How do you describe the scope of the types of repairs that happen? It sounds like there's a huge breadth. 
And everyone kind of has a specialty. 
 
HM  50:13 
Well, you know, there's the repair of taking it, removing a chip. Some things can be polished. China is 
harder than most stone. It is denser and will polish better than most stone—a good firm china, I'm not 
talking about everything. So you can go that approach if you're not, if it doesn't involve color, and just 
remove a small chip, taper everything in, and then shape everything, and then go through stages of 
polishing to final polish and it looks looks glazed. 
 
afc2020009_009—Horace McKee interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
20 
HM  51:12 
You can—Well, there are collectibles. And collectibles, which I help with occasionally, just with the 
sculpting, if there's some extensive sculpting that needs to be done on it.  
JG  51:30 
Figurines? 
HM  51:31 
Yeah, yeah. But there's another person who works exclusively in that. Then there's rebuilding. Then and, 
you know, the same person who does the figurines, is the main person to do the rebuilding. And that's a 
different firing process.  
HM  52:23 
Yeah, I'll say this for your information. [redacted at request of interviewee]. 
JG  53:14 
So then there are other departments that deal with silversmithing—? 
HM  53:18 
Yes, we have, yes. 
JG  53:20 
Can you repair crystal? Crystal stuff? 
HM  53:25 
We lost our crystal personnel of  29 years and they immediately—I had been out for a few days. They 
brought me in and put me right on the difficult crystal that he would have been doing.  
afc2020009_009—Horace McKee interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
21 
JG  53:44 
And you were up for it? 
 
HM  53:46 
Well, it's fun. [laughs] 
 
KC  53:51 
[Inaudible] the question I'm working around, which is this tension between you know, this is a specialty 
area, specialty field. You have trade secrets.  
 
HM  54:04 
Yeah.  
 
KC  54:05 
That you can't share publicly—but then, like, are there young people coming into the company to inherit 
this knowledge? Or how do you see, the sort of—? 
 
HM  54:19 
No. And that's what concerns me. There are a lot of people who can use their thumbs really well. 
[indicates using a smartphone, laughter]` 
 
HM  54:30 
But people don't work with their hands anymore. And people don't want to work with their hands 
anymore. You know, you can bring people in to unbox and that sort of thing and—but to do 
sophisticated repair work. We have not added a long-term person to the department in 20 years.  
 
KC  55:00 
Well you're starting to make me think that we need to interview everyone, and have a Replacements Ltd 
oral history collection.  
 
KC  55:01 
afc2020009_009—Horace McKee interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
22 
Well, you can. [laughter] That that may be a good idea. 
 
KC  55:13 
It might be internal only.  
 
JG  55:16 
I'm thinking I might apply for a job, too. Sounds pretty fun. to apply for a job. I'm good with my hands 
[laughter] 
 
HM  55:22 
Yeah. Hey, there we go! [JG, inaudible] Sure.  
 
JG  55:27 
Well, that's interesting, though, that even in a company that's so established, and so, you know, at the 
leading edge of this type of repair, it sounds like, that there's no— 
 
KC  55:38 
Yeah you're business is international, you say, right? 
 
HM  55:41 
Yeah, yeah. 
 
JG  55:44 
Are there other places that you can get this type of repair done, to your china, or—I mean, there's 
silversmiths, but I haven't of china repair— 
 
HM  55:52 
No, no, the thing of it is, and this is one thing that, you know, I don't know that the company fully 
appreciates. And, you know, a silversmith has a job that you can learn. 
 
HM  56:11 
afc2020009_009—Horace McKee interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
23 
We've had to basically, we—and this is people before me, beginning with people before me—create this 
department. You know, this is an invention of Replacements, basically. 
 
JG  56:26 
Wow. And the equipment is so specialized. I mean, you can't just have a kiln and a whole bunch of 
glazes, you really have to fully invest in order to be able to do the whole spectrum of repair. 
 
HM  56:41 
Right. It's—and years and years of dedicated work. 
 
KC  56:49 
And research and development.  
 
HM  56:50 
Yeah, really.  
 
KC  56:56 
How about this one? 
 
HM  56:57 
Okay. 
 
KC  56:59 
Do you, have you often, is there a connection between your ability to work with your hands, and focus, 
and your propensity towards meditation—training? 
 
HM  57:20 
I think it helps. And I think I had natural skills. But it, it helps you to focus. I feel that most times, I'm in 
a semi-meditative state anyway, at this point. I couldn't say that I remember the first time I meditated 
now, [sighs], how relaxed and wonderful it felt.  
 
afc2020009_009—Horace McKee interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
24 
HM  57:59 
And I was at East Carolina, and I went to town, and I saw some people I knew. And boy, that was gone 
in a hurry. [laughter] 
 
HM  58:12 
But, you know, it's pretty much there most of the time now. And I've tried to meditate at work once a 
day. And when I go to bed at night, you know, I meditat. The person. . . I married the girl who was the 
model at UNCG, for the for the sculpture classes and the drawing classes. And she had some psychic 
ability. I mean, we'd be driving down the highway and I'd be speeding and she'd say, slow down, there's 
a policeman over the hill. And 100% of the time, there'll be a policeman over there.  
 
KC  59:06 
My boyfriend wishes I had that power. [laughter] 
 
HM  59:11 
I bet he does! But the thing of it is—and then she was the what we first identify, you know, past 
lifetimes. But I realize now that her psychic ability was a mile wide and an inch deep. 
 
HM  59:43 
She didn't have an in-depth understanding. And that's because I've been exposed to more people with 
with a greater knowledge. The person I'm living with now. For instance, in the [US presidential] 
primaries in 2016.  
 
HM  1:00:10 
She was at a conference and telling a Republican, this was early in the primaries, that Trump was going 
to be President. When nobody believed he would be President. And I didn't even realize she was 
indicating, he really was going to be President! I just thought she was jerking him around. You know, 
he'd win the primary and all that. But she has a great deal more in-depth understanding. And I've met a 
few people—in fact, I went to a spiritual place up in the mountains, Terra Nova?, and had a reading with 
this woman.  
 
afc2020009_009—Horace McKee interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
25 
HM  1:01:03 
She said, "I know you. We were Druids together in England." And, anyway, she said, "You know, when 
the Romans came in, they nailed you to a tree. She said you didn't, you know, divulge any information, 
you didn't turn anybody in. And I talked a little bit about the reading to some of the other people who 
were up there. And I realized that person who was my wife at the time was the one who had turned me 
over to the Romans. And I said something about it, in the, you know, kind of group area. And everyone 
in there said, "You're just now figuring that out?" So, [laughs], I've been around some odd people. 
 
KC  1:02:16 
I think it reflects on your openness.  
 
HM  1:02:22 
Yeah. Well. We're not in this world alone. I can't really take credit for knowing this or knowing that or 
knowing how to do this, or learning how to do that. Because you don't—And I've said this to Bob—I 
said, "You don't, you don't build a business like this without help from the other side." And I don't figure 
out something about the bone china without help from the other side. So the world is a whole lot more 
crowded than it seems. [laughter] 
 
KC  1:03:14 
Let's talk a little bit more about, sort of, that issue of the next generation of specialists to follow behind 
you. Do you have anything sort of more to reflect on that subject? 
 
HM  1:03:32 
I really don't know what to do about it because, um, the idea is that to a certain extent, they've been 
trying to shrink the department because we're buying more new things. And we have yet to find 
anyone—we've had a few people, new people come in, but nobody has has any real strong interest.  
 
HM  1:04:03 
As I said, I think it's going to be a little like the Renaissance. Its like when Raphael died, there was this 
complaint that, that his assistants did too much of his work. And so they had his assistant do the next 
mural [inaudible]. And it was a god awful mess.  
afc2020009_009—Horace McKee interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
26 
 
HM  1:04:27 
So, you know, I have that concern to a certain extent. And I think it's, to a certain extent, it may just be a 
cycle of life. So, you know, you things come together, and then they dissolve. So I don't know what 
we're gonna do about it. If we do anything about it, because we're not that much of a focal point 
anymore, in the overall scheme of— 
 
KC  1:05:11 
But china will always be broken. 
 
HM  1:05:13 
Yes, it will. 
 
KC  1:05:16 
And there always be people willing to pay for it to be fixed. 
 
HM  1:05:20 
Yeah, I understand? Well, yesterday was my birthday, today is my 23rd anniversary. So the President 
came by to wish me a happy birthday. And I said, "Well, you might as well go ahead and, and wish me a 
happy anniversary too so you don't have to come by tomorrow." And I said that, "You know, I've been 
here 23 years. And I think I've got about 23 more left. And after that, I'm hoping that I will be able to 
figure out what I want to be if I grow up." 
 
KC  1:06:07 
What would you say to young people who might not have thought of the benefit of working with your 
hands? 
 
HM  1:06:31 
If you have a good set of hands. And not everyone does. Use them. It can be very satisfying. [pause] 
Working with your hands, opens your mind. There's a strong connection between your hands and your 
mind. 
afc2020009_009—Horace McKee interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
27 
 
HM  1:07:13 
And it's not something that is demeaning. It's not something that's beneath you. And it can be rewarding 
in a multitude of ways. [pause] 
 
HM  1:07:40 
It can expand your understanding. Now, you don't want to mash it like I did the other day when I was 
leaving some concrete blocks. [laughter] 
 
JG  1:07:56 
Working with your hands carefully. [laughter] 
 
HM  1:07:58 
Carefully, right.  
 
JG  1:08:00 
That's a really beautiful message and I have to say it really resonates with someone who uses [crosstalk] 
 
HM  1:08:05 
Yeah, yeah. It does. [stammers] We're the only species that uses our hands to the degree that we do. 
Well, they say that writing longhand stimulates the brain much more than typing. 
 
JG  1:08:31 
I believe that. Yeah. And if you don't do it for a while, you feel it. 
 
HM  1:08:35 
That's right. [crosstalk] We don't, we don't have the script that we used to have. I remember going 
around and having something signed for,, when I was in New York in the seventh grade, that was the 
end of grammar school. And the best signature was the janitor's. Far and away.  
 
KC  1:09:01 
afc2020009_009—Horace McKee interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
28 
The oldest? 
 
HM  1:09:04 
He had a beautiful signature. I don't know. 
 
KC  1:09:11 
What would you say, if you had to summarize it, will be your legacy at Replacements? 
 
HM  1:09:19 
Run that by me one more time, I didn't quite hear that—? 
 
KC  1:09:21 
You might have already kind of said this, in what you said about, you know, bringing refiring bone 
china to the company. But if you could just tell us what you think your legacy here will be—[pause]—
still unfolding. 
 
HM  1:09:46 
Yeah, that's probably correct. I still feel that I'm at the beginning of many things. 
 
HM  1:10:05 
I think the most important thing I've done is open people's minds to other ideas. 
 
HM  1:10:20 
More important than the work itself. But it's the perfect place for it. Because people are more open 
minded in general, that doesn't mean I can talk to everybody. 
 
KC  1:10:33 
I think you're the first person we've interviewed who, well—close to first—who has such a sense of 
community with the repair shop. I mean, this is more than just one pair. But we've interviewed a lot of 
loners. 
 
afc2020009_009—Horace McKee interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
29 
HM  1:10:55 
Yeah, the, Okay/ I'm gonna put this—and I'm not I don't go to church. I'm not a religious person in that 
sense. But I have made this statement many times . I've said, "We're all a part of the same creation. 
Therefore, we're all a part of God." Sometimes it gets difficult to believe. [laughs] 
 
HM  1:11:36 
So anyway, the you know, there is a connection that we all have. And the way, the more egocentric we 
are, the more we isolate ourselves, the less connected we are. We just lessen ourselves. We just saw that 
in the President of the United States [Trump]. Former President of the United States. You know, but 
yeah, I don't think I would be interested in coming in if it weren't for the people. I could find something 
else to do. 
 
KC  1:12:30 
So, are you still building houses and sculpting, and—? 
 
HM  1:12:38 
I've got a lifetime's of work to do. I'm not sculpting, I don't have time for that. In fact, I looked around 
the dining room in High Point—and we're in Susan's house at High Point. And, you know, and there 
were six pieces of sculpture there. Of my sculpture. But I couldn't have told you that, you know, I don't 
really look at it, I don't think about it. 
 
HM  1:13:17 
Right now I'm rebuilding part of the driveway, that's a wet weather stream out in the country. [laughs] 
And the other day, the other night, about two or three o'clock in the morning, Susan broke the handle off 
of the faucet in the kitchen. And I had to call into work. I had to go into the house and turn the water off 
because the valves were leaking. 
 
HM  1:13:52 
And I had to go online, find something locally that I thought was fit to put in. And then I went out that 
day and got the plumbing parts I needed. And I didn't have to go back. I always used to say, now this 
was out in the country, that plumbing is three trips to town. You go to get what you think you need. 
afc2020009_009—Horace McKee interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
30 
Then you have to go back and get the parts you needed that you didn't realize you needed. Then you 
have to go back and get the parts that you broke while you were trying to do the plumbing. [chuckles] 
So I thought this was very successful. I didn't have to go back. And I only flooded the kitchen one time. 
 
JG  1:14:48 
Sounds like you stay nice and busy and you're still doing lots of things with your hands. 
 
HM  1:14:53 
Yeah, that's true.  
 
KC  1:14:56 
Well, we have a question that we ask everybody, and usually it's sort of in their workspace, so it might 
be more abstract, but do you have a favorite tool? 
 
HM  1:15:15 
It all, it depends on the repair. It really depends on the repair. And I'm still learning to do things a bit 
more easily. ways of doing things more easily. 
 
KC  1:15:32 
Do you make your own tools? 
 
HM  1:15:34 
Well, I kind of put together a, Bob kept sending the question down, "How long does it take to drill a 
hole in a plate?" Well, I would have measure to get the center. This is to make a tiered plate. We would 
have a plate missing from a tiered set, then I would drill a pilot hole. And then I would increase the size 
gradually increase the size. About 12 minutes.  
 
HM  1:16:08 
And then I realized that that was not the question. The question was: If we want to make tiered plates, 
how could we do it? And how long would it take? So I immediately looked at some possibilities of 
things to put together and I can't divulge any of this.  
afc2020009_009—Horace McKee interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
31 
 
HM  1:16:42 
I once told somebody, "You can't photograph this machine." But anyway, I put together a machine, it 
was back there, and I mentioned, I thought we could do twelve and hour. And he [Bob Page] said, "Let's 
do it!" 
 
HM  1:17:02 
[Wind sound in mic] So as it turns out, we do about 50 an hour, in drilling holes n the center of plates. 
So, that's the evolution of the process.  
 
KC  1:17:18 
Because of a machine you helped... ? 
 
HM  1:17:20 
Yeah, yeah. [pause] But you know, there was a lot that came before me a lot of things that were brought 
in, so— 
 
JG  1:17:35 
[Crosstalk[ I was just gonna say starting with the druid. [laughter] 
 
HM  1:17:39 
Okay! Starting with the druid [laughter].