Multi-Generational African American Farmers of the Midwest
Anna-Lisa Cox
Library of Congress AFC Archie Green Fellowship
Date of interview: July 22, 2019
Names/s of those interviewed: Jan (Morris) Brinkman, Russell “Rusty” Morris, Marjorie
(Peggy) Lee (Morris) Morecraft, Judith “Judy” Ann (Morris) Gallion
Primary Interviewer: Anna-Lisa Cox (ALC)
Secondary Interviewers: N/A (Note: The photographer, Georgia Cravey, who was born and
raised in Lawrence County, Illinois, sometimes speaks.)
Interview Location: Home of Judy (Morris) Gallion, Lawrence County, IL.
Transcriber: Mabel Scroggins
Abstract: The Morris siblings grew up on their parent’s land near Lawrenceville, in Lawrence
County, Illinois. The first members of the Morris family moved from South Carolina as free
people of color in the late 1790s. They had been propertied and voting in that state, and some
records would seem to indicate that members of the family fought as patriots in the American
Revolution. They left for the Northwest Territorial frontier and the Wabash River Valley after
losing a petition against the state government to reverse a newly enacted racist poll tax law.
Members of the Morris family, including John Morris, were founding members of the Mariah
Creek Baptist Church (founded around 1807), which was anti-slavery. Members of the Morris
family fought in the War of 1812 in the region. (See Annelise Morris 2015) Ph.D. dissertation in
archaeology from the University of California, Berkeley, for further details on the Morris family
in early Illinois.) Jan Brinkman was the first woman of color to serve on the Lawrence County
Farm Board.
1
Index/Log Part 2 of 2
[0:00] Interview continues.
[5:00] Details of Russell’s work history, Peggie describes finding a job as a woman of color.
[10:00] The way people viewed them being from the “country,” details of gaining their land,
description of river-bottom land. Discussion of changes in land price. Details of Jan coming into
some money and deciding to purchase back some of the family’s land.
[15:00] Description of their family’s legacy, Russell describes selling property.
[20:00] Russell describes how land prices changed after the great flood, regaining Lawrence
County land in the Morris family name.
[25:00] Discussion of losing land due to loans, discussion of minority farming, minority farmers
in Lawrence County.
[30:00] There weren’t many differences between white and black farmers, discussion of their
father’s work history.
[35:00] Details of Marva Green’s husband, Russell describes his apprenticeship program,
discussion of the family roots in Lawrence County.
[40:00] Russell describes their relationship with Glenn Morris, discussion of the original Morris
land, the significance of the black pioneers.
[45:00] Details of why the land is important to them, Russell appreciates owning farm land,
Peggie discusses how close Lawrence County is to her heart.
[50:00] The siblings discuss how much they value Lawrence County, details of taxes placed on
incoming farmers.
[55:00:00] Discussion of their ancestors, the family does not move locations often.
2