Multi-Generational African American Farmers of the Midwest 
Anna-Lisa Cox 
Library of Congress AFC Archie Green Fellowship 
  
  
Date of interview: January 15th, 2020 
  
Names/s of those interviewed: Barbara Norman 
  
Primary Interviewer: Anna-Lisa Cox (ALC) 
  
Secondary Interviewers: - 
 
Interview Location: Van Buren United Civic Organization, Covert, Van Buren County 
Michigan.  
  
Transcriber: Mary Kamara-Hagemeyer 
  
Abstract: Barbara James Norman is a 4th-generation blueberry farmer in Covert, Michigan. 
Covert, Michigan is a small village in rural Covert township in southwestern Michigan. Covert 
has an unusual history of racial equality dating back to its founding around the Civil War. 
African Americans have owned land, farmed and been elected to high political office in the 
community since the 1860s (before it was actually legal for them to vote in the state of 
Michigan). Ms. Norman grew up in a completely racially integrated public school system. In 
2003 the USDA gave her the National Small Farmer of the Year Award. She has been a leader in 
the USDA small farmers association, as well as organizing with schools in Detroit and Chicago 
to bring large groups of inner-city children to her farm.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Index/Log (5 Minute Time Stamped) 
  
  
[0:00] Introduction to Ms. Barbara Norman, discussion of how long she’s been farming and how 
many generations she represents.  
 
[4:44] Barbara farmed with her great grandfather and grandfather, she explains why she decided 
to be an organic blueberry farmer, the fruits and vegetables that her family grew and her 
grandfather’s decision to focus on growing blueberries.  
 
[9:44] Who the family bought their first blueberry plants from and how they began propagating. 
Discusses grandfather’s businesses and lineage and talks about how her ancestors supported each 
other and avoided loans from banks and the government.  
 
[14:44] History of farming in Van Buren County and how her family can convert. Discusses the 
strong family values she comes from and the strong system of moral and financial support put in 
place.  Barbara discusses the high level of diversity and lack of racism she and her family 
experienced in Covert.  
 
[19:44] Discusses the value of owning land and the different relationship of African-Americans 
from the Midwest and the South.  Remembers her grandfather’s dedication to farming. Barbara 
discusses her love for the land growing up and her need to be outdoors. Barbara was the National 
Farmer of the Year 2003. Talks about her great-grandfather and uncles hunting and her first job 
skinning animals with her great-grandfather.  
 
[21:39] End of part 1 of this interview – interview continues in part 2 audio