Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 1 of 46 
 
Civil Rights History Project 
Interview completed by the Southern Oral History Program 
under contract to the 
Smithsonian Institution’s National Museum of African American History & Culture 
and the Library of Congress, 2011 
 
 
Interviewee:  
 
Mr. Courtland Cox 
Interview Date: 
 
July 8, 2011 
Location: 
Recording studio, ground floor, Jefferson Building, Library of 
Congress, Washington D.C. 
 
Interviewer: 
 
 
Joseph Mosnier, Ph.D. 
Videographer:  
 
John Bishop 
Length: 
 
 
1:43:40 minutes 
 
Joe Mosnier:  An hour, hour and fifteen – 
Courtland Cox:  Okay. 
John Bishop:  We’re launched. 
JM:  Today is Friday, July 8, 2011.  My name is Joe Mosnier of the Southern Oral 
History Program at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.  I’m with videographer John 
Bishop.  We are in the Jefferson Building of the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C. to do 
an oral history interview for the Civil Rights History Project, which is a joint undertaking of the 
Library of Congress and the Smithsonian’s National Museum of African American History and 
Culture. 
And we’re delighted today to be with Mr. Courtland Cox.  Mr. Cox, thank you so much 
for sharing some of this part of the afternoon with us and thank you for coming over. 
CC:  Well, thank you for inviting me. 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 2 of 46 
 
JM:  Um, And one other quick note, um: We are not recording to, uh, the camera cards 
but to the hard drive.  Okay, um, I thought I would start maybe with just having you sketch a 
little bit of your family history and history as a child, because I knew that some of your time was 
in Trinidad and some here. 
CC:  Right.  Well, I was born in New York, uh, in Harlem, in 1941.  And my mother 
moved me and my sister to the West Indies, to Trinidad, where my grandmother and our family 
were, uh, in 199 – four years later, in 1945.  I stayed in Trinidad from 1945 to 1952.  And then I 
came back to, uh, New York after my grandmother died in ’52 and lived in Harlem for a couple 
of years and then moved to the Bronx. 
Um, I attended, uh, Catholic school, uh, St Helena’s, and, uh, and then, you know, went 
from – well, actually, Catholic St. Aloysius Grammar School, which was actually interesting, 
because it was, uh, all African American nuns, uh, at St. Aloysius, Order of that.  And then, uh, I 
went to St. Helena’s and then went to Howard University.  My mother sent me to Catholic 
school because, you know, at that point it cost ten dollars a month, which was, you know, serious 
money in 1952-54, but also she wanted to make sure that I had the best education that she could 
get, and at that point, you know, she was not too well sold on public schools. 
Um, I grew up in the projects, mostly, in New York.  And, at that time, you could see a 
lot of the issues that we see today in the ’50s.  I mean, you know, a lot of people were doing 
drugs, mainly marijuana and heroin.  And, of all the, uh, people that, uh, I grew up with, my peer 
group, probably only three of us graduated from high school – my sister, myself, and one other.  
Um, and the reason I was not impacted, I think, was because of that time I spent in Trinidad, 
where education was stressed in my family.  So, I can look back and see my cousins and their 
numerous – I mean, the women have PhDs; the men have been, you know, accomplished in 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 3 of 46 
 
education, and it was a strong presence.  I mean, there was no assumption that you would not go 
to college.  It was assumed that you did, you know.  And your mother – my mother said, you 
know, that, you know, “Your cousins are doing x, y, and z, and we expect this of you.”  So, I 
mean, the expectation was deep and internal. 
Um, I left, when I left, um, St. Helena’s, um – and that’s interesting.  When I got to St. 
Helena’s there were only four African Americans in the school.  By the second year, I was by 
myself.  [Laughs] Uh, so that was quite an interesting thing during that time. 
JM:  In the Bronx. 
CC:  In the Bronx.  Because, uh, you know, there was a sense of isolation.  And one of 
the things that I felt, you know, in that time was I would go to school, but as I was coming home, 
I would hide my books, because I would try to, you know, I kind of lived in both worlds, the 
world of going to school and the world of being where, you know, people were.  I mean, it was 
very interesting.  The young people I grew up with, my peer group, they – because I had an 
accent, because I had a different history, they had a lot of respect for me.  They respected I was 
different, in the sense that I was going to school and I wasn’t trying to do different things.  They 
just – they just thought I was different, and that’s fine.  [0:05:00] And so, uh, I had some space 
because of that.  Um –  
JM:  Can you say a word about, um, your sister and other siblings? 
CC:  Uh, my sister is Lorraine, Lorraine Cleveland, Lorraine Cox.  Um, and, you know, 
she – as I said – she’s the younger sister by about two and a half years, uh, and that’s it.  And, 
um, you know, my father, I think the last time I saw him I might have been ten years old.  I 
haven’t, you know, I saw him probably at that point, so, uh, did not see him.  He was not a major 
factor in my life. 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 4 of 46 
 
JM:  Yeah, yeah. 
CC:  Um, you know, but my sister is, you know, went to the health area and is still, you 
know, working in health.  She, uh, became a registered nurse, went to medical school for a while 
but had some issues, and so she’s still doing nursing. 
JM:  Yeah, yeah.  How did you, how did you get your attention pointed towards Howard? 
CC:  My cousin went to Howard.  Uh, my, house was the stop for all my relatives coming 
to the United States.  My mother was the head of the family branch here, so everybody came 
here.  So, my cousin, Erskine [Alleyne], um, who, um, was coming, who was a little older, but he 
came to go to Howard.  And he was, I guess, maybe in his late twenties, maybe early thirties.  
So, he came here, spent some time, you know, going to Howard, maybe two and a half years, and 
went to medical school, became a doctor, OB-GYN. 
And, you know, my view is, “Okay, well, he’s doing it.  I might as well do it.  It’s not –” 
you know.  And at that time, you could go and – I mean, because I had not figured out what I 
was going to do – and at that time, you could go take a test.  You know, I guess you didn’t have 
to take the SATs and stuff like that.  You could just go take a test.  And so, I got on the bus one 
day, Greyhound bus one day, and, you know, came down to Washington by myself, took the test, 
went back to New York, and, you know, I passed the exam.  And, you know, they said, “Hey, 
why don’t you come on down?” 
And at that time, you know, tuition at Howard University was seven dollars and fifty 
cents a semester credit.  So, basically, you could save a little over a hundred dollars, get your 
fifteen hours, room was forty dollars, board was forty dollars, and, uh, you could, you know – so 
I worked in the Post Office and, you know, saved money to go to school. 
JM:  Were you a political adolescent at all in your high school years? 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 5 of 46 
 
CC:  Uh, not political in a sense, but aware.  I mean, because on the – I mean, I was part 
of a discussion – I mean, a part of two or three discussions, you know.  I mean, you know, the 
whole question of segregation of race was much more pervasive, uh, in terms of people’s 
assumption of what you could do, the barriers that existed, and so forth.  So, there was always 
discussion of that in kids who were fourteen and fifteen.  I mean, as I think back, people were 
very aware at fourteen and fifteen of what was going on in society. 
Then, we had another group of older guys, at that point maybe in their twenties, who 
were in the jazz scene, so they would talk about the culture, they’d talk about the music, they’d 
talk about [John] Coltrane, they’d talk about [Thelonious] Monk, they’d talk about all these 
people, you know, that – you know, so there was a sense of a culture and a history that was 
delivered by these older guys that, you know, gave me some sense of that, but, in terms of 
politics, no.  I was aware of what was going on, but also aware of other kinds of things, but no 
organized kinds of political discussion at all. 
JM:  Yeah, yeah.  Tell me what, um, tell me what you encountered when you got to 
Howard, what the campus was like, what your sense of what you were going to do was, and how 
you settled in. 
CC:  I really – I think I didn’t have a clear sense of what I was going to do. 
JM:  Yeah, yeah. 
CC:  Uh, but, you know, I did have a sense of right and wrong and kind of was impacted 
by what was going on, beginning to go on in the South, particularly with Emmett Till.  And, I 
mean, politics – back to the political question, I was very much aware of what was going on with 
Emmett Till, I was very much aware of what was going on in Montgomery.  So, but I didn’t have 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 6 of 46 
 
any – I was just aware of it and I had a sense of it, but not, you know, any great, you know, any 
great depth [0:10:00] in terms of understanding. 
When I got to Howard, you got – there was – you know, places all over the place.  I 
mean, Washington was a very segregated city at the time, whether you were talking about 
housing, whether you were talking about black and white ads in the Washington Post, whether 
you were talking about the police department, whether you were talking about trying clothes on 
in the, in the various department stores, I mean, all those things existed.  Uh, so, you know, I was 
faced with it in a way that I wasn’t faced with it in New York. 
Also, at that point, with the sit-ins – so, it was a small group of people who decided to do 
stuff at Glen Echo, uh, in Washington, and we formed the Nonviolent Action Group [NAG].  Uh, 
you know, and some were the people who, you know, later went on to really be prominent in 
SNCC were all part of that.  Um, and, you know, we, uh – we did two things.  We did 
sympathetic actions for things going on in the South, but we did – you know, we went out to the 
Eastern Shore of Maryland and demonstrated there.  We, uh, and Stokely Carmichael, who was 
in school with me at the time, was famous for helping to organize these demonstrations, because 
he would promise, “Okay, we’re going to go demonstrate, but we’ve got a great party after the 
demonstrations.”  [Laughs] And, you know, and so, you know, um, you know, young people 
want to do that. 
Some of the other things that we did while I was at Howard, I mean, RFK Stadium, when 
the Redskins were first here, we picketed because there were no, uh, African American football 
players.  Um, we, uh, Route 40, which was segregated, the route from Washington to New York, 
we were, you know, involved in those demonstrations.  We worked with Julius Hobson, who was 
at CORE, [Julius Hobson] Senior, to – we were his shock troops.  I mean, Julius was, you know, 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 7 of 46 
 
older than we were, but when he wanted a demonstration, he would call on us to, to be, you 
know, the shock troops. 
And we did other things at Howard.  We had the outside things that we did, in terms of 
demonstrations, but we also created Project Awareness.  And Project Awareness, I mean, the 
first three things that we did, I mean, I’ll never forget them.  First, the first was a debate between 
Bayard Rustin and Malcolm X on the question of segregation versus integration.  The second 
was a debate on – with Norman Thomas and Herman Kahn on the question of thermonuclear 
warfare.  And the third was a symposium with Jim Baldwin, uh, Ossie Davis, John Killens, 
moderated by Sterling Brown.  And, uh, and for the after-party, Sidney Poitier flew in so that, 
you know, just to see what the boys were doing.  So, I mean, we – you know, for people our age 
at that time we were – I mean, we were – whatever we were, I mean. 
And then, the other thing that was also clear, you know, we were also in the Student 
Council.  You know, Tom Kahn, who was a member of NAG, was the treasurer of the Student 
Council.  Uh, Stokely Carmichael was in the Student Council, you know, student government.  
And then, the other thing that was Mike Thelwell, who was, you know, a member of NAG, ran 
the newspaper and got great awards for the quality of the newspaper.  So, we functioned, you 
know, externally, in terms of demonstrations, but in terms of Howard, in terms of people who 
could organize and do things, we were there.  We were in the leadership of it. 
And we were also encouraged by a lot of the professors, because they thought – they 
adopted us as their children, uh, particularly Sterling Brown.  He would invite us to his house.  
He would, you know, have, you know, discussions.  He would talk to us about [W.E.B.] Du 
Bois.  He would talk to us about, you know, other people that we’ve had heard about.   He 
would, you know, he would talk to – he would, you know, not only play at his house the jazz 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 8 of 46 
 
music or the blues; he would come to our dormitory and talk about the history, he would talk 
about the poetry.  You know, we had, you know, others, Conrad Snowden.  You know, we had, 
uh, other professors.  You know, we had others who, you know, just thought that we were doing 
what they would like to do, and they tried to give us all the encouragement that they could. 
JM:  Tell me about [0:15:00], um, a little bit more about this group and your role in 
relation to all these, all these other folks you’ve mentioned. 
CC:  Well, the NAG was really run by three people, [laughs] three large egos, I think: uh, 
Ed Brown, who is, you know, Rap’s older brother [H. Rap Brown’s brother]; uh, Stokely 
Carmichael; and myself.  Uh, and I think, you know, people looked to us, uh, in terms of the, um, 
you know, in terms of leadership issues.  I mean, I think that, uh, when it – a lot of – I did a lot of 
stuff on the Project Awareness stuff, uh, in terms of organization and pulling it together; also, a 
lot of stuff on the demonstrations and so forth.  Um, I didn’t do too much in the Student Council, 
didn’t do too much on the, uh, student newspapers, but on those two we were very active. 
JM:  Yeah.  Tell me about, um, how you – how NAG and all of, so many of you, um, 
deepened your, uh, engagement with SNCC. 
CC:  Well, I mean, at that point, SNCC was, SNCC in the early days was – it’s Student 
Nonviolent Coordinating Committee – so it was really a coordination of student groups across 
the country.  So, therefore, NAG was one of the student groups across the country.  You know, 
Nashville was another, Atlanta was another.  So, we were just part of – so, we sat in with, you 
know – I sat on the coordinating council for SNCC and, I guess, on the executive council, 
committee, at some point, you know, to, you know, help pull the organization together. 
JM:  Yeah.  Did you travel to Atlanta? 
CC:  Yes. 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 9 of 46 
 
JM:  Yeah, yeah, for early meetings. 
CC:  Yeah, used to be going down on Highway 29, and I remember gas was twenty-nine 
cents a gallon.  Now, I couldn’t drive, but I’d ride down there.  So, gas was twenty-nine cents a 
gallon; cigarettes were twenty cents a pack. 
JM:  Um-hmm.  Did you smoke?  [Laughs] 
CC:  I used to smoke.  I used to smoke until 1971, and I was on my way to Africa and I 
saw – I was in LaGuardia airport and I saw that cigarettes had gotten to seventy cents a pack and 
I said – in the machine.  I said, “I know where this is going.  It’s time for me to end this 
conversation.”  So, I stopped smoking. 
JM:  Are there interesting – interesting, yeah.  Are there, um, are there things that stand 
out vividly in your memory from those early trips to Atlanta for those SNCC meetings? 
CC:  Uh, the SNCC meetings or the trips?  Which – I mean –? 
JM:  Uh, well, they’d both be very interesting, but I’m thinking of the SNCC meetings. 
CC:  The SNCC? 
JM:  Yeah. 
CC:  They were – I mean, we – the good thing about – interesting.  The meetings were 
and the discussions were interminable, and we talked about everything.  I think probably the 
thing that’s most important, as I think about it – and I’ve just kind of, I’ve just thought about this 
lately – you know, most of the young people were asking, “Why?”  Given the basis, given the 
kinds of things that they faced, they were asking, “Why?”  At the SNCC meetings, we thought 
about how to change, and everybody said, “Why not?”  Okay?  I mean, paraphrasing that famous 
poem. 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 10 of 46 
 
I mean, it seems to me the difference and the real genius of the young people – and we’re 
talking seventeen to twenty-two, you know – of that group was that we moved from asking why 
the situation existed the way it did to talking about why not change it in a way that we should be 
living.  And once you cross that barrier and don’t feel you have to ask those who created the 
situation to make the change for you, then you are free.  And therefore, I think the things that 
struck me about those conversations, about the seventeen to twenty-two-year-olds, that the 
barriers of normal thinking and intellectual thought were broken, and the discussions about 
where we should be going, what we should be doing, and so forth, were limitless. 
JM:  Yeah. 
CC:  I mean, I think that’s the thing that, you know – 
CC:  It didn’t strike me then, but it strikes me now. 
JM:  Yeah, yeah.  Also looking back in that context, you had mentioned that, [clears 
throat] that your peer group in the Bronx saw you as, could accept you as someone who was 
somehow a little bit different. 
CC:  Yes. 
JM:  Because your life experience had been different – 
CC:  Right. 
JM:  You’d come—had time in Trinidad.  Was there any parallel, then, to your 
experience [0:20:00] inside this group of young activists at SNCC?  Were you – did you feel that 
your personal history distinguished you in some way that mattered, say, to your participation in 
those conversations, your perspectives, your philosophies? 
CC:  Um, I didn’t.  I didn’t think so. 
JM:  Okay. 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 11 of 46 
 
CC:  Okay, but I mean, there was always this West Indian discussion.  I don’t know.  It 
even appeared in Time or Newsweek magazine, where people considered people like Stokely, 
Ivanhoe [Donaldson], and myself, you know, to be, quote, “have a different view” because we 
came from environments that might have been a little less restrictive.  I didn’t – I never bought 
into that. 
JM:  Yeah, yeah.  Tell me, if you would, about – actually, I want to take you back to have 
you tell me about the Rustin-Malcolm X debate. 
CC:  Oh, it was amazing.  It was amazing.  They had just built Crampton Auditorium at 
Howard University.  The capacity was fifteen hundred.  And, I mean, leading up to it, we tried to 
get the professor who was the head of the government to moderate the debate.  I’m not going to 
say his name.  He thought it was beneath him to have Malcolm X at Howard University. 
We went to Emmett Dorsey, who was a professor at Howard, a wonderful, big bear of a 
man, who would say in his class that racism is architectonic to the Constitution of the United 
States, and he would point to the three-fifths clause.  He, you know – he agreed to, uh, moderate 
the debate.  We had a dinner before the debate with Malcolm and Bayard, and Professor Dorsey 
was talking.  And Malcolm said, “Professor, I think we better let you speak tonight, because you 
have much more information than anybody in this room,” which was really true. 
We got to the debate.  I mean, Malcolm had maybe about three hundred of his followers 
in the front.  Bayard gets up, and I think he speaks first.  He does speak first.  Every – each 
participant had thirty minutes to speak.  Bayard speaks fifteen minutes, and he says, “You always 
hear my point of view through the press, everything.  I now want to give Malcolm fifteen of my 
minutes to help, to give him to present.” 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 12 of 46 
 
And Malcolm was, I mean, a dynamite speaker.  And the thing that struck me was 
Malcolm – if you listen to “Message to the Grassroots,” that’s basically the speech that he gave, 
uh, the album and the thing, but, and I hadn’t heard it.  This is 1961; I hadn’t heard it.  And he 
would tell a joke or something like that or clap, and they’d be applauding.  [Claps] And when he 
did that, his people would then do that.  I mean, the discipline was phenomenal.  [Laughs] I said, 
“Whoa!  What is this?” 
Uh, and I will tell you, from that debate, people at Howard saw us different.  I mean, that 
we could bring Malcolm X and Bayard Rustin, have fifteen – people were pounding on the door 
the whole night, trying to get in.  I mean, people, I mean – because that was considered a big 
auditorium.  We brought, I mean, you know, kind of pizzazz and, you know, all sorts of things 
there.  People looked at us totally different after that.  I mean, students, “Hey, these guys have 
something that we don’t have.”  I mean, I think that’s kind of – that gave us a little cachet that 
we probably wouldn’t have had ordinarily. 
JM:  Yeah.  What was your early sense of, um –? 
JB:  Joe, let’s pause for a sec. 
JM:  Okay. 
[Recording stops and the resumes] 
JB:  We’re back. 
JM:  We took a short break.  Um, I was going to ask, um, about – you’ve just mentioned 
the Malcolm and Bayard Rustin debate, um, and these other things, and how this cachet attached.  
I’m remembering now that the question I wanted to ask was shifting themes a little bit.  Uh, early 
on, what was your – how did you gauge the prospects of substantial, true kind of structural 
change through the nonviolent protest strategies that were emerging through SNCC? 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 13 of 46 
 
CC:  We had big debates about that.  We had, we had – and the Nashville group had one 
view; the Howard group had another.  [0:25:00] The Nashville group believed in nonviolence as 
a philosophy and a way of life.  I mean, and John [Lewis], I mean, John, uh, is probably the, you 
know, the poster child for that.  You know, Diane Nash.  You know, Jim Lawson, those guys.  
The people at Howard, we viewed nonviolence as a tactic, you know.  And, you know, one of the 
things that the nonviolent people’s philosophy – those people, they felt that, you know, you 
could appeal to men’s hearts. 
You know, my view, and which I’ve said to them, was that you might as well appeal to 
their livers, because they’re both organs of the body.  There was nothing to that.  You did not – 
you engaged in nonviolence because the other side had overwhelming force.  There was not a 
sense that the other side would do the right thing if you told them, because at the end of the day, 
the other side knew what it was doing to you better than you did.  [Laughs] So, it’s not that they 
didn’t know what they were doing.  They wanted to do it.  [Laughs] So, I mean, that – so, we had 
huge, huge – I mean, that was a source of early tension.  I mean, early – ’61, ’62, so forth.  We 
did not believe in nonviolence as philosophy. 
JM:  [Clears throat] A kind of parallel question:  In these early years, especially when 
things heat up in the South, ’62, ’63, what was your evolving sense of what you might be able to 
expect from the federal government, if much of anything? 
CC:  Um, slim and none.  I mean, I think there were individuals, particularly John Doar, 
particularly Burke Marshall with the Civil Rights Division, who were, you know, uh, very 
helpful.  But, I mean, I, you know – you know, there was a story sort of like – the house was 
bombed in McComb [Mississippi].  This was – I think this was ’63, ’64 – it may have been ’64.  
And we went down there. 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 14 of 46 
 
JM:  You were in Mississippi in ’64? 
CC:  We were in Mississippi, I’m sorry. 
JM:  Yep. 
CC:  We went down to McComb.  The FBI was there.  They said to us, “Look, don’t 
make any mistake about it.  We’re here to protect the evidence.  We’re not here to guard you or 
protect you.”  Okay, that’s first.  [Laughs] Then the guy said to us, “Look, how many guns do 
you have?”  And we said, “We don’t have any guns.”  And he said, “Well, I’ve got two and I’m 
scared to death.”  [Laughs] 
So, you had two issues.  First, their mandate was limited, because, you know, of both the 
political, local political issues, which affected the federal political issues.  And, at the end of the 
day, most of these guys, as individuals, thought they would be overwhelmed.  So, I mean, uh, 
you know, we, you know, we tried to communicate to the federal government as much as we 
could communicate and tried to – in certain circumstances tried to do that.  But, you know, many 
of the people in SNCC, including myself, felt that, you know, most of those agents who came 
from the South were of the South and therefore sympathetic not to us but to, you know, the 
communities that they lived in. 
JM:  Sure.  Let me bring you back to ’62 for a minute.  Um, in the spring, you and 
Stokely Carmichael and, I think, one or two others sat in at Robert Kennedy’s office. 
CC:  Oh, yes, we did.  Butch Kahn was the other, third person – Butch Kahn and Tom 
Kahn.  [Laughs] You’ve really done your research. 
JM:  Can you recall that? 
CC:  Yes.  It was – it was funny.  Uh, we went there and we went to the, to, uh, 
Kennedy’s office, and I think they were in a quandary as to what to do.  And so, basically, they 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 15 of 46 
 
just said, “Okay, just leave them there,” or something.  And then, uh, late in the afternoon, they 
were going to come and move us out of the building, take us out.  So, um, Butch Kahn started 
calling the press from, um, from Kennedy’s office and included the Soviet press in the people 
that he called. 
So, then they came at the end of the day and they were, you know – we went limp, and 
they were dragging us out.  So, as they were dragging us out, they probably got [0:30:00] maybe 
fifty [or] sixty feet down the hall.  Stokely says, “Wait a minute!  Wait a minute!  I forgot 
something [laughs] in the office!”  So, he gets up, goes and gets the stuff in the office, goes back 
to exactly where he was, says, ‘Okay.’”  [Laughs] 
So, so, I mean, so they just took us out of the office and just said, “Bye.  See ya.”  Just 
took us out of the building and said, “Bye-bye.  See you.”  You know, so, I mean, so that’s what 
I remember about it.  [Laughs] 
JM:  It’s interesting how – one of the things that’s so interesting about doing these 
interviews in 2011 here is that the emotional mood about all this has shifted so much – 
CC:  Right. 
JM:  That we say it and we recall these things with a smile, and yet, you were there for 
what were just deadly serious reasons. 
CC:  Oh, yeah!  No, no, we were very serious! 
JM:  Yeah, absolutely! 
CC:  Because we thought that the Kennedy administration – first of all, we thought that 
the Kennedy administration, particularly the way they dealt with Martin King, you know, earlier, 
was basically an opportunist approach to things.  We thought that, you know, Bobby Kennedy 
and the Justice Department was not being very serious.  They were also very opportunistic and 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 16 of 46 
 
had a view that they would only do what they were pushed to do, even though the law of the 
land, you know, which changed in ’54 [with the Brown v. Board of Education decision] to be, 
you know, be on the side of the ending of segregation, you know.  They had bought into the “go 
slow” approach and “don’t disturb” approach and “look, don’t cause any political trouble for my 
brother” approach, you know.  So, we felt that, at the end of the day, they were about themselves 
and not about, you know, making this country a better place for everyone. 
JM:  Yeah, yeah.  Um, let me ask about [clears throat] two things.  Obviously, you’ve 
given, you’ve been asked to give many interviews over the years.  And two episodes are often 
the focus of a lot of attention, and I want to sort of take them up together – 
CC:  Okay. 
JM:  Because I think in some ways they have a relation.  You can tell me if you agree.  
Um, the, uh, struggle over the John Lewis speech at the March on Washington in August of ’63, 
and a year later, the Atlantic City MFDP [Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party] struggle at the 
Democratic National Convention.  Um, because in both those instances, I think I think of them as 
having to do with that forceful and quite idealistic and quite hopeful push really bumping into up 
against some very, very rugged power. And so –  
CC:  No, I think I want to take them, the two separately, because I think the Atlantic City 
had a much more profound impact than, than the March on Washington. 
JM:  Yeah, okay, fair enough.  Okay, good. 
CC:  Uh, the March on Washington, I was the representative for SNCC, uh, and – 
JM:  To the Steering Committee. 
CC:  On the Steering Committee.  And for whatever reasons – at this point I can’t 
remember – I passed out John’s speech before the March. 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 17 of 46 
 
JM:  To the press. 
CC:  To the press.  Because I assume I was trying to promote John’s speech – I mean, 
that’s why you would do that.  Then, we’re at the March, and John – we get a call.  Archbishop 
O’Boyle says that he is not going to participate in the March on Washington, you know, if the 
criticism of Kennedy’s administration and the whole reference to “marching through the South 
as [General] Sherman” – but I think that last part about “marching through the South as 
Sherman” is a little, you know, was a ruse, because the real – they did not want the Kennedy 
administration, uh, criticized. 
And, you know, um, we, at that point – when I say “we”: John Lewis, uh, um, Jim 
Forman, myself – you know, told Archbishop – Bayard [Rustin] came to us at that point, and we 
told, uh, you know, “You can tell Archbishop O’Boyle to go straight to hell.” 
JM:  Regarding any changes to the speech. 
CC:  Any changes to the speech.  We were not going to change.  And then, what Bayard 
did, and Bayard is a very clever person.  He went and got A. Philip Randolph.  A. Philip 
Randolph said, “I know.”  You know, he gave us our propers [note: that is, made a gesture of 
showing respect].  But he said, “Look, I have worked since 1941 to make this happen, and it is 
important that the coalition is held together.” 
And it is out of respect for A. Philip Randolph that we were, you know, we went in the 
back of the Lincoln Memorial – Jim Forman, John Lewis, [0:35:00] Mildred Forman, and myself 
– and we changed John’s speech.  Now, the way that was perceived in SNCC at that point was 
that – particularly me and Forman – we caved in.  And so, the criticism was individual to us from 
the SNCC people.  It wasn’t the broader society. 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 18 of 46 
 
I think Atlantic City was a lot different.  I mean, people worked – I mean, people worked 
all summer.  They faced tremendous, you know, uh, hostilities.  And they thought that the rules – 
they played by the rules that they were supposed to be playing, and everybody was engaged in 
that.  We went to, we went to Atlantic City with the sense that if – again – if you presented the 
facts to the nation, then it would make a difference.  The first thing, the first clue was when 
Fannie Lou Hamer was speaking, Lyndon Johnson called a non-serious press conference to say 
that, “Today is Tuesday,” okay, and to take her off the air. 
But in the bowels of Atlantic City Convention Center, Bob Moses, Charlie Cobb, Ivanhoe 
Donaldson, all of us were – we, I mean, people were scrubbed, we put on suits and ties.  We, I 
mean, you know, all that sort of stuff; some of us hadn’t had ties on for some time.  But we went 
around and we were able to pigeonhole enough people like Edith Green and others to support, 
you know, the Mississippi Freedom [Democratic Party], at least at the Credentials Committee 
level.  Then, when it was known that we had enough, to, enough representatives, Lyndon Baines 
Johnson really started acting ugly.  He called Hubert Humphrey, and he told him, “If you want 
the vice-presidency, you better stop these people.”  He called people who were up for judgeships.  
He said, “If you don’t do this, you are through booking.” 
Now, we had the list of people, and a Congressman, whose name I will not put out here at 
this point, you know, came to us.  And I remember Bob Moses and I were in a meeting.  And the 
Congressman asked us for the list of people who were supportive, because he said what he 
wanted to do was show, you know, Lyndon Baines [Johnson] that he had, in fact, the kind of, 
you know, support, and therefore, you know, therefore to be able to move the agenda in our 
direction. 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 19 of 46 
 
Bob Moses just looked at him and stared.  And I said to Bob, “Do you think he’s going to 
steal the list?”  Bob hesitated a little more and then he gave him the list.  “Do you know?  If 
you’ve seen – if I saw the list, you’ve seen it.”  What that Congressman did was use that to get 
the Johnson administration to go after each one of these people to get them to capitulate. 
JM:  These were the, this was the minority, but sufficient minority who were going to 
vote to put it to the floor. 
CC:  Sufficient minority to do a minority report, yes. 
JM:  That’s right. 
CC:  So, this Congressman, you know, took the list and went and then, you know, gave 
us, you know, you know – I wouldn’t use the word “betrayed,” but it was close. 
At that point, you know, we had, you know, worked the whole time.  We had, you know, 
basically played by the rules that were established.  And when it came out that, you know, they 
had collapsed the minority representatives, the group of minority representatives, the 
representatives who would participate in the minority report, what happened was they then 
offered two seats, you know, in the balcony somewhere, two seats on the floor and then the 
others could be sitting in the balcony.  And people like, you know, people that we [0:40:00], 
quote, “are on our side” – I would say National Council of Churches, you know, AFL-CIO, 
Martin King, you know, NAACP, uh, the, uh, Joseph Rau, um, you know, everybody, everybody 
said, “This, you should accept this.” 
We said, “Okay, well, just –” I mean, and SNCC always kind of worked with the people, 
and it was Bob’s idea.  All right, we met in a church.  He said – Bob’s view is, “Okay, if you 
want them to accept it, make your presentation.”  And they presented and they, you know, talked 
about it.  And the people said, “We didn’t come up here for this pretense.  You know, we came 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 20 of 46 
 
here believing that if you played by the rules, in fact, the rules would be observed.”  So that, you 
know, so that not – it wasn’t only the Johnson administration.  It wasn’t only, you know, Hubert 
Humphrey.  It was the whole liberal establishment that said, “No!  The rules – when it comes to 
power – these rules don’t obtain.” 
So, at the end of the day, the refusal of, you know, the Mississippi Freedom Democratic 
Party to deal with that, you know, so-called “compromise,” you know, and the kind of sense that 
power prevails, not the sense of, you know, the ideals and the things that we, you know, people 
espouse.  You know, capitalism always trumps democracy.  You know, then people were able to 
see it firsthand.  I mean, at, I mean, we – you know, in ’64, you know, I was twenty-three.  You 
know, everybody else was around that, and they said, “Hey, this is the way it happens, huh?”  
You know?  “Not all that stuff we read in the books.  This is the stuff that happens.  It wasn’t 
idealism.  These were the rules that you put out there.  This wasn’t stuff we thought up.  This 
was what you said the party rules were.  And when it came to, came, the deal came down, this is 
the way it came down.”  And then people said, “Hey, we no longer trust you.”  I mean, I think 
people then started disengaging from the electoral process and what people considered 
foolishness. 
JM:  Yeah. 
JB:  Could you, um, just add a little bit?  Um, step back to when you started to go to the 
convention.  Just line out what you had anticipated would happen, what the context was. 
CC:  Right.  I think when we started with the, you know – first of all, we had worked, we 
created the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party.  We went to all the counties in Mississippi.  
We held meeting after meeting, you know, when, you know, the rules of the Party said that, in 
fact, if you did these things, you would be seated because you would be representing these things 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 21 of 46 
 
and you functioned by the rules.  So that, when we went to Atlantic City, having functioned by 
the rules of the, of the Democratic Party itself, we expected to be seated.  We expected to be, you 
know, the Democratic Party in Mississippi.  And, in fact, when we got to, you know, we got to, 
uh, Atlantic City, we found out the rules had changed. 
JM:  Yeah, yeah.  Let me have you, um, if you would, please, um, talk about the 
transition, then, after August ’64 to Alabama and the way you thought about widening the 
project with new approaches to what, I think, a term you had used was “the unqualified.” 
CC:  Yeah. 
JM:  Yeah. 
CC:  I think of all the things I have done, I did in SNCC, I’m most proud and most, uh, I 
like what we did in Lowndes best.  Um, the reason we went to Lowndes County was to deal with 
the kind of violence, particularly the shooting of Viola Liuzzo.  When we went there, you found 
a county that was eighty percent African American, and there were four registered voters.  Now, 
the – Alabama had a law [0:45:00] that allowed you to have a political party at the county level.  
It also had a rooster, which said “for the right” above it. [note: Cox is describing the Alabama 
Democratic Party’s emblem, which was a rooster accompanied by the slogans, “white 
supremacy” and “for the right.”] 
Now, the question then became, “How do you achieve political power, and how do you 
achieve regime change?”  Because, before, we were all talking about, uh, you know, registering 
people to vote.  We were all talking about, you know, if you presented the facts, if you did that, 
and if you played by the rules, then, you know, the rules would be supported.  In ’65, the view 
was, okay, here are the rules and how do we manipulate them to achieve our own – because 
we’re not taking them to anybody, because we know what that’s going to be. 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 22 of 46 
 
So, we’re saying, “Okay, if you have an eighty percent majority, then you ought to be 
able to run the county.”  So, you know, office of sheriff, office of county assessor, tax assessor, 
county clerk, county court – I mean, the judge.  And the problem was a lot of people, one, they 
did not read or write, and, two, the idea – they didn’t know a lot about the offices or 
responsibilities of the offices, and, three, you had to get them to believe they could do it.  So, 
what we did – Jack Minnis, who was the research guy in Atlanta, who was absolutely brilliant, I 
mean just absolutely brilliant – we researched the laws. 
And once we found out you could have a party at the county level, we could say, “All 
right, what does it take to build a party at the county?”  So, we then researched the roles and 
responsibilities of each of the offices.  Now, we knew that people were not going to sit down and 
read law books.  So, what we did was we created comic books, which talked about the roles and 
responsibilities.  We got people who would agree to run for sheriff, and we gave them the comic 
books, and we passed the comic books, and we put their pictures out there so that people could 
see them in that particular context. 
The other thing that we did, you know, was we created a propaganda piece called “Mr. 
Black Man,” and it’s a story I developed with Jennifer Lawson, who is now working with PBS.  
She did the graphics; I did the text.  And I used a phrase that I heard from, uh, a woman in 
Mississippi.  She said, “You know, us black people have been using our mouths to do two things: 
to eat and say, ‘Yassuh.’  It’s now time we say, ‘No.’” So, I used that to create a sense that we 
have been doing all these kinds of things and we’ve been eating and saying, “Yes sir.”  It’s now 
time we support Mr. Black Man, and it could be, you know, so-and-so for sheriff, so-and-so for 
tax assessor, so-and-so.  Because our argument was it’s no use protesting police brutality by the 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 23 of 46 
 
sheriff.  The way to deal with it is get a new sheriff, who accedes to your view of the world.  So, 
then, we, you know, got people to believe. 
Now, as, you know, we went on the plantations and, you know, and obviously, you know, 
there was a lot of reaction.  They threw people out of their houses, you know, violence and so 
forth.  But what we found in Lowndes County, his name is Mr. Jackson.  We found, I mean, he’s 
a guy who owned his land.  I mean, he was a guy who was the salt of the earth.  When you see 
him, it looked like he was just – he’s coming out of the earth.  He was just very strong, and, you 
know, and his view was – he was quiet, he wasn’t highly educated and all that, but he was very 
strong.  And he gave us his house and he would stay up all night to protect us with his gun. 
So that, you know, so that basically our thinking in ’65 had said, “No more about ‘go on 
and take these rules.’  No.  [0:50:00] You’ve got to create your own rules.  You’ve got to now 
assume power.  You’ve got to now – the discussion is no longer about protest.  The discussion is 
about power.  How do you now assume power, you know, given you have the demographic, you 
know, advantage?  And how do you move that discussion?” 
You do your research.  You now understand how to go about it.  And, basically, over 
time, you know, convincing people like Mr. [John] Hewlett and others to run for sheriff and 
others, that we were able to now be able to take over every, uh, position in the county.  You 
know, I wrote a pamphlet and I can’t find it anymore.  You know, I gave away a lot of this stuff 
that I used to have.  But it was a pamphlet that I wrote called “What would” – paraphrasing a 
Biblical thing – “What would it profit a man to gain the vote and not be able to control it?”  
Because, at that point, the discussion of control and organization to move that control was 
particularly important. 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 24 of 46 
 
JM:  Yeah, yeah.  Let me ask a couple of things.  Let me have you describe, um – you 
alluded, um, to the atmosphere of violence in Lowndes County in that era.  Can you say a little 
more, because I know that, for example, Jonathan Daniels is killed out in the –? 
CC:  Yes. 
JM:  In the county seat outside the – when they’re sprung from jail that Saturday 
morning. 
CC:  Right. 
JM:  Just a little bit about the experience of being there and confronting that and 
observing that as a – 
CC:  Well, I was not exactly – I mean, the reason we went into Lowndes was to show, 
after Jonathan was killed and Ruby [Sales] was almost killed, you know, that we were not going 
to be afraid.  So, we came in after that, and, you know, particularly people like Stokely 
Carmichael, Ralph Featherstone, Willie Ricks, you know, Bob Mantz – you know, we came in 
after that to make sure that we were going to show that we were not going to be run out.  Uh, and 
so, I mean, I think for the community, which was, you know, was there, you know, saying that, 
“We ourselves would live in the community.  We would be at risk with you,” was the same 
thing.  
I mean, and this house we lived in – it was interesting.  You know, it had no running 
water, so we had to prime the pump in the morning to get our water.  It had one butane gas heater 
in the living room.  And it had a hole in the roof, so when it rained, you had to have a pan in your 
bed, so it wouldn’t rain on the bed.  But, I mean, it, you know, so – and when you wanted to get 
relief – excuse me for a second. 
JM:  Let’s take a little break. 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 25 of 46 
 
CC:  [Coughs] 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB:  Okay, we’re back. 
JM:  We’re back on after a brief break. 
CC:  Okay.  When you wanted to get relief, we would drive to Selma, which is about 
twenty-three miles – I mean, not only relief – a bath.  [Laughs] And, you know, uh, we’d go to 
Chicken Shack.  [Coughs] Excuse me.  Can I get some more water? 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JM:  And you were talking about Selma.  Okay, we’re back after a short break. 
CC:  So we, you know, we, um – we used go to Selma to get a bath or take a shower, to 
go to Chicken Shack, listen to some music and get some fried chicken, and then drive back to the 
county.  But, I mean, people saw us living there day to day, and it gave them comfort that, you 
know, we were serious people and that, you know, the kind of violence that was visited upon the 
county by, you know, the people who killed Daniels, uh, and almost shot Ruby and so forth, that 
we would, you know, would stand up to it.  So, I think, you know, our living in the county, or 
living where we – or southwest Georgia or Mississippi – you know, that counted.  I mean, that 
was SNCC’s trademark.  We lived where we worked, I mean, as opposed to, you know, dropping 
in and dropping out. 
JM:  You, personally – how did you deal with that kind of pressure, fear? 
CC:  I think I always told myself, “There is fear there, and you shouldn’t be paralyzed by 
it.”  I mean, I remember once we were driving.  I was driving with this young guy, uh, John 
Jackson, Mr. Jackson’s younger son.  And these guys started chasing us with a pickup truck, and 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 26 of 46 
 
they had guns.  I mean, and we were going – I mean, we must have, [0:55:00] on those dirt roads 
we were probably going seventy or eighty miles an hour. 
And, you know, you tell yourself that you could deal with it – I mean, you fantasize all 
sorts of stuff.  Like, for example, I always thought that, okay, I could probably get away from 
somebody who had a gun, but I had a problem with, in Alabama because I thought they would 
use bombs.  So, I was never – I was more nervous about Alabama than I was Mississippi because 
I thought they would bomb in Alabama and shoot in Mississippi.  [Laughs] You know?  And 
therefore, you keep telling yourself, “Okay, don’t be paralyzed.  This is a dangerous situation.  
Don’t be paralyzed.” 
Now, sometimes, I remember I looked around – uh, in the trial of Collie Leroy Wilkins 
[Jr.], uh, who had shot Viola Liuzzo, I looked around in the courtroom and I was the only person 
of color in the whole courtroom.  And I started thinking, “All right.  What did the people – what 
were the kids that I went to college doing?”  I mean, they were doing – and I said to – you know 
[laughing], “You’re really crazy.  I mean, this is a little dangerous here.” 
I mean, so, I mean – I think when you are in it, you have mechanisms that go into place 
that don’t calculate the danger, or deflect the danger from you.  Um, I think it’s only if 
something actually happens to somebody you know, it brings it home.  I think when you get 
outside of it, you think about, you know, “That was a little interesting.”  So, I mean, I think that, 
you know, I was affected.  I mean, I always try to rationalize it.  You know, there were others in 
SNCC who were not so lucky.  But I went through a series of rationalizations.  I mean, that’s the 
way I dealt with it. 
JM:  Yeah, yeah.  Let me ask you about the ’65, ’66 period in SNCC – 
CC:  Okay. 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 27 of 46 
 
JM:   And Carmichael replaces Lewis and – 
CC:  Yes. 
JM:  Whites are expelled.  Just your – how you moved through that period, um, if you 
can describe it, and your perspectives on those transitions. 
CC:  I think, I think basically, which goes back to Atlantic City, the organization was 
becoming much more militant, in the sense that the whole sense of – I mean, there was always 
that – remember in 1962, we had one group who felt, you know, the philosophy, another group 
that felt this was a tactic.  So, basically it started getting wider and wider and wider.  And most 
people – John, again, a true believer, you know, felt that you needed to continue to appeal to the 
people who were in power to change their ways – and we started believing less and less in that 
discussion. 
So, I mean, so that is, you know – but this is something that was, I don’t think, looking 
back on it, sudden discussion.  It was, you know – from the beginning, you know, John had a 
view about if you taught people, and they did the right thing then, you know, other people like 
that, that they would actually do the right thing because in their hearts they were decent human 
beings.  And we didn’t believe any of that.  So, I mean, at that point – you know, it became a 
critical point, especially after our experience in Atlantic City. 
JM:  Yeah, yeah.  Um, can you say a little bit more specifically about the two, those two 
transitional moments, one, the decision to expel whites from SNCC, and then the, when 
Carmichael replaces Lewis? 
CC:  I think, I think that a lot of the stuff, I mean, a lot of – I mean, the stuff about the 
replacement, Carmichael replacing John, I mean, Stokely had just come out of Lowndes 
[County].  He had a lot more energy than John, in terms of that.  He probably reflected the mood 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 28 of 46 
 
of the black community and a lot of younger people in SNCC.  And I think John held on to the 
ways that he knew and his views of, you know, [1:00:00] how things should be. 
Um, I think that, you know, the country – I mean, you know, after Lowndes County and 
the whole discussion of Black Power, which came, you know, at the Meredith March [of June 
1966], you know, and, you know, this whole discussion, you know, the Washington Post and the 
New York Times started generating editorials, which said, you know, um, you know, this is a bad 
thing.  Even today, you know, people say, “the good period in SNCC,” and then, “the bad period 
in SNCC.”  The good period represents when they viewed that SNCC was, you know, uh, 
believing in, you know, the American Dream and all that, and that whites were involved in it.  
And then, the bad period in SNCC was the period when SNCC did not feel that, you know, the 
people who were making the decisions were ever going to be in their favor, and they needed to 
look to themselves to move the discussion. 
So, I mean, and my sense, I mean, I think, again, the Movement, the whole discussion, I 
think it was at Peg Leg Bates [Clayton ‘Peg Leg’ Bates, African American entertainer who 
owned the Catskill Mountain estate where the meeting took place], to, uh, expel – not expel – no, 
I don’t think that’s the word to say.  I mean, I think the basic position of SNCC, and Jim Forman 
articulated best – he said, “Look, the problem that we face is not in the black community.  The 
problems we face are in the white community about the way they feel about things.  So, we think 
that it’s important that the whites who are organizers and sympathetic to us should go to the 
white community and begin to organize in those communities to create, you know, sympathetic 
relationships.” 
I mean, I think the way it got characterized was probably, you know, unfortunate.  But I 
think that is what, you know, people – now, people had been with SNCC all this time, 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 29 of 46 
 
particularly the whites, felt that they had a home and therefore, you know, into this new thing 
was, you know, very difficult.  But some, like, you know, who went and did a good job, and 
they, you know, founded Southern Student Organizing Committee [SSOC]. 
You know, but, you know, but I think the way it was, you know, the fight that went on at 
Peg Leg Bates, um, where I guess I was quoted as saying that, I guess it was, “Race is necessary 
but not sufficient,” something like that, um, you know, my sense was that, I just think that we 
were trying to deal with problems.  We were trying to figure out, you know, how do we end 
these barriers.  You know, but, you know, people started saying, “Well, how come you don’t 
love white people anymore?” 
I mean, “What?”  You know, we’re facing, you know, destruction at a lot of things, and, 
you know, this discussion of, you know, “Why don’t you like whites anymore?”  We were 
saying to the white community, “Help us!  Go into the white community to help make changes 
there.”  And so, therefore, I mean, I think the way it was characterized, and the way it’s still 
characterized, I think, is unfortunate, but it is what it is. 
JM:  Well, it had the impact of – one immediate and fairly short order impact was the 
funding was so much harder to come by. 
CC:  Oh, no question.  I mean, and particularly people like Theodore Bikel coming out 
and, you know, making his statements about it, and other people, it cut the funding 
tremendously. 
JM:  Yeah.  Let me switch to a theme that, uh, takes us away – well, it takes us into a, 
into one of the dimensions of a widening frame of consideration, I think, in this era. 
CC:  Right. 
JM:  And that’s Vietnam and – 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 30 of 46 
 
CC:  Yes. 
JM:  I want to ask – it’s fascinating – I want to ask about your participation in, um, 
Stockholm in ’66 – 
CC:  Right, right. 
JM:  And then, in ’67, you go to Stockholm for the War Crimes Tribunal, uh, Bertrand 
Russell, and, um – 
CC:  Right. 
JM:  Can you spend a little time on that story?  It must be very interesting. 
CC:  You’ve done your homework; [laughs] I can see that.  Let me just go – let me go 
back a little bit. 
JM:  Sure. 
CC:  Um, SNCC was – SNCC has made statements both on Vietnam and the Palestinian 
issues.  And we made early statement on Vietnam [1:05:00], which impacted Julian [Bond] 
greatly.  But you remember at that time that, you know, the argument for some of the established 
Civil Rights Movement was that you could only speak on issues of race.  You have no right to 
speak on the issues of Vietnam.  Now, you also have to understand that most of us, most of us in 
SNCC, including myself, got—one, wise.  And because, you know, even before the Tribunal 
piece, the view in SNCC was, “You want us to fight a war over there when we’re facing this 
here?  Are you – what is the issue here?”  And then, you know, so a number of – the frame was 
set, in terms of this discussion. 
And, you know, so I went over.  We were invited, after a number of statements, by the 
Bertrand Russell people, to come, and I was asked to go.  Because we had – you know, I had – 
we had gone, SNCC people had gone to North Vietnam, you know, Charlie Cobb and Julius 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 31 of 46 
 
Lester.  I was invited to go, but I declined.  But I went over there to represent SNCC in the 
group.  And I walk into – I get into London, and I really don’t know much about the European 
scene.  And I go to this dinner, seven-course dinner, you know, with all sorts of liquor and stuff 
like that.  [Laughing] I’ve just come out of, you know, Alabama.  I said, “What is all this?”  I 
mean, you don’t know if you’re going to get too full or too drunk. 
But it’s interesting.  At that dinner were Bertrand Russell, Jean-Paul Sartre, Simone de 
Beauvoir, Isaac Deutscher, [and] Dedijer [Yugoslavian politician and historian Vladimir 
Dedijer], I mean, you know, all the huge weights of European intellectual thing.  And what 
struck me – this may be just a little silly, but, you know, both of those guys, Sartre and, uh, 
Bertrand Russell, such huge egos – they were about five foot five, I mean, at best.  [Laughs] I 
mean, you know, they were, you know, little guys.  I mean, um, and Dedijer, who was with the 
Yugoslavian, you know – huge guy, I mean, you know.  And so, we get to, we get to, we get to 
the thing and we agree that we would, um, you know, have this, and I would participate.  I come, 
I think, I don’t – Russell was not – he was at the dinner, but not very active, because he was – 
JM:  Ninety-four. 
CC:  Ninety-four, yeah.  But the real leader was Sartre.  Now, what strikes me is that 
Sartre is smoking and smoking, would say whatever, and everybody would genuflect, 
“D’accord, d’accord.”  I mean, it was like, there was, every – you know, it was sort of like, you 
know, he was the Pope, you know, blessing his group.  Everybody just – that’s all they would – 
you know, agree.  So, I go back and I come back.  We go to – so this was, I think, in London.  
This was in London.  So, they agree to have this thing in Stockholm.  So, I go to Stockholm.  
And, again, it’s first time in Stockholm, and it’s strange.  The weather is just up and down.  But 
it’s the cleanest place I’ve ever been, a great, clean place. 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 32 of 46 
 
So, I’m sitting next to Simone de Beauvoir.  And we’re – you know, they are talking.  
Colonel Ha Van Lau is – from the Vietnamese – is talking.  And what struck me about him is his 
absolute humility, you know, about the war, about the mistakes that they’ve made, the need to 
change and correct and so forth.  So, every time Jean-Paul Sartre would say something, Simone 
de Beauvoir would turn to me and say, “Do you understand?”  I looked at this – you know, I 
didn’t say to myself what I said about – I said, “Yes.”  She said, “But do you comprehend?”  
[1:10:00] I said, “Yes!”  Wh-wh-, you know? 
So, then, I ask Colonel Ha Van Lau a series of questions, because remember they were 
using pellet bombs.  This was when we started – the United States started using pellet bombs 
[that is, cluster bombs].  So, I asked Colonel Ha Van Lau, I said, “In wars, there are generally, 
you know, institutions that people tend to attack: you know, infrastructure, that is to say, the 
economic infrastructure, the factories; the political infrastructure, the, you know, the capitol and 
so forth; and other things.”  And I said, “It seems to me in guerilla warfare, you don’t have those 
infrastructures that you can attack.  All you have is the people.  So, do you think that by 
definition of what you have, that a war, a guerilla warfare between – you know, that the only 
way an industrialized country has to attack, you know, against guerilla warfare, is to commit 
genocide, because you have to attack the people?”  He said, “Yes.” 
She never asked me again did I comprehend or understand.  She – let me tell you 
something.  She was like – she was pissed.  Because I, you know, implied that the war that the 
West had to fight against wars of national liberation had to be wars of genocide.  She never 
asked me another question.  [Laughs] 
JM:  Let’s take a little break here. 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 33 of 46 
 
CC:  The reverence that Sartre was held in – 
JM:  Yeah. 
CC:  I mean, he was – 
JM:  Yeah. 
CC:  Now, I will tell you at that point I was put on several lists. 
JM:  I might ask you that when we come back on, but – John, you’ve got to give me a 
heads up on that.  We’re back on? 
JB:  We’re back. 
JM:  Okay, please.  Did you want to say that on the tape? 
CC:  Yeah. 
JM:  Okay, please.  Yeah. 
CC:  You know, because – I mean, whether – one of the things that I found out is I was 
put on several lists, uh, mainly FBI and CIA.  Um, and, you know, they followed me wherever I 
went.  And whenever – I mean, on my – wherever, whether I was coming – whenever I came 
back to the United States, they would – you know, I would be surrounded by agents.  And I 
would say, “Oh, you just picked me out at random?”  They, you know, they looked at me.  And 
they’d searched everything and they’d make sure, you know, to see if I had any documents and 
stuff. 
On my way – in 1970, on my way to Africa, you know, the British – I was going to go 
into London.  They stopped me in Heathrow.  At that time, you didn’t have, you know, planes 
going to Africa every day.  And they would not let me in London, so I had to sleep in the airport 
for two nights.  And they took me under armed guard and put me on a plane going to Africa.  
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 34 of 46 
 
Now, so, you know, at that point – you know, at that point, I was viewed, um, as an enemy of the 
state, um, and was treated as such, uh, by both the FBI and, you know, the CIA. 
Now, the FBI was a little more aggressive in the sense that they would, if I was going to 
go – I was going to go speak at Cornell.  And the FBI then said to the people there who invited 
me, “Don’t you know who this guy is?  Why are you inviting him?”  So, they tried to discourage, 
I was told that.  But when I – you know, I do have my FBI files, CIA files, and IRS files.  And 
when I look at the work that the FBI did, as a taxpayer, I’m ashamed that they did such sloppy 
work.  [Laughs] You know, so, you know, I thought the CIA did a little better, but the FBI, they 
just need to pull up their socks.  They need to do better work. 
JM:  This was a Freedom of Information Act [1:15:00] request? 
CC:  Freedom of Information Act, yeah. 
JM:  I need to take a little break, so let’s – 
CC:  Okay. 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB:  Okay. 
JM:  Okay, we’re back on? 
JB:  Yeah.  When you mentioned that we started using pellet bombs, what was that? 
CC:  Yeah, they were called cluster bombs.  You know, you would have one big bomb.  
A cluster bomb is you have one big bomb and had a lot of, uh, little bombs in it.  And then, once 
those bombs, uh, got close to the ground, they’d explode, and BBs, BB, uh, pellets would, uh, 
would be in those pellets.  And so, they couldn’t destroy a building or anything.  They were just 
designed to kill and injure people. 
JB:  Thank you. 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 35 of 46 
 
JM:  Um, let me – we’ve already begun in important ways to touch on the whole question 
of, um, where this work is leading and some of its implications, because you’ve mentioned 
already that you’re closely watched by the federal government and all of its agencies of 
surveillance and national security.  Um, but I’m very interested in the story of the development 
of the effort that culminates in Tanzania in ’73 in the Sixth Congress of Pan-Africa – yeah. 
CC:  Okay.  Well, one of the things that – I mean, Stokely Carmichael and I talked a lot 
about moving the discussion, you know, because – let’s say, after the, after the Atlantic City 
Convention, I began to understand that you had to think much differently.  You could not keep 
asking people, you know, who were, in fact, benefitting from the status quo to change the status 
quo. 
And I felt that it was important that you, as we tried to – people went to the discussion of 
Black Power and what we had to do in our communities and so forth that, as I looked at it, it was 
clear to me that there was nothing in the black communities, whether you’re talking about 
Harlem or all these other places, where you had any kind of economic infrastructure that could 
make a difference.  So, therefore, while, you know, rhetorically and politically, it was kind of 
good to talk about, you know, how these communities could defend themselves and do for 
themselves and so forth, you know, they didn’t grow any wheat, they didn’t – you know, they 
had no agriculture, they had no industry.  They had nothing and they had no resources that could 
make a difference. 
 So, therefore, the question of making alliances and beginning to work with people 
outside of the country, uh, particularly the African continent, which was in this kind of, emerging 
itself, you know, became important to me.  Uh, at that point, I met, um, Pauulu, um, his name is 
Brown [born Roosevelt Brown, later Dr. Pauulu Kamarakafego, of Bermuda], um, and C.L.R. 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 36 of 46 
 
James, you know, the noted West Indian authority on cricket and intellectual, uh, and also the 
man who wrote The Black Jacobins.  Um, and they talked about the Fifth [Pan-African 
Congress]. 
JM:  In ’45? 
CC:  In ’45, 1945.  And we thought it would be important to get African people on the 
continent of Africa and the Diaspora to begin talking about how there could be a cooperation, 
you know, to help, you know.  What people in the United States had and the Diaspora was, you 
know, technical, uh, skills, you know, engineers, that, you know, kind of thing; and, you know, 
what Africans had, land, resources, and so forth.  And how could—and also, the other thing that 
was going on at the time was liberation movements, so how could we be supportive of all those 
kinds of things? 
So, we went around to, um, you know – the President [Julius] Nyerere [of Tanzania] 
agreed to host the conference.  And we went around with C.L.R. James.  Uh, I went around with 
C.L.R. James and Fletcher Robinson, who was a medical doctor.  And we went to talk to, you 
know, we went to talk to a number of African leaders.  We went to the OAU [Organization of 
African Unity].  I, in terms of organizing the Sixth Pan-African Congress, I was named the 
secretary-general.  Um, and that, I was secretary-general – we’re talking – I’m now, um – 
JM:  Thirty-two years old. 
CC:  Thirty-two years old.  [Laughs] And I go, you know, to ask to talk to – [1:20:00] I 
go to talk to Sékou Touré, you know, the President of Guinea.  And, you know, I, uh, you know 
– it’s interesting.  We went there.  I stayed in Guinea for two days and then I was told, “The 
President will see you.”  And at thirty-two years old – Sékou Touré is known as a – and I walk 
into the office, his office, and he has this entourage of people.  And I have my notepad. [Laughs]   
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 37 of 46 
 
I make the speech.  And, I mean, I am – I can tell you, I was perspiring from both arms.  But I 
tried to maintain my calm and cool and collectedness, and presented the case.  And, you know, 
he agreed, I mean, he was more inclined to agree.  He invited me to lunch at this place, and we 
had some fish and rice.  It was very nice.  I went to see, um, you know, Forbes Burnham in 
Guyana [Prime Minister of Guyana], you know, to talk about it.  So, we had – and I also talked 
to a number of radicals in, you know, in the, um, the discussion. 
Now, with the Sixth Pan-African Congress, we had the same kind of problem, you know, 
state power versus, you know, insurgence, particularly in Caribbean. Um, and, you know, what 
happened was that, you know – and also in Ethiopia.  What happened was, you know, the state 
governments said that they would not participate in the Sixth Pan-African Congress from the 
Caribbean if the, the insurgent types were invited and were allowed to come.  And the Tanzanian 
government sided with the governments.  Then, also, the Eritrea, you know, the conflict with 
Eritrea was going on, and, you know, the Tanzanian government also said that they couldn’t 
come.  And then, but the Tanzanian government was supportive of the liberation movement, so 
they were there en masse. 
And, um, you know, you know, the conference itself was, you know, a big success.  Even 
people today, I mean, it’s interesting, um – professor from Harvard who taught Obama, um, and 
his name is, uh, Ogletree, Charles Ogletree, he was at the Sixth Pan-African Congress and he 
reminded me.  You know, there were a lot of people.  Barack Obama – I mean, Amiri Baraka 
was there.  I mean, there were a lot of people who were there, in terms of – so, the people who 
were there from the United States were the people who had been involved in the Movement and 
who were moving along.  Uh, you had that group, you had the liberation movements, you had the 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 38 of 46 
 
various African states, you had – I mean, and I think it was an important statement in terms of, 
you know, what we needed to think about. 
But the problem was, once that conference was over, we didn’t have the infrastructure.  I 
mean, some things happened, I mean, in the sense that support for liberation movements 
continued.  [Someone coughs] Other things that happened was that we did send some technical 
people to Tanzania, and some others moved to Tanzania.  Uh, and there was a lot of intellectual 
discussion back and forth, particularly around Tanzania and others.  But I think the kind of 
broad, uh, discussion that we wanted to have and maintaining that discussion, and building on it, 
we didn’t have the infrastructure. 
So, I think that it pointed the direction that we needed to go in, but it did not allow us to 
really have the kind of relationships that we wanted.  But, I mean, the Sixth Pan-African 
Congress grew out of our view that, in fact, if we were going to deal with something, the 
economic issue was going to be important, and we did not have anything that was fundamental to 
the economic development of our communities in our communities.  I mean, that was 
particularly important. 
JM:  Yeah.  Let me pull you back inside that story just to say a little bit more about your 
– how the [1:25:00], uh, how the story unfolded so that you emerged in that role as secretary-
general.  It’s really quite exceptional. 
CC:   Yeah.  I mean, I think that, you know, clearly the intellectual godfather was C.L.R. 
James.  He wrote the Manifesto, he wrote the Call, and stuff like that.  Um, I think that I – I 
mean, for better or for worse, I’ve always in some ways been perceived in SNCC as an 
intellectual type.  I mean, you know, I mean, whether that’s good or bad, I’m not, you know, and 
therefore – and I also had, and I guess people assumed I had some organizational skills.  Um, so 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 39 of 46 
 
when – and I put – and, you know, I understood the question, and I think, as I put the time and 
energy into it, you know, people felt that, uh, not only did I understand the issues, but looking 
back, you know – and it was a little bold, my thinking that I could deal with the heads of 
government and the heads of state and talk to them about a proposal and [laughs] get them 
involved in it. 
But I think once, I think what gave me cover – I think two things: first – if C.L.R.’s 
involvement in the conversation gave Nuyerere the comfort that this was a serious conversation, 
and then, Nuyerere’s involvement in the conversation made other heads of state think this was 
serious.  So, therefore, I mean, I had cover that I just – if I didn’t mess it up, it would be all right.  
I mean, I think that’s kind of how it was, as I see it. 
JM:  Yeah.  Um, it’s a very interesting story.  Let me take you back to ’68 for a couple of 
things. 
CC:  Okay. 
JM:  Two main things I want to ask about in ’68.  [Clears throat] One is the, um, 
bookstore and press that you opened here. 
CC:  Oh, yeah, Drum & Spear. 
JM:  Another is just the climate of that year with King, RFK, Nixon in the fall elected. 
CC:  Yeah.  [Laughs] I think the, uh, we had just – I had come back.  You know, I had 
decided to come back to Washington. 
JM:  Oh, can I –?  Forgive me.  Can I ask one other thing in front of that? 
CC:  Okay. 
JM:  Because it comes chronologically in front, and I meant to ask this.  You declined the 
invitation to go to North Vietnam. 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 40 of 46 
 
CC:  Yeah. 
JM:  Is there an interesting story to tell about that decision? 
CC:  No, I just thought that I had – I had just come back from, you know, the War Crimes 
Tribunal, and we were invited, you know.  I mean, I didn’t want to be the person who was 
always doing something.  Now, I was invited to go to Russia, but I didn’t go because I thought, 
in February, it’d be too cold.  [Laughs] But the other one, about North Vietnam, I didn’t want to 
go because I had just been, you know.  Other people should, you know, go. 
JM:  Okay.  The bookstore and the press. 
CC:  You know, after I came back from the, uh, War Crimes Tribunal, I decided to settle 
in Washington.  Uh, and we decided – Marvin Holloway, Ann Holloway, um, Charlie Cobb, 
Judy Richardson – we decided to – you know, information was important, and we decided that, 
you know, a bookstore and a press would be good.  Um, and so, we opened a bookstore on 14th 
and Fairmont Street, you know, dealing with African and African American history and also 
things that dealt with, you know, Palestine, dealt with Vietnam, dealt with issues of war and stuff 
like that. 
And, I mean, we, it was, you know, I mean, it was – it was a great political venture, but 
I’m not sure it was a great business venture, in the sense that we did a lot of stuff, but I don’t 
think we ever made any serious money.  But it was important because it – I mean, people 
remember it today.  In fact, there is a plaque on that building, you know, that, you know, the 
bookstore was there.  And Drum & Spear, you know, we were able to publish, you know, 
C.L.R.’s book and, you know, some other books that we did, um, Palestinian poetry and other 
things, a book of African names and [1:30:00] so forth. 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 41 of 46 
 
So, I mean, I think it was about: How do you now organize information about the African 
community?  And we, in addition to the Drum & Spear bookstore and the Drum & Spear press, 
we had the Center for Black Education, so that, so that information and education now became 
important.  Now, how do you begin to think about the world differently?  How do you begin to 
read different books?  How do you begin to do things that were different?  So, I mean, I think 
that was our thinking in terms of, you know, why we established the, you know, bookstore and 
the press. 
JM:  Um-hmm, yeah.  Your reaction to –? 
CC:  Oh, yeah, King’s – we were, Ivanhoe [Donaldson] and I were going to, uh – we 
were going to make a speech somewhere in Pennsylvania.  And we were riding in a Volkswagen.  
You know, those Volkswagens in those days, if you were going uphill it was a struggle; downhill 
you were all right.  Um, and we, you know, heard about King being killed.  And, um, you know, 
it was like a total shock, I mean, total disbelief.  Because I don’t think that any of us, even 
though we knew that this was a dangerous situation, the concept of King being shot was a bit 
beyond what most people would conceive to be within the realm of possibility.  And when he 
was killed, it was a shock to everybody.  Because I think, you know, most African Americans 
thought, “If they could do that to him, what are they now prepared to do to us?” 
And then, we came back and we were in Washington.  And, you know, the Poor People’s 
March headquarters were 14th and U Street.  [Someone coughs] And I think the next day or so, 
you know, Stokely and others started, you know, making a lot of noise about, you know, King’s 
death and they started marching up, you know, 14th Street.  Um, and, you know, what people 
characterized as rebellions took place.  And, you know, it was interesting.  There were two things 
going on at the same time.  Externally, to the white community, there was a lot of hostility.  
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 42 of 46 
 
Internally, even in the actual rebellion, like, there was a lot of peace and calm.  So, if somebody 
said – you know, people were very polite to each other.  Uh, you know, if somebody said, 
“Well,” you know, “can I help you get this television,” [laughing] so, you could, you know, take 
it away.  I mean, the thing was very, I mean, to each other, the sense of solidarity was very 
strong.  And externally, it was very – you know. 
So, I mean, I, you know, I was, you know, I was just – I remember I was sitting on the 
hill on 13th Street, just looking and seeing what’s happening, and it was, you know, it was just 
fascinating.  I was just watching it, um, you know, and I thought, “Well, you know, there’s 
people –” there was nothing that could be done.  I mean, I think, I thought that people were 
leading with their frustration.  I thought it would get them nowhere.  I thought that and about a 
dollar fifty would get them on the bus.  But, you know, that’s what they wanted to do.  Uh, I 
think that the reaction of the mayor, Walter Washington, at that point, when he declared martial 
law and had tanks on Columbia Road and 14th Street was quite interesting and, again, was 
another sense of what power will do, you know, analogous to, you know, Atlantic City, I mean, 
to protect property, to protect its own interests.  So, that was, you know, to me, a big lesson. 
Um, I think, you know, that, you know, in ’68 also – I mean, I think the other impact was 
Bobby Kennedy’s being shot.  Because I think, you know, Bobby Kennedy, you know, he – I 
think he really showed a great deal of humanity [1:35:00] and sophistication after King was shot.  
I mean, probably of all the people, public people, he understood.  I mean, it was not an 
intellectual discussion with him, you know.  It was, you know, he had been there, and I think his 
words were really appropriate.  Uh, and what he had just said in South Africa, was also very 
good.  So, I mean, I think he found his voice that was really very, you know, very important.  But 
then – you know. 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 43 of 46 
 
You know, I think what people began to see, uh, and then with the Chicago Convention, 
um, you know, with, uh, you know, the people watching.  I mean, I think for King’s death and 
Kennedy’s death, people just thought about this as a very violent country.  I mean, and, you 
know, where you had, you know, somebody like Rap [H. Rap Brown] saying, you know, 
“Violence in America is – violence is as American as cherry pie,” I mean, that kind of mindset.  I 
think the Chicago piece, at least for me, I mean, I was kind of not involved in it, in a sense.  I 
mean, when I say “not involved,” I was not only physically not there, I was emotionally not 
there.  Um, and I thought that it had a lot more to do with Vietnam and, you know, and people 
acting out their sense of,  um, frustration in terms of ending a war that, you know, people felt 
people were dying and there was no way to deal with it.  I mean, people felt that the government 
was not listening.  And, um, you know, while I knew a lot of the players there, I wasn’t – I mean, 
I was an observer.  I was not a participant, I mean, I just – either physically or emotionally.  I just 
was watching it. 
JM:  Let’s take a short break. 
CC:  Okay. 
JM:  Just a quick pause. 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
CC:  I mean, I think that, um – 
JM:  Okay, we’ll come back on. 
JB:  We’re on. 
JM:  Okay, we’ll come back on. 
CC:  You know, my sense is, I’ve done a number of things, uh, and, you know, I’ve seen 
a lot of these, you know, movies and so forth.  You know, and as I think about it – and, you 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 44 of 46 
 
know, it’s interesting, because Stokely and I used to talk about stuff.  And we used to view this 
like an onion.  You know, we knew that the basic issue was economic.  We were brought to the 
United States for economic reasons, and the only way we would be able to deal with it was the 
economic issue, dealing with the economic issues.  But there were several layers and several 
barriers between where we were, you know, forty years ago and where we could get today. 
So, as I think about it, you know, it seems to me that, you know, the modern civil rights 
era, what I call the political era, starting in ’55, really ended in 2008.  That – the whole thing – 
we had three accomplishments in between that time: we ended segregation in public 
accommodations, we did voting rights and spread it to the South; and we did political –
organizational, electoral – politics.  With the election of Obama, all the presumed barriers that 
we had before us, you know, are now gone. 
Now, but before ’55, you know, we have to look at the NAACP and the things that they 
did for us.  They allowed the country – they functioned in the courts, so they allowed the country 
to now say segregation is no longer the law of the land.  It reversed Plessy v. Ferguson in, you 
know, in 1896 and established a new thing, a new, uh, frame of reference in 1954.  So, I mean, 
so you look at that, and then, before that, the whole fight to end chattel slavery and establish the 
African American as part of the American society.  So, you look at – so, these things don’t exist 
in one-offs.  They exist in a continuum. 
I think at this point we are now [1:40:00] able to do what Stokely and I discussed forty 
years ago: We are now able to focus on the economic discussion.  Because what we have is, you 
know, an information economy, and things, you know, manufacturing and so forth, while 
important, they are not the drivers.  I mean, intellectual property and the ability to conceive ideas 
and move the discussion is particularly important.  And that the kind of literacy that is necessary 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 45 of 46 
 
in order going forward, you know, includes – both includes English, but includes math and 
computers.  So, therefore, we now have to think and conceive of these things, you know, a lot 
differently.  And I think my role and the role of people like myself is to understand what the 
fundamentals are. 
 Now, one of the things – and I was talking to Bob Moses the other day, and, you know, 
he was saying that nothing we did was really radical.  You know, getting people to vote, you 
know, sitting at a lunch counter and organizing politically is not radical.  What was radical is 
who we tried to include in the discussion, you know.  So that, to me, is the same fight that we 
have to understand we have to bring: that we have to broaden the economic base.  We have to 
include, you know, particularly not only African Americans, but poor whites, you know, who are 
being used as soldiers for, you know, for purposes that nobody, they don’t even care about them.  
They call them heroes, and then when they come back here, you know, nobody cares about them.  
You know, Native Americans and so forth.  So, we now have to say, “All of these people at the 
bottom now have to be part of the American economy.  And they have to begin to get a quality 
education that allows them to participate in the American economy.  And those people who have 
intellectual property should be able to monetize them and create wealth and institutions.”  
Now, that – given even today’s discussion about who gets cut off and who doesn’t, you 
know – I mean, that is a radical concept.  Nothing I said about what we should be doing is 
radical.  What is radical is who is included in the conversation.  I mean, and to me, you know, 
that is the lesson that we have to talk to the young people about, because they keep looking back 
at what we did in the ’50s, ’60s, and so forth, and trying to figure out what are the lessons 
learned.  The lesson learned has to be the broadest inclusion of people, not the particular act or so 
Courtland Cox Interview, 7-8-11 
Page 46 of 46 
 
forth.  What we did – that is what we have to figure out, and how do we now put that in an 
economic context.  It seems to me that is what I’m interested in doing, going forward. 
JM:  Mr. Cox, I really want to thank you.  It’s been an honor and a privilege. 
CC:  [Laughs] Okay. 
JM:  And we appreciate your time. 
CC:  [Laughs] Now, you’ve done your homework.  I mean, I have to say – 
JM:  It’s a real pleasure. 
CC:  I must say, I mean, you, I guess – what do you do? 
JM:  Historian. 
CC:  I mean, I guess so.  So, I mean, it’s definitely clear that you’re a historian.  
[Laughter] 
JM:  Well, anyway. 
[Recording ends at 1:43:40] 
 
END OF INTERVIEW