1 
 
Project: Trash Talk: Workers in Vermont’s Changing Waste Management Industry 
Narrator:  Dan Goosen, Director of Composting, Chittenden Solid Waste District 
Interviewer:  Virginia Nickerson 
Date: April 19, 2019 
Place:  Green Mountain Compost Facility, Chittenden Solid Waste District, Williston, Vermont 
Transcribed by:  Teresa Bergen  
 
Nickerson:  I’m going to start. So this is Ginger Nickerson and I am interviewing Dan Goosen at 
the Green Mountain Compost Facility in Williston, Vermont. We’re talking in the office. And it 
is Friday, April 19, 2019. So Dan, can you tell me the year that you were born and where you 
born? 
 
Goosen:  I was born in 1980 in Bennington, Vermont. 
 
Nickerson:  Okay. Thank you. And what is your current job title and how long have you been in 
this line of work? 
 
Goosen:  My current job title is director of composting at Chittenden Solid Waste District. That 
has recently changed. Prior to that, it was just compost manager for Chittenden Solid Waste 
District. And I’ve been manager in this position since 2008, so 11 years. I started with the 
compost facility, however, in 2003. So about 16 years. Yeah, 16 years. 
 
Nickerson:  And how did you get into this job? 
 
Goosen:  So when I started working in the compost industry, I was pretty young. I had gone to 
the University of Vermont for a couple of years. After two and a half years there, a number of 
things happened. Nine/eleven had just happened. It seemed like there was a lot of transition 
worldwide, and obviously politically. But on my individual level, I was getting to a point in my 
studies where I had to really refine my focus and pick what I was going to focus on. And I 
wasn’t ready to do that. I was also running out of money and about to go far into debt to finish 
college. So I actually took some time off, traveled around Latin America for six months. And 
then when I came back, I was working for a beekeeper in the region. And had a friend who told 
me about an opening at the compost facility in Burlington at the time. So I just went down and 
applied and got that job and started. Originally just bagging compost as a seasonal laborer. But 
then stuck around long enough and kept taking on more and more responsibility until I was asked 
to be manager a few years later. 
 
00:02:49 
 
Nickerson:  Do you remember your first day of work?  
 
Goosen:  I definitely don’t. In fact, it’s been long enough that most of my adult life has been with 
the compost facility. Both before it was part of the solid waste district and now. And so probably 
the majority of my adult memories are associated with working here. You know, I’m here five 
days a week, most of the day. But it’s enough memory that the early memories at this point, 
they’re far and few between. I remember little things here and there. I certainly remember 
2 
 
bagging and some of the things that happened around that. But no, I definitely don’t remember 
my first day of work. 
 
00:03:30 
 
Nickerson:  What are some of the things that you remember about your job early on? 
 
Goosen:  I remember really liking it. So when I first got the position, my friend was still working 
there, my best friend growing up happened to have a job at the compost facility and got me the 
interview. I really liked all the people. I felt lucky pretty early on that I landed the job, even 
though it was seasonal and not much skill demand. But it was, working with compost, I had 
studied environmental studies in college. And so was always interested in environmentally 
themed topics and loved gardening and growing food. And had a desire to be working outside 
and being with the elements. And so I really appreciated that aspect of it as well as the physical 
demand. It’s pretty hard to bag compost. So I really enjoyed that. The people that worked at the 
compost facility were a great group of people, almost always. And I have fond memories of 
people who were working back then. I also threw my back out that first season, so I remember 
that. That was pretty tough. I had to go to the chiropractor for some follow-up there. Yeah, it was 
a great, very formative. When I started, I was probably, I was 23, I guess, when I first started 
working for the facility. And I think, you know, a lot of my learning as an adult happened at the 
compost facility.  
 
So we were located at the Intervale when we started, that agricultural area in Burlington, 
which is just full of organic farms. And we had the only bathroom in the entire Intervale. So all 
the farmers would come in to use the bathroom, which meant that we established great 
friendships. Some of my lifelong friends now have been from that experience when we were 
located there. Just a really great place to be in general. So to be paid to be there was a pretty neat 
thing.  
 
And not without, there were a lot of challenges. It was very stressful. Even in the early 
days, there were some big crises of sorts that happened to us at that facility. And it’s been a 
trying time, I guess. You know, it comes in waves. But there’s been one after another, it seems, 
of big things that have hit the compost facility in terms of challenges. And I’ve definitely done a 
lot of thinking and growth around all of that, I think. [I was] forced to just make things work and 
figure out how to get through some really tough challenges. And that’s been really a gift, I think, 
in the long run. Hard to see that in the time, I think. But it’s made me a better person, I think, for 
having to do all of that and survive. (laughs)  
 
00:06:35 
 
Nickerson:  And you didn’t change jobs, either. You stayed with compost. 
 
Goosen:  I didn’t. I wouldn’t lie and say I didn’t consider it multiple times along the way during 
some of those more stressful periods. But no, actually the first, after the first season, I did take 
off a little time and did some organic farming. But after that, I came right back and made it a 
fulltime thing, yeah. 
3 
 
 
00:07:05 
 
Nickerson:  Do you want to say anything more about either the crises or challenges that you 
mentioned, or the lessons that you learned by going through those? 
 
Goosen:  Yeah, I could talk a little bit about those. The first, you know, let’s see. There was a 
little bit of a break-in period. There were more challenges early on that I was less aware of, you 
know, before I was involved with management. But they were minor. And then it was right 
around the transition of me becoming manager that we had the really first big one where there 
were some permitting issues and some political maneuvering perhaps associated with our 
relocation from our former facility. There were some ponds that were dug without permits. But it 
blew up into this huge crisis where the Attorney General got involved, and political figures from 
both parties were using the compost crisis at the Intervale as a pawn, you know, for political 
gains, and issuing press releases and accusing each other of different things associated with our 
problem. But the long and short of it was that we were a compost facility in an urban center but 
in a unique agricultural area of an urban center that had started just as a small project as a way to 
get rid of the leaves of Burlington. But over the years, it grew and grew and grew and grew and 
brought in more and more feedstocks, more ingredients and soon there were thousands of tons of 
food scraps headed down there, and manures from farms all over the area. And it, in the process, 
the compost project took over more and more acreage. But all the while, this agricultural land is 
in the floodway. The Winooski River happens to be right next to where the facility was located. 
And it was challenging operating down there because it was mud much of the year, and would 
flood with some regularity.  
 
 
So eventually enough attention was given and with the timeline of the permits that were 
required that wasn’t realized immediately, the long and short of it was that the state realized this 
is not the best place for a compost facility of this size. And so it was looking like the compost 
facility was going to have to close down. The Intervale Center was the prior owner. And they’re 
just a nonprofit and back then had pretty regular financial troubles of their own, without compost 
facility woes dragging them down. So there just wasn’t the money to pay the lawyers, and the 
studies, and the engineers to keep it going and to fully permit it the way that it was going to be 
required. And so that, obviously, was very stressful, with potential imminent closure brought up 
multiple times. In the end, there was some personnel change as a result of the permitting issues. 
And that’s when the managerial position opened up and I was given that job. And that started a 
two-year project of relocating and finding another location within our county that could house a 
fully commercial compost facility, where there would not be concerns about proximity to 
waterways that hand a tendency to flood. 
 
 
So that was the big one, the big first one. The solid waste district took over ownership a 
couple of years, or a year later, fully. And that presented a lot of challenges in terms of how to 
not necessarily just the ownership transition, but the actual relocation. We spent a lot of time 
figuring out how and where to build a better facility that was challenging but really rewarding. 
 
 
And then as soon as they did take ownership, there was a mini crisis involving a 
contaminant called poly-aromatic hydrocarbons, or polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, which are 
4 
 
aerial deposits of these compounds that form from incomplete combustion of carbon, which 
could be any source of burnings, but particularly power plants in the Midwest or automobile 
when the exhaust comes into the air. All those pollutants, the ones that are lighter than air rise up 
in the atmosphere and then eventually deposit. And they tend to collect on leaves. And there are 
higher concentrations of these in urban areas. But because of the waxy coating on most 
deciduous leaves, they tend to collect there and then as a society, at least in our region, we 
collect those leaves and we try to do something responsible with them. The best thing, of course, 
is just to leave them in your backyard. But that’s not what we tend to do as a society. So they get 
collected and brought to the compost facility. And nobody was really thinking of this or aware of 
this, but there were these compounds, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, and somebody realized 
that the levels of those in our finished products was higher than the background levels, or, I’m 
sorry, higher than in some of the brown field sites where they were trying to do remediation and 
bring in our soil as a replacement. That created some issues, because nobody had been really 
paying much attention to them. A little bit more so in Europe. But in our region, not a lot of folks 
in the industry knew what polycyclic, PAHs, as we call them now, what they were, how 
dangerous they were. At high enough levels they can be carcinogenic. So it was pretty scary stuff 
for a little while.  
 
The Health Department got involved. We closed the facility temporarily while we could 
figure out what was going on. So that was trying, for sure. We got through it. We worked with 
the state and did a big study statewide to see if we could measure what the background levels 
were. I drove all over the entire state of Vermont over a two-day period and collected leaf 
samples from every corner of the state. And the urban leaves, suburban leaves and rural leaves. 
That was actually pretty great. Because we did it twice. Once during summer and then once 
during fall. And there’s no better way to spend time than to be paid to drive around the state and 
collect leaves, it turns out. But it was part of a bigger thing that was pretty stressful and it took us 
a while to get through it. We did, though, and come to find out there’s a lot of these compounds 
already in the soils, all over the state. Higher concentrations in urban areas. And Vermont has 
since in more recent years done a more background study where they’ve gone even further. And 
there’s more direction on what those are. But at the time, it was a big unknown and it was kind of 
the beginning of a series of stressful events that related to whether or not our compost facility 
would continue to operate. 
 
So then we relocated. That was tricky. Just because we had a short time window in which 
to do it all. We ended up I think bringing over a hundred tractor trailer loads of partially finished 
compost with us when we started the new facility. Which was a big undertaking, obviously 
pretty expensive. And then, and to go back, actually, right after the district took over ownership, 
one of our biggest feedstocks or inputs came from a cheese plant in Hinesberg that burned down 
maybe the next week or two. So that was a major revenue stream that suddenly dried up. And 
also a source of lots of volume. That was a big challenge. 
 
But then we relocated and things were going great. We rebranded. We were no longer 
Intervale Compost. We changed to Green Mountain Compost and started selling material more 
and more. Bagged product. And really growing a lot of appreciation for our brand. You know, 
we’d already been in existence twenty-some odd years at that point. But I think people really 
5 
 
appreciated the change in the process and our relocation, and were very supportive of our 
ongoing existence at that point, because it had been in question so much.  
 
And then in 2012, in June that year, we learned that, well, first we learned one of our 
garden customers had curled tomato leaves. And we went out to look at the garden. They weren’t 
sure what the cause was, but they thought maybe it had something to do with the compost they 
had purchased. So we went out and looked. We brought a pathologist from the state of Vermont 
with us, and pretty quickly determined that there was some herbicide damage in there. And 
somehow some herbicide had made it through the composting process. And that was the start of 
a very long summer in which we spent many, many hours every week trying to figure out what 
the issue was. Within a number of weeks, probably within two months, we had a total of more 
than 500 garden customers affected by, unbeknownst to us, by our compost and soil blends that 
had trace amounts of persistent herbicides in the blend. And that was heartbreaking for everyone 
involved, particularly the garden owners who had, in Vermont we have a very short growing 
window. The snow melts, and you’ve only got so many weeks before it comes back again and 
the days start getting short. So everybody puts their all into their garden and takes great pride in 
having their tomatoes ripen on time and what they can do with them. So for us to see 500 
gardens that had these plants negatively affected as a result of adding our product was just 
completely heartbreaking. 
 
We ended up hiring a team of people to go out and look at every garden, talk to the 
garden and homeowners and collect receipts. And we had a robust compensation program where 
we took full responsibility when indeed there was damage caused by our product and we could 
prove that. It cost $800,000 or so to the district to solve that issue. And again, it was another very 
stressful period where our ongoing existence was in question. Because it was a major hit 
financially. It turns out that these compounds, the persistent herbicides, are very active at very, 
very small concentrations. And it appeared that because we recycle water within our process, a 
very small quantity of this probably came in. I think at one point we estimated a quarter cup of 
this herbicide was enough to affect over 6,000 cubic yards of material. Which is, you know, 
some customers get a half cubic yard at a time. So that’s a lot of potential customers getting 
some of this herbicide.  
 
And as a result, we stopped all sales. We did a recall on all of our bagged product. And 
spent the rest of that summer trying to make it right to all the customers who’d been affected, 
while at the same time investigating, trying to figure out how this had happened and what had 
come in. It launched a national conversation around persistent herbicides in compost facilities. 
We were working with the EPA and the chemical manufacturers and the composting association, 
the United States Composting Association. And put a lot of time and energy into making it all 
right. And in the end, it was very, it was a huge lesson in crisis management for me and for our 
operation. But at the end of the day, I think we were stronger for it. The composting industry in 
general, I think, benefited from our experience. We got lots and lots of positive feedback from all 
the customers, even the ones who had put their entire summer and hopes of fresh vegetables, put 
their faith in us for that and had that all destroyed. They came back and gave us lots of 
compliments on how well we handled it. And were appreciative of the compensation and 
refunds.  
6 
 
And then within a year or two, we had regained pretty much all the, it’s a hard thing to 
recover from when you take all of your product off the marketplace and tell people that it’s 
affected with an herbicide. Particularly when you’ve got something that’s seen as an organic 
input and is supposed to sustain life and really help you grow nourishment for your family. And 
yet it’s shriveling leaves on all your plants. So for them to come back around and bear with us as 
we figured out what was going on and were able to help explain the situation and for them to 
come back and give us their appreciation was really a very heartwarming thing. It went from 
heartbreaking to heartwarming within a pretty short window of time. And we all lost some hair 
and got gray in the process, probably. But it was a pretty pivotal time for our operation. And I 
think we’ve been stronger as a result ever since. And you know, to this day the work that came 
out of that is affecting policy around herbicides that are going to compost. And we’re still 
involved with trying to deal with these potential contaminants that are out in the world and have 
really important uses in some parts of the agricultural system, but can be incredibly detrimental if 
they aren’t used properly or end up in the wrong place. So it’s an ongoing issue. And that was 
our biggest and most trying challenge, I think, one of the toughest things I’ve had to deal with in 
my life, certainly. And as part of this organization, one of the biggest challenges both for the 
compost program as well as the municipality, the solid waste district. And we all got through it 
and I think we’re better off for it. 
 
00:22:06 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. Yeah. Well, thank you so much for sharing that. And sitting here and thinking 
that probably a lot of people when they purchase compost they don’t know everything that goes 
into it, and all of the potential things that can happen, the back stories. So I’m wondering if you 
could just sort of walk me through, I realize you may not have a typical day now. But if you 
could walk me through like what a typical day for you here is like, what you do. 
 
Goosen:  So my job is highly variable. And it always seems to be changing. The way we 
compost, and what we compost is kind of at a, it’s a pivotal time again in the world of solid 
waste. Both nationally, people are thinking very differently about organics and how it’s 
composted. And particularly here in Vermont as the amount of food waste that is no longer going 
to the landfill but being diverted for higher and better uses. A lot of that is heading our way. And 
we’ve been forced to try to figure out how best to handle that. So there’s been a lot of change in 
what I do over the last couple few years as we try to manage that and figure out our plan around 
it. Officially, you know, I manage a team of six to ten people seasonally, depending on what’s 
going on. A lot of my job is making sure that the folks who are handling the food waste coming 
in and mixing up the recipes that we do on a given day that they’ve got everything they need to 
make it work well, that our equipment is operating properly. And if we’ve got something that’s 
not working that there are other people working on how to get that back up and running. There’s 
a lot of personnel management.  
 
I do work on recipes. Sometimes we get requests from all sorts of different folks coming 
in with one-off tractor trailer loads of expired products. And sometimes that’s cheese. Or we’ve 
had trailer loads full of cantaloupe balls. And this week we had a 2,000, or 2,600-pound 
container full of eggs that was, liquefied eggs, that was going to a cookie dough manufacturer 
locally. And they had a leak on its way from Iowa. And they got here but they realized pretty 
7 
 
quickly that it couldn’t go to cookie dough. So they asked us if we could take it. So there’s some 
managing around how to handle that. So we get all sorts of things that can be challenging to deal 
with, and we have to figure that out.  
 
I do a lot of coordinating with our administrative staff for the district. We’ve been 
spending a lot of time the last year or a little bit more just doing planning around how do we take 
all this food? So it’s been a lot of meetings and a lot of computer time trying to do modeling 
around that sort of stuff. Which is not what I started doing when I was managing compost, 
certainly, was all this future planning. But it’s what you have to do when times change and your 
outlook changes. 
 
This week, I spent the better part of a day in an excavator helping to move piles of 
finished product. And then I was in a loader for part of a day as well. We’re big enough that we 
use heavy equipment to do all of our processing and our moving. And we have, in ideal times we 
have enough people that we can, and everything’s working well, that that goes smoothly. But 
inevitably, particularly as we’re approaching the busy time of year, things break and things get 
hectic. So this time of the ear particularly, I find myself jumping into pieces of equipment and 
helping out and coordinating to make sure that we have all the material available to meet the 
demand for trucks coming in to bring material elsewhere. So I would say there are other times 
when I’m doing product quality assurance or measuring piles and looking at inventory. We do 
growth trials. So I work with our person who’s in charge of that. And we assess how our plants 
are doing on any batch. So it’s a mix of office work and people work and compost, getting dirty. 
But at the end of the day, somehow inevitably I smell like compost going down. (laughs) So 
even if I think I’m going to be in meetings all day, I still have compost in the soles of my shoe 
and in my pockets and sometimes in my ears. And there’s occasionally a wardrobe change that 
needs to happen before I’m allowed into my home. (laughter) So it’s highly varied and never 
boring. And definitely stressful a lot of the time still. But it’s a great job. And I feel fortunate to 
have had it as long as I have. 
 
00:27:35 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah.  You’ve been in it for a really long time. What appeals to you about it? What 
do you like about it? 
 
Goosen:  I know it’s similar to the things that I liked about it when we first started. We still have 
an amazing staff. Somehow this, I don't know what it is about compost, but I have colleagues 
who manage other types of facilities and we chat every now and then. And invariably, I always 
feel really lucky and really fortunate. I think compost, working with compost, attracts a certain 
type of individual, perhaps. And so I work with an incredibly dedicated team of people. Some of 
the most dedicated employees I think you can find. That makes it just a pleasure to be at work. 
Being with, knowing that you’re making this magical ingredient, really. Most people are buying 
our product and putting it in their garden and growing fruits and vegetables and flowers in a way 
that they can’t do without what it is that we produce. And so even though it’s a natural process 
that’s been going on for millennia, you know, since the dawn of time, recycling organic 
components back into the soil, the fact that we box it up, we do it in a process and have an output 
that we can sell, it puts us in the position of being able to offer something magical to end users. 
8 
 
And that is a pretty, you know, there are not very many people who sell something that can make 
magic happen in your garden. So being able to be in charge of an operation that does that, I think 
that inherently just makes it good. If we were making, I don't know, like car axles, I probably 
wouldn’t be as excited about coming to work. Even if we had a great team and great conditions, 
the fact that we can benefit our community’s ability to grow food on their own, that’s probably 
the overarching reason why I still enjoy coming to work every day.  
 
00:29:46 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah, yeah. That’s pretty cool. And it sounds like, when I asked you to describe a 
typical day and you were describing everything from making recipes with spoiled eggs to futures 
modeling to jumping in machinery, that’s a really wide range of skills. How did you learn what 
to do that would help in this job? 
 
Goosen:  It’s a good question. I often ask myself the same question. A lot of our equipment is 
very standard. Front end loaders and, well, agriculturally common. Even some of our screeners, 
they’re around and pretty simple mechanically. We have another screener that has, must be a 
thousand different electrical circuits. And nobody on our staff is an electrician. Districtwide, 
there’s not a whole lot of knowledge and skill about electronics. And I include myself in that. 
However, I need the machine to work. And so over the last couple of years, I should not [be 
doing this] probably, I usually have more critical things budget-wise or administratively that 
need to be addressed, but I invariably end up working on that machine more than anybody else. 
Trouble shooting. And I ask myself how did I get into this position? How do I know better than 
anybody else how this works? And it’s out of necessity, really. I think that’s how most of my 
learning’s been done. Obviously I’ve had a lot of guidance over the years. And I think just the 
time involved, the length of time that I’ve been doing this, you pick up things. And I make a lot 
of mistakes as everybody does. And you learn from those mistakes. But if you make enough 
mistakes, that means you’ve got more skills in the end, probably. So I guess I do have quite a 
vast array of skills. I don’t usually think about it that way. But if you drop me in a compost 
facility anywhere in the country, I could probably figure out what was going on pretty quickly 
and tend to whatever needed to be done, be that administrative or managerial or helping to fix a 
machine. But that’s, yeah, that certainly wasn’t my educational background, even at college. But 
I think just out of necessity. We’ve usually worked with older equipment and had to make things 
work even if we don’t have all the resources required to do it the way that we’d like to do it. So I 
think that’s basically how it’s happened.  
 
00:32:26 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. Yeah. Do compost facility managers, or have you gone through any like 
specific professional training? Are there licenses that you have to get to do—I’m thinking about 
if I was a young person interested in this field. 
 
Goosen:  Yeah. That’s a great question. So it depends on where you are. Here in Vermont, 
starting a few years ago, I guess it is, they required that all facility operators have some level of 
training. The state offers a training every year or every other year. We host it actually at our 
facility, generally. So I did that. There’s also a great week-long compost school in Maine that’s 
9 
 
been going on, oh, probably 20 years or so. Certainly as long as I’ve been doing it. And we’ve 
sent quite a few of our staff there. But that’s a great exposure and it goes through all the science 
and the basics around how and why of composting. Even touches on marketing. So I did that 
pretty early on, I guess. So that was probably my first biggest educational, you know, industry-
specific educational opportunity. Since then, I’ve had lots of great opportunities to attend, there’s 
national conferences every year. Actually there’s probably now three or four national 
conferences all around organics and composting. And I had the fortune of being able to attend 
quite a few of those. And there’s always a lot of great education to be had there, be it through 
workshops or just networking with other composters who are dealing with the same equipment 
and the same challenges. So that’s probably been the greatest extent of my industry-specific 
education has been that. 
 
 
There’s more and more avenues for education around this job. You know, if you wanted 
to work at a compost facility, they seem to be popping up, these educational opportunities. 
There’s now trainings nationwide, whereas when I got started, the compost school in Maine was 
pretty much it. There are now, I think, the US Composting Council puts on five or six trainings a 
year scattered throughout the country. And then statewide, you know, individual states have a lot 
of training opportunities, just like ours in Vermont. So there’s, and there’s actually curriculum 
now in universities or other settings where you could probably get a degree that’s partially, 
certainly in waste management and with a concentration in organics or composting. I wouldn’t 
be surprised if there are people doing that as well. So there’s a lot more knowledge, I think. It’s 
not, composting in and of itself is not a complex science. There can be complexity, depending on 
your process. It certainly is worth learning whatever you can. And there’s a lot of great resources 
to do so. But at the end of the day, if you’re trying to figure out composting, it’s a forgiving 
medium. The organic materials want to break down. And the bacteria that do most of that work, 
they’re going to do it, it just takes a few tweaks of the right conditions and they’ll do the work 
for you. So sometimes I get credit for us making really good compost when really, it’s not very 
difficult. What’s more difficult is keeping our equipment running and keeping everybody happy 
and trying to meet our budget every year. That’s the hard part. Making compost is pretty 
straightforward. 
 
00:36:19 
 
Nickerson:  Could you describe what it looks, sounds, and smells like to work here? 
 
Goosen:  Yeah, great question. If you ask anybody who works here, and most people who visit 
here, it depends on the day, the third graders who come through for tours usually have their 
fingers over their nose, because they think it’s the worst smell ever, regardless of how bad it 
smells. Normally the folks who work here don’t actually smell compost, I don't think. After a 
certain number of years, your nose desensitizes to it. If there’s something really off, we can 
certainly appreciate that. But it’s more of an earthy aroma, I think, generally. It doesn’t smell like 
being in the downtown of a major city. It smells like being on the edge of a farm and a forest or 
something. I think it’s a good smell. And occasionally it’s not a good smell, but those are usually 
short-lived moments. 
 
10 
 
 
It’s dirty. It’s always dirty. It’s either muddy or it’s dusty. Usually nothing in between. So 
we get caked in compost. All our clothes are always covered in compost. And our cars, my car 
does smell. I will admit to that. Because it’s one thing tracking around finished compost on the 
bottom of your shoes. But if you’re walking around in the fresh stuff and then you track that in 
your car, that, you know, that’s not the composting process at that point; it’s just rotting food. So 
we get dirty all the time. And it can be loud sometimes because we’re using front end loaders 
and screeners and they all have big, loud engines. And there’s trucks dumping and slamming 
their tail gates. So it’s not a quiet existence working at our compost facility. But it’s nice. We’re  
located near a lot of urban development. But we’re kind of on the outskirts. So it’s kind of like, 
we get to pretend like we’re working on the farm, or not in the thick of things, and we’re 
surrounded by beautiful stuff and, I think, beautiful smells. It’s nice. 
 
00:38:39 
 
Nickerson:  Are there things that you’re doing here or that you’re planning on doing here that 
you feel like set Green Mountain Compost apart from some of the other compost operations in 
the state, or things that you feel like are innovative? 
 
Goosen:  Yeah. So we were pretty purposeful when we designed this facility. So we moved to 
this current facility in 2010, we started building it.  In 2011, we were fully moved in. And though 
it was a rushed process, we put a lot of thought into how we wanted it to work. And we set it up 
in a way that is very different than most of the other compost facilities in the state, and really in 
the country. Part of that was due to the fact that we don’t have a lot of space here. It’s a great 
location for some of the reasons I already mentioned, but it’s tight. We were constrained by the 
physical limitations of the land here. And as food waste quantities have gone up, we’ve seen 
more and more food over the years, we’ve really been pressured to keep composting all that on 
the space that’s not growing at the same time. So it’s been a big challenge how to do that. 
 
 
And the way we have it set up means that we actually process or screen, basically it’s a 
sifting method of getting material, separating the fine material from the bigger material. That 
happens really early in our process, and that’s pretty unique. And it allows us to function on a 
smaller footprint.  
 
 
We’re the biggest food waste composter in the state. I know we’re not far from the urban 
center of Burlington. And so most of the food waste that’s being generated is not far from us. 
And we end up with a lot of it. So we’ve had to, and because we’re part of a solid waste entity, 
the district, we’ve had to come up with different ways to handle such a large volume of material. 
Compared to other places like out west, California, you know, facilities that are outside of much 
bigger urban centers, we’re still pretty small. But from Vermont standards, we’re a big facility. 
And we get a lot of materials that other facilities don’t take, or don’t, either by choice, because 
they don’t want to deal with the trickier ones, or there’s just less opportunity for them to get 
there. So we’ve had to deal with more contaminants, more plastics and things that come in from 
residents and cafeterias and grocery stores, and how to extract those from the finished product. 
That’s been a challenge. 
 
11 
 
 
As we look to the future, we’re actually probably going to be changing our process pretty 
dramatically again. Hopefully expanding the footprint of our actual composting component. And 
then actually maybe adding another, new component that will help us divert material. And even 
growing an even greater amount of food waste that we think is going to be headed our way in the 
very not so distant future. 
 
00:41:57 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. Great. Thank you. So what’s your favorite part of the job? Or the thing that 
you like doing the best? 
 
Goosen:  Oh, that’s a great question. And I don't know what it is. I like, it’s probably, it’s easier 
to say the things that I don’t like the best, because there’s a lot that I do enjoy.  (laughter)  
 
Nickerson:  That’s okay. You can start with your least favorite. 
 
Goosen:  Well it’s so varied that, well, that’s one thing. If there’s something I’m not enjoying 
very much, it won’t be long and I’ll be pulled into something else and it will be new and 
interesting. Probably a little stressful, too. But I really like screening our finished material. It 
starts out pretty chunky. Sometimes some sticks that came in with the yard waste or something. 
And when you put it through the screener, you get rid of all the big stuff. And what comes out is 
just really fine and satisfying. There’s something just physically satisfying watching this jumbled 
material come through as something that is beautiful. You know, anybody who comes up off the 
street would pick it up and say, “Wow, that’s something beautiful.” So being able to see that 
final step is very satisfying. I don’t do that very often. 
 
 
Another really great, satisfying piece of the job is delivering that final product. 
Occasionally I’ll jump in the delivery truck and be the one to drop off a big dump truck load full 
of black gold in somebody’s yard. And watching their reaction, that is very satisfying. Because 
usually I’m pretty removed from that. Although I did spend one season doing that early on. And 
that was probably the best job. Very little stress and responsibility. I got to listen to the radio all 
day and then make people smile every time I pulled into their driveway. That was pretty 
awesome. I do that vicariously through some of our seasonal staff now.  
 
And I think working with people, working with this team that we have, I think it’s the 
most satisfying piece of the job now for me. Because I don’t always get to be involved with the 
actual mixing of the ingredients. I don’t do that very often. And some of the other equipment-
related tasks are few and far between. But I still get to work with all the people, and we have a 
great team, and go through really stressful periods, but we seem to persevere and have fun doing 
so. 
 
00:44:37 
 
Nickerson:  And if you had to name like one of your least favorite activities or tasks? 
 
12 
 
Goosen:  So probably something to do with a spreadsheet. I’m stuck on a computer and it’s a 20-
page spreadsheet with lots of different layers, and trying to figure out why it’s not working or 
where the error was, that kind of thing. The boring stuff. Yeah, that’s probably the worst.  
 
And sometimes we’ve had some pretty stressful board meetings. We’re a public entity. 
And so I have to represent our program to the board. And it’s been a challenging run trying to 
make sure that we’re doing everything that they want, and always keeping our budget in focus, 
and trying to make things work with as few expenses as possible. It’s been a tough challenge 
over the years. So those would be the tougher parts, I think, of the job. 
 
00:45:34 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. What are you proudest of? 
 
Goosen:  I think we make really good compost. That’s one of the unique features of our facility 
and our program, is even though we are, we’re part of a government program, we’re part of a 
solid waste district, we are making some of the best compost in the world, I think. And that 
doesn’t happen very often. You know, Vermont has really high quality compost. For whatever 
reason, the standards of compost quality in our state is exceptionally high. And it’s expensive 
stuff, too. People pay a lot for compost in Vermont. But they get really high-quality compost. 
And in other parts of the world, and certainly in other parts of this country, the quality of the 
compost being produced isn’t always superb. We’re probably a little bit snobbish about it, but we 
make really good compost. And even though we’re a solid waste program where there’s a lot of 
pressure to get more and more material out of the landfill, and therefore more pressure to accept 
things that might contaminate your finished product, we’ve done really well and have continued 
to make really high quality product. And I’m pretty proud that we’ve been able to keep that level 
of quality throughout all of our challenges. 
 
47:00 
 
Nickerson:  What does high-quality compost mean to you? 
 
Goosen:  So, a lot of times there’s pressure to move material through as quickly as possible. 
We’re space-constrained here. We only have so much of a footprint. We feel it a little bit. But 
our design is such that we know it’s going to take a lot of time to mature our compost to a really 
high-quality end product. If you make compost and try to use it before it’s ready to go in your 
garden, you can have some problems. And we don’t do that. But there are other facilities that 
they have to because they’re forced to by space, or growing seasons are only so long, and there’s 
always pressure to get more and more material that they make a product that’s not quite as 
mature, perhaps, as what we generally sell. And we screen ours to a really fine quality. So we 
always get amazing feedback from our customers. That’s how we know we have high-quality 
products. In Vermont, where the bar is pretty high already to what’s acceptable as compost, we 
get great feedback from people who use it and have great results. Of course, we all use it in our 
own gardens as well, and you can see the proof there. But we make great stuff. 
 
 
13 
 
48:31 
 
Nickerson:  I’m wrapping up here. For a young person who might be considering this type of a 
job, do you feel like it provides a livable wage? 
 
Goosen:  That’s a great question. I’m fortunate in that I do work for a government entity. And so 
even though we have years where we don’t come in at the budget or we’re not profitable in the 
traditional sense, I still get a paycheck every two weeks. So in that regard, yeah, it’s a great job 
if, and there’s not much pressure there. I mean, there’s certainly pressures. But if you’re trying to 
get into composting and maybe start your own facility as a young person, you can get the 
training and maybe you can acquire the space and the equipment and the know-how. Those are 
all pretty straightforward. But it’s really hard to be profitable making compost in our part of the 
country, particularly. We’re challenged by a few big things. One of them is just population 
density. There’s not so many people around here. So a lot of the bigger facilities who do well in 
other parts of the country, they have much, much greater populations to draw from, both for 
materials coming to them in terms of yard waste and leaves and grass clippings. There’s just not 
so much of that in Vermont. Most people are still leaving those on their lawn or putting them in 
their backyard or in the tree line. So we don’t get as much of that. We are challenged by roads 
being hard to drive on, everything being kind of far and hard to get to. And it’s really cold here a 
lot of the year. And trying to operate all of our equipment can be a challenge even in the best of 
times. But when it’s February and 20 below, it gets expensive when it takes three hours to get a 
machine running before you can even use it. So I think if you asked other composters who aren’t 
working for a public entity but are doing it on their own, most of them are doing something in 
addition to making compost in order to make ends meet. So, it’s rewarding. If you can get a 
government job out of it, that’s probably even better, security-wise. But you’ve got to be able to 
appreciate all the other benefits other than, you’re not going to make lots of money being a 
composter, probably. So if that’s your goal, it might not be the best pursuit. But if you like being 
outside and being part of the growing process and providing something that makes people happy, 
then it’s a great pursuit. 
 
51:27 
 
Nickerson:  Are you okay with a few more questions? 
 
Goosen:  Sure. 
 
Nickerson:  So you’ve been in this job for a while. What are just a couple of the biggest changes 
that you’ve seen in the industry since you’ve been in it? 
 
Goosen:  So there have been a lot of, things are changing rapidly, I would say. Over the course of 
my tenure at this facility, you know, working at composting in Chittenden County in Vermont, 
the rate of change is accelerating. And we’re seeing in the last few years, particularly, a lot of, I 
was going to say innovation. But it’s technology that’s been around for a while. But I think we’re 
moving a little bit away from this idea where if it’s not going to be landfilled and it can be 
composted, it should be composted and build soil. We’re starting to look a little bit more widely 
and saying soil health is critical. We have a terrible track record in this country of maintaining 
14 
 
soil health. And all of our topsoil’s gone down rivers and into the ocean, and we’re going to 
suffer eventually as a result of that. So we need to rebuild our soils. However, there are other 
things. There are challenges with composting. It’s tough. Not because of the science behind it, 
but just making it work in a large scale can be difficult, and small scale. And there are other 
benefits that can be had by using these same materials, and can facilitate another process in 
addition to soil improvement. 
 
 
So, for instance, as we try to figure out how to best handle the influx of food waste that’s 
going to be headed our way, we’re considering composting a good portion of that, but then doing 
something with the rest of it. And the current thinking on that is maybe we process it so that it 
can be used in anaerobic digestion, where you can create electricity or renewable gas that would 
decrease our dependence on fossil fuels and other non-sustainable energy production methods. 
And then at the end of the day, you still have a soil potential, you can still use the output from an 
anaerobic digester, and you can compost that or land apply it directly and put those nutrients 
back into the soil, and increase the organic matter in the soil and still have all the great benefits 
that we correlate with compost. But you get this added bonus of capturing some energy that 
otherwise usually just goes off into the atmosphere as CO2. So I’d say that’s the biggest change. 
Certainly for our facility as we look forward, it’s going to be a diversion from what we’ve done 
for 30 years. We used to make really high-quality compost. And that was our main focus, our 
only real, our main focus, I guess. And then making a huge variety of products with that. They’re 
all premium products. And we’re starting to shift away from that. We’re still going to make 
really good compost, but we’re going to send a portion probably to do something else that’s 
beneficial at the same time. 
 
 
And that seems to be the industry, what’s going on industrywide. We see a lot of focus 
with energy production and with soil building and soil health still being really critical. But not 
the end all and be all for organics management. 
 
55:24 
 
Nickerson:  And are there plans to expand this facility? You were talking about how you had a 
small footprint. 
 
Goosen:  Yeah, so we hope that we will be able to do some form of expansion. And it’s still not 
completely decided. Our board has been weighing in. And we’re going through more planning 
on it, and trying to refine what our vision is. We likely will be making a similar amount of 
compost to the amount of compost that we’ve made in the last couple of years. We hope that we 
can expand the footprint of the area where we turn our wind rows and do a better job about that, 
make that process more efficient. But hopefully we’ll add some ancillary components that will 
allow us to transfer the remainder of the material. So footprint-wise, we might be getting a little 
bit bigger. But function-wise, we’ll have a lot more flexibility moving forward. 
 
56:35 
 
Nickerson:  Thirty years from now, do you think people in this area will be doing composting? 
 
15 
 
Goosen:  Well, that’s a great question. I sure hope so. I don't think the need’s going to go away. 
And we, in Vermont we’re pretty fortunate that we have lots of green space and people grow a 
lot of food on their own property. And there’s a certain level of self-sufficiency. I think that over 
the next 30 years our world is going to see some major, major changes. And compost, I think, is 
going to be a huge tool in helping us address some of those changes. Both from climate change 
perspective and resiliency for changing weather, and building our soils to the point where they 
can deal with some of the increased rainfall and precipitation. It’s critical that we have high 
organic matter inputs that go back into our soil that can deliver nutrients and continue to feed us. 
It’s going to be a tough go, I think, for the human race as we look 30 years out and beyond. And 
recycling the nutrients that we aren’t eating or feeding animals with is going to continue to be 
really, I think, a more and more important portion of what we do. Again, other industries, some 
of those could go away in 30 years. And the human race and the rest of nature would still be fine. 
Nature, particularly, would probably be better off. But recycling of nutrients is always going to 
be there in some form or another. And if done well and applied in the right places, might help us 
get there a little bit easier than what’s otherwise going to occur. 
 
58:29 
 
Nickerson:  What advice would you give someone starting in your job? 
 
Goosen:  I would say probably flexibility is going to be your friend. Some people are more 
flexible than others. But being able to take what comes at you and not be overwhelmed by it has 
probably been what’s been able to help me get through so many challenges over the years. 
Finding out, doing as much learning as you can about all the aspects of your job will help. And 
there are some great people in this industry who have been doing it much longer than I have. 
And getting their input and their knowledge. The thing about our industry is there’s some really 
good sharing of knowledge and information. So getting involved with a local or national 
composting industry would be a great way to get started. Going to one of those trainings I talked 
about, going to the Maine Compost School, or the Vermont Organics Recycling Symposium here 
in Vermont would be a great way to get started, I think. There’s a lot of people in this industry 
who really love what they do, for a lot of the reasons I mentioned, and are passionate about it and 
happy to share information. So just being open to that and taking the step to go and ask, I think, 
is probably the best way to get started. 
 
1:00:04 
 
Nickerson:  Great. So is there anything that we haven’t covered that you would like people to 
know about the work that you do? 
 
Goosen:  I don't know. It’s really nice to take a break from it from time to time. (laughs) And 
reflecting. I don’t always reflect on how many years, and all these pieces that have been 
challenging over the years. But having support, we’ve got a great organization. The district is 
really supportive, and our board has been very supportive. And my family’s been very 
supportive. And having the ability to take some time off and step back and come back to it with a 
clear mind has been very instrumental. I definitely wouldn’t have been able to make it through 
all that without that. So vacations and weekends whenever you can get them are important. 
16 
 
Probably for any job. But in reflecting on how I’ve gone through all those challenges, I think 
without those I probably couldn’t have done it. 
 
Nickerson:  Great. Well, Dan, thank you so much. This has been fascinating and really 
interesting to learn about what you do here. So, thank you, I really appreciate it. 
 
Goosen:  Yeah. Thanks for the opportunity. Happy to share it. 
 
61:37 
[End Interview.]