Gimmicks, Gold, and Gushers 
The Occupational Folklife of Independent Professional Wrestlers 
 
 
 
 
Stephens, Jason​ ​— Oral History Interview 
 
July 20, 2020 
 
Delainey Bowers 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This oral history interview was created in 2020 as part of the ​Gimmicks, Gold, and Gushers: The 
Occupational Folklife of Independent Professional Wrestlers ​project with funding from the 
Archie Green Fellowship provided by the American Folklife Center at the Library of Congress.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interview with Jason Stephens, July 20, 2020 
1 
Background Information 
 
Name of interviewee:​ Jason Stephens 
Wrestling name: Lemonjuice McGee 
Date of birth:​ 
 1981 
Current residence:​ Somerset, Kentucky 
 
Interviewer:​ Delainey Bowers 
Indexer:​ Delainey Bowers 
 
Interview format:​ Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, this interview was conducted remotely via 
SquadCast, a web-based VoIP podcasting platform. Stephens was at his place of business in 
Somerset, Kentucky while Bowers recorded the interview at her place of residence in Somerset, 
Kentucky.  
 
Date of interview: ​July 20, 2020 
 
Keywords: ​Professional wrestling, independent professional wrestling, wrestlers, sports, 
athletes, entertainment, wrestling promoters, wrestling promotions, wrestling matches, wrestling 
managers, entrepreneurs, Appalachian Mountain Wrestling, Next Generation Wrestling: 
Tennessee, Ohio Valley Wrestling, Kentucky, Tennessee, Appalachia 
 
Abstract: ​Jason Stephens, whose wrestling name is Lemonjuice McGee, has worked as a 
wrestling manager throughout central Appalachia since 2015. In this oral history, Stephens 
explores the creation of his larger-than-life in-ring persona, the challenges of being a wrestling 
manager, and how storytelling is a vital part of the wrestling industry.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interview with Jason Stephens, July 20, 2020 
2 
Index 
 
[00:00:00] Brief introduction; Jason Stephens (“Lemonjuice McGee”) describes basic personal 
background information including his date of birth and current place of residence in Somerset, 
Kentucky.  
 
[00:01:18] Stephens outlines his personal connections to the world of professional wrestling. 
Stephens’ cousin introduced him to Saturday morning wrestling programs. In the mid-1990s 
wrestlers Hulk Hogan, Kevin Nash, and Scott Hall created the New World Order (NWO), a 
wrestling stable for World Championship Wrestling. Similarly, wrestlers such as The Rock and 
Stone Cold Steve Austin also attracted Stephens to televised wrestling. The shift from 
“cartoonish characters” to “more realistic personas” was also important to Stephens. He lists a 
number of pro wrestling idols.  
 
[00:04:28] Stephens notes the differences between highly-produced televised matches and 
smaller independent promotions. “It’s almost night and day, practically.” Wrestlers on television 
are “working towards the camera.” Matches are shot in certain ways to cater to at-home 
audiences. Crowds at independent shows are the “lifeblood” of any promotion. More crowd 
interaction, looser storylines.  
 
[00:06:05] Stephens shares his journey towards becoming a wrestling manager. Stephens 
originally produced two wrestling podcasts, which led to a friendship with local indie wrestler 
“Loverboy Brock Landers.” Landers invited Stephens to be his wrestling manager for his 
tag-team duo, “The Heartbreakers.” Stephens details the process of applying for a wrestling 
license in the state of Kentucky and also training at Kentucky Zone Wrestling, a local promotion. 
Stephens sustained a broken rib on his second day of training, which influenced his decision to 
become a manager instead of a wrestler. He managed The Heartbreakers under the name 
“Lemonjuice McGee,” a pseudonym he used at a previous job. Stephens quickly began 
managing other wrestlers throughout the state.  
 
[00:09:23] Stephens details the responsibilities of a professional wrestling manager and how it 
differs from being a wrestler. The position is not similar to that of an agent but rather functions 
as a mouthpiece for wrestlers who may not feel comfortable speaking on the microphone. 
Stephens prefers “cheating and underhanded tactics” as a villain. He manages both individual 
wrestlers and larger stables. 
 
Stephens talks about the creation of his in-ring persona, Lemonjuice McGee, and the character’s 
attitude, appearance, and motives. “He’s kind of oblivious to his own shortcomings...horrible, 
evil, kind of stupid.” Aesthetically, Lemonjuice McGee’s appearance is “based on a ‘70s adult 
film director.” Stephens mentions owning zip-up onesies, fanny packs, fur coats, giant white 
shoes. “The more vibrant, the better.” He finds parallels between McGee’s personality and his 
own.  
 
[00:14:06] Stephens describes his attempts at building a brand centered on Lemonjuice McGee. 
The fusion of Stephens’ personality with that of Lemonjuice McGee allowed him to create a 
Interview with Jason Stephens, July 20, 2020 
3 
character that was easily sustainable outside of wrestling. Stephens is the owner of Lemonjuice 
McGee’s Comic Cavalcade, a successful comic shop in Somerset, Kentucky. “Lemonjuice 
McGee” is featured prominently on store merchandise. Points of intersection between being a 
business owner and working as a wrestling manager. “Whenever you’re on the independent 
wrestling scene especially, you are your business. Your name is your business.”  
 
Stephens touches on how maintaining a social media presence has helped him build a devoted 
fanbase. Instagram is Stephens’ platform of choice. He provides an example of how 
self-promotion can lead to more show offers. Finding a balance between under-posting and 
oversharing.  
 
[00:19:33] Stephens outlines a typical show day from start to finish. He talks about still getting 
nervous the night before an event. Packing a bag, picking up other wrestlers, arriving at the 
venue, speaking with the promoter, hanging out in the locker room, performing in-ring, and 
getting paid are all discussed in detail. Stephens tries to watch all the matches he can. As a 
manager, Stephens is primarily concerned about hitting his spots to help further the plot. He 
offers several examples of how a match is arranged. Giving interviews, cutting promos 
backstage, and mingling with fans are part of most show days. Money is still a taboo subject in 
the wrestling industry. “There’s a lot of big egos, and sometimes they get hurt.” 
 
[00:28:05] Stephens talks about how most audiences react to his character gimmick. “There’s a 
lot of profanity, even from children, which is off-putting in a way.” Audiences as heavily 
emotionally involved in his performance. Stephens breaks down audience demographics at 
promotions based in central Appalachia. Dependent on the physical location of the show (i.e. a 
school gymnasium draws a lot of interested children). Crowds are often a healthy mix of 
children, teenagers, adults, and senior citizens.  
 
[00:32:53] Stephens addresses common misconceptions about the world of professional 
wrestling, most notably that wrestling is “fake” or “it’s all staged.” He explains that Lemonjuice 
McGee always gets his comeuppance, which usually involves getting hit in some form or 
fashion. “And I’ll tell you, whenever it happens, it doesn’t feel fake.” Stephens walks through a 
chokeslam step-by-step. “It still hurts enough.” Relatedly, he talks about transparency in the 
world of wrestling and the need for a return to the suspension of disbelief.  
 
[00:37:33] Stephens discusses some of the more challenging aspects of wrestling. He stresses the 
challenges of performing live, the need to “roll with the punches,” and improvisation. The 
burdens of traveling and staying relevant are also mentioned.  
 
[00:40:11] Stephens recounts some of his stronger matches and those he used as learning 
opportunities. He tells the story of an especially rowdy 4th of July show at a local park where a 
young girl broke through the barricades to save the babyface. “We got hit with some batteries, 
and big rocks, and big, muddy grass clods they just literally ripped from the earth itself and 
threw at us.” He talks about the merits of an invested crowd. He also describes two memorable 
matches with Next Generation Wrestling: Tennessee.  
Interview with Jason Stephens, July 20, 2020 
4 
Stephens considers his first-ever match to be one of his weakest. He mentions missing spots, 
which has caused matches to stall. An additional story about punching a babyface and 
accidentally splitting open his opponent’s lip.  
 
[00:52:30] Stephens shares what it feels like emotionally to perform during a match. “You’re in 
it. You’re part of it, too.” Nervousness, excitement, anger, and anxiety are commonplace. He 
talks about how matches are “purposeful” and timing is critical to success, especially when 
cheating. He defines “the drizzling shits” and how it pertains to wrestlers. Sometimes Stephens 
feels a sense of panic when he speaks on the microphone. Coming down from a high after a 
strong match.  
 
[00:58:13] Stephens evaluates the trajectory of his career and the future of Lemonjuice McGee. 
Currently, Stephens’ energy is being channeled into owning and operating his comic book store. 
“It’s not out of the realm of possibility that Lemonjuice McGee shows up in maybe one or two 
special one-off events.” His final match at Appalachian Mountain Wrestling was a “loser leaves 
town” match, which works to his advantage. Distance and time away from the industry creates a 
bigger crowd reaction upon a return. The social media page for Stephens’ store acts as a creative 
outlet for his ideas. “I don’t want to say my wrestling days are done, but they’re definitely on 
hold at this point.”  
 
Stephens comments on the belief that wrestlers exist as storytellers. Gestures, language, 
costumes, physical stunts, and in-ring narration are pieced together to tell an overarching story. 
He enjoys creating “weird stipulation matches” that elicit reactions from fans.  
 
[01:05:02] Stephens gives advice to those interested in becoming professional wrestlers or 
wrestling managers. “Find a good school.” He recommends Ohio Valley Wrestling in Louisville, 
Kentucky and The School of Morton in Chuckey, Tennessee. “Go all in.”  
 
[01:07:03] Closing remarks. Stephens gives one final shout-out to his comic book store.  
 
[01:08:14] End of interview 
Interview with Jason Stephens, July 20, 2020 
5