2020012 
1 
Nursing America’s Veterans 
Name of person interviewed: Heather Arredondo [H] 
Facts about this person: 
Sex: Female 
Occupation: Chief Nurse for Workforce 
Residence: Texas 
Interviewer: Alana Glaser [AG] 
Transcriber: Sara Cohen [SC] 
Date of interview: November 5 2021 
KEY WORDS 
Veterans, VA, RN, nurse, nursing, Nursing Administration, Healthcare Administration, med surg, 
licensed practical nurse, barcode medication administration, nursing informatics, healthcare informatics, 
technology, COVID-19, VISN, Nurse Professional Standards Board, scope 
Abstract 
In this interview, Heather recounts her experience in the Student Nurse Technician Program and her 
early work at the Veterans Administration (VA). She discusses the many different nursing roles she’s 
held and outlines a typical day in her current role. Heather describes the impact that COVID-19 has had 
on her role and the VA in general. She candidly shares the opportunities the VA provides and how 
they’ve helped to progress her career. She also explains the benefits of technology for nursing and the 
VA’s position on the front-line of technological advancements was advantageous at the start of the 
COVID pandemic. Heather closes by mentioning an area where she would like to see services improved 
for veterans, describing her role models and mentors, and giving some valuable advice for new nurses. 
Index 
[0:00] Heather talks about her childhood, when she decided to become a nurse, how she chose the 
college she attended, her educational history and how she began working for the VA. 
[5:17] Heather explains how she learned about the VA’s Student Nurse Technician Program, Heather’s 
experience on her first unit at the VA, Heather’s involvement with barcode medication administration 
and nursing informatics, her role as a nurse manager. 
2020012 
2 
 
[10:32] Heather describes the opportunities the VA provides and how they’ve helped to progress her 
career, her role in healthcare informatics, why Heather chose to undertake a master’s in nursing 
administration. 
 
[14:21] Heather mentions her transition to a nurse manager role after the birth of her first child and her 
typical schedule in that role, Heather’s experience as the Chief Health Informatics Officer, the benefits 
of technology for nursing. 
 
[20:48] Heather shares how the VA has been on the frontline of technological advancements and how 
this was advantageous at the start of the COVID pandemic, the details of Heather’s role as the Chief 
Informatics Officer, how Heather decided to pursue a doctorate and how she selected what to specify in. 
 
[23:52] Heather details her roles as Chief Nurse for Workforce, chairperson for the Nurse Professional 
Standards Board, and VISN consultant, scope and qualifications. 
 
[31:55] Heather talks about how the COVID-19 pandemic affected her day-to-day role and the focus of 
her work, as well as VA nurses and the VA more generally. 
 
[35:24] Heather describes the benefits of working for the VA as a nurse and the changes she has seen at 
the VA over the course of her career. 
 
[39:28] Heather mentions an area where she would like to see services improved for veterans, the role of 
nurses in patient care, Heather’s role models and mentors, the advice Heather would give to new nurses, 
where Heather sees herself in the future. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[0:01] AG: Heather, can you tell me a little bit about where you grew up and what your early years were 
like? 
 
H: Definitely. I grew up in Arlington, Texas, which is between Dallas and Fort Worth, Texas, a smaller 
city in the middle of two large cities. I have one brother, and I thankfully had a really normal childhood: 
two-parent home, all of the love and support a person could ask for. My mom was a stay-at home-mom. 
Before she had us, she was a school teacher, and my dad was a store manager. We did all the things that 
we could possibly think of to keep busy. I played just about every sport you could imagine. My favorites 
were soccer and volleyball. Thankfully had a good experience in school, and with a mom who was a 
school teacher formerly, knew that I would go to college, and it was just a matter of determining what I 
wanted to do and which college to go to. 
2020012 
3 
 
 
AG: Oh, right, that makes sense. How did you decide? Did you early on know that you wanted to enter 
the nursing profession, or how did you decide on a career? 
 
H: Great question. I didn't know until I was a junior in high school. I had always thought that maybe I 
wanted to be a veterinarian or maybe a doctor. When I was a junior in high school, my grandmother got 
really sick and she was in and out of hospitals and in rehab and those types of places. What I realized 
very quickly was that the nurses were the ones who were always with her. They were the ones that I 
could tell truly knew her, knew what she liked and didn't like, how to handle her when she was having 
an off day and really made an impact with not only her, but with our family as well. At that point, I 
realized that nursing was really the direction that I wanted to head, because I could see how easily I 
could make an impact in people's lives. 
 
AG: Right, absolutely. And then did you end up choosing a university or college based on nursing 
programs? Where did you go to college and how did you make that decision? 
 
H: Once I made the decision of what I wanted to do, I started looking at colleges. I had a couple offers 
for athletics and ultimately, I ended up choosing the University of Texas at Arlington, which is a 
hometown school for me. I chose it because of their history in nursing. They had one of the highest pass 
rates on the NCLEX, which is the nursing exam to take to get your license, and they offered me a full 
academic scholarship. I thought if I could stay close to home and family and friends, get to go to school 
for free, and go to one of the best nursing programs, that was definitely an easy choice to make. That's 
where I did my bachelor's degree as well as my master's degree. 
 
AG: Wow. Was that an athletic and academic scholarship? 
 
H: No. For UT Arlington, it was purely academic. 
 
AG: I see. Got it. So, that's really, as you said, that's such a no-brainer. What an impressive feat. Did you 
go directly from the bachelor's to the master's? 
 
H: No, I took a break of about a year and a half and then I went back and did my master's program. I did 
master's in Nursing Administration. Then I took another little break and went back and did my doctorate 
in healthcare administration, but I did that with the University of Phoenix. 
 
AG: In the year and a half or so in between, did you work as an RN or in the healthcare sector? 
 
H: Yes. Thankfully, I joined the VA when I was still a student. They had a program where you worked 
for 16 hours each week and they paid you for 40 hours. It was a phenomenal opportunity not just only to 
get hands-on experience, because we were allowed to do the things that we had learned in school, so I 
could draw blood, I could help with patient care, I could do all those kinds of things and really just get 
more comfortable with my skills, but then also to be able to be compensated like that was a real relief. I 
was somebody that was looking at where they're going in their future and trying to save some money up 
and those type of things, and so, it made the transition easy. When I finished college, I already knew that 
I loved caring for veterans. I really felt like it was a passion for me. When I did clinicals at other 
hospitals or other areas throughout my schooling it was nice and I learned quite a bit, but it wasn't the 
2020012 
4 
 
same experience that I had at the VA. At the VA, I really felt that the veterans not only needed me but 
wanted me to be there, that they were a group that I couldn't be more honored or blessed to be able to 
provide that care for. So, for me, it was a no-brainer. Once I finished, I loved the people that I worked 
with, had a passion for the patient population, and so I actually just stayed on board on the same unit that 
I was a student with and became a registered nurse on that same unit. 
 
AG: That really sounds like an incredible program. How did you learn about that? Do they recruit from 
nursing schools or was it word of mouth? 
 
[5:17] H: I learned about it in a kind of mysterious way. We had lots of job fairs when I was in nursing 
school. It was one of those job fairs where a lot of the different hospitals had huge tables and they had 
people there speaking, but the VA table was kind of off to the back and there wasn't anybody standing 
there, at least when I came by. But they had some papers on the table and they had some pencils, and it 
just so happened I was to take an exam later in the day and I needed a pencil to take it. I figured, "Well, 
if I'm gonna take their pencil, I should take their paper with me too" [chuckles]. It wasn't until I got 
home that night and I was looking through everything that I had collected from the fair that I started 
reading about what they call the Student Nurse Technician Program. I was just amazed and thought, 
"You know what? I've heard lots of different things about the VA, but the only way to really know is to 
go and try it out." I figured there's really nothing to lose as a student. You can only gain experience. If I 
didn't like it, I'd choose somewhere else to go work when I graduated. But I really had just such a great 
experience that there's nowhere else I'd want to go. 
 
AG: Wow, that's incredible. I presume you recall the first unit that you were on in those first months. 
What was that like? 
 
H: I was really the first new graduate that they had had in that unit. It was a med surg unit. They all just 
took me in like I was one of their kids, basically, and they were so kind and compassionate. Even though 
I had the title of registered nurse, I was really a team leader in many instances. They had much more 
experience than I did, but we were really able to work together to pull on all of our experiences. The 
camaraderie was phenomenal. We would all bring a little portion of our meal with us and we'd sit 
together and share it and everybody would switch, and we'd have cuisine from different cultures and 
backgrounds and just share that and our stories. It was definitely a home away from home and a built in 
family at work as well. 
 
AG: In that early role, was it nurses, RNs and nurse techs and a variety of levels? Was it 
interdisciplinary, as they say? 
 
H: For our unit, we had registered nurses, we had licensed practical nurses - we call them that in Texas, 
not vocational nurses - and then we also had nursing assistants and healthcare techs. Then we'd have 
other support people from other disciplines, like social workers and case managers and those types of 
things, that would also help complement our staff. But our core staff were the RNs, LPNs, and nursing 
assistants. 
 
AG: And everyone was at various stages in their careers? You were the only brand new graduate? 
 
H: Yes. 
2020012 
5 
 
 
AG: I see. Wonderful. You worked in that capacity during school and then also right after school? How 
long did you stay in that role? 
 
H: I stayed in that role for about three years, and then I had the opportunity to help with what was at that 
time new, which was barcode medication administration. I started helping train other nurses how to use 
the technology and what it was, and then that kind of led me on a little bit different pathway where I 
went into nursing informatics and started helping teach the computer system, the electronic health record 
to others, as well as develop different aspects of it for our facility. Then after that, I had gone back and 
gotten my master's degree, so I decided to go into a more administrative role and took on the position of 
nurse manager. 
 
AG: When you were doing the-- Well, I guess first, could you just explain what the barcode 
pharmaceuticals innovations were? 
 
H: Barcode medication administration was really first started with the VA, and what it was is using a 
scanner like you see in the grocery store, but using that scanner to scan medications. What it did was 
really help ensure that we reduced our error rates with the medication that we were giving. We would 
scan the patient's wristband, we would do all of our five checks with the medication ourselves, but then 
we'd also scan the medication to make sure that it matched with the patient and then also with the 
patient's orders. It was really a way to double-check and make sure that we were giving not just the 
correct medication but the correct dosage to our patients. 
 
AG: Prior to that, there was a five-point system for checking? 
 
H: Yes. [Unintelligible], things that you go through to check and make sure that you have the right 
patient, you have the right medication, the right dosage, the right time. You're going through all those 
things, typically, but this was an electronic way to do it to make sure that you had that extra validation. 
 
AG: When you think back to that sort of shift in your role, do you have a sense of what drew you to it or 
what, perhaps, made your supervisors ask you to participate in it? 
 
[10:32] H: When I think back about it, I think that the VA has, in my opinion, more opportunities than 
you get in just about any other facility. I've always found that if there's something that I'm interested in 
and I raise my hand and volunteer, that, typically, I get included in that. From an early stage, I just 
learned that if there's something that piques my interest, some way that I want to expand my career, to 
just volunteer, jump in with both feet and see how I can be of help. It really has not just helped me, but I 
think helped to progress my career as well as where we're taking the VA. 
 
AG: Absolutely. What year would you say that program-- When did that program start with the-- 
 
H: I'm not 100% sure, but I always say probably somewhere around 2001, something like that. 
 
AG: From there, you ended up kind of assuming a more robust role in healthcare informatics inside the 
VA? 
 
2020012 
6 
 
H: Yes. 
 
AG: What did that entail? 
 
H: I did a lot of training and then I also did some development. We looked at things like what kind of 
orders were needed for nurses. If it was a wound care order set that we needed to be able to provide 
evidence-based care for our veterans, we would develop that wound care order, or if there was a 
documentation template that we needed to make sure that we covered every aspect of an assessment, so 
maybe a focused assessment for pain or for some body system, we would work with experts in that area, 
and then also making sure we're looking at the evidence-based practice so that we could develop a tool 
that would really help guide nurses that they'd be successful in their documentation. 
 
AG: When you were working in that capacity, did you also see patients still or had you sort of moved 
entirely into this kind of behind-the-scenes role? 
 
H: Yeah, that role was completely administrative. I did still work some overtime on the units just to stay 
in touch and make sure I didn't lose any of my competencies or that type of thing, but it was a purely 
administrative position. 
 
AG: Was your title different at that point, as well? 
 
H: I've stayed a registered nurse throughout all the different career shifts I've made, but the actual title 
was Nursing Informatics. 
 
AG: Did that sort of inspire you to pursue your MA, or had you known, kind of, from early on that you 
would pursue an MA and then even perhaps a doctorate? 
 
H: I did my MSN, but I think I always knew that I'd do some sort of advanced degree. Honestly, I was 
trying to decide between a master's in nursing administration or administration or going back and 
becoming a nurse practitioner. My way of deciding probably isn't the way I'd recommend to anybody 
else, but after I did about the first three courses, which would be the same no matter which track I took, 
found out that I was pregnant. So, I said, "Well, what's the fastest way to get done?" and they said, 
"Administration is faster than the nurse practitioner route," so that was the way I decided to go so that I 
could keep some sanity and actually get done before he was born, and keep things going that way. 
 
AG: Right, that makes sense [laughs]. After you completed the MA and were also a new parent, how did 
your role shift? Did you move into a different position? The whole time you stayed at the same VA, 
right? 
 
[14:21] H: Right. The whole time I was at VA North Texas, and so I did then transition into a nurse 
manager role. I was a nurse manager on a different inpatient med surg unit. It was actually the sister unit 
to the one that I first came in on, so it was an area that I was comfortable with but with different staff 
than I had worked with before. It was another really good experience. I think the nurse manager role is 
one of the hardest but most important roles because you not only have the patients as your responsibility, 
but you also have the staff. As a manager, you have, in my opinion, a huge influence over the morale on 
your unit, the desire of the people to do the right things. It was a really exciting role but also a role that I 
2020012 
7 
 
think had a lot of responsibility and accountability. Something that when I look back, I said, those were 
some of the hardest years, getting called [chuckles] at 2am with a question, but also some of the most 
rewarding when we could see patients who had been dissatisfied with our system that we were then able 
to really make into not only highly satisfied customers, but people who would then go out and tell 
everybody else that they knew how wonderful the VA was and really help us bring other veterans to the 
system. 
 
AG: That makes sense. How many years were you in that role as a nurse manager? 
 
H: I think about four years. 
 
AG: What was the typical schedule for you like in that capacity? 
 
H: I would work a little bit early so that I could see the night shift before they went home. I'd usually 
start about 6:30 or seven o'clock in the morning so I could see them and see if there were any issues or 
concerns that I needed to address, or they had scheduled problems that we needed to talk about. Then I 
would work until 3:30 or four in the afternoon. Of course, I'd do some shifts on evening and some shifts 
on night every once in a while just to stay in touch with everyone. 
 
AG: When you're a nurse manager, you're not predominantly treating patients. Is that right? You're sort 
of-- I guess, what are some of the main responsibilities, or what do you think about as being like the 
biggest aspects of that job? 
 
H: It's less direct patient care, but it really is about ensuring that the whole unit runs effectively. It's 
looking at the overall outcomes for the units: things like the length of stay for patients, the outcomes of 
our patients, making sure that they don't get things like hospital acquired pressure ulcers or urinary tract 
infections or different things like that, as well as making sure that all the staff are competent to do the 
things that we're asking them to do. And then, that we recruit the right people and we retain the right 
people, because the people at the front lines are the ones that are gonna get the outcomes that we need. 
Also, if you have a good place to work, you want to come into work every day, and you need to be able 
to trust your colleagues to do that as well, so, really creating that environment for the staff as well. 
 
AG: You were in that role for four years, and then did you go and pursue your doctorate, or did you 
switch roles prior to pursuing your other degree? 
 
H: Yeah, I actually switched into another role, which was the Chief Health Informatics Officer role. 
That was a little bit more global than just nursing. That was responsibility for informatics across the 
whole VA North Texas. We did the same type of training and education but including providers and 
social workers and all types of other disciplines throughout the organization, and then really focusing on 
the performance measures for the whole facility in that role. We started doing things like telehealth and 
those type of things that were a little bit new to the system, but really important to make sure that we 
gave everybody the access that they needed. 
 
AG: It sounds like in your role, you were probably kind of on the ground floor of implementing 
electronic medical health records and telehealth options. Do you have any, I guess I would say, lessons, 
or is there anything that you feel like, given your unique experience, you sort of have gleaned about the 
2020012 
8 
 
way that technology can benefit nursing, or maybe inconvenience nurses or something like that, or 
either? You know, the positive or the negative? 
 
H: Yeah, I would say technology is a huge positive. As we move forward into the future, it is really a 
direction that we have to learn from and continue to grow in, because I imagine that resources are gonna 
become even more scarce in the future, and so we have to be smarter about how we do our work. It 
doesn't make sense necessarily for a patient to drive 50 or 100 miles for an appointment that could be 
done virtually. As nurses, I think we're in the exact right position to be able to coach people through, 
how do you work with the technology? Once they learn the technology, you can keep in touch with them 
so much faster, and you're able to ensure that they don't come into contact with any of the potential 
infectious things that they could if they came into the facility, and you're really able to build a rapport 
with them, that they're not frustrated by the drive that they've had coming in or trying to park in the 
parking lot, or if you have mobility issues, trying to get from the parking lot into an appointment or 
something like that. But also follow up after, after they've been hospitalized or after an appointment. It 
can be something that's very quick and easy, where if someone had to come into the facility, they may 
choose not to and you could easily miss something. But if you can do a quick 10 to 15 minute follow up, 
either on the phone or through telehealth with a video, then that's something that people are more open 
to than having to do a traditional appointment where they'd have to come into the facility. 
 
AG: It sounds like that the VA has been kind of on the front line of innovating or adopting some of these 
technological advancements. Is that your impression as well? 
 
[20:48] H: Yes. Thankfully, the VA was on the frontline of this, and it really came in handy when we 
started with the COVID pandemic because we were about 10 steps ahead of most of the private sector. 
We were able to learn from what we had already done and quickly expand to where we had almost all of 
our primary care appointments happening virtually. We were able to do that much more easily than 
many of the private sector hospitals. In the future, I think we'll use more technology for health 
prevention and promotion, so more things like coaching, ensuring that we support people in their 
lifestyle choices and making healthy choices so that we can try to keep patients in their home and 
productive and doing the things that they want to do as long as we possibly can. 
 
AG: Absolutely. As the Chief Informatics-- was it Officer? 
 
H: Yes. 
 
AG: And your role was across the state. Were you traveling from facility to facility to-- 
 
H: That was still with VA North Texas healthcare system. We had the main facility in Dallas and then 
we have another pretty large facility in Bonham, and then just several what we call CBOCs, community-
based outpatient centers. It wasn't any lengthy travel or those type of things. Everything was pretty much 
within the metroplex. 
 
AG: But part of your role was bringing each facility up to speed on the new technologies, that kind of 
thing? 
 
H: Yes. 
2020012 
9 
 
 
AG: I see. How long were you in that role? 
 
H: About two years. 
 
AG: Is that when you went back for your doctorate? 
 
H: Yes. 
 
AG: How did you decide to do that and how did you select how to specify in your doctoral study? 
 
H: I decided that I wanted to do something a little bit broader than just nursing, so I decided that I was 
going to do Healthcare Administration. Because at that point, I still wasn't sure, and as of this moment in 
time, I still don't know what my endgame is. It was something that I felt like would position me for 
whatever it was that I was going to do in healthcare in the future. I really enjoyed the program because it 
was with all types of disciplines. It was people who were trying to go the director route as well as people 
who were more human resources oriented. Then, of course, there were some nurses and some other 
occupations as well. It was such a great mixing pot that you got to see other perspectives and kind of 
learn how other people think about nursing as well as just healthcare in general, which I think helped 
broaden my perspective. 
 
AG: You've completed your doctorate, right? 
 
H: Yes. 
 
AG: What year did you complete it? 
 
H: I completed it in 2013. 
 
AG: Did your role change after you completed it? 
 
[23:52] H: Not too long after that, I did take on another role as Chief Nurse for what we called 
Workforce. That was a combination of different types of areas. We had what we call our escorts, who 
are people who helped transport people throughout the hospital. We had all of our house supervisors, 
who were the people who were responsible for the hospital on the off hours, the weekends, the holidays, 
those types of things. We had staffing methodology. We had magnet. We had nursing assistants that 
were used as sitters, or people to do close observation on patients who needed it. We were kind of the 
operations side for nursing and helping make sure that we were running smoothly as an organization and 
that we were continuously thinking of ways to grow and develop. 
 
AG: Wow. It sounds like in that capacity, you were really over the entire kind of logistics of the facility, 
moving people around and making sure that everyone is cared for. 
 
H: Quite a bit, yes. 
 
AG: Soup to nuts. How recently did you move into your current role? 
2020012 
10 
 
 
H: I've been in this role now for the last two years with the Office of Nursing Services. One of the things 
that I had taken on as an additional duty while I was at North Texas was that I was the chairperson for 
the Nurse Professional Standards Board. Then later, I also became the VISN consultant for the Nurse 
Professional Standards Board. The position that I'm in now is over the Central Office Nurse Professional 
Standards Board as well as for professional standards for all of our nursing occupations. It was 
something that just helped me continuously develop so that I'd be ready for this position. 
 
AG: What does your day-to-day work entail in this new role? 
 
H: It's always exciting. A lot of it is trying to figure out or make sure that nurses have the appropriate 
scope of their practice, that they are practicing to the fullest extent possible for their scope but not going 
beyond that so that we keep them safe in that way, but then also making sure that what we call our 
qualification standards, or the way that we rate people, are appropriate and that they stay up-to-date. Our 
qualification standards are what we use to be able to appoint our nurses at the right grade and step, 
which equates to their salary, and then it's also what we use for promotion consideration. 
 
AG: Could you just explain what scope entails for nursing? 
 
H: Sure. The scope for a nurse would be anything that they should be able to do. Some of the common 
questions that we get are related to documentation: Can a nurse do a complete assessment? Yes, a 
registered nurse can, but a licensed practical or vocational nurse most likely can't, depending on the 
state. But in most states, they can do a focused assessment. Really realizing what those differences are 
and making sure that we communicate that well with everyone. 
 
AG: Then for qualifications, does that refer to level of education or training predominantly, or is it other 
aspects too? 
 
H: For our registered nurses, it's a combination of three things: It's their education, it's their years of 
experience, and then it's the dimensions of nursing practice. When we look at the dimensions of nursing 
practice, we have four dimensions and nine criteria, but what they're really getting at is: What level do 
you practice at? Do you practice for your individual patient or team of patients that you're immediately 
responsible for, or are you seeing things on a more global level? Are you making an impact for your 
whole unit or work group, or are you potentially going even broader than that and doing something for a 
whole program or service and making an impact at that level? 
 
AG: That sounds like it's an evaluation of what people are doing day-to-day, and sort of how their role 
fits in with the broader operations of the facility, that kind of thing. 
 
H: Yes. 
 
AG: Got it. Do you have to do in this role, essentially, job performance evaluations and kind of sit down 
with people and discuss their promotion or that kind of thing? Is it a little bit like that? 
 
H: Now I work at the Central Office level, or the Office of Nursing Services, which is over the entire 
VHA nursing program. We do have what we call VISN consultants, which is one of the roles that I had 
2020012 
11 
 
in the past, where we have one VISN consultant for each VISN that really helps with the training and 
education for that VISN, and so I help make sure that they're prepared and ready to provide that 
guidance. But then I do chair the Central Office Nurse Professional Standards Board, and so if we get 
people that come through that board that have questions about the decisions that were made, then I will 
sit down with those people and help 'em understand. 
 
AG: So, you're a bit supervisory to some of the managers who might be giving that direct feedback or 
the VISNs. 
 
H: Yes, but I'm not supervisory but kind of the lead role for the Office of Nursing Services to help them 
take that down to the VISN boards and then down to the facility boards as well. 
 
AG: I see. In this capacity, is it typically a nine-to-five schedule or is it Monday through Friday, or what 
does your week look like, or your month look like, on average? 
 
H: It is an administrative week. I am a virtual employee, so I get to work from home. I work a little bit 
earlier than most people because I live in the Central time zone but most of the people I work with live 
on Eastern time. I work 6am to 2:30, which kind of lines up with the normal Eastern Time time zone. 
 
AG: Was this role virtual prior to the pandemic and everyone kind of going virtual? 
 
H: Yes, this role has actually been virtual for at least the past that I know, so the last four or five years. 
 
AG: That's predominantly because you have facilities across the country at this point? 
 
H: Right, and so we historically have done lots of site visits and that type of thing. Now we do virtual 
site visits but historically, we did do face-to-face site visits. Before this position was virtual, it was a 
position that they actually went into the Office of Nursing Services in DC. It was a purely administrative 
position but it was in the administrative building. 
 
AG: Had it not been virtual when you accepted this role, it would have been-- you might have had to 
relocate from Texas to DC to work in this sort of essential administrative building. 
 
H: Yes. What I hear, which is just hearsay, but they realized that when you limit a position to having to 
come into an office, you kind of limit the amount of applicants that you get, and you may not really get 
the most highly qualified person if it's only people who are willing to live in that locality. A position that 
you really don't need to come into an office every day, it makes better sense to have virtual so that you 
could have whatever talent you could find wherever they're located. 
 
AG: Right. With the COVID pandemic and the impact it had on the VA, did that change your day-to-
day or change the focus of your work at all? 
 
[31:55] H: It did in some arenas. We did focus on things like how we could temporarily bring nurses in 
in a much quicker fashion than our typical way of bringing them in so that we could immediately 
address the care needs that we had for our patients. We did a lot looking at policy and interpretation to 
make sure that we followed all the rules and laws, but that we were able to bring staff in quickly. We 
2020012 
12 
 
also looked at how we could bolster staffing. The Office of Nursing Services did take on and look 
through multiple resumes, trying to help connect nurses with places that were in need at the beginning of 
the pandemic as well. 
 
AG: Do you have a sense of how the pandemic affected the nurses at the VA or the VA system more 
generally, based on your perspective on things? 
 
H: I am continuously amazed by the compassion that our VA nurses have. Obviously, the pandemic has 
added a lot of pressure to nurses, but I would say from my perspective that nurses have risen beyond 
expectations. We have been so blessed in our organization to be able to move people from site to site 
when the need arose. If we had a huge occurrence of COVID in one area and another area was doing 
fairly well, we were able to deploy nurses from the one area to help the other area, and vice versa. That 
feeling of family, I think, goes beyond just the walls of an organization in the VA to the whole VA as an 
entity itself. I've been amazed at how people have been willing to step up and help out and really go 
above and beyond to make sure that we don't have any facility or any veteran struggling and not getting 
the care that they need. 
 
AG: Do you have the sense that things have-- My impression, just from talking to nurses throughout this 
process, is that the VA was better prepared in many ways than some of the other places that they'd been 
hearing about, but it's also been a little while and circumstances have changed. I'm just curious if you 
feel like the situation is resolving or mostly kind of resolved at this point, or if there are ongoing 
hotspots at this point still. 
 
H: There are still some hotspots. We still are sharing staff with some areas that are in need, but it has 
calmed down some, so it isn't as urgent as it was in the beginning. But there are still some areas that are 
struggling and you know that those areas change over time, and so it's definitely keeping up on a day-to-
day basis with where everyone's at and what the admissions look like and what the occupancy rates are 
for every facility that we have. 
 
AG: Right. I want to be mindful of the time 'cause I know you also have other meetings today. Could we 
switch a little bit and I'll ask just some sort of bigger picture questions about your career and the VA 
itself? 
 
H: Sure. 
 
AG: Great. I wonder, could you talk a little bit about what you see as the benefits and drawbacks of 
working for the VA as a nurse in particular, rather than, say, another facility? 
 
[35:24] H: For me, the biggest benefit has been the opportunities and the patients. The opportunities, I 
would say, starting with my experience as a student nurse, where I was able to come on board before I 
even graduated and work for the VA, but then even once I was on board, the VA has helped support me 
through my education. They helped support my master's degree and my doctoral degree. I don't think 
there's too many nurses that can say that they went through school and didn't have to pay for anything. 
That's been huge, and that I never had to take on any debt or anything like that for school. The VA has 
helped tremendously with that. But then also just all the other professional development opportunities 
that we have, from internal training, to free CEU's, to recognition for getting certification, national 
2020012 
13 
 
specialty certifications, all those things really have helped me push me to develop professionally, even 
more than if those perks probably weren't there. I would say that is one thing that has drawn me to the 
VA and kept me here, but the patients are the other thing. There for me is nothing better than to be able 
to serve our veterans. They are a population who I don't think we can do enough for. I have thought 
about joining the military many times but with a family and those types of things it's hard. If it's hard for 
me, I can only imagine what it was for them to really leave and then not only do the things that they 
were required to do, but also serve our whole country. For me, it's a blessing every day to be able to give 
something back to them for all the sacrifices that they've made. 
 
AG: It sounds like you've been with the VA for-- is it about 20 years since, your first-- 
 
H: Almost 20, yep. 
 
AG: Wow. Over the course of your career, what changes have you seen, if any, at the VA? 
 
H: Our vision in Office of Nursing Services for nursing is advancing healthcare trends, advancing 
nursing and transforming healthcare, and so I would say that that's really what I've seen in my career. 
When I started, we had what you would think of as historical MASH unit ward types where you had four 
patients per room, and as the RN, there was maybe one RN on duty for 24 beds. We did team nursing, 
and so we had an RN, an LPN, and a nursing assistant and we worked together. But now fast forward 
that 20 years and all of our rooms are pretty much single-bed or at the most double-bed type of 
situations. We have really developed from not just doing the inpatient model of care, but really thinking 
through the continuity of care that we give to our patients. What does that look like and how do we 
transition between inpatient and outpatient? How do we think about things like complex medical 
histories and care transitions, and even what the patient's goals are and how we can help to assist with 
those types of things. I think we've advanced in a lot of those areas. We've looked at health more 
holistically, in my opinion, where it was a medical model when I first started, but now we're looking at 
things like acupuncture and chiropracty and those types of things that maybe aren't your traditional ways 
of taking care of things, but they are things that are proven to be effective for some patients, and so now 
thinking more holistically about our veterans and the care that we're able to provide to them. 
 
AG: Are there any areas that you would like to see services improved or maybe innovated for veterans? 
 
[39:28] H: I think we still have work to do with understanding how to best meet the needs of our 
homeless veteran population. We've put a lot of work and effort into it, but we still haven't had the full 
outcome that we were hoping for. I think continuing to research their needs and really do those things 
that are meaningful and impactful to them to build trust and make them want to be helped in our system, 
I think that's something that we should continue to look at. 
 
AG: Thinking about your own experiences, how would you describe the roles of nurses in sort of patient 
care or in the facility, and do you think that your perception of nurses' roles has changed as your career 
has evolved? 
 
H: One of my favorite memories is actually when I was nurse manager and we were having a retreat 
with my whole staff and talking about, What is our role and how is it that we impact all of our patients? 
The vision that we came up with at that point was to always be a shining light. That's the way that I see 
2020012 
14 
 
nursing, is that we should be that shining light, and to be that shining light, we have to be a combination 
of multiple things. We have to have the right education and knowledge so that we can guide and lead 
people correctly, that we can advocate for our patients with the medical providers. But we also have to 
have the compassionate side. We can listen to them and understand what their goals and desires are and 
then be able to translate that into, "How can we help you? How can we partner with you so that we can 
either heal you if that's your choice or bring you to that goal that you're hoping to reach?" 
 
A: Over the course of your career, is there anyone, or maybe multiple people, who you think of as 
professional mentors or role models? 
 
H: Yeah, definitely my first nurse manager [chuckles] was my biggest role model and really advocated 
for me and we still stay in touch to this day. She was someone who always made me think that anything 
was possible and never to discount myself because of my age or my background or what I hadn't 
experienced, but to always be open to trying new things and be willing to volunteer when maybe other 
people wouldn't volunteer, and that that’s the way that you’ll learn and continue to learn. She made a 
huge impact on me. Then, the other person would be the person that was in my current role, now two 
people ago. He invited me to be a VISN consultant at a time that I was still a fairly new board 
chairperson. Again, I took a step back and I was kind of amazed and thought, “Am I really the best 
person for this?” But he helped me to see, “You have all the skills that you need. You just need to now 
go on and do it at the next higher level and don’t hold yourself back.” Again, just that person to help 
push me along and say, “You are capable of this. Go ahead, give it a try.” Again, we stay in contact to 
this day, and I hope that I can do that for other people as we grow. As a nurse manager, I think I was 
able to do that and now in my current role, really just looking at opportunities to help people, because 
there’s so much talent that we have in our system, and really helping people see that within themselves, 
and then helping them to develop it with them. 
 
A: Is there any advice that you would give to a new RN or LPN sort of just starting out, either at the VA 
or generally thinking about starting out in nursing? 
 
H: My advice to a new nurse would be to find what you’re passionate about and always continue to 
challenge yourself and ask questions, because the more that you grow, the better you’ll know yourself 
and the better you’ll be able to care for others. 
 
A: I know you said that you’re-- it’s a bit open-ended, but where do you see yourself in the next 5 or ten 
years? Maybe professionally, maybe personally, a kind of combination. 
 
H: I don’t know. I think at some point I’d like to go back and be an associate director for patient care 
services at a medical facility, but kind of in a holding pattern right now enjoying my family [laughs]. 
When my oldest one is able to drive, circumstances will change a little bit, but right now I’m the lead 
taxi cab driver in the house, and so just enjoying every minute and every little snuggle that I can get in 
before they’re both too old to enjoy that time with me. 
 
A: Yeah, it sounds like a really nice sort of role in that you’ve got some flexibility so you can plan some 
years out for when you might not be as on-demand in the parental role. 
 
H: Definitely. 
2020012 
15 
 
 
A: Kind of more of an on-demand facility role. Oh wonderful. I wanted to know if there’s, before we say 
goodbye, anything that you’d like to add. 
 
H: No. This is an exciting opportunity and I appreciate you having me.  
 
A: Thank you so much. This was wonderful. I’m so glad to have talked. 
 
H: Thanks. 
 
[45:05] End of recording.