AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Teresa Taylor Hatfield– 3/5/22 
1 
 
Teresa Taylor Hatfield 
 
Where: Her home 
Date: March 5, 2022 
Location: Pikeville, KY 
Interviewer: Emily Hilliard 
Transcription: Emily Hilliard 
Length: 49:11 
 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Teresa Taylor Hatfield– 3/5/22 
2 
 
Teresa Taylor Hatfield (b. 1963) is a rural mail carrier working out of the Pikeville, Kentucky Post Office. 
She has been a rural carrier since September 22, 1996. She is the vice president of the Kentucky District I 
of the National Association of Rural Letter Carriers, and previously served as president. She also trains 
new rural letter carriers. In this interview Hatfield talks about her passion for the union.  
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Teresa Taylor Hatfield– 3/5/22 
3 
 
TH: Teresa Taylor Hatfield 
EH: Emily Hilliard 
 
00:00 
EH: Alright, it is March 5, 2022. I'm in Pikeville, Kentucky. Why don't you introduce yourself and tell me 
your name, the year you were born, and where you're from? 
 
TH: My name is Teresa Taylor Hatfield and I was born in April 1963 and I've been a rural carrier since 
September 28th, 1996. 
 
EH: Tell me what attracted you to the job initially? 
 
TH: I love being a mail carrier. And it started out that my sister was doing it and so she talked me into 
doing it and I applied and I was actually working as a highway contractor and so then I applied and I got 
the job at Pikeville so I started doing it then and I love it. I love working it, I love being a mail carrier. I 
like the whole idea of it. 
 
EH: What had you done before that? 
 
TH: Before that I was, I was just, worked in restaurants, waitress, that kind of a thing. 
 
EH: So this was probably very different. 
 
TH: Very different, yeah. 
 
EH: Why don't you walk me through a typical day on the job from when you get to the post office to 
when you get home at the end of the day.  
 
TH: Okay, well, first we go in, we have to sign in, get our scanners and clock in and then we case mail 
and prepare the route for delivery. And we go out, it's usually you're in the post office sometimes 2-3 
hours. You can be in there longer and then you're on the street 4-5 hours and then you've got work to do 
when you come back in in the evening and then you just, you're done--you do it again tomorrow, so.  
 
EH: What is your route--is it out of the Pikeville office? 
 
TH: Yes. Yeah. I go to Cedar Creek and then I spend most of my day on Island Creek in the left fork of 
Island Creek. I get to leave and go up 23 for a little bit and then I come back to Island Creek. I end the 
day on Island Creek. I start on Island Creek and I end on Island Creek (laughs). 
 
EH: So is it kind of a loop? 
 
TH: It is a loop, yeah. 
 
EH: And how long is it and how many boxes? 
 
TH: I have 727 boxes and it's 62 miles. 
 
EH: That's pretty long and a lot of boxes too! 
 
02:42  
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Teresa Taylor Hatfield– 3/5/22 
4 
 
 
TH: Yes! (laughs) It is. But you can't let that, you can't think about that, you know. You just get in there 
and you do it one box at a time and then you're done! 
 
EH: Why don't you describe the scenery along the route and the landscape just for maybe someone who's 
never been to this area before? 
 
TH: Okay, well it is a rural, it's a lot of rural and I have some gravel roads and a lot of one lane roads and 
it's just, it's just very rural, you know, we go up hollers and creeks and then they branch off to other 
places. So it's just the same people and I see them every day and then when it starts getting spring, they 
actually start coming out of their house (laughs) and so you get to see them for the summer, anyway. 
 
EH: Nice. 
 
TH: It's nice.  
 
EH: Tell me about the weather that you have encountered during your route? 
 
TH: Well, the rain, snow, sleet, and the hail. I remember when I first started it was just a few miles from 
here that I went up a hill and I got halfway up it, it was snowing and I got halfway up it and I slid back 
down into the ditch. And then only thing I knew to do was to call the postmaster because I thought they 
would come and help me and I did call him and I told him I was in the ditch and he said, "Well Teresa, 
you need to call a wrecker." And I said, "Oh!" (laughs)  
 
EH: (laughs) "Thanks for the help!" 
 
TH: So I found out it was all on me so I had to get myself pulled out and I didn't go back up that hill until 
when it was snowy, I didn't go up that hill again. I wasn't gonna let that happen again. 
 
EH: Yeah. Were you injured at all? 
 
TH: Oh, no.  
 
EH: That's good. 
 
TH: I've not had any injuries as far as you know, on the job. I've been thankful. I did have a coal truck 
back up and hit me once when I was parked working some mailboxes. His backup light, that beeper, it 
wasn't working and so he backed up and hit me and it scared me but I didn't get hurt or anything. And 
then we've had, I've worked in the flood, we had to turn around and then some mudslides and stuff like 
that. And it's okay if you come up the road and you've got a tree down but when you go up to turn around 
and a tree has fallen while you went up the road, then you could be stuck because there's no way out. 
(laughs) 
 
EH: Yeah wow. Has that happened to you? 
 
TH: Oh yeah, that's happened.  
 
EH: So what did you do? 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Teresa Taylor Hatfield– 3/5/22 
5 
 
TH: Well, you have to just wait! You have to just (laughs), you just have to wait it out. But you've got to 
let somebody know you're stuck behind a tree or you know, whatever, but it happens, not all the time, not 
very often, but it does. 
 
EH: Do you bring a book or anything with you just in case you get stuck? (laughs) 
 
TH: Well now we have our cell phones, as long as we've got service, we can play our game or whatever 
but no, I usually just sit it out. But you know, cell phones--they help a lot. Sit and play games. 
 
06:15  
 
EH: What are other things you bring with you in the car for safety or for weather or for snacks? 
 
TH: Well, I do eat a lot of snacks. That's the thing, just eat snacks on the go. As far as the weather, I don't 
like to wear heavy jackets or anything because it interferes with the mail. I can knock mail off into the 
floor and not even realize it so my husband fusses at me when I go out the door without a jacket on, but 
it's just easier for me. And I have everything, well I have tools in case I do have a problem--air, air tanks 
and Fix-a-flat, and stuff like that. And thankfully Brian, he's retired so he's home now so if I do need him, 
he can come to me pretty quickly. I haven't had to change a tire yet. I hope I don't have to. 
 
EH: That's good. 
 
TH: Yeah! (laughs) It's always--I've needed plenty of flats changed, but I've not had to do it myself, thank 
goodness. 
 
EH: Yeah. Tell me about the vehicles you've had over your career? 
 
TH: Oh. I've had, well I'm POV, you know that's Personal-Owned Vehicle. I don't get to drive the LLV, 
so, and I have to sit in the middle--I've never had any right-hand drives. And currently, my transmission is 
out in my I'm trying to think, in my Mitsubishi, it's a Mitsubishi CVS Sport and I can't get my parts for it 
so right now I'm driving my new car, which I hate, but I've always tried to keep small cars and whenever I 
go to buy a new car I think about it as gonna eventually be my next mail car so I have to buy something 
that's pretty small that I can sit in the middle with. 
 
EH: I see.  
 
TH: Right. So I think when I retire, I'm gonna buy a big truck. (laughs) Something big! I've had these 
small ones for so long. 
 
EH: What is your current new car? 
 
TH: That Mitsubishi that Eclipse Cross, yeah. 
 
EH: And that's 4-wheel drive? 
 
TH: Yeah. It's 4-wheel drive but it's hard to work in and I've already put some scratches on it and that 
really stresses me out because I don't want to scratch a new car up. But it happens. 
 
EH: Yeah. 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Teresa Taylor Hatfield– 3/5/22 
6 
 
TH: It's part of it. I do get paid for wear and tear on my vehicle so that helps. 
 
EH: Yeah. Tell me about the customers that you serve and who they are, you know, you don't have to 
name names or anything, but what kind of people they are and what they do? 
 
TH: Well, I have a lot of customers and I have some that are elderly and they're sweet and then they 
worry about things and then I have some elderly that are, I have one lady that I deliver a package to her 
every now and then and she doesn't get much company and she always wants to talk and the last time that 
I was there, well one time that I was there, she said, "Well when am I gonna see you again," and I said, 
"Well, you're going to have to order another package so I can come to the door!" So the elderly people I 
really get close to them. And then you have most generally I deliver to every type of person, you know, 
lawyers, doctors, just people on fixed incomes. And lots of people and they are all different personalities. 
And some of 'em, I treat all of my customers the way that I'm supposed to and then, but I do my job 
correctly and they give me tomatoes. I get a lot of tomatoes in the summer. A lot of tomatoes. 
 
EH: Homegrown I assume? 
 
TH: Yes, yeah. And yeah, we get a lot of tomatoes and they'll put them in the box and you know, so. I 
love my customers. 
 
EH: What else do they leave you in the box as gifts? 
 
10:43  
 
TH: Candy, they like to give me candy. The tomatoes, the cookies, and I'm trying to think. I always get 
little gifts and cards, thank you cards. And I've got one little girl on my route that puts letters in there from 
time to time and she'll put a Valentine's card in and then she'll put a Halloween card in, and she draws 
them! And they're really cute. They're at the post office or I would show you some, but I keep them in my 
case, you know. And then I have one customer that I really considered her to be a friend and she passed 
away with COVID and so you know, those things, when these people that you get attached to, when they 
pass away, you consider them as your friends, as part of the family. 
 
EH: Right. Yeah, what was it like delivering during COVID, especially those early days when there was a 
lot of uncertainty? 
 
TH: There was a lot of uncertainty. Well, some people didn't want us to even, they didn't want to talk to 
us, they didn't want us to be close to them, and they wouldn't open the door. I remember once that some 
man I needed him to, he had a certified something that needed to be signed for. And he wouldn't come to 
the door so I wrote it up, the notice, and put it on the door, and as I walked away, he opened the door and 
flicked the paper off because he didn't even want it touching his door because of COVID, I guess. 
(laughs) And then some people don't think it's real, those kind of things, you know. But right now because 
of COVID we're not letting anyone touch our scanners and so we're signing everything for everybody. 
And keeping our distance and those kind of things, but it was a scary time! And I thought, I thought 
because so much time had went by, I thought well I'm not even gonna get it, but I did. (laughs) I got it in 
September. 
 
EH: Of this year? 
 
TH: Yeah, this past September. 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Teresa Taylor Hatfield– 3/5/22 
7 
 
EH: Oh wow. How was it? 
 
13:09  
 
TH: It really wasn't that bad. I felt like I had a really, really bad head cold or something. And my husband 
didn't even get it and... 
 
EH: Wow! 
 
TH: Yeah! And I thought for sure he would get it because you know, we were in the same bed for a 
couple of days before I was actually diagnosed and then I moved into that one. (laughs) 
 
EH: I have heard of that, you know, a lot of friends, one spouse will get it and the other hasn't, so. 
 
TH: I know! I know. It's strange, but I'm glad he didn't. And he's never gotten it still, so good for him. 
 
13:47  
 
EH: That's good. Tell me about an unusual day on your route, you know some of those kind of wild 
occurrences that happen to you as a mail carrier or stories you tell other people about your job? 
 
TH: Well, I know last year, last summer I came up and I found a man laying in the road and he had blood-
-I could see blood in the top of his head and I asked him if he was okay and he said no, and I said, do you 
want me to call 911 and he said yes, and I did and he said that some people had beat him up. And so that 
was scary to come upon him on the road. And maybe a month or so ago I found a lady in the road and I 
thought she was dead. I didn't know if it was a man or a woman actually and I thought that she was 
DEAD and it really scared me and it was so cold out. And when I went over to check on her and she 
didn't raise up and she was just on drugs really bad and she was just confused about where she was and 
things. And you know, things like that have happened. For the most part it's been pretty normal, you 
know. I did go to a trailer park once--it's a big trailer park and they have, I have 4 NBU boxes there. And 
I, when I pulled in, I stopped at a house to drop off a package first and it was like they were all fighting 
and someone had a gun out, so I called the postmaster and I said, "I'm really not comfortable here." I said, 
"They're fighting and someone has a gun." And he said, "Leave now." And so I left. And so we didn't 
service the mail that day. 
 
EH: That's terrifying! 
 
TH: Yeah! It was.  
 
EH: Have you ever had other concerns over safety along the route? 
 
TM: Um, no. I did have one customer that was very upset with me because I, it was a restricted letter 
which means that no one can sign for it except the person that it's addressed to and they wanted, everyone 
kept wanting to sign it and I said he has to sign it and so finally he kicked the door, the front door open 
and he came out and he was cussing me all the way from the house to the car and so I called the 
postmaster and he answered and I said, "Do you hear this?" And he said yes, and he said can you pull 
away? And I said yes, and he said, "Pull away now." So they do try to watch out for you and make sure 
that you are safe. And they do stand up for you. Most generally when you have a problem and you tell 
them, they always take our word over top of anybody else's because you know, you get the job based on 
trust, so. 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Teresa Taylor Hatfield– 3/5/22 
8 
 
 
17:14  
 
EH: Yeah. Have you developed friendships with your coworkers over the years? 
 
TH: Yes. (laughs) Yes. I have one (clears throat) that's very special. She's a very special friend to me. And 
yeah, we do, you get close to some people. And then there's some people there that I really don't care a lot 
for and I just stay away from them. They stay away from me and I stay away from them. It's just sort of 
the way it is, I guess.  
 
EH: Yeah. And is that mostly when you're casing the mail? 
 
TH: Yeah. Casing the mail and chit-chatting and loading the vehicle and going to the bathroom together, 
you just start developing friendships and I have a really good friend Betty, I trust her with my life. 
Anything I have to tell her, I can trust her. So she's a good friend.  
 
EH: Is she a rural carrier too? 
 
TH: Yes, yes. 
 
EH: How many rural routes are out of the Pikeville post office?  
 
TH: There are 9 regular routes and 2 aux routes.  
 
EH: And has that changed since you started? 
 
TH: Yeah, we used to have 12 and we lost a route. We're never gonna have a route 7 again. I don't know 
why we can't have a route 7 again. It was taken away and distributed among the other routes, so there will 
never be another route 7, so if we get another route, it'll be route 13 and I'm like, "Why can't we have 
route 7 back?" (laughs) 
 
EH: (laughs) Right, yeah. 
 
TH: And they're like, "It's gone! It's just gone!" Okay! 
 
EH: That's funny. 
 
TH: Yeah! Okay, so.  
 
18:56  
 
EH: How has your work changed since you first started in '96? 
 
TH: Well, in '96 I was an RCA and then in October 4, 2003, I became a regular carrier which is, that 
means I just stay on the same route. I don't have to run other routes, which is great because you're just 
doing the same thing and the same people every day. And my schedule is set so I don't even have to look 
at the schedule. I know I'm Monday through Friday and then of course I have more knowledge and I 
really, I would like to hope I have more to offer to new carriers. I am the union steward in my office and I 
do teach classes so that's something that I really like is to be an academy instructor.  
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Teresa Taylor Hatfield– 3/5/22 
9 
 
EH: Nice. What's it like being an RCA? 
 
TH: RCAs have it rough. You get called in, you know, your schedule when you come in on Saturday you 
see your schedule but it can change because the regulars can get sick, they can have emergencies or break 
downs, so you can get called all different times of the day. And then in the winter, they don't want us to 
have overtime. It's the only time we can have overtime in the winter through Christmastime and they 
won't let us have it. And so they really, really, really work the RCAs a lot. And they give them the 
overtime and they give them a lot of overtime. I don't understand it--we just can't get any. (laughs) Yeah, 
but they work them really hard, I think. 
 
20:52  
 
EH: Tell me about trainer and what the things are that you make sure to teach new carriers? 
 
TH: Tell you about being one? 
 
EH: Yeah, what are the things that you make sure to tell new carriers about the job? 
 
TH: Okay. Well, I tell them that it's a very hard job starting out and to be patient because you're not gonna 
get it right away, and to hang in there. And to give it a chance because a lot of times, and I've heard a lot, 
that people will come in and they get very overwhelmed and then they quit before they really give it a 
chance. And that's a big thing with me, is you've got to give it a chance. And then I try to give them every 
tip and everything that, every ounce of information that I can give them to make them to be better carriers 
or a good carrier, I want to do it. Because I want them to succeed. And I LOVE being a carrier. I mean I 
love being a carrier, but I love being an academy instructor. I love when I get to go because you get to 
meet new people and they're just, it's, I love it, it's fun. 
 
EH: Do you go through different units, so is there sort of a casing the mail unit and then relationships 
with customers, or how does it get taught? 
 
TH: To my, in the class? 
 
EH: Yeah, yeah. 
 
TH: It's a 4-day class and basically when you're finished, by the end of the 4th day you've basically went 
through the day of a rural carrier in essence. You learn about the classes of mail and the carrier's case and 
they actually will case mail and then they'll deliver mail on foot and in a vehicle and there's just a lot, a lot 
in the classes. And it's, it has 12 modules in it and then we go through the modules, 2 or 3 a day and on 
the 4th day we've got it all done. And then they're rural carriers!  
 
EH: (laughs) They're ready to go! 
 
TH: We've done our part. And then they go get their OJT On the Job Training.  
 
EH: How did you learn it--did you ride along with anyone? 
 
TH: When I first became an RCA? 
 
EH: Yeah. 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Teresa Taylor Hatfield– 3/5/22 
10 
 
TH: Yes. Yes. When you first, when you're first hired in you get 3 days of training, more if you need it. 
Generally they only want to give you 3 days of training and then you're out on your own. And then you 
just, you start picking it up, picking it up. I can tell you a funny story about my first Saturday that I ever 
delivered if you would like for me to tell it. 
 
EH: Yeah! Yeah. 
 
23:43  
 
TH: Sure. It's not (laughs) really funny in one way, but you know what I mean when I tell the story. When 
the guy trained me, we pulled up to a certain house and there were 2 brothers that lived side by side. On 
my very first Saturday that I worked, I delivered their mail. Well, on Monday I saw in the paper that one 
of those brothers shot and killed the other brother and it was in the paper. And because the guy that 
trained me was also a city police officer, I knew he knew what happened and so I asked him. I said, 
"Buster, what happened up there? Why did he kill him?" And he said, he looked at me so serious, he said, 
"Because you put his check in the wrong box!"  
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
TH: And I almost had a heart attack! I was just, my mouth dropped and if you could have just saw my 
face, I thought that man got killed because of me! 
 
EH: Oh no!  
 
TH: And it was just--they were having a feud. But for me, it really, really, really. I just, I thought, I did 
that and that man got killed! (laughs) 
 
EH: Oh no! Which might be an easy mix-up if they both have the same last name! 
 
TH: Yes, yes. But I didn't do that. 
 
EH: (laughs) Right. 
 
TH: (laughs) He told me, he just... 
 
EH: He was pulling your leg. 
 
TH: Yeah. That's what he told me, but that was my very first Saturday that I worked by myself. 
 
EH: Wow, what a shock. 
 
TH: Yeah. 
 
25:15  
 
EH: Tell me about the union and your role in it a little bit more and what it does for you as a worker? 
 
TH: Well, I love the union and I am involved in it. We're divided up into different districts and I'm 
District I and I'm the vice president in it. I was the president for a couple years, but I had a couple things 
going on at that time and so I stepped back and wanted to be the vice president, and so that's what I 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Teresa Taylor Hatfield– 3/5/22 
11 
 
currently am now and then you know, we have our meetings and our national. I'm planning on being a 
delegate to that. I've been a delegate to the state convention and then I try to go to all my trainings and 
things when I can. Like when you went to the winter meeting, I couldn't come.  
 
EH: Yeah. 
 
TH: But I am very involved and very passionate about it! I like the union. 
 
EH: Was that part of the attraction of the job to you? That it was a union job? 
 
TH: Actually, I did not know it, that it was a union job and my husband who passed away in 2005, but he 
was a union, he was in the UMWA and he was very involved in the UMWA and so when I went to my 
training which was in Lexington and then they presented us with the opportunity to become a member of 
the union, I was so surprised and I was so shocked and I called my husband and I said, "Chris, this is a 
union job!" And so you know, we're pro-union (laughs). So. I was happy about that. 
 
EH: Did he work in this area? 
 
TH: Phelps. 
 
EH: Okay. 
 
TH: Phelps, Kentucky. 
 
EH: Nice. 
 
TH: That was the only, that was the last UMWA job in Kentucky, which it's not there anymore.  
 
EH: Yeah, right. I knew some of the guys at the Local 1440 in Matewan. You know, they're all retired, 
but there's a pretty active union there with the Mine Wars Museum and stuff. 
 
TH: Yeah, yeah.  
 
EH: Pretty close by. 
 
TH: Yeah! Brian is from Matewan. 
 
EH: Oh cool! 
 
TH: And we actually lived over there, so yeah, I know what you're talking about. And the building and all 
that. It's a nice facility. 
 
EH: Yeah, I haven't been to the new one yet. They moved into the old bank building that I think is also 
union-owned, so, it's bigger now. 
 
TH: Yeah, yeah. 
 
EH: So is he a Hatfield of Sid Hatfield lineage? 
 
TH: He, I think he is.  
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Teresa Taylor Hatfield– 3/5/22 
12 
 
 
EH: Wow.  
 
TH: Of that. Of the Hatfields and McCoys. (laughs) So. 
 
EH: (laughs) Sid Hatfield was a very--a real hero when I lived in West Virginia. Because of his role with 
the union. Yeah. 
 
TH: Yeah. 
 
EH: Let's see. Oh, so where's the national convention this year? 
 
TH: Florida. Orlando. It's in September. I plan on going. I've been selected as a delegate, but we have to--
I don't know if I'm going. I am a delegate but I don't know if I'm going to be a chosen delegate. Because 
the members have to vote us, so we've not had that yet. 
 
EH: Okay. So does that mean as a chosen delegate you would have voting power? What does that mean? 
 
TH: Yes, yes. I am, I have made my, I guess, I'm trying to say I have made my intentions known that I 
would like to be a delegate. So then I'm gonna go on the list and then the members will vote who they 
want to send. And I went several times. I was going last year and it got cancelled. So yes, if you're a 
delegate then you get to vote for the matters of the union. And I was really happy the last time that I--I 
voted for a lot of things that I thought helped the RCAs because I think they need more things, and now 
we have a tentative agreement and they're gonna, March 11 they're gonna find out if it's gonna pass or 
not. And so I'm pretty proud of some of the things that are in that agreement this year that I know that I 
helped be a part of! So that makes me happy. Whether they realize it or not, I don't know if they realize it 
but like the other day, one of the guys was upset over this new RECS system that's coming in and he said 
he wanted to go to an hourly rate instead of evaluated time and he's complaining to me and he said, you 
know the problem with the union is, the union needs to do this, the union this, and I said, "You know, we 
are the union. I am not the union, we are the union. So if you don't like something, start coming to 
meetings and make your voice known." And that usually, they just walk off on that. (laughs) 
 
EH: Right. 
 
TH: So. 
 
EH: Yeah, yeah. Have you seen interest in the union increase or decrease? 
 
TH: It has decreased. But like we're having our spring meetings right now in preparation for our state 
convention and they have had, I've heard already in the meetings in the past that have already went on, 
that they had more people at 'em. And they're really concerned about this new RECS system and about 
this mini mail count that we're gonna have. So hopefully, our meeting is April 3rd and it's gonna be in 
Louisa, so I'm hoping that people will show an interest and that they'll come and hopefully excuse me, 
hopefully through that, those things, the new systems that they'll start getting more involved in the union.  
 
EH: Right. 
 
TH: That's what I hope. 
 
EH: And District I, is that most of Eastern Kentucky? 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Teresa Taylor Hatfield– 3/5/22 
13 
 
 
TH: Yes. Yeah. It's about, I wish I had a paper in here, I could show it to you, but yeah, it's all in that 
corner (laughs). That corner of the... 
 
EH: And does that include Louisa too? 
 
TH: Uh-huh. 
 
EH: Okay. 
 
TH: Yeah. Almost to Lexington and like Grayson area and Hazard and London and in that area. 
 
32:07  
 
EH: Let's see what else. What do you think the importance of rural carriers are to the communities they 
serve? 
 
TH: I think we're very important. Especially because it is rural and people can't get out and we're there 
and we can get their medicine to them and their packages and we can get, just take care of their business. 
And I think we're very important, you know. And I don't like it when some of the subs, the RCAs will 
leave notices for packages for some of the customers to come and pick 'em up instead of taking 'em out--
those things bug me. But my sub, I have a very good RCA and he knows I don't (laughs) want him doing 
that. I fuss at him. "Don't do that!" I came back one Monday and it was a long time ago and there was a 
package there that didn't get delivered on Saturday and the reason was it was written on the package, was 
because it was raining too hard. And I thought, "Really? We're rain, snow, sleet, and hail!"  
 
EH: (laughs) Right! 
 
TH: So, I never did understand that one. 
 
EH: Yeah. 
 
TH: That was just (laughs)--it was raining too hard! Whatever. 
 
EH: What are some unusual things you've delivered? 
 
TH: Well, queen bees, you know we have the queen bees and of course, human remains--we do that. And 
crickets, worms, things like that, you know. 
 
EH: Farm life. 
 
TH: Chickens, yeah. 
 
EH: Let me take a look at my questions and see what else we haven't talked about yet. What would you 
say is the most challenging part of your job? 
 
TH: The most challenging is to make dispatch on a very heavy day after a holiday. I don't understand the 
volume of mail that we have to get on a day after a holiday and then when you come into work the next 
day, there's not hardly any mail! I never get that. I'm like why do we have to have all of this mail on the 
day after a holiday and we have to try to make dispatch. 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Teresa Taylor Hatfield– 3/5/22 
14 
 
 
EH: And what does "make dispatch" mean? 
 
34:45  
 
TH: It's when the mail leaves the office. And when the mail, you've got to get there before--so the truck 
can leave, truck has to leave at a certain time so you have to be back at a certain time so they can get the 
mail! And that is frustrating. When you come in and there is so much mail and some of it is bulk and you 
don't have to take all that bulk in one day, but they give it to us and then you come back tomorrow and 
there's not much mail. I just don't understand that! 
 
EH: Yeah. 
 
TH: And it's really--that's the biggest thing that I--that's my biggest stressful thing is that. (laughs) Trying 
to make dispatch on a day after a holiday! It's challenging. 
 
EH: What is the part of your job that you like the most? 
 
TH: The part that I like the best is to get out and just to be outside. I mean, you know, you're really your 
own boss when you're out there. You just do your job and you do it correctly and then you can take a 
break when you want and you can chit-chat with your customers. You can, you know, take lunch when 
you want--just get your job done! And I like it. I don't have to fight over the radio. We did have that 
problem once at the post office. Everyone was in disagreement of the music and so our postmaster said, it 
was like on Monday, Wednesday, Friday, and then Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday it was rock and roll and 
then country. And then the next day was rock and roll, the next day was country. And it worked for 
everybody! (laughs) 
 
EH: (laughs) Yeah! 
 
TH: It worked! 
 
EH: What do you listen to when you're in the car? 
 
TH: I listen to either NPR, I listen to NPR a lot and also 90.1, a religious station. That's what I listen to 
mainly. 
 
EH: Nice. 
 
TH: Yeah.  
 
EH: No books on tape or anything? 
 
TH: No. My sister does that a lot. She did that a lot, but, and she keeps trying to tell me to do it, and I 
want to do it, but I just don't. Yeah. 
 
EH: It might be hard to follow. 
 
TH: She loves it, you know, she did it religiously. But probably with me--we're a little bit different 
personality. (laughs) 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Teresa Taylor Hatfield– 3/5/22 
15 
 
EH: Let's see here. Has the type of mail or the volume of mail changed since you've been carrying? 
 
TH: Yes. Yes. The mail has decreased. The amount of mail has decreased. And yeah, yeah, it has because 
people don't send cards or Christmas cards or anything like they used to and I like to send my Christmas 
cards and I like to get 'em and people don't! They just don't do 'em like they used to. Or packages in the 
mail. I liked delivering, I liked mailing my grandchildren packages and cards because I know how excited 
they get about it, especially when they don't know they're coming. And I wish that other people would do 
that. Especially even a card. And I got out of the car once, I had a package, so I was getting out of the car 
and this little boy come running to me. He was just so cute. His eyes were so big and he was so excited 
and he asked me when he got the package, he said, "Is my stuff in there?" And I said, "I don't know!" and 
he said, and he just started naming all these toys. "Do you have my car? Do you have my toy gun? Do 
you have this?" And I said, "I don't know! I said, you go ask your mom!" He was just so excited. And 
that's the things I like. And especially at Christmas when you know that people are waiting on things, and 
I just, I love it. 
 
EH: Are there any unique mailboxes on your route? 
 
TH: Any unique ones? No, really, I don't. I don't have anything special and I know what you're talking 
about because I like to have special mailboxes. I do have one that it's just really pretty. It's not really 
special to a lot of people but to me it is. It's silvery with some kind of, it's I don't know what, it's a Harley 
Davidson one and I really like it. And it was really funny, the one girl that I was training her and on the 
last day she has to drive and I put the mail in and I saw her going to close to that mailbox and I screamed 
really loud "No, no, no, no, no--don't hit it!" And she didn't and then she looked at me like, "What?" And 
I said, "Oh, I just didn't want you to hit that mailbox, it's so pretty!" And I didn't want to hurt their 
mailbox. But no, not really. Mine are pretty, pretty normal. I've heard of microwaves and a lot of things 
out there, so, yeah. Oh! I do remember one from a long time ago, it's when I was on another route, it's 
when I was an RCA. And it was a regular mailbox but the man had 2 of them and when he felt good, you 
only saw his one mailbox, but if he was not feeling well, he had one that was on a rope and it would come 
from his house and he would roll, you know, how do you say it, get that down to the mailbox and so if the 
2nd mailbox was out, I knew he didn't feel well, and I put his mail in and then he would just come out and 
hoist it up with the rope. 
 
EH: (laughs) Like a pulley system? 
 
TH: Yeah! Yeah, that's it! On a pulley! 
 
EH: That's really cool.  
 
TH: So I said, "Oh, well he's not feeling good today!" So that's probably the strangest one I've ever seen. 
 
40:49  
 
EH: What do you think the future of rural mail carrying is and you know, the post office in general? 
 
TH: Oh. Well we have to get back our packages, you know. We have to get our packages, we have to do 
more, we have to do accurate delivery. We have to take better care of our customers. That's when I get, 
that's, things like that irritate me when you leave notices instead of taking the packages out because you 
don't want to get out. We have to be better than we were. Whatever we did yesterday, we have to be better 
tomorrow in delivering. And we gotta keep, we gotta build faith in our customers to want to do service 
with us and I just see a lot of things. People are paying bills online and they you know, we don't pick up 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Teresa Taylor Hatfield– 3/5/22 
16 
 
the mail we used to pick up. I could pick up in a day, I can pick up maybe 100 letters and when I first 
started, I was picking up maybe 500 letters. So that's a big difference, you know.  
 
EH: What are the stories you tell to each other when rural mail carriers get together? 
 
TH: (laughs) Well, we tell the things that we, we just tell the funny little things, you know. The way that 
we talk at work, like I don't necessarily say "This person passed away" or something. If I was talking to 
another carrier, I would say, "Did you know that 1709, her husband passed away?" (laughs) or "Did you 
know, do you know Joe at 668 Road Fork?" You know that's the, you sort of use the numbers and things, 
that kind of more, instead of their names. We start off talking about these people with their house 
numbers. Yeah, we all have stories of things that we've seen. I really can't think of one right now! 
 
EH: Yeah.  
 
TH: I'm sort of thrown on the spot. But yeah, I've seen some funny things. I've been chased by a rooster, 
fighting rooster, a lot. 
 
EH: That's scary! 
 
TH: Yeah, yeah! This guy had these roosters and I would try to get out and work--they have a U box and 
the roosters would come after me. They'd run me back, I couldn't actually deliver the mail! But, yeah we 
talk about just things that had happened. I can't think, just, I just can't think right now. 
 
EH: What about other animal encounters, whether domesticated or wild? 
 
TH: Well, there are always the deer that hit us, we don't hit deer--deer hit us. I did open a mailbox once 
and someone had put a dead rooster in it. And when I opened the mailbox up, I didn't know it was dead at 
the moment and it really scared me. And then another time, I remember specifically that I was carrying a 
package to put in the parcel locker, and when I opened the parcel locker up, somebody had put a dead 
snake in it, but I didn't see the dead part yet, I just saw the snake, and that really scared me! (laughs) You 
know, but mainly animals, you know, just the regular animals. Horses. I did come up the road once, it was 
on Mill's Branch, and here come a guy with probably, there was probably 7 of 'em and 7 horses. They 
were all on horses. And I didn't know what to do because I didn't want to scare the horses, because I didn't 
know what my vehicle would do, so I just sat there for a minute and the leader of the guy of the people on 
the horses, he came to me and he said, "If you will just sit here and not move, we will go around you." I 
said okay. And so that's literally what I did. I sat there and they went to the right side of me sort of up on 
the hill and they were, I could have reached out and touched the horse's legs--they were that close to me 
(laughs). And I just sat there! And all 7 of 'em went around me. I thought that was pretty amazing, you 
know. So that was pretty cool. 
 
EH: Yeah. Have you felt you know, content with your compensation and benefits over the years? 
 
45:34  
 
TH: I have. I think that we get paid well. Yeah. I am happy. 
 
EH: Nice. Is there anything you know, reflecting over your career, that you wish the general public knew 
about your work? 
 
TH: Sort of like, what do you mean? 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Teresa Taylor Hatfield– 3/5/22 
17 
 
 
EH: What do you wish more people knew about what it means to be a rural mail carrier? Or what--the 
importance of them to their communities and customers? 
 
TH: I don't, I don't know if people understand how, I take it serious. I take the delivery of the mail serious 
and I don't know if people always do really know how hard we do work, because they think we just sit 
around and drive all day and it's not like that. There's a lot of mental thinking and getting the mail 
together and making sure that the mail's done right. And I take a lot of pride in getting it done correctly. 
And if I make a mistake, I really don't like it. I really don't! I never like making a mistake. But if I do, I 
own up to it and tell them I'm sorry and da, da, da and I'll try to do better. But that's probably a big thing 
is, they don't, I don't think they realize how hard it is to do that job.  
 
EH: Yeah. Well, is there anything else you would like to share that we haven't talked about? 
 
TH: Um, well, I wish that it could, I think that working at the post office is toxic, and I wish that 
management would be nicer (laughs). Nicer. Because they cannot, you know, sometimes they can be 
bullyish and I don't understand why, when we all work together to accomplish the main goal to get the 
mail delivered, and why we have to play silly games and those kind of things. Because I have filed an 
EEO before so, I just don't like bullies. But other than that, you know. 
 
EH: You have some good coworkers at least. 
 
TH: Yes, yes. There's more good than there is bad. Yeah, yeah. I really, I am proud to be a mail carrier 
and I'm proud of what I do and I take it very serious when I go and teach these classes, because when they 
leave there, I don't want them to ever go back to an office and say, "Well, this is what the instructor said 
to do." And I don't want it to be wrong. And I don't like it when someone in the post office teaches a new 
person, they'll say, this is what you're supposed to do, but this is what we do. I don't like that. I think that 
you should just start teaching everybody to do it correctly, and then people will do it correctly and not 
slack. Not be slack on the job. 
 
EH: Right, right. Well thank you so much! 
 
TH: You're welcome!  
 
49:11  
 
END OF TAPE 
END OF INTERVIEW