at the seaport, new york’s public market district since 1642
NEW AMSTERDAM PUBLIC PRESENTS
WINTERMARKET
A GATHERING OF SUSTAINABLE PURVEYORS
SUNDAY, DECEMBER 16, 2007
THE NEW MARKET BUILDING
The City of New York, Office of the Mayor
The New York City Economic Development Corporation
Jerrold Nadler  United States Representative
Martin Connor  New York State Senator
Sheldon Silver  New York State Assembly Speaker
Alan Gerson  New York City Council Member
Scott Stringer  Manhattan Borough President
Manhattan Community Board One
SeaportSpeaks  www.seaportspeaks.org
Founding Sponsor  $10,000 and above
SIMS Group Recycling
Event Sponsor  $2,500 and above
AIG Environmental®
Brotherhood Winery
Marlow and Sons
The John and Wendy Neu Family Foundation, Inc.
Organic Recycling Inc.
Partner  $1,000 and above
Citizens Committee for New York City
Goldman, Sachs & Co. 
King Displays
Pasanella and Son
Something Different Party Rentals
Stonehouse Olive Oil
Weisz + Yoes Architecture
Friend  up to $1,000
Jillian Gladstone
Lee and Jordan Gruzen
Lynda Nguyen and Noah Kupferberg
Meadowcreek Dairy
Pecinka Ferri Food Equipment Resource
Sara Lopergolo
Diana Marsh
Selldorf Architects
Sam and Gail Simon
Space Gallery
and the many individuals who have contributed their time, their advice, and their support, 
with special thanks to: 
Dan Barber and Irene Hamburger
Mario Batali
Michael Harlan Turkell
Odessa Piper
Matthew Scott
Melissa Waldron Lehner
Alice Waters
Ben Watson
and Elizabeth Daggar, designer www.electrofork.com 
wintermarket:  a revival
acknowledgments
The first ships bringing settlers from the Netherlands to New Amsterdam, in 
1624, carried with them instructions for laying out our future city.  Instruction 
No. 6 specified that a public marketplace be established at the central 
square, alongside the town hall.
This provision, seemingly simple, is laden with significance.  It implies that 
from the beginning, New Amsterdam was not to be a rural settlement or 
mere trading post, but a proper city whose food would be imported from 
the surrounding countryside and sold at market.  Inherent in this relationship 
are the benefits of mutual dependence, where the city and the region grow, 
thrive, and preserve their unique identities by relating to and supporting one 
another.  A future that is more sustainable will be based on re-forging this 
ancient link, which was severed in the last century.
A public market is a precinct where commerce is directly governed by 
laws and regulations which have a civic aim.  Public markets have existed 
throughout history, exerting particular strength, relevance, and vibrancy 
when they are established to serve the common good.  The Greek agora and 
Roman forum began as public markets, where commerce and government 
emerged in symbiosis.  The fairs and markets of the middle ages helped 
rebuild Europe’s agricultural system, which had collapsed completely with 
the fall of Rome.  The bountiful public markets of 19th century New York 
elevated its status as a world-class city, while the markets of the early 20th 
century allowed the city government to implement better health and sanitary 
codes, as well as make food more accessible to lower income residents.  
We have reached the time for a revival of this important urban institution.  
By establishing a permanent forum for purveyors committed to sourcing 
regional ingredients, produced with stewardship as a principal,  New York will 
help create a new and more sustainable economy.  The Seaport, infused with 
four centuries of public markets, is the ideal location for this venture. No 
other use is as relevant, as authentic, or as needed.
Wintermarket is the first important step in this initiative.  It is the seed, 
planted in dormant soil, from which change will grow.
Qjd^/ ^KiW W 1^*^- (-
gather  New Amsterdam Public celebrates the few remaining foods we 
do not farm:  wild fish, which will be preserved for future generations only 
through  stewardship, self-governance by fishing communities, and well-
informed consumers; wild game, which current regulations prevent from 
being sold commercially; and forage, the great variety of edible plants that 
grow throughout our region, but remain largely unknown and unappreciated.
Nova Kim & Les Hook 
Albany, Vermont
www.wildgourmetfood.com
highbush cranberries, wild ginger, wild 
cress, juniper berries, wild daylily tubers, 
and other seasonal specialties 
Jerry Henkin
Westchester, New York 
www.nutgrowing.org
nuts foraged from the Northeast, including 
black walnuts and shagbark hickory nuts
WILD EDIBLES
New York, New York 
www.wildedibles.com
fresh shellfish, harvested responsibly in 
Northeastern waters
Pine Island Oysters
Oyster Bay, New York
www.pineislandoysters.com
deepwater oysters  from Oyster Bay,  
Long Island
husband  New Amsterdam Public applauds the farmers and ranchers 
who treat animals respectfully and recognize their connection to larger, 
interdependent systems. This belief is founded on allowing livestock to live 
and eat according to their nature; for this reason, animals are pastured on 
grass and kept outdoors whenever possible.  We also pay tribute to the 
art of independent butchering, whose skillful practice is as essential as 
husbandry to a sustainable food system.
Fleisher’s Meats
Kingston and Rhinebeck, New York 
www.grassfedmeat.net
pastured beef 
Flying Pigs Farm
Shushan, New York 
www.flyingpigsfarm.com
pastured pork
3-Corner Field Farm
Shushan, New York
www.dairysheepfarm.com
pastured lamb and mutton
craft  New Amsterdam Public welcomes the revival of artisanal food 
production. To us, this term implies that cheeses, charcuterie, bread, and 
other traditional foods are made using methods where natural processes 
are guided, but not forced, by human understanding.  We appreciate as well 
the purveyors and mongers whose business is as equally based on craft, and 
whose skills enhance the quality of what they represent and sell.  
Saxelby Cheesemongers
New York, NY
www.saxelbycheese.com
regional, aged, raw milk cheeses and  
fresh dairy, with guests: 
Salvatore Bklyn
  
Brooklyn, New York
organic ricotta
Hot Bread Kitchen 
Queens, New York
www.hotbreadkitchen.org
corn tortillas, lavash, and seasonal 
vegetable focaccia
the Bent Spoon
  
Princeton, New Jersey
www.thebentspoon.net
artisanal ice cream made with regional 
ingredients
The Health Shoppe
 
Morristown, New Jersey
www.health-shoppe.com
artisanal bread and northeastern honey, 
with guests:
Tassot Apiaries
Califon, New Jersey
www.tassotapiaries.com
raw honey
Mary Woltz
Amagansett, New York
raw, biodynamic honey
Milk & Cookies Bakery
  
New York, New York
www.milkandcookiesbakery.com
seasonal cookies with regional ingredients
Marlow and Sons
Brooklyn, New York
www.marlowandsons.com
regional winter produce and fruits, hot 
cider, house-made granola, fermented 
foods, whole grain flours and cereals, 
house-made hot sauce, maple syrup,  
with guest:
Cayuga Pure Organics
Brooktondale, New York
www.cporganics.com
dried organic beans and  
freshly milled oats
Rick’s Picks
New York, New York
www.rickspicksnyc.com
pickles made with regional produce
Eve’s Cidery
 
Ithaca, New York
www.evescidery.com
hard cider
Slyboro Ciderhouse
Granville, New York
www.slyboro.com
hard cider and ice cider
Ben Watson
Francestown, New Hampshire
presenting a selection of heirloom appples 
from Alyson’s Orchard in Walpole,  
New Hampshire
RUNNIN FREE ORGANIC FARM
Flemington, New Jersey
www.theorganicegg.com
pastured organic eggs
cultivate  New Amsterdam Public pays tribute to the farmers in our 
region who practice an increasingly sustainable agriculture, centered 
on the living soil and the minimization of chemical inputs, as well as the 
purveyors who source their products.  Our cornucopia of grains, legumes, 
and vegetables reflects the rhythm of the seasons and the human ingenuity 
that has produced thousands of plant varieties via careful selection, and not 
genetic manipulation.
wintermarket vendors * december 17, 2007
wintermarket vendors * december 17, 2007
04
At the Seaport, on the East River, stand two historic structures: the  
Tin Building and the New Market Building. Both market halls are owned by the 
public, and both have been empty since 2005, when the Fulton Fish Market 
moved to the Bronx after two centuries of vibrant trade in this location. The 
Seaport neighborhood has been a public market district since 1642, when 
New York was still New Amsterdam.
We propose that both market halls be restored with public and philanthropic 
funds and dedicated as a new market for sustainably produced food, sold by 
purveyors and sourced regionally. This civic institution will be a permanent 
venue to promote sustainable agriculture, strengthen our regional food 
system, drive rural and urban economic development, incubate small 
businesses, and teach all New Yorkers how to buy, cook, and eat healthy 
food.
By creating this new public market, we will help define an emerging 
understanding - that we value food not only for its nourishment, but for how 
and where it is produced. And because it will emerge in New York City, its 
impact will be wide.
It will be called New Amsterdam Market.
our vision for the seaport
New Amsterdam Market will be our region’s permanent, indoor forum for 
sustainable food production, creating new bonds between the producers, 
purveyors, and consumers who take part in this emerging food system. It will 
also complement the city’s Greenmarket system, building upon its ongoing 
success and providing an additional sales outlet for regional food producers.
Market sponsored activities will include work and study visits on local farms; 
lessons in ingredient selection and meal preparation; guided food tastings; 
and youth apprentice programs with professional butchers, mongers, bakers 
and other purveyors. Farmers and producers will benefit from a network 
of purveyors and consumers who understand their needs, and will not only 
support them economically by purchasing their products, but also advocate 
as a group on their behalf.
A Market Meal will be held daily within the market hall.  Prepared by 
everyday New Yorkers, and structured to be affordable to all, this communal 
feast will serve as an enduring legacy, both teaching and reminding its 
partakers of the meaning of community. As stated recently by Alice Waters:
Mario Batali
Babbo, Lupa, Otto, & Del Posto  
New York, New York
www.mariobatali.com
Mark Bello
Pizza a Casa  
New York, New York
www.pizzaacasa.com
Tom Bivins
New England Culinary Institute  
Montpelier Vermont
www.neci.edu
Heather Carlucci-Rodriguez
Lassi  
New York, New York
www.lassinyc.com
Caroline Fidanza
Marlow and Sons & Diner
Brooklyn, New York
www.marlowandsons.com
Patti Jackson
Centovini  
New York, New York
www.centovininyc.com
Philip Kirschen-Clark
Jimmy’s No. 43  
New York, New York
www.jimmysno43.com
Ignacio Mattos
Il Buco  
New York, New York
www.ilbuco.net
Darren Pettigrew
Stella Maris  
New York, New York
www.stellamarisnyc.com
Laura and David Shea
applewood  
Brooklyn, New York
www.applewoodny.com
Matthew Weingarten
Inside Park  
New York, New York
(opening in Spring, 2008)
 
Among the many early pioneers of the sustainable food movement were 
two chefs: Alice Waters and Odessa Piper.  Alice opened Chez Panisse in 
1971, determined to supply her kitchen with locally sourced ingredients.  
It seems incredible today that she initially had a hard time doing so in 
Berkeley, California - with its Mediterranean climate and plentiful surrounding 
farmland. That this practice is now commonplace throughout the United 
States is credit to the movement launched by Chez Panisse.  
Several years later, Odessa Piper opened L’Etoile in Madison, Wisconsin.  She 
too, wanted to make use of her region’s bounty, and managed to source of it 
even through the long winters of that northern city. And by making special 
use of local wild foods, harvested sustainably by foragers, she invented a 
true regional cuisine, proving this could be accomplished by all who set their 
mind to it.  
Alice and Odessa - who both identify themselves as cooks, - have been 
advocating that more of us prepare simple meals at home using local, 
sustainable ingredients.  Inspired by their efforts, a dozen chefs have 
volunteered to share their recipes for seasonal dishes easily made at 
home with the ingredients available at Wintermarket and New York City 
Greenmarkets at this time of year.  Traditional market fare will also be served.  
At the table we learn moderation, conversation, tolerance, generosity and 
conviviality; these are civic virtues. The pleasures of the table also beget 
responsibilities—to one another, to the animals we eat, to the land and to the 
people who work it…when we have relearned the real rewards of eating, we 
will have laid a foundation for not just a healthier food system but a healthier 
twenty-first century democracy.
INAUGURAL MARKET MEAL
Held at Wintermarket
Sunday, December 16, 2007
New Amsterdam Public acknowledges the following individuals for having 
helped establish this new tradition:
Chef Michael Vignapiano 
for his help in planning the meal
and instructing its participants;
Marco Pasanella of Pasanella and Son 
for providing a welcoming
and beautiful venue for this occasion; 
Hugh Schwartzberg of Something Different Party Rental 
for the equipment to make this happen; and
the participants and volunteers 
who joined in this convivial experience.
the cooks of wintermarket
a civic institution: the market meal
Jerrold Nadler  United States Representative
Martin Connor  New York State Senator
Sheldon Silver  New York State Assembly Speaker
Alan Gerson  New York City Council Member
Scott Stringer  Manhattan Borough President
Manhattan Community Board One  Julie Menin, Chair
Sustainable Agriculture, Food, and Nutrition
Alice Waters Chef and Founder, Chez Panisse and Chez Panisse Foundation
Barry Benepe Urban Planner and Co-founder (with Robert Lewis), New York City Greenmarket
Brian Halweil Senior Researcher, Worldwatch Institute
Dan Barber Chef and Founder, Blue Hill & the Stone Barns Center for Food and Agriculture
Gabriella Petrick PhD  Professor, Nutrition & Food Studies, NYU
Hilary Baum Founder, the Baum Forum
Mario Batali Chef and Restaurateur
Marion Nestle Author and PhD, MPH, Professor (Former Chair) Nutrition & Food Studies, NYU
Michael Vignapiano President, International Chefs Association, Big Apple Chapter
Odessa Piper Cook and Writer
Robert Lewis Chief Marketing Reprentative, New York State Department of Agriculture and Markets
Wendell Berry
Slow Food USA
The Watershed Agricultural Council
The East Coast Shellfish Growers Association
Culture, History, and Community
The Alliance for Downtown New York
Gary Fagin Founder, Seaport Community Coalition
Julie Sandorf President, Revson Foundation (as of January 2, 2008)
Lee F. Gruzen Co-Chair, SeaportSpeaks
Marci Reaven Managing Director, City Lore and Place Matters
Russell Shorto  author, The Island at the Center of the World
Suzanne Wasserman Historian and Director, The Gotham Center for New York City History
Warrie Price 
Design, Planning, & Development
Annabelle Selldorf  Principal, Selldorf Architects
Claire Weisz  Founding Principal, Weisz + Yoes Architecture
General Growth Properties
Helena Durst 
Jonathan Hoefler  President, Hoefler & Frere - Jones
Michael Samuelian Development Associate, The Related Companies
The New York League of Conservation Voters  Marcia Bystryn, Executive Director
Sara Lopergolo Partner, Selldorf Architects
Uri Attia President, Roundhouse Development LLC
and  The Consulate General of the Netherlands in New York
supporters
New Amsterdam Public is a  501(c)3 non-profit organization 
whose mission is to establish a year-round, indoor public 
market where grocers, butchers, fish and cheese mongers and 
other purveyors will create and foster a regional, sustainable 
food system in the City of New York:  New Amsterdam Market.
This new, civic institution will emerge in Lower Manhattan’s 
Seaport neighborhood, which has been a public market district 
since New York has been a city.
mission
Help make the market happen. 
New Amsterdam Public depends on the support and 
commitment of individuals and organizations. Please 
contribute by giving of your time or expertise, or by 
making a financial donation. 
Donations may be sent to: 
New Amsterdam Public
65 Nassau Street Suite 2B
New York, NY  10038
To join our mailing list, become a member, volunteer, 
or make an electronic donation, please visit:
www.newamsterdampublic.org
Sustainability - without a doubt our era’s most important goal -
is a complex term whose meaning continues to evolve.   Yet its 
underlying premise remains simple: to produce what we consume 
without depleting natural resources, reducing or compromising 
biodiversity, or contaminating the soil, air, and water on which all 
life on earth depends.
By creating New York’s first office dedicated to sustainability, and 
by launching PlaNYC 2030, Mayor Michael Bloomberg has placed 
the City at the forefront of exploring, defining, and implementing 
systems and policies that will lead us to a more viable future.  
The Mayor’s vision recognizes as well the historic role of cities as 
engines of creativity and change.  
Inspired by this initiative, we believe that the City of New York 
should position itself as a worldwide center of the sustainable 
food movement and help create a working definition of 
sustainability as it applies to the production, distribution, and 
consumption of food.   This goal will be accomplished by reviving 
and reinventing an urban institution with deep roots in our own 
city:  the Public Market.
In the coming year, New Amsterdam Public will initiate the 
process of defining sustainable food as expressed by leaders 
in this important movement.   Please visit our website to be 
apprised of this work in progress.
New Amsterdam Market will take root and grow from this forum 
of ideas.
defining sustainable
www.newamsterdampublic.org