Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 1 
 
PHYSICIAN ORAL HISTORY 
TRANSCRIPTION COVER SHEET 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interviewee:   
Maija Holsti 
Place of Interview:  Dr. Maija Holsti’s home, Salt Lake City, Utah 
 
 
Date of Interview: 
June 19, 2020 
 
 
  
Interviewer:  
 
Lisa Gabbert 
 
Recordist: 
 
 
Lisa Gabbert 
 
Recording Equipment: 
Tascam DR-100MKIII, EV RE50N/D-B omni mic 
 
Transcription Equipment used:   Express Scribe with PowerPlayer foot pedal 
 
Transcribed by:  
 
Susan Gross, 24 June 2020 
 
Transcript Proofed by: 
 Lisa Gabbert and Maija Holsti 
Brief Description of Contents:  Dr. Maija Holsti is a Pediatric Emergency physician, as well as 
a professor in the Department of Pediatrics. She shares her experiences shaping her desire to go 
into medicine, including watching her brother live with cystic fibrosis, as well as her time 
serving in Malawi as part of the Peace Corps. She attended Duke University and University of 
North Carolina. She shares her views on medicine and women in medicine.  
Reference: 
 
 
LG: 
Lisa Gabbert 
 
 
 
 
MH: 
Maija Holsti 
 
 
 
 
NOTE:  Interjections during pauses or transitions in dialogue such as “uh” and false starts and 
stop in conversations are not included in transcribed.  All additions to transcript are noted with 
brackets.   
 
TAPE TRANSCRIPTION 
 
 [00:01] 
 
LG: 
Okay, today is Juneteenth: June 19, 2020, and I am talking to Dr. Maija Holsti in her 
home in Salt Lake City. Thank you so much for agreeing to do an interview for the 
Physicians Oral History Project for the Library of Congress. 
 
MH: 
Thank you; thanks for having me. 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 2 
 
 
LG: 
You know you’re being recorded? 
 
MH: 
Yes. 
 
LG: 
Okay. And for the record, can you state your birth year and where you were born? 
 
MH: 
1967, and I was born in Palo Alto, California. 
 
LG: 
Okay, great; thank you. And can you give your current title and position? 
 
MH: 
I’m a professor of Pediatric Emergency Medicine, and I’m a physician that works in the 
Department of Pediatrics, and have been there since 2002. 
 
LG: 
Okay, great; thank you.  
 
 
We will start off with a really kind of easy question, which is how did you decide to 
become a doctor? 
 
MH: 
[Laughs] That’s like the question that everyone gets –  
 
LG: 
I know. 
 
MH: 
When they are applying to medical school. I think my interest in medicine was exposure 
to a lot of emergency medicine when I was young. I had a brother who had muscular 
dystrophy. And he was ten years older than I, when I was growing up, and had a lot of 
like respiratory emergencies, and so on, which required us to, you know, call 911, and go 
to the ER to help him when he was having difficulties breathing.  
 
 
And I was exposed to a lot of that as a child, and that became kind of the focus of the 
family, was you know, his health, his physical therapy, his treatment, and so on.  
 
 
And as I got older, it became something that I just sort of gravitated to in healthcare, and 
caring for others. And the combination of being involved with that, and sort of seeing the 
challenges that, you know, our family went through with that kind of made me curious – 
almost about what we went through, because I was younger when this all happened.  
 
 
And so, when you’re a child, and you’ve sort of been experienced to that, you kind of 
process things at different times in your life: so, you know, I processed his death when I 
was ten. But you know, when I was even younger, I would process some of the things 
that I went through when I was, you know, six, and seven, and eight – you know, the 
experiences that we went through.  
 
[02:33] 
 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 3 
 
 
And I continued to process it as I was in high school and in college, to kind of sort of 
wonder like what kinds of things we were going through. And so, it was that process that 
I think got me interested. And then, you know, as you’re trying to think about careers, 
and how you want to spend your time I very much gravitated towards healthcare. I wasn’t 
necessarily sure if I wanted to do something like physical therapy, or medicine, or 
something related (or nursing) through that. So, I was really trying to get some 
experiences in college to kind of figure that out. 
 
 
And then I still wasn’t quite sure when I was going through some of the pre-med, so I 
started this pre-med process when I was in college. And I went to Duke, which is known 
– when I went to Duke (I don’t know what it is now), but it was kind of known as a pre-
med factory [laughs]. There was a lot of STEM –  
 
LG: 
This is Duke for undergrad? 
 
MH: 
For undergrad – and it was pretty cutthroat, so there’s big science classes, it wasn’t very 
personal, you take these tests, and you know, it was just a lot of information. If you did 
well on the tests then, you know, that was a good thing. 
 
 
But it was hard to truly get engaged with the sort of personal aspects of medicine, you 
know? It just sort of seemed very science-related: biochemistry, chemistry, physics, and 
so on. Didn’t really keep me as engaged as maybe I could have been. 
 
 
And so, then not being sure exactly what direction I was going to go, I ended up doing 
the Peace Corps, and went overseas and became a teacher overseas for a couple of years. 
And I think getting away from your track sometimes helps bring clarity for people, when 
they’re trying to go through. Some people seem to know, “This is exactly what I want to 
do, and this is the track that I want to go on.” And it wasn’t necessarily that for me. 
 
[04:33] 
 
 
And so, going overseas and seeing sort of a different type of medicine that was 
happening, where it was more primary care and less sort of research based. So, I was 
exposed to a lot of research at Duke, because it’s a big research institution. And the 
physicians that I had contact with had a very heavy research load, and they didn’t see 
patients as much as they did research (the ones that I was exposed to).  
 
 
And so, it seemed more cutthroat; it almost seemed like people at these academic medical 
centers were trying to buy down their clinical time, so they could do other things for 
promotion, and the stress of all those kinds of things, as opposed to actually just caring 
for patients.  
 
 
 
And so, when I was overseas I saw physicians that are doing, you know, a lot of primary 
care, a lot of like, you know, global health, and all those kinds of things. And it really – it 
intrigued me much more, because they’re dealing with real life problems, you know, on 
sort of a basic level, basic healthcare level. 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 4 
 
 
 
And so, that was what interest – that’s kind of, you know, rekindled my interest even 
more, is that you know, I want to be a clinician –  
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. 
 
MH: 
More than anything. And then I loved kind of the diversity of patient populations that, 
you know, is when you’re working overseas, and you see different cultures –  
 
LG: 
Where did you serve? 
 
MH: 
I was in Malawi, Africa, which is east Africa. And I was a school teacher in working 
there. But when I was there, it was interesting – AIDS was becoming – it was in the late 
‘80s that I was over there (’89 to ’91). You know, HIV and AIDS were a thing for all 
over the world, but in Malawi, it was kind of a dictatorship country, and it really hadn’t 
caught on that it was a thing.  
 
 
So, they had heard about it, and I was teaching at an all-boys secondary school (high 
school) there, teaching math. But when I would talk to my students about it, they didn’t 
believe that it existed, and they thought that it was something that first world countries 
sort of made up to try to kind of curtail their polygamist, you know, activities, or 
something like that, you know? And the idea of using condoms, or protection, or being 
safe was just not even a thing in the late ‘80s.  
 
[07:04] 
 
 
And then there was things where you would hear things where they thought that they 
could get rid of being infected by sleeping with a virgin. So, there was all these wives’ 
tales that would circulate about it. So, there was a lot of misconceptions about it, that you 
know, was hard to hear because they didn’t believe (really) that it was a problem; when 
in fact, it was a huge problem within that country.  
 
 
And a lot of people that I knew during my Peace Corps times have subsequently died – 
where whole families had died of HIV and AIDS, and so on. So, it was definitely a huge 
public health thing, in addition to poverty and malnutrition, and all sorts of other things.  
 
 
So, just being exposed to people, even though I was a school teacher – I wasn’t there for 
health-related reasons – being exposed to physicians overseas really kind of set, “This is 
what I want to do, and I’m going to go for it.”  
 
 
And I became a lot more focused when I came back: finished my sort of pre-med 
requirements, and I worked in – you know, you had to kind of play the game – I worked 
in the lab, I volunteered, did my pre-med courses. And then took the MCAT. So, it took a 
little bit of time to kind of readjust back to the United States, finish all those 
requirements, and prepare myself for my application to medical school.  
 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 5 
 
 
So, it’s a long-winded answer [laughs].  
 
LG: 
A quick follow-up question: do you come from a medical family, or no? 
 
MH: 
No – well my mom or dad – none of them were in medicine. On my dad’s side of the 
family I guess there’s a fair amount of physicians, like in his remote family; but they’re 
all in Finland. So, it’s not like I had any exposure. I have since gone back to Finland and 
met – you know, I have an uncle that’s an oncologist, and another distant uncle that is a 
surgeon, back in that area.  
 
LG: 
Is your name Finnish? 
 
MH: 
Yeah. 
 
LG: 
Yeah? 
 
MH: 
Yeah. My dad immigrated over here from Finland, when he was seven, to California. 
And both his parents passed away after he immigrated through here – it was during 
World War II, as a temporary (sort of) placement. And then he and his brother ended up 
staying here. So, he grew up in California, hence, I was sort of born in California, 
initially.  
 
[09:41] 
 
LG: 
Can you talk a little bit about getting into med school, and what medical school was like? 
 
MH: 
Yeah. So, I applied mostly just to the North Carolina schools; I applied to a number of 
schools, as like everybody did. But I lived in North Carolina at the time, and so it was 
easier to get into school being in-state. And it was also heavily subsidized. So, I applied 
to East Carolina, Duke, UNC, Wake Forest. And there was (luckily) four medical schools 
in one state, and then a few out of state.  
 
 
And I had early interviews at East Carolina, and Carolina; and I had interviews at both of 
those places. And I remember just kind of going through the whole interviewing process 
when I was at East Carolina. And you know, I had grown up in North Carolina, since I 
was seven, but I didn’t have like a southern accent, and I wasn’t very like North Carolina-
like. And Chapel Hill is not very North Carolina-like, in a sense [laughs].  
 
 
But I went to East Carolina, and they really like really heavy North Carolina – like you 
are from North Carolina, you’re really from the eastern part of North Carolina, or the 
western part of North Carolina and stayed there. And he kind of put me over the like 
coals that I wasn’t truly a North Carolinian –  
 
LG: 
[Laughs] 
 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 6 
 
MH: 
Because I wasn’t born there, my family wasn’t from there (originally) – you know, we 
moved there when I was six. And so, it was interesting how I didn’t quite feel – I felt like 
a foreigner, even though I was supposed to be in-state. And they really valued people 
practicing medicine in rural North Carolina (is what they were looking for). 
 
 
And then in Chapel Hill I felt a lot more comfortable with the – I remember the guy that I 
interviewed with there, and he really was really interested in sort of my Peace Corps 
experience, and sort of, you know, before and after that becoming much more focused 
and driven, and passionate about, you know, what I wanted to do, instead of maybe just 
going through the motions in the beginning.  
 
 
And so, he kind of recognized that. And I was able to really share some of the personal 
growth that I had when I was overseas. And so, I really connected with that person. And 
it’s amazing, sometimes when you interview, you know, that can make all the difference 
in the world –  
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. 
 
[12:10] 
 
MH: 
Is that personal connection. And so, I felt a very big personal connection with him. And 
he was, you know, very helpful through medical school.  
 
 
And then I just remember getting a – I got a letter in the mail [laughs] (it wasn’t an email, 
it was an actual paper letter). And I was so excited. And my dad was out on a run, and I 
was living at Chapel Hill at the time, and he was living there too. And I remember like 
driving to find him, wherever he was on a run; and we were jumping up and down, 
celebrating.  
 
LG: 
That’s cute. 
 
MH: 
And I told my mom first, and then she said, “Oh, he’s on a run.” And so, I went and 
hunted him down, and we were able to celebrate. But I was pretty excited. Because it’s 
just a hard thing – maybe one of the hardest things about medical school [laughs] is 
actually getting in, you know? So, it felt like a big hurdle to get through, at the time. 
 
LG: 
What year did you enter? 
 
MH: 
Entered in – so, I graduated in ’99, and I entered in ’94 (because I did a public health 
year). 
 
LG: 
Okay; and that was at Chapel Hill, then? 
 
MH: 
Um-hmm. 
 
LG: 
Okay. 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 7 
 
 
MH: 
Yeah, at UNC. 
 
LG: 
So, can you talk a little bit about what medical school is like, for people who don’t know? 
Or for you? 
 
MH: 
So, [laughs] medical school – there’s different stages of medical school. The first two 
years of medical school was essentially purely bookwork. So, it’s just a lot of your pre-
med classes, and then some – so, in more detail, and more involvement. So, you start off 
with sort of basic science, and cell biology, and genetics, and so on.  
 
 
And then the second year is – the first year is more basic science, the second year you 
actually learn – we learned through systems. And so, you would have your like 
cardiology, or your, you know, heart and lungs systems, and you would learn diseases 
associated with that system of the body. And then you’d have neurology, or you’d have 
different systems that we’d go through.  
 
 
And you’d learn the processes, or the things – the way the body should work correctly, 
and then the diseases and processes that come up with that. And you have intermixed in 
there: pharmacology, and other courses that will mix in, to try to pull all that together.  
 
 
[14:27] 
 
 
Third year is rotations. And so, you do a rotation that is internal medicine, and then 
family medicine, pediatrics, surgery, OB, and psychiatry. So, each of them have a 
different amount of time that you actually work in that area. And you basically – we 
shadowed a resident. So, there was no limitation in work hours when we did it. So, if I 
was doing internal medicine, I was sort of placed with a resident that would take call 
every fourth night. And I would stay with them on-call, and then all the next day, and 
then go home. And I would sort of shadow their work hours.  
 
 
And so, you (at that point) you actually were with patients. You didn’t have all the 
patients that the resident team has, but you would have a few of them, where you were 
expected to know everything about that patient. You were expected to just know the 
charts super well, every detail about it. And then research things that you didn’t know.  
 
 
And so, you know, I had one patient that had cystic fibrosis and was getting a lung 
transplant; and then got a lung transplant. So, I really needed to know everything about 
cystic fibrosis, because I would get (maybe) pimped on rounds on, “Tell me about what 
the problem is? What’s the genetic problem with cystic fibrosis? What do they struggle 
with? How does it affect other organs of the body?” And so on.  
 
 
So, they would really want to know that. And then they would also want to know like if 
there was any changes in medical care that I was right there and knew it. And so, we 
would have a few patients each time that we would be totally responsible for.  
 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 8 
 
 
And it was really a lot about really practicing that history taking, those physical exam 
findings, really spending time – like a lot longer than anybody, and then writing notes on 
the patients that you were covering, and rounding on them in the morning, and presenting 
them and let people know what happened from the night before.  
 
[16:32] 
 
 
And so, you kind of go through these rotations to get an idea of like maybe where you 
want to go: which direction you want to go. And within each of those subspecialties, like 
internal medicine, you may get on a team that’s more pulmonary – so, I was on a 
pulmonary team for my internal medicine. And then I might have an outpatient clinic, 
where I see a variety of different internal medicine problems.  
 
 
And then in pediatrics, you may spend some time on the cardiology team during that 
pediatric rotation, but also see some general pediatric stuff that’s through that.  
 
 
And then your fourth year, you take what you have seen, what you have learned from that 
experience to try to tailor your experience into what you want to go into. And there’s two 
different strategies to that: some people know that they want to go into surgery (for say), 
and they may decide, “I’m going to spend fourth year learning about all the things that’s 
unrelated to surgery, to prepare me. Like maybe I’ll do a lot, you know, a fair amount of 
internal medicine, to kind of prepare me for all those other things that I’m not going to 
get during my surgery residency.” And some people really try to take it this an 
opportunity to really figure out what they want to do; and some people kind of know.  
 
 
And I wasn’t sure if I wanted to do OB, or surgery, or pediatrics – but then I sort of kind 
of narrowed it down to some more critical care of pediatrics. And so, I did some acting 
internships, where I act like an intern during that month, and test out the waters, you 
know, to try to help make the decision.  
 
 
And so, again, you’re acting like an intern, and so you are on every third or every fourth 
night (depending on what rotation you’re on). And then you can kind of pick and choose 
what months you want to do, at what time in order to help you make that decision, so. 
 
[18:39] 
 
LG: 
How did you start narrowing it down to pediatrics and critical care? 
 
MH: 
So, I knew (from growing up, and then from my Peace Corps experiences) that I really 
enjoyed being around children. And so, I did a lot of babysitting growing up, and I just 
really gravitated to babysitting, being involved as a camp counselor for tennis, and so on. 
And then when I was overseas in Malawi, I always sort of gravitated to – like there’s tons 
of children around.  
 
 
And whenever you’d go outside, children are uninhibited: so, they’d come and they’d 
look at me, and stare at me because I have blonde hair, and you know, I look unusual. 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 9 
 
And they would love just to sit and watch and play. And so, I would spend a lot of my 
free time overseas with a lot of the children in Malawi. And you know, I’d run and they 
would chase me. I mean, it was just – I’ve always enjoyed that; like I thought that they 
were always so fun to be around, and invigorating.  
 
 
And so, pediatrics was definitely a strong like pull for me. And then during my fourth 
year, I was doing some critical care – well I was doing PICU, which is the Pediatric 
Intensive Care. And I remember rotating through that – it was a pretty hard month to do 
it: we had a lot of tragedy, and so on. And the experience really kind of was intense for 
me, and I wore my emotions on my sleeve quite a bit, you know.  
 
 
I was just really – I’d come home just exhausted from it. And I was actually dating Brad 
at the time (my husband), and he was kind of like, “You’ve got to be crazy; if you’re 
going to do this the rest of your life, it’s going to kill you,” [laughs] you know, 
emotionally. Which I sort of recognized in that: I was attracted to it, but it was kind of 
like a love-hate relationship. 
 
[20:36] 
 
 
And then I had an experience when I was in the Neonatal ICU, and I was working with a 
fellow who was a neonatology fellow. And we had an event one night where the babies – 
I was taking care of a baby, and he had developed a pneumothorax, which is a medical 
emergency, and you have to basically put kind of a tube in to kind of relieve the air, so 
they don’t have respiratory compromise and die. And so, you have to act pretty quickly.  
 
 
And I kind of jumped in and did it, you know, one time. And this is when the fellows (or 
the attendings) weren’t right there, but we were able to diagnose it with a light, we could 
see that there was a pneumothorax and quickly respond (with the help of the nurse). And 
I just reacted and did it.  
 
 
And he said to me one time, he said, “I don’t know what field you’re going to go into, but 
you are an adrenaline junkie.” [Laughs] Because he just sort of knew my personality, I 
did a lot of triathlons, and running at the time. And he said, “Whatever you go in, just 
know that you like – I can tell you like excitement.” And I don’t even remember his 
name, but he kind of gave me that feedback. 
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. 
 
MH: 
So, I sort of kind of gravitated towards that critical care, kind of emergency type of field 
with that. And I knew, just having my own clinic – when I would see, you know, sort of 
general clinic patients, you know: well-child checks, and I would help them – that I was 
not interested in like, you know, developmental milestones, and potty-training, and –  
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. 
 
MH: 
All those kinds of stuff.  
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 10 
 
 
 
And so, I think I remember that moment, and it was just sort of like he held up a mirror 
and said, “This is who you are.” And so, you know, as a mentor – I think I recognize that 
as somebody as very important, is to tell people when they do things like that, or they fit 
(if it’s fitting for them) to recognize it. Because I think a lot of people in training don’t 
have self-reflection. And I think we all lack a little bit of self-reflection sometimes; and 
so, that was like a point and I was like, “Oh.” 
 
 
And so, then it became clear that I was like, “Okay, I’m either going to do NICU or PICU 
or ER.” And so, and then listening to Brad, [laughs] you know, giving me self-reflection 
on like, you know, “You’re a mess when you come home after being on for 36 hours, and 
you know, three people have died in the ICU – you’re not compartmentalizing that 
situation very easily.” He said, “I don’t know if that’s going to be so good for your 
health.” 
 
[23:16] 
 
 
Whereas, some people can do that a little bit easier, they can separate it, or they don’t – it 
doesn’t weigh as heavily on them. And not to say that it doesn’t weigh heavily on other 
people, but I think that some people learn to kind of cope with it, and so on. And I was 
probably early in my career too, so I think that was, you know (again) – it happened so 
much that I think, you know, it weighed on me. So, I kind of figured that out. 
 
 
And then when it came down to deciding between NICU and PICU and ED, the other 
thing is that I liked all ages, you know, and I like to talk to my patients. Like I love the 
acuity on some patients, but I also love to be able to like take care of kids that are 
completely fine, and they’re just there for a social visit [laughs], you know? This is a big 
range of things. 
 
 
And so, I kind of was able not to – I didn’t have to give anything up in ER, which was 
kind of nice. The medicine, the types of patients, the age of the patient, and you know, I 
had a wide range of critical, versus not critical. And so, I like that variety.  
 
LG: 
Can you talk a little bit more about the difficulty, you know, the weighing on your mind 
for those patients that were critical? 
 
MH: 
Yeah. 
 
LG: 
In medical school – because that’s a part of medical school training that I think doesn’t 
get talked about –  
 
MH: 
Right. 
 
LG: 
As much. 
 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 11 
 
MH: 
Yeah. And I also think also during residency it doesn’t necessarily get talked about as 
much either; and how to process that. 
 
 
When I was, you know, I think I was in – I think it was my internship year in pediatrics 
(which I went to UNC, as well) –  
 
 
Well, let me go back. In medical school I remember, you know, having this period where 
this same cystic fibrosis patient that I was taking care of, and I was so involved with this 
guy that got flown from Alaska, to get new lungs at UNC (it’s a big pulmonary service), 
and they saw a lot of cystic fibrosis.  
 
 
He had gotten this lung transplant, and someone forgot to put an NG tube down him, and 
he aspirated everything from his stomach – all the acid from his stomach – into his new 
transplanted lungs. But as a medical student, I can tell you like, this was horrible, it was a 
mistake: someone forgot to do this. But it took me a long time to figure out what was 
happening – I didn’t understand what happened. Do you know what I mean?  
 
[26:03] 
 
 
Because people were so upset, and they were kind of talking about it. And I felt so, like 
insignificant and stupid, and I felt so sad, you know, for this guy – because it took me a 
minute to kind of understand the severity of this and what was happening, because I 
didn’t – I mean, it was my first rotation as a third year; it was probably my first week. 
And I was like totally overwhelmed by the whole thing.  
 
 
And then I was totally kind of brushed away. And it was like – it was such a horrific 
event for the resident, and watching him go through it, that I felt completely not helpful 
to him at all. And so, you know, what was starting to be kind of like a great sort of 
mentoring team, and here we’re going to learn a lot of stuff – this event happened, and I 
saw him suffering a lot.  
 
 
Because I don’t know if he was blamed for it or not, but he didn’t want to talk about it, he 
didn’t want to tell me about it, and all those kinds of things that occurred with it. And so, 
that was challenging, and I felt, you know, insignificant and not helpful to do anything. I 
mean, I wasn’t responsible for the orders, but I felt sort of responsible –  
 
LG: 
As part of the team? 
 
MH: 
As part of the team. 
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. 
 
MH: 
And very helpless, as trying to help, you know, move things forward.  
 
 
And so, you saw when people made mistakes (at least during that time, when I was a 
resident, I mean, was a medical student). And I would observe like conferences where 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 12 
 
they were presenting patients, or if there was a morbidity-mortality conference, which we 
review patients where there is mistakes that occurred, or someone dies and we’re trying 
to figure things out.  
 
 
You could see what people went through when they were getting kind of pimped, “Why 
did you do this?” You know? And again, it’s always the Monday morning kind of thing, 
like when people were up all night trying to take care of patients, and maybe something 
didn’t go well, or a mistake was made and people really blamed some of the new 
trainings: the interns, the residents on that kind of thing. And you could see it: it was in 
front of everybody with, you know, a group of 50 people. And you see the residents kind 
of present.  
 
[28:24] 
 
 
And it was really stressful to kind of watch, even though I wasn’t necessarily going 
through it – I mean, I would get pimped on my knowledge on a disease process, but I 
wasn’t getting pimped on kind of – I was getting pimped a little bit on the management, 
like, “Do you know why we’re doing this? Or why we’re doing that?” But I wasn’t 
necessarily responsible. But it was a little bit stressful to kind of watch.  
 
 
And then when you saw, you know, when I first started out and I saw that big mistake, I 
was like, “Oh, my god. I don’t want to do internal medicine.” [Laughing] Because I was 
just like, you know, these patients are so complicated, and they have 50,000 meds, and 
there is you know, you miss one thing and –  
 
 
And so, I mean there’s been a lot of improvements over the past 20-30 years, when it 
comes to stuff like that. But you know, I used to see people would sort of suffer, and 
nobody was there to try to help improve a system.  
 
LG: 
Um-hmm? 
 
MH: 
Where if you look at what we do now, I think, instead of like trying to blame a provider, 
per se, we’re trying to support the provider and improve the system so mistakes don’t 
happen. So, it’s just a long kind of transition between this and how things have developed 
with that.  
 
LG: 
Well it’s nice to hear that it’s different. 
 
MH: 
Well at least my experiences here are a lot different. And you know, through residency 
(again) I did still feel – I was at Chapel Hill – I did still sort of felt on my own a little bit 
sometimes, even as an intern. And there was a patient that I had in my pediatric 
residency, and he was a child that had bad liver disease, and he was essentially dying, he 
was DNR, he was completely yellow. And he, you know, had tubes hanging out from 
him all over the place.  
 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 13 
 
 
But he was in the hospital for months. And everybody knew this child – I mean, probably 
years. I mean, he literally was there, and very connected to all the nurses, physical 
therapists – I mean, people all knew this child, he was just a happy child. But you know, 
his prognosis was really bad.  
 
[30:36] 
 
 
And I remember one time – he was my patient, and I was rounding on him and I got my 
vital signs, and then you know, checked on him: he seemed to be doing okay. I didn’t 
hear about him at all at the night. And then we were rounding on him and he had coded – 
he like, literally from the time that I had pre-rounded on him and rounded, he was coded.  
 
 
And then all of a sudden, everyone’s looking at me like, “How come you didn’t notice 
that he was getting so sick? And what happened last night? And da, da, da, da, da.” And 
he was the kind of kid that would get like blood products overnight. He was DNR, but he 
would get blood, and platelets, and it was like routine for him, just to kind of keep him – 
there were certain things that they would do to keep him alive.  
 
 
And I remember when he did – he coded, and he died, and I was like, “Oh, my god – I’ve 
completely missed something, I’ve done something wrong.” Like, “This was, you know, 
horrible.” And just everyone just sort of assumed – he was literally an ICU patient on the 
floor (the kinds of things that we were doing for him); but I really suffered alone with 
that, you know?  
 
 
And I was like, “Oh, my god – I need to talk about this.” And again, the amount of 
disappointment from the entire floor that knew this patient was like, “Who was taking 
care of this patient, and how did this patient die?” And all this kind of stuff.  
 
 
And in the end, everyone was like – this was, you know (again), bound to happen; but no 
one’s – you know, you’re never ready for it –  
 
LG: 
Of course not.  
 
MH: 
Until you’re ready for it. And so, for me – I knew this patient, but I didn’t know the 
family (as well, because they weren’t around very much); you know, I was doing my 
month – it was like the first, you know, few days of that month’s rotation. And you know, 
it happened, and I never talked about it with an attending, I never processed it with 
anybody.  
 
 
And finally, I went to the chief resident and said, “I need to talk about this, you know, for 
my own sort of mental health.” I was like, “I need someone to kind of help review this 
with me and make sure that I’m still okay to be a practicing provider” – you know what I 
mean? Because you just – you needed to kind of go through it. And it was pretty 
traumatic for me.  
 
[32:53] 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 14 
 
 
 
And you know, we went through it, and there was probably some signs that the patient 
was getting – I think the patient ended up getting septic, and dying. And there were some 
signs of looking at, sort of what we say “compensated shock,” where their heart rate gets 
a little elevated, but their blood pressure is okay. And then they get uncompensated shock 
where their blood pressure starts to dwindle down. And you know, he probably had a 
code secondary to that.  
 
 
But even that process – I’m an intern, I’m trying to learn – you know, I’m trying to learn 
all this. And we know a lot about shock from a system standpoint that we didn’t do now, 
like recognizing the subtleties of vital signs, you know? We have shock protocols in our 
ER, so that we’re right there to decide if they’re shock-y or not; and even on the floor, 
and so on. So, we’ve come a long ways when it comes to something like that.  
 
 
But I look back at that time and just, again – you start to question your own capability as 
a human being, and as a professional when something like that happens. 
 
LG: 
Of course. 
 
MH: 
And that was a pretty traumatic experience. Not a lot of like processing of it; maybe 
looking at the medical care and saying it, which is one thing; but also, the process of, you 
know, when I look back on it now, it was inevitable: he’s DNR, you know, we were 
doing a lot of things. But there wasn’t necessarily anything that was going to maybe 
change. But still, you know, it weighs on you. 
 
LG: 
Of course. 
 
MH: 
Because you know, maybe there was something – we could have started antibiotics 
sooner, and he could have lived for another few weeks or month, or something like that, 
you know? So, just the being part of it on your clock and having it happen on your watch 
is – weighs a lot on people’s shoulders, as well. 
 
LG: 
Did the interns (at that time) ever – because presumably other interns would have had 
similar experiences, or other kinds of traumatic experiences – did the interns ever talk to 
each other about it? 
 
[34:55] 
 
MH: 
Yeah, we did. So, you found your people, right? You found your people in medical 
school, and internship, and residency that you could like share and support each other.  
 
LG: 
Um-hmm? 
 
MH: 
You know? And sometimes – I had one of my closest friends, she and I did NICU 
together, and (again) there’s a lot of tragedy in NICU, because there’s premature 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 15 
 
deliveries, and sometimes premature deaths. And these babies are very sick and very 
fragile, and so on. And it is pretty intense.  
 
 
And I do [laughs] remember one time just sitting with my friend, Martha. And we’re like 
– these little babies, you almost feel like you’re in kind of a research lab, just like 
managing their sodium, and their potassium, and their this – and we’re writing orders for 
what’s called TPN, which is total peripheral nutrition. And there’s these really 
complicated forms that we would fill out, and we had to do these complicated like 
calculations.  
 
 
And we were just like, “This is just crazy.” And basically, we’re just trying to do this. 
And we don’t know very much about it because we’re interns; and so, we’re working 
with the pharmacist. And it just seems like it’s a bad idea. And so, it was almost kind of 
comical that like we’re in this situation, it’s like so in over our head, and we don’t do it 
for a living. And we’re trying to like, you know, manage this like thing.  
 
 
And so, we would support each other: sort of the ridiculous nature of training, sometimes 
you know, that you’re just thrown into it to do it. And you’re like, “Do you know what 
you’re doing?” And you know, like, “I don’t know what I’m doing.” And she would – 
and we would be tired, and we would just be like, “This is so crazy. Like here we are: 
we’re not pharmacists, you know, we’re not neonatologists; and here we are, like go do 
this,” and just figure it out, you know? 
 
 
And so, [laughs] you’re like, “Okay.” 
 
[36:55] 
 
 
And so, we would just be like the whole ridiculousness of the training process sometimes 
is like, you know, it was nice to have somebody with you that thought – yeah, we’re 
trying to get through this, but we have to remember: we have to take this a little bit with a 
grain of salt, in that we’ll put our effort in, we need to make sure that someone is double-
checking us. 
 
LG: 
Right. 
 
MH: 
Like you know, like crazy, to make sure we’re not making any mistakes, and that these 
micro-managing these things are just so crazy. 
 
 
So, yes – I would talk to a couple of my friends, and we would share experiences.  
 
 
And I had another friend who – he was on call in Greensboro (we did some rotations 
away from Chapel Hill). And it was a hospital called Moses Cone Hospital (we used to 
call it Moses Code Hospital).  
 
 
So, [laughs] the residents would take call by themselves in the hospital. And we would 
see all the pediatric patients in the ER when we were on-call too; so, sometimes it would 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 16 
 
be really busy, because we would see the patients, and then we were also managing the 
patients on the floor.  
 
 
And he had a couple patients that had undiagnosed – they didn’t recognize that they had 
sickle cell disease, and they sat in the waiting room, and they were septic. And so, by the 
time that he got to them, you know, they were not doing well.  
 
 
And so, (again) – it was a such incident and the child coded in the CT scanner and ended 
up dying. And then he had another experience where it was (again) it was a bad outcome: 
a patient that got sick on his watch overnight. And it ended up on one of those patients he 
had a lawsuit against, as a resident. And he wasn’t allowed to really even process it with 
anybody (because you’re not allowed to talk to anybody).  
 
 
So, he couldn’t really talk about it with the attending that was on, or anybody else. And 
so, he kind of went through that – a very capable resident, very smart guy – but he went 
through it sort of alone. And he talked a little bit about it with us, but I felt like this isn’t 
right, you know? We’re in training, we need to have the support, when you’re going 
through these experiences, to kind of process it, and have someone help support you 
through that.  
 
[39:22] 
  
 
 
And again, a lot has come up of this, and people now have sort of mentors that get 
assigned to people that have lawsuits – whether an intern, resident, or a full-time tenured 
faculty – that you have somebody that can help support you from sort of an emotional 
standpoint, if you need that.  
 
 
And so, I think that (again) a lot of things have changed for the better when it comes to 
that. And so, that’s a good thing. 
 
LG: 
Is that specific to your department now? Or is that universal? 
 
MH: 
I think it’s a university thing. It was recently named, obviously I can’t say the details, but 
there was a patient that I never saw, but I took an acceptance phone call on, that was 
named on a lawsuit. And I wasn’t involved with any management of the care, and 
accepted the patient. And so, someone called me up recently and said, “I’m your (sort of) 
mentor; would you like to talk about it? I’m sorry that you’re going through this, and da, 
da, da.” 
 
 
And I didn’t accept that, because I didn’t necessarily feel like I was truly involved with it. 
When a lawsuit happens they usually name like 50 people, you know –  
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. 
 
MH: 
From the beginning to the end. And so, I didn’t feel that – the event happened a couple 
weeks after the patient was admitted to the hospital. So, I was pretty remote, and wasn’t 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 17 
 
involved in the ED care, or anything like that. So, I didn’t take them up on their services, 
because I felt like, you know, I was –  
 
LG: 
It was okay. 
 
MH: 
A little bit removed from the situation, yeah. And I don’t think – nothing has ever come 
of that one.  
 
 
But so, I do think that – I don’t know if that’s nationwide, but I do think in general people 
are trying to be more supportive in those environments. So, I imagine –  
 
LG: 
Well I mean, not so much –  
 
MH: 
It’s Utah. 
 
LG: 
Not in (necessarily) where there’s lawsuits, but just in general, where there’s, you know –  
 
MH: 
Yes, exactly. So, the other thing that we do here (which is great) – and I felt this very – 
so, first of all, I felt the support from our division, when I first moved to Utah for my 
fellowship. Our leadership in our division, my division chief, was the type of leader that 
was able to be very open about his shortcomings as a physician. And in the sense, and 
brought a lot of humor to it. Do you know what I mean? Not in a flippant, like callous 
way; but the sort of ridiculous nature of it all, you know, that we say. 
 
[41:54] 
 
 
And also, the nature of, you know, as one of my other attendings would say (when I first 
started) is that it’s a minefield out there; that you know, sometimes the most unusual 
thing happens, that you’re not expecting. You think it’s just, you know, flu; and then it 
ends up being myocarditis, and the end up needing to get on ECMO and a heart 
transplant. You know? So, it’s just – there’s unusual things that – these zebras that you 
have to pick out of all the horses, right? You know, this is a very unusual thing. 
 
 
So, he is very you know, good at being humble, and was very good about using humor. 
And just a happy, like kind of humor – a guy that makes you feel comfortable. And if you 
talked about a case, he would share a case. 
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. 
 
MH: 
Right? And he has – he’s ten years-plus on my training. And so, and then also, you know, 
sort of talking about some of the ridiculous things that he did when he was training, like, 
“Oh, my god – I used to do this, and it just makes me cringe to even think about it.” And 
how he’s grown as a physician. 
 
 
And so, I think that culture, that openness –  
 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 18 
 
LG: 
Um-hmm? 
 
MH: 
Of not being like, “Oh, if I was in that job I would have done this.” You know, kind of 
thing? But really trying to see it from a different perspective, and understanding – and 
going under the assumption that everyone in our division are humans, and they’re good, 
and they’re trying to do the right thing; that no one is trying not to do the right thing, or 
being careless, or being flippant. And that sometimes mistakes happen because we are 
human beings.  
 
 
And so, that culture allowed our sort of morbidity-mortality to kind of create a culture 
that people could talk about their case, and say, “Oh, this was my case, and you know, 
this is what I was thinking; and this is, you know, my process of what’s happening: I 
didn’t expect this, or I made a mistake,” you know? Feeling very comfortable saying like, 
“I didn’t see that, those vital signs,” or something like that.  
 
[44:04] 
 
 
And so, it was an environment where you could really reflect and learn from it; but it 
wasn’t punitive – it never felt punitive. And even as a fellow, I didn’t feel it. I’m not sure 
all the other divisions in the Department of Peds were that way; I think that some 
divisions were a little tougher on their fellows than that. But I felt comfortable just really 
saying it out as it is, or talking about my insecurities or uncertainties when it came to 
care. I never felt like I had to cover that up, you know?  
 
 
I could say this is what I’m thinking with this kid, and really throw myself out there and 
say, “But I’m not sure, because of x, y, and z.” And so that open communication, I think, 
allowed us to grow as a division, and for our fellows to kind of grow. And so, that was 
really nice.  
 
 
And now, I really do think that they’ve even gone a step further and they do two things: 
one is when there’s a mistake that happens, and sometimes there’s mistakes that occur 
that do no harm for the patients; and sometimes there’s mistakes that occur that do harm. 
And so, when that happens, and those become a little bit more serious kind of cases that 
get reviewed, it’s review to how –  
 
 
Mistakes are going to happen: physicians are going to make mistakes and people are 
going to make mistakes. And sometimes these complicated patients are being cared for 
by like 50 different people. And so, the chance of a mistake happening during that period 
of time when they’re being cared for (if they have surgeries, and so on) is higher. So, how 
can we fix our system to support so the mistake doesn’t happen? 
 
 
And so, you want to figure out how to change the system, or have systems in place that 
protect that from happening.  
 
[46:00] 
 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 19 
 
 
So, I wasn’t the physician taking care of this patient, but I was with a physician, helping 
her during a code situation. And it was a child that had an arrhythmia in the ER – this is 
just an example of it. And she, you know, was going to get cardioverted to a normal 
rhythm. And instead of getting cardioverted, she got defibrillated, which is a bad thing 
because it can cause a worse arrhythmia.  
 
 
And so, you have your defibrillator (like you see in ER), where you put the pads on. And 
sometimes the shock is just delivered not in-sync with the normal sinus rhythm; and 
sometimes it’s delivered in the – when it’s a normal sinus rhythm, it’s delivered at the 
right peak, so it doesn’t cause a bad rhythm.  
 
 
Well someone forgot to push a button. And the physician was saying, “We need to 
charge, get ready to defibrillate.” She forgot to say, you know, synchronize cardio 
version, instead of defibrillating. And the tech was the one doing this.  
 
 
And so, the child had a serious arrhythmia, we had to respond, did okay – but you know, 
(again) it was a serious event.  
 
 
So, we look at the system: how – we look at the machine. The machine is set up for 
failure [chuckles] because you have to a push a button to do this. And it should be sort of 
a little bit more automatic. But looking at how we teach PALS, and how to make sure 
that that mistake doesn’t happen. Because it’s about – even though it was the physician’s 
responsibility, it was the tech that forgot to do it, maybe didn’t hear it, and so on.  
 
 
And so, we figure out systems –  
 
LG: 
Yeah. 
 
MH: 
To support the whole team for making a mistake, right?  
 
 
And so, it’s just – whenever there’s an event that happens, we need to think about ways 
to support it. So, that is a new culture since I started. And you know, since when I went to 
Chapel Hill; and I think Chapel Hill (like a lot of other hospitals) have progressed in their 
culture and how they do things. 
 
[48:03] 
 
 
And the other thing is this sort of zero-harm initiative that we have at Primary Children’s. 
And there was a child who – she was a teenager, and she was admitted to the hospital for 
just constipation: she just had a significant amount of constipation, she was a teenager, 
should not have been—an easy, you know, admission to get cleaned out, and so on. 
 
 
Well she got admitted to the floor and she ended up having sort of abdominal distention, 
and people kept calling. And then people kept blowing off, you know, like the nurses 
would say like, “She’s uncomfortable; her belly is getting bigger.” And it ended up she 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 20 
 
had a bowel obstruction. And she perforated – her bowel, you know, blew open and she 
ended up dying.  
 
 
And her name was actually Maya; and so, they call it “Maya’s Rule.”  
 
 
And the family, when she died, wanted the system to improve. Like, this should not have 
happened. And it should never have happened. But we need to improve the system here. 
So, they created this whole zero-harm initiative, where if somebody in the hospital is 
concerned about a patient, and they go to their, you know, immediate supervisor or 
superior to say, “I’m concerned,” and they’re not getting the right answer, that they can 
go to the next level. They have systems to empower people – because there’s such a 
hierarchy in medicine. 
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. 
 
MH: 
And so, you want people to feel like they can speak up when they’re concerned. And so, 
the person that was caring for them didn’t feel heard by an intern; and maybe the intern 
was busy with something else and didn’t think it was important. I don’t know any of the 
details of the case, or whatever.  
 
 
But a system in order to make sure that patients are safe, and that we don’t do harm. And 
also, a system that, you know, we can double-check things. So, like if Maija writes an 
order that someone is really like, “Are you sure you wanted that?” And like to feel 
comfortable coming to me to question maybe an order that I did.  
 
 
And that happens all the time when I’m working: I put in thousands of orders 
electronically, and you know, maybe I ordered the slightly wrong dose of something, and 
the pharmacist says, “You know, actually – that dose is not correct for this type of 
patient.” Or, “This patient has kidney dysfunction, you need to figure,” you know?  
 
[50:29] 
 
 
And so, there’s people thinking about things, you know, and double-checking on what I 
do. And I’m double-checking on what other people are doing. You know what I mean? 
So, we’re just in that period – we have that environment where we can double-check a lot 
of what we’re doing. And so, that feels comfortable. 
 
LG: 
Um-hmm? 
 
MH: 
And we want everyone to feel comfortable. And so, the entire hospital goes through zero-
harm training, even the janitors (or the custodial service that’s there); because if they see 
something that’s not safe, they need to let somebody know about it, right? And so, you 
want them to feel empowered. Like if they’re cleaning a room and they see a medication 
that’s left out, but it’s not really their responsibility – they need to like tell somebody, so 
it doesn’t get left out for someone else.  
 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 21 
 
 
So, I think that that initiative (despite the tragic nature of how it got started) is really 
powerful. And we have zero-harm rounds twice a day, when we’re on our ER shifts. And 
we talk about, you know, patient safety, and different patient-safety principles. And so, 
we just have this little timeout (for like five minutes) if there’s been any recent near-
misses, or if someone noticed something unsafe – and sort of celebrating that. And then 
how long was it until the last, you know, sort of patient event that occurred, and what 
happened.  
 
 
So, we can all learn from what happened, but not necessarily – we’re not putting a name 
or a blame to the person –  
 
LG: 
Umm-hmm. 
 
MH: 
But just kind of know, like what are the things that are happening in the hospital and the 
ER, and so on.  
 
 
So, I think a lot has happened that is positive. So, it feels like more of a team approach. 
 
LG: 
It sounds much healthier.  
 
MH: 
It’s much healthier. 
 
LG: 
Yeah. 
 
MH: 
And so, it’s gone from kind of like this old school, to much better. We’ve also – the 
resident work hours, the med school work hours has changed quite a bit in the last 20 
years. And now we’re having to adjust it a little bit more with COVID [laughs], you 
know, kind of thing that’s going on. 
 
[52:32] 
 
 
So, there’s a lot that has changed in that, in a positive way. And I don’t think it’s just 
unique to our hospital; I think a lot of hospitals are doing that. I feel very fortunate at our 
hospital, because I do think that we’re pretty united in that initiative. 
 
LG: 
Yeah, that sounds fantastic. Do you think that – because one of the things I’m interested 
in is this notion of physician suffering, which I think oftentimes, at least in the past, has 
been linked to not being able to talk about bad outcomes, or you know –  
 
MH: 
Um-hmm. 
 
LG: 
Questioning, you know, decisions that they’ve made, and stuff. Do you see any effect on 
the physicians, in terms of their own mental health, or their own –  
 
MH: 
Yeah. 
 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 22 
 
LG: 
Orientation toward their work? 
 
MH: 
I think it’s very specific to different sub-specialties, for sure. I think – and you know, 
COVID aside, I don’t necessarily think that that’s an issue, as it is to some of the things 
you’ve seen about in New York City, with people that are treating COVID patients, and 
things like that.  
 
 
I do think that physician suffering is still a thing. I think that there is this sort of 
expectation that we need to hold it together –  
 
LG: 
Um-hmm? 
 
MH: 
And so on. And the problem is that we do actually need to hold it together, right? So, if 
I’m in the emergency room and I have a death, I still have a full ER to take care of, and I 
have to move on pretty quickly. And I also have the staff that we’re working with: the 
nurses, and the team, and everybody else that’s involved that were involved with it. And 
so, there’s that level of responsibility that sometimes you just have to kind of move on. 
And you sometimes miss that opportunity to really feel what’s happening, because of that 
moment that you have to move on.  
 
[54:34] 
 
 
And so, it can catch up with you in different ways. Just like when someone passes away, 
you have your grieving, and then it might be six months that you have another episode of 
like grieving that happens. So, it catches up with you in a different way, and I think that 
we do have resources to access help. But again, having enough time to really do that is 
another question. 
 
 
And so, when you’re a mother or a father, or you’re busy, and you’re you know, doing all 
the things you are doing – if you’re having to kind of work that in on your own time, at 
the sacrifice of all the other responsibilities that you have, I don’t think that people take 
advantage of those as much. 
 
LG: 
Yes. 
 
MH: 
I do think that various people rely on each other to kind of talk about it; so, we share that 
with each other, to talk about it.  
 
 
Sometimes you can’t talk about it – if there’s a lawsuit, if there’s a bad outcome, you’re 
not allowed to necessarily talk about it. So, there’s pressures not to, right? And so, the 
default is –  
 
LG: 
Don’t. 
 
MH: 
Just to carry on, right? 
 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 23 
 
 
And so, if it’s a busy ER – when we have code situations, what we’ve tried to do (now) is 
if there’s a death, or even if there’s a resuscitation that’s intense, we try to do like a quick 
sort of timeout afterwards, and how that went.  
 
 
And one of the things that – you know, and there’s different variations on how people 
kind of do that, but it’s encouraged. And we’re trying to protocolize who does it, and how 
it’s – the things that you cover on it.  
 
 
For instance, if someone died, and the whole team is there, or is getting ready – you 
know, we’re stopping CPR, or whatever – a lot of times we’ll say, “We are now 20 
minutes into CPR, we’re getting ready to stop. Does anybody have any other ideas or 
suggestions? We’ve done this.” You know, the leader will kind of go through what 
they’ve done.  
 
 
And then you know, if they withdraw, or we stop CPR, and there’s nothing you can do – 
then sometimes people will bring everybody into the room and just allow them to process 
how that went. How did the resuscitation go? How did you feel? Did you feel like there 
was –  
 
 
Before you stop it, usually you ask people, “Is there anything else?” You don’t do it – but 
more, it’s the act of, “How did it go for you? How are people feeling? Is there anything 
that anybody wants to say?” Just a quick, kind of few minutes that allows the team to 
kind of say what’s on their mind, whether, you know if it’s a child abuse case, if that’s 
really just you know, traumatizing them and they want to talk about it for a minute, then 
–  
 
[Buzzing in background] 
 
LG: 
Background noise. 
 
[Laughter] 
 
MH: 
So, that they can process it a little bit.  
 
 
And so, we’ve tried to sort of implement that, so it’s not just like, “Okay, yeah – we’re 
not going to even recognize the fact that the child died, and we’re going to move on to 
the next thing,” you know? That we take a minute, and we’re trying to be respectful of 
what people are going through, a little bit. 
 
[57:51] 
 
 
And then sort of figure out, you know, how to support the family, whatever. And 
sometimes we do it just for resuscitations, because it could be – it feels chaotic. Just to 
learn on how to make things run a little bit smoother. What went well during this 
resuscitation? What didn’t go well? 
 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 24 
 
 
And allowing the whole team to say – like if somebody felt like they weren’t being heard, 
like they could say, “I was trying to do this, but no one listened.” You know what I 
mean? 
 
LG: 
Um-hmm, um-hmm. 
 
MH: 
So, we can improve our resuscitation thing. So, we’re trying to sort of implement those 
things, to help people. 
 
 
I think the nursing staff, a lot of times, I think they have a little bit of extra time to do 
some of the debriefing sessions that they have. So, they have these formal debriefing 
sessions that people go to. Sometimes there’s a physician there, sometimes not – where 
they actually come in on their day off, or when they’re not working to do that. But again, 
it's an extra barrier, and sometimes people decide to do it or not.  
 
 
And so, the default is, is that even if it is affecting me, you know, or sad, or a horrific 
thing – that I need to kind of move forward.  
 
LG: 
[Inaudible] 
 
MH: 
Yeah. 
 
LG: 
Which I think is good in some ways, and also sort of contributes to that kind of –  
 
MH: 
Right. 
 
LG: 
You know, sort of low-grade –  
 
MH: 
Right, exactly. And so, we tend not to do that.  
 
 
They’re trying to offer (again) more services. Like I think that the wellness center here, 
now, offers free counseling –  
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. 
 
MH: 
For help for staff, and for people that are working in healthcare, that they can take – even 
for their families, you know, if they need it.  
 
 
And so, I think –  
 
LG: 
It’s hard though, like because physicians are so busy.  
 
MH: 
Right. 
 
LG: 
You know? I mean, to take – like you said – to take advantage of those services is then 
either time out of your private life, where you have all these other responsibilities –  
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 25 
 
 
MH: 
And that, um-hmm. 
 
LG: 
And there is no time in the professional life. 
 
MH: 
Right. And there is some sort of wellness initiatives that people are trying to bring in, and 
sort of incorporate into more – like little snippets – into medicine. But again, we’re all 
kind of just running ragged. 
 
[1:00:07] 
 
LG: 
Um-hmm; it’s hard.  
 
MH: 
You know, you tend to cut corners there. I think there is more demands on people’s time 
than there used to be 40 years ago, or 20 years ago – as far as like that. And I’m being 
general, because certainly there are people that, you know –  
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. 
 
MH: 
You know, working 24/7, and on-call every day and not every third night, or fourth night, 
or whatever. So, but I think that people tend to cut those corners. And in academic 
medicine there was a lot more time where we were together collegially – like there is 
time when you’re not working, and you’re doing other projects and stuff; and there was 
more downtime as a group.  
 
 
And those conversations that you have with people, I think, tend to be very helpful for 
that thing, and also helpful for ideas of new research projects, or other, you know, 
innovative protocols, or things like that to come – you know, when you’re trying to 
improve things.  
 
LG: 
When you say there’s more demands on people’s time – are you talking about 
professionally? 
 
MH: 
Yeah. I think clinically –  
 
LG: 
Um-hmm? 
 
MH: 
People are expected to see more patients, right? And there’s a lot of charting that goes on. 
And so, the combination of trying to squeeze in more and more, and then – it just 
depends. I mean, academic medicine, there’s a wide range of like from full-time clinical, 
to full-time research, there’s a big range in between on what people do, and how they 
arrange their time. But I do think that it’s busier. 
 
LG: 
Busier? 
 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 26 
 
MH: 
As far as, you know, how many patients people need to see, and how quickly they need to 
kind of turn over their patients and do all the documentation. The documentation, I think, 
is probably one of the biggest things that’s – even though with the electronic medical 
record, it can take a lot more time for people than it used to be, where people – it didn’t 
document very well.  
 
[1:02:15] 
 
 
So, I’m not saying that we should not – we need good documentation, so it helps others 
care for them when there’s a variety of people taking care of patients. But I think that that 
can be challenging: people bring work home on the weekends and nights to finish up 
their documentation. 
 
LG: 
Yeah. 
 
MH: 
And again, it’s variable from sub-specialty to sub-specialty on how much that is, and 
what support you have. So, for instance, when you’re an ophthalmologist, you have a 
scribe, the paid scribe that sits with you –  
 
LG: 
Really? 
 
MH: 
And they document everything. That is a field that’s highly compensated for. Whereas if 
you’re a rheumatologist, your patients are very complicated, and you don’t have a scribe, 
and you can’t see as many in one hour, so you may not get reimbursed as well, and you 
have to bring – you know –  
 
 
I’ve been working with a rheumatologist, helping mentor her – and she’s like bringing 
home these complicated, you know, days and days of clinical, because she can’t finish it 
in the clinic, because she has to see a certain number of patients within her day. And so, 
she has to go home and just basically spend most of her evenings kind of charting 
afterwards.  
 
 
So, there’s a wide variety of that, and sometimes it’s easier. So, I think there’s a lot of 
things that we do as physicians, as a general whole, that we could be supported to be 
more efficient, so we spend more face-to-face clinical time.  
 
LG: 
I see. 
 
MH: 
Does that make sense? 
 
LG: 
Yes. 
 
MH: 
A little bit? 
 
LG: 
Yeah,  yeah. 
 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 27 
 
 
So, you are an ER doctor? 
 
MH: 
Um-hmm. 
 
LG: 
And ER is one of the specialties of course that’s the most prominent in the media, and 
like television dramas, and things like that. 
 
MH: 
[Laughs] Um-hmm. 
 
LG: 
Can you talk a little bit about, you know, what it’s like to be a pediatric ER physician, 
specifically as opposed to like what’s presented on television? 
 
[Laughter] 
 
 
Or what [inaudible] –  
 
MH: 
Yeah, it’s so funny – I know; I try to think about that, you know, like what’s on 
television. And my son, Miko[??] has been watching a little bit of like medical shows, 
you know? And Grey’s Anatomy, I think, he was watching and he’s asking me some 
questions, like, “What’s real and what’s not?”  
 
 
And I’m like, “Oh, my god – I don’t want to necessarily watch it, because like I’m living 
it sometimes –  
 
[1:04:35] 
 
LG: 
Right. 
 
MH: 
I think the thing about ER that is sort of different than, you know, other sub-specialties is 
that anything is possible and anything can walk through the door, you know? And it’s just 
– you do get the sort of tragic events where, you know, there’s horrible car accidents, or 
you know, children hit by cars, and so on.  
 
 
And so, you see that; and one minute it can be like, you know, you’re day-to-day things 
that you see: we see a lot of injuries, and we see a lot of illness and fever, and so on. And 
it can sort of feel like your kind of bread-and-butter general pediatrics; and then boom! 
There is an accident and five people are going to be transported, you know? And you 
have to like mobilize your resources in order to, you know, be ready to care for it.  
 
 
So, it can change on a dime. And that’s kind of where that adrenaline junkie [laughs] kind 
of comes in, is that you just never know like what will happen. And you have to sort of 
be ready, and you always have to think about the next step.  
 
 
And so – one time I was on an overnight, and I had a full – it was a winter night – and I 
had a full ER of a lot of respiratory kids, but they were all reasonably fine, you know? 
But there was no like critical patient, but there was a lot going on. And I knew about the 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 28 
 
patients, but I couldn’t see all of them; so, some of them I’d seen, and some I hadn’t, you 
know? And I was still just working my way through it.  
 
 
And then I got a call from AirMed and Life Flight that there was a group of teenagers that 
were packed into a car – I think there was, two of them were in the trunk, and some of 
them were in the main part of the cabin. And they were going really fast down one of the 
canyons up north, and they went off the road. And they rolled like, I don’t know, a 
hundred feet down some canyon slope. And one of the kids had gotten up the slope and 
was able to call (get cell phone coverage and call) 911. 
 
[1:06:44] 
 
 
But there was potential of five or six coming, and one (I knew) that was really sick and 
was already getting blood, and bleeding; and you know, I knew some of the injuries that 
were going – I think it was actually in Ogden. And so, at that point I’m like, “Okay, I’ve 
got to think about my resources, because I don’t know when they’re coming, it’s just 
me.” The overnight is just one attending and usually a resident, like an intern [laughs]. 
And so, you know, you need to make sure you have enough resources.  
 
 
And so, I was like – I called the hospital physician to say, “This is happening, I may need 
some support down here.” And I called my backup (we have a backup system now, 
which we didn’t used to have). And I said, you know, “One is on their way, and there’s 
potential four or five coming, and I have a full ER that I can’t just ignore while I’m 
dealing with the trauma.” Because it seemed like I was going to be in this trauma for a 
while, because she was pretty sick.  
 
 
And so, you just really need to think about, like what your resources, and not be – you 
have to be careful not to be the hero, in that, “Oh, I can handle it.” Right? 
 
LG: 
Yeah. 
 
MH: 
And that you need to think about okay, realistically, I need to think about every case 
scenario. And so, I think that TV is like – oh, you know, there are these people that like, 
oh they can handle anything, right? Even if it’s like seems like there’s a thousand people 
that are there, you can take care of all of them. 
 
 
But I think the thing that in reality is, is no, we need to make sure that our system is there, 
and that we, you know, expand it as we need, to support what’s coming in, and figure out 
what our resources are. 
 
 
So, for instance, I feel like I’m a fairly good person to intubate, which is putting a 
breathing tube down. But if I know that the patient has a difficult airway, I should not be 
cavalier about that – and I’ll call anesthesia and say, “You know, this patient has a 
difficult airway, and I’d like for you to be there for backup, or help intubate this patient.” 
Because that’s what’s right for the patient. 
 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 29 
 
[1:08:47] 
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. 
 
MH: 
You know? You have to actually be more humble about your skills in order to make sure 
– you know, certainly if you don’t have time, you do: you just go. But you want to make 
sure that, you know, you’re ready for plan B, which is what if I start to intubate and I 
can’t get the airway? And you know, the patient gets into trouble and starts desatting [ed. 
note: desaturating]and stuff like that – what’s my plan B? And that you actually are 
starting to put plan B, in case plan A doesn’t work out.  
 
 
And if you have too many people there, then that’s fine. But you know, you could always 
call them off.  
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. 
 
MH: 
I mean, I had a family from Germany once, that they were traveling in Utah, and visiting 
around. And I think his son was a six-year-old, and he was eating a carrot and started 
choking. And the dad came in, pulled off the side of the road and did a finger sweep, and 
pushed the carrot into his airway.  
 
 
And so, I knew that there was a foreign – this child arrested, they called 911, they were 
Life Flighting him here. And a foreign body in the airway for an ER doc is the scariest 
thing, because you have to do the crich: you have to put a hole in the trachea to try to 
intubate, you know, to try to get air, so that they can have no brain damage. 
 
 
And so, (again) before they come I’m like, “Okay, that’s the worst-case scenario; I’m 
going to have everybody who knows about, you know, an airway, a crich here to help 
me.” So, I called EMT, I called surgery, I called anesthesia – I made sure everybody was 
at the bedside, waiting for this kid.  
 
 
And I remember one of the surgeons – and he’s actually, you know, he’s a friend of mine 
– he said, “Oh, Maija – did you call psychiatry too?” You know, like he kind of made fun 
of me? 
 
 
But when the child got there, like I knew that we had the best team possible to help this 
kid – that I was going to be running the code and I was going to need help with if we had 
to do that.  
 
[1:10:45] 
 
 
And so, you think about those kinds of things and you know, at the time, he was actually 
very helpful – he wasn’t helping with anything that, you know, surgical; but he was 
another physician there, helping look at the x-ray, helping run – he was doing some stuff. 
So, everybody was working their very best, and having more people there was okay, you 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 30 
 
know? And then if you call off people, that’s fine. But I think you have to think about 
those things.  
 
 
And that’s what’s different (a little bit) about ER, is that you are not always the person 
that knows everything, or that can do everything in every situation, you know? So, ER it 
kind of blends: like the surgery attending is doing ER stuff, and – you know what I 
mean? 
 
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. 
 
MH: 
Like they just kind of blend in, that they kind of know it all. And I think that’s where it’s 
a little bit different, is that you really are thinking about what is best for the patient. And 
if my son was being transported, who would I want there to help, you know, do a surgical 
airway?  
 
 
And so, would I want someone who is not a surgeon doing it, who has never done it? You 
know, I’ve never done a surgical airway (luckily), you know? Knock on wood (or had 
to); but I do know who to call, too. And I know how to do it if I had to do it, but you want 
the people that are there, who do surgery in the head/neck area there if possible, right? 
 
LG: 
Right. 
 
MH: 
So, the best possible solution. 
 
 
So, there’s these fields of medicine, and there’s things that are kind of my bread-and- 
butter (that I’m very good at), you know? Or that we’re very very good at. And then 
there’s other sub-specialties that know a lot about those areas, but they don’t do it as 
much. 
 
 
So, an example would be – like for status epilepticus (which is a prolonged seizure) – 
well I see that in ER all the time: I have patients come in that are actively having seizures 
(prolonged seizures), and I’m like boom, boom, boom – we know what to do. And even 
neurology, who, that’s their specialty is seizures – they don’t always treat the seizures 
that emergently; they prevent seizures, they diagnose seizures, you know –  
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. 
 
[1:13:00] 
 
MH: 
On EGs, and so on. But when it comes to status, sometimes, they’re not always the ones 
–  
 
LG: 
Interesting. 
 
MH: 
That are like treating it. 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 31 
 
 
LG: 
Yeah. 
 
MH: 
Same with cardiology: if you have a cardiac arrest, again –  
 
LG: 
Go to the ER [laughs]. 
 
MH: 
We’re CPR, right? And stuff like that. But when it comes to – but you want cardiology 
there if it’s related to the heart, you know, like if they have myocarditis. While they can 
help you with those things, but when it comes to the CPR, they may be not as capable of 
doing that, because they don’t do that all the time. They’re consultants, right? 
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. 
 
MH: 
So, you always think about like where are you best? And it’s this area where we know 
how to do things, but we need to make sure, sometimes, that the best people are there to 
do that – that that’s their bread-and-butter. Does that make sense? 
 
LG: 
Yeah, absolutely. I never thought about that before, actually; that you know, you have 
something like a seizure – of course it would be ER (or heart attack), it’s the ER people 
that –  
 
MH: 
Right. 
 
LG: 
Are right there. 
 
MH: 
They’re right there, and they’re like boom, boom, boom, boom, you know, kind of thing. 
They’re not necessarily going to cardiology clinic for a heart attack; they’re there first to 
the ER, and so that’s sort of like our bread-and-butter kind of thing.  
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. You mentioned something about – I’m curious about so, the hero narrative? 
 
MH: 
Um-hmm? 
 
LG: 
And I know that physicians and physicians-in-training sometimes, you know, get that in 
medical school and their training: that notion of –  
 
 
Can you talk about that a little bit? Like we’re in middle of the COVID pandemic, for 
example –  
 
MH: 
Um-hmm? 
 
LG: 
And you have all the healthcare workers as heroes –  
 
MH: 
Yeah. 
 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 32 
 
LG: 
And it seems to me that’s kind of – well I don’t want to put words in your mouth. I’m just 
curious to hear your reflections on the idea of physicians as heroes. 
 
MH: 
So, that has been, actually – that whole sort of initiative for what I’ve seen in Utah, is sort 
of uncomfortable in a lot of ways, because I don’t feel like that, especially when it comes 
to COVID right now, because we’re not – in the Pediatric ER we’re not seeing a ton of 
them, you know? We’re just sort of doing our day-to-day job. And if anything, during 
this COVID crisis we’re working less, because things have kind of shutdown.  
 
[1:15:20] 
 
 
It’s (again) it’s a team approach when you’re taking care of people. And I do think – I 
don’t want to belittle what people are doing in like New York, because I do think that 
those people are heroes in what they are doing, because they are working way overtime, 
you know, non-stop, and it’s crisis management.  
 
 
So, in crisis situations, you know, and thank goodness we haven’t had like this crisis 
situation in Utah. But if we had an earthquake, yeah – we might, right? (Like a real 
earthquake.) 
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. 
 
MH: 
You know, places like when Hurricane Katrina hit, and Tulane, and the things that people 
went above and beyond – I think you get into that sort of military, like this is what I do, 
right? 
 
 
And so, we kind of are in that profession that – like I almost feel guilty that I’m not an 
adult physician, that I can’t necessarily just go to New York and really help out, and give 
some relief for other people; or got to the Navajo Reservation. 
 
 
So, one of our colleagues is adult-trained, and he went down there for a little bit of time 
and did some service down there to help out.  
 
 
So, there’s a part of us that want to give in that; so, I think that’s innate in a lot of 
physicians, and their willingness to – when there’s a crisis, that they lean in to the crisis 
and want to help out. And so, it’s just like being a firefighter, you know, or somebody (an 
EMS provider) that you know, they drive to those situations, and they want to be a part of 
that.  
 
 
But you know, really, it’s just – it feels kind of strange seeing this during this time here, 
because we haven’t (at this point) really been hit with going above and beyond the call of 
duty, right? 
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. 
 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 33 
 
MH: 
We might, you never know. And I think all of us would. But there’s a lot of heroes, right? 
And so, you know, you think about parents that have to deal with crisis situations by 
themselves, and they step it up, and they do the lifesaving measure at home and bring 
them into the ER, right?  
 
 
I mean, so there’s a lot of things that go into play when it comes to taking care of 
patients. And there’s, you know people taking care of a lot of chronic kids, and the 
elderly, or sick individuals that are just going above and beyond, to try to help provide 
that.  
 
[1:17:54] 
 
 
And you know, I always say with the families, when I am seeing a child that’s sick, you 
know, I’m always like, “You’re the one that’s doing the hard work here,” you know what 
I mean? Because they are: they’re at the bedside, you know, making sure that they’re 
comfortable, making sure they’re hydrated, and so on.  
 
 
So, the care team, when it comes to like medicine, is like huge, right? That goes through 
that. And we’re a team. And so, like the nursing staff – when we have a complicated kid 
and they’re having to sit side-by-side, you know, at the PICU, or in the ED and they have 
to really be there – that’s very intensive care that they’re having to do.  
 
 
And sometimes I feel like my job is easier, because I’m telling people to do other – you 
know what I mean? 
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. 
 
MH: 
To do things. 
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. 
 
MH: 
And so, I think that the whole hero thing, I feel like there is just a lot of support from our 
community, and I’m very grateful for that, you know, that there is a lot of support from 
the community. And I just, you know, but I sort of feel a little bit silly. 
 
 
 I think that there’s a lot of heroes, and it comes in a lot of different forms; and it’s just 
part of our job, you know? And I feel fortunate, and it’s a privilege to take care of people, 
and to listen to their stories, and to be a part of that process, and so on. So, I think it’s 
very interesting.  
 
 
And when I have students and mentor them – I mean, you’ve got to think about it as sort 
of a privilege, and that you’re a part of these really intensive moments in their life. And 
you can be a part of helping that situation, or sometimes you don’t help it, but you’re just 
there, experiencing the situation. There’s a lot of medicine that we don’t do much for, 
right? 
 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 34 
 
LG: 
Um-hmm? 
 
MH: 
We’re just there as a cheerleader [laughs]. I mean, you know that that’s true – you’re just 
there, like you know, getting this sort of glimpse of what’s happening in people’s lives, 
and telling people they’re doing a great job, and to keep it up. You know, that kind of 
thing.  
 
[1:20:00] 
 
 
And there are times when, you know, there are some real things that we can do to make 
things a lot better, for sure.  
 
LG: 
What would you say, as an ER doctor (as a Pediatric ER doctor) – what’s your favorite 
part of your job? Or what’s the most gratifying aspects of your job? 
 
MH: 
You know, I mean I love chatting with the kids when they come in, and they tell you a 
story about what they did to injure [laughing] themselves, you know? So, they come in 
with an arm that looks like this, and then they’re telling you not about their broken arm, 
but they’re telling me about what they were doing right before they did it. And how they 
were like –  
 
[Laughter] 
 
 
Riding their bike, and you know, all this kind of stuff. And so, the thing that’s really fun 
is when you get the stories from – and I hate to say like, because sometimes there are 
some really injured individuals – but you hear the stories about what happened, and 
they’re so excited about them telling you like what they were trying to do – like their ski 
jumping, or their: “I was going really fast,” and you know, [laughing] “everything was 
going really well, and then bam!” You know?  
 
 
And so, you know, it’s always fun to – I think funny to kind of listen to it (when they’re 
fine). 
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. 
 
MH: 
You know, that they are kind of proud of this moment, and they’re proud: they’re taking 
pictures of their stitches, and they’re going to like, you know, show off their stitches 
[laughing] to somebody, or their broken arm – that they kind of lived to tell the tale. It’s 
like their own little war stories. I think that’s just pretty funny to see. 
 
 
And then obviously, it’s rewarding just to see, you know, kids when they’re sick, they’re 
pretty sick: they’re pretty down. But when they start to feel better they’re pretty honest, 
and they’re up in like a minute: running around, you know? [Laughs] 
 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 35 
 
 
I was on-call for seizures today, and they were talking about meningitis in a kid that has a 
seizure for a long time. We were talking about studies, like would you do a spinal tap on 
a kid that’s running around the room, that you have to hold – you know? 
 
LG: 
[Laughs] 
 
[1:22:10] 
 
MH: 
That you have to chase out of the room in order to – of course not, right? 
 
 
So, it’s like when kids are well, like they’re well, right? 
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. 
 
MH: 
And so, they’re pretty funny when they turn around. And sometimes, just a little bit of 
Tylenol or Motrin turns them from like lethargic, to you know, totally well. Or 
sometimes their stories are pretty, you know, funny: how they come in and [laughs] get 
themselves into different binds, you know? 
 
 
We’ve had a kid – he put his finger in one of these washers that was attached to a bike. 
And so, he came in with his finger stuck to basically a bike, you know? And we were 
trying to figure out, like, “Okay, how are we going to saw this off?” You know, “We 
need to get some serious equipment from Lowe’s in order to figure this out.” 
 
[Laughter] 
 
 
And here is this kid, you know? And you’re like, “How did that happen?”  
 
 
And you know, I had another kid that was in a bike accident, and somehow – I have no 
idea, but somehow got the handlebar, like literally sticking through his leg, you know? 
And comes in (again) somebody was able to disconnect the handlebar from the bike; but 
you know, they’re sitting there. And they’re fine, because the pain is controlled with 
morphine. But they’re just sitting there and they’re like – they’re like, “I don’t know how 
this happened.” [Laughing] You know? And here they are, with a bike handle through 
their whole like femur, you know? 
 
LG: 
Right. 
 
MH: 
You know, they just get themselves into binds. Sometimes you’re just like, “How did this 
happen?” 
 
LG: 
“How did you do that?” 
 
MH: 
[Laughs] Because they are all in, right? 
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 36 
 
 
MH: 
They are so all in and invincible, and some of the things that they do are – so yeah, are 
just almost crazy. So, I’ll tell my kids all about it. I’m like, “Don’t do this, don’t do that.” 
 
[Laughter]  
 
 
 
You come in on that kind of thing. 
 
LG: 
The mom as the ER doctor. 
 
MH: 
Yeah, I know. Poor Brad – when the kids were little and I was working, I would call him 
and say, “By the way,” you know, it was usually some food that they’d given a child 
that’s choking on it, and I was like, “Make sure that, you know, all those hot dogs are cut 
up into this bit piece before you,” [laughs] “before you give it to them.” 
 
[1:24:26] 
 
 
So, he got to hear about all the horror stories. And it was always developmental, so 
depending on the age of my children was the stories that came home to tell him, or you 
know, that I tell my children about. 
 
LG: 
Well what would you say – I know you mentioned a lot of students, because you’re 
obviously also faculty – what would you say to people or to high school students who 
were thinking about going into medicine? You know, what kind of advice would you 
give? Or what would you encourage people to think about? 
 
MH: 
So, you know, I get that a lot. And I think – first of all, I think it’s a great field. And so, 
even though medicine has changed quite a bit, it’s not necessarily (maybe) what they 
envision on ER, or whatever – I think it’s been a very rewarding career, and I’ve enjoyed 
it immensely. 
 
 
But I do think it’s a little bit more of – it’s not something to go into without some thought 
about what you’re doing. So, it’s not just the pre-med classes that you take, that that’s 
going to determine what medicine is like. So, I do encourage them to actually get into the 
clinical environment in some form or fashion, and really try to get a feel of what it’s like 
across some different disciplines in order to see what it would be like, and the different –  
 
 
Because one, you can’t just shadow one person, or see or be in the clinic and see what it’s 
truly like for everybody, because there’s a wide variety of what you can do in medicine. 
And so, I think that’s super important: to actually spend some time and see what people 
do. Because an electro-physiology cardiologist is very different from an ER doc, and is 
very different from a psychiatrist. But just get a flavor of those kinds of things, and see 
what sort of appeals to you, and if it does appeal to you. 
 
[1:26:28] 
 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 37 
 
 
And I’ve had some students that took – I teach some undergraduate research classes, 
where they enroll patients into research studies in the emergency room. And I’ve had 
students that take that class, or that have been in the clinical environment and they’re 
like, “Yeah, taking Miles’ class has made me realize that I don’t want to do medicine, 
and I’m full-on going to do business.” You know? 
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. 
 
MH: 
And that’s, I think, a service, right? Because you don’t want to go down that road and be 
like, “I wish I had never gone and done all this.” Because being in the classroom, being a 
good student doesn’t necessarily correlate to being a good physician. And so, you may do 
well in your science classes – or even if you don’t do well in your science classes and you 
still want to be a physician, there’s ways – I mean, you can do that; that shouldn’t deter 
you.  
 
 
You need to have a certain level of doing okay in order to get accepted to medical school: 
there are certain criteria that they (some medical schools) have, as far as GPA and 
MCAT, and so on. But and so, I never discourage anybody who is really passionate about 
what they want to do.  
 
 
And I never – you know, if their grades, if they have like blips in their application and 
stuff I really encourage them to work on those areas in order to apply. And then for those 
who are kind of, you know, have set on going in, that they really do need to get a feel for 
what it’s like, so that they know what they’re getting into.  
 
 
And again, it’s a little bit more of kind of a calling or a passion than it is like just a job.  
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. 
 
MH: 
I think if you treat it just as a job, like a day-to-day thing, then one: you’re going to miss 
out on what it has to offer; and two: you’ll burn out, because you’re not going to kind of 
be into it.  
 
[1:28:26] 
 
 
And so, you have to like be drawn to it, really, and to really engage in it. So, it’s kind of 
different than maybe like, “I’m going to go in, I’m going to do my job, and then I’m 
going to leave and it’s not there.” Because it’s really integrated in your whole life, for the 
most part, you know?  
 
 
I mean, (obviously) there’s variations of people’s jobs – some people work part-time, 
some people, you know, don’t have academics, or they may do more private practice – 
there’s a wide range of it. But I would say that you kind of got to really want it to keep 
going at it.  
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 38 
 
 
MH: 
Does that make sense? 
 
LG: 
Is there anything that you – knowing now, after being in the field for 20-plus years – that 
you would have done differently, thinking back on it? Or that you would told yourself – 
you know, your mature self now to your younger, medical school self? 
 
MH: 
[Laughs] Again, the things that I – when you’re in medical school and residency – I think 
that you’re so focused in on being right, you know, or knowing the right answer, or the 
medicine that sometimes you would forget about the patient or the family – you know 
what I mean? Like you get so focused on, “I’m going to write the right order.” Or, “I’m 
going to know the right answer to things.” That you forget about all the rest of the story – 
like hearing the story.  
 
 
And sometimes when I see – and I was part of that too, right? I did that. 
 
 
But when I see, sometimes, like residents: they’ll get a history, and they’ll ask about their 
fever, and their cough; or they’ll ask about their arm injury and they’ll do a physical 
exam – but they don’t get like, they don’t get to know like, “Tell me the story about how 
this happened,” right? 
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. 
 
MH: 
And really get the details, you know? Like you kind of want to broaden that history. And 
I think the history part of it: the storytelling part of it is really cool. 
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. 
 
[1:30:31] 
 
MH: 
When you have time to kind of just really listen to people, and then get to know like their 
family dynamics – who are you and what do you do for a living? You know? Like just 
having a little more of that dialogue is really rewarding. And like when you’re able to do 
that, people tell you things.  
 
 
And so, the residents will sometimes say, “Oh, you got a much different history than I 
did,” right? 
 
[Laughter] 
 
 
Like, “I asked those same questions and they didn’t tell me about their past medical 
history of x, y, and z.” Or their family history of something that runs in the family that 
might be, you know, concerning. And I’m like – so, just taking that time: sitting down, 
really just listening as if its a story, rather than, “Oh, I’ve got to remember to ask,” you 
know, “if there’s any vomiting. Oh, I forgot to ask about that.”  
 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 39 
 
 
But really kind of just like telling it as a story. And I think that’s what you forget when 
you first – like you know that when you first start out in medical school. Like I think a lot 
of students are very altruistic, and they love – they want to help people, and they like that 
story. But then we kind of beat it out of them –  
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. 
 
MH: 
Because you’ve got to get the orders done, you’ve got to get, you know –  
 
LG: 
There’s a lot of work [laughs]. 
 
MH: 
The history done; there’s a lot to learn. And so, you take a step back and you forget about 
that other stuff and you’re just focused in on like, “I’ve got to write the right note, and 
I’ve got to get the notes done, so I’ve got to skimp on this,” you know? They’re just 
thinking about it; and you forget to just kind of enjoy the journey a little bit, you know, 
with it. And so, that’s you know, you miss out on things.  
 
 
And that took a while to kind of get back to after – which you know, I think it happens to 
a lot of people. But certainly, it happened to me. And that’s the thing that I kind of enjoy 
when I’m in there, is like trying to just – you know, (again) get the story out of it. 
Because it’s so much more enjoyable. 
 
LG: 
[Inaudible] your femur [laughs]. 
 
MH: 
Well I mean, but –  
 
LG: 
Yeah. 
 
[1:32:30] 
 
MH: 
Like being patient and hearing the three-minute version, as opposed to the ten-second 
version. 
 
LG: 
Um-hmm, um-hmm. 
 
MH: 
Right? “Oh, well I fell on my bike.” 
 
 
“Oh, okay; we’re done.” 
 
LG: 
Right. 
 
MH: 
But no! I want to hear: where were you? What were you do – you know? Like you just 
want to hear the whole story about how everything happened, and giving people the 
latitude to tell you a little bit of the extra stuff that – it may not be that (necessarily) that 
important to the actual note (to the ER note), but it helps –  
 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 40 
 
 
And then when you’re reading notes and you hear – and the story unfolds, and you get a 
good, you know, have a good history that’s there – it’s much more complete when you 
have those details. Do you know what I mean? Is that you have like the full picture of it, 
and you’re kind of telling a story, rather than, “Boy fell on bike at three o’clock,” you 
know, “right outside home.” You know, you’re missing the piece –  
 
LG: 
Well it’s humanizing.  
 
MH: 
Yeah, and you want to be able to like, when you read a note, you want to be able to not 
have this kid with fever sound exactly like this kid with fever. Like what’s unique about 
this kid, you know? What are the unique things about him? Rather than just giving a 
whole fever template, you know? Where you have your macro and you throw it in there, 
and they’re not septic, and we’re done. But you know, like really kind of go into some 
more detail.  
 
 
And so, that’s the thing that I sort of told myself, is that you kind of take some steps back 
[laughs]. You start out okay, we kind of break you; and then as you get older, you start to 
get back to this why you went into it. 
 
LG: 
Why you went into it? 
 
MH: 
You know what I mean?  
 
LG: 
Yeah. 
 
MH: 
A little bit more. 
 
LG: 
Okay. Well is there anything else that you feel like – I mean, that we haven’t talked 
about, that you feel is really important, that you would want people to know: either about 
ER specifically, or about doctoring (in general)? 
 
[1:34:30] 
 
MH: 
You know, (again) I think it’s somewhat of a privilege (I sort of mentioned that before), 
and it’s been, so far, a really rewarding career. It’s tough at times. I think it’s not an easy 
career, but I don’t think I’m going to have any regrets, you know, looking back on that; 
even though there are some very difficult periods where you go through, you know, your 
life from –  
 
 
Medical school sometimes feels really difficult. Residency still feels difficult. It’s still a 
little – it’s difficult now [laughs], you know what I mean? Like it’s different types of 
difficulties that are there. And so, it’s going to always challenge me.  
 
 
Looking forward, you know, on medicine it seems daunting to people because there’s just 
like – first of all, you think about all the things you need to know. But there’s a big 
system out there to support you, and you’re constantly learning. But now, I think the 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 41 
 
system supports residents, supports people in training a little bit better, so they’re not just 
left out to like hang.  
 
LG: 
[Laughs] 
 
MH: 
On their own. 
 
LG: 
Sink or swim, essentially? 
 
MH: 
It’s kind of a sink or swim situation, yeah. And so, I think that we’re better – as 
attendings we take more responsibility than we used to. And so, that’s better for the 
patients, and so there’s a little bit more of a transition, rather than, “Here you go.” 
 
LG: 
Um-hmm? 
 
MH: 
Jump in and see what happens, you know? And see if you survive when you come out the 
end of it. And so, I do think that there’s a lot of years of training for a reason. And so, 
there’s that gradual, “Let it go,” as people become more capable, and so on. 
 
 
It’s a great field, it’s just, you know, (like I said) it is challenging. And it can be 
challenging on other parts of your life: your family, your personal time, and you know, 
sometimes you know, when you want to do things.  
 
 
But for the most part, you know, when I work Christmas, everyone is so appreciative that 
you’re there, you know? That’s when you sort of feel like, “Oh, I’m doing community 
service: I’m working Christmas. I’m here for you, if you need it.” You know? And that 
feels good – just like it feels good to volunteer at the Food Bank, right? If you’re kind of 
doing that kind of thing.  
 
[1:37:01] 
 
 
So, there’s times when we do these things that are sort of feel like we’re there when 
others are not, you know? Like when the pediatric offices are closed – there’s EMS 
people working, there’s firefighters working, police, or whatever you know, you want to 
say – there’s people working these shift works that they’re there. During COVID, there’s 
people working at the grocery store, you know, and they’re exposing themselves.  
 
 
So, there’s all sorts of things. And so, we’re all doing kind of our part, you know, type of 
thing. So, that actually feels okay, you know? It doesn’t feel like a sacrifice; it feels more 
like a positive thing, you know? You feel good about it. And so, there’s a lot of good 
things that come out of working in a field where you are expected to work at different 
times of the day. 
 
LG: 
I actually do have one last question before we wrap up. As a female, particularly in ER, 
do you feel like there were any barriers that you had to overcome? 
 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 42 
 
MH: 
Yeah, that’s interesting. And I saw it on the questions –  
 
[Soft laughter] 
 
 
That you had asked there, and I was thinking about that.  
 
 
I do feel as though that’s been a bit of a challenge in a relatively male-dominated field. 
And I’ve seen improvements (again) over the past 20 years from that.  
 
 
There is a little bit of feelings of imposter syndrome, that sometimes people have when 
they’re an underrepresented minority, or a female – you know, that they don’t belong in a 
field that might be dominated by –  
 
 
[Laughing] We always used to say this like, “White, gray-haired men.” Right? So, that 
there’s every diagnosis in medicine is named after some – 
 
LG: 
White, gray-haired man? 
 
MH: 
Old, white, gray-haired man, you know? [Laughs] 
 
 
And so, I do think that even in pediatrics – we’re a department of 350 physicians, and 
most of our leadership is our males, even though more than 60% of the physicians are 
females in the department. And so, I think that there is some barriers, as far as promotion, 
or you know, having women in leadership positions, I think it has been a little bit of a 
challenge.  
 
[1:39:23] 
 
 
The thing that sort of strikes me kind of the day-to-day is that there is a fair amount of 
micro-aggressions that can occur when I’m working in the emergency room, and I have 
to consult people to ask them to come see a patient, or we have an issue, you know, that 
has needs of a sub-specialty. And when I’m in that process of consulting, it’s almost like 
I’m getting ready to have a fight – and it’s not really a fight, but you have to have this 
like convincing argument that I need to pull them in to help care for this patient, right? 
 
LG: 
Um-hmm? 
 
MH: 
Rather than having it as more of a relaxed, collegial discussion about a patient, I almost 
have to justify their time. 
 
LG: 
Um-hmm. 
 
MH: 
You know? Instead of, “This is what’s happening, and this is what I—” you know. And 
again, for most of the part, I would say that I have collegial conversations; but I’ve had 
some times where, you know, I call a trauma, and the trauma surgeon is pissed off that I 
interrupted rounds. And he comes down and he’s throwing things, and kind of yelling 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 43 
 
things, and stuff like that – and that’s inappropriate, right? And so, that’s not good for 
patient care.  
 
 
And that wears on you, so that you kind of pick your battles with that type of thing that 
happens. And I’ve had a couple instances that actually stand out. One was a patient – he 
was a patient that was followed by gastro-neurology. And he was bleeding from his rectal 
area, a significant amount. And we weren’t really sure why. And he thought, “Oh, he’s 
just constipated with – he had some other GI issues going on.” And he said, “Just go 
ahead and give him an enema and then call me and tell me how it goes.”  
 
 
And the child had bled a fair amount, such that his hematocrit (or his red blood cells) 
were really low in his system – like a significant amount. And I was like, “Yeah, I’m not 
doing that.” I was like, “If you want to do that, that’s fine; but that’s not in my comfort 
level, and I’m worried about the consequences of doing that if there is any kind of tear in 
his intestine, if he’s bleeding, you know, if that could cause more harm, or if I could be a 
part of causing harm.” 
 
[1:41:38] 
 
 
And he was so mad. He came down and actually got in my face, you know, was like, 
“Who is the physician that’s taking care of this?” And so, I kind of stood up. And one of 
the nurses was there like wondering if he was going to hit me. 
 
LG: 
Wow. 
 
MH: 
And so, he basically said, you know, “What’s your name?” And wanted to take down my 
name; and said, “And who is your supervisor?” And he went straight around the hospital 
to find a supervisor and saying that I would not, you know, wouldn’t do what he asked 
me to do.  
 
 
And luckily, I’m in a system where, you know, I went after this – I knew that this was 
probably going to happen – and so, I went to my boss and said, “I had an interaction I 
need to tell you about.” And it wasn’t the only interaction that this person had had with 
other people that didn’t go well.  
 
 
And I was very well-supported, in the sense that he wanted to know all the details so that 
he could document it. And that physician was, you know, asked to do some remediation, 
as far as his performance, you know, kind of thing. So, I don’t know the details of it.  
 
 
But I’ve had a couple instances where, you know, you have these sort of micro-
aggressions for that; but then sometimes you’re not necessarily being heard, and you have 
to really kind of fight to kind of be heard.  
 
 
And you know, in a positive way, I had a patient who – they came in and the child was 
having some like low oxygen saturations, and there was no history of like, you know, 
foreign body aspiration (where they aspirate in their trachea). But this kid was having 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 44 
 
some sort of death spells, where the sat—like would cough, and then the sats would fall 
down into the 50s, and then everyone would rush in the room, and then they’d come back 
up.  
 
 
So, it happened a couple of times, and I called – and I kept calling the residents (or the 
fellow) and saying, “You need to come see this patient, I’m really worried about them. 
I’m worried about some kind of foreign body.” And he wasn’t really listening to me and 
then there was a change of shift. And finally, I got the attending. And I said, “I’m really 
frustrated. This is happening. I’m really concerned. I need you to come, you know, like I 
really need you guys to come see this, because it’s not like I can take him to the OR.” 
 
[1:43:58] 
 
 
And he really listened, and he said, “Yeah, it sounds,” you know, very collegial 
individual, “sounds like this is a foreign body.” Or he said, “At least we need to go look. 
Like this sounds very serious and very scary.” 
 
 
And then you know, at times he would be looking fine, and then he would drop down. 
And so, they went to the OR, and of course they found like a peanut in his airway. And so 
then he made the fellow (I can’t remember if it was a resident or a fellow) go down and 
report to me what they found and apologize for not, you know, responding sooner.  
 
 
So, I just felt like that mentorship of like, “Yes, you need to listen, even though you don’t 
hear any, you know, even though the clinical signs you didn’t necessarily agree with; but 
you have to listen to the whole story.” 
 
LG: 
Story – um-hmm. 
 
MH: 
“About what’s happening, and why they’re concerned.” 
 
 
So, I think that there are some people that are very supportive, and I appreciate those in 
leadership, in men and women, that are supporting each other, right? And that are very 
collegial. But there still is some micro-aggression, and there’s still a lot of hierarchy 
within a system that, you know, we can improve on.  
 
 
And so, I think that goes with the sort of zero harm initiative that they’re trying to do: is 
break down these kind of hierarchal things that occur in order to best care for patients, 
you know? Because that’s what our overall goal is: is to have the best outcomes for our 
patients and stuff, so. 
 
 
But you just plow ahead. 
 
LG: 
Right. 
 
MH: 
It’s better than it was 20 years ago [laughs]. Inch forward, exactly. 
 
Physician Oral History: Maija Holsti 
Page 45 
 
LG: 
Alright; well do you have anything else you want to add, before we –  
 
MH: 
No. 
 
LG: 
Wrap this up? 
 
MH: 
I think I’m good. I don’t know – I’m not sure if I answered everything you wanted to 
answer –  
 
LG: 
Oh yeah; no, no – this is great.  
 
 
Well again, I’m talking to Dr. Maija Holsti –  
 
MH: 
Um-hmm. 
 
LG: 
Here in her home in Salt Lake. This is Lisa Gabbert, and today is June 19th, 2020. 
 
[End recording – 1:46:02]