Ironworkers Documentation Project 
 
AUDIO LOG FORM 
 
Interviewer's recording no(s).:  BH IW 1 [Sissons] 
 
Contact:  Name 
Sharon and Richard Sisson 
 
Interviewer:    
Bucky Halker 
 
Interview: 
 
     Date:   
 
October 11, 2011 
 
     Place:  
 
Illinois Humanities Council  (IHC)   
 
 
 
17 N. State, Suite 1400 
 
 
 
Chicago, IL 60640 
 
Other people present: None 
 
Background noise:  Occasional noise from within the offices of the IHC.     
 
 
 
 
 
 
Equipment used:  (Marantz PMD 661 digital recorder and Shure SM58 microphone) 
 
Recording medium used: Transcend 8 gigabyte SD memory card, uncompressed WAV format. 
 
Recording engineer: Bucky Halker 
 
 
Summary description of audio interview contents:  Sharon and her husband Richard Sisson 
review their personal background, entry into ironworking, problems on the job, sexism,  pranks, 
and worksites.   
                                          
 
 
Audio Interview Contents 
 
 
Counter   
No./Time                   Topic 
00:01 Bucky Halker introduction and location 
[Sharon, why don’t you give me your full name.]  Sharon Sisson.  [And where were you born?]  I 
was born in Chicago, right here.  [Where abouts?]  Michael Reese Hospital.  [You grew up in 
what neighborhood?]  Ahh, we grew up near what used to be Cabrini Green until I was about 2.  
Then my parents moved to Joliet.  I lived there until I was older and moved out of the home. [Is 
that where you went to school…] Yes.  […started grade school and all?]  Grade school and high 
school at Joliet.  [Ok.  We’ve got another ironworker here.  Why don’t you tell me your name.]  
My name is Richard Sisson.  I’m Sharon’s husband.   I’ve been an ironworker since 1973.  I 
started out in the apprenticeship.  My grandfather’s admonition to… “Join the ironworkers, kid.”  
And ahh…  Born in Chicago in 1950.  Christmas Eve.  I grew up in the Calvin Park 
neighborhood most of my childhood.  Went to Berry Elementary School and Albert G. Lane 
Technical High School, which was an all-male high school at the time.  I kind of honed my 
drafting skills that paid off later in life, as far as blue-print reading, I think as I developed into an 
ironworker.  [Sure.]  So…  I went to college for three years, three different colleges in Chicago.  
But…ahh…I wound up going to a four year apprenticeship for my graduate studies, shall I say, 
and became a journeyman ironworker.  And ahh…I still claim to be an ironworker to this day.   
 
1:56  [How did you get into the ironworking, Sharon?  You grew up in Joliet.]  They had a sign 
at the unemployment office.  [A sign at the unemployment office?]  Laughter  [What did it say?]  
They were looking for people to fill a test slot that they had.  [Was that at the Joliet Local 
or…was it down…]  No, it was at 63.  I was married to a different ironworker at that time.  And I 
went down there, took the test.  It was a year between the time that I took the test until I get a 
job.  [Yeah.  And did you do…  I’ve heard some of the workers talk about an indentured 
apprenticeship.  Did you do something like that?]  Hmm, no.  It wasn’t indentured.  I served four 
years in school and…  [Yeah, oh, and then came out…] then came to apprenticeship school.  So I 
started as an apprentice through the school program.  Only the indentured guys were old guys.  
[Older guys, oh.  You did the indentured?]   R:  I went to school.  S:  Well, he went to school too.  
R:  Yeah… But, I never had stuff with one contractor for too long which was good for anybody 
and everybody who had to gain experience.  You had to bounce around to…from employer to 
employer to really...  And absorb all the intricacies of the business because it’s a vast field of 
knowledge that you gain over years of…if you want to… There are some people who just have 
blinders on and want to stay good at one thing and can’t even be good at that.  But I chose to try 
and get as much knowledge about the trade that I could.  S:  You have a lot of options as 
apprentices.  You had to go where the apprentice coordinator sends you.  Although there were a 
good amount of apprentices that serve their entire four-year apprentice with one company.  A 
company kept on working so they stayed.  If you never got laid off, the apprentice coordinator 
never made you leave. I personally think that they serve so many months with, like he said, 
different contractors.  It’s just to see everything.  Otherwise, you have one guy that did curtain 
rods his entire life, doesn’t know anything about anything else.  [Yeah.  And you go through the 
apprenticeship program, you have to learn all of these different sets of skills, right?]  S: Right, 
you get it in school but you get no hands on if you don’t move company to company.  So, like I 
said, there was a good portion of guys that came through the apprentice program when I was a 
student there and they served their apprentice with one company doing one thing. 
4:11   [Yeah, so your first job, what did you do?]  S:  I worked on skylights at O’Hare in the 
maintenance building.  [Now was that a long…because I know some of those jobs at O’Hare run 
seems like forever and they never go away.]  Yeah, but…  [Was that a short term…?]  Yeah, four 
months I think.  It was the middle of winter.  We started I believe January 4th.  Oh that’s fun.  
[And then after that, from O’Hare, where did you…  Can you think of some places?]  I worked at 
340 Randolph.  I worked at Block 57.  I did a lot of work at the n avy yard, different other small 
jobs.  I did a couple days doing some re-enforcement steel on the Sears Tower.  I worked one 
day at the Hancock Center.  There’s a lot of small buildings.  I worked at the Board of Trade for 
a long time.  We did all the emergency stairs at the Board of Trade.  Worked at the Cook County 
Jail.  One of the…  Couple of the things that I never done was I never did rolling-shutter door 
and I never worked at a nuclear power plant.  I did work in Zion.  For a while we did some heavy 
lifts stuff there that was a million pounds lift we did once.  I worked everywhere.   R:  Prudential 
too…Prudential…Navy Pier  S:  I worked a little at the Prudential Building, yeah, not a lot.  
[And on Navy Pier too when they were doing the re-….?]  Yeah, did the Navy Pier.  [Did you do 
the skeleton?  The white skeleton?]  No, I did curtain wall at Navy Pier.  I didn’t work in that.   
 5:36   [Why don’t you explain a curtain wall a little bit because whoever hears this is going to 
want to know exactly what you mean.  Tell me, they are big sheets of curtain, right?  Of glass 
and window, is that right?]  Well, the steel hangs on the outside of the building, on a clip system.  
That’s why it’s called a girder.  The steel hangs down and the glass and the sash fits inside.  
There’s very little raw glass that we put in.  It’s already sashed when it comes out.  You put the 
structure up first.  Steel that hangs from the clips.  It all hangs from some kind of a clip.  You put 
the steel up, then the sash goes in.  [And you have to be hanging on the exterior wall…well, for 
the curtain you have to be on the outside…]  Most of that is on the inside, once you put the sash 
in.  I did work on the navy yard that we put stuff in on the outside, off a lift.  That was worked 
on…  The raw glass is usually glazier stuff on windows.  [Meaning it is the work of the glazier 
union’s members.] If they’re using it on a staircase, it’s a baluster sort of thing.  That is claimed 
as ironwork.  [Did you work on the Apple Building?]  No.  [I know there was some that worked 
there.  No, ok.  Did you ever do any of that…those fancy stairways?  Have you worked on some 
buildings down town here?]  We did a large free-standing circular stair in a exercise club.  I want 
to say it was a Bali’s Fitness.  And it was somewhere near Shomberg.  And that was all raw steel 
that just had a clear glazing over it so it was all…  It was unpainted.  So they just glazed the raw 
steel.  They put that one it.  I did another architectural stair at the library in Lake Zurich.  That 
was another sort of a circular stair.  All fancy stuff.  Most of the stairs I worked on were just the 
steel stairs in emergency exits that you see.  That’s all of our stuff.  [Did you do any welding 
too?  Some of the 63 people…]  Oh, lots of welding.  At the Cook County Jail.  The bunks and 
all the stuff inside the bunk areas.  All that welding, we did all that.  The steel chase thing.  The 
electricians messed up and when they came in and poured the concrete, they pumped the 
concrete through all the electrical chases… [Ohh…]  And they wouldn’t pass the code unless 
you could put the wires inside.  So concrete filled all that.  The wires were stuck.  So they had to 
put wire chase up outside between all the cells.  So they had to weld a piece of channel out for 
the wire to go through and we did all that. Hung on all the doors there.  That was a long-term job 
there.  I worked on Division 10, Division 9…some of the rehab on Division 11.  
8:20  [Out of all the kind of work that you’ve done as an ironworker, which was your favorite?  
What was…  Is there some area…?]  The jail job was my favorite job because it was kind of…  
This job here at caulkin [Referring to her work on Block 37 building in the Loop] wasn’t bad 
either because they kind of said, “Ok, this is what you have to do.”  And they left us alone.  You 
know?  We could go and do what we had to do and that was that.  R:  She’s fearless when it 
comes to swing-stage work too.  A lot of guys are afraid of it.  She’s fearless when it comes to 
any kind of wire, all day, outside…  S:  I’d rather go out there swing-stage on the outside of a 
building than go in a man cage on the inside.  [And why is that?]  S:  Because I’m 
claustrophobic.  LAUGHTER  And there are guys that don’t step on a swing…  I was hired for a 
job when I worked for [?] on a building.  Just for swing stage work.  And the job I was in at 
Northwestern Hospital and the job that we did off the stage took us a couple of hours and the 
rigging took days because the building was already there.  You had to come in and take it down, 
move it, walk it here and get up the stairs.  Take it out.  It was days we were rigging.  And then 
we’d sit on the swing stage a couple of hours, did our thing and it was done.  LAUGHTER  That 
was fun too.   
9:38  [Yeah.  So, when did you start in the program?]  In 85.  [85.  And at that point, hmm, were 
there many women in the apprenticeship program or starting in the market?]  No.  I was the only 
one in 85.  There was, that I know of, one or two before me but they were no longer working.  
Hmm…  I think her name was Cindy.  She was an Indian lady.  [Oh yeah, I heard about her.]  
There was a Black lady, Frances.  They were before me, but they stopped working.  [Were they 
in local 63?]  Yes.  [Yeah, I’ve seen pictures of them.  Yes.]   R:  I’ve worked with both of them 
too.  Cindy was ok.  She could hold her own.  But Frances would drive a guy nuts.  S:  That’s 
why I wondered when they said I was the first one that would get 25 years because I knew there 
were at least two women before me.  And they said they don’t work any more so.  They either 
withdrew so they didn’t get 25 years, I don’t know.  And there were a few that came after 
me…way more after me than before, obviously.  And there were several that I saw that started 
and stopped and dropped out.  A couple, a young Black girl that paid a lot of money.  I forget 
what her name was.  She paid a lot of money at a private school to learn how to weld.  And they 
sent her on a welding job and she was one of the first that went out as a welder.  And she didn’t 
get a very good reception.  And she ended up quittin’ and following some man somewhere.  It 
was stupid.   
11:05  [Yeah.  And what kind of reception did you get when you started?]  I don’t want to say 
that it was real warm either.  It depends.  And it was a large mix of people who didn’t like it.  
There were young guys and there were old guys.  [So it didn’t matter.  Just certain people.]  
Right.  You never knew until you actually started working there.  Some of it was real obvious 
that they didn’t appreciate you being there.  Some of it was very subtle and some didn’t care.   
[Did some people, like, say things…]  Oh yes.  […straight out?]  Oh there was several comments 
made, you know.  I was taking a job away from man with a family and I was thinking…  My 
son’s father died when he was very young and my thought is…  Why is my family worth less 
than yours because I’m a woman and a mother.   You know?  Because you’re a man and a father, 
your family means more?  I don’t think so.  And this is what I did for a living, this is obviously 
not who I am.  This is who he is.  He is an ironworker.  I don’t claim to be an ironworker.  I did it 
as a living.  This is what I am.   
12:10  [Have you talked to other women ever about it in the profession?]  Well, I was friends 
with a girl that moved out to Arizona.  Her name was Loreen Wilson and she married a pipe 
fitter I believe, and followed him to Colorado or whatever.  I don’t remember.  But she married a 
pipefitter and she was not…  She was an ironworker.  She was an artist first before she came into 
the trade.  I don’t know how she came.  But she was very much an ironworker.  We were 
working on a job together one time and I paint my nails and stuff like that.  She had burned 
herself and was afraid to say anything…that… somebody would make fun of her.  She ran a 
torch across her leg and she had her hand right there and she burned the whole top of her hand.  
It was bad.  I said, “Loreen, you’ve got to go to the hospital!”  And she said, “Oh no, because 
they might say something.”  So what?  And she had hands that were not real feminine.  Someone 
came over to us at lunchtime and took a look at us and said, “Well, I guess we know who does 
all the work.”  Excuse me, why does that mean anything?  I don’t get it.  Because I paint my 
nails, I don’t work?  Made no sense to me but...  [Did you find that it got easier over time and for 
other women?  Obviously you were kind of a pioneer, a path breaker.]  I don’t know whether it 
got easier.  Some ignored it.  And some women I consider more sheltered because they had a 
father in the business.  So it’s just my opinion, mind you, that the men respected that more 
because they knew their father.  I had nobody.  There was nobody was looking out for me.   
GIGGLE  [So right up to the present, there’s still a hostility towards these…?]  Oh sure.  
[Really.]  Well, there’s hostility more than just because I’m a female.  There’s hostility because I 
make them tow the mark to what the books are.  Did I ever break those rules?  You betcha.  And 
if I got caught, I got caught.  Ok?  When they got caught, there was all kinds of excuses as to 
why they should get away with that.  It’s like, no.  Wrong is wrong.  And that’s just it.  And they 
knew that if they were going to break those rules and I caught ‘em, I’m sorry but I’m going to 
say something because that’s just the way I’m made.  And if they didn’t like it, because a lot of 
these jobs are run by men and they have their little clique.  And they want to do what they want 
to do.  And they think they should be able to do that.  To this day that goes on.  And there’s not a 
lot that the local can do about a lot of it.   
14:33   [Yeah.  So it’s both the contractors and some of the union people are not…?]  Yup.  
[Supervisors?]  Contractors think that one of the companies he work for, I own this business, I 
can do whatever I want.  And it’s like, excuse me.  You signed your name on that contract as 
well as I did.  You need to hold up your end if you’re going to make me hold up mine.  They 
don’t think they should have to.  [So when you’re talking about rules, you’re talking about work 
rules…]  Yes.  […and stuff on the job.]  Yes.  [So…]  Before we had a 7 o’clock start and before 
even when we had the 7 o’clock start.  It gets progressively earlier and earlier because when 
everybody starts at 7, the traffic is the same pattern as when everyone was starting at 8.  So now 
everyone wants to start at 6.  Well, you know, our contract says that this is when the start time is.  
And if you start before that, you have to pay overtime.  And many guys look the other way 
because they wanted to start early so they could get home early.  So they just, you know, ignore 
that because they wanted to do what they wanted to do.  I remember distinctly one job I showed 
up on, he was the superintendent.  He said, “Just go out there and start at 7 o’clock.  I don’t 
care.”  You can’t do that either.  And I got out of my car and said, “What’s this that we’re 
starting early, without getting paid for it?”  And the steward came up to me and said, “If you 
don’t want to start at this time, then go get a different job.”  Excuse me, what does it say?  That’s 
just wrong.  And they didn’t want a little girl telling them that they were wrong.  That’s why they 
don’t like me.  LAUGHTER. 
 
 16:03  [So that must be one of the worst parts of the job.  What’s the best part for you?]  The 
best part…  [Yeah, what do you like about being an ironworker as an occupation?]  I came from 
an office and restaurant background.  The nice part is you get paid for what you work.  When it’s 
lunch time, it’s lunch time.  When it’s coffee break, it’s coffee break.  And I came from an 
environment that that didn’t necessarily hold true.  Sometimes you worked a lot that you didn’t 
get paid for it.  Sometimes you didn’t get what you did.  They took the money out for it but you 
would get in time.  When you work in restaurants, you know, when there’s business, you can’t 
go have lunch because you have to do your stuff.  So that was the best part.  You were looking 
for something fun, right?   LAUGHTER  [No, I think that’s actually good.  I mean, I would 
probably be the same way.]  R:  I think you appreciated the income it provided as well.  I mean, 
you bought your own house.  S:  Well yeah, that’s why I said…  R:  You couldn’t have done that 
as a waitress.  S:  I worked as an ironworker.  But that’s not who I am.  R: Yeah.  S:  And you 
know, there’s a lot.  And I had everything that those men have that probably lost it all.  I paid for 
my own house.  Some man didn’t divorce me, give me the house.  I bought my own house.  
There was nothing that was ever given to me.  I had two cars.  I had a motorcycle.  I had a house.  
I had a child and I had to pay for it all by myself.  And there’s guys out there that have to work.  
I know a guy, he knows the same guy, who claimed at one time he had to work at least 8 hours 
overtime a week to make his…at the end of the  month.  I do not want to life like that.  Where 
are those people now that the economy that…  Some guys…  I met the guy that was the foreman 
for Block 37 for the window crew over there, who worked for Arcadia.  And I talked to a mutual 
friend that knew him.  And he said for the last couple of years, that guy has only been working 2-
3 days a week.  So what, they lose their car, their house and their motorcycle because they can’t 
make ends meet? R:  You also have fun swearing like a truck driver.  LAUGHTER   S: Oh shut 
up.   R:  You can’t do that in a restaurant.  You have offended a few pussy guys.  She has over 
the years 
18:17     Tell him about Joe. Joe.  S:  There was a guy at the . . .  When we were working t the 
Navy yard, we were putting up this big gymnasium…  [And which Naval yard was this?] Great 
Lakes.  R:  Right.  S:  And we’re putting up this big gymnasium and he had a guy…  He was a 
superintendent, once again, and he had a guy that came out from the shop. The shop was pretty 
much glazier orientated.  So when they signed up with ironworkers local they got free 
ironworker cards for several people.  One of these guys came in and he was a glazier.  And 
because he worked for this company, he got an ironworker’s card and he was immediately the 
foreman.  They set him up for the job. Once again he says, “Would you take him up with a lift 
and show him what to do?”  And I said, “No.  Stuff you buddy.  You want the foreman to go up 
there and learn how to do something?  You take his ass up there, because I’m not the foreman.  
I’m not going to tell him what to do.”  So he didn’t like that.  So during the course of that job, 
this guy comes to him at one point and said that he couldn’t work with me because when I went 
into a bar, sailors came running out of it.  LAUGHTER.   This was a guy who was alled…  R:  
She also brought up…a level of femininity wherever she went because she liked to wear pink 
overalls.  S:  Pink overalls.  R:  She had pink gloves.  And she liked a pink tool bucket so…  S:  
Pink bucket…  R:  There was a little bit of femininity that she added…  S: That wasn’t what it 
was for now. 
19:42   R: One of the old guys…   S:  Terrorism, pure and simple.  Sorry, that’s what it was…  
R:  I think it was the painted names but…they gave it a nickname of Flowerbell down at the 
University of Chicago.  I’ll carry your bucket, Flowerbell.  S:  It was Owen Maloney.  I worked 
with Owen Maloney.   R:  You probably met him at the hall. He was an old timer. S:  Do you 
know Owen Maloney?  R:  He had white hair and white eye brows.  Oh, he could tell stories.  S:  
He was my partner there for almost…well, I worked with Jim Amundson for a while.  I 
remember I worked for Jim Armeson.  R:  The Cat.  S:  The problem with a lot of ways that men 
function that I don’t…  Sorry, they’re slobs.  They’ll throw their crap everywhere.  Then at the 
end of the day, you’ve got to follow them around and pick all their shit up because that’s the way 
they work.  I don’t work like that.  So when I worked with this guy named Jim Amundson, we 
had a cart.  And this building was odd because it had 400 different clips.  Typically you don’t 
need that many.  But the guy that designed it, he had a different clip for everything, man.  Man 
he was pulling his hair out.  So I got a box and I put this size bolt and then I got one for a 
different….  So everything was organized on this cart.  It probably took me two hours to do that.  
And the guy I was working with, he comes up and says, “You know, I don’t believe they’re 
going to want to pay you for two hours for doing that crap.”  I’m like, “Well, that depends.”  By 
the end of the day, I saved them two hours by doing that.  [Yeah.]  And they don’t get it.  Well, 
that was the same job I was working…  Ol’ Maloney… and we were putting trim on this 
stairwell.  Whenever there’s an edge or an opening where you can fall in, you had to tie off as a 
safety precaution.  There was a gap, maybe 6-8 inches between the edge of the building and the 
curtain wall.  We were putting trim on and we didn’t tie off.  It was a little hole.  It’s only this 
big.  So the safety guy for the building came by.  He says, “You have to tie off.  You could fall in 
there.”  I’m like, dude.  My chest will catch me if I fall in that hole, no worries.  LAUGHTER  
That was kinda funny…‘cause he went back and told him.  And he said, “You have to put your 
harness on.”  Ok… 
21:41   [Did you see a lot of changes in safety while you were working?  I mean, or did most of 
that come in before you got in.]  No, it changed.  It used to be a belt when I started.  You only 
had a safety belt.  And then it progressed into…  You had to have a full body harness.  People 
used to routinely tie off to a parameter cable and that was considered ok.  And that progressed to 
where companies didn’t want that liability so they said, “No, you can’t tie off to that.”  Because 
if you fall, and that parameter cable doesn’t hold you, they’re libel for that.  So they tell you to 
tie off of the structure inside.  They…  When I first started union, you’d tie off on a ladder.  You 
didn’t have to tie off on the boom lift.  Now we have to and I think some of that is just really 
stupid because if you’re in a boom basket and the basket goes over and you’re tied off, you got 
no chance.  Just, you know, no chance.  And I don’t understand except for there’s a couple goofy 
people that don’t work properly in the first place.  They’ll put a board up on a safety rail and 
stand there so now they’re way above safety railings.  The rails are like a maze.  And if they fall, 
you’re off the edge .  [Yeah.]  If you work inside the basket, I believe it’s unnecessary to have a 
harness and tie off.  It’s actually a safety hazard to do that, unless you’re tying off to the 
structure, not the basket.  But that’s not what they say.  They actually have modified all the 
baskets now that they all have a tie off hook.  And they say this is where you tie off to.  [Yeah, so 
if the basket screws up or whatever…]  Right.  Or if you’re driving while you’re extended, which 
you are also not supposed to do and you hit a hole, you’re extended 20 feet in the air.  The 
basket’s going to go over.  [Right.]  And you got no chance.  [So you’re better off being tied to 
the building or…not tied at all.]  Either tie it to the building or not tie it at off at all.  We used to 
have a chance if something happens to your basket if you’re not tied off.  [Yeah.]  If you’re tied 
off to the basket, you’re connected.  Where that basket goes, you go.  And that usually means on 
top of you.   
23:39   [Were you ever hurt on the job at all?  A lot of these older guys, of course, worked in the 
pre-tie off era so almost all of them have stories about somebody they know who have died or 
seriously injured.  Did you ever have any really bad injuries when you were working?]  Nothing 
really bad.  I still have all my toes and I still have all my fingers.  R:  You’d cry about a broken 
nail.  S:  I’ve never broke a nail.  LAUGHTER  They’d have to call an ambulance if I broke a 
nail.  I do have a hip syndrome, which is congenital and it’s usually on women because it’s from 
having children.  And I have a hip that doesn’t stay in its socket.  And that came out a couple of 
times and it came out on the job somewhere, a couple times actually.  One doctor that tried to fix 
it.   You can’t fix it, dude.  It is what it is, you know?  And sometimes I can’t walk when it does 
that until it goes back where it belongs. Sometimes that takes 20 minutes or so.  That’s happened 
a couple of times.  But I’ve never really… R: Boy, do we get on the radio when you get hurt 
now.  S:  Oh my God.  I would tell them…and this happened a couple of times at work.  And I’m 
like, don’t tell anybody.    And it was too late.  They already said that I got hurt.  And all these 
old guys come running up seven flights of stairs.  I’m like, oh, I’m so embarrassed.  It was bad 
because I knew it was nothing.  [Yeah.]  It’s happened before.  I got something in my eye once 
or twice.  Sent me some veterinary college.  And it’s like no, you’re not sticking that in my eye, 
dude.  GIGGLES  The safety guy at Grainger did that when I had something in my eye.  I wear 
contact lenses.  So when you get something in your eye, it’s irritating.  But when you take the 
lens out, it’s 400 times worse.  And I took my lens out and it takes a couple of minutes and then 
tears were running down my face.  So I knew something was in there.  And I went to the safety 
guy.  Now he comes after me with this little metal something or other.  He wants to stick this in 
my eye.  I’m like, get the hell away from me.  You’re not touching me with that.  And he sent me 
some other place.  The guy examined me and he wanted to send me back to the job.  You know 
what happens when you only have vision in one eye.  You lose your depth perception.  And the 
guy knew that.  And he says, “I’ve got to send you back to work.”  And I’m like, “Dude, do you 
understand?  I cannot see out of that eye.”  And he says, “Due to insurance regulations, I have to 
send you back to work.”  The poison pen came out on that one, I tell you.  [Yeah.]  They sent me 
back like that, in this impaired condition.  I almost…  And when I came back and I gave them 
my paperwork for Grainger.  R:  Was that the mongeese [?]…  S:  That was the mongeese letter.  
Yes it was.  R: Because they saved that letter in corporate Grainger.  S:  I think…  When I came 
back,   Rick Oscarson was the foreman there and I gave him my paperwork.  And I says, “The 
guy told me I have to come back to work.  However, you have to understand, I only have vision 
in one eye.  I’m a hazard to be on this job.”  And I said, “But the guy told me I could not go 
home.”  And I said, “Look, I’ll just go home and come back tomorrow and I’ll wear glasses for a 
couple of days and I’ll be fine.”  And they wouldn’t let me go home.  He said, “Here’s a garbage 
bag and a broom.  Go pick up trash.”  It’s on you dude.  You want to re-injure me, that’s fine.  
Well, you know…  I’m for it, whatever.  So I go back, and it was lunch time at that time.  Just 
before I got over to where we were going to have lunch, there was a guy hat had his tool bucket 
there and he had a sleaver bar sticking out the top of it.  And I almost impaled myself on that bar.  
And I said, “That’s it.”  I called a friend of mine and said that you need to come and get me.  
These people want me to work like this and this is not possible.  So he was on his way to come 
and get me.  And during the whole entire lunch time, my eye is just streaming because the doctor 
had not gotten whatever was in there out of it.  I had to go to my own doctor after work and take 
care of it.  But later on the company wrote me a letter and said thank you because they drug test 
you.  Thank you for keeping a clean and safe work place by not being on drugs.  They never 
once mentioned how was your injury?  Did you heal ok?  How are you?  Not once.  So I sent 
them a horrible letter and called them corporate weasels and mind geese.  And the fact that 
they…I don’t remember exactly how it went but it was…  They cared more about the almighty 
dollar and sending an injured worker back to work to possibly re-injure themself than to have 
just little common sense.   
 
28:02   R: The corporate mongeese comment went all the way to the corporate headquarters at 
Grainger.  It went all the way up to the Armond [?] hierarchy, the company we worked for in 
Minneapolis and it floated around here.  It was quite a, actually a funny story that she nailed 
everyone, called all the corporate people mongeese .  They deserved it.  S:  I sent a carbon 
copy…  R:  She also has a very sly way of surprising crews.  On many occasions, people would 
show up for work in the morning and there would be 20 gifts on the table for everybody on the 
job.  Where did this come from?  Nobody knew.  Nobody could figure it out what it was. 
Nobody could point to who it was.  S:  That was Grainger too.  They had a safety program there 
where if you’re company had no injuries for the entire month, you got some goofy gadget.  A 
tape measure or something.  And it was just that everybody wanted to win something.  R:  But 
we had so many people we were getting hurt.  S:  It didn’t matter, if it was just a hang nail.  If 
you had an injury, you didn’t, you couldn’t win.  And I said, well, that’s enough of this crap.  So 
I got these little plastic flashlights and I printed up a label that said…that you possibly are able to 
win a safety award or some goofy crap like that.  I put that on every flashlight and that basket of 
flashlights just showed up one day at the safety meeting.  Nobody knew where they came from.  
I gave them…  I was always giving stuff to the steward and said, you take care of this.  And you 
know, it’s funny shit, what can I say.  Valentine’s Day, I went around to every guy on the job 
and I said, “Do you want pink, yellow or red?”  And they’re like, “What?”  And they’re thinking 
that I’m going to hang some ladies panties in their car or something because that went around 
too.  LAUGHTER. And I wouldn’t tell them what it was for.  And some guys would not choose.  
They were terrified of what I was going to do.  And all those guys… they were into it. Ok, I’ll 
take this color.  And all it was…  My son and I spent the night before Valentine’s Day, went to 
the florist and I got long stem roses, pink, yellow and red.  Everybody chose, whoever chose 
their color, got their color and they got a little baggy of Hershey’s hugs and kisses, those candies, 
tied up to a flower the next day, there they were.  At the end of the day, there was one guy that 
got half way home, turned around and came back because he forgot his rose.  LAUGHTER   
That’s important to me.  It meant that goofy stuff that I did was in fact appreciated.  You never 
did shit like that.  R:  No.   S:  Sent the Easter bunny to a job a couple of times.  LAUGHTER  It 
was always his jobs.   
30:30   R:  Yeah, I was working out of town…  LAUGHTER  She chased me for ten years 
before I finally asked her to marry me but…  I was working out of town, I was flying, and I had a 
toolbox with me.  I’d lock my toolbox before I got to the airport.  I get to the job and I get to the 
airport, on the other side.  Got my toolbox.  Showed up on time for the job.  So you arrive in the 
toolbox.  And there’s a pair of frilly panties in my toolbox.  I had no idea how she got in there.  
LAUGHTER  Because I had locked it.  S:  It helps to be friendly to the TSA people.  R:  To this 
day I still don’t know how she did it because I locked it.  They weren’t in there when I brought it 
in to check in at the airline.  I don’t know how she got them in there to this day.  S:  And what 
did you do with those panties?  R:  I used to put them on my windshield.  S:  What else did you 
do with those panties?  R:  I used to keep them in my coat pocket, wipe the sweat off my head.  
LAUGHTER   R:  I used to bring them out when the other guys were hanging around.  What do 
you have… and I’d say, “It’s panties, somebody’s panties.”   She had a lot of fun, trust me, she 
had a lot of fun.  Someone would yell out something…   Sharon, just stick it in.  LAUGHTER   
S:  That’s a guy thing.  R:  There would be a moment of silence.  Her voice carries.  “Stick it in.  
That’s not my job, that’s a guy’s job.” S:  That’s a guy thing.  GIGGLES  R:  You guys stick it 
in.   S:  I don’t do that.  R:  Yeah, she does that a lot to the guys.  S:  Well, I’m doing this as a 
courtesy.  It’s a guy’s thing.  That’s right.  R:  Just stick it in. 
32:03    [So how did you two hook up then?  Did you work on the same job site or something?]  
S:  A lot of jobs we worked together.  But I met him long before that.  He was married to 
someone else.  [Oh my.]  I don’t do wives.  I don’t do girlfriends either.  R:  You know, she’d 
come to some of my jobs.  I worked for a big company.  We had big crews.  She was one of 
these ironworkers that was always going back to the hall and get sent out for another job.  
Because she didn’t really last anywhere too long.  Well, she had a few jobs that lasted but…  A 
lot of people just go to the hall and come out again a lot.  They just bounced around jobs…  She 
had a lot of W2 forms every year.  I was lucky if I only had two in a year.  Usually I had just one 
W2 form for many years.  S:  But it was not job performance.  It was always because… they’d… 
I’d…actually I considered they were afraid to have me on jobs because at least they knew what 
they were getting.  Ok?  And they knew that if they stepped over the line, I wasn’t going to like 
it.  I actually had a foreman come to me one time and say, “You know, we’re going to work 
Saturday.”  I was the steward on this job.  He says, “We’re going to work Saturday but I don’t 
want those two apprentices to work.  We’re bringing guys in from this other job.”  And this 
company liked all of their foremen to work on Saturday so everyone else stayed home so their 
foremean could get all the overtime and they’d go from job to job doing that.  So I said, “Well, 
you know, you do what you have to do, but you know I’m going to do what I have to do.”  So 
they knew at that point that I’d call the hall.  And I did.  So they didn’t do it.  Because if you get 
caught, it’s bad.  They fine you and all kinds of terrible things.   
33:41   The guy I mentioned earlier, he worked at the baseball park for a second company while 
he worked for this company.  And that’s a no-no.  You don’t do that.  Especially when there’s 
guys sitting on the bench out of work.  So now you’re actually taking money out of somebody’s 
mouth doing that.  Because there’s a job obviously there.  If you can work on Saturday and they 
need extra men, then there’s a job there.  If you have to be that greedy, I feel sorry for you.  And 
I called the hall.  I was not quiet about it.  I don’t care.  It’s wrong.  I’m not going to stand in the 
corner and whisper.  “Those guys worked on Saturday.”  I’ll tell you out loud.  You know?  And 
they’d like that…and my days were numbered after that in that company.  They didn’t like that.  
But I wasn’t the only one either.  There was Local 1 guys that called.  They don’t like that crap 
either.  If that guy had been as smart as me, he could have gotten away with it.  I started to take a 
liking to her.  She could do work that most any guy could  do.  And she could do more work than 
a lot of guys wanted to do.  So she was always a good employee to have on a crew.  And there 
was times when having a woman on your payroll was required.  S:  I got a lot of those jobs.   R:  
…with minority contract obligations with the federal government.  S:  But I came to work every 
day.  R:  It’s nice to have a female.  That really counted, you know.  You’re a good company.  
You’re hiring minorities.  S:  And they didn’t have to force you.  You already had one.   
35:18   [Did you ever think about becoming your own contractor?  It seems like you could have 
opened some doors with your ironworker background.]  It always scared me.  R:  The liability.  
[I wouldn’t want to do it either.]  R:  It would take one job to go bad and…  S:  I have people that 
actually ask me, “Look, why don’t you…”  You know, there’s…  Before it was… they relaxed a 
lot of those rules.  But it used to be that women couldn’t own a company because a lot of it was 
just their name.  So if it was just their name so that they can get work, our hall said you can’t do 
that.  The person that owns that company has to be an ironworker or actually work in the 
business.  You can’t just put your wife’s name on the company and just do it.  [Yeah.]  Well, 
they relaxed all that so…  It’s become to where you could do that.  I’ve had guys that actually 
came up to me and said, “Would you start a business and have it run under your name and we’ll 
do it for you?”  [I can imagine.  I can see that.]  And I’m like, “No…I don’t want to do that.”  
Because I’d be carrying the liability doing that.  It always scared me, so I never did that. 
36:18   [How do you feel about Local 63?  Did it work for you?  Were you happy with the local 
over the years?  I mean, the ironworkers union in general?  Do you think it’s a good union?]  In 
general, yeah.  I can’t say they’re all bad and they’re all nasty and they hate women.  That’s not 
true.  But there’s prejudice everywhere for  everything. It’s not just women.  And there are 
certain things, like I said, that I just didn’t like and…  Those were my battles.  That’s where I ran 
into trouble.  I can deal with I don’t like you just because you’re a girl.  It’s your problem dude, 
it ain’t my problem.  And I didn’t like that I wasn’t always judged by what I could do.  It’s who I 
was that judged me.  Now we don’t want to…  When it came time to lay people off, we want to 
lay her off because then we can do what we want when no one’s looking.  That happened a lot.  
But as long as they needed my female hours, they kept me.  They knew what they were going to 
get.  I came to work every day.  For the most part, I did what I was told.  Did my little job, 
whatever it was that they gave me to do.  And they knew if they were going to do something that 
wasn’t right and I knew about it, I was going to tell.  You know?  That’s how it is.  A lot of guys 
they would hire, you never know what you’re going to get.  So a lot of guys that have substance 
problems so you never know if they’re going to be there every day.  And if they show up, are 
they even going to do anything.   
37:49   I had a guy, the second job I worked on was a high rise at Ohio, right on the lake.  It was 
right on a lake.  It was section 8 housing.  Across the street from that big white building with the 
cross x’s on it.  Ohio and Grand, I think it was.  But there was a guy that was booming into our 
local.  He lived in Indiana.  Belong to an Indiana local and they had no work so he came here to 
work on permit. And I was married to my other husband at that time who was an ironworker.  So 
he came with me on this job to see if he could get on too and we could work for the same place.  
It made it convenient.  Well, they didn’t need him.  They didn’t really need me either, but since 
they put the order in, they had to take me.  And this guy came in the door and they happened to 
know each other.  The men…  He came out with all these dirty words when he saw that I was 
going to work there.  You know?  And this is it.  I don’t take this.  And I went and called the 
apprentice coordinator.  I said, “This is bullshit.  I should not have to be subject to this.  This is 
crap and somebody needs to deal with it.”   Because my husband I was married to at the time, the 
steward, the general foreman and the foreman were all standing there when this guy did it.  And 
not one person said a thing.  That was horrible.  Nobody said anything.  And the guy was drunk 
on top of it.  But…praise the Lord.  Lenny was a great guy.  Leonard Japsik was the apprentice 
coordinator then and he went to the hall and he had the BA come out and he came out.  They 
both talked to that guy.  Told him that if they ever had a problem with him again, and if he 
doesn’t shut his mouth, he won’t ever work for 63 again.   
39:22   So it wasn’t all bad.  I had a problem with one of the business agent’s sons on a job.  He 
had some things to say.  I did the same thing.  I called the apprentice coordinator, I was still an 
apprentice then.  And I said, “This is crap.  These guys cannot be allowed to do this.”  Not that I 
wasn’t going to go to work and I was going to go in the corner and cry.  That wasn’t the point.  
There’s other people they’re going to abuse by doing this.  He said, “No, it can’t happen.”  That 
guy served another year at the apprenticeship school for that.  And I’m proud of those things 
because you know, you can’t…  I don’t think I should be allowed to walk up to somebody and 
call them all these horrible names just because he was just some man being a nurse.  It’s just 
wrong.  It wasn’t all bad, but most of the protection I got was created by myself.  If I didn’t look 
out for me, nobody else was going to.  [Yeah.]  But that was nice that they acknowledged that 
that was a problem.  The guy from Indiana straightened out and never drank again on the job 
after that.  He was never drunk again.  He would lose his livelihood.  They would have not let 
him work in 63 again.  
40:31   R:  She had an instance, too, one time at the Navy facility.  Somebody wrote on one of 
the john walls “I’ve got the hots for the gal in the pink coveralls.”  S:  Some ironworker in the 
pink coveralls.   R:  Yeah.  I brought it up to the contractor’s attention.  He was aghast that that 
was going on so he immediately had it removed, wiped off.  I mentioned to all the contractors to 
tell your men to quit writing on the walls about this female ironworker.  It was not acceptable.  
But stuff like that will happen too, I mean…with any woman on the job, no matter what trade.  
The morons start writing stupid stuff.  S:  And I have to say…  R:  It’s usually the insecure ones 
with the small penises.  I don’t know how to describe it.  The small minds, small penises.  They 
have to come up with that stuff to write on walls.   
41:20   S:  Like I said before.  I like pink tools.  My pink bucket.  My pink bibs wasn’t just 
because I’m a girl.  I did it on purpose.  I’m sorry, it was terrorism.  I can’t go up and say things 
to them.  I can’t do the same things they can do.  But I can do that, knowing that it’s going to 
bother them.  But it didn’t affect my work and there was one job I worked on that I actually 
could not wear my pink bibs because I just got too much shit.  I made a comment that it’s pretty 
bad that I have to adjust my clothing because you can’t handle it.  And I worked with a guy on 
the CTA El tracks and I had…  They were blue and they were blue in the front and they had 
flowers in the back.  And this guy came up and said, “I can’t work with you.”  And I’m like, 
“Excuse me?”   “I can’t work with nobody with flowers on their pants.”  What’s your problem, 
dude?  It’s not mine.  Some guy at O’Hare once made a comment that I worked with at O’Hare.  
And he said, “You know, really, this is opposite of that.  He said, “You know, those bibs really 
don’t do anything for you.”  And I was like, Jesus I didn’t know this was a fashion show here.  
LAUGHTER I thought we were working here.  R:  Most guys wear bibs that have never seen a 
washing machine.  S:  It’s half a day Hathaway.  LAUGHTER He’s a nice guy but...  I’m not 
here to model for you dude.  You know?  Interesting. 
42:40 [So what do you think about the labor movement right now in the United States?]  S:  
What do you mean?  [Well, I mean…  Obviously it’s not in great shape these days.]  S:  No.  
[Where do you see the future of labor going?]  It’s not in great shape and it’a all labor’s own 
fault.  Sorry.  Because as I said before, apathy wins the day.  They had that big illegal alien thing 
in Grand Park where…   Oh, we all don’t have jobs, ya da ya da.  Doesn’t illegal still mean 
illegal?  No it doesn’t.  It means I’m documented now.  I was born in this country and I can’t half 
of what those people get and they’re still bitching.  It’s just wrong.   And all of us are too busy to 
go to work to go demonstrate or, you know, do anything that’s going to be overt to people, you 
know?  We’re too busy working.  You now see that you have such a high unemployment.  Now 
there’s people out there.  But I think now that it might just be a little bit too late.  But the 
pendulum will eventually have to swing the other way.  It’ll be a long time before labor recovers 
from this.  And, like I said, I think a lot of it is labor’s fault.  I have to commend our hall.  They 
do try to join some of the big marches.  They have buses that go to DC and, you know, I had 
people sign up to go down there and march and show support for certain things.  They do 
encourage voting on certain bills and they’ll explain stuff to you.  They’re pretty good about that.  
But you have to get each individual person to come out and do that.  Whereas…  R:  That’s part 
of being in the trades in this state too is our local will tell you who to vote for…  Like Rod 
Blageovich.  S:  They don’t tell you to vote for him because they can’t.  R:  Well, who would 
you vote for, a case like that.  Where’ s the least evil?  I mean, there is none.  I mean, we picked 
a bad guy.  Whose fault is that?  We’re our own worst enemies when it comes to politicians in 
office.  They take our money and . . .   S:  Can I take that chance and say that’s right?  [Yeah, go 
ahead.] 
 
44:36   S:  Like Richard Nixon, the only thing Rod Blageovich did wrong was that he got 
caught… [Yeah.] because they all do it.  What was so horrible about what he did?  The only 
thing that was so horrible was he got caught.  He didn’t do anything different than anybody else 
did.  Now everybody says how horrible that he was.  What did he do that was so bad?  He got 
caught with his hand in the cookie jar.  That’s it.  I don’t consider that he was really bad for 
labor, etc.  [Yeah.]  I don’t think he was.  But he did get caught doing some shit he shouldn’t do.  
That’s the chance you take when you do that shit.  Richard Nixon was the exact same way.  He 
got caught.  That was it.  It’s the only thing.  [Do you think that separate from politics or 
lobbying against illegal immigration…?]  Come on, that’s my thing.  
45:25   [But…well, obviously there’s big problems with organized labor that aren’t just illegal 
aliens.  What do you think labor should do about…  Do you think labor needs to be more active 
now, just in general, I mean…  Shouldn’t we try to, I mean, it’s getting to be a smaller and 
smaller percentage of the workforce.  Do you think they should be out there trying to organize?]  
Labor should be doing the same thing that government should do and they should get rid of the 
15,000 people above me that get paid six-figure incomes and take that money and maybe do 
something progressive with it.  We have this goofy thing called I-Pac [Oh yeah, INAUDIBLE]   
When I was an apprentice, I had to sign the sheet because the apprentice coordinator made me 
sign it.  After that, when it was up to me, I never signed it.  I’m one of probably a dozen people 
in our hall who refuses to sign it.  I said, “I’m sorry, but you can’t substantiate to me what you do 
with my money so I’m not signing.”  The business manager did one time, send me something to 
try to substantiate where the money went.  I can’t recall where he said that this happened but he 
said that they donated a certain amount to some labor movement this or that.  And I said, “How 
much?”  He said, “It’s only a few pennies.”  And I looked it up and how much was it?  It was 
over a million dollars.  I said, “That’s not a few pennies and that’s why I’m not signing.”  
[Yeah.]  You know?  Everyone who signs one of those to have…  It’s contractual anyway.  I 
can’t stop them from taking the money.  It’s in our contract that we will do that.  But in order to 
satisfy the government, you have to sign a form that says it’s okay that they do that.  I won’t 
because I don’t think it’s ok.  [Yeah.]  It’s wrong.  But there’s way too much porkfat in 
government and in our own local government, in the local.  You have people who make six 
figure incomes.  What do they do for six figures?  I don’t see it.  Put a spud wrench in their 
hands.  Put them out to work, you know?  You don’t need that many vice presidents, etc. etc.  
You don’t.  [Yeah.]   R:  We do have a big…  Look at the big international magazine, there’s a 
list of about eight or nine vice presidents that are making big bucks.  S:  And nobody knows what 
they do.  R:  We know Eric Dean is headed up that ladder.  He’s our pride and joy.  He’ll be the 
next president someday.  [Yeah, I’ve met him a few times.]  R: He’ll be at the top of the food 
chain pretty soon, I think, but…  Again, is that going to bring anything back to us?   S:  He has 
brought back stuff to us.  He does do…  He’s heavy into education…etc., in Washington.   R:  
One of the last things, though, that we got cut was because he had his hand in the cookie jar in 
Washington.  Ray Robertson.  His daughter.  There’s some bad news there.  And there’s some 
guys who would just as soon ring his neck next time they see him, too, after what he did to our 
money in our international.  S:  It’s all the way down to the local level though.  I mean, in our 
local, we have business agents and they all have a big gas-guzzling car, is that required? Ok, they 
need a car.   Do they need to have an Escalade?   I don’t think so.  And that’s money that comes 
out of my pocket that pays for that.  And I keep paying because you gotta put gas in it now.  And 
yes I know that they sit in that car a lot but that doesn’t mean that they need a car that costs that 
much money or eats that much gas.  And the whole gas thing goes two ways.  You got the whole 
wasting oil thing plus it costs a lot of money to pay for a lot of gas-guzzling vehicles.  And it’s 
not needed.   [Yeah.]  You know?  Who was it that told me that they personally wanted me to 
know that they didn’t vote for that.  I just talked with a guy recently.  I don’t remember who it 
was but he said, “You know, I want you to know I voted…”  Oh, it was when Roy Williams left 
to go to Washington, our local bought him a car.  And somebody told me that they voted to not 
do that.  They knew that I would appreciate that.  
49:19   [Did you ever have to work like in the same little small work area on the job site?]  Oh 
yes.  R:  Oh yes.  She’s thrown stuff at me.  She throws to hurt too when she gets mad at me.  I 
drilled a hole in her leg one time, on accident, on purpose according to her.  S:  You didn’t 
belong on that lift.  [You’re lucky he doesn’t have hot rivets any more.  She’d throw one of those 
at you.]  S:  Well…  R:  Oh no, I dare not throw at her.  I just duck. LAUGHTER   S:  I 
consider…  He tries to protect his maleness.  Ok?  This is just, once again, my view.  But on the 
job, he was the superintendent?  The guy that…hmm…was above him came to the job and said, 
“I want an anchor here, here and here, and every so many inches.”  And when that guy left the 
job, the foreman was running the job said, “We’re going to put it in every 15 inches or 
whatever…”  And I’m like, “But he just said…”  “That’s what we’re doing.”  Ok, I just work 
here. So that’s what I did.  When he came back later for follow up, he saw that that’s not the 
proper thing that the big boss wanted, wasn’t done.  So he gets on my lift.  He’s going to go up 
there and do it himself.  It’s like…  No, you go over there and yell at the foreman who clearly 
counter-manded the order…but he wouldn’t do that.  Not go over there and say something to the 
guy.  So he drives the lift over the cord on the drill motor.  Flips out and it embeds itself in my 
thigh.  R:  I’m sorry.  R:  Yeah, we’ve been together on a few jobs.  S:  We worked at Grainger 
and I was his partner in Grainger.  He was going to do the welding because the guy that was 
running that job, you had to be certified in order to get on that job, whether you were going to 
weld or not.  So I’m like, okay, I went to the hall and re-upped my papers because I knew that 
they were going to send me to this job.  And this guy didn’t want me on the job.  I showed up 
and he was pissed off because I had welding papers.  Matter of fact, he was one of the instructors 
at the time who tried to flunk my plate so I swapped mine with someone else.  He didn’t like it.  
He peed and said, “Oh no, that’s no good.”  So I went to another guy who I knew they were 
going to pass this and swapped plates with me.  So he did.  He took his plate and he passed him, 
just like that.  So it wasn’t that it was bad. It was that it was mine.  So I passed and I showed up 
on his job and he goes, “Well, you’re not welding here.”  I was wondering if he was going to do 
the welding.  He had to go do something.  He had a radio in the bucket.  Someone called him for 
some shit and I said, “What do you want me to say if somebody calls you?” “Just tell them I’m 
not here.”  So some guy calls him.  I got on the radio and said “He’s busy right now.  Can I take 
a message?”  Oh my God.  Every guy that heard that said, “I wish I had a secretary too.”   And 
that’s only because it was a girl that answered the radio.  Because other guys did that for each 
other all the time and nobody said shit.  R:  We did not broadcast that we were a thing either.  
Although…the calendar.  Someone made a calendar of me.  S:  I took lots of candid pictures, 
okay?  LAUGHTER   S:  It was 4 o’clock.  R:  It was somewhat risqué.  S:  It was an art project 
for someone else because I did a lot of photography at the time and I got cameras and film from 
frickin’…a lot of film from Kodak to test.  And I did test shots and pasted up boards and sent 
them into them and told them what I thought of it.  And one of the representatives said, “You 
should get in on this project.  You got two weeks.  Just do something.”  What am I going to do?  
She says, “Take some pictures and make a calendar,” she says.  That’ll be good enough.  And so 
I did.  I took pictures of him and I made this calendar and I submitted it.  And I showed it to him.  
He thought it was kinda funny.  And I asked him…and he said, “You can show any woman you 
want this calendar.”  I was friends with one of the girls in the office where he worked.  So I sent 
it to her and I told her clearly that it wasn’t for everybody to look at.  And I said, “When you’re 
done with it, put it in interoffice envelop and send it to him on the job because I thought it would 
be funny for him to see it at work.  And she did that and it came out to the job.  He looks at it and 
stuffs it back into the envelope, runs out and puts it in his car.  One of his buddies broke in his 
car to see what it was.  I didn’t show it to anybody.  But his buddy did.   R: There was these 
stuffed vagina…  S:  My vagina puppet?  LAUGHTER   R:  Was that down on Block 20?  S:  
Navy Pier and you were working somewhere on Michigan Avenue when I made him a…  R:  
Football shirt.  S:  Oh, I bought that but I made him a…  He was working on Michigan Avenue 
and he always would talk about the expensive panty hose on Michigan Avenue.  I made him a 
Michigan Avenue survival kit.  I don’t even remember what was in it, but it was hilarious.  All 
kinds of these…  R:  She was always doing that…   S:  You’ve got flowers at work all the time 
and all the girls thought that it was for them and they’d look at it and they wondered if it was for 
him.  It was always funny.  [Yeah.]  And I’m sure that every guy on the job was jealous.  But 
that’s how we came out.  Nobody knew where any of it was from at the time because there was 
nobody who connected both of us together.  It was years before anyone knew that.  R:  She’s 
very coy.  Very…   S:  I won’t take no shit from anybody for that, ya know?  I work…  R:  She 
enjoyed the feedback she got later on from one of my embarrassing moments in front of others.  
S:  Easter Bunny came and visited him at work.  [On the job site?]  Yeah.  R:  On the job.  And it 
was a guy too, dressed up as Easter Bunny because the girls were all busy I guess.  S:  Brought 
his little grandson or something.  Oh yeah.  [No singing telegrams ever?]     S:  I know where to 
get a singing telegram but I used the messenger service down town to deliver stuff.  And I used 
to set my computer to send a fax to the office every now and then that said, “This is a reminder 
for Richard Sisson for his massage appointment at 5:15 today.”  LAUGHTER.  And they had to 
call him at work and tell him.  R:  She used to send poetry to me through the receptionist at the 
hotel I was staying at.  She’d make them read them…  S: I didn’t do it.  You did it.  R:  Well, 
they read them to me.  S:  He forced these people to read these poems.  Now everybody except 
one girl…who was…I don’t know…some anti-Christ or something.  Everybody thought it was 
hilarious.  They used to fight over who was going to take my phone call to write the poem down.  
They did.  And this one person complained because it was rather risqué poetry.  And she 
complained that, you know, this was horrible and they shouldn’t be subjected to that.  And she 
wasn’t.  If she didn’t want to listen to it, she could have gave the phone to someone else to take 
the message. Whatever.  But when he’d get the message, he’d make them read it.  That wasn’t 
too nice but...  And when it was all over, he came back home, and I sent them a box of candy, 
telling them thanks, you know, for participating.  It was fun.  
56:14   [Did you two ever  go on the road together to another job site?  Sounds like you 
travelled.]  S:  He travelled, I didn’t.  [Because you had kids at home?]  S:  No, I just never had 
that opportunity.  And I went as far as Indiana and the mills…  Oh, the guy there.  Shall I…  We 
were working with a buddy that I rented from at the time and he lived next door.  Work was 
really slow here.  And so he said, “Let’s go out to Indiana and see if we could get a job at the 
mills.  So, he’d go out there and you go to a related…  They sent out jobs differently there.  The 
steward comes in from the job and brings a job order in…as opposed to here, the business agent 
hands out work.  So we said, “Ok.  We’ll give it a shot.”  So we go out there.  You’ve got several 
hundred people milling around this big auditorium.  And the stewards would come in to collect 
workers.  And a guy came in and he said he needed five guys.  He said it’s on a scaffold and it’s 
a little welding, not a big deal.  There is no overtime.  Chuck looked at me and I was like, I just 
want a job, man.  I don’t need overtime.  So we raised our hands.  Well, when you’re in a hall 
like that, you know what you’re getting.  So they’re like, ok, you guys…  So we go out in the 
hallway.  And this man was the treasurer’s brother.  He looked at me and he looked at my buddy 
and looked at me again.  He says, “I can’t hire you.  I can’t hire no women.”  My hair was on 
fire.  I mean, you actually said that?  That actually came out of your mouth, dude?  “I can’t hire 
you because you’re a woman.”  That’s it, this is over.  And my buddy’s like, “Oh, no…come on.  
Don’t do nothing.”  But this is wrong!  And I went in there and I complained to the business 
agent and I called my hall.  I told them this is bullshit that they treat us like that.  We treat their 
workers fine and then we come here and they should do that?  Well, there was a little guy who 
heard all this was going on.  While I was talking to the BA, he came up to me and said, “Do you 
all want to work?”  We just want a job, dude.  “Come on, no overtime.  We’ll get you on for 8 
hours.”  Okay.  First day we worked 14 hours.  Then we worked at least 12 hours every day after 
that.  Taking a big turbine out of a building so they could re-fit it.  And they estimated that this 
job would take ten days.  My buddy and I, and a couple of their guys, worked on this and the 
turbine was out on the flatbed in a day.  They’re like, “We’ve never had anybody from 63 that 
could really work.”  We did a bunch of welding steel plates off to big . .  They’d wear out, big 
tumblers like…  So there were wear holes and rust and stuff so we had to weld plates over it to 
refinish it and I worked with the little guy in there.  He’d work on one side and I’d work on the 
other and we just passed the welding stinger back and forth.  And at the end of the job, the guy 
says, “I never knew a woman that could weld.”  Okay fine.  But they were all pretty swell.  
59:00   There was one guy there named Mario and he was married and he had kids.  And the guy 
obviously had the hots for me.  He was asking me to go out with him throughout most of the 
beginning of the job.  And I was just hot, I’m like…this guy.  I don’t, you know…  Because he 
had a wife and I knew it and now he’s propositioning?  I didn’t like that.  And he used to drip 
water on me from up above, little drops of water. This is a man with little children.  And I said 
that’s it.  I’m going to put a frickin’ snake in his lunch box.  Once again, my buddy said, “Oh, 
God…  Come on.  We’re not home!  You can’t do this shit!”  Mike, this guy, he needs to be 
taught a lesson.  I walked into the shanty one night and I got a big glass of water out of the water 
cooler and threw it on him.  And I said, “Now leave me the hell alone.”   And he wouldn’t left 
me alone.  So I went to the pet store that night and they didn’t have a snake cheap enough.  But 
they did have a spider.  A ginormous tarantula like this.  And they wanted $25 for it.  And I told 
the lady, “I’ll give you $15 cash and I’ll bring it back tomorrow and you give me $10 back.”  
And she said, “Ok.  Do you want to rent my spider?”  Yeah, I only need it for a day.  So ok, here.   
So I take the spider.  Everybody leaves the shanty, I dump it in the guy’s lunch box.  It was kind 
of cool so they don’t move really fast.  And we came in at coffee time and everybody’s sitting 
around, playing cards and shit.  Those guys over in the corner, everybody knew except his, 
everybody knew.  So they’re all kind of watching out the corner of their eye.  And he flips up the 
top of his lunch box and he reaches in without looking.  And everyone’s going  “AAA”  (DEEP 
BREATH).  You could feel the sides of the trailer just suck in from everybody going “AAA”, 
afraid he’s going to bring this spider out, right?  He brings out his sandwich and eats his 
sandwich.  And after a while he gets his chips.  Then he drags the lunch box over.  He has to 
look in it for something.  There’s the spider in there.   I swear to God the guy wet his pants.  He 
jumped up, kicked the lunch box across the floor.  It stops at my feet and I’m like, “What the 
hell’s wrong with you?”  And I looked in there and…”There’s…there’s…there’s a spider in 
there!”  I reach in and picked out the tarantula.  “It’s just a little ol’ hairy spider.”  I swear to God 
he peed his pants.  He never messed with me again.  [Yeah.]  I put it in a baggy, put some holes 
in it and I took it back to the pet shop.  [Great story.]  Nobody else did stupid shit like that.  
Come on…  [It sounds like you kept the work place lively.]  R:  She did.  It was a good reason to 
have her around because…  Something would happen always somewhere to make it interesting. 
1:01:30    R:  Another time at another job, some guy grabbed her ass in the elevator in front of 
people.  And that was uncalled for.  And she told me and I remember telling the operator.  And 
the operator kept his eye out for her too.  To make sure…  S:  He wanted to go to the 
superintendent and have the guy thrown off the job and I would not tell him who it was.  I said I 
don’t need you to fight my battles for me.  I will get him on my own.  And we were in the 
elevator one time and it was the operator, myself and this guy.  I don’t even remember what I 
told him…  But the operator knew and this guy was like about this big.  And I said, “If you ever 
tough me again, you’re not going to live to talk about it.’  [Yeah.]  The operator asked me, “Why 
don’t you just tell your husband?  He would have had him kicked off the job.”  I says, “This is 
way better.”  LAUGHTER   Make him work here and have to look at me every day.  I’m just 
evil, what can I say?  [It sounds like you just did the right thing to me.]  Don’t mess.  Don’t ask 
the question if you don’t want the answer.  If you really don’t want to know, don’t ask because 
I’m not going to not tell.  A lot of people aren’t smart enough to understand that if they really 
don’t want to know they shouldn’t be asking…because I’m not going to put sugar on it first.  
There’s no pudding before I give you the right answer.  You’re just going to get it.  Many don’t 
do that.  Some aren’t appreciative of equality.  [Well, you’re just a straight shooter and I’m sure 
that’s hard, especially coming from a woman for some people.]  Correct.  There’s no other way 
to be in our environment, okay?  There’s other where you could beat around the bush and its 
okay and exactly…sometimes you have to do that.  But not here.   
1:03:15  R:  The US Army pissed her off recently.  Her son was over in Colorado.  What was 
that all about?   S:  Well, that was before he went off to Iraq.  They did hand to hand combat 
training, live hand to hand combat training in the desert in California. Some guy was jacking 
around with my son and got stabbed over it.  They trained them until its reflexive to do what they 
need to do.  And the guy got stabbed.  They were going to have him thrown in Leavenworth for 
attempted murder and shit but I said, “Go to JAG.  You didn’t do it.  You didn’t attempt to kill a 
guy.  He got in the way.  He was jacking around, doing shit he shouldn’t have been doing.  Go to 
jail.”  So they got three witnesses that said it was the other guy’s fault.  But until that part 
happened, the guy that was the commander said, “Well, you know, I’m going to call your 
mother.”  And he clearly said, “Do not call my mother.  Do not call her.”  And they did anyway.  
[Uh oh.]  And I’m like, “Excuse me.  What the hell do you want me to do?  I’m in Chicago.  
He’s there.  Do you want me to send him a spanking in the mail?”  Come on.  Get real.  The guy 
was stupid.  He asks my son, “Why was your mother’s name different than yours?”  That’s just 
dumb, isn’t it?  [Yeah, I would say in this day and age, that’s really stupid.]  Yeah, well…  
[There must be a lot of people going through the army and stuff with different names.]  R:   They 
don’t look for the Mensa, Mensa people.   S:  If you went to college, you’re an officer.  It doesn’t 
mean, yeah, you’re an officer.  It doesn’t mean you’re really an officer.  You just get that 
commission walking in the door because you went to college and it doesn’t mean you have to be 
smart because you don’t really have to be smart to get through college.  Sorry if you went to 
college.  [Yeah, well…]  A guy once told me…  [Well, you are right.  I mean, I always say my 
grandfather went through 8th grade and he’s smarter.  I taught college and I always said my 
grandfather was smarter than most of the students when they graduated.]  S:  My mother 
graduated in 8th grade in 6th grade and that’s as far as she went.  I would never had said that she 
was stupid.  [Yeah, that’s how I feel about my grandparents.  They’re smarter than most college 
students I taught.]  S:  It’s just, you know…  We have an incident going on now.  They’re not 
getting mail.  It’s been six weeks now since he’s gotten mail.  In fact, it might even be more than 
that.  And I tried calling the base.  I talked with someone.  I got no satisfaction.  I said, “Dude.  I 
am not above getting on an airplane and coming out to see the base commander.  Do you 
understand me?  I will do that if I have to.”  My brother said, “Go see your congressman first, 
before you do that.”  So we’re going that way this time.  And we’ll see what we get out of that.  
But no, I truly am not adverse to doing that.  It puts him in a strange position though.  When I 
complain to the congressman, she wanted to know his name, the aide.  And I said, “I’m not 
telling you…”  She’s like, “What?”  I said, “He doesn’t need any more shit than he’s already got.  
Don’t you get it?”  You know, they’ll know who it is and he will have more shit than he has 
now.  It’s already a shit hole that he has to work in.  It’s terrible out there, absolutely terrible.  
The picture of him, my favorite picture to come out because I’m his mother, it’s cute to me.  
He’s sitting on the side of a mountain, sitting on top of a 55 gallon drum with a toilet seat on it.  
That’s their bathroom.   And that’s cute for me because I’m his mother but…it was meant to 
portray exactly what they have, to get the conditions, correct.  And you know, people see that 
and say, “Oh my God.”  Well, they don’t have any showers, no bathrooms, nothing like that.  
Now they get no food and no mail?  He would go sometimes 2-3 days without eating.  He’s in a 
very small cop [?] and they have hot food every other day and if they’re out on a mission when 
they serve the food, they don’t get no food.  So of course, I send him food.  Most of what I send 
is stuff to eat.  Now he doesn’t get that.  He’s got to have 15 boxes sitting in Kandahar or 
somewhere that they’re not delivering.  He’ll need a whole [?], just for himself.   R:  She’s 
retired now so she’s got time to put the boxes together. She’s got a basket at Jewel to collect food 
for anybody who wants to donate food for his battalion.  She’s got time to sew him quilts.  She’s 
making quilts for each of the guys in his little battalion.  She has three of them made so far.  S:  
His squad, I would supply always…  When he was in Iraq, I would supply his squad.  And I 
supplied his…  When he started out, there was only four.  And they sent him to Iraq or to 
Afghanistan, I made a quilt for him that was supposed to be for his sleeping bag.  It was not very 
big, probably the size of this table.  It had dragons on it.  It was kind of cool.  And his girlfriend 
gave him a little special little pillow and he took that on the airplane with him.  Now he’s on an 
airplane…  And I said, “Son you were on the airplane with all the army guys with your blankie 
and your pillow?”  And he said, “Yeah.  Why?”  I said, “Didn’t they kid you?”  And he says, 
“They wouldn’t dare.  Besides that, they all want one.”  So he had four guys to start with and I 
said, “Ok.  I’ll make your guys each one.  So one guy already got one.  I had sent it because it 
took so long.  It’s not that it costs a lot but there’s a lot that you put into it.  And I’d hate for it to 
get lost in the mail or stolen.  So I told him I’m not sending any more.  I’ll make them and when 
you come home on tour leave, I’ll give them to you and you can take them back and he’s ok with 
that.  But he’s up to six guys now.  Mama sews until 3 o’clock in the morning.   
[So tell me about these pictures.]  Those are my son.  [These are your son?]  Yes.  [Are both of 
them from overseas?]  Yes.  He’s in Afghanistan in both of these pictures.  [How long has he 
been over there?]  He left June 1st.  [And how long is he going to have to stay or doesn’t he 
know?]  A year.  He’s due home for Thanksgiving for his mid-tour leave.  And he’s slated to 
come back on the 5th or 6th of June of 2012, but he’s talking that they might come home a little 
earlier.  They don’t’ know.  [As they draw down troops or…?]  Allegedly.  Well, they tell you 
they’re drawing down troops, but being a mother of someone that’s there, I kind of know that the 
guys that are coming back were already slated to come back.  So they’re not really sending extra 
people back.  It’s those that were already slated but they’re not telling you that.  They also don’t 
tell you the rules of engagement which are pretty horrible too.  If some Afghanistan fighter 
shoots at them and then throws…  He’s had buddies standing next to him that have died right 
there next to him.  The last one was a guy that took a couple in the throat and bled out right there.  
And as soon as the guy got hit by bullets, the Afghani drops the gun and puts his hands up and at 
that point, they can’t touch him.  It’s just wrong.  You know?  They call the Afghani police.  And 
the police arrest the guy and they take him in.  Then the army confiscates the weapon and they 
turn that over to the Afghani police and three weeks later, they face that same guy with that same 
gun.  Because somebody from that village comes in and vouches for that guy and they let him 
go.  Why are we there?   If that’s what’s going on?  You know.  I have found…  Now you sound 
like you already knew that, but I found that the average person on the street doesn’t know that 
that’s what happens.  And that’s pretty bad.  And there’s nothing that these boots on the ground 
troops can do about it.  They have to sit there and let them shoot at them basically.  And they 
can’t shoot anybody else either.  They have to be shot at first.  He was on the phone with me one 
time.  It was kind of funny.  He was talking to me on the phone while he was in the guard station.  
And they took fire and he’s like, “I gotta go!”  LAUGHTER.  That’s kind of funny.  R:  It’s 
something, though, to listen to his voice change, the way he’s aged.  Because when he started out 
in the army, just a punk.  And now…he’s a man with kills under his belt and received…  S:  He’s 
not happy about that.  R:  He’s fought a war and he’s been in the battles now.  He’s been blown 
up.  And he’s stepped on IUDs that should have gone out that didn’t’ go off.  So he’s a cat with 9 
lives and he’s used up about 7 of them.  S:  He’s got a hole in his head from Iraq.  He got a 
Purple Heart from…  R:  He’s grown up so much.  I hope he can leave all that stuff there when 
he comes home, and not suffer the syndrome.    [Yeah.]  S:  He definitely isn’t proud of the fact 
that he’s had to kill people.  But he does his job.  [How long has he been in the service?]  Since 
he was 17.  [And he’s how old now?]  24.  [That’s a long stint.]  S:  And I hope he stays in 
because there’s no work here for him.  He’ll go through phases of…  At first he’ll say I had, you 
know, because it’s no different there than it is out here.  There’s bullshit that slides downhill.  
Nobody likes their boss and it’s the same there.  He gets shit all the time and he doesn’t like it.  
He does have a little of his mama in him.  You know…  He doesn’t know how to deal with that 
yet.  So he’ll say, “I’m getting out.  This is it.”  When it’s time next year, it gets June of 2012, 
when he’s due to get out…he’ll say, “I’m leaving and that’s it.”  And then he’ll calm down and 
later on he’ll say he’ll just re-class, which means he’ll go from the job he’s doing now to a 
different job or he’ll join the Coast Guard or…  He wants to join the park service.  It doesn’t pay 
a lot,  but he likes it.  [The National Park Service?]   Yes, because his federal pension will 
continue then.  [Oh sure…]   So at least he’s thinking.  You know?    
1:12:44  R:  And it was kinda cute here last week.  He mentioned that he put some of the 
ironworkers skills he learned from his mother to use.  They were putting another barracks up for 
winter use.  He was actually doing some welding that he picked up, learned from her.   S:  I took 
him to a few jobs when I was a boss on some of the jobs, doing some curtain wall.  I took him to 
work with me and he brought his skate board.  The big buildings that were empty.  We were 
doing rehab so he would skate board around.   He met a lot of guys.  He was very small and 
sheltered when I took him to his first union meeting, I wanna say he was two.  And he had never 
seen a Black person before because we lived in Indiana.  Ain’t lot of Black people there.  And I 
brought him to the union hall.  And one of the guys I went to school with, apprenticeship school 
with was Black.  His name was Jefferson Beatty.  We’re buddies.  And I came up to say hello to 
Jeff and I introduced him to my son.  His eyes got really big and he reached down to touched 
Jeff.  He says, “Is he chocolate?”  LAUGHTER.  It was really cute, you had to be there.  He’d 
never seen a Black guy before.  Jeff’s really Black too.  It’s funny.  And he carries enough C4 
and bullets for his whole entire squad because he’s terrified he’ll run out of bullets.  Scared to 
death.  [I don’t blame him.]  Typically, they don’t carry that much crap, but he does.  But he’s in 
explosives so he…is supposed to…  He’s in route clearance so he’s supposed to find the IUDs 
before we run over them.   And now they pulled him off of road clearance and they don’t do that 
anymore.   He’s stepped on two IUDs so far that did not go off because they weren’t properly 
armed.  He was blown up in Iraq.  His Humvee got blown up and he laid there for I think he said 
4-5 hours.  Because they said, “Well, when that happens and they blow your Humvee up, they 
come right out to get you.”  And he said, “No…”  What?”  He said, “No.  That’s why they blow 
you up.  It’s just a big diversion to get more troops to come so they can pick them off.”  So they 
have to wait until they clear the area.  He had a big hole in his head.  They took him to Mosa . . . 
[?] and fixed him up.  He had problems from that for a long time.  He probably still will have…  
I found it amazing.  No one called and told his mommy.  Now that’s when Captain Gleason 
should have called – but they didn’t. 
1:15:05    [Well, hey.  This has been a great interview.  Do either of you want to add any final 
comments?  And then I need to take a couple of shots of you guys.]  S:  Yeah, we could have a 
couple of shots.  LAUGHTER  Wouldn’t you go for that?  I think Billy Goat’s is down the street.  
No, I don’t.   A guy asked me that one time because I don’t smoke and I really don’t drink.  And 
he says, “You don’t smoke, you don’t drink.  I don’t hear you swear much.  How did you get in 
this local?”  Just lucky, I guess.  Because I don’t have a father…  [You’re the first one I’ve had 
that doesn’t drink, of all the interviews.  But they all talk about how the drinking was a lot 
heavier in the old days.]  S:  Yeah, they used to do it right on the job.  R:  It’s no fun anymore.  
Oh my God.  My kids are… S:  That was before the days of drug and alcohol testing.  [Yeah.]  
R:  My union sleeps with the contractors so much.  That’s one thing that I don.t like.  That’s why 
the safety is so rampant now.  The safety…   You’re supposed to sign that you read this book 
when you sign your W2 forms.  S:  That was that one job.   R:  You get the safety book and they 
put you to work an hour later.  But it would take 3 days to read the safety book but you got to 
sign off on it.  I was like, how does this work?   S:  Who wouldn’t do that?  R:  You wouldn’t do 
it, I wouldn’t do it.  S:  That’s shit.  It’s horseshit.  R:  They force you to sign the 
acknowledgement of taking a safety book and reading it and yet…  They did not give you…  
Take it home and read it.  S:  Who got burned with that safety book?  R:  Why is this happening? 
There’s no backing from our own people on that.  Well, you gotta read it I guess.  S:  That was 
the only thing that changed on safety.  Most every job, that was 100% safety glasses all the time.  
Doesn’t matter if you’re in a hazardous area or not.  And just as that was transitioning, I worked 
for the guy at Grainger that didn’t want me on his job.  And I was working, I had my glasses 
hanging around my neck, but I didn’t have them on because I didn’t deem it to be in an unsafe 
place that I needed them.  And he came up and started ripping me, saying that he was going to 
write me up because I needed my glasses on.  I said, “I don’t need them on.”  And he said, “It’s 
in this handbook.  You have to have them on.”  It is not in the handbook.  “Yes it is!”  Do you 
want to bet your paycheck on that?  “It’s in the handbook.”  The superintendent happened to be 
in the shanty and he started laughing because he knew it was not in the handbook that I signed.  
It was in the ones after that but it wasn’t in mine.  Sorry dude, I can’t be held accountable for 
something you didn’t tell me.               
1:17:29  R:  There was a job where a contractor had this big display board.  And all the 
contractors’ men could be entered into a drawing once a month.  S:  That was Grainger, for the 
flashlights.   R:  For a flashlight, tape measure, pliers, a wrench.  S:  Right.  Some goofy little 
thing.  R:  Because we had so  many men…  Someone is always getting hurt so we never got our 
names to the pool.  One day we were sitting there and having coffee, about ten of us, were sitting 
on scaffolds.  Here’s this big display case with plexiglass and tools inside of it.   And there’s this 
one kid…  We’re all talking about, lamenting, how we’ll never win anything.  And he’s looking 
at that board…  All of a sudden he jumps up and runs over the board, smashes the plexiglass, 
grabs all the tools out of there and says, “Look – we won!  We won!”  After that, the contractor 
only put pictures of the tools up that people could win.  He never put the pictures of tools up…   
S:  That was Chainsaw.  That was the job that they all got the little flashlights.  It was the one.  
You’re never going to win.  R:  We never won a prize.  S:  It’s just not right.  R:  Look, we won 
now.  S:  That was the glazing outfit that tried to use the 10 hour OSCHA class book that you get 
as their safety handbook.  And there’s a page in the back that says that you read it and sign it.  So 
he gives me the book and says, “Ok, here, sign this page.”  I said, “I’ll read it first.”  Well, just 
sign it.  I’m like, “Nope, sorry.  I’m not getting up off this chair and go to work at your job until 
I’ve read what I have to sign my name to.  R:  Now the contractors make you sign out every day 
that, “No I did not get hurt today.”  I did not…  S:  I don’t have a real problem with that.  I don’t 
have an issue with that.  R:  I don’t know if that’ll work like, for instance, I worked for nuclear 
power plants in my early career.   I’d wear a dosimeter up here.  [Yeah.]  And you’d take a 
radiation reading up here but I later found out later on that where we were working the radiation 
would be hitting my ankles.  If I were wearing the dosimeter in my boot…it would have tripled 
my reading, ok?   S:  And when you sign the paper, you write “to the best of my knowledge I 
was not injured today.”  See? R:  I’m sure they’d get back to you on that, you know.    
1:19:33  S:  They’re just not that smart.  LAUGHTER   They’re like sheep. R:  We’re not 
worthy, we’re ironworkers.   S:  You see, I am not one of them.  I just did that for a living.  R:  I 
was taking such a high daily dosage that the Commonwealth Edison radiation protection people 
wanted to do a life-time study on me but I was like 26, 27 years old and I was young and healthy.  
I was making gobs of money every week and I just not thought…  S:  Safety first – unless it 
costs money.  R:  Asbestos and radiation, we’re only covered for 25 years from the original 
employment on workman’s comp rules.  I don’t know if that’s changed or not.  They might be 
the same, I don’t know.  But it wouldn’t have matter because that’s what I tell people that’s why 
I got this lump up here.  I got that when I was working at the nuclear plant.  That’s my brain 
from radiation or my brain on drugs or whatever.  [Yeah.]  Working at nuclear power plants.  S:  
I didn’t have a radiation, I had a lead issue.  R:  You’re talking about drinking at the nuclear 
power plant . . . back then…this is back when security was real security.  We used to drive to 
Chicago, John Stath, his son and I.  We’d drive up to the gate and we’d always have a six pack of 
Old Style.  The old man liked his Old Style.  We were working at the night time shift.  We’d 
drive up to the gate and they would allow one car inside the campus on the Zion Nuclear Power 
Plant site.  So we would hand that six pack out the window of the car.  The guards would 
confiscate it, put it in the refrigerator in the guard shack.  We’d come out ten hours later and they 
gave us back our beer.  It was ice cold.  We’d have two beers going home, down 55, each [I-55].  
And it was just enough to get back at…  S: Your hair was black before you started dealing with 
ironworkers, right?  LAUGHTER   R:  But our beer was confiscated but it would come back cold 
at the end of our shift.  It was great after work.  [I don’t think you could do that now.  I’m sure 
you’re right.]  S:  There was a copy in Lake Zurich that used to stop me every weekend when I 
commuted to the city and he was down here in Wauconda.  And on Friday night I would come 
up and he stopped me every Friday for like four weekends in a row because I had an ironworker 
sticker in the back of my truck.  [And he figured that you were drinking.]  He figured I was 
drinking.  [He knew something about ironworkers then, didn’t he?]   S:  Probably stopped a few.   
1:21:32   R: A true story, a true story.  A bunch of ironworkers were working out on the LaSalle 
Power Plant.  There’s three guys in the front seat and three guys in the back seat. S:  Oh geez.  R:  
They’re drinking beer, coming home, down 55 [I-55].  And a state trooper is going to pull them 
over.  So their driver who thinks…and he’s got a spud wrench under the seat.   He pulls it and he 
whacks the guy sitting in between the front seat.  Bumps him on the head and blood is coming 
out, pouring out all over his face.  The cop pulls us over and pulls his weapon out.  “Are you 
guys doing…  What happened?” “This guy got hurt at work, an ironworker, and I need to take 
him to the hospital.  The cop looks and says…”Come on, maybe that’s corn silk.  Rolled the 
windows up and kept drinking.  The cop gave us an escort all the way to the hospital.”  So they 
rolled the windows up and kept drinking.  The cop gave them an escort all the way to the 
hospital.  S:  One of the few times they were thinking.  R:  I heard the story, I thought it was a 
great story but I just thought it was a story.  Twenty years later, I’m working on a job down in 
Joliet Local.  I mentioned that story and this guy says, “That’s true.  I was in that car.  It’s a true 
story.”   O kidding.  S:  It’s one of the few times they actually thought.  R:  It’s a true story. 
BAM.  We’d do that to save ourselves from going to jail.  S:   Never thought about just not 
drinking.  You know?  It would never occur to you.  I always said that I would never in my 
lifetime get a DUI.  It will not happen.  R:  That was the old ironworkers school of thought.  
What do you do when you see a double yellow line drivin’?  Cover up one eye.  S:  These are 
scary things here.  No way.  R:  It was a different day and age back then.   [It was.]  R:  It was a 
different time…  Working down at the lakefront here.  We were doing a little store front 
replacement on one of the oldest curtain wall jobs in 860 North Lake Shore Drive.  And they had 
a concrete truck on the frontage road along there, on Lakeshore Drive.  It was like 7:30 in the 
morning.  The laws, I think, say that you couldn’t handle a cement truck down in that area before 
8 am.   S:   Before 8 o’clock.  It was a noise ordinance.   R:  Some guy gets out of a car, waving a 
gun.  “Who in hell is in charge of this job?”  He was some political hack who lived around here.  
“Who’s running this job God damnit.  You’re not supposed to have this cement truck down 
here.”  He said, “In the trailer over there.  Go see the guy in the trailer over there.  There’s the 
guy running this job.”   
1:23:59   S:  Is the recording from the interview, in its entirety, put in the Library of Congress or 
are you do you transcribe things from it?  [It has to be transcribed and I’ll probably edit some 
stuff on it.]   R: My likeness is on those two…ah…  S:  The fountains.  R:  The fountains…       
S:  He worked on that…   R: Millennium Park there, that spits water?  [Yeah.]  My picture’s 
there.  I worked on that.  [Really?]   Yeah.   All the workers that worked on that project got to go 
to the Art Institute.  They had a studio across the street.  And they had a picture taken doing the 
motions of that the…character pictures…  closing your eyes… [Ok, sure.] …and making you 
smile, pursing your lips like this so you spit the water out?  There were 1000 faces that 
supposedly come up random on that those TV screens inside those towers and my picture is one 
of the 1000 faces.  It’s all supposed to be local Chicagoans and its people from the local area that 
are part of that piece of art work.  [Did you work on the interior or did you work on the…beam, 
because…]  R:  I worked for a company that put on all the glass flux up on the outside.  
Somebody else put the steel…  Actually, they just put the…  The glass flux [?] came from 
California.  There was a Frenchman that was running the job.  And he was always…  He would 
always bring beer out for the night crew because the day crew always had… S:  You worked 
midnights on that job.   R:  I was third shift on that one too.  It’s like, as soon as the sun goes 
down, you can’t see what the hell you’re doing.  We just kind a…did motions.  It looked like you 
were working because you couldn’t see what the hell to do.  [Yeah.]  When you’re doing stuff 
that you gotta see what you’re doing…  S:  That’s the hardest work of all.  R: That’s why God 
invented sunshine.  [You didn’t work on the Bean did you?  Because I think…some locals…]  R:  
INAUDIBLE   S:  We had a lot of guys from 63 on the Bean.  R:  …on that job and they were 
making…40 hours overtime a week. Welding and polishing and welding and polishing… 
[Yeah.]   S:  Navy Pier was like that too.  They had tons of overtime. [Guys that I interviewed 
talked about that job.  They worked down there for a long, long time.]  R:  That’s where they 
beat up that guy with the hatchet.  He came to work all scarred up.   
1:26:03   S:  Paul Thompson stood up for me.   R:  No.  When you got…accosted…?  S:  Oh, 
that’s when I was mugged at the shopping mall, yeah.  R:  When she got mugged.  She was 
arrested for battering some guy who tried to steal her purse.  The police had to pull her off and 
she was beating him up with her 5 cell flashlight.  S:  He wanted my purse and he called me a 
bitch.  [Yeah.]  R:  Yeah, don’t call her a bitch.  S:  That’s bad.  And I was kind of thinking about 
it.  He said, “Give me your purse, bitch.”  And I’m thinking, this isn’t really happening.  BOOM 
he hit me in the face.  This really is happening!  So I reached inside my car and I guess he 
thought I was reaching for my purse.  I always carry a mag light in the back pocket of my truck.  
I reach in there and I grab the head of the flashlight out of the pocket.  And I came out swinging.  
I didn’t stop until the police came and took it out of my hand.  “You don’t have to hit him any 
more lady.”  “That’s a matter of opinion.  I’m bleeding here and he called me a bitch.”  
LAUGHTER   And he was Black.  So when they arrested him, he screamed that they only 
arrested him because he was Black and I had accosted him.  So they called me up and said, “You 
need to come in and surrender yourself.”  I said, “Excuse me?  This guy attacks me and I…”   
“I’m sorry, but the guy is claiming that you attacked him.”  And at that time, this was a long time 
ago, that time, they didn’t have the 911 tapes immediately available.  It took 72 hours before they 
could get access to that.  And it was someone in a parking space a couple of rows away that 
called and clearly said that there was a Black guy attacking a white woman.  That was the only 
reason I got off.  But we go to court, the guy was out on…  He never got out of jail.  They threw 
him right in jail because he was out on bond for some other violent crimes.  And you go to court 
and the judge is there.  You get this criminal attorney and he says, “Now be a girl when you 
come to court” because he knew what I did for a living.  He thought I’d come in looking like him 
or something.  Okay.  So I put on my red and white checked dress and my mary jane shoes, and 
pig tails.  Not really but you get the picture.  And we go…  I messed up my lip and my face and 
stuff.  We go to court and they bring this guy in from jail and he’s in a wheelchair, stuffed like a 
chicken.  His shoulder was separated.  He was missing teeth.  He had stitches on his cheek and 
shit.  You go in front of a judge and they read the complaint that I attacked this guy, right?  Here 
I weigh 110 pounds soaking wet.  And this guy was like 6’5”.  He’s a big guy!  And the judge 
looks at him and looks at me.  Looks down at the lawyers and he’s shaking his head.  And I’m 
just standing there.  He calls the lawyers up and they talk a few minutes.  I have no idea what 
they said.  And finally he smashed the gavel and says, “Case dismissed.”  It’s like, whoa, what 
happened.  He says, “Shut up.  Keep walking out.”  I want my flashlight…because they 
confiscated it.  And the guy says, “Shut up and keep on…”  But I want…  He pushes me out the 
courtroom door and says, “Shut up.  The 911 tape is the only thing that got you off here.”  I said, 
“Oh come on.  That guy couldn’t possibly win in front of a jury.”  And he said, “That flashlight 
is evidence.”  That’s a 50 buck flashlight, dude!  Never did get my flashlight back.  But that guy 
went to jail, but it cost me two days off of work and $300 to a criminal attorney and I did nothing 
wrong.  But to go to work with that, yucky looking.  Come on, I still don’t have feeling in my 
bottom lip. When I drink coffee when it first happened, I had no feeling so it would, like, run all 
over me.   
1:29:29   R:  I have a story…  I was in Cleveland and one of the guys, one of our 
superintendents, stayed in a hotel in downtown Cleveland with his wife.  And he used to walk 
two blocks from the hotel to our office.  It was two blocks from our office to the new, it was the 
new Cavaliers basketball arena. We were putting all the windows on and all the metal around the 
top.  It was a big job.  And he come out of his hotel.  He smoked Pall Malls.  He takes one out of 
his pocket, taps it on the brick wall, and he’s lighting up.  He’s walking down the sidewalk to 
work.  Here comes this guy.  He asks him for a cigarette.  John...he’s about 6’8”, 300 pounds, ex-
Marine, Vietnam vet.  Big guy, big guy.  He raises horses.  He says, yeah, okay fine.  And he 
shakes out a Pall Mall for this guy.  And the guy comes up with a knife.  “Now give me all your 
money.”  And John says, looks at this guy, thought a second, and he gives this guy…  
“Haymaker right to the nose.  Knocked him out.  He just kept on walking.  He came to work that 
morning and was shaking his hand, his wrist all swollen up like he broke something.  “What 
happened”  “Awe…  This guy tried to hold me up this morning and I whacked ‘em.”  He did file 
a police report and the police said, “What did this guy look like?”  He says, “I don’t remember 
what he looked like but his nose is this wide right now.”  Sure as shit, they did find this guy in an 
emergency room somewhere with a big broken nose and no cigarette.  S:  I thought you were 
talking about the guy at Navy Pier…  R:  It was John Lanier.  S:  The roofers.   R:  I remember 
that job.  That’s a job where…  I was working for this same company.  I went to Singapore and 
came back from Singapore.  They let me just hang for a month, just to get my feet back home 
again. And then they said, “Ok, we’re going to send you out to Cleveland Cavalier Arena.  Run 
that job.  And I remember standing at the zero point in the center of the arena.  This was when 
the trusses weren’t even up yet, we were just starting to pre-cast risers for the seating and the 
structure for the tresses to go up.  I felt so small.  I’m standing and looking around this huge 
stadium going to myself…  What the fuck did I get myself into on this one because it was a big 
job and I lasted on it…and I finished it.  We overcame all the problems and it’s a wonderful 
place on earth now.  S:  I thought he was talking about the roofers at Navy Pier.  R:  No, it was in 
Cleveland.  S:  No, when you said that the guy that attacked me.  There were some roofers and 
they didn’t have union cards and I went up and carded them.  And they got kicked off the job and 
they threatened me.  They said “We know what you drive.”  I said, “Good, I’m glad.  You know 
where I live?  Follow my ass home because you will deserve what you got coming to you.”  Paul 
Thompson went out and had words with them so…they left me alone. 
[Well, hey thanks a lot to both of you.  Really a pleasure.]  R:  Are you going to take some 
pictures? [Yeah] 
END:  1:32:23