AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Kenny Miles – 11/21/21 
1 
 
 
Kenny Miles 
Where: At his home 
Date: Sunday, November 21, 2021 
Location: Pound, VA 
Interviewer: Emily Hilliard 
Transcription: Emily Hilliard 
Length: 58:35 
 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Kenny Miles – 11/21/21 
2 
 
 
Field notes: 
 
When I posted on Facebook about the Rural Free Delivery project, Kenny Miles’ wife, Hilary Neff Miles, 
commented and said that her husband and his uncle and aunt were rural mail carriers in the area around 
Whitesburg, Kentucky. I had never met Kenny but we have mutual friends, and I had seen his band 
Wayne Graham play. After emailing and texting with Kenny to arrange an interview date, I drove down 
to his and Hilary’s house in Pound, Virginia on Sunday, November 21, 2021, for a noon interview. We sat 
at their kitchen table for the conversation.  
 
Kenny Miles (b. 1989, Whitesburg, KY),  first worked as a highway contractor relief carrier and then a 
full-time highway contractor for the Line Fork>King Creek Route in Letcher County, Kentucky. When he 
started, his route had 490 boxes and was 84 miles long. In this interview Kenny talks about the realities of 
being a highway contractor for the Postal Service, receiving no benefits. He also talks about his 
customers, gaining knowledge of a community by delivering its mail, and changes he witnessed in his 
community over time through carrying the same mail route every day.  
 
After this interview, I met Kenny at his grandmother’s house in Mayking, KY to interview his aunt, 
Margaret Fisher, who has been a highway contractor for the Postal Service for 50 years.  
 
 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Kenny Miles – 11/21/21 
3 
 
EH: Emily Hilliard 
KM: Kenny Miles 
 
00:00 
EH: Alright, what's the date, actually? 
 
KM: The 20th, maybe? The 21st. 
 
EH: Okay. It's November 21, 2021. I'm in Pound, Virginia with Kenny Miles and this is for the rural mail 
carrier project. So why don't you introduce yourself and tell me your name, where you're from and when 
you were born? 
 
KM: My name is Kenny Miles. I'm from Whitesburg [Kentucky], I was born there, I grew up in Mayking 
and I was born in 1989. 
 
EH: Why don't you tell me about how you got started as a rural mail carrier? 
 
KM: Okay. I had just quit a job but it was the spring after I graduated from high school. I had finished 
like a trade school program, like a 32-week audio engineering thing and while I did that I worked as a 
night clerk at the Parkway Inn and after that I needed a job and my aunt who has worked the mail my 
whole life knew another carrier with a rural route who needed a relief driver and so I just decided to try it 
and so for a year, I worked as a relief carrier for the Line Fork>King's Creek route. It had about 490 boxes 
on it and covered I think like it was 84-miles long or something. And so I just did it like 2-3 days a week 
for a while. Sometimes no days a week and the guy who owned the contract for the route had had it for 3 
or 4 years. His uncle was another mail carrier--that was how he got into the--into carrying mail. But he 
bid really low on his route so that he could get it 'cause he just desperately needed his own route. So I 
think the contract was for $32,000 dollars or something like that, and he was the only person earning 
income in his household and he had 2 young sons. So he eventually had to leave the route to go work in 
the mines and when he left, he was in breach of contract so the route went up for "emergency" is how 
they called it, and so it was posted online. This guy from Texas bid on the route and it turns--like I 
learned later that he would just find, he would only bid on routes that were emergency routes, like sort of 
remote routes in low-population areas and he would bid some astronomical number on 3 routes at a time 
and if he got one of the contracts, he had it for like 3 times what it was worth, so he would travel to the 
place with his own mail Jeep and run the route, put out ads in the local newspaper until he filled the 
position and then move on to the next route. 
 
EH: (laughs) That's a good grift! 
 
KM: Yeah, totally! So he got the route for $86,000 or something like that. 
 
EH: Wow! 
 
KM: (laughs) And everyone, like no one else in the post office knew what he got it for, but it was like 
way more than any of the other rural carriers had their route for. But they did know that he provided the 
vehicle. He paid for the insurance and maintenance on the vehicle, gas--every day. And that he rather than 
giving me a 1099 at the end of the year, gave me a W9, like he did my taxes, like he took taxes out and all 
this. Because he had all of this excess money, he could just like afford to keep somebody on. And so there 
was like a little bit of bitterness there but that was the only reason I kept the route for so long. It was like 
the perfect situation for me. I was a musician who needed something that was flexible enough that I could 
hire my own relief driver to work on days when I needed to be out of town. So it worked out for a really 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Kenny Miles – 11/21/21 
4 
 
long time and then when I met Hilary [Neff Miles, his now wife] 9 months later, we were ready to just 
live somewhere else and by that time I had 2 relief drivers. One was the lady who retired from working as 
a clerk in the post office when I would go with my mom to buy stamps at the Mayking [Kentucky] Post 
Office when I was like 5 or 6, she would be the one working the counter, and so she was my relief driver 
through the week and then my uncle who--he works for the state--was furloughed at one point and needed 
an extra income, so he started working on Fridays and Saturdays. And so when I left to move to 
Nashville, I sort of just gave the route to them and they split it up between them and now Virginia, who 
was the driver through the week, has fully retired--like she retired from inside the post office, then just 
worked under the table sort of relief driver after that and then she's fully retired now and I think Barry, my 
uncle, still just works it on Saturdays, but is sort of like the logistics guy for deciding when the vehicle 
gets worked on and things like that. And up until, like I was still carrying like once a month at least until 
COVID happened and then I just felt like it wasn't worth my while anymore and bowed out. 
 
06:48  
 
EH: So yeah, some follow-up questions. First of all, I'm interested--is that like a typical length of a route? 
 
KM: Yeah, I think so. By the time I stopped working the route, it had grown to like 560 boxes. And there 
are also like, I'm sure you've heard about like the daily deadline of like getting in before the mail truck 
leaves with all of the outgoing mail. That was never an issue for me really because I got, I like sorted my 
mail fairly early and quickly and got out on the route as fast as possible just because I hated being in the 
post office in the morning because it was really like gossipy and everybody was like--I don't know. 
They're all older people who have been doing this forever, so it's like they can be really picky with each 
other. But yeah, I would get in at like 2:30 or 3 every day. Now, and then like the holiday season would 
be like, we'd be pushing it to like get finished in time. The car would be loaded down with packages. Now 
I spoke to my uncle last night and he barely got in before 4 yesterday. They've had to upgrade to a van 
now because there are so many like Amazon packages and so it's a much harder, like that's way too big a 
route now that they're carrying most of the packages that people get out there. So to answer your question, 
yeah, I think they're all roughly the same size. There were some routes where it was like people only took 
the contract because they wanted the second job that they could be finished with before like 2 o'clock 
every day and so those are like shorter routes. But for the most part the rural routes are trying to cover a 
lot of ground. 
 
EH: How long would that take you to drive? 
 
08:59  
 
KM: Like, by the time I finished, by the time I stopped working at the post office, I could do it really 
quickly (laughs) which was probably not good, but I got paid the same amount, whether it took me a long 
time or not so I tried to get done as fast as possible--like 4 hours at least, on a really light mail day, and 
maybe 5 hours on a--5-6 hours on a heavy day. 
 
EH: And so would the...82 miles? It would kind of, would it circle back, or would you have to drive it 
back? 
 
KM: It would--it was mostly a loop.  
 
EH: Okay. 
 
KM: Yeah. Have you been to Cowan [Kentucky]? 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Kenny Miles – 11/21/21 
5 
 
 
EH: Mmhm. 
 
KM: Okay, like it started maybe 2 miles beyond the Cowan Community Center and ended--do you know 
where the recycling center is? 
 
EH: I don't think so. 
 
KM: It's like near the mouth of Cowan. 
 
EH: Okay. 
 
KM: You pass it long before you get to the elementary school or the community center and that's where I 
would come out every day. Like you go over Cowan [?] Mountain, go to Line Fork, King's Creek, and 
then Uz, Kingdom Come Creek where Ada [Smith] and Jacob [Mack-Boll] live. Yeah, so. Covered a lot 
of ground, but it at least made a loop. 
 
10:22  
 
EH: Nice. 
 
KM: Yeah. 
 
EH: And so the contract--that's generally how it works? So you're a contract worker and does that mean 
you don't get benefits? 
 
KM: Right, yeah. And the hard part about being a rural carrier, most of--like that's why my situation was 
so great is like I at least didn't have to worry about keeping my taxes back every month. But my aunt has 
always been responsible for her own, like insurance and vehicle maintenance--even just like buying the 
vehicle. And then gas, taking her taxes out and no benefits at all. And so like when there is like, at least it 
seems like most of the people who are from here who ended up owning their own route, just bid way 
below what the route was worth just because they were like more desperate for a secure thing than 
something that paid a little more. So yeah, she hasn't been able to retire. She doesn't have any retirement 
savings or anything like that. Because anytime it seems like she could put some back, it was time to get a 
new vehicle and just, yeah.  
 
EH: And so you essentially own the route until you're in breach of contract or you terminate it? 
 
KM: I think most of them are 6 years. 
 
EH: Alright. 
 
KM: Mmhm. 
 
EH: Tell me how you would sort your mail according to the route. So did you start to memorize the order 
of things? 
 
KM: Mmhm. I can still remember like clusters of--like I can list like whole holler's addresses (laughs). 
 
EH: Will you do it? 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Kenny Miles – 11/21/21 
6 
 
 
KM: 6716 Highway 931 South, 6816 Highway 931 South, 6753 Highway 931 South, then it moves up to 
like 11868 Astor Fields Holler, which is 180 Astor Fields and 290 Astor Fields and yeah, maybe I can't do 
it as well as I used to be able to, but... 
 
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
 
KM: Yeah, like the hardest part was visualizing the way the case was laid out was like the order you 
delivered everything in, so like once I associated shelves on the mail case with different roads or like a 
landmark that was around there, it became a lot easier, but so Line Fork was the furthest part of the route 
away from the post office, so that mail didn't come sorted, it was just in a tray at random, but all of 
Whitesburg, it wasn't, like the first 2 years I worked there it wasn't sorted, but then it sorted, I think they 
called it DPS [Delivery Point Sequence] when the mail comes sorted? 
 
 
EH: Yeah. 
 
 
KM: Like all city routes are sorted but yeah. The first time I delivered mail by myself I had like a panic 
attack... 
 
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
 
KM: ...because I realized that the bundle of mail I was working from was like for somewhere really far 
away and I couldn't find the address I was--I couldn't find the bundle with like the address in it that I was 
in front of and it was really confusing, but it all worked out eventually (laughs). 
 
 
14:29  
 
 
 
EH: Did you deliver to Lee Sexton [Kentucky old time musician, 1928-2021] since you were on Line 
Fork? 
 
 
KM: I delivered to a lot of Sextons, but I don't think I delivered Lee Sexton's mail. Do you know where 
he lived on Line Fork? 
 
 
EH: Mmnnn. I never went out there. 
 
 
KM: Okay. Yeah. If you've come from Cumberland through like Gordon to Line Fork, or like Lilley 
Cornett Woods, that was where I would turn around, so that was as far into Line Fork as I went and 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Kenny Miles – 11/21/21 
7 
 
turned around. But yeah. I know that I did deliver mail to Arlie Boggs [Elementary School]--I don't know 
if it's Arlie Boggs or yeah.  
 
 
EH: Hmm. 
 
 
KM: Line Fork had a school at one point that is just like one of these cookie cutter schools that just 
popped up probably in like the early 60s and it became a place where they would have like square dances 
and stuff, so I'm sure Lee Sexton played there a lot. 
 
 
EH: Was it like a Line Fork Community Center or something? 
 
 
KM: Yeah, mmhm. 
 
 
EH: Okay, yeah, I think I was at a different one, but he was also there (laughs). 
 
 
KM: (laughs) Yeah.  
 
EH: It might have been Kingdom Come. Do they have a community center? 
 
KM: Yeah, I think so.  
 
EH: I think that's where I was. 
 
KM: Mmhm. 
 
EH: Oh yes, about the car. So would you use your own car? And how would you kind of work that out? 
 
KM: Yeah. At the time I had a 12-passenger van and I did have to deliver mail in it one day when the 
mail jeep broke down. Luckily the whole time I worked there, like when I first started working there, the 
original owner of the route who had it for very cheap had a Jeep Cherokee that was like a '96 right side 
drive Jeep Cherokee that I like, he sold that to the new like contractor when he got the route and that was 
just like the easiest thing to do is like keep the Jeep we've been using already. And I eventually totaled 
that Jeep in like--no one was injured in it. It was like a one-lane road where traffic went both directions 
and there was nowhere for either of us to go and we just collided--it was like a head-on collision. The 
airbag was deployed but everything was fine. Yeah. There were, by the end the brakes would like go out 
on the Jeep. It ended up being--they sold it to the Isom Racetrack as like a flag vehicle so now (laughs)... 
 
EH: (laughs) Oh, wow. 
 
KM: They still use it, I think, this right side drive mail Jeep. And after that he flew me to Dallas to pick 
up a Jeep and he had driven his own like fancy Jeep, like new Jeep Wrangler right side drive Jeep to leave 
there for like a month while he looked for another Jeep and then he eventually came back and got that. 
And I had to fly to Dallas and he left the keys like under the seat of this Jeep Liberty (laughs) that was a 
converted right side drive and the route that it had served on before was in the desert, so there was sand 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Kenny Miles – 11/21/21 
8 
 
like everywhere! And there was just like when they're converted--have you seen inside of the converted 
jeeps? 
 
EH: No. 
 
KM: Sometimes they do a better job than others, but it's a pulley system that goes from the original 
steering column to the new one and it's just exposed. It's like a rubber belt. 
 
EH: Wow. 
 
KM: And so my uncle was telling me last night that the most recent Jeep they had, certain turns would 
allow the belt to slip off and the wheels would just go straight and there was nothing you could do until 
you...but now they have a van. But so I got this converted Jeep in Dallas that was filled with sand and it 
had no A/C and I drove it back from Dallas to Whitesburg and that was our mail Jeep for a really long 
time. And now I think he's had 2 other cars since I left. It's just like really hard on vehicles. And I totaled 
2 different Jeeps when I worked there. 
 
EH: Wow. 
 
KM: Yeah. 
 
19:31  
 
EH: Is that just because it's so much stop and go? Is that why it's hard? 
 
KM: That's the wear and tear for sure, and also like there were certain times of year when they trimmed 
trees or would clean out ditches--the likelihood of getting a flat tire is through the roof, so there were a lot 
of times when I was slowed down by a flat tire. But really, it's ice and snow. Like that was like the 
horrific thing about working a really pretty rural route is like, lots of steep roads and lots of places that 
don't see a lot of sunlight in the back of a holler, so it just felt really dangerous to do that. That was like 
the main reason I felt good about leaving (laughs) at all, you know? Otherwise it was a pretty good 
situation. 
 
EH: Yeah. Also maybe not much shoulder on the side of the road? 
 
KM: Yeah. Yeah, totally. Which, like, we have a flashing light on top. It sort of felt like, I felt safe as a 
US postal worker, I guess. I think people sort of know that it's a major thing to like hurt somebody 
(laughs) who's trying to do that job. And like most of the people on the route were like really generous 
and appreciated that the mail worked out there, I guess? And lots of older people who have just never 
stopped using letters and they rely on it for their prescriptions and things like that. So for the most part it 
felt okay. But... 
 
EH: Yeah, did you develop relationships with your customers? Do you call them customers? 
 
KM: Yeah! They always refer to them as customers. Yeah, there were some customers who were just sort 
of mean from the beginning and that never really changed. Some--there were lots of interesting customers 
that I didn't--I wouldn't call them, I wouldn't say we had like a warm relationship, but I appreciated 
having a window into their extremely strange way of living. 
 
EH: Like what? 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Kenny Miles – 11/21/21 
9 
 
 
KM: This one woman, 
was the widow of a wealthy doctor and had a young live-in 
boyfriend and got like 10 packages of varying sizes every day. And so I would have to like drive up to her 
house and put them on her porch and she had several like small furry, long-haired dogs that were just 
really matted and like, I mean gross. And then sometimes she would, she would get a lot of jewelry, so 
like sometimes she would have to sign for it and when she opened her door, there were (laughs) there 
were several bird cages with large exotic birds all over the place. And she never wore anything other than 
her nightgown or whatever and it was just like a hoarder house. But other people like that worked at the 
desk of the post office, sometimes she would have to come in and get things and they said that her 
bracelets or rings or whatever all still had the tags on them so that she could send them back, but yeah, 
that's just a really odd thing, way to conduct yourself (laughs). 
 
23:45  
 
EH: Did you ever write a song about her or other customers? 
 
KM: I definitely, like I wrote songs on the route all the time. That's one thing I miss about it is like--I 
listened to a lot of audio books and wrote a lot of songs. It was just time that I was allowed to drift 
mentally because I had this very mechanical thing to do. So it was mindless in a really good way. It 
allowed me to spend time thinking about other things. But I think that's one of the reasons I was so 
freaked out originally is I hadn't spent that kind of time with myself, you know? Especially relying on 
myself to like figure out something without any cell reception. I don't know, it was just a really useful 
thing for me and I just came to appreciate it much more by the time it was over. 
 
EH: Like a therapy, almost. 
 
KM: Yeah! Yeah. And yeah, just sitting with quietness was--I had no choice but to live with my own 
thoughts and I wouldn't have had to do that, or I wouldn't have had such a gentle way of being introduced 
to that without it. So yeah, it was really nice. 
 
EH: Did you feel like you were helping customers and were people, like did people leave you gifts ever? 
 
KM: Mmhm. There was a...it wasn't an orphanage, but it was like a home that was associated with like 
Four Square Gospel Church, which I don't know much about, but there's one in Line Fork that has this big 
cabin. And one guy that was a senior when I was a freshman that was like severely mentally disabled was 
living there and I think other kids that were in similar situations were living there and they always left 
gifts around Christmas time, which would be like a large log of Martha Washington candy, like the 
peanut butter pinwheel (laughs) 
 
EH: (laughs) Nice. 
 
KM: And then some people left gift cards and things like that, or just a box of chocolates or something. 
And I had no idea that people gave their mail carriers gifts until I started to get some and I now try to 
leave our mail carrier gifts and things like that, 'cause it really did feel special (laughs). 
 
EH: I was reading a book about, it's called Carrying the Mail in Rural Virginia, and it was like the 
parliamentarian of the VARLCA [Virginia Rural Letter Carriers Association] at one point and she had 
some story that she had heard about someone leaving--they were so punctual on their route that their 
customer left them a bowl of homemade ice cream like on ice. 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Kenny Miles – 11/21/21 
10 
 
KM: Whoa. 
 
EH: Yeah, because they knew--and it was not melted when they arrived. That's pretty good. 
 
KM: That's pretty good. 
 
EH: (laughs) Yeah. Let's see, oh, did you ever find anything strange in the mailbox or anything? 
 
27:35  
 
KM: I had--well this isn't strange, but I got stung a lot, like hornets love to live in mailboxes. One time I 
opened the mailbox and there was, I didn't know that there was no back to the mailbox so a bird had built 
a nest in there and as soon as I opened the door it flew into the car. It flew around the car! 
 
EH: Whoa! 
 
KM: And this isn't really a strange thing to just find because I delivered it, but like the prison letters were 
always very interesting and sometimes I'd like, I would read postcards, and like if somebody wrote or 
drew on the outside of the letter from prison, I would read it. Like one of the families I delivered to was 
like the grandmother was single, I think her husband had died a few years before, and the daughter and 
granddaughter just moved in because her husband had tried to lock them in the house and burn it down. 
And he wrote to them from prison and I guess wrote so much that he wrote on the outside of the letter too 
and just like, like the apology someone sends for doing something like that is not that different from the 
apology someone gives for doing something really minor. If they, like it just seemed like there was no 
apology that would like...it just seemed like not enough (laughs). 
 
EH: Yeah, right. 
 
KM: And then another house, one of my fourth grade teacher's daughter lived in this place and I think her 
husband was like, I don't know, had underage pictures of a girl on his phone or computer or something 
and he went to jail and like he wrote this lengthy apology on the outside of their letter, and... 
 
EH: Whoa. 
 
KM: Yeah, like that stuff stuck with me. Not even really what it said but just remembering that like this is 
someone desperately trying to get back in the good graces of someone they might care about but they just, 
I don't know, it just seems self-serving even then, you know? Yeah. 
 
30:26  
 
EH: Yeah, so these sort of things that you would learn about customers, was that mostly through the mail 
or just like delivering packages, or would you pick up stuff at the post office? 
 
KM: Some stuff, I always knew when someone on the route died because 2 of the other mail carriers were 
sisters and they both lived on King's Creek and they were both, they were like the heart of the gossip in 
the post office and so anything really juicy, they would convey, they would deliver in the morning. But I 
appreciated the context. One case there was a really wealthy mine owner who lived with his wife who 
was pretty sick right at the foot of Cowan Mountain in this really modest house. So I delivered their mail 
first and I delivered a few more boxes and then I delivered the business mail for the mine--their office 
was there. And then maybe 20 more boxes and there was this like really gaudy brick house that you could 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Kenny Miles – 11/21/21 
11 
 
tell had just been, like rooms had been added on, and I always delivered a lot of big packages there. And I 
learned after working for a little while that this was the mistress of the mine owner and everyone, 
everyone knew that he had paid to have this lavish ugly built for her over the last 2 decades. The wife 
knew but she also was sort of resigned to sort of stay in the house and, yeah. That was (laughs)... 
 
EH: Yeah, lots of juice! 
 
KM: Yeah. 
 
32:30  
 
EH: Let's see, yeah, what would you bring in the car with you, you know, for like emergencies and then 
also snacks, drinks? 
 
KM: Yeah. I would always have like a mug of coffee. I went through a phase where I got like a pizza roll 
every morning from Double Kwik and it was like, I'll call that a low point. (laughs) 
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
KM: Whatever, I cared too little. But there was one place that has closed, called Amburgey's Grocery that 
was right beside the Roxana Post Office. I would have to stop at 2 different post offices and pick up their 
outgoing mail every day and right beside the Roxana Post Office there was a grocery store called 
Amburgey's where he had like lots of different deli meat and canned goods and like certain tools. But 
there was no running water and it was the only place I could--there was running water, but it was like acid 
mine water, so it was bright orange and so there was only one toilet on the route and that was where I 
could pee (laughs) like halfway through the day. And if not, I would just like, there were a couple of spots 
I found where I could pee if I needed to pee (laughs) but I would get a sandwich at Amburgey's and he 
would like slice the meat, you know, fresh and was just a really sweet guy. And so yeah, I smoked while I 
worked on the route, so I would just smoke all day and drink coffee and sometimes have a sandwich from 
Amburgey's. 
 
EH: Nice. did you bring like shovels, or when it was winter would you wear boots, blankets, maybe... 
 
KM: Yeah, I would…no, well you have to get in and out so much that it's not, it wouldn't have, it would 
have been too painful to get cozy so I wore like duck boots and just tried to layer up. And also my skin 
gets really dry in the wintertime anyway and sort of, if I'm not vigilant about it, it like cracks and bleeds 
and stuff but on the route, it was terrible, but I couldn't wear a glove on both hands because I had to like 
fan the mail out with one hand, so it was always just like juggling keeping both hands warm and things 
like that. Yeah. 
 
EH: Would you get like a reverse driver, like trucker arm tan? 
 
KM: Tan? Yeah. And also a lot of the people who worked there had had, and had been doing it for a long 
time have had shoulder surgery from reaching back and my, I still experience shoulder pain from... 
 
EH: Wow! 
 
KM: ...reaching behind you and pulling up like a heavy bundle of mail or a package or something like 
that. So yeah, I think a lot of people's left shoulder gives them trouble. 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Kenny Miles – 11/21/21 
12 
 
EH: Crazy. 
 
KM: Yeah. 
 
36:09  
 
EH: I don't know if you would have seen changes in the 5 years you did it, but did the kind of mail 
change? Definitely more Amazon? 
 
KM: Yeah, it changed in a few ways. Like I think I worked right at the end of, like, people, just this 
region seems to evolve a little slower I think than the rest of the world, so I think I saw like the beginning 
of like lots of online shopping filter in. Like it was already happening in a lot of places in the county but I 
think the particular route that I had, people were sort of new to ordering things online and since, in that 
time, I've seen eBay businesses pop up just in people's double-wide or something. It's not advertised or 
anything, but they send out eBay packages every day, or Etsy shops and things like that. But also like 
campaign ads just like--they were always nasty, but they just seemed to like be so, like there would be, 
where there would be like 2 during an election cycle, there were like 10 different ads for like the same 
candidate and also like we have sales papers that have to go in every box, and car dealerships started to 
send out sales papers with keys glued to them, so like they wouldn't stack evenly. And well this may, I 
don't think it needs to be off the record, but I disposed of a large amount of those at one point because I 
missed the opportunity to deliver them before the event happened, so a friend of mine and I like, made 
them disappear (laughs). 
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
KM: Yeah, and then other than that just like you're mostly like a parcel delivery service now. And it's like 
junk mail and delivering packages. It doesn't seem like much quality mail gets sent around anymore. 
 
EH: Did it make you want to send more like letters and postcards? 
 
KM: Yeah, it made me appreciate like the value of a stamp. That is a pretty remarkable thing to be able to 
communicate over such great distances for that cheap, even though it seems clear that it doesn't cost--like 
the cost is not proportionate to what you're getting and that's one of the reasons the post office has always 
struggled to like remain afloat, which is, I don't understand like the Amazon contracts and things like that, 
like it just, it seems like they consistently do the opposite, make the opposite decision for the workers, 
which is not new, but yeah. It just seems, I'm confused by it. 
 
EH: Yeah. Let's see. Oh yeah, so you said the first time you carried mail alone--did you do it with 
someone before, like someone who had driven the route before? 
 
40:17  
 
KM: Yeah. The guy's name who trained me was Afton and I rode with him for a few days and had no 
idea, like I had never seen that side of the county and you make these loops between hollers that feel like 
you're in a totally different place, and even driving back out of the holler I felt like I was in a different, I 
didn't know that I had already been there, so I was just really confused and car sick. And then he went 
with me one day. I cased the mail by myself that morning and then he went with me just to make sure 
everything was cool. And that's why, it's another reason it was so frustrating to find myself lost (laughs) 
on a route that I'd traveled many times by that point. There was something that I meant to talk about that I 
can't remember now. 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Kenny Miles – 11/21/21 
13 
 
 
EH: Yeah, maybe it will come up. What are, were there stories that you heard from other carriers? What 
are the stories that people tell? 
 
KM: One guy who had had the same route that I had before was caught dumping a lot of mail on 
Kingdom Come Creek. I think at that time you still had to drive through a creek to get to the last box or 
something like that, and they had moved the box once I started working there, so when he got to the last 
box on the holler, any sales papers he had, any catalogs, any like they, you're not supposed to call it junk 
mail, but anything that is standard mail or anything but First Class and above really, except for like 
nonprofit mail, is sort of like (laughs) you feel like the meaninglessness of it and it can be so painful to 
spend your time putting it in the case, taking it out in a bundle, eventually putting it in their box, and it 
never leaves that box. Like some people just leave their mail there and it's just like...in the...even if they 
took it out of the box, it probably went directly into the trash can. It just feels so useless.  
 
43:05  
 
EH: Did you hear stories from your aunt about the job? 
 
KM: Mmm...not...when you meet my aunt, you'll see that she's not necessarily a storyteller. She's really 
funny but she's also like one of the quietest people I've ever known and she's just like extremely polite 
and reserved and I remember now what I was gonna say. The reason I worked her route at all was because 
her son was in a car accident and died, and he was my cousin and we were around the same age. And she 
would have had to work the route. Like he was on life support for 2 weeks or so, and she would have had 
to work the route, and so I learned her route and then like would fill in for her some after that but that's 
the only hard, I mean that's why--they would talk about people going postal (laughs)! 
 
EH: Is that where it's from? 
 
KM: Yeah, I think so! Like the refrain, rather than her telling me stories, it would just be like the mail 
never stops. Or it doesn't matter what happens as long as the mail gets delivered. We are obligated legally 
to see that these very important catalogs make it into every box, you know? So yeah. That may be--like 
there is lore attached to delivering mail but it's more of like this pride in staying sane (laughs) in the face 
of a constant never-ending supply of useless information. 
 
45:19  
 
EH: Oh I had something too--let's see, maybe my questions will help. Was there like a time when it was 
really challenging, like really inclement weather when you weren't sure if you were going to be able to get 
it done? 
 
KM: Yeah. There were times when I had a flat and didn't have a spare and the postmaster had to come 
and we delivered the mail together. Another time we used my van to deliver the mail. And I had to be 
towed. it was really icy one day and there was a pretty steep hill that didn't get a lot of sun and there was a 
really steep drop off to the creek below and I thought I could make it up the hill and I started spinning 
when I was cresting the hill and I was just like edging over to the cliff. And I was on the right side so I 
could like see over. I got out and pulled the emergency brake and just left it there, but it was like inches 
away from just flipping over into the creek, so it had to be carefully pulled out and then backed down. All 
of those days were really stressful because it seemed clear that the mail wasn't gonna get delivered. And 
there were also times when it just took a really long time in the morning to even get out on the route. And 
if... I had to pick up the registers and outgoing mail from the other 2 post offices before a certain time so 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Kenny Miles – 11/21/21 
14 
 
if I wasn't gonna make it there in time for that, I had to coordinate with somebody at the post office to 
come and get the registers. I think that's all.  
 
47:48  
 
EH: I'm looking at my questions. Oh yeah, so you were saying that the grocery store closed. Were there 
other things that changed like over the 5 years you did the route? Like you know people move or 
businesses close or landscape changes because of whatever? 
 
KM: Mmhm. Lots of people died, including now the grocery store owner. And (sighs) I mean there were 
some like new builds but they seemed like sort of makeshift and like somebody just needed quick shelter. 
It was, I think the only thing that really noticeably changed was like things just like are crumbling 
(laughs). You know? Like with a lot of the people, like the older people dying, there was no one to like 
take on their property or anything like that, so yeah, it's just slowly crumbling. It's not being--there's no 
need for it to be replaced by anything because there's not really a demand for that space, I guess. Yeah. 
 
EH: Could you describe the scenery on your route, or maybe a favorite stretch of the route, especially for 
someone who's you know, never been to Eastern Kentucky? 
 
KM: Mmhm. It feels like you get a window into not only how people live now in more remote places, but 
how they lived a long time ago. It seemed like people that probably came of age in the '50s or '60s like 
didn't really update anything from that point on and that was strange to think about them at that time 
putting down roots so far outside of any kind of town or anything like that. So the route is very steep at 
times but also you get a pretty high perspective on a lot of different valleys that are just filled with houses 
and a lot of the hollers are named like Hatfield or Flintfield or they're named after the family that settled 
it. And then the other houses in the holler are populated by their relatives. So you see these clusters of 
families and the slight variations of the way that they all live. You also pass probably 10 or 15 churches 
on that route that are all small churches that just cater to the people that live immediately around it. There 
are, one of my favorite places was Defeated Creek (laughs). There was a Primitive Baptist Church right at 
the mouth of Defeated Creek and there's also been a lot of, it's like 7 miles from Lilley Cornet woods, and 
there's been a lot of like extraction on top of the mountain, like at the end of Defeated Creek. But I would 
always see a lot of animals, like deer, I saw a few owls there. And it just seemed like you were far, yeah, 
you were far away from convenience but it would have been a really nice place to live, I think. But you 
know, all types of people lived there and like some, I don't know, I think, another thing you see on the 
route is people living with very little and it's like impressive to see them persist through the winter with 
like brown smoke rolling out of the chimney the whole time. Yeah. And I'm not, I wish I was better at 
describing like what you see, like the nature you see from the road because it is breathtaking. But there 
were moments every day that I felt like I couldn't help but be grateful that I got to see this today. I 
wouldn't have had a reason to otherwise.  
 
54:02  
 
EH: So you were doing the route in the afternoon, before 4, basically? 
 
KM: Yeah, I would usually leave the post office between 10 and 11--on a really good day, 9:30. And I 
was free on the route the rest of the day. Yeah, so like I got to see the fog lift and the sun come out and 
yeah, I mean now I'm just imagining there are a few places where you might come around a turn and 
you're overlooking a big field of grass or whatever, with just like a really impressive view of the 
mountains. Yeah. And fall was always really beautiful. But I think I never had been as aware of the 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Kenny Miles – 11/21/21 
15 
 
seasons changing. Spring was really impressive too. And it felt like a nice reward after being miserable all 
winter. 
 
EH: Right, right. Yeah, seeing regular, daily changes along one route. 
 
KM: Mmhm. 
 
EH: That's really interesting. 
 
KM: And just like, yeah, the slow impact of time on a cinder block building is like heartbreaking, you 
know? (laughs) 
 
EH: Yeah! Totally. Yep. 
 
KM: But also like, yeah, you have to develop a peace with it and acceptance of it. 
 
EH: Let's see, that's a pretty good way to end, I think. Is there anything else you want to share that I didn't 
ask about?  
 
56:11  
 
KM: One funny story is there was one guy on top of Cowan Mountain that got diabetic testing strips 
delivered, but it looked like his, the bag it came in looked like all of the other prescription medication and 
it would always come on Wednesday which is the same day that I would deliver The Mountain Eagle 
[local newspaper published out of Whitesburg, Kentucky] and I would just like fold up the paper and put 
all of his mail inside the paper and put it in the box. And for a few weeks in a row I would get back from 
the route on Wednesday and he would have called and complained that I was taking his testing strips and 
the postmaster eventually like staked out his driveway with him, with binoculars and they watched the 
mailbox after I dropped off the Mountain Eagle that day. 
 
EH: Whoa. Is that normal? 
 
KM: I don't think so, but also the postmaster was really--her name was Kenna and I think she still is the 
postmaster but she was like from here and very sweet but also very frantic all the time. She was like 
stressed but would do anything to make sure people were okay. (laughs) And so she wanted me, she 
wanted my name to be clear for this guy and she was like willing to go out and do this. 
 
EH: Surveille you. 
 
KM: Yeah! And they saw the neighbor come and get his paper, and they just took all of the mail with it 
and they had been stealing his paper every week. 
 
EH: Whoa! 
 
KM: (laughs)  
 
EH: Didn't his neighbor get a Mountain Eagle, or no? 
 
KM: No! Yeah, it's like a... 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Kenny Miles – 11/21/21 
16 
 
EH: It's subscription? 
 
KM: Mmhm (laughs) 
 
EH: Okay. Whoa. (laughs) So then do you know what they did? 
 
KM: I don't know, I think they probably just like, he probably had a talk with his neighbor. 
 
EH: It's a federal crime, right? 
 
KM: Yeah. (laughs) 
 
EH: (laughs) That's pretty funny. 
 
KM: Yeah. 
 
EH: Well thank you so much, this was really great. A really good first interview. 
 
KM: Well good. Thank you for interviewing me. 
 
EH: Yeah! 
 
58:35