Fieldnotes 
 
Project: AFC Archie Green Fellowship Project/VFC2014-0005 
Accession Number: AU2015-1007 
Interviewee: Mark Boyden 
Interviewer: Andy Kolovos 
Interview Date: March 19, 2015 
Interview Location: Boyden Farm, Cambridge, VT 
 
This is another interview in a series aimed at exploring the network of growers and 
producers who supply Fletcher Allen Hosptial/University of Vermont Medical 
Center. 
 
Another painfully cold day.  I figured I knew the operation based on the association 
with the winery, but plotted the trip out on Google Maps just to be sure. Due to a 
screw up (I think rather than using my house as a starting point it used Maple Wind 
Farm Huntington, VT) it told me the trip would take an hour. I freaked out a little 
because I had budgeted an anticipated half hour and was a bit confused—so I took 
off as soon as I could.  Turns out it was the place I thought and it was a half hour 
away so I arrived a good half hour early. I opted to kill time getting coffee and sitting 
in my at the general store/gas station until I deemed it close enough to the actual 
time to head back to the farm. 
 
Once again identifying WHERE I was supposed to meet the interviewee proved to be 
a bit of a problem, so I humped around a bit in the cold and ultimately decided to 
knock on the door to one of the houses on the farm.  Two older people were there 
and they told me to check the winery for Mark, which I did.  Winery people told me 
he was out dealing with a bad well pump and I could find him near the production 
room.  It was freezing, but I eventually did locate him.  Mark and I then went over to 
his office and settled in for another rapid-fire interview about the farm and his piece 
of it. 
 
The original Boyden farm was a dairy operation that now encompasses four distinct 
operations—the Winery, run by Mark’s brother; the Barn—an event venue—run by 
Mark’s wife; a sugaring operation, run by Mark’s father; and the business known as 
“Boyden Farm”—a beef operation owned by Mark.  Notable for this interview is the 
use of a noisy space heater to warm the office—yet another theme that emerged in 
the practical experience of conducting interviews for this project. 
 
Very interesting interview. Mark is focused on product development and marketing 
what he produces and from that perspective the interview is extremely rich.  If I 
recall correctly Mark stated something along the following lines, “what I’m selling is 
a story.” Good perspective on Black River Produce and their involvement with meat 
producers and his efforts to create and market his own distinct kind of 
“regionalized” beef cattle. He’s a classic, entrepreneurial, VT farmer deeply 
enmeshed in the business side of his operation.