Gimmicks, Gold, and Gushers 
The Occupational Folklife of Independent Professional Wrestlers 
 
 
 
 
Maggard, Kyle​ ​— Oral History Interview 
 
July 24, 2020 
 
Delainey Bowers 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This oral history interview was created in 2020 as part of the ​Gimmicks, Gold, and Gushers: The 
Occupational Folklife of Independent Professional Wrestlers ​project with funding from the 
Archie Green Fellowship provided by the American Folklife Center at the Library of Congress.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interview with Kyle Maggard, July 24, 2020 
1 
Background Information 
 
Name of interviewee:​ Kyle Maggard 
Wrestling name: Kyle Maggard 
Date of birth:​ 
 1983 
Current residence:​ Hazard, Kentucky 
 
Interviewer:​ Delainey Bowers 
Indexer:​ Delainey Bowers 
 
Interview format:​ Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, this interview was conducted remotely via 
SquadCast, a web-based VoIP podcasting platform. Poor connectivity issues cause several drops 
in the interview audio as well as noticeable feedback. Maggard was at his home in Hazard, 
Kentucky, while Bowers recorded the interview at her place of residence in Somerset, Kentucky.  
 
Date of interview: ​July 24, 2020 
 
Keywords: ​Professional wrestling, independent professional wrestling, wrestlers, sports, 
athletes, entertainment, wrestling promoters, wrestling promotions, wrestling matches, Kentucky, 
Tennessee, Appalachia, Appalachian Mountain Wrestling 
 
Abstract: ​Kyle Maggard, whose wrestling name is also Kyle Maggard, has worked as a 
professional wrestler throughout central Appalachia for the last 20 years. In 2016, Maggard 
created his own independent promotion, Appalachian Mountain Wrestling, based in Hazard, 
Kentucky. In this oral history, Maggard talks about the challenges of owning a promotion, how 
the Appalachian region has influenced his approach to wrestling, and how he manages to stay 
relevant in a rapidly changing industry.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interview with Kyle Maggard, July 24, 2020 
2 
Index 
 
[00:00:00] Brief introduction; Kyle Maggard (“Kyle Maggard”) describes basic personal 
background information including his date of birth and his current place of residence in Hazard, 
Kentucky. Maggard speaks to the value of wrestling under his own name.  
 
[00:02:03] Maggard discusses his own personal connection to professional wrestling. ​Hulk 
Hogan’s Rock ‘n’ Wrestling​ Saturday morning cartoon was one of Maggard’s first introductions 
to the sport. In high school, Maggard took an interest in televised wrestling programs such as 
World Championship Wrestling (WCW) and World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). Maggard 
shares a story about a family feud with renowned professional wrestler “Macho Man” Randy 
Savage.  
 
Maggard briefly mentions that pro wrestlers on television routinely challenged authority, drank 
beers, and catcalled scantily clad women, which is why he found the industry so alluring.  
 
[00:05:08] Maggard recounts his trajectory towards becoming an independent professional 
wrestler. Maggard was working at Walmart when he was approached by Eddie Browning, who 
was part of a local tag-team duo with John Noble. Maggard, who played sports in high school, 
expressed interest in becoming a wrestler. Browning offered Maggard the chance to ride along to 
several shows the following weekend. He details the differences between televised spectacles 
and smaller independent promotions and how his expectations were crushed when he entered the 
tiny restaurant building where they planned to perform. “I was like, ‘This isn’t wrestling.’” 
 
Maggard talks about the early days of training. His first lesson was absorbing chest chops from 
other wrestlers in the locker room. Maggard was exposed to a large number of different 
promotions in a short amount of time. Long car rides allowed Maggard to receive life advice and 
career advice from two of his closest mentors, Browning and Noble. “I spent basically every 
minute from Friday to Monday with them.” Maggard still considers them to be his best friends.  
 
[00:10:27] Maggard lists examples of other foundational lessons he learned as a beginner 
wrestler. Maggard believes the term “fake” is unfair to wrestlers. He explains the number of 
serious injuries he has sustained within the last year. Learning how to “bump” (i.e. fall properly), 
run the ropes, and how to master basic maneuvers and holds. Repetition is crucial.  
 
Relatedly, Maggard notes how the various styles of wrestling differ from one another. “Southern 
style” wrestling denotes a “slower pace and trying to engage the crowd more.” “ECW style” or 
“hardcore” is incredibly violent. “WWE style” is geared towards a television audience. Styles 
and storytelling are symbiotic and regionally dependent. “Here in the mountains the fans like to 
be engaged.” Engaging with fans is vital and guarantees repeat customers.  
 
[00:14:32] Maggard sees his in-ring persona as an extension of himself. “Yeah. I always just 
wanted to be me.” He mentions the impracticality of attempting to reinvent the wheel, but 
figuring out character motivations and responses is an important part of development. “You 
wanna make yourself an attraction.” Again, Maggard stresses the necessity of engaging with the 
Interview with Kyle Maggard, July 24, 2020 
3 
crowd. Similar to his everyday approach to life, the Kyle Maggard persona finds a balance 
between “poking fun” and “being serious.”  
 
Maggard describes his attempts at building a connection with the audience both in and out of the 
ring. Running the same towns allows Maggard to recognize families that frequent his shows. “I 
try to know them the best I can. Kind of get a sense for what they want.” Making eye contact 
with fans in the crowd and high-fiving are also essential. “I gauge by what they’re giving me.” 
 
[00:18:46] Maggard explores the challenges of building a brand. “You always wanna build your 
brand. That’s what people are invested in.” Maggard draws parallels between Michael Jordan’s 
contract with Nike and professional wrestlers monetizing their gimmick. Selling merchandise is 
a good way to assess branding success.  
 
[00:21:43] Maggard outlines the history behind the creation of Appalachian Mountain Wrestling, 
Maggard’s own promotion based in Hazard, Kentucky. Maggard was looking for a way to finish 
school while providing for his family. He began working as a sports official and took fewer 
wrestling bookings. When he wanted to wrestle, issues always arose which prevented him from 
accepting the booking. Maggard decided to create his own promotion in order to ensure a level 
of consistency. Drawing on his community connections, Maggard hosted fundraisers for local 
organizations, which raised more awareness about AMW.  
 
From the beginning, Maggard wanted to tape his shows. This led to being broadcast on local 
television stations. Maggard remembers the first taped show he produced on September 8, 2016 
in Buckhorn, Kentucky. Maggard comments on how hot the gymnasium was. “Most gyms in 
eastern Kentucky don’t have air conditioning.” The event was nearly four hours long, which is 
nearly double the length of his shows now. “It’s just something I’ve learned on the fly as I went.” 
 
[00:26:30] Maggard talks about how he pieces together a show card (i.e. show line-up). “I 
haven’t had a night of wrestling where I haven’t took that card and basically tore it up and threw 
it away.” He explains the challenges of finding wrestlers who follow through with their 
commitments. Maggard provides insight into the storytelling process and how he comes up with 
plot ideas. “Basically, everything’s been done before.” Maggard draws inspiration from older 
wrestling programs, movies, television shows, and national events. He sometimes finds it 
mentally exhausting.  
 
[00:28:53] Maggard outlines a typical show day from start to finish as both a wrestler and 
promoter. “When I wake up in the morning, I’m already stressed out.” Maggard expects 
cancellations. If the show is for a television taping, Maggard reaches out to commentators and 
camera operators. Once he arrives at the building, Maggard sets up the ring, banners, and 
additional recording equipment. Wrestlers arrive by 6:30 and changes to the card are inevitable. 
Maggard goes over the card with all the wrestlers. Once the show begins, Maggard is in the 
control booth overseeing the taping. Oftentimes Maggard will wrestle in the first match in order 
to get back to the control booth as quickly as possible. After the show, Maggard conducts 
interviews and cuts promos. He pays wrestlers and the building owner, and then packs up the 
ring. Going to Waffle House after a show is a cherished tradition.  
Interview with Kyle Maggard, July 24, 2020 
4 
[00:33:34] Working as a promoter, Maggard often feels as if he’s missing out on the camaraderie 
of traveling from town to town. He believes working as a wrestler is significantly less stressful. 
When he travels to other promotions, promoters frequently ask him for assistance in putting 
together a card. “I would kill just to go wrestle and not have to worry about anything else.” 
 
[00:35:22] Maggard tries to strike a balance between keeping industry secrets and offering fans a 
“peek behind the curtain.” Maggard likens the wrestling industry to a “brotherhood” or a 
“fraternity” that used to be selective about who they welcomed into the business. “Now 
everybody can get in, and it’s a lot of the wrong people.” Maggard feels contemporary wrestlers 
are too easily offended. He touches on how wrestlers who take pride in training are often 
overlooked for wrestlers who perform risky stunts.  
 
[00:38:39] Maggard reflects on some of the more challenging aspects of running a promotion. 
Appalachian Mountain Wrestling is a traveling promotion that requires a lot of behind-the-scenes 
gruntwork. “Getting fans to the building.” Promoting AMW’s brand through several social 
media platforms is one way to guarantee an audience. Maggard touches on how independent 
promotions have evolved over the course of the last decade. Flyers, newspaper ads, and radio 
ads, while effective, lack the reach of social media posts.  
 
Maggard discusses the longstanding tradition of shaking every wrestler’s hand when walking 
into a building. Working collaboratively is crucial to running a solid promotion. Veteran status is 
evaluated by the number of matches wrestled and not by how long someone has worked in the 
industry. Per Maggard’s example, 365 matches equals one year of wrestling.  
 
[00:44:43] Maggard reminisces on some of his stronger matches and those he used as learning 
opportunities. He looks back fondly on several matches with “Stan Sierra,” a Kentucky-based 
professional wrestler. “A lot of people judge how they did differently.” Maggard uses crowd 
reaction as his measure of success. He draws a connection between the movie-going experience 
and attending a wrestling show. “Sometimes two wrestlers can’t make it work. Sometimes the 
fans just don’t care about you.” 
 
Maggard addresses how the coronavirus pandemic has affected Appalachian Mountain 
Wrestling. No new episodes are being taped, so Maggard relies on archival footage for weekly 
television shows. The building AMW used as a home base was forced to close as a result of the 
pandemic.  
 
Maggard talks about what makes Appalachian crowds unique. He shares that fans who return to 
shows often become like family. Maggard provides an example of a nearby promotion where 
wrestlers attended the funeral of a devoted fan.  
 
[00:51:37] Maggard touches on the pressure to come up with promotional gimmicks that feel 
fresh and relevant (e.g. The AMW Hall of Fame or a docuseries on a local wrestler). “We’re 
constantly coming up with stuff to try and generate and keep people interested.” Coronavirus has 
forced AMW to get creative about how it reaches new audiences.  
 
Interview with Kyle Maggard, July 24, 2020 
5 
[00:54:20] Looking towards the future, Maggard comments on popular trends in professional 
wrestling. “In the next five years, I’d like to have us a permanent building to tape television in 
that we’re running a training school out of.” Partnering with a larger affiliate as a way to 
exchange wrestlers and buying airtime on more television channels.  
 
[00:55:35] Maggard gives advice to those interested in becoming professional wrestlers. 
“Don’t.” He mentions “Marty Clay,” a young trainee at Appalachian Mountain Wrestling. 
“Don’t ever settle. You gotta be willing to get out of your comfort zone.” Maggard underscores 
wrestling as an entrepreneurial endeavor. “If you don’t hustle, you’re never gonna make it.” 
Taking the sport seriously. Acting professionally. “Take pride in what you do.” 
 
[01:00:47] End of interview 
Interview with Kyle Maggard, July 24, 2020 
6