AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Nancy Roten – 2/20/2022 
1 
 
Nancy Roten 
Where: The home of Doug Munroe (Nancy’s husband) 
Date: February 20, 2022 
Location: Warrensville, NC 
Interviewer: Emily Hilliard 
Transcription: Emily Hilliard 
Length: 41:37 
 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Nancy Roten – 2/20/2022 
2 
 
 
I was put in touch with Nancy Roten through my friend Louis Munroe, Nancy’s stepson.  
Nancy Roten (b. 1950, Ashe County, North Carolina) is a retired mail carrier from Ashe County, North 
Carolina. She began carrying the mail in 1987, on the Warrensville and Lansing, North Carolina routes, 
and believes she was the first woman rural mail carrier hired in the county. She met her current husband, 
Doug Munroe, through her mail route. In this interview, Roten speaks about the various accidents and 
job-related injuries she had while working as a rural mail carrier, the mail vehicles she had over the 
course of her career, her relationship with her customers, and delivering the mail during inclement 
weather.  
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Nancy Roten – 2/20/2022 
3 
 
NR: Nancy Roten 
EH: Emily Hilliard 
DM: Doug Munroe 
 
00:00 
EH: Okay it is I think February 20, 2022. I'm in Warrensville, North Carolina. Why don't you introduce 
yourself and tell me your name, what year you were born and where you're from? 
 
NR: Hey. I'm Nancy Roten. I was born [redacted] 1950, and I'm raised in Ashe County. Born and raised 
in Ashe County [North Carolina]. 
 
EH: So what interested you initially in becoming a rural carrier? 
 
NR: Well I became divorced and had two small children. I needed money (laughs). So I applied for a 
rural carrier position and then to my knowledge Ashe County had never hired a woman carrier before, for 
the post office anyway, they had a Star Route, but that was not through the post office. But I was the first, 
to my knowledge, woman hired in Ashe County because they didn't think a woman could do it. 
 
EH: Did you face other sexism on the job? 
 
NR: Well (laughs). Just saying I looked better than any other mail carrier they'd seen. 
 
EH: (laughs) Yeah, so tell me when you started and what it was like to learn the job? 
 
01:32  
 
NR: I started in 1987 and I had a female postmaster. I never met her but she was from this area too. But 
she was convinced I could not do it. And she made me follow the regular carrier behind him which was 
very dangerous all day. There was no room to pull over for the boxes (laughs) but anyway I did it! And 
she thought I'd be convinced that I did not want it after that, but didn't do a thing in that way. So since I'd 
made the highest on the test, like 10-20 points higher than anyone else, they hired me! (laughs) 
 
EH: They had to! What year was that? 
 
NR: It was 1987. 
 
EH: And tell me about your initial route on those first days on the job. 
 
NR: Well, I did the Warrensville route and there was--I can't remember how many boxes I actually started 
with. I did the Warrensville route and then I drove to Lansing and did a small route down there. It was a 
combination when I first started. And it was about 400 and some mailboxes at that time. But before I 
retired it was, I think it was a little over 500 boxes.  
 
03:02  
 
EH: Do you remember how many miles initially? 
 
NR: It was 80-some miles. Those were mountain miles and most of it was driving in the ditch line! 
 
EH: And did it get bigger over time? 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Nancy Roten – 2/20/2022 
4 
 
 
NR: Oh yeah. It got really bigger. I was talking to the regular carrier now that replaced me and he said 
he's gonna have to retire, the route was killing him! 
 
EH: Oh no. 
 
NR: I said, well it killed me! (laughs) 
 
EH: Tell me about, walk me through your day to when you would first arrive at the post office to when 
you would get home at night.  
 
NR: Well I had a very caring postmaster and I had two small children and she let me come in 15 minutes 
late so I could drop off my kids at school every day. And I sorted the mail at the post office. You have to 
get everything in order, every letter in order, every package in order, every package and put it in your car 
in a way that you can reach it. And then go out on the route and you're out driving all day.  
 
EH: And then would you have to go anywhere else, you know stop in at another post office at all to pick 
up mail, or just that one stop? 
 
NR: Well, like I said when I first started it was 2 post offices I worked out of. I had like 80% at 
Warrensville Post Office and about 20% at the Lansing Post Office. But the Warrensville route became so 
big later on that it was just the Warrensville route. 
 
04:41  
 
EH: Tell me about the vehicles you had when you, over the year. Did you have a right-side drive vehicle? 
 
NR: I didn't have a, I started out with a straight shift Subaru. I didn't have a right-hand drive. I didn't have 
a right-hand drive until I had an injury and felt like I had to get one. And that was just the last 3 years of 
my job. 
 
EH: So was that, you had to shift and deliver the mail, so how did you navigate that reaching across to the 
right window? 
 
NR: Well some carriers sat on the console with one leg across the console, which is probably illegal, but I 
did not do that. I got what they call a mail hawk which is like a grabber and it would hold my letters and 
magazines and then I opened the mailbox with it but it ruined my arm and my hand, but anyway, that's 
how I delivered it. 
 
EH: Did you get carpal tunnel or anything from that? 
 
NR: I later on had (motions with shoulder) 
 
EH: Rotator cuff? 
 
NR: Rotator cuff surgery. But that was due to a fall also. But I was, yeah, that's another story.  
 
EH: Why don't you describe the landscape on your route, you know, especially for someone who's never 
been to Ashe County or this part of North Carolina. What does it look like around here and the areas you 
delivered to? 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Nancy Roten – 2/20/2022 
5 
 
 
NR: Well, I'd say probably 75% is mountainous and there were certain spots on my route, even my 
customers would come out and tell me on really bad days, they'd say, "Don't go down that mountain!" But 
I did and, well when it first started, I had no cell phone because they didn't exist, or to my knowledge. 
And I had like I say, a straight shift car and I would have to go to a customer's house if I had problems 
and that was one thing, I was so thankful for--my customers were so helpful. 
 
07:23  
 
EH: Yeah, tell me about your relationship with your customers. 
 
NR: Well, I'd like to think I had a good relationship with most of them! (laughs) Or a few, but yeah, I had 
them fix my car, one customer drove me around the route one day. I only lagged about an hour, but she 
drove me around, she insisted on driving me around the route and then one customer let me borrow her 
car and I can't imagine doing that route without my customers. I mean without the ones I had that helped 
me.  
 
EH: Yeah, why did she want to drive you around your route, were you injured or something? 
 
NR: Well my car tore up! You were constantly having car problems. I had as many as 6 flats in 2 weeks. 
It was constantly flats because you were driving in the ditch line and picking up every nail and screw. 
 
EH: Yeah, yeah. 
 
NR: I had blowouts, I had, you name it. (laughs) 
 
EH: Oh man. 
 
NR: Wrecks. 
 
EH: Oh, what about customers, would they ever leave you thinks in their mailboxes as gifts? 
 
NR: Yes. When I first started seeing my husband, they left me so many vegetables out of their garden that 
we canned 'em! (laughs) And they would leave me things. A lot of customers would leave me stuff, 
especially at Christmastime. But they were just so sweet. (points to list she has written down of things to 
talk about, including "wrecks") 
 
08:56  
 
EH: Oh yeah, why don't we talk about the wrecks that you had on your route. 
 
NR: Yeah, I had 3 total, my car was totaled 3 times. Not my fault. The first time I was turning into a 
gravel road and it was just extremely muddy and a 16 year old came around and he just wasn't that 
experienced and hit me head on. And then the 2nd wreck I had, I was driving on pavement in 
Warrensville and I was driving like 45 miles an hour, and she was driving 45 miles an hour and she was 
in a line-up of cars coming toward me, and then when I got right to her, she plowed into me and they had 
taught me, they gave me safety talks every morning and one of the safety talks to me not to ever hit 
anyone head-on. So I just had time to turn my wheel and slam on the brake but that saved me from going 
into the car where her children were and I ended up, I woke up in the hospital after that. 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Nancy Roten – 2/20/2022 
6 
 
EH: Oh wow. 
 
NR: She passed out. 
 
EH: What injuries did you have? 
 
NR: She passed out. Well my injuries weren't that serious, I just, my head shattered the windshield and 
my seat had broken. I shouldn't...but anyway. (laughs) My seat had broken and when it did, I just flew 
forward. It was like a roller skate. And she had passed out. Or she said she passed out and then later on 
she changed her mind and said she didn't know what happened because she was afraid she would lose her 
license, I presume. So that was the worst accident I had and then another accident came years later when 
someone plowed into the back of me, and it ended up giving me TMJ in my neck and permanent damage 
in my knees. 
 
EH: And did you get any kind of workman's comp for this? 
 
NR: No, I was never out of work for a car wreck! (laughs) 
 
EH: So you just went right back to work. 
 
NR: Yes. 
 
EH: Wow, that's crazy. (laughs) Yeah, aside from the Subaru, what were the other vehicles that you had? 
 
11:35  
 
NR: I had a little Escort but it was 95% Subarus. I had to maintain 4 Subarus. When I was part time, a 
substitute carrier, I had to have 2 Subarus to keep one running and then when I went full-time, I had to 
have 4 Subarus to keep one running, and there were times that 3 of 'em would be in the shop.  
 
EH: Wow. And that's all on the carrier to pay for those expenses, right? 
 
NR: Yes. We did pay the expenses, but we did get mileage also. 
 
EH: Yeah, tell me about the injuries from those wrecks and just from the daily motion of being a mail 
carrier. ("injuries" was also on Nancy's list). 
 
NR: (laughs) Well, one thing I liked about mail carrying is when I went home, you never had to think 
about it. You could leave your work at work. And so that was not a problem. I don't think I had a lot of 
emotional, any emotional--and I can remember, except for my injuries, which I shouldn't have had, not 
involving a vehicle, I fell off the loading dock and was out of work 9 months!  
 
EH: Oh no! 
 
NR: And then I had an eye injury. When I got the right-hand drive, it had a little shield over the window 
that you put the mail through and it was attached with bungee cords, so the bungee cord went in my eye 
one day and I had to have surgery on that eye, and that was the 2 worst injuries I had (laughs) 
 
EH: Sounds bad. Tell me about what you would wear on the job in different kinds of weather. 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Nancy Roten – 2/20/2022 
7 
 
NR: Oh, I'm cold natured. In the wintertime, so I would wear 2 layers of long johns and then really thick 
pants 'cause I felt like if I put on a lot on my legs I didn't have to wear so much at the top where I had to 
move. But the places that got the coldest were your feet, hands, and the back of your neck, 'cause with the 
window down, the wind would just come behind and hit the back of your head.  
 
EH: Tell me about the different weather you would encounter. 
 
14:08  
 
NR: Well, sleet, rain, and snow (laughs) You've heard. All kinds of weather. Went through a flood one 
day where I was able to drive back to the post office, but my neighboring carrier had to leave his car and 
hitch a ride and he'd forgot and left his windows down so it was flooded when he went back. But yeah, it 
was just incredible being out there in all kinds of weather and I tried to make every mailbox on the worst 
days. I would leave off the worst areas which I was allowed to. I was allowed to use my own discretion as 
far as...I had to try. I had to attempt to go out in my car but after that I could use my own discretion and 
anywhere, I didn't think was safe, I'd bring back and deliver the next day. 
 
EH: What about wildlife or domesticated animals like dogs? What kinds of encounters would you have 
with animals? 
 
NR: Well, I was always afraid of dogs because before I became a mail carrier, I was bitten 3 times. So I 
mean I was afraid of big dogs. But one day I was so scared of the big dog when I knocked on the door 
that I accidentally stepped on its tail and it caught me. (laughs) But anyway, yeah. Dogs were a menace to 
me. I ran over. I killed one dog accidentally. It was laying asleep around a curve and I hated that really 
bad. And I ran over another dog and thought I'd hurt it but it didn't even hurt it, it just laid down and I 
went over it. (laughs) 
 
EH: Yeah, what about other animals that you would see along your route. 
 
NR: Well, lots of times there would be cows out. Oh, I saw lots of deer. It was ironic because I was 
becoming an expert on which days what wild animals were out in the road. Like one day it'd be squirrels, 
one day it'd be deer, one day I'd see lots of rabbits and so forth. 
 
EH: All on a certain day? 
 
NR: Yeah! It would seem like one day you'd see mostly deer and another day it would be mostly squirrels 
or so forth. 
 
EH: It was like the day they decided to be out and about. (laughs) 
 
NR: Weather affected them. 
 
16:40  
 
EH: What would you bring along with you in your car for different weather, safety, that kind of thing. 
 
NR: Well I brought shingles, a couple of shingles like roofing shingles for getting stuck. I had a shovel, I 
had a wool blanket and a big candle. We were told that if we got in a, off the road and it was cold that a 
candle would keep us from freezing to death. And that's what I remember anyway. 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Nancy Roten – 2/20/2022 
8 
 
EH: Did you ever get stranded and you had to stay in the car for a while? 
 
NR: Only 'til the wrecker came! (laughs) 
 
EH: What about food? Would you stop somewhere for lunch or bring snacks along with you? 
 
NR: We didn't have time to stop for lunch. I always brought a sandwich. I actually ate. There were a few 
restaurants in Warrensville, one restaurant. But I did stop maybe a couple times a year and it was, when 
people would see me in there, often times I would go to pay and they'd say, "Your lunch has already been 
paid for."  
 
EH: Aw. You were appreciated in the community. 
 
NR: I hope. Most people like me. 
 
EH: Yeah. What about a bathroom stop--was that a concern? 
 
18:11  
 
NR: Well I did stop during lunch time but there was a store. But after that you hit the woods and you had 
certain spots where you thought you'd be safe other than bears and wild animals.  
 
EH: People! 
 
NR: Well, I never worried about people. 
 
EH: How did your job changes over how many years did you do it and how did your job change from 
when you first started? 
 
NR: Well I substituted, substitute carrier for 8 years. I averaged 2 days a week. And then when I became, 
I also substitute taught school during that time. And then when I became fulltime I did it for 20 years, so a 
total of 28 years.  
 
EH: And how did it change over those 28 years? The work or the route or... 
 
NR: Well, I think the major change was me. I got older. (laughs) But anyway the route did become bigger 
and more houses and places where you would go to the bathroom weren't there anymore! So it just 
became much more populated and more route.  
 
EH: What about technology--the scanning system or the way the mail was sorted. Did that change? 
 
NR: No, very little. We started getting in trays of letters that were already presorted that we didn't have to 
sort, we'd just take to the route, but not all the letters. It was just First Class letters were presorted often, 
the last few years of the route. And then we were assigned scanners which we had to scan everything that 
had a barcode. 
 
EH: And did you have to deliver packages as well to people's doors?  
 
NR: Oh yes (laughs). Yes, you delivered many packages. I had over a 100 at times. But now it's like 
Amazon has just taken over I hear. 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Nancy Roten – 2/20/2022 
9 
 
 
EH: How did the type of mail that you delivered change? 
 
NR: Well, unfortunately what's hurt the post office so much is they've lost a lot of First Class letters and 
First Class mail. And that's where they always made their money and they'd try to make up for it by 
getting all these packages and Third Class mail, but it's not the quality, in my view, as it used to be.  
 
20:57  
 
EH: What was the most unusual thing you delivered in the mail? 
 
NR: Live chickens, live bees. Had to deliver queen bees. (laughs) Ducks. Sometimes you didn't know 
what you were delivering, but that's what I know I delivered.  
 
EH: Did you ever have any escapes of those fowl or bees? 
 
NR: No. No escapes (laughs) 
 
EH: That's lucky! Tell me what it was like being a sub and how that worked? When you would get called 
and knew you had to deliver. 
 
NR: Yeah, I substituted for the carrier in Warrensville and he oftentimes would call me late at night or 
early in the morning and one time I heard his wife say, "Mack!" Say his name and say, "You tell her 
whether or not you're gonna work and quit that back and forth!" 
 
EH: (laughs) And how did the pay work? I assume you didn't get benefits as a sub? 
 
22:01  
 
NR: No. You had to be fulltime to get benefits.  
 
EH: How did you see the area change on your route over the years? Did it get more developed or did the 
landscape change in any way? 
 
NR: Yes, it did. More populated and some of the prettiest areas were developed. I had one area which was 
along the river and that was just so pretty but it became very developed later, to my dismay.  
 
EH: What about weather? Did that change noticeably over time? 
 
NR: I really didn't notice that but I'm sure it did. You're just so focused on delivering the mail, but I'm 
sure it got warmer.  
 
EH: Tell me a little more about those customers that you developed a friendship with or a good 
relationship. 
 
NR: Well some of 'em were so nice. I think they were nice to everyone. But they would make me 
handmade gifts at Christmastime. One fellow, it started out and I had my first box, my first mailbox, and 
it was real cold, it's like maybe 0 or below that morning and there was the highway seemed to be clear but 
the driveways were really icy. And when I stopped at the first box, I heard this voice yelling and it 
sounded frantic-y. So I rolled down the other window, I kept looking to see where it was coming from. 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Nancy Roten – 2/20/2022 
10 
 
Finally when I found out where it was coming from, it was this older guy and he was standing beside his 
truck. His truck was turned sideways in his driveway, so I went up there. I walked up there through the 
ice and asked him. I said, "Are you okay?" And he said, "No, I'm not okay--the truck is on my foot!" And 
I said, well you know, I can drive, you want me to drive it off? Get in it? He said, "No, go get my son-in-
law," which was next door. So I went and got his son-in-law. But it was like 0 or below and they kept 
thanking me for saving his life. (laughs) 
 
24:29  
 
EH: Wow, that's awful. Were there any other customers that you helped in ways other than carrying their 
mail? 
 
NR: Yes, yes. I delivered wood in this elderly lady's house, I carried in wood for her. And you'll do that. I 
mean you know, you just run into situations. Another elderly man had Alzheimer's and was up on the 
fence one day when I came by, yelling, and I had to get a board and help him off of the fence (laughs). 
Things like that. 
 
EH: What kind of--what was the population that you delivered to like? What kind of things did they do? 
What kind of people? 
 
NR: I think it was a mix. Mostly just country hillbillies I guess you'd say. You know, in the last 40 years, 
people--the golf course and Christmas trees [farms] have brought in lots of tourists moving in now that 
they see it. But the culture here is very, I remember, well people were still into canning and raising 
gardens and farming somewhat. But the farms are so much smaller than they used to be. They're more 
like hobby farms now, in my opinion. 
 
EH: Yeah, what were the handmade gifts that people would leave for you? 
 
NR: Well one person was making metal things. So he made me like a church for Christmas that lit up, a 
metal. And then another metal thing the next year. And they'd make me, one lady made like in a glass jar, 
like a half-gallon jar, she put things in it and it lit up and it had a cord you could light it up and just I can't 
remember. It's been 7 years since I retired. But yeah, they would make me things. I really appreciated it.  
 
EH: Nice. Let's see. What do you think the importance of your job or rural mail carrying in general is to 
the communities that you serve? 
 
NR: I was always told if they saw a mail carrier driving around, it didn't matter if we had Anthrax or 
whatever, it made them feel safer to know that someone was delivering mail to their community. And also 
a lot of people, that was their interaction mostly to the rest of the world. And I know I delivered some 
mail to elderly people and I remember one saying, I said, well you didn't get anything but junk mail 
today. And we weren't allowed to call it junk mail, we said Third Class Mail. I said, you didn't get 
anything but Third Class Mail. And she said, "Well at least it's something!"  
 
EH: Right, yeah. Oh I had a question and it went out of my mind.  
 
DM: Did you tell the story of us meeting? 
 
EH: Oh yeah! Tell us. (Nancy didn't hear) Of you meeting. Of the two of you meeting. That sounds like a 
good story! 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Nancy Roten – 2/20/2022 
11 
 
27:55  
 
NR: You ready? Okay. Well I had known my husband. He had a post office box at the post office. I had 
known him for about 5 years but we'd never had a conversation. And one day, when I first really noticed 
him, one day he brought in a little teeny bottle of maple syrup [Doug and his daughter and son-in-law 
make maple syrup]. It was, the bottle was the shape of a maple leaf, and I thought it was an Avon bottle 
and I thought, "God! Who would bring maple syrup for us to taste in an Avon bottle!"  
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
NR: So anyway, he gave it to the postmaster, didn't give me any. There was just two people in the office, 
but he didn't give me any, but Monty shared it with me. And then he lived, he lives off the route in a 
rough, steep road, gravel road. And I had never delivered a package up in here because I didn't really have 
to. It was right on the limit, like we were required to deliver half a mile, and it was like half a mile. So I 
didn't have to, but one day I was running early and I thought, well I'd just like to see where that road goes. 
So I went up here and delivered a package and he came out with his painting brush and painting apron 
and I said, "Oh do you paint?" And he said yeah, and I said, well I was, I'm an art major. So we talked just 
a little bit. And then we would run into each other. And what got us together is we took an environmental 
class together. 
 
EH: Did you know you were taking a class together or you saw him there? 
 
NR: Well he had invited me to see some of his paintings at the arts council and I didn't go but I invited 
him. I told him I was taking that class, so he came. That's what. 
 
EH: Nice. 
 
NR: We were just telling each other what we were doing, you know? But so, 5 years went by and we 
started dating and dated for 5 years and then married and we still don't live together! (laughs) 
 
EH: (laughs) And you delivered the mail here up until 7 years ago? 
 
NR: Yes. 
 
EH: Nice.  
 
NR: And I never had lunch here ever. I never stopped and had lunch or delayed myself on the route. I 
want that to be known. 
 
EH: (laughs) You were diligent. 
 
NR: Yes. Well I had to be. 
 
EH: What was the most challenging part of your job? 
 
NR: The speed we had to go. I'm naturally slow because I double check everything. I'm kind of like 
perfectionist and I think I did my job well enough but I was always slow. I was always slow. I wasn't the 
slowest carrier but I was one of the slower carriers.  
 
30:53  
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Nancy Roten – 2/20/2022 
12 
 
 
EH: How did you learn to pack your car and how did you pack your car? 
 
NR: Well the carrier that I substituted for taught me and it was easy enough. You just automatically did it. 
In fact, the route was kind of automatic. You didn't, you just did it without thinking after a while. I mean, 
without thinking too hard! (laughs) 
 
EH: Yeah, did you listen to the radio or books on tape or anything? 
 
NR: You could not listen to books on tape. That was too much focus. But yeah, I'm not too much on 
listening to the radio, but I did, yeah. 
 
31:37  
 
EH: If you could design a car for a rural mail carrier, what qualities would it have? 
 
NR: It would be narrow so it wouldn't be stuck out in the road so much. And the best car that I had as far 
as not wearing tearing on my body was a little, the older Toyota RAV-4 and it was narrow and small and I 
could just--it was too small really, I couldn't get, on heavy days it was hard to get everything in there. You 
wasn't supposed to fill your car up to the ceiling, but that's what most carriers did!  
 
EH: Yeah, especially when you had a lot of packages? Yeah. What was your favorite part of the job? 
 
NR: The people. The customers. And the coworkers. I had great coworkers.  
 
EH: How many other rural routes were there out of the Warrensville or the Lansing Post Office?  
 
NR: There's never to my knowledge been but one route in Warrensville. And the last 3 years that I 
worked, I worked with other carriers in Lansing because they started cutting hours at the post offices and 
they brought the carriers to Lansing. They brought 'em from Grassy Creek and Warrensville, and I think 
that...and they had to sort the mail at Lansing and then go back to their route.  
 
EH: What do you think the future is for the job of rural mail carrying? 
 
NR: Well I hope it continues 'cause in some parts of the country I'm told they go for miles and miles 
maybe just for one customer. And it's very much, I don't know, it's just so appreciated. It gives a 
quaintness to everything, and reality to it, rather than everything so digital and all that.  
 
EH: You mentioned Anthrax. Could you talk about what it was like delivering mail through that scare? 
 
NR: I wasn't scared. (laughs) But anyway, yeah, we had to be very aware during that time and anything 
white in the mailbox could be considered dangerous. One time I did have some white powder in the box, 
mailbox but I'm sure it was a child that put it in there as a joke. It was probably cornstarch or something. 
But I would get rubber snakes in mailboxes and things like that. (laughs) 
 
34:21  
 
EH: Yeah, did you ever find anything weird in the mailbox besides rubber snakes? 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Nancy Roten – 2/20/2022 
13 
 
NR: Only in my own personal mailbox I found chicken bones and burned popcorn. But I lived near a 
school, so. 
 
EH: You think it was kids playing around? 
 
NR: Definitely. 
 
EH: Were there any unique mailboxes on your route that people had created? 
 
NR: Yeah, they would attempt them but every mailbox has to be approved by the Postmaster General. So 
only approved mailboxes were allowed on the route. 
 
EH: So if someone made something would they have to bring it into the post office or submit a photo? 
 
NR: Well often times if it worked really good, we didn't report it. You know, if it worked fine for us, we 
didn't report it. 
 
EH: What was the most challenging aspect of the job? 
 
NR: I think it was the speed because on really icy days and snowy days, it was always time that worked 
against me. It was not that I couldn't get to every box, it was just 95% of the time when it was slick, I 
could get to all the boxes, I just didn't have enough time because you had to go so slow. Slowly. 
 
35:43  
 
EH: How long would it take you, the route, generally? 
 
NR: Well I was paid for 9 hours a lot of times it would take longer. But I was paid for 9 hours a day. 
 
EH: Yeah. Let's see. Were you ever part of the union? 
 
NR: Oh yes. I was secretary! (laughs) 
 
EH: Oh, okay. And that's the North Carolina Rural Letter Carriers Association? 
 
NR: Yeah, I was secretary for this county. Uh, yes. I very much believe in our union anyway, that we had. 
If it hadn't been for our union, we wouldn't have gotten maybe 80% of what we, advantages we had. 
 
EH: What kind of things would they do to advocate for the carriers? 
 
NR: Well, lots of people in Washington want to privatize the post office. The union would always, they 
had to arbitrate, if they disagreed the union had to agree with the post office in order for it to become 
rules. And so we had a strong union, yes. 
 
EH: Would you make friends through the union or you know, with your coworkers? 
 
37:01  
 
NR: Yes. But I'm an introvert so it wasn't the kind of, I mean it was friends and we still, if we needed 
anything we'd call each other, but it wasn't like come over for dinner kind of thing. 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Nancy Roten – 2/20/2022 
14 
 
 
EH: Yeah, what are the stories, you know, when you got together with other rural carriers, what are the 
kinds of things you would talk to each other about your work? 
 
NR: We were not allowed to talk about government or our politics or religion I think but that's usually 
what they talked about! It was in a rural setting. 
 
EH: You probably learn a lot about people, your customers, carrying the mail.  
 
NR: Yes. You could tell by their mail whether they paid their bills and what they were interested in by 
their magazines. You could tell a lot about a person. 
 
EH: But you can't talk about it. 
 
NR: I can't. I don't mention any names! 
 
EH: (laughs) Right. How, you know you were talking about reduced hours at the post office, how has that 
changed in this area? 
 
NR: The hours at the, the hours of the post office, the smaller post offices, has been reduced. But the 
carriers of course, their hours have increased. And they have like the Creston carrier going all the way to 
Jefferson, which is like maybe 20 miles to Jefferson to sort their mail, and then driving back to the 
Creston to deliver it. So it makes no sense to us. And you know, but I'm sure they had their reasons, but it 
made no sense. We were just always complaining about it, but and then the Grassy Creek carrier had to 
come all the way to Lansing. It was, like I said it made no sense to the carriers but I'm not sure what the 
actual numbers are. 
 
EH: What else do you have on your list? Or is there anything we haven't talked about on your... (Nancy 
shakes her head no). Well is there anything else you would like to share that I haven't asked you about? 
 
NR: Well I'd just like to thank my customers most of all because I think of them so often and I see them 
time to time and they stop and talk to me and I just loved the customers and my fellow coworkers. They 
were great.  
 
EH: You still keep in touch with coworkers or customers at all? 
 
NR: Yes, somewhat. I do. Yeah. I talk to one carrier I think it was a couple days ago. 
 
EH: Did you train your replacement after you retired? 
 
NR: Actually the substitute carriers become the replacement and they're already trained.  
 
EH: Well, thank you so much for your time! (laughs) 
 
NR: Thank you. And it was nice meeting you and good luck with this! 
 
EH: Yeah, you too. Thank you! 
 
(Tape restarts because Nancy mentions another story) 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Nancy Roten – 2/20/2022 
15 
 
EH: Okay, you were telling me some stories about horseback carriers from some decades ago in this area. 
 
NR: Yes, I was told that the carrier in Lansing on horseback, he would, his horse was so well trained that 
he would ride the route, fall asleep, and then the horse would stop at the boxes and it would jolt him 
enough to wake him up and put the mail in the box. And also the carrier, the first lady carrier in Watauga 
County, a neighboring county, she was a schoolteacher but she quit to be a mail carrier, and they would 
have to thaw her feet out of the stirrups and her, and the actual town tried to protest to get rid of her 
because she was a woman and all the, there's a little book that was printed about her, but it was amazing 
what she went through. 
 
EH: What was her name? 
 
NR: I don't remember. Sorry.  
 
EH: And the Lansing carrier, like the horse would know his route just as well or maybe better than him. 
 
NR: Yes! Or the horse knew it so well it would wake him up. 
 
EH: Yeah! (laughs) Okay, cool. Thank you. 
 
41:37  
 
END OF TAPE 
END OF INTERVIEW