Project: Trash Talk: Workers in Vermont’s Changing Waste Management Industry 
Narrator: Nick Hammond, Co-owner and driver, Draft Trash 
Interviewer:  Virginia Nickerson 
Date: October 16, 2018 
Place: Riding along in wagon of horse-drawn trash collection route, Middlebury, Vermont 
Transcribed by:  Teresa Bergen   
 
00:00 
Nickerson:  So this is Ginger Nickerson. And I am interviewing Nick Hammond from Draft 
Trash as we are going along his Draft Trash route in Middlebury, Vermont. And today is October 
16, 2018. So Nick, can you tell me what year you were born and what town you were born in? 
 
Hammond:  I was born in 1986. I was born in Burlington, but I grew up in Ferrisburgh. We 
moved to Shoreham, Vermont, when I was, oh, I think I was probably nine. Eight or nine. And I 
live there now, today, with my family. My wife and three daughters. 
 
00:01:05 
 
Nickerson:  Okay. Thanks. And I should let people know that the background noise that we’re 
hearing are three draft horses pulling the, what do you call this vehicle? 
 
Hammond:  We call, it’s a fancy name, and it’s called a trash wagon. (Nickerson laughs) And it’s 
pretty big. It’s all aluminum. This particular rig is probably about, I think this is our third year 
using this. And this one we had built because our old one was too small and we didn’t have 
enough space in it to fit all the trash and recycling.  
 
00:01:48 
 
Nickerson:  And can you tell me about the two other people who are working with us? 
 
Hammond:  So there’s Patrick Palmer. Pat and I are kind of business partners in this venture. 
And then there’s Macy Ross. And she works for us just as another driver and trash collector. It 
kind of works best if there’s three of us at this point. 
 
00:02:18 
 
Nickerson:  And can you tell me about the three horses? 
 
Hammond:  The three horses we’re using today are Pat’s horses. And it’s Minor, Rocky and 
Jake. 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. And you can hear the trash getting loaded in the back, the trash and the 
recyclables. So today is Tuesday, so we’re using Patrick’s horses. And then you have horses, 
also? 
 
Hammond:  Yeah. And then we use my horses on Mondays. We divide the town in half, and we 
do two half days, Monday and Tuesday morning, twice a month. 
 
00:02:54 
 
Nickerson:  So what’s your current job and how long have you been in this line of work? Or 
jobs? 
 
Hammond:  Well this particular one is kind of just a side job. But we’ve been doing this, I think, 
let’s see. We started in April 2014, I believe. I think that’s right. Either 2014 or 2015. It’s kind of 
a little bit of a blur at this point. 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. So you’ve been doing this about three or four years. 
 
Hammond:  About three or four years, yeah. 
 
00:03:30 
 
Nickerson:  And what other jobs do you do? 
 
Hammond:  My main job is I’m a self-employed carpenter. And I do this, the trash route, and 
then we have a small farm. We have some beef cows and some organic laying hens. And then I 
also, since I have the horses, do a fair amount of wagon rides and different things. I hire myself 
out with them. 
 
00:04:02 
 
Nickerson:  Do you do logging with my horses? 
 
Hammond:  I do do logging, yeah. I try to combine it with some of the construction work we do. 
I used to do a lot more. I’m doing a little less of it now. 
 
00:04:15 
 
Nickerson:  And your horses also do this route. 
 
Hammond:  Yeah. They do the Monday part, yeah. Well I currently have, I have five draft horses 
at the moment that are at the barn. Only three of them are mine and two of them are boarded. 
And that’s another kind of small source of income. And I use, Daisy, Abby and Amy are the 
ones I use on the route.  
 
00:04:43 
 
Nickerson:  So how did you end up doing Draft Trash? 
 
Hammond:  Well, Pat has been doing a horse-drawn trash route for about 20 years. Well, 20 
years now. And he hired me to help him reroof his house. And I just was kind of at a point where 
I felt like I was running around trying to make money so I could have my horses and pay for 
them. So Pat and I were talking and we came up with the idea of trying to do a trash route, 
extend his trash route into Middlebury. So we just kind of went door to door and tried to scrape 
up some business and started doing it here.  
And at that time, Middlebury had a contract with Casella to pick up all the recycling in 
Middlebury. And they were trying to drop that contract just to let private trash haulers like 
ourselves do the recycling pickup, so the town didn’t have to bother with it. And so we just saw 
that was probably a pretty good time to try to get in there, because people might be looking 
around for different trash haulers anyway. 
 
00:06:06 
 
Nickerson:  So how did you learn how to drive the truck and do this operation? 
 
Hammond:  So I went to Sterling College and I learned about driving horses there. And then 
when I graduated, I came home and I got my own horses. That was about ten years ago. I grew 
up with horses, so I had the basic understanding with them. I did forestry at Sterling, and we did 
all the forestry work with the horses. So that’s kind of how I got into doing stuff with the draft 
animals. And then the trash route was kind of just, was actually for the most part a good way to 
use the horses consistently. That’s the hardest thing with having the horses is just finding 
consistent work for them, which is really important. 
 
00:07:01 
 
Nickerson:  Why is that important? 
 
Hammond:  It just keeps them healthy and keeps them in shape and keeps their skills tuned. And 
that way if you want to go do something else with them, they’re kind of ready to go. Yeah, it’s 
good to have consistent work for them. For sure. 
 
00:07:22 
 
Nickerson:  So it wasn’t just a question of you learning how to haul the draft truck with, the trash 
truck with your horses. Your horses also had to learn how to do it. 
 
Hammond:  Yeah. The horses, the horses had to learn. I mean, they knew, I had worked them a 
lot to begin with, so. But I mean, probably getting used to the traffic and things like that was a 
learning curve, for the most part. I mean, the fortunate thing about the trash route is the driving 
itself is pretty simple. There’s not too many technical situations other than having to turn around 
in tight places. But for the most part, it’s pretty basic. It’s just stop and go, and making sure 
you’re on the right side of the road. So it’s actually pretty nice in that sense that you can use 
inexperienced horses and still get the job done. Which in a lot of cases is kind of a pain. Using a 
new horse in a situation where you’re trying to accomplish a certain project or task. Then they 
don’t know what they’re doing and they get nervous and stressed out. You know, it just makes 
the project last longer. But in this situation, the stop and go, it’s perfect for them. 
 
00:08:40 
 
Nickerson:  Do you remember your first day doing Draft Trash with Patrick? 
 
Hammond:  Yeah, I do. Oh, yeah. I remember the first day pretty clearly. We went and spent, it 
took us six hours to do the route and we picked up 15 bags. (laughs)  
 
08:52 
 
Nickerson:  And how long does it take you to do it now? 
 
Hammond:  It takes us about, probably not six hours. All said and done, the Monday route, it 
takes a little longer. By the time we leave and then we’re done at the transfer station and packing 
the horses up, probably about five hours. And today it will be closer to four. But we’ve just, the 
route, we’ve just kind of gotten more efficient with it. And we have a lot more customers, too. 
We pick up probably an average of, between the two days, between the Monday and Tuesday, 
we’re picking up probably just under 400 bags. 
 
00:09:34 
 
Nickerson:  Four hundred. Wow. So I heard you just make a little kissing noise. What was that? 
 
Hammond:  Yeah. So that’s how we make the horses go, basically. That’s their command to go 
is to make a little kissing noise. And then to make them stop, we’ll stop here in a minute. But we 
just simply say a command of, I’ll wait a few feet there. We say, “Whoa.” And I’ll pull back on 
the lines a little bit. But generally once they hear that, they’ll come to a top. 
 
00:10:22 
 
Nickerson:  So it’s mostly the horses are pulling the vehicle. 
 
Hammond:  Yeah. It’s only the horses pulling. And they’re actually, they’re actually technically 
they’re pushing it. Whoa! Hey, Pat! Hold on a sec, sorry. Minor’s hames came off his collar. 
 
[End Track 1. Begin Track 2.] 
 
00:00:00 
Nickerson:  So could you describe for me what a typical day is like for you? When you’re 
picking up trash. Like from when you start with the horses in the morning to when you wrap up 
the day at the end. 
 
Hammond:  Well the Mondays start a little earlier because I bring my horses. So I usually, I 
usually get up about a little before four and make my way over to the barn. Get the horses fed. 
Kind of brush them out a little bit. And then I go back to the house and eat some breakfast. Then 
I go back over, and that’s usually about, a little after five. And I harness them up and put them in 
the trailer and bring them into town. I try to get to town between 6:30 and seven. Because we 
like to try to leave our home, our kind of home base is Martin’s Hardware off of Route 7 in 
Middlebury. And we try to leave there about seven o’clock or a little after if we can. Just to kind 
of get ahead of some of the real busy traffic. And then usually the route, like I said, is about four 
to five hours. Then I head home and put the horses away. Then I start the rest of my chores. 
(laughs)  
 
00:01:35 
 
Nickerson:  And I saw you and Macy were sort of climbing in one of the units of the truck. What 
are you doing in there? 
 
Hammond:  Oh, you mean in the morning? We’re in and out because we get quite a bit of 
recycling. So we have to kind of stay on top of keeping the recycling organized in the back. And 
when I say organized, it’s mostly just taking the large pieces of cardboard and kind of stacking 
them up. And also, if we see returnable cans, we take those out. And we have bins on the side of 
the wagon we throw them in. Just a little bit of extra money. But it actually works out to be close 
to a hundred dollars a month we get in cans. So it adds up. But we definitely have to stay on top 
of organizing the recycling.  
 
And then you know, right now is the end of the summer, October. We’re coming into the 
holiday season. And that’s when it really gets overwhelming during the holidays when gifts and 
things like that, recycling gets really full. This year we have a few more customers than last year, 
too, so we’ll have to potentially figure out another system of keeping it all in there. 
 
00:03:00 
 
Nickerson:  You mean having enough space for the recycling? 
 
Hammond:  Having enough space, yeah. Because last year there was quite a few times we had to 
end the route early because we just were so full. And we’d just come back with a pickup truck 
and grab the rest of it or something. But yeah, we’re pretty busy. Even this new wagon is too 
small. 
 
00:03:22 
 
Nickerson:  So are you thinking you might have to get another wagon? 
 
Hammond:  We might, I don't know, the solution that we see probably being the easiest thing is 
just running two wagons and two teams for just a few months during the holiday season when 
things are really busy. Which is all fine. It definitely adds a little more coordination. And we 
have to find another person to help us. But we did it, we did that for quite a few months while 
this new wagon was being built. We ran two wagons because our old wagon was so small we 
couldn’t fit everything in it. And so one wagon would pick up the trash and the other wagon 
would pick up the recycling. 
 
00:04:13 
 
Nickerson:  And I saw that you have a container on the side that says “food waste.” Can you tell 
me about that? 
 
Hammond:  Yeah, we also pick up food waste. I think a lot of people do their own composting. 
But we do have, I want to say probably anywhere from six to ten customers, it’s not a lot, but six 
to ten customers that consistently put out their food waste. We still do notice food waste in the 
trash, which—boys! (kissy sound) [unclear] boy, Minor. We still notice food waste in the trash. 
But I think for the most part, people are pretty good about it. But yeah, most people fill a five-
gallon pail, which is given out. And then we have a container that we empty it into on the wagon. 
 
00:05:07 
 
Nickerson:  And then what happens with the food waste? 
 
Hammond:  We actually just bring it home and put it in our compost pile. The horses create nice 
big healthy compost piles. And we just add to them. 
 
00:05:21 
 
Nickerson:  (laughs) So tell me about the horses’ contribution to the compost. That must be a 
little different than driving a garbage truck. 
 
Hammond:  Oh, just cleaning up after them, and the manure? 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. 
 
Hammond:  Yeah. I mean, both Pat and I probably don’t even want to think about how many 
pounds of manure we’ve picked up in our lives. Pat probably a lot more than me. 
 
Nickerson:  So how do you manage that? 
 
Hammond:  Well here on the wagon—at home, for the most part it’s just cleaning up after them 
in the barn. Both Pat and I have, the way our barns are set up, we clean the stalls out into a 
wheelbarrow. And then we dump it into a pile just outside the barn. And a couple of times a year 
it gets cleaned out and put into another pile somewhere else. But on the trash route, it’s pretty 
important that we pick up after the horses, after the horses go. And we just have a pail and a 
shovel on the wagon that we scoop it up with. And we keep a couple of pails and usually that 
lasts the routes.  
 
We do actually have a couple of customers that like to take the manure for their gardens 
and their own compost. There’s a lot of folks that don’t have, if you don’t have animals but 
you’re starting a compost, it can be hard to get it to really start doing its thing if you don’t have 
something like manure to kind of get it started. So a lot of people—if you have just a bunch of 
organic matter, it takes a long, long time for it to start composting and breaking down. But if you 
have some sort of material like manure, then it helps it. And it just makes it healthier. So we have 
a few people that we dump it right in their compost pile, which is helpful for us and helpful for 
them, actually. So. 
 
00:07:12 
 
Nickerson:  So that’s kind of another service that you provide. 
 
Hammond:  Yeah. I mean it’s kind of, yeah. It’s kind of just part of it. And we don’t promote it. 
People actually just come up to it and ask, they say, what do you do with—boys, boys. You’ll 
hear me say that and the reason being is we’re driving on a paved road right now. And there’s on 
occasion a manhole cover for the drainage system. And the horses don’t like walking over those. 
A horse looks at it, the way their vision works is they can’t see the fact that it’s a cover. And they 
just see it as a big dark hole. And they’re worried if they step in it, they’ll get lost down in there. 
So it makes them nervous. 
 
00:08:05 
 
Nickerson:  So you have to kind of understand how horses see things. 
 
Hammond:  It’s a very important part of it, yes. You have to, your job as the horseman and the 
driver is to recognize what the horses are doing, what they might potentially see something as. 
Not only are you driving them, but you’re essentially taking an animal that is, its first instinct is 
to run away from anything that’s scary. And you’re chaining them to a huge wagon, which goes 
against all their instincts. So your job is to make sure that they are staying as comfortable as they 
can. And they’re going to run into situations where they’re nervous, but your job is to make sure 
that you can get them through that without them getting hurt. And as long as they know they can 
rely on you to do that, they’ll do whatever you ask them.  
 
00:09:00 
 
Nickerson:  And can you tell me how horses see differently than people? 
 
Hammond:  Well, horses don’t see color. And they have terrible, terrible depth perception. 
Because their eyes are located on the sides of their head. So they can’t look straight ahead the 
same way that we can. And their eyes are designed to see anything that moves really quickly, 
because it could potentially be a predator of some kind. So they don’t have very good depth 
perception. And that’s part of the reason why they’re afraid of things like manhole covers or big 
large puddles. The way the light glints off of water is scary, because they don’t know what it is. 
And they can’t tell what it is. And of course they don't want to take the risk to potentially get 
hurt. But then again, it’s just our job to make sure that, you know, we can either make them go 
through the puddle or we can find a way to go around it. If it’s safe for them to go through it, 
they can go through it. But that’s our job to make that decision. 
 
00:10:14 
 
Nickerson:  So I think before I stopped, we stopped before I was asking you if you remembered 
your first day working with Patrick? 
 
Hammond:  Oh, yeah. 
 
Nickerson:  Can you tell me what that was like? 
 
Hammond:  Yeah. I mean, it wasn’t much different than this, really, other than it took a little 
longer, just because we were still trying to figure out the best, most efficient route. And we just 
had hardly any bags in the very beginning. But it picked up almost immediately. Within a few 
months, we were picking up quite a few bags, if I remember correctly. 
 
00:10:57 
 
Nickerson:  So what’s your favorite part of the job, or the best part? 
 
Hammond:  The best part is just working with the horses. I mean that’s honestly the reason we 
do it. And just because we like working with the horses. And it’s a pretty good job to do with 
horses because it doesn’t need to be done particularly, at any particular high speed or anything 
like that. And as long as we have enough hands, a lot of times you don’t even need to stop. If 
there’s enough people to kind of pick up the trash, you can kind of just keep on moving. And I 
think people in the town love seeing the horses. I mean, who wouldn’t love seeing horses 
wandering around your town doing the job? Not just parading around, actually accomplishing 
something. Everybody’s got to get rid of their trash. So. 
 
00:11:56 
 
Nickerson:  And what’s your least favorite, or the most challenging part of this job? 
 
Hammond:  Most challenging part, really, is I guess as much as it’s a challenge, it more is just, I 
just get nervous about cars. And you know, somebody making a bad move and potentially 
getting us or the horses hurt. And you know, it’s a challenge just to try to be aware of all that 
stuff. And just my biggest worry. You know, I worry about that all the time. But for the most 
part, it’s not too bad. It’s only when we’re just out on the main road and there’s lots of cars and 
everybody’s kind of busy and trying to go fast. And here we are just—we have to take up a good 
chunk of the road, too. Our wagon’s big and the horses three wide take up a lot of room. But cars 
in Middlebury have gotten used to us for sure. It’s a lot better than it was. 
 
00:13:00 
 
Nickerson:  So what would you say are the dangers or the risks? 
 
Hammond:  Oh, just a car, basically. If we’re in an intersection and not seeing us. Or you know, 
of just getting in an accident. Cars get in accidents all the time, and it would just be a bummer if 
we were part of it. You know, that’s the concern I have. Or you know, the wagon’s really big and 
it’s hard to see past it, especially if you’re a small car behind it. And a lot of times people make 
bad decisions feeling like they can go around us. That’s often when we get into a situation that’s 
uncomfortable. Somebody trying to pass with not very much room, or another car coming. 
That’s when the biggest close calls have been. 
 
13:55 
 
Nickerson:  So is there anything—(horse-related pause) If you were going to give advice to a 
young person who was interested in doing this, what skills would you suggest that they have? Or 
any kind of special knowledge or training? 
 
Hammond:  Oh, well, I mean, if you were wanting to do trash collection with horses, you 
definitely would want to have some skills working with the horses, with animals in general. That 
would be the biggest thing. I mean, for the most part, collecting trash is pretty simple. It’s a 
pretty simple task. You pick up the trash and throw it in. But the other side of it is just the 
business side. Keeping track of funds and the basic small business stuff. But really, the biggest 
skill is working the horses. And that’s not a real common skill these days. 
 
15:09 
 
Nickerson:  If you were going to start over, is there anything that you would do differently? 
 
Hammond:  I don't think so, really. I mean, it all works pretty smoothly. I think the challenge, I 
guess, goes back to challenge. The challenge we face is mostly just how to keep, be able to take 
on more customers and fit everything in the wagon. Because we’re constantly, we’re kind of 
constantly dealing with that. Like I said, especially during the holiday season. But I don't know if 
there’s really much we could change about that other than what we do already. Just kind of go 
with the flow and figure it out as we go along.  
 
16:00 
 
Nickerson:  And do you feel like this provides a livable wage? 
 
Hammond:  Oh, I don't know. It’s so hard to tell what a livable wage is. But I think, I mean, this 
is not a full time job for Pat nor I. But I mean I think if you really wanted to do it as a fulltime 
job, you could probably make a decent living. Just like anything, you’d have to kind of figure out 
what your profit is and make sure you can live off of that, what you need for a profit. But I mean, 
the trash route makes money. I guess as a part time thing, it’s hard, when you own your own 
business, if you counted all the hours you put into it and then how much you made, it would 
probably make you a little depressed. But as long as you enjoy doing it, which both Pat and I do, 
that’s kind of the biggest, the most important part. And as long as you can make the money from 
it that you feel like you need to.  
 
17:11 
 
Nickerson:  So what are the benefits that come from it besides being a business? 
 
Hammond:  Oh, you get to use your horses more. That’s the biggest benefit.  
 
17: 32 
 
Nickerson:  So any other advice you’d give someone starting in this field? A young person who 
wants to start a draft trash route? (laughter)  
 
Hammond:  I think, I don't know, what more advice. I guess, you know, before you start your 
draft trash route you should come work with us for a little while and learn it, and then go start 
your own route. The biggest thing is you really want to be comfortable driving horses. Because 
like I was saying, there’s definitely situations that you’re in that you need to have confidence 
with the horses. And that would be the most important thing, in my mind. 
 
18:24 
 
Nickerson:  Can you sort of describe the sights and the sounds and the smells of what it’s like 
picking up trash? I’m wondering more about the handling people’s garbage aspect of the job. 
 
Hammond:  Oh, yeah. I mean, the trash, I mean, for the most part, the sight is just the village of 
Middlebury. And the sound, of course, that we hear is mostly just the horses. And the traffic. 
And local, we just stopped at this one house and these kids always come out. They’re 
homeschooled kids. And they always hang around with us for a few minutes while we load up. 
This is Jacob. Looks like he’s got his shoes on the wrong feet today. (laughter)  
 
Nickerson:  Hi, Jacob. 
 
Hammond:  Here, Jacob. You want to sit right next to us? 
 
Nickerson:  You want to sit up here? 
 
Hammond:  You can ride with us to the next stop.  
 
Nickerson:  Hi, there. You want to come up? 
 
Jacob:  Sure. 
 
Hammond:  Yeah, okay. We’ll stop right up at this next one. It’s all right. 
 
Nickerson:  Okay. 
 
Jacob:  We’re going to ride? 
 
Hammond:  We’re going to go about 20 feet here. And then my guess is your father will 
probably want you to hop off. 
 
Jacob:  I’m going to watch you do that. 
 
Nickerson:  That’s great. We just had two young people join us. 
 
Hammond:  I’m going to pull forward. Everybody out of the way?  
 
Jacob:  [unclear] Miss Vicki. What are those things on top of the necks for? 
 
Nickerson:  Oh, the silver balls? 
 
Jacob:  Yeah. 
 
Hammond:  Those are called the hames tops. The hames are the bars that go around either side of 
the collar. And then those little balls on top are just kind of more decoration. 
 
Jacob:  Oh. They all have big bottoms. 
 
Hammond:  The horses? 
 
Jacob:  Yeah. 
 
Hammond:  They do have nice big bottoms, don’t they? You get a good view of their bottoms 
here. 
 
Jacob:  The shortest tail is the middle one. 
 
Hammond:  The shortest tail is the middle one? 
 
Jacob:  Yeah. Yeah. What are their names? 
 
Hammond:  So it’s Minor, which is the one all the way over here. He’s the most white. And then 
Rocky in the middle. And then Jaker’s on the outside. 
 
Man:  Say hi to the horses. You’ve got to come on down now. 
 
Jacob:  Okay. 
 
Nickerson:  Can you get down?   
 
Jacob:  I found a pen! 
 
Nickerson:  Oh, yeah, could you hand that to me. 
 
Man:  What do you say? 
 
Jacob:  Thank you. 
 
Hammond:  You’re welcome. 
 
Nickerson:  So can you tell me— 
 
21:37 
 
Hammond:  We were talking about just the trash in general. Picking it up. I mean, it’s a pretty 
laidback job, I would say. And for the most part, nothing really smells. It smells, the only time 
you really notice the smell is on really hot days in the summer. The rest of the time, it doesn’t 
really bother. I try to wear gloves, to be honest, when I’m handling trash. I think that’s an 
important thing. But, yeah. Not a lot of, you don’t have to exercise your brain too, too much 
most of the time. Which can be kind of nice. 
 
22:19 
 
Nickerson:  Now I notice that you rip open people’s recycling bags and dump out the recycling. 
Can you tell me about that? 
 
Hammond:  Yeah. So you’re not supposed to, that is a constant thing is people are always 
recycling things you’re not really supposed to. And one of them being that, I know you’re not 
supposed to let the clear plastic bags that people put their recycling in go through. So we try to 
take those off. 
 
Nickerson:  It’s not supposed to go through the— 
 
Hammond:  It’s not supposed to go through the recycling to the processing. Because those plastic 
bags are not actually recyclable. And that’s one of the biggest problems with US recyclables 
right now is there’s just so much stuff in there that isn’t recyclable. And it makes it even less 
marketable to other places. And actually the price of recycling is, the cost to us, anyway, is going 
up at the new year. They’re going to change the price. They’re going to double it. 
 
23:23 
 
Nickerson:  Who’s— 
 
Hammond:  The transfer station in Middlebury is doubling the price of—they charge us right 
now, it’s 50 dollars a ton. So every two thousand pounds of recyclables that we bring to the 
transfer station, they charge us 50 dollars to get rid of it. And I believe they’re going up to 96 
dollars on the new year. 
 
23:48 
 
Nickerson:  So they are charging you for the recyclables. 
 
Hammond:  They are charging us for the recyclables, yes. Yep. Yeah. 
 
Nickerson:  So is that going to affect your pricing for your customers? 
 
Hammond:  Oh, yeah. We’ll have to increase the price. Because we try to keep it as low as we 
can. You know, that’s something that’s important to Pat and myself so that everybody can afford 
it. As far as I know, it’s always hard to get kind of competitive pricing. But as far as I know, 
we’re the same price if not probably a little less money than most of the people. Most other 
businesses that pick up trash. And at first, that was kind of a marketing thing. Like oh, we’re less 
money. But it’s also, you know, it’s nice to be able to keep things affordable for people so they 
can use us and afford to use us. But we do, we will have to increase our price a little bit because 
of that. It doesn’t sound like a lot, you know, an extra 30 dollars, or an extra 30 or 40 dollars 
every two thousand pounds. But it does add up, for sure. You know, if we have to pay an extra 
60 dollars every week to get rid of recycling. It definitely adds up. 
 
25:11 
 
Nickerson:  And can you make any generalizations about the types of things that you see in the 
recyclables? Like is it mostly paper, or mostly cardboard? 
 
Hammond:  Oh, well, mostly paper and cardboard. And then of course bottles and plastic bottles 
and glass bottles. But it definitely feels like there is a lot of cardboard, you know, just it being an 
internet shopping world, there’s lots of boxes and packaging. A fair amount of Styrofoam and 
things like that. It feels like we see a lot of— 
 
25:50 
 
Nickerson:  Have you seen any changes over the last, while you’ve been doing this, in terms of 
like what people are putting out, either in terms of recyclables or trash or food waste? 
 
Hammond:  It hasn’t been a drastic change. It definitely seems like the last year or so, it has just 
been an unreal amount of cardboard. And I don't know if that’s just because maybe our customer 
base has expanded and we just have more people, more people that are buying things online or 
more people buying things in general. I know Pat definitely says there’s a pretty big difference in 
recycling, amount of recycling, between Bristol and Middlebury. Middlebury just has way more 
recycling. And I don't know what that really says, you know. But there’s definitely, there’s 
definitely differences, depending on where you are. But I have noticed a little bit increase in the 
cardboard and paper the last year or so.  
 
27:01 
 
Nickerson:  And how do you feel about picking up and handling people’s trash? 
 
Hammond:  Oh, I don't know. I mean, I try not to think about it too much. I don’t really want to 
think about what people have in their trash. But it’s, somebody’s got to do it. And we just 
decided to do it with horses. Yeah. It’s not so bad. It’s not as dirty as you might think something 
like that would be. For the most part, it’s pretty clean.  
 
It is a bummer when you split open a bag that’s full of cat litter. I will say that. But other 
than that, it’s not so bad. (laughs)  
27:40 
 
Nickerson:  Do you get that a lot? 
 
Hammond:  On occasion, yeah. Usually when it happens, it’s a heavy bag, of course, with all that 
litter in it. And somebody has kind of dragged it down a driveway, and so the bottom is 
compromised anyway. And then you go and pick it up and it breaks open. But that doesn’t 
happen very often. It’s pretty rare.  
 
28:03 
 
Nickerson:  Are there other unpleasant things that you’re dealing with? Or odd or strange things? 
 
Hammond:  Not too bad, no. Not too bad. There’s always the occasional weird thing that 
happens. But it’s usually pretty straightforward. Most people, most people’s trash is pretty well 
organized. It’s just a bag and you throw it in there and don’t worry about it until you dump it at 
the transfer station. So. 
 
28:33 
 
Nickerson:  Well I think that’s most of my questions. Is there anything that I haven’t, that we 
haven’t talked about that you’d like people to know? Either about your job with the horses, the 
business, or just things that you might want to say to folks about trash. 
 
Hammond:  One thing I’d like to say is I think there should be more people doing it with horses 
or any kind of draft animal. Because I do know that there’s a lot of towns and cities in France 
and stuff that do it. You know, it’s definitely one little thing we can do that is better for the 
environment. We’ve gone through we figure probably, we figure on this Tuesday we’re covering 
probably about 10 miles, maybe 12 miles, somewhere in there. Ten miles. And then on the 
Monday we figure probably, what, close to 15. 
 
Pat:  Fifteen miles. 
 
Hammond:  Yeah, 15 miles. So if you added that up. We probably should at some point. But if 
you added it up and figured you know, a full-size trash truck, how much fuel they would burn if 
they’re getting six, eight miles to the gallon. 
 
Pat:  It’s about four miles to the gallon. 
 
Hammond:  Yeah, four miles to the gallon with a trash truck.  That would be quite a bit of fuel 
over the year we conserve. And it just adds a nice atmosphere to the town, I think. And all those 
things. I think it’s definitely something that—I feel like it’s a pretty big deal what’s happening to 
our climate. And I think probably one of the best things you can do is just to do small things like 
this. All these little things will add up and help, you know. And it’s just so much better. (laughs)  
 
Nickerson:  It is. It’s certainly been enjoyable for me being out here with you on this beautiful 
day with the horses. 
 
Hammond:  It is a perfect day, too. 
 
Nickerson:  It is. And it looks like somebody gave Patrick some treats. 
 
Hammond:  Yeah. Hopefully she won’t hear this. But she puts them out for the horses. But 
they’re usually so good, and Pat definitely takes advantage of that, those delicious apples. 
 
Nickerson:  This is, someone just gave a bag of apples for the horses. Well, Nick and Patrick and 
Macy, thank you so much. This has been really a delightful ride along, so I really appreciate your 
sharing with us. Thanks. 
 
Hammond:  Yeah, you’re welcome. 
  
31:33 
[End Track 2. End Session.] 
Total time = 43 minutes