Teachers Offstage--The Occupational Folklore of Wisconsin Teachers: Archie Green Fellows 
Project, 2013-2014 
Karla Lauden interview, 2014-01-14 : interview conducted by Mary M. Hoefferle 
Interview ID: afc2013017_00866 
Date: January 14, 2014 
Duration: 00:53:24 
 
00:00:00 
Introduction. Mary Hoefferle interviewing elementary art teacher Karla Lauden 
at Lincoln Elementary School in Appleton, Wisconsin on January 14, 2014. Karla read and 
signed release form. 
 
00:00:23 
Inspiration for choosing art education as a career: She never wanted to be an 
art teacher – poor personal experience in elementary art. Avoided art through middle and 
high school even though she loved the arts. Attended to UWO for radio/TV/film, but took an 
art class and changed major. Art professors encouraged her to go to grad school. Attended 
University of Nebraska Lincoln. Graduated with an MFA in 1996. Moved back to Oshkosh to 
get married. Needed to pay off college debt, so attend Lawrence University in Appleton to get 
teaching certification. Found an elementary art teaching position while she was student 
teaching. 
 
00:04:57 
Years of teaching: 13 years at k-6 level at various schools in Appleton. Has the 
right disposition and qualities to teach at tougher schools.  
 
00:07:14 
Typical day in the job: Takes the job seriously and spends lots of time. Begins at 
7:30 am and leaves 4:30 or 5:00 each night. Puts in longer hours during the week, and rarely 
ever works on weekends. When she arrives, she prepares curriculum, gets the room ready, 
aware of student dynamics. Fast paced day. If she has a lighter day, she visits other staff in the 
morning. Very good rapport with colleagues at her two schools. Lots of laughter – remedy for 
moments of stress. Very social staff, no cliques. Nice sense of family. Need support since they 
are challenging schools. 
 
00:10:35 
Weekly/daily schedule and other duties: Students arrive at 8:35. Not as many 
classes as usual, but classes are much larger – 33 kids in one class (double up SAGE class sizes). 
Her schedule looks nice on paper, but she has masses of kids at one time. Three morning 
classes, two in the afternoon. Eats lunch in the lounge with peers. Need adult time, take 
professional coat off and relax with each other. Considered 70% at Lincoln and 30% time at 
Columbus. Only 45 minutes between one class ending at Lincoln and the next class starting at 
Columbus. Serves on a literacy committee and feels her perspective is appreciated. No other 
recess/bus duties – paraprofessionals do those duties in this district. 
 
00:20:46 
Work brought home: Report cards. Only has a week to submit grades for over 
400 students. Since the job is physically demanding, hands-on, it’s easier to stay at school to 
do most of the work. She also brings home the stresses of the job – thinking about student 
problems. 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
1
 
00:22:00 
Things she likes about her work: Loves watching kids get ideas and when they 
finally understand something she is teaching. Loves the open minds of young children. It 
makes her feel free and playful to be with them. Experience their young, fresh, creative 
mindset. Great to see special needs students flourish in art.  
 
00:23:52 
Challenges of the job: Last year, she almost quit her job because the children 
were so poorly behaved. No respect – they ignore directions, ruin artwork in the hallway, talk 
back to the principal. Felt she was disrespected all the time, with no support from parents or 
administration. Frustrating and hard. She wishes society would appreciate education again, 
and for everyone to re-assess the recent changes in education. Teachers don’t have much 
control over their work. The whole child and the whole teacher is not being honored. We need 
more human-ness in education. 
 
00:28:00 
Relationship with classroom teachers and district mandates: Most teachers 
want to make a difference – now they feel this is not possible. They have so much more 
paperwork to do. The piles get higher, the stresses get higher, they can’t keep up. In the next 
few years, she will need to develop a professional development plan, put in 120 hours of 
professional development on her own time in the next three years or be fired.  
 
00:31:55 
Relationship with other staff and administrators: Very fortunate to work with 
two great principals. Gets along with them very well because they know she works hard and 
has a strong program. They also know that she is an actively engaged artist. Administrators are 
very kind and say they support the arts, but she doesn’t have the technology she needs and 
doesn’t have what other classroom teachers have. The core curriculum is what’s most 
important. 
 
00:35:38 
Socializing with colleagues: She used to go out to dinner or for drinks when 
they were younger. Not so much anymore. There’s a professional line in the sand. They aren’t 
her best friends.  
 
0:36:35 
School traditions, rituals: Ring the school bell to start and end the school year. 
Small but memorable gesture. Staff potlucks on late start days (staff development on these 
days) or a special luncheon. Lunch potlucks on first Friday of every month. 
 
00:40:15 
Changes in education over the last 13 years: She asks this question to more 
veteran teachers. Children’s attention span is way shorter, they blurt out more, not able to 
focus as well. They don’t make eye contact as much with the teacher. More disrespect. Kids 
seem like they have more confidence, more aggressive. These behaviors directly linked to 
socio-economic status.  
 
00:46:44 
Politics of education: Believes there has been an effort to dismantle public 
education. People used to be proud to say they were teachers. She was actually verbally 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
2
attacked for being a teacher. Definitely tension in society over education. Huge climate 
change, and it’s not positive. Many, many, many things contribute to this poor climate.  
 
00:50:05 
Advice for new teachers: We need good teachers. If they are passionate about 
and feel that it’s something that they are supposed to do – go for it. Talk to a range of art 
teachers to get a sense of what its really like. Don’t be surprised if it’s really hard. You’re going 
to be exhausted. You are really in a meaningful profession, and you still have some control in 
the arts. You can really make kids excited about art. Kids see that art is really important to her 
– so they become engaged.  
 
00:53:24 
End of Interview. 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
3