Log – R. Thompson 09/10/2012 
 
[00:40] Born 1955 Las Cruces, New Mexico. Robert Thompson [RT] lived in 
Albuquerque kindergarten through college. Two knee injuries due to high school 
football. Wrestling scholarship to Univ. New Mexico, after 2 knee injuries left 
college to go to a river school in Helen Arkansas. Got a job on a tugboat out of 
Friendswood, TX. Captain took him under his wing. 
[05:28] Owner of the company sponsored RT to attend the river school for a 2 
year Associates Degree. He was class president with the second highest grade. 
[08:09] Returned to Patton Barge Lines in Texas. Owner taught him the 
business; eventually made vice-president. With the unfavorable business climate 
in the ‘80s, applied to be a Houston Pilot. 
[09:43] Voted in to Pilots in 1986 at age 31. 4 years after apprenticeship voted 
2nd Vice-President or Boat Keeper on Pilot’s Assoc. Executive Committee. In 
2005 first term as Presiding Officer (President). 
[14:47] Tugboats had significant changes over the years. Currently tractor tugs 
use a rotating propeller that allows 360 degree operation. More use of tugs in 
docking today due to scrutiny requiring zero incidents. Pilot apprenticeship less 
structured in the RT’s day. Deputy Pilots ride with all the Full Pilots during 
training to see everyone’s technique. Houston Ship Channel is a two-way 
channel due to skills of the old pilots. The mass of the ships and the water 
hydraulics require pilots to use great skill on the passing of two ships. 
[22:26] RT’s past knee surgeries do not keep him from piloting. He bicycles the 
Austin to Houston MS 150. Pilots Assoc. has increased their community 
involvement . Started Maritime Academies in 2 high schools. Started an 
Associates Degree Program in River Science at San Jacinto College. The 
Houston Pilots work 2 weeks on and 2 weeks off. They are involved in a Fatigue 
Management Study to improve safety. They have mandatory rest periods. They 
are one of 3 harbors in the U.S. who are Bar Pilots, using Pilot Boats with meals 
beds for rest. 
[30:49] The Association buys Pilot Boats from their funds. They own three of 
them. Each has a double hull design that minimizes the boats’ rocking. They are 
expensive. Each boat has a crew of two, a captain and a deckhand. Two crew 
are provided for safety. There is also a Dispatch Boat to transport Pilots around 
the harbor. 
[37:22] RT recalls communication before cell phones. He used pay phones, radio 
transmission, and the occasional marine operator to call the home office. The 
early Motorola cell phone housed in a big box was the Assoc.’s first cell. Cell 
phones are a possible distraction while driving a ship.  A laptop the Personal Pilot 
Unit issued to each Pilot provides navigation tools. For RT the most useful tool is 
experience, “It’s repetition, repetition, repetition.” A Pilot’s success is about local 
knowledge. Due to litigation and to safety, Pilots don’t run ships in fog like in 
former times. Houston averages 14 to 18 days total fog time. 
[45:25] Pilots are onboard for safety. Their orders must be obeyed. The Port of 
Houston’s daily revenue is $422 million. It generates a million jobs and a yearly 
revenue at $178 billion. It handles the largest foreign tonnage in the U.S. 
Container ships sail across the ocean with just 20 crewmen. Most of the work is 
done when they dock. 
[49:49] RT honored to be a Houston Pilot and to have worked with the older 
generation he respects. Proud of the advances made by his generation; they 
developed partnerships with the Port and the industry. The forward thinking of 
these partnerships is the Pilot Association’s greatest achievement of the last 25 
years. RT feels piloting is fun, but growing partnerships is gratifying. He is 
thankful to the Port Authority, the Pilot Commissioners, to Captains Lary and 
Montey Warren, and to Tom Kornegay, a past Director of the Port who took him 
under his wing, helped him learn to make relationships work. 
Characters with spaces: 3,902.