Indigenous Physics: The Element Colonizatium  
 
 
1. The elimination of a substance from a living organism  
follows complex chemical kinetics.  
For example, the biological half-life  
of water in a human being  
is 9 to 10 days, with adjustments  
for behavior and temperature.  
A quantity of carbon-14 will decay  
to half its original amount after 5,730 years.  
After another 5,730 years,  
one-quarter of the original will remain.  
And so on. 
 
Obviously, the half-life of a substance  
depends upon the substance itself— 
measure for toxicity, fierceness, sheer venom. 
The research at hand for us today, then, is clear: 
what is the half-life of Colonizatium?   
Does Colonizatium reduce to half  
its initial impact in 50 years? 
In 1000 years? 
At what point  
does Colonizatium become unstable? 
Is the half-life of Colonizatium constant over the lifetime  
of an exponentially decaying  
Indigenous body? 
 
2. To quote a famous Indigenous physicist, sometimes there are complications.  
 
The decay of a mixture of two or more materials, 
which each decay exponentially but with different half-lives,  
is not exponential. 
Take nuclear waste.  
Imagine a mixture of a rapidly decaying element A,  
with a speedy half-life of 1 second, and more gradual decaying element B,  
with a half-life of 1 year.  
In minutes, almost all atoms of element A will have decayed  
after repeated reductions by half, but  
very few of the atoms of element B will have done so,  
as only a small percentage of its half-life has elapsed. Thus,  
the time taken for such a mixture to fall to half its original value  
cannot be easily calculated. 
 
The element Colonizatium is much like nuclear waste: 
an unequal mixture of toxic events  
with wildly different half-lives. 
Start with invasion, war, starvation, rape, murder— 
Indian boarding schools, reservations, outlawed religions,  
  
shame. 
Include an on-going bombardment of toxic events  
over a period of decades: 
termination, adopting-out, domestic violence, poverty,  
substance addiction, incarceration rates, diabetes, 
blood quantum debates, history books, mascots,  
white shamanism, fake ndns, police brutality, 
anger. 
A periodic table of traumatic elements. 
 
3. Given the difficulties  
in determining the half-life of Colonizatium,  
we might argue the necessity of redirecting  
our efforts into other  
more profitable calculations.   
However, 
despite the probabilistic nature of the inquiry, 
this as-yet-undiscovered formula 
is thought to be paramount for our research  
into a chronological prediction 
of the Post-Colonial state. Recent studies  
indicate that the mixing of elements in unequal toxicities  
and immeasurable psycho-social dynamics may best be gauged  
not in mathematics  
or statistics 
or theoretical constructs, 
 
but in the three Indigenous elements  
Story, Dance, and Song.  
 
In other words,  
Deep Science of a pre-Colonial origin 
such as  
formulas and algorithms encoded  
within ceremonial circles, drums or clappersticks,  
the spiraled helix of song, 
diagrams of precise footsteps  
on discrete portions of empowered earth;  
stories plotted like fractal geometry,  
the patterned asterisms of stars,  
chemical kinetics hammered out  
on the bodies of rocks. 
 
Key to such explorations— 
the re-emergence 
of a fourth Indigenous element:  
Dreaming. 
This component, long rumored to be permanently lost 
or the unstable fantasy of treasure-hunters, 
possesses shape-shifting abilities 
which have allowed it to survive long periods of hibernation, 
enabling structural recuperation and regeneration. 
 
Preliminary work that combines Dreaming  
with the three known elements 
reveals two astonishing facts: 
 
First) a post-Colonizatium status is, in fact,  
impossible to achieve. 
 
Second) Story, Dance, Song and Dreaming  
do not calculate nor predict  
the half-life of Colonizatium.  
 
Rather, 
when applied to the Colonized subject, 
these four elements  
hasten the decay of Colonizatium, 
pull the heavy history into themselves, 
break it down  
 
the same way maize, mustard greens, pennycress,  
sunflowers, Blue sheep fescue, and canola  
transform heavy metals. 
 
The same way water hyacinths suck up mercury, lead, cadmium,  
zinc, cesium, strontium-90, uranium  
and pesticides, 
 
the same way bladder campion accumulates copper,  
Indian mustard greens concentrate selenium, sulfur, chromium.   
 
The same way willow, Salix viminalis, absorbs uranium and petrochemicals.  
 
And— 
once the willow’s bio-mass concentrates heavy metals, 
once Story, Dance, Song and Dreaming do their work, 
the willow rods must be woven 
into baskets 
in what might be called  
a miraculous exponential, 
were we not, of course, privy to the facts. 
 
We must revise our aim, therefore, toward rapid  
decay of Colonizatium, 
or, De-Colonization. 
 
4. Start with Story.  
Work your way 
home. 
 
Huwa. 
 
 
—Deborah A. Miranda