Lance Preston, Fisherman, Troller, Sitka 
Interviewed by Josh Wisniewski & Marissa Wilson 03/26/2022 
American Folklife Center 
00:00-05:00 
Born 1972 near New York City.  Followed girlfriend to Alaska after Highschool.  
Decide to try commercial fishing with a friend.  Calling the Department of Fish 
and Game and asking where to go to get jobs.  Hitchhiking and taking train to 
Whittier.   
05:00-10:00 
Getting first job on a black cod long lining trip, excitement of seeing and being in 
a wild landscape.  Returning to college.  2 years later, friend returns from a 
summer of fishing on the FV Seaboy with Dan Falvy Making plans to return to 
Alaska to fish the following summer.  Arriving in Sitka in 1993. 9 years later 
would own the Seaboy. Fishing a halibut derby.  Looking up to Dan as mentor. 
10:00-15:00 
Traveling cross country arriving in Alaska.  Pre-internet, Not know what to 
expect, adventure, world as a bigger place without being able to look up 
everything about a place ahead of time. Taking ferry north with camping gear.  
Feeling excited for journey to another place.  Arriving in Sitka, camping outside 
of town, hitchhiking, pounding the docks looking for work.  Getting a job with old 
Norwegian fisherman. Living in his garage, working on long line gear, getting job 
on different boat.  Experiencing bad weather “abundance of ignorance”, being 
sea sick.  Getting job on king salmon troll opener. 
15:00-20:00 
Working on another boat for “Roaring George Roar”. Finishing college, almost 
becoming a teacher, coming back to Sitka every May.  Social scene, young people 
camping together in the woods working in fishing industry.  Adventure.  Making 
money for school.  Long lining tough, work as team, cog in a machine.  Trolling, 
more interesting and intimate relationship with the act of fishing not just a 
laborer.   
20:00-25:00 
Working on new boat Charlie Wilber Alexia K fished on boat three years, had big 
days fishing, listening to skippers on radio complaining, and fish politics.   Sounds 
like to much responsibility.  Buying boat and hand troll permit with a friend. 
25:00-30:00 
Homemade troll gurdies.  Fishing new boat, motor dies opening day loses power, 
making it back to town.  Spending summer “learning what a boat is” fixing 
motor, blowing top out buying new motor, selling boat, returning to working as 
crew, making good money.  Dan Falvy offers to sell the Seaboy.   
30:00-35:00 
Seaboy history.  38-foot boat built in 1935.  Family sailing to Sitka, finds Seaboy 
in Prince Rupert Wahl built boat.  Family takes boat to Port Townsend for 
repairs.  Dan Falvy buys fishes it for 13 years.  Wood boat only kind of boat new 
entrant could afford.  Becoming a “serious adult”. Seaboy as a “fishy” boat.  Boat 
voltage, “electrical voodoo”. How boat is bonded differential between voltage 
Lance Preston, Fisherman, Troller, Sitka 
Interviewed by Josh Wisniewski & Marissa Wilson 03/26/2022 
American Folklife Center 
 
from troll wire and from boat.  Different fish responding to differences in 
voltage.    
 
35:00-40:00 
Seaboy had good voltage, loosing luck, subscribing to electrical voodoo.  
Elaborate theories about what makes a boat fishy.  Some boats are fishy, other 
boats become fishy based on hard work and obsession over isolating currents.  
ON rescue mission to bring battery to friend.  Loosing steering, Rudder post 
almost falling off boat.  Skeg coming off boat, repaired by old timer.  Next winter 
Sitka Shipwright Coop fixes boat. 
 
40:00-45:00 
Additional repairs, new frames, new planks 2013-14 good fishing years. Buying 
the Duna.  Seeing boat in Pelican.  Meeting owners Greg Freedrick.  Greg 
watching how Seaboy was maintained, measuring to see if good fit for the Duna. 
Learning the Duna is for sale. 
 
45:00-50:00 
Duna, good fishing boat, couldn’t catch king salmon with Duna.  Engaging 
electrical voodoo.  Changing the set up on the deck, catching king salmon.  
Previous owner’s different kinds of success. 
 
50:00-55:00 
Competition among trollers, not benefiting by obsessing over scores.  Keeping 
numbers but trying to enjoy fishing.  Internet changes fishing.  Young people 
don’t come to Alaska for adventure of walking docks looking for a fishing job.  
People want jobs pre-arranged before coming to Alaska.  Using internet to get 
deckhand jobs. Sitka less of a rough town, wouldn’t be open to groups of young 
people living in woods looking for work.  Town less tolerant.  Disconnect 
between commercial fishing fleet and the rest of town.   
 
55:00-60:00 
Non-fisherman don’t realize fishing is basis for economy.  Town historically has 
more of a fishing culture. Sitka becoming the Cape Cod of Alaska.  Getting active 
in fish politics.  Taught by older generation of fishermen to participate or support 
those working on conservation and protecting fisheries.    Protecting the Tongass 
National Forest from logging, protecting salmon streams.  Getting on the board 
of directors for Seafood Producers Co-op (SPC).   
 
60:00-65:00 
SPC struggling, getting back on track.  Climate change Reduction of reliance on 
Fossil fuel macro issue.  Amazed by resilience of salmon in southeast Alaska.   
Salmon adapt. 
 
1:05-1:10:00 Watching salmon adapt in real time   Atmospheric rivers. Land slides and 
erosion. Salmon streams flood wash away eggs. Pollution increasing along coast.  
Old patterns of finding fish are changing, working harder to find fish.  Older 
Lance Preston, Fisherman, Troller, Sitka 
Interviewed by Josh Wisniewski & Marissa Wilson 03/26/2022 
American Folklife Center 
 
patterns not as effective.  Fish moving northward to colder water.  Amazed to 
see California king salmon stocks doing well   
 
1:10-1:15 
Advice to next generation “go north young man” Don’t spend 20’s stressing on 
what one should do.  Doing things that are important.  People not separate of 
the narural world. Nature much bigger than humans “we are nature”. Addressing 
ecological/climate crisis beyond any one person.  Collective impact of humans on 
the planet 
 
115:1:18 
Trolling intimate.  Experiencing a big bite, tick in fish, surrounded by whales 
feeding on the same thing salmon feeding on, trolling as being part of the marine 
ecosystem.  Trolling is catching one fish at a time.  Small scale fisheries are part 
of the ocean ecosystem.  Ocean needs small scale fishermen who work to 
protect it.  If fisherman taken off the water lose advocate and stewards of the 
ocean.