BATON ROUGE FOLKLIFE SURVEY 
AUDIO RECORDING LOG 
 
 Audio Log # 
 DMM-
BRFS-18A 
 Photo Log # 
 DMM-
BRFS-18P  I.D. Form # 
 DMM- 
BRFS-18 
 Interviewer(s) 
Douglas Manger 
 
Date & Time 
01/20/15 
03:45 p.m. 
 Recording Title (informants or event)                                                               
Michael Mattison 
Professional Piano Tuner 
 Location of Interview 
 
Jimmy Swaggart Ministries 
Family Worship Center 
8919 World Ministry Ave. 
Baton Rouge, LA 70810 
  
 Recording 
Equipment                                                    
 Olympus Digital Recorder (Linear PCM Recorder), LS-11 
 Format  Waveform Audio   Length of Interviews 
(1) 49:37 
(3) 2:03 
(2) 13:00 
(4) 11:06 
 
 
Time 
LS110329 
0BInterviewee 
00:00 
Introduction 
Mattison 
00:24 
Mattison described the setting: Jimmy Swaggart’s Family 
Worship Center in Baton Rouge. On the stage, a 9 foot 3 
inch Austrian-made Bösendorfer grand piano. Mattison is 
responsible for keeping the grand piano in tune. 
 
I 
2 
01:09 
Mattison’s father loved music. Played violin in high school 
as did his sister. Father quite intent on giving his children 
exposure to music. All received piano lessons as children. 
Timing was a struggle for Mattison when he was learning 
piano. Later he would come to realize his talent for piano 
tuning. “I found I could put each note to the point of perfec-
tion and then let somebody else put them all together into 
music.” 
 
02:30 
Seven siblings. Neighborhood kids across the swamp or a 
mile of so down the road. 
 
03:07 
Raised outside of Springfield, LA, in Livingston Parrish. 
Lived next to the swamp. 
 
03:30 
Mattison’s father was a preacher. Also did carpentry work 
on the side when additional income for the family was 
needed. His father and grandfather had both been building 
contractors.  
 
04:18 
Mattison left Louisiana after high school. Attended bible 
college in northern Illinois. Ended up working in piano fac-
tory across the street. Went into ministry still tuning pianos 
on the side. After 20 years went into piano tuning full time. 
 
05:14 
Describes his work in piano factory during the Vietnam era, 
mid 1960s. Economy was booming. Piano company selling 
out all inventory. Needed to break in new piano tuners. 
Mattison hired part time at Aeolian American Company, at 
the time largest piano company in the world with 15 
brands. Cable Piano manufactured at the facility along with 
two other brands. Factory turned out player pianos 20-30 
years prior. Still produced player piano music rolls with 
equipment located in the basement. 
 
07:45 
Mattison described his work station in the factory. “String-
ers” would bring pianos to Mattison one at a time for tun-
ing. Piano up on its back, no side nor keys. Just the sound-
board, frame, plate, and the wires on it. Tuned with home-
made guitar pick, tuning hammer and tuning fork. Tapped 
tuning fork on the edge of the piano bench instead of on 
his knee. By the time he left the job, a 1” deep hole on the 
piano bench remained where he had been tapping his tun-
ing fork all the while. 
 
3 
09:02 
Mattison did the “rough tuning” which was called “chip-
ping.” “So we ‘chipped’ the pianos. That was what a rough 
tuning was called in the factory.” The previous chipper 
trained Mattison.  
 
09:37 
Detailed description of how pianos were rough tuned start-
ing from the middle octave (middle C) using strips of pa-
per. Tuned the middle octave into “harmony.” Referred to 
as the temperament of the piano. Then tuned by octaves 
all the way up from the bottom to the top, one wire each. 
Mattison then went back and tuned other wires on each 
note in harmony with the one wire they first tuned.  
 
10:28 
Started off at an hourly rate. After Mattison gained experi-
ence, he was paid piece work rate. Strange union affilia-
tion, Mechanic and Aerospace Workers Union. Took two 
hours to tune one piano at the outset. When Mattison was 
tuning at the rate of 1.5 pianos per hour they switched him 
over to piece work rate. Worked out to about $1.10 per 
hour to tune 230 strings per piano. Going rate today includ-
ing drive time is $160.00. “Of course there [at the factory] 
they were coming in the door as fast as you could push 
them out the other door.] After a year, Mattison could tune 
four pianos an hour. Tuned 40 pianos per ten hour shift 
during the summer months when he was not attending 
school. Ten minute coffee break twice per day. 
 
12:26 
Discovery process in the work? Coming from “the poverty 
stricken South,” being able to make more than the average 
college student at that time (1966-1968) built Mattison’s 
confidence. The union had negotiated an added rate 
above the piece rate figure, so Mattison’s pay rate was up 
to $7.50 per hour. Gave Mattison confidence that he could 
make his way in the world and become self-sufficient. Fac-
tory turned out roughly 100 pianos per week with 80 em-
ployees. Mattison self-described “critical cog.” 
 
13:52 
While Mattison was there no one was able to learn the 
trade. “They all washed out.” Mattison would remain the 
only chipper in his department during his time there. 
 
4 
14:24 
Following in his father’s footsteps, took up preaching after 
college in central Michigan. Continued to tune an average 
of one piano a month to maintain his skill sets in that area. 
Mattison’s church had a radio program on the Mt. Pleasant 
(MI) station every Sunday morning. Church parish very ru-
ral in an area of dairy farmers and bean farmers. 
 
16:20 
Mattison comments on his part-time work in the area. 
Tuned pianos within a ten mile radius.  
 
17:06 
Shares story of tuning a young teenagers piano. The teen-
ager apparently had never played an in-tune piano before. 
Her mother later called Mattison relaying her daughter’s 
complaint that the piano sounded strange after it had been 
tuned properly. Relates another story. House built around 
piano, now “trapped” in the basement. Hadn’t been tuned 
in 50 years. Mattison tuned the piano and it held the tun-
ing. 
 
18:15 
Found his second Church of God church preaching posi-
tion in Dallas. Describes a bit about their belief system.   
Stayed three and half years. While in Dallas, freelanced as 
piano tuner for Brook Mays at $7.00 per hour. (Brook Mays 
is the oldest and largest full-line musical instrument dealer 
in the USA.) “Dovetailed really well as a dual career situa-
tion.” Mattison continued his dual career role when he ac-
cepted a new pastor position in Baton Rouge. After resid-
ing in Baton Rouge for roughly ten years, Mattison went 
into piano tuning full time. 
  
22:59 
Mattison very happy with his decision to transition full time 
into piano tuning. Allows him to go into many churches. 
Clientele are very nice people. “I can trust my clients; they 
can trust me.” Very common for clients to leave Mattison 
alone in the house as he works. “Never once have I stolen 
the silverware.” 
 
5 
23:37 
Tuning 230 strings. Improved his speed over time. Client 
whose husband was a piano tuner shared that her hus-
band once commented that it takes about 10 years of tun-
ing before you get really good. Shares story of visiting cli-
ent who had just had her piano tuned. Mattison asked to 
see the piano, then realizes “that tuning was far better than 
I could do.” At 68 years of age, Mattison has slowed the 
tempo of his work. As a result the quality of his work has 
gone up. “If I take two hours I can nail each tuning pin 
more solidly so it will stay in tune.” Explains in detail his 
method of tuning by taking the wire tension above pitch, 
then easing it back down the pitch. “Tension of the wood 
trying to move the pin sharp, and the tension of the wire 
trying to pull it flat, comes to a counter balance. A state of 
equilibrium.” The pin then becomes stable. 
 
27:57 
Change in technology over time. Just a tuning fork to start 
out with. Detailed explanation about approach, including 
explanation of how he sets the “temperament” of the piano.  
(Note: The initial task of a piano tuner is known as setting 
the temperament, that is, to tune a section in the middle of 
the keyboard to an equal tuned temperament. Once this is 
done, the rest of the strings may be set by tuning octave 
intervals up and down the keyboard. Source: preci-
sionstrobe.com). Strobotuner used in the factory where 
Mattison first tuned. Detailed explanation about the work-
ings of a strobotuner. Electronic imitation strobe light unit 
now used to tune. Same characteristics as a strobotuner 
folded into a hand-sized digital unit. Wagon wheel readout 
moves to the right or to the left to indicate the note being 
tuned is either flat, sharp, or in tune.  The instrument also 
generates the same information numerically. Mattison will 
often tune with the digital unit and then go back and make 
a few corrections by ear. An indication of how acute his 
hearing is. 
 
33:35 
Commented on how his clients relate to their pianos “clear 
up to, the piano is the only thing that helps me keep my 
sanity. “You can get lost, enraptured by something like 
this. Some people get so caught up with it, all their trou-
bles, all other issues get left behind and they are in total 
concentration on their music.” 
 
6 
35:17 
Types of clients Mattison deals with. Teenage novices 
whose parents rarely tune their pianos to devotees who 
have their pianos tuned every two to four months because 
“if it gets slightly off it drives them crazy.” Cites an example 
of a retired school teacher who likes her piano tuned to 
perfection. Clients range from college professors at LSU to 
blue collar workers. “You don’t know where you’re going to 
find the piano music lover.” 
 
37:48 
Piano tuners capabilities vary, like in any other industry. 
Some are good at the business with a large clientele, but 
not the best when it comes to piano tuning. Some are per-
fectionists who struggle to follow through on their appoint-
ments and go out of business. “All sorts of levels to their 
commitment to their trade.” 
 
40:09 
Mattison also maintains shop where he repairs and re-
stores pianos. Offered commentary on this end of his busi-
ness. Commented on the decline of American manufactur-
ers; 3500 manufacturers before the Depression. “Now they 
say there are three or four in America and 3500 in China.” 
Many consumers willing to put out extra 20% or so for a 
brand new piano rather than having their old one rebuilt. 
Most rebuilding Mattison does in his shop is for clients who 
have a nostalgic or particular tonal attachment to their in-
strument. Cites example of current project. Client adamant 
about keeping her original piano instead of buying new. 
Likes the tone of her piano. 
 
43:48  
Growth of his piano rebuilding business. “It just pulls you in 
further and further ‘til your hooked.” 
 
44:45 
No apparent business advantage in being Louisiana born 
and raised. “Piano tuning as a business is as much a peo-
ple business as it is a technical business.” Lengthy com-
mentary on his life exposure over time, perhaps to suggest 
an ability to deal with clients from all backgrounds, leading 
up to the ethnic diversity of a small percentage of his cli-
ents to include Asians and Latinos. Mattison sees being 
able to relate with people with differing kinds of attitudes, 
personalities, and ethnic backgrounds a positive. 
 
7 
48:36 
Interviewer interjected. Suggests Mattison’s preaching 
manner, calming and engaging as it is, might help his busi-
ness. “When I was a preacher I could put babies to sleep,” 
Mattison replied. 
 
49:37 
End of first segment. 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: The segments below, although somewhat technical 
in nature, are meant to give listeners an appreciation for 
the exacting nature of Mattison’s work, a profession built 
entirely on precision.  
 
 
LS110330 
 
00:00 
Mattison talked about the “action” of a piano. The explana-
tions he provided were very complete and at times difficult 
to follow. Mattison provided some insight on the history of 
the piano. Evolved from the harpsichord. The basic design 
of the piano has remained unchanged over time.   
 
01:55 
Spun story of rocket engineer who thought he could figure 
out the mechanics of the action on a piano with its complex 
striking mechanism. Thirty-five steps in the adjustment 
times 88. If you adjust one, you must adjust all of them. 
When the Steinway technician arrived, the rocket scientist, 
who had taken time off from work, declared, “I’m a rocket 
scientist. I’m a rocket engineer. Don’t tell me what you are 
doing. I want to figure out how this mechanism works by 
just standing back and watching you.” Piano technician re-
turned to New York a week later. The rocket scientist still 
didn’t know how the mechanics worked. 
 
03:19  
Everything is designed in reverse in piano action, so as the 
component parts wear, they provide more of a clearance. 
Took a good 200 years to perfect the piano action design. 
 
03:34 
More explanations on tension levels.  
 
8 
05:21 
“So that’s the art of the tuning process. So, it’s more 
than just making it sound right. My job is to make it 
sound right tomorrow, next week, and next month, af-
ter I’ve walked away from it.” 
 
05:36 
Varying humidity levels will wreck havoc on a piano just 
tuned. Mattison’s client, Jimmy Swaggart. To help keep his 
grand piano in tune, heat strips activated by a temperature 
sensor(s) have been installed. 
 
07:19 
The digital tuning device Mattison uses has a complete 
range of piano temperaments programmed into the soft-
ware, so Mattison can program in the exact model of piano 
he is working to get the adjustments. “We maybe tune 8 or 
10 notes into the computer, and the computer calculates 
[how] the rest of the piano [is to be tuned].” Mattison tunes 
the piano straight to the computer, then goes back and 
does a little finesse by ear. The tuning device can provide 
a visual readout that is more precise than the human ear. 
To complicate matters, depending on the piano, some 
notes will have more than one frequency coming off of one 
wire. When one wire sounds like two wires, it is termed a 
“false beat.” 
 
12:43 
“Now the temperature and humidity just varied slightly and 
the note just went off 1%.” 
 
13:00  
End of second segment. 
 
 
 
 
 
LS 110331 
 
00:00 
“OK, you can hear A440...you can feel it...and...now you 
can see it.” Mattison demonstrated how you can take a 
tuning fork, strike a string with it on the piano, and hear 
A440. (Note: A440 or A4, which has a frequency of 440 
Hz, is the musical note A above middle C and serves as a 
general tuning standard for musical pitch.) 
 
01:28 
“That’s the world I live in, the world of frequencies. It’s 
fascinating to me that I get paid for adjusting things 
that people can’t even see.” 
 
9 
01:39 
Mattison shared story of taking great care to tune a piano 
for an elderly lady. He later realized when he presented 
her the bill, she was deaf! 
 
02:03 
End of third segment. 
 
 
 
 
 
LS 110332 
 
00:00 
Mattison provided more personal background on himself. 
All of his brothers but one went to Bible college and spent 
time as pastors. Heart still in pastoring, but skill sets are 
really in the piano tuning area. Avid student of the Bible. 
 
05:10 
Elaborated on his foreign clients including Asians. His im-
pressions: Asians very much “buy into” the European clas-
sical music tradition. Want their children taking piano. Ma-
laysian client who worships at Hindu temple in town. Goes 
on to mention Buddhist temple and Moslem mosque in Ba-
ton Rouge, as well. About half the Christian population in 
town is Catholic, the other half Protestant. Mattison has 
many customers from both Protestant groups. What is no-
ticeable is his increasing number of Asian customers. 
 
07:29 
Mattison spoke to the frugality of his Asian customers. 
“They make sure the piano needs tuning before they 
spend the money to tune it.” They tend not to be as long 
lasting a customer base as Caucasian lawyers and doc-
tors. They also tend not to keep the piano tuned if it is not 
being played, to save the money. One client he serves, the 
man and his wife are originally from Vietnam. Both are 
dentists. On the day of this interview, all of Mattison’s 
scheduled piano tuning appointments were for Asian cli-
ents. Continued on to mention other Asians: Chinese Bud-
dhist’s and Christians; and an Indian Hindu psychiatrist 
who was a client. 
 
09:07 
“Yes, there is quite an international scene in Baton Rouge 
now.” Mattison mentioned Lebanese, Chinese, Indian 
presence in the restaurant trade in Baton Rouge. 
 
10 
09:42 
Mattison commented on client tastes when purchasing a 
piano. “Unfortunately a lot of people buy a piano on the 
looks before they realize there is a difference in tone.” 
Those clients who are more knowledgeable realize 
Yamaha, Kawai, and other Asian pianos tend to be 
brighter in tone. And that old line American companies 
(many have been driven out of business by the Asian com-
petition), like Steinway and Mason Hamlin, tend to be mel-
lower in tone. The Baldwin piano falls in between as far as 
brightness. Bright sound more compatible with rock ‘n’ roll 
music and some Country, so American makers began 
making their pianos brighter until most sold off their names 
to foreign makers and went out of business. 
 
11:06 
End of interview. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11 
 
 
12 
 
 
13 
 
 
14 
 
 
15 
 
 
16 
 
 
17 
 
 
18 
 
 
19