Dave Seaman, Fisherman Little Tutka Bay 
Interviewed By Josh Wisniewski for American Folklife Center 
Date: 02/21/2022 
 
1 
 
Dave was born in 1952 and moved to Alaska with family at age 10.  Eventually came down to 
Kachemak Bay, and moved to the southside of Kachemak Bay.  Taught himself how to build 
boats and commercially fished for salmon and halibut and ran a salmon tender.  With the 
wooden fishing boat Marona.  A longtime resident of Little Tutka Bay, a central theme to Dave’s 
23interviewer fished and had been a boatbuilding apprentice with Dave in earl twenties.  The 
interview was conducted in the interviewer’s cabin on Barabra Point near Seldovia 
 
00:00-05:00 
Born 1952 in Providence Rode Island moved to Alaska at age 10, dad was a 
World War II veteran, officer on heavy cruiser. Took over father’s business, a 
wool mill in Providence Rode Island. Business failed. Dad’s background was in 
engineering got contract a civilian contractor to work at Clear Airforce Base on 
Alaska Interior. Loved rural Alaska, moved to Anchorage.  Didn’t do well in high 
school was sent to finishing school in New Hampshire.  Went to four colleges 
dropped out.  Went to Reed College, met a girl and came to Alaska together.  
Took Ferry then hitch-hiked to Homer and got a job at Lands-End, hotel and 
restaurant.  Friend Robert Purpura who he knew from growing up in Anchorage 
was chef there.  Worked as chef offered job to fix foundation for cabin on Yukon 
Island in exchange for living in small cabin called the “Tea House” 
 
05:00-10:00 
Never Looked Back to Homer after moving to Yukon Island and Seldovia. Lived in 
Homer to raise family ten moved back to Little Tutka Bay.  1976 Seldovia 
Cannery was operating, leased boat called Rover.   First skiff was called Lilly B.  
Spruce planking on spruce natural knee frames.  Lost the boat in winter storm, 
given a boat called gnit by Verne Ross, the built own skiff. Boat building tradition 
in Little Tutka Bay area multiple builders and local sawyer in Sadie Cove. 
 
10:00-15:00 
Moved from Yukon Island to Cabin at base of McDonald Spit, given a log by 
Harley Eckron, bought chainsaw and milled planks to build a boat in a chicken 
coop, boat had issues not safe in bad weather, learning experience, harvested 
natural knee frames from Windy Bay on outer gulf coast, drove out on logging in 
1964 van on birthday in 1976. 
 
15:00-20:00 
Robert had girlfriend with permit.  They set net fished 1978 poor fishing sites but 
good year.  Dave was halibut fishing in Port Chatham.  Set net 1979, lost money, 
pattern for fishing career.  Permit cost $15,000. Big price one year, with cash 
buyers. Inspired to get boat and become fish buyer. Knew all the set netters 
from Seldovia to Halibut Cove.  Purse Seine fleet politically influential limited set 
net fishing area.  Fishing families included Dave Chartier, Buck Brown Seldovia 
Bay, Rosses, twelve sites and Steve Sarakovakoff, May Joyce Colberg. 
 
20:00-25:00 
Set netters Continued, Paine family, on McDonald Spit had bought sites from 
Blacky and Elmer, including Nubble Point, the best site.   Cabin next to Sera 
Dave Seaman, Fisherman Little Tutka Bay 
Interviewed By Josh Wisniewski for American Folklife Center 
Date: 02/21/2022 
 
2 
Baxter, sites on McDonald Spit and by entrance to Jackalof. Harley Ekron, had 
beach sites near back corner of Kasitsna Bay. Point Sophia tender operated by 
Phil Kehl, lost king salmon.  Before set netting-built skiff to go halibut fishing 
 
25:00-30:00 
Halibut fishing with Marsha, Port Chatham skiff Anubis. 1978, Halibut season two 
two-week openers, followed by10-day openers. Stayed at abandoned cabin near 
old cannery.  Supplies flown in “Scary Larry” Fishing boat Rover set in tide rip off 
Point Adams, deckhand slipped shot self in stomach, coast guard arrives.  Dave 
shows up in unfinished skiff. 
 
30:00-35:00 
Dave arrives in Port Chatham with halibut gear. Landing plane in Port Chatham 
dangerous.  Halibut fishing was bust.  Tried to fish out of Anchor River for next 
opener.  Went in and out of the Anchor River on the tide. Brought shotgun for 
big fish, almost shots hole in bottom of boat. Delivered fish by pick-up. Bought 
set net permit in 1979.  Lost interest. Bought Marona fished three years to 
qualify for halibut quota.  Sold quota to stay home more to save marriage. 
Tendering, Halibut Cove Fishermen Debbie Veerhusen, Slim Tashner, Buck Brown 
Seldovia and Halibut Cove.  Hatchery king salmon in Halibut Cove Lagoon. First 
Tender was the Dee-Dee 2. 
 
35:00-40:00 
Dee Dee 2 small gillnetter, packed 12,000 lbs.  Ray Miller, jitney seiner in China 
Poot Bay agreed to sell Dave fish. Told Dave how to get into China Poot, wrote 
directions on back of an envelope.  Traveled in during middle of the night.  Built 
scow to hold ice and totes for China Poot Seiners.  Jitneys small niche boats 
shallow draft, small nets for fishing in shallow waters and sloughs.  Looking for a 
bigger boat 
 
40:00-45:00 
Finds Marona, small boatyard mouth of the Columbia River, Oregon, run down in 
old WWII era shipyard.  Negotiate with owner to fix engine and fuel tanks.  Fuel 
tanks fished in one day. Dad came down to help get the boat ready. Left early to 
set up tender contract with Seasonal Seafoods Coop on Kasilof River. 
 
45:00-50:00 
Everyday crisis going up Kasilof River. Fishing shut down in Kachemak Bay. 
Worked as cash buyer in Cook Inlet at mouth of Kasilof River.  Started to go dry 
during delivery had to pull self-off sand bar with anchor winch.   One-year fishes 
for halibut before tendering Jim Landis with Eric filled in.  After halibut fishing 
met off Sixty Foot Rock transferred tendering gear to the Marona.  Fell asleep at 
the wheel put Marona on reef on Casey Island, mouth of Tutka Bay.  Marona a 
lucky boat. 
 
50:00-55:00 
Tender serves as representative of fishermen to processors and processors to 
fishermen. 15 years of tendering worked for 5 different buyers.  Small operator, 
only service could provide as a tender was a better price.  Cook Inlet Processing 
Dave Seaman, Fisherman Little Tutka Bay 
Interviewed By Josh Wisniewski for American Folklife Center 
Date: 02/21/2022 
 
3 
was best processor to work for. Biggest delivery in one day, deck loaded. Once 
delivered more fish in one day than 80 ft tender did all season.  Marona small 
wooden local boat never made much money, always had green deckhands Boat 
didn’t generate enough electricity to run all systems at once, sometimes had to 
shut off all systems to charge batteries. 
 
55:00-60:00 
Electric fire on board during delivery, learned a lot without major consequences. 
Halibut fishing, had only skiff fished halibut prior to getting the Marona.  Dick 
Dunn first deckhand had fished Donna Ann helped set up boat. Used skate 
bottoms and snap on gear with tensioner.  Danger of it jamming with knots.  
Never had bad accidents always ran from bad weather. Anchored up in Amatuli 
Cove.  High stress during 12- or 24-hour opener 
 
1:00-1:05 
Owned Marona for 20 years, raised family.  Worked on boat, replaced stern in 
Sadie Cove, with Jim Landis and Gregor. Replaced Bow stem in Homer.  Put on 
ice sheathing, upside down roofers’ union. Experience to do other big jobs. 
Replaced bow stem on the Alaska and on Danny J. Worked as stevedore 
unloading log ships.  Logs from Icy Bay towed to Kasitsna Bay, sorted in Jackalof 
Bay. 
 
1:05-1:10 
Freighters from Japan came to load logs.  People from English Bay, Port Graham, 
Seldovia and Little Tutka Bay all worked at loading log ships. Tow log rafts to log 
ships, started working in hold moved to working on log raft. Failed unionization, 
negotiate better Logs escape, wash up on McDonald Spit Failed, collect with 
landing craft Nanook. Hiding escaped logs, tow to saw mill in Sadie Cove mill and 
keep half one log 3,600 board feet of boat lumber.  Work declines, loading log 
ships in Icy Bay. 
 
1:10-1:15 
Loaded ships in Icy Bay pull logs t to ship with pond boats. Boat sinks in bad 
weather.  Living in Sera Baxter’s plywood A-frame on McDonald Spit.  Wild 
beautiful place.  Found fish scow in Seldovia Bay, nice lines, fill with buoys float 
away on big tide. 
 
1:15-1:20 
Tow scow to McDonald Spit in dark. Turnover on beach to repair. Build 8x8 shack 
and net racks, anchor in Kasitsna Bay.  Tow to Little Tutka in winter.  Marry Barb, 
have kids, turn scow into houseboat.  Leave fishing partnership with Robert and 
Renne.  The Wilkes and Daigle’s start fishing.  Mast and Boom on scow loading 
fuel. Built boatshop in Little Tutka Bay with Jack Estel. Use Lumber milled in 
Sadie Cove Estel live above shop. 
 
 
1:20-1:25 
Built skiffs and row boats in shop. No ramp pushes out shop doors on high tide, 
Still using Merlin, buys skiff built for some one else.  Developing one boat design. 
Dave Seaman, Fisherman Little Tutka Bay 
Interviewed By Josh Wisniewski for American Folklife Center 
Date: 02/21/2022 
 
4 
Lapstrake boats natural knees. Tutka Bay “Lucky” community develops.  
Harassed for being hippies in Seldovia 
 
125:1:30 
George Wetzel, school bus in Seldovia, burned by locals.  Little Tutka Bay 
community, Bumpo, Dave, Dick Greg, Brem Will and Sandy. Sandy original 
homesteader in Little Tutka Land owned by State Mental Health Trust, lease lots 
for $500.00 per year for 55-year lease, cheap for people wanting to live in 
remote setting.  Accidental community forms.  Sunday community saunas. 
Community changes people move away.   1970s-1980s Kachemak Bay fisheries. 
Tanner Crab, lights from boats illuminate mountains, shrimp trawling.  Fisheries 
collapse overnight. 1970s biologist said impossible to over fish Kachemak Bay. 
 
1:30-1:35 
Environmental change, receding tide, isostatic rebound, less ice, glaciers 
receding water warming.   Demographic change, wealth in Homer, older 
population, more politically conservative. Increase in coat of land.  Seldovia old 
timers didn’t like change and new people moving into the country.   The land has 
mystic, shadows of Native heritage, middens and archeological sites. Met Jack 
English in Seldovia 
 
1:35-1:40 
Jack English Seldovia old timer Seldovia News Stand Dave buys first oars. Steve 
Sarakovakoff. Asked Seldovia Native Association if he could have scow.  Met 
Harley Ekron, can clams and crab at Ekron cannery, smally family processing 
business. King crab swarm to molt in Kasitsna Bay. High tide 1964 earth quake 
scoured Kasitna Bay Harley tries to operate crane inebriated. Shared bring taught 
how to smoke pink salmon, Verne Ross lived to be 100. 
 
1:40-1:45 
Verne Ross, rode rails during depression raised family fishing Upper Cook Inlet. 
Special to know that generation.  To be here, simply was what the world was.  
Quiet, no phones, TV, social media.  Colonial context, Interloper. Older 
population gone, Blackie and Elmerm Juneau John, Alex Flym.  Next generation 
Mikee Balough also gone.  ½ the Little Tutka community passed away.  !989 oil 
spill.  Boom in front of Little Tutka Bay, gate to get in. Marone hired to be hotel 
boat for clean-up. Housed four people $4800 daily rate, Exxon pay off fishermen. 
Landing craft, cleaning Perl Island shoveling oil, barge refused to take more.   
 
1:45-1:50 
Exxon takes away tools only pom poms to clean up oil. Plans drop dispersants on 
oil spill clean up workers. Workers get sick Exxon denies, reasons people hate 
Exxon. Dave Chartier crew leader stood up to executives during clean up.  
Wouldn’t compromise until tools taken away.  Hero Dave Chartier meets Mike 
Balough education, how things use to be, could be.  Make luck, Tutka Bay 
running line 12 boats all local made wooden boats question shadows of past 
question if land projects ethos on to him or he onto the land. 
 
Dave Seaman, Fisherman Little Tutka Bay 
Interviewed By Josh Wisniewski for American Folklife Center 
Date: 02/21/2022 
 
5 
1:50-1:53:23 1930’s  Frederica De-Laguna  book “Fog on the Mountain” Native culture, 
separate, unequal segregated. Humanity comes through, geography accurate.  
Symbols, devils club, salmon, Barabra, smoke house, sauna are icons.   Bristol 
Bay double ender sail boat icon of Bristol Bay salmon fishery.  Here other things 
imbued with mystical qualities. First summer/winter wet southeasterlies from 
Tutka, and Jackalof re-webbing crab pots in Seldovia.  Trees singing rain and wind 
putting in boat, fell in love with the place, has stayed that way. 
 
153:23 End