AFC 2020/004: 27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
 
Laura Da’ 
 
Living Nations, Living Words: A Map of First Peoples Poetry 
Poem commentary by Laura Da’, 2020 
 
Speaker: Laura Da’ 
Date of recording: July 11, 2020 
Location: Renton, Washington, poet’s home 
Length: 3 minutes, 46 seconds 
 
START OF RECORDING 
 
Laura Da’:  My name is Laura Da’. Today is July 11, 2020, and I’m reading from my home in 
Renton, Washington. The poem I’m going to read today is “The Rhetorical Feminine.”  
 
[Laura Da’ reads “The Rhetorical Feminine”] 
 
LD:  I’d like to offer a little commentary on this poem, “The Rhetorical Feminine.” I started 
writing this poem is a mood of constraint and longing, but by the end, I found myself in a 
different space. I compare it to the bookends of the first and last couplets. The first is mourning 
a loss of place and the violence of colonial naming—Battery Rock, and the Devil’s Backbone for 
instance. By the end of the poem, the reaching for language and place has the quality of 
questing over static loss.  
  
The poem shaped itself around a real place. There are accounts of Shawnee, and Lenape cities 
that were the provenance of women and places of keen diplomatic importance. Additionally, in 
Shawnee, there are ways of saying words and using syntax that hint at the significance of 
feminine leadership. I’m at the beginning of my learning Shawnee language, but this intrigues 
me. In English, the rhetorical patterns of language are dominated by masculinity. When I say 
this, I think of iconic phrases like Shakespeare’s “Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your 
ears” and “We few, we happy few, we band of brothers.” Language does so much to articulate 
worldview, and the hint of this ancestral complexity through language and place led me to the 
title, “The Rhetorical Feminine.” This connects to the opening and closing couplets because 
pondering the richness of this legacy in the poem, allowing its violently juxtaposing 
worldviews—from “somebody’s 1810” to “the banks of living territory”—is a reclamation from 
scarcity to abundance. 
 
END OF RECORDING