1 
 
Katielyne Nianugmwar Bi-Lingual Questionnaires  
 
Interview Location: Tamuning, Guam 
Age of Interviewee: 35 years 
Island of Birth: 
Satawal Island 
Audio Language: 
Satawalese 
Recording afc2022011_023_sr001 
00:01 Question 1 
1.   Thinking back, what are your very earliest memories of, or about, weaving? 
A. Satawalese: Arre iga wopwe niuniuwaen sefaeni nge mera minne o rhiuwen maengi ren 
wuununun yoam kapwung to me repiyaegni teor? 
 
Interviewee in Satawalese: 
00:13 Ren ai kapwung tog teor nge iy rhapitag won ai 
kapwung fetan teor ren teor goaar, eh feor sangi maang 
ngare painiu, ese tiwagin mineka ai gane ahseiy fetan iwe 
aiya gaene ahpartag tibwan, 00:35 iwe maneka re tiugfai 
sengi gemam ra bwan ngan apuwungu ngeni gemam ifa 
meneka itan tibw iwe me sesarin tibw me feorin ifaa, iwe 
aiya gan ukur fetan won, iwe iy kabwung sengi rhag teor 
goaar. 
 
Interviewee in English: 
When I began learning to weave, I started learning by 
making a “teor goaar”, or a little toy loom. It is made of 
either pandanas leaves, palm fronds, or other fibers, and 
we strip them into thinner fibers and insert “tibwan” (sticks 
and other parts of a loom). The older girls taught us the 
names of the different parts of a loom and lavalava, and 
they also taught us how to alternate the fibers from top to 
bottom, and repeat. This was what we played with growing 
up, and it was my introduction to weaving – which was to 
play and learn on the toy loom. 
 
00:55 Question 2 
2.   In your mind, who is the one person you most associate with weaving in your life and 
why? 
A. Satawalese: Noan yoam niuniuwan nge iyo erhaiy ne egin naap yoam kapwung saengi 
ren wuununun me afeorin teor? 
Interviewee in Satawalese: 
01:08 Egin townap roka iy kabwung teor sangir, roka 
mwongeyan semai ka re noe fetan aroi, nge enap sangi 
kabwung me rer Inemangtag me Rose Maginmai, pwe ir 
minne re noe fetan aroi nan aton yai rapitag ai kabwung 
ter. 01:32 Iwe ipwe gane mano me skuun, itoh neimw iwe ra 
gane ainganiyei pwe ipwe row. Ra gane apwungeyei ifa 
usun row, itan eweh me eweh tapin row, me ren minan 
ngaren row, nginiwar me yeon me nigiron. 02:03 Iwe egus 
me egus ai kapwung, mwirin aiwa no ngani teor. Nap sangi 
guneyei nge mani guneyei me ren Inemangtag, pwe iy 
2 
 
minne egane ssaw atemagin pwe ipwe kapwung, ipwe 
kukunei. 02:23 Iwe iy minne egan mwot aroi a kapwung 
nganiyei sesarin ngiung, itan ewhe me eweh tibw, me pwe 
ifa usun ai pwe goyiui ai teor epwe ngit, iwe pwan itan 
eweh me eweh saapw, paniuwan saapw, 02:46 me metta 
minne, amatefa nganiyei metta fan me gin auchea menne 
feorin ter. 
 
Interviewee in English: 
I learned from many women, including my father’s sisters, 
who were around me at the time I began learning the steps 
of weaving. But, I mostly learned from Inemangtag and 
Rose Manginmai, as they were the ones who were 
constantly around me at the time. I would return from 
school and they would tell me to sit and put a pattern on 
the warping board, and they would guide me. They taught 
me the right ways to make a pattern of thread on the 
warping board. They also taught me the different names of 
the different parts of the warp and parts of the lavalava as I 
tried to put together the pattern. After learning to put 
together the pattern on the warping board, they then taught 
me how to weave on the loom. They taught me the 
different patterns and the names of each. Little by little, I 
learned, and most of what I learned was from Inemangtag, 
because she really tried her best to teach me and was 
patient and clear in her instructions. She taught me how to 
weave in a way that is neat and tight, and she taught me 
how to do it correctly. She also taught me the names of the 
different supplemental weft patterns stitched into the ends 
of the “peg” style lavalava, and she explained the 
importance of lavalava and why we should know and 
continue to weave, and why it is important to always have 
lavalava readily available for future occasions unbeknownst 
to us. 
 
 
03:00 Question 3 
3.   Why is weaving so important to you? 
A.   Satawalese: Meta minne teor egin kaeyin yan yor epitan ngaeniug ren? 
Interviewee in Satawalese: 
03:05 Minne eor apitan minne teor nganiyei ren, pwe iga inna 
mine kon faniuwar, nge egin townap yayan minne teor, ina 
minna si pisaginiy, gir ropwut, sipwan ani nifang ngani 
mareyarer, sipwan naini senapiy, ren peigin minnan ariya. 
03:32 Iwe egin or apitan mine teor pwe iga si anni ren 
anongan agiyag. 
  
Interviewee in English: 
Weaving is of great importance to me because it is an 
integral part of our culture and our islands, and the uses for 
lavalava are countless in our society. Lavalava are what we 
wear and give as gifts to our friends and family. We use it 
3 
 
as money in exchange for food and land and other things, 
and we use it in asking for pardons for disagreements, and 
more. Lavalava and weaving is very important to us and 
our culture, and it is something that we must always have 
readily available. 
 
03:45  Question 4 
4.   How has weaving or woven skirts changed over your lifetime, or since the lifetime of 
those who taught you? 
A.   Satawalese: E ifa usun an teor are apwungiun teor e niuniuwento are wenigaeg saengi 
yoaton yoam teoteor are kekapwung minne a feoriun teor igiwe a sipegin torito igina? Meta 
ka e niuwen saengi yoatokawe o kapwung to me wenmweoiyiur rhoakewe o kapung me rer? 
 
Interviewee in Satawalese: 
04:04 Ren ai kapwung tog teor nge agin wonegag sangi 
wonemwoiu, pwe mwoiu we ren rokewe re kapwung 
nganyai teor, ren mwoiur, egin fitoe fetan rag ar inno, ngare 
tiunan inno ka re gan yaya, manni pwe ruwow rag tapin 
meka regan yaya ren teor. 04:30 Iwe igawe nge inigat re gan 
nganer rag teor goaar per repwe kapwung me ren, rese 
gan nganer inno pwe rete asonopa. Iwe wonomoiu agin 
townap ewe me ewe tiunan inno ka sipwe mwen sipwe 
yaya iwe ya marerag pwe maneka re nan onegat ta repwe 
rapta rag ar kapwung teor ra nag ngeni minna anongan 
teor. 05:01 Nge pwan igiwe imwen noe rag feor ewe me ewe 
teor, onunun ar feoriu, rowu, ununun ar teorngiu, si tabwey 
ngeni rag miinika fasun afeoriun mine teor pwe or fan. 
Wonemwoiu ye soar noe pwe ya ito minnan kon apisar, ya 
ito niwenino wonunun yar atin wonemoiu feor teor. 05:39 Ra 
feorta rag ese tiwengin tiunan teor ka ir re tipani resan 
tabweino minna anongan feorin teor.  
  
Interviewee in English: 
Looking back to the time when I began learning to weave 
and comparing that time to today, I would say that we had 
limited thread and colors of thread. The people I learned 
from had only about four colors of thread which they 
treasured because it was hard to come by. Today the 
younger girls are more privileged in that they have more 
thread and various colors readily available to them, and so 
they learn using real thread and not from the pandanas and 
banana fibers, which we grew up practicing with. Today the 
ladies are coming up with different patterns and various 
colors of weaving as there are many more colors and 
different sizes of thread sold in the stores. The sad thing is 
that the girls today are losing the meaning and the original 
patterns and respect and appreciation for weaving*, not to 
mention the significance of weaving, which is the coming of 
age from girl to womanhood, and all that it entails culturally.  
 
 
*Interviewer’s Note: Up to the 1980’s, it was known by all island women that there are set 
and acceptable patterns of weaving and lavalava, and it was only these that were acceptable 
for wearing in public. Anything different was an insult to elders and the culture, as the 
4 
 
different styles of weaving was not considered authentic weaving, and just considered 
something haphazardly thrown together and outside the norm. The introduction of various 
colors of thread in the latter part of the 80’s into the early 90’s brought about a vast change 
in the patterns of weaving and lavalava that people slowly started to wear in public and 
which slowly became acceptable. Still, women encourage and teach their daughters the 
original patterns and encouraged them to retain the knowledge and make the original 
patterns of weaving. 
  
 
05:54 Question 5  
5.    If you could talk to your great-granddaughter about weaving, what would you want to tell 
her? 
A.   Satawalese: Arre iga wopwe yaenganir nayiun nayiun noumw rhoaput teor nge meta 
minne o mwerhaen wopwe yaengaenir? 
Interviewee in Satawalese: 
06:04 Arre ika ipwe kepas ngeni naiun naiun naiy at ropwut 
ren mine kofan teor, iy moran pwe ipwe angani metta 
minne teor yegin yor epitan ngenigir ren, ngeni fan, metta 
kena guneyei ren minne yor reni epitan teor, 06:29 pwe iga si 
pisakini si anni nifang si naini senapiy, min peigin minan 
ariya, iwe me esetiwegin nepan minne repiyai ren minne 
teor nge e moran pwe ipwe kapwung ngali, ipwe angani 
ununun afeorin ngare kapwung ngani row ngare teor ka 
ngang e repiyagini.    
 
Interviewee in English: 
 
If I were to talk to my great granddaughter about weaving, I 
would like to first tell her the importance of lavalava in our 
culture and to us as individual island women. Then, I would 
teach her as much as I know about weaving. I would tell 
her all the uses of a lavalava in our culture. All that I know 
about weaving I would teach it to my great granddaughter 
so that she would have my knowledge of “teor” 
(weaving/lavalava).