Multi-Generational African American Farmers of the Midwest
Anna-Lisa Cox
Library of Congress AFC Archie Green Fellowship
Date of interview: July 25, 2019
Names/s of those interviewed: Eddie Harris
Primary Interviewer: Anna-Lisa Cox (ALC)
Secondary Interviewers:  Lishawna Taylor
Interview Location: Lyles Station Indiana (assumed)
Transcriber: Mary Kamara-Hagemeyer
Abstract: Eddie Harris farms land that has been in his family for generations. His primary focus
is cattle breeding. He has often had to work one or two extra jobs in order to continue to farm his
family land, given the lack of support from the USDA and local banks, which he discusses. As
he notes, he has never owned a new tractor. His family owns good land on a rise above the
Patoka River valley, safe from flooding. A tour of both his farm, and some other farmland his
family owns, reveals beautiful old barns and well-kept fences and livestock.
Index/Log (10 Minute Time Stamped)
[0:00]  Continued talking about his father’s connections in the community and the importance of
recording oral histories. Discussed logging with his father and cousin. Talked about facing
racism as a child and interracial relationships. Talked about his mother and family’s Christian
faith.
[10:00] Talked about his siblings and current relationship with them. Discussed his racial and
American identity and heritage as a Black man as well as some stories. Talked about the quantity
of land his family owned in Gibson county.
[20:00] Gibson county has elevated levels of prejudice. Talked about how his family and other
Black people were driven off their family land through coercion from banks and the judicial
system.
[30:00] He and his wife experienced prejudice because of their interracial relationship.
African-American farmers often left farming because they were forced out. To farm successfully
you need a supportive community.
[40:00] Discussed the different dynamics of owning land including selling and renting family
land and the aspects of getting government support. Talked about conversations in the past
regarding people wanting his land.
[50:00] Spoke on the boundaries placed on Black people in different communities. Discussed
differences between generations, raising and selling cattle, and the value of the interview.
[01:02:07] End of audio