1 
Kentucky Folklife Program 
 Interview Transcription 
 
Project name:  Ranger Lore (LOCRP) 
Field ID and name: #0022; Josh Clemons interview 
Interviewee:  Joshua Clemons  
Interviewer/Recordist:  Brent Björkman 
Date:  4/24/2014 
Location:  Mammoth Cave National Park, KY 
Others Present:  N/A 
Equipment used:  Tascam DR-60D 
Microphone:  Audio-Technica AT803B, lavalier mic 
Recording Format: WAV 
Recorded Tracks in Session: 1 audio track  
Duration: [00:41:40] 
Keywords: law enforcement; active shooter training; Margaret Anderson 
Corresponding Materials:   
Forms: KFP2014LOCRP_0022_BBms0001 - KFP2014LOCRP_0022_BBms0003 
Audio recording: KFP2014LOCRP_0022_BBsr0001  
Video files: KFP2014LOCRP_0022_BBmv0001 - KFP2014LOCRP_0022_BBmv0007 
 
Context:  
Technical Considerations:   
Transcription prepared by: Jennie Boyd 
 
Transcribing Conventions:  
Use of square brackets [ ] indicates a note from the transcriber. 
Use of parentheses (  ) indicates a conversational aside.  
Use of em dash — indicates an interruption of thought or conversation. 
Use of ellipses … indicates a discontinued thought. 
Use of quotations “ “ indicates dialogue within conversation. 
Use of italics indicates emphasis. 
Use of underline indicates movie, magazine, newspaper, or book titles. 
Names of interviewee and interviewer are abbreviated by first and last initial letters. 
Time is recorded in time elapsed by the convention [hours:minutes:seconds]. 
 
Note:  This transcription is as accurate and complete as possible.  In any question of 
interpretation, the researcher is referred to the recording itself as the primary document 
representing this event. 
[time elapsed in hours:minutes:seconds] 
 
[00:00:00] 
 
 
2 
BRENT BJÖRKMAN: Okay, today is April 24, 2014. This is Brent Björkman the Director of 
the Kentucky Folklife Program. And this is a recording, recorded interview that has to do 
with the Library of Congress American Folklife Center Ranger Lore project that Jon Kay 
from Indiana University and I are working on. And I’m here talking to park rangers at 
Mammoth Cave. And could you, could you tell me your name and your position here? 
 
JOSH CLEMONS: My name is Josh Clemons. I’m a law enforcement park ranger with the 
National Park Service at Mammoth Cave National Park.  
 
BB: So I’ve been asking a, kind of a basic question, Josh, about how you’re maybe connected 
either to the park service or, you know, what got you into this line of work and we usually 
start from there.  
 
JC: My connection with the National Park Service actually started before I was born. My 
parents met at Chickamauga National Battlefield. And from there started a courtship and 
were married. I came along and a couple of sisters thereafter and we grew up in the 
national parks, going on vacations. We’ve been all over out west. We’ve been to parks in the 
northeast. And that’s, that’s how we vacationed as a family. And so from a, a very early age, 
I developed a connection with the parks and, and knew from that time that I wanted to be a 
park ranger.  
 
BB: Was it the, did you go to state parks and federal parks?  
 
JC:  We did. We spent time in state parks, national parks, national forests. So on all different 
types of public land.  
 
BB: So the type of ranger and the job you do now, did you know at an early age that you 
wanted to work in your current law enforcement area?  
 
JC: I can remember riding around Cades Cove in the Smokies with my parents and writing, 
writing down tag numbers of people who were feeding, feeding bears and deer and 
3 
(laughs) and breaking, breaking the rules at that time and then giving that information over 
to, to park rangers. I knew from an early, early point in my, my development, that I wanted, 
wanted to work in emergency services. In high school I was a volunteer firefighter and 
became involved in, in not only firefighting but emergency medical training at that time. 
And, and that just continued on through college and, and into my career at the park service.  
 
BB: Okay. Yeah, that’s one of the things that I’ve been asking too. And you started in on it. I 
mean, you’ve had this love for law enforcement, for the parks. You kind of knew that this 
path was for you so you started to either volunteer or work toward this trajectory. So 
where did it go after that? How does a person get into it, further into it? 
 
JC: So I grew up very close to Stone’s River National Battlefield, which is in Murfreesboro, 
Tennessee, and I went to college at Middle Tennessee State University. I started 
volunteering there in 1998 and worked there as a volunteer for three years before they 
would finally give me a paying job. But took my first job with the National Park Service as 
actually a museum technician in, in, in 2001 and I haven’t missed a pay period since then. 
I’ve just moved from one job to the next and was fortunate enough to start into, to law 
enforcement at a fairly early stage in my career.  
 
BB: What park did you start your law enforcement career? 
 
JC: I moved from Stone’s River National Battlefield, I, I started as a museum tech, as I said. 
Went into a biological technician job and then became involved in wildland fire. Through 
that, that experience I was able to land a job as a forestry technician firefighter at Shiloh 
National Military Park. And while I was there, I had the opportunity to enter into a student 
position that allowed me to finish graduate school and then enter into a permanent law 
enforcement position after my, after the completion of my master’s degree. So I’m very 
fortunate that I was able to make that transition without, without having to do a whole lot 
of travelling or move, move around, you know, out west, work seasons. I was able to work 
continuously and moved right into a permanent law enforcement position at Shiloh.  
 
4 
BB: Wow. You know people come at it from different ways. Yours is a very interesting way. 
Some people, you don’t have military service?  
 
JC: No, I, I don’t have any military background.  
 
BB: You have this service.  
 
JC: Right. Right. 
 
BB: Yeah.  
 
JC: Yeah, I started with the park service while I was still in college, so this is really, really all 
I’ve ever done.  
 
BB: Yeah. So your first, let’s talk a little bit about the law enforcement. So tell me the first 
time when you were on as a law enforcement officer. What was the first, I mean, I think 
you’ve had lifelong training, in a sense.  
 
JC: Sure.  
 
BB: With your rescue, with your firefighting. [0:05:00] But when you first got into this type 
of position, what was that first month like? Who did you work with, and, or, you know, 
what was the working environment like? Was it a mentorship thing or— 
 
JC: We completed a basic law enforcement academy at the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center. And then upon completion of that academy, we are required to go through 
an eleven week field training program. We go to a park that’s not our home park and we 
work with three different field trainers who not only train us but evaluate where we are 
from the standpoint of performance as a law enforcement officer. And so I went to Buffalo 
National River for my field training. And I worked with Lee Brumbaugh who was my 
primary field trainer. He’s now a firearms instructor at the Federal Law Enforcement 
5 
Training Center. But I had a great time with him. And I remember my first arrest was with 
Lee. And I remember we were patrolling Buffalo National River, went down to the river and 
there was a particular gravel bar that we were just, basically just patrolling. And there was 
a guy on the other side of the river that, after seeing us, just took off running and went to 
hide in the bushes. And I thought, well, that’s, you know, that’s not normal behavior. So we 
probably need to talk to this guy. So, I, I drove the Tahoe actually through the river, forded 
the river and crossed the river onto the other side of the gravel bar. And this guy was, was 
looking at us, and he’s peeking out of the bushes, going back in the bushes hiding, and that’s 
not normal behavior. So this is my first real law enforcement action and I was pretty 
nervous and didn’t really know what to do. But I stopped the vehicle. We actually drew 
down on this, on this subject, called him out from the bushes and got him under arrest. But 
he was under the influence of drugs and alcohol, definitely presented a lot of abnormal 
behaviors. And I thought to myself as I was making that contact, what have you gotten 
yourself into? (laughs) It was a totally different experience than anything I’d ever done 
before, but I loved it. And I just had, from there just had a great time. I’ve been involved in 
all different kinds of investigations since then, made numerous arrests for different types of 
violations, and I’ve loved every minute of it.  
 
BB: In talking to some of your colleagues, you know, we’ve talked about this idea of the 
image of a park ranger.  
 
JC: Um-hm.  
 
BB: In relationship to law enforcement and, and you really are a law enforcement officer.   
 
JC: That’s right.  
 
BB: And there are a lot of things that go on in the park that people, citizens don’t think 
about and, and can you tell me a little bit, as you feel comfortable, change the names to 
protect the innocent, skirt around that stuff, just, you know, some of the wide variety of 
situations that you’ve been in. Maybe your, that gave you some, gave you panic, gave you 
6 
pleasure, probably both after, in, in hindsight as well. Those, those are, those would be 
interesting if you’d like to share that.  
 
JC: Well, first off, I’d like to say that the parks are a very safe place for people to go and, and, 
and I would never want to discourage anyone from visiting the parks. I don’t want to lead 
people to believe that the parks are, are more dangerous than any other place that you’ll 
visit. Unfortunately though, we do have problems in the park, just like there are problems 
anywhere else in the country. And, and we have to deal with them. I have experienced a 
variety of different criminal activity. I’ve, I’ve experienced a variety of different emergency 
situations that a lot of times surprise people to find out that those ki-, those kinds of things 
happen in the parks.  
 
BB: Um-hm. Like for instance is there something, is this park different from other parks 
or— 
 
JC: Every park is a little unique in terms of the, the activity that you’ll see, but I would say 
that most parks, like Mammoth Cave, you’ll see a significant number of people who are 
under the influence of drugs, under the influence of alcohol, that, that cause problems that 
we have to deal with. We deal with resource violations here. Ginseng poaching, that’s a 
problem that we see every year that we have to deal with. We have marijuana cultivation 
here in the park from time to time and almost on a yearly basis we end up locating, you 
know, marijuana grown within the park. And those, those things are fairly common 
anywhere that you have public land. But we do deal with that here, and that’s something 
you’ll see at parks across the country. We’ve dealt a little bit with manufacturing of 
methamphetamine just because it’s a remote area and people can, you know, do that, that 
type of activity and they think they’re fairly safe and protected when they’re in a remote 
location. However, we’re always on patrol and, and we, we, we generally find that activity 
and, and [0:10:00] it’s not a, not a huge problem for us, but certainly something that we’ve 
had to deal with in the past.  
 
BB: Is, is hunting allowed on, on park grounds? 
7 
 
JC: It depends on the park that you work at. Here at Mammoth Cave, hunting is not allowed, 
but I worked at Big, Big Thicket National Preserve where hunting was allowed, so as a 
ranger we managed that program.  
 
BB: You’re a pretty tight group of law enforcement guys. Do you have any kinds of things 
that are typical to your, your jokes and your stories? A new guy comes in and, and, you 
know, you give him the business a little bit or play little games. That’s, that’s pretty 
common to any kind of job you go into.  
 
JC: Sure.  
 
BB: I talked to river boat workers. That’s a real rich, rich area to talk about. Of course, in all 
of these types of shenanigans, some of them are, some of them are things you can’t share.  
 
JC: Sure. (laughs) 
 
BB: But, but as human nature is and, and that. But is there anything off the top of your 
head? Or it maybe happened to you or I don’t know.  
 
JC: I would say it, many of the lessons we learn as law enforcement officers, the ones that 
tend to stick are the ones that you learn the hard way. (laughs) And it’s, it’s fun, I’m a field 
trainer, I’ve been involved with the field training program. So I’ve sort of come full circle. I 
went through the training program, now I’m a field trainer and I’ve been doing that for a 
number of years here at Mammoth Cave. So it’s interesting to see a new officer that comes 
right out of the academy and, and maybe they don’t have some of those same experiences, 
and to see how they react and how they adjust to certain situations. That’s always fun. I 
don’t want to tell on anybody that I’ve trained, but I can, I can tell you, I can tell stories on 
myself. I know we now carry electronic controlled devices, or commonly known as Tasers. 
And unfortunately, we have had to use those from time to time to control suspects that 
were aggressive and causing us problems. But before that we, we, most of us carried 
8 
pepper spray. And I know I was involved with a DUI arrest that the suspect did not want to 
go in handcuffs and was very uncooperative. And when I went to put handcuffs on him, I 
ended up having to, (laughs) to go hands on with this suspect and, and ended up on his 
back. And he was much larger and much stronger that me and I had him in a headlock. And 
I thought, well, this would be a good chance for me to use my pepper spray (laughs) to 
control this suspect. And I sprayed him. And in doing so, it was pretty cold out that evening. 
I had a fleece jacket on, I got a pretty good portion of my jacket sleeve with the pepper 
spray as well. And I remember after getting the suspect under control and getting him put 
in my car and in a safe situation, you know, my nose just kept running, and I couldn’t figure 
out why. And I kept just (sniffs), wiping my nose on my sleeve, and it just kept getting 
worse and worse and worse until I finally realized, you know, I’d just, essentially, I’d just 
pepper sprayed myself. (laughs) So, so stories like that, you know, things that you learn the 
hard way, those are good lessons and, and things that you look back on and you know, you 
laugh about now. But, certainly some things like that have occurred over my career. 
(laughs) 
 
BB: Hey, you learned from it.  
 
JC: Oh yeah, sure. Sure.  
 
BB: I mean, it’s good pepper spray’s not around any—or do you still carry it?  
 
JC: We do still carry it. You just don’t see it used much, now that we have a Taser. For sure, 
for sure.  
 
BB: [ ] So you said you were, a lot of law enforcement guys are very proud of and they’re 
very active in doing particular kinds of training. Some are EMT trainers— 
 
JC: Um-hm.  
 
BB: CPR training. I mean, you just mentioned, what is a field, what is a field trainer? 
9 
 
JC: As a field trainer, we, we call them field training rangers in the National Park Service. 
Those officers might be called field training officers for other agencies. But essentially, 
we’re a mentor to trainees as they come out of basic training and so we, we try to, okay, 
you’ve been through a law enforcement academy. You’ve learned the basics. You’ve learned 
the techniques that you need to work as a safe and productive officer in the field. Now 
we’re going to show you how to refine those skills, polish them and put them into a 
practical working environment. So that’s, that’s an eleven week program and it’s broken up 
into three different, among three different field training officers so the ranger gets to work 
with three different trainers. And they can, you know, pull good things from, from those 
different officers and, and during the different phases, we’re evaluating different things, 
such as, you know, maybe we might be looking at how the officer can process and work a 
traffic accident. Or how do they process and work a DUI. How do they respond to a 
domestic disturbance? [0:15:01] Those sorts of things. And, and there are different criteria 
that we evaluate them on on a daily  basis. So field training is an important part of my 
duties here at Mammoth Cave. I’m also a control tactics instructor. And we teach how to 
deal with suspects who are causing us problems that we have to physically control one way 
or the other. I’m also a use of force instructor. And so we talk about not only the practical 
application and appropriate application of force in law enforcement situations, but also the, 
the legal aspects that, that surround those types of incidents.  
 
BB: How do you keep, with all these varieties of trainings and these responsibilities that 
you have, do you have updated training sessions or things you have to read or hoops you 
have to jump to? 
 
JC: Absolutely. For any of the certifications that we carry, whether it be as an instructor or 
as an EMT or just our general law enforcement commission, we’re required to do a certain 
amount of training and refresher training. Could be on an annual basis, bi-annual, or 
sometimes three years. Depending on what the certification is, we’ll have different training 
requirements for in-service training.  
 
10 
BB: You have to go out to get some of that training or is it, is some of it brought to you?  
 
JC: Some of it we do here at Mammoth Cave. Or, or whatever your home park would be. 
That’s, that’s where you do the training. Some you go back to the law enforcement academy 
to get a refresher training on. Most of our instructor trainings, we have to go back to the 
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center to get a refresher class.  
 
BB: That’s the first time anybody really, I think, said that to me. They’d been talking in 
acronyms to me.  
 
JC: Um-hm.  
 
BB: FLETZ.  
 
JC: FLETC.  
 
BB: FLETC. Yeah.  
 
JC: That’s right.  
 
BB: That’s right. (laughs) So when you’re doing the field training, you said people get a 
chance to work with three. It’s broken, is it broken into three parts?  
 
JC: Yes.  
 
BB: Do you take one part then a, then they come to this park to have the training, then they 
go on to someone else?  
 
JC: Yes. And here at Mammoth Cave, we, we work cooperatively with Big South Fork and 
Cumberland Gap. So usually the trainee gets to experience not only three different rangers, 
but they get to work in three different parks which, as I said before, you know, every, every 
11 
park is managed differently. Every park has unique issues. So it’s a really good opportunity 
for trainees to not only work with different rangers but to work in a different environment.  
 
BB: And then that, just because you have this reciprocating relationship with our intimate 
region— 
 
JC: Um-hm.  
 
BB: That doesn’t mean that the graduate, or somebody who passes through your hands 
works in our—they could go out to Yellowstone or— 
 
JC: Oh no, no. Exactly. And our trainees have come from all over the country. So you know, I 
have trainees that have worked in every region of the United States and, and every region 
in the National Park Service.  
 
BB: Are you active in—when I was talking to somebody prepa-, trying to prepare for this, 
and maybe it’s part of something you talked about already—are you active in shooter 
training as well or, or…. 
 
JC: I actually put together, with the help of one of our local sheriff’s deputies, an active 
shooter course for not only the law enforcement officers in this area, but also for educators 
in this area. And so it was sort of a cooperative effort between several agencies, but we 
hosted training that included teachers and administrators in some of the local schools as 
well as the officers that would be responding to active shooter incidents or any kind of 
critical incidents in one of our school settings. And the whole purpose of that was to get 
everybody on the same page and say if you had an incident like this, as law enforcement 
officers that would be responding, this is how we would want you as educators or 
administrators to respond and vice versa. So we really opened up a discussion between the 
two different professions and hopefully resolved some issues that we will never have to, to 
face, but in the unfortunate event that something like that were to happen, we think we 
would now be better prepared for that kind of emergency.  
12 
 
BB: How did that, how did that collaboration with the local sheriff, how did that, how did 
that start? Was it an informal conversation or just your, your concern for the world in this, 
in this community?  
 
JC: Well, it was, it directly came about as a result of the shootings at Sandy Hook and in the 
time immediately following that shooting, several concerned parents came and, and spoke 
to one of my personal friends who works on the sheriff’s department in Edmonson County, 
Kentucky, and said, “If we had something like this in one of our schools, what would you 
do?” And so there was a lot of concern, not only from parents but [0:20:00] his wife works 
in the school system, my wife works in the school system, so we have, you know, obviously 
a direct connection to the school system within Edmonson County. And there were some 
concerns among faculty and staff too that, you know, we’re not sure how we would react in 
a situation like that. So I got together, this is with Lieutenant Shane Doyle at the Edmonson 
County Sheriff’s Department, and I said, “Okay, we can, we can put something together that 
I think will help us be prepared and maybe alleviate some of these concerns.” Fortunately 
as a national park ranger, I’d been through the FLETC active shooter course actually three 
times up until that point. It’s, it’s now a part of our basic training, that we go through active 
shooter training. So although I’m not an expert and, and Lieutenant Doyle’s not an expert, 
we felt like we had enough of a background to put together training that would at least 
gives, give people an idea of what, what to expect and what they should do to be in a better 
position to survive one of those incidents.  
 
BB: That’s great. Do you know if any of your colleagues around the country have worked 
collaboratively with some of their local law enforcement?  
 
JC: That’s a great question. I actually, after word got out that we put this training together, I 
was contacted by rangers in several parks across the country who wanted to, to do the 
same thing in their local area and so I provided the training materials that we put together 
and just some notes on things that we thought we could improve and, and things that I 
thought would make their training better. And then I was also, there, there became a 
13 
concern here at the park, well, what if we had an incident like that at the park. And, and 
certainly after the shooting of Margaret Anderson at Mt. Rainier, there was a clear, in 2012, 
there was a clear, you know, potential that something like this could happen within one of 
our parks. And so the training then sort of springboarded into, let’s do something now for 
our employees here at the park. Our rangers, law enforcement rangers, are prepared, but 
the staff at the visitors’ center, the maintenance staff, the administrative staff, maybe 
they’re not prepared. And certainly in the Mt. Rainier incident, those people were the ones 
who provided for the protection of, of park visitors who were, were trapped in the visitors 
center when that shooting occurred. So we felt like it was very important to teach those 
people as well, these are some things that we would like for you to do in a situation like 
that. So that, that evolved into a training that happened over several, several days and we 
offered it several times to try to get as many people that work at the park involved and, and 
trained in, in active shooter situations.  
 
BB: Wow. Was this promoted as, does the rest of the park service know about what you and 
your, Officer Doyle, no? 
 
JC: Yes. Shane Doyle. 
 
BB: Doyle. 
 
JC: Yes, I believe there was an announcement that went out through Inside NPS, which is 
our, our sort of intra-Web, website that things like that are usually published on and, and 
best I remember, that, that did occur. And that’s how people in other parks found out about 
it.  
 
BB: It seems like over the last twenty-plus years, ranger law enforcement has 
professionalized. I mean, increasingly so.  
 
JC: Yes.  
 
14 
BB: And I was wondering, you said, yes, so, I’m wondering how you work? You mentioned 
the collaborative effort you just, you just mentioned with the shooter, active shooter 
training. And you have a friend who you mentioned in the local department here, in this 
county, in Edmonson County. How do you work, how does the law enforcement of the park 
work with any variety of other law enforcements? Federal, localized state, sheriff’s 
departments? And how do, you know, can, can you tell me a little bit about that and then 
tell me, again without naming any names, maybe like how you recently did, you know, an 
example of how you have recently.  
 
JC: Okay. Certainly at Mammoth Cave we’re very fortunate to have a, a very good and very 
close working relationship with not only other federal agencies but the state agencies, 
Kentucky State Police and our, our local agencies, especially in Edmonson County because 
the majority of the park lies within Edmonson County. We work with those, those agencies 
almost on a daily basis. We have a very close relationship with, with those, with those guys 
and we often get called to respond to incidents that occur outside the park boundary. In 
Kentucky we’re fortunate to be state peace officers, as national park rangers in the, within 
the, within the state of Kentucky so we carry the same arrest authority and enforcement 
authority [0:25:00]  as any other state officer would within the state of Kentucky. So that’s 
very helpful for us in terms of giving us the authority and legal protection that we need to 
respond to incidents that occur outside the park. Recently, I was involved in a case, there 
was a call for a sheriff’s deputy to respond to a burglary that was in prog-, in progress on a, 
at a home that was right outside the park, on the park boundary. And I called one of the 
other rangers who was on duty and I said, hey, you know, we should probably send 
somebody that direction, because that officer was working alone and burglary calls can be 
particularly dangerous to the officer who’s responding. So one of our other rangers 
responded to back up the county officer. I was actually with a trainee at the time checking 
an archaeological site that had been looted and we were pretty far from a vehicle, so I knew 
it would be difficult for me to respond in any timely manner. However, we did go ahead and 
start heading towards our, our patrol vehicle at that point. I was able to catch up with the, 
the sheriff’s deputy and the first responding park ranger, just outside of the park as they 
were pulling away to go attempt to locate the suspect. They had identified the suspect and 
15 
knew where he lived and they were going to go check with a family member to see if they 
could locate the suspect.  So we had three law enforcement vehicles, we had the sheriff’s 
office in, in lead, a park service vehicle in front of me and then my patrol vehicle was the 
last one in line. And I told the trainee at the time, I said, “Let’s just kind of hang back. You 
know, this isn’t, now there’s sort of, the immediate danger has passed. We’re just looking 
for this guy now and, and we don’t want to drive into this residence just to interview family 
members with, with three vehicles.” We felt like that would be too much of a show of force 
or a presence at that time. So we’re kind of hanging back, just following them, driving down 
this road. And, and they drive past a particular residence and there was a young man out in 
the, the front yard of this, of this home. And he looks up and sees the two law enforcement 
vehicles go past that were in front of us. However, he hasn’t seen me at that time, and as I 
round the corner, he, I see all this take place, he sees the first two vehicles and immediately 
turns and starts to walk back towards the house. And then he looks up and sees my vehicle 
and he starts to run towards the woods. So based on the description we’d heard of him, I 
felt like this was our suspect. And so we jumped out and I was able to, to chase the suspect 
down and apprehend him and, and so that’s just an example of how oftentimes we have to 
work together as, as neighboring agencies to resolve situations that occur in and outside 
the park. And oftentimes, we’ve had those, those local agencies come in to assist us in 
emergency situations, but also situations where we need, let’s say we need a drug dog for a 
search of a vehicle or a campsite. I know in 2011, we used the Brownsville Police 
Department, they had a K-9 unit at the time that we used in over eighty searches 
throughout that year. And in every search located contraband. So we have a very strong 
working relationship and it’s paid off, I think, for both the local agencies and for the 
National Park Service as well.  
 
BB: Wow. Did you, did you, that suspect that you as the third car— 
 
JC: Um-hm. 
 
BB: Was that the person? 
 
16 
JC: Yes. That was him. Yes it was. Yes.  
 
BB: So that, it sounds like the professionalization over your career for thirteen years now, 
since 2001, I think— 
 
JC: Correct. Yes.  
 
BB: Maybe, and you worked in a variety of parks. Has it been increasingly this way? Was it 
initially not as collaborative or has it been, have you been called on with locals, local law 
enforcement— 
 
JC: My experience has been everywhere I’ve worked that you work a great deal with the, 
the local officers. You know, I’ve worked law enforcement now in five different parks and in 
each one of those cases, we worked with the state and local officers on a regular basis. So 
things have become definitely more specialized. We’re still involved as rangers in, in 
wildland fire and structural fire, search and rescue, emergency medical services. However, 
we have now more specialized employees, particularly in, in fire that deal more with, with 
those type incidents. However, we still are called to respond [0:30:00] and, and support 
those operations. And as these different professions have become more specialized, I think 
we’ve gotten better in doing the overall job. I think it’s very difficult for one person to be an 
expert in all those different fields. It takes a very special person. I think all of us have areas 
where we excel and are better trained, better equipped to work as a ranger, whether it’s 
law enforcement—and you might be a better investigator, you might be a better patrol 
officer, you might be a better administrator. You know, if, and if collateral duties, you may 
be, you may be more experienced and more talented in the area of working in wildland fire 
or emergency medical services. But you’re never really, I don’t feel like, an expert in all of 
those areas. So I think it’s important that we have some of those specialized positions and 
that we continue to look at branching some of those things out.  
 
BB: I’m making a connection now to the fact that you’re doing, somebody might teach EMT 
training or— 
17 
 
JC: Right.  
 
BB: And you have these, what you talked about before— 
 
JC: Right.  
 
BB: You have ad-, advanced training, recertification or whatever you wanted to call it. And 
there’s probably a lot of pride in that too, that I am the specialist in this certain area.  
 
JC: Sure. Sure. And it works well especially here at Mammoth Cave. That’s exactly the case. 
We have guys who, you know, this is, this is what they do. This is what they’re good at. So 
when it comes time for training or if there’s a particular type of incident that comes up we 
say, well this is who we want to handle it. You know, they’re the expert in this area. And we 
can all can, we can all assist that, that operation, but definitely we have specialists within 
the specializations (laughs) if that makes sense.  
 
BB: So your job title now is, current job title is, you’re, you’re leading the law enforcement… 
 
JC: Currently I’m the Acting Chief Ranger.  
 
BB: You’re the Acting Chief Ranger now? 
 
JC: Right.  
 
BB: And that’s the first time you’ve had that position? 
 
JC: That’s correct.  
 
18 
BB: So can you talk about becoming, maybe it’s so collaborative that this question is moot, 
but to go from one of the guys to being in this new role of, do you do the scheduling, how is 
that different than being a regular law enforcement person? 
 
JC: That’s a very good question because the way you’ve put it is exactly how I’ve put it 
multiple times. You do, you, I’ve gone from being one of the guys to being the leader and I 
would say that I’m a leader of a, of a group that works well together. So it certainly is a 
collaborative effort. But as that leader you do things like make the schedule, assign cases as 
they come in, you would assign collateral duties as needed if, if certain projects come up 
that need to be accomplished. You know, as acting chief, you take care of a lot of 
administrative duties that are not the things that when I signed up to be a park ranger that 
I thought I would be doing. However, they’re challenging and, and rewarding when you, 
you are able to, to accomplish things for the entire division. So it’s a different, it’s a different 
hat. It’s certainly a different level of responsibility. I would not be successful if not for the 
hard work and, and effort and suggestions that come from the guys that are in the, in the 
field. So as an acting chief, I’ll go back to being one of the guys so that’s another unique part 
of the challenge of being an acting chief is that not only am I trying to improve things for 
the guys that are in the field, but (laughs) I’m trying to, to smooth the road out for myself 
when I go back to, to being a regular field ranger as well.  
 
BB: That makes, that was very helpful. I understand that. So an acting chief means, are the, 
are you, is it a, am I understanding a rotation thing? Or you’re acting until they find a chief? 
 
JC: So our, our former chief retired and we’re, we’re, have been in the process of hiring a 
new chief and that new chief has been selected and the new chief will be here within a 
couple of weeks. So we’ve actually had a couple of us that have taken on the acting chief 
duties and so we just try to keep the, the ship steered in the right direction until the new 
chief gets here to take over.  
 
19 
BB: Got it. So why, Mammoth Cave, why is, why is Mammoth, is Mammoth Cave different 
than any other, any parks? You know, you’re balancing that on this point in your life, a 
growing family, [0:35:00] probably and— 
 
JC: Sure.  
 
BB: Putting down roots perhaps.  
 
JC: Sure.  
 
BB: But, I’ve just heard a lot of things about this particular park. And I don’t know if that’s, I 
would hear similar stories if I was, if I directed my concentration elsewhere.  
 
JC: As someone who’s worked in, in several other parks, I can tell you that every, every park 
is unique. And there have been places that I’ve worked that felt like home and places that 
did not feel like home. Certainly Mammoth Cave is one of those places that feels like home. 
And it’s been my experience with people that I’ve trained, whether it be field trainees 
coming out of FLETC or seasonal rangers who are coming here just for the summer, 
everybody tends to want to come back to Mammoth Cave. And that’s the case with our new 
chief. She started her career here as a cave guide, years and years ago, and has worked 
several other national parks and is now coming back to Mammoth Cave to be the Chief 
Ranger. So I think that Mammoth Cave, the resource itself, is a reason to want to stay here 
or to want to come back here. But this is also a great area to live. It’s also a great area to, to 
raise a family. We’re very close to Nashville, we’re close to, to Louisville. And just a, just a 
nice place to be in general.  
 
BB: That’s good. So you could stay here for a while, maybe? 
 
JC: I could. I could see myself staying here for a very long time. I could also see myself 
moving on. I’ve enjoyed the challenge that the acting chief ranger detail has, has given me. I 
20 
think that if the right situation came along at another park that I felt like had some of the 
same things that, that Mammoth Cave has, then I would be, I would be tempted to move on.  
 
BB: I’ve asked people about the concept of, of stewardship.  
 
JC: Um-hm.  
 
BB: And everyone has their own take on what that means. Some is very intimate and goes 
away from just park work.  
 
JC: Sure.  
 
BB: But can you enlighten me what you think stewardship means? 
 
JC: For me, it’s somewhat personal. I think having grown up as I said, in and around 
national parks and other public lands for a great deal of my, my childhood, and, and 
growing up on a farm too, having a connection with the land and, and natural resources, it 
gives me a great deal of motivation to try while, while I’m here to make sure that when I 
leave it’s actually a better place than, than when I started. And I want for my children and 
their children to be able to come back to Mammoth Cave and experience some of the same 
things that, that I’ve been fortunate enough to experience. So to me it’s, it goes right along 
with the mission of the National Park Service and that is to make sure that all these special 
places within our country will be here for generations to enjoy.  
 
BB: Great. Do you have any, I like to ask people, do you have anything else you’d like to—
like, he didn’t ask me that, or, anything else that you want to get across? You have such a 
wide, wide range of, of, of the way you progressed through, through this to this point today. 
But, you know… 
 
JC: I think that working for a government agency, at times you feel a little bogged down 
with the bureaucracy and, and red tape. And sometimes that is the most challenging part of, 
21 
of working for the National Park Service. Caring for the resource, caring for the people, 
taking care of the visitors, that’s, that’s really the easy part. And certainly this job when it’s 
most rewarding is when you hear back from somebody that maybe you helped out of a bad 
situation and, and, and you get feedback from them that says, hey, you know, thank you for, 
for what you do and what you did to, to help me in this bad situation. And that’s, that’s 
when this job is, is most rewarding, when you can see the direct impact that it’s had on 
somebody else that visits the park.  
 
BB: Okay. Thank you.  
 
JC: Yeah. I’d also like to, I mentioned the, the shooting with Margaret Anderson.  
 
BB: [ ] 
 
JC: And that was out at Mt. Rainier, January 1, 2012. And I knew Margaret pretty well. 
Margaret and I were in the same FLETC class. And I recently went back to FLETC for a 
refresher training and I visited the, the memorial that is there for [0:40:00] fallen federal 
officers. And that was the first time that I’d seen Margaret’s name on that memorial. And 
I’ve made it a personal mission of mine that when I’m training new officers or retraining 
old officers that we remember why it is that we do some of the things that we do in training 
and so that we don’t have to bury another one of our officers, another one of our brothers 
or sisters. And so this job is very important from the standpoint that the resource means a 
lot to us, but the people that we work with mean a lot to us as well. And we’re like a very 
small family. We, we’re spread out all over the country in almost every state and in, in all 
the territories. But we’re really a tight-knit family, especially the law enforcement rangers 
within the National Park Service. And any time we get together, whether it be for a training 
or for a detail, responding to a natural disaster, a fire, a hurricane, or a special event, we see 
the same faces over and over again. And we are a very tight-knit family. When something 
like that happens it impacts us a great deal. So you know, we do, we do take it very 
personally when something like that happens and it’s my mission as a trainer now to make 
sure that that doesn’t happen to anyone that I have had direct contact with again.  
22 
 
BB: That’s great.  
 
JC: Yeah.  
 
BB: That’s a great piece. Thank you.  
 
JC: Yep.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]