American F
olklife Center, L
ibrary o
f Congress
 
Bess L
omax Hawes Collection (
AFC 2014/008)
 
f
older 21.17
 
writings
 
a
rticles, unpublished
 
When We Were J
oyful, 1
995
 
WHEN WE WERE JOYFUL *
 
I am one of those who grew up during the Great
 
Depression,  graduating from college in  1941,  and even in my
 
teens  I began to perceive that the moving force then was the
 
interaction of the economic and the political.  Indeed most of
 
my generation seemed to feel that this combination was the
 
only really interesting thing to think about
thus,  their
 
absorption with politics,  the active and available part.
 
Most of this  I knew just by sniffing the air,  but when  I
 
was  fifteen my folklorist  father John A.  Lomax drove me
 
through Appalachia from Texas to Washington D.C.,  and for the
 
first time  I really saw poverty and heard it  in the thin
 
hungering voices of the women who sang for father when he
 
stopped to visit.
 
You got to walk that  lonesome valley,
 
You got to walk it by yourself.. . . .
 
Later in Washington I confronted the proceedings of the
 
LaFollette Senate Commit ee's  investigation of poverty in the
 
United States,  and truly, never looked back,  even though other
 
issues such as pacifism,  ethnicity,  labor rights came along.
 
To me they all  seemed to flow from the primary problem of
 
economic inequity.
 
By 1941 my generation had also observed the procedures
 
of the WPA,  which demonstrated to us that  shoemakers should
 
be able to earn money by making shoes, (not by taking low-
skilled jobs or going on relief) similarly that carpenters
 
should be paid for doing carpentry,  and musicians  for making
 
music.  It  followed then that  singers should earn their
 
livings making and singing songs.
 
And so the Almanac Singers,  originally four young people
 
each with varying mixes of musical and poetic talents,  came
 
together to try to reach and excite new audiences and
 break
 
through the music industry's obsession with romantic love.
 
They sang songs that were about  something -
-
 the pioneer
 
values of courage and endurance,  the pursuit of equal
 
justice,  the needs of the poor,  the importance of unions,  the
 
dangers of war.They struck an emotional range -
-
 brash,
 
comic,  angry,  ironic,  tragic -
-
 above all,  interesting.
 
And they did this in large part because they simply
 
rA 
followed age-old
 They studied the greatest
 
traditional songs,  the greztest traditional  singers.  They
 
paid passionate attention to the two largest,  deepest and
 
most creative streams of song to influence our nation and
 
later the world -
-
 the African-American river of song and the
 
old-timey music and balladry from Great Britain.
 
They rewrote some of these songs to convey a more recent
 
messages they slowed some tunes down and speeded others up
 
for differing effects.  But because of their learning
 
techniques -
-
 hours and hours daily in front of the record
 
player absorbing into their bones the intonations and nuances
 
of great  folk musicians, Kas
 well as continually presenting
 
and studying from such traditional singers as Lee Hayes,
 
Woody Guthrie,  Cisco Houston,  Josh White,  Leadbelly -
-
Almanac performances had a surety,  a brio,  a subtlety that
 
later followers had to struggle  for.
 
The Almanacs also invited the traditional portable
 
stringed instruments  into the record studio and the concert
 
°k C
_
 -
e
 
hail.  This had J f
U L 
been done before 
A but generally
 
through blues and country/western records,  and each disc was
 
designed to accommodate listeners of its own color.  But
 
larger audiences turned out to be amazed at the excitement,
 
vigor,  and intriguing rhytyhms they had been missing.
 
Gosh
 fun.  Every day -
-
 Woody at dawn sleeping
 
over the typewriter,  the floor littered with his commentary,
 
diary,  songs;  Lee,  clearing his massive throat and tuning up
 
his massive bass;  Pete,  banjo always on the alert and always
 
a new idea r a great tune we hadn't really listened to
 
before.
 
Many years  later,  I read that the great hymn writer,
 
John Wesley,  had once  slammed down a new hymn book and
 
roared,  "And why should the Devil have all the good tunes?"
 
Well.  John Wesley,  the Almanacs  and the other such groups
 
that came after us  struggled with the Devil,  as we saw him,
 
and we  joyfully took back many of the great tunes.  I hope you
 
were pleased.  I was.