1 
 
Project: Trash Talk: Workers in Vermont’s Changing Waste Management Industry 
Narrator: Richard Smith, Plant Manager and Safety Coordinator, T.A.M. Incorporated, T.A.M. 
Recycling, Materials Recovery Facility (MRF) 
Interviewer:  Virginia Nickerson 
Date: January 4, 2019 
Place: Offices of T.A.M. Materials Recovery Facility (MRF), Pownal, VT 
Transcribed by:  Teresa Bergen   
 
Nickerson:  So, this is Ginger Nickerson. And I am interviewing Richard Smith at T.A.M. 
Recycling in Pownal, Vermont, on January 4, 2019. So Richard, we start out just by asking if 
you could tell me the town and the year in which you were born? 
 
Smith:  I was born in Boston, Massachusetts in 1972. 
 
Nickerson:  Okay. And what is your current job and how long have you been in this line of 
work? 
 
Smith:  Plant manager for the recycling center, the MRF Center here in Pownal. I’ve been with 
this particular company for seven years. And previous to that, as far as recycling, I was 
employed by Bennington College in Bennington, Vermont. And I worked closely with their, was 
a big part of their sustainability committee. Forming the sustainability committee, working with 
the faculty, staff and students to build a program there. Which led me to meet Trevor, actually 
(laughs) during that time. So 14, 15 years now. 
 
00:01:14 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah, yeah. So when you were at Bennington College, you were working in 
recycling there. 
 
Smith:  Yes. I was the assistant director of facilities there. So anything associated with the 
facilities. And part of that was trash removal and recycling. And then an offshoot to that would 
be the committees, which were the sustainability committee, which was a big part of that. So to 
be a big part of that, basically, there was no formal position titles or anything. But the 
information that my office provided to that committee, and also some guidance on where we 
could go with some of the initiatives we were trying to take to save energy, reduce waste, reduce 
water usage, reduce the generation of heat that we needed for the steam plant. So how to make 
those boilers more efficient. The steam lines. The lighting in the houses, the lighting in the 
buildings. So working with the outside entities for that. In this case, Efficiency Vermont in many 
cases. So being the conduit to that, between that and then the sustainability committee. And then 
basically doing that work throughout the day. That was our daily work, as much as fixing a 
doorway or a window, or anything to that nature. 
 
00:02:38 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah, yeah. And how did you end up coming to T.A.M? 
 
2 
 
Smith:  It’s interesting. Through that process, we put out for contract the trash removal, trash and 
recycling removal at the college. And during that time we need to negotiate with the trash 
haulers. So we would negotiate with the haulers. And Trevor Mance, the owner of T.A.M., 
happened to be one of those persons that we negotiated with. And so I was on the other side of 
the table at that time with him. And we just knew each other from that for a few years. And then 
had a better relationship as time went on, and just had an opportunity to come over to this side, 
the trash hauling and recycling side, and looked into that. Spoke with Trevor about it. And he 
was grateful. He was very happy to have me. And from there, that’s where it was. Seven years 
ago. 
 
00:03:42 
 
Nickerson:  Wow. So did you start out in the position as plant manager? 
 
Smith:  No, I did not. I actually came into it as dispatcher to dispatch the vehicles. Get to know 
the routes, and get to understand the business better. Because I wasn’t on that side of it. I was on 
the other side of more producing things. Trying to reduce it on that side, like I said. Reduce what 
we sent out. So you’re looking at all the numbers of what we were sending out as far as trash and 
recycling and trying to reduce those. So now you’re on the other side actually finding that end 
destination for the material, and figuring out all the contacts there, and how that business really 
works, the inner workings of that business.  
So for two years, I spent two years in the office in Shaftsbury, working very closely with 
Trevor and Mary Beth and the staff there. All the drivers, the route drivers. Customer relations. 
And just working through it. Working on some grants with Trevor, and building that rapport with 
people. And then we went out and we were looking, Trevor has a vision, he had the vision of the 
company, and was looking for a site to site a materials recovery facility. So we looked at several 
in the area. And we landed on this one here. So I was part of that process where we looked at the 
building, the existing structure. The rail line was important for us. We’d hoped to use that in the 
future. And traffic patterns. All the things that would go into building a MRF. And so that’s 
when we, we had long discussions. A lot of planning involved in that. Should we bring in other 
people? Should we not? And there were other people that were consulting Trevor at the time, and 
even unbeknownst to me, I’m sure. And so we purchased this, Trevor purchased this property 
here, and we said, let’s make a go at it.  And he was very supportive with really everything that 
we have done up to this point and helped steer us in the right direction. 
 
00:05:57 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah, yeah. So once you bought this property, is that when you sort of came on as 
the plant manager? 
 
Smith:  Yes, yes. We purchased, yes, exactly. The property was purchased, and then it was full 
steam ahead, basically. So to come down and identify what we needed to do down here. There 
were some structural things we needed to change down here. We put an addition up. We put a tip 
floor for garbage in the back, for MSW and construction debris. Also the tip floor for the 
recyclable material. Along with the pit for the conveyor. So planning how we were going to 
bring that material from the new addition into the existing building. Changing some of the 
3 
 
existing building. All the electrical, all the way across the whole entire property. We took all the 
aboveground electrical units. We put everything underground. Because we have many vehicles. 
And just safety-wise, it was better. 
 
00:06:58 
 
Nickerson:  What was the site use before? 
 
Smith:  It was a sawmill. Northeast Wood Products. 
 
Nickerson:  So you were totally changing what it was used for. 
 
Smith:  Totally changing, yes. And the sawmill needed a lot of these electrical generators and 
transformers. And we had to go in and actually move those, figure out where we needed those, 
what piece of equipment would go where within the building footprint, and plan accordingly. 
Because once we did put it there, it was there. It was one of those things that were there. So that 
was the planning process of it. Planning to use, what we were going to use each structure for. 
There are several structures on the property. So some for storage. Garage facility. And for future 
growth, like I said, with the rail line, the rail car. 
 
Then we went out and started to look at equipment and purchase equipment. So this is all 
done on a shoestring budget. This is stuff that is budgeted and we had to hold really close to 
these budget lines. And so we went out and looked for MRFs that may be closing. And we’ve 
taken several trips. We had one down to Brooklyn. We had one down to Fitchburg, where we 
ended up buying that basic line that they had there. And within that, we’ve purchased conveyors 
from different companies, some other small equipment from different companies. Magnets. 
Balers. We’ve had a couple of balers now. And how that can all integrate into the system. 
 
So we had to basically deconstruct that from the site in Fitchburg. 
 
Nickerson:  That’s Fitchburg, Mass. 
 
Smith:  Fitchburg, Mass. Yup. So deconstruct that. And just, you know, just for memory’s sake, 
it’s very cold, rainy. Wondering how we’re going to do this. How’s it going to fit into the 
building? Measuring every angle. Every height restriction that we had. Every beam that we had 
in the building, every pole that we had in the building, making sure it was going to fit in there 
Because once you buy it, you have to use it. You have to put it in. 
 
00:09:17 
  
Nickerson:  Because you had a preexisting structure, so you had to fit this equipment into the 
building that was already there. 
 
Smith:  Exactly. So we brought that equipment up. We pulled it all apart, trucked it all here. And 
throughout that time, we have close to nine acres here of property, which that’s a luxury. So 
when it came, we were in the midst of drawing up the plans. We had to figure out everything that 
we could put in. So as the equipment was literally being dropped off by the trucking company, 
we were out there taking those measurements. And then we were putting that to paper. And there 
4 
 
had to be probably 30 different drawings, hand drawings is what we did. We drew a footprint of 
the building, measured everything up. We did this in-house. Right in that office. And we drew 
every conceivable way that we could put this into that building. Make it fit. Make it fit 
efficiently. Run the equipment within that structure safely for the employees. And at the end of 
it, produce those commodities that we could send out without being rejected, without being 
contaminated with other contaminants, just like as regular trash.  
 
So over time, we did that. And there were a lot of local people, there were a lot of people 
that have worked for us that may not be with us now that just thought we didn’t know, we were 
crazy. There was snow. We were out there in knee-deep snow, taking these measurements, they 
were on their sides. We replaced motors, gear boxes, belts, pulleys, bearings. Anything that you 
can replace on these machines has been replaced, looked over. So that was part of our process. 
Our process was okay, we’re looking at the 30-foot conveyor to be the next one. We would pull 
that into our garage and we’d start to disassemble it. And in some cases, we’d disassemble them 
right down to the shell. And we put the pulleys, we put it all back together over this period of 
time.  
 
So by the end of that process, our garage was literally filled with equipment. Just 
absolutely filled. Because at that point, once we refurbished it we weren’t going back and putting 
it outside. And what we did is we made a decision at that point is we can start this MRF with a 
couple of things. We have the basic mezzanine with three bays that we can throw into. We have 
the in-feed conveyor that we could bring the material into the building with. We had the baler, so 
we could bale the material. And so what we did is, to alleviate some of that equipment from the 
garage and the other area outside, we actually installed that into the building as our first line. So 
our first line was 100 percent manual. Person would, we would bring the incoming comingled 
material in, so plastic, paper, cardboard, tin, aluminum, all-in-one coming up to us— 
 
00:12:38 
 
Nickerson:  Because this is all single stream, so it’s all mixed together. 
 
Smith:  Correct. Yes. And the first person, the first thing we did was we pulled the cardboard. 
And then we pulled the number one plastics, the PET plastic, mainly water bottles. 
 
Nickerson:  And you would have people— 
 
Smith:  We would have people. Myself—to go back to that also, that was what I did. That’s what 
we did. So we hired two people on at that time. So it was me and two other people. And we were 
up on the main line. And the person that would handle out back with the excavator, he would 
make sure that the in-feed, is what we call it, coming up with the material would be full at all 
times. And the material, we’d set the speed to what we thought it could be. And we would hand 
throw as much cardboard as we can, the first go. As many PET plastics or water bottles. And 
then the third bay was milk jugs. And that’s how we really got started. And actually, the rest of it 
went off the end. And we’d pick that up. We’d bring it around the back and rerun it to clean it up 
more. 
 
 
 
5 
 
00:13:47 
 
Nickerson:  So this is all coming, so you’ve got a couple of people standing on like either side of 
a conveyor belt? 
 
Smith:  Yes. 
 
Nickerson:  And all of this material is coming at you, and you’re just sorting it. 
 
Smith:  That’s right. We’re just hand sorting everything. And we actually were able to make a go 
at it with that. So in the background of that, you have our mechanic in the garage working on the 
conveyors and the belts and everything else. And in the meantime, we’re trying to produce or 
generate revenue so the process can continue. And we were actually able to do that on a 
shoestring budget at that time. No heat, no cooling in the building, so we’re out there in the 
winter. And part of it was you keep moving and you stay warm. (laughs) And building a rapport 
with the guys. And working through the different breakdowns. Inevitably we have breakdowns 
on pretty much a weekly basis. We just had one today. 
 
00:14:47 
 
Nickerson:  Meaning that the machine— 
 
Smith:  The machine may break down. The motor may break, the belt may track off to one side 
or the other and you have to make sure you get those corrected, or else you could lose the entire 
belt. And at the same time, material continues to come in. So there’s an urgency to some of that, 
to get that fixed and repaired. 
 
And like I said, during that time I would work on the line and I would also come over 
here and obviously meet, Trevor and I met very frequently at that point, probably on a daily basis 
back then. And we would try to steer the plant to the right direction. Because we knew we were 
going to the next level. We just didn’t know how quickly or how efficiently we’d get there. So 
we worked that process, and we’d fill the bins. Really did well during that process. But then we 
came to the point where all the equipment was ready to go. And we actually had a plan where we 
knew, we felt as if it could fit into the building. And so— 
 
00:15:55 
 
Nickerson:  So you were having customers deliver material and you were hand sorting it before 
you had the entire, I don't know what you call it, the machine— 
 
Smith:  Line. The line, yeah. 
 
Nickerson:  --the entire line constructed in the building. 
 
Smith:  That’s correct. Yes. Yes. And it was difficult. I have to say, it was difficult. And the 
baler, that’s a whole different machine with its own different quirks and stuff. We had a small 
skid steer at the time. You could call it a bobcat. So really, a small operation. Just really doing 
6 
 
everything manually. A lot of hard work from the guys. Really hard work. The guys that worked 
here really worked their butts off and did a great job. 
 
And we brought in, so we had all the equipment ready, we had all of our measurements, 
we drew up the way we thought the line would go together. And we did have to verify, though. 
“Okay, Rich, you have all these measurements and all these calculations here. But if we get this 
thing going and it doesn't fit, we can’t cut a hole in the roof.” 
 
So we actually called a couple of engineers in to help us with that piece of it. And again, I 
think this is funny, or kind of a part, but they spend probably two days here and came back to us 
and said, with a couple of drawings, and they said, “We don’t know which direction we can go 
with this, guys. We don’t know what is up or down here.”  
 
So I actually went up, Trevor asked me, “Rich, please go up to their office. Use the 
AutoCAD with them. I’m not aware of how to use the AutoCAD to fit this in.” So we actually 
did that. I spent probably four or five hours with them, placing each piece of equipment to see if 
it would place in there. And there was only one piece where we were going to be too high. So 
that whole process actually saved us some time on the install. Because if we would have got to 
that point during the install, it would have been a really big problem. And again, what we did is 
we made a small tweak on the conveyor that’s inside the building, and we’re able to get it under 
22 feet, somewhere in that range where we needed it. And so the rest of the project was a go. 
 
And so at that point, we hired a small crew of riggers who could come down with some 
equipment, help us rig this equipment. We used our own staff, myself included, Trevor, some of 
the staff that we have now that was here, and three riggers, and our welder. 
 
00:18:42 
 
Nickerson:  Just one welder? 
 
Smith:  One welder. We did get some help on the welding as the process went along. And we did 
have to hire a crane for a couple of the moves, so we had a crane come in to move our in-feed 
conveyor and move it from one side of the building to the other. And then getting it into the 
building and where it needed to be, those were all challenges that we had to overcome. So that’s 
what we did. We literally started from that point. And it was something like you would put 
together if you were a kid at home after Christmas, and getting some sort of toy that you’d put 
together with Legos. Just on a larger basis. 
 
So we started with the in-feed, right from the beginning, we started with the in-feed. We 
came into what we call the presort. Then there’s another piece of equipment that takes the 
cardboard mechanically, thankfully, which is called [Lubo?]. We put that in. We had a conveyor, 
which used to be used up in a factory in Bennington for wood pallets. We refurbished that 
conveyor, which that’s underneath that. That carries material, everything but cardboard, away 
from the cardboard and into a glass breaker, which we did not have before that. So that took out 
all the glass, which is a great—that’s also a safety item for the guys, the remaining guys, where 
we do have it still manual on the line, to get that glass out of there. A lot of sharp bottles, 
different things coming up at the guys. And we really needed to get that out. So we have a glass 
breaker goes into that. And at that time, we only had a container underneath the glass. That’s all 
we could do at that point was capture the glass. But we wanted to take that a step further, and I’ll 
mention that in a moment. 
7 
 
 
Then we bring the material up to what they call a paper screen, through a 39-foot 
conveyor. And these names that we have for it, those are the names that just kind of came into 
the process as we did it. So the 39-foot conveyor, well, it’s 39 feet. So the 39-foot conveyor up to 
the paper screen. Paper screen is a really cool item. It’s angled, it has rubber stars on it, and it 
takes the 2D material paper, and will let it run right along those stars. And it will take it right 
away. Once it lands on it, the stars take them right up. But it allows the milk jugs and anything 
3D to bounce backwards and down onto our other conveyor that we go up to the sorting line. 
 
Now the sorting line, that’s what we have now, so we’re 50 mechanical and 50 percent 
manual. And so onto the sorting line, that’s where we’ll pick our PET, our water bottles and our 
number twos. It ends up going off a magnet, so we capture all the tin. And we also have what 
they call an eddy current that’s part of a magnet. So this is a really cool magnet that it will take 
the tin, bring it around onto a conveyor for us, but it will actually push the aluminum. So you 
actually see the aluminum cans being thrown. So you see one can being sucked in and one can 
being thrown. And the Alpo can, dog can, will be sucked in, and the aluminum, cat food, 
basically is in aluminum cans. So we’re really capturing, we’re capturing quite a bit more than 
what we did before. Not to mention the tonnage, the through-put of the line, was dramatically 
increased. So our initial line, we were probably under, close to two tons an hour. Whereas now 
we can go between nine and twelve-tons an hour with the current setup. And probably go a little 
faster, if we really wanted to push it.  We try not to, because other things end up happening when 
you push the equipment too hard.  
 
So continuous improvement from that point. So if you can picture all this equipment that 
was put in. By the way, we went in, we painted everything. And when we talk about it, anything 
that’s associated, all the electrical, the railings, the stairs, the machines themselves, putting them 
up 15, 18 feet high. And again, thankfully we have a great welder who did a great job with all of 
that. Nice, solid welds and solid beams that we have supporting this equipment. And a lot of that 
was prefabbed in the shop beforehand. A lot of that we had done beforehand so we could bring 
that right out and put that in. 
 
So we look for  continuous improvement. And I go back to the glass with that. And we 
heard of, over in the Brattleboro area, the dual-stream MRF over there was closing. So Trevor 
and I went over there to look at all of that equipment, because we’re always interested in newer 
equipment and better equipment. And they had what they called a glass crusher system. So we 
found that we could take the glass out and turn this glass, break the glass in the glass breaker, 
then send it up to the glass crusher and turn it into basically sand. 
 
Nickerson:  Oh, wow. 
 
Smith:  And so that was another project that we did second to that. And that was a whole other 
mind bending thing, because you have the line set up the way it was, where the material’s free 
flowing and you have all the material going in the proper direction. Now you have to take it and 
you have to say okay, that glass has to now go to this crusher, and how do we get that up to the 
crusher? So, smaller conveyors. Again, went back out, we had a couple conveyors out still in the 
yard. Went back out, [made a] few measurements. Measured everything up.  A few drawings. 
Bought two more conveyors and installed that glass crusher, which was a big project for us, in 
and of itself. So that was right up there with a major project, because you’re dealing with a 30-
foot conveyor and a 50-foot conveyor, and a machine that is probably a couple ton. And it spins. 
It has the centrifugal force that it just breaks this glass down into sand. And so it’s a big, heavy 
8 
 
piece of equipment on a stand. And you need that stand rock solid. This thing cannot shake, 
cannot, and then onto the conveyors that we can then put out into a container. And then we put it 
out, stockpile it, and we’ve used it in pipe bedding thus far. Some pipe bedding. 
 
00:26:03 
 
Nickerson:  The sand. 
 
Smith:  The sand, yeah. So instead of using, you know, a lot of, they’ll say use stone or what 
have you for some of those construction projects. And they did approve some of that sand for 
that pipe bedding. And we also have some cover, some outside cover that we were able to use it 
for out here. And I know Trevor’s engaging the state, actively engaging the state as far as using it 
in some of the agency of transportation projects within the state. Which I think would be 
fantastic, because it would go hand in hand with the mandates of the state and Act 148 here in 
Vermont. So it would be a great plus for them. 
 
And we’re continuing to improve the system as we go along. Then we got into, then 
we’re up and running. And you really have to get to know, how many staff do we need now? 
What’s it going to take for us to make this plan run and operate? We did get a new baler in the 
meantime, so we pulled our old baler out that was aging and had safety issues, quite frankly. And 
we brought the other baler in. This other baler, Trevor purchased from Nantucket Island. And it 
actually in its previous life used to bale straight trash from the island. And so we brought that 
here. We actually had it refurbished. Brought that here, installed that. That’s currently the baler 
that we use, and it’s been a great baler for us to use. 
 
And we’re at the point now, believe it or not, we can probably pump out a bale within 
five minutes out of that machine. As fast as that machine can bale, we can feed it. And we were 
at the point where you first see this machine you say “geez, we’ll never maximize the throughput 
on that machine.” And then here we are a couple of years later and we say, we actually need the 
next level up, because we have so much material now that we’re processing that we can actually 
feed this thing faster. 
  
Nickerson:  And you’ve only, this MRF has only been operating for three years? 
 
Smith:  Three years, yeah. Basically our fourth year will be March. However, during that 
process, it’s steadily increased our through put and tonnage and employees, and building a team. 
And a team that wants to really come in and work hard every day, and get things done every day 
in a somewhat fast-paced environment. And focus in on it, in a really tough environment. I can’t 
stress that enough about how hard these guys work. 
 
00:28:45 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. Tell me about that. Tell me about some of the jobs that people do at MRFs, 
and what it’s like to work at a place like this. 
 
Smith:  So it’s a scheduled thing. When we have that many people working on the line, seven to 
eight people at any given time, you really need to construct it so that, timing is an issue. So when 
we start up in the morning at seven A.M., we need all the personnel there. You can’t be 
9 
 
straggling in. Because if one piece isn’t covered, then we’re really contaminating some other 
bays, most likely. 
 
00:29:23 
 
Nickerson:  And what are the different jobs? 
 
Smith:  So the different jobs that we have, and starting right up, would be, the first one that the 
material comes into is what we call presort. And presort, what we’re doing is we’re taking off 
any garbage. There’s still a lot to be done as far as educating people on what can and cannot be 
recycled. How it can be recycled. So that person’s taking off straight garbage, most likely. That 
person’s also tearing open, a lot of times, too, which we discourage it as much as possible, in 
good faith people will bag up, hey, I have 50 water bottles, and I’ll just put them in a plastic bag 
and put them in the recycling. We prefer them not to be. We’d prefer them to be loose. So that 
person will tear those bags open, make sure [there is no trash]. Right now what we see a lot of is 
Christmas lights. So anything that can wrap around all that equipment that we’re talking about 
[has to be removed]. Because that will wreak havoc on any of the equipment, jam it up. So any 
rope, wire, string, plastic bags, plastic store bags, the bags that they give out when you go to the 
supermarket, we discourage those. Those end up getting wrapped up into everything. So the 
presorter will take all of that off. 
 
00:30:47 
 
Nickerson:  So you just have one person. And is everyone who works here is a man? 
 
Smith:  Everyone is, that works here, yes. 
 
Nickerson:  Everybody in the machine, I know you have somebody up front who’s a woman. 
 
Smith:  Yes. Yes. Yes. 
 
00:30:59 
 
Nickerson:  So there’s one guy who’s just doing the presorting. 
 
Smith:  Yes. One or two guys that are doing the presort. We prefer two guys when we do up the 
speed. So there’s some changes that we make personnel-wise, depending on the situation. This 
past week being a real busy week with Christmas. We get a lot of material in. Quite a bit of 
cardboard, in particular. So if we say hey, guys, we’re going to push it a little bit today, we’ll put 
two people up there, because the one person just can’t grab everything. So there’s still quite a bit 
of trash coming through on that side. So that would be the straight trash. 
 
Then we go up, the second person, so from that point, the cardboard’s mechanically taken 
out of the system. The glass is mechanically taken out of the system, and the paper’s 
mechanically taken out of the system. So we get to our second person, and our second person, 
second or third, depending on how many people we place there. He’s actually a quality control. 
We call him paper quality control. So again, on that paper screen that I mentioned earlier, you 
10 
 
have the paper that comes up off the screen and onto a conveyor and then goes into a paper bay. 
Inevitably, a lot of that, any of that plastic that the presort person cannot grab, cannot get in that 
time, and we’re talking small stuff. Even out of a cereal box, you know, the little plastic bag. 
Those types of things. They’ll get onto that paper conveyor, and we want that removed. We 
don’t want that contamination going out with the paper. 
 
So there’s some thresholds that the industry has as far as contamination on all our 
commodities. But we like to keep it as low as possible. Last thing we want to do is send out a 
tractor trailer full of paper and have it be rejected at the site. It creates a problem. It’s a loss for 
everyone. It’s a really big loss. A lot of man hours lost on that. So we’ve done everything 
possible to have that quality control. And I’m proud to say, we’ve done a fantastic job with that. 
We’ve done a great job at that. That’s something we’ve stressed. And that’s something that once 
the guys really take heart on, they make sure that that is being cleaned.  
 
So you go up on the paper line there. You have your quality control person and he’s 
taking out any of that plastic and anything, any foreign debris other than paper. And then the 
material that’s fallen back, the milk jugs, the water bottles, maybe some residual paper, that goes 
up onto the sorting line, what we’ll call the sorting line. 
 
So any of that residual paper, we actually put a person on that line to take any more of the 
paper that may not be taken by the paper screen mechanically. So we’re really trying to capture 
as much of the product as we possibly can. And one of our goals as far as the cardboard would 
be, we want to get in the high 90 percentage of cardboard out of the system. Paper, with the 
amount of it, we’d love to meet that mark again with paper, but that’s just not feasible. So the 
first person will grab any residual paper that does not make it up the paper screen. Then the 
second person, second and third person, we may, again, depending on the speed of the line, we’ll 
put two people on this, is the water bottles. Just an amazing amount of water bottles. There’s 
some photos behind me of some other items that are under the PET number one that you can see. 
Ketchup, A&W root beer, those plastic bins you may get a salad in at the supermarket, so any of 
those would be considered number one. So those are probably one of the bigger items like as far 
as quantity-wise that the guys have to pick. So sometimes we put two people up there. And as 
fast as they can throw with two hands, that’s as fast as they can throw it into the bin, that’s what 
they’re throwing off that line. 
 
Then it gets down to the third person of that line, third or fourth person, depending on the 
speed again. And he’ll take the milk jugs, the Tide, the Wisk [laundry detergent] jugs, which is 
called the HDP number two plastic. And so that’s probably the second most as far as picking 
wise of material that we have. And we’ll fill those bins up quite frequently. 
 
And then it goes off, as I say, it goes off onto the magnets. We get all the tin and then the 
aluminum we’ll capture. In that process here in Vermont, we’re also taking the five centers. And 
we’re separating out the five centers. And working locally with redemption centers, and making 
sure that those— 
 
00:35:55 
 
Nickerson:  So those are the bottles and cans with a deposit on them. 
 
Smith:  Exactly. Yup, yup. And we’ll take those and we bring those. There’s a few companies 
here locally we work with. And we made a push here local in Pownal to try to integrate anything 
we can within the town locally. So a lot of the guys that we have working here, local guys, 
11 
 
Pownal guys. The cans, same thing, right here in Pownal we bring them up in hopes that they 
may be able to hire a person on themselves. So again, one of our goals here, I know part of 
Trevor’s vision, is creating jobs. And that’s another part we’re really proud of down here. And to 
have the guys that were out there, maybe bouncing from job to job or something. Get them 
something a little more steady to work at, to come to every day.  
And within that, there’s other small things that we do here. We do carts. Cleanup is a 
huge part of this, also. So if you come in in the morning, you say hey, the building looks halfway 
clean. If you come back at two o’clock, you’d think wow, what happened? What a mess! And so 
at the end of the day, cleanup of the machine, anything that wraps, those are all types of things 
that the guys have to really be in tune with. And they need to take ownership of. And we need to 
trust them, and we need to guide them in a lot of cases to build that trust, to make sure that that’s 
happening, to avoid breakdowns and problems. We have a maintenance person who after hours 
and before hours will grease, lube, tighten, look at while we’re running. Any sound—one of the 
things we stress is use your senses. Your smell. You smell something burning a little bit, a little 
rubber or something, something’s rubbing. You hear something squeaking. Do we need to hit 
some grease on that? Is there something, is there a bearing going? So those types of things, we 
really, the guys are really in tune to, we’re all in tune to that. Any little squeak, any little bug that 
you hear, anything that you smell, you want to check out. 
One of our biggest fears is a fire. So we have a fire system installed that’s monitored, a 
monitored system in the building. But with one of the problems within the industry overall is the 
lithium batteries. That actually can combust. And we have had that happen. And those are things 
that we have to be, just diligent, looking for, making sure they’re out of the system. 
 
00:38:38 
 
Nickerson:  Are people putting their, do you find a lot of batteries in what is coming in? 
 
Smith:  Not a lot. Not a lot. I’m happy to say that. We do not find a lot of batteries. There are 
some, but we don’t find a lot, you know, many, a large amount. So that’s really a good thing. 
Particularly when you think about the amount of trash that we do take off that line. You would 
think that there’s a lot more. But we don’t find them outright. We do find them. And a couple of 
times we found them in the wrong, the hard way, where we see something smoldering. Well, 
there’s an actual fire. So we’ve had a couple of those. That’s one thing we train the guys on, one 
thing, again, going back to when Trevor and I spoke about this plant, he said, “Rich,” he said, 
“it’s not a matter of if you’re going to have a fire; it’s when you’re going to have a fire.” Because 
of these different materials coming through. There’s so many types of materials coming through 
the system, so many tons of it, that it’s inevitable. It’s almost not preventable, as much as you try 
to prevent it. Like I said, everyone being diligent doing that position. 
 
So all these people, they come in. And when it’s 10 degrees out, we’re working, we’re 
starting a line. When it’s 90 degrees out, we’re working, we’re starting a line. And those are 
tough times. Those are really tough times for the guys. We have to make sure they have the 
proper equipment—eye protective, high-vis, gloves, protective shoes. Make sure they’re wearing 
all that protective equipment properly. Looking out for each other. That’s a big thing we talk 
about. We watch out for each other. If you’re not experienced working on, with conveyor belts, I 
will say, almost to a person, I think I’ve only had one person say it, but typically after your first 
and second day, you feel like you’re on a ship after you finish your shift. Because you feel like 
12 
 
you keep leaning. And actually the belt is stopped. And that’s when it does it, it plays a [trick on 
you] —and almost every single person has had that happen to them. So really tough conditions. 
Machines break down. We’re all reacting to it. Typically what we do is we have a group of guys 
that they go right to clean up. They start to clean up to keep the building—again, that’s a safety 
issue for us. You’re constricting the material with material and debris, you’re most likely going 
to have accidents. So we try to keep all that to a minimum. And we have our mechanic and a 
couple of the guys who are mechanically inclined helping the mechanic to get these repairs done. 
And again, we just did that this afternoon. We were down for about an hour with a simple 
problem. But it entails taking the motor off. And these motors are a couple hundred pounds, and 
getting everything back into position so we can run the line again. Because the material keeps 
coming. 
 
00:41:44 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah, yeah. So you’ve, at different points, I’m assuming you’ve had to work on the 
sorting line yourself. Could you talk about what that’s like, being on the sorting line? What it 
sort of looks like and smells like, and the kind of stuff that you’re handling? 
 
Smith:  Yeah. Sure. So here at T.A.M., one of the things, and you can see probably by the way 
I’m dressed, we all work. We all work from top to bottom, Trevor included. Trevor included. So 
early on when I spoke of the process, every day I was on the line. Every day. Learning it, like we 
talked about earlier, it was something new to us as far as putting that whole line together. And 
now it’s on a weekly basis. A few hours here, a few hours there, working with the guys. And you 
see, you will see, again, everything that you could possibly throw out, you’ll most likely see up 
there. We’ve seen car parts. We giggle sometimes, we say, “Hey, we’ve got half a car up here.” 
We will literally get a bumper come up the line. We will have, again, straight trash bag. So you’ll 
see some people, unfortunately, they throw, I hate to say this, dog poop in the recycling. Which 
gets all over our machines. Which the smell does not leave the building for probably two days. 
So you have that. The regular trash smells. Other things that you just don’t know, that’s kind of 
foreign to you. So in some cases, you take a step back because you say hey, geez, what is that, 
what did somebody throw in there? We’ve had, well, we had actually today, a chicken, a dead 
chicken come out. We’ve had deer during hunting season. I don't know why they throw it in the 
recycling, but it ends up in there. Sometimes we’ve had, unfortunately, needles come up. And 
some of that could be totally innocent people using them in their household. And so a two-liter 
bottle of needles may come up. And some of it, otherwise. A lot of shredded paper, so it looks 
like a ticker tape parade a lot of times when you’re running. Again, that’s why it looks really 
messy in there after a run. But just a lot of paper. A lot of plastic.  
And we do like it when the material comes out of a dual-stream MRF, so it’s just the 
plastic and the tin, the aluminum and glass. It runs better through the system. You can actually 
see everything better, rather than with the paper. You lose sight of some of that stuff. 
 
00:44:30 
 
Nickerson:  So as the plant manager, could you walk me through what a typical day would be 
like for you for that part of your job? 
 
13 
 
Smith:  Sure. Yeah, yeah. So coming in, try to prepare for, to give the guys the knowledge that 
they’ll need that day. So come in and we have a dispatch here. So let the guys know what trucks 
are coming in with what. So I’ll do a printout of that and have two people here, a supervisor, a 
line leader. And that will get the guys started. So we talk about the trucks that will be incoming 
with material. Then we talk about the other schedule, I’ll go out, we’ll work with brokers to sell 
the material. So I’ll have a list each day of what tractor trailers will be coming in to be loaded, or 
expected to be coming in to be loaded. So we’ll have that list. So that’s something that we review 
in the morning to have some preparation of what’s coming in. We’ll talk about some changes. 
We might  just talk about everyday things. You know, the work that we did on the baler, or this 
is something we have to watch out for, keep an eye on that. So then we get everybody started.  
So seven A.M., we get everybody started, everybody’s up on the line. I typically run a 
report from the day before to know the tonnage that came in on all the commodities, whether it 
be recycling, trash, construction debris. I share that report with our main office and respond to 
emails and customer calls, work with our customers. A lot of work, go out to the garage, talk to 
the guys about a project that we’re on. Right now we’re working on a conveyor for the magnet, 
the magnet that I spoke about. We’re working on a conveyor for that. So how’s that going? How 
are we doing on that? Anything else that’s within the garage. So just making sure that we’re 
staying on task with that. Basically everything that you can think about on site comes under that 
umbrella. So everything is on your mind one way or the other on any given particular day. Do we 
have enough fuel for the equipment? Do we have enough fuel for our trucks? Are the pumps 
working? Are they frozen? How’s the yard working out? A lot of times we may have mud, snow, 
is it plowed? The scale. The scale’s our life blood. That’s something that’s not to be fooled with. 
So making sure the mud that could get caked underneath it could actually freeze and actually 
prevent the scale from functioning. And we don’t have a backup; we have to have that scale 
function. These trucks are still going to come in. We can’t work without it. So making sure that 
that’s all cleaned up. And you know, just cleared out.  
Make sure basically that the plant is functioning. Any other problems that we may be 
having, if I have to go out to an electrician or some sort of mechanic, I make those calls, set 
those things up. Work with the main office on different things. Again, are there different things 
that we’re not aware of that we need to be aware of that are coming in or going out? In that case, 
you know, and then communicate that to our staff and make sure we’re all on the same page. 
Help with any of our drivers from T.A.M. So we kind of cross paths, too, with T.A.M., 
Incorporated, with our trash hauling division. To work with them, work with the drivers there. 
Work with the dispatch there. Which was, again, my previous position. So working with 
dispatch. Making sure things down on the southern end here are getting dispatched out correctly. 
That we have enough containers, carts. There’s different oddball projects that we do sometimes. 
We take some material, machines in some cases, and we’ll disassemble them and [unclear] those, 
whether they be florescent bulbs, old batteries, aluminum. So there’s some machines that come 
in with all of the above on it, and we’ll disassemble those. So we’ll run the recycling line and 
have to schedule [that] in. And that’s something I’ll do. I’ll figure out okay, we can run up until 
this point. Then we need to stop, do these machines, then go back to the line the following 
morning and make sure that was still flowing, because we have X amount of tons coming in and 
we need to make sure we get that out. 
Going back and working with our brokers to make sure that the material is scheduled, 
that it is going out. Work through different problems there with the trucking. So basically, those 
types of, within the office, work on accounts. Work closely with our customers. You know, 
14 
 
that’s a big thing, too, for us. We don’t want to just be separate from our customers. So if any 
one of our customers walked in the door right now, I would know them face to face, hand to 
hand. They know me very well. Any questions, no matter how big, no matter how small. We 
have people that come in and will dump two ton in the entire week, and we have people that will 
come in and dump 200 ton in a week. They’re both just as important to us. So we try to make 
that clear to everybody, and that we’re always accessible for that. And then, do they have 
concerns, questions that we can help with? So all of that. 
Making sure the site’s secure. Making sure the site’s safe. That’s a huge, huge part, I 
can’t stress that enough. We stress that probably every single day. Safety. We want to make sure 
everyone goes home at the end of the day safe. 
And making sure that we’re touching base with everybody. So making sure I’m touching 
base with everybody. Our loader out back, loader operation. The person who feeds the line. Our 
mechanics. Our outside vendors. Our outside brokers. The main office. Inside our building here, 
what we handle, what Tess helps us handle on a daily basis, all of our budget, all of our short-
term, long-term planning. So depending on what we’re meeting on, making sure we’re 
expressing what we need short term, expressing what we’re looking at long term. 
So one of the really great things that we just did, just finished this two weeks ago, was a 
100-kilowatt solar array on top of the building. 
 
00:51:19 
 
Nickerson:  Oh, yeah. Tell me about that. 
 
Smith:  Yeah, so that was just installed. So the building, the addition that was built, Trevor had 
specifically specked out to make sure that the roof could handle a solar array for future use. So 
again, back then, long-term planning. And so, again, we worked the plant as hard as we can work 
this plant, and to bring in the revenue that we needed to bring in to put some money down for a 
solar array. So over probably the past year and a half or so, you know, you’re going back and 
you’re negotiating here and there and you’re seeing what plan is best. There’s a lot of different 
plans out there: lease, buyer-owned, back to the grid. So there’s a lot of different components. So 
trying to figure out which one works for us. The rebates and the incentives, whether they be 
federal or state or even from the local utility. And bringing the right people together to put those 
numbers together, because they are pretty complicated when you get into the tax part of it and 
the incentives and the payback. Figuring out the payback, and then figuring out what we could 
do from our revenue and budget to see if we could do that. 
 
So here we are year three, going on year four. We’re able to actually make that happen. 
Get the down payment on the array. They started the installation, they did a fantastic job with it. 
Get it all installed. And we just made the final payment last week, actually, on the entire array. 
 
00:52:59 
 
Nickerson:  Wow, congratulations. So is some of the electricity that that’s generating going to 
run the machine? 
 
Smith:  It will go back to, it goes back to the grid. So it will go back to the grid, but yes, it’s 
revenue that’s generated to offset. So yes, yes. 
15 
 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah, yeah. Cool, cool. 
 
Smith:  Yeah, so we’re really happy about that. And we have compost down here. These are all 
little other things. 
 
00:53:30 
 
Nickerson:  Oh, you’re doing compost here as well as n Pownal?  
 
Smith:  Well, we take a lot of the overflow. And we’ll also, if there’s some that still is working 
its way through the heating of the compost, we’ll turn the piles. So we have a couple piles out 
there that we’ll turn. And we’ll actually sell that material when it’s finished from down here. We 
take, another project that I failed to mention, construction debris. That’s a big part of it. I can’t 
believe I missed that one. But construction debris. So if you can imagine a construction project 
with good two-by-fours, nice clean wood, metal, cardboard, gypsum, any of those materials. So 
separating that out. And we have out in the field there, we’ll take a lot of that out of the basic 
trash, too, that comes in on the construction debris side. And we take that and we’ll actually chip 
all that wood. Actually, the chipper’s still out there. They just chipped up all of our wood. We’ll 
take all that chipped wood that came off, that was waste wood before, that would go to the 
landfill before, chipped up, sent up to our compost site. And they’ll mix it in as the carbon in 
their compost mixture. 
 
And then we have, within T.A.M. incorporated, [we] have the organics pickups that’s 
also brought up. And so they introduced that into the mixture, too. And that’s all well-handled up 
there in Bennington. So T.A.M. Organics. 
 
00:55:04 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah, yeah. Wow. When you were rattling off everything that you do, I was thinking 
that’s like enough different jobs for five or six people. 
 
Smith:  Sometimes it feels like that. Sometimes it feels like that. But we have, again, I can’t say 
enough about the team we have. And I hope that’s how you see it today. We have a really good 
team, really hardworking team that they pull it together. And once they do get that knowledge, 
when they come in here, and they’re a little green at first. And we guide them through and we let 
them know hey, it’s hard work but it’s good work. You’re going to feel good at the end of the 
week. And all the people that have come through and really bought into that, that’s where we’re 
at now. We have a really good team. And they will pick each other up. They’ll watch out for 
each other. They support each other. And they feel really good about the work that they’re doing. 
They can go back home and feel really good. Hey, look at the material recycled today. We talk 
about that quite a bit. Okay, we just sent out today, you know, a hundred ton of cardboard that 
would have gone to the landfill 20 years ago. 
 
00:56:07 
 
Nickerson:  How many people do you have working here? 
16 
 
 
Smith:  We have 13, 13 people. So, when we started, basically we started with, I want to say 
three or four of us. Just a really skeleton crew. And everything in this office is reused. Every 
table, desk, chair. We try to really promote reuse before recycle. So that’s something, again, we 
try to point out to people, everything we have, cabinets, everything we have is reuse. We’re 
proud of that. And we’re hopeful, we are hopeful some steps, a little bit about that. Getting a 
swap shop involved here. So that’s another piece for the building out back that we’re looking to 
in the future. There actually is a really great amount of material or items that come through here 
that are very usable. And there’s nothing, absolutely nothing wrong with them. People may be 
just upgrading. Or a lot of times, one of the bigger ones we see is Grandma has passed away and 
the son or daughter comes from out of state. And they only have the weekend to clean the house 
out. And they’re not really looking through it. And they just throw everything in the container 
and it ends up here. And you say to yourself, geez, that’s too bad, we could use that or use this. 
So that’s one of the things that we’re working towards, too, is being able to pull that material, 
effectively, efficiently and effectively. And again, making sure it’s safe, making sure it’s safe 
material for people to reuse. Something that they wouldn't take and have any problems with at 
their house. So we’d love to be able to do that, too, and be a resource for the community.  
 
Nickerson:  That would be really cool. 
 
Smith:  We invite the tours. Just going to the education part. The last tour we just did was the 
Girl Scouts from Williamstown [Massachusetts]. And we’ll have them all come in. And again, 
we try to promote it as much as possible. We work closely with Williams College, with a lot of 
the students. Really, any of the students in the area. And I’d say we probably do at least ten, 
twelve tours with groups of anywhere from college age down to four or five, six years old, 
preschoolers. And it’s great, we give the preschoolers, Tess prints out a little maze thing that’s 
all recycling-related, and they have fun with that. We have a display outside. So we put the 
whole class on the scale, and they see how much the entire class weighs. And then throughout 
that process, we’re really trying to push that reuse. You know, clean that glass out. If you have 
the glass at home, reuse it, then recycle it. Just going down the list of what we can reuse. 
 
And again, trying to open people’s eyes, you and I discussed that a little earlier, about the 
way people look at trash as a whole. And also to educate people on what it does take, and what is 
needed for proper disposal of the material or recycling of the material. And it actually takes a 
tremendous amount behind the scenes, I feel like. And I’m sure you’ve probably had different 
discussions on that. So I won’t get onto that part. 
 
But to have a person, a trained person with a specialty driver’s license, a CDL, trained 
driver’s license, pull up to your house on a weekly basis and take everything you don’t want for 
eight to ten dollars per pickup is really a good deal. (laughs) It is really a good deal. And we see 
that on this end crunching the numbers. And you think about the cost of the vehicles, you think 
about the cost of this equipment we just discussed. This equipment is many thousands of dollars 
for each piece. And the transportation for that, to get it from one site to the other, and then the 
upkeep of that. And then you can start to see those dollar signs really add up. And then again, I 
go back to hey, eight to ten dollars for me to put that at my curb each week and be done with it? 
That’s a pretty good deal. So just to let people know.  
And not to mention, just the hard work that goes into that. To beat the traffic, the guys are 
out there 4:30 in the morning. And again, pouring rain, they’re there. Snow, they’re there. Ninety 
17 
 
degrees, they’re there. So, you know, you try to really point that out to a lot of people. And I do 
think that helps. I really do think sometimes that has to be said to people before the bulb goes 
off. Because they are critical. “Hey, you missed my pickup yesterday.” Well, have we missed 
that pickup in the past? How well are we doing overall? And we will get you. We had a truck 
break down.  
 
01:01:28 
 
Nickerson:  So along those lines, I know you have to go soon, I’ve got two more questions for 
you. What are you proudest of about your work here? 
 
Smith:  I’m proudest of the way that we built this plant. I’m just off the charts proud of that. We 
came down and we literally did it through hard work. And many hours and a lot of planning, and 
then actually getting in and getting your hands dirty and making these things happen. And 
through failure— 
 
01:02:06 
[End Track 1. Begin Track 2.] 
 
Smith:  --through that. Throughout the process, we talk about all the good things. Throughout 
that process, there’s things that didn't come together so well that we had to work through. So I’m 
really proud of that fact that we’re able to have that opportunity to actually take this site that was 
grass that was four feet high around the entire site. That didn’t have a lot going for it. It was just 
an abandoned site, basically. And turn it back into a functioning site. And hopefully bring the 
area up as far as that goes. Bring some hope to the area. Give people some good jobs with good 
livable wages that feel really good about themselves at the end of the week, which I think we 
really have. And to be a part of that, and to see each one of these progressions happen and know 
that those progressions are going to continue to happen. 
 
And then right on the same parallel to that is the nature of the work we’re doing. Which 
is, like I say, a lot of times I look at these tractor trailers that are going out with 22 ton of paper 
on it, or 20 ton of plastic on it, and say to myself, geez, 20, 25 years ago, that was going to the 
landfill. And to know that we’re a smaller plant, even, and that’s the amount that we’re able to 
capture to recycle. And imagine the larger plants that are around the country that are able to do 
even more than that. And to see how far we have come with recycling. Knowing there’s a lot 
more we can do, but how far we have come. So building this plant from the ground up and being 
a part of that, and really being a part of it. Not just sitting back and saying, “Hey, we’ve got to 
put that over there.” But actually grabbing that and putting that over there and welding it and 
being part of that whole thing. And smelling that welding smoke as it’s coming off. And then at 
the end of the day, freezing and being cold, colder than cold, and working really hard and 
making that happen. And then even at that, there’s no, one other quick factor. You get everything 
together and you feel like there should be a celebration. Well, we still have to make sure this 
thing works. So it’s apprehension throughout the whole thing. And then once you get it working, 
you’re just right into working it. So there’s no step back and smell the roses type of moment for 
it. So having that opportunity through the company here, T.A.M, which I can’t say enough about. 
Trevor, who I’ve mentioned many times now, I can’t say enough about him personally. And his 
vision, and the work that he has shown, and the leadership he has shown. And that’s the type of 
18 
 
leadership.  Like I said here today, any given day you come in, I’ll most likely be with the guys 
working around the yard and making sure that things try to happen well. 
 
00:03:04 
 
Nickerson:  Well, it’s an amazing story. I’m so glad that I came down to this site and got a 
chance to meet you and hear the story of how it was created. So my last question is, is there 
anything that we haven’t covered that you would like people to know about the work that you 
do? Especially the kind of work that happens at a MRF? 
 
Smith:  I think we may, I think I did touch on it a little bit. So not to repeat it or what have you, 
but it goes back to the people that are actually doing these jobs. Day in, day out, throughout 
every season that we have, and how hard it is, and what it does take. We all have that bad day. 
We all come in and we have that bad day. Someday things aren’t going well at home or 
whatever. And that’s hard to push through a lot of times when you get up, in your nice warm 
bed, and you go out and it’s ten degrees, and that’s your day. That’s your entire day. You get a 
couple of breaks there, and you get your lunch. Hopefully you warm yourself up. 
 
The same thing with the drivers and everything they have to encounter every day with 
other drivers. People that don’t want to wait for that garbage truck that’s pulled over to the side, 
unfortunately. People that don’t defrost the windows and almost run into the guy that is grabbing 
the trash in the morning. And how important they are. That may be one of the bigger things. 
How important it is for that. Just imagine if we didn’t have trash pickup for even a couple of 
weeks. 
 
And so that is really where I would love to really shed light on things. How dedicated 
these people are that are in the industry that are doing it. And they are working hard, and they are 
working for many different reasons. But the bottom line is, they are recycling. They are making 
things cleaner. They’re making sure that things are properly handled. And it takes a lot of 
dedication for that. And a lot of times, there’s not a lot of thanks for that. And thankfully we 
have a lot of guys that can do that and that can work on that without a lot of thanks, and that they 
feel good about and we all feel good about. So that would be the biggest thing, I think, is the 
employees. 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. Yeah. Well, Rich, I want to thank you for the work that you do. And thank 
you so much for sharing your story. This was great. 
 
Smith:  Thank you. Thank you. I hope I was able to articulate it. 
 
  
5:56 
[End Track 2. End Interview.]