AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with James Ebersbach– 5/7/22 
1 
 
James Ebersbach 
Where: Fairfield County District Library 
Date: May 7, 2022 
Location: Lancaster, OH 
Interviewer: Emily Hilliard 
Transcription: Emily Hilliard 
Length: 1:12:32 
 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with James Ebersbach– 5/7/22 
2 
 
James Ebersbach (b. 1980, Lancaster, OH) was a part-time non-career track rural mail carrier for 8 years, 
delivering for 6 years out of the Pleasantville, Ohio Post Office, and 2 years out of the Bremen, Ohio Post 
Office. He delivered the Pleasantville route in his own right-hand drive Jeep, and the Bremen route in a 
Postal Service-issued Long Life Vehicle (LLV). Ebersbach previously worked in law enforcement, and 
now works in HR for the state of Ohio. In this interview, he speaks about the experience and challenges 
of being a part-time rural mail carrier, an accident he experienced on the job, his customers (one of which 
included an exotic animal zoo where a kangaroo got loose while he was on his route), his role as a union 
steward with the NRLCA, and his relationship with management.  
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with James Ebersbach– 5/7/22 
3 
 
James Ebersbach 
May 7, 2022 
Lancaster, Ohio Public Library 
 
JE: James Ebersbach 
EH: Emily Hilliard 
 
00:00 
EH: Alright, so why don't you introduce yourself and tell me your name, the year you were born and 
where you're from and I'll just say it's May 7th [2022] and we are in Lancaster, Ohio. 
 
JE: My name is James Ebersbach. I was born in 1980 and born actually in Lancaster. Lived the majority 
of my life in a town north of here, about 10 miles--Baltimore, Ohio. 
 
EH: Tell me how you got started or how you got interested in being a rural mail carrier. 
 
JE: I had worked 15 years in law enforcement and I had my daughter, was born, and I was a single dad 
and about that time it was being in law enforcement was getting to be crazy and I figured it was time for a 
change, something that was more safe, more schedule-oriented where I could spend some time at home. 
And the Postal Service seemed to be a good option for me. And I applied, took the test and within 4 
months I was hired! 
 
EH: Did you start full-time or as a sub? 
 
JE: The majority of people to my understand start as what they call non-career, which I'm included. I, the 
route that come open for me was a route out of the Bremen Post Office, but it was actually delivering in 
the community of Pleasantville. And the…whenever I got that route it was for as a sub, delivering on 
Saturdays, and anytime the regular wanted time off.  
 
EH: How long ago was that? 
 
JE: About 8 years ago.  
 
EH: And then did you eventually get hired on full-time? 
 
JE: No. That's one of the things with the Post Office--I was there for 8 years and there was no hope in site 
of becoming full-time. In my office, just my office alone, there's one carrier there now, currently that's 
been over 20 years and still not full time. There's one that's been there 25 and just converted here within 
the last year and a half.  
 
EH: Wow. Do you think that has changed from how it used to be? 
 
JE: I guess depending on the size of the office you work at and the turnover rate I guess would obviously 
have a factor in it, but for my office, it was consolidated. There was 3 different offices put together and 
that plays havoc with seniority and you know, here currently they've been having an extremely hard time 
keeping subs, so turnover rate's at an all-time high.  
 
EH: And was it consolidated about the time when all of these rural post offices got consolidated--like 
2008 or so? 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with James Ebersbach– 5/7/22 
4 
 
 
JE: Well let's see here, it's 2022--I've been there for 8 year so what did I start in 20, what does that work 
out to be--2016-ish? Whenever I started, it would have been within that 6 month period that they had 
consolidated my office. 
 
EH: Okay. Why don't you talk me through a typical day on the job from when you would get to the post 
office and when you would get home at the end of the day. 
 
JE: That question can vary depending on the time of year and you know, weather conditions, etc., but on 
an average, I would arrive at the post office anywhere between 7, 7:15 in the morning on a normal day. 
The first thing that would happen is you would come in, you would go to your mail case and see if the 
clerks have left any notes for you for the previous day, trying to resolve any issues you've got. While this 
is, while you're doing that, the clerks are in the process of sorting mail. The truck comes in, if it's on time, 
anywhere between 6 and 6:10 at my particular office. And they break the truck down, they sort the flats, 
sort the letters, and sort the packages. Sometimes not in the right order. It just depends on you know, what 
the problems are for the morning. And we start putting mail up. Typically you put flats up first, letters, 
then marked packages last. It doesn't always happen that way, but there's different styles to casing mail. 
Some people case all their mail, some people case only their flats and loose letters. Some people don't 
case anything, it's just you know, some offices have what they call DPS which is sorted, delivery point 
mail. Some of them have FFS which is the same thing for flats, like magazines and newspapers and so on 
and so forth. Some offices don't. So mine had DPS but no FFS, so we sorted, case all our flats, I cased all 
my flats. And I've done it both ways. I cased all my letter mail and I've not cased all my letter mail. 
Getting, if you want to get technical, they call it a one-bundle system or two-bundle system. (clears 
throat) After the mail is cased, you take your packages and some people mark 'em, some people don't. I 
don't have that good a memory so I marked all mine. I take a plastic card that says "parcel" on it. If you 
have, if the office would buy you the cards. If not, some people would buy you their own. Some people 
would take old trash forward cards or hold cards from the post office and cut 'em up and use those to 
mark packages. My typical pattern was anything that was small to fit in a mailbox would get marked a 
certain way. Anything that required me to pull in the driveway and get out was marked a different way. 
Put all your mail up. On the original route that I had, working the Pleasantville route, there was almost 
600 stops on it. After you get all your mail up, it can take you anywhere from half hour, 45 minutes to 2 
hours depending on what the day's volume was. A lot of people think that the mail comes in pre-sorted 
and you just deliver it--that's not the case.  
 
06:24  
 
You know, so usually anywhere from I don't know, 10, 10:00 usually, I would start pulling my mail down 
and the way the case is set up, it's set up in a spiral fashion.  You start at the top left and work your way 
around right in a spiral pattern all the way to the bottom so whenever you pull your mail down you would 
start at the lower right and pull it down backwards so whenever you delivered your mail it was in order. 
And after the mail is pulled down, we would have carts, roughly the size of this table here. Sometimes 
we'd have 2, sometimes we'd have 3 and we'd wheel it out the back, back of the door and out the dock, 
down a big old ramp, through a pothole covered parking lot with you know, cracks and holes everywhere 
to your vehicle that you've got pulled up there. Some people use private vehicles, their own personal 
vehicle to deliver the mail, some routes are assigned a postal vehicle, it just depends on how the Postal 
Service decided to assign the route whenever they assigned the route. You load your vehicle up and 
everybody has their own specific manner. You try to be, you have to be, I shouldn't say you try to be--you 
have to be as organized as possible or you'll spend hours looking for a package or you'll miss it and it's 
happened, you know, that the new people struggle. You have to stay organized. And you load your 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with James Ebersbach– 5/7/22 
5 
 
vehicle a specific way and you, if you're in a postal vehicle, you load up and check your equipment. If it's 
cold, you're gonna freeze, if it's warm you're gonna roast. There's no air conditioning, most of the time 
there's no heat, and you take off for the day! 
 
08:07  
 
EH: And were you in a personal vehicle or an LLV? 
 
JE: I've done it both ways. I guess I should have mentioned when I carried the Pleasantville route, I was 
in my personal vehicle and I had a little Jeep Wrangler X that would be busting at the seams most of the 
times with mail. And I would drive that. Later on, there became an aux route which, what an aux route is, 
it's a route that is less than full-time. It can be, it can vary in hours. It's a 6 day a week assignment. Mine 
happened to be a 3 hour assignment for each day for 6 days a week, and that route was assigned an LLV.  
 
EH: Did you sit in the middle in your Jeep or was it right hand drive? 
 
JE: I, whenever I started this job, the first, whenever I went through my training, I had a Ford F250, super 
duty diesel that had a bench seat in it and I drove in the middle of that thing for my training for 2 days, 
delivering the mail route, and my right side was all black and blue and beat up and it was horrible. So I 
decided this wasn't gonna happen. I got online and found on eBay, found a right hand drive Jeep out of 
Waverly, Ohio and that was actually a previous mail carrier down there was selling it and I bought it and 
it was a godsend. So... 
 
EH: (laughs) Nice. What maybe--how did it compare to working in law enforcement? Or were there skills 
from law enforcement that translated to being a good rural mail carrier? 
 
10:00  
 
JE: I would say that the most important thing in being a mail carrier is having a good memory and being 
organized. And in law enforcement those are also good traits. Other than that there's not really a whole lot 
of transfer there. Later on while working at the Postal Service, I became involved in the NRLCA, rural 
union, and I was elected as the office union steward. So in doing that there were some similarities in 
investigations and looking into personnel issues, so and so forth. But delivering mail is being able to read, 
being able to be quick, being efficient, be organized.  
 
EH: And so did the union experience transfer over to your current job? 
 
JE: Actually it did. I'm currently working for the state doing investigations for the state of Ohio in matters 
of discrimination, accommodations, disabilities for employment and that was pretty much, whenever I 
worked for the union, that was some of the issues that we handled in the Postal Service. 
 
EH: Tell me a little bit more about the union. Was that something you were interested in from the start or 
attracted to the job because it was a union job? Yeah, tell me about your interest in getting involved there. 
 
JE: Whenever I first started the postmaster that was there, he was, his name was David Barrel (sp?). 
David was looking forward to retirement. David was a good boss. He was very personable. He would help 
you, he helped me a lot, taught me a lot. And even you know, got to know him a little bit outside of work 
and I thought highly of David. David whenever he was going through retirement, approaching his 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with James Ebersbach– 5/7/22 
6 
 
retirement date, we had a lot of conversations. I sat with him whenever they would have the telecom 
meetings with the management, the high-up management--the POOMS--and so on and so forth. 
 
EH: What's the POOMS? 
 
JE: POOM is an acronym, some call them MPOO. It is the Postal [Office] Operations Manager. It is the 
person that manages all the postmasters in a specific region of the United States.  
 
EH: Got it.  
 
JE: I would listen to some of these conversations and hear the things that they would quote un-quote gripe 
to the postmasters about for them to correct in their office. The Postal Service is very much about 
statistics and entering data even redundant times. The data half the time is wrong. They don't train very 
well. They expect you to do the sheet and they just send out a new sheet, here it is, do it, and they've 
never told you what it is. So and I mean the data could be right, it could be wrong, it just depends. They 
would have, we would call them gripe sessions and the gripe sessions would be on a specific topic that 
would last a week, maybe 2 depending what it is. Anywhere from anything about carriers leaving the 
building by a specific time to carriers backing up too much to carriers being stationary for too long. The 
list is infinite. And I'm hearing what my boss is being told and he relayed to me, hey I'm, it's you know, it 
rolls downhill and I'm just passing along the message, I'm not the bad guy here. And I saw it firsthand and 
I told him, I said, "Well, I mean you want to, they want to, they want to make an issue out of carriers 
backing up too much, well there's times where you don't have a choice." And he goes, "Well most of the 
people that are up there making these rules and looking at this data, they've never carried mail before in 
their life." And I said, you know, he goes, and then he said this and it stuck with me. He said, "Your just 
lucky I'm as nice as what I am because there's other postmasters out there that would make this your 
problem." And I said, "Well, good thing we've got a union." And he made a comment about it, he said, 
"Yeah, maybe you should look at getting involved in that." So I thought it was a good idea and made 
some phone calls and lo and behold I was given the instructions of how to do it and we had to have an 
election in our office and I won! 
 
EH: Nice! Seems pretty rare for a postmaster to encourage you to join the union. 
 
JE: Well, David is one of a kind. He was truly in it for I mean, you know, postmasters make good money 
but he wasn't necessarily in it entirely for the money. He was a good person. He cared about doing the job 
right and he cared about the people that worked for him and he did his best to keep the balance between 
keeping his employees happy and providing them with what they needed versus keeping his management 
you know, off of him and keeping his office off the radar. 
 
15:33  
 
EH: So most of the people I've talked to, they subbed for a little while and then became full-time. So I'm 
curious if you could talk about the experience of being a part-time employee, part-time carrier and what's 
specific about that, what's difficult about that? 
 
JE: Being a, I guess, I mean that's a pretty large question. Being a regular carrier means that you get, 
depending on the Postal Service during a union contract arbitration, they created what they call a Table 1 
and a Table 2 employee. All the old-timers as we call them were all Table 1 and those guys made pretty 
good money. I mean you can, even know a days with the way things are, you could raise a family 
comfortably on it. The new employees that go regular, I don't remember the date. After a certain date, are 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with James Ebersbach– 5/7/22 
7 
 
Table 2 employees and the money is not as good. With that being said, being a sub you obviously make 
less an hour, but a lot of the work you do is not necessarily hourly. Whenever you work a route, the route 
is evaluated at a certain amount of time. Excuse me. Like I mentioned before, my route, my aux route was 
a 3-hour route. The route that I carried that was the Pleasantville route started at an 8.2 and at some point, 
made it to an 8.8 hour route a day. The regulars--there's no obligation for them to carry any other route. 
They don't have to learn multiple routes. They carry their route only. Imagine the advantages of doing the 
same thing every day for 20 years, I mean you get good at it. And you know people and you're not gonna 
make as many mistakes. As a sub, you don't necessarily know what you're gonna do. You might, you 
might be on 10 different routes over a week period depending on you know, you might have a route split 
with another sub, you might be in another office, you might be a place you've never worked before. You 
might not even be carrying mail. You could be running packages for somebody that has too many 
packages for an Amazon delivery that couldn't fit them all in their truck. They're allowed to send you 
anywhere within a 50-mile radius of your home office, so for our area here, that includes Columbus. And 
I mean there's people that have refused to drive in Columbus for the traffic and they don't know their way 
around and I mean they get sent up there and it's a completely different--it's not the country atmosphere, 
it's big city. And some people don't like that. And if they're forced to do that some people won't do it. And 
there's no limitation on, at least in my area, how many days you can work. They can work you 7 days in a 
row for 6 months straight. You're not seeing your family, you're not going to your kid's soccer game. 
You're missing a birthday party. You're you know, you're missing church in the morning on Sunday 
because you're delivering an Amazon Day on Sunday because nobody else does it, it's what the subs do. 
They can work you up to 12 hours, so if you come in at 7 in the morning, that doesn't count your drive 
time into work depending on if you're 50 miles away, and then you're driving 50 miles home after 
working 'til 7 at night, that's your day! And there's some subs that are working 70, 80, 90 hours a pay 
period. Some love it. Some love the money. Some miss their family and don't want to do it. The Postal 
Service cares about getting the mail out. They will tell you what they gotta tell you to get you to take the 
job. I've got a friend currently that just started here within the last 2 weeks at the office, Circleville, it's 
just the next bigger town south of here, and she told me that, "Oh this is what they told me in the 
interview and this is what they told me they'll be doing." I had to sit back and chuckle because I 
remember that and that's you know, "Oh you're only gonna be working Saturdays, and those doctor's 
appointments you've got scheduled, that isn't gonna be a problem," and it turns out that it is. I guess it 
depends on if you're a single guy or single gal that is looking to make some money because you're 18 and 
fresh out of high school and don't want to go to college, don't know what you want to do, this job could be 
for you! If you're 40 years old and you need the retirement and you've got a family and you've got kids in 
soccer, it might be different. It's just, it depends. 
 
EH: Yeah. Yeah. Well, I think one of the things that a lot of people talk about who are full-time, they do 
express concern for the RCAs and the part-time, I think because they see, especially long-time carriers 
who have done it for 30 years just see these people can't make a living doing this anymore. Did you feel 
like you were able to develop relationships with customers on your job as a part-time? 
 
21:08  
 
JE: I think I was fortunate. I did work the Pleasantville route for several years, I want to say it was 5 
maybe 6 years of my, while I was at the post office. Ironically enough whenever I got that position, 
Pleasantville is actually not too far away from where I grew up so it was the next school district over and 
I knew a lot of people and a lot of families from my time in school and living in the area. So I knew a lot 
of people, I could stop and call people by their name and they would remember me from sports and 
school and so on and so forth. That was pretty nice. There was other mail carriers that lived on my route 
that understood what was going on. "Hey, it's summertime, you want to stop in and grab a bottle of water, 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with James Ebersbach– 5/7/22 
8 
 
you know, feel free and yeah, if you need to go to the bathroom, don't be looking for a tree to go behind, 
you can stop in here." Whenever I went to Bremen, I wasn't as familiar with the people as being a little 
further away. But when I worked that route I worked it 6 days a week, so you got to know people, you got 
to meet people and I remember in particular there was this one couple--he was a firefighter and she was a 
stay at home mom, had 3 kids and she was trying to start a business and she started doing like screen 
printing on shirts and stuff like that and she did a lot of it online and mail order and stuff like that and as 
her business started picking up I started seeing her every day, package pickups and it started you know, 2, 
3, 10, 20, and you know 1 day a week to 3 days a week to 6 days a week. So yeah, you get to meet a lot of 
people, not all the customers are as eager to see you as others. Some, on the flip side, there's one lady on 
the mail route that she, she felt that the Postal Service was out to get here and there was always an issue 
with her mail if it was, she would call in and complain, "Hey, my mail is wet today." And, well it's 
raining, you know. "Hey, my mailbox lid didn't stay shut." Well, I mean you've been told to service your 
mailbox for 6 months, but we're still delivering you mail for you. "Hey, my package isn't on my front 
porch." Well, you've got a dog that likes to bite people and you've been told to put him up and you won't 
do it, so. There's all kinds and you get to meet, you get to meet a lot of different people out there. 
 
EH: And you probably learn a lot about them too carrying their mail. 
 
JE: That was, whenever we were, whenever I was in law enforcement it was one of the things they told 
us, if you're in a neighborhood investigating a case, you can talk to the mailman and the mailman knows 
everything. And coming over to this side, they were right. You would be surprised what your mailman 
knows about you. And I mean, they don't, not even opening your mail, but they see, not even 
intentionally, certified letters, certified letters come in all the time and they require special handling and 
whenever you have to fill out the paperwork, you have to write who it was from and even just in daily, 
they know if somebody graduated high school, in your house, because they're delivering a diploma, or 
graduated college, or you know, somebody retired. Just from the mail, you know a lot about people. 
 
24:46  
 
EH: What about gifts? Did customers leave you gifts in the mailbox? 
 
JE: Yes. That was, depending on where you were at that was a controversial thing. According to the 
postal ethics you're not supposed to collect any money, no money whatsoever. If somebody left you a gift, 
like a gift card or something like that, the value was 20-25 dollars, that happened on occasion, especially 
if it was somebody that you knew that you'd had, built a relationship with over the years or whatever. 
During Christmastime people would leave gift cards or cookies or something of that nature. It was a fairly 
common thing. 
 
EH: What about some unusual days on the job? The sort of stories like the tall tales, not that it's not true, 
but the kind of fantastic, weird days, weird occurrences? 
 
 
JE: The weirdest day, I guess I had a couple but they all revolved around the same house. And I think I 
mentioned to you before, we had a house that was out on my mail route, it was on a secluded gravel road, 
Avalon Road. And that road is not paved, it never gets plowed, if it snows, you're probably not making it. 
If it rains, the road's gonna wash out. It's pretty secluded. There sat a nice ranch style house on a wooded 
lot with a big barn and it was a pretty nice looking house. You get up there and you find out, they've got 
animals! They've got cows and your typical stuff like that, and next thing you know, there's a kangaroo, 
bouncing by you and am I seeing things, or what happened? They had kangaroos and lemurs and all kind 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with James Ebersbach– 5/7/22 
9 
 
of different animals out there and one day, their kangaroo got loose and it made the news all over the area 
here. Everybody was looking for a loose kangaroo. And by the time the news story had gotten to me, I'm 
like, oh that's on my mail route, I know exactly where that kangaroo is! People were videotaping it hoping 
down the road and I mean it was all over the place. And I was, I made it a mission one day, I was like I'm 
gonna find that kangaroo. Gave it 3 days and I never did. Somebody did find it and it did make its way 
back home, but they would always have some kind of animal that would get out. I saw lemurs running 
across the street. You'd think it was a cat and you'd do a double take and I've got a couple pictures on my 
phone that I can show you if you want. I saw some animals that look like a cross between a rabbit and 
a...a rabbit, a small dog and I'm not even sure what it was. I had never seen it before. 
 
EH: Like a jackalope or something like that? 
 
JE: I mean it didn't have the antlers, but it was something similar to that and it was fairly big and I had to 
stop and snap a picture of it and next thing you know there's 2 or 3 of 'em and they're hopping around and 
I got a little closer and snapped some pictures of it, even to the point where I stopped in the middle of the 
road to get out and try to walk up to this thing, and it hopped off. I'd never seen such an animal before. 
And I sent it around, "Does anybody know what this is?" And lo and behold somebody somewhere along 
the way said it was an animal from either, it was either South America or Australia, I don't remember and 
they give me the name, they called it a… if I can remember, it was a Patagonia Mara. And I was like, I've 
never heard of such a thing. I googled this thing and sure enough, that's what it was. And you know, what 
it was doing out there, I have no idea, but it was, it got to be, a joke around the office of what are you 
gonna see today? 
 
EH: Wow. So this was--there was also a case of a guy in this area who had an exotic animal zoo--this was 
not...it was that? 
 
JE: It was that, yeah. 
 
EH: Okay. 
 
JE: I believe. I'm not sure exactly what one you're referring to, but this guy had an exotic animal. 
 
EH: Okay, it might be. My friend was doing a podcast about this person. It might be the same one, I'm not 
sure. But I think at one point he set them all free? Anyway. I'll have to look into this. (laughs)  [These are 
two separate cases. Hilliard is referring to an exotic animal zoo in Zanesville, Ohio in 2011; Ebersbach is 
referring to a kangaroo escape from Paws and Claws Animal Encounters in Bremen, Ohio in 2021.] 
 
 
JE: It's, we could be talking about the same thing, but I don't know that he set them all free, but I don't 
think their cages were very well maintained and whatnot so I don't know if it was intentional or not, but 
they... 
 
 
EH: Doesn't sound like they were well-maintained! Let's see, what else, any other animal encounters like 
wild or domesticated or livestock? 
 
 
29:42  
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with James Ebersbach– 5/7/22 
10 
 
 
 
JE: I mean, you know the old saying, dogs and the Postal Service. That's a fairly common occurrence. 
There were some dogs that you built relationships that were friendly and would come over and jump in 
the car and want to go for a ride. There are some that didn't want you around. When I worked the 
Pleasantville route, there was a big chocolate lab that was up there that sounded mean and vicious and I 
guess according to the owner he didn't like a whole lot of people and these people happened to order 
packages quite a bit so I spent a lot of time delivering to the house there. They were gone a lot but this 
dog had a door somewhere he could get out of the house and get outside and though we weren't supposed 
to do it, when I first started I carried dog treats with me to try to make nice and from that day, he kept 
running out there mean, I started chucking dog treats and after that before I figured out he had a door he 
could get out, you know, whenever I pulled up he remembered that first day and from then on he was, he 
would jump in the car and want to go for a ride and ironically his name was James also. 
 
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
 
JE: There was, being where I was at down in Bremen, you see a lot of weird things. There was guineas. 
There was a lot of guineas you'd just see walking the road wild. I never did encounter anything, I never 
seen any bear or anything crazy like that, but kangaroo pretty much tops the list on that! 
 
 
EH: Are there any occasions when you helped a customer along when you were delivering or a customer 
helped you? 
 
 
JE: Yeah. So those LLVs that we were talking about, not having any heat, and not having any air 
conditioning and they also don't do well in the snow. They're built out of aluminum and the tires on those 
things are not meant to be driven on back rural roads. And especially unpaved and in the snow and 
whatnot. I've gotten that thing stuck on a flat, wet road 'cause it just wouldn't go nowhere. When the snow 
snows out here, I mean you know, if we're getting more than a couple inches, these roads don't get treated. 
Even the main state routes out here, whenever they treat those, the boxes sit far enough off of the state 
route that they throw the snow right into them and the road might be clear but you've got 4 foot of snow 
by the box you can't get to. Excuse me. Needless to say, I've gotten that LLV stuck more than once. And 
being out here especially if the weather is in that condition, getting a tow truck, I mean you're waiting, 
even if you wait an hour, you're not getting your mail done that day. Especially not on time. Definitely 
not within your 12 hour limits. It's a problem. And more than once I've had people that see you stuck and 
will volunteer to come out, try to push you out, grab a truck, and pull you out and I mean gotta keep the 
mail moving somehow! 
 
 
33:08  
 
 
 
EH: What are things that you would make sure to bring along with you whether that's jumper cables, I 
don't know if you ever put chains or anything on your tires, clothes you would wear, snacks, stuff like 
that? 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with James Ebersbach– 5/7/22 
11 
 
 
 
JE: So when it comes for equipment, we were not allowed to put any equipment on an LLV. It's the Postal 
Service's. If we wanted chains, we could request them. 95% of the time they would say no--cost money. 
Jumper cables you're not allowed to do anything like that because you cause damage to it, you're in 
trouble, so when it comes to equipment for postal vehicles, that's on them. And as I said, 95% of the time, 
you're not getting it. The rule of thumb that the union told us was it's management's job to maintain 
vehicles and if you can't drive down a road safely, you don't go. So there was several days where 
especially last year whenever we had a couple bad snowstorms that the mail just isn't gonna run and 
people would be upset, "Oh I can drive down my road," well, you've got a 4-wheel drive Jeep, and you 
know, I'm getting stuck on a flat, wet road, so. As for your dress, you need to, there is no heat in the 
majority of these vehicles so if you're not dressing warm, you're cold. And not only are you cold, you're 
driving around with the window down, so you're really cold. There's days out there it was you know, 
negative 30 windchill and you're driving around with no heat. There's a, on the Postal Service the 
management can go into a website called E-buys where they can request equipment and buy it and they 
had window coverings to where the big window on the LLVs you know, 2-foot by 2-foot and it's a big old 
gaping hole, 30 degree sub-zero windchills and they could put a covering over this window where it's got 
a little slot in the bottom of it where you slide your hand out to try to keep what heat you've got in there 
and we requested those a couple of times and were told no, that wasn't essential. So if you want to stay 
warm, that's up to you. You better dress for the weather. I've even seen people bring electric blankets to 
plug in to keep themselves warm in the vehicle. In the summertime, water, you've got to make sure you've 
got something to drink or I mean you're sitting in an aluminum box that's essentially an oven and if it's 
100 degrees outside, you know its 130 in the LLV. There was a picture going around, I don't know if it 
was true or not, but I could see it being that a carrier somewhere in Arizona cooked a steak on his dash on 
a piece of aluminum foil, driving around one day just to show the heat that he was dealing with. 
 
 
36:18  
 
 
 
EH: What are the things like that that rural mail carriers share with each other or when you get together, 
what are the stories you tell to each other? Is there any kind of particular language or jokes, slang terms 
that the general public wouldn't know? 
 
 
JE: The Postal Service uses a lot of, I'll use the word jargon and a lot of it is numerical. They have a 
number for everything: Postal Form 1234 or "Did you fill out your 3849?" or "Your 1056, did you get 
that right today?" The general public wouldn't know what that is, but a lot of it is form numbers and stuff 
like that. There's not really, you have your, I mentioned earlier there's DPS or FFS or even if you say the 
word flats--does it come up, does the public know what a flat is? I don't know. I don't know, I guess it's 
not, in my days of law enforcement, I could literally have a conversation with another officer and nobody 
would know, standing next to you, what you were talking about. I don't know that the Postal Service is 
quite to that level, but there is definitely some jargon that goes around that people discuss. 
 
 
EH: Did you feel like you developed relationships with your coworkers? Sounds like you did with your 
former postmaster.  
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with James Ebersbach– 5/7/22 
12 
 
 
 
JE: Yeah. The coworkers that I worked with I mean you're seeing these people every day, 6 days a week, 
you're spending, though whenever you get on the route you might not be with them. I mean, you still 
might run into them out there crossing paths or phone calls are made asking questions about this that and 
whatever. Inside the building is where you spend, in the morning everybody's sorting mail and 
everybody's within talking distance of each other. My former postmaster, like I said he was pretty good. 
The new guy that replaced him, I told you that he said you know, I'm not a typical postmaster, I'm a nice 
guy and he doesn't know how right he was.  
 
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
 
JE: The new guy that come in, it was, to say it was a nightmare would be putting it mildly and I'm 
extremely glad that I went through the union training that I did because it became essential for the job 
down the road. You want to talk about building relationships I guess with other coworkers, believe it or 
not, it's where I met my wife. 
 
 
EH: (laughs) Nice! 
 
 
JE: Yep!  
 
 
EH: Is she a rural carrier as well? 
 
 
JE: She was not. She was a clerk. She worked in a small southern Ohio town called Union Furnace. It was 
an office that didn't have any carriers and it was all PO Boxes. She was a clerk and for extra hours she 
would come to our office and would clean a couple days a week and that's how I met her and started 
talking to her. Eventually she ended up transferring to our office as a clerk and after we got married, she 
had to transfer out. There was times that she would be in charge and they wouldn't allow her to be in 
charge of me since we were married and nepotism and whatnot, which they, sidenote, that's another story. 
But she transferred out to actually my hometown, Baltimore [Ohio], She's a clerk in my hometown 
currently. 
 
 
EH: That's cool. Yeah, I've interviewed a few people who have met their spouse through the mail. Or one 
was a woman delivered to her now husband and they met because he was complaining! (laughs) 
 
 
JE: I could see that! I could totally see that.  
 
EH: Why don't you describe the landscape along your route, or the route you would generally deliver to, 
especially for people who have never been to southern Ohio. 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with James Ebersbach– 5/7/22 
13 
 
JE: Southern Ohio's unique. I remember learning back in 7th grade, we had an awesome teacher that 
taught Ohio history and it'd go all the way back to when the glaciers came through and central-northern 
Ohio is pretty flat, like you can see for miles. Southern Ohio is not that way. 
 
EH: Yeah! (laughs) 
 
JE: And according to him, the reason for this was when the glaciers came, they came to about this area 
here and pushed all the dirt with them and then they melted away. That's why northern Ohio is flat and 
southern Ohio is hilly. It's not quite as bad as West Virginia but there are some rolling hills here. Actually 
here in Lancaster we've got Mt. Pleasant over here, I don't know if you saw it. There's one big hump that 
sticks up in the middle of a flat town here.  
 
EH: Wow. 
 
JE: So whenever I delivered my Pleasantville route it fell on the northern part of the area which was 
generally flat and you could see for miles farmland as far as the eye could see. Some days it was great, 
you know, whenever they're spreading the manure it's not so good. The Bremen route is completely 
different. It's definitely hilly and rocky and definitely roads less traveled whenever it comes time to, it 
comes to travel down through there. There's natural springs everywhere. There would be, at one spot on 
my route, my Bremen route that people would stop by, you'd see people every day stopping and filling up 
milk jugs or water jugs or whatever, collecting water out of a natural spring. There's some driveways 
there that if it rains, you're not getting up it because they're washed out and the landscapes beautiful. It's 
wooded, but in my working with other agencies, the UPS, United Parcel Service, there was a carrier that 
carried for them, carried in my area and he made a comment about wanting the Baltimore route because 
it's easier for them to deliver mail for pulling in driveways and whatnot, to get those trucks in there and 
Bremen nobody wants to do it because you're packing packages for quite some distance 'cause you can't 
get in the driveways. In particular there's one, I should say there's more than one, but there's one incident I 
remember on one specific address that so the Postal Service has rules about turning left. You're not to turn 
left if you can, if it can be avoided because left hand turns cause accidents. And there was a driveway on 
the left-hand side of my road that went up, it looked like a mountainside and kinda as the road as I'm 
traveling would be south on this road, the driveway would be on the east side and kinda angled back to 
the north behind me, so I kinda had to turn left and come up and go backwards. And these people, there 
was 2 houses set back there that were brothers and they both ordered tremendous amounts of packages 
that wouldn't fit in the mailbox and a lot of 'em were, one guy was from the VA and a lot of them were 
medicine and I tried to make sure, make an effort to get his packages to him, it's medicine. And he's 
counting on this stuff. And I would try to get up that driveway the best I could and one day his driveway 
wasn't well maintained, it was washed out and I got stuck and it just so happened the way the contour of 
the road was, as you would pass his driveway, there was a curve off to the left so if somebody's coming 
the opposite direction, they're coming around the curve and they don't see you until they're right there and 
the tail end of my LLV was hanging out where I got stuck on like a high center on his driveway trying to 
get back up there and how I was missed, I don't know. It was within inches of hitting me and it was, it's 
you know, it's a backroad where people just, there isn't a lot of` traffic, people fly down those roads and 
how he missed me I have no idea, but delivering his mail became an issue. 
 
EH: Yeah, yeah. Did you ever have any other safety concerns? 
 
45:09  
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with James Ebersbach– 5/7/22 
14 
 
JE: Safety concerns? I can tell you that there was...I guess I need to clarify. What do you mean by safety 
concerns? Was there any other like close calls I had for accidents? 
 
EH: Accidents, or you know, sometimes people are threatened by customers, any kind of that sort of 
thing. 
 
JE: Can I take those two separate? 
 
EH: Yes, yes. 
 
JE: Okay. So while I was delivering the Pleasantville route in my Jeep, I was telling you about, this is 
kinda what brought my delivering the Pleasantville route to an end. The Bremen route was open at this 
time but I was doing the Bremen route through the week but then on Saturday whenever the regular sub 
was off on the Pleasantville route, I would deliver the Pleasantville route and the Bremen route together. 
And I had left one morning, loaded up all my stuff and left, was headed up State Route 664, heading 
towards Pleasantville and I was coming out of the area that we were talking about, windy, hilly, and curvy 
to the flat area, excuse me, I was going around a couple sets of S-curves that were coming, I was actually 
going up the hill, the car that was coming at me was coming down the hills, around curves and I don't 
know if he had fallen asleep or was on his phone, regardless, he drifted left of center and there was a car, I 
don't know, maybe 50 yards ahead of me. He missed that car--that car got over off the side of the road and 
he missed that car and he continued left of center and was coming at me head-on and I swerved to avoid a 
head-on collision, rolled off the side of I'm not gonna call it a cliff, I'll say it was a very deep ditch, and I 
went off the side of the ditch and it was steep enough that there was a telephone that was sitting upright 
and another pole leading up against it like this to hold it upright. This pole that was down, it was wedged 
in the ground. I hit the edge of that pole with my right front tire and it sent my Jeep into a roll and I went 
end over end and it threw mail all over the highway, into the ditch, I mean there was mail scattered for a 
hundred yards everywhere. And the lady in front of me stopped and just so happened there was a lady 
behind me that saw it that avoided the crash and she stopped, she happened to be a nurse and they called 
911 and ironically that whole scenario was the first day my old postmaster David had retired that Friday. 
This was a Saturday morning and my, well, wasn't my wife at the time, but my soon-to-be wife, that was 
her first day in charge of the office and I had a rollover accident that scattered mail for yards. Hundreds of 
yards everywhere. And needless to say, it totaled my vehicle and I had to go to the hospital. Ended up no 
broken bones, I was fine, was stoved up pretty good, but as part of that story I learned that another thing 
the Postal Service, whenever you go through the academy, they tell you that the Postal Service insures 
your vehicle for you if you use your private vehicle during the Postal day if you hit a mailbox, you're 
covered, this, that, whatever. Well come to find out, that's partially true. If I hit your mailbox, the Postal 
Service will cover it, but they don't cover any damage to my vehicle. And with that being said and not 
knowing it, my insurance company told me that I did not carry a commercial policy and that was 
considered commercial use, so my $12,000 thank goodness, paid-for Jeep at the time, they weren't gonna 
cover the damages and the Postal Service wouldn't cover the damages, so I was out $12,000 out of my 
pocket for my damaged vehicle for a crash that wasn't my fault. And the guy left the scene. I forgot to 
mention that. He left the scene, they couldn't find him, nobody got a plate. So... 
 
EH: That's awful. 
 
JE: So I was out. So you wanna talk about accidents and stuff like that, that's my accident story there. 
Obviously at that point I no longer had a vehicle, private vehicle, and I'm out $12,000 with no way to 
recover it. The Postal Service was no help. I filed a grievance, I talked to this person, I talked to that 
person, I talked to the president of the union, I talked to the POOM, the postmasters, and they wouldn't do 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with James Ebersbach– 5/7/22 
15 
 
anything. I guess that it was, I mean, without pretty much saying it, they pretty much said, you should 
have known better and that's your fault. So at that point, being an RCA, you were required to provide 
your own vehicle. And at this point I'm out! And I don't know about you, but I couldn't afford to run right 
out and buy another one, so I told them, I said, look, I'll continue to deliver the mail but I'm gonna need 
an LLV and at the time it wasn't a problem because since I was carrying the Bremen route that was 
assigned one, and the Pleasantville route, it was, I would just use that one, it wasn't a big deal, but later on 
it became an issue because they you know, if I'm carrying the Pleasantville route with an LLV and you 
know, somebody else you know, another route, Route 1's LLV breaks down, we got a problem here. And 
it becomes a money issue because the Postal Service, they assign you a vehicle, they're responsible to get 
you a vehicle. It's not your responsibility to provide one. So if we got Route 1 sitting without, with a 
blown transmission, then we don't have another LLV and the only way we can get one is to call 
Columbus and you know, they take 4 hours to get here. We already talked about how heavy the mail is. 
It's a problem! And so, long story short I ended up, I thought it was best, not only for me but for the post 
office to quit carrying the Pleasantville route and just carry the Bremen route. And that's what I did! 
 
EH: Yeah, yeah. Oh yeah, the safety with a customer. 
 
51:57  
 
JE: So safety with customers, never did I have the occasion where I felt you know, threatened or 
uncomfortable or anything like that with any particular customers. Like I said, there was your people that 
were, we'll call 'em complainers that you know, had any issues, but I never once had anybody walk out 
and threaten me, bring a gun, nothing like that ever happened I mean the worst thing that ever happened is 
you know, somebody might turn their dog out, but with customers it was never really an issue. However, 
I will tell you that, and it was not an experience directed at me but it was an experience that I was 
involved in, safety within the post office itself at times can be an issue. I had, so after David had left and 
my soon to be wife then, OIC'ed (Officer In Charge) for a few weeks, maybe a month or two, they 
brought another OIC down from Columbus. And that was the beginning of the end for me. He was, like I 
said putting it mildly, it was a nightmare. And a specific event that occurred, it burns in me deep, even 
still now. I had left the office to start carrying my route and there was a situation that occurred inside the 
office. The postmaster wanted to speak to another rural carrier in the office, he wanted to call her in the 
office. It was the one I told you that had been there for 20 years and still wasn't full-time yet. So she's 
been around. This postmaster was at the time, was about 24, 25 years old, so she's been carrying mail 
about as long as he's been alive. And he's you know, calling her in the office to read her the riot act and 
this is also a carrier that is prideful in her job, she goes above and beyond to make sure things are right. 
Never, and I mean never, has a complaint. In public service, you never have a person that never has a 
complaint. 
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
JE: This lady, she's a phenomenal carrier. I'm gonna go ahead and say she's the best carrier in the office. 
And he calls her into the office to talk and he's being hostile and aggressive and of course this happens 
right at me being the union rep, this is my domain. And I don't know if he did it on purpose, I can't prove 
that but ironically, I went out of the office for 5 minutes and this occurs. He tried to pull her in the office 
and shut the door. She told him no that she didn't feel comfortable and at that point all hell broke loose. 
He flung, he kicked the door, threw mail equipment, kicked stuff across the floor, the back door is a metal 
door inside of a metal frame inside of a brick wall that he kicked open, broke the door, the door flew open 
and hit the brick wall making a hole in the brick wall and breaking the metal handle of the door.  
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with James Ebersbach– 5/7/22 
16 
 
EH: Wow. 
 
JE: To the dock. Took her out back and began screaming at her in her face on the dock to the point to 
where when I did my investigation I went and talked to the neighbor across the alley that witnessed the 
whole thing. Whenever I talked to her, she said spit was coming out of his mouth, hitting her in the face, 
he was so close to her and screaming so violently, flailing his arms. One of the other clerks came outside 
to tell him to calm down and he wouldn't. All the carriers in the building heard it. Finally a male carrier 
had to step in and tell him to knock it off. Unbeknownst to me at the time, she previously in her life had 
been involved in an abusive relationship and during my investigation of the case, she told me that all 
those memories just come flying right back and she was terrified. Absolutely terrified. She was like when 
I talked to her, this was 2 hours later, I could still barely understand, and mind you to say like, this lady's 
not dramatic. She's a farmer. She's tough, you know. She gets right in there with the guys and shows them 
what's up. She can carry the mail with the best of them. She's not a fragile flower and she's whimpering 
like a little kid. And I was taken back by seeing her in that condition. And long story short, I got a written 
statement of her as to the details of what had happened--it was pages long. Talked to the neighbor, talked 
to every carrier in the building that was present for it to happen. Got statements from everybody. And 
turned this in. And reported it to the postmaster's boss. A grievance was filed. Went to the president of, 
they call him the district representative for the state of Ohio, Kathy Funderbert. At step 2 for the union 
where they meet with the district person from the Postal Service in HR and mind you, at this point we had 
already had 3 prior investigations in the office from where people had come down from even from the 
national level to interview people. That's how big of a problem it had become. And as this case went 
forward, the postmaster was never pulled out of the office. The Postal Service has a 0 tolerance policy for 
violence and what happens if and I've seen it happen to carriers before, if there's a threat, Jim Bob talks to 
Joe Blow over here and threatens him, "I'm gonna kick your ass." Immediately at that point, that carrier's 
pulled from service, they call it EP, Emergency Placement. And he is pulled out and he is taken out of the 
scene immediately removed from the situation. That did not happen. Our postmaster was there for 6 
months with this carrier every day.  
 
EH: Wow. 
 
JE: She was forced to work with him, you know with him right there every day. When this case was 
resolved, and I've got a copy of it for you if you want to look at it, the case was resolved with the union 
and the Postal Service copied the 0 tolerance violence policy into their settlement and said this is our 
policy, if it happens again, this is what we will enforce. And that was the end of it. 
 
EH: Wow. Sounds awful. 
 
JE: It was absolutely atrocious. 
 
EH: And is that postmaster still there? 
 
59:27  
 
JE: Yes.  
 
EH: Wow. 
 
JE: He (sighs) he has other issues that, I mean I don't know how much digging you've done on the Postal 
Service, but falsifying of time is a fairly common event and I don't mean that rural carriers come in and 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with James Ebersbach– 5/7/22 
17 
 
falsify their time, I mean that management enters their time in incorrectly to avoid paying overtime and 
avoid. They have things called 2080 issues and 2240 issues. If a rural carrier goes over 2080 actual hours 
worked in a year, all of the time that they work is paid in overtime. And I told you earlier that the Post 
Office is all about statistics so just because your route's evaluated at 8.8 hours, you know, on June 5th of, 
it's sunny out, the roads are in good shape, the mail volume's down, you could be done by noon. You 
could be done by 1:00. But you know, in December 24, that's a completely different story. You could be 
out there for 12 hours only getting paid for 8, so it washes out in the end, but you know, it's, I don't know. 
It's, I forgot where I was going with that, but... 
 
EH: (laughs) Right. So that was sort of the beginning of the end for you? 
 
JE: Yes. Like I said, oh the falsifying of the time sheets. You know, he whenever a sub, an RCA, or even 
a PTF would work, I would work my route, let's say I get called early before I come in to work, "Hey 
we've got mail up at Hebron, can you go pick it up?" Sure, I'll go pick it up and bring it down so we can 
run it that day. Those hours would not be entered. My mileage would disappear. And it was a common 
thing. He was very anti-union. Even when I told you, "Hey, I've got this lady interested coming in." He 
was absolutely having no part of that whatsoever. I mean to the point to where it was, I mean even he was 
derogatory about it. "I don't trust the union. They've never done anything good to me. We want no part of 
this." Even whenever he knew what the project [this Archie Green project] was about, you know, he was 
completely against it. Me being the union rep, I've got my nose in everything that goes on in the office 
and it wasn't 2 much, there was about 3 or 4 different things in a row that lead up to this. Kay---you said 
you'll talk to her tomorrow--you can ask her about this. She had a, her route, so whenever we were talking 
about DPS earlier, so much of your route has to be in sequenced order. Whenever they did your last mail 
count, say 95% of your mail was correct. At that point, that is the standard. If the standards 96, you're 
getting bonus. If the standard is 90, you're below what it needs to be. Kay's was low and she had 
complained and complained and complained and complained and this postmaster didn't do anything about 
it. I think maybe 4 grievances later after those had been taken, we even pulled out the rules and told them 
what the rules were and they didn't care. They completely blew us off. We had to take our steps that we 
needed to take to get it done. Grievances were filed, told you have to do this, and they ignored it. Long 
story short, her route was found to be substandard and she was below what her DPS volume was so at that 
point the remedy for the case was that route is no longer credited with DPS mail. It is counted all as raw 
mail and whenever you drop the DPS standard of mail to raw mail, you're adding hours, and I mean 
substantial hours to your evaluation. Not only did this affect her from just this immediate time, it went 
clear back to 2018 when her mail was counted. So she got paid I don't want to say how much money, but 
I'm gonna go ahead and say it was a substantial amount of money that she was paid to compensate her for 
all of this mail when all that had to be done was the postmaster had to do a count himself, verify that it 
was substandard, and correct the issue. He didn't do it and not only did he didn't do it, he didn't do it 4 
times. And it cost the Postal Service, I mean it could be a year’s worth of pay for some people. So you 
know, that was one of the occasions. Of course you know, it's not his fault. It was somebody else's fault. 
So that then you move up to the issue with the violence in the office and we had a couple situations 
involving, they were fairly minor offences but you know, little things here or there that I would spend 
some time on and he would forget to pay me. Even I when I would write, it would be clearly written on 
the sheet and "Oh I didn't see that." Or there was always some big excuse. The falsifying of the time 
sheets, the violence issue and him trying to coerce some other carriers to write--he typed out a statement 
on the violence issue and for himself, and made another carrier in the office sign it under penalty of 
discipline if she didn't. 
 
EH: Wow. 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with James Ebersbach– 5/7/22 
18 
 
1:05:36  
 
JE: There was and the 4th one I said in there. That one actually didn't involve me but there was a clerk 
that was in there that the postmaster was falsifying his own time, claiming he was there when he wasn't. 
You know, they he was reported, he was found out, he was forced to clock in and out but of course he 
was being discriminated against because he was being forced to clock in and out when nobody else had to 
was his claim. It didn't have anything to do with the fact that he was actually stealing time. The falsifying 
of documents for him was, again I've got copies of them, it was rampant and falsifying OSHA reports, 
falsifying timesheets, falsifying his own timesheets, falsifying general reports and general making us 
falsify delivery scans on packages that weren't delivered that he wanted them to be cleared so they 
showed delivered even though they weren't. I mean it was, the list goes on and on and on. As I told you 
before, there was, we had at least 4 that I can think of, people coming in from higher offices, district 
managers, national people would come in and interview us carriers and they (sighs) whenever we would 
try to tell them the details of what was wrong and what was going on, they didn't want to hear it. We have 
a forum called the Postal Pulse, which is mailed out to all the employees that they ask questions of, you 
know, what is your work environment like, do you have a friend in the office, do you feel like your 
supervisor cares about you as a person--stuff like that. And those letters they generate statistics off of, and 
they cared more about the statistics on those forms than what the actual issues were. 
 
EH: That sounds bad! (laughs) 
 
JE: Well I mean, as long as we're moving the mail and we're doing what they think we need to do, they 
don't care if you miss your kid's soccer game. They don't care about...all they care about is did Susie 
down the street get her TV Guide today and if she didn't and she's calling in complaining, it's your fault 
that you didn't deliver it. It doesn't matter that that route has sat undelivered for 7 days because that 
carrier's been sick and they have so much turnover they don't have anybody to do it and the postmaster 
was sitting eating his Twinkie in his office playing Tetris and he didn't do it. They just want to know why 
you didn't deliver Susie's TV Guide. 
 
EH: Oof, well yeah, we should wrap up soon, but just on the positive side of things, what do you miss 
about carrying the mail? 
 
1:08:29  
 
JE: The people. The people I worked with. There was a pretty good, for the most part, a pretty good 
camaraderie. There was you know, you know whenever we would have a birthday in the office, they had 
a birthday list and everybody in the office gets you a card. My wife's dad passed away here a few months 
back and everybody went together and got flowers and you know, Kay even showed up at the funeral, 
missing out on some of her family events to go. And stuff like that. Even the customers. There was some 
out there like, the lady I was telling you about--her husband's a firefighter. They, I'm interested to see how 
her business grew! You know, I mean, not only was I delivering her packages for her and taking her stuff 
in, it was like I got to step back and watch this thing start from the beginning and take off. There was a 
couple on the route that was trying to start getting into that stuff, were starting to do really well, and you 
know, I left in the middle of some of that and I'm just kinda curious to see how it went. There's the 
stories, what animal's gonna escape next and stuff like that. I mean, there was always, every day was an 
adventure. There was always something to tell. There was always good with the bad. But obviously the 
good is what I miss. 
 
EH: Yeah, yeah. Well is there anything else we haven't talked about that you would like to share? 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with James Ebersbach– 5/7/22 
19 
 
 
JE: Not that I can think of. I just you know, I think that the Postal Service needs to be a, it was once upon 
a time, it was a place where people could go to work and take pride in what they do and deliver the mail 
and go home feeling satisfied that they did something, and I think those days are long gone. I think that 
the mismanagement of the Postal Service, the management in general is so poor and you know, they've 
taken a good job, a good job for the American person and they've trashed it and in doing so not only does 
it affect the people that work there, it effects the service that the customers are receiving on the other end. 
At one point to say that you worked for the Postal Service was a point of pride, and you know, everybody 
had faith that my mail's gonna be delivered and I'm gonna get my medicine and nowadays saying you 
work for the Postal Service, you throw your hands up because you don't want somebody to throw 
something at you. The perception of the Postal Service both internally and externally is down and it's a 
shame. There needs to be, there needs to be massive postal reform. And I've even talked to legislators. 
Mike Carey's office from Ohio, I've been in constant conversation with them about some of the events 
that have occurred and I'm not gonna say he's not doing anything, but at the same time I haven't heard 
anything back either and it's no secret, I think the public knows that the Postal Service is not what it was. 
And it's a shame. It's an essential function. It's in the constitution that the Postal Service is a service that 
the government will provide and I guess it doesn't say how well they'll provide it. And it's a shame 
because it's...something needs to be done. 
 
EH: And you know, like we were saying especially for rural communities who really rely on it and 
medication and all of that. 
 
JE: Yep. 
 
EH: Well thank you so much! 
 
JE: You're welcome! 
 
1:12:32  
 
END OF TAPE 
END OF INTERVIEW