afc2020009_006--Andy Whitted interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
1 
ANDY WHITTED, Plasterer 
 
Katy Clune (00:00): This is Katy Clune, sitting here with Julia Gartrell on November 2, 2020, 
and we are speaking with Andy— 
 
Andy Whitted (00:08): Whitted. 
 
KC (00:12): Whitted. All right. Thank you so much for speaking with us. We'll start out with just 
some kind of basic biographical questions to get to know you a little bit better. 
 
AW (00:25): Okay. 
 
KC (00:25): So let's go all the way to the beginning. 
 
AW (00:29): Okay. 
 
KC (00:30): Where were you born? And when? 
 
AW (00:38): I was born August 
 1960, Chapel Hill, UNC hospital, and I've been living 
right next door all my life there, actually, that was the first that house was built. I was the first 
one born there, but I have, I guess, two older sisters than me. I mean, you don't want hear that 
though. [laughs] 
 
KC (01:00): Can you tell us a good way to learn a little bit more about your family is just to talk 
about the evolution of ---- 
 
AW (01:04): The plaster ---- oh, the property. 
 
KC (01:07): Yeah! We will get to plaster. 
 
AW (01:11): Well, my grandfather used to live below next below that place there [gestures to 
neighboring house] he lived there right next through those woods past that place was his 
property. My, uh, my, uh, let me get there. You know, everybody's dead basically, really, but me, 
but my grandfather was Ransom Whitted, okay? And that he had a brother that was Skeely—
Scott Sly Whitted. We call him Skeely, but Sly was the real pronunciation. He lived sort of cross 
through the woods, you would say, maybe a couple of miles over. Both of them were plasterers. 
And I asked my sister, I called her, my grandfather used to talk about Petersburg, Virginia. So 
I'm thinking that they went over, had family, or knowed somebody, and went over and start 
working and got into the plastering from there and came back. 
 
KC (02:15): Is it Sly? 
 
AW (02:16): Yeah Sly. 
 
KC (02:16): Sly is your grandfather's brother? 
 
afc2020009_006--Andy Whitted interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
2 
AW (02:16): Yeah 
 
KC (02:16): Do you think they got trained in Petersburg somehow? 
 
AW (02:23): I do, I want think so. I mean cause nobody else around here done it. So I want to 
say they went there some kind of way. After that, my uncle and them, they used to travel. They'd 
done union work. They used to travel to Goldsboro, different places, Fayetteville. And built all 
those places. Plaster, groups of guys. So I want to say there was some similar reason my 
grandfather went there and learned and then brought it back here. So now my grandfather, he had 
four sons. The oldest one was Ransom Junior, and the next one was John. And then the next one 
was my father. Now his name is, was Anderson. My real name's Anderson, but he called me 
Andy for short. And then there was another one named David, the youngest one. He taught all of 
them plaster. And my youngest, my uncle David, he went to school and actually got smarter and 
better. Engineer. He got outta all this hard work. [laughs]  
 
Now my uncle, my grandfather's brother Skeely, he trained some of his sons, but I never met 
them because when they learned they worked, and then they went out to—like I said—one 
moved to Lynchburg. Well, it was a lot of big work. They, they moved out. Plasterers were like, 
back in the day, was like unions, they say. And they will call you, and a bunch of them, because 
my dad lived here. My uncles, they lived maybe cross town here, maybe five miles. And there 
was some plasterers up in Snow Camp [NC]. You ever heard of that? Up in Burlington, Snow 
Camp? It was a, some guys there. And then say some guys in Durham. They all would like meet, 
take turns driving, and go to Goldsboro—like I was saying—six months a year, whatever army 
base, then in Fayetteville, and then hospitals back then. And all those guys knowed each other. 
But like now their sons didn't take it up or nothing. So it's really, I'm pretty much the last 
generation of it. You know, because those guys had sons and they didn't really—one or two of 
them done a little bit—but they got away from it because it was hard work. 
 
Julia Gartrell (04:48): What was the approximate timeframe that your grandfather picked up the 
skill? Like when were these unions happening? 
 
AW (04:57): I want to say early 19s. And then he'd come back here and like I said, got into 
business himself probably in the thirties maybe. And then I remember him a little bit working 
with us. I was born in 60, so I remember him just a little bit. So he stopped working maybe in, 
uh, '65 somewhat. And then my dad, my uncles all kept going. Yeah. Go ahead? 
 
KC (05:34): Did you each have your own, like your dad had a company and then your uncles? 
 
AW (05:40): Yeah. Once they got old enough, my oldest uncle, he kept working union work and 
going to Goldsboro. My second uncle, he'd done somewhat the same, but my dad kind of stayed 
around here [Hillsborough, NV] and worked here. And then he picked up, he done plaster and 
stucco was the outside exterior. But my dad picked up some, uh, ceramic tile and sheet rock 
because he, he had us, he didn't want to do a lot of traveling like those guys. Sheet rock, come in, 
maybe in the sixties and started slowing plaster down. So he went to the ceramic tile and sheet 
rock and then kept doing plaster and stucco. 
 
afc2020009_006--Andy Whitted interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
3 
JG (06:38): Can you describe, so before sheet rock came in, could you describe the process of 
putting up a plaster surface? 
 
AW (06:48): Okay. Before sheet rock—plaster, the old, real old, was like 1800s? It was like, 
wooden lath in the back of the walls, little strips of wooden laths. You would put those strips up, 
one actually was putting them up one by one back then. And they would like, break the joints. 
What I mean by that, you know, you go so many this way, then you break a joint to keep it, to 
make everything stout. Then after that they would mud that. And back then they used mud and 
put horse hair in it. Because when I go in and do repairs, now I would see horse hair when I'm 
tearing out. That was the first process. Then the next process, it went into like a metal lathing, 
putting that on the walls and mudding. And then that would probably been starting in the 1900s, 
just the wood and that. And then they went from there, just before the sheet rock come in, they 
were putting up a board, similar to sheet rock, they call rock lath. And you would mud, put that 
up, and mud it then finish coat plaster right over that. And that's when they got the idea, hey, 
sheet rock, you know. It was the same basically same board, but it was a smaller board. And 
sheet rock, they came, they put bigger boards and you would just tape the joints. But this was 
plastering the whole thing. And what sheet rock done basically is cut—save you [time]—it takes 
a plaster house, a month [to dry]. Cause you gotta dry out sheet rock [only] a week. And that's 
how things started changing time-wise with stuff. That's when sheet rock come in. Yeah. 
 
KC (08:42): So you were basically born as sheet rock was becoming— 
 
AW (08:47): Yeah, right in there yeah. 
 
KC (08:48): What was it like, like your dad teaching you his trade or, you know, teaching you 
about how to do plaster work while you're sort of growing up and seeing changes? 
 
AW (09:00): Well, mostly when I was with my dad, we'd done, I said, we didn't do a lot of 
plaster. We'd done more ceramic and some sheet rock, you know? And I learned it, but then later 
on, like I said, it kind of come back historical. I mean, tearing out stuff, and then we got into it 
more again. But mostly from, I would say '68 to '78, he was just tile and sheet rock finishing, my 
dad was. 
 
KC (09:42): Did you, so did you learn plaster from him more when it came back? [crosstalk] 
 
AW (09:47): Yeah. We would do maybe renovation stuff. And then I would learn from him and 
then all of them, uh, if every now and then you would run across some old buildings here in 
Hillsborough, all of them would come together and then they would train us. Now my uncle 
Ransom, he didn't have no sons. My uncle, next one, was John. He had five boys, but only one 
learned to plaster. He used to help us. He, his name was John. Then I had one brother and all of 
us were working together. And then right on my grandfather's property, they had one sister and 
she had some—three—sons and they, my dad was, you know, you had to go to work. They 
would go to work with us. One of them used to help me a lot. Yeah. Um, like I said, we're 
getting back—Am I going too fast? 
 
KC (10:47): These conversations are always like loops. [laughs] 
afc2020009_006--Andy Whitted interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
4 
 
AW (10:49): Okay, well, you can go ahead if you want to stop me. But that’s I mean, right in 
there, my dad, right in there, he was taking some renovation, historical stuff from companies and 
that's how I kind of learned some plaster. Right, right in there. But mostly he was doing a lot of 
ceramic from, like I said, from '68 to '78, somewhere in there. That's where he was. He was 
working for some companies in Durham and um, just, he was, he just got big in that. 
 
KC (11:21): And so would you learn like—When did you start learning? After school? And 
eventually became full time? 
 
AW (11:31): Aww, naw, like I said, we, we had to, we worked all while we were young. Just, 
you have to back then. But I graduated '78, like you said, right in there, my dad got sick. He had 
a heart attack, maybe '74. So I kind of had to step up a little bit there. And '78 before, from '76 to 
'78, I took a job at a grocery store, A&P over in Hillsborough. And then while he was sick, we 
were trying to merge me in to take over right out of school. And then probably '80, housing got 
real slow. You probably wouldn't remember that [chuckles]. The work got real slow. Uh, I'm 
trying to figure it out that's when Ronald Reagan became president right in there. So everything 
was slowing there. Like '83, it hit real fast again. And then that's when me and my dad had went 
in business together. We started like working, doing a lot of work in Chapel Hill. It was a guy 
over there with Security Builders. His name was [Gulford? Unclear]. And he was building, I 
mean, big houses. So we were doing mostly stucco outside for him. And, uh, wasn't much plaster 
going on. We would just stucco. And then, and then but again, like, back back, my uncle, my 
oldest uncle, he was working for a guy in Durham, uh, him and my, the two top uncles—my 
oldest uncle. It was a guy, he had a business, they were going in like all those big old houses in 
Durham plaster. They was doing plaster and we were doing stucco. They would help us when 
they wasn't doing much. And then, uh, the second one, John, he got a job, probably mid-eighties 
with the university [of North Carolina at Chapel Hill], a full-time plaster guy in the daytime 
working for them. So he kinda got with them. They, you know, all those old buildings. And then, 
like I said, Ransom, he, he was that guy may have went out of business or something. And he 
started coming back with helping us in the nineties. Early eighties and nineties. Yeah. Um, go 
ahead. 
 
KC (14:07): So in the eighties the family business kinda came together? 
 
AW (14:09): Yeah, me and my dad had started maybe at '83, '84, and then we were, we ran 
strong from '83. Uh, he, again, '90, and then he got sick. He had, he had wrestled with sugar 
diabetes, heart problems. And then in '94 he died. So I was that left me to go. I mean, that's when 
I went for myself and really started. '96, '97, started back strong for myself. And then it was up 
until now, me. And my brother helped me some, but he's, he's, he left, he again switch to tile and 
I kept the plaster/stucco going and let him, cause he liked tile. And then now, but he's moved to 
Texas, he's been out there 'bout eight years, but he was doin' the tile and I was doing most of the 
plaster and stucco. But when we, you know, either one wasn't doing nothing, then we would kind 
of merge together. He lived, he used to live on a place on, down, further down the hill from my 
granddad on down the road there. My brother did. 
 
JG (15:27): It is cool y’all were so close. 
afc2020009_006--Andy Whitted interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
5 
 
AW (15:27): Yeah. Uh, now, uh, my mother's side, you know, they lived right down the street 
here [chuckles]. 
 
KC (15:36): So tell us about this little area because it's like all family 
 
AW (15:39): It was all family, my grandpa, my dad's father live here. My mother father live right 
out in that bend, that stucco brown house. That's where she was raised. And then, then this area's 
big, 'cause her side, her mother's brother was brick masons. So we had a choice—my brother 
used to go help him lay brick, but I never did get too much brick mason. He would help them 
some. So he could lay brick and they was that side with like brick mason side. Yeah. And uh, all 
those guys are pretty much died out. Yeah. 
 
JG (16:17): I was just circling back to something you mentioned earlier about, like, there was 
this lull in the plaster industry when sheet rock came in, but then you said it kind of came back. 
Is that because people were getting more interested in older houses? 
 
AW (16:34): Yeah. It must have been. Maybe when this market hit bad, the people started 
renovating. I want to say. And then that's when it kind of come back and then one step, like I 
said, the university, when they had that fire, they had to go in and re-restructure a lot of stuff. 
And then it just, I want to say maybe kind of people started going back to older stuff back right 
in there. 
 
JG (16:58): Does it have to do anything with the life, like the longevity of the plaster too? Like 
does that stuff have a point at which it breaks down? 
 
AW (17:09): No, that house, that, house down there where I was raised in is plaster, I mean, 
those walls are hard. Sheet rock, you can just take something and hit and have to repair again. It 
takes something hard, you gotta really [hit it hard] the plaster. Really the thing is if a house is 
structured, put up right, uh, you, if it moves a little bit, you may go in and fix some hair cracks. 
Now that was when, uh, the wood lath is more fragile. The metal's tough. Then some people 
would like, even like, like that house, it was a [cement] block house. And you stuccoed outside. 
Then the block you plaster, it's solid brick block. You know. If it's structured, you ain't gonna 
have no problems. And that, I mean, I hadn't done nothing [to repair that house], maybe some 
stuff in the [unclear] and I just scraping the top level. But as far as the stairs, it is going to be 
there, plaster. But sheet rock, I mean, it's, you know, you've probably seen it... 
 
JG (18:11): Oh yeah. I've torn up a lot of sheet rock in my time. 
 
KC (18:12): I once had a family dog that was going crazy and made a hole running into it. 
[laughs] 
 
AW (18:20): Huh? You said she did? 
 
KC (18:22): I didn't, it was the family dog! 
 
afc2020009_006--Andy Whitted interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
6 
AW (18:22): Run into the plaster? 
 
KC (18:25): No, sheet rock. 
 
AW (18:26): Oh, sheet rock. I was fixin' to say plaster, you see them notch right there. [laughs] 
When I was a kid running up plaster walls, the wall don't go nowhere. [laughs] Yeah, with sheet 
rock, I mean, yeah, you just hit it right in the middle—it might hurt your hand, but you can 
knock a hole. Yeah. Yeah. 
 
KC (18:45): So why do you think that your, your granddad learned in Petersburg [VA], what's in 
Petersburg? 
 
AW (18:51): That's what I was trying to get from my sister. Why? I don't know if he had family 
there. Uh, they had uh, a slow part of work and somebody said, "Let's go—Petersburg, Virginia." 
So, I mean, I never did really question him on it. 
 
KC (19:11): I'm trying to think if there's a big like military thing . . .? 
 
AW (19:16): I know he didn't even talk about one time that he worked in a coal mine over there. 
But, but like you said, I mean, I just, I was trying to figure how did they get started? Because 
before them, I don't think none of their family was, was, was doing it. So I'm thinking the two of 
them must've went there. The two, that's my thought. I mean, I should, I didn't ever ask because 
you don't, you know, some time you don't, you should have, but you don't, history. But, uh, that's 
what I got hung up on. What was over there. I mean to.... 
 
KC (19:52): Okay because it sounds like you said that they came back and then they were the 
specialty plasterers? 
 
AW (19:58): Yeah. When they, yeah. In this area, and then there was another, there was a guy in 
Chapel Hill, an older guy, their age. His name was Callie Burnett. Well, he was a preacher, we 
called him Reverend Burnett. He had all that, that area locked down, you know? Cause back then 
every house went up. Like all these [gestures to nearby houses] my granddad plastered, that 
house, that house was plastered. That one's plastered inside. And I went back later and stuccoed 
the outside for her. Now all these old houses go down, my granddad plastered everywhere. That 
one. And that one, because every house back then wasn't no sheet rock. When as soon as they go 
up, they were plastered, you know? So he had this pretty much locked until like it says in the 
early, late '50s '60s, the sheet rock started coming in. And that's when—that might've been reason 
he slowed up, you know? But my dad moved into the tile and the sheet rock. But see, when my 
uncle and them, they kept traveling. They was going to those [military] bases, there, all that 
Fayetteville and stuff. And they done that. Probably, like I said on up to probably the almost the 
80s. 
 
KC (21:09): When you said unions, before, you meant plaster unions? 
 
AW (21:12): Yeah. They had like plaster unions back then. You would have to go almost—they 
would have to go to schools and stuff to learn. You had steps, you would stay so many years 
afc2020009_006--Andy Whitted interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
7 
being a laborer. Then they called it the apprentice and then it was a plasterer. That's the way they 
done it back then. 
 
KC (21:34): Let me ask you a really silly question. 
 
AW (21:38): Naw, go ahead. 
 
KC (21:38): Is it plaster-er, like you're a plasterer or is it just you're a plaster? 
 
AW (21:45): You right. Plaster-er. That's what they, yeah. Yeah. [laughs] That's that's I mean, 
when you see it in the book, that's what it's got. 
 
KC (21:53): But you just kinda say "plaster" [laughs] 
 
AW (21:53): Yeah I just say plaster. Yeah. But yeah, that's the way it's wrote in the, in the book 
when you look at it. Yeah. Yeah. But I never, when I can do some of that detailed stuff she's 
talking about, because it was an older guy used to help my dad and we went, uh, for the same 
company, Security Builders. We went to Wilmington [NC] and redone the old courthouse, right 
downtown. And we got into some of that. The plaster mold we made. We made any of it like was 
real short. We make tracks a wooden track and then made a, like a wood thing. And then we 
mudded it. 
 
JG (22:36): You fill the track and then you put a....? 
 
AW (22:36): Yeah, you fill, you put up like a wood track and you get uh, you can make, you 
wood mold the same as that plaster. Yeah. I mean, you know, it's a plaster mold and then you 
just run that in there and one guy throwing it in and you just keep getting.... 
 
JG (22:53): Do you like that kind of detail work? 
 
AW (22:53): I've done some, uh, one, uh, this thing in Oxford. Yeah. It was so, I mean, it's slow, 
but it looks good when it's finished. 
 
JG (23:01): Right, cause I was thinking about, you're saying it takes a month to plaster a whole 
house. And so it's like very like repetitive, and kind of like meditative almost, work? 
 
AW (23:11): Yes. See, back then, when they, when they took it, back then, they would have to 
make those walls. You had to scratch them and then you screed them. But now, repair stuff, like 
they got a board now it's called blue board that you just put up. It's just like sheet rock. And you 
just plaster right over it. Yeah. That way you don't—you just put a thin coat. The wall made 
already made out of the board. But back then they was, we had the mud that, scratch it, and 
screed and make those walls. And then it took so long because once you put so much mud, the 
house had to dry out a little bit 'fore they come back and put that smooth lime coat. That was the 
process. 
 
JG (23:53): In North Carolina that probably it took a long time, with the humidity. 
afc2020009_006--Andy Whitted interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
8 
 
AW (23:54): Yeah. If it was a winter, if you had to get some heat in there, it'd take a little longer. 
 
JG (23:59): Okay. You said scratch and screed? 
 
AW (24:01): Yeah you got a scratch. Scratch coat is that first coat you put on and then you just 
take a, like a, scratcher and scratch lines. That'll make the brown screed next coat (screed coat, 
brown coat) bond. And that screeding, what I'm saying screeding, it's like, you take a rod and 
you screeding the wall to get it good and level, all your corners, is considered a screed. Then 
they call it brown coat. Then if after that, it's got to dry out. And then that's, when you come back 
with your finish coat, the smooth coat, it's a white coat. 
 
KC (24:36): The brown coat is what you put horse hair in back in the day? 
 
AW (24:42): Yeah back in the day they would, but now they got out. They, you know, they kept 
getting more and more of this. It's [plaster] gotten lighter and it's like stuff now called “Structure 
Light” I use. Made by Gypsom and it's real light. When I run something now I just, we can lay 
that in and it'll dry, and you screed it off and let a little more and more. The process is not as long 
because it dries a little faster for you. And it's not as heavy. Yeah. 
 
JG (25:11): That's probably a relief. 
 
AW (25:11): I mean, yeah. They've, they've like worked with the products now and got them 
more easy to work with. 
 
JG (25:16): Is there, um, a main supplier? 
 
AW (25:22): That's another thing now it's hard to get stuff. It's a company in Durham—Talbert. I 
get plaster from them. If they give out, I want to say they’re making it somewhere up in 
Charlotte and it takes a while. I called the plant one time and they won't mix no little bit, they 
told me. He said, “I got about 60 bags.” So I had nowhere to put 60 bags [laughs]. So you know, 
they got a shop place, but I was going, I needed a lot. I was going there. He said, we can't bring 
20. We got gotta send 60 or whatever, train cart is 60 bags or whatever. That was the last. So, but 
he's a, uh, what do you call, a supplier? He could furnish—so they kind of shut me down. 
[laughs] 
 
JG (26:17): Well, it just shows how specialized it is at this point. 
 
AW (26:20): And then it's some, somebody, uh, the dentists at Duke or somewhere is using that 
same stuff as them. Cause when I go get it, uh, that they've bought a lot. So it was yeah. Yeah. 
 
KC (26:37): Like medical plaster molds? 
 
AW (26:37): Yeah hey doing something with it. 
 
JG (26:39): Yeah. Actually as sculptor, I use plaster for mold making. Talberts is the place. 
afc2020009_006--Andy Whitted interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
9 
 
AW (26:44): Yeah, they use it a lot. Yeah. They got it. And then they got a Talbert in Roxboro. I 
never been in that one, but I go to the one in Durham a lot. Back this way, I don't know if there's 
anything in Burlington. Greensboro, you can get some stuff and then Charlotte, but here is 
kinda— 
 
JG (27:04): So what was it like? I mean, you probably don't, you don't know from firsthand 
experience, obviously when your grandfather was sourcing material, but do you have any sense 
of... 
 
AW (27:13): Where he was getting it at? 
 
JG (27:15): Yeah, or if material has changed? 
 
AW (27:18): Well, I'm trying to think. Good question. Well, it was, it was like back in the day 
when my dad was in business, it was like three places in Durham that was selling. You had a 
Durham supplier and then it was a company called Board Supply and then it was another—it was 
pretty good back then. There's three places in Durham, companies that were—trying to think of 
that other one when I was young—they all three of them, sold plaster. And then they kind of 
faded out and then Boyce Supply was the last one. Then Talbert came in after him, Boyce used 
to be over on off Ramseur [St.], Pettiegrew [St.], right up in there somewhere. 
 
JG (28:06): Okay. This is a really weird question maybe.... 
 
AW (28:08): No, go ahead. 
 
JG (28:08): ... but I have, I imagined plaster comes in like those 50 pound brown bags... 
 
AW (28:14): Yeah. I was opening my place if y'all wanted to walk up there and I can show you 
those bags. I keep all my stuff in that house, there. 
 
KC (28:20): Oh, we'll check it out at the end. 
 
JG (28:24): Has it always come in those come in those bags? Has it always come in those--- 
 
AW (28:29): In the bags? 
 
JG (28:30): —brown bags? 
 
AW (28:31): Uh, yeah, pretty much always been the bags. 
 
JG (28:36): 50 pounds or so? 
 
AW (28:36): You have 50 to 70 somewhere in there. Yeah. 
 
afc2020009_006--Andy Whitted interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 10 
JG (28:40): I was just wondering, cause it's kind of interesting how processes get standardized 
and at some point they just stick with it. 
 
AW (28:47): Yeah. See the plaster. You gotta like, you know, you had to mix it because it's got a 
set time. So it's gotta be in the bags and stay dry. Cause once you mix, it's a set time on it. Uh, 
like now that sheet rock mud, some of it comes in a bucket, and then some of it's in bags. The 
one in the bucket, I don't know how they do it, but it's got a real slow set. It'll stay in that bucket 
a long time. But in sheet rock mud they got a 20-minute, a 45- and a 90—a 60- and a 90-. (A bird 
or something, fall, something fall in there.) Yeah, in sheet rock mud. 
 
JG (29:23): Do you feel like you have like an internal timer where you know, okay, I've mixed 
this and I have this long to get this on the walls before it's useless. 
 
AW (29:35): Yeah. I use most of the time I use this, the one I use most, it takes me 15, 20 
minutes set. 
 
JG (29:42): Wow that's fast. 
 
AW (29:44): Yeah I stay with that one. Then sometime I go with a 45. 
 
JG (29:49): How much do you mix up at a time? A whole bag? 
 
AW (29:52): Oh, no I mix up maybe a half. Go so far, and then see how it set, slick up. Then go 
some more. And then it depends on if the wall is real deep, you know, you can throw it in there 
and uh, get rid of it. But if it just a skim, you only don't want to mix that much because you just 
skimming and getting it smoothed out. Yeah. 
 
JG (30:15): Is there a certain satisfaction in having mixed, like the right amount at the right time? 
 
AW (30:28): Nah, it's hard. [laughs] It's kinda hard. You're just mixin' it, you know. And then 
I've tried— I’ve been with some guys who really mix and then throw away a lot of mud. I try to 
not do that. You buying it, you need a, you know, you want to take, if they working for you, they 
don't care. They just mix it and throw it away. Yeah. It's cause it's 20—now in the summer, you 
know, you gotta stay with it, winter, it's, you know you can play it. But in summer that mud's 
gonna set. Yeah, so you got 20, 25 minutes. You need to have it on that wall. Yeah. Yeah. I was 
going to, I don't know if this makes any sense. Well, I don't know if I should go that far. I'm 
going to go ahead of myself or am I going to... This place right here [gestures to an area behind 
his house] was a house sitting right down where that shed is. Can you see that little shed? 
 
KC (31:17): The white one? 
 
AW (31:17): Yeah. The little shed, tin thing, right from that before you get to that house, can you 
see that? Okay. Yeah that one, ok. That house used to sit there—yeah, this one—and it was a 
cinder block house. When she put that double wide there, they told her that she got 10,000 square 
feet. You can't have, it's limited here. So she had to get rid of this place. And some guy was 
going to charge us $6,000 to tear it down. So I moved, had it moved there. So I don't know if 
afc2020009_006--Andy Whitted interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 11 
that, [laughs] and when I moved there in like '94, '95, uh, we just started messing with it. We put, 
scratch that mud on. On the front it's got a little stone, and I was really gonna fix it up. But after 
that, I had to, I got three kids, and my daughter had to send her to school, the next kid. So it's 
been just my.... 
 
KC (32:12): Did you help rebuild it or you paid for—? 
 
AW (32:15): Oh, me and my guys, when we wasn't doing nothing, we, we, uh, we got, you 
know, dried in. We can keep stuff in and I've had some guys. Yeah. It was just a, like a little 
small, a block house and all that back we sorta put on and put some mud on it. Just a time when 
you want to train some young guys and uh, when they ain't doing nothing and we kind of just 
done that over there. 
 
KC (32:40): I'll take some pictures of it. So you have three kids? 
 
AW (32:43): Yeah. I have a son. Uh, well actually I had a son before I got married. Uh, then I 
have son by my wife here. He's 38. He works for the sheriff's department. A daughter, 32. She 
went to school to be a nurse, and second degree was Spanish and psychology too. And then she 
lives in Greensboro. Then my youngest son is in East Carolina and go, uh, Greenville. Taking 
training to train sports. And then actually he got there and going to ministry school 
 
KC (33:24): I'm sure you're proud. 
 
AW (33:25): Yeah. So when both of them, the last two, they kind of took stop that [the house 
repair] project. So sending them to school, you know? 
 
KC (33:32): None of them wanted to get into stucco or... 
 
AW (33:35): Well, they helped me, but they don't---It's not, I don't know if it's me--- but with my 
dad and them I had a gear that I don't see in nobody now. I mean, maybe it's me [laughs]. So I 
guess it's cause you had to, you know, but they all helped me, but it's not that, what do you call 
it? That gear or that push that. You know what I mean? 
 
KC (33:55): The gumption? The drive? 
 
AW (33:55): Yeah—that drive. I don't, I mean, see it, see it. Maybe I'm asking too much from 
them, but they'll go with me. But I mean, I just took it. When my dad—I just ran with it to where 
he just would-—he got to where he would come on the job, he would tell the guy, he said, "This 
[Andy] is the man, when you need me, something's not right. But other than that he's running the 
job and you gotta have some money Friday for me that's all the time you going to see [me], but 
that's the man." That's what I mean. I wasn't 25 years old then. I just took it and ran, I guess. 
 
KC (34:36): Tell us about some of the projects you've worked on that you're proud of. 
 
AW (34:39): Oh, like I said, that one in Oxford [NC], The big one and then.... 
 
afc2020009_006--Andy Whitted interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 12 
KC (34:45): Will you tell us about it again, I don't think the tape was on? 
 
AW (34:46): Uh, this was just last year. Uh, this time, last year, October. It was downtown 
Oxford. Uh, there, I think it's called Otimate [Orpheum] Theater and um, actually it was just 
redone inside out. So, uh, cause when we run into stuff, tearing out, I had to plaster all the 
exterior walls inside and then they, they kind of done—they ain't took no walls. They rebuilt 
with sheet rock and that would meet it with plaster. But all the exterior stuff was, I re-back 
plaster and then the outside, I had to re-stucco the whole outside. Cause it was like, uh, I thought 
it was brick offsets and stuff, but it was made out of wood. So, uh, some old guy come by and 
said when they was building that, it was like some army years, they got [inaudible], they got 
cheap in money and they started using wood and then all that wood was rotten. So we had to go 
back and uh, re-lathe it and all those offsets, and I had to mud that whole outside. So like I said, 
it took me from October to May. Then we got finished, turn the key on that. Something else I'm 
proud of? Like I said, I've done a lot of repair stuff for the university. Then I got into, uh, a lot of 
stucco. It came back, whole houses. You seen a whole house outside. We were doing it the 
traditional way. What I mean by that is, if it'd be blocked, I could stucco in that back right there 
is wood. I would use a metal lath and that was the way we were doing them. Then they came in 
SureWall company, and then there was another company called—just a lot of companies came 
in. They wanted a faster method. And you may have y'all may have heard this synthetic 
styrofoam that come out? It was messing up in Raleigh a lot? 
 
JG (37:01): Did they like spray onto it? 
 
AW (37:01): Uh, you could spray it on. What it was doing, the styrofoam itself was like taking 
two steps of the mud. They will put it right against the house. And you were suppose to tape 
around the windows tape around all doors, caulk around. And if you'd done it right, it was a good 
system, but they didn't do them right, some of the guys. And once that water got behind that 
styrofoam, the styrofoam just started being a sponge and the water couldn't get out. So what that 
water done was went in and then all this sheet rock was molded and all this—y'all, ain't never 
heard nothing about it? 
 
KC (37:41): No! Sometimes the old ways are better. 
 
AW (37:44): So, I mean, so I stayed, I stayed to the, the old traditional way. I had a friend that he 
got into the styrofoam. I will go help him mud sometime, but I didn't mess—I didn't like 
styrofoam. But we done maybe two in our time because the company, they sent us to school to 
get certified. But everybody that I could talk to, I said, I don't like it. but I've done two. And I 
never slept good cause I didn't like them. [laughs] Cause I had a feeling something was going to 
happen, just like the sheet rock, the styrofoam. But they throw them up fast—big housing 
developers in Raleigh, a couple in Burlington. And then they came back to bite them and wasn't 
many years—four or five, five years at the most—water was in, you know, and then they got to 
be an insurance job and I just told them I didn't want no part of it because it was just headache, 
taking all that styrofoam off. Then once you take it off, you didn't know what was back there. 
They'd have the most time the wood was rotten, uh, and the homeowners are angry, upset. I just, 
I didn't want no part. I mean, you could stay busy, but I just didn't want no part of it because the 
afc2020009_006--Andy Whitted interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 13 
insurance company had a list—time you finished this one, this one. But I just, I just didn't feel 
good. 
 
JG (39:08): It wouldn't have been super satisfying work because you're just going fixing 
someone else's mistakes— 
 
AW (39:14): Yeah, and you, I mean, you know, when the person, the homeowner, they got that 
doubt, uh, they don't trust nobody. You know what I mean? So I stayed away from it. Yeah. 
Unless it was just, I had a friend or something, you know, just had to, I'd done repaired, a few. 
You know, but they, they shut it down for the houses. They could still use it in commercial 
because commercial up high, well, they had metal studs and then they would put up a board 
called a fire board and then it was okay. And then you mud. But they would make them put up, 
uh, like another piece of lath and then a drip screed where that water would run out. And, uh, 
they, they still use it in a lot of, uh, like I said, commercial stuff. They let them use it, but they, 
they, they just banned it in Raleigh and, and in which I was glad, you know, cause I didn't know. 
I mean, now, the last coat was in the buckets was beautiful because you could get colors. It was 
elastic. I still use that now, but I still do my walls that this, the green coat there, the finished coat, 
I can get a color, any color that they'll make, mix it for a minute, just put it right on. And it's kind 
of a elastic rubber. It's good stuff. But it was just, they didn't put, they didn't do their homework 
with the taping and caulking around the doors and stuff. When they, you know, they was sending 
everybody to school and then say, I mean, they even had the prices set. I knew it was going to be 
a problem. I went to Raleigh and they said it was $4. Say it was $4 a foot. So back they had sheet 
rock guys, anybody could go, you take the class for two days, signed, certified. And what they 
looking for? The guy said, well, I got some guys going to do it for half that. I says, they going to 
do something wrong. And that's what it was. I mean, you gotta stay with the right way, you 
know? And they was just going, cause it was, you know, get it done fast. “Look good and we out 
of here!” And in five years it, it came back. I mean, cause it don't take long for water to get in, in 
something. And yeah, that's, I mean, that's why I try to do things right. The first time. [laughs]  
 
KC: Have you been able to teach others? 
 
Uh that's uh, I was talking to my wife about that last night. My sons, they, uh, they, they learn 
[plastering] but not, not really. I've taught them some, but not really teach no more. A lady called 
me maybe two years ago, wanted me to go to Durham Tech[nical Community College] and teach 
a class. But she called back and she said, not enough people signed up. It's gotta be, say, say a 
class should be 30 people. She said, if I could get at least 16, but she didn't get, say maybe eight. 
So, we never did get nowhere with it. I was going to teach some, just homeowners how to make 
some repairs. But no, no, nobody. But now, like I was telling my wife, I got the, you know, the 
Mexicans are almost—they in here now. And they’re asking a lot. So I think I'm going to have to 
just go ahead—they’re good with sheet rock!—and uh, just train some guys. Cause I'm 60, I'm 
getting old because they always ask me questions when they're on a job— 
 
KC (42:39): Those are your guys? 
 
AW (42:39): They'll work for the company that I was working for, he hired them, and they kind 
of built scaffold, framed a lot of stuff for me. But right now, I work a lot by myself. And then my 
afc2020009_006--Andy Whitted interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 14 
sons they'll go. He go one, when they're out of school, then the other one goes to and he's off. He 
lives actually past that house on down where that car is, that one works in the Sherrif’s 
department. He'll go his days off with me. Yeah. But it was like, when me and my brother was 
coming up, I mean, back then, it was you had to learn. Like my father, my grandfather, all his 
sons, you had to learn. I mean, now I guess we give the kids options or whatever, [laughs] but we 
were coming up, it wasn't no way around. I mean, cause everybody here and like I said, 
everybody was either plastering or brick masons, uh, you know, cement finishers. And if you 
want to do something else fine, but you learn whatever that family trade was, you know? 
 
KC (43:38): I think you should teach some classes. 
 
AW (43:38): Yeah. That's what I said. I told him, I gotta, I gotta get into it. I mean, yeah. 
 
JG (43:43): Yeah. Cause I grew up in an old house in downtown Durham and I remember my 
dad would like never let me put anything into the walls. ‘Cause it was lath and plaster and I 
didn't understand— 
 
AW (43:54): So it was real old, real old. 
 
JG (43:56): Really old. 
 
AW (43:56): Must have been the wooden lath 
 
JG (43:58): Yeah, wooden lath, it was like 1911? 
 
AW (44:02): Yeah, right, yeah. That's that was the wooden, about eighteen to the early nineteen 
[hundreds]. That the wooden lath was in there. The key with that was if you just, uh, just drill a 
little hole and then tap an anchor in and you can screw. But if you beat on that wooden lath, it'll 
mess it up. It was fragile. You had yeah, it was real fragile. [crosstalk] Yeah. Cause see you hit it 
and it bounces and then that'll make you hit it hard again and then it'll make it.... Yeah. Whereas 
you just take a, a drill and a screw a little and then put a little anchor in and then, you know, then 
you can screw that. Screw is not as bad. It don't damage as bad. 
 
JG (44:43): Yeah. It's interesting though, because like I didn't understand, even what the walls, 
that the walls were different until you know, many years later. And so kind of thinking about 
understanding the structure of the walls and how that informs, you know, how you treat them. It 
was kind of an "aha" moment as an adult. [laughs] 
 
AW (45:04): Yeah. Cause all that wooden lath, you gotta, it's fragile. Like I said, that house there 
[gestures to nearby house] it's solid because it was [cement] blocked and they'd done it right to 
the block. But the real old wooden lath, I mean a lot of it I've went and restored it to where they 
don't want to tear it off. I just had to use some, uh, washers and screw those, screw it in to get it 
in some. 
 
JG (45:32): If the plaster's buckling away from the wall? 
 
afc2020009_006--Andy Whitted interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 15 
AW (45:32): Yeah, if it's buckling, some historical stuff sometime they, they want to save it. So I 
just used these, these anchors to just screw it and get it in some and then skim it. Where it'll get, 
you know, have a hard, get hard and have—but they don't want to tear it out. 
 
JG (45:46): Right, which I mean.... 
 
AW (45:46): Because it's historical. 
 
JG (45:48): .... I think that's important. 
 
AW (45:50): Yeah. A lot of historical stuff is like that. Yeah. Yeah. 
 
KC (45:52): How do people find you? For that kind of specialty work. 
 
AW (45:57): Oh, like I says, contractors around here know me and then word of mouth. Pete 
[Yeganian, owner of Mulberry Restorations]. I don't know who—Pete moved in here, I'm trying, 
I don't know who Pete got my name from. Cause he come from out of town. So somebody, he 
must have looked around town and got my name from somebody here.. 
 
KC (46:19): Word of mouth. 
 
AW (46:19): Some of the guys here. Yeah. Cause like I said, I hadn't really been knowing Pete 
maybe 10 years or something like that. Yeah. Yeah. Cause I don't know if he'd been, he, he, he, 
how long he been living around? 
 
KC (46:31): Ten or fifteen years 
 
AW (46:31): Yeah. Somewhere like that. Yeah. So I didn't think. 
 
KC (46:34): Pete told me that you repaired plaster that your grandpa put up. 
 
AW (46:41): Yeah. 
 
KC (46:41): Tell us about that. 
 
AW (46:43): So, well all these houses here. I mean he, they they've pretty much done them and 
when I go in, I just be repairing what he's done. [laughs] 
 
KC (46:56): I know you work in this all the time, but does it like, do you think for a moment 
like, “Oh, his hands touched this,” or you could see him a little bit in it? 
 
AW (47:10): [Cell phone rings] Oh god who is this? Now you made me think about something— 
and I gotta answer this ok? 
 
[Andy answers phone, has a brief conversation with his aunt, asks her if she knows why his 
father went to Petersburg. She tells him there was a brother in Petersburg, they reminisce about 
afc2020009_006--Andy Whitted interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 16 
another uncle and the property nearby. The reason for her call is to ask Andy about tile work, he 
says he can help.]  
 
AW: This is my aunt, the last uncle I was telling you about, she wants some work done. [laughs] 
 
KC (50:56): We just saw you get some new business! 
 
AW (50:57): He's built his own house in Durham, and he done all of it plaster. And she's got a 
crack and it's been there 30 years. And then something, he didn't finish—She always calls me. 
[laughs] Yeah. Some walls or something. See like him, and my other uncle, they plastered his 
whole house. It's in, uh, you know much about Durham y'all? It's out by, uh, it's a Black 
neighborhood called Emory Woods. You know? You don't? You know, off of Fayetteville Road, 
you can take a left and you go down in to the, to the left—to the right, I'm sorry—and it's called 
Emory Woods, I think. And it was a lot of big houses, mostly a Black neighborhood. They 
started it maybe, late seventies? It may be some white living in there, but back it was sort of like 
a Black neighborhood back when he moved in there. Uh, I'm trying to think. I want to say that's a 
Riddle Road running through there? 
 
JG (51:59): Oh, ok, I know the general area 
 
AW (52:00): Yeah.... I wanna say. Now she got daycares in Durham, Toddlers Academy. You 
know where that is? You know, right there behind that big church, uh, what is it White Rock on 
Fayetteville Street? Big church behind that on Cornwallace [Road] daycare. Then she got another 
Business. Her daughter runs Black Art Artful Greetings. You heard of that? Black Art Artful 
Greetings. They sell Black art. 
 
JG (52:31): Wow, I'm gonna have to check that out. 
 
AW (52:31): So yes, he kind of, he kind of taught his kids how to, build businesses before he 
died. Yeah. Cause he worked for IBM engineering and then he retired from that and uh, yeah... 
 
KC (52:47): So he's the one who didn't go into plastering, but he made his house of plaster? 
 
AW (52:51): Well, he done plaster. Like I said, everybody had to learn. He learned, but he went 
to school and had my uncle. Then, I didn’t know this until he died, but they were for him at one 
time because he was taking a lot of big work and he learned, but then he said it was hard work. 
So he figured it out, “I need to do something.” 
 
JG (53:15): I'd like to work in computers [laughs] 
 
KC: And now you are fixing his work.  
 
AW (53:18): Yeah [laughs] big house he built. Yeah. 
 
KC (53:22): Did she tell you anything about Petersburg? 
 
afc2020009_006--Andy Whitted interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 17 
AW (53:26): She said, she got mixed up. Cause it was some land over there on another uncle. 
But she said she remember, she going to look back in some papers. She remembered him going 
to Petersburg. They took him one time to see somebody, my grandfather. But this other uncle 
that I met him, he owned some property that they bought, she was mixing him up. She said she 
had to look at some papers. 
 
KC (53:47): And then I asked you something... Oh, I was asking you about if you felt anything in 
the house. . .? 
 
AW (53:53): Yeah, we were on that. Yeah. Yeah. And then once said that you made me think 
about something else that when me and my brother, we used to stucco chimneys. And I mean, he 
started doing this. After we got, we got all the way to the top and we finished and then we 
sloped, you know, you had your sloped edge. He would sign his name in them and date them. 
And I said, who going to get up here? And he said, "Somebody will be here up here sometime". 
[laughs] But I mean, I used to try to look for notes in the wall or something, you know, and see 
this is my grandfather left notes or something, but I never found nothing. 
 
JG (54:38): Did you ever find any time capsules or [unintelligible] papers? 
 
AW (54:42): No, I never found nothing. [laughs] But my brother started doing on chimneys. 
Every chimney, before we tore the scaffold down, he signed his name, date it, and would make 
up, a little crazy note or something, you know, say something crazy or whatever. And then he 
said, “Somebody get up here later and see this.” I said, “Well, I guess.” So that was his style. 
Yeah. 
 
KC (55:07): Did you ever do that? 
 
AW (55:07): Me? No, I just, I never do it. I don't even take pictures of my work. My son will 
sneak behind me and be taking pictures, but I just never, like, I just don't like to do it. I don't 
know. But he would sneak and have pictures and putting them on the internet and stuff and I 
don't even know he'd be doing it. 
 
KC (55:28): Well, we'll be sure to give you a copy of this interview so that you have it for your 
records. 
 
AW (55:34): Okay. [laughs] All right. I appreciate that. Yeah. But I mean, anything else? I'm 
not, I mean, I got time. Whatever y’all—you okay? 
 
JG (55:49): I have one just technical question, I was talking to a friend the other day. And she 
said that her house was shifting. And so she's getting cracks in her walls. And she said that the 
guy that she talked to said any horizontal or vertical lines are fine, but you want to start getting 
worried if stuff is diagonal, is that true? 
 
AW (56:12): Mmm…Well, you'll get a little, like up on old door or window that’s not bad. But 
that’s something really going wrong.  
 
afc2020009_006--Andy Whitted interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 18 
JG (56:21): If something's sheared. . .  
  
AW (56:21): She, that's what she said [his aunt]. Then there's a crack running all the way across 
the house or something she telling me about.  
 
Uh, since she said that I got into with—again, somebody got my name. A guy who was Jack, 
what you call them, Ram Jack or whatever, whatever company. And they were like—You never 
heard a Ram Jack? Jacking up houses? You never heard of those guys before? Yeah. They, they 
jack up houses and they Ram Jack and it was so they went in, there was some areas in Chapel 
Hill where the land was real soft and— 
 
[interview got cut off]