American F
olklife Center, L
ibrary o
f Congress
 
Bess L
omax Hawes Collection (
AFC 2014/008)
 
f
older 21.10
 
writings
 
a
rticles, published
 
Cowboy Poetry and Song: Collecting and Recollecting, 1
985-1996
 
1
996: Elko, NV
 
Cowboy Poetry and Song: Collectincr and Recollectinq
 
Bess Lomax Hawes
 
Copyright © 1996 Bess Lomax Hawes
 
This manuscript may not be duplicated or distributed in whole
 
or in part without express permission of the author.
 Copies
 
distributed by the Western Folklife Center at the 1996 Cowboy
 
Poetry Gathering are made available by permission.
 
I guess I originally thought of doing this talk for my
 
own personal reasons. My father was John A. Lomax and he used
 
to lecture about cowboy poetry and songs all through the
 
western states. Now, no copy of his old lectures has
 
survived,  so I thought it might be fun to try to re-think
 
what he did and how he managed it. And maybe I could make my
 
talk a bit of a testimony to my cantankerous,  complicated,
 
and ever courageous father and  also speak a bit about what
 
has happened since his day and time.
 
But what I had forgotten was just how long ago his day
 
and time was.  In working through this talk I found myself
 
needing to explain to present-day listeners the situation of
 
people who .
 never knew directly myself because they were
 
even before me. So here I am sitting squarely between two
 
separated generations, armed, really, with nothing but a few
 
stories,  things I
've heard second-hand.
 
But I guess that is the classic folklorist's position.
 
We collect and we re-collect  (
and recollect), people tell us
 
things that people told them, we tell them back--we've even
 
made up a nine-dollar name for the process--"oral
 
transmission", we call it. It's the main way that traditional
 
ideas and materials survive and spread out like some cosmic
 
game of "Gossip" over vast quantities of space and time
 
without ever having to be formally validated or approved of
 
by any institution or anybody.
 It's a terribly strong and
 
absolutely unstoppable process.
 
2
 
Now I am 75 years old.  I was born in 1921 when my father
 
was 54. By the time I got to know him, he was more like a
 
grandfather to me. He was born in 1867--a hundred and twenty-
five years ago.
 
American history is really so short.  I remember once at
 
the Library of Congress listening to a 1940 field recording
 
of an old Virginia gentleman singing "The Ram of Derby",  an
 
ancient lying jokey ballad about an enormous sheep,  each
 
verse telling a bigger whopper than the one before. And the
 
old gentleman singing it stopped and laughed and said "You
 
know, my grand-daddy always used to say that George
 
Washington helt him on his knee and sung him that old song
 
when he was just a little un." And I thought to myself,
 
"Well, you old liar," but later I realized,  counting back,  it
 
was just possible within the four generations,  counting mine.
 
And then, whether he decorated things up or not,  that
 
old gentleman was certainly a better rememberer than I am;
 
I just remember bits,  like I remember my father ending his
 
cowboy song lectures with an isolated verse whose origin I
 
don't know but I can still hear his voice saying it:
 
I
've been where the lightning,  the lightning
 
Tangled in my eyes;
 
The cattle I could scarcely hold;
 
I think I heard my boss-man say,
 
"I want all brave-hearted men
 
Who ain't afraid to die
 
To whoop the cattle from morning till night
 
Way up on the Kansas line."
 
Oh boy,  that was the stuff to feed the troops.  I remember
 
roars of applause from his young college audiences of the 20s
 
and 30s, as I sat there in the dark,  thrilled to be let stay
 
up beyond my bedtime. And I remember the great blues man
 
Leadbelly singing out on our side porch in Austin:
 
3
 
When I was a cowboy out on the western plains
 
When I was a cowboy out on the western plains
 
I could rope a streak of lightning
 
And ride a shower of rain.
 
Come a cow cow yicky,
 
Come a cow cow yicky yicky yay.
 
Lots of black singers in Texas in those days sang cowboy
 
songs;  lots of black Texans worked on ranches. And, by the
 
way,  I just sang that verse to you myself to remind you that
 
lots of people actually used to rear back and sing and many
 
still do,  requiring neither a trained voice, a stage,  a
 
silent audience,  a guitar, nor an electrical outlet to plug
 
it into
 
Well,  I
'm already getting ahead of things. Let me start
 
again--back with my father, John A. Lomax.
 
He was born the last of seven children,  in the Black
 
River country of west central Mississippi in 1867. When he
 
was two years old, his family loaded all their possessions
 
into two wagons,  one pulled by two mules named Jack and Fan,
 
and the other by two oxen named Bright and Berry, and they
 
all started out on the five hundred mile trail for east
 
Texas. My grandmother wrote about it in her diary. They
 
bought timbered land there on the edge of the Bosque River,
 
near a spot which was to be a fording place on one of the
 
south-eastern branches of the Chisholm Trail. And they built
 
a two-room log cabin and settled in to raise children and
 
wheat,  corn and chickens, cotton, and horses.
 
In my father's autobiography,  "Adventures of a Ballad
 
Hunter," he described waking up in the night as a little boy
 
and hearing cowpunchers, camped for the night down by the
 
Basque River,  joking and singing and telling stories. And I
 
think I remember him telling me how he would sneak out of the
 
house sometimes and creep through the bushes in the dark
 
night until he could get closer and hear them better. But I
 
can't find that in his writings now,  so maybe I made it up.
 
4
 
But I do know that at that time he did a really remarkable
 
thing: he began, when he was just a little boy,  to write down
 
the words of the songs he heard the men singing so that he
 
wouldn't forget them. He loved to tell stories about his life
 
in Bosque County, and he told them well, but what he used to
 
tell about with the greatest affection,  it seems to me now,
 
were the tournaments that were then the high point of any
 
local celebration, bringing together people ordinarily
 
scattered all across Bosque County.
 
Tournaments were Texas re-creations of an antebellum
 
southern custom in which mounted riders carrying six foot
 
lances would thunder down a two hundred yard track,  each
 
trying to spear all twelve of the small brass rings that hung
 
from poles along the way, Each rider wore the be-ribboned
 
favor of a local young lady; each one had curvetted his horse
 
in special tricks before the crowd as his name was called by
 
the master of ceremonies:
 
George Scrutchfield, The Knight of the Golden Spur
 
Johnny Rundell, The Knight of the Lost Cause
 
Ed McCurry, The Knight of the Morning Star
 
Bob Hanna, The Knight of the Slim Chance
 
The winner,  father said, crowned his lady love before all the
 
spectators and then together they would lead the dance that
 
started afterwards.
 
Now,  though father clearly had an eye for the fair
 
ladies,  it was the horsemanship and the
 
riders he talked about most. And it was
 
became so taken with those hard-bitten,
 
skill of the young
 
possibly then
 
skillful, rowd'
,
 
adventurous,  to him truly romantic young men, many of
 
vanishing up the long trail that he was too young and too
 
burdened with responsibilities to then follow.
 
Now,  it's time to remind you a little bit about that
 
Chisholm Trail and the whole era of the cattle drives and why
 
they happened where they did and faded away when they did.  I
 
5
 
hope you won't be insulted.  I may have been living with
 
tenderfeet in the east too long but generally I find that
 
almost everybody needs to be reminded a bit about that hazy
 
and complex period over which Americans have fantasized for
 
so long.
 
Here is how my father, writing in 1910, began to
 
describe it:
 
From 1870 to 1890 one million mustang ponies
 
and twelve million head of longhorn cattle
 
were driven up the trails from Texas to
 
market in Kansas, Wyoming, Montana,  and other
 
western states. The herds numbered usually
 
from one thousand to three thousand,  though at
 
times as many as five thousand cattle
 
made up a single trail herd. Behind and around
 
and ahead of each bunch of cattle rode a group
 
of men, mostly very young, bold, youthful
 
Vikings of the seas of sage grass through
 
which they pushed their way. They came to be
 
known as cowboys -
-
 the boys who take care of
 
the cows  (
from the Spanish "vaquero" and
 
"vaca".)
 
But where did all these cows come from?  J. Frank Dobie,
 
in his great book The Longhorns tells us that Columbus,  on
 
his second voyage in 1493,  landed cattle in Santo Domingo and
 
in the next years their offspring were shipped throughout the
 
developing Caribbean, Cortez himself stocking a hacienda in
 
Cuba and importing cattle from it to his estate in Mexico,
 
which he had named Cuernavaca (
Cow Horn). Only 50 years
 
later,  the explorer Coronado assembled more than five hundred
 
head of cattle,  as well as sheep and hogs, and drove them
 
along on his great expedition north of the Rio Grande as feed
 
for his troops. Fighting and breeding bulls were imported to
 
the new world from Spain throughout the 16th and 17th
 
6
 
centuries. Actually, wherever the Spanish went,  they took
 
cattle and horses, a good number of which escaped or were
 
left behind as too exhausted to continue on the long marches
 
throughout the southwest.
 
So,  since the Spanish,  like most colonials,  kept most of
 
their male animals uncastrated,  small populations of wild
 
cattle began to develop across the vast empty grasslands of
 
Texas, Louisiana, and California. In 1767 a French traveller
 
crossing Texas observed "horned cattle, originally tame,  that
 
long since became wild and now roam in large herds all over
 
the plain,"  (
actually more accurately all over the brushy
 
country east of the Pecos). They were frequently rounded up
 
and sold for hides and tallow; essentially,  during those
 
times,  they were considered game animals.
 
But after the establishment of the Republic of Texas,
 
the ever-increasing colonization of the southwest by English
 
speakers brought with it an increase in large animal
 
ranching,  for newcomers could claim much more land if they
 
declared their intention was to ranch rather than to farm.
 
And Texas was, according to many,  "the best stock country in
 
the world" with grass that was green almost the year round.
 
Cattle multiplied on the ranches and in the wild until local
 
prices dropped to less than five dollars an animal in the
 
mid-nineteenth century. And at the same time exploding post
 
Civil War population markets in the northea
 were offering
 
ten times as much for a steer on the hoof.
 
The problem was clear for southwestern ranchers. The
 
cattle had to be got north and at that time,  there was only
 
one way. They had to walk. As they had walked from Mexico up
 
to Texas in the centuries before, now they had to walk from
 
Texas to Kansas. The Kansas Pacific railroad line which had
 
connections into Chicago  (
soon to become "Hog and Steer
 
Butcher for the world")  eventually chose to build cattle
 
shipping stations in Abilene Kansas and by 1880 five mil.:
 
cattle had been shipped to market from Abilene and another
 
five million trailed north to stock the western ranges.
 
7
 
Texas,  cattlemen said, had the best breeding grounds; but the
 
lush summer grasses of Montana, Wyoming and Colorado were
 
more nutritious for fattening the growing animals.
 
It was all over before the turn of the century.  It only
 
lasted for about twenty years, really,  from about 1870 to
 
about 1890. As unclaimed lands fell into new and profit-
hungry hands, ranges once open were fenced;  trail routes were
 
cut; and newly built roads and railroad lines made lengthy
 
drives economically unprofitable. The whole panorama -
-
 the
 
great cattle drives like rivers of living animals,  the fabled
 
longhorn steers who "could walk to Hell and back again",  the
 
young knights of the Slim Chance and the Golden Spurs,  the
 
frontier towns where the money they earned on the long trail
 
vanished too soon--all faded away or settled down or maybe
 
just began to seem every day and sometimes.even a bit grungy.
 
But it made a great story, one from which Americans--
actually,  the people of the entire world--are still drawing
 
excitement, romance and vitality. And the primary authors of
 
that story, no matter how much it was changed later, were the
 
cowboys,  the vaqueros,  the expert herders and animal
 
husbandry men who my father described in the romantic
 
language of his day, as "bold youthful Vikings of the seas of
 
sage grass". My brother Alan, writing from the perspective of
 
75 years later,  saw the cowboys differently.  "These
 
anonymous, badly paid hired hands, who lived hard and usually
 
died poor,  served as unpaid irregular cavalry in the long and
 
cruel struggle during which the United States snatched
 
western lands away from its Indians and Mexican inhabitants."
 
when we look back,  it is important,  I think,  to keep both of
 
these perspectives in mind,  for both are true. And we must
 
above all keep listening to the old-time trail herders
 
themselves:  their songs, their recitations and thankfully the
 
several autobiographies some left behind
 
For today whenever I read a book about that era--and
 
there's about a billion of them--it's rare to come across an
 
author who doesn't say something about "the romantic
 
8
 
stereotype of the cowboy," "the west that never was,"  "the
 
mythic past of the cattle drives," and things like that. But
 
I grew up around my father, who was indeed a romantic of
 
deepest dye--he used to read aloud to us every night:
 
Shakespeare and Alfred Lord Tennyson and Charles Dickens and
 
his favorite poet, Robert Browning--and his voice would husk
 
up at the sad parts.
 But he believed in letting the cowboys
 
speak for themselves.
 
Look at his books. The poetry, with occasional music
 
notation added,  stares stark and bare up from the pages of
 
his two earliest cowboy collections. There's nothing to do
 
with those books but read the language as it was spoken and
 
as father wrote it down.
 
I said earlier that he had begun to write down the songs
 
he heard the cowpunchers sing when he was just a little bo
 
But what I didn't say then was how almost unheard-of such c
, 
thing was at the time.
 Educated nineteenth century Americans
 
were deeply convinced that all real culture came from western
 
Europe--well, Greece got in there a bit and maybe the
 
Egyptians were allowed to have done a few worthwhile things.
 
But the only intellectual distinctions truly available to
 
Americans came through their absorption of old-world
 
literature, history and values, most people believed.
 
Walt Whitman,  Emerson, Melville, Mark Twain thundered
 
their defenses of the originality and creativity of the new
 
Americans, but the new Americans often didn't believe in it
 
themselves. And I must remind you that the struggle goes on
 
to this day,  expressed in the very real ambivalence most
 
Americans feel about art, as evidenced in part by the
 
continuing problems of the National Endowment for the Arts,
 
where I used to work.
 
Now my father ran into this intellectual barricade
 
early. At the age of 28, he had finally saved enough money to
 
get out of Bosque County to the University of Texas,  and he
 
hit the ground running, as they say, and managed to compress
 
his A. E.  degree into only two years. But before he graduated,
 
0
0
 
9
 
he took his collection of cowboy poetry to a scholar in the
 
University of Texas English Department. As he wrote about the
 
episode later:
 
Timidly I handed Dr. Callaway my roll of dingy
 
manuscript written out in lead pencil and tied
 
together with a cotton string. Courteous and
 
kindly gentleman that he was, he thanked me and
 
promised a report the next day. Alas,  the follow-
ing morning, Dr. Callaway told me that my samples
 
of frontier literature were tawdry,  cheap, and
 
unworthy.  I had better give my attention to the
 
great movements of writing that had come sounding
 
down the ages. There was no possible connection,
 
he said, between the tall tales of Texas and the
 
tall tales of Beowulf. His decision,  exquisitely
 
considerate, was final, absolute. No single crumb
 
of comfort was left to me. I was unwilling to have
 
anyone else see the examples of my folly or know of
 
my disappointment. So that night in the dark, out
 
behind Breckinridge Hall,  the men's dormitory where
 
I lodged,  I made a small bonfire of every scrap of
 
my cowboy songs.
 
For the time being my father abandoned folklore and
 
began making his living as an English teacher at several
 
Texas universities. But he never stopped thinking about it
 
and in fact began learning songs again from his students,
 
many of them country boys in those great days of the free
 
land-grant colleges.
 
Oh,  slow up dogies, quit your roving around
 
You have wandered and trampled all over the ground
 
Oh, graze along dogies and feed kinda slow
 
And don't be forever on the go.
 
Move slow,  little dogies, move slow.
 
10
 
I have circle-herded,  trail-herded,  night-herded
 
too
 
But to keep you together,  that's what I can't Ido,
 
my horse is leg-weary and I
'm awful tiredl
 
But if I let you get away,  I
'm sure to get fired,
 
Bunch up,  little dogies, bunch up.
 
Harry Stevens, a student of my father's at Texas A&M
 
told father he had made that song up night-herding for the
 
Wylie Company in Yellowstone Park.
 Father wrote later,  "One
 
day in the spring of 1909, Harry leaned over the gate of my
 
home and called to me,  '
Professor,  I
've come to say good-bye.
 
Grass is a-rising, and I
've got to move on.'"  They
 
corresponded for some years, but never met again.
 
And years later,  the legendary Harvard scholars Barrett
 
Wendell and George Lyman Kittredge encouraged my father to
 
start over again and endorsed a proposal that he sent off to
 
newspapers across the western states looking for materials
 
that could be put into a "complete collection of the native
 
ballads and songs of the West". This project resulted in his
 
very first book, Cowboy Songs, which was published in 1910
 
with a preface by President Theodore Roosevelt and he ended
 
his manuscript with a fleeting stanza that had been recited
 
to him by a rider on the Diamond A ranch in New Mexico.
 
Oh the cow-puncher loves the whistle of his rope
 
As he races over the plains;
 
And the stage-driver loves the popping of his whip
 
And the rattle of his Concord chains.
 
And we'll all pray the Lord that we will be saved
 
And we'll keep the Golden Rule;
 
But I
'd ruther be at home with the girl I love
 
Than to monkey with this goddamned mule.
 
0
 
11
 
Now that was pretty daring for those days,  and it was
 
certainly far from the lush romantic language of many of the
 
other period songs and poems he collected and printed-- songs
 
like "Home on the Range,"  "Lasca,"  "The Red River Valley."
 
Both poetic styles,  the plain-spoken  and the flowery--
represented for father the authentic voices of the creative,
 
competent,  scantily-educated, but widely-experienced men who
 
were changing the face of the west he loved. All his life,  he
 
wanted to give them a bigger voice,  one that would carry
 
beyond the limits of simple "oral transmission"  (my mouth to
 
your ear),  that would give them the broad-scale audience that
 
he thought they deserved, and that would also provide the
 
whole United States with a creative and passionate vernacular
 
poetry that everyone could not just enjoy but feel proud of.
 
Father wanted people exposed to the real words,  even if
 
sentimental,  even if rough, and the real voices,  even if
 
raucous. And so, when the RCA Victor Company began putting
 
out those marvellous new-fangled Victrolas that could capture
 
sounds and transfer them to incised spiral lines on wax
 
cylinders,  father was one of the first in line, Armed with
 
some Harvard Seldon fellowship moneys, he purchased one of
 
these magical machines, all equipped with a big flaring horn
 
like the one you can still see the dog listening to on the
 
RCA logo.  By the way, when you recorded on one of those
 
cylinder machines, you needed to put your face as far down in
 
the horn as you could get it so as to block out as much
 
ambient noise as possible, and then start to sing.  It was
 
really uncomfortable and kind of unnatural,  and father ran
 
into quite a number of cowpunchers who simply refused to take
 
any part whatever in such a dubious enterprise.
 
Other collectors of course used recording machines too
 
and some of those early cylinders have survived and are at
 
the Folk Archive at the Library of Congress and the Sound
 
Archives at the University of Indiana. But it was such early
 
times. Nobody really knew what they were doing exactly. Not
 
long ago my sister  ( aged 91) remarked to me,  "You know,
 
12
 
honey,  that exhibit we went to see in Washington with those
 
cylinders in it,  it called to mind one time before you were
 
born when we used to have a big old wooden box out on the
 
sleeping porch back in Austin and I remember one day mother
 
went to open it up and it was just a big puddle of melted
 
black wax.  It was awful hot that summer,  and of course we
 
didn't know."  .
But some of the cylinders stayed intact long
 
enough for father to play them for musicians who notated the
 
tunes for him (
he couldn't read music). And when Cowboy Sonas
  
was published in 1910 it was not only John A. Lomax's first
 
book,  it was the first collection of native American folk
 
songs ever printed along with the music of the songs,  even
 
though the publishers would print the music of only eighteen
 
of the hundred or more tunes he had recorded.
 
What happened to the rest of them? Nobody really knows.
 
The cylinders are long since gone,  the papers have been
 
scattered. And that might seem kind of careless, but I should
 
remind you that few people during those early years did their
 
folkioring as a full time profession. Father started out as
 
an unpaid amateur and when he got himself a wife and four
 
children to support,  in a desperate attempt to make some
 
genuine money, he went into banking and did pretty well at it
 
too. During my childhood he wasn't doing folklore, he was
 
vice president of the Republic National Bank in Dallas.
 
The crash of 1929 almost destroyed him psychologically
 
and fiscally. He left his job and tried to recapture some of
 
his old triumphs, undertaking lectures on college campuses
 
all over the country. Already in his early sixties, he
 
negotiated with the Rockefeller Foundation and the Library of
 
Congress and finally began his last major project--to record
 
now the traditional music of the entire south. Overall he
 
produced six books,  several them in co-authorship with his
 
son Alan Lomax.
 
For folkloring in those days was pretty much of a family
 
affair. Everybody had to help out  With a healthy clamorous
 
family to raise,  and without institutional support of any
 
1
1
 
13
 
kind,  father became a warm man with a dollar.  I am sure that
 
every now and again he must have hired a secretary but I
 
don't recall seeing one. What I do recall is seeing him
 
forever at his desk, writing letter after letter,  ten and
 
twenty a day,  in his beautiful Spencerian longhand with a dip
 
pen. Most are long since gone; nobody had time to copy them.
 
For I also recall sitting down at the old family
 
Remington typewriter whenever I came home from college and
 
starting in on the typing--almost always,  copies of the texts
 
of songs that father and Alan were working with. There was no
 
Xerox machine,  then, only me, and any other family member or
 
friend or the odd WPA worker who could be pressed into the
 
never-ending toil of copying, one word at a time, all the
 
hundreds and hundreds of songs, notes,  letters  and
 
manuscripts,  each and every time you needed a copy.  People
 
ask me sometimes where a particular unusual verse in one of
 
father's songs came from and I have a pretty good notion:
 he
 
probably cut it with scissors out of another version somebody
 
else had sent him or that he had collected from another
 
singer and he had pinned it in with a straight pin. There
 
wasn't any scotch tape either.  Mother made beautiful orderly
 
files, my brother tells me, but he and father raided them
 
whenever they needed to.
 
Nowadays contemporary scholars disapprove strongly of
 
father's editing the songs for publication. But he did not
 
have a scholarly audience in mind; he wanted the whole
 
American people to be able to sing the songs themselves and
 
so he put back together any songs that he found in incomplete
 
versions. He never composed a line of them himself, as far as
 
I know--he just pinned the bits and pieces together with
 
those derned pins that stuck you when you picked the pages
 
up.
 
And somehow the work got done and the books got out,  and
 
years later in the 1960's and 70's when I was teaching
 
folklore in California, an occasional student would bring me
 
a tattered copy of the old Cowboy Songs or Songs of the
  
14
 
Cattle Trail and Cow Camo book, and would tell me how much
 
his dad had loved it or that his uncle had left it to him in
 
his will. Because the old-timers kept father's books and
 
referred to them when they forgot the words and they read
 
from them to their children.
 
They had need to try and keep the story straight because
 
by the beginning of the twentieth century,  journalists,
 
novelists,  and showmen of all description,  later including
 
radio and film producers, had decided that the west was where
 
the great American adventures had taken place,  that the big
 
American story was the opening up and settling of the west,
 
and that the cowboy was the heroic figure in the center of
 
all that action and represented what all Americans secretly
 
longed to be. And when the history didn't quite fit,  they
 
began to make it up, and they made up such wonderful creative
 
things that their  
inventions began to seem more real than the
 
history, and a lot of the old time cowpunchers couldn't even
 
recognize themselves when they went to see Tom Mix in the
 
picture show or heard their own songs coming back at them
 
over the radio.
 
Of course, most of the old time cowpunchers had done
 
their own bits of improving reality in their songs and
 
stories. But their songs entered the great stream of cowboy
 
oral transmission and were remembered and forgotten in bits
 
and pieces, put back together again by the next singer,  and
 
then by another until they sometimes became the composition
 
of the many. And I myself think that father was so used to
 
this process that he saw his own editing as just another part
.
 
of it. But there were other forces at work too.
 
You see,  the old cowboy songs were work songs; as a
 
group they came into being because of the nature of the work
 
to be done. And there are two big kinds of songs associated
 
with work,  first,  the work song proper,  the kind that are
 
sung while the work is going on, coordinating or prolonging
 
the effort. The demands of the particular task at hand
 
completely control work songs. The song stops,  for example,
 
15
 
right in the middle if and when the task is done; no one
 
feels it has to be sung to its end,  assuming that it even has
 
one.
 
And then there are songs about work that are typically
 
sung after the job's all done and it's being thought about in
 
tranquility--songs that often glorify the job by telling
 
exciting stories about an accident or a comic event maybe,
 
songs that show how tough and skillful the workers are. These
 
are more formal poetic constructions; some people call them
 
occupational ballads.  "Bury Me Not on the Lone Prairie" is an
 
occupational ballad you might have heard.
 
But because of the nature of trail herding itself, many
 
cowboy songs combined these two types. As father always
 
carefully pointed out,  on the day to day level,  cattle
 
droving was a pretty boring proposition. A trail drive wasn't
 
a race; the whole idea was to get a lot of cows from one
 
place to another in as good physical condition as possible
 
because they were going to be weighed, and you were going to
 
get paid off accordingly, at the end of the trail,  not the
 
beginning. So you moved "kinda slow" most of the time,
 
letting the cattle graze as they went.
 
So the long lonely tedious hours in the saddle often
 
produced long,  lonely tedious songs. In fact one of the
 
criteria for a good old-time cowboy song was simple length.
 
"The Old Chisholm Trail" was of course the hands-down
 
champion in that department. An old-timer who had just sung
 
my father 69 verses of that song without stopping explained
 
that it "was as long as the trail from Texas to Wyoming."
 
Father's own collection eventually numbered more than two
 
hundred verses. As it was indeed the primary song about trail
 
life it had to be trail-long, and its laconic direct
 
detailing of event after event telling you just exactly what
 
happened always makes it for me the realest of all of them:
 
Come along, boys, and listen to my tale
 
I
'll tell you of my troubles on the old Chisholm Trail
 
16
 
Come a ti yi yippy yippy yay, yippy yay
 
come a ti yi yippy, yippy yay.
 
I started up the trail October twenty-third,
 
I started up the trail with the 2-U herd.
 
Cloudy in the west and looking like rain
 
And my damned old slicker's in the wagon again.
 
The wind commenced to blow and the rain began to fall
 
And it looked, by grab,  like we're gonna lose them all.
 
I jumped in the saddle, grabbed hold of the horn
 
I
'm the best damned cowboy ever was born.
 
Well I don't give a damn if they never do stop
 
I
'll ride as long as an eight day clock.
 
Well we herded and we hollered and we done very well
 
Till the boss said, Boys,  just let  '
em go to hell.
 
As you can see,  this is a song that was made for the
 
trail--it could lope along fast or slow, any number of new
 
verses could be fit into its scheme of rhymed couplets,  it
 
could be sung by one person or a group, and it was infinitely
 
expandable,  to fit the length of any ride. A truly classic
 
work song. And at the same time it told one or more stories,
 
like an occupational ballad, with as much detail as the most
 
demanding audience could wish for. One of my grandchildren
 
required it as his bedtime song for years, not just because
 
it was so long,  I think, but because it was so interesting.
 
And he always made me tell him about the dogies. An old-
timer once defined the word "dogie" for father as a new-born
 
calf "whose mammy was dead and his pappy had run off with
 
another cow." The baby trail-born calves were indeed a
 
special responsibility of the punchers on the drives;  since
 
17
 
mother's milk was not available to these orphans they had to
 
eat grass before their digestive systems had matured. Their
 
bellies swelled and they staggered along at the end of the
 
herd,
 prey for coyotes and buzzards. The cowboys called them
 
little "dough-guts", and talked and sang to them and about
 
them constantly--"Roll on,  little dogies,  roll on"--every now
 
and again even picking one up and carrying him horseback for
 
a ways.
 
Whoopie ti yi yo, get along you little dogies
 
It's your misfortune and none of my own
 
Whoopie ti yi yo, get along, you little dogies
 
For you know Wyoming will be your new home.
 
For me that was always the great one,  the single most
 
beautiful cowboy song that ever was. And my brother, Alan
 
Lomax, has traced its long journey and many changes from an
 
ancient Irish lullaby that the old ladies of Cork say was the
 
one that Mary sang to rock the baby to sleep; he tells all
 
about it in Folk Songs of North America, if you want to look
 
it up.
 
For whatever songs the cowboys already knew were grist
 
for their creative mills; they changed old songs around and
 
borrowed tunes or never bothered with tunes at all,  just sort
 
of hollered or chanted verses ad lib--who cared? Being on the
 
trail was like being on a baseball field, when every player
 
is supposed to put up a line of chatter,  to help keep the
 
action lively and spirits high and,  incidentally,  to keep
 
everyone aware of just where everybody else is. And there is
 
clear historical testimony that American cowmen who sang out
 
got jobs quicker and kept them longer than the more silent
 
types.
 
The cows seemed to like the singing too,  although I have
 
heard present-day musicians scoff at the idea that cattle
 
have anything resembling musical taste. But old time
 
cattlemen talked about singing to the cattle almost the same
 
18
 
I
V
 
way current teenagers justify playing music during homework
 
hours--both groups claim that music covers up potentially
 
disturbing ambient sounds. Here's how father said the night
 
herding yodelling sounded, not a bit Swiss style, more of a
 
crooning and calming sound, way up in the women's range:
 
Whoo -
 00  -
 00  -
-
 00
 
And certainly other peoples in the world who handle
 
large animals--from the milkmaids of the British Isles to the
 
cattle herders of central Africa--work their herds while
 
singing.
 
And so Irish tunes turned up in the American cowboy stew
 
(
they just sang what they already knew) along with African
 
American and Spanish songs,  for the cowpunching population
 
was polyglot: there were southern red-necks,  ex-slaves,  south
 
of the border Spanish speakers, English remittance men,
 
Mormons,  sod-busters, New England adventurers.  Father took
 
down both "Home on the Range," and the classic "Sam Bass"
 
from black trail hands; people used to think that was comical
 
when I said it, but it was true..
 
And now what has happened to this stream of song,  and
 
what has happened to the cowboys since their brief glorious
 
star burst over the western plains?  They have survived. They
 
have changed.
 
Cattle are still raised for beef, and experienced men
 
and women are still required to handle them;  they do not
 
raise themselves. They even require occasional herding from
 
point to point,  although I have heard of ranches in Hawaii
 
where the paniolos  (
Hawaiian cowboys) use mini-motorbikes
 
instead of horses.  I did see a group of young paniolos having
 
a round of beer in a roadside cafe on the big island,  all of
 
them poking hilarious fun at one of their number who was
 
solid mud from his Stetson to his boots. Apparently you can
 
still get throwed,  even off a motor bike.
 
19
 
It's even more striking how the songs have survived--and
 
changed. The first and most fundamental change was that
 
people began accompanying them with musical instruments. You
 
may have noticed I didn't bring along my guitar this morning.
 
Old time trail drivers didn't either; when they were singing
 
work songs,  they were busy.  I never heard of a cowpuncher
 
taking a guitar on the trail; there was the rare fiddle
 
stashed in the chuck wagon--fiddles are small,  light-weight--
but never the guitar, although many Mexican American
 
cattlemen undoubtedly played at the ranch-house. The multiple
 
forms of the guitar developed in Mexico now sound not just in
 
Hawaii but all around the world.
 
But when cowboy songs began routinely to be sung with
 
accompanying instruments,  they underwent a fundamental
 
change. It turned them from work songs into occupational
 
songs, and that undoubtedly had to happen--when the work
 
pattern changes,  there is no longer need for the work song.
 
But then the insatiable demands of the music industry  (
as
 
opposed to the cattle industry) began to be applied and
 
gradually the pickers and grinners took over; you had to be
 
able to play or at least harmonize to sing a cowboy song in
 
public, and the way you sang or played it had to fit the
 
current tastes of the professional music-mongers. Cowboy
 
singing became less and less associated with southwestern
 
ranches and more and more with Hollywood and Tin Pan Alley.
 
But another fascinating thing happened too. As I have
 
already said, not all the cowboy songs were actually sung.
 
Many of them didn't really exactly have tunes but tended to
 
be chanted or recited.
 
Most of the cowpunchers during the trail driving days
 
had been educated,  insofar as they had been,  in the one-room
 
country school houses of the period, where a single teacher
 
exposed a group of mixed-age children to learning, armed only
 
with a few readers and a few slates. Oral recitation
 
therefore was frequent,and necessary,  for there were not
 
enough books, memorization was highly regarded,  and elocution
 
20
 
courses were offered in college. Local entertainments
 
featured the recitation of classic poetry, or sections from
 
great public addresses, and original poems that had been
 
composed in honor of the occasion.  So today we know the real
 
names of many cowboy authors; lots of them wrote poems or
 
songs themselves. There was nothing special about that in
 
those times.
 
And do you know,  to this day,  there still isn't? I
 
firmly believe that every single American has at some time or
 
another written at least one poem;  it certainly is one of the
 
first things we all think of to do when something
 
unimaginable happens.  I understand that the broadcast
 
stations of the nation were flooded with poems written by
 
anguished citizens immediately after the Kennedy and King
 
assasinations. And even if we're too shy to admit writing
 
poems, we still love them; the number of wallets that contain
 
a tightly folded copy of  '
The Shooting of Dan McGrew" or
 
another favorite classic poem suitable for taking out and
 
reading aloud--well,  I believe to this day there are still
 
lots of them around.
 
And nowadays,  in line with our tendency to organize
 
everything, you can go to Cowboy Gatherings and listen to the
 
fellows reciting their poetry, always from memory. They go on
 
for days,  these events;  it's like being back in Homer's time
 
where the bards fill you in on what's been going on and
 
remind you of the glories of the past. The grand-daddy of
 
these remarkable events, of course,  takes place in Elko,
 
Nevada, where we are right now, every January,  smack in the
 
middle of winter when people can take time off from their
 
ranch jobs. The Oregon poet,  Kim Stafford, had this to say
 
about it all.
 
I
've come to watch all year for that first sight of Elko
 
at dusk,  late January,  that distant neon ruby glittering
 
like a star, as I come down south off Doby Summit.  I
 
know I
'll soon be treated to round after round of poems
 
0 
21
 
and stories--voices to teach me the pleasures of
 
solitude and the raw work of hoof and hand. When the
 
poets get started, rhymes in the poems stand like
 
streetlights every half block along Idaho Street,  every
 
little light earned like a season's wage. An old fellow
 
at Capriola's told me last winter,  "Son, you can have
 
more fun in Elko by accident than you can anywhere else
 
on purpose, because you can do anything you're big
 
enough to get away with, and after a couple drinks you
 
feel pretty damn big in this town!" I knew he'd said
 
that many times. His stating of it had the polish of
 
old leather braid. And the rhymes I heard at the
 
Gathering, yes,  I could predict them, but that didn't
 
dull their pleasure. When you lift the coffee cup to
 
your lips for the tenth time on a cold day, you get so
 
you can predict its bitter kiss, but that doesn't make
 
you ever want to stop.
 
I remember one rhyme at the end of a poem about an
 
old dog,  the kind of good dog you remember and brag
 
about. As the reciter came cantering slower toward the
 
poem's end, we could see the glow of that last rhyme
 
like moonrise over the horizon and then it was there.
 
And now I walk these hills alone.
 
The tough lady editor beside me ran out of Kleenex then,
 
and I had a little trouble myself.
 
Woody Guthrie would have liked that piece that Kim
 
Stafford wrote. Father always said that woody was the best
 
cowboy song singer of the modern times, and I think I know
 
why Woody never worried about seeing that corny old-timey
 
rhyme cantering up over the horizon; he wanted you to face
 
that rhyme in all its human inevitability. He wanted you to
 
hear and understand the shared humanity of the story it was
 
bringing you.
 
22
 
I once had a student who chose Woody Guthrie as the
 
subject of his term paper, but it turned out that he had just
 
heard about Woody, he had never heard any of his recordings.
 
So I said he had better give them a listen and he did and
 
returned all upset.  "I just don't like his recordings, Mrs.
 
Hawes;  I sing some of his songs myself and I thought I would
 
like them, but I really don't. So what do I do now?"
 
I suggested that he give it another week. You have met
 
another human being, warts and all, when you hear Woody. He
 
played a totally straight-forward unornamented guitar in a
 
totally straight-forward unornamented way,  sometimes getting
 
on to a chord and not changing it for the entire song. That
 
takes some stamina to listen to,  I
'll admit, but after a
 
while you begin to take to it. And Woody sang the way cowboys
 
used to sing,  father said, without guile or seductiveness- -
flat out,  tense, masculine,  serious, often strained. Cowboys
 
used to bawl and holler,  father said.
 
Well, my student finally came back and told me that in
 
desperation he had tried playing Woody with the volume turned
 
way low so that it would fade into the background and my
 
student could kind of be exposed to the music subliminally.
 
And he said to me in despair,  "But that didn't work either,
 
Mrs. Hawes. Woody just wouldn't let me not listen to him.  I
 
had to turn up the volume and pay attention if I was going to
 
listen at all."
 
That's the great ballad style,  the narrative voice that
 
cuts away everything extraneous to the story that's being
 
told and tells it to you in a way that makes you listen. My
 
brother Alan's cross-cultural research shows that this is one
 
of the great vocal styles of the planet and that it has moved
 
around the globe in rough alignment with the herders of big
 
animals,  the horsemen,  the men and women who have daring and
 
important stories to tell. We in the United States are lucky
 
to have hosted it in our western states. And I think we are
 
also lucky that my father, along with the other intrepid
 
folklorists of his day and later, was there to record it in
 
23
 
its classic development,  for it is no longer there in the old
 
way nor will it ever be exactly again. But who knows what
 
musicians and singers of tomorrow may take inspiration from
 
these spare, beautiful and rugged songs?  Today as we
 
struggle to help maintain the variety of natural life around
 
the planet, we must concern ourselves also with the support
 
of cultural variety while we can still catch the echoes of
 
these varied musical systems, and hear them speaking to our
 
deepest hearts.
 
If there is one thing I hope you will remember from this
 
morning it is that the voices and skills of people--like
 
cowboys--who are generally not counted as professional
 
artists, are worth paying attention to. But they often need
 
more than that--they need help--all of you have in your home
 
states remarkable and well trained people who know how to
 
help keep alive and vibrant the traditional repertoires and
 
skills that tell you when you've reached home at last,  the
 
kind of thing my father helped start all those years ago.
 
Those people and their work deserve your support and your
 
applause;  some people call them folklorists,  some call them
 
state folk arts coordinators, and you have a wonderful
 
example of the kind of work they can do right here in Elko at
 
the Western Folklife Center and the Cowboy Poetry Gathering..
 
A small amount of federal money matched by a small number of
 
state dollars has been going to their support and to cover
 
the expenses of folklorists , work, but that's all likely
 
being wiped out right this minute in current economy drives.
 
I really hope we all can stop thinking about our own personal
 
taxes for a just a minute or two and start figuring out ways
 
to keep these dedicated people at their jobs, not just here
 
in Elko, but across the nation. Your children and your grand-
children will thank you for it.
 
11/94
 
Cowboy Poetry and Song:  Collecting and Recollecting
 
When I first acc e
p t e d t
h e  kind 
 
invit a t i o n
 
o f the
 
University .  
Co
l
o
r a d o 
 
.  
co
m
e
 
he
r
e
 a
n d
 m
a ke
 
th o
u g h t 
i t 
w
o u l
d 
b e
 
•
 b it
 
o
f
 •  
la rk
. 
fa th e r's 
 
•
_
 
ha
d 
l
e ctur e
d
 a
b o u t
 c
o w b o y
p
oetry
 
•
 S  
s o n g s 
a ll
 
thr o
u g h 
- 
we st
e rn st
a
t
e s .
th o
u g ht 
 
mi g
h t
b e
 
•
 S
 •
 S
 
ch a ll e ng
e ,
 
t
o 
r
e view
 
fo
r  
-
 •
 
he
 .. 
d
one a
n d  h
ow
 
had ma
n a
g e d 
i t
 a
l l
 
•
 •
 S
 t
i m
e
 
• • S
 
I
 c
o u l d  m
a
y
be
 
ma
k e  my
 
ta lk
 
•
 b
i t
 o
f
 .  
testimo
n y 
t
o  m
y 
c
a nt a nk e
r o
u s ,
 
•
 S
 e
v
e r 
 
co
u r a geo
u s 
•
 _  
th o
u g h t ,
 
•
 S  m
a
y
be
 
a l s o 
s p ea k
 
b
i t
 a
b o u t 
w
h a t
h a s
 
ha
p p e n e d
 s i n c e  his 
 
d
a y 
•
 S
 
But wh a t
 I
 h
a d
 f o rg
o t t e n
 
wa s just
 
ho
w
 l o
n g
 • • S
 
h
i s
 
S .
 
•
 S
 t i
m e
 
wa s .
 
I n  p
r e p a r i n g
 
t
a lk I
 
fo
u n d  myself 
 
needin g  t
o
 
e
xp
l a in 
 
S 
p
r e se nt- d
a y
 l i s t e n e r s 
t
h _  
situ a ti o
n 
o
f 
p eo
p l e
 
S
 
I never 
-  
d ir e c t l y
-  
b
e ca
u s e
 
- y were even 
 
be
f o
r e  
-
 S 
h
e
r
e 
.
 S  
s
q u a r e ly
 
b etw e
en 
 
S 
s e p a r a ted
 
g e n e
r
ati o
n s ,
 
a rmed,
 
re
a lly,
 
no t h i n g
 b
u t
 •
 -
 
st o
r i e s
,
 
thin g s
 
-  
he
a
r d
 s e
c o
n d -
h
a n d
 
But  I g
u e ss 
 
th a
t 
-
 
cl a s s i c
•
 S
 p
o s i t i on.
 
We
 
co
l l e ct 
 
•
 S  w
e
 
re -c o
l l e ct  
 
(r e
c o
l l e c t ? )
, 
p eo
p
l
e tell us
 
thin g s
,
 
we
 
te ll
 
-
 S . 
w
e 'v e
 
e
v
en 
 
• . -  
u
p
 •  
nin e -d
o llar
 
na
m
e
 
fo
r
 
-  
p
r o c e ss 
 
"o
r a l
 t
r a nsmissi o
n "
,
w
e  call it.  This
 
p hr a se  
 
st a
n d s 
S
 
t
he
 
p
r in
c ip
a l 
•  
thr o
u gh
 
tr a
d i t i ona l
 
. - • 
•
 S  m
a
t
e ri a l s
s u r viv
e
 a
n d
 s p r e a d 
o ut like
 
•
 -  
co s
m i c
g a m e
 
o
f "G
o s s i p "
 
o
v e r 
 
va st
 
q
u a ntiti e s
 
 
o
f
 
S .
 - 
•
 S
 t
i
m e
 
with o
u t
e
v
e r 
 
ha vin g  t
o
 b
e 
f o r m a lly
 
va li d
a t e d  o r
 
o
f  b
y 
a
n y 
S
 a
b o u t
 t
h a t
 
f o
minute;  it's 
r
 
S
 r
e
a liz e
 
ho
w
 s t r o n g
 •
 S
 h
o w t
otally
 
unst o
p p a b l e
 
.  
p
r o c e ss 
 
P ro
b a b l y
e
v
e ry b
o d y
 i
n 
t
h i s
 r 5 5
 a s k e d  y o u
 w
h a t
5 5
 
yo
u
 
. 
w
h e n
 
yo
u 
s e
e 
-  first 
 
•  
co
m e
 
o
u t
 a t
 
ni g
h t ,
S 
S
 
•
 -
 -  
sa
m
e
 
re s
p
ons e
.
 
 
S 
t
a
u
ght
 
S 
S u ?
 H
o w  d
i d y ou
 
le
a rn
 
. S
 y
o u 
r
e
m
e
m
ber
 
o
v e r
 
a l l
 
-
 -
 
ye
a rs
 
- 
2
 
you really don' t  say it very often? Could you forget  it  if
 
you tried? Think how many things you would rather know than
 
Starlight  starbright
 But there  it  is  irrevocably stuck in
 
your brain,  and taking up valuable room too.  And you learned
 
it through oral transmission -
 somebody said it to you and
 
you remembered it;  your brain caught hold of it,  probably at
 
first hearing,  and refused to let  it go.
 
When I was teaching,  one of my students wrote on a quiz:
 
"Oral transmission is a process of mouth to ear
 
resuscitation" and I gave him an A.  because he had captured
 
the vitality of the whole transaction.  You see,  if  I am lucky
 
enough tonight to articulate  just one or two ideas or phrases
 
that  stay with you past the moment,  it will be because you
  
have injected the vigor of the contents of your own head into
 
my remarks,  and bits of the two have sort of stuck together.
 
What we learn,  especially about the past,  is not pale and
 
passive;  it  is  full of red blood and excitement and meaning
 
and that  is why it  stays alive in our memories.  But we must
 
summons our energies to meet  it  so as to remember it,  so as
 
to let these connections take place,  illuminating the present
 
as well as the  long ago.
 
I am 73 years old.  I was born in  1921 when my father was
 
54.  By the time  I got to know him,  he was more like a
 
grandfather to me.  He was born in 1867  -
-
 one and a quarter
 
centuries ago.
 
American history is  really so short.  I remember once at
 
the Library of Congress  listening to a 1940  field recording
 
of an old Virginia gentleman singing "The Ram of Derby",  an
 
ancient  lying jokey ballad about an enormous  sheep,  each
 
verse telling a bigger whopper than the one before.  And the
 
old gentleman singing it  stopped and laughed and said "You
 
know,  my grand-daddy always used to say that George
 
Washington helt him on his knee and sung him that old song
 
when he was  just a little un." And I thought to myself,
 
"Well,  you old liar," but  later  I realized,  counting back,  it
 
was  just possible within the four generations,  counting mine.
 
3
 
And then,  whether he decorated things up or not,  that
 
old gentleman was certainly a better rememberer than I am;
 
indeed,  most country folks are.  For me,  the past  isn't a step
 
by step progression,  it's a series of pictures,  kind of
 
lightning flashes,  generally out of order but almost always
 
accompanied by the stormy feelings of the child I was.  And
 
that's kind of a western metaphor I hit on there,  isn't  it?
 
Westerners,  you know,  like all people who are outdoors a lot,
 
care about the weather and think about  it and use it in their
 
everyday language.  My father often used to end his cowboy
 
song lectures with a isolated verse whose origin I don't know
 
but  I can still hear his voice saying it:
 
I' ve been where the  lightning,  the lightning
 
Tangled in my eyes;
 
The cattle  I could scarcely hold;
 
I think I heard my boss-man say,
 
"I want all brave-hearted men
 
who ain't afraid to die
 
To whoop the cattle from morning till night
 
Way up on the Kansas  line."
 
Oh boy,  that was the stuff to feed the troops.  I remember
 
roars of applause from his young college audiences of the 20s
 
and 30s,
 as  I sat there in the dark,  thrilled to be let stay
 
up beyond my bedtime with the grown-ups.  And I remember
 
Leadbelly singing out on our side porch in Austin:
 
When I was a cowboy out on the western plains
 
When I was a cowboy out on the western plains
 
I could rope a streak of lightning
 
And ride a shower of rain.
 
Come a cow cow yicky,
 
Come a cow cow yicky yicky yay.
 
Lots of black singers  in Texas  in those days  sang cowboy
 
songs;  lots of black Texans worked on ranches.  And,  by the
 
way,  I just  sang that verse to you myself to try to begin to
 
give you the feeling that  lots of people actually used to
 
rear back and sing and many still do,  requiring neither a
 
4
 
trained voice,  an instrument,  a stage,  a silent audience,  nor
 
an electrical outlet to plug into.
 
Well,  I' m already getting ahead of things.  Let me  start
 
again -
 back with my father,  John A.  Lomax.  He was born,  the
 
last of seven children,  in the Black River country of west
 
central Mississippi in 1867,  a century and a quarter ago.
 
When he was two years old,  his  family loaded all their
 
possessions  into two wagons,  one pulled by two mules named
 
Jack and Fan,  and the other by two oxen named Bright and
 
Berry,  and they all started out on the  five hundred mile
 
trail for east Texas.  They bought timbered land there on th
 
edge of the Bosque River,  near a spot which was to be a
 
fording place on one of the south-eastern branches of the
 
Chisholm Trail.  And they built a two-room log cabin and
 
settled in to raise children and wheat,  corn and chickens,
 
long-horned cows,  cotton,  and horses.
 
In my father's autobiography,  "Adventures of a Ballad
 
Hunter" -
-
 which I recommend to you,  by the way,  it's really
 
a wonderful book -
-
 he described waking up in the night as a
 
little boy and hearing cowpunchers,  camped for the night down
 
by the Basque River,  joking and singing and telling stories.
 
And I think  I remember him telling me how he would sneak out
 
of the house sometimes and creep through the bushes in the
 
dark night until he could get closer and hear them better,
 
but  I can't  find that  in his writings now,  so maybe I made it
 
up.  But  I do know that at that time he did a really
 
remarkable thing:  he began,  when he was  just a little boy,  to
 
write down the words of the songs he heard the men singing so
 
that he wouldn't  forget them.  We'll come back to that  later.
 
He  loved to tell stories about his life in Basque County
 
and he told them well,  but what he used to tell about with
 
the greatest affection,  it  seems to me now,  were the
 
tournaments that were then the high point of any local
 
celebration,  bringing together people ordinarily scattered
 
all across Bosque County.
 
5
 
Tournaments were Texas re-creations of an ante-bellum
 
southern custom in which mounted riders carrying six foot
 
lances would thunder down a two hundred yard track,  each
 
trying to spear all twelve of the small brass rings that hung
 
from poles along the way,  Each rider wore the be-ribboned
 
favor of a local young lady;  each one had curvetted his horse
 
in special tricks before the crowd as his name was called by
 
the master of ceremonies -
-
George Scrutchfield,  The Knight  of the Golden Spur
 
Johnny Rundell,  The Knight of the Lost Cause
 
Ed McCurry,  The Knight of the Morning Star
 
Bob Hanna,  The Knight of the Slim Chance
 
The winner,  father said,  crowned his  lady love before all the
 
spectators and then together they would
 
started afterwards on the platform back
 
Now,  though father clearly had had
 
ladies,  it was the horsemanship and the
 
riders he talked about most.  And it was
 
became so taken with those hard-bitten,
 
lead the dance that
 
of the  judges'  stand.
 
an eye for the fair
 
skill of the young
 
possibly then that he
 
skillful,  rowdy,
 
adventurous,  to him really romantic young men,  many of them
 
vanishing up the long trail that he was too young and too
 
burdened with responsibilities to then follow.
 
Now,  it's time to remind you a little bit about that
 
Chisholm Trail and the whole era of the cattle drives and why
 
they happened where they did and faded away when they did
 
hope you won't be insulted.  I may have been living with
 
tenderfeet  in the east too long but generally I find that
 
almost everybody needs to be reminded a bit about that hazy
 
and complex period over which Americans have fantasized for
 
so  long.
 
Here is how my father,  writing in 1910,  began to
 
describe  it:
 
From 1870 to 1890 one million mustang ponies
 
and twelve million head of longhorn cattle
 
were driven up the trails  from Texas to
 
market  in Kansas,  Wyoming,  Montana,  and other
 
6
 
western states.  The herds numbered usually
 
from one thousand to three thousand,  though at
 
times as many as  five thousand cattle
 
made up a single trail herd.  Behind and around
 
and ahead of each bunch of cattle rode a group
 
of men,  mostly very young,  bold,  youthful
 
Vikings of the  seas of sage grass through
 
which they pushed their way.  They came to be
 
known as cowboys -
-
 the boys who take care of
 
the cows  (from the Spanish "vaquero" and
 
"vaca".
 
Where did all these cows  come from?
 J.  Frank Dobie,  in
 
his great book  "The Longhorns" tells us that Columbus,  on his
 
second voyage in 1493,  landed cattle in Santo Domingo and in
 
the next years their offspring were shipped throughout the
 
developing Caribbean,  Cortez himself stocking a hacienda in
 
Cuba and importing cattle from it to his estate in Mexico,
 
which he had named Cuernavaca  (Cow Horn) .
 In  1540,  the
 
explorer Coronado assembled more than 500 hundred head of
 
cattle,  as well as  sheep and hogs,  and drove them along on
 
his great expedition north of the Rio Grande as  feed for his
 
troops.  Fighting and breeding bulls were imported to the new
 
world from Spain and exhibited at local mission fiestas
 
throughout the  16th and 17th centuries.  Actually,  wherever
 
the Spanish went,  they took cattle and horses,  a good number
 
of which escaped or were left behind as too exhausted to
 
continue on the  long marches throughout the southwest.
 
So,  since the Spanish,  like most  colonials,  kept most of
 
their male animals uncastrated,  small populations of wild
 
cattle began to develop across the vast empty grasslands of
 
Texas and Louisiana,  and California as well,  In 1767 a French
 
traveller crossing Texas observed "horned cattle,  originally
 
tame,  that  long since became wild and now roam in large herds
 
all over the plain,"  (actually more accurately all over the
 
brushy country east of the Pecos) .
 They were frequently
 
7
 
rounded up and sold for hides and tallow;  essentially they
 
were considered game animals.
 
But  after the establishment of the Republic of Texas,
 
the ever - increasing colonization of the southwest by English
 
speakers brought with it an increase in large animal
 
ranching,  for newcomers could claim much more land if they
 
declared their intention was to ranch rather than to farm.
 
And Texas was,  according to many,  "the best  stock country in
 
the world" with grass that was green almost the year round.
 
Cattle multiplied on the ranches and in the wild until  local
 
prices dropped to less than five dollars an animal in the
 
mid-nineteenth century.  And at the same time exploding
 
population markets  in the northeast  following the Civil War
 
were offering ten times as much for a steer on the hoof.
 
The problem was clear for southwestern ranchers.  The
 
cattle had to be got north and at that time,  there was only
 
one way.  They had to walk.  As they had walked from Mexico up
 
to Texas  in the centuries before,  now they had to walk from
 
Texas to Kansas.  The Kansas Pacific railroad line which had
 
connections  into Chicago  (
soon to become  "Hog and Steer
 
Butcher for the world")  eventually chose to build cattle
 
shipping stations  in Abilene Kansas and by 1880 five million
 
cattle had been shipped to market  from Abilene and another
 
five million trailed north to stock the western ranges.
 
Texas,  cattlemen said,  had the best breeding grounds;  but the
 
lush summer grasses of Montana,  Wyoming and Colorado were
 
more nutritious  for fattening the growing animals.
 
It was all over before the turn of the century.  It only
 
lasted for about twenty years,  really,  from about  1870 to
 
1890 give or take a bit on either end.  As unclaimed lands
 
fell into new and profit - hungry hands,  ranges once open were
 
fenced;  trail routes were cut;  and newly built roads and
 
railroad lines made lengthy drives economically unprofitable.
 
The whole panorama -
-
 the great  cattle drives like rivers of
 
living animals,  the fabled longhorn steers who "could walk to
 
Hell and back again",  the young knights of the Slim Chance
 
8
 
and the Golden Spurs,  the  frontier towns where the money they
 
earned on the long trail vanished too soon -
-
 all faded away
 
or settled down or maybe  just began to seem every day and
 
sometimes a bit grungy even.
 
But  it made a great  story,  one from which Americans -
-
shoot,  from which the people of the entire world -
-
 are still
 
drawing excitement,  romance and vitality.  And the primary
 
authors of that  story -
-
 no matter how much it was changed
 
later -
-
 were the cowboys,  the vaqueros,  the expert herders
 
and animal husbandry men who my father described in the
 
romantic language of his day,  so common and so subtly true,
 
as  "bold youthful Vikings of the  seas of sage grass".  My
 
brother Alan,  writing from the perspective of 75 years  late
 
saw the cowboys differently.  "These anonymous,  badly pain
 
hired hands,  who lived hard and usually died poor,  serveci
 
unpaid irregular cavalry in the  long and cruel struggle
 
during which the United States  snatched western lands away
 
from its  Indians and Mexican inhabitants." When we look back,
 
it  is important,  I think,  to keep both of these perspectives
 
in mind.  And most of all to keep on listening to the cowboys
 
themselves:  their songs,  their recitations,  and thankfully
 
the  several autobiographies  some left behind. (
"We Pointed
 
Them North" by Teddy Blue  (E.C.  Abbott)  is a great one.)
 
I'll sing you a song though it'll be a sad one
 
Of trials and troubles and where first begun
 
I left my dear parents,  my friends and my home
 
Across the wide mountains  and valleys to roam.
 
I travelled out west and I joined a large train
 
Which carried me over valleys and rivers and plains
 
And often of an evening a-hunting we' d go
 
To shoot the fleet antelope and the wild buffalo.
 
That was the voice of Mr.  Alec Moore,  an ex-cowboy
 
and in his eighties when father recorded him in the early 40s
 
in Austin,  Texas where he  sold ice cream on a stick out of a
 
9
 
small  ice  chest  fastened to the handlebars of his ancient
 
bicycle.  Kind of a come-down for an old cow-puncher but the
 
local children adored him.
 
Today whenever  I read a book about that era -
-
 and
 
there's about a billion of them -
-
 it's rare to come across
 
an author who doesn't  say something about  "the romantic
 
stereotype of the cowboy",  "the west that never was",  "the
 
mythic past of the cattle drives" and things  like that.  But  I
 
grew up around my father,  who was  indeed a romantic of
 
deepest dye -
-
 he used to read aloud to us every night:
 
Shakespeare and Alfred Lord Tennyson and Charles Dickens and
 
his  favorite poet,  Robert Browning -
-
 and his voice would
 
husk up at the  sad parts.  And he wrote gushy old-timey love
 
letters to my mother and long after her death courted my
 
stepmother with roses and gallantry,  But he believed in
 
letting the cowboys  speak for themselves.
 
Look at his books.  The poetry -
 with occasional music
 
notation added -
 stares  stark and bare up from the pages of
 
his two earliest cowboy collections.  There's nothing to do
 
with those books but  read the language as  it was  spoken and
 
as  father wrote  it down.
 
I said earlier that he had begun to write down the songs
 
he heard the cowpunchers  sing when he was  just a little boy.
 
But what  I didn't  say then was how almost unheard of such a
 
thing was at the time.
 Educated nineteenth century Americans
 
were deeply convinced that all real culture was essentially
 
European -
-
 well,  Greece got  in there a bit and maybe the
 
Egyptians were allowed to have done a few worthwhile things
 
But the only intellectual distinctions truly available to
 
Americans  came through their absorption of old-world
 
literature,  history and values,  most people believed.
 
Walt Whitman,  Emerson,  Melville,  Mark Twain all
 
thundered their defenses of the originality and creativity of
 
the new Americans,  but the new Americans often didn't really
 
believe in it themselves.  And I must remind you that the
 
struggle goes on to this day,  expressed in the very real
 
7
 
10
 
ambivalence most Americans  feel about art.  One of the
 
continuing problems of the National Endowment for the Arts,
 
for which I used to work,  is not  so much the occasional
 
inappropriate grant but the enormous number of Americans who
 
wonder in their heart of hearts why in tarnation do we go
 
spending public money on highbrow tom-foolery like we do?
 
It's an old American line of thought.
 
Now my father ran into this intellectual barricade
 
early.  At the age of 28,  he had finally saved enough money to
 
get to the University of Texas,  and he hit the ground
 
running,  as they say,  and managed to compress his A.B.  degree
 
into only two years.  But before he graduated,  he had taken
 
his  collection of cowboy poetry to a scholar in the
 
University of Texas English Department.  As he wrote about the
 
episode later:
 
Timidly I handed Dr.  Callaway my roll of dingy
 
manuscript written out  in lead pencil and tied
 
together with a cotton string.  Courteous and
 
kindly gentleman that he was,  he thanked me and
 
promised a report the next day.  Alas,  the follow-
ing morning,  Dr.  Callaway told me that my samples
 
of frontier literature were tawdry,  cheap,  and
 
unworthy.  I had better give my attention to the
 
great movements of writing that had come sounding
 
down the ages.  There was no possible connection,
 
he  said,  between the tall tales of Texas and the
 
tall tales of Beowulf.  His decision,  exquisitely
 
considerate,  was  final,  absolute.  No single crumb
 
of comfort was  left to me.  I was unwilling to have
 
anyone else see the examples of my folly or know of
 
my disappointment.  So that night  in the dark,  out
 
behind Breckinridge Hall,  the men's dormitory where
 
I lodged,  I made a small bonfire of every scrap of
 
my cowboy songs.
 
For the time being he abandoned folklore and began
 
making his  living as  an English teacher at  several Texas
 
k
 
 
I
 
11
 
universities.  But he never stopped thinking about  it and in
 
fact began learning songs again from his  students,  many of
 
them country boys in those great days of the  free  land-grant
 
colleges.
 
Oh slow up dogies,  quit your roving around
 
You have wandered and trampled all over the ground
 
Oh,  graze along dogies and feed kinda slow
 
And don't be forever on the go.
 
Move slow,  little dogies,  move slow.
 
I
' ve circle-herded,  trail-herded,  night-herded too
 
But to keep you together,  that's what  I can't do
 
My horse  is leg-weary and I' m awful tired
 
But  if I let you get away,  I' m sure to get  fired,
 
Bunch up,  little dogies,  bunch up.
 
Harry Stephens,  a student of my father's at Texas A & M
 
told father he had made that song up night-herding for the
 
Wylie Company in Yellowstone Park.  Father wrote later,  "One
 
day in the spring of  1909,  Harry leaned over the gate of my
 
home and called to me,  'Professor,  I' ve come to say good-bye'
 
Grass  is a-rising,  and I' ve got to move on. "  They
 
corresponded for some years,  but never met again.
 
Years  later,  the legendary Harvard scholars
 Barrett
 
Wendell and George Lyman Kittredge encouraged my father to
 
start over again and endorsed a proposal that he sent off to
 
newspapers across the western states looking for materials
 
that could be put  into a "complete collection of the native
 
ballads and songs of the West".The last paragraph of his
 
appeal was characteristic:
 
May I add that the ballads and the like which,
 
because of crudity,  incompleteness,  coarseness,  or
 
for any other reason are unavailable for publica-
tion,  will be as  interesting and as useful for my
 
purposes as others of more merit.  It is my desire
 
to collect the  songs and ballads now or lately in
 
12
 
actual existence and in the precise  form which they
 
have popularly assumed.
 
Father believed very literally in the voice of the
 
people and if it was  crude or rough it was all right with
 
him.  Of course,  at that time,  publishers wouldn't print all
 
of it,  but he took lots of chances,  and in his very firs
 
book,  "Cowboy Songs",  published in 1910 with a preface by
 
President  Theodore Roosevelt,  he ended his manuscript with a
 
fleeting stanza that had been recited to him by a rider on
 
the Diamond A ranch in New Mexico.
 
Oh the cow-puncher loves the whistle of his  rope
 
As he races over the plains;
 
And the stage-driver loves the popping of his whip
 
And the rattle of his Concord chains.
 
And we'll all pray the Lord that we will be saved
 
And we'll keep the Golden Rule;
 
But  I' d ruther be at home with the girl  I love
 
Than to monkey with this goddamned mule.
 
Now that was pretty daring for those days,  and it was
 
certainly far from the lush romantic language of many of the
 
other period songs and poems he collected and printed-- songs
 
like Home On the Range,  Lasca,  the Red River Valley.  Both
 
poetic styles,  the flowery and the plain-spoken
 -
-
represented for father the authentic voices of these
 
competent,  scantily-educated,  but widely-experienced men who
 
were changing the face of the west he  loved.  All his  life,  he
 
wanted to give them a bigger voice,  one that would carry
 
beyond the limits of simple "oral transmission"  (my mouth to
 
your ear),  that would give them the broad-scale audience that
 
he thought they deserved,  and that would also provide the
 
whole United States with a creative and passionate vernacular
 
poetry that everyone could not  just enjoy but feel proud of.
 
Father wanted people exposed to the real words,  even if
 
sentimental,  even if rough,  and the real voices,  even if
 
raucous.  And so,  when the RCA Victor Company began putting
 
out those marvellous new-fangled victrolas that could capture
 
1
4
 
13
 
sounds and transfer them to incised spiral lines on wax
 
cylinders,  father was one of the  first  in line,  Armed with
 
some Harvard Seldon fellowship moneys,  he purchased one of
 
these magical machines,  all equipped with a big flaring horn
 
like the one you can still  see the dog listening to on the
 
RCA logo.  By the way,  when you recorded on one of those
 
cylinder machines,  you had to put your face as far down in
 
the horn as you could get  it  so as to block out as much
 
ambient noise as Possible,  and then start to sing.  It was
 
really uncomfortable and kind of unnatural,  and father ran
 
into quite a number of cowpunchers who simply refused to take
 
any part whatever in such a dubious enterprise.
 
Other collectors of course used them too and some of
 
those early cylinders have  survived and are at the Folk
 
Archive at the Library of Congress and the Sound Archives at
 
the University of Indiana.  But it was  such early times.
 
Nobody really knew what they were doing exactly.  Not  long ago
 
my sister  (
 aged 89)  remarked to me,  "You know,  honey,  that
 
exhibit we went to see in Washington with those cylinders  in
 
it,  it  called to mind one time before you were born when we
 
used to have a big old wooden box out on the sleeping porch
 
back in Austin and I remember one day mother went to open it
 
up and it was  just a big puddle of melted black wax.  It was
 
awful hot that  summer,  and of course we didn't know."  .But
 
some of the cyllinders  stayed intact  long enough for father
 
to play them for musicians who notated the tunes  for him  (he
 
couldn't  read music) .
 And when "Cowboy Songs" was published
 
in  1910  it was not only John A.  Lomax's  first book,  it was
 
the  first  collection of native American folk songs ever
 
printed along with the music of the songs,  even though the
 
publishers would print the music of only eighteen of the
 
hundred or more tunes he had recorded.
 
What happened to the rest of them? Nobody really knows
 
The cylinders are long since gone,  the papers have been
 
scattered.  And that might  seem kind of careless,  but  I Should
 
remind you that  few people during those early years did their
 
14
 
folkloring as a full time profession.  Father started out as
 
an unpaid amateur and when he got himself a wife and four
 
children to support,  in a desperate attempt to make some
 
genuine money,  he went  into banking and did pretty well at  it
 
too.  During my childhood he wasn't doing folklore,  he was
 
vice president of the Republic National Bank in Dallas,
 
The crash of 1929 almost destroyed him psychologically
 
and fiscally.  He left his  job and tried to recapture some of
 
his old triumphs,  undertaking lectures on college campuses
 
all over the country.  Already in his early sixties,  he
 
negotiated with the Rockefeller Foundation and the Library of
 
Congress and finally began his last major project -
 to record
 
now the traditional music of the entire south.  Overall he
 
produced six books,  several them in co-authorship with his
 
son Alan Lomax.
 
For folkloring in those days was pretty much of a family
 
affair.  Everybody had to help out
 With a healthy clamorous
 
family to raise,  and without  institutional support of any
 
kind,  father became a warm man with a dollar.  I am sure that
 
every now and again he must have hired a secretary but  I
 
don't recall seeing one.  What  I do recall is  seeing him
 
forever at his desk,  writing letter after letter,  ten and
 
twenty a day,  in his beautiful Spencerian longhand with a dip
 
pen.  Most are long since gone;  nobody had time to copy them.
 
And I also recall sitting down at the old family
 
Remington typewriter whenever I came home from college and
 
starting in on the typing -
 almost always,  copies of the
 
texts of songs that  father and Alan were working with.  There
 
was no xerox machine,  then,  only me,  and any other family
 
member or friend or the odd WPA worker who could be pressed
 
into the never-ending toil of copying,  one word at a time,
 
all the hundreds and hundreds of songs,  notes and
 
manuscripts,  each and every time you needed a copy.  People
 
ask me sometimes where a particular unusual verse in one of
 
father's  songs  came from and I have a pretty good notion:
 he
 
probably cut  it with scissors out of another version somebody
 
15
 
else had sent him or that he had collected from another
 
singer and he had pinned it  in with a straight pin.  There
 
wasn't any scotch tape either.
 
It's a wonder any of it survived;  I remember helping
 
bundle up huge piles of original manuscript  for mailing to
 
potential publishers with no real copies  left at home at all,
 
only rough manuscript.  Nowadays
 contemporary scholars
 
disapprove strongly of father's editing the songs  for
 
publication.  He did not have a scholarly audience  in mind,
 
however;  he wanted the whole American people to be able to
 
sing the  songs themselves and so he put back together any
 
songs that he found in incomplete versions.  He never composed
 
a line of them himself -
 he  just pinned them together with
 
those derned pins that  stuck you when you picked the pages
 
up.
 
And somehow the work got done and the books got out,  and
 
years  later in the  1960's and 70's when I was teaching
 
folklore  in California,  an occasional  student would bring me
 
a tattered copy of the old Cowboy Songs book,  and would tell
 
me how much his dad had loved it or that his uncle had left
 
it to him in his will.  Because the old-timers kept father's
 
books and referred to them when they forgot the words and
 
they read from them to their children.
 
They had need to try and keep the story straight because
 
by the beginning of the twentieth century,  journalists,
 
novelists,  and showmen of all description,  later including
 
radio and film producers,  had decided that the west was where
 
the great American adventures had taken place,  that the big
 
American story was the opening up and settling of the west,
 
and that the cowboy was the heroic figure in the center of
 
all that action and represented what all Americans secretly
 
longed to be.  And when the history didn't quite fit,  they
 
began to make it up,  and they made up such wonderful creative
 
things that their  
inventions began to seem more real than the
 
history and a lot of the old time cowpunchers couldn't even
 
recognize themselves when they went to see Tom Mix in the
 
16
 
picture show or heard their own songs  coming back at them
 
over the  radio.
 
Of course,  most of the old time cowpunchers had done
 
their own bits of improving reality in their songs and
 
stories.  But their songs  joined the great  stream of oral
 
transmission and were remembered and forgotten in bits and
 
pieces,  put back together again by the next  singer,  and then
 
by another until they truly became the composition of the
 
many.  And I myself think that  father was  so used to this
 
process that he  saw his own editing as  just another part of
 
it.  But there were other forces at work too.
 
Cowboy songs were work songs;  they came into being
 
because of the nature of the work to be done.  And there are
 
two big kinds of songs associated with work -
-
,
 first,  the
 
work song proper,  the kind that are sung while the work is
 
going on,  coordinating or prolonging the effort.  Most people
 
reserve the term,  work songs,  for that group because the
 
demands of the particular task at hand completely control the
 
song.  The  song stops,  for example,  right in the middle  if and
 
when the task is done;  no one feels  it has to be  sung to its
 
end,  assuming that  it even has one.
 
And then there are songs about work that are typically
 
sung after the  job's all done and it's being thought about in
 
tranquility -
-
 songs that actually glorify the  job by telling
 
exciting stories about an accident or a comic event maybe,
 
songs that  show how tough and skillful the workers are.  These
 
are more  formal poetic constructions;  some people call them
 
occupational ballads.  "The Streets of Laredo" about the dying
 
cowboy who once  in the saddle used to go dashing,  once  in the
 
saddle he used to go gay -
-
 that's a good one that you might
 
have heard.
 
But because of the nature of trail herding itself,  many
 
cowboy songs combined these two types.  As  father always
 
carefully pointed out,  on the day to day level,  cattle
 
droving was a pretty boring proposition.  A trail drive wasn't
 
a race; the whole  idea was to get a lot of cows  from one
 
17
 
place to another in as good physical condition as possible
 
because they were going to be weighed,  and you were going to
 
get paid off accordingly,  at the end of the trail,  not the
 
beginning.  So you moved "kinda slow" most of the time,
 
letting the cattle graze as they went.
 
So the long lonely tedious hours  in the saddle often
 
produced long,  lonely songs.  In fact one of the criteria for
 
a good cowboy song was  simple length.  "The Old Chisholm
 
Trail:" was of course the hands-down champion in that
 
department.  An old-timer who had just  sung my father  69
 
verses of that  song without stopping explained that  it  "was
 
as  long as the trail  from Texas to Wyoming";  father's own
 
collection eventually numbered more than more than two
 
hundred verses.  As it was  indeed the primary song about trail
 
life it had to be trail-long,  and its  laconic direct
 
detailing of event after event telling you  just exactly what
 
happened always makes  it  for me the realest  of all of them:
 
Come along,  boys,  and listen to my tale
 
I'll tell you of my troubles on the old Chisholm Trail
 
Come a ti yi yippy yippy yay,  yippy yay
 
Come a ti yl yippy,  yippy yay.
 
I started up the trail October twenty-third,
 
I started up the trail with the 2-U herd.
 
Oh my hoss throwed me off at the creek called Mud
 
My hoss throwed me off round the 2-U herd.
 
Cloudy in the west and looking like rain
 
And my damned old slicker's  in the wagon again.
 
The wind commenced to blow and the rain began to fall
 
And it  looked,  by grab,  like we' re gonna lose them all.
 
I jumped in the  saddle,  grabbed hold of the horn
 
I' m the best damned cowboy ever was born.
 
18
 
Well  I don't give a damn if they never do stop
 
I'll ride as  long as an eight day clock.
 
Well we herded and we hollered and we done very well'
 
Till the boss  said,  Boys,  just  let  'em go to hell.
 
Well we rounded them up and we put em on the cars
 
And that was the end of the 2 U bars.
 
I' m going down town to get my money
 
I' m going back home to see my honey.
 
As  you can see,  this  is a song that was made for the
 
trail -
 it could lope along fast or slow,  any number of new
 
verses could be  fit  into its  scheme of rhymed couplets,  it
 
could be  sung by one person or a group,  and it was infinitely
 
expandable,  to fit the length of any ride.  A truly classic
 
work song.  And at the  same time  it told one or more stories,
 
like an occupational ballad,  with as much detail as the most
 
demanding audience could wish for.  One of my grandchildren
 
required it as his bedtime  song for years,  not  just because
 
it was  so long,  I think,  but because it was  so interesting.
 
And he always made me tell him about the dogies.  An old-
timer once defined the word "dogie" for father as a new-born
 
calf "whose mammy was dead and his pappy had run off with
 
another cow".  The baby trail-born calves were indeed a
 
special responsibility of the punchers on the drives;  since
 
mother's milk was not available to these orphans they had to
 
eat grass before their digestive systems had matured.  Their
 
bellies swelled and they staggered along at the end of the
 
herd,  potential prey for coyotes and buzzards.  The cowboys
 
called them little "dough-guts",  and talked and sang to them
 
and about them constantly -
-
 "Roll on,  little dogies,  roll
 
on" -
-
 every now and again even picking one up and carrying
 
him horseback for a ways.
 
19
 
As  I was out walking one morning for pleasure
 
I spied a cowpuncher come a riding along
 
His hat was throwed back and his  spurs was a-jingling
 
As he approached me,  he was singing this  song.
 
Whoopie ti yi yo,  get along you little dogies
 
It's your misfortune and none of my own
 
Whoopie ti yi yo,  get along,  you little dogies
 
For you know Wyoming will be your new home.
 
For me that was always the great one,  the single most
 
beautiful cowboy song that ever was.  And my brother,  Alan
 
Lomax,  has traced its  long journey and many changes  from an
 
ancient  Irish lullaby that the old ladies of Cork say was the
 
one that Mary sang to rock the baby to sleep;  he tells all
 
about  it  in Folk Songs of North America,  if you want to look
 
it up.
 
For whatever songs the cowboys already knew were grist
 
for their creative mills;  they changed old songs around and
 
borrowed tunes or never bothered with tunes at all,  just sort
 
of hollered or chanted verses ad lib -
-
 who cared? Herding
 
was  like being on a baseball field,  when every player is
 
supposed to put up a line of chatter,  to help keep the action
 
lively and spirits high and,  incidentally,  to keep everyone
 
aware of  just where everybody else is.  And there is clear
 
historical testimony that American cowmen who sang out got
 
jobs quicker and kept them longer than the more silent types.
 
The cows  seemed to like the singing too,  although I have
 
heard present-day musicians  scoff at the idea that cattle
 
have anything resembling musical taste.  But old time
 
cattlemen talked about  singing to the cattle in almost the
 
same terms current teenagers use to  justify playing music
 
during homework hours -
-
 both groups maintain that music
 
covers up potentially disturbing ambient  sounds.  Here's how
 
father said the night herding yodelling sounded -
 not a bit
 
Swiss  style,  more of a crooning and calming sound.
 
W ho o  -
 00  -
 00  -
-
 00
 
20
 
And certainly all the other peoples  in the world who
 
handle large animals,  from the milkmaids of the British Isles
 
to the cattle herders of central Africa,  work their herds
 
while  singing.
 
And so Irish tunes turned up in the American cowboy
 
stew,  along with African American and Spanish,  for the
 
cowpunching population was polyglot -
-
 there were southern
 
red-necks,  ex-slaves,  south of the border Spanish speakers,
 
English remittance men,  Mormons,  sod-busters,  New England
 
adventurers.  Father took down both "Home On the Range",  and
 
the classic "Sam Bass"  from black trail hands;  people used to
 
think that was comical when  I said it,  but  it was true.
 
And now what has happened to this stream of song,  and
 
what has happened to the cowboys  since their brief glorious
 
star burst over the western plains?
 They have survived.  They
 
have changed.
 
Cattle are still raised for beef,  and experienced men
 
and women are still required to handle them;  they do not
 
raise themselves.  They even require occasional herding from
 
point to point,  although I have heard of a ranch in Hawaii
 
where the paniolos  (Hawaiian cowboys)  use mini-motorbikes
 
instead of horses.  I did see a group of young paniolos having
 
a round of beer in a roadside cafe on the big island and
 
poking hilarious  fun at one of their number who was solid mud
 
from his  Stetson to his boots.  Apparently you can still get
 
throwed,  even off a motor bike.  But today's  ranching does
 
seem very like  large  scale  farming.
 
It's even more  striking how the  songs have survived -
-
and changed.  The first and most  fundamental change was that
 
people began accompanying them with musical  instruments.  You
 
may have noticed I failed to bring along my guitar this
 
evening.  Old time trail drivers didn't either;  when they were
 
singing work songs, they were busy.  I never heard of a
 
cowpuncher taking a guitar on the trail;  there was the rare
 
fiddle stashed in the chuck wagon -
 fiddles are small,  light-
21
 
cattlemen undoubtedly played at the ranch-house.  The multiple
 
forms of the guitar developed in Mexico now sound not  just  in
 
Hawaii but all around the world.
 
But when cowboy songs began routinely to be sung with
 
accompanying instruments,  they underwent a fundamental
 
change.  It turned them them from work songs  into occupational
 
songs,  and that undoubtedly had to happen -
 when the work
 
pattern changes,  there is no longer need for the work song.
 
But then the insatiable demands of the music industry began
 
to be applied and gradually the pickers and grinners took
 
over;  you had to be able to play or at  least harmonize to
 
sing a cowboy song in public,  and the way you sang or played
 
it had to fit the current tastes of the professional music-
mongers.  Cowboy singing became less and less associated with
 
southwestern ranches and more and more with Hollywood and Tin
 
Pan Alley.
 
But another fascinating thing happened too.  As  I have
 
already said,  not all the cowboy songs were actually sung.
 
Many of them didn't really exactly have tunes but tended to
 
be chanted or recited.
 
Most of the cowpunchers during the trail driving days
 
had been educated,  insofar as they had been,  in the one-room
 
country school houses of the period,  where a single teacher
 
exposed a group of mixed-age children to learning,  armed only
 
with a few readers and a few slates.  Oral recitation
 
therefore was  frequent,  memorization was highly regarded,  and
 
if you got that  far you could take college courses in
 
elocution.  Local entertainments  featured the recitation of
 
classic poetry,  or sections  from great public addresses,  and
 
original poems that had been composed in honor of the
 
occasion.  So today we know the real names of many cowboy
 
authors;  lots of them wrote poems or songs themselves.  There
 
was nothing special about that  in those times.
 
And do you know,  to this day,  there still isn't?  I
 
firmly believe that every single American has at  some time or
 
another written at  least one poem;  it  certainly is one of the
 
22
 
first things we all think of to do when something
 
unimaginable happens.  I understand that the broadcast
 
stations of the nation were flooded with poems written by
 
anguished citizens  immediately after the Kennedy and King
 
assasinations.  And even if we' re too shy to admit writing
 
poems,  we  still  love them;  the number of masculine wallets
 
that contain a tightly folded copy of The Shooting of Dan
 
McGrew suitable  for taking out and reading aloud or
 
exchanging for a copy of Lasca -
-
 I believe to this day there
 
are  still  lots of them around.
 
And nowadays,  in line with our tendency to organize
 
things,  you can go to cowboy gatherings and listen to the
 
fellows reciting their poetry,  always  from memory.  They go on
 
for days,  these events;  it's  like being back in Homer's time
 
where the bards  fill you in on what's been going on and
 
remind you of the glories of the past.  The grand-daddy of
 
these remarkable events,  as you probably know,  takes place in
 
Elko,  Nevada,  every January,  smack in the middle of winter
 
when the  fellows can take time off from their ranch jobs.  The
 
Oregon poet,  Kim Stafford,  had this to say about  it all.
 
I' ve come to watch all year for that  first sight of Elko
 
at  dusk,  late January,  that distant neon ruby glittering
 
like a star,  as  I come down south off Doby Summit.  I
 
know I'll  soon be treated to round after round of poems
 
and stories -
-
 voices to teach me the pleasures of
 
solitude and the raw work of hoof and hand.  When the
 
poets get  started,  rhymes  in the poems  stand like
 
streetlights every half block along Idaho Street,  every
 
little light earned like a season's wage.  An old fellow
 
at Capriola's told me  last winter,  "Son,  you can have
 
more fun  in Elko by accident than you can anywhere else
 
on purpose,  because you can do anything you' re big
 
enough to get away with,  and after a couple drinks you
 
feel pretty damn big in this town!"  I knew he' d said
 
that many times.  His  stating of it had the polish of
 
23
 
old leather braid.  And the rhymes  I heard at the
 
Gathering,  yes,  I could predict them,  but that didn't
 
dull their pleasure.  When you lift the coffee cup to
 
your lips  for the tenth time on a cold day,  you get  so
 
you can predict  its bitter kiss,  but that doesn't make
 
you ever want to stop.
 
I remember one rhyme at the end of a poem about an
 
old dog,  the kind of good dog you remember and brag
 
about.  As the reciter came cantering slower toward the
 
poem's end,  we could see the glow of that last rhyme
 
like moonrise over the horizon and then it was there.
 
And now I walk these hills alone.
 
The tough lady editor beside me ran out of Kleenex then,
 
and I had a little trouble myself.
 
Woody Guthrie would have liked that piece that Kim
 
Stafford wrote.  Father always said that Woody was the best
 
cowboy song singer of the modern times,  and I think I know
 
why.  Woody never worried about seeing that  corny old-timey
 
rhyme cantering up over the horizon;  he wanted you to face
 
that rhyme in all its human inevitability.  He wanted you to
 
hear and understand the shared humanity of the story it was
 
bringing you.
 
I once had a student who chose Woody Guthrie as the
 
subject of his term paper,  but  it turned out that he had just
 
heard about Woody,  he had never heard any of his recordings.
 
So  I said he had better give them a listen and he did and
 
returned most perturbed.  "I  just don't  like his recordings,
 
Mrs.  Hawes;  I sing some of his songs myself and I thought  I
 
would like them,  but  I really don't.  Now what do  I do?"
 
I suggested that he give it another week.  You have met
 
another human being,  warts and all,  when you hear Woody.  He
 
played a totally straight-forward unornamented guitar in a
 
totally straight-forward unornamented way,  sometimes getting
 
on to a chord and not  changing it  for the entire song.  That
 
takes  some stamina to listen to,  I'll admit,  but after a
 
while you begin to take to it.  And Woody sang the way cowboys
 
24
 
used to sing,  father  said,  without guile or seductiveness -
-
flat out,  tense,  masculine,  earnest,  often strained.  Cowboys
 
used to bawl and holler,  father said.
 
Well,  f
ly student  finally came back and told me that  in
 
desperation he had tried playing Woody with the volume turned
 
way low so that  it would fade into the background and my
 
student could kind of be exposed to the music subliminally.
 
And he said to me in despair,  "But that didn't work either,
 
Mrs.  Hawes.  Woody  just wouldn't  let me not  listen to him.  I
 
had to turn up the volume and pay attention  if I was going to
 
listen at all."
 
That's the great ballad style -
 the narrative voice -
 
that  cuts away everything extraneous to the story that's
 
being told and tells  it to you in a way that makes you
 
listen.  My brother Alan's  cross-cultural research shows that
 
this  is one of the great vocal styles of the planet and that
 
it has moved around the globe in rough alignment with the
 
herders of big animals,  the horsemen,  the men and women who
 
have daring and important  stories to tell.  We in the United
 
States are lucky to have hosted it  in our western states.  And
 
I think we are also lucky that my father,  along with the
 
other intrepid folklorists of his day and later,  was there to
 
record it  in its classic development,  for it  is no longer
 
there in the old way nor will it ever be exactly again.  But
 
who knows what musicians and singers of tomorrow may take
 
inspiration from these spare,  beautiful and rugged songs?
 
Today as we struggle to help maintain the variety of natural
 
life around the planet,  we must  concern ourselves also with
 
the  support of cultural variety while we can still catch the
 
echoes of these varied musical  systems and hear them speaking
 
to our hearts.
 
If there  is one thing I hope you will  remember from this
 
evening it  is that the voices and skills of people who are
 
generally not counted as professional artists -
-
 like the
 
cowboys -
-
 are worth paying attention to.  You have in your
 
state  several remarkable people who are helping keep alive
 
25
 
and vibrant the traditional repertoires and skills of
 
Colorado;  Bea Roeder,  Ronna Lee Sharpe,  and Kathleen Figgen
 
are working double-time and half-paid in different parts of
 
Colorado to do the kind of thing my father did all those
 
years ago.  They deserve your support and your applause.  A
 
small amount of federal money matched by a small number of
 
state dollars goes to their support.  Stop thinking about
 
taxes  for a minute or two and keep these dedicated people at
 
their  jobs.  Your children and your grand-children will thank
 
you  for it.
 
Q11A
., i
ctc
 
My  f
 
Chisholm
 
times whe
 
and  bed  d
 
near  his
 
would  sne
 
on
 
es  we
 
6
��
 
a
 1
 on
 
ng  pl
 
n the
 
ncher
 
reciting  Lasca and  singing  Sam  Bass and  Bill s  
j
 
and  poems  filled  his  heart  so  that  he  never  forgot  them.
 
When  he  went  to  the  University  of  Texas  as  a grown  man,  he  took
 
a roll  of  pencilled  manuscript  with  him,  pages  and  pages  of  poems
 
that  he  had  heard  in  the  night  and  noted  down  because  he  thought  they
 
were  true  and  beautiful  in  their  own  way  and  spoke  of  the west  and
 
the  kind  of  country  and  people  he  knew.
 One  day  he  took  courage  and
 
showed  his  manuscript  to  his  English  professor,  a distinguished
 
scholar  who  explained  to  him with  exquisite  courtesy  and  detachment
 
that  these  were  vulgar  and  crude  common-places,  clumsy  jingles  com-
pletely  unworthy  of  consideration  by  the  educated  and  discriminating.
 
And  that  night,  full  of shame) he  built  a little  bonfire  back  of
 
Breckinridge  Hall  and  he  burned  them one  by  one.
 
But  he  didn't  really  believe  what  his  professor  had  said.
 He
 
never  could  believe  it  because  he  really  knew  it  wasn't  so,  and  in  a
 
way  he  spent  the  rest  of  his  life  convincing  Harvard  professors  and
 
the  Rockefeller  Institute  and  the  Librarian  of  Congress  and
 
President  Theodore  Roosevelt  and  the  innumerable  audiences  across  the
 
nation  he  lectured  before  and  at  last  even  the  University  of  Texas
 
that  his  old  professor  had  been  wrong.
 Ordinary  men  and  women  could
 
9
1% ( c
 
My  father  grew  up  in  Bosque,  Texas,  on  one  of  the  spurs  of  the
 
Chisholm  Trail,  and  his  earliest  memories  were  of  those  eventful
 
times  when  herds  of  cattle  moving north  along  the  Trail  would  water
 
and  bed  down  for  the  night  at  the  fording  place  on  the  Bosque  River
 
near  his  home.
 Just  a little  boy  out  in  the  big  prairie  dark,  he
 
would  sneak  up  and  listen  to  the  cow-punchers  telling  stories  and
 
reciting  Lasca and  singing  Sam  Bass and  Billy Venero, and  these  songs
 
and  poems  filled  his  heart  so  that  he  never  forgot  them.
 
When  he  went  to  the  University  of Texas  as  a grown  man,  he  took
 
a roll  of  pencilled  manuscript  with  him,  pages  and  pages  of  poems
 
that  he  had  heard  in  the  night  and  noted  down  because  he  thought  they
 
were  true  and  beautiful  in  their  own  way  and  spoke  of  the  west  and
 
the  kind  of  country  and  people  he  knew.
 One  day  he  took  courage  and
 
showed  his  manuscript  to  his  English  professor,  a distinguished
 
scholar  who  explained  to  him with  exquisite  courtesy  and  detachment
 
that  these  were  vulgar  and  crude  common-places,  clumsy  jingles  com-
pletely  unworthy  of  consideration  by  the  educated  and  discriminating.
 
And  that  night,  full  of shame) he  built  a little  bonfire  back  of
 
Breckinridge  Hall  and  he  burned  them  one  by  one.
 
But  he  didn't  really  believe  what  his  professor  had  said.
 He
 
never  could  believe  it  because  he  really  knew  it  wasn't  so,  and  in  a
 
way  he  spent  the  rest  of  his  life  convincing Harvard  professors  and
 
the  Rockefeller  Institute  and  the  Librarian  of  Congress  and
 
President  Theodore  Roosevelt  and  the  innumerable  audiences  across  the
 
nation  he  lectured  before  and  at  last  even  the  University  of  Texas
 
that  his  old  professor  had  been  wrong.
 Ordinary  men  and  women  could
 
- 2
 
and  did  produce  beauty  and  truth  in  plain  straightforward  language
 
and  melody,  and  the  nation  they  had  built would  be  the  poorer  and
 
the  weaker  if  their  voices  were  allowed  to  drift  away  on  the  winds
 
of  history.
 
So  in  1914  he  published  the  first  collec
on  of  cowboy  songs  -
-
words  and music  -
-
 ever  printed, and  he  ended  the  manuscript,
 
characteristically,  with  this  fleeting stanza  that  had  been  recited
 
to  him  by  a rider  on  the  Diamond  A ranch  in  New Mexico:
 
Oh  the  cow-puncher  loves  the whistle  of  his  rope
 
As  he  races  over  the  plains;
 
And  the  stage-driver  loves  the  popping of his  whip
 
And  the  rattle  of  his  Concord  chains.
 
And  we'll  all  pray  the  Lord  that  we  will  be  saved
 
And  we'll  keep  the  Golden  Rule;
 
But  I'd  ruther  be  at  home  with  the girl  I love
 
Than  to monkey with  this  goddamned  mule.
 
Feet  on  the  ground  and  head  in  the  sky  -
-
 that's  what  my  father
 
loved  about  cowboy  poetry.
 On  his  behalf  I would  like  to  congratulate
 
the  young men  and  women  of  the  western  states  -
-
 the  Western  Folk  Arts
 
Coordinators  and  their  friends  -
-
 Hal  Cannon,  Mike  Korn,  Pat  Jasper,
 
Steve  Siporin,  Elizabeth Dear,  Jim McNutt,  Carol  Edison,  Jens  Lund,
 
Jim  Griffith,  Suzi  Jones,  Meg Glaser,  Dave  Brose,  Dennis  Coelho , 
Greta  Swenson,  ElaineThatcher  -
-
for  sticking  to  it  through great  difficulties  and  producing  this
 
extraordinary  event.
 I just  wish  father  and  some  of  his  old-time
 
friends  could  be  with  you.
 Wouldn't  they  have  a good  time
and
 
7
 
wouldn't  they  be  proud.
 
Bess  Lomax  Hawes
 
Director
 
Folk  Arts  Program
 
A
 
�
 D
 �
 c
j
-
z�u) 
eI }
 ( Jtt
)
 
U
 
/
 
/ CASTLE i MA &I
I
 
(
303) 331-0621
 
1572 Race Street
 
Denver, Colorado 80206
 
Is 
V
.
 
Cowboy Poetry and Song: Collecting and Recollecting
  
Bess Lomax Hawes
 
Copyright © 1996 Bess Lomax Hawes
 
This manuscript may not be duplicated or distributed in whole
 
or in part without express permission of the author.
 Copies
 
distributed by the Western Folklife Center at the 1996 Cowboy
 
Poetry Gathering are made available by permission.
 
-
 
guess Iorigina11y thought of doing this talk for my
 
own personal reasons. My father was John A. Lomax and he used
 
to lecture about cowboy poetry and songs all through the
 
western states. Now, no copy of his old lectures has
 
survived,  s
T
I r rt
 
i
t
 
m4ghtH,e f
-un to
 t
re-think
 
what he did •
•and how  e manage
it. A
i
 m y  -T
üId r
na*e my
 
talk a bit
 a—test±rnony to my cantankerous,  complicated,
 
and ever courageous father
- and  also speak a bit about what
 
has happened since his day and time.
 
forgotten was just how long ago his day
 
and time wa
In working through this talk I found myself
 
needing to expfà
'
-in to present-day listeners the situation of
 
people who I  never knew directly myself because they were
 
even before me
.
 So her'
I am sitting squarely between two
 
separated generations,  armed, really, with nothing but a few
 
stories,  things I
've heard second-hand.
 
But I guess that is the classic folklorist's position.
 
We collect and we re-collect  (
and recollect), people tell us
 
things that people told them, we tell them back--we've even
 
made up a nine-dollar name for the process--"oral
 
transmission", we call it. It's the main way that traditional
 
ideas and materials survive and spread out like some cosmic
 
game of "Gossip" over vast quantities of space and time
 
without ever having to be formally validated or approved of
 
by any institution or anybody.
 It's a terribly strong and
 
absolutely unstoppable process.
 
2
 
Now I am 75 years
 
1d.  I was born in 1921 when my father
 
was 54. By the time I go
\t to know him, he was more like a
 
grandfather to me. He wa
ls born in 1867--a hundred and twenty-
five years ago.
 
American history is r6
 so short.  I remember once at
 
the Library of Congress  \
istening to a 1940 field recording
 
of an old Virginia gentle an singing "The Ram of Derby",  an
 
ancient lying jokey balla  about an enormous sheep,  each
 
verse telling a bigger wh 4per than the one before. And the
 
old gentleman singing it sopped and laughed and said "You
 
know, my grand-daddy always
 
Washington helt him on his
 
when he was just a little un
 
"Well, you old liar," but lat
'
 
was just possible within the
 
And then, whether he deco
 
old gentleman was certainly a
 
I just remember bits,  like I re
'
 
cowboy song lectures with an is
 
don't know but I can still hear
 
,
J - '
1,-b
 
used to say that George
 
ee and sung him that old song
 
And I thought to myself,
 
r I realized,  counting back,  it
 
our generations,  counting mine.
 
ated things up or not,  that
 
etter rememberer than I am;
 
ember my father ending his
 
lated verse whose origin I
 
is voice saying it:
 
I
've been where the ii
 
Tangled in my eyes;
 
The cattle I could scarcely hold;
 
I think I heard my boss- an say,
 
"I want all brave-hearted'\men
 
who ain't afraid to die
 .
 
To whoop the cattle from moi ing till night
 
Way up on the Kansas line."
 
£
 
Oh boy,  that was the stuff to feed the t
 
roars of applause from his young college au iences of the 20s
 
and 30s,  as I sat there in the dark,  thrille
to be let stay
 
up beyond my bedtime. And I remember the great\ blues man
 
Leadbelly singing out on our side porch in Aus in:
 
htning,  the lightning
 
o ps.  I remember
 
3
 
When I was a cow
  out on the western plains
 
When I was a cowboy\ ut on the western plains
 
I could rope a streak  I
f lightning
 
And ride a shower of rain.
 
Come a cow cow yicky,
 
Come a cow cow yicky yicky yay.
 
Lots of black singers in Texas in those days sang cowboy
 
songs;  lots of black Texans worked on ranches.'
nd, by the
 
way,  I just sang that verse to you myself to remi
'hd you that
 
lots of people actually used to rear back and sing a
'hd many
 
still do,  requiring neither a trained voice, a stage,  iN
.
 
silent audience,  a guitar, nor an electrical outlet to plug
 
it into.
 
Well,
 
T
_
.
1.
iu7at
-rL-ady getting ahead of things.--Let nre st r4-
John A  Lomax
 
He was born the last of seven children,  in the Black
 
River country of west central Mississippi in 1867. When he
 
was two years old, his family loaded all their possessions
 
into two wagons, one pulled by two mules named Jack and Fan,
 
and the other by two oxen named Bright and Berry, and they
 
all started out on the five hundred mile trail for east
 
Texas. My grandmother wrote about it in her diary. They
 
bought timbered land there on the edge of the Bosque River,
 
near a spot which was to be a fording place on one of the
 
south-eastern branches of the Chisholm Trail. And they built
 
a two-room log cabin and settled in to raise children and
 
wheat,  corn and chickens, cotton, and horses.
 
In my father's autobiography,  "Adventures of a Ballad
 
Hunter," he described waking up in the night as a little boy
 
and hearing cowpunchers, camped for the night down by the
 
Bosque River,  joking and singing and telling stories. And I
 
think I remember him telling me how he would sneak out of the
 
house sometimes and creep through the bushes in the dark
 
night until he could get closer and hear them better. But I
 
can't find that in his writings now,  so maybe I made it up.
 
4
 
But I do know that at that time he did a really remarkable
 
thing: he began, when he was just a little boy,  to write down
 
the words of the songs he heard the men singing so that he
 
wouldn't forget them. He loved to tell stories about his life
 
in Bosque County,  and he told them well, but what he used to
 
tell about with the greatest affection,  it seems to me now,
 
were the tournaments that were then the high point of any
 
local celebration, bringing together people ordinarily
 
scattered all across Bosque County.
 
Tournaments were Texas re-creations of an antebellum
 
southern custom in which mounted riders carrying six foot
 
lances would thunder down a two hundred yard track,  each
 
trying to spear all twelve of the small brass rings that hung
 
from poles along the way,  Each rider wore the be-ribboned
 
favor of a local young lady;  each one had curvetted his horse
 
in special tricks before the crowd as his name was called by
 
the master of ceremonies:
 
George Scrutchfield, The Knight of the Golden Spur
 
Johnny Rundell, The Knight of the Lost Cause
 
Ed McCurry, The Knight of the Morning Star
 
Bob Hanna, The Knight of the Slim Chance
 
winner,  father said,
 
pecta 'rs
 
ed
 erw
/ds.
 
Now,  though father clearly had an eye for the fir
 
ladies,  it was the horsemanship and the skill of the young
 
riders he talked about most. And it was possibly then that he
 
became so taken with those hard-bitten,  skillful,  rowdy,
 
adventurous,  to him truly romantic young men, many of them
 
vanishing up the long trail that he was too young and too
 
burdened with responsibilities to then follow.
 
Now,  it's time to remind you a little bit about that
 
Chisholm Trail and the whole era of the cattle drives and why
 
they happened where they did and faded away when they did.  I
 
/
 wned /
s lady lo
 bef2 e all he
 
the  t
y would lead the dance that
 
5
 
hope you won't be insulted.  I may have been living with
 
tenderfeet in the east too long but generally I find that
 
almost everybody needs to be reminded a bit about that hazy
 
and complex period over which Americans have fantasized for
 
so long.
 
Here is how my father,  writing in 1910,  began to
 
describe it:
 
From 1870 to 1890 one million mustang ponies
 
and twelve million head of longhorn cattle
 
were driven up the trails from Texas to
 
market in Kansas, Wyoming, Montana,  and other
 
western states. The herds numbered usually
 
from one thousand to three thousand,  though at
 
times as many as five thousand cattle
 
made up a single trail herd.  Behind and around
 
and ahead of each bunch of cattle rode a group
 
of men,  mostly very young,  bold, youthful
 
Vikings of the seas of sage grass through
 
which they pushed their way.  They came to be
 
known as cowboys -
-
 the boys who take care of
 
the cows  (
from the Spanish "vaquero" and
 
"vaca".)
 
But where did all these cows come from
 J. Frank Dobie,
 
in his great book The Longhorns tells us that Columbus, on
 
his second voyage in 1493,  landed cattle in Santo Domingo and
 
in the next years their offspring were shipped throughout the
 
developing Caribbean, Cortez htrt elf—s
-tucking a
--h cienda in -
-
Cuba a
-nd importing cattle from  
jL—to-his estate in Mexico,
 
which
-he had named Cuernav c
(COVrHOrf
l+. only 50 years
 
later,  the explorer Coronado assembled more than five hundred
 
head of cattle,  as well as sheep and hogs, and drove them
 
along on his great expedition north of the Rio Grande as feed
 
for his troops. Fighting and breeding bulls were imported to
 
the new world from Spain throughout the 16th and 17th
 
•1
 
/
 
6
 
centuries.  Actually,  wherever the Spanish went,  they took
 
cattle and horses,  a good number of which escaped or were
 
left behind as too exhausted to continue on the long marches
 
throughout the southwest.
 
So,  since the Spanish,  like most colonials,  kept most of
 
their male animals uncastrated,  small populations of wild
 
cattle began to develop across the vast empty grasslands of
 
Texas,  Louisiana,  and California.  In 1767 a French traveller
 
crossing Texas observed "horned cattle,  originally tame,  that
 
long since became wild and now roam in large herds all over
 
the plain,"
 
 
t
-he-Peeee+-:
' They were frequently rounded up
 
and sold for hides and tallow;  essentially,  during those
 
times,  they were considered game animals.
 
But after the establishment of the Republic of Texas,
 
the ever-increasing colonization of the southwest by English
 
speakers bro
,3 g1t with it an increase in large animal
 
ranching,  fo
omers could claim much more land if they
 
declared their intention was to ranch rather than to farm.
 
And Texas was, according to many,  "the best stock country in
 
the world" with grass that was green almost the year round.
 
Cattle multiplied on the ranches and in the wild until local
 
prices dropped to less than five dollars an animal in the
 
mid-nineteenth century. And at the same time exploding post
 
Civil War population markets in the northeast were offering
 
ten times as much for a steer on the hoof.
 
The problem was cl
r fpr southwestern ranchers. The
 
cattle had to be got nortliAand
 at that time,  there was only
 
one way. They had to walk. As they had walked from Mexico up
 
to Texas in the centuries before, now they had to walk from
 
Texas to Kansas. The Kansas Pacific railroad line which had
 
connections into Chicago  (
soon to become "Hog and Steer
 
Butcher for the world") eventually chose to build cattle
 
shipping stations in Abilene Kansas and by 1880 five million
 
cattle had been shipped to market from Abilene and another
 
five million trailed north to stock the western ranges.
 
O
N
 
7
 
Texas,  cattlemen said, had the best breeding grounds; but the
 
lush summer grasses of Montana, Wyoming and Colorado were
 
more nutritious for fattening the growing animals.
 
It was all over before the turn of the century.  It only
 
lasted for about twenty years, really,  from about 1870 to
 
about 1890. As unclaimed lands fell into new and profit-
hungry hands,  ranges once open were fenced;  trail routes were
 
cut; and newly built roads and railroad lines made lengthy
 
drives economically unprofitable. The whole panorama -
-
 the
 
great cattle drives like rivers of living animals,  the fabled
 
longhorn steers who "could walk to Hell and back again",  the
 
young knights of the Slim Chance and the Golden Spurs,  the
 
frontier towns where the money they earned on the long trail
 
vanished too soon--all faded away or settled down or maybe
 
just began to seem every day and sometimes.even a bit grungy.
 
But it made a great story, one from which Americans--
actually,  the people of the entire world--are still drawing
 
excitement,  romance and vitality. And the primary authors of
 
that story, no matter how much it was changed later, were the
 
cowboys,  the vaqueros,  the expert herders and animal
 
husbandry men who my father described in the romantic
 
language of his day, as "bold youthful Vikings of the seas of
 
sage grass". My brother Alan, writing from the perspective of
 
75 years later,  saw the cowboys differently.  "These
 
anonymous, badly paid hired hands, who lived hard and usually
 
died poor,  served as unpaid irregular cavalry in the long and
 
cruel struggle during which the United States snatched
 
western lands away from its Indians and Mexican inhabitants."
 
when we look back,  it is important,  I think,  to keep both of
 
these perspectives in mind,  for both are true. And we must
 
above all keep listening to the old-time trail herders
 
themselves:  their songs,  their recitations and th Tr1r f
t± y the
 
several autobiographies some left behind
 
For today whenever I read a book about that era--and
 
there's about a billion of them--it's rare to come across an
 
author who doesn't say something about "the romantic
 
8
 
stereotype of the cowboy," "the west that never was,"  "the
 
mythic past of the cattle drives," and things like that. But
 
I grew up around my father, who was indeed a romantic of
 
deepest dye--he used to read aloud to us every night:
 
Shakespeare and Alfred Lord Tennyson and Charles Dickens and
 
his favorite poet, Robert Browning--and his voice would husk
 
up at the sad parts.
 But he believed in letting the cowboys
 
speak for themselves.
 
Look at his books. The poetry, with occasional music
 
notation added,  stares stark and bare up from the pages of
 
his two earliest cowboy collections. There's nothing to do
 
with those books but read the language as it was spoken and
 
as father wrote it down.
 
I said earlier that he had begun to write down the songs
 
he heard the cowpunchers sing when he was just a little boy.
 
But what I didn't say then was how almost unheard-of such a
 
thing was at the time.
 Educated nineteenth century Americans
 
were deeply convinced that all real culture came from western
 
Europe--well, Greece got in there a bit and maybe the
 
Egyptians were allowed to have done a few worthwhile things.
 
But the only intellectual distinctions truly available to
 
Americans came through their absorption of old-world
 
literature, history and values, most people believed.
 
Walt Whitman, Emerson, Melville, Mark Twain thundered
 
their defenses of the originality and creativity of the new
 
Americans, but the new Americans often diän't believe in it
 
themselves. And I must remind you that the struggle goes on
 
to this day,  expressed in the very real ambivalence most
 
Americans feel about art, as evidenced in part by the
 
continuing problems of the National Endowment for the Arts,
 
where I used to work.
 
Now my father ran into this intellectual barricad
 
early. At the age of 28, he had finally saved enough money to
 
get out of Basque County to the University of Texas,  and he
 
hit the ground running, as they say, and managed to compress
 
his A.B. degree into only two years. But before he graduated,
 
O
P
 
9
 
he took his collection of cowboy poetry to a scholar in the
 
University of Texas English Department. As he wrote about the
 
episode later:
 
Timidly I handed Dr. Callaway my roll of dingy
 
manuscript written out in lead pencil and tied
 
together with a cotton string. Courteous and
 
kindly gentleman that he was, he thanked me and
 
promised a report the next day. Alas,  the follow-
ing morning, Dr. Callaway told me that my samples
 
of frontier literature were tawdry,  cheap, and
 
unworthy.  I had better give my attention to the
 
great movements of writing that had come sounding
 
down the ages. There was no possible connection,
 
he said, between the tall tales of Texas and the
 
tall tales of Beowulf. His decision,  exquisitely
 
considerate, was final, absolute. No single crumb
 
of comfort was left to me. I was unwilling to have
 
anyone else see the examples of my folly or know of
 
my disappointment. So that night in the dark,  out
 
behind Breckinridge Hall,  the men's dormitory where
 
I lodged,  I made a small bonfire of every scrap of
 
my cowboy songs.
 
For the time being my father abandoned folklore and
 
began making his living as an English teacher at several
 
Texas universities. But he never stopped thinking about it
 
and in fact began learning songs again from his students,
 
many of them country boys in those great days of the free
 
land-grant colleges.
 
Oh,  slow up dogies, quit your roving around
 
You have wandered and trampled all over the ground
 
Oh,  graze along dogies and feed kinda slow
 
And don't be forever on the go.
 
Move slow,  little dogies, move slow.
 
10
 
I have circle-herded,  trail-herded,  night-herded
 
too
 
But to keep you together,  that's what I can't Ido,
 
my horse is leg-weary and I
'm awful tiredl
 
But if I let you get away,  I
'm sure to get fired,
 
Bunch up,  little dogies, bunch up.
 
Harry Stevens,  a student of my father's at Texas A&M
 
told father he had made that song up night-herding for the
 
Wylie Company in Yellowstone Park.
 Father wrote later,  "One
 
day in the spring of 1909, Harry leaned over the gate of my
 
home and called to me,  '
Professor,  I
've come to say good-bye.
 
Grass is a-rising, and I
've got to move on.'"
 They
 
corresponded for some years, but never met again.
 
And years later,  the legendary Harvard scholars Barrett
 
Wendell and G prge Lyman Kittredge encouraged my father to
 
start over again and endorsed a proposal that he sent off to
 
newspapers across the western states looking for materials
 
that could be put into a "complete collection of the native
 
ballads and songs of the West". This project resulted in his
 
very first hook, Cowboy Songs, which was published in 1910
 
with a preface by President Theodore Roosevelt and he ended
 
his manuscript with a fleeting stanza that had been recited
 
to him by a rider on the Diamond A ranch in New Mexico.
 
Oh the cow-puncher loves the whistle of his rope
 
As he races over the plains;
 
And the stage-driver loves the popping of his whip
 
And the rattle of his Concord chains.
 
And we'll all pray the Lord that we will be saved
 
And we'll keep the Golden Rule;
 
But I
'd ruther be at home with the girl 7
-
Than 
 to monkey with this goddamned mule.
 
 
I
 
0
 
11
 
Now that was pretty daring for those days,  and it was
 
certainly far from the lush romantic language of many of the
 
other period songs and poems he collected and printed-- songs
 
like "Home On the Range,"  "Lasca,"  "The Red River Valley.'
 
Both poetic styles, the plain-spoken  and the flowery--
represented for father the authentic voices of the creative,
 
competent,  scantily-educated, but widely-experienced men who
 
were changing the face of the west he loved. All his life,  he
 
wanted to give them a bigger voice,  one t
4
t-ve
-uld carry
 
to
 
that would give them the broad-scale audience that
 
he thought they deserved, and that would also provide the
 
whole United States with a creative and passionate vernacular
 
poetry that everyone could not just enjoy but feel proud of.
 
Father wanted people exposed to the real words,  even if
 
sentimental,  even if rough, and the real voices,  even if
 
raucous. And so, when the RCA Victor Company began putting
 
out those marvellous new-fangled Victrolas that could capture
 
sounds and transfer them to incised spiral lines on wax
 
cylinders,  father was one of the first in line, Armed with
 
some Harvard Seldon fellowship moneys, he purchased one of
 
these magical machines, all equipped with a big flaring horn
 
like the one you can still see the dog listening to on the
 
RCA logo. By the way, when you recorded on one of those
 
cylinder machines, you needed to put your face as far down in
 
the horn as you could get it sQ-
-
-b ee
t a
i
t
h
 
am  e
 and then start to sing.  It was
 
really uncomfortable and kind of unnatural, and father ran
 
into quite a number of cowpunchers who simply refused to take
 
any part whatever in such a dubious enterprise.
 
Other collectors of course used recording machines too
 
and some of those early cylinders have survived
 -
a
.r
at
 
d
 
Ar
 But it was such early
 
times. Nobody really knew what they were doing exactly. Not
 
long ago my sister  ( aged 91)  remarked to me,  "You know,
 
_
1k
rc
-hive-at
 
12
 
honey,  that exhibit we went to see in Washington with those
 
cylinders in it,  it called to mind one time before you were
 
born when we used to have a big old wooden box out on the
 
sleeping porch back in Austin and I remember one day mother
 
went to open it up and it was just a big puddle of melted
 
black wax.  It was awful hot that summer,  and of course we
 
didn't know."  .But some of the cylinders stayed intact long
 
enough for father to play them for musicians who notated the
 
tunes for him (
he couldn't read music). And when Cowboy Songs
  
was published in 1910 it was not only John A. Lomax's first
 
book,  it was the first collection of native American folk
 
songs ever printed along with the music of the songs,  even
 
though the publishers would print the music of only eighteen
 
of the hundred or more tunes he had recorded.
 
What happened to the rest of them? Nobody really knows.
 
The cylinders are long since gone,  the papers have been
 
scattered. And that might seem kind of careless, but I should
 
remind you that few people during those early years did their
 
folkloring as a full time profession. Father started out as
 
an unpaid amateur and when he got himself a wife and four
 
children to support,  in a desperate attempt to make some
 
genuine money, he went into banking and did pretty well at it
 
too. During my childhood he wasn't doing folklore, he was
 
vice president of the Republic National Bank in Dallas.
 
The crash of 1929 almost destroyed him psychologically
 
and fiscally. He left his job and tried to recapture some of
 
his old triumphs, undertaking lectures on college campuses
 
all over the country.
 e dy
IT T
his
 
e
a
i y
tJ
s1.
—I
 
n gettated with the Rocke  ller
-
• Found
i
 nd— t
h-e"L±1Yr
y of
 
Congre
.as and finally began
. his
 
now-the traditional music of
 e— nt±r -s
t
h. Overall he
 
produced six books,  several them in co-authorship with his
 
son Alan Lomax.
 
For folkloring in those days was pretty much of a family
 
affair. Everybody had to help out  With a healthy clamorous
 
family to raise,  and without institutional support of any
 
 
MM
 
ask me sometimes where a particular unusu 1 verse in ',
ont
e of
 
fat
r's songs came from and I have a pretty good notion:
 he
 
prob
1
cut it with scissors out of anpth r version somebody
 
that he hç1-cbilected from another
 
singer and he
 with a straight pin. There
 
wasn't any scotch
 e1
'thar.  Mother made beautiful orderly
 
files,
 
when
 
w
f
t
h y. ne 
to.
 
-
 Nowadays contemporary scholars disapprove stxp
±y of
 
fath�i"s
d4
.ting the songs for publi 
cat
 
i
p
n
r
i
i
t
 he did not
 
have a scholarly aU t
he
,rce in min , he wanted the whole
 
American people to be able
ö
' &in
.g the songs themselves and
 
so he put back together any songs that he
Qund in incomplete
 
versions. F
Ie riever composed a line of them himse]f; a
.&.far as
 
I know--he just pinned the bits and pieces together with
 
those derned pins that stuck you when you picked the pages
 
up.
 
omehow the work got done and the books got out,  and
 
years later in the 1960's and 70's when I was teaching
 
folklore in California, an occasional student would bring me
 
a tattered copy of the old Cowboy Songs or Songs of the
  
13
 
kind,  father became a warm man with a dollar.  I am sure that
 
every now and again he must have hired a secretary but I
 
don't recall seeing one. What I do recall is seeing him
 
forever at his desk, writing letter after letter,  ten and
 
twenty a day,  in his beautiful Spencerian longhand
 dip
 
pen. Most are long since gone; nobody had time to copy them.
 
For I also recall sitting down at the old family
 
Remington typewriter whenever I came home from college and
 
starting in on the typing--almost always,  copies of the texts
 
of songs that father and Alan were working with. There was no
 
Xerox machine,  then, only me, and any other family member or
 
friend or the odd WPA worker who could be pressed into the
 
never-ending toil of copying, one word at a time, all the
 
hundreds and hundreds of songs, notes,  letters  and
 
manuscripts,  each and every time you needed a copy 1l People
 
else had sent Jim or
 
my b  t
1er tells me, but he and father raided them
 
14
 
Cattle Trail and Cow Camp book, and would tell me how much
 
his dad had loved it or that his uncle had left it to him in
 
his will.  Because the old-timers kept father's books and
 
referred to them when they forgot the words and they read
 
from them to their children.
 
They had need to try and keep the story straight because
 
by the beginning of the twentieth century,  journalists,
 
novelists,  and showmen of all description,  later including
 
radio and film producers, had decided that the west  was where
 
the great American adventures had taken place,  that the big
 
American story was the opening up and settling of the west,
 
and that the cowboy was the heroic figure in the center of
 
all that action and represented what all Americans secretly
 
longed to be. And when the history didn't quite fit,  they
 
began to make it up, and they made up such wonderful creative
 
things that their  
inventions began to seem more real than the
 
history, and a lot of the old time cowpunchers couldn't even
 
recognize themselves when they went to see Tom Mix in the
 
picture show
, or heard their own songs coming badk at them
 
over the radi
 
Of.-cou
, most of the old time- -
cowpunchers
-.
 
their own b /s
.mproving reality in thei  songs and
 
stories >B t their songs '
entered—the great stream of cowboy
 
oral-tcansmission and were remembei
- Qd forgotten in bits
 
-
r(d pieces, put back together again by the
 and
 
then by another until they sometimes became the co
- tiQn
 
of the-'
M
'any. And I myself think that father was so used to
 
this process that he saw his own editing as just anoth er part
 
of it. But there were other f6rce - a  werk LlY .
 
You see,  the old cowboy songs were work songs;  as  a
 
group theYAc me
 into being because of the nature of the work
 
to be done. And there are two big kinds of songs associated
 
with work,  first,  the work song proper,  the kind that are
 
sung while the work is going on,  coordinating or prolonging
 
the effort. The demands of the particular task at hand
 
completely control work songs. The song stops,  for example,
 
15
 
right in the middle if and when the task is done; no one
 
feels it has to be sung to its end,  assuming that it even has
 
one.
 
And then there are songs about work that are typically
 
sung after the job's all done and it's being thought about in
 
tranquility--songs that often glorify the job by telling
 
exciting stories about an accident or a comic event maybe,
 
songs that show how tough and skillful the workers are. These
 
are more formal poetic constructions; some people call them
 
occupational ballads.  " Bu
 
&ie Prairie" is--
 
But because of the nature of trail herding itse lf,  
owbov songs combined these two types. As father alwa
ys 
arefu11y pointed out, on the day to day level , catt le  
droving was a pretty boring proposition. A trail drive
 wasn
't 
a race; the whole idea was to get a lot of cows from
 one  
place to another in as good physical condition as  possible
 
because they were going to be weighed , and you we re  goin
g to  
get paid off accordingly, at the end of the tra il,  not  the  
beginning. So you moved "kinda slow" most of th e time,
 
letting the cattle graze as they went.
 
So the long lonely tedious hours in the sadd le often
 
produced long,  lonely tedious songs. In fact one of the  
criteria for a good old -time cowboy song was simple len
gth.  
"The Old Chisholm Trail" was of course the ha nds-down
 
champion in that department. An old -timer who had just  sun
g
 
my father 69 verses of that song without stopp in g ex plained
 
that it "was as long as the trail from Texas to  Wyomin
g."
 
Father's own collection eventually numbered more
 than
 two  
hundred verses. As it was indeed the primary song about
 trail
 
life it had to be trail -long, and its laconic direct
 
detailing of event after event telling you just exac tl y what
 
happened always makes it for me the realest of all  of  them:
 
on
 
e
 
many
 
Come along, boys, and listen to my tale
 
I
'll tell you of my troubles on the old Chisholm Trail
 
16
 
Come a ti yi yippy yippy yay, yippy yay
 
Come a ti yi yippy, yippy yay.
 
I started up the trail October twenty-third,
 
I started up the trail with the 2-U herd.
 
Cloudy in the west and looking like rain
 
And my damned old slicker's in the wagon again.
 
The wind commenced to blow and the rain began to fall
 
And it looked, by grab,  like we're gonna lose them all.
 
I jumped in the saddle, grabbed hold of the horn
 
I
'm  he best damned cowboy ever was born,
 
Well I don't give a damn if they never do stop
 
I
'll ride as long as an eight day clock.
 
Well we herded and we hollered and we done very well
 
Till the boss said,  Boys,  just let  '
em go to hell.
 
As you can see,  this is a song that was made for the
 
trail--it could lope along fast or slow,  any number of new
 
verses could be fit into its scheme of rhymed couplets,  it
 
could be sung by one person or a group, and it was infinitely
 
expandable,  to fit the length of any ride. A truly classic
 
work song. And at the same time it told one or more stories,
 
like an occupational ballad, with as much detail as the most
 
demanding audience could wish for. One of my grandchildren
 
re
T
 it as his bedtime song for years, not just because
 
it was so long,  I think, but because it was so interesting.
 
And he always made me tell him about the dogies. An old-
timer once defined the word "dogie" for father as a new-born
 
calf "whose mammy was dead and his pappy had run off with
 
another cow." The baby trail-born calves were indeed a
 
special responsibility of the punchers on the drives;  since
 
17
 
mother's milk was not available to these orphans they had to
 
eat grass before their digestive systems had matured. Their
 
bellies swelled and they staggered along at the end of the
 
herd,
 prey for coyotes and buzzards. The cowboys called them
 
little "dough-guts", and talked and sang to them and about
 
them constantly--"Roll on,  little dogies,  roll on"--every now
 
and again even picking one up and carrying him horseback for
 
a ways.
 
Whoopie ti yi yo, get along you little dogies
 
It's your misfortune and none of my own
 
Whoopie ti yi yo, get along, you little dogies
 
For you know Wyoming will be your new home.
 
For me that was always the great one,  the single most
 
beautiful cowboy song that ever was. And my brother, Alan
 
Lomax, has traced its long journey and many changes from an
 
ancient Irish lullaby that the old ladies of Cork say was the
 
one that Mary sang to rock the baby to sleep; he tells all
 
about it in Folk Songs of North America, if you want to look
 
it up.
 
For whatever songs the cowboys already knew were grist
 
for their creative mills; they changed old songs around and
 
borrowed tunes or never bothered with tunes at all,  just sort
 
of hollered or chanted verses ad lib--who cared? Being on the
 
trail was like being on a baseball field, when every player
 
is supposed to put up a line of chatter,  to help keep the
 
action lively and spirits high and,  incidentally,  to keep
 
everyone aware of just where everybody else is. -
?
in &
e-4-s
 
cle
_1iL
e ieal  -
ooiimony  h - Ame i-ean coin n whe sang out
 
more sil ent 
types.
 
The cows seemed to like the singing too,  although I have
 
heard present-day musicians scoff at the idea that cattle
 
have anything resembling musical taste. But old time
 
cattlemen talked about singing to the cattle almost the same
 
r
 
fl-
way current teenagers justify. 1aying music during homework
 
hours--both groups claim th,  music covers up potentially
 
disturbing ambient sounds /Here's how father said the night
 
herding yodelling sounded, not a bit Swiss style, more of a
 
crooning and calming sound, way up in the women's range:
 
Whoo -
 00  -
 00  -
-
 00
 
And certainly other peoples in the world who handle
 
large animals--from the milkmaids of the British Isles to the
 
cattle herders of central Africa--work their herds while
 
singing.
 
And so Irish tunes turned up in the American cowboy stew
 
(
they just sang what they already knew) along with African
 
American and Spanish songs,  for the cowpunching population
 
was polyglot: there were southern red-necks,  ex-slaves,  south
 
of the border Spanish speakers, English remittance men,
 
Mormons,  sod-busters, New England adventurers. Father took
 
down both "Home On the Range," and the classic "Sam Bass"
 
from black trail hands; people used to think that was comical
 
when I said it, but it was true..
 
And now what has happened to this stream of song,  and
 
what has happened to the cowboys since their brief glorious
 
star burst over the western plains?  They have survived. They
 
have changed.
 
Cattle are still raised for beef, and experienced men
 
and women are still required to handle them;  they do not
 
raise themselves. They even require occasional herding from
 
point to point, although I have heard of ranches in Hawaii
 
where the paniolos  (
Hawaiian cowboys) use mini-motorbikes
 
in-&L
,eacl o f h
aes.
 did see a group of young paniolos havi g
 
a round of beer in a roadside cafe on
 island,  all of
 
them poking hilarious  un a€ one of their number who was
 
solid mud from his Stetson to his boots  Apparently you can
 
still get th owed,
even off a noto
bike.
 
18
 
19
 
It's even more striking how the songs have survived--and
 
changed. The first and most fundamental change was that
 
people began accompanying them with musical instruments. You
 
may have
 d I
 E bring-
 gu  guitar
 -
 '
s morning.
 
Old
 me tra .- rivers di
C t either; when they were singing
 
Qr songs,  they were ,
15usy._FI never heard of a cowpuncher
 
taking a guitar on the trail; there was the rare fiddle
 
stashed in the chuck wagon--fiddles are small,  light-weight--
but never the guitar,  although many Mexican American
 
cattlemen undoubtedly played at the ranch-house. T e mu] ip e
 
-for-s- f
-
- the--guit&r- deve-loped--in Mexico now sound not jirst- i
-n
 
Hawaii but  
 
But when cowboy songs began routinely to be sung with
 
accompanying instruments,  they underwent a fundamental
 
change.  It turned them from work songs into occupational
 
songs, and that undoubtedly had to happen--when the work
 
pattern changes,  there is no longer need for the work song.
 
But then the insatiable demands of the music industry  (
as
 
opposed to the cattle industry) began to be applied and
 
gradually the pickers and grinners took over; you had to be
 
able to play or at least harmonize to sing a cowboy song in
 
public, and the way you sang or played it had to fit the
 
current tastes of the professional music-mongers. Cowboy
 
singing became less and less associated with southwestern
 
ranches and more and more with Hollywood and Tin Pan Alley.
 
But another fascinating thing happened too. As I have
 
already said, not all the cowboy songs were actually sung.
 
Many of them didn't really exactly have tunes but tended to
 
be chanted or recited.
 
Most of the cowpunchers during the trail driving days
 
had been educated,
,"_inCQfrr
 -
thQy h d
in the one-room
 
country school houses of the period, where a single teacher
 
exposed a group of mixed-age children to learning, armed only
 
with a few readers and a few slates. Oral recitation
 
therefore was frequent,and necessary,  for there were not
 
enough books
  memorization was highly regarded, j r
nd elocutiop
 
20
 
I
t
 
I
 /
 
—eoi rs-es-.
re offer
_j 
Local entertainments
 
featured the recitation of classic poetry, or sections from
 
great public addresses,)
(a
  original poems that had been
 
composed in honor of the occasion.  So today we know the real
 
names of many cowboy authors;  lots of them wrote poems or
 
songs themselves. There was nothing special about that in
 
thon'
  
b
 LJ.
.
 
— did do you know,  to this day,  there still isn't? I
 
firmly believe that every single American has at some time or
 
anot e
.t iritten at least one poem;  it
tainly is one of the
 
first thing
we
il think of to d
hen something
 
unimaginable happens.
 that the broadcast
 
stations of the nation w ye fi
 ,
 
6oded with poems written by
 
anguished citizens i m
iately after th
J.ennedy and King
 
assasinations. A3
even if we're too shy to
tt. ç,writing
 
poems, we st
kt love them; the number of wallets tiat contain
 
a tightl
,7 flded copy of "The Shooting of Dan McGrew" or
 
anoth y'4avorite classic poem suitable for taking out and
 
read
 aloud--well,  I believe to this day there are still
 
lots of the  around.
 
And,
,
\nowadaYs.  in line with our tendency to organize
 
everything, you can go to Cowboy Gatherings and listen to the
 
fellows reciting their poetry, always from memory. They go on
 
for days,  these events;  it's like being back in Homer's time
 
where the bards fill you in on what's been going on and
 
remind you of the glories of the past. The grand-daddy of
 
these remarkable events —e
s
.e,
 takes place in Elko,
 
Nevada
 every January,  smack in the
 
middle of winter when people can take time off from their
 
ranch jobs. The Oregon poet, Kim Stafford, had this to say
 
about it all.
 
I
've come to watch all year for that first sight of Elko
 
at dusk,  late January,  that distant neon ruby glittering
 
like a star, as I come down south off Doby Summit.  I
 
know I
'll soon be treated to round after round of poems
 
21
 
and stories--voices to teach me the pleasures of
 
solitude and the raw work of hoof and hand. When the
 
poets get started,  rhymes in the poems stand like
 
streetlights every half block along Idaho Street,  ei
-e
- ----
\i tle lig1t earned dike a season'stwage. An old fellow
 
at Caprio a
's told me i\ast winter  "Son, you\ an hav /
 
mar- fun in Elko by acci
nt th.  you can anywfierr else
 
on Pu '
.se, because you can\do anything you're .i
 
enoug'  to get away with, an r_
 ter a couple • inks yo
'u
 
fee  pretty 'amn big in this town." I knew/ e'd said
 
tha  many times. His staring of it had "Vie
 polish of
 
old leather brai
 fhe rhymes I hear/ at the
 
Gathering, yes,  I could predict them, but that didn't
 
dull their pleasure. When you lift the coffee cup to
 
your lips for the tenth time on a cold day, you get so
 
you can predict its bitter kiss, but that doesn't make
 
you ever want to stop.
 
I remember one rhyme at the end of a poem about an
 
old dog,  the kind of good dog you remember and brag
 
about. As the reciter came cantering slower toward the
 
poem's end, we could see the glow of that last rhyme
 
like moonrise over the horizon and then it was there.
 
And now I walk these hills alone.
 
The tough lady editor beside me ran out of Kleenex then,
 
and I had a little trouble myself.
 
Woody Guthrie would have liked that piece that Kim
 
Stafford wrote. Father always said that Woody was the best
 
cowboy song singer of the modern times, and I think I know
 
why Woody never worried about seeing that corny old-timey
 
rhyme cantering up over the horizon; he wanted you to face
 
that rhyme in all its human inevitability. He wanted you to
 
hear and understand the shared humanity of the story it was
 
bringing you.
 
22
 
I once had a student who chose Woody Guthrie as the
 
subject of his term paper, but it turned out that he had just
 
heard about Woody, he had never heard any of his recordings.
 
So I said he had better give them a listen and he did and
 
returned all upset.  "1 just don't like his recordings, Mrs.
 
Hawes;  I sing some of his songs myself and I thought I would
 
like them,  but I really don't. So what do I do now?"
 
I suggested that he give it another week. You have met
 
another human being, warts and all, when you hear Woody. He
 
played a totally straight-forward unornamented guitar in a
 
totally straight-forward unornamented way,  sometimes getting
 
on to a chord and not changing it for the entire song. That
 
takes some stamina to listen to,  I
'll admit, but after a
 
while you begin to take to it. And Woody sang the way cowboys
 
used to sing,  father said, without guile or seductiveness-
flat out,  tense, masculine,  serious, often strained.
 
Well, my student finally came back and told me that in
 
desperation he had tried playing Woody with the volume turned
 
way low so that it would fade into the background and my
 
student could kind of be exposed to the music subliminally.
 
And he said to me in despair,  "But that didn't work either,
 
Mrs. Hawes. Woody just wouldn't let me not listen to him.  I
 
had to turn up the volume and pay attention if I was going to
 
listen at all
 
That's the great ballad style,  the narrative voice that
 
cuts away everything extraneous to the story that's being
 
told and tells it to you in a way that makes you listen. My
 
brother Alan's cross-cultural research shows that this is one
 
of the great vocal styles of the planet and that it has moved
 
around the globe in rough alignment with the herders of big
 
animals,  the horsemen,  the men and women who have daring and
 
important stories to tell. We in the United States are lucky
 
to have hosted it in our western states. And I think we are
 
also lucky that my father, along with the other intrepid
 
folklorists of his day and later, was there to record it in
 
23
 
/
 
its classic development,  for it is no longer there in the old
 
way nor will it ever be exactly again. But who knows what
 
musicians and singers of tomorrow may take inspiration from
 
these spare, beautiful and rugged songs?  Today as we
 
struggle to help maintain the variety of natural life around
 
the planet, we must concern ourselves also with the support
 
of cultural variety while we can still catch the echoes of
 
these varied musical systems, and hear them speaking to our
 
deepest b
.e
.ar
.t
.s-.
  
ere is one thing I hope you will remember from this
 
mar  •ng it is that the voices and skills of people--like
 
cowboy - who are generally not counted as professional
 
artists,  arë worth paying attention to. But they often need
 
more than that--they need help--all of you have in your home
 
states remarkable and well trained people who know how to
 
help keep alive and vi
nt the traditional repertoires and
 
skills that tell you when  .u've reached home at last,  the
 
kind of thing my father helpe4 start all those years ago.
 
Those people and their work dese  e your support and your
 
applause;  some people call them fol  .
.rists,  some call them
 
state folk arts coordinators, and you h. e a wonderful
 
example of the kind of work they can do ri.it here in Elko at
 
the Western Folklife Center and the Cowboy Pa-. ry Gathering..
 
A small amount of federal money matched by a sma
 number of
 
state dollars has been going to their support and to  over
 
the expenses of folklorists' work, but that's all likel
 
being wiped out right this minute in current economy drive
 
I really hope we all can stop thinking about our own persona
 
taxes for a just a minute or two and start figuring out ways
 
\
to keep these dedicated people at their jobs, not just here
 
)
in Elko, but across the nation. Your children and your grand-
cbJJdren will thank you for it.
 
�
5 ,
 5
'