1
Women Architects 
Plater-Zyberk, Elizabeth, FAIA      ~        Oral History Interview 
November 11, 2019 
Plater-Zyberk, Elizabeth. Interview by Sarah K. Filkins. Women Who Are Architects. DPZ.Co 
Design. Date of Interview: November 11, 2019. 
This oral history was produced as part of the Library of Congress Occupation Folklife Project 
funded by an Archie Green Fellowship. 
Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk, FAIA Interview, November 11, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
2
Background 
Interviewer: Sarah K Filkins 
Interviewee: Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk 
 
 
DPZ CoDesign 
 
 
1023 SW 25th Ave. 
 
 
Miami, FL  33135 
 
 
 
 
Date of Birth: 1963 
Date of Interview: 
February 17, 2020 
Place:  
DPZ CoDesign Office 
 
 
Miami, Florida 
 
Other People Present:  
None 
 
Background Noise: 
 
Office in Urban Setting 
Equipment Used: 
TASCAM DR-100MKII Linear PCM Recorder 
 
 
 
audio-technica AT899 Subminiature Omnidirectional Condenser Lavalier   
 
 
 
 
Microphones 
Recording Medium Used: Digital 24-Bit/96 kHz Recording Resolution WAV Files 
Transcriber:  Sarah K Filkins 
Key Words:  Duany Plater-Zyberk and Company, Andrés Duany, New Urbanism, architecture, 
urban planning and design, University of Miami School of Architecture, zoning code, history of 
urban form, Princeton University, Yale School of Architecture, Arquitectonica, Seaside, Robert 
Davis, suburbs, garden city, TND (Traditional Neighborhood Development), suburban sprawl, 
developer, “town founder”, Congress for the New Urbanism, adaptation to climate change, 
women architects, construction, modernists, New Civic Art: Elements of Town Planning, history 
of cities, 40 Under 40: [Young Talent in Architecture], Charleston Place, Smart Code 
Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk, FAIA Interview, November 11, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
3
Interview 
[00:00] 
Sarah Filkins: This is Sarah Filkins and Trish Heidenreich, Interviewers, speaking with Elizabeth 
Plater-Zyberk in Miami Florida at the offices of DPZ [CoDesign] on Monday, November 11, 
2019. Good afternoon and thank you for agreeing to share you story with us as part of the 
Library of Congress Occupation Folklife Project. 
Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk: 
Good Afternoon. Thank you for considering me for this project. I 
look forward to our conversation. 
SF: 
So I’m going to ask you to say your name and year of birth because that will be a 
reference point for the library. 
 EPZ: Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk. 
1950. 
SF: 
Okay, so let’s just start, if you could describe your current job and your responsibilities. 
EPZ: For many years I’ve led a dual life in which I am a partner of Duany Plater-Zyberk and 
Company—that was the original name of the company—it’s now called DPZ CoDesign and  
working and practicing in architecture, and urban planning and design and the second 
responsibility lies with the University of Miami where I have taught architecture and urban 
design at the School of Architecture and where I was dean of the school for eighteen years. 
SF: 
Do you have—are there some current projects that you are working on?  
EPZ: Oh yes, there are always many projects and they range—there’s a variety from design for 
public housing in St. Croix in the Virgin Islands following destruction by hurricanes in prior 
years on the one hand, code writing, working on zoning codes in particular with the City of Coral 
Gables where we currently live and at the university I teach the introduction to urban design 
studio for the Master of Urban Design program which I direct. So there are always various kinds 
of activities related to that—to that work 
SF: 
When did you first become aware—maybe discuss about growing up and when you first 
became aware of the built environment or architecture or urban design. 
EPZ: So, I was lucky for my generation of women in architecture  to have grown up with a 
father who was an architect. So like many of my students who when I ask them, “How did you 
become interested in architecture?”, it had to do with early construction experiences. So the 
house was always having improvements done and of course for a child, being on a construction 
site is fascinating. But the—really the moment I think, when I thought I should do this was 
Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk, FAIA Interview, November 11, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
4
seeing my father’s pencil drawings on his drawing table at home and they just looked so luscious 
to me. It was something that I wanted to do. And he was doing an interesting kind of work then, 
he was helping people transform old Pennsylvania farmhouses into modern homes, really for the 
first time. And those buildings were—of course, surrounded us in Pennsylvania where I was 
growing up—and I’ve always admired them for their beauty, simple elegance, use of proportions 
and that still 
SF: 
Stone.  
EPZ: Yes and so that is still with me in my work today. 
SF: 
So did you aspire to be an architect? Did you know, even know any women who were 
architects or that didn’t even cross your mind, you just wanted to be doing what your dad did? 
EPZ: I just wanted to be doing that. We knew—there was one that I knew of, Sasha Novitska.  
My parents are Polish. Although I was born in the US, the rest of the family, my siblings were 
born in Poland and Mrs. Novitska was teaching architecture at Penn [University of Pennsylvania] 
having immigrated at the same time as my family. So they knew each other. I didn’t know her 
very well. It wasn’t—it was really the stuff of architecture that was interesting me, it wasn’t so 
much the people that I was aware of. Actually later on I might say that I had a lot of questions 
about the architects we were learning about in—in architecture school. They just didn’t seem like 
the people I wanted to be. 
SF: 
More modernists you mean? 
EPZ: No, that wasn’t the problem but the life  
[05:00] 
of these men was—somehow didn’t seem appealing. 
SF: 
So you went to Princeton with the idea of majoring in architecture or eventually going on 
to graduate school? 
EPZ: So, yeah, that was an interesting time because I was—I was trying to chart my path into 
architecture having started out at Manhattanville College, and not wanting to wait until graduate 
school. The Ivy League schools were going coed at that moment. There was a program in Asian 
Studies that took women for a year. I thought I would try it out for a year at Princeton and I was 
invited to transfer rather than come for a year which is what I did and that was a true turning 
point because I understood very quickly that this is what I should be doing. 
SF: 
So and you also went to Overbrook a Sacred Heart school? 
Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk, FAIA Interview, November 11, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
5
EPZ: I did. 
SF: 
I went to Stone Ridge in DC. So I know we both have great curtseys.  
EPZ: Yes, and handwriting. 
SF: 
Yes, yes. So If you could describe a little bit about your—about your education and what 
perhaps—what people inspired you or did you have mentors? What really attracted you? What 
part of architecture really attracted you? 
EPZ: I enjoyed all aspects of it from the history to the design process. I think I’ve had so many 
good teachers. Even today I think about how difficult it is to teach. But there were a number of 
people at Princeton. Kenneth Frampton, a historian who gave me my first inkling that there was 
history of cities and a history of urban form course. 
SF: 
Do you remember what course it was?   
EPZ: It was history of urban form, nineteenth and twentieth century I think or eighteenth and 
nineteenth. Interestingly enough it covered one aspect of that topic and completely ignored 
another one which is what we actually became interested in which were garden cities and the 
Anglo-American suburb as Robert Stern later called it. And Frampton was focusing on rather 
more systematic and rational projects for cities, which—many which were never really built or 
only very partially because they were so visionary. But the idea that you could have that kind of 
vision, visionary approach, and think about how to make things better at that scale, I think 
probably is what stuck with me. Later on at Yale there were again many design teachers—Allan 
Greenberg was just beginning his studies of classical architecture as a contemporary endeavor. 
Vincent Scully was the historian that we were TA’ing [teaching assistant] for and that was very 
important for us. And any number of other people who were really great teachers, so those—and 
the two schools were very different. One was Corbusien. Princeton had a great devotion to Le 
Corbusier at the time—the three modernists: [Alvar] Aalto, Le Corbusier and [Ludwig] Mies 
[van der Rohe] but of course Michael Graves was in his ascendancy at that point and he was still 
a “White Architect” and so that was the kind of the milieu of Princeton and by the time we got to 
Yale, post modernism was really flowering. Robert Venturi’s work was of course being promoted 
by Scully. Charles Moore was one of the faculty who I also TA’d for. And so there was this—I 
would say that throughout there was a kind of fascination with history as a source for design that 
seemed new at the time. So it was a very interesting time. We graduated into the recession of the 
70s and so that sent us all in many different directions. 
SF: 
What was your vision of what you wanted to do at that point?  
[10:00] 
Was it…because you quickly opened up your own firm. 
Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk, FAIA Interview, November 11, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
6
EPZ: It was very unclear what was ahead because of the recession, the oil recession of the 70s.  
And most of our peers stayed up north and were doing interior design or went into municipal 
planning. Or some—one of us—Pat Pinnell went out to the Midwest for a year. And we headed 
south. Andrés Duany, my classmate, was on his way to Texas, we thought Texas was still okay. 
He stopped in Miami and got a teaching job at the University of Miami. I went to work in a store 
for a year. There were no jobs really. And I had a very interesting experience with a store 
manager, a woman store manager, and just in the world of  business, of being with people who 
were not academic—who you know, the full range from the stockman to the store manager. It 
was an invaluable experience. I took accounting courses. And I actually thought— 
SF: 
Served you well maybe in developing your own business. 
  
EPZ: Yes, but it was, you know—I think about young people, being with them often at the 
university, how you think that what’s going on at the very moment is going to be a forever thing 
and so I was pretty sure that architecture was never going to bounce back and that I’d—maybe 
I’d better go be a banker or something. 
SF: 
And you had also done an internship at Venturi Rauch? 
EPZ: And so yes, I came down here to do a preservation project that Andrés asked me to help 
him with. And you know I don’t remember why already, but a resume was sent into the V and R 
[Venturi and Rauch] office and they called up and said, “Would you come for two weeks?” And 
at the same time I was being offered a years teaching position at the University of Miami. And so 
it was like—two weeks—ten months—two weeks—ten months. I took the two weeks and spent 
almost a year in that office in Philadelphia. 
SF: 
What were some of your takeaways from working in that office? 
EPZ: Well, I just thought Bob Venturi was great. He actually reminded me a lot of my father.   
But the whole approach, which when I’d heard him speak about his work as an undergraduate at 
Princeton, I didn’t understand a thing about what he was doing. And then once I was—I guess 
I’d been through a lot more schooling and I was in the office and watching that work evolve—
the intellectual content, the eye, and then a group of people working who were all wonderful. I 
actually went into that office with a bit of a chip on my shoulder thinking that it was going to be 
like some of the faculty I had encountered in design crits. This is going to be a tough place and it 
was a demanding place but everybody was incredibly kind and decent. And I must say that was 
surprising. 
SF: 
Was Denise Scott Brown working there at the time?   
EPZ: Yes, she was and this was already past Learning from Las Vegas. They were working—
she was leading the charge on an exhibit for the Renwick [Gallery] which had to do with the 
Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk, FAIA Interview, November 11, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
7
design of the American home and the cultural components of that—what it meant. And so I 
worked on that a little bit. I worked on the Vale House. I worked on a variety of projects and 
seeing them—two things were—well, many things amazed me, but I remember Bob coming in 
with a full set of trace drawings, hand drawn, of a project that was then, just after the weekend, 
ready to go into hardline drawings. You know that it was so figured out and they were beautiful 
on yellow trace.  And the other thing was I used to go up into the attic after-hours to look at old 
drawings. And found, before they had been published, all the prior versions of the mother’s 
house. I think there were six or seven and I had been lucky to visit Venturi’s mother’s house with 
Bob Stern  
[15:00] 
when I was at Yale. That was an odd—that’s an anecdote in itself.  But we visited that house and 
a Louie Kahn house down the street—a group of students. And so I could see that those first 
houses—the first versions of the Vanna Venturi house were Louie Kahn houses, in fact, that they 
were still Louie Kahn’s thinking and Bob’s work and then finally it turned into his [Bob’s] work 
on the seventh try and that was a real lesson in—that you really worked through ideas. 
SF: 
So that it was okay to evolve and that you could take that with you in your own practice. 
EPZ: That you needed to draw things over and over again because you learned from each 
drawing and the next one would be better. 
SF: 
And of course everybody at that point everybody was drawing with pencil on paper, and 
trace paper and no computers… 
EP-Z: And ink drawings, also. When I tell my students about that they are amazed. 
SF: 
Well I remember saying, “Oh, architects will never change to computers. They’ll never 
let go of pencil on paper or ink on mylar,” whatever. So you—then what prompted the group of 
you to get together then? Was that really your first—you were not really too long out of school 
before… 
EPZ: So Andrés had brought others to teach at the University of Miami [UM], he had been 
asked to try to encourage classmates and other younger people to come to a growing school of 
architecture and so in that way Bernardo Fort-Brescia, who was a year behind us I think at 
Princeton, in class with Andrés sister, Aeneid, so we knew him in more than one way. He came 
down and taught with Andrés at UM. And after—Venturi’s office really shrunk after that year, 
the recession I guess hit a little bit later and so I came down. So there were the two of us, 
Bernardo was dating Laurinda [H. Spear] and Hervin Romney was a classmate from Yale who 
was in Miami also, another emigre from Cuba. He had a license, we didn’t, and so the five of us 
got together to—we were doing design competitions. Hervin scared up a project in Ecuador, an 
apartment building. Robert Stern published it in the first 40 Under 40: [Young Talent in 
Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk, FAIA Interview, November 11, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
8
Architecture] and we started getting other kinds of other work. So that was in 1976. Andrés and I 
were married that year. In 1980 we opened our own firm. The main difference being that we 
were—we were committed to being connected to the university and that plays havoc with—in a 
sense—with keeping an office organized and business-like and so we split up. Three people went 
to Arquitectonica and Andrés and I started our own firm. 
SF: 
Was there a philosophical change too that they would focus more on one and you 
would… 
EPZ: Not at the time but it did evolve that way because we were happily working on the same 
projects. Seaside was in that office at the same time that the Brickell high-rises were. What we 
brought from our understanding of historic American architecture and the interests that we had 
picked up in school, in that still post-modern era, were related to northern architecture. Key West 
was a southern, South Florida version of that. Laurinda, having grown up in Miami, was very 
interested in the Miami history and in particular the modern—the Art Deco, Moderne, and early 
post-war history—and so it was a kind of rich mix but that also guided the—in a sense future 
work. So Arquitectonica first buildings were high rises, important early high rises in Miami, 
which set the stage for their practice and 
[20:00] 
  
we meanwhile had taken on—were working on Seaside with Robert Davis and a housing project 
in Boca Raton called Charleston Place where we encountered the suburbs and suburban zoning 
in the whole—a kind of whole arena of building that really was not considered, what should I 
say, appropriate for architectural involvement. Or if it was, it was not highly regarded at least in 
the academic world. So one of my first studio projects as a teacher at Miami—so Andrés taught 
for four years and then he left and I started teaching—and one of my first projects used 
Charleston Place as the topic. And it was a radical thing to do, to give a suburban housing project 
as an assignment, as an academic assignment. And that’s when we discovered the book, Civic 
Art, The American Vitruvius: [An Architect’s Handbook of Civic Art] which our friend Pat 
Pinnell, who had been exiled to the Midwest for a year before he came back to teach at the 
University of Maryland. And he had found this rare book that nobody had checked out since 
1922 and told us we better look at the one in our library which we did and that became a real 
guide for the urban design of the practice. 
SF: 
And you of course have written the next version of that. 
EPZ: Yes, we made a sequel [New Civic Art: Elements of Town Planning] as we collected other
—other examples. 
SF: 
So how did you—working in a practice with your husband—how did you divide the 
responsibilities, or was it sort of an equal partnership or did one person focus more on design, 
one more on community or… 
Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk, FAIA Interview, November 11, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
9
EPZ: It was really—it was pretty equal but my time was less devoted to the office than his.  
You know, I had a full time obligation to teach and the research and service side of it was the 
work that we were developing in the office. And writing about or, you know, the early projects 
and even now I think there’s a great deal of exploration in the work which came out of that time.  
But I think pretty soon we realized that we needed to work on separate projects. We were just 
getting in each others way. And so while we have assisted each other with projects, there’s—each 
one of us always has the lead or is the one in charge of it so that it’s not constant—it’s not 
constant collaboration. That said, the practice has always been extremely collaborative. There 
have been a lot of, not only with the people who have worked with the firm, but all of the—even 
the architecture—especially the later architecture once our urban design work was evolving and 
we understood how enriching it was to work with other designers but also other disciplines. It 
became very—it all became very collaborative. 
SF: 
At what point was your vision for—become coined as the New Urbanism? How was that 
evolving along with your practice? 
EPZ: So that project in Boca Raton was wildly successful. It was—the company that had been 
asked to do the market studies for it would not do it. They said, “This is too different. We can’t 
do it.” But it turned out to be striking a chord with the buyers, with some part of the community 
that really liked those kinds of small townhouses with the side yards of Charleston and likewise 
with Seaside, it was very unconventional for its time and—it took off in a very interesting way, 
although slowly. And we began to understand that this was going to be an interesting area of 
work. Meanwhile, we were keeping up with friends, classmates and friends in other parts of the 
country so Stef [Stefanos] Polyzoides who had been a grad student at Princeton when we were 
undergraduates was someone we stayed in touch with.  
[25:00] 
We would visit, you know, we began to see what our friends were doing around the country. 
Andrés had started speaking in public about architecture, about our practice and eventually 
criticizing the suburbs as a kind of wasteful and unsustainable way of making places. And that—
there was something going on elsewhere. California, which has always been leading in many 
ways, was beginning to think about how to deal with air pollution, and whether getting people 
closer to their jobs and not driving so much maybe was a better way of building. And Judy 
Corbett who had something, a non-for-profit called the Local Government Commission, I 
believe, invited us out to speak and then what came out of that was something that her group 
started called the Ahwahnee Principles which we participated in signing and the people who 
were there were Stef, Peter Calthorpe who had been in Governor Brown’s office working on 
these same kinds of things, Liz Moule who was Stef’s partner and wife. And we were saying, 
“You know these Ahwahnee Principles are good but they’re not good enough. It’s not enough. 
It’s not going to get us to a well designed environment.  It’s telling what we should do in general 
terms only.” And meanwhile I had been—Andrés always looked to history for inspiration and so 
Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk, FAIA Interview, November 11, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
10
he had been talking to all of us about seeing the Congrès International d’Architecture Moderne 
which had—after four yearly conferences—had an enormous effect on making modernism the 
prevalent mode of post-war building in Europe and South America and the US. And we said, you 
know, we need to be that powerful. We have—we’re on to something and if we really are serious 
about it we need to think about how to address two areas, essentially education and policy. I had 
gone off to research the “think tanks,” the Brookings Institute and so on and we realized that 
those entities had huge endowments that enabled them to do research and write articles and so 
we decided that we would make a membership organization. And initially our first meeting in 
Alexandria, we limited it to the two-hundred people that we knew were really working on these 
things, and on these issues and could bring salient, current experience. But it was a real—there 
was a real intention to try to be powerful, to guide change and that’s how the organization 
started. And then of course, because there was a Charter of Athens, there had to be a Charter of 
the New Urbanism and that was developed a few years into the organization’s life. 
SF: 
And that has—are you still actively involved with that because you were one of the 
founders? 
EPZ: There were six founders. I’ve mentioned most of them: Stef Polozoides, Liz Moule, Peter 
Calthorpe, Dan Solomon, Andres and I. And Peter Katz was very important. He published the 
book The New Urbanism [-Toward an Architecture of Community]. He pulled that together. He 
had worked on the Five Architects [:Eisenman, Graves, Gwathmey, Hejduk, Meier] book years 
before. He was a graphic designer but he was very much involved in the work we were doing. 
And he was very good at managing our coastal differences. And so—and there were very 
interesting discussions that were going on because we already had in a sense intellectual 
territory.  We had written the traditional neighborhood development code which grew out of the 
Seaside code. That’s a very interesting story about why that had to exist. And Peter Calthorpe 
was working on transit oriented development due to the California work, the policy work that he 
was involved in. And so they seemed to be two different territories—they’re not—they’re really 
the same thing but people already knew them by name 
[30:00] 
and so the name, the New Urbanism, came out of a search for a new title or a new name that 
would not be attached to any one person or side of the country or and I’m sure that we—I know 
that we tried many things and these are now all in boxes at the Archive for the New Urbanism 
which I have started at the University of Miami School of Architecture. So one day somebody 
can go back and find out what were all the other names that we were trying out. 
SF: 
So, but your involvement in education has been—well it’s been such a strong 
commitment. And so why—what do you love about teaching?  Then you went on to become the 
dean, and to—I guess first—to create the graduate program in suburban, urban or town design? 
Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk, FAIA Interview, November 11, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
11
EPZ: In 1988 the school had a Bachelor of Architecture program and we thought we could 
really focus on these issues in an interesting way and we started our first masters program.   
We now have a professional Master of Architecture program and that program has been renamed 
to the Master of Urban Design. But at the time it was named the Master of Architecture in 
Suburb and Town Design because we wanted to be very clear that we were not going to be doing 
downtown Boston projects—that we were going to be working on this aspect of American 
development that nobody else was at the time. And the TND [Traditional Neighborhood 
Development] really grew—a lot of things grew out of this connection of the office—of the 
university and the office, and I think we have always understood that there was this kind of 
mutual enrichment that was important. So the Seaside code and the first charrette in Seaside was 
done by a group of people who were young—young graduates at the University of Miami some 
of them, they may even have still been students then. And this code, this matrix form based code 
was developed and then the first TND was developed on that same format on a big piece of paper
—it was always a blueprint. It was very difficult at that time to be typing little pieces of paper 
and gluing them on and that grew out of an NEA [National Endowment for the Arts] grant that 
we received at the university to computerize the Seaside code. But it was really too early for 
computer programs to be able do what we wanted them to do, so different methods were used but 
the document emerged from that. And then the first studies of changing the way that Miami-
Dade County might build, you know, the first illustrations of how to build at the edge of the 
county, at the edge of the Everglades, came out of the university projects which then influenced 
the county to ask us to decide that the TND would be applied to a certain—that the TND needed 
to be placed into the county code. So there’s a piece in the Miami-Dade County Zoning Code 
which is a TND. And then that enabled other municipalities around the country to say, “Oh look, 
somebody’s already done it. We’re going to start doing it.” And the TND proliferated. Oh it was 
tailored, I mean it became—it was localized wherever it went but obviously there were—people 
were already looking for that kind of—what’s the alternative to suburban sprawl and the TND 
became that first version of that. Later on that evolved to become the Smart Code which became 
more of a template that went from—it wasn’t just one neighborhood at a time but had a regional 
view as well as a more detailed view of how you detail streets and so on. And they’re people who 
are tracking the hundreds of communities who have used the Smart Code. 
SF: 
Through the University or something you’ve been… 
EPZ: No, no, so this is—so actually another group of  “new urbanists” but anyway among the 
new urbanists there are people who are involved with that as well as us. 
SF: 
Well what do you think are the foundational skills of being an architect or urban 
designer?   
[35:00] 
That must be something that you deal with in your approach as a dean or an educator of students 
in architecture or urban design. 
Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk, FAIA Interview, November 11, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
12
EPZ: So you know, I think one of the hardest things for students to understand—I think it’s a 
lot easier when you are older—but when you are still trying to gain the skills that you need to be 
an architect and to learn about that is—how to give up your individual—your individual 
territorial and later branding. Let me start over. How to—when you’re an architect you are 
primarily interested in the building that you are working on and you’re being taught how to make 
it your building and that it’s important for you to have an innovative design and that somehow 
you can project an image. Later on you find out that it’s a brand. But in urban design it’s most 
important in a sense to give that up—to think about the greater whole that’s made of many 
individual efforts and how to help them to collaborate—co-exist and collaborate in making 
something that’s greater than the sum of its parts. And so that’s always a big step to take. So I 
will give Andrés credit for early on in the first projects we were doing and, you know, we would 
hear the client saying, projecting the ideas as if they were his. They always were he’s, I will have 
to admit. And I would say to Andrés, “Those are our ideas and he’s acting like they are his.” And 
Andrés, I don’t know where he got this from, but he said, “It’s not important whose ideas they 
are. The important thing is for them to get built.” And so that became a kind of a background 
mantra and the charrette, as a method, certainly grew out of that idea. And now I think it’s 
understood that urban places, the best urban places, are made of many efforts with a common 
vision or a shared vision but as many different participants as possible. 
SF: 
Because you’ve intentionally not designed buildings within your, within the… 
EPZ:  Yeah, for the most part. 
SF: 
So that there would be this mixture of architecture and approaches? 
EPZ: So we made a—we were very conscious in Seaside of not doing any buildings—the first 
project where we were—where people really were encountering a code that said here are the 
urban rules. The architectural ones were minimal. And we didn’t want people just to follow our 
designs because we had done the plan. Later on we’ve done buildings in our towns, in our town 
plans, and without any danger of too much copying. And there has been a—and one of the things 
that’s been interesting to see is how much variety there is in those places because the architects 
who participate really take on the challenge of making buildings of character in a place of 
intended harmony but still that would have their individual identity. And that, you know, the 
details become very important. It’s a kind of high game of refinement. 
SF: 
Well, in terms of foundational skills for architects, do you think it’s different for women, 
or skills they need to succeed in architecture or urban design or—maybe it’s different now than 
when you were going through your graduate… 
EPZ: Well I think it’s changed a lot. But although, it’s very different now for women entering 
the field than it was when I was coming out of school. But there still is not great visibility of 
Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk, FAIA Interview, November 11, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
13
women in leadership positions.You can still open a website of a well known firm and find—it’s 
men all the way down until you get to accounting, or interior design or human relations or  
[40:00] 
resources or whatever. Although some of the largest firms are clearly trying to include women in 
the hierarchy. But I have a great admiration for—I’ve always had a great admiration for Zaha 
Hadid and now for Jeanne Gang because they’ve really made a name for women in architecture. 
Most of my generation attached themselves to someone else or to a group of people to develop 
their work in the field. But still, I would think that by now there might be—I mean in law, 
politics, practically every other business, women are more prominently leading than in ours. 
SF:   
Yes, I’d heard Zaha, even with her great accomplishments or her buildings, might be 
referred to or critiqued as being—well, they’re too curvilinear, reflects her femininity, whatever, 
so it still seems to be there.  So do you counsel your women students to—I guess maybe by 
mentorship and showing what can be accomplished is another way. 
EPZ: I wish there was an easy answer. If there was, things would be different. But I think there 
are many things that my generation has not managed somehow and I don’t mean just in 
architecture but I think the whole—still the gender differences that are built into the culture that 
are cosmetic are I think an issue. And first of all, I have to say, I don’t spend a lot of time 
thinking about this because I think, I would just be angry. But I do think that there are things that 
are going on in the culture and you know, I think women are part of that too—to fall prey to 
these things that invite inconsequential differences and invite the kind of hierarchy that gets 
established. And from—anything from behavior to dress to the fact that there are some deeply 
imbedded aspects of our—of western society where it’s the woman’s responsibility and it should 
just as much be the man’s whether it’s domestic, or familial or even something like birth control. 
Or there’re people who’re more—better equipped to talk to you about this than I am. But I am 
constantly aware that even young men are growing up with this sense of difference, of the wrong 
kind, of the not helpful kind. 
SF: 
So the whole idea of work/life balance too?  
EPZ: Yeah, and so you see I can’t speak to that either because we never had children and but I 
understand, you know, I can see some of my friends who devoted a lot of time to family even 
while they were practicing, who after the children leave home are like really ready to go and 
anxious to lead and at an older age even that is causing them problems. So…there are cultural 
issues. 
SF: 
Are there projects that you have completed that you look back and say that that is—was 
the most successful at realizing your goals in terms of new urbanism? 
Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk, FAIA Interview, November 11, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
14
EPZ: You know, I think that we were—I think of the whole practice in that sense of looking 
back with satisfaction at something accomplished. That said, I should say I can’t take the credit 
for it and Andrés probably wouldn’t either and even our firm has had several hundred people go 
through it. And then there’re the hundreds of others who’ve worked on these projects, not the 
least of which are the developers who take the risks—the “town founders” as we call them—who 
take the risks  
[45:00] 
and then spend a lifetime making them a wonderful place. And there’re several—there are many 
outstanding individuals like that. But just to see how that has evolved, I think, is incredibly 
satisfying. And along the way as architects founded an architecture, the fact that so many of them 
are beautiful places with beautiful buildings where architects and—and the owners, who really 
can see themselves as patrons. They’re not patrons of expensive high design individual houses, 
the extremes of which we’re seeing some amazing examples today, but just ordinary people who 
saw that being part of a community and contributing to it with their individual conception of a 
house, working with a designer, was a worthwhile thing to do. 
SF: 
Part of something bigger. Were there unforeseen challenges that you had to surmount 
through the years? 
EPZ: Well, every one of those places that I would point to and say, “Look at that,” had 
incredible battles to get there so they’re not won and then they’re over with. It’s like the same 
battles are fought over and over again or there are new ones coming up. And so I think part of it 
is that there’s always some kind of victory. There all flawed—I mean nothing’s perfect but 
they’re some amazing victories among them and in terms of how did you put it—reversals, 
we’ve been incredibly lucky that there have been forty years of virtually continuous good fortune 
in this country that has influenced the ability to do this work. So yes, there have been recessions 
that have been survived but since the recession of the 70s until 2008, there really was an 
incredible run which enabled these ideas to get—to be acted upon. I should say when we started 
we were very much aware of that garden city era. Living in Coral Gables and getting to know 
some of the examples of that era which influenced us, like Forest Hills, and almost every city has 
one. We realized that the Progressive era was a special time and Civic Art pointed that out to us 
and so we borrowed a lot from that or learned a lot from that period. And we thought—and that 
was a relatively short time in which those great places were built and we said, “We are not going 
to have a lot of time.” You never have a lot of time. “We better get as much done as we can, and 
as soon as we can, because something will get in the way.” So we were always looking back and 
saying, “Isn’t it amazing, we’re still going.” 
SF: 
What are some important milestones for you through the forty years? 
  
EPZ: You know, I have a little timeline on a slide that I show students but it had to do with 
certain things that we did along the—the fact that Seaside, Robert Davis came along and said he 
Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk, FAIA Interview, November 11, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
15
was interested in making this place and that was the late seventies, early eighties. Starting the 
graduate program in ’88 really began—helped us coalesce the thinking; and writing the TND 
shortly, around that time; the founding of the Congress for the New Urbanism in ’92; and then 
there’s a series of things after that—the lexicon. As the New Urbanists grew we realized that we 
didn’t have a shared language. That somebody would say village and somebody would say 
neighborhood and to someone else that was a town or a district and that we understood that we 
needed to define what we were talking about and a lexicon was a document that started out as a 
series of definitions for us to craft our language carefully and then we started applying the rules  
[50:00] 
of design that we were all coming up with. And so now that is a document of very basic 
information that’s very useful—that most people ascribe to the five minute walk. Even the 
USGBC’s [United States Green Building Council] LEED-ND [Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design—Neighborhood Development System] has a kind of number of 
intersections per square mile so that a place is walkable. So codifying that information later in 
the 90s became important. 
SF: 
So what you are referencing is the New Civic Art, your book?  
EPZ: The lexicon? No, the lexicon is another document [The Language of Cities and Towns, A 
Visual Dictionary] which you can see it at transect.org [Center for Applied Transect Studies 
(CATS)] which started out as a series of definitions and now it’s a kind of instruction manual that 
does everything from talk about the regional organization to street design, street and building 
design. And that produced the Smart Code—grew out of that—combining that with the TND and 
then of course Miami 21 [Code] which was bringing the Smart Code, or making a form based 
code for a major American city, was extremely important because it opened the door for other 
cities to be able to do the same thing. So yeah, there are some interesting benchmarks along the 
way. 
SF: 
So where—where are you now in your career? 
EPZ: Good question. Well, more of the same. I think—I haven’t really stopped to be thinking 
about that except that I am being asked, as you have, to look back and describe what’s been 
happening in all this time. And that’s fun and interesting. I guess the looking forward has a lot to 
do with the concerns that are gathering. So you know, we were—when the recession of 2008 hit
—we understood that that period was up. The good times were over. They would last for a while, 
you know, the kind of momentum of working in that way would probably continue but I think we 
were very much aware that we were onto something new—a new time. Andrés was the one who 
said, “The twenty-first century’s really beginning now in 2010.” And I think we’ve become very 
much aware that there’re very different kinds of, as they say these days, “wicked problems” to 
deal with. So there’s going to be no end of challenge for the younger folk. But the one that I’m 
quite interested in is the adaptation of the built environment to climate change. And I teach a 
Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk, FAIA Interview, November 11, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
16
course on that topic every spring. It has to be different every year because there’s a lot 
happening. And we were—I got involved in that, already ten years ago, when a civic committee 
was set up in the county and I was asked to bring our thinking to the project—which really 
annoyed me because it was—I understood this was a really big problem and I didn’t know 
anything about it and I didn’t want to stop and learn anything about it but I did. And now I know 
a lot about it, so not only through—and I learn—I learn every year through teaching because you 
always do in that, which is one reason I’ve stuck with it. But up to now if you look at the 
conversation, at the discourse as they say, the public discussion, if you look at the climate, if you 
look at any city’s climate page, as many of them have—most of the discussion is about 
mitigation. It’s about how to slow down the change, or try to alter the change or reverse the 
change or whatever some people think you can do, regardless of who caused it. And very few 
people really are addressing adaption—what’re you going to do about it now that its happening 
because actually you have to respond to it adaptively more quickly than any mitigation could 
alter its course. So the scientists will tell you that it’s a thirty or forty year impact of anything that 
we would do now to kind of level off that curve a little bit. But you know, we are going to be up 
to our knees in water in certain parts of coastal areas in ten years, right? So adaptation really has 
to happen earlier and one reason we don’t talk about it is because—or you don’t see the—or hear 
[55:00] 
so much about that is because it’s highly local. So the mitigation discussion involves everybody. 
Less carbon worldwide, whatever that means to whomever, but adaptation in South Florida is 
different than  adaptation in New Orleans or Norfolk or Manhattan and it’s different than the area 
where there are fires in California or floods in the middle of the Midwest. And so everybody 
really has to gather large resources to work on these things and they are very local. So the Feds 
are not going to help us out across the board in a way that we’ve been expecting up to now, with 
FEMA [Federal Emergency Management Act] assistance. So adaption is so regional and local 
that the ability to deal with it, the knowledge—the research, the knowledge, the funding and the 
actions really are—require people locally to get to know what to do. 
SF: 
So you are not only having to focus on that in Miami where you live and your office is 
but also in all the communities that you are working with throughout the country. 
EPZ: Yeah. It’s—in a new community it’s easier, you know, because you just try to look at—
the one good thing about it is that we can see it coming and we can predict a lot of things about 
the impact—even if not perfectly. And we’re gaining more and more experience with it so in new 
places you can, in a sense, look out for it and adapt in advance. But I think there are going to be 
less and less new places and most of what we have to deal with are existing places because 
there’s just so much of that built, and built inefficiently or abandoned as in our rust belt cities, 
that we can’t afford to keep building out on the edges which is where we did so many things to 
set the example. All of that new building in our time helped change some of the suburban work 
that was being done but it also validated the kind of preservation and rebuilding efforts of 
downtowns and existing places including—my partner [Galina Tachieva] has a book called 
Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk, FAIA Interview, November 11, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
17
Sprawl Repair [Manual]. Because that wasn’t going very well in the seventies and eighties so 
now we have gentrification in cities and we’re worried about affordability but at least we are 
focused again on the places that we’ve already built. So and that’s where the adaptation is 
difficult because there’s already a lot of—private property ownership is dispersed and you very 
often have to combine public and private efforts within the same time frame which we’re not 
accustomed to doing. You know, you build a road and, you know, people buy lots and build 
shopping centers or houses or whatever. But now when the road has to go up and everybody’s 
buildings are not—have to be flood proofed or brought up to the level of the road or whatever the 
issue is. If you have to turn off the electricity in California for a week, what’s the impact on the 
private—on the individual business or person?  
[01:00:00] 
How do you correlate that public-private interface which was made easy by suburbia or in the 
suburban model? But in the urban model where you really have to pay attention to what your 
neighbor is doing and do things sometimes at the same time, it’s a new game. So it’s very 
interesting.    
SF: 
What would you—what do you think your legacy is? 
EPZ: I should say one more thing about that—is that I do think the training of an architect is 
completely appropriate for working on problems like this because you do need multiple 
disciplines working on them together. It’s not like urban—not unlike a building with designers, 
engineers, financiers, and so on. It’s not unlike urban design where there’s a multiplicity of 
disciplines and finance involved. And climate change is very much similar in that vein because 
it’s so many different entities that have to be involved. Including, I think, we need to rethink 
some of the financial structure in order to pay for devolution for departures.   
SF: 
So are you working with either your firm or the University of Miami, working with the 
City of Miami to create a plan? 
EPZ: So the city’s already beginning, local cities, and DPZ has already been hired by one to do 
that. And, we had a very interesting interface with a research group at the University of Miami 
that was looking at seawalls. But much of what we brought to that project came from what I 
developed for the course. So there’s always this—and now I’m going to take back what they 
learned and put it in the next version of the course. So it’s really—it’s very interesting to see that 
you can take those steps. 
SF: 
So I don’t want to keep you, you’ve been very generous with your time. Just one or two 
more—what do you see as your legacy? 
EPZ: You know, I really don’t see it as my legacy because so much of this has been iterative 
with and collaborative with so many people but I do think probably the urban design is going to 
Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk, FAIA Interview, November 11, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
18
be—is the thing that I will look back on with the greatest satisfaction, that we—never dreaming 
that I would be involved in this, I would say when I was an architecture student. Although I did 
work one summer as an intern at Reston, Virginia. And you know maybe it’s—I must say I 
haven’t stopped to think about that either but I would certainly—the new urbanism and the urban 
design that has emerged in those decades, I look back on with great satisfaction and there’s 
another component to it that’s not necessarily attached to me or maybe very visible but that—that 
work in those places have made a place for continuing the traditional—the traditions of 
architecture that are a kind of cultural continuity. So I’m very much a supporter of—well, you 
know several groups started at the same time—The Congress for the New Urbanism, Smart 
Growth America, the Institute for Classical Architecture and Art, there’s another one that I’m 
forgetting, later on the Form Based Code Institute but that the post-modern—the post-modernism 
of our years of education evolved into a series of very skilled practices around the country in 
traditional and classical architecture.  
SF: 
Isn’t that interesting. 
EPZ: And we’ve—our towns have made a place for it. You know, where it has not been 
welcome in our profession to a large degree but it has been welcomed in places that want to 
make a connection with the past and a 
[01:05:00] 
kind of—to bring that past into the future. And I think that’s—that may not be terribly visible, 
nobody’s writing about it I don’t think. But I think that’s important, you know, I think that 
especially right now, I look at that from the perspective of history is less and less important to—
especially to young people, to the next generations. And we had an education—after decades of 
modernism in architecture, after decades of architectural modernism saying history is not 
important, part of our time was to say, “It is important.” And we want to engage it and we want 
to respect it and carry it into the future so there’s a continuity, understanding that it has to change 
for various reasons but… 
SF: 
But Vincent Scully would say that you and your husband and your practice—you were 
instrumental in turning that around and taking that to a realization of what could be.  
EPZ: He was kind to focus on us but we would point to many colleagues doing the same. So 
we’re pleased to have had that—this enormous family of like oriented practitioners to be part of 
our time.  
SF: 
Just one more question—are there any projects or any stories that you would like to 
include? 
EPZ: Well, this is opening the door to a new project for which nobody has any time in our 
office but we recently have been talking about the great human interest stories that exist in these 
Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk, FAIA Interview, November 11, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
19
places. And I’ll close with one maybe, which is in Mashpee Commons which was the first sprawl 
repair, the first shopping center to become—to try to become a downtown, a walkable town 
center, which it is today, on Cape Cod, thanks to [Arnold] Buff Chace and Doug Storrs who 
started that effort. After a long moratorium in Cape Cod on building new housing meant that the 
commercial center was building itself up—they build the first apartment building which had I 
think something like two dozen apartments and three of the apartments were purchased by the 
parents of developmentally disabled adults who understood that this would be a safe place for 
their young people to be independent because there was a supermarket, and lots of stores and a 
sense of community and I think those are the stories that give us a great deal of satisfaction. You 
know, there’s a kind of visual of great architecture or the things we like to look at and then there 
are the stories of how people inhabit these places.   
SF: 
And another interest of yours has also been affordable housing, integrating that as well? 
EPZ: Yeah. That’s one of my current projects is working with the Gorman Company on a 
project in St. Croix. So yeah, that’s always—you know, affordability is one of the wicked 
problems of our time. And we know that there’s only so much that design can do for that but we 
continue to engage that whenever we can and it’s always a part of the code writing that we do. 
SF: 
Thank you very much. I have so many questions. But this will all be cross referenced to 
many of your writings which we didn’t even discuss today or just briefly so that people will be 
able to know where to go and to read what you’ve written.  So thank you so much. 
[01:09:55] 
Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk, FAIA Interview, November 11, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031