1 
 
Doloris Ilmar Bi-Lingual Questionnaires  
 
Interview Location: Asor Island, Ulithi Atoll 
Age of Interviewee: 74 years 
Island of Birth: 
Asor Island, Ulithi Atoll 
Audio Language: 
Ulithian 
Recording afc2022011_008_sr001 
00:02 Question 1 
1.   Thinking back, what are your very earliest memories of, or about, weaving? 
A. Ulithian:  Hobe luluwal tefal ngo mada mele hochil mem’mangi hare gulayem mo irel yam 
la Kai mo gula doh deur? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
00:29 Mla yi memmangi irel ralkawe ye la laholadoh igla, imaa 
sor bo malbo, ralkawe suguteng mo mele luwalel formel mo lol 
chemei le be sar wares iyang hare tor bo malbo ye mechrag 
yai luluwal ralkawe, tor mele yiwaress igli.  Ibla luwalei mele 
deur. 00:50 Igula le sew formel le yarmat redipipli rebe faru, ngo 
rebla kangal yei ibe faru, ngo ima sorb o itwe faru. 00:58 Mal bo 
yir chog mele rebe faru. Bo hare rebla faru mokawe ye la mol 
ngo resa ngaleyei, hare ibla yaya doh deur ngo resa fang yai. 
 
Interviewee in English:   What I remember is that, in those days, I didn’t really care 
about learning how to weave.  I knew weaving was something 
that people did, but when they told me to weave, I said no.  I 
just thought that they make lavalava and give them to me. 
Interviewer in Ulithian:  
01:13 Iwe ngo ingad mele ye chap yam la kai doh deur? 
Interviewer in English: 
So, when did you start learning how to weave? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
01:18 Mulwe is lefechig doh. Mulwe isa lefechig, ahh.. isa luwalei 
bo itwe kai deur.  Yai luluwal.  01:25 To fal sew le ibe kai deur.  
Bo ima song irel imokawer rema kangal yei bo, “ila hobele 
sufadal chog le bala yothla hobele lefechig ngo itei le be fang 
haplem le holuwalei bo hotowe dedeur? Ngang ima sor bo. 
01:36 Ngo itowe dedeur bo be ngang chog, ila mo ite dedeur Ibe 
sufadal chog, hare isa hapalpal mengag hare ite mangag hare 
temange bo yul irea iwe. Ye mulwe ila lefechig doh, yir 
rochokawe re kangal yei bo rotowe feur yai, yir mele resa kala 
chog bo… resa sor bo ibe hoho.   
 
01:55 Ye la holdoh yathwe isa loh sera fului, yi yeramtawe ye 
famayei sa kangal, yei bo, ila yaramtele ma kaftorai ngal yei. 
Sa kangal yei bo ibe matt chog ngo isa bidah ibela fanglu bo…  
02:09 Yitugla bo ibla fanglu, le mal bo, isa sor bo yor sew formel 
le be kangal yei hare mada.  Yitugla bo ila mulwe sa luwalei 
bele hayayali yei deur.  Isala chahas loh irel imulwe mada ibele 
fanglu le yor sew formel le reble fangalyei. 02:22 Chil lemaral isa 
matloh isa bidah, isa bidah mo ipol, isa bidah fanglu. Iwe sa 
kangal yei bo, tor lobosle hobe loh iyang bo igla le hobele yaya 
gow.  Isa Yak.  
2 
 
 
02:35  Ilang hosur ibe bidah fanglug? Ngo, hobele lefechig igla. 
Sar oh… 02:44 Wochog mulwe isor teikof, irai kawe ite sar teikof 
depei irel, isla luwalei mulwe rema haftorai ngal yei chog, bele 
la yothwe rebelefang yei, Itugla fal mele la sor  ibe fasangu 
iyang.  Ila fasangu, ila, resala kangal yei le ibele lefechig ibele 
yaya gow. 03:04  Iwe isa ila, ngo hal-iye yemommai depei kawe 
yeteikof. Iwe isla yaya, resa fang yai, Itugla bo rosa fasul kapta 
mo iwe wol bisil seley bo rebele fang haplei mulwe, ito 
imokawe ngo yathla ngo chil wares, waress ito.  03:20 Ito 
imokawe resa hayayali ngalyei. Iwe imulwe ye famayei 
sakangal yei. “Ho wiri mele? sew peg”,  ngo itugla wol ah… mil 
mele itugla, itugla milel tabol peg. Ila fal le isa ahoholi ngalug 
mele bo hobe kai.  03:39 Mele le yewaress, wares ah le hobe kai 
farul.  Isa ila, ila imulwe le te ila mo irey. Bo milchog mulwe ibe 
kangalur bo ila ngo te ila wei mo irel yai luluwal. 03:54 Ila chog, 
Iswol la luwalei, madafal we resorb o rotowe fang yai, iwe la 
igla resa fang yai ngo rosa wol sor bo mulwe waresel?         
04:02 Ilamo isa paifadal ngo hare satawas meka uwoi.  Iwe. Iwe 
ngo isa pai ye, rosowol ahh, rosowol fang, rosa chila yi 
mokawe yai iwe sa mommai loh depei.  Mochi la mele isa k’kai 
fadal deur. 
 
Interviewee in English:   I started learning after I was already menstruating and wearing 
lavalava.  I thought that I would never learn how to weave 
lavalava because I would get mad at people when they told me 
things like, “so if you don’t want to learn how to weave, who 
will give you lavalava to wear?” In my thoughts I would think, 
“Yes, I will just wear a piece of cloth or some leaves.”  So, 
when I first got my period, the woman who adopted me and 
always scolded me told me to wake her up early in the morning 
on the day I was to leave the women’s house to go back home. 
 
I was happy because I thought that she would have a gift for 
me when I woke her up, but I did not know that her and my 
other aunt had planned to make me wear lavalava that day. 
So, early in the morning of that day, I went up to the house and 
woke her up. Then she told me that today I would become a 
lefechig (to reach womanhood). I had mixed feelings of 
excitment and sadness at the same time, and I thought about 
how they scolded me about weaving. 
 
So, they made me wear lavalava that day. The lavalava they 
gave me were made of thread, but thread was still hard to get 
at that time.  Among the lavalava they gave me was a peg (a 
specific design).  They told me that peg is hard to make and 
that’s why they gave me one, so I must learn how to weave the 
peg and make the supplemental weft designs at the ends.  
Again, that thought came into my mind.  “Why did they say 
they would not give me lavalava in the first place, and now 
they are giving me one that’s hard to make for me to learn. It’s 
okay, I will just wear these ones until they all rot off of me, then 
I wear the leaves.” So, I wore lavalava that day.  After a while, 
they gave me a few more lavalava, and that’s when I got 
excited and had the encouragement to learn how to weave. 
3 
 
 
Interviewer in Ulithian:  
04:15 Hosa kai deur le hosa kai mo irel itey? 
Interviewer in English: 
Who did you learn weaving from? 
 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
04:18 Isa budoh kai deur, ikai mo irel imulwe ye famayei, mulwe 
sil yi yaram tawe ye hayayaliyei gow. Iwe ila mala motamol 
chog yai deur, sa ngang chog yai sa kangalyei… sa ngang 
chog yai tagul isa feur yuch ila sew mokawe sima sor bo path 
guluch, ngo gulfei molkawe gurul ngo yuch.mulwe sew…fich 
seyal mala, 04:51 ila mala motalmol yai kai.  Iwe la mol loh chog 
imulwe, isa chahas loh irel imolwe ye,ila mol ralawe yere chog 
imulwe yai, isa itol depei irel dedeur. 05:04 La sobong chog mo 
iyang sa bidi kapatal le sa yor mas wol Falalop ibe fang yi gow 
we yai bo tor gow le yemel. Sateikof loh depei irel yi mulwe 
ngo towemol bo iwe chog lapal le. 05:14 Sa kangalyei bo ila, 
hobele fang mala yam ngo ila towol ma mach formel lol pom 
bo hobele me pepe chog, hobele ma dedeur chog mil ahh 
meka mach hare mada.  05:26 Iwe ngo ngang ite luluwalei.  
Hasigsig ye meradoh ka ngo isa luluwalei, isla chiy ngo madal 
bo tos. Bo ngang ila sangai.  Ye wares le be sor bo ibe haliliya 
sew formel hare mada.  05:39 Towe sulai ngo bele ay fang 
mulwe iye sangal. Itugla hare mada mele ifaru. Te ma mach 
formel lol payi. 05:44 Ima metapngag ngo ifang loh mulwe. Ngo 
iwol luwalei sew formel le ibe faru bo yesuwilil imuwe. 05:51 sa 
ila chog hasigsig ye sahola doh iye igla. Iwe isa gula loh farul 
formel le taisew loh formel mo. Isa bidah meradah isla paifadal 
iyang ye, cholop meka isa gula, yathwe isa riri.  
 
06:08 Iwe ngo sa  yathwe mo ited riri, ichil tarfefel, ibidah mo 
Lamotrek. Ila lobosla ila kai farul, ahh… milal mawut.  Ila kai 
mokawe sima golgol fafel siya kil lib, siya yatholu irel pes, siya 
hamala siya foth yoth mo buloh mo.  06:34 Ikla mokawe isla 
railoh iyang isla faru bo yai yengang. La wolmiril chog mala 
ngo chokola, ahh, mokawe ma mel irel bol, mada mokawe? 
06:49 Maatt, ila wiri chog maatt kawe, ila chog ngo isa 
hachuyaloh mo lol depei, tayor mo falsew le ibe loh ibol. Iwe 
isa pai, resa kangal yei ibe pai ngo isa kangalur bo itwemel.  
 
07:02 Isa bidi isa pai wol fuluka yeee… isa wol bida isa ririloh isa 
bidah wol Woleai, wol tapuwe chog.  Iwe itai ma peulpeul isa, 
sa kalelchog ahh sa balbal chog igla ngo isa gula bo resma 
kaptayei bo. Ila rebel kangal yei habele bulong isa bulong lol 
mawut, ngo yemommai depei bo ye palingling yi mawut kawe 
yar. Isa supiy supiy mele paleyal buloh isa itidiy mil mala ibe 
sue uwol bo ibe,  ibe mal buloh bo imotog maatt.  07:32 Isa sue 
luwul chael imulwe.  Ngo retogla depei irel, ngang chog ngo 
igula bo resma kapta yei imulwe, tesew loh formel mo irey.  
Hasigsig ye sa meradoh isa pefadal. 
 
Interviewee in English:   The woman who adopted me was the one telling me how and 
what to do. So, I prepared banana fibers and made my first 
lavalava from them.  I made one lavalava, those we called 
“Padguluch”, by myself and really put all my effort into it, and 
4 
 
paid attention to what they taught me about how to weave. The 
day I finished my first lavalava, we heard that somebody died 
on the island of Falalop, Ulithi.  They told me we would use the 
one I just finished because there were no lavalava on hand.  
So, I gave it to them to use for the dead person’s funeral.  My 
adopted mom told me that since that was my first lavalava and 
I was not able to keep it, I would grow up with a curse that I 
wouldn’t be able to save lavalava or anything that I make in the 
future. I guess it’s true because that’s how it has been to this 
day. Now I know how to do everything, but I haven’t kept any 
of it. I always give it away.   
 
I went to Lamotrek when I was still a girl. That’s where I 
learned how to farm a taro patch.  I learned how the women 
sang while digging holes, and how they filled them with grass 
for fertilizer and planted them with taro. Those things make me 
excited, and I love doing them. But, there are plenty of 
earthworms in the taro patches, which I am really scared of. I 
did not want to go in the taro patches anymore because of the 
worms. When I went to the taro patches, I would cut down the 
leaves so I could stand on them.  My relatives told me to stay 
back in Lamotrek, but I did not want to. So, I went back to 
Asor, Ulithi. 
 
I got married to a Woleaian guy, so I went to Woleai and 
stayed there.  I also went into the taro patches there, but I cut 
down the leaves of the taro so I could stand on them because I 
was scared. I knew the ladies were talking about me, but I did 
not pay attention because I was scared of the worms in the 
taro patches. 
 
Interviewer in Ulithian:  
07:47 Iwe, igla hochil ma feur deur hare hotaima feur? 
Interviewer in English: 
Are you still weaving these days or not? 
 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
07:50 Igla towol mol le ibe feur deur ngo yelal depei ngo isor bo 
hare ibe chil ibe hagela ngo retaimachal fang yai pap. Isor bo 
hare ibe hagela ngo bechil mol le tapeol mulwe guluch mo 
mokawe milal itet.  Towe mol bo meka laiyi retaimechal ibe 
feur. 
 
Interviewee in English: 
I don’t weave anymore. I was thinking that if I were to try, 
maybe I could still weave the smaller, lighter ones, but my kids 
don’t want me to weave anymore. 
 
Question 2 
2.   In your mind, who is the one person you most associate with weaving in your life and 
why? 
A. Ulithian:  Lol yam luluwal, itei semal le ye kael yam fel ngali irel yam fefaru doh deur hare 
yam deduer doh?  Bo mada fal? 
5 
 
 
NOTE: The recording of Question 2 became corrupted and was lost. 
 
08:18 Question 3 
3.   Why is weaving so important to you? 
A.   Ulithi: Mada mele dedeur ye kael yal palengpelal ngalug iyang? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
08:34 Paling pelal irey, bo wochog bo ila sew formel le isa itol 
depei iyang. Isor bo be tor deur, tor sew deur le yemel irey ngo 
wochog bo isor bo, wochog bo isor bo taipung depei. Tapel 
mala dela wel doh sew lufulyui hare, tor sew formel le ifang 
hare semal makla layi hare yaremtai hare, rechokala roharpa 
yei hare mada. 09:03 Wochog mulwe isor bo itai, itafel, itaifel le 
bettor formel, sew formel le, iwe ngo samawol ahh. ngang 
chog isa luluwal, hale sakel hames yai mwol,  ngang chog ngo 
ima wol hachigchiga samol irel yal ahhh… isor bo sakel yai 
mwol tang ralkawe. 09:34 Ralkawe le yewaress yai ma mongoi.  
Ima kolag  yelap mele ibla mongoi seral le fal sew chog, mo 
mala itugla mele hare bala fatot ibe, ima luluwalei hare fahafei 
ngo tor mele ibe mongoi. Iwe ngo igla le isor bo pangal hamal 
ngo  isa mol iyang. Hapalei mo ngo ibla kalngali lapal meka 
hapalei igla le ngo. 
 
Interviewee in English:  
It’s important to me because it’s something that, if I don’t have 
lavalava, then I am insecure. If something happens to my kids, 
a family member, or the community that requires me to give 
lavalava and I need to have them.  I don’t feel comfortable 
when I don’t have lavalava. 
 
I would think I am much better off nowadays.  I thank God for 
what I have these days compare to the old days.  In the old 
days, I hardly ate.  I always went hungry because usually I 
could only eat once a day.  But now, I am better off than in 
those days.  Looking at the lavalava I wore, I now have more 
than I did before.  
 
Interviewer in Ulithian:   
09:59 Sa cholop cholop? 
 
Interviewer in English: 
You have plenty? 
 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
10:00 Isor bo sa cholop cholop. 
 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
Yes, I think I have plenty. 
 
Interviewer in Ulithian: 
10:02 Ngo bala budoh mes mo mel ngo homa taptap gow iyang? 
 
Interviewer in English:   
If someone is dead, do you use lavalava? 
 
Interviewee in Ulithian 
10:06 Bala budoh mes ka, igala itai mwol, sa wochog mulwe 
isor, bala budoh mes ka sa wochog mulwe isor bo  itafel irel, 
6 
 
ngang chog ong isma luluwal bele ifa sangal? Wochog taiwe 
ralkawe irel ahh, igla le sa cholop gow, irel ito le. Sam’mwol 
yarmat irel ahh safar ahh dudug hames yarmat igla. Ngo 
wochog bo sa far hatoplop hames yarmat fal yadle. Ralkawe le 
yewaress. 10:35 Te iye sangal wululul yarmat. Yewaress deur le 
be halsew chog deur hare mada ngo yal fedmal yarmat le 
yarmat, igla le sa wochog bo taisew formel imokawe, ibela 
koloh. Itugla yarmat, ngo ngang ibla kologoi chog mowol line 
mo, wochog mulwe isor bo, Hale tosol le be… emmm ima 
luluwalei ralkawe irel hafohoyei. 
  
Interviewee in English: 
When someone has died nowadays, I don’t feel comfortable 
because I am not weaving anymore and I am always thinking 
where I can get lavalava?  But we have more lavalava 
because of commercial thread.  People have more lavalava to 
wear and people are not considerate of the lavalava they are 
wearing. So, when I look at the clothes line where they hang 
their lavalava, I always think back to when we only had 3 or, at 
most, 4 lavalava because they were hard to make back in the 
old days. 
10:59  Question 4 
4.   How has weaving or woven skirts changed over your lifetime, or since the lifetime of 
those who taught you? 
A.   Ulithi:  Ifa sangal yal deur mo dedeur susuwel doh irel yam bubudoh yesa holadoh igla? 
Hare sa change tangi yathkawe ho k’kai mor irel sensei kala yam? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
11:16 Sa cholop deur ka yarmat romach wilgi le sa samat fareul.   
 
Interviewee In English: 
There are lots of changes in the weaving these days that make 
them different. 
 
Interviewer in Ulithian: 
11:29 Sa ifa sangal fareul? 
 
Interviewer in English: 
How is it different? 
 
Interviewee In Ulithian: 
11:31 Ika isa wiri fadalei mo mokawe rema hamala fadalei we 
resor bo yitugla hare yewochochog floras mo king mo.  Ngo, 
ituwri, Ituwri makla ngo kaptal chog mala yesamat. Iwe itugla 
sangal… ahh… wol deur chog imala. 
 
Interviewee in English:   There are those that I’ve seen around, and there are some that 
I’ve only heard about, that some people can weave in flower 
and diamond patterns in their lavalava. There are also 
different, new patterns and styles I’ve heard about but have not 
seen, and I don’t know what they look like, but they are all 
lavalava. 
 
 
Interviewer in Ulithian: 
11:49 Emm mala sa samat mo samat? 
 
Interviewer in English: 
So, different styles? 
 
7 
 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
11:54 Samat mo samat. Yarmat resa mechrag irel panagal fareul 
ahh. Irel ito le.  Hare ralkawe ngo be le-loh yar ha-fohoi 
yarmat.  Sibis mo sibis.  Tehafedeg yarmat. Yor le mada 
mulwe, yor le ritir rel fareul formel ngo your le tei tir. Ngo ilga le 
iye tayor mele sible hasi, kakchog, hasi chog ito kawe hosa 
moro chog hosa 12:24 toboi chog hosa yali loh, igla chog.  Ngo 
ralkawe yewaress temele si bugbug mel, ingad loh ila hare la 
lap, salap gur ay hobele moch hamala yael. 
 
Interviewee in English: 
Different styles. It’s so much easier and faster at present 
because we just go get the thread from the store and start 
weaving. Back in the old days, there were so many steps in 
preparing fiber before you finally had the strings to start the 
warp/weaving. It took a long time to finish a lavalava.  
12:45 Question 5  
5.    If you could talk to your great-granddaughter about weaving, what would you want to tell 
her? 
A.   Ulithian:  Hare wochog bo hobe malili ngal lol lom tarfefel irel deur, mada mele hobe 
kangalur hare hodipli hobe kangalur? 
Interviewee In Ulithian: 
13:03 Hare wochog bo lol layi, be yoh le ibe kangali bo ai budoh 
bo hobe kai deur. Tei chalmo saral le ibe kai. Hale hotowe kai 
deur hobe sufadal chog?  Ilang be ifasangal le.ngo gel iwe ho 
feriyeg yeyam, bele ralkawe le homa wol sufadal chog. Ngang 
ibele kangalur bo ngo tos.  Yimakla hosusur le tekapchapar bo 
tos. Bo gang ralkawe le ngang semal yarmat le kal yai teikof.  
Ima sufadal chog, tohapaluyal yalol yarmat.  13:34 Mele chog 
yamat rebe song iyang mele ima luluwalei ibe kangalur yarmat. 
Iwe, la meradoh le, la wolmiril chog, isa paiy isa luluwalei, 
teikof meka isa faru igla isa gula imokawe yeteikof, ila fal le isa 
kekangalug mi bo hare habe peslagdi bo ngo iwe ngo hare 
habe kangal yei bo..Iwe gel iwe hoteikof. Hale, isa mol mo 
iyang.  Isa wol isa tefal mo iyang isa kekangalumi mala 
teikofal. Hami hasor bo emm mil mala sa yilulap. 14:04 Tos isa 
gula wululul imokawe isa mol miyang isa kekangalugmi, bo 
habe hare habe ligdi, ngo ila habele kangal yei bo iwe gel 
homa sufadal chog tor mele hogula, tos, tor le masaplah chog 
sa gula pangal formel. 
Interviewee in English:  
I would tell them to come and learn how to weave because it’s 
important to know how.  It’s not good to just walk around 
without learning these things. If they talk back and do not want 
to learn like I also did when I was little, I will explain to them 
that it’s true.  I was not a good girl when I was small. I always 
talked back to the elderly women, always did things that made 
people mad at me, and I didn’t want to learn how to weave. All 
of these things are true, but you will not learn if you don’t try.  
Now I look back to the bad things I did, and I know it was bad. 
That’s why I am telling you to listen to me and do what I say. 
 
8 
 
Interviewer in Ulithian:   
14:17 Ngo, paling pelal le sibe kai deur bo yepaling pelal deur 
ngal gich hare? 
Interviewer in English:  
It’s very important to learn and know how to weave right? 
 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
14:23 Ngo, deur mo farul mongoi mo makla hammalech mo 
tewol deur chog.  Sible deur chog, to mongoi? Le hare be 
wochog bo tor peras, peras le mele siya chahas iyang.  Iwe 
ngo hare be tor, ralkawe le yemechrag chog le vela, hami tarle 
hatai momongoi. ngang le ma hasigsig ye sa ret yai suguloh 
chog yewai irel, iwe ngo yaramtala ye famayei le habele 
hamad chog Vela ngo bele kangal yei ibe loh fall u ibla rurdoh 
surub. 
 
Interviewee in English: 
Yes, weaving and cooking are very important. We cannot only 
weave because we also need to eat. These days we have rice, 
and we like it, but in those days we mostly ate wild taro that 
burns your mouth badly. So, every time we cooked wild taro for 
our meal, my adopted mom would tell me to go find the very 
small, young fallen coconut called “surub”. 
Interviewer in Ulithian:   
14:55 Mil mada? 
Interviewer in English:  
What did you use the surub for? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
14:56 Mil mala habele mongoi le bele ba-reg yewai ngo habele 
mongoi surub. 
Interviewee In English: 
So, we could eat in when our mouths burned from eating the 
wild taro.