Date 
November 21, 2020 
Time 
10:30am 
Interviewer 
Edward Y. Millar 
Interviewee 
Mike Williams 
Location 
Mike’s house on Tuscarora Nation 
Audio log 
Prepared by: 
Edward Y. Millar 
Collection 
Number 
AFC 2020/013    
The Ransomville Speedway: Dirt Track Workers in Western New York 
 
Archie Green Fellowship Ransomville Speedway Interviews,  
American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fieldnotes 
Pre-Interview 
I had reached out to Mike late on Friday night on Facebook about seeing if we could meet earlier in the 
morning around 10am, as I had worked late a lot in the week and my daughter was looking forward to 
spending time with me in the afternoon on weekends as there’s more time to hang out then.  He 
mentioned early Saturday that that worked for him, so I confirmed and let him know I’d be over in the 
morning. Our interview was rescheduled from the previous weekend as Mike is an ironworker, and had 
been called to work on a canal bridge over in Spencerport the previous weekend. As I live down the hill 
in Lewiston, it was only going to be around a 5-minute drive to his place on Tuscarora Nation. 
Despite writing down the address and the step by step instructions from Mike, I ended up interpreting 
them wrong, taking about three tries to get to his house. There were multiple 1894 mailboxes with 
names on them, and a few driveways separating sets of houses that were a fair bit apart. The first 
driveway I pulled into I could tell it wasn’t the right one as the last name on the mailbox was wrong, so I 
pulled back out. Into the next driveway I pulled, last name matched so drove to the back – but it didn’t 
match the description from the phone of what his house / shed area looked like. So I got out of the car 
and gave Mike a call on my cell phone., and he mentioned he was waiting outside and I must be at the 
wrong house. But he walked around and I saw him – just one more driveway over! So I hopped back into 
my car, reversed out, and pulled into the next lot.  
Mike explained that part of it is due to it being family plot / traditional land, so it is all kind of the same 
‘number’, with the separate houses and separate driveways being added over time.  
When I pulled over into the right driveway, Mike welcomed me – accompanied by his beagle Lacey – 
and we headed inside, setting up at his table for the interview. Before we got started Mike offered a 
coffee, and we talked a bit about dogs, as we suspect the mutt we have is part beagle.   
Interview  
During the interview, Mike shared his expansive history of racing at the Ransomville Speedway, and 
spoke about his first memories of going to the races, and the relationship the community has had to it. 
Mike estimates and was naming a number of people on the nation who used to race at the speedway, 
and that there has always been someone racing from the community, and used to go around gathering 
people together to go watch the races there. Mike then spoke about his history of racing, charting it 
from the first car he had ever bought through the different classes he raced in over the years. 
Throughout the interview, Lacey alternated between coming to me and climbing into Mike’s lap, and for 
much of the first half of the interview she was standing/sitting on his lap while he pet her and was 
recalling his history at the speedway. Mike’s a really gifted storyteller with a great attention to detail, 
and really focused in on providing a lot of specifics relating to each individual class and how the 
components and everything comes together. Mike does a lot of work on his cars himself in addition to 
having some help from friends and family.  
About halfway through the interview, we did have to pause at one point as Lacey wouldn’t stop howling 
– as is typical for beagles – so she went back in the crate for the remainder of the interview. 
Mike walked through a typical day of a race, really focusing in on the importance of the whole week 
leading up to the race – but also focusing on how track operations work on raceday from a drivers 
perspective (i.e. where do you pull in, how do you know what order you are racing, etc.).  
Towards the end of the interview, Mike also talked in greater detail about some of the skill and track 
conditions that affect racing, including the ‘cushion’ at the top / outside of the track. He also shared 
some memories about some bad wrecks that he has had over the years, and about what he enjoys the 
most about racing, and how things have changed over the years.  
Post-Interview 
After the conclusion of the interview, Mike led me outside and we talked a little bit, showing me the 
land that he plowed / some of the things he’s planted, and then he gave me some squash to take home 
to cook, which was much appreciated. After bidding goodbye, it was a quick hop back into the car, and 
down the hill (really the Niagara Escarpment is an escarpment/steep cliff and not a hill, but colloquially 
most people refer to it as a hill, especially the Lewiston end of it), and I was home in about five minutes.