Ironworkers Documentation Project 
 
AUDIO LOG FORM 
 
Interviewer's recording no(s).:  BH IW 1 [Stanley] 
 
Contact:  Name  
James Stanley 
 
Interviewer:    
 
Bucky 
 
 
Interview: 
 
     Date:   
 
July 27, 2011 
 
     Place:  
 
Union Headquarters, Local #63, 1819 Beach Street, Broadview, IL 60155 
 
     Other people present: None 
 
     Background noise:   
 
 
 
 
 
     Equipment used:  The Local IWU 63 headquarters can be a bit noisy and this can be heard in the background.  It's 
an industrial building for the most part, so the cooling and heating system is a regular problem.   Occasionally, the 
building even generates a line noise that is impossible to keep off the recording.  Sometimes you can also hear 
people in the office section talking and laughing or somebody will walk into the room.  
 
     Equipment used:  Marantz PMD 661 digital recorder and Shure SM57 microphone 
 
     Recording medium used: Transcend 8 gigabyte SD memory card, uncompressed WAV format.  
 
     Recording engineer: 
Bucky Halker 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary description of audio interview contents:                                           
James Stanely discusses his personal background, his ironworker beginnings and career, Local 1 and Local 63, 
American Indians and the ironworker training program, his work in the Indian training program.    
 
 
 
Audio Interview Contents 
 
 
Counter   
No./Time                   Topic 
00:01 -      Introduction; 
 
[I’m interviewing James Stanley.  James, tell me what year you were born.]  I’m James Stanley, a member of a 
Local #1 ironworkers.  I teach the ironwork local #1 aspect to the Indians here.  I was born in 1958. [And where 
were you born?]  I was born in Chicago, Illinois.  [And you’re from Lac du Flambeau?]  Yes.  [Did you grow up on 
Lac du Flambeau?]  Well, actually I grew up here in Chicago.  But my family is back in, is in Lac du Flambeau.  My 
Mom’s up there and I go back up often and visit.  I once was a student here at this training program that…which 
now I am an instructor.  [Yeah.  So you grew up in Chicago.  How did you get into ironworking?  What was the…]  
Well, my childhood buddy that I grew up with, here around the Indian Center.  [You hung out at the American 
Indian Center?]  Yes.  [Oh, that’s great!  That’s good.  I’ve done some stuff with them over the years too.]  Oh, well.  
We were neighborhood kids growing up and he eventually befriended a guy who was an ironworker and his friend 
ended up pulling me into the trade.  He tried to get us both into us but my friend, at the time, didn’t have his GED so 
he couldn’t enter into the program and I did.  So I entered into the program and was able to finish it through and 
become an ironworker.  [And when did you first…  What year, do you remember?  What year you first started 
working in the trade and like what the first job was that you had?]  Sure I do.  It was August of 1989 was my very 
first day of ironworking down in Miami, Florida.  It was very hot and it was very dangerous.  We were walking 
skinny bar joist, putting decking into place.  I was walking this bar joyce and back then, regulations for ironwork 
wasn’t as stringent as they are now.  And so as a result, people got hurt a lot more often and I was doing dangerous 
stuff that today I wouldn’t do because I know better.  [Yeah.  How did you get from…  So you were in Chicago.  
Did you sign in to the local here first or did you end up down in Miami and join like an ironworkers local down 
there.  How did you get down there?  From Chicago to Miami, that’s quite a distance.]  I got down there by way of 
the Indian Ironworkers Training Program.  They run the program here at Local #63 and I was a student back in 
1987.  And I graduated this program. It was a crash course into ironwork.  And after completion, you were job 
placed somewhere in the United States.  I chose Miami because it was warm climate all year round and I thought 
that it would work to my advantage to be gainfully employed in the trades all year round.  And so I asked them if 
they could send me to Miami for that reason.  And they said, sure.  He made a couple of phone calls and he said, 
“Well, okay. We got you placed out of Miami.  Just come on in Monday morning with your suitcase and your car 
and we’ll give you your travel papers and you can go down there.  It was on a Friday and sure enough, Monday 
morning I showed up at the hall here, Local #63, and he gave me my traveling papers.  I went and drove down to 
Miami. [So how long did you stay in Miami?]  Four years.  [And you were doing ironwork the whole time you were 
there?]  Yes.  I was doing ironwork for four years as an apprentice, going to school after work, two nights a week.  
And I did that for four years.  And we were out for the summer for two months, but I still continued to work.  [Did 
you work for the same company because you were apprenticing?  Or did you do different construction companies 
down there?]  Well, I worked for different ironworker contractors down there.  Once a job’s finished up and if the 
contractor that you were working for didn’t have another spot available for you, you got laid off.  Everybody went to 
the union hall to seek employment again.  We’d sit around for a couple of days, and a job would come in, and then 
we would go out on that job.  That job could last anywhere from a couple of days to a year.  And so I worked on 
numerous jobs down there.  I think the longest job I had was probably a year and a half with the same contractor.   
 
4:49  [And what kind of work were you doing?  Were you welding?  Were you doing curtain wall?  Or did you just 
do everything down there when you started?]  We pretty much had to do everything.  I done a lot of re-enforcing, 
tying steel.  I’ve done welding.  I was on welding jobs, as a welder helper and later I became a welder myself.  I 
worked on some structural jobs.  I’ve done a little curtain wall, but even though it’s a big part of it, I had to go to 
school for it.  I’ve done some curtain wall, a little, but I’ve mostly worked structural re-enforcing and some welding.   
 
5:28  [So did you stay in Miami for four years or did you stay down there longer than that?  Or did you come back 
up this way after that?]  I came back up here almost immediately, as soon as my schooling was through.  The first 
chance I could, I was headed back up this way here.  And I…so…  The ink didn’t even dry on my union card before 
I was off, coming back up to Chicago.  [And did you get hired on right away when you got back up here?]  It was 
fortunate that I did, yes.  For about two months, and then I got laid off in December.  By that time, it started snowing 
pretty heavily and I jumped on unemployment compensation for a couple of months and then come February, I went 
in front of the board at Local #1 to see if I could transfer my membership from the Miami Local with the Local #1 
union and I was successful in doing that.  They transferred my membership, so I was a Local #1 member from that 
point forward.  [And did you work a little…  What year would that have been, like?]  That was 19…93.  [1993. Did 
you work on any site in downtown Chicago that people would know about?  And some of the guys I’ve talked to 
were…now these were the older guys.  Sears Tower.  Some just worked on the Trump Towers down there.  Some 
worked on the Hancock Building even.  Are there some of the newer buildings down there that you were able to 
work on?]  I’ve worked on the White Sox Stadium when it was first being built.  The new one, of course.  They call 
it U.S. Cellular Field now. So I worked on that.  I worked on Lakeshore Drive reconfiguration.  I worked on 
numerous bridges in the downtown area and all around the surrounding suburbs of Chicago.  Some high rise 
buildings as well.   
 
7:22  [So you know about #63 and you know about Local #1.  What’s…  In terms of the skills that the two different, 
like the workers of these different locals have… What is distinctive about Local #1?  What is that, more of the 
structural kind of work that you do in Local #1 that #63 does?  Because I know they’re technically ornamental.]  
Yes, Local #1 ironworkers have everything to do with the structural integrity of the structure itself.  That’s all they 
do.  They put that up and once they leave, all other trades, including Local #63, would come in and hang their stuff 
off the structure that we put in place.  [And when you were working on that Lakeshore Drive, the whole 
reconfiguration, was that… Were you working with the concrete and rods stuff or…?]  Yes.  Re-enforcing…  If you 
don’t know, you may not know it.  But you drive down Lakeshore Drive and there’s… You go over a lot of bridges 
that you wouldn’t even know that you were going over unless you constantly took an effort to look at it.  [So you 
worked on the project where they took those really, like, 90 degree corners out of there...]  Yes, right.  […wherever 
they were and kind of made it easier to drive around there.]  Yeah.  [That was a big job.  It took a long time.]  I think 
the northbound was on the east side of Soldier Field or the museum, and southbound was on the west side.  But now 
they’re both, northbound and south bound are both on the west side of Soldier Field and the museum.  [Yeah.  It’s 
definitely an improvement. Laughter]  [I didn’t think it was a great idea at the time but…I think now that it’s done, it 
was a good idea to kind of do that.  It makes a lot more sense.]   
 
9:00  [So you’re working in the city of Chicago.  How did you get tied in the whole training program out here?  
What was the route that took you to that?  Because now you’re teaching a lot, right?]  Yes.  I’ve been teaching for 
the last 11 years, full time here at the National Ironworker Training Program for American Indians.  I got into that…  
They had a position opening for that and a couple of us guys interviewed for that.  They…  The Bureau of Indian 
Affairs that funds our program, this time wanted a Native American to teach the training program, the training 
students here at the time.  And so I, along with about 5 or 6 other guys in Local #1, interviewed for that position.  I 
didn’t get it at first.  Another person got it.  He stayed here for a year and for reasons personal to him, he up and left.  
They called me and asked if I still wanted the position.  I said, “Why sure!”  So I came in and I started teaching in 
the spring of 2000.  [You said there were other people who applied for that job.  Are there a lot of American Indians 
in Local #1 or a fair number?  There must have been if there were a few applicants.]  Ahh…  I would say, no, not 
really.  [Not really, ok.]  As compared to percentage of members there are in the whole of Local #1.  But then again, 
maybe a lot of people just doesn’t…don’t want to come here and work on it.  Because a lot of students that we train 
here, when they graduate, go back home to where they’re familiar with.  They aspire to be over in that area where 
their families are.   
 
10:48  [Now, let’s say someone comes from Lac du Flambeau.  Like you’ve got a guy there right now that you’re 
training.  Is he going to go…  What’s he going to do up there?  I know there are few highway construction 
companies up that way.  Would he more likely to go to Milwaukee or Madison and be in one of those locals?]  
That’s the route that to my, he told me he’s looking to go.  Now, just about 3-4 days ago, Local #63 had their test 
here, their entrance exam to get into Local #63.  And that particular student didn’t try to get into, didn’t take that 
test.  So he didn’t aspire to try to get into Local #63.  He wanted to stay close to home, either in Madison or 
Milwaukee, in the Wisconsin area.   
 
11:32  [So tell me, because this is kind of an unusual program.  You are an instructor within this American Indian 
Program here.  Do you help recruit the students or somebody else taking care of all that?  How do you get students 
from…  You got a guy I met from Buffalo, another guy from New Mexico or whatever, a guy from Wisconsin.  
How do they find out about this and how do they end up here, working with you?]  Well, they would apply to their 
community center at the tribal hall, where the educational department is, and find out about the available schooling 
that’s available to the jobs.  Usually we’re pinned up on a billboard with our flyer somewhere on there.  Or a lot of 
the agencies already know about us and they talk to each others about us.  So we send flyers out and we try to get 
the word out that our school is here, available to any Native American that’s enrolled into an agency.  That’s 
normally how we…we get our students.  I personally am not in the business of doing that.  They have another 
person here that does do that though, recruiting. 
 
12:47  [I’m sure you know this, but the Empire State Building had Adirondack Indians working on it.  The Golden 
Gate had a lot of American Indians working on it when built those in the 1930s.  Were you aware of this kind of 
tradition of American Indians getting into the ironworking trade?  And these younger guys…  Are the younger guys 
or women, even, that come in.  Do they know about this or do they just…  They don’t know about the history?]  At 
the time when I was getting into this business, the ironwork trade, I didn’t know about my predecessors that started, 
who opened the door for me.  But as time went on and years went by, I became fully informed, or very informed I 
should say, of the Mohawk Indians in the east and the other tribes that had broke into the trade.  They were the ones 
who opened the doors for a lot of us.  Along with other people that were trying to make the financial amends to train 
the Native Americans that would come here.  Right now the school is a joint effort between the International 
Association of Bridge and Structural Ornamental Metal Ironworkers with the Bureau of Indian Affair that are able to 
train the Indians here. 
 
14:14  [Do you know…  Obviously you…  The government, there are some people in politics, whatever, trying to 
cut a lot of government funding for all kinds of programs.  Is this program and the BIA, is that threatened to be cut 
or is there a danger, do you think, for that being maybe funded at a lower level?  Do you know anything about that? 
I’m just curious.  Maybe you’re not party to it and don’t know about that but…]  Ahh, as far as I know, I’ve been 
here 11 years.  I think this particular program, the ironworker training program, has been around for…I think 1974 
or 76.  It’s been around that long.  From my understanding, we don’t have any more funds after this particular class 
that is in session.  They graduate and that’s it.  That’s it.  Unless we get funding from somewhere else, we might 
have to close the doors here.  [And probably you’re not too happy about that.]  Well, no I’m not.  You know, I take 
it as it comes.  If it’s meant for me to continue working here, I will.  If it’s not for me to work in a field, then that’s 
fine too as well.  It’s just in me to be laid off.  Ok.  That’s acceptable as well because, there’s not a whole lot of 
work out there so if I do get laid off here, I’ll go back out there.  It ain’t like I’m going to be thrown to the sharks 
because I’ve been in the business for 27 years plus and I’m kind of old enough to where I’ll be able to take care of 
myself.  I’m not destitute.  That’s me, personally, but…  I’m fine.  I’m fine. 
 
16:02  [So tell me a little bit about your work here then.  What kind of…  How big a class do you have?  What kind 
of classes do you have to teach?  What kind of skills are you trying to pass on to these guys.]  Well, normal class 
size is about 20 students.  This particular class in session, we only had…  We started with 10, purposely, instead of 
20.  We kept our numbers low, because our funds are really low.  So…  With that in mind, we were able to run in 
the class.  Without that, I would have been laid off a few months ago.  So we kept it low, so we could run another 
class.  I try to teach these guys how to work with their hands, with their minds, and have a good attitude when they 
show up.  If you well know, Native American Indians have had a long history of a lot of alcoholism and that’s 
certainly no different from what I’ve seen when the students come here.  So I work with them in that respect too as 
well.  I try to counsel them somewhat, even though I’m not a licensed counselor.  I do know places that take them 
and I do take them where they can learn how to not drink, as far as support programs.  And I tell them that, you 
know, if it doesn’t happen for you that you’re not able to put a plug on the jug while you’re here, well, then we can 
plant that seed and you can pick this up after you graduate, later on in life but…  I try to teach these guys to not be 
lazy while they’re here.  That’s one of the big problems I see.  I try to get that out of them and point it out to them.  
A lot of them just aren’t aware of it, because they don’t have work background.  So I try to get them to work with 
each other too as well.  Communicate.  A lot of them are quiet.  And I try to get that out of them.  But I try to also 
make them understand that the work that they’re getting into can be dangerous and it's very physical too as well.  If 
they’re not able to perform in those manners, then maybe this might not be for them.  But I also try to make them 
want to become an ironworker. 
 
18:29  [So when they come in here, you try to teach them work skills and kind of be a big brother or counselor, an 
amateur counselor or whatever.  Are you teaching them to weld or doing other stuff, do you give them basic skills of 
ironworking?]  Sure.  We teach them how to weld.  We teach them how to set up the torch so they could cut the 
steel.  We teach them rigging courses, how to tie their knots and make splices.  There’s a knot for every purpose for 
what it’s used for.  We teach them how to tie steel with a tie wire that’s rebar when you put the rebar in place.   
Teach them how to build columns, how to rebar walls, how to rebar beams and decks with dowels [?] coming up to 
simulate a wall.  We teach them how to erect structural steel safely.  We teach them all about the different sized 
diameter chokers. That’s the cables that they’ll be using to hoist the steel.  We teach them hand signals that they will 
be using when they’re working with cranes.  We teach 'em how to erect scaffolding safely.  And teach 'em how to 
walk iron safely and hook up all the different safety equipment that’s available to 'em.  We teach them when they 
have to use it and how to use it.  We teach them about the foundation and the formation of local unions.  It’s 
structure.  They’re also taught how to work with stairs, putting in stairs, and transit instruments for shootin' 
elevations and making sure that the columns are plum.  So we teach them a lot of stuff.  A lot of stuff.  [And you do 
that in how long?]  Eleven week period.  [Eleven weeks.  So they come in here, from all over the country, and they 
kind of stay here and come five days a week and learn here.]  Yes, 8 hours a day, 5 days a week, 40 hours a week. 
They are here for 11 weeks learning.  I think of this as a crash course into ironwork.  They have books that they go 
through.  They go through orientation.  That’s a week alone there.  And they get assignments and lessons on 
structural, re-enforcing.  We got math and a lot of blue print reading.  They have to learn how to read the blueprints 
and then once they learn how to read the blueprints, then there’s assignments given into the blueprints.  There’s 
quite a bit of safety equipment that they have to use as far as reading apparatus and stuff.   
 
21:24  [And what about you, do you enjoy teaching as much as you did actually being out on the job sites?  How do 
you like that?]  I miss being out in the field, the camaraderie, but I also like it here.  When work was booming and 
times were good, you know, a lot of overtime out there.  I didn’t pull up stakes at the school here and go out there 
and work so I could make a lot of overtime.  I enjoyed working here.  It has helped me as a person.  It changed me. 
It's caused me to be a better person and I see it and know it…  For a person who, before I was a teacher, wasn’t 
much of a people person.  It changed me quite a bit.  It told me that some things aren’t so important in life as others.   
 
22:09  [So do you feel a strong sense of brotherhood with the union as well from all your years of doing this?] Yes, 
yes I do.  Being a union man…it’s a…  I’d much rather be into a union. I know I’m a part of something.  You know 
it’s the people that came before me that were responsible for forming the unions that had to fight for everything that 
they got upon which you think would voluntarily be given to them, us as workers.  They had to fight for it instead.  
You know being a union member out there, at the time, and even today.  I know work is kind of slow and maybe the 
unions aren’t looking so favorable in some people’s eyes because of the times.  But at the times that the unions were 
being informed, there was a need for it and there’s still a need for it.  And there’s going to be more of a need for it in 
the future too as well.  I’m just glad I was able to serve in an apprenticeship for four years, going to school, learning 
about what I was getting into.  Especially a lot of the safety stuff because our trade being the most dangerous and 
hazardous of the trades.  I didn’t get into it to be in a wheelchair or to be hurt.  And the union has helped me a lot 
with that, to work safe, to learn how to work safe.  [And you’ve been doing it since, like, ’89 or whatever, have there 
seen more changes to make it more safer in the time you have gone up in the trade?]  Yes.  Now, a lot of the safety 
courses that are being taught weren’t taught when I was first breakin' into the trade.  But me, being an instructor, I 
had to learn these things because I had to teach them.  And so…some of the journeymens that are working in the 
field these days never took these new courses.  And surely I would say that non-union work sector, you know, 
wouldn’t be as informed.  So yeah, I’m knowledgeable about it because I had to teach it. 
 
24:33  [Well, I asked all the questions that I wanted to ask.  Is there anything you wanted to talk about?  I’m happy 
to let the tape keep rolling if you’ve got some things connected with your work that you would like to bring up it's 
fine with me.]  Well…you know…  I’m very glad that I’m an ironworker.  Just to be able to go out and work, it 
makes me feel good about myself.  I know the work is hard.  Sometimes I get hot under the collar and wish I could 
have a day off, but when it comes down to it, I give it my best because I believe that…  It’s very rewarding to the 
degree that I give it my best.  It’s that much reward to me.  I know that I did my best.  I work with my hands and I 
feel like, hey, the things that I made are going to be there for quite some time to come. 
 
[Thanks so much, James.  It’s been a pleasure.]  Okay Bucky. 
 
END 25:39