Washington State Works: Archie Green Fellows Project, 2012-2013 
Luann Miller interview, 2013-11-11 : interview conducted by Deborah Fant 
Interview ID: afc2012032_00531 
Date: November 11, 2013 
Duration: 1:01:18 
 
0:00:03.7 Debbie Fant introduces herself on tape, interviewing Luann 
Miller at her home in West Seattle, Washington, November 13, 2013.  
 
0:00:37.9 Luann works for the Retail Clerks Union, 1105, and has for 
about 34 years. The union has mainly grocery store workers as its 
members. She began working at age 20, it was a good job that had 
benefits. Her first job was in Puyallup, WA. She worked for Safeway for a 
brand-new opening. They over-hire for an opening, then lay off people. 
After eight months she was laid off, then she went to work for Larry’s 
Markets in Seattle, and she stayed with them for 26 years until they went 
out of business.  
 
0:01:54.0 She worked for several of Larry’s Markets, all different 
locations. They move you around. The last one she worked for was the Oak 
Tree store, in far north Seattle.  
 
0:02:17.8 If you run a department, and they lose someone and need to have 
you work at another store, they tell you to go to another store to work. 
Luann ran Bulk Foods, Natural Foods, Specialty Foods departments when she 
worked for Larry’s Markets. Writing orders and purchasing for the 
departments.  
 
0:03:26.2 Fant asks Luann about the inner workings of a grocery store.  
 
0:03:36.6 When Luann first started at Larry’s, she worked in the bakery. 
At Safeway she was a checker, but there weren’t any checker openings when 
she first went to work for Larry’s. After working for a few months in the 
bakery, there was a checking opening, and she got moved up to the 
position of checker.  
 
0:04:07.5 She began working on a cash register that was almost the same 
as what’s used today—they used scanners even 20 years ago. But she 
learned on old-fashioned cash registers. Originally the scanners required 
the checker to lift something onto a scale, but that’s changed. You had 
to memorize the code, know the difference in produce.  
 
0:04:49.9 You walk the store and look at the produce to learn the codes. 
It’s seasonal: in the fall, there’s squash, in the summer there are soft 
fruits. Things come and go. When you shop, you see things too. Now there 
are all these new, different exotic fruits, foods are coming in that 
she’s never seen before.  
 
0:05:23.7 Jobs in store: checkers, box boys, different managers--store 
manager, managers of different departments: meat, produce, deli, wine, 
floral. Different departments inside the store.  
 
0:05:57.9 Luann now works for the West Seattle Thriftway, and has for 
seven years. When she got word that Larry’s Markets was going bankrupt, 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
1
she knew she’d need to get another job. She’d worked at Larry’s for the 
guy who was the manager of the Thriftway. She wanted to work at the 
Thriftway because it’s close to her house, it’s a family store, and it 
deals with high-end foods, which she enjoys.  
 
0:06:46.6 Luann’s hours are the hard part. After working one place for so 
long, she had 6 AM to 2 PM shifts, and she’d developed a schedule that 
fit her lifestyle. At the Thriftway, people like working there and 
there’s not much turnover. Luann works 3:30 PM to midnight, even after 7 
years. She works split days off, 3:30-midnight, sometimes a 2 PM to 10 
PM, sometimes a little earlier, but basically she works evenings. A split 
day off means you don’t have two days off in a row, so you’d get a Monday 
and a Friday, or a Tuesday and a Thursday. You get your schedule a week 
ahead—it comes out Thursday at 6:00 PM, and it begins on Sunday. So it’s 
not even a week ahead.  
 
There’s no real planning time. If you need to make an appointment, you 
need to let your doctor know you may need to cancel or ask for the day 
off. It’s not a good job for having a set schedule.  
 
0:08:21.3 Luann enjoys the job, even after all these years. Likes working 
with people, likes working with the public, likes serving. It keeps you 
busy, physically demanding. You use a lot of energy. She doesn’t think 
she’d enjoy an office job--she likes moving and being busy.  
 
0:09:05.2 Fant says she shops at the Thriftway, and that’s how she knows 
Luann.  
 
0:09:21.9 Each day, if Luann’s working a certain shift, she knows shell 
work the dairy or the floor on some part of the shift and will check out 
customers for the other part of the shift. When she’s out in the dairy, 
putting out the milk and it gets busy up front, she gets called and she 
checks out customers. So it’s a lot of back-and-forth and interruptions.  
 
0:09:56.4 The most difficult thing about checking—the job itself isn’t 
hard. But the hardest part is pleasing everybody. The management wants a 
certain number of items per hour from you, you need to go quick and be 
efficient. You need to make their numbers, can’t have a cashier take a 
half-hour with one customer. But some customers need more attention. You 
have to move them along, even though they may want to talk. That’s hard, 
sometimes she feels like she’s pushing people through, and she doesn’t 
enjoy that part of the job. But after a while it becomes second nature 
how to be polite and keep going.  
 
0:11:33.8 Luann is timed on the register when she works as a checker. The 
register shows how many people go through your line, how many items go 
through the line, how many mistakes you made, how many refunds you made. 
It’s all printed out every day. If you’re consistently slow, you might 
get talked to. If you make a lot of mistakes, you might get talked to. 
The management can track your performance. Most customers don’t know 
that, think you’re going fast just to get rid of them. If they have to go 
and get another loaf of bread, they don’t know that it’s reflecting on 
your productivity. You can’t tell them, "Hey, I’m being timed here!" You 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
2
have to be patient. It happens to everybody, and the management allows 
for that. But if it happens a lot, it can look bad on your readout.  
 
0:12:45.2 Luann went to Clover Park Vocational-Technical Institute in 
Puyallup (now Clover Park Technical College) and took a grocery class 
there. That’s how she got hired at Safeway. A Safeway rep came through 
and chose five out of the class, and she was lucky because she was 
chosen. She’s always been quick with her hands. She picked berries when 
she was young, she’s always worked. She has a fast way about her, people 
are amazed at how quickly she can get things done.  
 
0:13:35.8 Going to the Voc Tech was fun. She was trained on different 
registers--old-fashioned ones that would be in a museum these days. Also 
trained on scanners. Trained on produce and bagging. It was a fun time, a 
very short class. She paid to go to the class, and it cost a lot at the 
time. She worked 2-3 jobs and went to school. She wanted to get a job 
that had more opportunity to get raises. If you stay in fast food or low-
end jobs, you can’t live. That’s why she went to Clover Park, and at the 
time it was hard to get a grocery job. She thinks it’s easier to get a 
job in a grocery store today.  
 
0:15:37.3 Luann says that knowing your produce codes will speed up your 
checking. Doing all the canned goods together, for example, will also 
speed it up. If you have a bagger, that makes your checking time a lot 
faster. A lot of times because she works the night shifts, baggers arent 
available, and she has to bag the groceries herself. The best time is 
mid-shift, when the baggers are on duty. The management knows that the 
people on those shifts will have a higher time. At night its slower, 
small orders, with people who like to talk a little more.  
 
0:16:32.7 Every day there are different shifts. Not a standard. On 
certain days, like Friday, Saturday, Sunday, there are more people 
working mid-shifts. The actual shifts are morning shift, mid-shift, and 
evening shifts. A lot of short shifts--4 PM to 8 PM, 3 PM to 9 PM, 
because that’s when the bulk of the business is. You rarely get an 8-hour 
shift unless you’re doing a morning or a night. If you want a full shift, 
you have to have seniority like she did at Larry’s, or you have to be 
willing to do the late shifts.  
 
0:17:55.2 There are shoplifters every day. People get upset over a little 
thing, like if you forget to give them their receipt. Or if they leave 
before the receipt pops out. (Tape stops while Luann clears throat.) When 
she worked at Larry’s, there were two different instances where people 
were stabbed in the parking lot. With alcohol for sale in the stores now, 
the shoplifting is worse than it was. The alcohol is locked up, and they 
have to monitor it well.  
 
0:19:14.0 This is something new in Seattle--selling liquor in grocery 
stores. Thriftway has a liquor section. They had to put a "cage" around 
the liquor, lock it up during the evening. In the day, there’s enough 
people they don’t have to lock it up. There’s a camera in the manager’s 
office, and they can monitor the liquor pretty well.  
 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
3
0:20:03.8 Used to be someone would steal a can of soup or a beer. Now, 
when they steal something, its $80! Alcohol is so pricey, they have to 
really watch it. Thriftway only sells the big bottles of liquor, there 
are locks on the caps. People still manage to get a few bottles.  
 
0:20:40.6 There’s surveillance all the time at the grocery store. Most 
stores have security people disguised as shoppers. You don’t always know 
who they are, but sometimes the same person comes in a lot. At Larry’s 
she knew what was going on because she was part of the management team. 
At the Thriftway, she’s not on the management team. Thriftway is 
privately owned. Safeway hires police officers to stand at the door to 
deter shoplifters, and that costs a lot and takes the profit out of 
alcohol.  
 
0:22:15.7 Now the laws in Seattle have changed to encourage people to 
bring their own bags, or you’ll be charged a nickel.  
 
0:22:36.5 Luann says that law makes it harder to bag the groceries. A 
paper grocery bag will stand up on its own. The bags people bring in can 
be flimsy cloth bags. Unless you buy the right groceries to build a bag, 
you have to hold the bag open and it slows you down. Sometimes people 
bring in bags that don’t work with what they’ve bought. It’s more of a 
challenge. You work with the customer, ask them if they need another bag, 
together you figure it out. As long as you have the customers okay. A lot 
of courtesy clerks are just 16-year-old kids who don’t have the technique 
down and put all the groceries in one bag. It might weigh 50 pounds. "Oh, 
don’t do that! Lighten it up!" If it’s a big guy, you don’t want a big 
guy to carry out three 5-lb bags, he wants one big bag. You have to look 
at the customer and figure out what they might want.  
 
0:24:04.9 Usually its common sense how to handle the customer. Body 
language. You can tell if someone wants to get their stuff rung up and 
get out. Or you recognize someone who comes in a lot and wants to talk. 
Both are okay. You can tell, sometimes people are with someone else, and 
they’re talking with their friend the whole time there checking out. It’s 
all fine. Luann says she’s glad she’s not a waitress because you have to 
stay with them through the whole meal. With checking, its boom-boom. If 
they’re mean and cranky, they’re gone in minutes. If they’re nice, maybe 
they’ll come back to your line again.  
 
0:25:21.9 One of the things that Luann loves about Thriftway is they do 
not let lines get long. Once there are two people in your line, they call 
for backup. The store does really well at that, gets people through 
quickly. People have things to do--get home, get dinner ready, get the 
kids in the tub. They don’t want to stand in a grocery line. Thriftway 
may be higher end than a lot of stores, but you know when you go in 
there, you’re going to get out fast. People say that a lot. "I don’t want 
to go up to the other store because you guys get me through quick."  
 
0:26:12.9 Working at Thriftway is almost TOO much like working with a 
family. Little turnover has advantages and disadvantages. If you don’t 
really care for someone, they’re going to be there for a long time and 
you need to learn to get along with them. In every job she’s ever had, 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
4
there have been people she really liked and people who were hard to work 
with. Not that she disliked them--they were just hard to work with.  
 
0:27:06.1 The night crew does most of the stocking of the shelves. In the 
dairy, what’s most important is the rotation. You don’t want to sell 
anything that’s expired. You have to rotate the stock continually. 
Thriftway is a "front-fill," where you put new stock in at the back. You 
put the newer product at the back of the shelf so that the older product 
sells first. So if you’re putting something at the back of the shelf, you 
have to take everything out of the front first. It’s more time-consuming. 
But it’s a small store in an affluent area where space is pricey, so they 
couldn’t build a large store. They had to make every inch count. So the 
cooler is really small, there’s a lot of stuff in there and it’s hard to 
move around. But you get used to it. She’s worked in large stores that 
are spacey, easy-to-fill, where new milk goes in the back, it’s rotated 
and it’s quick, but every store has a different feel and a different 
footage. Some of the bigger chains may be similar, but the stores she’s 
worked in have all been different.  
 
She’s never worked in produce. In produce, if somethings rotten, it will 
spread. If there’s a bad apple at the bottom of a box, then there’ll be a 
lot of bad apples. Then fruit flies. You have to continually make sure 
everything is rotated and fresh, if anything’s bad get it out of there 
fast. Thriftway does that well.  
 
0:29:38.6 Terminology: The term "face," is a big one. Face means to pull 
everything forward. Facing, pulling things forward, have labels straight, 
have it looking good. Especially during the holidays you have to have 
everything faced well. If somethings on the top shelf, and the first two 
are sold, someone who’s short won’t be able to get to the third one. You 
have to continually pull things forward. That also helps with ordering 
because you can see what’s there. Up-stocking is when you put anything 
extra on top of a top cap. Down-stocking is when you bring the produce 
down.  
 
0:31:09.7 Terms for the jobs: the midnight checker is dubbed 
"Cinderella." One guy was Cinderfella. That means, are you going to be 
the last one here. "Who’s Cinderella tonight?" Because you have to clean 
up everybody’s mess, empty the garbage, wipe down the check stands, sweep 
the floor. It’s the Cinderella shift. The night crew stays. The store 
closes at 11 PM, the night crew stocks the shelves. Basically, the night 
crew orders, stocks, and faces.  
 
0:32:42.3 (Special seasonal displays) When the buyers buy, they buy 
completely out of season. In spring, you’re buying for fall; in fall, 
you’re buying for spring. When things come in, you have a show book and 
you know what’s coming in, what day it’s coming in. You let an end 
dwindle down so that it’s easy to disassemble and put up something new. 
It’s all preplanned. You want to have things as seasonal--have the right 
things for the season during that season. Make things appetizing and fun, 
get something new in there. There’s attention you have to pay to it. One 
of the gals at Thriftway is an amazing artist, and she does big chalk 
drawings and signs that give the store a little extra pizazz.  
 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
5
Thriftway has a Holiday Taste. Most stores do something, but not to the 
extent that Thriftway does. The vendors bring in their things, it’s just 
like a big smorgasbord of samples. So you’ve tried the dressings, the 
cookies, the crackers. You know what you like and you can plan what 
you’ll get. DF: At dinner time, the store has food out to eat. There’s 
always cheese out in the deli, meat samples in the meat department.  
 
0:35:07.3 Those are called "passive demos" because someone doesn’t have 
to physically stand there and give you something. You serve yourself with 
toothpicks or tongs. Thriftway keeps those really clean. There’s another 
demo where someone will stand there and serve you something. That’s a 
regular demo. There are also wine tastings. Three Thursdays out of the 
month. You can try wines. Luann went there one Thursday, liked the wine 
and bought a bottle. The wine department manager will have a certain kind 
of wine, then she’ll have the low end and the medium and a little higher 
and then a really nice one. So you can tell the difference between the 
wines.  
 
0:36:35.5 The schedule and the people are the difficult part of the job.  
 
0:36:52.8 (Aesthetics) Luann always likes to make the next person’s job 
as easy as she can for them. She hopes they do the same for her. She 
tries to get everything done. If things are really busy and she’s been 
called up to check a lot, she feels bad because she didn’t get everything 
done. Usually the next shift understands and could see that it was busy. 
You can tell by how much is left. If you come in and there are 50 empty 
milk crates, they all didn’t magically happen. It was busy. So they’re a 
little more forgiving. But if there are only 10 empty milk crates and 
nothing else has been done, you might get talked to.  
 
Luann has never been "talked to." But others have. You’ll be asked what 
happened. Maybe a checker went home sick, and you had to be checking for 
three hours instead of stocking. There’s usually a reason. You don’t get 
away with not doing your work--it shows.  
 
0:38:25.8 Luann also works at McClendon’s Hardware Store in the mornings. 
When she first started to work at Thriftway, she didn’t get full time. 
She’s used to working full time. She lived 8 blocks from McClendon’s at 
the time. Now she lives a mile-and-a-half. She loved going there, she 
loves HGTV, she loves home improvement. She like the atmosphere at the 
store. One of the fellows she worked with at Larry’s was the manager at 
McClendon’s, and she decided to ask him if he had anything available. She 
didn’t want to be a checker, but she didn’t have any hardware experience. 
She went to talk with them, and he said "We need a morning waterer." She 
said, I’m it! Surprisingly, she never watered. She was hired, she was in 
the garden department, and her natural ability to stock and merchandise 
came in. She could tell they needed help with stocking and merchandising. 
 
So she worked in the garden for five or six years. Then they moved her to 
where she is now, she’s basically a stocker. She can work all of the 
departments, stocking, cleaning up, organizing, stocking product. They 
let her do a lot of "resets," which she enjoys. That’s when something 
doesn’t make sense the way it is. Sometimes the little tiny gizmos are 
down low, and the big stuff is up high, so you can’t see the little 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
6
stuff. If you rearrange it to make it easier to shop and stock when you 
do a reset, it looks cleaner, newer, and people say, "Oh, I never even 
saw this before." She gets to do a lot of those. McClendon’s seems to 
like what she does. She likes that job. (House fan comes on.)  
 
0:41:18.3 Skills she needs to be a good worker for the grocery store: 
number one, you have to be fast at what you’re doing. Some are fast and 
others are more meticulous and take a long time. But you have to be fast. 
One of the things she remembers when she worked at Safeway, they had a 
questionnaire. One thing they asked was, "Tell me about filling your 
suitcase." Luann is the type of person, it takes her ten minutes to pack. 
She knows she needs two pair of pants, and she pops them in the suitcase. 
She likes to have it neat and in order, and she likes it quick. But if 
you’d said something like, "I dunno. Where are we going?" That would not 
have worked. You have to be quick; you need a pair of pants, shorts, 
bathing suit. If you’re slow at something like that, you’d be slow at 
other things. You just have to be quick. You have to have common sense. 
You have to be a people-pleaser. Those are some of the main things. 
Organization is good too.  
 
You have to have broad shoulders--you can’t take things personally if 
someone says something mean to you. Can’t let it ruin your day. You’re 
coming up against maybe a thousand people in one day. All those thousand 
people aren’t going to love you. They might have had a bad day at work, 
they’re gruff. You have to know it’s not about you and be able to deal 
with that, not be too sensitive. That’s about it. Quick is number one. 
Being able to get along with people is also number one!  
 
0:43:49.2 As far as the skills, you can teach anybody skills, but you 
can’t teach someone a personality. She’s worked a long time, and there 
are some really great people who are not meant for that job. You know if 
it’s your niche or not. You can tell right away if someone’s a natural or 
if they’re going to have problems. She thinks the number one thing she’s 
seen the most is when people think they’re the best, they’re 
irreplaceable. Everything they do is right. They’re usually the ones that 
fail. "Were all dispensable. It takes all of us to make it work. There’s 
not one person who’s any better than the next person." Whether a courtesy 
clerk cleaning the bathroom or the owner, we all have to do our jobs to 
the best that we can. It’s a combination, and it’s probably true in most 
jobs. That you have to get along with people and do your best. Her 
philosophy is always leave a place better when you leave than when you 
came in. You try to do something to make it better.  
 
0:45:32.2 They get a small discount on groceries. If you buy $15 or more, 
you get 10% off except on alcohol and cigarettes. Very little.  
 
0:46:08.0 The number one thing she wants in a grocery store is 
cleanliness. It’s where you’re buying your food. She’s been fortunate to 
work at clean stores. Not just the places that people see, the places 
that people don’t see: a clean dumpster area, inside the dairy cooler. 
Things need to be clean, and that’s number one. To have a clean store. 
That’s a lot of work. She’s been in stores where she sees they’re not 
clean, and it’s not appealing to buy the food, even if it’s less 
expensive.  
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
7
 
0:47:07.0 Cleanliness is a big deal. New displays are fun to see, 
something new. Good pricing is a bonus.  
 
0:47:24.5 Luann gets a million T-shirts from the store. One of the things 
she loves about Thriftway is that it’s community-oriented. Her favorite 
is the Humane Society, and she likes the T-shirts with the dogs on them. 
They take donations for the Humane Society. They have a lot of events, 
dogs and cats to be adopted. The store is very involved in the community. 
They collect for Susan G. Komen every year, taking donations. They get a 
T-shirt for that. They like to participate and be a part of the 
community, and that’s fun and its nice not to have to wear the uniform, 
you can wear a T-shirt and jeans and tennis shoes and be more 
comfortable.  
 
0:48:32.5 She has a uniform, a black button-up shirt with a collar. They 
provide shirts, but they don’t fit Luann well. She prefers to buy her 
own. Black pants and shoes. They provide an apron and a vest or jacket. 
If you lose the jacket or it wears out, you have to buy another one. She 
wears comfortable shoes. You can’t wear tennis shoes. Sometimes she’s on 
her feet 13 hours a day. After years and years of doing the work, her 
legs and feet become accustomed to it. Her feet and legs rarely hurt. She 
has a strong back.  
 
0:49:59.3 Not too many safety issues at the store. The only heavy thing 
they have is a baler, you put the cardboard in, pull the lid down, push 
the button. She hasn’t seen anyone get hurt. Same with trash--close the 
door and push the button. It’s pretty safe. The departments that people 
get hurt in are the ones that have knives--the meat dept, the deli that 
has a slicer. She’s been fortunate not to be injured.  
 
0:50:47.6 The Thriftway had a recent electrical outage. Fant asks about 
that.  
 
0:51:10.5 Because of its location, Thriftway gets more than its share of 
electrical outages. The last one was a Mylar balloon that hit a power 
line, caught on fire, and it dropped the power line. First thing you do 
in the store, all the coolers have blinds (shades) on them. They’re 
designed to pull down at night to keep the cold in so that things have a 
longer shelf life. The first thing is run around and pull all the blinds 
down. In the produce, deli, and meat departments--all have blinds to pull 
down. In the deli they have gondolas with cheeses, they put insulated 
blankets on top to keep things cold. Put bags of ice on top of the 
insulated blankets to make sure you don’t lose the nice cheeses and 
meats. The ideas is not to lose product. You keep the freezer doors 
closed--customers can’t buy frozen foods. You don’t want anything to thaw 
out. Another things that’s really important--if anything is at all 
questionable, err on the side of safety. If you won’t eat it, don’t 
expect anyone else to eat it. Most things are a couple of dollars, and if 
you have to take some loss, it’s better than someone getting sick. All 
the stores she’s worked in have been good at not putting anything on the 
shelf that isn’t good. Goes with the store being clean. Shows they have 
the right attitude about food and food safety.  
 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
8
0:53:32.4 She has to get a health card, so she learns about preparing 
food and keeping food out of the danger zone. She has to renew the card 
every two to four years. Take the test over again. It’s surprising 
because young people coming in might not know the proper way to wash your 
hands. A lot of it has to do with having meats and things the right 
temperature that doesn’t really apply to most of us. It’s good to know 
those things.  
 
0:54:40.3 Luann thinks the right attitude helps. It’s hard to work with 
people who are negative and don’t like their job, they’re tired and 
they’d rather be somewhere else. You have to work, so why not make the 
best of it and try to enjoy it? Everybody has a bad day, but you try not 
to have them! You try to leave it at the front door. You’re there to 
work, it doesn’t matter if your dog died. You can’t bring it with you, 
it’ll make your job harder. You learn to do that, and age helps to learn 
that. You make the best of things.  
 
0:55:44.0 When she worked at Larry’s, she liked specialty foods and 
natural food. Luann is a "foodie." She likes food, good food, expensive 
food. She’s a chocolate snob, knows the difference between good chocolate 
and bad chocolate, between good and bad wine. She likes nice food, and 
she doesn’t mind paying for it. When people come through the line and you 
can tell they know how to cook and know their foods, they’re fun to talk 
to. You have something in common. The fact that she loves food affects 
her liking working at the grocery store. She likes to eat, so that means 
she has to go to the gym.  
 
0:57:04.3 Luann suggests, for customers to make her job easier: buy a big 
giant cart of groceries. She loves the big orders. They’re fun because 
you get to stay with that person a little bit longer, get to talk a 
little bit more. She’s always liked when you get a big basket in her 
line. You can talk to the customer about their children, about something 
that they’re buying, how they cook their Brussels sprouts. It’s more fun. 
She doesn’t like working the express lane because you’re like a robot. 
You have to get people through. Part of her personality is she likes 
people.  
 
0:58:25.6 People think the checkers can tell about people by what they 
purchase. But that’s not necessarily so. Someone might be coming in to 
buy a bunch of ice cream and junk food, but maybe their kids are having a 
sleepover. Or maybe they buy their vegetables at the market somewhere 
else. People have said things to here, "This isn’t what I usually buy." 
Luann says "she" buys that! Maybe a can of Spam--she doesn’t judge! She 
likes Spam. People can be embarrassed to buy what they want to buy. But 
we all like different things. The checkers don’t judge. They all like 
their frozen pizzas and their bags of chips or whatever. Were in the same 
boat--sometimes it’s close to payday and you don’t have enough money and 
come in and buy Top Ramen. She’s been there!  
 
0:59:54.7 The Thriftway has really good produce, really good meat, and a 
really good wine selection. Their prices aren’t the lowest, but the 
quality is high. She’s never been disappointed, and if you are, the store 
is good at making good on it.  
 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
9
1:00:28.7 It’s important to Luann that she works at a union store. She’s 
worked at a union store for 34 years, she likes the security you have. 
She’s had all different types of managers over the years, some love her 
and some don’t. But you know that if you’re doing your job, you’re okay. 
They can’t let you go because they want Aunt Harriet to come and work 
instead of you. You have the security of knowing that as long as you do 
your job, you’re fine. She likes that feeling.  
 
END OF INTERVIEW 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
10