Oral History Interview 
with 
Eyakem Gulilat 
Interview Conducted by 
Julie Pearson-Little Thunder 
May 6, 2021 
Oklahoma's Immigrant Women Artists 
Occupational Folklife 
Oral History Project 
Oklahoma Oral History Research Program 
Edmon Low Library • Oklahoma State University 
© 
2021 
Oklahoma's Immigrant Women Artists 
Occupational Folklife Oral History Project 
Interview History 
Interviewer: 
Julie Pearson-Little Thunder 
Editors: 
Jensen Bridges, Micki White 
Automatic transcripts generated by the Zoom Video Communications platform. 
The recording and transcript of this interview were processed at the Oklahoma State University 
Library in Stillwater, Oklahoma. 
Project Detail 
This project is supported by the Archie Green Fellowship of the American Folklife Center at the 
Library of Congress. 
The purpose of the Immigrant Women Artists Oral History Project is to examine the occupational 
folklife of first-generation immigrant women artists living in Oklahoma and the networks of 
support that allow them to pursue their vocations in a 
new environment. This series of interviews 
examines not only the cultural and occupational traditions that these artists nurture in straddling 
multiple cultural identities, but also the translation of an artist's occupational life between 
multiple cultural and physical spaces. 
Legal Status 
Scholarly use of the recordings and transcripts of the interview with Eyakem Gulilat is 
unrestricted. The interview agreement was signed on May 6, 2021. 
2 
Oklahoma's Immigrant Women Artists 
Occupational Folklife Oral History Project 
About Eyakem Gulilat... 
Eyakem Gulilat has multiple homelands: Ethiopia, where he was born and first conceived a 
passion for photography; then Kenya; Austin, Texas; and today, Oklahoma. Gulilat began as an 
engineering major in college but instead earned a 
bachelor's degree in interdisciplinary studies in 
photojournalism and art. He then enrolled at the University of Oklahoma where he obtained his 
master's degree in liberal arts, which eventually led to work with the Oklahoma Arts Council as 
cultural development coordinator and director of folk and traditional arts. There, his deep 
knowledge of the state's art resources and his immigrant positioning have made him an 
invaluable resource for immigrant women artists. He is also deeply engaged with rural 
communities in the Panhandle where he advocates for the preservation of a 
wide range of 
grassroots cultural practices. 
In this interview, Gulilat remembers the diverse cultural practices he was exposed to growing up 
and how they have informed his expansive views of art. He discusses the shortcomings of 
American society's way of talking about art, especially when he is conducting community 
outreach. He spends time on the words "art" and "artists" in particular, and how these terms can 
intimidate or disenfranchise large groups of people. He also explains how his arts advocacy feeds 
into his present doctoral work in city planning. 
3 
Oklahoma's Immigrant Women Artists 
Occupational Folklife Oral History Project 
Eyakem Gulilat 
Oral History Interview 
Interviewed by Julie Pearson-Little Thunder 
May 6, 2021 
Remote interview 
[00:00:00] 
Little Thunder 
Okay, this is Julie Pearson-Little Thunder with the Oklahoma Oral History 
Research Program at Oklahoma State University. Today is Thursday, May 
6, 2021, and this interview is for the Library cf Congress OcclApational 
Folkl fe Prcject funded by the Archie Green Fellowship. This is a 
remote 
interview with Eyakem Gulilat. I 
am in Tulsa, and, Eyakem, you're in 
Oklahoma City where you serve as the cultural development director at the 
Oklahoma Arts Council. Because you are a 
photographer in your own right, 
born in Ethiopia, and now working with the OA 
C, I 
knew you would be 
pei fectly situated to talk about the structural and socio-cultural challenges 
cf some cf the women artists in this series. Thankyou for taking the time to 
be with me today. 
Gulilat 
Thank you. 
Little Thunder 
For starters, where were you born, and where did you spend some c 
f 
your 
growing-iAp years? 
Gulilat 
Well, good afternoon. I 
was born in Ethiopia and grew up there until I 
was 
about ten and then moved to Kenya where I 
became a 
teenager, I 
guess. 
Kenyan by identity, if you want to call it that, you know, as a 
teenager. Then 
we moved to the States, or America, when I 
turned nineteen. 
Little Thunder 
And where in the States did you go first? 
Gulilat 
My American home is Austin, Texas, so that is our first place in America. I 
mean, Texas was it. 
Little Thunder 
What were your impressions cfAustin? 
4 
Gulilat 
[00:02:20] 
Little Thunder 
Gulilat 
Little Thunder 
Gulilat 
[00:04:42] 
Little Thunder 
Gulilat 
Well, so growing up particularly in Kenya, we used to watch a 
show called, 
I 
think, Dallas, I 
believe, a 
sitcom, (Laughter) so of course my expectation 
of Texas is based on that TV series. I 
mean, it wasn't that far away from 
that. (Laughter) Sure, yeah. 
How did you end iAp coming to Oklahoma from Texas? 
From Texas, graduate school. I 
finished undergrad in West Texas at a 
liberal 
arts university called Abilene Christian. I 
came to OU 
to attend graduate 
school. 
What was your first experience with art, however you want to dc fine it, kind 
cf your 
first memories cf.... 
You know, if you asked me this question ten years ago, I 
would have said I 
did not have any art, but having worked at the agency, I 
think my earliest 
memories of art is based on the Ethiopian national TV where they promote 
different tribal dances. I 
think I 
wouldn't consider that art, though. That was 
part of the culture, but I 
think, to me, that is the first time that I 
think I 
encountered that idea of art. That is partially important to certain tribes, why 
tribe A 
dances different to tribe B 
and how do they get that promoted. I 
mean, so there had to be some sort of training, which, you know, I 
did not 
internalize that. Also ... when I 
was growing up ... as a 
child, Ethiopia was a 
Communist country. Theater was a 
big deal. I 
have never gone to the 
theater, but I 
always hear people talk about theater performance. In fact, 
Othello was a 
big deal. The only thing I 
know of that story of European 
literature is Othello. I 
mean, it's funny. (Laughter) I 
think those are my first 
and earliest memory of art in a 
very big way. 
How about photography, which you do? When did you first get interested in 
photography? 
I 
was never interested in art. When I 
went to college, I 
wanted to be an 
engineer, not a 
photographer, not an artist or anything to do with any liberal 
arts courses, actually, but I 
had to take an elective course in the art in order 
to graduate. By the way, I'm an engineering dropout, so I'm not an engineer 
by any means. I 
thought that I 
could be a 
photographer. The reason is, us 
kids back in Ethiopia, my brother and I 
used to watch this German detective 
show, a 
police show where this detective used cameras as a 
way of, you 
know, establishing proof of criminal activities. Really enjoyed that clicking 
noise it made. My mother had this Russian-made camera that we did not 
have films for, so I'd be chasing my younger brother in rural Ethiopia and 
5 
photographing him, and I 
would make images. There are no images, but the 
sound is the only thing that it made. That was just reenacting what I 
saw, 
what it meant to be cool. It's not because it was art. However, my 
photographs in my first elective art course were all about photojournalism. I 
had no idea what photojournalists did, but I 
have seen photographs. I 
mean, 
I 
love newspapers. 
[00:06:52] 
The only reasons I 
like newspapers were for the photographs and how the 
photographs told the story, particularly how the written words made the 
images become more vivid. I 
was an avid newspaper reader. In the back of 
my mind, Kevin Carter's photograph of a 
starving Sudanese girl, curled into 
a 
small ball waiting to go to this feeding center, which in 1994 or ' 93 won 
the Pulitzer Prize award for that image, that image was subconsciously 
embedded in my being. No wonder what I 
was producing in my art class, in 
my elective art class, was all about these sort of perceived ideas that I 
had 
through reading newspapers back in Ethiopia as a 
kid, reading newspapers 
in Kenya as a 
kid. Really, maybe I 
was just responding to those things that I 
was seeing. That's what my teacher told me, "You have an eye for 
photojournalism," so that is where the whole photography career started for 
me. I 
left that university because they did not have a 
good photography 
program, so I 
went to a 
different college. 
Little Thunder 
Gulilat 
Little Thunder 
Gulilat 
Little Thunder 
Gulilat 
Little Thunder 
[00:08:54] 
Gulilat 
Came to Oklahoma at some point, right, for the University cf Oklahoma... 
Right, right. 
... and got your degree in fine arts there. How long have you been with the 
Oklahoma Arts Council? 
Well, coming up June would be two years... 
Okay. 
... so fairly new. 
Yes, and how did you get involved with them? 
I 
mean, currently I'm finishing up my PhD in city planning. My 
photography has kind of allowed me to be really curious about communities, 
so my work is revolving around mostly communities, particularly 
marginalized or underrepresented or immigrants, whatever you want to use 
in that. Also very much interested in how these communities create a 
space 
6 
for themselves, places that meet their social economic needs. I 
mean, city 
planning was the natural transition into that. I 
just finished—two years ago, I 
finished my coursework for my dissertation. I 
was looking for an 
employment, and this job description for cultural development director was 
what I 
saw when I 
searched on higher ed jobs. It was only natural. I 
mean, 
the job description at that moment was really describing who I 
am, creating 
cultural, sort of, empowering cultural production, if you want to call it that, 
within the context of promoting folk and traditional art, using data to 
measure the impact of the arts on Oklahoma and Oklahoma's economy and 
diversity, equity, and inclusion. This is—I've never done any of those 
things, but the jobs that I 
did as a 
photographer for the last fifteen years 
really has equipped me to understand those nuances. That's how that 
marriage started between myself and the Arts Council. 
Little Thunder 
[00:11:12] 
Gulilat 
Well, a 
lot cf our discussion today will have to do with, kind cf, language, 
beginning with the notion cf art, which is kind cfproblematic. Can you 
explain what some cf your feelings are about it? 
Oh, man, that's very loaded, so perhaps maybe I 
will begin maybe to talk 
about this, based on my own identity, particularly that of an African descent, 
Ethiopia and Kenya and then here. Within the context of my upbringing in 
Ethiopia, Kenya, and even my Ethiopian communities in the States, we 
don't use the term "art." We do things that affirms our cultural identity 
because that language is not a 
definition, whether how we worship in 
churches, the music, the clothing, Ethiopian clothing. In fact, when we 
promote what it means to be an Ethiopian, we dress in that Ethiopian 
clothing, but we never consider that art. Now as a 
fine artist trained in art, I 
definitely consider that performance art. Everybody's collectively 
performing in this clothing. We wear this clothing during special 
ceremonies, weddings, funerals, not funerals per se, but Ethiopian New 
Year's, and other holiday markers. 
Songs are a 
good example. Particularly, so as a 
Christian, the way 
Ethiopians sing, it's a 
totally different way of singing. That is asserting that 
cultural nuance, so hence it's performance art. Other things include the 
Amharic alphabet writings. Because we don't use, I 
guess, the English 
alphabet or the Latin alphabet, that becomes part of art. I 
think because I 
am 
trained in the art field and looking back into this culture, I 
see everything 
that we do as being art, speaking of the language in itself. All this becomes 
art. For me then, when I 
define art and society, whether it is, you know, the 
larger American culture, I 
do have a 
very broad way of defining it. I 
extend 
it outside of the cultural institutions, the museums, the galleries, coffee 
shops, which by the way, an Ethiopian product. That in itself for me, going 
7 
and watching and observing coffee consumers, is a 
form of art. We don't 
grow coffee in the States or European countries. 
Therefore, we depend on the production of the coffee farmers' practice in 
Ethiopia, or Africa for that matter, or Latin American countries, you know, 
where coffee is grown and produced. The end users are participating in that 
cultural production of those countries that they don't actually see. For me, 
not to be way too overly winded, how I 
define art is very broad. It becomes 
daily rituals, daily rituals becoming cultural practices, and cultural practices 
being defined by those communities that want to prevent the cultural way of 
doing things. I 
mean, food is a 
good example. In America, I 
think one way 
majority citizen participate in the consumption of culture is through food. I 
mean, I 
can have an Ethiopian cuisine, and I 
can define it as such; or a 
Mexican cuisine, and I 
can define it as such. People willingly choose to 
participate in that production. So yeah, my definition is a 
bit broader than 
what we do. 
Little Thunder 
Well, along those lines, you cften refer to artists as cultural workers. You 
want to expand a 
bit on that? 
[00:15:52] 
Gulilat 
Little Thunder 
[00:18:38] 
Cultural workers, so because I 
see art as a 
way it allows people to see one 
another, I 
see it activating social norms or used as a 
tool to make cases for 
groups that are marginalized as they exist. At the same time, art makes that 
marginalized groups of individuals more visible through the process of the 
production of the art. For me then, any individual that is embedded in 
creating a 
body of work as a 
case maker, or as case making I 
should say, he 
is a 
cultural worker. It's very strange that in a 
sense, cultural workers in my 
head is intertwined with activism, a 
representation, a 
way of making 
otherness more palatable, or humanizing others into the mainstream 
American culture. I 
often use that term very loosely as cultural workers, but 
also we use that today in our society... as a 
way of creating a 
sense of 
community, whether it is gender identity or racial identity, religious identity. 
All this then becomes sort of a 
product of culture, right, a 
subculture. That's 
why I 
use that term, to kind of think of it as holistically to a 
point, to use that 
word. 
What does the Arts Council have to c
.) fer, actually, people from 
underrepresented communities or cultural workers from underrepresented 
communities? What would you like them to know about the Oklahoma Arts 
Council? 
8 
Gulilat 
You know, one of the commitments that we have at Oklahoma Arts Council 
is that we want to have art accessible to all Oklahomans. What does that 
mean, and how do you get access to all Oklahoman communities? 
Particularly when we talk about art or cultural activities, they seem to be 
located in urban centers. By defining it, art for all Oklahomans, that has 
created in us to make an extra effort to reach into rural communities. One of 
the portfolios that we have that we use is folk and traditional art. It's a 
program—we used to have it at the agency, and budget cuts and many other 
issues revolving around that concept, we haven't had the program. We are 
reestablishing, and I 
am overseeing the reestablishment of folk and 
traditional art. Within that program, rural communities, diverse 
communities, whether Native Americans, recent immigrants.... By recent 
immigrants, I 
mean newly resettled communities like the Vietnamese 
immigrants, which we have a 
fairly large population here in Oklahoma, and 
many other new Americans, and any other emerging cultural activities 
whether now within the context of folk and traditional art. 
Hip hop is considered a 
folk and traditional art. Quilting within, particularly, 
African American communities is a 
big deal. It's an expression of the art. 
Even, since I'm talking about African American communities, the church as 
a 
cultural outlet.... Now, we're not in the business of personalizing. I 
want 
to be very clear about that, but there are certain cultural nuances. Other 
things include, in my conversation with rural communities, the dying 
practice of cattle branding is an example that falls under that. It's a 
very 
inclusive way of looking at the culture that made Oklahoma Oklahoma. The 
other areas that we do really try to do to promote cultural activities is 
through education. Educational component is a 
vital part of it, K 
to 12, 
college education, and the importance of art and awareness of others within 
a 
larger Oklahoma society. 
Little Thunder 
Yeah, it sounds really exciting, actually. What are some cf the challenges 
that you faced in starting iAp this program again? 
[00:22:10] 
Gulilat 
I 
mean, there are challenges in doing it, when you have a 
new program. First 
would be reaching out the larger community, so PR work. Where do you 
begin? I 
started, I 
joined the staff in shortly after COVID, working and sort 
of like what we're doing right now. This digital platform has been very, very 
limiting, but also it has created a 
little bit of an opportunity. Phone calls 
become vital, particularly when you're talking about cultural work for the 
agency. Other areas would be, obviously, funding. I 
mean, everybody will 
have issues with lack of funding for this type of work. It's not just 
Oklahoma, but I 
think it's a 
phenomenon expressed throughout the nation 
when it comes to this type of work. What else are there? Probably I'm 
forgetting some thoughts. I 
think that's what I.... Oh, you know, the other 
9 
challenge is really, again, because the definition of art or folk art or 
traditions is so subjective to certain communities that convincing them that 
they are artists is another.... I 
think that is, to me, the biggest challenge. 
I 
think that comes with a 
lot of passion for my part, and it takes time to 
establish relationships, establishing the relationship and then seeing the 
value that these communities have as an artist. In my own personal work as 
a 
photographer, you know, I'm documenting the entire Panhandle of 
Oklahoma. Even in my interaction photographing some of the individuals, 
they shy away from my camera because they don't have anything positive to 
say, not positive but they cannot be perceived in that they're not worthy of 
my camera. That mentality, it's not in a 
negative way. It's just being shy, I 
think. I 
can only overcome that by consistently appearing in that community 
over and over. Building relationships is vital in this work, and I 
guess maybe 
the challenge is that I 
want to see quick things happen. (Laughter) Being 
patient also I 
guess is a 
challenge because, you know, we are an agency that 
is funded, that we have responsibilities to those fundings, and therefore we 
have to acknowledge those measurables, measurable outcomes. 
Relationships are part of those, and it takes a 
long time. Trust is a 
challenge. 
I'm saying that in a 
positive way, and it has to be so. We're working on that. 
Little Thunder 
[00:26:05] 
Gulilat 
Sometimes just even the grant process is sort c 
f 
hard for underrepresented 
communities. I 
don't know f you're thinking about sped fic things in those 
areas or not. 
Well, absolutely. I 
mean, you know, our agencies and organizations have to 
be 501(c)(3). I 
myself did not understand those mechanisms. I 
know what 
net profit is, but not really understand what it takes to form a 
501(c)(3), 
board members, having the dues. This structure are foreign to most 
communities that I 
am reaching out to, particularly immigrant communities 
or rural communities, for that matter. Mass migration out of rural 
communities to city centers don't have the capacity to have the population 
that could take in different roles of the board members. You need to have a 
certain number of board members in order to.... That structure is very 
complicated. Then I 
think that is where folk and traditional art comes in, 
within the context of apprenticeship programs, which we don't have. I 
think 
eventually we would get to that, where we can potentially work with a 
master artist and an... apprentee, if you can say that, and that these two 
individuals work in tandem in preserving their cultural heritage where 
funding could potentially go directly to this, to a 
group of individuals in 
promoting cultural identity of a 
larger population of that group. 
Yes, I 
mean, grants are challenging. The other is, (in fact, I 
would use my 
own self) is that lack of awareness on what Oklahoma Arts Council does in 
10 
the community. I 
was not aware of it, even as an artist. I 
was aware what 
Oklahoma Arts Council is but not completely aware the magnitude of work 
that the agency does in communities. It's not just art. It's from, you know, 
economic development to capacity building to partnership generation. A 
lot 
of the groups that I 
work with not being aware of that is also a 
challenge. 
How do you bridge that gap? That requires, again, that phone call, site visits, 
which we can't do right now. My 
favorite part is actually site visit, right, 
into these different communities. You begin to absorb the unspoken 
description of a 
space or a 
place that these communities participate in. 
Little Thunder 
[00:30:20] 
Gulilat 
Little Thunder 
Gulilat 
Little Thunder 
Gulilat 
Yes, and I 
was going to ask about the pandemic challenges, but you kind (f 
covered them. (Laughs) I 
do think when the public knows something about 
the OAC, they typically think in terms cf like festivals, maybe, or special 
exhibitions or museums. What's the OAC's relationship with institutions cf 
higher education or museums or festivals? Is it changing a 
little bit? I 
know 
this is not in your area per se, but.... 
Yeah, this is not in my area, and I'm not.... You know, so we have a 
grants 
department. I 
don't see the day-to-day, however we are very big on 
promoting festivals. In fact, we have different types of grants. Our small 
grants predominantly benefit those festivals. In fact, I 
say the festival. The 
first thing that came to mind was Sorghum Festival in Wewoka. I 
attended 
that one and it brought a 
diverse population. A 
small town would swell up 
into so many vendors and art activities from Native American art 
performance to gospel singing to making of the syrup from the sugar cane or 
sorghum cane... 
Sorghum, yes. (Laughter) 
...to different Native American cultural expos. Others include Strawberry 
Festival in (I 
forgot; don't quote me on it) I 
think Sallisaw. They are all.... 
Stillwell. 
Yes! They're small and the heartbeat of most communities. In fact, you 
know, I 
have not done any extensive research or studies on this. I 
do feel 
these activities bring the largest revenue for these communities because of 
the number of visitors that are coming to visit these towns. I 
think that's 
why they also get excited. I 
think that's, when I 
talked earlier about art for 
all Oklahomans, the festivals become part of that expression. A 
lot of 
smaller towns' cultural expression happen through this, whether it is 
music.... I 
think even some towns that are on Route 66, this is where we 
fund activities in the name of art. We activate social interaction, economic 
activity, and even community development. 
11 
Little Thunder 
Gulilat 
Little Thunder 
[00:34:22] 
Gulilat 
You've talked a 
little bit about how artists, the women artists, in this series 
who may be born in another country and become bicultural or polycultural 
here, the kind cf work that they can do in deconstructing otherness. I 
wonder f 
you could expand on that a 
little more and maybe.... It just strikes 
me that during this pandemic, that's been a 
bigger danger than ever before. 
I 
mean, that's been a 
bigger need, to sort cf deconstruct, be working on that, 
than ever before, maybe because we're just so isolated from each other right 
now. 
Ask me that question again. 
Yeah, you know, you've talked a 
little bit about how our cultural work, 
representation can help deconstruct otherness and how important these 
women who, you know, were born in another country but are living here 
who are bicultural or polycultural now, the important role that they can 
play in that. Let's just start with that. 
Sure, sure. You know, speaking about those artists, I 
kind of put myself in 
that category, as well, so I'm going to talk from my own personal 
experience, as well. One thing I've noticed is that this type of artist usually 
have the burden for presenting their own cultural heritage, no matter how 
traumatic or positive those cultural backgrounds are for these individuals 
who left that country and moved to this other country, America. There is no 
way that we can erase those identities that formed our being in our 
birthplaces. Perhaps maybe I'm overly stepping my boundary by saying that, 
but it's my observation in some of my artist friends that I 
have in that they 
have this over-burdening responsibility of representing their culture while 
being or trying to be as individual and marketable and bridging that 
American audience. There is that struggle that I 
have noticed. Sometimes, 
not sometimes but oftentimes, beautiful things happen. I 
think that becomes 
that American product. 
That is the way how ... I 
think the way you described, it becomes the art 
production. You want to define yourself in this landscape, or in these 
American shores by really looking deep inside of you, and when you do 
that, this beautiful thing emerge. The question is, that I 
often ask my friends 
in this capacity, would your work be the same if you are not in the States, in 
America? How would your perception of self shift because of your identity 
as an immigrant? How do you also speak to the host culture? I 
don't want to 
say the host culture but, you know, who is here beyond the Indigenous 
people of America. Essentially, we are all trying to figure that out, 
particularly the European immigrants and recent immigrants. In the same 
12 
way, we are asking that question. I 
feel that's what I 
see by the production 
of these artists' work. 
When they present their labor of love, it really does make the American 
audience to question their positionality. As a 
woman, as a 
man, as a 
European, you can go on, you know, as religion, all these things come. I 
think it's a 
beautiful benefit to those that have never been able to have that 
consciousness, (maybe that's not a 
good word) to raise that question. I 
know 
and have met a 
number of people that have never left a 
county. How do you 
know yourself better if it wasn't for these immigrants? I 
feel like I'm 
advocating for immigrants here. Beyond the immigrant would be even 
Native American artwork. I 
have seen a 
number of Europeans collect Native 
American artwork, and I've always wondered, "Why is that?" In what ways 
does it create a 
sense of humanity through this process? I 
don't know; 
maybe I've gone off tangent to the question. I 
apologize. (Laughter) 
Little Thunder 
[00:39:32] 
Gulilat 
I 
thought that was very eloquent. Your answer was very eloquent. What's a 
prcject or iApcoming program? It may be just resuming the program you've 
been trying to work on that was suspended by the pandemic, but what's an 
iApcoming prcject that you're looking forward to when we sort cf sh ft back 
into normal again or close to normal? 
Absolutely. I 
really do miss the very few months of experience that I 
had 
with site visits. I 
think I 
am a 
cultural worker. As a 
cultural worker, those 
site visits are vital. I 
kind of briefly explained that earlier on, how the 
structure, how a 
space is constructed, or a 
community or a 
town is formed, 
and how people navigate through that, or how they decorate that town, well, 
in the sense of mural arts or whatever have you. Those become vital, and I 
do miss those. I 
think the site visits become a 
foundation for my fieldwork 
research, affirming and amplifying what those communities are doing, really 
a 
good way of doing the marketing and promotion of the agency's mission, 
and that is art for all Oklahomans. That is one—we are really working hard 
in creating a 
folk and traditional art with the idea of being sustainable. How 
do we create a 
sustainable folk and traditional art program? That can only 
happen with direct conversation with the cultural workers. Maybe when I 
say cultural workers, maybe I 
should define it, traditional artist, folk artist, 
whatever have you artists. That's another complicated thing to define. How 
do communities do art? Maybe that's the best way to ask that question. Then 
creating that is one thing that we're working on that I'm really excited 
about. 
Little Thunder 
Well, I'm kind cf excited to see any photographs that come out (f your visits, 
too. Is there anything else you'd like to talk about that we've overlooked? 
13 
[00:41:58] 
Gulilat 
Little Thunder 
I 
don't think so. I 
mean, this type of conversation and, to me, in itself what 
you're doing is this idea of creating the art. I 
think this is an area that is not 
being perhaps, forgive my ignorance, in that sense, that lack of 
documentation. I 
think that is the biggest issues that I 
see. This is not an 
artwork that you collect and have it and sell at auction. I 
feel like this type of 
activity is part of the preservation that I'm looking forward in folk and 
traditional art. How do you do that? What are the mechanisms that are 
available for us to do so? I 
think this is that art. 
Well, I 
think one thing that came through really strongly is that whether we 
use the word "art" or not, it's the making cf these relationships between 
these creative expressions and people. 
Gulilat 
Beautifully said. Thank you for saying that. 
Little Thunder 
Well, you gave me that idea. All right, well, thank you very much, Eyakem. I 
enjoyed talking with you, and I 
wish you the best cf luck. 
Gulilat 
Oh, thank you so much, and thank you for doing this, yeah, absolutely. I 
look forward to many more conversations, though. 
Little Thunder 
Me, too. All right, bye for now. 
End tf interview 
14