Transcription: Diana Moreno (English) 
 
 
1 
CT: Okay, let's start it. 
CT: Today is March 29th, 2022. This is an interview for the custodians and janitors in 
Colorado Oral History Project, funded by an Archie Green Fellowship from the Library of 
Congress. As part of the project, we are interviewing people employed in the janitorial field 
to record their stories, document their skills and knowledge and better understand their 
important role in our communities. The recording and transcript will become a permanent 
part of the collection at the Library of Congress. Would you like to read this so you can--? 
CT: My name is Cynthia Torres and I'm joined by our interpreter, Rosabel Rice. Today I am 
speaking with-- 
DM: Diana Moreno. 
CT: We are recording in Colorado, the time is approximately 9:30 AM. For the record, do you 
give us permission to record your story? 
DM: Yes. 
CT: Could you tell us the year you were born and your current job title? 
DM: I was born in 1976. 
DM: And I'm a custodian. 
CT: Great. How long have you been working as a custodian? 
DM: Six years. 
CT: Is this the only place that you've been custodian? 
DM: Yes, it's my first job as a custodian. 
CT: We will start with a little bit about you. Tell me a little bit about your early life and 
family, where were you born and how did you end up in Colorado. 
DM: I've spent my childhood and my teenage years in Mexico. Then when I came to this 
country I got married, I had children. The way I came to having this job is an agency 
recommended me to work over here. 
CT: Was is it a workplace agency? 
DM: Yes. 
CT: How did you become a custodian? Did you have job options that you would choose 
from? 
Transcription: Diana Moreno (English) 
 
 
2 
DM: There's a lot of options but this one was good, because there's a lot of opportunities 
since it would be working for the state, so I decided to work here. 
CT: Like the benefits? 
5:01 
DM: Yes. 
CT: Very nice. Could you tell me about what it was like, when you first started working as a 
custodian? Were you surprised? Did it meet your expectations? What was it like early on? 
DM: I really liked this, it was like a whole different world, completely different world, it was 
so large, and the big buildings, it was like a little city. I really enjoyed keeping the place clean 
for the students, it's for my pleasure. 
CT: Tell us a little bit about the buildings that you've been in here at the university. What are 
they've been like? Are they dorms, or are they just classrooms, or are they like this one of 
research? Can you talk about the different kinds of buildings and how they differ? 
DM: Yes, I began at engineering and there was many classrooms, there's a great deal of 
offices as well as hallways and doors, because we clean everything. 
CT: Could you talk about one of the most challenging or memorable days, or times, or 
experiences that you had as a custodian? One thing that really sticks out in your mind about 
your experience. 
DM: What's really challenging and was really hard for me is the fact that you have to get up 
so early, I have to get up at 3:00 AM and that's really hard for me. 
CT: How far do you have to drive to come to work, and how does that shift affect you and 
your family? 
9:11 
DM: It's 40 minutes to drive and it really affects my mood, because now I have to really 
calculate every single bit of housework. I have to calculate and see exactly how long it will 
take, so I can manage to sleep enough during the night. 
CT: Did your spouse have a similar--? How do you manage the work with your kids and 
getting them to school? 
DM: It's been a hard process, because we all have to work together, because I have a very 
little girl and then I have to get my high school son being the one to take her to the 
babysitter for the hour before the bus comes to take her to school. It requires everybody 
cooperating. 
Transcription: Diana Moreno (English) 
 
 
3 
10:40 
CT: Let's move into COVID. What was it like when COVID started? How did you feel when 
you heard about the pandemic and then when everybody started leaving the university but 
you were here as an essential worker? How did that make you feel? 
DM: It was a little sad and it was a little strange. It felt a bit alone because the people that 
you are used to having around weren't there and it was strange. You miss the students and 
everything, but we just continue going ahead and doing the cleaning that was asked of us. 
CT: Were you concerned for your health and your family's health because of the pandemic, 
not knowing how--? We just all didn't know how it spreads, really. 
DM: Yes, the beginning was really hard. My really young daughter was just in kindergarten, 
and I really felt like I needed to be there, but fortunately everything just adjusted and we 
were able to get through this. 
CT: Did the equipment that you use or how you clean change? 
DM: Yes, we had to use more protective equipment, we had to use mask, gloves, we had to 
be disinfecting everything like handholds, railings and bathrooms. 
CT: You had the equipment and everything that you need, the protective equipment that 
you need to feel safe? 
DM: Yes. 
14:06 
CT: You have a small crew here in the building, coworkers that you work with? 
DM: Yes, that's correct. 
CT: Do you interact much with the students and the faculty? What is your relationship with 
the people around you at work? 
DM: No, I don't interact very much with them, I'm just there to do my work, and to be 
pleasant, and if they smile at me, I try to smile at them. 
CT: Very nice. What do you like to do when your not at work? 
DM: I like spending time with my kids, or like going to the movies, or like riding my bike, 
walking, doing exercise, going on outings. 
CT: Do you feel like your job as a custodian provides you with the resources that you need 
to have the kind of life that you've hope for yourself? 
Transcription: Diana Moreno (English) 
 
 
4 
DM: Not necessarily, because as a custodian I really wish-- I don't completely get these 
needs met, because the money that we're charged for benefits-- It seems like they keep 
taking out more money for benefits, and I would really prefer to have more money available 
to us, and if they could increase those benefits without taking so much money out. 
CT: That's a good point. 
CT: Do you have the benefits, healthcare and those kinds of things that your family needs? 
DM: Yes. 
CT: Thinking about some of those challenges that you've had to face over the years, coming 
to a different country, making a life here, trying to work with the resources that you have 
from work, can you talk about some of the biggest challenges that you've had to overcome 
in your life? Those challenges that have really made you the person that you are today. 
DM: I would say I didn't study as much as I would have wanted to. Also, of course, I still 
struggle a bit with English. I feel that the challenges I faced have a lot to do with not having 
had that much studies. 
19:02 
CT: Do you want to go to--? If you could come back for your studies and everything, what 
would you've hoped for yourself? 
DM: I would have liked to be a teacher, a psychologist. 
CT: What are your hopes for working here? I know earlier, before we started the interview, 
you've said that you had about 20 more years to retire. Do you plan on staying here that 
time? 
DM: Y-- No. I can't remember, I'm sorry. What did you say at the beginning? 
CT: Before we started the interview, we were talking about retirement. You said you had a 
long way to go. Do you plan on staying here or what are your hopes, your career hopes until 
you retire? 
DM: I don't know, I don't like to continue with this sort of job and everything, the schedule 
is way too tasking, it's very tasking. I'm often just so tired. Instead of the eight hours I need 
to get enough sleep every night, I'm only getting five hours. I'm not sure if I could last much 
longer in this. 
CT: Given the challenges, what you've gone through in the life and the family that you've 
created with the resources that you've had available, what are you most proud of, that 
you've been able to create in your life here? 
22:29 
Transcription: Diana Moreno (English) 
 
 
5 
DM: What I really like with this work is that it's giving me independence. As a custodian, 
with the benefits, the days off, the vacations. These are all things that make me to feel that I 
have been able to become independent. 
CT: What advice would you give someone starting out as a custodian, or starting out in life 
with perhaps similar life experiences that you've experienced? 
DM: I would say, if you don't have any other option or this is the option you're choosing, 
that really work hard at it, and you need to take into consideration it's cleaning, and many 
people kind of turn their nose down at cleaning, but if you are going to do it, put your best 
foot forward. 
CT: Very nice, thank you. 
CT: I think that's all the questions that we have right now. One of the purposes of this 
project, is because when I was a custodian I met a lot of people like yourself, who nobody 
know about, but have done just extraordinary things and have had just a tremendous 
amount of courage to be in a place that wasn't your native language, or where you didn't 
grow up. I wanted to thank you just for everything that you do. 
DM: Yes, that's true. 
CT: Knowing yourself and your experiences, getting to know the folks that you work with, 
alongside you, these custodians- 
CT: -Is there anything that you would like folks to know about you and about your 
coworkers that you think is worth knowing? Because you're working off hours, perhaps 
there are language barriers that keep people from knowing custodians. Is there something 
you would like for people to know? 
DM: Yes, I've had the chance and the pleasure of talking this with some of my coworkers 
who retired. That's really nice to talk with them, they have so many anecdotes, so many 
things to say. Some of them worked between 30 and 35 years and everything, and they left 
their life here at this university as a custodian. I find it really sad, you've left your whole life 
experience at the university. 
CT: Thank you. Early on I interviewed just one-- I'll go ahead and wait on that. Is there 
anything else that you would like to say for people who might be listening to this interview 
many years from now, just about you or custodians in general? 
29:03 
DM: Yes. I think to clean you need to have love, you need to know how to clean, you need 
to know how to do the little details, and put your effort into this. Not everyone is cut out to 
be a cleaner. 
CT: What kind of characteristics do you think it takes to be a custodian? 
Transcription: Diana Moreno (English) 
 
 
6 
DM: They have to really love cleaning. 
(laugh) 
CT: Good, okay. Thank you so much. 
CT: That's all the questions I have right now. Thank you so much. 
CT: Thank you Rosabel. 
RR: Thank you guys. Gracias por la entrevista. 
DM: A usted.