Transcription: Maira de la Cruz 
1 
[Off-topic Conversation] 
08:55 
CT: My name is Cynthia Torres and I am a Library of Congress, Archie Green Fellow. And this 
project is for the Occupational Folklife Project interviewing custodians, janitors, housekeepers 
and cleaners in Colorado. Um, did I say October 6th, 2021. We're here with, 
MC: Maira de la Cruz, 
CT: And Lynn, Kathleen (LK), and Jennifer Flury (JF). Okay, wonderful. So we have 13 or 14 
questions and again, feel free to ask for a timeout if you need it. Hopefully we can put you at 
ease and you can feel more comfortable sharing your story. Um, so we'll go ahead and start off 
with: tell me a little bit about yourself and how you came to live in Colorado? 
MC: Let's see. I'm [the] mother of five children, from the ages of 23 to two down to two. So it's 
a really exciting time right now in my life with little kids and the older ones. I came to Colorado 
maybe six years ago and that was mostly because I wanted to change for my kids. I wanted a 
better future for them. I'm originally from Los Angeles, California, uh, south central area. So it's 
not the greatest area to raise children. So let's see. I just didn't want them to be involved in the 
gangs and all the negative things that they would be exposed to in Los Angeles. So I have a 
sister-in-law that lives here and she went over to visit one day. Um, and I took her word about it 
being a beautiful place and, you know, more possibilities of finding a job. So that's kind of how I 
came to Colorado. 
CT: Wonderful. Thank you. When did you start your job at the hospital as an environmental 
services supervisor and how did you, how did that come about and how long have you been in 
your current role? 
12:30 
MC: So on Monday marked four years of me being at the hospital. And I was at a time where 
let's see, I was just overworking myself. I had my own business cleaning houses and cleaning 
floors in certain stores that I had contracts in. And I ended up having my son, who's now five 
years old and wanted something more stable where I didn't have to have the crazy hours I had 
before. Crazy to where it was like some nights I wouldn't come home to sleep, I'd sleep in the 
empty houses that I had to clean the next day, just to save on travel time and gas and just time 
all around. Right. So I would sleep in those houses after having like long days. My days usually 
started like around four in the morning, I'd have to start off cleaning the floors. 
MC: Um, so stripping, waxing and all that kind of stuff. And from there, I would do move-out 
cleans or, you know, just regular residential, biweekly, or weekly cleans monthly, whatever it 
was. And then I do the move out towards the end of the day and that those are the empty 
houses that I would sleep in after I cleaned them, obviously <laugh>. Um, so it was a crazy time. 
My kids were teenagers back then. So I was leaving them home a lot. You know, they were 16 
Transcription: Maira de la Cruz 
2 
and I think my youngest one was my oldest one was 17, 18 somewhere around there. And my 
youngest one was 14, so my oldest would take care of the kids. And then, you know, it was just 
a, a crazy time, just trying to make more money, trying to survive, um, is kind of why I did that. 
MC: So, my daughter ended up getting a position at the hospital and, you know, I wanted to 
take a break from all the things that I was doing. So I kind of let go of some of the accounts that 
I had slowly and just wanted to take some time to raise my youngest son that I just had. I ended 
up getting the job at the hospital, not because I applied, but because my daughter applied for 
me, <laugh>. She got her job and then she was just learning to drive and that was gonna be her 
first time ever driving in the snow. So it was during the winter months and I said, well, if I get 
the job, it's okay, I'll drive to work. We can drive together. And you don't have to drive out in 
the snow since you're not experienced and that's fine. 
16:08 
MC: So when she applied for me, she <laugh>, she just filled out the application. I was just like, 
eh, whatever. I didn't think I was gonna get it. I wasn't really interested in a hospital job. But 
you know, I went to the interview and I got the position <laugh> and, that's kind of how I got to 
the hospital. 
CT: Wonderful. Thank you. How has your job changed over time? 
MC: Well, I started off as an EVS [Environmental Services Staff]. And then six months later, I 
became the lead for the evening shift in that department. And then six months after that 
became the supervisor. 
MC: So, I mean, it's been starting from the bottom and I'm just trying to get higher up. I like the 
management part of it. I do also clean at times with staff, especially now that we're really short 
staffed, which I guess happens everywhere. Right. But it just feels like it's just in our world 
<laugh>. But has gone from just being there to sanitize disinfect, to helping run the 
department. And it's let me see from an EVS aid, I would just do my eight hours and being 
supervisor it's longer hours. And just personally, I'm like really dedicated to my work. So, 
instead of leaving at my scheduled time, I'll say two, three hours overtime, and the just 
situation at home, where I have to wake up early for my younger kids, take them to school. So I 
don't get as much rest as I should. So it is really much more stressful right now for me, being a 
supervisor than it is when I was an aide. 
CT: Would you tell me a little bit about when you first started your housekeeping role, so your 
first days of work and, and what were they like? 
MC: So my very first day - first experience in housekeeping was, in a home where I had to take 
care of the house and take care of the client's mother, which was elderly. And <laugh>, that 
was a very, um, scary day for me. <laugh>, just because of having to be responsible for 
someone, right. Someone that couldn't eat on their own, you have to give medication to bathe 
and clean up after carry the restroom. So it was just a lot to handle with no experience in 
Transcription: Maira de la Cruz 
3 
housekeeping or even just, you know, caring for an older person. And that was when I was 
about 16 years old and I started really young in housekeeping and it was a form of me trying to 
survive because I was a teenage mother and had to make money somehow. Right. So that's 
what came up for me. And I was actually referred by one of my aunts. 
20:05 
CT: Did you live with that family or were you just there during the day? 
MC: With that family? Um, I was just there during the day. So, the lady was a nurse at a hospital 
and he would go to work. She would leave at six in the morning, but she wanted me there at 
five. Just in case, you know, we had to take care of anything before she went to work. So I'd 
start off at five in the morning and then she wouldn't come back home till about seven o'clock. 
So it was really long days for me. Um, I'm sorry, what was the question again? 
CT: Tell me about when you first started your, you know, your first day support. 
MC: So that was my experience with housekeeping and then housekeeping here at the hospital 
was very different from that very first initial housekeeping experience. I mean, there was a lot 
of people in the department back then. This was the first time that I'd ever worked with a lot of 
women, a lot of Hispanics also. So it was very interesting, very interesting. Everyone kind of just 
kept busy, did their thing, but, you know, there's always things you hear that people talk about. 
I felt like while they were trying to train me, I thought some of the things I could teach them 
that they were doing in my mind, improperly such as like leaving towels over toilets or, certain 
areas, I wouldn't leave a towel over a toilet because when you flush things go up, right. So, I 
kind of gave my input on some of those things that I was taught and what I learned during the 
way. So it was kind of interesting picking up on how things work in a hospital, as opposed to 
what you learn, cleaning homes and just the knowledge that you gain as time goes by 
CT: That's wonderful. It brings us to our next question. How did you learn how to do what you 
do? 
MC: Just experience, experience, and just some picky clients [laugh] I had some picky clients 
where, you know, they'd actually wear white gloves and just go behind me and make sure that 
everything was just free and properly cleaned. And, you know, some of them wanted things 
done a certain way. I kind of compared things as I learned them and figure out what just 
worked best and looked best after disinfecting and then preparing a rumor, fixing it up to look 
nice. So yeah, I guess it's, it was just my experiences. 
CT: Wonderful. Describe your work environment, your current work environment. What is it 
like working there? Being the supervisor. 
MC: I have to be there early on time. Right. So, I try my best to be there as early as I can. 
Sometimes I have to come in hour or so earlier just for meetings or anything like that. Then just 
depending on how staffed I am for that day depends on what I'm going to be doing. It could be 
Transcription: Maira de la Cruz 
4 
where I'm just focusing on doing what are my responsibilities in my role or it could be where 
I'm so short staffed and I'm doing an aid’s role and my role at the same time. So just could be a 
lot of inspections and paperwork and emails and meetings and interviews, or it can include 
cleaning rooms and cleaning public areas, surgery rooms, whatever I need to cover. 
24:58 
CT: How does it feel like at the end of the day, like, as far as your working environment? How 
does it feel? 
MC: Currently? It's a very stressful situation. Um, but I've also been on the other end where we 
have had more staff and, you know, things run smoother, better, and I can focus on doing what 
are my responsibilities, my role as a supervisor. And I think we're all kind of stressed right now, 
just with the situation going on. 
CT: How are you treated by other workers? 
MC: You know, that can range [laugh] from very well - cuz you have some people that just 
understand you so much are so considerate. Even people that haven't done your role, but then 
there's times where you encounter some very nasty attitudes. And people that just treat you as 
if you're so much beneath them, just because of the work that we do. Sometimes I think to 
myself, when someone commented a while back, that my job was dirty and they would never 
do that because I'm sticking my hands in the toilet, the bowls every day. But I felt to myself, 
well, at least I'm not sticking my hands up into someone's behind every day. Right. Which is 
dirtier to me or nastier, but, that's kind of, you know, I find positive ways to think, to help me 
get through those tough times. 
CT: What are those work experiences similar in other housekeeping roles that you've had? 
MC: Um, not as much, not the negative stuff. It’s been a little tougher, I guess, from the hospital 
side. I'm not trying to say that they're like mean or anything like that, but just once in a while 
you do get those really nasty comments, that when you're just dedicated to cleaning houses or 
empty houses, you're not dealing with as many clients or the ones that you are, you know, 
really need the help and know that you're there to do a job and don't really comment or 
interact much unless they really need something. 
CT: Okay. That's good. That's good. Tell me about your coworkers, your relationship with your 
coworkers and your staff. 
MC: I try to treat everyone equally. You have people with good attitudes, bad attitudes, good 
days, bad days. Right. Um, I see them as my second family because I'm just there so much more 
time than I am in my actual home. Um, but the hospital is like home to me. It's, you know, it's 
just grown on me. Those people have taken a bit of my heart mm-hmm <affirmative> um, and 
I've grown to have some really good relationships with some of them, you know, other people 
it's just like, they're there. Um, and you learn to, um, deal with them, I guess. <laugh>, you 
Transcription: Maira de la Cruz 
5 
know, that's just because maybe that you don't have the greatest attitudes or aren't always 
thinking about others, but you, you learn to work with different personalities. 
29:03 
CT: Great. Thank you. Would you walk me through a typical day before and after COVID 
MC: Wow. COVID, <laugh> COVID has done a lot. So the hospital did feel to me busier pre 
COVID, because anyone could just walk in. Right. And you had family members visiting and just 
people sometimes just swung in the hospital. [laugh] So it was, there was constantly someone 
in the hallways. Now with all the screening, limited, visitations and all that. It's not as busy, like 
in the hallways. I feel like, and I've heard some people are a little bit scared of coming into a 
hospital because of COVID, but I feel it's actually even safer than if you just went to the grocery 
store out because we are provided, you know, the PPE that we need to, uh, keep ourselves 
safe, um, than if you just go to a grocery store, you know, maybe someone's not wearing their 
mask or has an actual cold, or maybe even COVID and is just coughing on everything. Right. So 
you're not sure that anything is being sanitized. Right. They're touching all the products that 
you might go behind them and pick up and take home. So it, it's just very different now than 
when we did in COVID. 
CT: Like, as far as being a supervisor, did that change at all? Did you have to address any 
additional concerns that might have come 
30:54 
MC: Uh, yes. Our staff themselves were very nervous and scared about what was going on 
when it all started. So it was just helping calm those fears and reassuring that you're gonna be 
okay. And just, you know they do such a great job sanitizing the hospital and they're provided 
all the PPE necessary to keep themselves safe. Right. And it's just reassuring them that you're 
gonna be okay. You know what your job is, just continue doing it. You're doing it the proper 
way, so you'll be safe. 
CT: Nice. What special knowledge or skills are required for your job and has it changed after 
COVID? 
MC: I don't think it's changed. Um, even if you have no previous experience in housekeeping, 
that is something that you can always be taught to do. What we do like to see is some sort of 
customer service experience, you know, just so that you can be able to talk to patients. You 
know, we, we like to treat them as if they're members of our own family and, you know, they 
might be staying in our house and they're ill, right. How would we want to treat our family 
member staying in our home? Right. So just being courteous, um, attending to what they need, 
making them feel safe and comfortable, and, um, that they're in an environment where it's 
healthy for them. 
Transcription: Maira de la Cruz 
6 
CT: That's, that's very comforting. Thank you. How was working in a hospital during COVID 
impacted you personally, or like in your family? Any concerns at all? 
33:02 
MC: For me, COVID has been something really tough to deal with. [laugh] even though I try not 
to show that, um, I did, get COVID when it initially started and actually my entire family got it. 
[cross-talk) Yeah. You know, it was a very tough time. We all got very ill, the ones that got it, the 
worst were myself and my husband. And at that time, my four month old baby, and it was just 
the saddest thing to see that you were unable to get up, provide the meals and, you know, do 
the regular things that a mother should be able to do, cooking, cleaning, watching after them, 
you know. But when they're laying in their crib right next to your bed, and you're both just 
looking at each other without the energy to do anything and just going through, you know, the 
asthma attacks, cause I'm already asthmatic and I've got other conditions that just made my 
experience with COVID really bad to where I felt like I was going to die. 
34:27 
MC: And that was gonna be my last day. Um, I was visiting the [?] so many times, but because it 
was at the beginning of COVID, they really didn't know what to do. And was just being sent 
home. Because if I hadn't passed out from not being able to breathe, then they wouldn't do 
anything for me. So it was just a very difficult, difficult time. And I was so very much against the 
vaccine just because it was something new and, you know, it was kind of what I thought in my 
mind created in a rush, to kind of try to deal with COVID. So I wasn't planning to take the 
vaccine and then, you know, time kept going on and you just hear about a lot of people getting 
sick and then it comes into where other family members get ill and they pass away. And it's not 
one it's, you know, 5, 6, 7 of 'em and it just continues. 
35:52 
MC: And the closest one that got to me was my brother-in-law sorry, my sister had been with 
her husband for, I don't know, something like 10 years and all of a sudden, you know, from one 
day to another, it's like, he's now gone. After he got the Delta variant and that situation is what 
made me decide, I need to stop being selfish. I need to protect my own family and other people 
in my community by taking this vaccine, because that will be maybe, you know, if it doesn't 
completely avoid me getting COVID again, at least it'll help minimize the risk. Right. So that is 
the situation that made me decide, I am now going to take that vaccine. And I've just been so 
on the vaccine side now <laugh>, ever since that situation, because I just felt like if I get COVID 
again and the experience that I had was just really tough, you know, I, I don't wanna go through 
that again. I don't wanna deal with that again. So I'm all for the vaccine now. 
37:17 
CT: Does the hospital require it now as well? Or is it, it is a mandatory thing now? 
Transcription: Maira de la Cruz 
7 
MC: It is. So we do have a deadline to be compliant. 
CT: What is the most meaningful about your job? Like what brings the most, most satisfaction? 
MC: When you get the comments from patients, feedback, um, good or bad. If it's a negative 
one, you know, just learning from that experience and how you can make it better for the next 
patient coming. And when you get those experiences that patients have had where they're just 
like, wow, you know, this was a great place to be. I really enjoy those as well. Because it just 
lets us know that the work that we do is appreciated, you know? 
38:24 
CT: What advice would you give someone starting in your field? 
MC: Have some patience, I guess <laugh>, <laugh> learn to have some patience. You will 
definitely be exposed to a lot of things. Um, Have an open mind. 
CT: Very nice. Thank you. Um, and the, and the last question, someone listening, who doesn't 
know you, how would you describe yourself as a person and what kinds of things have 
influenced you? You seem like a very caring person and the role you're taking and what you're 
describing really, is about caring for others and listening and being patient. 
39:19 
MC: Um, I think it's done a lot for me. I've worked in other fields where, you know, care was 
important, but this just feels Like much more above that for me, right. So, I like to think of 
myself as a very caring person. And I like to make people feel comfortable and I like to make 
people feel - you know, like, like we're there to help them out and help them get better. I don't 
know exactly how I can explain how this has made me change or grow as a person, but, I know 
that in me it has. 
40:16 
CT: How has growing up, you know, shaped that, that part of you that does that? 
MC: I don't know, just the experiences, I guess, that I've had - have done so much in me and 
just caught me a certain way, and have helped me evolve to what I am now and how I am now. 
CT: Very nice. Well, thank you very much. That's, that's all the questions we have right now. 
Um, do you have anything else you wanna add or just about you as a person and, you know, to 
help the, the audience get to know you? 
41:07 
MC: That's a tough question. I guess <laugh>, <laugh>, you know, I don't really, I'm not a person 
to talk much about myself, so this is a really neat experience. So thank you all very much. 
Transcription: Maira de la Cruz 
8 
41:23 
MC: You know, if my family ever listens to this or whatever, I just like, I guess, for them to know 
that I am a very caring person, a hard worker dedicated others. I really don't know how to Talk 
much about myself, how to put myself out there, you know? 
  
42:06 
CT: If there's anything else you wanna add about your experiences working in a hospital or in 
housekeeping and other avenues, this is the opportunity. 
42:14 
MC: You know, working in the hospital has been great. I have had those negative experiences 
that I mentioned, but overall the majority of them have been great. And it's been because of 
coworkers and other staff in the hospital, certain doctors, you know, that come up to you and 
just give you just great feedback. It just makes you feel like you being there is really helpful and 
appreciated. It's a different experience. I think it's something that people won't understand 
until they're in our shoes or actually have to do something related to what we do. 
43:10 
CT: And do you think, just as a follow up question, your willingness to kind of chip in if you're 
understaffed or do the work and, and you know how to do the work, cuz you had done it 
before, do you think that helps your relationships with your coworkers and also the people you 
supervise to like respect you because you're willing to do that? 
43:31 
MC: Um, I think it does. I hope it does. Yeah. <laugh> you know, I'm not one to just sit back and 
watch you, you know, drag your tongue on the pavement. <laugh> I'm going to jump in if it's 
needed. All my other responsibilities that are not patient related can hold on. They can wait. 
That patient comes first. My staff members come first, so if they need me I'm there. 
42:02 
CT: Wonderful. Well, thank you very much. That concludes this interview and if anybody has 
anything else? Nope. All right. Thank you so much for, for taking the time to do this and for 
being a part of this project. So I really appreciate it.