Fieldnotes 
 
Project: AFC Archie Green Fellowship Project/VFC2014-0005 
Accession Number: 2015-1005 
Interviewee: Beth Whiting and Bruce Hennessey 
Interviewer: Andy Kolovos 
Interview Date: March 16, 2015 
Interview Location: Maple Wind Farm, Huntington, VT 
 
The Maple Wind Farm interview was the second in a series tracing the network of 
growers and producers who supply Fletcher Allen Hospital/University of Vermont 
Medical Center.  
 
This was one damn cold day, let me tell you. I arrived on the hill top farm more or 
less on time--after recovering from missing a turn off--and found my way to the 
house. The cold and wind were just wicked.  Beth greeted me at the door and we 
chatted a bit to try and figure out where best to set up. I had come prepared to 
interview her and her husband, Bruce, but it became unclear if Bruce was going to 
be involved at all.  Based on our earlier conversations I had timed things so I could 
arrive after they had breakfast, but they were running late. Rather than set up in the 
kitchen we decided I should set up in the living room off the kitchen, and that we 
would wait to start until they completed breakfast.  I went and sat in the living room 
for a bit. Beth eventually came in and sat down on the couch. Since I was still unclear 
if I would be interviewing both Beth and Bruce or just Beth I set up one mic. After 
we talked for a while Bruce came in as well and I realized that he was to be part of 
the interview too.  In the interest of keeping things moving (they were tight on 
time), I opted to swap out the hypercardioid capsule for an omni capsule and 
conduct the interview with both of them on a single mic. Sound was indeed 
compromised as a result—and the room was certainly noisy too. As a result when I 
processed the files I ran it through a hi-pass filter to take out some of the low 
rumble from the heating system. I have retained both files. 
 
I wanted to speak to them specifically about their poultry operation, but also 
wanted to gain an understanding of their large and varied business in general.  
Highlights of the interview for me were their efforts to develop an economically 
viable model for their operation, the poultry processing plant they built in 
Richmond, VT and the ways in which they’ve benefited from state programs and 
from land conservation efforts. A lot of good stuff in there, and I feel they are an 
interesting candidate for a site visit to at least one of their production areas. They 
are raising chickens on a parcel of conserved land along I-89 in Bolton via a long 
term lease and they’ve got an interesting-sounding system for rotating the birds to 
new pasture periodically.  Also be interesting to do some documentation at the 
processing plant if they would let us. Be good to get the story of what it was like to 
get a USDA poultry plant up and running and how they whole place functions.  
Probably don’t want to be there on a day they're processing though…