Jeff Maas: Interview Index 
00:00:02 
April 20, 2014, Mark Wagler talking to Jeff Maas at University of Wisconsin-Superior 
campus.  
Jeff was a Madison, Wisconsin teacher, now living in Duluth. Born in Davenport, Iowa in 1952. 
Started as a math major at Iowa State University in 1970, then switched to English and Philosophy in 
Junior year; graduated from Iowa State as an English major in 1974. Wanted to be an English 
teacher, but student teaching didn’t work out. What do unemployed English majors do but work on 
road crews, carpentry, and bartending. Jeff went back to school at University of Minnesota-Duluth in 
1978, where he got his elementary ed degree in 1980 and began teaching that year. Ended up at a 
graduate school in Vermont in 1982, Middlebury College, the Bread Loaf School of English, 
graduated 1989. At the same time he was in the Ph.D. program at University of Wisconsin-Madison 
for two years.  
In 1990 he began teaching in the Madison school district, and was there until 2009. In Madison, he 
mainly taught combination grade levels. Taught in an open classroom program for 10 years at 
Lincoln Elementary, taught 4th and 5th grade. Taught 2nd grade at Falk Elementary a few years, then 
finished his career at Sandburg Elementary as a combination 2-3 teacher, for 6 years. Was also a 1st 
grade teacher at West Salem, outside Lacrosse, Wisconsin from 1980-1987. Jeff and his wife moved 
to Madison in 1987. 
00:03:15  
Several things motivated Jeff to become a teacher. There were a lot of ministers in his 
family and for a long time it was assumed Jeff would become a minister, until he had his religious 
falling out in junior high. He was always good with kids, and in high school he organized activities for 
little kids in the neighborhood. His dad always told him to focus—he was into a lot of stuff, from 
sports, to reading, to art and couldn’t focus. He found being a math major too narrow; being an 
English major was too narrow too.  
In the late 1970s he found elementary education and it was perfect because it was all disciplines, 
which is what he was interested in. So he was influenced by his own curiosity and the fun he had 
working with kids. But also, he thinks that the 1960s influenced him—he was 10 in 1962, and grew 
up in the middle of those important political happenings. The 1960s was about imagining ways of 
being outside of the mainstream. 
For a male, to be an elementary school teacher in the 1960s, to work with kids, to do things that 
actually made a difference that were not hooked into the military-industrial complex—that is part of 
who Jeff is as well. Maybe it was a perfect storm of personal tendencies, cultural relevance and a 
wide open country where you could be the things that you wanted to be. 
00:05:55  
Can Jeff describe a typical day of teaching? If you go back over 30 years of teaching, 
when Jeff was a 1st grade teacher learning his trade, he looked at what teachers were doing around 
him and figured out what he was supposed to do. In those early days, he was a more normal, 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
1
mainstream teacher because he was learning the craft. But he always wanted his room to be a 
place. “The teachers I have admired in my career—agree with the pedagogy or disagree with the 
pedagogy—their rooms were always a place to be. You knew you were somewhere. That’s what I 
wanted my room to be.”  
When he moved to Lincoln and was in the Open Classroom, the room was open, like a giant den. It 
was a library, it was a living room, it was a place to live, and academics and studying were part of 
living. So, Jeff would get there an hour or one and a half hours before the kids showed up, preparing 
the environment, doing the busywork he needed to get done so that he could run a classroom, but 
also getting it done so that he could focus on the kids, and not have to correct papers when the kids 
were there. He didn’t have to do the “administrivia” things when the kids were there. When the kids 
were there, his total focus was on the kids. 
00:08:08  
Jeff got in “trouble” for having his room open earlier than the school was open, and 
kids would come to school and come down to the room, hang out, eat breakfast—that was hard for 
schools to handle because they didn’t trust the kids coming in early. But that was the atmosphere 
Jeff wanted in his room: a place to be. So kids would come in early, a lot of the time they would stay 
in from recess. Jeff would eat lunch in the room because he had work to do, but also because kids 
would be in the room—they would finish lunch and then come back to the room. And sometimes at 
the end of the day they would linger, and that was a sign to Jeff that they had created a space that 
was important. A whole lot of learning went on, but it was a place for kids to live and be kids and be 
safe.  
That’s a typical day. There are many manifestations of that day, depending on what they were 
working on, but that was the general tenor of the day. As a 1st grade teacher, Jeff was just playing 
with that notion. It was starting to emerge, but Jeff wasn’t ready. 30 years later, that is totally what 
Jeff’s room was, and when he retired and was leaving, had 3rd graders sitting on his lap and hugging 
him, and kids and parents crying, it was a sign to him that the feeling he was trying to create must 
have worked. 
00:10:05  
[scraping noise in background]. Jeff always divided his classroom into two pieces: the 
schooling and the education. There was a whole lot of stuff he had to get done because he was a 
teacher in a school, the business of the school. He could put curriculum in there, standards, report 
cards, penmanship—that was always part of what they did. But then he had the educational area. 
There are some veteran teachers who say, “it will be pretty crazy for 4 or 5 years, but just hang on, 
you’ll figure it out, and then you coast for another twenty years and it’s easy.” After 3-4 years of this 
high intensity of trying to figure things out, Jeff remembers walking into his 1st grade classroom 
thinking, “I don’t have to do anything; I have my room.”  But he also realized he liked that high level 
of energy, and that he had grown a lot because he had to be smarter. So that was a conscious effort 
on his part to try to push back the curriculum, and start to tinker, so that he could continue to grow 
with his classroom. He mentions that now because later in his classroom, there were always 
routines; there were always projects that they did, but he would always throw in something new 
every year, which he would call his “centerpiece” curriculums. 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
2
The centerpiece curriculum was always something that they had never done before as a class, 
something that Jeff had never done, because he wanted to keep his edge. The centerpiece 
curriculums were things like economics units, taking 4th and 5th grades out to watersheds, joining the 
Heron inquiry—any time you ask kids to do their own individual projects they are going to lead you 
in lots of different directions. 
00:13:00  
So the classroom was made up of these routine school things you have got to do, and 
then the other half of it was the wide variety of science, art, tutoring kindergarteners—things that 
were very complicated, things that required a lot of maintenance, but things that were energetic. “It 
added to the air, the atmosphere of the room, that we are in a place. This is a place we work, live, 
and we’re doing authentic legitimate work.” As well as penmanship. Were there projects that kids 
wanted to keep going from year to year? Jeff immediately thinks of the pothole project that he did 
with Dave Wirth, for 6 or 7 years. Kids went out and did watershed biology, and went out quite a bit, 
and got muddy and dirty collecting data. Because Jeff was in an open classroom, he knew kids from 
kindergarten all the way to the students in his room; he knows the uindergarteners saw his class 
leave and go out and get muddy, and they knew something cool was going on. So the pothole 
project became known as a signature project.  
Also, working for the Children’s Museum in Madison. His class did a lot of displays and work there. 
Those are like the marquee things that attract attention. Jeff thinks that the reputation he developed 
among kids in the school was: “Mr. Jeff let’s you work on things that you want to do.” He would sit 
down with his 2nd graders at the beginning of the year and ask them what projects they wanted to 
do, what they were interested in. And they would look at him as if wondering why he was asking 
them what they wanted when he was the teacher and should tell them what to do. Then when he 
had the students again the next year as 3rd graders and asked at the beginning of the year what they 
wanted to do, they would rattle off dozens of things they wanted to do. That was the motivator as 
well—there were the marquee, pothole, museum, economic units; outdoor classrooms—but Jeff 
thinks the main driver was “Mr. Jeff will help you learn what you want to learn.” 
00:16:30  
What has Jeff loved about teaching, and what would he most wish to see changed? 
Jeff wishes the notion of education would have changed. “I wish school districts could see all the 
good things that happen when you hire good professionals. We can assume they’re college- 
educated; we can assume they care for kids; we can assume they are pretty good learners 
themselves. And to not put teachers in a situation and giving them their lead—I don’t know many 
other professions that would do that.” Jeff remembers as a young teacher, and as a not-so- young 
teacher, he was really hoping that the district would change, that public education would change. It 
hasn’t. It has gone the other way. It’s become more restrictive, more test-driven, but so has our 
whole culture, and schools are just embedded within our culture. The thing Jeff most loved about 
teaching was hanging with kids. Kids are great. When Jeff retired, he thought, there aren’t many 
other adult males that could say they spent 30 years hanging out with 8-year-olds. 
They are funny, alert, you help them discover the world through their eyes. They are goofy, and Jeff 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
3
is goofy because of them. It’s a pure profession. When he started teaching, he knew he was good 
with children, but he didn’t realize how good children were for him, and how much they taught him. 
He is who he is because of the kids he hung around with and the projects they wanted to do, the 
things they were curious about, from whales to bonding copper, to nails and electric water. The best 
part of teaching is being with kids, learning with them, falling down with them, setting kids on your 
lap and mending them and yelling at them to get them going. The negative side is that old monolith 
known as public education—Jeff doesn’t know what to do with that, except maybe blow it up and 
start all over, but that isn’t going to happen. 
 
 
00:20:00 Early in Jeff’s career, he spent 7 years in a really good school filled with traditional 
teachers. He learned a lot of traditional roles, routines—lining up in the hall, drinking fountains, 
penmanship. When he started to get farther afield and labeled as more alternative, in a lot of ways 
those skills made him a little more acceptable, because he knew how to move kids through a 
hallway in traditional ways. In a lot of ways, his room was very traditional; it was very organized. He 
depended more on self-discipline than he did on top-down discipline.  
 
Teachers he worked with didn’t understand what was going on in his room, but they did understand 
the traditional things that were going on and understood that he was a teacher. “You reach out as 
much as you can. I don’t remember forcing my projects onto anybody. I remember inviting a lot of 
people, and if they took me up on the invitation, great. If they didn’t, that was okay too.” Jeff did a 
lot of things in the school, projects like Veterans Day celebrations, which always grieved him, but he 
did them and did them well, and he participated. “So I think with my traditional skills, and with my 
willingness to participate and be a valuable member, I was given a little more leeway in my 
alternative education. Plus, whatever we did—you got to know marketing, man. 
 
Whatever we did, it was always ‘the Sixers from Lincoln Elementary;’ it was always ‘Team Kids from 
Sandburg’ and all principals like positive marketing.” So the more lead the principal gave his class, 
the more success they had, and the more that put a positive light on the school. To be 
alternative isn’t enough. You have to be alternative and deliver results. 
 
00:23:00  
In the Open Classroom, they used to say, if we were just open education, touchy-
feely- do-whatever-you-want, we would have been easier to handle for the district. But the fact that 
they were good and scored well and got the press—that made them more of a pain for the district. 
It’s easy to dismiss alternative education if you fail. You have to be alternative AND you have to 
deliver. The principals Jeff worked with knew that they didn’t always understand how Jeff got to the 
outcomes, but they knew that the outcomes were great, the standards were met, and they scored 
well on the “Holy Test” and that was part of the trick.  
 
The beautiful thing about being a public school teacher—using the metaphor of an elevator—is that 
you can just work with your class, or you can move up one floor and collaborate with other teachers 
in the school; or you can move up another floor and collaborate across schools. Madison was a 
beautiful place to work because you could go up another floor and work with the university people, 
who were always looking for connections. There’s a floor for parents, if you are open to having 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
4
parents in your room, which can be problematic because there is a lot to work through. Jeff took 
advantage of all those different floors. There were times when no one in the school would touch a 
certain project, and Jeff would get parents involved. There was a time when the Heron Network was 
really running and there were 6 schools involved, and that felt like Jeff’s teaching group.  
 
Other times, at Lincoln, everybody in the whole school was involved in certain projects, like parades 
downtown. So a lot of collegial relationships depended on the project; sometimes Jeff felt as if he 
was working for the state when he did Department of Public Instruction stuff. That’s the beauty of 
being a teacher, if you take advantage of it. All those networks eventually cycle back into the 
classroom and into the lives of kids. It provided opportunities and made Jeff smarter, which 
increased opportunities. From the kids’ perspective, if Jeff wasn’t in class that day because he was 
at a meeting at the state capitol, that was cool. All these different networks create a culture of living 
in the classroom. 
 
00:27:30  
Jeff wanted to turn his kids on to getting smart, that learning is fun. Learning is an 
adventure. His room was a systems room, a strategic-thinking room. He wanted his kids to leave his 
room being able to read the landscape, figure out what the system required of them, figure out 
what they wanted to do, and strategically maneuver through the landscape that continued their 
learning. The main goal was to learn how to learn and never stop. Jeff used to have middle school 
students come back to see him while he was teaching at Lincoln, and he would ask how it was going. 
“Not too good.” Why? “They don’t like smart kids.” Jeff told one student, I told you they don’t like 
smart people. She had purposefully gotten worse grades so that she would fit in. She was a smart 
kid, but she stopped learning so she would fit in; Jeff understood it, but it grieved him. 
 
00:30:00  
Real world learning: in what ways was Jeff able to include kids’ out-of-school lives into 
what happened in the classroom? Anytime you sit down at the beginning of the year with the kids 
and start asking questions about “what is it you want to learn” you are starting by asking them what 
their interests are. Student Justin was a sports freak, and was good at multiplying and math because 
he knew all his 7s, from Badger touchdowns in football. When Jeff had a 3rd grader come back for the 
next year as a 4th grader, he’d ask what he’d like to keep learning from the previous year, or if he 
wanted to go a new direction. That forms the basis of who you are is important here.  
 
A good metaphor is the science fair and the vinegar volcano. For the kid doing it the first time, it is a 
new experience. For the teacher doing it for the four thousandth time, it is not a new experience. 
Not many ways to alter a volcano with vinegar, it’s boring for the teacher. But for some of the 
projects Jeff’s students took on, Jeff really didn’t have a pre-set notion of it. He didn’t know what the 
kids wanted to do—he would ask, “What do you want to do?” He had no pre-set path to get where 
he wanted. It was truly a shared invention, between teacher and student. The nature of some of the 
projects they did—truly inquiry—allowed the nature of the kids to shine through. Did the kids ever 
study a cultural place the way that they studied the environment in the Pothole project? Jeff asks, 
what is culture? The human world.  
 
There were a lot of projects that focused on cultural issues: how to fit into the world, surveys from 
favorite foods to sexual orientation. At Lincoln, there were also a whole lot of cultural events, trying 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
5
to get things from different points of view. Maybe the main cultural event in the room was the room 
itself. As they tried to create a space to live, Jeff thinks he introduced kids to elements of culture —
trust, open-endedness, speaking your mind, how to listen, how to maneuver and create something 
with other people. Even when they did the Pothole project, there were cultural overtures to that—
the importance of watershed biology in the world, the importance of wet spaces. 
 
00:35:25 Jeff wanted his kids to be successful academically, and he was paid by the district to cover 
curriculum and meet standards on the theory that that would create educated people. They talked 
about strategies for how to be successful in the school setting. Workshop approaches were good: 
how to set priorities, how to manage your time, what do you want to do at home and what can you 
get done at school, how can you be successful in a work-school environment. On the other hand, 
part of a democratic classroom and part of living in a room is allowing kids to discover their voices 
too. There were kids who were dreams: “We’re going to do this!” and they’d take off in that 
direction, and then there were kids who were the “Yeah But” kids. There were the artists, the 
mathematicians, the jocks, little budding lawyers. 
 
00:37:25  
“One of the coolest things that happened over thirty years, I had a boy named Chris in 
5th grade at Lincoln, and I was pushing the class hard, getting a lot going, and other kids in the room 
went to Chris, they complained to Chris, and they told Chris to confront me. And Chris did it. He 
came in at a recess, and he was pissed, and he yelled at me, and he said, ‘I’ve talked to people and 
you’re pushing us too hard!’ His dad called me and apologized for Chris. And I said, ‘Are you kidding? 
That’s great!’ I mean, look what happened here, they trusted Chris, he found his voice, he 
confronted a teacher. That’s beautiful! That’s a part of discovering who you are.” So, you watch kids 
figure out their personalities and how to use them to be successful as a student. You don’t like math? 
Just figure out how to get it done. You like art? Immerse yourself in it. 
 
00:38:50  
The culture of school: did it feel like a community of people who shared things? Yes. 
Jeff supervised student teachers for the university and bounced around to a lot of different schools 
and classrooms, and did the same in Duluth. Part of his value for the Children’s Museum in Duluth is 
that he knows teachers, and knows that teaching is crazy, it’s a crazy life. From the minute you get 
there, to being regulated by bells, to using the bathroom only at a required time, to the foods you 
eat, to the pacing, the noise, to spontaneous conversations that take place 30 seconds as you are 
moving through a hallway, to staff meetings, to working with parents.  
 
It’s a very unique profession. It is intense, it is active, it is crazy. When Jeff meets new teachers and 
they hear he used to teach, they know he gets it. What are the markers of identity for a teacher? 
Smartass answer: One clear sign is a sweater covered with chalkboards and apples. High school 
teachers are pretty matter-of-fact, they process kids: ‘it’s an A; it’s a B’ and they have their days all 
divided up. Elementary school teachers are mostly kid-centered. They teach not because they love 
teaching fractions but because they love hanging out with kids. There is something about the pace of 
the day; even for teachers who have a controlled classroom, the pace is still fast. “Whoever intended 
the phrase ‘multi-tasking’ had to be a teacher. Because there are all these different levels of 
activities going on.” So one marker of a teacher is the ability just to run, for 8- 9 hours a day, and just 
do a variety of things. 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
6
 
00:42:10  
“It might be easier to tell, any time you’re in an education meeting and somebody starts 
talking about stakeholders, and leveraging things for outcome, you can go, ‘Oh, that’s not a teacher.’ 
No, no, that’s a bureaucrat who is in the school business. But when you talk to a 
teacher, maybe they start telling you stories about a kid. Maybe they say something like, ‘God, 
somebody puked in my room today.’ That’s the world. That’s—photocopiers that don’t work, 
computers that break down, kids that break out in fights, kids with snot bubbles coming out of their 
noses—I mean, it’s just crazy. And so, when you start talking to people and sharing stories of the 
craziness, you go, ‘Yeah, you’re a teacher. You get it.’”  
 
Jeff is both at home in mainstream teaching and is outside of it, in alternative education. In the mid-
90s when Jeff was working on projects for the DPI and the Heron Network was running full force and 
inquiry-based across-the- curriculum, Jeff ran into some people in the arts. People in the arts are 
good to hang out with because they have been marginalized and so have developed strategies for 
coping. Jeff met a guy named Marty who was into chaos theory who turned Jeff on to a different way 
of thinking about managing a classroom. Chaos theory is now complexity theory, which pretty much 
runs Jeff’s life; it’s his worldview. In his understanding of complexity theory, there is no either-or. 
Opposites co-exist in the same universe.  
 
Jeff can be gung-ho for his school and curriculum at the same time he is totally alternative and open-
ended, and the two don’t fight each other; they work together to achieve what Jeff wants to achieve. 
Night and day, winter and summer, do not fight each other; they create a reality. When Jeff first 
started teaching, he wanted to find a camp, be a missionary, show people the way to do it. Now 
there are a whole lot of ways to do it and they can work together to accomplish what we want for the 
kids. 
 
00:45:20  
The kinds of stories colleagues tell each other: first thing Jeff thinks of is frustration 
stories, stories that went ‘I wish that,’ ‘did you hear that,’ ‘here comes another that.’ You have a 
profession that is doing things that doesn’t attract people to the profession. You have a trained 
workforce that is not allowed to do the things it loves to do. Often the school or district might 
introduce a new initiative, but nobody ever takes anything off the table. So, ‘here comes some 
more.’ The stories are about frustration, and because teachers share that community, they all get it. 
People might be frustrated by different things, but they all get frustration.  
 
The other genre of stories is kid stories: ‘did you hear about so-and-so,’ ‘let me tell you about this,’ 
‘you should have seen what little Johnny did.’ You see opposites again: the frustrations of dealing 
with principals, school boards and curriculum; but also the humor, the silliness, the craziness. They 
work together. Occasionally there are stories about academics, how to get stuff done, asking for 
advice, but those aren’t the main categories. Lot of frustration stories and fun stories. Using the 
elevator metaphor again, and thinking about Jeff’s disappointment in what didn’t happen in public 
education, the private stories he told his wife and his closest colleagues (in the Heron Network) 
were systematic, global. Stories about how the projects he is doing, and the projects the Heron 
Network are doing, are so cool and great, but policy decisions thwart them—initiatives on testing, 
etc. A lot of his private stories were about the direction of education. Jeff originally had hope that if 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
7
you work hard, you can show that alternative doesn’t necessarily have to be alternative, it can work. 
You think things will change and they don’t, that’s a source of frustration. So the private stories were 
global, political ones. 
 
00:49:45  
Jeff had a conversation a few years ago with a colleague from Sandburg Elementary 
School, about the shift in education from responsibility to accountability. When Jeff started as a 
teacher, he remembers the principal showed him the room, books piled up all over the place and he 
said ‘Here you go, so long.’ It was his responsibility to figure out what to do, and to create a room 
and curriculum. He was treated like a professional, and was responsible to do his job. Now, we have 
shifted to an accountability system. The kids need to pass tests. They need to be accountable. 
Teachers need to be accountable for test scores, number of minutes taught. Trust that professional 
goals are going to be met isn’t there anymore. It’s just a checklist, an accountability system. Are 
there some teachers who need an accountability system? We’re back to schooling and education. “In 
schooling, I can make you do the reading assignment and the follow-up worksheet and it’s 
accountability and we can say ‘you need to do that because you won’t do that on your own.’  
 
If you believe however that true learning and true education has to come from inside a person, then 
accountability and checklists, I don’t think gets to that inner responsibility. I used to tell my kids ‘I 
can make you do stuff but I can’t make you learn. You are in charge of your learning. I can keep you 
in for recess, I can give you bad grades, but you’re the learner. You’re the one who has to do it.’ So I 
think I can make people do school. I’m interested in education.” There is research that shows that 
checklists and mandates work for a certain kind of student, and doesn’t work for another kind of 
student. If the strategy in general is student- centered, ‘how can I help you’—if you generalize that, 
you are eventually going to improve all of the other stuff that you want. If you generalize the 
checklists and mandates, you’ll get some of what you want but you won’t get as powerful across the 
board. 
 
00:54:05  
What does good teaching look like? It’s performance art. On days when he was tired 
and didn’t feel like teaching, he told himself to be more Mr. Jeff, more animated, quicker in his 
delivery. That’s one format of the class, there are other formats you move through, but teaching is a 
performance art. On the other hand, he considers himself a professional human. When you work 
with kids, all of your emotions are modeling. So as a male, when Jeff is a strict male they are used to 
that. When he is a poetic, artistic male, they are not used to that all the time, so he is modeling a 
different behavior. When Jeff sees good teaching, he sees teachers who understand their emotions 
and their role, and use them in a performance-art sort of way. They know, now is the time to be 
gruff and hold your line; now is the time to go ‘hmm, what do you think?’ Those are conscious 
choices, that’s the performance part of it. The opposite is easy to see. Jeff has seen a lot of teachers 
who give assignments, then sit back and correct papers and get on the computer. There is no 
professional human in the room. Kids are working—go see what they’re working on! 
 
Go be with them! Model some stuff. Often people don’t recognize the expertise teachers have; what 
kinds of skills, knowledge, awareness is required to be a teacher? “It goes back to, I think it was 
Reagan who said something like ‘my grandmother raised a lot of kids and she never went to college.’ 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
8
[laughs] There you go, just because you’re a grandmother makes you a teacher, I guess.” Jeff has 
been involved in different networks and movements that have addressed the scholarship of 
teaching. And if you look at scholarship, it’s reading what other people have done, conducting in a 
way experiments on what you are doing, trying new ways and reflecting on that, and writing about 
them, going to conferences and talking about those ideas.  
 
So the scholarship of teaching. [person talking in background] Another aspect of scholarship is having 
a vast network—theater people, scientists, artists, athletes and more. Jeff was involved with the 
Action Research group for a long time; the notion of that is to reflect on your practice, talk to others, 
try to find ways to improve, and then write about it. Think about what professionals do—doctors, 
lawyers, engineers, Ph.D.s—why can’t teachers do that? Most of the people that Jeff thought were 
successful good teachers were scholars in what they did. 
 
00:59:05  
How did Jeff learn to become a good teacher? Jeff refers again to his dad saying Jeff 
should focus, and Jeff never did. The fact he couldn’t focus led him in anthropology, biology, 
physics—his general nature to wander the academic playing field helped him pick up bits and pieces. 
In 1982 he went through the Great Rivers Writing Project, and that’s when process writing was 
hitting the schools. Jeff was teaching 1st grade at the time. Any time you let kids write about what 
they want to write about, you run into management problems, pacing, because everyone is at a 
different spot. Jeff remembers teachers backing away from process writing because it was too hard 
to manage. Jeff remembers thinking process writing was good, and he had to figure out how to 
manage this open-endedness.  
 
That came about again in the Heron Network when everything was based on inquiry learning. So you 
could have 21 different projects going on in the room. Teachers backed away from that because of 
management issues, but Jeff thought ‘this is good stuff; I’m the one that has to figure out how to 
manage it.’ That’s where the complexity-chaos theory stuff came in, that’s where hanging out with 
arts people came in; it’s silly to give a dancer a pencil-and-paper test. If you want to see how a 
dancer is doing, dance. A lot of it came from experience, new theories, and a lot came from 
colleagues. But for Jeff, a lot of it was complexity theory; it allowed him to do highly complex things 
with relatively simple principles. So in a writing workshop, if you see some kids talking in a corner, 
others on a computer, others drawing pictures, an outsider might say ‘My God, what’s going on in 
here?’ To people in the room, they are preparing a rough draft, seeing what people in the room think 
of it, and getting it ready to publish. 
 
01:03:00  
What did Jeff try to pass on to student teachers? It comes back to the 1960s. If you 
come to Jeff’s room, there must be something about his room that appealed to you, so part of it is 
that missionary zeal to go out and now do this. With student teachers, it was like what he said to 3rd 
graders: when you go into a classroom, read the landscape and figure out what you need to do, 
figure out who you are and what you want to do, and maneuver your way through the landscape to 
create the sort of classroom that you want because you know it’s good for kids. 
 
When Jeff began as a 1st year teacher, he was just a 1st grade teacher; now at the end of his career, 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
9
he’s a teacher and it doesn’t matter if you are a 30 year old or a 22 year old or an 8 year old. He 
has a lot of experience to share, and he hopes his experiences resonate in some manner and that 
there is some residue left inside the person to affect what they do in the future. Maybe that’s the 
essence of teaching; he knows he has students out there with a little bit of Mr. Jeff in there, and it 
kicks in every once in a while and Jeff hopes it improves their lives.  
 
When Jeff retired from teaching, it only lasted about 3 months. Jeff suggests that we have all 
heard teachers who say ‘I’m not going to be consumed by the profession.’ He understood that, but 
he also knew he had been consumed by the profession, and that’s not a negative thing. He is who 
he is because of the energy he put into his profession. When he retired and sat around the house 
for awhile, that wasn’t Jeff. So in order to be Jeff, he has to be with kids and talk about education. 
He can only move forward intellectually and emotionally with that context, of learning. He retired 
again a couple of months ago; he told the Children’s Museum that he needed a break.  
 
This week he went to a couple meetings for a dinosaur exhibit coming to town, and ran into 
another teacher who wants to do a PBS show on gardening and kids and Jeff offered to help write 
the script. There is just all this good stuff that comes around that Jeff just has to be part of because 
they are good projects, and ultimately they will make Jeff better. Jeff still experiences times when 
he wishes he could pass on stuff to his students; he finds himself in classrooms today and wishes 
he could have 20 minutes with the students to fire them up. He knows what kids can do, what they 
are capable of, and a lot of the kids he sees in classrooms today are running at 40% of their 
potential, which is a crime. At a recent meeting, he heard a statistic that the number of high school 
graduates who go on to science professions is only 1%. If a farmer had 1% of their crops grow and 
99% failure, he would take immediate action to get a better harvest. But we are letting 99% of our 
kids who have an interest in science just wither. That’s a crime, from an economic and from a 
human fulfillment point of view. 
 
01:08:20  
[background noise of people talking] There are a lot of metaphors for life: it’s a circle, a 
wave, a pendulum. Jeff hopes things start swinging another way. He hopes that we can unleash kids. 
We seem to be in a culture where we are afraid to discover the potential of our own populations. 
Jeff hopes we get back to John Dewey, to student-centered, to letting kids explore future 
possibilities for themselves rather than predetermined possibilities. In his pessimistic moments, Jeff 
thinks that will never happen. In his optimistic moments, most of the time, probably why he’s still 
involved, he knows that it will happen because you just can’t keep going with the oppression that is 
going on now. You can’t keep working with a system that isn’t working. Sooner or later, somebody 
has to say ‘we need something new.’ And reform only means taking the form that is already there 
and reworking it; it doesn’t mean doing something new. Sooner or later, someone has to do 
something new. But Jeff is 62; he doesn’t know if he will get to see it. But how many kids have gone 
through his classroom? Hundreds. And they know there is a different way to do it. Maybe in their 
profession they will be reminded of their classroom and use a piece of that in what they do. 
 
01:11:37 End of Interview. 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
10