CHARLES KING 
 
SUMMARY: Charles King talks to Betsy Peterson about his career at the US 
Coastguards. He explains the work involved in being part of the merchant marine safety 
unit. He also talks about the difficulty in finding good quality personnel to replace those 
that retire and stresses on the importance of safety and training in the industry.  
 
00:00:10 Date January 11, 2012. Interviewer Betsy Peterson. Interviewee Charles King. 
At Buffalo Marine Service, Houston Ship Channel. At a portion of the the original ship 
channel used by the Allen Brothers. Brady island to deepen channel. 
 
00:01.50 
Born in Bozeman, Montana in 1938. Wanted to go to air force academy. Coastguard 
recruiting academy.Was appointed as cadet in coastguard academy.  
 
Coast guard academy in New London, Connecticut on banks of Thames River. CG came 
to be with merger of lighthouse and lifesaving service in 1790. 
 
00:09.00 
4-year training program not unlike other military academies. State maritime academies 
that have state scholarships. Federal Merchant Marine academy at Kings Point, New 
York and graduate merchant mariners. Maritime Administration supervises that. 
Merchant ships of the US are not competitive in the world market. because of cheap 
labour that is available on most foreign ships. US pays more for licensed and unlicensed 
seamen. Union got involved. Training became important and expensive. US ownership 
makes competition very hard. no foreign ships can run from port to port and carry cargo. 
Come to the US, discharge and load at one other port in the US. Not more than one. and 
cant discharge at more than one port. This is to prevent from competition with other US 
ships that travel from port to port. US laws are very restrictive. Protection for merchant 
seamen. Shanghaied.  
 
00:13.52 
Jones act. Part of the Cabotage laws - Seafarers protection law. Advantageous for 
seamen.  
 
00:14.35 
Started as deck officer. Graduated with Bachelor of Science in Engineering. Easiest to get 
accredited then. Can now graduate in many more fields like, international affairs, 
engineering etc. Graduate with 4-5 opportunities to specialize. Assigned to wherever 
there is a vacancy for junior officers.  
 
Coastguards charged with merchant mariner - those who man the US merchant ships. 
Coastguards inspect the ship and then gives a certificate of clearance. Ship plans are 
 
 
reviewed by coastguard. Today, same plans are reviewed in conjunction with the 
American bureau of shipping and other classification agencies. Help coastguard 
determine some factors. More specialized.  
 
00:20.48 
Merchant Marine safety. Captain of the Port offices. Responsible for the port as far as 
commercial ships are concerned. OCMI. Officer in charge of marine inspection. Senior 
inspector of personnel. Oversees licensing and credentials of mariners. Senior inspector 
in charge of structural inspections on ship. Senior investigating officer in charge of 
determining conduct of seamen. Bureau of marine inspection and navigation. Alive 
because river boats had steam engines which were capable of exploding. BMIN needed to 
get involved to prevent boiler explosions on river boats.  
 
00:24.02 
Initial placement was in Port Arthur and then Washington. Search and rescue work. Law 
enforcement. After that - deck watch officer. Wanted to be an engineer. Called a student 
engineer. Learnt power plants, auxiliaries, security of the vessel according to structure 
and integrity. Then qualified as an engineering watch officer and then assistant engineer. 
Was then transferred to a Buoy depot in Astoria, Oregon. Supervised the industry of 
maintaining buoys. Got him into an engineering persuasion. Small enough base to 
become an executive officer and engineer. Learnt a lot about people. Did offshore cruises 
for aid and navigation work. Every 4-5 months, had a 30 day ocean station patrol. Along 
with aid to navigation carried weather bureau officers. They would take weather 
observations at the point in the Atlantic and report them back to land for analysis. Was a 
primary purpose of the radio beacon. Also to provide search and rescue efforts. Buoy 
depot was responsible for care and maintenance of all aid to navigation equipment in that 
area. Buoy has a 8-10 ton sinker and sometimes 2 of those attached to a lower end of the 
chain which comes up to the bottom end of the buoy that is a floating structure and 
supports the batteries for the light and the foghorn. Colored a certain color to mark either 
the starboard or port, right or left of the channel. Also developed other types of marks to 
denote intersections along the channel.  
 
00:31:36 
Markers are primarily changed for maintenance Developed other methods to control the 
fouling of the buoys and ships. There was a three year cycle on buoys because of can 
maintenance. Every year they had to change batteries out. Lead batteries would only last 
for a year.  
 
00:33:39 
Did an isolated tour for 14 months on a long range aid to navigation station in the middle 
Pacific. Fortunate enough to have a commanding officer on first ship. Was an OCMI 
before commanding officer. Applied for merchant marine safety assignment. Asked for 
SFO, LA, San Diego. Was assigned to Port Arthur, TX. Wife got to know of posting 
 
 
through the Navy Times. Could talk on radio once a week. Came back from tour, took 30 
days vacation and then drove to Port Arthur from Montana. Was a bit of shock because it 
was unknown.  But learnt to live within those parameters. (TAPE STOPS) 
 
(TAPE RESUMES) 
00:38:47 
Port Arthur was a merchant Marine safety assignment. Opportunity t learn a lot about 
what had happened before and how coastguards had changed all that. Began involvement 
with marine industry of the US. Worked as a regulatory agency with merchant marine 
personnel. Being in Port Arthur, primary function was tank ships that hauled all 
petroleum products. Lot of construction for offshore industry then. Vessels including drill 
ships were all inspected and certified by coastguards. Create service industries. A lot of 
cleaning needs to be done. With all those shipyards many had own service industries. 
Provided a lot of opportunity for employment.  
 
00:42:15 
Was in Port Arthur for three years, Coastguard wanted well rounded and qualified 
officers, went back to sea and headed to Vietnam. Ship was home ported in Long BEach, 
CA. Was assigned as a engineering officer. Went through a training period of 2 1/2 
months. In 1970 headed to Vietnam for 10 months. Went in support of the navy, 
Coastguard had armament that was good for the short bombardment. Needed more 
conventional type of weapon in Vietnam which the coastguard had. Was in patrol almost 
every night. Offered naval gun support.  
 
00:46:22 
Was in Danang Harbor 3-4 times. When there were spare parts in Danang, would go 
ashore to pick it up and then get it back to the dock. Felt safe on the ship but not so much 
on land. Were trained on what to look out for etc. Lasted a year. Did ocean station, 
searched rescue, navigation support and fisheries investigation and support in the Gulf of 
Alaska. Because fishing is so good in those waters the Japanese, Chinese and Russians 
would come in to fish. Had to enforce boundaries strictly otherwise marine life would 
have been depleted.  
 
00:48:46 
Always had to keep an eye out for the fishing. Radar was not so good back then. Could 
only see the mother ships but was difficult to discern the small fishing boats. Sometimes 
they were sided by the fisheries enforcement officer who were on board. Hefty fines for 
the operating company, so often the fleets were operated by the govt. under the guise of a 
company.  
 
00:51:02 
After this went to another assignment in San Diego. Was the senior inspector at the San 
Diego shipyard that was building tank ships for the American Merchant Marine. 
 
 
Subsidized for construction and operation of the merchant vessels. Reason subsidy was 
necessary was because of the less expensive construction and crewing of vessels in 
foreign countries. Japan as rebuilding, Korea was starting up. Not as regulated as the US. 
Gave them an opportunity to be less expensive to build and crew.  
 
00:52:34 
Got into the container business early on with Sealand. Europe had used more coastalized 
and into cargo movt than US had. US had a better transportation infrastructure. Their 
waterway system was more utilized. Internationally as early as anyone, nationally not so 
much. Trying to develop containers on barges to move them up the river system. 
Requires pretty large barge for efficiency. Boxes take up a lot of cube. Grain does not add 
up too much. Built tank ships in San Diego for 4 years. Was transferred to the 
headquarters and did 4 years in merchant marine safety. Chose to retire in 1980 from the 
coastguards. Got acquainted with Buffalo Marine service during next posting. Left 
shipyard in 1990. Moved back after a year and started consulting in Marine and 
environmental safety at that time. Shortly after that ended up with a law called OPA 90 - 
Oil pollution Act of 1990 as a result of Exxon Valdez. Helped the local towing industry 
with the new laws that were implemented. Has developed into a huge business. Were 
very effective in preventing spills. Prevention, containment and clean up. Need to 
continually train.Had written the spill contingency plan for the business. Enjoy being a 
part of the marine industry in Houston.  
 
Have grown into the largest bunkering company in the area. Bunkering is a term that 
comes from coal bunkers. When coal was used to fire the boiler on the ship, it was stored 
in a bunker. When oil became the fuel for the boiler, the name still stuck. When 
bunkering used to bring coal, now bring oil.  
 
01:04:49 
Oil is delivered by going to a terminal or a refinery, tank farm and hook up to a shore side 
pipeline and piped on to a barge, in several tanks. some have 10-12 tanks. Have pumps 
on board the barge. When going alongside a barge, have a flexible hose that gets hooked 
up and oil is delivered. Remake those connections to check for leaks. Use a new gasket 
for every hook up. All the piping is pressure tested periodically. to make sure it is not a 
source of pollution for the water.  
 
01:06:27 
Training has become more cohesive. Safety has become very important, Environment has 
also become important. Steps taken to make sure environment is not polluted. Marsh 
helps break up tidal wave if there is a hurricane. Hurricane Ike was not too bad, because 
Houston was on the right side of the hurricane. Only high water. Port Arthur was badly 
devastated. Wiped out fishing and hunting camps. In Houston had high winds, high 
water. Learnt to handle that pretty well. (Someone walks in and interrupts) 
 
 
 
((Interview resumes)) 
01:10:52 
Only way to handle hurricanes is to make sure to get info as early as possible. Port needs 
to cooperate with coastguard.  
 
01:14:12 
Cooperation is growing industry wide. Last 20 years have learnt a lot from East and West 
Coast. Even though they are competitors, learn a lot from each other. Gulf Coast water is 
a lot cleaner than it used to be. Learnt lessons from California and Washington.  
 
01:17:39 
Cant employ anyone other than US citizens. Get TWIC cards through a screening 
process. TSa does the screening process. Cant get merchant marine license unless with a 
TWIC card. Because of the increase in responsibility used a lot of merchant marine safety 
officers in the law enforcement dept. for years after 9/11.  
 
Inspection program for towboats, for navigation, firefighting and life saving equipment 
and for drugs. Drillers and support people were not regulated. Transition from shoreside 
to off shore. Boats will be coastguard inspected like deep sea are.  
 
01:27:29 
AWO presented their comments to the docker. Individual companies were impacted 
differently. It will be a big transition. Reassure customers that things will be better. 
Safety management systems have been an assurance to customers. Management systems 
are nothing more than written policy and procedures on how you comply with them. 
Changed more because of awareness to environmental sensitivity. Safety training 
involves environmental awareness and sensitivity.  
 
01:30:20 
One of the biggest challenges at Buffalo will be the satisfactory replacement of mariners 
as they get older. Have not done very well at getting communities or schools to realize 
the potential in the marine workforce. Real intense training program at Buffalo. Not an 
easy environment for families. hurts the industry. End up with men and women who are 
not family people. Try to make the atmosphere more personal. 9/11 has made it a bit 
more difficult to implement. Only hire TWIC card carriers. Biggest challenge is getting 
personnel.  
 
01:35:42 
The most important thing to know in the coastguard is development of relationships. 
Cooperation. Need to get a job that a person loves.  
Difference between younger and older inspectors. Older one knew who could be trusted, 
younger one did not. Younger one was more by the book. Coastguard has had to deal 
with that ever since they became the regulatory authority for the merchant marine.