afc2016035_03620 - 1/23/17 
Caleen Davis 
Interviewed by Jaime Lopez and Barrie Cline (Paul Vance present) 
Jaime : So, the stories that happen on the job. When you go to a job and you 
meet new people and you exchange stories, but those stories disappear somehow. So, maybe if we do 
things like this, we can try to freeze frame what's happening now, and who the people are that are that 
are in the union now, so 50 years down the road, somebody could see this archive and say, "Man, we 
were ... They're not too much different than us," or, "Look at how different they are." So, I think 
[00:00:30] that's what we're doing. 
Caleen Davis: I think it's a pretty cool idea, actually. I know, what you call it, at 
the hall, I know if you go to the fifth floor and they're just seeing there's certain 
years that no one sends in pictures, and so it's like a whole year lost when you 
want a kind of archive of what's going on sometimes and the historical thing, 
but sometimes historical are just facts. This happened then, versus, okay, what 
are people's experiences during these times now with what's going on, versus 
just what happened; how did people feel when it was happening. So, I think it's 
cool. 
Barrie: [00:01:00] Yeah. If any particular story comes to mind, like, oh, a job 
story, we'd want to make sure that there's room for you to share that. It was a 
question before, but we don't want to put anyone on the spot, but if you've got 
a job story, your favorite job story does come to mind during the course of the 
interview, let's make sure we get that before we're done. 
Jaime: [inaudible 00:01:23]. 
Caleen Davis: Sure. 
Barrie: So, I'm just going to go ahead and start by asking you your name, and 
[00:01:30] your job title, and I guess what your [inaudible 00:01:31] are, so you 
could just make your introduction. 
Caleen Davis: Got it. Okay. 
Jaime: Go ahead. 
Caleen Davis: Oh, okay. So, my name is Caleen Davis. I joined IBEW Local 3 in 
September of 2013, so that makes me a fourth year, first half, which means I've 
been in for three and a half years, and I currently am employed by Hugh O'Kane 
Electric. What else do I say about myself? I don't know. [00:02:00] I'm currently 
chairwoman of the A Apprentice Advisory Committee, which is a club that is 
exclusively made up of apprentices, which means we are the newest members 
who have been initiated into Local 3, and we're goingthrough a five and a half 
year program in order to earn the title of being an electrician, a union 
electrician. 
Jaime: Where do you live at the moment? 
Caleen Davis: I currently live in Electchester, which [00:02:30] is a 
neighborhood located in Flushing ... Oh, I'm sorry, Fresh Meadow Queens, 
which is actually a neighborhood that's filled with a whole bunch of electricians, 
which is actually really awesome, because there's always a helping hand, or 
someone who knows what you're going through in the neighborhood. So, it's 
pretty cool. 
Barrie: Tell us about your background. Where were you born, and where are 
your parents from? 
Caleen Davis: Both of my parents were actually from New York, and 
[00:03:00] I was born and raised in the Bronx, so completely New York through 
and through. My family is from down south, so South Carolina, Virginia, but I'm 
completely Yankee, through and through. I just moved to Queens about a year 
and a half ago, just because it made sense, but the Bronx will always be my 
home. 
Jaime:The Bronx, very nice. What jobs have you had before joining the Local 3? 
Caleen Davis: Oh, a lot. I started [00:03:30] off working at... My first job was 
Summer Youth, and so I was like a peer youth counselor, which, the program I 
worked at, it was more than just watching the kids at a ... Going places. We 
would actually meet before we would meet the kids, and kind of maybe discuss 
maybe some other issues that they might be goingthrough. So, when we were 
dealing with them, it wasn't just, okay, I have to deal with children, it was like, 
I'm dealing with children that might be coming from broken families. Maybe my 
approach [00:04:00] to how I deal with them was different, and I feel that kind 
of set me up for a customer service background, which I stayed in for a really 
longtime. I worked at Ben and Jerry's, I've worked at The Container Store, I've 
worked for Bliss Spa, I've worked for The American Museum of Natural History, 
and the job that I had before I entered the Local was actually at a domestic 
violence shelter, which I was at for four years. 
Barrie: Wow. Can you tell us how you became an electrician? 
Caleen Davis: Okay. So, [00:04:30] at my job, I realized that I wasn't in a 
position where I could help people. It was an entry level position, and it was one 
of those things where if you didn't kind of delve in into a college education, you 
couldn't go further, and unfortunately I couldn't afford to go to college, and so 
one of the biggest things that the program director said, that if you're not 
happy, then you need to go somewhere where you will be. It really hit me, 
because I was 28 at the time, and I just saw people and I was like, do I want to 
continue doingthis [00:05:00] for 10 years and still be stuck in the same place, 
and feeling like I know I'm helping people, but I'm not doing something at my 
full capacity. 
So, I just typed in free training for women, because I realized I wanted 
something better for myself, but I couldn't afford to do many things. So, I did 
that, and I found Nontraditional Employment for Women, which is a pre¬ 
apprenticeship on-training program for women, and they taught us about 
different skills and trades, specifically electrical, [00:05:30] plumbing, painting, 
and carpentry, and I went through the program, and at the end of it, I realized 
that electrical felt like it was what I was best suited for. 
I didn't know what I was getting into, but I was like, I didn't want to have 
to carry a whole bunch of heavy stuff all the time, but I saw electrical work as 
being something where your mind was as valuable as personal strength. So, I 
was like, this is for me. With the training, I took the test, and I think [00:06:00] I 
did well enough to get in, because I'm here, and here I am. 
Jaime: Very cool. 
Barrie: Can you tell us about your first day at work, what that was like? 
Caleen Davis: Yeah. So, one of the things that we got from the training 
program was on time is late, and early is on time, and so of course, you want to 
make a great impression, because unlike a regular job, where you actually have 
met the [00:06:30] people that you might be working with in the office, you 
have met no one where you're going, so you're just super anxious. I don't even 
think I went to sleep, because I was just like, what happens if I go to sleep and I 
... So, I was really nervous. I got there at six o'clock, bright and early, and 
unbeknownst to me, the person that I work with doesn't show up until 7:00. So, 
I got to a hospital, and the first question I'm like is, "Hey, security guard, where 
do I go? Is there construction [00:07:00] going on?" And he's looking at me like 
I'm crazy. 
So, I called my shop and I'm like, "I don't know what's going on. I'm 
here." Thank goodness I didn't get him in trouble, but it just showed how I was 
really excited about this opportunity. I wanted to do amazing things and do 
really well, and looking back on it, I'm like, oh my gosh, I was such a nervous 
Nelly. But that reminded me always of that first day, reminded why I wanted 
this opportunity, and try to treat that... Every day is a first day, because 
[00:07:30] with this career, every day could be a new place where you meet 
someone new, you're teaching someone new, you're going to a new location, 
and it's exciting. So, I do remember that first day very well because of that. 
Barrie: Tell us a little bit about the learning process. Were you, in terms of the 
trade, on the job? 
Caleen Davis: So, when you get there, there's some people who have training. 
I knew nothing about electrical work whatsoever, and so my first day on the job 
was like, all right, so, how long are they just going to realize they don't 
[00:08:00] want me because I don't know what to do? The person that I was 
actually set up with was amazing, because it was really ... What is that? Sorry. 
All right, so yeah, the first day was ... I didn't know anything, and so I was really 
nervous. How can I help if I don't know what to do? The person that I was paired 
up with was awesome, because he said, "You see all these guys here? They 
don't know anything, and they're goingto lie to you, and they're going to make 
you tell ... They're goingto make you think [00:08:30] they know everythi ng, but 
they don't." 
That was my first sigh of oh, okay, thank you, because I was afraid that I 
was going to get paired with someone who was going to be disappointed that I 
was a woman, or disappointed that I really wasn't goingto be much help, and 
he made me feel so much comfortable. We just went through, just explained 
some of the simple things, like, okay, walk with him, go with him. All right, we're 
goingto go put a outlet in, and he would go through every step of what I 
needed, what [00:09:00] tools I needed for this specific job, what the material 
was for this specific job, so that, at the end of the day, if anyone asked me to 
put in an outlet, I would know how to do that. It was one small thing, but it was 
something that I knew that I could do, because it was explained slowly, and if I 
had any questions, he was very good at helping me. 
Later on, I would meet people who were the complete opposite, and 
forced me to learn in another way where it was like, okay, you got to get it 
done, and, all right, walked [00:09:30] away. I'm like, what do I do? And then I 
realized the power of really speaking to other people and asking for help and 
getting it done. Even if the person who was supposed to show me how to do it 
didn't want to help me, someone else did, and it was so much in the value of 
learning that. 
Being in the trades is so much more than just the knowledge of your 
trade, but also learning how to deal with other people within your trade and 
outside of it, because there's plumbers who know, because they've seen what 
we do, a nd they're like, "I don't know if that looks right." [00:10:00] Or, 
especially, I want to say carpenters, where they're like, "Yeah, you shouldn't be 
putting that up." So, because it's like there's a sense of order to it. Every day is 
just a learning experience, and so I come into every day at work knowing that 
there's going to be something I don't know, and not being afraid to ask, because 
the day before, I was just like, do I want to appear like I might know a little bit of 
something, or would I be embarrassed to say I know absolutely nothing? 
From that first day I realized it's nothing wrong with not [00:10:30] 
knowing everything, but it's the eagerness to really want to learn. So, people 
were always willing to help me, because they knew I wanted to do the right 
thing, or get something done right, so I've always had such fortune with finding 
people who wanted to help me learn. 
Barrie: Oh. That's interesting. 
Jaime: What jobs are you on now? 
Caleen Davis: I am currently working on 51st and 6th Avenue, the old Time 
and Life Building. There are a few tenants left in the building, [00:11:00] but by, I 
think, the middle of this year, it will be completely empty, and they're kind of 
goingto just do demolitions on each floor, and we're justgoingto do everything 
almost from the ground up, except the building will already be there. So, I'm 
doing a bit of power and lighting. Right now we're just running a lot of the 
temporary power from the building, which is great for me because I've never 
really got to be in something that went from the ground up, so this is the closest 
I might be able to see something go from the very beginning stages to the very 
[00:11:30] end. So, it's really exciting. 
I'm working with someone who's been the company for 20 years, and so 
he's giving me a lot of knowledge about how to be someone who can last long 
with the company, last long with your trade, by always being willing to learn 
new things, and also, doing your best and not being afraid to ask questions. So, 
now when I go there, the first thing he says is, "You should always be ready to 
do the work and want me to step behind, because I'll always be there to help 
you, but soon [00:12:00] you're entering a stage where you might be just 
completely by yourself, so I want you to feel comfortable. If I say, okay, we need 
to make a 90 and do a kick, you need to be comfortable with doing that." 
For me, I'm feeling like, okay, now I'm really ready to do that and for 
those stages. So, the power, lighting, doing some fire alarm cable. I haven't 
done a lot of data, but I've done it before, but right now I'm just experiencing 
everything from the ground up. So, one day you might be doing fire alarm, and 
the next day you're doing some lighting, [00:12:30] and the next day you're just 
carrying material, because you have to bring everything into the building, so you 
might be doing that for a whole day. It's a little mix of everything each day. 
Barrie: Would you mind just explaining... Because not everyone who's going to 
be listening to this understands. You said do a 90 and do a kick. 
Caleen Davis: Oh, okay. All right. So, I find ... And this is just my personal 
perspective. I find what people think of electricity, or what an electrician does 
might be 20% of a well-rounded electrician. So much of it [00:13:00] is making 
sure that you can get the wire safely from Point A to Point B, which means going 
from different floors. There can be huge obstacles in the way, and you kind of 
have to make magic happen. So, when we're talking about making 90s, it's like, 
okay, there's a box here. You need to ... It's going straight, but now you have to 
find a way to make it go ... And you have to take this little hand bender, which 
you've never seen in your life, and make this happen. So, it's really just 
manipulating [00:13:30] conduit pipe to fit the area where you're working in. 
Barrie: And the kick is included in that too? 
Caleen Davis: Yes, yes it is. A kick is kind of like a ... Say, I want to say off... I 
don't know how to say it in not a- 
Jaime: A particular kind of bend. 
Caleen Davis: Yeah. Okay. 
Jaime: It's a good thing around. 
Barrie: Okay. Thank you, yeah. 
Caleen Davis: No, I'm sorry, yeah. Of course. 
Jaime: Can you tell me a little bit about your other coworkers on the job? 
What's the demographic? [00:14:00] How does it feel in the job with other 
people? 
Caleen Davis: Okay. So, the current job site that I work at now, I am the only 
woman. No, I'm also the only black person there, now that you mention it, 
which is awesome, that I never even thought about that until you asked. 
Everyone else is men. We have about... I want to say maybe 40% of them are 
white. They're Polish, they're Italian, German, and [00:14:30] we don't have ... 
We have one Spanish person. So, I could say as far as with minorities, we're the 
minorities there. But I don't really look at it like that. When I'm there, honestly, 
there's some places that I have been that it's been more of a presence to notice 
that, but here, absolutely not. 
I get called kid, and I'm told, even though some of the people who call 
me kid are a year older than me. Yeah, its men, but I guess I've gotten so used to 
it. When I first came in, [00:15:00] I probably would have been frightened to 
work with a lot of different men at one time, and when I first came in, it was just 
me and one person, so it was kind of like a nice transition. But now I'm kind of 
used to going on to job sites where there could be 70 people there and I could 
easily be the only woman there. You just get used to it. But normally my job 
sites, I want to say, at least there's another woman. Maybe not in my trade, but 
there's another woman there, and as far as people of color, I would say 
[00:15:30] the mix I've seen is maybe 30 to 70. 
Jaime: Caleen, what kind of work do you feel most comfortable doing, or do 
you feel that you excel in? 
Caleen Davis: What kind of work do I ... I would say definitely lighting. I feel 
confident in it because I've done a lot of office spaces, so that's what I'm 
confident in. I know the color wires, what to splice together, and that's normally 
when I'm doing an office job. I know there's [00:16:00] other people there. 
What I don't feel comfortable with is sometimes really large pipe, because 
sometimes we have to work with pipe that's four inches, and they're expensive; 
they're really expensive. If you mess it up, you're told how expensive it is after 
you mess it up, where with lighting, you get it; I just got it. 
So, if someone's like, "All right, we got to go into an office space. 
Caleen, I want you to work with such and such with lighting," [00:16:30] I don't 
feel uncomfortable. I know how to splice, which is just connecting the wires so 
that no one gets electrocuted later. I feel comfortable doingthat, and I've been 
able to do things with low voltage so it's not a minimal kind of shock, and I also 
get to do things where it's high voltage, which is the lighting, where it's like, if 
someone got shocked, it'd be a lot more dangerous, and the fact that once 
people see my techniques, they feel comfortable with me doing it. It really does 
make me feel like, okay, I actually do have this. So, that's what I feel 
comfortable with. 
Barrie: [00:17:00] Can you also elaborate on the other skills that you were 
talking about in the beginning? You said something about having social skills 
that were... 
Caleen Davis: Oh, well, social skills is how you learn. I feel that there's plenty 
of people who have natural aptitude to work with their hands, but because they 
can't get along with people, no one is really willing to show them more, because 
you have ... You go out into the field, and anyone who has made that journey 
[00:17:30] person status, you would hope in their hearts they really want to 
teach, but they're not enforced to, they don't have to. So, as an apprentice 
coming in, you really want to learn how to meld with that mechanic to their 
journey person, to really get them to teach you, whether they specifically want 
to or not. 
We're in a age where everything has to be kind of like done so quickly, 
and these people are there not only to help teach us, but they're trying to make 
sure that they stay employed so that they can feed their families. [00:18:00] 
Sometimes they're placed in a situation where they need a certain thing done in 
a certain amount of time, and they know they can get it done in that certain 
amount of time, but to give an apprentice a chance to do it, it might take extra, 
and they don't want to risk maybe losing that employment, or looking like they 
can't get things done in a certain time frame. You have to really learn how to 
make yourself an asset to the person that you're working with so that they don't 
mind taking the extra time to show you or let you know how to do things. 
[00:18:30] I feel like that's actually one of my strongest skills to help me 
gain the other skills. There's some people that they're so quick, quick, go, and I'll 
just be like ... Learn how to ask about their families, or like I said, make sure you 
have their tools ready. That's the most important thing. If there's someone who 
you're working with, and just because they want to make sure they get their job 
done they want to do everything, you learn everything that they need to do so 
that the moment they need something, you have it there. So, they're finishing 
things so quickly, [00:19:00] they have the time to say, "Hey, kid. All right. Do 
you want to learn how to do that?" Instead of you're always falling behind 
them, and they're not getting things done on time, where they're like, "We have 
to finish it most importantly." 
So, I find that learning how to, again, get along with people has been my 
biggest asset in learning how to do things, because people really do want to 
teach people that they genuinely like more, just naturally. So, you have to learn 
how to be that person, regardless if you might be comfortable with [00:19:30] 
the person you're working with. I've worked with people that, in my regular life, 
I would have never encountered. I might not agree with their political stances, 
how they feel about certain issues, but when we get on the job site, I am there 
to learn from them. As much as I want teaching to be their job, my job is to 
learn from them. So, I feel like that's the most important thing to do for me, 
because the more you get people to teach you, you're going to learn the skills if 
you're committed to it. Just getting people [00:20:00] to teach you the skills you 
need to know, that's half the battle itself. 
Barrie: Thank you. [inaudible 00:20:05]. 
Jaime: Caleen, is there a ny work that you do specifically that feels creative, or 
work that your journeymen or your mechanic does that looks artistic to you? 
Caleen Davis: I would say when they're bending the pipe. I think it's one of the 
most beautiful things if you ... Sometimes it's so simple. If you just have to do a 
simple [00:20:30] run, it's just one pipe that goes from one place to the other, 
and you understand ... So, okay, you get it, you don't think it's so nice. I 
understand the importance of it, but it's not the most beautiful thing. But when 
you are goingfrom the ground up and you might have hundreds of pipe going in 
the same direction, and they have to turn the same way, that is beauty, because 
you're not bending all the pipes at the same bends, because depending on the 
placement of where they start, [00:21:00] you have to make sure you take down 
your measurements, and you have to really envision what it's going to look like, 
because no one thinks... okay..when people are looking at it, they're just like, 
oh, that's ugly. When you see something and you're like all of the pipes look 
perfect; they're turned the same way, they're ... Not one is higher or lower than 
the other. You know that that person really is a artist of their craft. They take it 
seriously, because you can get the job done, but it doesn't look pretty. 
[00:21:30] Someone who makes ... It's their signature. You can see people ... 
And I can say Derek did this. I know Jose did that; I know John did that, because 
they're so specific to their craft, and you can see where certain people get to do 
certain things. Not everyone can handle pipe that's of a wide diameter; not 
everyone can put in data cable and dress it in a way where you're like, wow, 
that's amazing. 
Even when you're putting wires into a panel [00:22:00] to terminate, 
you send certain people into do it, and that might be the majority of what they 
do, because they take pride in their work. Someone who might not be an 
electrician, they just open the panel and they're like, that looks really nice. 
That's more than just... That's really nice to us, because we know the amount of 
effort it takes into it, but if someone opens it and is like, oh, it's kind of 
whatever. Someone who just didn't care. So, when you see that, knowing the 
type of dedication it does take to do just [00:22:30] some simple things, it really 
is artwork. Most people don't get to see artwork, because we have to cover it, 
but when you get to see it, you're like, yes, you care. I want to learn from you, I 
want to be you, this is amazing. 
Barrie: That's great. 
Jaime: Very cool. Have you ever passed down a tool, Caleen, or have a tool 
passed down to you? 
Caleen Davis: Oh, absolutely. Like a real tool, or like a ... Because we get... 
Jaime: Both. 
Caleen Davis: Yes. No, one of the best things is actually [00:23:00] just 
recently, even though I'm fourth year or so, I'm considered on the higher end of 
my apprenticeship, and one of the guys just came in for Christmas and brought 
us all... What is it? He got us strippers, which are just like tools that you use to 
strip the wire. It was such thoughtful gift, just because he didn't even ask did we 
have it or not, he just wanted to give it to us, and it was just really kind, because 
sometimes as apprentices, [00:23:30] we're struggling with money, and tools 
help you get the job done faster and better, but if you can't afford to, you're 
kind of stuck in that rut. The fact that he just kind of got us all the same gift, it 
wasn't like, oh, you need this, I'm going to get you something bigger or better. 
He found out that I even had one, but he just didn't care. It was just something 
from the kindness of his heart, and it mea nt a lot. 
But I've had people that, if I'm like, oh, that's really cool, and then 
maybe a week or two later, I'll have one, because they got it for me, [00:24:00] 
and it's just really kind and sweet to see that. On the opposite end, I actually do 
keep a lot of my tools. I get doubles of stuff, and if I meet someone who's just 
coming in, which we would call a TA 1, listen, you want this? Because I really am 
not going to use it. That's something that I've learned from being in Local 3, that 
a lot of the things that I've gotten to have, people pay for my lunch. 
Not knowing what kind of circumstances I am, and I'm like, great, I can 
afford to take the train another day. It's those little things that [00:24:30] 
remind me, as soon as I meet someone, to try to see if there's any way to give 
back. For me, I can't do it financially, but I try to teach them little tools of the 
trade that I learned when I came in as a TA 1. No matter where you go, always 
have your pliers so that if you're ever going anywhere, you're always prepared 
to do something. You always need pliers; you always need black tape. Do you 
know how to size this? Because it's just little things where I'm like, either I wish I 
did know, or someone taught me immediately, which made me better. So, 
[00:25:00] I try to give that to them as well. 
Barrie: To pass the skill down. What's your favorite Local 3 tradition? 
Caleen Davis: My favorite Local 3 tradition? That is a really good question. I 
feel it only because the holiday party, the holiday party. Every year, the 
apprentices, we put together a holiday party, and I am not a kid person at all. 
The first year, I actually skipped out on it. I helped out, I donated money, 
[00:25:30] but I didn't want anything to do with 100 and something kids. 
Absolutely not. So, of course, the very next year, they ask me to chair the event, 
because that's what makes sense. It was a lot of work and a lot of hard effort, 
but to see the kids afterwards, and to realize that there was so many of them 
that, regardless of what they might have dressed like, looked like, that they 
were homeless, or some of them didn't have parents. 
I realized that what I was doing was more than organizing [00:26:00] 
funds for something, or just putting something together, it was making 
someone have happiness, and from then on ... I'm still not a kid person, but I 
will continue to do this and be a part of it with the apprenticeship as much as I 
can, because it just felt so amazing to see people who didn't have as much ... 
Have something, because I know what that's like. Wanted a little bit more, or 
maybe not have everything, so when I see that, that's a reminder [00:26:30] 
that I can give back just in making buses, callingtrips, or just doing things. That's 
the thing, where it's like sometimes I don't feel like I do enough, because 
sometimes I'm really too technical with things, but it's like you need people 
behind the scenes to make happiness happen. So, I will always love doing that 
for them. 
Barrie :Do you feel like in the future, do you think children and other members 
of the community will be able to pursue this work, the same kind [00:27:00] of 
work that you're doing? 
Caleen Davis: I wish I would have learned about this when I was younger. 
When I see a lot of my friends who are, at this point, I would say maybe in their 
early 20s, and they're coming in through high schools for trades, and I'm just 
like, this is genius. I think a lot more it's coming from the times we're in, where 
we see that when people are like, okay, you got to become a doctor and a 
lawyer, and sometimes these plans do not work out for people. Being a doctor 
and a lawyer, that's amazing and great, but I feel like we were [00:27:30] too 
focused on that was the only thing that you could be to be considered 
successful, or go to a regula r college. 
Now, I'm seeing... I'm part of a group called Tradeswomen Chat, and 
these are women who are in the trades, and now I'm seeing that they're knitting 
construction hats for their babies, or their daughters or young sons are wearing 
high visibility vests, or having little tiny tools in their hands, which I don't really 
recall seeing that much, even from the boys of my age. They might have cars 
[00:28:00] or toy soldiers, but I didn't see so many things as tools, and especially 
not with little girls. I'm seeing that now people are seeing the value of your 
hands, and understanding that maybe if you're not the best with grades and 
school that there are other options where I feel like they weren't really putting 
that out as a real thing before. 
Just to track back with the creativity, some people felt that if they 
wanted to be an artist, that was their only route. You can create art in the things 
that you do, [00:28:30] and I think people are opening their eyes more to see 
that, so I definitely feel like people of my generation and younger are seeing 
that being in the trades is something to be proud of, and to show that you can 
do so much more than people just think, just being out in the field. You cantake 
that so many other places if you want to. 
Barrie: Is there something that you would change about the job, if you could? 
Caleen Davis: What I would change is the resistance [00:29:00] to different 
ways of thinking. I would say this is still a lot of a father and son kind of 
business, like family tradition, which is fine, which I felt is something that held it 
strong. But I feel like it wasn't as fluid to change as maybe it could have been, 
and now you have a lot of people who are coming in first generation, know 
nothing of unions, and there's kind of like a clash of the old ways and the new 
ways, and trying to bridge [00:29:30] that gap between the two, because there's 
people who are like, okay, we're going to make sure that our family members 
were good. But there's also others who are welcoming, where now you have 
some of the incoming people, like, well, these aren't my people, so why should I 
put in the extra effort? I just want a good job and benefits. 
There's so many of them who realize, no, we have to continue the 
efforts of what people did in the past, because I feel what happened before was 
okay. My dad did it, my granddad did it, my great-granddad did it, so I have to 
do it too. Since I want my [00:30:00] son, daughter, grandson to continue it, I 
need to keep on going with it. But some people decided, which is fine, you know 
what, I don't want them to be in the trades, so maybe they're pushed for... 
Pushing unions, I feel like it might have fell through, because they weren't 
looking at it as being something to continue for their families. On the other end, 
again, if you don't have that connection to the past, you're like, well, what does 
this really have to do with me? If they say give back, what does that even mea n? 
I'm fortunate that I had [00:30:30] someone who, when we came into 
the program together, we really just pushed through together, and we were 
like, we're going to discover and we're going to explore. Because of that, I was 
able to be surrounded by a lot of people who showed me what unionism was, 
not just on the field, but also in the political world, but more importantly, just as 
a genuine family aspect. That's what I hope people get to see, because a lot of 
people are missingthat connectivity in their lives. It's kind of like an us against 
[00:31:00] them, or we're all separate. I feel unions are one of the last places 
where people really do look at it as a brotherhood. I'm not just working for 
myself, I'm working for you. I think a lot of people growing up now need to see 
that, more than ever. 
Barrie: Thank you. Just [inaudible 00:31:16]. 
Jaime: Caleen, now, what kind of advice would you give somebody starting out, 
or somebody that's listening to this in the future? 
Caleen Davis: I would tell them do your best and [00:31:30] stay you all the 
way, because it's easy to conform in order not to have conflict, but it's people 
who cause cha nge that allowed me to be here. So, always stay true to yourself. 
Work-wise, always ask questions; never stop learning. There is no dumb 
question, there is no dumb question. That's my advice. 
Barrie: I think that's all. 
Jaime: Do [00:32:00] you have anything else for Caleen? 
Barrie: No. You said so much. 
Caleen Davis: Oh. I do that. I'm good at that. 
Jaime: You want to add anything else that [crosstalk 00:32:10]? 
Barrie: Do you have some other job story that we didn't catch? 
Caleen Davis: I'm trying to think. Do I have ... Nothing. 
Jaime: Did something happentoyou today orthis week, probably?Yeah. 
Today at the job? 
Caleen Davis: Did anything happen? I know I'm a blank, because I'm trying to 
think of my ... One of my favorite [00:32:30] experiences, actually, when I was a 
first year and I came in. I was actually about to go into my second year, so I had 
been with the company for a year. It was Thanksgiving, and they got us a turkey. 
I was like, oh my gosh. I got a turkey, I work for this great shop, they got us this 
gift. So, I realized that I had to actually go to school that same day, and so ... And 
I didn't have a real bag for my turkey, so I was walking around the subway 
[00:33:00] and I just had this giant turkey, and I was like, I don't even eat turkey. 
What am I going to do with it? I took it to school with me and everything, and 
everybody in class was like, what the ... What are you doing? 
My first thought was, I don't care what any of you say, my shop loves 
me enough to have a turkey, and I'm going to sit with this turkey in class. So, I 
really just sat with a turkey with me, right next to me in my chair because I 
didn't want to put him on the floor. But I say that because it's just the little 
things where there's never a dull moment in Local 3. [00:33:30] Even the most 
mundane of days, something always new and interesting is happening, and I'll 
always appreciate that, because I came from a place where I sat with the same 
people and I did the same thing all the time. I couldn't imagine not having a year 
where I'd sit with a turkey next to me in class, and everybody will make fun of 
me from it. It's things like that that you can't make up. 
I'll be made fun of it for a long time, I [00:34:00] know I will, but those 
are the memories that I can't wait to look forward to when I see someone 20 
years down the road, and they're going to be like, are you the girl with the 
turkey? Yes, yes I was. I look forward to those moments. So, that's kind of my 
little story that I'm going to remember for a really long time. 
Jaime: All right, cool. Caleen, I think some of the things that you were saying, I 
feel like I was saying them, for some reason. I feel like I was talking to myself. 
So, it's very nice to meet you and to hear about your story and where you come 
from. [00:34:30] I look forward to seeing you on the job. 
Caleen Davis: Yes, most definitely. Thank you too, Amy. 
Barrie: Thank you. 
Barrie: Let me take this off of you. I know you got to run too, right? 
Caleen Davis: Yeah, I'm everywhere. Thank you guys for the opportunity. It's 
always appreciated. 
Barrie: Thank you. Public speaking!