WINFRED DANIELS, Furniture stripper
Katy Clune  0:23
So let's go ahead and start. It is January 26, 2021. Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell here with 
Winfred Daniels. And why don't we start by having you just introduce yourself, tell us who you 
are and what you do. And we'll take it from there.
Winfred Daniels  0:23
Oh, my name is Winfred Daniels. [inaudible] Y and J furniture company. And I do pretty much a 
little of everything, wherever I'm needed. But my main job here is stripping furniture.
KC 0:23
How long have you worked here?
WD 0:23
[background noise] Mm, 22 years.
KC 0:59
And tell us a little bit about what you did before you came to North Carolina.
WD 1:06
Well I was born here in North Carolina. Went to school here and went in the military 1955. 
Discharged in 1958. Moved to Washington DC worked various jobs there. Both private and 
United States government. I drove trucks, buses, taxi cabs. I worked as a security person quite a 
while. And department of correction. And a oh, liquor store, I worked there for quite a while. 
Enjoyable job. That's pretty much it. As far as uh...
Julia Gartrell  2:19
And how did you come back down to North Carolina and start working on furniture?
WD 2:26
Oh, my brother was having health problems. And that was a concern of mine. And he needed my 
help. So I moved back here. The old hous---home. Our old, our old house. And stayed there for 
about five years. [background noise] And got another place out in the county. Been out there for 
23 years.
JG  3:08
And when did you first find out about Y and J Furniture?
WD 3:12
A friend of mine worked at the Employment Security Agency. And he was telling me about 
openings here at Y and J. So that sparked my interest because my parents, my father he was a
afc2020009_014-- Winfred Daniels interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
carpenter and a contractor. And uh, so I decided I would try and, try this out, see how it work
out. I've done some shop work. But it was--- well I was taught in middle school. And I enjoyed
that. So I thought I would try this out and see how you know, I would enjoy this. And I did, and I
did.
JG  4:10
What was the type of work you did when you were in middle school? What was the shop work
that you did in middle school that you enjoyed?
WD 4:18
Oh, they taught us regular shop work, you know how to build little things, you know? Little
stands, you know, cigarette stands and small tables. You know, side tables you know.
JG  4:41
And that work translate? Like did you have a, sort of, physical memory of working in a shop all
these years later when you came back to it?
WD 4:50
Everything came back. Like riding a bike, you know, everything comes back to you. You know,
never go away.
JG  5:02
So the work that you do in here, you said the main thing you do is stripping the paint or varnish
or whatever all off of the furniture. How did you---- what's your sort of trajectory? Like, what
did you start, what was the first stuff you learned when you were here?
WD 5:23
You mean, when I first....?
JG  5:24
Yeah, when you started the job.
WD 5:27
Well when I first started the job I was workin' in the finishing room.
JG  5:31
In what?
WD 5:31
afc2020009_014-- Winfred Daniels interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
Finish room. Yeah, putting the finish, final finish on the furniture. Then the guy that was
working in the shop, he left and they--- I filled in his spot for a while. You know, that was
preparing the furniture for the finishing room. So that's three steps we have we have stripping,
repair, and finish. So I've been to all three stations here.  Oh, delivery. [crosstalk. Pickup and
delivery, I've done that too you know, personal contact with the customer. Very interesting. Yeah.
And all good customers. I haven't run into any bad customer yet. I'm not saying there aren't
some. But I never met them.
KC 6:35
How does that compare to the cab or liquor store work?
WD 6:38
Oh my God, the cab driving is something like a psychiatrist behind a wheel you know.
Everybody cry on your shoulder. They tell their personal affairs to you. I guess if it goes they
figured and never see you again. So they can open up to a stranger. And most of the time when
they do this, they've been drinking been out on the town all night. Or they have their happy hour
which I don't understand happy thing about it. Everybody's crying and.... but I enjoyed the
driving the cab because you had different personalities to deal with all day.
KC 7:29
What do you enjoy about this work? What do you enjoy about the work you've done for Y and J?
WD 7:37
Oh, it's it's a---- it's keeping me busy. Exercising. And not only just your physical exercise, but
you problem solving all day. So you have to think all the time. I don't have time to worry about if
I'm tired or I'm bored. Each piece of furniture, you know, is different and you have to treat it like
that. Like a person, you know.
KC 8:11
Tell us more about that. What do you mean when you say that?
WD 8:17
What treat the furniture like a person? A person built that furniture. And the material that's in the
furniture was a living thing. So I treat it like that.
KC 8:38
How has the shop changed over the years?
WD 8:42
Just people. That's all. Everything else is the same.
afc2020009_014-- Winfred Daniels interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
JG  8:51
There's not technologies that have changed in the past...?
WD 8:54
Oh, technology. Yes. But that poses a problem too, you know. The, the quality of the materials
that the furniture is made from, that has changed quite a bit. We're going from wood to
synthetics. So now you got to change---- switch gears. Figure out how to do this but without
completely ruin in the piece. That's hard. To me personally, with me, it's like furniture that you
just throw away when you're done with. It's disposable furniture nowadays.
KC 9:45
That's actually why we are interested in interviewing people who fix things for a living. Because
we think about how now it seems like it's cheaper to buy new than to repair sometimes. So we're
excited to learn more about the specialty repair industry.
WD 10:11
Yes, yes yes. Some pieces, yes, it's just better---- you know, just throw it away and buy you
another piece. Synthetic wood, and you can't put any moisture on it, it'll swell and just become
useless to you. So why keep it?
KC 10:40
Could you walk us through the process of seeing a piece and stripping it? Sorry, I think it's hard
when you can't read lips [because of masks]. Um, could you just walk us through the process of
stripping a piece, how you approach it and the tools you use?
WD 11:07
Oh, first thing you do is check and see if it's synthetic material or wood. Whether it--- how it'll
reacts to your chemicals that you're using to strip the furniture with. What type of paint that's on
it or finish you wanna---- I would rather say. If it's, say paint, like you put your paint your house,
you paint furniture. Well, now you got to switch gears and put in something else a different type
of stripping material to get that paint off. If it's a lacquer finish, you can use remover that's a
chemical that--- I guess the only people know the content of that is the people that, that, you
know, industry people that create these materials to to strip furniture with. You got a gel finish,
the stripper, and you got a remover. Remover's like a liquid form, like water. But it's highly toxic
to paint. And paint can't stand that stuff. So it just disappears just crawl on me [?] and die. Yeah.
JG  12:46
It sounds like a lot of those processes are pretty intensely chemical--- to humans too!
afc2020009_014-- Winfred Daniels interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
WD 12:52
Oh, yeah. Yeah, you got to be careful with it. And your senses will tell you when to run. When to
take cover, whether to use a mask, or anything that can filter out the fumes that are coming into
your body. And you have to shower when you finish for the day. Make sure you shower and get
it off ya. Your hair traps it, your skin, in ya pores. And if you don't do that, and you spend the
night, you know, in your sleep, you're constantly on the move, you know. You're rubbing your
eyes, your nose, your yawning, you got your..... So you ended up you know, taking in these
chemicals through your body. And you don't know you're doing it. Yep.
KC 14:08
Why did you settle on stripping as the--- your specialty?
WD 14:16
Well, I move--- like I said, when I came here, I moved around in the shop. Wherever, wherever I
was needed. And the gentleman that was stripping furniture, he retired. So rather than go hire
someone else, they asked me to move into his spot. So I was pretty much on my own as far as
learning how to use different techniques on stripping. So I only been doing this for about six
years now. And it's been quite a challenge. Yeah. I enjoy that by the way. You know, anything
challenging, you know, I like take it on, you know and see how it works. You know? What make
it tick, you know. And what would it take to bring it down if I have to, you know. Stuff like that.
KC 15:16
Will you walk us through an example of the way you problem solve?
WD 15:24
I didn't hear you.
KC 15:25
It's my Yankee accent. [laughs] Will you walk us through an example of how you problem solve?
WD 15:36
Well, it's pretty much touch and go you know. You try different techniques, you know what I
mean? You know, different materials. Even the speed that you use to put on furniture, to make
the chemical that you're using, more effective, you see. If you put it on fast, you're getting
something like a, a spray wash. You know, the machine you use? Lower speed you have the
faster it'll take the finish off. Slow down is a slow acting technique. I had paint like I was talking
a minute ago, put it on a slow and it'll soak in. And let it sit there and do its work. Sometimes it
takes a while, but have patience. And it'll go away.
JG  17:02
afc2020009_014-- Winfred Daniels interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
Are there any pieces that you've worked on that have been particularly memorable either for
being very meaningful or very difficult to work on? Or for some other reason?
WD 17:16
Well, pretty much all painted material is hard to work on. It takes longer. And it's more expensive
because you have to use more material. So. I hate to work slow, you know. I like to get all my
work done in one day. If he have 10 pieces of furniture that he need done, I want all that done in
one day. So the next day they can repair it, get it ready for the finish room. Finish room gets it---
those guys are good. They'll spray that stuff on. It's put it in the other room--- the drying room
we call. And in about a week's time you get your stuff back.
KC 18:26
So you said the shop has pretty much in terms of the processes stayed the same for 20 years but
the people have changed?
WD 18:38
I didn't hear you.
KC 18:42
You said the the way the shop is set up with the different processes has pretty much stayed the
same for 20 years.
WD 18:51
Oh, yeah. Yeah.
KC 18:52
How have the people changed? Has it been like a lot of turnover a couple folks?
WD 18:57
Oh, no, no, no, no. What happens is they retires. You know it's pretty old guys that are out here.
You know, the guys we have now they're young. You know and--- you have to teach them the
trade. I thought I knew pretty much everything. But the older I get I'm finding out I don't know
too much. [laughs] Yep.
JG  19:39
Do you enjoy teaching the trade?
WD 19:43
I'm having trouble with [hearing]] this.
afc2020009_014-- Winfred Daniels interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
JG  19:44
That's ok. Do you enjoy teaching people who are new to the shop?
WD 19:48
Oh yeah, sure. You can't keep this to yourself or it'll die out. We're called dying trades, that's why
the trades are dying out. Because the older guys won't teach the younger guys. And the younger
guys, a lot of them don't want to know anyway. So. But it's a few around, just enough to keep
things going. It's always that way. You think everything is going to go away and die because
people are not interested. There's always somebody standing, standing in the wings waiting to
step up and move a--- step into your, your footsteps.
JG  20:33
Is that part of the reason you've worked into your 80s? You feel like you... [crosstalk]
WD 20:39
I really, I really don't know. It's like, it's like a drug. You know, you you get to know people and
you pretty much get attached to them. And when they're having problems, you know, like
physical problems or financial problems, anything--- right away you're interested in, you know,
bringing 'em back, you know. Helping 'em out. So. I just keep coming back. Yeah, I used to do---
well I used to help my father. Years ago. I was around four years old. I would mix mortar, carry
bricks. He would put a line on the board and I would hand saw. We didn't have power saws back
then. And I could smell the sawdust. Mortar. It's crazy, but, love that smell.
JG  21:57
It shaped your childhood. And that was in the 40s that your dad was working as a carpenter?
WD 22:03
30's .
JG  22:04
30's
WD 22:05
Oh, he was, Oh my God. He was born eighteen what? 1890, I think it was somewhere around.
KC 22:15
You have to forgive me. I stepped away. Where did you--- where were you born? Where did you
grow up?
WD 22:20
afc2020009_014-- Winfred Daniels interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
Here in Durham.
KC 22:23
So your dad was a carpenter for his career?
WD 22:26
Yes, yes. He built pretty--- a lot of houses he built and stuff.
KC 22:34
Do you know any buildings that he built?
WD 22:38
Well, I'm still in one that he built. Yep. In fact I was born in the house
KC 22:50
That's amazing.
WD 22:51
And my kids stay there now. So when I moved from Washington, DC back to Durham. Help my
brother. Here come my kids. You never get rid of 'em. I ran away from 'em. And they found me a
month later. [crosstalk] They stay there now. They're taking care of the place.
JG  23:29
That's pretty unique. I think these days to live in a house that your dad built.
WD 23:34
It is. It's, it's, it's something. And everything's the same. We had a house fire there a few years
back. And the timber that he use, didn't burn. I don't understand that, but didn't burn. All the
other stuff that we you know, put in, you know like drywall and all that stuff. And all the fixtures
just melted right away. But the timber itself didn't burn. Even the outside, the siding. Now the
wood under the siding, the original wood siding that he put on didn't burn. So tough you can't
drive a nail through it. Have to pre drill a hole to start your nail.
JG  24:40
Well that sort of speaks to the change in quality of wood over....
WD 24:45
That's correct, yes it is.
JG  24:48
afc2020009_014-- Winfred Daniels interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
.... across the board, in terms of, you're seeing that in the furniture industry too.
WD 24:51
Yeah. It have---- they have synthetic house covering, they call it siding. But I've learned that it's
covering, you can buy it in sheets, rather than put on one board at a time, or whatever. They take
in whole sheets and put it up at one time.
JG  25:25
Do you have, like, family furniture from, from your time growing up here?
WD 25:33
I had some. My brother--- it was in his keeping, you see. When he passed away, you know, it
pretty much locked everything that was on his property was no longer mine So his kids,
everything there belonged to them after that. Everything goes into probate. And when that
happens, the court takes over. You out, you're, uou know, whoever next of kin, they---it's theirs. I
didn't mind really, because you know, family's family. I mean, you know, it's still there, but you
know.
JG  26:44
What other, what other sorts of lessons would you say you've learned from working in the shop?
Are there things that--- you have a lot of time where you're focusing on one piece of furniture for
a while. Where do you find your mind's taking you while you're working?
WD 27:02
It wanders all over the place. Good things, bad things, you know. The old days, I think about
some experiences I've had--- you know, while working various jobs. You know I think about
those people and wonder where are they? How are they doing these days, you know, stuff like
that. And you'll catch me some times talking to myself. Laughing. I think about funny things
you know, when things get tough in there. When things get tough, I think of something that's
humorous. And I just laugh it off. And I forget all about the mental pain I'm going through
fooling with this stuff, you know. Yeah. So before I know, the day is over, time to go home.
JG  28:08
Do you have a favorite tool that you work with? Do you have a favorite type of tool you use on a
daily basis?
WD 28:17
Favorite tool? Well, all the tools I have is used for different, you know, types of finish. If I want
to speed up things, I'll run out to the dollar store and get something. You know. Like I'm working
on some stuff now that's paint. And it's baked on. And I have to take stainless steel pads that you
afc2020009_014-- Winfred Daniels interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
use to wash your pot and pans with and I just sit there and I just gently stroke it. Each stroke I
take takes off a tiny layer of paint. And while the, the stripper is running over it, that loosens up
the next layer. And I just keep rubbing. And I think about the good old days, and before I know it
the paint is gone. But takes a while. I mean----
JG  29:40
You're very patient, I think,
WD 29:41
Oh yeah, you got to have patience in all this stuff. If you try to rush it, believe it or not. You got
to come right back and do it over again. Because you're gonna mess it up. So you might as well
take your time. Do it. Do it right the first time. You won't have a problem. Yeah.
KC 30:03
I'm starting---- I'm starting to appreciate why you're good at this. Because you have a good
attitude about it. I know how hard it is, and frustrating.
WD 30:16
It can be. But I think it, it depends on your attitude about everything. You know, you can make it
good or you can make it bad. It's up to you, you know? Everything is bad if you want it to be. I
have people that say, What are you looking at? Well, they're looking at me, so I look at them and
wonder why they're looking at me. Crazy circle. Oh, wehn I drove taxi cab I used to do certain
psychological things to people. You know, when you're driving your car, you are expressing your
character. You know, the way you blow your horn. You hit your horn---- you're angry. You give it
a li'l tap, you're trying to help somebody, you'll wake them up, say they're on their cell phone,
talkin'. Light change, you just sits there. So a little "tap tap" and they'll, they'll respond to that
much faster, and quicker and easier. Better. You're setting them in a mood you're setting them up.
You go honkin' real hard, you know, you're setting them up. You want to fight now you--- I'm
gonna make this guy mad so we can, we can fight.
KC 32:00
So Winfred, how old were you when you left Durham for DC?
WD 32:06
21.
KC 32:07
And then you came back? How many years later?
WD 32:12
afc2020009_014-- Winfred Daniels interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
I was 60 years old when I came back.
KC 32:14
Oh that's a long---- see I was gonna ask you, like, I was gonna ask you how Durham changed
over the years, but you had a really big gap.
WD 32:23
Not much. Pretty much the same. You know, just a new bunch of people doing it. That's all, I
mean. To me---- now Washington, DC spoiled me.
KC 32:41
How so?
WD 32:42
Real bad. It was, it's never a dull moment there. You have a cross sections of people from all
over the world. All these different cultures from all over the world. Instead of just one group like
here in Durham. And when we talk about Durham [inaudible]. But everybody's pretty much in
one little group you know, and it's---- they born that way, they die that way. To me, that's boring.
You know? Do the same things every day. You know where to go. Nothing to do. Washington
DC 24 hours a day you can just go down to the mall and walk around. Go visit museums are
open all night. You know, it's something else. Yeah.
JG  33:41
It was disappointing to move back here?
WD 33:44
Yeah, it was, it was but...
JG  33:46
And have you found some peace?
WD 33:50
I put up with things. But I accomplished my mission. I took care my brother while he was you
know, while he was down, and that was my main concern. All the other stuff didn't matter. You
know. The older I got, you know, the less interested I was in, going out and going to clubs and
going to museums and shows. Done all that.  So now I'm slipping into that--- that bored mode
again. Because there's nothing to do. I can't do anything else.
JG  34:47
Well right now especially there's nothing to do. During the pandemic.
afc2020009_014-- Winfred Daniels interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
WD 34:50
Oh I---- Oh, I'm used to that. That doesn't bother me. You know, nothing to do. But most people
go crazy. You know from that transition, you see. But I'm used to that. Fast, slow, hot, cold. I'm
used to that. I guess that's why can strip the furniture pretty good. Yeah, yeah.
KC 35:26
I want to hear a little more about that job you had in Washington---- was it with a general
services?
WD 35:32
Yeah that was, that wa,s that was a cool job. I call it cool job.
WD 35:37
You got to be in the----
WD 35:38
It was so interesting, you know. I once worked at the archives and people would come in visiting
all you know and view the documents and all that stuff. You know the Bill of Rights,
Constitution, and the Declaration of Independence and all that. So while they're reading this I
noticed on the Bill of Rights paper---- parchment I guess they call it, [there] was a handprint on
it.  A little child's handprint. And I tried to talk to everybody whose print is this what is it doing
on there? Nobody knew. The people who worked there didn't know. Things like that you know,
pique my intrest and, couldn't tell me. Little kid he's coming up there, you know, and he would
go to the gate they had it was a brass, I guess you've been in there right?,
WD 35:38
Yeah I know it.
WD 36:49
You know the drill, you close the doors? And the bars are made of brass. So a little kid trying to
get his head through it you know and I talk to his mother. And she talked to the little kid and he
didn't care. He right back over there he had to put his--- he finally got his head in and he couldn't
get it out. I thought I would laugh so hard. And so, I said I don't know what to tell you ma'am. I
said but you have a problem. How you gonna get his head out? I made her think that there was
no way we can get kid's head out. [laughs] But I saw she's getting ready to have a heart attack or
whatever. So I had a guy to come up---- I know what to do. But I'd let him do it. You know,
because I had to keep up the pretense. He unscrewed one. Things like that.  And then I had the
guys come in off the street, you see. And they would like want to wash up, use the toilet.  And
my partner he wouldn't let him in he says no, you can't come in you're, you're a bum. You know,
afc2020009_014-- Winfred Daniels interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
you smell bad. I said well leave the guy alone. This is his building. So my partner says what do
you mean this is his  building? He's a bum. I said well look at the President! He's a bum. He's
living in public housing [laughs] And he's got, you know, food---- they got to give him
[inaudible] as any body else. That's only way of [inaudible]. I says, this guy at one time paid
taxes. I says he's a citizen of this country, it's his building.  If he want to come in and wash his
face, or whatever, fine. Long as he don't sleep in here everything's alright. He's not causing
anybody any problems so the guy saw it my way and left him alone. Well a storm came up he
was across the street on the bench. Little park cross the street by the Mall. Lightning struck the
tree. And that guy was scorched. He came over to the building and laid down on the porch
outside. And he got down on his knees and he told God he was not gonna touch another drink as
long as he lived. And we never saw him again. So I'm hoping that he went home, you know,
whatever. Cleaned up is act. Stuff like that, you know. I think about ya while I'm stripping this
furniture. I told you--- telling you that story to tell you how I have the patience, to strip furniture.
Because I'll be thinking about guys like that bum, you know. And the President that lives in the
White House. He's a bum. That's all.
JG  40:32
It's all connected.
WD 40:33
You're just a little jokey joke, you know? If Mr. President heard that, you know. Jokey Joke.
KC 40:42
Well you didn't say which one.
JG  40:44
Yeah.
WD 40:45
Whoever's there now. He's a bum, he's a bum [laughter].
KC 40:53
Do you miss working around people?
WD 40:57
Well....
KC 40:58
The public?
afc2020009_014-- Winfred Daniels interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
WD 40:59
Well, people, people now have changed. So you know that I was used to dealing pretty much
with alcoholics, drunks. You know, and you could, you could talk to them and without any
violence. But the drugs that the kids takin' now, that kids pay for [?]. It's driving them nuts. They
just want to fight and hurt and kill people. You know? It's drugs that's doin' it. And that's the only
difference I---- find in people you know. What, what we used to do? Drink liquor. Have a good
time. We didn't fight. If we did you know, was pretty much fistfight wasn't with knives, guns,
none of that.
KC 42:10
What did your children end up doing for work?
WD 42:17
My oldest boy, he's doing carpentry work. He do housing repairs. He works on Capitol Hill a lot.
So he moved back to Washington. See, he left Washington, he came here now he's back up there.
Fact he, he came down yesterday. Shortly after you all left, he walks in. Yeah, yeah. He had a
little business he had to take of down here. Insurances and stuff. He still carry that because it's
cheaper than it is there. I got one, the youngest son of mine. He's taking care of his nephew. He's
autistic. And he stays with him and he takes care of him. So that's his job. He doesn't have to
work anywhere. That's full time trying to keep up with this guy. He have to send stuff back that
he orders off the internet. He--- and god knows what else he's getting involved in all on this
computer. But, but that's his job. Another son works out at Butner [federal prison]. He works in
the hospital out there. My other daughter, I got so many kids, you know, keep up with what they
do where they are and all that kind of stuff. She is housewife. She just stays home and keep
children her children's children and all that stuff. They never leave, like I said. You're going to be
in contact with them one way or the other. They're gonna see to that. So she's having a ball with
them. And my other daughter, the mother to the autistic child, she passed away. In 2010. And her
oldest son he is a professor over UDC,  not UDC, but UNC. UDC is University of District of
Columbia. I keep getting those things.... Anyway. He teaches medical science the subject that all
interns, medical students, hate. I've talked to some doctors that they--- some of them know him.
They said they hate that class, can't stand it. They can't pass it.
KC 45:40
Do you think your son in DC will help repair the Capitol [after the January 6 riots]?
WD 45:50
No. He's sixty-something, in fact he's 61 year old, on the second. And he's working somewhere
around Columbia, Maryland. Doing some house repairs. But he worked on Capitol Hill for quite
a while not the Capitol, but general on Pennsylvania Avenue and up around that way. All up and
down. And all those houses are worth well over a million dollars now.
afc2020009_014-- Winfred Daniels interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
KC 46:33
Oh, yeah.
WD 46:35
People didn't own those houses. Sold those houses pretty much for literally nothing.
KC 46:40
I used to live at 6th and E Northeast. Remember H street Northeast? Now that's a whole new
area.
WD 46:51
Yeah, yeah.
KC 46:52
Bars and shops and....
WD 46:53
Yeah. I was there for a while my sister was in hospital there. I don't know the name of it now but
it was, it was an emergency Hospital and then it was Rogers hospital Memorial Hospital and I
don't know what. All around that area you know it was, you know, the Navy Yard and the ah,
Marine barracks on 8th Street? Sousa--- John Philip Sousa has houses over on Seventh Street
somewhere. G street  I believe it was. Yeah. Around 600 block. Yeah. And the place, you know,
these the stores, Family Dollar and all those stores. Did you know that it started over in, over in
that neighborhood? Out a guy's garage. He was getting food and products from the grocery
stores. That was relocating, closing out their building. And he would buy all bent canned goods
and stuff and resell them. And he moved out [inaudible] in New York Avenue and what's that
Maryland? It runs into New York Avenue out there`. And he called it Marlins. After that, he went
crazy.
KC 48:37
Too bad. You didn't work for him.
WD 48:38
I worked at a liquor store there. The guy, one of the fellows that worked there his uncle's sister---
not sister. He worked for his uncle at the liquor store. And his mother was the guy's sister. So
anyway, he got tired, bored, mad, they fell out about some things and he wanted all his money,
all his inheritance and all that stuff. And he was leaving Washington DC and moving to
California. So he went out and bought him a car. Cadillac, you know, drove out to California.
Came back and then man says Well, he says Johnny's back. Say he left on a 40-something
afc2020009_014-- Winfred Daniels interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
thousand dollar Cadillac came back and a $300,000 bus. He went broke. That guy built toilets.
To go on construction sites. They used to call it Johnny on the spot. That was him.
KC 50:04
You know some entrepreneurs! Winfred, if you were to give a young person advice about
entering furniture repair, what would you say?
WD 50:26
Well if he wanted to enter that, I would just him follow your mind. If that's what you want to do.
Because you can't tell a person what occupation they go into. If you do, they're going to hate it.
And they're going to do a screwed up job the whole time, they're working at that trade because
they feel like they owe you. You know, they feel obligated to do what you tell them and they hate
it. And you doing something you hate ain't nothing in his world trying to go to work and hate to
go. God. So I'd tell people do what you want to do. If you want to go into trade, fine. If they need
any pointers or anything like that. Glad to help 'em.
KC 51:36
Thank you for talking with us.
WD 51:38
Yeah.
KC 51:40
Is there anything you feel like we forgot to ask you about?
WD 51:52
No.
KC 51:55
Any final questions?
JG  51:57
I think we've covered a lot. It's really nice to, it's really nice to hear your story.
WD 52:03
Yeah. Some you---- I don't think'd be good for you to know. [laughter]
KC 52:14
Well thank you.
afc2020009_014-- Winfred Daniels interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
afc2020009_014-- Winfred Daniels interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell