CHARLES H GAGE 
 
SUMMARY: Charles Gage talks to Pat Jasper about the 105 day strike, how 
containerization has drastically reduced man hours and segregated unions. 
 
 
00:32  
ILA offices in Webster, TX Sept 08, 2011 
 
01:05 
Native Houstonian. UH on basketball scholarship. Worked for SHELL for sometime. 
Followed father and uncles to the waterfront in 1946. Father and family moved to Genoa 
during WW 1, right up the street they had a truck farm and sold vegetables to an air force 
base in WW1. Was told by the McGowen family that the port was growing and looking 
for workers. Father and uncles joined and later joined the union. Father died at 56 but was 
President and VP of local 1276 when he died. Rolled cotton, and was walking foreman 
for a while. Then went to work for Canadian Gulf land for 20 years. Then back to Union 
hall. Have 5 children.  
 
05:08 
first day on the docks, was 16 years old. Saw people loading pig iron on a railcar. A rail 
car has pieces of pig iron and it comes with a magnet to pick it up. Trimming grain - had 
to build a theater when you loaded grain. While pouring grain into the ship, it would not 
go to the corners, so men were shoveling it into the corners to make sure a federal law 
was followed. Men ended up with mouth disease. No water keg, but had a water bucket 
that everyone drank out of. No cups. A lot of foreman were drunks. Worked in a lot of 
ports, Houston as the cleanest of them all.  
 
09:00 
Filled in when someone quit in the gang handled by father and uncle. AT 16 could not do 
something that involved strenuous manual labor, but helped around on a lot of summer 
days. Uncle Clarence was a ship superintendent, Uncle Jim had a gang, father had a gang 
and uncle walter had a gang. Father was VP of local 1273. Was a mailman with Shell oil. 
Crossed the picket line with scooter everyday of the strike. Went to work on docks in 
1949.  
 
 
 
13:25 
Strike at Shell. Striking for better conditions and better wages. oil field company workers 
went on strike, Father would not even get a haircut if it was not at union barbershop. 
Houston was more of a union town. When people from the North started moving to 
Texas, it changed from a democratic state to a Republican state. No use for a Union man. 
 
 
Will see a turnaround when the change comes. Right now people are made to work for 
minimum wage with no health insurance and no benefits.  
 
17:00 
Quit Shell because did not want to cross picket line. Waterfront was good for family. 
Primarily rolled cotton, with cotton got paid by the bale. Whereas longshore work was 
paid by the hour. Could work cotton for $3.50 and hour instead of regular work that paid 
$1.15 an hour. Rolled cotton daily for 7-8 years. Went to work for Young & Company 
for 3 years. Liberty Steel Doors for a few years. Canadian Gulf Line was a prestigious 
place to work. Was called and offered a job. Superintendent. Still got paid through the 
union. 1982 young men were disgruntled. with the work given. Worked with real estate 
for a while. Just decided one morning to put in for retirement after 30 years.  
 
22:05 
Was part of union even though was working exclusively for some companies. Not 
standard practice. Was second generation on the waterfront. never brought children to the 
waterfront.  
 
24:10 
Was on a strike for 4 months in 1961 or 1962. Container royalty. Two different wages in 
Houston. Containers make $12-15 an hour, more than the regular workers do now. Back 
then it was all one wage. President named Willie Wales. While he was on the Port 
Commission, they took a trip to Japan. Seen the first container ships being built. Came 
back and told everyone what to get prepared for. Politics got involved, started pushing 
older men aside and set up seniority system. A, B, or C button. 25 years or more got AA 
button. Left for real estate. Then got involved again in early 90s with the retirees.  
 
27:31 
Elected President of the retirees. Got everyone and their wives involved Started having 
meals together and also brought in some speakers from the union to talk. Container 
royalty. Each year workers get about $30,000. Retirees don't get a penny of that. The 
retirees had been on strike for 4 months so that present day workers could get container 
royalty. Feel like they should give about 5-10% of that to retirees.  
 
30:00 
Waterfront had a lot of ignorant people. Was informed by Willie that containers were 
coming and that it was going to kill the industry. Has cut the man-hours more than half. 
At first there were wenches and booms that took cargo on and off the ships. No electric 
wenches. Wenches worked on steam. Only one container company in the world called 
Sea-land. Through the years, containerizations has really strangled the industry. The only 
places that take ships with no containers are those that are too small to handle containers. 
Has cut the man hours down tremendously. Pension was set on man hours. When 
containerization hit, it cut man hours going in pension by half. Made a mistake during the 
 
 
strike by not getting container royalty by the ton. Money would have been better. Move 
1500 -2000 containers in 10 hours. Can move as much tonnage in a day as can be done in 
a week. When pension, welfare and vacation were first introduced the people that fought 
it the  most were the ones that needed it the most. Willie Wales and Raymond Duncan 
helped tide over the crisis.  
 
37:12 
Biggest mistake was never made any change to the insurance paying into the pension, 
welfare and vacation plan. Man hours decreased and the insurance has been frozen. 
Tough to be on strike for 4 months. There was a grocery store on Canal's called Richie's 
Grocery that told the union hall they were willing to provide groceries until the strike was 
settled. They were faithful and went there for 4 months and managed to pay them back at 
the end of the strike, Were a blessing. Tough strike, had to struggle a lot for what the 
future employees are getting today.  
 
40:35 
Segregated unions. When started out as a walking foreman, unions were segregated. 
After a strike, the black local wanted a walking foreman on their end of the ship. They 
got it and did not need someone else watching over them. Walking foreman was white for 
a long time. This strike was in the 70s. Even though segregated, gave each union a sense 
of autonomy and control. Knew the merger was coming and that there would be a lot of 
hatred. Hence, got out of this. There has been a lot of difference since.  
 
43:22 ((SAYS YOU CANNOT PUT THIS IN WRITING)) 
""White man always worked harder than they did and made more tonnage. When they 
merged the two black and whites together then they seen the speed they work, and they 
all come down their speed. It has been a big problem in Houston. All kinds of different 
rules and regulations down there now."  
 
No complaints. "Waterfront was good to me, helped me raise my family and can never 
say anything really bad and I will be a union man till they put me in my grave."  
 
44:37 
ILA retirees organization. Have people from the deep sea local, time keepers local and 
the car loaders local. Meet every third Wednesday at noon. Have a guest speaker. 
Blossomed into a wonderful thing.  
 
46:30 
Gulf wives local merged with the deep sea local. Clerks and checkers union and the car 
loaders. Deep sea loaded anything that crossed the ocean. Couple of shore lines that ran 
between New York and Houston. ILA locals were also merged along with the black and 
white locals.  
 
 
 
49:48 
Had the privilege of working with people of every nation. got to know people from all 
over the world. Still close friends. Hear from them once in a while. Interesting, wonderful 
job. Delta ship line - brought all the paper to Houston, Dallas, Fort Worth. brought it 
from Canada or British Columbia till they sold out. Fascinating life. No two ships load 
the same way. Working with people from all over the world. Was city councilman in 
Pearland.  
 
Track 2 
1:12:13 
Nickname is Earthworm from Elmer Kimlin.  IN 1951 was working flour in a ship Very 
cold day. He kept pouring cold water. at lunch time poured a water keg of water on him 
and he cursed saying earthworm looking.... Lot of history on the docks.