New Amsterdam Market:  
Robert Lavalva  
 
 
16 February 2016
Library of Congress American Folklife Center 
Occupational Folklife Project 
Food Processing and Legacy Trades Collection
Food Processing and Legacy Trades 
Title: New Amsterdam Market interview with Robert Lavalva 
Interview conducted by Makalé Faber Cullen 
Interview /Event Unique ID: afc2015042_02700_ms01 
Date of Interview/Event: 2016-02-16 
Location: Brooklyn, NY 
Duration of Interview / Event (Total): 01:35:51 
Summary of  Interview / Event: 
Founding Director of the New Amsterdam Market, Robert LaValva, 52, discusses the arc of his career from 
New York City Planner with the Department of Sanitation (instrumental in designing New York City’s 
organic waste recycling program) to the founder and producer of New York’s City’s first purveyor’s market in 
almost a century—the New Amsterdam Market, which helped usher in a new food craft and merchant 
workforce. Robert makes stops along the way to reveal the training, travel and family history that shaped his 
work to improve how sustainable food enters New York City. Recently shuttered after almost a decade, 
Robert also daylights the challenges to his work and subsequently the Market’s viability on its original site. 
The interview closes with a snapshot of his current work, which extends the mission of the New Amsterdam 
Market in new contexts.   
Interview Log: 
0 00 07 Introduction. Date and Place of Birth. Trenton, NJ March 20 1964.  
0 02 15 Robert on the many career paths that led to his founding of the New Amsterdam Market. // I spent 
ten years working in the New York City Department of Sanitation as a City Planner working on the. then 
nascent, recycling program. My charge was organic waste and composting. That decade of exposure to 
people working in that field is, in part, what introduced me to thinking about organic agriculture and 
sustainability and permaculture and food systems, even though I wouldn’t have defined it as such at the time. 
But the people who are talking about dirt are the people who are talking about vegetables, as it turns out. 
0 03 45 On beginnings of the New Amsterdam Market. // After a decade, I left City government and 
decided I wanted to work in food. I didn’t want to work at a restaurant, though I like to cook. I wasn’t quite 
sure what in food I wanted to do. But I’d heard of a very unusual organization called Slow Food. My family is 
from Italy so there was an interesting personal connection, too. I was intrigued by what they were doing. They 
seemed to be addressing some very unusual and very interesting issues that I’d begun thinking about. And so, 
I picked up the phone—I’d left my job at this point—and I asked if I could come and volunteer. They said 
“Sure, come on over.” I would say, in some ways, that is when my work on New Amsterdam Market began, in 
2002. 
0 05 01 It was the interconnectivity between food production and the environment, a very personal interest 
of mine, that propelled me forward. That and how food systems are also cultural: how is food grown, who is 
growing it how it is produced, where it is produced, how we consume it… 
0 05 38 I spent about two years at Slow Food, first as a volunteer, and then as a one of the staff, almost full-
time. But all the while thinking, “I’m doing this because I’m preparing connections so that I can go on and do 
my own thing.” Although I didn’t know what that was.  
0 05 59 Robert on early concepts of how he would apply his portfolio of work and interests to a new 
venture. // I thought it was going to be a shop. Like your corner grocery, but everything sold there would be 
afc2015042_02700_ms01
"  of "
1
10
New Amsterdam Market:  
Robert Lavalva  
 
 
16 February 2016
Library of Congress American Folklife Center 
Occupational Folklife Project 
Food Processing and Legacy Trades Collection
real, local, fresh, seasonal, humanely-raised and butchered, on and on. The shop would contain all of the 
things I was learning about at Slow Food…  
0 06 45 I was at a loose end. I thought I was going to open a shop but found myself not really going for it. I 
went far into the investigation of opening one and even found a place that I could afford to rent. But I also 
had no idea what the rules were, for example, ‘How are you allowed to sell meat? How does it need to be 
wrapped?’ all of it was very mysterious… 
0 07 25 Among my investigations was time working in a shop that I very much admired called Neal’s Yard 
Dairy, a cheese store in London that had become very famous in the Slow Food world for having 
championed traditional English farmhouse cheeses. They’re widely credited with being the saviors of these 
cheeses…and I loved that whole aspect of it. In February, 2005 I went to London for a week and visited 
some cheesemakers who supplied Neal’s Yard Dairy and worked in their cheese shop. It was fascinating and 
wonderful. I think about it often.  
0 08 32 I realized that I didn’t have it in me to open a shop once I really spent the time working there, but 
their shop was located in The Borough—an area in South London which had long been a food district, since 
Roman times…featuring all the food trades. A lot of that had gone, but there remained a wholesale produce 
market called Borough Market which was steps away from Neal’s Yard Cheese Shop and which, just a few 
years prior, was brought back to life by various individuals. Here was this old wholesale produce market, in its 
dying days and they had the idea that it could be a retail market as well.  
0 09 46 They [the Borough Market managers] started by holding seasonal events which quickly transformed 
into a full-fledged market. When I went to work at Neal’s Yard on a very early Friday morning shift to set up 
the shop, I was done with around 7am and I walked down the block into the market, which was just then 
coming to life.  
0 10 36 It was really a magical experience. The sound of the market coming to life. The site of things like 
pheasants and sides of deer just hanging by the butchers. Wheels of cheese and aisles of produce stacked and 
presented in a way that was very, very, very different from what I was used to in the greenmarkets here. There 
was a different feeling because this market was partially indoors and therefore it had things going on that you 
couldn’t do in an outside setting. Vendors had permanent stalls. It wasn’t that you set it up and took it down 
the same day. It was a permanent institution.  
0 11 32 It reverberated with history. You could feel how old the place was. And there was an excitement 
because of the new life that had been breathed into it by a lot of these new purveyors who were doing 
something very interesting with food—like Neal’s Yard. There was a scallop diver who would just bring a pile 
of scallops. That’s all he sold. He would open one up, put it on the grill and you could eat it there. There was 
a sense of a place that was different from any other market I’d ever been. It was about food but it was also 
about the people selling the food because they weren’t just farmers. And nothing wrong with farmers, we all 
love farmers, but suddenly here was the butcher and the cheesemonger and the grocer and the importer. All 
these ‘legacy trades,’ to use the word—things you’ve read about or heard about but that seemed to have all 
disappeared. Yet here they all were under one roof, at Borough Market.  
0 12 50 And so, while there were many paths that led me to founding New Amsterdam Market, walking 
through Borough Market, seeing it come to life…thronged with people, buzzing with energy and 
excitement…I immediately thought, “Why don’t we have something like this in New York?” 
0 13 18 I returned to the City and knew what I wanted to do. I didn’t want to open a shop, I wanted to open a 
market where there would be many individual shops owned by other people. So, of course, I got back with 
this great idea and thought, “How the hell do I do that?” 
afc2015042_02700_ms01
"  of "
2
10
New Amsterdam Market:  
Robert Lavalva  
 
 
16 February 2016
Library of Congress American Folklife Center 
Occupational Folklife Project 
Food Processing and Legacy Trades Collection
0 13 40 I was inspired by a few things I learned about New York City—like the Greenmarket didn’t always 
exist. Several people thought the City needed farmers markets and introduced the concept and the markets in 
1976. 
0 14 02 Around that same time, a woman named Nina Planck who had been running the NYC Greenmarket 
started a new market. I was inspired. People start markets. Why not me? 
0 14 30 Of course my market was going to be very particular because I came to realize that it could be a way 
to embody so many things that I had learned about in Slow Food: connecting food to the environment, 
connecting food to your local region, connecting food to health, on and on. There were people who were 
doing all this who were not farmers and who, therefore, would never have been able to sell—and still aren’t 
allowed to sell—in the New York City Greenmarkets. So, for example, Fleisher's which had opened a butcher 
store in Kingston, NY that only sold humanely slaughtered meats had no City retail presence. They were 
reviving something very old, but in a particular 21st century way. And I started thinking THAT’S a purveyor
—someone different from a farmer, yet they’re sustaining the same values. And, not every rural, traditional 
farmer wants to come to the Greenmarket in New York City. Underlying this was the question: how do we 
find ways to get this kind of real food into the City? It all started to coalesce in my mind: there needs to be a 
market in New York City that’s more like the Borough Market where vendors and small businesses can set up 
shop.  
0 16 15 [MFC: Now might be a good time to open this up to get a sense of what other pieces you were 
bringing to your observations, I’m thinking here of your training…]  
0 16 44 Soooo, I was one of those people who never knew what they wanted to do, and in some ways I might 
still say that! As an undergraduate, I found myself drawn to what seemed to be two opposing poles—the 
natural and the built environment. I wanted to study biology and environmental science. I was fortunate to be 
introduced at a young age to environmental concerns by my hippie middle-school teachers and that remained 
with me. I wanted to work in a field that could help better the environment. I didn’t know exactly what, but 
that was an interest. So I was going to be a biology major and somehow get into ecology.  
0 17 33 But! I also loved the City. I loved something about New York City that I couldn’t put my finger on. 
Something about the buildings and the people and the subways and the traffic lights and the systems that run 
it. All of the infrastructure…the daily life.  
0 17 58 I thought that as much as I loved plants, and still do, that if I just studied plants I would not be able 
to work on the built environment. So it was a dilemma for me. I found a major called Urban Design Studies, 
which intrigued me and at least satisfied all my curiosity about plants and design and that was a major pursued 
by many people who went on to study architecture. So it opened that door.  
0 18 38 My undergraduate work was at New York University. I later went to the Harvard Graduate School of 
Design to get a Masters in Architecture, from which I graduated in 1991. I had a very hard time in 
architecture school. Again, I wasn’t quite sure why I was in architecture school. I loved a lot of what I learned 
there but I never really felt that I belonged because I never thought I would end up being an architect and I 
never did! 
0 19 13 When I graduated, I started to look for jobs in planning instead instead of architecture. I think 
because I felt I didn’t want to be a designer. I didn’t want to be an architect, at least as architecture practiced 
today—I don’t like glass buildings. I like bricks and nobody builds with bricks anymore. Simple things like 
that and I thought, I like cities. Maybe I’ll just work as a planner.  
0 19 32 And then, very fortuitously, through the New York Times, I found an advertisement for a job at the 
New York City Department of Sanitation as a City Planner for their growing recycling program. It was to 
deal with the construction of recycling facilities. They wanted someone who had a knowledge of buildings 
and how buildings work. I thought, “What a perfect combination of my interests!” I applied for the job. 
afc2015042_02700_ms01
"  of "
3
10
New Amsterdam Market:  
Robert Lavalva  
 
 
16 February 2016
Library of Congress American Folklife Center 
Occupational Folklife Project 
Food Processing and Legacy Trades Collection
0 20 00 During my interview, a second person from the Department sat in and said, “Well, I want to let you 
know that I’m also working on this recycling program but I’m dealing with organic waste and composting and 
I need someone to work for me as well. This line just opened up and I’d like to know, might you have any 
interest in it?” 
0 20 20 I was just fascinated. I thought, ‘My god! Composting!’ I knew a little bit about it and it seemed like 
such a magical thing. And I said, “Absolutely. I know I should go with the job having to do with buildings, but 
I like the dirt.” Now, I could be a planner and deal with dirt or nature. So that seemed like the perfect thing. I 
worked for ten years in the composting program. And it was a really great experience in that it let me work in 
the City and with buildings and facilities, dealing with City government, City processes, City infrastructure. 
Yet, I was connected to the world of the Botanical Gardens and urban farmers and people thinking about the 
cycling of organic waste. So it gave me that kind of exposure too. 
0 21 09 How that experience influenced the development of the New Amsterdam Market // I was interested 
in food and food systems…in what a market is in the life of a city. It’s a place where people buy food. A place 
where people sell food. But public markets, as they’ve existed for all time, have also been as culturally relevant 
as a museum or a park or a school or a church. They’re very much part of the fabric of city life and city 
living. 
0 22 29 [MFC: Tell me about designing the actual market] I had a few very strong goals. One was that it had 
to be covered…and it had to have running water. A covered space has a different feeling than a tented 
marketplace….As well, what I felt at Borough Market was a sense of time and of history (and so I wanted 
the location and design of the market to authentically emulate that). 
0 24 02 When I got back to New York City I went to the public library and looked into the history of 
markets in New York City. I stumbled upon a very curious book called The Market Book, which was the history 
of public markets in New York City from its founding in the Dutch days through the 1850s. It was written by 
a retired butcher, Thomas DeVoe, who was a staunch defender of the public market system which was then 
starting to erode. 
0 24 42 He collected market ephemera which is still to be found in a few boxes in the New York Historical 
Society. It’s a fascinating book which, when it was reprinted sometime in the 1970s, was printed under a series 
about the nation’s economic history. I hadn’t really put two and two together but later realized markets are 
engines of economic development. 
0 25 25 What I learned through Thomas DeVoe was that the markets like Borough Market in London were 
nothing that New York City didn’t have. Since our earliest days, we’ve had public markets where butchers, 
fishers, grocers, cheesemongers, and bakers plied their trade. New York City markets were covered, they were 
indoors, and, in fact, had been meccas in their day, known around the world. Travelers of the century were 
astounded by the amount of wild game in New York City public markets. 
 0 26 31 New York City had grand market halls, covered arcades, glass ceilings….each every bit as romantic 
and fantastic as Les Halles or other markets you’ve read about. But it all faded away.  
0 26 54 However! There were still dying embers of this public market system in New York City…and so I 
thought, well, could there be some way to place it in the shell of an old market so that it could have that 
feeling of history as well as something very new? 
0 27 31 And, because I’d worked for the City and knew my way around, I began to think maybe I need to 
approach the City about this concept. The first place I thought this could work was the old Essex Street 
Market which was not an old 19th century market by any stretch, it was built in the WPA era and it was not so 
romantic, but nonetheless, it had once been comprised of four buildings and by the time I began looking at it 
afc2015042_02700_ms01
"  of "
4
10
New Amsterdam Market:  
Robert Lavalva  
 
 
16 February 2016
Library of Congress American Folklife Center 
Occupational Folklife Project 
Food Processing and Legacy Trades Collection
in 2006 or so, the market occupied only one of those buildings and two were empty. And so, in a very naive 
way, I thought, “Well, these buildings are empty, let’s fill them with new kinds of food businesses.”  
0 28 33 I approached City government through EDC (the New York Economic Development Corporation) 
and came to learn they had no idea what I was talking about nor had they any interest in what I was talking 
about. They were interested in taking those empty buildings and developing them for real estate. But 
nonetheless, that was the beginning of this attempt to find a site for the market.  
0 29 10 Robert describes selecting the first site and producing the first iteration of the New Amsterdam 
Market. // To test the concept of this different kind of public market in New York City, I held a one-day 
event in 2005, the same year I visited Borough Market. It was held in the New York City Municipal Building, 
under cover of its beautiful, vaulted arcade. The success of the event made me realize there was traction for 
the idea… 
0 32 50 All this time, in the back of my mind I had this nagging little voice that said, what about the Fulton 
Fish Market? October, 2005, I held this one day event. November, 2005, the City forcibly removed the 
vendors of the Fulton Fish Market and took them to a new facility in The Bronx for many, many 
reasons….leaving behind the Old Fulton Fish Market Site which is also in Lower Manhattan, on the shore of 
the East River, under the shadow of the Brooklyn Bridge.  
0 33 29   Robert discuss the zeitgeist within which the market began. // 2005 was also the year The High 
Line was gaining momentum. It had been an idea proposed by an organization and that met a lot of 
opposition but they’d finally grown enough of a support base and gotten the City government to agree that 
this old, disused commercial railroad track, that had been seen by the real estate industry as something-in-the-
way-of-development should not be torn down as nearly everyone wanted, but should be saved and made into 
something new. A new kind of public space. 
0 34 05 I’d seen this and thought, the Old Fish Market buildings probably need a lot of work, just like the 
High Line, but if we could convert it into something like Borough Market, that would be an amazing thing 
the City could do.  
0 35 00 And so it began to enter my mind to make a case for preserving the Old Fulton Fish Market building 
and turning it into a new kind of market. I was emboldened by the High Line and emboldened by my own 
digging into history and learning that the Old Fish Market Building was a City-owned building, therefore it 
was a public site. So it seemed perfectly natural that the public should have a say in what would happen to it. 
But secondly, and even more dramatically, was that as I began to peel away the layers of onion skin, I realized 
that it had been a site of public markets since the very, very origin of the City of New York. It was the 
location of a ferry landing that would bring farmers and their cattle and their products over from Brooklyn to 
Manhattan starting in 1642. 
0 36 41 Here[at the Old Fulton Fish Market] we had two old buildings that we could never be built again. 
They’re of a different era, but you could certainly save and rehab them. What they embody is a legacy that is 
far, far, far older. [Producing the New Amsterdam Market there] shows that markets change and evolve.  
0 37 37 So all this filled my mind, as did huge fear. I learned enough to know that the City was quite 
potentially interested in real estate development at the Old Fulton Fish Market site and I knew it would 
involve big time players. I thought, “That’s going to be a battle.” But it also seemed like something that had to 
be done.  
0 38 11 When I think back on that time. I feel that there was this vortex, drawing me. That I knew better than 
to go there, but I couldn’t stop myself from going. 
0 38 25 Robert discusses actions he took to fortify his position. // I realized I needed an organization and so 
I started a non-profit to be the entity. I collaborated with someone who was very helpful at the time and she 
afc2015042_02700_ms01
"  of "
5
10
New Amsterdam Market:  
Robert Lavalva  
 
 
16 February 2016
Library of Congress American Folklife Center 
Occupational Folklife Project 
Food Processing and Legacy Trades Collection
and I worked together to create the organization and launch this appeal. Her name was Jill Slater. So there 
were a lot of things coming together and thus began this pursuit of petitioning city, local and state politicians, 
nationally recognized figures. 
0 42 24 The production of the first market event on the Old Fulton Fish Market site, “The Winter Market” 
drew several thousand attendees. That was the beginning of a long campaign and cycle of market production, 
between 2007 - 2014. 
0 43 16 Robert describes the planning and logistical details of producing the market and its guiding principles, 
i.e. criteria for finding and selecting purveyors/tradespeople/entrepreneurs, constructing the physical space, 
etc. 
0 46 30 There were very few entrepreneurs at the time who met all our criteria, but the concept was strong 
and there was a new economic sector developing. So we crafted the market aspirationally and soon enough, 
there were many participating businesses. Yet I knew it would take a good 10-15 years for it to be fully 
realized since even though the sector was burgeoning, the participating businesses were still rather small…  
0 47 35 Robert compares New York City’s new public market trajectory to London’s // In London, even 
though they’re an industrialized nation, they still preserve so much more than we ever did. So when the 
people decided to revive Borough Market…while many food craft traditions were no longer vibrant, there 
was something to work from whereas here in New York City, we simply didn’t have anyone.  
0 48 33 [MFC: Is that when you developed your mission to become an incubator for new, sustainable food 
businesses?] Yes. There were some existing companies that were changing, but it’s hard to change your model 
while all the systems are in place. The change comes from new businesses. For most of the vendors at our 
market, this was their first opportunity to sell…and they did so using different financial principles, different 
supply chains. We also took some existing businesses, like a very successful family of restaurants who 
incubated a small grocery store in the frontage of one of their cafés. They inspired other grocers to sell local 
foods, not just mass-produced products. 
0 52 03 Over the years of the market, more and more people shifted their buying patterns, which in turn 
supported new ways of doing business and working… 
0 52 37 Robert reflects on why there was an opening and rush to shift careers from white collar to legacy 
food trades. // The new jobs tended to be filled or designed by people who were educated and maybe had 
gone into the corporate world and were fed-up with it or were drawn to food but maybe didn’t necessarily 
want to be a chef. Or, they were chefs and wanted to transition. It was this subset of people, who were also 
thinking of all the connections along the way of how food gets to your plate, that pushed the return of 
legacy food trades. It mirrored what organic farmers were doing. Farmers saw there was a time before 
synthetic agriculture that they could learn from.  
0 55 00 As farmers were returning to a non-industrial form of food production, where was that food going to 
be sold? Grocery stores, as we know them now, were created to sell industrially produced foods. The retail 
model of fishmongers and cheesemongers and bakers were a thing of the past. What the New Amsterdam 
Market was doing was supporting the reestablishment of these sellers, these institutions, these legacy trades. 
They were smaller scale businesses connected, in turn, to smaller scale producers.  
0 56 01 Robert reads the titles of participating New Amsterdam Market purveyors. He discusses the 
backstory of the original, aspirational list of purveyors and the actual list of purveyors participating over the 
course of New Amsterdam Market’s production. From 2009-2014, just in the short span of four years, 
remarkably many these jobs (re)emerged. I do think, time to time, the fact that the New Amsterdam Market 
existed, inspired some people to take up these trades…because they realized there was demand. 
afc2015042_02700_ms01
"  of "
6
10
New Amsterdam Market:  
Robert Lavalva  
 
 
16 February 2016
Library of Congress American Folklife Center 
Occupational Folklife Project 
Food Processing and Legacy Trades Collection
1 00 10 Robert discusses graphics associated with the New Amsterdam Market, known for its strong aesthetic 
and its progressive branding. He discusses the challenges in describing the distinction between a farmers 
markets and a purveyor’s market and how he was able to overcome those challenges through graphics.  
1 03 14 Robert on the challenges and obstacles to supporting an alternative food supply chain and to 
preserving a public heritage building in New York City—the Old Fulton Fish Market building.   
1 05 48 I faced the fact that this is a city that cares very little about preserving its past and has always put 
development first. That’s part of the soul of the City and that’s got to be acknowledged, too. It’s what makes 
New York such a vibrant, energetic place. But nonetheless, I felt this was too important of a site to succumb 
to that fate… 
Audio Recording #2. 
0 00 14 Robert discusses the political support he cultivated for New Amsterdam Market and how it flailed 
under New York City’s economic development pressures. // With each year of Market’s production, it 
became more and more attached to the Old Fulton Fish Market site.  Robert discuss the political, financial, 
and logistical challenges of that. He also discuses the impact Mayor Bloomberg’s controversial third term had 
on New Amsterdam Market’s production and how the succeeding mayor, Bill deBlassio, handled the Market’s 
need for a permanent home in a publicly-owned building.  
0 01 30 Robert on the closing of New Amsterdam Market. // Once they [de Blassio] made their intentions 
clear to me, that was a signal to let go because I had already invested so much of my life and my time—and I 
should state, as this is a historic record, that I never managed to compensate myself for my work.  
0 01 57 Robert sums up the many conditions that led to him raising a white flag at the Old Fulton Fish 
Market site and shuttering New Amsterdam Market as it had been produced. // It was rather demoralizing to 
have to go through that (the inherent financial and logistical difficulties of producing the Market) as well as 
having to fight a political battle, as well as having to go through a lot of things that made me 
uncomfortable…[for example] I’m not really a public speaker by nature, but I forced myself to be more 
outgoing and get up in front of rallies and really lead a campaign. It was stressful on all of those levels and it 
was not rewarding financially and to finally learn that even a new progressive administration didn’t see the 
value of what I was proposing….Well, that’s was when I decided to pull the plug. I was at very frayed nerves 
at that time and I let it go…Not to say forever. 
0 03 05 Robert distinguishes his passion for preserving the Old Fulton Fish Market building and the original 
intention of the New Amsterdam Market in New York City, which wasn’t attached to a site. // The spirit of 
the Market was very real. I’ve seen the amazing evolution of new businesses. So in one way or another, if I 
still decide to pursue this vision it doesn’t need to be connected to such contention.  
0 03 55 Robert discusses his continued belief in New York City as an ideal place for a purveyor’s market. // 
It’s not always being easy to be optimistic about New York because we’ve seen it consumed by almost a 
sickness of wealth. It’s always been a city of wealth, of power brokers, but I’ve not read about, or heard 
about, or seen a moment where anyone who isn’t part of a stratospheric income level—and who isn’t here, 
able to hold on because of some lucky circumstance—just can not make it here anymore. That all said, it’s 
still such a mecca and a such a powerful economic engine regionally as well as nationally, worldwide…and 
there’s immense power in thinking of cities as places that drive change because of their concentrations and 
because of the diversity of people there. As much as it’s a sad moment for us New Yorkers to see the City the 
way it is today, it still is a powerful place. It’s an economically powerful place. It’s a symbolically powerful 
place.  And, let’s face it, if there are a lot of people with resources living here, they need to eat too. And so we 
should harness that power. All of us who are interested in better food systems always have to confront the 
reality that at least in the economy of the world that exists today, and in the part of the world we live in, all of 
afc2015042_02700_ms01
"  of "
7
10
New Amsterdam Market:  
Robert Lavalva  
 
 
16 February 2016
Library of Congress American Folklife Center 
Occupational Folklife Project 
Food Processing and Legacy Trades Collection
this better food is more likely than not expensive. It is certainly more expensive than what is produced with 
more conventional means. And that is a big dilemma of course because no one of us thinks that only wealthy 
people, or people with means, should buy this food, but that’s how things are. And so, while much work 
needs to be done to make the food system more just and more fair and more accessible to everyone, if the 
starting point is such that the food costs more let’s not forget that cost is paying for cleaner water, cleaner 
land, healthier animals, happier animals, better paid farm workers — a plethora of very positive things.  
0 08 02 So again, let’s continue to resolve how to make food accessible but let’s not shy away from it just 
because it costs more—that money is going towards very good things. And, if you have a city that has a 
substantial group of people that can afford it, let’s get it into their hands because that will drive a lot of 
change in the agricultural system and in the business world…and culturally.  
0 08 54 [MFC: In thinking about how you’ve described New York City, can you share a bit of your 
relationship to your grandparents (who lived in the apartment you live in today) and how that nurtured your 
relationship to the city?]  
0 09 32 Robert discusses growing up in relatively rural Central New Jersey with several childhood years spent 
living in Rome, his parent’s hometown…visiting markets with his Roman grandmother, picking up cultural 
references on the role of the public market in city life. ‘When we moved back to New Jersey, I missed city life 
and I didn’t find myself very drawn to the typical suburban childhood—being on the baseball team just 
wasn’t who I was. My cousin was in the City as were my grandparents and I always though it was quite fun to 
just walk around and be in a place like New York, which was the complete opposite of the suburbs. I felt 
deep down that I may want to live in the City when I grew up…’ 
0 10 49 I happened to be going to college at NYU from 1982-1986 at a time when the area in Central New 
Jersey where I grew up, went through a massive, massive wave of suburbanization and development. Robert 
describes the largely rural area, with a legacy of agriculture, being decimated by strip malls, housing 
developments, business parks, office parks…  
0 11 34 Each time I’d take the bus and go home, I’d see another farm disappear or another mall being built. 
Partially through my aesthetic sensibility, but also my nascent environmental awareness, I thought this was not 
a sane way to be living. To me, again perhaps simplistically, I saw that the City had block after block of 
burned-out buildings—wastelands up in Harlem and in the East Village, where I lived. There were empty 
buildings everywhere. It just made no rational sense: how could we have taken a living, thriving place and 
emptied it out while also displacing farms that should’ve been left alone. It was very stark to me. I felt I began 
to understand all the forces behind the way this country grew and developed but it didn’t seem like a very 
sustainable way of living. And really, the answer lies in living in cities again.  
0 13 40 Robert responds to a question of his aesthetic sensibilities, something the New Amsterdam Market 
was lauded for by vendors and market goers alike. He discusses his architecture school experiences as well as 
the design opportunities during Market production that arose from not having the resources to pay an 
illustrator or graphic designer but that also arose from the introduction of new accessible design technologies 
like InDesign. He discusses the joys these creative tasks brought to his work.  
0 16 15 Robert discusses his fascination with typography and his integration of it into New Amsterdam 
Market’s identity…finding and using historic Dutch fonts and designed-in-New York fonts in branding, 
communications and marketing materials. 
0 17 25 How architectural training helped Robert design and build the very distinctive look of New  
Amsterdam Market. // Because of the nature of participating purveyor-vendors, most weren’t able to arrive 
with a tent and a table and all the stuff they needed. I knew that we would need to provide all of that which 
was a huge challenge, which became a struggle, and a cost and an issue, and a lot of logistics to think about. 
But also, what an opportunity! To create an environment by paying attention to all the details. Because at a 
typical farmers market anywhere in the country today, there’s almost no thought put into design. Vendors are 
afc2015042_02700_ms01
"  of "
8
10
New Amsterdam Market:  
Robert Lavalva  
 
 
16 February 2016
Library of Congress American Folklife Center 
Occupational Folklife Project 
Food Processing and Legacy Trades Collection
told they have between here and here to set up their stalls and they do whatever they want. That’s great. It’s 
eclectic, but it doesn’t necessarily convey a sense of the whole. I thought it would be very important to 
provide the infrastructure that was needed and instill some order structurally as well as visually to create a 
whole out of many disparate parts.  
0 19 22 I think it was a way of expressing myself architecturally because I had chosen not to practice 
architecture, yet here was my canvas. I could now begin to find a way to create a physical environmental. 
0 20 25 Current projects, post-market.  Robert on closing the New Amsterdam market and entering a period 
of wandering. // That I felt a bit lost was in part natural. I was so focused, so driven, so attached. I wasn’t 
sure what to do next. I wanted to earn money again, but I didn’t want to loose everything I had worked on in 
terms of economic development and food systems. I was trying to find a way to use what I’d learned at the 
market as a way to find compensated work, but also to hopefully do work that furthered the New Amsterdam 
Market’s mission. There’s not a lot of money to be made in food, by and large. It’s lean. There’s not a lot of 
money left over to hire a consultant. I didn’t find it easy to meet all my values and provide a service to 
someone. But, just because it isn’t easy, doesn’t mean it can’t be done. I eventually found my way to a few 
projects, two of which I’ll mention. 
0 22 29 Robert describes his work for The Battery Conservancy, which stewards the revival and development 
of a very old park at the southern tip of Manhattan. // The park is now emerging and developing a new 
food program. What’s exciting is that it corresponds to my previous work, leading me to create an event for 
the Conservancy—a big fair that will take place in June of this year. It’s not a bringing back of the New 
Amsterdam Market, per se, but represents the spirit of the Market, will include many familiar vendors, keeps 
the name of the market alive as well as introduces a new concept.  
0 24 21 Robert describes the second project—a commissary he’s designing. It’s a commercial project for a 
client that evolved from his work with The Battery Conservancy.  Figuring out how to get sustainably 
produced food into Battery Park led Robert to work on developing the infrastructure required to provide that 
kind of food. // What were talking about is food produced from little pushcarts. In order to sell food from a 
pushcart in New York City, you need a special kitchen and a special garage and you need storage and so on, 
all permitted. This work relates to a question you asked earlier—while we were promoting a space for vendors 
to sell on a weekend via the New Amsterdam Market, what I wished we could’ve provided was a cold storage 
warehouse, a commercial kitchen where they could cut down a whole steer, etc. That kind of a hub is very 
much a missing link in expanding the food system and in whatever way I’m able, I’m going to try to connect 
it to this new food system. It’s been a long path but now I find myself, in an interesting way, looking at two 
important aspects of the food system: on one hand, the background infrastructure, literally the kitchen, pot, 
pan and refrigerator, but on the other hand, the expression of it to the public through an event. Through the 
space of a public market.  
0 26 47 Robert notes that public market as a term has been abused and misused. ‘It really does need to be in a 
public setting and have some civic sense to it otherwise it’s not a public market.’  
0 28 00 In broad strokes, Robert describes a typical month/week/day in the day of the life of the New 
Amsterdam Market. He notes that a lot of his time during those years was consumed by politics and dealings 
with the real estate battle for the Old Fulton Fish Market site. When he thinks back on those years of work, 
he recalls being on the phone with elected officials and their staff, creating petitions, attending meetings, 
conducting campaigns. Everything, he says, involved with fighting a mission-driven campaign….But, when I 
look back on the Market itself, I think I was able to do that because it reached a point where there was 
logistical, organizational and administrative work that I was able to delegate: billing, invoicing and 
communicating with vendors, recruitment, the setting up and taking down of market each day—which, he 
points out was a distinct workforce development program which had its own meaning and its own 
importance…  
afc2015042_02700_ms01
"  of "
9
10
New Amsterdam Market:  
Robert Lavalva  
 
 
16 February 2016
Library of Congress American Folklife Center 
Occupational Folklife Project 
Food Processing and Legacy Trades Collection
0 29 55 When I was able to not think about the battle and the politics and I knew that all those operational 
and logistical things were being taken care of, what I spent time on—and what I enjoyed the most—was 
public communication. I began to conceive of various events that introduced some aspect of the food world 
to market goers…a cheese festival or a pickle festival or an ice cream or bread pavilion—twelve or so bakers, 
each making one special loaf using a regional grain and therefore supporting local farms and bringing back of 
heirloom species of wheat or einkorn or spelt….producing something very delicious, in a lively way of 
learning without being official or dogmatic.  
0 32 37 If I could look back in a very idealized way, that’s when I felt the most energized. When I could 
spend my time thinking through public ways of celebrating an emerging food system and communicating 
important ideas but doing it in a way that people could enjoy without realizing almost that they were being 
taught something. If they didn’t care to learn they could walk away knowing that they’d eaten something 
delicious. And, if they thought about what they were eating they might come away understanding some of 
what’s going on in the world. I found that a very fulfilling thing to spend my time on.
afc2015042_02700_ms01
"
 of "
10
10