Back of House: Kitchen Workers in Central Ohio
Archie Green Fellows Project, 2017 
Occupational Folklife Project || American Folklife Center 
Interviewee: Jameson Wagner [Night Manager, Adriatico’s Pizza] 
Interviewer: Jess Lamar Reece Holler 
Date of Interview: Thursday, June 7th, 2018 
Location: Adriatico’s Pizza -- 11th Avenue, near Ohio State University Campus 
SOUND QUALITY NOTE: The interview took place during evening hours at Adriatico’s Pizza on the 
Ohio State University campus; Adriatico’s features several televisions playing sports, which were on and turned to 
hockey during the ﬁrst hour-and-change of this interview. Several patrons (and a staﬀ member) enthusiastically 
watched and participated in the game’s conclusion; and those sounds are reﬂected in the interview. Around 
00:38:00, two employees also begin assembling pizza boxes in the main dining room. By interview’s end, the rest of 
the front-of-house staﬀ begins to break down the dining room, stack chairs on the table, and break down the dining 
room for the night.
Interview Index 
00:00:00 -- Introductory Slate // Interview Lede 
00:01:35 -- Early Life & Childhood: Medina, Ohio // Family-of-Origin Food Cultures 
●
Growing up in Medina, Ohio, which ballooned in size rapidly during Jameson’s youth; 
Jameson describes it as a spot that some people might ﬁnd boring; but it was a good place to 
grow up
●
Father was a manager in grocery stores for twenty years, and then worked as a truck driver; 
mom worked in insurance, and then babysitting her kids and other kids
●
Involved in sports growing up; ﬁrst job (in elementary school) was helping a friend’s dad with 
work on a Christmas tree farm
●
Mom cooked alot of meals growing up; family had a limited budget and didn’t go out to eat 
that often; when they did, they went to places like Perkins, Texas Roadhouse -- “...  being 
Medina, it was alot of, just: corporate stuﬀ.”
00:06:00 -- First Kitchen Job: Grand Market [now defunct] in Medina, Ohio 
●
Jameson describes getting a job, upon entrance into high school, from a friend from a 
baseball team who was working there
●
Started out as a dishwasher, and moved up to various positions within the kitchen: from 
dishwashing to bussing to prep cooking to producing hundreds of glazed hams for holiday 
production for local corporations (story about making a thousand glazed hams, at 00:07:00)
●
Didn’t have a ton of kitchen experience within the family; dad did Hamburger Helper but 
wasn’t super active in the kitchen; “alot of what I learned in cooking happened at that job”
●
00:08:27 -- Jameson describes planning on moving up from dishwashing to other jobs back-
of-house; “we decided to get good at that job, as dishwashers … I want to get good, I want to 
make more money; I don’t want to be a dishwasher.”
●
00:09:06 -- Jameson discusses dishwashing culture; “it’s gross”; their restaurant used a 
machine, instead of just a three-basin sink; and describes getting interested in back-of-house 
culture and beginning to eye those positions
●
00:10:00 -- Jameson describes the back-of-house set-up; dishwashing; “the line”; water well 
holding various sauces/potatoes, to be served; oven for sautéeing and grill for steaks; and a 
salad station, and display, where dishes are taken to kitchen
●
00:11:00 -- Discussion of the high-end culture of Grand Market, “steak and seafood” and the 
sync with the community in Medina; Jameson discusses some of his thoughts on why the 
restaurant went out of business; restaurant cycled through ﬁve-or-so head chefs in three-and-
a-half years; concern about leadership and cutting corners in a restaurant that attempts to be 
high end
●
00:13:00 -- Learning how to do back-of-house shifts; starting to try the full menu as a part of 
a free shift menu for being a dishwasher; “ﬁrst time I tried a steak that’s not well-done”; 
watching the chefs and sous chefs work with the dishes -- also, a way to keep the job more 
interesting; Jameson wonders if part of this was because there weren’t smartphones back 
then
00:14:30 -- Back-of-House Kitchen Culture at Grand Market // “Extracurricular” 
Socialization  
●
 Discussion of the culture; he expected fancy people, because it was a high-end restaurant, 
but realized that, “there’s nothing special” about the work the back-of-house team did; and 
started realizing that he could try that work himself
●
Worked at Grand Market for four years, through high school; and then the summer after his 
ﬁrst year at Ohio State; and, during the end of the summer, they just shut the doors 
●
00:16:00 -- Culture back-of-house at Grand Market: “it’s a crude culture … a lot of swearing, 
and what-not; tempers ﬂare … chefs getting angry, slamming things, and people throwing 
their aprons on the ground and going outside for a cigarette in the middle of a rush … there’s 
alot of that; alot of work hard-play hard …”; Jameson also discusses the “extracurriculars” -- 
socialization amongst the back-of-house staﬀ after hours and limitations of working as a 
ﬁfteen/sixteen-year old who was very committed to his schoolwork; role of humor in the 
back-of-house culture; chefs drinking on the job; extended smoke breaks; rapport between 
front-of-house and back-of-house (but, also, clashes); also describes how he learned from 
working with co-workers who were ten or twenty years older -- “I learned a lot of things I 
never learned before, in terms of vulgarity … and: what’s possible”; discussion of the mostly-
male back-of-house team; “We had one female cook … and she was good; but she also 
responded just as hard …”
●
00:21:18 -- “Extracurriculars”: socialization outside of work hours (bowling, movies, etc.) 
amongst the back-of-house staﬀ; going on boats on Chippewa Lake -- “I spent more time 
with people I worked with than other friends, from school, or sports. That was a big part of 
me exploring the real world, and what’s out there … I spent alot of time in school, doing well, 
high GPA, playing sports, and all of that; and this was like … being in real conversations, 
with real people”
●
Going camping with co-workers; visiting older co-workers at their own places -- “It was all 
unoﬃcial”; restaurant itself had nothing to do with the organizing; however, Jameson didn’t 
feel that not hanging out impacted people’s work at work
●
00:24:53 -- Balancing academic life + sport, work, and socialization with co-workers; “I didn’t 
really go out, except for after work”; hanged out for hours after the kitchen closed at 10pm; 
and Jameson mostly worked to do most of his homework at school
●
00:26:47 -- “Calling people out … one of the favorite past-times of restaurant workers” as a 
model of learning about what to do/not do in restaurant culture; conversations during work -- 
“You have to build a rapport and an established connection”: discussing of building ongoing 
inside jokes between back-of-house workers 
00:28:00 -- Plans Moving Forward: Post-High School & More Kitchen Work: Adriatico’s 
Pizza; and Adriatico’s Unique Proﬁt-Sharing Structure 
●
Jameson knew he planned to go to college, but wasn’t sure what he would do; and didn’t 
intend to continue kitchen work, except for during college, as a way to help pay oﬀ student 
loans; ended up graduating from Ohio State University in Criminology and Sociology, and 
ﬂirted with attending law school or going to grad school
●
Knew, going in to OSU, that he would need to have a job to pay for student loans; two of his 
friends/co-workers from Grand Market came to Columbus for school and ended up working 
at Adriatico’s; so Jameson knew he wanted to work there -- Adriatico’s was full, and Jameson 
ended up waiting to work until the ﬁrst part of January of his freshman year
●
Appeal of Adriatico’s: working at an independent business; the endorsement of his friends/
co-workers from Grand Market, and better wages; ﬁrst impressions of Adriatico’s: “The food 
was really good; and the pay … they would always talk about … if you stick around for a little 
bit, you’d start getting a bonus, as a part of a proﬁt-sharing thing. [Jess: Every year?] … Every 
week.”
●
00:32:50 -- Proﬁt-sharing structure at Adriatico’s; owner takes a cut, and whatever is left, he 
distributes amongst the workers, depending on how good they are, how long they’ve been 
there, how skillful they are, etc.; “If someone’s gonna pay me based on my merit, then I’m 
going to go for that …”; “once people stick around in the kitchen, they started getting parts 
of those bonuses. I know the opportunity to get more bang for your buck, or more buck for 
your time …” made it super worth-it for Jameson. 
●
Popularity of work at Adriatico’s; don’t want to over-staﬀ, so as not to dilute the bonus pool 
for the rest of the staﬀ; and small kitchen space -- all makes it diﬃcult to get a job there 
(00:34:00); Jameson tells the story of getting the job through his friend quitting/getting ﬁred 
as he spent more time on his ROTC scholarship
00:37:15 -- Earliest Impressions of Adriatico’s; Employee-Manager Relationships and 
Adriatico’s Kitchen Culture 
●
Jameson had been warned, coming in, about particular managers who were going to make 
him/everyone feel really bad about the work they were doing; had also been warned about 
being hot in the kitchen, and working in cramped quarters; “Basically, just know: if you don’t 
do something right, you will get called out on it.” Even Jameson, at times, he recalls, had to 
“bite my tongue.”
●
No particular roles in the kitchen: pizza makers, servers, and drivers. Within the pizza 
workers, you learn to “man the ovens,” and work the sub table, which is also where all the 
pizzas get sliced
●
00:40:13 -- Jameson describes what happens in the kitchen from when an order comes in to 
when the pizza comes out and breaks down the roles in how the kitchen operates; pizza 
cooks do everything from assembling a pizza to making a chef salad to helping the serves run 
the phones; discusses cross-training so that workers can work on “alleviating other parts of 
the business”
00:41:30 -- the Adriatico’s Menu; and Adriatico’s Pizza Itself 
●
More expensive than other pizza places; home-made dough and sauce; shred their own 
cheese; everything is made daily. “Our sauce is a unique ﬂavor … it’s spicier” (patented 
recipe); and diﬀerent styles of crust: from New York-style thin crust to a thick/deep-dish 
Sicilian-style crust; “not Chicago-style deep-dish … more thick, than just a deep dough”; 
Jameson also describes the “Buckeye” pizza -- “two-and-a-half-by-three-feet”; and discusses 
their prominent role for student groups, hospitals and other organizations on the Ohio State 
University campus. Diﬀerences in prooﬁng between the dough; diﬃculties of pressing the 
Sicilian-style pizzas and letting them rise
00:44:37 -- First Impressions II: Challenges & Learning Curve in Becoming a Pizza Cook 
… and Some Structures of Social Control/Punishment to Ensure Excellence in Pizza-
Making 
●
Jameson discusses the challenges of learning how to press out the dough and get it to the 
right shape; learning the bodily contortions to make it work [Note: hockey game victory! Heavy 
applause from patrons in the dining room and discussion with front-of-house staﬀer.] Jameson shares a 
(pretty funny) story of a fellow staﬀer who had diﬃculty learning how to press-out dough and 
diﬃculties of maintaining a consistent standard of dough thickness & coverage in a 
restaurant setting. 
●
“Cheesing,” the verb (00:46:40) -- with examples! 
●
Bodily eﬃciency; “not wasting your motions, and moving your hands fast”; Jameson also 
discusses his own technique for getting better and faster at the back-of-house jobs, like 
dough-stretching and the dramatic learning-curve in someone new -vs.- someone who’s been 
in the kitchen for over a year; “it takes that mental eﬀort to realize where you’ve been a little 
better … training your mind to do what your ﬁngers want to do …”
●
00:48:00 -- Jameson discusses the motivational aspects of working alongside other pizza 
cooks who are better and faster; the need to make a consistent product as a kitchen; and not 
wanting to let anyone else in the kitchen down; he also discusses motivational strategies he 
uses as a co-worker and a manager to encourage other workers to get better at making 
pizzas // “factors to get people to buy into it”; Jameson also discusses the “plateau” eﬀect, and 
how it’s much more diﬃcult to get long-term employees to change anything
●
00:51:00 -- Jameson discusses internal shaming, and ways that employees who do the bare 
minimum to get the job done are sent that message through the way other employees treat 
them -- “you’ll deprive them of that beneﬁt of getting able to interact with you”; 
maintenance of a culture of excellence and informal social punishments for sloppy work; 
Jameson’s description and theory of the role of gossip/shit-talking in the kitchen, when 
employees aren’t around, as something that helps cement in what (00:52:20) standards of 
excellence are used in the Adriatico’s kitchen
●
00:54:00 -- Discussion of employee “buy-in” and how the proﬁt-sharing structure encourages 
most employees to buy in, identify with the businesses and build ﬁnancial proﬁt for everyone 
involved in the business -- “This is what led me to stick around for as long as I did; deﬁnitely 
never had any plans of graduating and sticking around as long as I did … those guys had 
mortgages and family; and now I have a mortgage …”; Adriatico’s enabled Jameson to buy a 
house a year after he graduated from college; “the end game is the same … nobody wants to 
destroy the place from within.” 
●
00:57:08 -- Employee relationships with the owner; his identity as a blue-collar worker and 
his charge that employees need to do well for the company and the company will work to 
provide for them 
00:57:37 -- Work at Adriatico’s as a College Student // Work-Life Balance // Work 
Socialization 
●
Working weekends was more of a burden for Jameson in college, -vs.- in high school; 
prevented him from going to some parties; but he needed to make money
●
Used Ohio State University’s Honors priority scheduling; so he was able to make his schedule 
so that he didn’t have any early-morning or Friday schedules, so he could work during the 
week, get home at 2am, and not have to have class the next day ‘til 11pm
●
01:00:57: extra-curricular culture at Adriatico’s, and hanging out/not-hanging out with co-
workers (many of whom were older); becoming a coach for an Adriatico’s softball team, until 
many of the fellow employees got “too old”; diﬀerent relationship than what Jameson had 
with the older employees at Grand Market; rather, he’d hang out with alot of the other 
employees in a similar age bracket -- but, still: not as much, because he already had a core 
group of friends at Ohio State, outside of work
●
That said: Jameson describes a culture of hanging out at Adriatico’s, after work; “that was 
always a big thing … and where I learned alot of things about people’s opinions about other 
people’s work performances and attitudes”; gossip/shit-talking/social censure as a way of 
cementing, and learning about, cultures and expectations in the kitchen (01:03:00) -- 
Jameson describes how, as the people in the discussions change day to day, “you realize, at 
some point, that someone probably said something about me. You know that that goes on.” 
01:05:00 --  Becoming a Manager; And Trying to Be a ‘Fun’ Manager  
●
Jameson describes experiences with previous managers, becoming a night-shift manager, and 
trying to be a “fun” manager (take out the garbage; remember to lock the door!)
●
01:06:50 -- More theorizing on the after-hours gossip culture and its function to “keep 
people in check,” informally, about “certain things that aren’t that big of a deal,” and 
probably don’t need taken to a manager; “... it does contribute to the culture and expectation 
that people have for other people. It’s always good, socially, to ﬁnd people that share 
common expectations and things they enjoy, in social interactions … so, those were key times 
to talk to each other that were a little more casual; and you can be less on-guard.”
●
01:09:00 -- Jameson discusses the diﬃculty of confronting a worker about a mistake they’ve 
made in a constructive way, but also learning to be serious about it; “it’s alot more delicate 
than casual, after-work, people are hanging out … it’s without putting it on the person that 
they’re discussing”; discusses how much he hated learning to call people on their mistakes; 
diﬃculties of learning to be a public speaker/actor in the manager role (01:11:00); diﬃculty of 
working with employees “who were there, when you were still just a pizza cook,” and 
handling the changed hierarchies and power dynamics; awkwardness of “skipping ahead” of 
other long-term employees; 01:13:00 -- Jameson discusses having to confront an employee 
who kept pushing him, once he became a manager, or having to learn, as a “fun” manager, to 
be serious -- “Do you have a problem with me?” // But also, the importance of being fun -- “to 
enjoy being there; and also to motivate people, not to do things out of fear … but … people 
understand that, those are the values that you have, and if you hold people accountable to … 
you don’t have to do as much micro-managing.” 
01:15:45 -- Night Shift -vs.- Day Shift and Getting More Involved in Adriatico’s 
Leadership; Long-Time Tenure at the Pizza Shop // Importance of Back-of-House 
Middle Management 
●
Reasons for staying at Adriatico’s after graduating; job security and having a high standing in 
the hierarchy of the company; writing to the manager and asking for a more hands-on role in 
the company “to improve the livelihood of people like me,” if he was going to stay around 
longer; discussion of the culture of most of the senior staﬀ moving to day shift -- “all of our 
highest-paid employees work mostly day shift, so that causes some friction”; Jameson began 
to take on a role representing the night shift and helping to make the culture better -- got 
move involved in hiring, scheduling, being involved in consultations between the owner and 
the other managers (7-8 other managers total; at 01:18:00)
●
01:19:00 -- Dayshift -vs.- night shift concerns; lobbying to be included in management 
meetings to bring more representation to the night shift
●
01:20:00 -- Gradations in wages; plateaus in earnings after working at Adriatico’s for so long; 
“they can only do so much, compared to other bodies here making pizza”
●
01:22:00 -- Sticking around; making the same as he would if he had a desk job; realizing the 
ceiling -- “I can only make so much, other than buying it from the owner”; values only having 
to work 40-45 hours a week, rather than 60-70; and the aﬀordances of working in a 
restaurant, being proud of the quality of the product; “... that keeps me around, short of not 
having a better opportunity fall into my lap yet.”
●
01:23:40 -- Jameson describes the critical importance of middle management positions like 
himself, as the roles that actually communicate and implement what the business owner 
values, on the ground, with fellow wage employees
●
01:25:40 -- Jameson shares about how he analyzed these cultures of power and management 
at Adriatico’s as a part of his plans for a senior thesis in sociology, which he didn’t end up 
following through on; he reviewed notes from this research and analysis in advance of this 
interview; “I was a sociology major; so, obviously I was interested in those types of dynamics 
…” [Jess discusses book by folklorist Leslie Prosterman.]
01:28:40 -- Other Lessons from a Decade at Adriatico’s 
●
Learning ﬂexibility in working with/dealing with all kinds of people
●
Learning how to get to the root of whatever issue comes up in the kitchen (01:29:18); “if you 
establish a managerial style and stick with it indeﬁnitely … you’re inevitably going to be 
failing some people.”
●
Jameson discusses the fragility of maintaining cultures of quality and excellence in the 
kitchen; how to keep up high standards and high morale in the kitchen; “you want that level 
to be what is acceptable, and what you want, and what you strive for”; bar needs to be high, 
because, otherwise, Jameson feels like people will lower their standards, because, at the end 
of the day, the pay isn’t that much (01:30:00); kitchen culture could be something that 
“crumbles pretty quick … with enough cracks,” which could be exacerbated by not treating 
people correctly, improper training, etc.; “It really can be a cancer that spreads.”
●
01:33:00 -- Talking about wages and the sustainability of long-term kitchen work; sensitivity 
of older kitchen workers to hearing college workers talk about “getting a real job”; Adriatico’s 
identity as a blue-collar place of employment; and “dig” about back-of-house work not being 
“real” work
●
Jameson: “Are you in a job that, when you were sixteen and in high school, you would be 
proud of doing this? … but, at the same time, people that enjoy it, they enjoy the people that 
they work with, they enjoy the beneﬁt they provide other people, it’s a product they are 
proud of, it’s something they know: not just any Joe Schmoe could come in and do what I’m 
doing. Especially not right away … so there is that: you’re proud of it. But you know that’s 
not going to be clear on the outside. So you have to be able to learn that and internalize it on 
the inside.”
●
Jameson discusses the expectations he grew up with -- go to college, “don’t get a job ﬂipping 
burgers -- but ﬁnding enjoyment and pride in kitchen work and making a living wage, “not 
feeling like you failed in some ways”; and putting up with employees who do look down on 
the work. Jameson notes that people won’t stick around unless they can ﬁnd some element of 
pride in what they do; “you have to be comfortable telling people you work here … but that 
this is a real good place … having those goes a long way.”
01:37:54 -- Adriatico’s Futures: The Upcoming Move (Right Around the Corner) 
●
Moving around 200-feet around the corner, into an old Aveda’s Salon; current building is 
owned by Ohio State University; and they’ve decided to use the space to put in a high rise for 
the School of Optometry
●
OSU worked with Adriatico’s on getting a new spot as close as possible; new kitchen is three 
times the size; “we’ll be able to expand our menu a little bit,” and doing the business “we’ve 
already ﬁgured out to do, by the skin of our teeth … more easily; and handle more sales”
●
Looking at the movement as a silver-lining; but also, stress on owner of preparing for getting 
the new place set up
●
“All of our pizza will be the exact same … same old pizza, just as good; but, we’ll have more 
space to do it, and a new spot … hopefully they’ll still have the same nostalgia, as long as the 
pizza is the same!”
01:40:00 -- Concluding Slate, Thanks & Goodbyes