MARK HENRY 
 
Summary: Mark Henry talks about his career as a boatman, what the job entails, the 
hazards of the job, added security after 9/11, and the flexible work timings that are a part 
of his job. 
 
 
January 17, 2012 
 
00:00:50 
49 years old. Born June 29, 1962 in Pasadena, TX. 4th boy. High school sweethearts. 
They had 4 boys.  
 
00:02:23 
Graduated from Sam Houston State Univ. with a drafting degree. Did not excel in any 
one discipline. Played baseball with the minor league for awhile. Got hired as a Houston 
boatman. Several other people and companies are involved to bring a ship out of the Gulf 
of Mexico into the port of Houston. Once ships are close to the dock, line handlers or 
boatman tie the ships up to the dock. Secure ship to dock. When they are through with the 
cargo, will turn the ship loose. With increase in tonnages and size of the ship, there have 
been a few changes. Back then, there were two people on each end to tie up a ship. It 
would go a little faster. To turn it loose, there was one person on either end. Lines are 
already braided. Channel is now gearing up to be 50 feet so it can handle bigger ships. 
Have to take a mooring boat out to the hooks. Since the water has dolphins and there is 
no walkway to walk out.  
 
00:07:53 
A regular workday is one of the things that was attractive about the job of a lineman. 
Able to keep own schedule. Can check on and off whenever needed. No hours for ships 
to run. Are able to keep a strong enough workforce to handle this sort of work. Work for 
4.00 am for a regular 12 hr or sometimes 16-17 hr day. Not restricted by the amount of 
hours that he works. Can work as few or as many hours as needed in the day.  
 
00:09:28 
Do not work for 24 hrs at a stretch. Can get in naps in between two ships coming in. 
Have time to go home. It is piece work. Not guaranteed continuous work. When called 
for a ship, guaranteed that job but fog could set in. Work for two mooring companies - 
Houston Mooring and Texas Mooring. Will call work orders and then it is up to the 
boatmen to fill the job, to provide the men to do the work. Dispatch on a rotation basis, 
15 day rotation. Come in twice a month, pull an 8-hr shift in the office. Come and go as 
needed.  
 
00:12:36 
 
 
When first hired it was different. A lot of days at home. The hired senior guys got all the 
work on bright sunny days. Would get called on rainy days or for midnight shifts. 
Worked on a seniority basis. After 22 years as a boatman, have finally got into the top 
group, or Group A . Have a roster of 75 men. Started in 1986. Typical workday. Tell the 
dispatcher the previous day that ready for a 4.00 am call. Get an hour notice before a job. 
Still have option to take it or refuse it. Like to work on docks out in La Port. Now am 
even able to pay bills on laptop in between jobs in the car, read the news, There is a lot of 
sitting in the car. Takes 30 mins to an hour to tie up a ship. Can even tie up some phones 
in 20 mins. Do recommend a trailer hitch.  
 
00:19:00 
Graduated from Sam Houston state Univ. Was able to sign with the Chicago white sox 
for three years. In the off season, did not get much money in the minor leagues. Needed 
to do something in the winter. Father was a boatman, so put in an application and got the 
job. Was able to check off and go play baseball for the nine months and then come back 
to the port. Looked into the drafting jobs as a technician or engineer but was not very 
appealing. Was able to keep own sked.  
 
00:21:22 
When starting out, had to pull 60 jobs with a regular gang of boatman. 60 practice jobs to 
learn all you could. First safety precaution to know is never get between a line and a 
hook. Got hurt once when a ship was coming alongside the dock and when we put out the 
first two lines called spring lines. SHip was moving too fast and somehow the wenches 
got locked and broke a combination rope and wire and the wire came down right on top 
of the mooring boat. Luckily, it just came down on the hard hat and was knocked into the 
water. Get a lot of current, aeration and bubbles from the propellers. Can suck the boat in 
or flip them.  
 
00:27:45 
Like to work on boats. Have been in boats since very young. Like to work in zone 3, 
close up towards Houston is the Turning Basin - Zone 1. Get travel pay as you move 
away from zones in the center of Houston. 15,000  gross tons or less in a straight job. 
15,000- 45,00 tons is a job and a half. Different pay scale. Over 45,000 tons is called a 
double job and with the deepening and widening of the ship channel, there is a double job 
and a half - 93,000. Soon be another tonnage bracket. Get overtime and straight time. 
Don't have to have 40 hrs to get paid overtime. From Monday- friday, 8.00 am to 5.00pm 
get paid straight time. With lunch being counted as overtime. Weekends and holidays 
after 5 pm and until 8 am is overtime.  
 
00:33:25 
Dad went to play professional baseball right after he graduated high school. He played 
for 16 years. Older brother got to see more of that. Was 7 yrs old when he retired. Was 
voted into the boatman. Started working there. Got into habit of waking up at 4.00am 
 
 
from Dad. Before 9/11 the insurance companies started cracking down on co riders as 
they were not covered on the insurance and there was an issue there. Did go for awhile to 
the docks and watch father at his job. Oldest brother went into the navy after high school 
and he became a boatman. There was a man who worked up to his mid 80s. No 
retirement age. Brother quit after 20-25 years.  
 
00:38:44 
Back then had to put in an application and getting in was subject to a vote. Nowadays 
there is a hiring committee that hires when there is a need. Father never missed a day of 
work. Father bought a lakehouse. Have a nine year old. Divorced from wife when he was 
two and ex wife and son live in the lakehouse. Go up and see them whenever there is 
some time.  
 
00:43:22 
If you are mature enough to live within your means, able to take time off with no penalty, 
with no reprimand at work. If can afford to take the time off, we do. Travel, have second 
homes or long weekends.  
 
00:45:33 
Love the job. Lack of stress, lot of danger. ALways been an outdoorsman. Got to play 
baseball. Did not want to work in an office. Wanted to have a career in baseball, that was 
the dream.  
 
00:49:02 
Favorite day would be an overtime day. Sun shining in the mid 70s. Leaving home at 
4.30 am, when it i still dark. Make 10 or 12 jobs in the day and go home and sleep.  
 
00:50:34 
Security has beefed up after 9/11. It is more than awareness. The government has 
increased security more on land and water. More armed coastguard boats. Would like to 
see son excel in baseball.  
 
00:54:39 
It is a good living. Working at the POrt of Houston means permanence. The port is not 
moving to Austin or anywhere else. THat's the positive and the negative  
 
00:55:42 
9/11 had to do with the FRC. Boosted security. TWIX card. Facilities ID, Training to get 
into their facility. Had the FRC (fire retarded clothing) Texas had a terrible drought and 
so wore protective clothing. Work boots are almost like little tugboats. They pull heavy 
lines through the water. Was waiting for gang to show up.  
 
01:01:18 
 
 
Boat in the picture are 21 feet long and 900 ft long and it is just a wall of ship. These 
lines would be lowered from the ship and they would 50-60 ft off the water. They would 
then dump them out of the ship. Lives are dependent on the ship's crew. A lot of them 
don’t speak English. Manage to communicate but face difficulties sometimes. When 
faced with a situation where they don’t speak English, Have to go through the captain. If 
you are courteous to them they will be courteous back. Back then it was just nothing but 
hollering orders. It was just a macho front. Wife's wouldn't let them holler at home, so 
they would come down to the docks and holler at the mate, who did not speak the 
language.  
 
01:04:45 
Usually boats are anchored off the Gulf of Mexico. somewhere along Galveston, before 
they come to the port of Houston. Normally, never drop anchors at the port of Houston 
unless there is a near collision or ship has problem with the rudder or something happens 
where they must drop anchor to keep from running the ground. When they hoist the 
anchor up, a lot of times it brings up a lot of mud. Radio channel that is used for docking 
is usually Channel 14 or 77. Will contact the pilot for further details. Have a very good 
rapport with the Houston pilots.  
 
01:10:00 
Angle of tension is better when using lines rather than anchors. Big ships have anchor 
chains. Mooring lines with spring lines run toward the middle of the ship and they usually 
try to have a 100 ft lead on them. They will put those out when ship is either heading in 
or heading out to the dock. Will put out Spring lines first, this helps the ship to stop. 
When ship does surge, there is more elasticity in the lines before it reaches its breaking 
threshold. They would rather the ship move than break loose.  
 
01:15:08 
Back in 1983 (maybe) there was an ice storm. On a  chemical dock 14x14 inch timber 
around the edge acting as a big curb  keeping stuff from rolling off. One of the fire 
monitors on the edge of the finger pier, got to go out on the end of this pier. There was a 
fire monitor that was broken. It was spewing. The temperature was 3 degrees. Ice was 
just building up and had built up over the curbs. 40 feet of the water. Line was frozen. 
Pulling up icicles. Pretty scary experience that worked itself out and nobody got hurt.  
 
Quite interesting to be working in a metal aluminum boat with lightning striking all 
around.