1 
FUTURIST EMPRESSIONS INTERVIEW TRANSCRIPT 
 
 
INTERVIEWER  
Candacy Taylor   
INTERVIEWEES: 
Nzinga Foreman-Bey & Folosade Bey Al-Rasul 
DATE & TIME:    
August 24, 2012   1:30pm 
 
LOCATION:  
 
Futurist Empressions 
 
 
 
5706 Thomas Ave. 
 
 
 
Philadelphia, PA  19143 
 
 
 
267-582-6534 
 
 
 
futurist.empress@gmail.com 
 
 
 
RECORDING:   
Marantz 661 – 24/96 
LENGTH 
 
01:29:50 
TRANSCRIPT:     
21 pages 
KEY:  
 
 
CT — Candacy Taylor (Interviewer) 
 
 
 
NB — Nzinga Foreman-Bey (Interviewee)  
 
 
 
FB — Folosade Bey Al-Rasul 
 
CT: It is August 24th and I am in Philadelphia with Folosade and Nzinga Bey and we are 
present with their mother and two children. Please start out by telling me your name and how 
many years you’ve been doing hair. 
 
NB: I’m Nzinga Bey and I’ve been in the hair-care business for over fifteen years. I started at 
Lincoln University, I had to pay for my books and I wore a real short haircut, so I started to 
twist my hair myself and people started to ask, “Could you do my hair like that?” And I said, 
“Sure. Ten dollars?” And they’d say, “Okay, no problem.” I’d say (to myself) that’s one book. 
So then it started to move on and on and I decided that I wanted to do something with 
holistic healing. Anyone that was sick on campus with anything like a cold or menstrual 
cramps I was able to use home remedies so I started to sell different herbs to help heal 
people. So with twisting hair, that’s where I started to mix it all together and I said, I’m going 
to be a hair specialist. I fell in love with hair color, hair everything. What I found is that people 
needed healing and I can help them through their hair. 
 
FB: I’m Folosade Bey. For myself wearing locks [dreadlocks] and having natural hair was a 
tradition in my immediate family. As a result of the influence of my mother and my father, the 
desire to teach others, that it’s okay to be who you are, has really been with me from a young 
age. I’ve had locks since I was three. So the locks I actually wear today are my third set of 
locks. I went through my little transitions but locks is mainly where I felt most comfortable so 
that’s where I am today. I began training and learning to care for natural hair in more of a 
professional setting in 2000 and I was about twelve years old. So from the end of my middle 
school years going into the beginning of my high school years, I was a salon assistant. I 
actually worked with a sister who lives in Philadelphia as well. She owns the salon Duafe. 
 
CT: So where are you from and where have you lived? 
 
FB: I’m from Philadelphia. I was born and raised in southwest Philadelphia actually within the 
same area that Futurist Empressions Natural Khrowne Care. That’s the salon space we are in 
today. This salon space was also in southwest Philadelphia about ten minutes driving, 
actually ten minutes walking from where I was actually born and within that same house was 
 
2 
where my brother was born and the whole family was raised in the later settings from my 
portion of the family because I’m the youngest of seven. 
 
NB: It’s funny that she said “the later settings” talking about the children because again it is 
seven of us and I come in number four which I’m smack dab in the middle, ten years before 
me, ten years after me. I grew up in south Philadelphia and until we were maybe eight or nine 
and that’s when we moved to southwest Philadelphia. That’s where I spent my 
homeschooling and all of my teachings within hair-care from Sister Yvette Smalls who lived 
not too far from us. 
 
CT: Folosade, when you wrote to me you said that, “cultural awareness and knowledge of self 
is very important in the development of the woman I am today.” 
 
FB: Yes it is. 
 
CT: Can you talk more about that and your hair story and how it’s tied to cultural awareness? 
 
FB: Okay. Again being the youngest of seven, I’m twenty-four now and my parents were the 
most influential in my life. From a young age they have always taught me that understanding 
yourself and feeling comfortable with yourself is what’s important. You can look beautiful but 
you also have to be intelligent and I believe that embracing my hair in its natural way has 
given me more courage within my self-image and with self-development. My mother was a 
teacher. She also was very influential within the cultural family of Philadelphia. She sang with 
two groups who were influential within the cultural setting of Philadelphia so I am basically a 
baby of promoting those who promoted cultural awareness. We went to rallies. We went to 
parades. We sang and chanted with our mentors, Mama E. Sister Yvette Smalls. We would 
sing, “Braid it. Don’t burn it.” We were a part of that. And even though I was young I didn’t 
fully understand but now as I come into my older years I’m very proud of who I am and I’m 
very comfortable. 
 
CT: That’s amazing. And you had dreads since you were… 
 
FB: Three. 
 
CT: Where there other children around you at that age who also had locks? 
 
FB: Well I can say that because my mother decided to keep me in more natural, more 
independent institutions, those were institutions that were Pan-African, they dealt with a lot 
of self and cultural awareness. But I can say that locks…for one thing, Sister E. and my Mom 
they both understand that locks and natural hair is actually a political statement. And around 
that time in Philadelphia, I believe the Move people in the ‘70s? Or was that in the ‘80s? It 
was in the 80’s. I was born in ’88 and I’m twenty-four. The Moves, they wore locks and within 
the area, they looked at locks as something that was not good looking, they were unruly. 
We’re actually from an Islamic origin, in our understanding of religion, normally we would 
wear our hair covered but at that time those things were mentioned about the Move People. 
My mom, she uncovered her hair and from then on she made sure that her children 
understood that natural hair is important and it is a statement and we’re going to teach them 
that it is positive. 
 
CT: Can you explain the Move people and Mama Africa please? 
 
 
3 
FS: Mama Africa, she’s one of the sisters that I saw a lot of, I actually would go to their house 
from time to time. [Folosade asks her mother] What was the other sister’s name, Mom? 
Mama Pan-Africa, Mama Ramona. And there was a large group of people, actually a lot of 
children and they all lived in the house. What happened was, the government, they did not 
agree with how the families spoke, or how they dealt with living or how they dealt with 
cultural awareness and with the back and forth, the tassel of them not understanding just 
them being who they naturally are, the government actually bombed their house, with 
children and the whole family in it. 
 
CT: Where was this? 
 
FS: This was in west Philadelphia. Old Sage Avenue, not far from here. 
 
CT: Why do you say the “government bombed their house?” 
 
FB: Well actually we have a clip from a CD that my mom created and you heard Mama 
Ramona speaking of how it actually happened. However the reason they felt they needed to 
bomb the house…they actually flew over the house and dropped bombs, they started 
shooting. 
 
CT: When was this? 
 
FS: This was in ’80….I can’t remember. 
 
CT: Because I’ve driven through parts of Philadelphia over the last fifteen years that look like 
something had been bombed. 
 
[in the background the Bey’s mother says, “It was a political fight and Africa families they 
believe strongly that the community should know what their rights are. They were agitated.] 
 
CT: And Move came out of this? 
 
FB: My point of mentioning Move was that my Mom decided even though we were Muslim 
and she would wear her hair covered, she removed her hair covering because she wore locks 
and she wanted to show that locks is nothing negative. There’s nothing ‘dread’ful about 
locks. It’s a beautiful thing, it’s something to embrace. It enhances strength within some 
people. So that’s why I mentioned them because being close to them and my Mom 
understanding who they are it played another portion from another area of our development. 
 
CT: Nzinga can you tell me about your hair story and if it is tied to cultural awareness for you? 
 
NB: Yes, it’s very interesting because at one point and time when I was growing up I rebelled 
a lot. Not that I really know why I did it as a child, but I wanted to not have locks. I did not 
want to have my hair braided or twisted with Cowrie shells. Cowrie shells are ancient money 
that we used coming over, I guess it was in Gambia. And a lot of people use them now to 
adorn their hair, adorn their pocketbooks, jewelry and such. I just thought it was the worst 
thing. As a child, I was already dark-skinned with slanted eyes, people teased me all the time 
so as I got older, I understood that I only rebelled because people teased me and with the 
confidence that our parents instilled in us, I don’t know where mines was at that time. So 
again, growing up even with family members and the schools that I went to, I was 
homeschooled, but children sometimes can be cruel. The darkest child could say, “Hey 
 
4 
you’re a tar baby.” And I would start crying so of course I would not want to have my hair 
natural because that represented something African. Especially having the name, Nzinga. 
Nzinga was the queen of Angola. I did not understand at that point who I was, why I looked 
the way I did, why my hair is as kinky as I don’t know what [chuckle] and why are these 
people teasing me. So when I got older and with the teachings from my parents and from 
Sister Yvette Smalls, she pretty much pulled me in and said, “Listen, this is you.” She came 
and showed me all of these pictures of these beautiful queens all of these different combs, 
these beautiful children that were adorned looking just like their mother and bona fide Fulani 
women. I saw another side that made me say, “I am rich in spirit, I am healthy and I am 
Nzinga Bey.” That’s funny because I was taught about Queen Nzinga ever since I was young 
but that didn’t mean anything to me as a child. So working with Sister “E,” that’s what we 
called her as we were growing up, she, again, helped me to gain that confidence through my 
hair, through my face, through my eyes, through my skin because I had no understanding of 
what it was. Even though I had everybody in my corner, my teachers, extended family 
members and such. I was like I am not dealing with this at all. 
 
CT: Were you teased by mostly black or white kids? 
 
NB: I was mainly teased by the black children. I didn’t grow up in a real diverse area. When I 
was out in public I would see people staring at me. And now when I look back, probably some 
of the adults were thinking, wow her skin is very beautiful, she has a lot of melanin in her 
skin, wow her eyes are shaped differently, her hair… and again, I did not understand that 
type of beauty so when dealing with society and growing up and going through high school 
and such, I became different, I became the unique one. So I said, Hmmm this must be the 
reason why Mama Yvette said, “You wear your hair the way you do. You walk the way you 
walk with your head up, you understand who you are.” So I started to get my hair twisted. 
And then all of the sudden I said, “I don’t want it! I want a perm.” I snuck and got my perm 
[laughing] and in Philadelphia I really couldn’t do anything because everyone knew. [They 
said] “ That girl done permed her hair. Oh my gosh.” Well I wore my Toni Braxton hairstyle for 
four years, my cousin…we [inaudible] and laid it to the side and it was definitely burnt out 
and I learned my lesson for four years. Again, Mama Yvette Smalls pulled me in and said “It’s 
no problem, this is how we fix it.” So I started to twist and braid it and I went to college and 
came home and that’s when I decided that I want to teach people how to love themselves, 
love their hair and teach the men how to communicate with their daughters, communicate 
with their wives, their mother’s, their aunts in reference to the hair because in the black 
community, it’s vanity — your hair, your nails and all of that. I’ve got to get my hair done, my 
nails done…Especially when your hair looks great, you feel good all the way, so that’s why I 
definitely appreciate my culture, I appreciate the knowledge that I have and that’s why I 
always say we are carrying the tradition to the next level because going into this technology 
world, I want to have on some technical locks. It’s gonna happen. So I can make sure that 
with my daughters growing up that they’re able to have the information with not just the 
styling but to understand why Auntie Folosade wears her locks as she does with red, gold 
and green, or why does mommy have blue hair and mom doesn’t even have locks. You 
understand? On the other hand, I’m taught that your hair is what you want not…what does 
India Arie say, “I am not my hair?” 
 
FB: Yes. 
 
NB: But I am blue [laughing] so this is the way I choose and it’s not just about locking it’s 
about understanding who you are. I did have pretty much the same teachers that my sister 
Folosade had and they always told me, “It doesn’t matter how you look, if you’re not 
 
5 
intelligent, you’re not going to get respect, you’re not going to understand life.” I said, “No 
problem.” And I started to gain more understanding of who I was and what my purpose was. 
 
FB: And may I add really quickly Candacy just because Mommy Yvette Smalls also Sister E, 
she encouraged me a lot, she encouraged a lot of people in the Philadelphia region, she was 
one of the elder braiders, she was one of the first within the Philadelphia region and that’s 
why it’s so important and why we continue to mention her name, especially with her making 
transition [passed away] this past April 2012. My mom, when I was younger was able to 
manage my hair the best way that she could and through my life transitions, I’ve always 
understood. [I was] different from my sister I never came away from who I naturally was, I 
always stayed true and understood the importance of staying true to myself, so never, never 
had any relaxers, any texture-changing chemicals or hair weaving techniques that allowed 
me to escape the living, tortuous tales of…I call it ‘hair scare’ because people go through so 
many transitions of the hair breaking and the hair not cooperating, they have fun for the time 
that the hair lasts and then afterwards, it’s what do I do? I have had transitions of my own. I 
have had braids, but I always came back to my locks and so that experience of cutting my 
locks twice and doing the braids and coming back to it, it really has led me to realize the 
understanding that everyone, everyone has to walk their own path and it’s towards their own 
personal transitions. So we’ve all arrived at different ways but to the same point of feeling 
comfortable within ourselves. 
 
CT: Yes, that was next question to you about the “hair scare” I had made a note of that. So 
what do you think about people who choose to process their hair? 
 
FB: I think that it’s everyone’s preference. I have a lot of people that come in to see me and 
speak with me and they actually go through transitions away from relaxed hair. As long as 
your hair is natural, it’s good hair. If your hair is healthy, it’s good hair. The good hair/bad hair 
situation, I see it as hair that’s healthy or as hair that is not healthy, hair that’s kept or hair 
that is not kept. As long as you wear your hair proudly and healthy, you have good hair. I have 
friends and family members who wear their hair relaxed and that’s their preference, but 
because from a young age, the age of three, my parents instilled in me, stay natural, stay 
true to it, it stuck with me a lot more than anyone else who have never been there or would 
eventually go through that transition of becoming natural because natural hair is actually 
becoming a lot more mainstream in 2012. 
 
CT: What did you think of the documentary Good Hair? 
 
FB: [Folosade turns to Nzinga] What do you think sister? 
 
NB: I tell the truth. I honestly think that I’m glad we got past that point. The truth will come to 
light and it states that us as consumers, us as the black community especially, it doesn’t 
matter, we will pay $1,000 for our hair. We know the truth. But it’s the decision that each 
individual makes. Personally for that type of crowd, I believe that it was good for them to 
know, to have the knowledge, because some people did not know it was that deep. Like me, I 
didn’t know it was that deep. So myself personally, we have another video called Hair Stories 
that we grew up on, that story from Mommy Yvette Smalls and I just knew that that would be 
the first hair movie. I guess you have one for the way of the world and you have one for the 
people who are somewhat aware or want awareness. I think people who participated in that 
video, because it’s all education, it’s still a part of our community it’s still part of our culture. 
Just because I don’t wear it that does not mean that I should be mad at that other sister or 
that brother for paying for that sister’s hair. She just does not understand, to me, in my eyes, 
 
6 
she does not understand what it is to actually wear her natural hair and that’s what we’re 
here for, to take it to the next level, because it was instilled in us from birth. I am a licensed 
cosmetologist in Pennsylvania so I can see one side and I can see the other side but the 
cultural… the natural side is something I’m born with, it’s not something I went to school to 
learn. I went to the school of master braiders, you understand, I didn’t go to Berean Institute, 
which is a black school. I did not learn about natural hair in school, you can’t. I don’t believe 
that you can. So to answer that question, I guess I did [like Good Hair]. [Nzinga turns towards 
Folosade] What do you think sister? 
 
FB: I think you definitely answered the question. It is good for speaking towards that specific 
audience. Within myself, I understand that what we have in terms of natural hair care and 
the craft of doing it, you really cannot learn it in school and it is something that is passed 
down even within myself of advancing my education further, just from college, because I 
graduated from Lincoln University. I now am in Divine Beauty School which is a cosmetology 
school that helps to give me advancement in another way, but the craft that I’ve learned 
within natural hair, within in braiding and locking, they don’t really teach you, they don’t give 
you the full effect in cosmetology schools. Not today. Maybe in the future but not as of right 
now. 
 
CT: What did you think about the controversy about Gabby Douglas’ hair? 
 
FB: [Sigh] Oh man, I really, I enjoy Gabby to the fullest. I think that she did a really great job 
and I think that her capability did not have any influence on her hair. I mean she won the 
gold. This is the 2012 Olympics. She won the gold medal, by herself and with her team. I 
think the attack that was placed on her was merely a distraction, she did make history as the 
first African American, the young girl within the 2012 Olympics to win that gold and I think 
that distraction came from some people, and they were grown women, to me they had no 
place picking on a young girl at sixteen years old who was doing such a phenomenal job with 
something that she’s been training for years, hair was the last thing on her mind. Even 
though we probably could have helped her out, given her some two-strand twists and it would 
have made her look better [smiling] but she did what she did in her most comfortable way 
and her hair had nothing to do with her capability of winning that gold medal. 
 
CT: The part that I had such a problem understanding was that her hair didn’t look bad to 
me. So what is it that people had a problem with? 
 
NB: I, again, call me that bad one. It’s not so much, mind your business, leave her alone, let 
the young lady do what she’s doing, again, within our community, we are taught certain 
things. No one said, “What type of stance does she have to get to rack up those many 
points? What is it in her ability to do the balance beam? What does she get points deducted 
for?” No one asks those questions, I mean, I didn’t hear them. I just heard a lot and I tried 
not to read anything about it I’m the one that say, “Gabby, what do you want to do? Do you 
want me to say it for you?” I’m a sensitive person; we all can be in different ways. Like my 
sister said, the young lady, Gabby, she came, she did her job, she’s sixteen, seventeen years 
old. That is a child. A child, when they go and play, they cry when they have to come in to get 
their hair done, like I did. “I don’t want my hair done. I want to go and play!”  
 
So the thing is on the other side, just as me watching TV, or watching a movie, I believe when 
they have these makeover shows or when they have anchorwomen of African descent 
wearing their natural hair, I believe that they should have another type of stylist that 
specializes in natural hair care behind those scenes so when they do that makeover they 
 
7 
don’t take her from her afro. I’m not going to say which show I saw this on, but they took the 
young lady from her afro and put a wig on her and I did not like it. I said, I could have done 
way more with that afro, it would have took about fifteen, twenty minutes [snapping her 
fingers] they could have paid me and I would have been out [laughing]. But with the way of 
the world, there are not enough hair specialists for those types of shows. They just get a 
cosmetologist and that’s again where we’re starting, it’s a tradition, you cannot learn this in 
school unless it’s specified, like my sister said. Not now but maybe in the near future 
because [exasperated sigh] there’s no way to produce those type of feelings, those types of 
styles, that’s why they smack a wig on it. And everyone learns at their own pace. There are 
different teachings, people on YouTube, people are making stuff up and that’s fine, it’s really 
interesting to see how many people are even talking about black hair because again, when I 
was little people were like “Ewww” you understand? So I understood that then but now I 
don’t expect anyone to be talking about black hair in a negative way, as much money as 
we’re spending, are you kidding me? 
 
CT: That’s a good point. I wanted to talk to you little bit about your customers and with the 
braiding styles, including those that we saw today. How long, approximately do they take? 
 
FB: Well, the client I had Ifama, first I want to speak a little bit about her hair because she’s 
had locks previously and she decided that she didn’t want locks so she moved into the 
relaxer, the relaxer broke her hair off, she came back, she said, “I’m never getting a relaxer 
again!” And she’s fourteen so she’s going through this transition pretty young. She said she’s 
never getting a relaxer again but she grew her hair out and decided to press it and straighten 
it, well her hair did not agree with the heat either. So it didn’t agree with the chemical, it did 
not agree with the heat, so I decided to let her know that we are going to help transition your 
hair, we are going to help you strengthen your hair. And again, I’m coming back to the braid it 
don’t burn it. I braided her hair and told her “Lets braid it and not burn it anymore.” Let’s heal 
it. Our transitioning [method] is we grow an inch and then we trim an inch so that as her new 
growth grows in we’re strengthening and we’re taking off the hair that is not so healthy 
because what will happen is that it will break off either way. Where the straight hair meets 
the new growth of the curly, either the afro curly or the extra curly, however people like to call 
their hair, where they meet it’s weakened because there are two different textures there. So I 
decided to braid her hair and we actually did weave in a little bit of added hair to do the two-
strand twist at the top. The added hair was just to give the affect of bringing it together, she 
actually did have a little bit of breakage in the middle but within my creativity I braided it up 
and I covered it in a very creative way while we are strengthening and re-growing her hair. 
That took me, because of the breakage that we dealt with and the condition of her hair, it 
took me about four and a half hours. The braids are small and they are a bit intricate but it 
was more so working with the condition of the hair along with the intricacy of the braids. 
 
CT: I’ve heard that braiding can take days. Is that true? 
 
FS: Yes. It is very true. In fact in the ancient African traditions, that portion of adorning 
yourself, it was ceremonial. You took seventeen, eighteen, twenty hours, the sisters would sit 
in there, you would braid your hair, you may stop, take breaks, you come back but that was 
the process of the ceremonial transitions they were going through…they were growing, they 
were strengthening themselves. We actually took pride in ourselves, in adorning ourselves, in 
every way, even within the ancient times. That’s how the cornrowing and the individuals and 
the Senegalese twists, they were passed on from. Again, a tradition being passed on and now 
at Futurist Empressions, we’re taking it to the next level. 
 
 
8 
NB: Yes, I definitely and totally agree. It depends on what type of styling that we’re doing for 
the actual individual. The style that I worked on today for Kaida Flowers, which is my best 
friend in the whole world, she has locks and she’s had them for over ten years. So when she 
walked in, I looked at her and said, “That’s a bona fide, ceremonial woman.” And she’s 
always what I call “fly.” She’s a fly African chic, right? [Folosade laughs] So when she had the 
necklace on with the small beads from Kenya, to me that represents loyalty. When we’re 
talking about the number of beads on each length, the number of lengths there are, you 
know the color, okay? Everyone in the community will not have those colors, will not have 
those beads, or the hairstyle that I did on her today. I put raffia in her hair, it was orange 
raffia, to match her the colors that were in her garment. So when you look at her with the 
raffia wrapped around the bantu knots that we placed in the front of her hair because when 
you look at her it’s like [a pause that commands attention] “Yes ma’am.” You cannot hold 
your head down and try to look at this particular style. When you look at it, it represents 
royalty. Then I placed the fishtail African braid in the back and I wrapped that also with raffia 
and added just a little something we like to tweak called pipe cleaner [chuckle] just for fun. It 
was yellow and I gave her a yellow feather. I put it off to the side a little bit because that 
shows that she’s the queen of her house. And she’s the queen in reference to the village and 
when she walks outside everyone will look at her, everyone will look at her, even the animals 
and insects. Everyone will look at her because they understand that queen status and that’s 
what I love to create. When people get up out my chair, they say, “Yes, I am queen.” Or “I am 
king.” Because that’s who we are, again carrying the traditions to the next level. Everyone 
doesn’t know it but they’ll get it. 
 
CT: Have either of you ever been to Africa? 
 
FB: Yes, I actually have traveled to Ghana. It was a beautiful experience. I graduated from 
Imhotep Charter High School and in my sophomore year, the school actually took me with 
them. The staff went and it was just myself and two other students. I was part of the African 
drum and dance team, I was part of the choir, the cheerleading and I was so involved in the 
school they decided it was better for me to go and experience who I am and our tradition at 
another level. So we went to Ghana, West Africa and we stayed out there for about two and a 
half weeks and it was amazing. I’ll tell a funny joke, I was talking to a friend on the phone 
within my preparation for my travels and I told him, “Oh yeah, I’m going to Africa so I probably 
won’t see you for a while.” And he’s like a next door neighbor’s son, that type. And he said, 
“Oh wow. You’re going to be the only one wearing clothes and I said, “What!?” That’s just the 
thought process that some people take when they see “Africa” because of the pictures, the 
things that they see, [it’s] the way Africa is presented. When I went over there they were just 
a welcoming and helpful. I was staying out in an apartment on the beach and there was a 
sister who worked there and she was sweet and cleaning up and clearly I could tell she didn’t 
speak English but she spoke gesture, she spoke body language. So I’m trying to take my 
luggage over to the bus, I’m dragging, I’m pulling. Now there’s one thing that she did that my 
Mom has done for years. She walks over and she looked at me and just smiled, she grabbed 
my bag that I was tussling with she put it on top of her head and walked it over to the bus for 
me, now you will not get that type of treatment in Philadelphia. They will look at you and 
laugh. “Look at this girl tussling!” So the welcoming feeling that they gave me...My Mom 
would do that, she’d walk ten, twenty blocks with an ironing board on her head, a young lady 
would follow her for ten or twenty blocks, just to see if she would drop it, because she didn’t 
use her hands, she didn’t use anything and that’s a part of the tradition from Africa that she 
brought with her and passed it on to us. But that sister over there was so helpful and I was so 
appreciative, I’m in my head thinking thank you so much. So just to let you know, they don’t 
treat us bad, they don’t look at us different, it’s all within that person’s thought process of 
 
9 
how they were taught to deal with people, just like you have people here, some people are 
nice and some people are not. It was a great experience.  
 
NB: Myself personally, I’ve never been to Africa physically, I’ve been to other islands, but I 
haven’t made the trip to Africa yet. 
 
CT: I’m assuming, especially with braids or hairstyles that take a long time to do, I’m 
assuming that you hear a lot of stories and probably get pretty intimate with your customers? 
 
FB: Yes. 
 
NB: And see that’s what we were saying earlier, when we were saying that I take care of our 
grandmother’s hair, she’s [to Folosade] what is she seventy…? 
 
FB: Eighty-nine. 
 
NB: I’m sorry, I was going to say seventy-eight, that’s what she told me [laughing]. 
 
FB: She told us that for a long time. She lied about her age [laughing]. 
 
NB: Ok, grandma is eighty-nine, and she had nine children, and I think my mother is the first 
or the second, I’m not exactly sure but I do her hair every two weeks. I comb, I brush, I 
shampoo, her hair is silver, silver, silver and I shape her up in the back. As we’re talking I try 
keep her in my chair for as long as possible, so she can tell me more stories. I’ve learned so 
much about the family. I learned that when she had my uncle Ronald, he has passed, she 
used to pump her milk so that she could feed the other children that their mother’s could not 
feed because my grandmother had so much milk. Now if that’s not community? I didn’t have 
to know that, she didn’t have to tell me that [laughing] she pumped her milk for another 
woman’s child, maybe in 2012 that’s unheard of. A lot of children and I say children because 
more young women are having babies, but they’re not taught to breastfeed. And when they’re 
not taught to breastfeed it’s another formula or something like that and to me that takes a 
little bit away at a young stage, the youngest and the eldest needs more nurturing, so when 
the youngest is coming into the world, the elder should nurture that child by breast feeding 
them, that’s what I was taught. So with doing my grandmother’s hair every two weeks, it is a 
wonderful feeling and when she steps out and people say, “Hey, Miss Ruth!” She lives in a 
new development in south Philadelphia on Fifteenth [street] and Fitzwater [street] around 
the corner from the Clef Club so everyone in the neighborhood knows her even Mr. Kenny 
Gamble recognizes her as one of the elders in the community that’s how well respected [she 
is]. She sits on her step and people ride by [and say] “Miss Ruth, how you doing? I love that 
hair.” And she says, “Thank you!” Again, learning what we can from the elder, whether it’s 
from my client that’s an attorney, our clients that are teachers, we’re learning something 
from them. What we are taught within the tradition, we cannot get that in cosmetology. We 
are taught [in cosmetology school] to not talk about politics, don’t talk about anything else, 
just hair. But when you’re talking with your grandmother, you can’t tell her what to say 
[laughing], I know I wouldn’t. I let her talk because she’s ‘locking’ in the future into me that’s 
why with the workshops that we do at the Philadelphia Locks Convention is called, “Locking 
the Future,” because we need to pass this on to the next generation. I have two young 
daughters, so we have to pass this on. 
 
CT: That’s beautiful. Can you tell me if there’s a different process of dying locks versus what 
you learned in cosmetology school on how to dye hair? 
 
10 
 
NB: One thing that we’re doing in Futurist Empressions and with me being a colorist is 
changing the terminology. The perfect, not even the perfect, I would say the correct 
terminology is [to say] “to color.” Because you dye clothing or someone dies or transcends so 
when we say “adding color to the hair” we specifically say “color” it’s something that I 
learned, as far as what’s in the cosmetology book, I would have to research that because 
honestly, I don’t know. 
 
FB: When someone says, “Oh I’m going to wash my hair.” My teacher presently says “you 
gonna what?” Because you shampoo hair, you wash clothing, you wash your shoes, you wash 
the floors but you shampoo your hair. Even when talking to the community there are other 
terminologies that we would like to change, just to make things softer and make things more 
acceptable in understanding those terms. 
 
NB: And that’s why we say we like to educate you on your hair as we’re doing it. My opinion 
for coloring locks, if you are a colorist then you know exactly what you’re doing, hair is hair to 
me, I’ve been a colorist for about four years now. I colored my sister’s locks [Folosade], we 
did red, gold and green. It’s very beautiful. Her hair is not falling out. The color is fading so we 
always have to retouch the color.  
 
FB: The other day I just put a little on top of it, but it still fades when you shampoo it, because 
the color she put on top is actually a semi-permanent. 
 
CT: Did you have to bleach it first? 
 
FB: Yeah she did have to lift it. 
 
NB: Well actually, I don’t bleach locks. When you bleach hair, it strips it, it damages it, it eats 
it up just like bleach would eat up your jeans. We used to try to color our jeans back in the 
day and you wind up having one strand of material because you left it in too long so the 
same thing can happen to the hair. But if you are a colorist then you know how to color any 
texture of hair so there are a lot of precautions to take when coloring natural hair versus 
straight hair. Or there’s a difference when you’re coloring hair from it being jet black to 
wanting to make it blue or coming from a blonde and wanting to make it green. So as long as 
you know the color chart, and that is true in cosmetology, there’s no going wrong. But what 
we do here is that we have to make sure your hair and scalp are healthy. I don’t even talk to 
you about color. If you come in here and say, “Oh, the braids took my hair out on the side, but 
I like that blue, can you make my hair blue?” And I say, “We’re not talking about color until 
we take care of your hair that’s thin on the side. I don’t want your mind to tell your body that 
because your hair is not going to grow. Let’s talk about growing this hair back on the side and 
then we can talk about coloring it.” When your mind is thinking, I want my hair colored, I want 
my hair colored… Then the hair is never going to grow. Again it’s all within the body, within 
the person’s mindset with the way they wear their hair.  
 
CT: But do you still use the same chemicals? 
 
NB: With some textures of locks, yes. With chemistry…sometimes it’s standard but I have 
what I like call, “tweaking it.” Because Ms. Blue is all blue so therefore when I’m coloring your 
hair, I’m putting my touch on it but I am following the rules. I’m following the basics so that’s 
why I take other classes and try to advance my understanding in hair color. We attend hair 
classes every year. 
 
11 
 
FB: IBS International. 
 
NB: Yes, IBS. 
 
FB: That’s in New York. 
 
NB: And I choose to go do that being a hair specialist, not just a locktician, or a person that 
does natural hair. Hair to me is hair and I have fun with it. I can cut anyone’s hair, color 
anyone’s hair as long as it’s healthy. 
 
CT: What do you say to stylists who don’t have experience doing kinky hair? Because 
hairstylists who know black hair understand that hair texture and can determine what is 
really healthy hair and know what processing the hair can take or not. If they don’t have the 
experience, should they just not do it? 
 
NB: I personally think that if a person wants to learn something then they’re going to go do 
that research, if you want to know how to take care of kinky hair or straight hair or Oriental’s 
hair…I would suggest you learn about that culture. You learn why is their hair this way? Why 
is this person’s hair kinky? Why is it wavy? 
 
CT: Do you learn that in cosmetology school? 
 
FB: You do learn that. 
 
CT: But would you trust them? It seems like it is the experience that makes people more 
comfortable working with a certain texture. 
 
NB: I believe that. I’m a person who does research. If it’s not within our community, 
sometimes people don’t like stepping outside, which is why I always tell clients and people 
who I’ve mentored to do their research. Don’t limit yourself if you want to be in the hair care 
business. If you’re a cosmetologist — they do nails, they do massaging. 
 
FB: Estheticians. 
 
NB: Yes, estheticians. But within the black hair care business um…I’ll let my sister answer 
that because sometimes I have issues [laughing]. 
 
FB: I will say that just in learning with schools, higher education and in life you’re always 
taught to do your research, you’re never taught to just go off what someone says. You have to 
use more than one source. So again, like my sister said, if that’s something that’s your 
passion you’re going to research and understand how to cater to that specific group of 
clientele or that specific person who has that texture or type of hair. 
 
CT: I understand. But the reality is where there is a disconnect… I’ve been to fancy hair 
salons and they’ve ruined my hair and I had to cut it all off because she didn’t know what she 
was doing. But she had great intentions and wasn’t afraid to deal with my hair, there was no 
racism there or anything. The idea of someone doing that kind of research, I don’t think they 
would ever know as much as you know because of your tradition. 
 
FB: Yes, because of our tradition, it has been passed on. 
 
12 
 
CT: It’s a very challenging dilemma, I don’t want to celebrate or encourage separatism where 
people of a certain race should only have their hair done by that race, but it’s a logistical 
problem, so how do you get around that? I just interviewed a Sicilian woman who does mostly 
black hair because in Sicily they have kinkier hair, so she’s more familiar with that texture 
and she does amazing hair for black women. I think you’re answering the question fine, I just 
wanted to have a discussion about the reality. For instance if an Asian person came to you 
wanting your hairstyle, what would you tell them? 
 
FB: It would be very difficult unless they had some mixture down their bloodline it would be 
kind of difficult to get an afro-look unless we’re adding hair. Some people believe that the 
Orientals or Caucasians cannot have locks, but see some of them that are cultivated and 
within our research and our understanding, it’s the techniques that we’re using [that can 
make it possible]. There are different techniques used for different texture or comfortability 
within their styling. So that’s that portion of our research for us being able to cater to 
Caucasian, Oriental, those different kinds of hair textures who also want locks or braiding 
styles. 
 
CT: Do you have any? 
 
NB: I had two Asian clients. I did one, this was when I first started to do hair and he wanted 
his hair locked, so I interlocked his hair. 
 
CT: What does that mean? 
 
NB: It’s another technique that you take the hair, two strands of hair, and you lock it in 
together. And I’d have him come back once every two weeks. I would shampoo, condition his 
hair and see what condition his hair was in. It’s kind of like the same I would do with 
Folosade’s, we want to make sure it’s well rounded, molding it together, we want to make 
sure that it’s neat for that particular texture. I would not be able to do Folosade’s hair the 
same way, let’s say Candacy’s hair. My other client, he was Caucasian and he wanted to 
have locks so what I did was that I had to make his hair kinky. So there are certain 
techniques that you have to use to even think of wow what am I going to do with this 
person’s hair who wants locks? So of course you cannot use the same technique on one 
person as the other, some people you are able to. 
 
CT: So how did you get his hair to lock? 
 
NB: It took time. It took a very long time because his hair was not used to being curly.  
 
CT: How do you make it curly? 
 
NB: I molded it with my hands [laughing] and every day when he came back I would twist and 
twist and twist. I would take two strands and lock it in and lock it in and twist and twist until it 
seemed like his hair started to bud. 
 
FB: It’s like a matting process that the hair goes through as well. As it mats and matures we 
cultivate it and round it and sculpt it into that cylinder look as much as we can with our 
hands, so most of it is done with our hands.  
 
 
13 
NB: And he wanted color so I put green in it. I was like, “yay!” His hair was already blonde so I 
just added the green semi-permanent to his hair. He loved it. He was a bartender. He was a 
young guy in college. I was doing his hair for about three years and then I left that shop and 
that’s when I started my own business. Sometimes I do look for him and think I would like to 
see him one day. I know that that particular texture it seemed like it started to grow in 
another way of what it was before I started to lock his hair. His mind was of locking, so it told 
his body, so his hair started to act different. That’s what I experienced when doing that young 
man’s hair even versus the Asian’s hair. The Asian’s hair, it locked faster because I used a 
different technique. Isn’t that amazing [laughing]. I just saw your face [expression], like what? 
I never know until I’m in the person’s hair. That’s why we love consultations. They are so 
important. 
 
FB: And highly recommended. 
 
NB: Yes. Especially for color or anything like that. So we’re not afraid of any type of texture, 
we choose to further our education. We want to be able to “lock it” in the future. 
 
CT: That’s great. I want to talk about the physical labor of the job. Do you feel like any parts of 
your body are more affected than others? 
 
FB: I think my back.  
 
CT:  Your upper back or your lower back? 
 
FB: My lower back. And I can definitely say more so my hands because of the twisting 
motions that I’m constantly doing. The wrist area, a lot of hairstylists get carpal tunnel 
syndrome. But our mentor, Sistah E. she taught us a lot, she told us to take those vitamins, 
get those massages, use those paraffin wax. 
 
CT: What do you do with paraffin wax? 
 
FB: They actually use it in salons as well. It’s a wax that is heated up in a bowl. It’s solidified 
at first but when it’s placed in [the bowl] it liquefies. You place your hands in down to your 
wrist and it starts to coat your hands. When it dries you actually feel the difference from 
when it’s placed on, it’s really warm, so when it cools off and it dries, you peel it off and you 
do it every few weeks. 
 
CT: What does it do? 
 
NB: It’s like a moist heating pad, it’s like another fun way to get a manicure. 
 
CT: Is the paraffin wax the wax that is also used for waxing, or is that different? 
 
NB: No, but you will find it in your spa. Hair salon? Maybe. Depending again…going back to 
the culture. We, the black community, may pamper themselves another way, whereas 
another community may do it differently. But in most black hair salons you don’t see paraffin. 
I haven’t seen it. 
 
FB: You don’t. 
 
 
14 
NB: Yeah, if I go to the spa maybe in [New] Jersey, or when I go to the show, I say, “Wow, 
we’ve got to get some paraffin,” because it’s like a moist heating pad for your wrists and 
such, you can use it on your feet also. I would recommend it. Get the mango. 
 
FB: I like the lavender too. 
 
CT: [To Nzinga] What about you? Do you have any physical… 
 
NB: I was going to say my back due to my age but my sister, she’s eleven years younger than 
I am. 
 
FS: I’ve been working. I’m telling you, I’ve been working hard to pay these school bills and to 
live and to keep my clients comfortable. I put so much energy and love into it that it takes a 
little away from me which is why Sister E. says, “You’ve got to treat yourself too girl. Go get 
those massages and make sure you take care of yourself because you have a long life. You 
have to continue to keep people beautiful in that creative way and keep that energy up.” 
 
NB: Yeah, and people depend on us, we don’t know it, and I’m told this all the time that a lot 
of people depend on us. Either it’s just to make them look beautiful-er, I always say “er” and 
like you said, some people just need to talk, some people come to get away from the outside 
world, close their eyes, relax. But it is one thing again, for the community, a lot of people 
depend on us for style. I know back in the day people went to the barbershop and the beauty 
salons to see what the new style was. People always came and showed us what the new stuff 
was or we went to a show and said, “Ok, that’s how they wear their hair now.” “Oh, those the 
new kicks? Ok.” That’s part of different cultures.  
 
Going to the back. I always say stretch, stretch, stretch. I’ve been stretching every day since I 
injured my back two weeks ago. I would say stretching, doing massaging, meditating, 
cleansing yourself, meaning cleansing your day. There’s a lot of energy being poured into you 
as well as you’re pouring energy into other people so you have to take that time whether it be 
at the bottom of the step or in front of the bathroom door, because if you don’t when you 
wake up tomorrow and you have to service those seven clients, those two people that need 
hair color, that one person that has thinning, alopecia, okay? You have to be able to have 
that face, have that body, have those emotions and that culture mindset so that when you 
start doing their hair, they’ll feel that energy. It’s energy being pulled back and forth, 
especially with locks. You see those locks sticking up? That’s their antennae [laughing], like 
hey, I’m over here. My sister’s locks now when I saw that hair is supposed to be rolled up and 
I saw one at the bottom, it’s like here I go. It’s always one. Those are your antennae. Yeah, 
taking care of your body, do you hear me cracking now? I would say stretch, stretch every 
night. It’s very important. Wear comfortable shoes for support, lots of back support. 
 
FB: Vitamins and water. Especially with how much of our body is made up of water. Water is 
very important as well.  
 
CT: You said that you have a lot of African and Caribbean clients. What’s the general 
breakdown, do you have first generation Africans that come here? 
 
NB: Now that’s interesting.  
 
FB: Wow, it’s so diverse within the African community, we have some who are actually from 
the continent. We have some, which we call ourselves, Africans who are born in America, 
 
15 
which other people refer to them as African Americans and then we also have Caribbean-
Americans who are born here but have Caribbean descent. We even have some who have a 
mixture of Spanish and African so there’s really a mixture of people. What do you say sister? 
 
NB: The only time I find that I have a real diverse clientele is if I’m hired on the outside to do 
a show, maybe a fashion show, or like if you’re having a birthday party or a retirement party 
and you have five bartenders and ten servers and we just have twenty people walking around 
and handing out gifts for the guests. So I would have to have all of those models names, their 
pictures of their hair so I would know what I’m doing. Those are the only time I really have a 
diverse crowd. I advertise myself as a colorist. I don’t always say, I’m here and I only do this. I 
have one card for color and another card for other specialties that I do because if I do 
research then that means I want to service you. I can say I’m good because it’s important to 
me that the person not just understanding that they’re wearing blue hair color. They’re 
coming back to get their hair moisturized so it does not fall out because I have one of the 
high-maintenance hair colors. So if it’s another type of texture, their hair may not be able to 
hold the color like my hair does. So therefore, I have to make sure they come back and I have 
to nourish their hair. I did a party for Red Bull a couple of years ago and surprisingly it was a 
blue party. That was easy [laughing]. So I took my suitcase, I was another person’s assistant 
and I had my assistant, we all worked really well together. It was at the Seaport Museum in 
Philadelphia at Penn’s Landing. It was futuristic blue party. That was so easy, we had so 
much fun. But it was a lot of Hispanic and Caucasian. These people from the Red Bull party, 
they partied all night, because I guess it’s the energy drink? I was so tired. I said, “Ok, I’m 
blued out.” That’s only time when I can say I had a real diverse clientele, or in hair school. 
 
FB: Right. So basically the larger percentage [of their clientele] is African, African-American, 
Caribbean, all of those come from that African descent. So like 95% of our clientele is of that 
culture.  
 
CT: What, if any, cultural rituals happen here? 
 
NB: Wow, we’ve had a number of young ladies who have done rites of passage. I 
remember…not so much a ritual but when I started my daughter’s locks, it was my sister, 
Folosade and I don’t remember the other young lady’s name. We were at our shop where we 
were just starting out to do hair. And there was like three people sitting around Egypt [her 
daughter]. I was getting my hair done or I was working? Was I working? 
 
FB: I think you were working. 
 
NB: Yeah, I think I was working and it was Egypt’s third birthday. My sister was like, “Okay, it’s 
time to do it.” 
 
FB: Yep. 
 
NB: We sat down as was talking to her and she didn’t cry or anything. Now she’s twelve and 
she wants to do something different with her locks. So my sister Folosade is going to help 
along with my myself and my mother gradually get her to that stage of whatever she wants to 
do with her locks because she’s going into another stage of her life. She’s had her hair in 
locks since she was three. I’ve done different things with them, meaning cutting them into a 
style but for right now, they are the ones that can really guide my daughter because I guess 
it’s different when you’re the parent [laughing]. 
 
 
16 
FB: A lot of preparation for marriage ceremonies. We have a lot of fun with it because the 
brides will come and if their hair is natural but sometimes the funniest portion is when we 
have people who are in the bridal or wedding party and they’ll have natural hair but the bride 
or the groom does not. Well I can say that I’m faulty of making their hair so beautiful that 
they actually take away from the bride. I did not mean it. I just have fun. I love what I do. You 
tell me it’s for marriage, it’s for a couple coming together and I automatically think, fabulous, 
beautiful, encouraging. So when I do those different intricate styles mainly with the locks and 
the braiding, they look at the hair and people are taking pictures of the hair that I’ve done, 
they’re not even taking pictures of the bride [laughing]. We even had a client that came and 
she said, “They were looking at me because she chose me to be in the wedding party but I’m 
the only one that has locks.” 
 
NB: And she was the sister of the bride. 
 
FB: She was the sister of the bride and she said, “I know y’all going to hook me up. Y’all do 
what y’all do. And I’m going to go there and they are going to see my hair.” And they doggone 
sure did [laughing]. 
 
NB: Keisha’s ghetto. And she’ll tell you, “I’m ghetto. I’m from south Philly.” But the great thing 
about that was everybody was like, “What is she gonna do? What is she gonna do?” [with her 
hair]. And she kept saying, “Y’all worry about yourself. They got me.” When Keisha went in 
there [laughing] and when she came back in the next two months to get her hair done, 
because we colored her hair. I gave Keisha a lighter, honey blonde this time with some 
streaks, I think I did white, or yellow, I can’t remember… 
 
FB: Rods, curls… 
 
NB: Keisha came in and said, “Look y’all… all the pictures. Who hair look better? I told y’all.” 
You actually looked at the wedding party and you could tell the same person did everyone’s 
weave. I looked at Keisha and I just smiled and nodded because she was right. Everyone was 
worried about her hair to the point where they couldn’t even take care of their own hair. It 
was so funny. Keisha was so animated. She kept saying, “I told ‘em don’t worry about me. I 
got this!” 
 
FB: I even enjoyed a friend of mine who I graduated from college with. We did the husband 
and wife’s hair and they both had locks, very beautiful and long and my sister did a nice up-
do and I did the style for the male, very conservative but still very stylish. And they looked so 
beautiful together and they enjoyed it so much. So we do all that. People who are in the 
ceremony, the people who are not, people who are transitioning… 
 
NB: You’ve got to tell that story. 
 
FB: Oh, I’m faulty again. I had a client, I did his hair for his wedding but prior to his wedding, I 
did his hair for someone else’s wedding. His hair was fabulous even the photographer at the 
wedding was taking pictures of him and everyone was coming over to his table asking him 
about his hair. And I said, “I did not mean to get you in trouble.” We were just having fun. His 
hair was so healthy and full. Well when he got married, I’m going tell you what his wife said. 
He came in and I said, “Great. I’m so happy, you’re getting married. This is another step for 
you. This is great. What are we going to do with your hair? I’m excited. He told me his wife 
said I don’t want your hair looking better than mine!” [laughing] So we had so much fun and 
we encourage and excite people so much that sometimes they say, “I need you to calm down 
 
17 
a little.” That’s just getting rid of that whole understanding that you can’t do much with locks, 
but with locks and natural hair, you can do so many things with it and have so much fun with 
it. We prove it everyday. 
 
CT: I guess you understand how rare you are because I have never seen hair like this until I 
stared researching this project. I’ve never seen it on the street. I’ve never knew it was 
possible. 
 
NB: That’s interesting. 
 
FB: It is, because this is all I know. 
 
NB: That’s why we always say “we’re taking it to the next level.” 
 
FB: It’s our tradition. 
 
NB: We have different paths but we have the same goal. You look at me and you’re like okay, 
and you look at her [Folosade] and think that’s more conservative. But she can go there too. 
Don’t get it twisted. 
 
FB: Yeah, we’ll stitch it up. 
 
NB: But the thing is we don’t know anything else. It’s like we don’t even know how to answer 
or comment on what you said because it’s just what we know. You understand? And we want 
to learn more. 
 
CT: I think this is an interesting time, especially within the black community. I don’t know if 
you saw Oprah’s magazine, but she’s wearing her hair “natural” on the cover. 
 
NB: Hmmm okay. 
 
FB: Oh, I wanna see that. 
 
CT: I don’t know how natural it really is but it’s beautiful. It’s big and has lots of curl.  
 
NB: One thing I would love for the community to not be so careful about…it’s an 
understanding. What is natural? What is organic? Are you natural or are you organic? What 
do you want your locks to do for you? What is your purpose? My hair is not natural. It looks 
natural, doesn’t it? But I’m not naturally blue. Otherwise the person would say I have natural 
hair, but technically, I don’t. Who made it like that? I don’t know, I don’t really care, I’m not 
trying to be like that, on the other hand, it’s what exactly is natural? And understand where 
the black hair care community is going. Where is it going? Who’s taking it there? Who’s 
calling it natural? Who’s calling it organic? Who’s calling it locks? Because I have 
locks…locks of hair and so does Folosade and so do you. So that’s what we’re understanding 
and when people come to us and we understand or know their point of view in reference to 
hair, that’s why we get right on it. We’ve got to change that terminology. I have a three-year 
old daughter. I have a twelve-year old daughter. They can’t get older and say, “Oh wow, that 
gymnast was good but look at that nappy hair.” You can’t do that. It’s not right to do that. You 
understand? So I think that’s where it comes from and where it’s going, it’s in our hands. So 
that’s why we’re taking it to the next level. 
 
 
18 
CT: I just think it’s interesting because it seems like from the interviews I’ve been doing and 
the research I’ve been doing, it’s safe to say that most black people are starting to embrace 
their natural texture. But at the same time you’ve got the popularity of the Brazilian Blowout 
and people are saying that’s toxic but is it more or less damaging than relaxers? I’ve 
interviewed Dominican hairstylists that say the Brazilian Blowout was made for that type of 
hair because there is kinky hair in that culture but it’s also mixed with South American or 
Latin hair which also has a different texture and it can handle the flat ironing and all that 
extra processing. 
 
FB: Can I give you an example? Within Philadelphia, just within these past few years, we’ve 
seen a lot of the Dominican hair salons come into the community and because we have a 
nice percentage in this region who likes to wear their hair straight, they would try to come 
away from the actual relaxers but they still move towards the heat. Well, those Dominican 
shops use that same heating process which actually is too much for our hair, our kinks, and 
what happens is it actually breaks our hair off. It brings it down and weakens it so much 
because they see the flow and the straightness, but after a while, like you said, our hair is not 
meant for that type of heat, that type of technique it actually breaks our hair. So that goes 
back to research. When you come into a community of people who have these textures of 
hair you have to understand what their hair can actually take, what’s the technique that’s 
actually needed to get the same result that you’re trying to give them. If you walk around in 
Philadelphia and you see the straight [hair] and you see the damage that has been done. It’s 
only because of the lack of knowledge, lack of research. So once we open our minds, like my 
sister said, “We learn at our own pace.” Once they get to that stage where they say, “Wow 
this is not working, let’s try something else.” Maybe they will still be able to continue 
successfully in a more careful way that’s still healthy for our hair. 
 
NB: Yeah, it’s interesting for me because like I said, it’s not so much that I play sides but I 
look and I say, Been there done that. They’ll be back. Because it is a level of understanding 
who you are and why you wear your hair that way. I don’t press my hair, the only thing I may 
do is blow dry it out just to see what it will do. I know it’s not going to break off because I give 
it moisturizing treatments, I treat my color and then I treat my hair itself. But like my sister 
said, the heat is too strong for our hair. We come from a heated climate so it’s not something 
that we needed, that why we had the wooden pick to take care of our hair with love and 
harmony [laughing]. 
 
FB: That’s right. And I’ve done research on certain weaves and you want to take information 
from different sources, I’ve come across the understanding of the scientific development of 
our hair, why it comes out of our scalp in that spiraling motion. Some understand it to be that 
same force that spins and rotates the planets and the universe, it’s the same force that 
makes our hair spin when it comes out of our scalp so that strength that we actually have in 
the curl pattern in our hair. Some people don’t understand it and don’t know why it’s better 
to embrace it and why it’s better to braid it and not burn it [laughing]. 
 
NB: [laughing] That was a good one. 
 
FB: I love you Sister E. 
 
CT: That was beautiful. When you say “Sister E,” I know you’re talking about Yvette Smalls 
but how do you want that transcribed?  
 
FB: Oh, it’s S-I-S. E. That’s how we say it but you can put Yvette Smalls. 
 
19 
 
CT: I’d like to write it how you say it because it speaks to how well you knew her. 
 
FB: She also had the name Kinyozi. We have mirror here that we use for our clients and when 
we show it to them, she actually wrote her name on the bottom of our mirrors. And Kinyozi  
means “one who dresses hair.” So that’s another name she goes by. But we know here as S-
i-s. E, capital E.  
 
CT: Is the first “S” capitalized?  
 
FB: Yes. It’s “Sis. E.” 
 
NB: But I would say maybe put Yvette Smalls in parentheses and like you said, Kinyozi, the 
Philadelphia Folklore Community project, they call her “Kinyozi” 
 
CT: Can you spell that? 
 
NB: Yes, we want to make it right. A lot of people who have done blogs on her were using 
Kinyozi. So she is Sister Yvette Smalls Kinyozi E. Sis. E. 
 
[Folosade brings a mirror out] So on the mirror it actually says… 
 
CT: Kinyozi.  
 
FB: Now on here she wrote it as, “Sistah E.” But the way we saw it was as Sis. E. And she 
wrote, “Sistah E. from Ph. D. because that’s how she was. I love her. 
 
NB: Now that’s another thing, she was not my teacher in home school, she was my teacher 
within hair and my sister went to school with her son. So in saying that it was another type of 
“sister” meaning that was my Mom, “sista” you understand? S-i-s-t-a. But I would not dare 
call her sista. It was “Mommy Yvette.” I grew up calling her “Mommy Yvette.” When people 
would say Sista E. I was like, “Who is that?” [They would say], “You know, the ‘braid it don’t 
burn it.’” You mean Mommy Yvette? Or Mama Smalls? People were like, “Hey Mama Smalls.” 
It’s the terms and where you came from. People may call me “Cats,” they’ll say, “Hey cat 
eyes” then you know that’s from High School. Or if a person says, “Oh hey blue” then that’s 
from me being in this career. Even with Folosade. 
 
FB: Right even myself, I was born with seven names. When I went to college, it was “Oh, Bey.” 
That’s my last name. “What’s up Bey? How you doing Bey?” And transitioning into my own life 
and coming into the movement I’m dealing with in my career, I’m Folosade. Sade means “the 
khrowned one.” So, Folosade is one who takes care of peoples’ khrown (crown), who helps to 
heal the crown. It fell right into it. You know, “Futurists” is someone who is encouraged by 
positive change. Someone who works with the khrown. We’re talking and we’re encouraging 
a change in the future as we are working on your khrown. That in my transition and the 
different names that I’m known by. 
 
CT: And you want crown spelled with a “K”? 
 
FB: Yes, with a “K”. I can just simply say it’s from the African alphabet. K came from K-e-m-e-t 
or K-h-e-m-e-t, which is the ancient name from Egypt. It’s “k” because they did not use some 
of the other letters. So “k” was that letter that they used instead of “c.” 
 
20 
 
CT: Wow, I am learning so much. It’s been such an honor to be here and to meet you. I had 
high expectations but this experience was beyond my expectations.  
 
FB: Thank you so much. It was my pleasure to work with you because even when my sister 
said, “locking the future.” This is us putting in that history, making sure that it continues. If 
Sister E. was here you would probably be talking to her. We would have probably been there 
as well, but you would have heard a lot of the tradition and culture being passed down 
through her. But this was my pleasure and I appreciate this. 
 
CT: Are you second-generation African? 
 
FB: I just say I’m African because our ancestors came from the continent and we were born 
here in Philadelphia, but I know we have Wolof in our family, we have Haitians we have 
Jamaicans, so I just call myself African because I understand that as the origin, the root. 
 
NB: Well I’ll tell you this, I’ve never been to Africa but I will say when I visit Jamaica, when I 
went to Haiti and when I went to Mexico, they all called me “African.” I didn’t speak. I thought 
I looked Jamaican [she speaks a little Jamaican] I felt like I was blending but not everyone 
has blue hair on the other hand, I was “African,” everywhere I went. I was in Jamaica several 
times in different places and different people said, “African” so what am I supposed to say, 
“No I’m not?” Because they know I’m not Jamaican, but I’m African. So what does that mean 
in Mexico? The same thing. So I would say, “I’m African.” And I’m proud. 
 
CT: Fantastic. Thank you.  
 
FS: You’re so welcome and thank you having us a part of this and putting us down in history. 
 
CT: Yes, your story deserves being documented. 
 
[Folosdae and Nzinga’s mother speaks from the background] The other part too is that my 
belief is that we were chosen to do this job. The Creator has a job for everyone and we were 
chosen to do this job. And I’m very proud of my girls. [In audible] We are part of the cultural 
community to promote the culture, because without having people to promote the culture, 
what will happen to it? 
 
FB: It will be lost. 
 
NB: Ask her [Nzinga’s mother] what she said when she saw my hair blue. 
 
[Nzinga’s mother] I felt like my mother. My mother would always rub my hair and ask me 
when I was going to cut it. So I didn’t quite understand the blue hair but I came to respect it. 
 
NB: I’ll tell you what she said. “I said, ‘Hey Mom!’” I laid in the middle of her bed. Of course I 
wasn’t living with her at the time. She said, “Is your hair blue?” I said, “Un huh.” She said, 
“Do you like it?” I said, “I love it.” She said, “Well then I love it.” [laughing] And that was it. 
 
Nia Bey:  When I went to my mother and asked her, “Mom, can I…I want to change my name. 
I said, it’s not disrespect to you but I have to have a name that defines me, that says who I 
am.” She looked at me and said, “Uh huh.” I said, I want to change my name to Nia, it’s N-I-A 
and it means “purpose.” And she said, “Uh huh. Okay.” But she gave me permission. And I 
 
21 
didn’t just say, “I’m changing my name.” Because I don’t deal with my mama like that. She’s 
not a fighting woman and she’s not argumentative and I respect her. I wanted her to know 
that I was making changes and I’m going in this direction. Everybody is not going to 
understand that. I changed everybody’s name. 
 
NB: Except for Nzinga. 
 
FS: She changed my name. But thank you so much Candacy that was fun. I was excited to do 
this. 
 
[we look at photos of Yvette Smalls]