Ann Daigle Commercial Fisherman. Little Tutka Bay 
Interviewed By Josh Wisniewski and Marissa Wilson 12/01/22 
American Folklife Center 
 
Ann Daigle, born in 1963 is a lifelong resident of Kachemak Bay, in Lower Cook Inlet.  She 
and her family are set net fisherman in Kasitsna Bay, and off Mcdonald Spit.   They live part 
of the year out of their fish camp cabin in Little Tutka Bay near where they fish on the 
southside of Kachemak Bay.  Ann grew up both in Homer and on her family’s, homestead 
located on Cohen Island.  She and her siblings were raised by her mom and she grew up 
living in a Quonset hut in Homer.   Along with her sister, she began commercial fishing for 
salmon when she returned home from college, and together with her husband, her sister 
and her sisters husband worked with other local set-netters in forming a cooperative 
fishing business.   She continues to fish with her family today ans several of their adult 
children have become successful fishermen in their own right.  Central to the values Ann 
places on fishing has been the opportunity to raise her children fishing and the work ethic 
it has instilled in them, as well as the value of respecting the resource itself. 
 
01:00-04:00 Introduction, date of birth 1963, growing up in Homer.  Growing up eating 
seafood, big king crab and shrimp.   
 
04:00-10:00  Homesteading on Cohen Island, fishing for dollies, building rafts and playing 
on the beach. Father was surveyor and purchased lands around Kachemak 
Bay using Civil War script.  First boat the Tin Cup an vintage World War II 
amphibious vehicle.  Father would trade for all kinds of things. Later her 
family had a vintage Bristol Bay double ender salmon fishing boat to travel 
on Kachemak Bay.   Several were shipped from Bristol Bay.  A neighbor on 
nearby Island Randy Arsenault had one named the Chelsea that Ann and her 
husband bought later on.  Older brother Phil Broudy also had Bristol Bay 
double ender that he turned into a salmon seiner. As a girl watched a pod of 
orcas attack a whale while sitting on the beach. 
 
10:00-17:00  went to college in Maine, met and married her husband Pat.  Mom asked if 
she wanted a job in Alaska.  Family had a chance to trade land father had 
obtained with Civil War script for set net fishing sites and permits. Had not 
commercial fished before, Sister had one summer at Kaligan Island.  Husband 
Pat had only ever worked on a farm.  They traded the land and got six sites 
and two permits and a boat called the Silver Pig.  Fishing sites included 
Nubble Point, Jackalof Bay and around McDonald Spit. First year worked in 
cannery in Valdez. When started fishing had brand new rain gear and didn’t 
know how to use an outboard or drive a skiff.  Learned to fish from local area 
fisherman Robert Purpura. 
 
17:00-24:00 Learning to hang nets and tie knots, clove hitch and running line knot.  
Husband (Pat) very nervous when first started fishing.  Learning how to set 
nets.  Second year of marriage, and working together in a small boat with lots 
of challenges.  Different style of communication than husband, learning to 
work together.  Working nets in shifts, running through all of the nets and 
pulling each one by hand.  Now we drive along net looking for fish. When 
Ann Daigle Commercial Fisherman. Little Tutka Bay 
Interviewed By Josh Wisniewski and Marissa Wilson 12/01/22 
American Folklife Center 
there were no fish, we’d go to the beach and look for rocks. Lots of working 
cleaning nets and mending every single hole. Now clean nets with a pressure 
washer.  Today we fish 18 nets.  Don’t mend every hole.  Big holes from 
whales we put patches in the net. 
 
24:00-30:00 Cleaning nets, inventing new techniques. Whales swimming through nets and 
making holes in them.  Whales are fine nets take hours to repair, one year 10 
whales swam though nets.  First boat, the Silver Pig.  Poorly built and 
dangerous. Neighbor on Cronin Island used the boat came to visit Ann and 
was heading home, hit a wave and was thrown out of the boat.  No one 
around to help.  She grabbed on the boat but couldn’t climb in.  Patrick, Anns 
husband came in from checking the nets early and saw her in the water.  
Patrick also thrown out of the boat once in bad weather after cutting 
firewood. 
 
30:00-35:00  Silver Pig came with fishing permit soon bought another fishing skiff.  Bought 
a skiff turned out it was stolen and had to buy it twice and pay original owner 
too.  Unique skiff, easy to maneuver and can carry five nets. Had a second 
boat. Son Simeon was living on the Island and using it to shuffle Electric 
Utilities people around. He couldn’t start the outboard on a cold day and 
hands were do cold when he went to re tie it that h could only do a sloppy 
knot.  He forgot to retie it and boat was lost in a big storm.  Simeon had to 
replace it with a new skiff that packs 10 nets. Ann and Pat taught 
responsibility so son had to pay for the boat.  Daughter would make bagels to 
sell to neighbors in Little Tutka Bay, and would deliver in row boat.  She 
came home and it didn’t have a bow line.  She tied it with a pipe cleaner to  
the running line. 
 
35:00-40:00 Father originally acquired their island in Little Tutka Bay using civil war 
script. When they first went to find it, they couldn’t locate it because land 
sank form 1964 earth quake and they didn’t recognize the landscape.  They 
got lost looking for the island and blown into Tutka Bay.  Dave Seaman lived 
on the island for five years in exchange for build either a cabin for her or a 
skiff.  Ann was 17 and chose a cabin.  Maybe would have chosen skiff because 
Dave is amazing boat builder.  He built foundation, floors and one wall.  Ann 
and Pat finished it.  And she was glad to get to help build her home.  They 
used wood cut by local saw mill operated by Jim Landis in Sadie Cove.  Mom 
didn’t know Little Tutka Bay when went to look for land got lost in Tutka Bay 
in storm and were rescued after twelve hours by the Point Sophia. While 
living in Little Tutka Bay they bought a Bristol Bay double ender named 
Chelsea that has belonged to neighbor Randy from Cronin Island.  They had a 
church in their cabin in Little Tutka Bay and also met in other cabins for 
services, needed a safer boat to cross the Bay. 
40:00-45:00 Before Chelsea used skiff to cross the Bay.  Scary in winter, use to put baby 
(Simeon) in small fish tote and pack with blankets and cover with a tarp.  
Ann Daigle Commercial Fisherman. Little Tutka Bay 
Interviewed By Josh Wisniewski and Marissa Wilson 12/01/22 
American Folklife Center 
Marsh Milion from Little Jackalof mase leather boots to help keep him warm.  
Ann prayed they needed a safer boat for winter and they got the Chelsea.  
They crossed the Bay in Chelsea in a storm on Christmas after doing a 
Christmas play.  Patrick had a broken foot at the time, and they barely made 
it off the Island.  Dave Seaman was crossing the Bay in the Marona and called 
on the CB radio saying he thought it was safe enough for them to cross.   They 
were heading across and the weather got worse.  Dave tried to call and say 
weather had picked up and to not come.   Ann saw Patrick’s face go white 
wind was blowing tops off the waves.  They made the cabin comfortable for 
the kids.  It was good family time on the boat.  It was slow and they would 
leave and return in the dark.  It taught the kids (two eldest boys) something 
you cannot teach in the same way, which is it to persevere.  Thy learned how 
to endure uncomfortable situations for extended periods of time, which is 
super valuable.  They are both fishermen, they learned to be tough to and to 
ride out hardships. 
 
45:00-50:00 Both adult sons have a perseverance that is striking and comes from those 
early experiences.  Simeon learned to play piano by playing keyboard in the 
cabin of the boat during long crossings.  Often a four hour round trips.  
Chelsea sank in the harbor after a heavy snow fall.  Patrick was able to raise 
her.  They eventually sold her and she sank again.  It is sitting out on East End 
Road in Homer.  After Ann and Patrick had kids, Ann was at home more on 
the Island raising their kids. Ann took over gear work and they started taking 
the kids out too.  Ann focused o keeping everyone well fed for the fishing 
season.  People eat twice as much in the summer, started making fishing gear 
like waterproof sleeves on fishing jackets.  By the time the kids were seven 
years old they were driving skiffs and learning to work.  Raising kids on an 
island and fishing is like raising kids on a farm because it is an opportunity to 
teach hard work and values that you can’t teach in other settings.   We never 
made that much money or caught that much fish, but that didn’t matter as 
much as the chance to raise our children in the fishing life.   
 
50:00-55:00 non-monetary values most important part of fishing.  You can make some 
money in decent years and it helps balance Patrick’s other work out.  We 
home schooled until the kids entered high school but moving back to the 
island for fishing season was the best time of year with the whole family 
working together.   Simeon bought his own sites and built a home on the 
island too so he can offer his family the experiences he had growing up.  We 
never made a lot of money but worth it for the way of life.  There is no 
competition in our fishery and Ann happy for fish that get blown into their 
nets. 
 
55:00-60:00. Missed the biggest fishing years (1978).  Always had kids at home but now 
they are all moving away.    One year we were so slammed with pink salmon. 
Lucky to have time to get a meal on the table.  Went to town for supplies and 
Ann Daigle Commercial Fisherman. Little Tutka Bay 
Interviewed By Josh Wisniewski and Marissa Wilson 12/01/22 
American Folklife Center 
came back and didn’t even have time to take the groceries to the cabin.  Left 
them on the beach.  Caught 100,000 pounds of pinks that year.  Don’t usually 
catch fish like that.  Have not had many thousands of pounds of red salmon, 
but some years lots of pink and silver salmon.  One year received .97 cents a 
pound for pinks.  Also has year where there was no market for pinks and 
they still get stuck in the net and wasted. Had to dump fish processors 
wouldn’t buy.  Taught kids this was a somber moment to have to dump and 
waste fish because processors wouldn’t buy them. 
 
60:00-1:05:00 Simeon ran over neighbors’ fish scow.  Simeon and Benjamin in skiff 
together Simeon drove on to scow and broke a tote.  Sera called him Captain 
Crunch.  When their boys were young five years old, they started working 
and when the girls were seven, they started.  They all had to help clean nets.  
They all became hard workers and could do everything from a pretty young 
age.  
 
1:05:00-1:10:00. Kids first job in the boat was to be a spotter.  It took a while for them to be 
strong enough to pick fish.  Son Benjamin born to fish and fishes a boat in 
Prince William Sound.  Simeon fishes in Upper Cook Inlet and in Kachemak 
Bay.   Daughter Aspen fishes with her husband in Bristol Bay and youngest 
daughter Aspen also fishes with them.  They will have to hire someone 
because kids have moved away.  Last year poor fishing and only fished 15 of 
18 nets. Our bodies are getting worn out.  Patrick’s knees and shoulders are 
worn out.   
 
1:10-14:33 
Josh (Interviewer) moved home to fish again after having been away for 
several years.  Always enjoy when you (Josh) visit and chat with us when out 
fishing.  Pleasure to see new people starting and learning how to fish. All 
doing the same thing and can relate to hard situations, bad weather or bad 
fishing.  Getting lost in the fog.  Josh had a light and said where he saw our 
nets. We helped him find his nets.  Using GPS to kind nets in the fog. Having 
new people in the fleet. 
 
1:14:33 End of Interview