Multi-Generational African American Farmers of the Midwest
Anna-Lisa Cox
Library of Congress AFC Archie Green Fellowship
Date of interview: July 24th, 2019
Names/s of those interviewed: Carolyn Sallee Walden (Part 2 of 2)
Primary Interviewer: Anna-Lisa Cox (ALC)
Secondary Interviewers: Photographer: Lishawna Taylor
Interview Location: Lyles Station Historical School Museum, Gibson County, Indiana
Transcriber: Mary Kamara-Hagemeyer
Abstract: Mrs. Carolyn Sallee Walden grew up on her parent’s farm in Lawrence, County,
Illinois. She is descended from the Goins – free people of color in Lawrence County. Her
husband is descended from a long line of multi-racial farmers that came out and homesteaded the
Indiana frontier before the Civil War. As Stephen Vincent pointed out in his book, Southern
Seed, Northern Soil, the Waldens were long free from North Carolina before they came to
Indiana, and claim an African-descended Patriot Revolutionary War soldier as an ancestor. Mrs.
Walden’s sister, Marva Green, is also recorded as part of this collection.
Mrs. Walden and her husband took part in an important case that went to the federal
Supreme Court, over the mineral rights to their farmland. It was the first case heard by Justice
Sandra Day O’Connor.
A quilt from Mrs. Walden’s collection is now in the permanent collection of the
Smithsonian’s National Museum of African American History and Culture, and has been
displayed in the exhibit on Lyles Station, Indiana.
1
Index/Log (5 Minute Time Stamped)
Mrs. C.S. Walden Log 2 of 2
[0:00] Continuation of part 1 discussion.
[5:00] Discuss the fight and win at the Supreme Court to obtain mineral rights on two different
pieces of property. Talked about how locally it was known that her family was people of color,
but it was unknown in Washington D.C. Explains how her family has been instructed to hold
onto the mineral rights. Notes the long lives of her husband, in-laws, and mother.
[10:00] The value of the history and information in the family materials Sallee is storing are
discussed, and different materials she has preserved are talked about, as well as the different
institutions that would be happy to receive them.
[12:00] End of part 2 audio.
2