1 
 
Transcript of Interview with Dan Tremblay, June 24, 2021 
By Ethan Sharp 
Ethan (00:00:02): 
All right. We're recording. Today is June 24th, 2021. I'm here in Lexington, Kentucky. I'm Ethan Sharp. And 
I'm here with Dan. Dan, would you like to introduce yourself? 
Dan (00:00:18): 
My name is Dan Tremblay, and I'm with GoHire Employment and Development here in Hazard, Kentucky. 
And today--do you want me to just introduce myself right off the bat? 
Ethan (00:00:30): 
Yeah. Sure. Yeah. If you want to start talking about where you were born, where you grew up, and then 
how you ended up in this line of work. 
Dan (00:00:41): 
Yeah, I actually grew up in New England, the state of Maine. And the way I ended up here in Eastern 
Kentucky was, my mother was from Hazard here in Eastern Kentucky, and I was raised and spent my life 
in New England, up in Maine. And I got going down a pretty bad road after high school. I ended up joining 
a motorcycle club, the state of Maine, the state police in the state of Maine labeled it an outlaw 
motorcycle organization. And I was living a pretty bad life. Basically, I was dealing drugs. I was using drugs. 
I was drinking. One of the really big things that caught my attention was one day, my mom asked me, she 
asked me when the last time I hadn't had anything to drink, and I just couldn't tell her. It was just breakfast, 
you know, dinner sometimes at work sometimes, you know, definitely after work for sure. 
Dan (00:01:51): 
And then that was when I kind of realized that, that there was a problem. I, fortunately, I was fortunate 
to not really get involved. I never had any charges or anything like that against me. So I ended up being 
really blessed and not getting in any trouble with law enforcement during all those, it was about five years 
of my life. A mentor came into my life actually. And he was a pastor of Grace Community Church in Maine. 
And I needed motorcycle insurance, but he wanted to, he, he reminded me that, well, he told me it was 
his opinion that I needed a lot more than motorcycle insurance. And he started inviting me to come back 
to church. This guy was a family friend. He was a football coach, and he knew everything about me. I 
mean, if there was somebody that knew, he knew. My family and, you know, nobody outside of the, 
outside of my friend circle knew that anything, the extent of anything that I was doing or the way my life 
was. 
Dan (00:02:54): 
But he just knew that I was going down what he considered a bad path. And he was right. He began 
meeting with me monthly and began to disciple me. And I actually ended up coming to Hazard and visiting 
my grandmother and had met my wife at the time. And as I got down here a series of events occurred, 
and I ended up at a church that did a 12 step program called Lifeline. It's not as major of--it's not as well 
known, but it was a, Lifeline is a 12 step Christ-centered program. And as I visited and became a member, 
I participated a lot in the 12 steps. And as I moved, you know, 19 hours away, it was just like, I was, I had 
2 
 
a different support group. You know, I had friends and I had family living down here and it was just like 
180 degree switch from the life I had. 
Dan (00:03:59): 
And I did not realize that I was going to leave that life. You know, I still had kind of thought that I was 
gonna come down and marry my wife and move back up to Maine, but that didn't happen. Work history: 
I've spent a lot of time in behavioral health. Pretty much all of my work has been in behavioral health in 
some form or fashion, whether it was working with individuals that have developmental disabilities, 
working in psychiatric residential therapeutic facilities. And there is a community supports--I'm like three 
classes away from my bachelor's in psychology. So I was needing a job. And you know, about, I started 
this position here about four years ago, I think. This September will be four years. And they was hiring a 
trainer for just various different things. We have crisis prevention intervention training. We have, we have 
CPR. We have new hire orientation, and then there's some case management trainings that I'm a part of. 
And then I do, and we do youth peer supports, adult peer supports, and family peer supports. And in 
Kentucky, you have to have, family and youth have to have a prerequisite called Kentucky Family 
Leadership Academy. And there was a position available for that job, and they hired me. And that is how 
I got this job. One thing I wanted just to add to my story was I got into Celebrate Recovery, which is a little 
more well-known, another 12-step process, I'm going to say, 12-step support group. And I've been a part 
of Celebrate Recovery for the last four years. I actually got the opportunity to go to Brazil and help try to 
set up there, but it didn't quite catch in the church that we was a part of down there. But I'm still a part 
of that. So I look to those support groups as a big part of the help. 
Ethan (00:06:14): 
That's great. So can I just ask you how are, how are Lifeline and Celebrate Recovery, are they connected 
or build on--does Celebrate Recovery kind of build on what Lifeline does? I've never heard of Lifeline. 
That's why I'm asking. 
Dan (00:06:27): 
They're actually two separate programs, you know. So you have your AA and your NA, and you have 
Celebrate Recovery. A lot of people would say those are very similar. They have real similar steps. The 
blueprints, the difference in all four of those is the curriculum. NA has your AA book. I meant to say, your 
AA has your AA book and your NA has other curriculum, step books, I think they're called. And Celebrate 
Recovery, the difference between Celebrate Recovery and Lifeline is Celebrate Recovery, in my opinion, 
starts from the very basics of why they believe, what they believe, and how it could help you. I feel like 
Lifeline is more, more or less, kind of geared for somebody that knows a lot about the Bible or has some 
kind of Bible knowledge. I think the illustrations are a little bit more like tongue in cheek, like you should 
know the stories, but they're still the same 12 steps. The steps are the same. It's the curriculum that's a 
little bit different. In my opinion. 
Ethan (00:07:39): 
I see. So you, you do consider yourself a person in recovery? 
Dan (00:07:43): 
Yes. 
Ethan (00:07:44): 
3 
 
Okay. Okay. And I just wanted to ask, to follow up quickly, so you worked in behavioral health in Maine 
and Kentucky, or is it mostly when you, when you moved to Kentucky that you got into behavioral health? 
Dan (00:07:58): 
In Maine, my experience was in developmental disabilities, and when I came to Kentucky, I ended up more 
into severe mental illness. 
Ethan (00:08:10): 
Okay. And then you said the job opened, a job opened up at the Kentucky Family Leadership Academy, or 
was it at just there at GoHire, to be involved in different kinds of training? 
Dan (00:08:23): 
Okay. So GoHire Employment and Development is the W2 employer for Kentucky River Community Care. 
So we hire folks for positions that get assigned to work at Kentucky River Community Care. So Kentucky 
Family Leadership Academy is a training we offer. It's a prerequisite to peer supports. 
Ethan (00:08:52): 
Right. It's just one of the, one of the trainings you offer. That makes sense. That makes sense. Okay. And 
so could you talk a little bit more about that relationship between GoHire and Kentucky River 
Community…what's the last word there? 
Dan (00:09:18): 
Basically, we take care of payroll and insurance benefits and 401k and stuff like that for KRCC. 
Ethan (00:09:28): 
But you have a relationship with, I'm sorry I don't know this, you have a relationship with Adanta as well. 
Dan (00:09:32): 
Yep. Yes. 
Ethan (00:09:34): 
Okay. That's just another organization like Kentucky River? 
Dan (00:09:41): 
It's another community mental health center in the Adanta region. 
Ethan (00:09:47): 
Right. Okay. Yeah, that makes sense. Okay, so can we, do you, can you tell us a little bit more about what 
your responsibilities have been in the job you have there with GoHire, and how those responsibilities have 
changed over the years you've worked there? 
Dan (00:10:10): 
I've been in several different positions. There was, I've been a manager of the Sewell Center. Actually, first 
off, when I first moved to Kentucky, I was, I can't remember, support staff at a place called the Bailey 
4 
 
Center, which was crisis stabilization for adults. And then I got promoted to the position of a manager at 
crisis stabilization for youth, for children, which was called the Sewell Center through KRCC. I had left for 
a little while, and that's where I went to a psychiatric residential therapeutic facility. And I had worked 
there for a little while. Then I kind of had got out of the field a little bit, off and on. I returned to GoHire 
again. And just before community supports was in position, there was a grant out there called Recovery 
Oriented System of Care. 
Dan (00:11:11): 
We called it ROSC. I believe that's what it stood for. I could be wrong about that. And basically that was 
like community supports. And that was before the Affordable Care Act and everything kicked in. We was 
doing, you know, we was kinda support staff of case managers, building on the skills of consumers, helping 
them learn how [inaudible] their daily living skills and all those things, working towards their plans, helping 
them work on self-advocacy and stuff like that. Then Affordable Care Act kicked in. And that's when I had, 
that's when we started this new program. At the time, it was called community supports. And so it 
revolved from like a grant to actually billing for insurance. And I also had a really interesting position. I like 
to consider interesting. I was a liaison between KRCC and ARH psych center. 
Dan (00:12:11): 
That's a psych center that we have in our community. And I would go to the, to the hospital, to the psych 
center, and every client that was in our community, in our region, I would explain to them the way that 
our services could benefit them and try to get them to sign up for services. A lot of times your psych 
center, some of the clients that would need services at a later date, need continued services, I should say. 
You might not hear from them after they leave the hospital, but it was, it was my job to get them 
connected. And then if we couldn't get them connected, why, why couldn't we, and what would we need 
to do to try to help them. Now it was up to them. There's other agencies in the community that people 
could go to, but a lot of times, no one's reaching those people. I would argue probably that. And then, I 
left again for a little while, and come back, and this position was available. 
Ethan (00:13:13): 
I see. So, so all of those positions were connected through GoHire. And then, and then when you came 
into the, into the, your, your current position where you're responsible for training, what are you, what 
are you, what kinds of things do you do? Cause you usually--kind of just describe what your duties are, 
and you know, what a week looks like for you? 
Dan (00:13:39): 
So my day planner is probably my number one tool. I apologize--there that one day. But my--basically 
planning and scheduling trainings. If I'm not planning or scheduling or being a part of a training, then 
there's like follow up paperwork for the state. We have to, we have to log these trainings into a state 
system, so there's a lot of that. There's a lot of taking payments and scheduling trainings and making 
sure…now, we also track trainings that are needed by Kentucky River Community Care. So like, when, 
there's a lot of recertification trainings, and there's a lot of every year, like case managers, for instance, 
or actually all of the trainings, community supports and peer supports, they need six additional hours of 
training every year outside of the original training. So we've got to make sure they've stayed up to their 
qualifications on all those. 
Ethan (00:14:56): 
5 
 
Right, right. Okay. And then you mentioned that you provide the adult peer support training, the youth 
peer support, the family peer support, and then the, you know, the prerequisite for that, the Kentucky 
Family Leadership Academy. Are there other trainings? And then you provide this, you know, the 
continuing credits for the community supports. Are there other trainings that you work on just to make 
sure we've covered everything? 
Dan (00:15:31): 
The continued trainings are actually a part of an e-learnings that we use, called the Relias system. So I 
technically don't offer that. 
Ethan (00:15:41): 
Oh, you just kind of track that? 
Dan (00:15:41): 
Yeah. Monitor and make sure they're doing that. We have crisis prevention intervention. We also have 
CPR. We, so we made sure that we do those. And some additional trainings. We train community support 
associates. And we train, a case manager core training for all case managers and their supervisors, and 
then whatever additional clientele they're serving. So like, if they're serving a client that has severe mental 
illness, there's an additional training for that. There's a training for substance use disorder. There's a 
training for co-occurring disorder, which can be multiple disorders. And there's a training for severe 
emotional disorder. I think that's all of them. 
Ethan (00:16:34): 
That's a lot. That's a lot. So do you, do you, do you lead those trainings, or do you bring other people in? 
Yeah, sorry, go ahead. 
Dan (00:16:42): 
With all of those trainings, I am the lead. With the peer support trainings, there's actually, an actual peer 
support helps co-facilitate. So they get like a firsthand perspective of a peer support as well. 
Ethan (00:17:02): 
Okay. Okay. So maybe we could talk since we're mostly curious about the peer support, maybe we could 
talk about what the adult peer support training looks like, that you all provide. You know, how many is it? 
Is it online? Is it in person? Or how has that changed? And how many hours is it? And then, you know, 
what are some of the specific curricula that, that you focus on? 
Dan (00:17:39): 
Okay. Well, bear with me one second, because I got something that can help me on that. What I can say 
right off the very top of my head, it's a 30 hour training. And we do that Monday through Friday, which is, 
which is six hours a day. And pre-COVID, it was in person. But the state has allowed us, and I don't know 
if we've mentioned this yet or not, but the state has allowed us to use these trainings as, the state has 
allowed us to present these trainings so that people can be certified. And with that being said, once COVID 
hit, they allowed us to do the trainings--they allowed us to do the trainings via Zoom. So that was pretty 
unique. And there's been some pros and cons about that. We actually do trainings all over Eastern 
Kentucky. So the pros for that, where people didn't have to travel as much. It was really cost-effective 
6 
 
because they wouldn't have to do a hotel and all that stuff. So it was really helpful for them. And then, I 
think--now, I think you lose the social networking piece of it. So it's really, that's not as helpful. 
Ethan (00:19:37): 
When you had the adult peer support in-person training, how many times a year did you have it? 
Dan (00:19:44): 
Last year, we almost did it roughly every month. Since COVID and stuff, it slowed down a little bit. So 
we've been a little bit more like probably every other month or every third month. But now actually, that 
might be a little bit difficult to explain, because sometimes, some months we do a peer support, a youth 
peer support training. Some months we do adult peer support training, but we can't offer all those every 
month. 
Ethan (00:20:22): 
Right. And most of the people who come to you for training, when it was in-person, were from Eastern 
Kentucky, is that right? 
Dan (00:20:32): 
All over Kentucky. 
Ethan (00:20:33): 
All over. When it was in person? 
Dan (00:20:36): 
Yeah. Yeah. All over Kentucky, whether it be from the Adanta region or whether it be from, you know, 
Bowling Green. There's been a lot of trainings we've done in Bowling Green, Louisville, Lexington. So really 
that's been all over Kentucky. 
Ethan (00:20:56): 
Yeah. And then when you transitioned to online, did you find you were getting people from all over 
Kentucky more? 
Dan (00:21:06): 
It definitely was more broad. It wasn't, I don't know that it, I can't say that it was, it hasn't picked up. 
Ethan (00:21:17): 
Yeah. Okay. 
Dan (00:21:21): 
And I tell you, I don't know if this has anything to do with it. It's just my personal opinion. But drug courts 
may have slowed down too. So pre-COVID, we was getting a lot of drug court folks. Post-COVID, you know, 
I don't know why on that--that just come to my mind real quick. 
Ethan (00:21:40): 
7 
 
Right. So it was a case where folks were going through drug court, and they were encouraged to get the 
peer support certification. 
Dan (00:21:53): 
Yes. Well, I mean, it could end up being a paying job for their story. That might be a bad way to say that, 
but. 
Ethan (00:22:03): 
Yeah. So you were going to say more about what the adult peer support training consists of. I think that's 
what you're, you were looking for something for that. 
Dan (00:22:14): 
I was trying to pull that up real quick. I had, I should have had something here. 
Ethan (00:22:22): 
You're fine. 
Dan (00:22:27): 
And actually. Let me run, let me step away from the computer real quick. 
Ethan (00:22:30): 
Sure. 
Dan (00:23:05): 
I was trying to find, there's a, online there's an, it shows the actual rubric, and I thought I could find that. 
And I'm having trouble finding it right at this second. But should be able to come up with exactly what the 
rubric looks like that way. I don't have it memorized. 
Ethan (00:23:28): 
Yeah. Well, it was just kind of, to kind of get an idea, you know, like you've got five days, like what does 
day one focus on, what does day two focus on. 
Dan (00:23:42): 
And I had a piece of paper that broke that down. I will be to answer that, but was hoping to get the more 
politically correct paper, but I'm not able to have that. I used to have it right here. Here it is. This is real 
helpful. I'm glad. I'm glad I found it. I knew it was close. Okay. So like day one, we would talk about problem 
solving. And problem solving would be both, you know, problems that could arise at work, like ethical 
issues and boundaries and things like that. And then they could also be just like personal problems that 
come up in the client's life and how to identify those for them. So the thing about our peer support training 
is we don't just focus, we try to encourage the, I try to encourage the peer support to, they're supposed 
to be a model of recovery. 
Dan (00:24:48): 
8 
 
So if we can help identify what our problems are and help walk through those, then we're going to be able 
to easily or more easily help another person walk through their problems. Problem solving. The state of 
Kentucky encourages a lot of this, this rubric and anything. So there's a wellness recovery action plan. Like 
it's a crisis prevention plan that, that is included. There's stages in the recovery process. So we talk about, 
I think it's Prochaska and DiClemente's stages of recovery. And we walk through those, and talk about 
how those look: pre-contemplation, contemplation, denial. And we actually tie those in, I tie those into 
every kind of scenario, because we need to recognize whether or not our client is in denial, or if they are 
in the action stage. Or are they in a maintenance stage, or do they need to be working on making sure 
they have a plan for a relapse. Effective listening skills. Establishing recovery goals. 
Dan (00:25:56): 
We talk about how to establish goals. We talk about support groups and maintaining those groups and 
promoting and starting groups. That would have been what the state had as responsibilities that we 
should have had in the training. But with it, the other things we do are like ice breakers and things like 
that, to warm them up as a group and to help fish out like mine, mine goals that our clients have. Here in 
Eastern Kentucky, you know, we're known as having the black gold, you know, and coal mining. But in my 
opinion, I feel like the peer support is mining, you know, the interest and the goals of their clients. So, you 
know, what is it that drives the client? What do they want to do? So, we have different icebreakers we do 
with the clients as well. There is, it's all the way to help make illustrations and activities. 
Ethan (00:26:56): 
Yeah. What would be an example of a, of an icebreaker you would do for, for like helping them to, as you 
said, figure out what their goals are? 
Dan (00:27:08): 
A really good one is, my favorite one is the million dollar game. And this one usually works excellent with 
the, with the peer supports, because they haven't, a lot of times I'm challenging them more than I am 
their clients, you know, cause this might've been their goal, you know, but this is just kind of the beginning. 
But the million dollar game, you break it up into three categories. You have one week, one month, and 
one year. And in one, so I would argue you, well, I let you know, and say, hey, you have a million dollars 
to spend and how would you spend it? And someone's like, well, I'll buy a new truck, and I'm going to buy 
a new house. And so then I'd stop you. And I'd say, well, do you know right where the house is? Like, if 
you had a million dollars would, cause that might be, you might want to build you a house that might be 
a year out, you know. 
Dan (00:27:56): 
So that's a goal. That's going to be a year out. Some people's like, yeah, I know, right where the place is 
that I want. And we could argue that we could buy that within a month or even this week, you know. 
There's vacations. And some of them want to start non-profits and go back to school, pay off families' 
debts. Well, at the end, we remind them, okay, you don't have this million dollars, but now why can't you 
achieve these goals? You know. And they're like, well, you know, maybe I don't need as nice of a truck, or 
now it might be a little bit more time sensitive. Or maybe we need to look at budgeting for, so what are 
we going to, where's our income coming from, and how can we get that up? And then we start talking 
about budgeting. I mean, it can touch, you can walk into so many categories right there with that one little 
icebreaker. And that's just something I found Googling. I mean, that's not nothing that I came up with. 
9 
 
Ethan (00:28:51): 
So you do this with the folks who are training to be peer support specialists. But the idea is that they 
would do that with the clients once, once they're working as a peer support specialist. Right? 
Dan (00:29:04): 
Yeah. So like, if you're struggling, a lot of times you're struggling with your clients to come up with goals 
because they might be in the here and now, not be able to look past this minute, you know. But once they 
warm up to you and later on down the road, you can start to ask them these kinds of questions. And try 
to, you could play, you could have groups out of that. You could, you know, find out a lot about what a 
client--I think that sometimes within the mental health system, we're a little bit too rigid, and we got 
documents and paperwork we gotta sign. And we got ways that we have to say things. You kind of get 
into this cookie cutter thing. Like, okay, they need X, Y, Z, but a month down the road, they're not 
completing X, Y or Z. Why not? It was because you know, that might've been our plan for them. That might 
not have been nothing they wanted to do, you know, or they could be in denial that they need plans, or 
whatever it is. 
Ethan (00:30:02): 
Right, right. Yeah. No, that's very good. So the, was there something more you're going to say about the 
training? What are the other pieces of it? I don't know if you got through all of the, all of the, all of the 
aspects of the training for adult peer support. 
Dan (00:30:22): 
Yeah, those are the identified trainings. Another thing that we've added, that's not on here--I've noticed-
-it just come to my mind is, we talk about ethics and boundaries a lot. We describe some about mental 
health, like the different diagnoses and how to research them and the DSM Five. The DSM Five is a 
diagnostic manual for, for mental health and criteria and stuff, just to how to research that. And now your 
peer supports really don't need to be held accountable to know that, but they should be looking it up, in 
my opinion, just so they know kind of what bipolar is or what schizophrenia is and what or why they're 
doing what they're doing. We also have, there was something else big that I was thinking of, oh, we talk 
about HIPAA. There's a few other categories, I'm sure. 
Ethan (00:31:25): 
Okay. Well, how about, do you talk about your own personal journey? And when you do some of this 
training, do you talk about your experience with recovery? 
Dan (00:31:36): 
So I forgot that actually brings up another category. We actually do--I mean, the peer support is being 
utilized to share their story. So, we actually have a section about how to share their story. It's a, actually, 
it's considered a tool for their toolbox, is sharing their story. And so what we do is we, both me and my co 
facilitator, we share our stories, but then we, we try to mine out whether or not individuals can share 
their own story or have ever done it. Now your folks from AA and NA are usually really good at sharing 
their stories. They call them, they call them leads, I think, is what they call them. But if an individual hasn't 
really been to that sort of formal treatment, they might not be so confident in sharing their story, or they 
might still be like just in the beginning stages of recovery. 
Dan (00:32:38): 
10 
 
So we have a little, we have some, some discussion starters on how to, what would be some good points, 
what not, how to share your story, what not to do, what to do. So yes, we always share our story. And 
then we try to, I always make them for about 15 or 30 minutes, write their own story down. Either, I try 
to promote an outline, but if they want to use, you know, some of them are just straight free handed, you 
know. And even if they're not done in 30 minutes, we'll, we'll usually stop after 30 minutes. I kind of 
decide, you know, how the group's doing. And I never pressure anybody to share their story, but we 
encourage them. And usually, you know, half the group does. There might've been one time just about 
everybody did. And in that case, what we would do is, we'd break up the sharing, story-sharing time. Like 
if I knew that there was a lot of people willing, I would kind of squeeze it in, so break it up a little bit, so 
it's not [inaudible]. 
Ethan (00:33:47): 
Right. So and you would also be part of that. I mean, you would share your story or your co-facilitator 
would? 
Dan (00:33:55): 
Yeah. We both always share our story. 
Ethan (00:33:57): 
Okay. Okay. But you don't share it as like a model for other people to follow, or you just kind of do it as 
part of the sharing exercise. 
Dan (00:34:09): 
I do it more or less, I guess, out of a, kind of like they're all being vulnerable. I'm more like, kind of 
vulnerable and sharing as well. So that's more or less why I do it. 
Ethan (00:34:22): 
Yeah. That makes sense. That makes sense. 
Dan (00:34:26): 
It's kind of like, for me, it would be a little bit odd if like I have a big tattoo on my forearm, you know? So 
after a while, you know, they're kind of wondering, you know, you know, does Dan have something to 
share? And I believe everybody has some sort of a story. That might be what's a little bit different between 
Celebrate Recovery and the rest of the programs is Celebrate Recovery's motto is everybody has some 
kind of hurt, habit, or hang up. It doesn't have, and you know, the peer support training is not just about 
addiction or recovery. It's also mental health and some of the struggles within that as well. So not 
everyone, like my co-facilitator, she doesn't, never had any kind of real struggle with substances of any 
kind, it was more of a mental health thing. 
Ethan (00:35:16): 
Right. 
Dan (00:35:20): 
One of my co-facilitators struggled with mental health. The other one struggled with substances. And she 
also had a pretty intense story about being a part of medically assisted treatments and stuff as well. 
11 
 
Ethan (00:35:33): 
Okay. Yeah. And the peer support, the adult peer support training that you offer is, you know, is for sort 
of, it's not specific to substance use disorder or other mental health issues, it's for, for every, it's for all. Is 
that correct? 
Dan (00:35:58): 
It's for anybody that has been a part of some formal treatment of, of like, you know, whether mental 
illness or substance abuse and therapy. I think I, I'm not 100% positive. I have to look in the regs, but for 
like youth peer support, it could be court involvement through like DCBS and foster care and that stuff, 
but basically, your therapy is a big qualifier right there. 
Ethan (00:36:30): 
I see. I see. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I just asked the question, because I think some peer support training tries to 
really focus just on substance use disorder. But that's not the case for the kinds of training you all provide. 
Dan (00:36:52): 
It really depends on who we're training. A lot of times, you know, it's just an open registration process. 
Whenever we can get six to eight people, we do it. And sometimes like Adanta might send somebody and 
KRCC might send somebody, but then recovery centers as well send their people. So some people in the 
room are going to be targeting, you know, substance use. Some of them are going to be targeting mental 
health. Some of them it's both. 
Ethan (00:37:21): 
Okay. All right. Okay. So you were, just this is one question that I had about, you know, you were talking 
about some of the things that you've added to the training, and I was just wondering if there's one that 
you have, you know, something that you've added or some part of the training that you find is really, 
really useful. Maybe it's because it's new, because it's sort of based on new research. I just wanted to give 
you an opportunity to, you know, answer that question if there's  anything that comes to mind on that. If 
not, it's fine. 
Dan (00:38:09): 
I wouldn't say the way you asked that question, I would say the answer would be no. Well, what I heard, 
the part that makes me say no is, there hasn't been recently anything that has caused us to, like there 
hasn't been no real illustrations or anything to add to that. Research-wise, you know, like, cause you know, 
by evidence-based practice, I don't think, if that's what you're asking, I don't think there's anything that 
has geared me towards that. But like the illustrations I like to throw in would be like things that would, 
how would we say it, that would encourage, that would help the individual that they're serving. So like 
we talk about that one illustration, the million dollar game, it showed you the different, how to find 
different goals. 
Dan (00:39:13): 
And just the other illustrations would be like, one of them would be, too, budgeting. And I promote a 
particular way to budget, which is, I don't know if you're familiar with the Dave Ramsey's plan and the 
zero-based budget. But now I never like pull it off his website or anything. I just kind of made it into my 
own a little bit and shared the principle, kind of, and encourage them to go online and look into furthering. 
12 
 
Cause I feel like the budget is, is a really difficult area for a lot of the clients. So you know, a lot of times, 
you know, we're in crisis because we can't afford something, or you know, situation--or maybe we can't 
manage. Or a better way to put it is we have very limited resources, so what's the best way for us to utilize 
those. So you could do all kinds of activities just off budget. But you said research, so, no, I haven't really 
come across anything too big, but I do promote, I do promote, and you're probably familiar with SAMHSA, 
Substance Abuse Mental Health Service Administration. And I really encourage individuals to look into the 
tips. But that's starting to go into case management a little bit, but just keeping up to date. You know, 
click on the SAMHSA website once a month and see what they got going, coming. 
Ethan (00:40:52): 
Yeah, that's kind of what I was trying to get at. Like kind of, how has the training changed over, you know, 
over the years, or what are some, kind of the new things, you know, people are wrestling with. So that's 
kind of what I was trying to get at. 
Dan (00:41:11): 
You know, there's an interesting thing actually with youth peer supports. Youth peer supports, actually, 
you know-- so this is a little bit out of my comfort level. So, but youth peer supports, they seem to have 
more of the, I don't know the best way to put it, but more of the stuff out of like for sexual orientation, 
LGBTQ. They're dealing with that a lot more. So there's different terminology. And I wouldn't say that we 
use anything for different research, but we do in the youth peer support training, we do go into a little 
further detail about better ways to be culturally diverse. And another big part of our training, I forgot to 
add, is cultural diversity. You know, keeping up with the terminology, what do these words mean? What's 
the best way to, you know, reach individuals that are identifying with some of those orientations? And 
another thing, people get really nervous about politics, and they really try to steer, it's like don't talk about 
politics or religion is kind of like a big thing. But the way the youth peer supports do it is, they actually 
come up with like politics, with like different words. 
Dan (00:42:40): 
So like youth, youth councils, and they, they might, you know, talk about, you know, all kinds of agendas 
and things for the youth that would be like, they don't call them services anymore. They call them for the 
youth, they call them a membership, and there's benefits that the members get, you know, that are 
involved, you know. So they changed the terminology around a little bit. And it's really interesting. So I 
would argue that in the youth peer support, they are actually--but now research wise, you know, I don't, 
I guess you would say that comes from research, but it kind of comes from those councils, you know. 
They're not really involved in research. 
Ethan (00:43:25): 
Right, right. So well, there's, there's a lot of questions that come up there, but just in general, like how 
does the, what is the difference between the adult peer support, youth peer support and the family peer 
support? Like what, what, what is the difference in the kinds of work they're actually going to go and do. 
Dan (00:43:53): 
Kind of the way the titles sound. The family is going to work with, the family peer support, and there's a, 
there's a large variation of what this could look like, but they're working with families that are like maybe 
a mother or a family has just received that their child has some kind of diagnosis. So that sounds scary 
and everything. And you could bring the peer support in that has, their child has been diagnosed, or they 
13 
 
might be a mother that struggled with, you know, mental health issues, and what does she do to help 
maintain her family and things like that. There's a, there's a wide range of things that you could do there. 
I say we underutilize the family peer support. I've only trained one [inaudible.] Adult peers, now we 
probably, I don't know the exact number, but it's probably been over 120, I bet. Adult peers, I mean, their 
stories are just from everything, you know. So you're, you're, you're mostly dealing with, with just the 
adults. Your youth peers, they're, they're obviously, well, they're from, I think, 14 to 24 or 25, something 
like that. So it's a wide range as well. You're dealing with a lot of individuals that, you know, maybe been 
involved with DCBS. Just maybe, just like on the, on the verge of getting a diagnosis, maybe not 100 per 
cent had one. 
Ethan (00:45:30): 
Okay. Yeah. I mean, that makes sense, but it would just, just to clarify for people who might be listening 
to this. Since we're, we're kind of running short on time, I just wanted to talk about, you said you've done 
a lot of adult peer support specialists' trainings. So have you really seen a tremendous growth in that 
profession since, you know, since you got started? Are there a lot of job opportunities that have come up? 
Dan (00:46:04): 
I would, you know, that's hard to, I'm not really in the position to be able to track that, but I would argue, 
probably yes. And the reason why I say that is, I think your agencies are calling more about, asking about 
peer support. And whenever I do a training for an agency, I always kind of plug in peer supports. I sort of 
personally feel like we're on the brink of understanding what peer supports, how they're helpful. And I 
think a lot of people are a little bit nervous, because the pay rate for peer supports is so low. I don't know 
the number right off the bat. Cause last year in Kentucky, or two years ago, it changed. It got reduced. 
And I don't know the number, the change, but it's, it's pretty low. So it's almost like the employers kind of 
make it like, maybe can they afford a peer support? Can they not afford one? 
Dan (00:47:05): 
It's like, it's real difficult. So it's not like something that's bringing in a good amount of money for the 
agency. So they're kind of a little bit nervous about that. And I will argue that it would be a good 
investment because it's almost like you're getting paid, as somewhat to have good advertisement. 
Because you have this peer support that went through your program that is now living a self-directed life 
and now can encourage and show the others. Because the whole thing about 12 steps and recovery and 
peer support is, oh, hey, so-and-so could do that? I bet I can do that. You know, it gives them, it gives 
them hope and stuff. So I think we're on the brink of it kind of like, right now people are understanding 
what peer supports are about. We're understanding. I'm kind of a little interested to see what the Biden 
administration does. Cause he ran a lot on being for drug court, or anything. I haven't heard much about 
that. There's a new infrastructure bill. That might be included, I'm not sure. 
Ethan (00:48:05): 
Well, you had mentioned when we talked the first time that peer supports are good for those people that 
are on the fence. I don't know if you can talk a little bit about that. 
Dan (00:48:19): 
The person that's in denial, you know, or maybe actually pre-contemplation, and they're kind of thinking 
about, you know, do I need help? Do I really need services? And they're starting to think about it. Then 
they're like, well, okay. They, they come to the reality that they actually need some help. Where do I 
14 
 
begin? You know, what can I, what a mess, you know, I've made or I've gotten into, or something. And 
then all of a sudden you hear the story of, you know, I'll just say, cause I'm on here, you hear Dan's story. 
And you're like, well, you know, maybe I can change my life. You know, maybe there can be a difference. 
You know, it usually--I like the winter months, you know, cause I won't have tattoos, and I kind of dress 
up professionally in the trainings. And then all of a sudden I roll up my sleeves, and they're like, oh, that's 
his story, you know. And it encourages them. 
Ethan (00:49:19): 
Yeah. Yeah. 
Dan (00:49:21): 
So it's the encouraging part. It's like, I can do that. They can do that, I can do it. 
Ethan (00:49:25): 
Right. And then from your perspective, what are some of the, you, you started talking about the pay issue. 
That's obviously one issue. What are some of the challenges or some of the things that, you know, some 
of the issues that still need to be worked out for peer support specialists to really take hold and to be 
successful, you know, to really make it a strong profession? 
Dan (00:49:59): 
The pay, the pay rate is probably the answer to that question. Now, the other thing is maybe advertising. 
Cause, you know, if an agency comes and they ask, you know, they haven't heard about it, like that's kind 
of interesting that you haven't heard about it. Like you're in, you're in recovery services and you haven't, 
you're telling me that you haven't heard about pure sports, you know. So, so probably advertisement of 
the program, of the process. That might be something. 
Ethan (00:50:32): 
Yeah. Are there any challenges that you know about in terms of when peers, I mean, when peer support 
specialists, you know, they get the certification, they go to work, any other challenges that they face in 
the workplace, you know, aside from low pay? 
Dan (00:50:53): 
So I asked, I asked the two individuals that co-facilitate with me, that question, cause I was well prepared 
for that one. And one of them described the challenge is to show their co-workers that clients do recover, 
and they can be a part of the helping profession. One woman said, you know, it's almost like they got to 
come in, and whether that was self-inflicted, you know, I gotta prove myself that I can be a part of this, I 
can be a part of the positive outcome of recovery---whether that is, you know, self-inflicted or whether, 
you know, I could almost see how there could be a little bit of, you know, cause your therapist and your 
case managers, they have so much formal training, you know. And then here comes the person that, you 
know, might not have no training, but they just have lived experience, you know. 
Dan (00:51:56): 
And now they're a part of the table, and I like how she puts it. The peer support that I'm talking about, 
she says, peer supports is like the warm water to an ice block. You know, you're just sitting there kind of 
melting the person away, the ice away, until they open up, and they're able to share, you know. And you 
15 
 
know, to be honest, sometimes the therapist is in the freezer, so to speak. Like, you know, all of a sudden, 
how did the peer support know this much about a person when we've been talking to him for all this time, 
and he didn't open up to us. But they could trust the peer support, because they have been in the waiting 
room, you know, they know what it's like to be in the psych center, or in jail, or just whatever it is. 
Ethan (00:52:42): 
Right. That's great. 
Dan (00:52:45): 
The other peer talked about the difficulty in maintaining boundaries, for similar reasons. For the similar 
struggle, the boundaries is, on one hand, they’re a peer. You know, they can relate, and the other person 
relates to them. But on the other hand, they're actually the helping profession. And there's HIPAA, work 
requirements and they actually know everything that's in the charts and in the notes. They have access to 
all the truth. So that could be difficult as well. Like, hey, you can't borrow my car this evening, but I 
probably would normally let you, you know what I mean, cause that would be the idea of a peer support, 
they're willing to do whatever they can to help. But because of professional reasons, they just can't let 
you borrow their car today. 
Ethan (00:53:37): 
Right, right, right. Yeah. It's sort of, and also maybe, do you, do you sometimes find, maybe there's a 
confusion because you know, you have sponsors in AA and, and I think you have something similar in 
Celebrate Recovery. And so sometimes the peer support specialists, you know, may want to act more like 
a sponsor, but that's really not what they're supposed to do in all cases. Does that make sense? Do you 
have that sort of issue with the, with the boundaries too? 
Dan (00:54:17): 
I'm not real familiar with NA and AA, but in Celebrate Recovery, like the difference between a sponsor is, 
they're not really held to accountability, probably. You know, agency-wise, you know, like we might not 
be able to share something as a gift. You know, we're a mental health agency. You can't receive gifts. You 
can't give gifts. You can't go out to bowling and things like that later on, you know. So more of that 
struggle, like, you know, fit in, be a part of the crowd, but on the other hand, you're actually a part of the 
staff. It's kind of how I'm looking at it. 
Ethan (00:54:58): 
Yeah. Yeah. No, that's good. That's good. Well, the last question, I mean, how do you, I mean, this is 
something you kind of already touched on, but I don't know if you have anything more to say about how 
do you see peer support specialists and their role, how do you see that evolving? 
Dan (00:55:19): 
I personally see it as only something that's going to continue to be a part of the budgeting and be a part 
of the process. And I hate to bring the budget back into it. People get mad at me about that. If there really 
is two sides of the coin, you know, there's a service that needs to be provided, and then there's people 
being served. But a lot of times, it's, if the money's not there, I'm not here. You know, and that's just what 
it is. So, but you know, like I said, the current administration, they was all about recovery and drug court. 
I don't know that drug court utilizes peer supports per se, but what drug court does is, it encourages them 
to come to community mental health centers. And that's where they're going to meet their peer supports 
16 
 
and the recovery centers. And as long as it's funded and being funded, I think you're going to, I personally 
don't see peer sports going anywhere. You know, it could, it could increase or decrease with funding, 
probably. Now, I do know a particular place that they don't, they're not licensed, and they utilize peer 
supports and actually pay for our training and everything. They don't bill, but they like the training, and 
they have us go and encourage their folks on what to do for peer support. So those people do it without 
the funding. I almost forgot about that. 
Ethan (00:56:52): 
Yeah. But do you find, sometimes you, you have people go through training, but they don't end up finding 
a job. Is that ever, you ever get feedback on that? 
Dan (00:57:05): 
I don't, I've never had no one call and complain, but I would say just, you know, it's like any profession. I 
would say that there's a good, there's a good chance that there was folks that, you can kind of tell the 
difference between people that's going to be kind of cut out for it by the end of the training, really. There's 
a, you know, so I'm sure that there's folks that just, you know, it wasn't really for them. And another thing 
with recovery, sometimes our, our folks in recovery, you know, they're, so they got to work on getting 
through their own stages and creating their own foundation. And sometimes we might get a little ahead 
of them on that maybe. 
Ethan (00:57:48): 
Yeah. Okay. 
Dan (00:57:52): 
So you gotta really kind of be able to help yourself before you can help others. Sometimes I fear that. 
Ethan (00:57:58): 
Yeah. Do you, this is just out of curiosity. Do you sort of have a sense of what people's background in the 
lines of work they've been doing before they come to training with you? I mean, is it, you know, are some 
of them already, have they already been involved in that kind of work? 
Dan (00:58:29): 
There has been a small handful of folks that were actually, you know, trained at different, different, like 
somewhere--I actually have trained case managers that for whatever reason they become peer supports. 
I don't know if it's billing-wise for their agency or their department, or maybe they started up a new 
department. Oh yeah. Supervisors have to take it as well. So they've been [inaudible]. I forgot. I was trying 
to think of why there'd be a supervisor. But most of your folks, their experience comes from their 
treatment that they've been from, from a yearlong treatment. You know, those are really--or they been 
in AA for a while or drug court for two years. They're like, kind of, they know what's going on. 
Ethan (00:59:12): 
Right. That's, that's where they get their experience from. And they don't really talk about what kinds of 
jobs they've had before, you know, in the training. 
Dan (00:59:22): 
17 
 
Well, so, one guy I laugh about, one guy, I remember, I started off saying, we talk about problem solving 
and problems. You know, I would say the mental health field is probably different than the lumberyard. 
And this guy said, if I asked my supervisor in the lumberyard a question like that, he would he would send 
me down the road. And I was like, well, man, we're not working in the lumberyard, man. It's like, welcome 
to mental health. No, my sister works in a different profession, and she deals with a lot of, kind of a 
discriminatory action, like kind of sexism and things like that, and in my department and our agency, if we 
notice, like that stuff just wouldn't, not to say that it doesn't happen, it's just, the atmosphere is not there. 
You know, we'd be blowing the whistle on that, you know. It's like. 
Ethan (01:00:11): 
Yeah, yeah. Yeah. I was just, I was just kind of, it's sort of a bigger question, like kind of where, you know, 
how the job market's kind of changing and how peer support specialists are sort of, maybe filling some 
gaps. 
Dan (01:00:35): 
I think in the adult peer support range, in the adult peer support world, our individuals are probably lucky 
to get a job. Youth peer support world, they haven't had one. And your family peer support, you know, 
that's been, I haven't really done so much of that yet. But so your adult peer supports are like, usually, 
they have felonies, and they have things where, you know, that stuff's being looked aside because we 
know that they have a story and that's why [inaudible]. 
Ethan (01:01:06): 
Right, right. Yeah. Yeah. 
Dan (01:01:08): 
But yeah, financially, it probably could use a boost for sure. 
Ethan (01:01:12): 
Yeah. That's true. That's true. Well, I don't know if there's anything else that you had thought, you know, 
before we talked that you want to mention or anything else that you wanted to talk about? 
Dan (01:01:26): 
No, I think that's pretty much it. 
Ethan (01:01:32): 
And I'm just looking over my notes. I think we kind of, I think we've pretty much covered everything. 
Dan (01:01:36): 
I almost hate to be a little pushy, but I am running a little bit behind to pick up my boy. 
Ethan (01:01:42): 
Oh, yeah. You're good. We're good. 
Dan (01:01:43): 
18 
 
I would leave it open for, if you, you know, if you get off here and you think of any questions or you'd 
want me to clarify something a little bit better, I don't mind at all to do that. I apologize about the other 
day, usually after four, I'm doing pretty good and everything. 
Ethan (01:02:02): 
No, you're fine. I think we covered everything. If there is something else, I'll let you know, but I'll send you 
that email with the release form. And then you can send that back whenever you have a chance. 
Dan (01:02:16): 
I'm really excited that, you know, people are, are encouraged about peer supports, and that they are 
thinking more about it. And that, that we had this opportunity. So I thank you for your time. 
Ethan (01:02:31): 
Well, thank you. Thank you so much, and have a good rest of your day.