Back of House: Kitchen Workers in Central Ohio
Archie Green Fellows Project, 2017 
Occupational Folklife Project || American Folklife Center 
Interviewee: Kursten Cook [Hourly Shift Manager; City BBQ] 
Interviewer: Jess Lamar Reece Holler 
Date of Interview: Thursday, May 24th, 2018 
Location: Back Porch, City Barbeque Restaurant -- Gahanna, Ohio 
SOUND QUALITY NOTE: The interview took place on the back dining porch at  Gahanna’s City BBQ 
location, which backs up to Stygler Road -- a particular busy road for cross-traﬃc getting oﬀ of 670 to and from 
downtown Columbus. As such, the interview is quite rich with sounds of local traﬃc; and the sensitive tabletop 
mics occasionally blow out when particularly loud trucks roll by. Part-way through the interview, the iconic 
electric/Chicago blues that marks City BBQ’s dining hall comes on mid-way through the interview, when the 
restaurant opens for lunch. We pause the interview and Kursten goes to the kitchen to turn down the music, but it 
stays on at low volume throughout the rest of the interview. There is also some noise from a strong gusting wind, 
that blows out the microphone, at around the 01:00:00 mark.
Additional Disclosure: The interviewee’s brother worked back-of-house at this location around the time that 
Kursten started at City BBQ; and her cousin was a manager at this location in the late-2000’s, then moved to 
managing at the Westerville location. Kursten very generously came in on her day oﬀ to give this interview.
Interview Index 
00:00:00 -- Introductory Slate // Interview Lede 
00:01:35 -- Early Life & Childhood: Growing Up in Gahanna, Ohio // Parents’ 
Occupations & Early Family Foodways 
●
Born at Riverside Hospital in 1990, and raised in Gahanna
●
Parents split up early on; parents both remarried, and Kursten mostly lived with her mom; 
and dad, meanwhile, moved to Florida. Grew up on a court in Gahanna, across the street 
from Goshen Lane Elementary School, and hung out with neighborhood kids. Grew up with 
several siblings.
●
Step-dad did landscaping; and mom worked in a variety of places: bartending; working for a 
chiropractor’s oﬃce; and working in insurance.
●
Key dishes growing up: shepherd’s pie, beef stroganoﬀ; peanut butter & jelly
●
Mom did most of the cooking; family didn’t have a lot of money so family ate the same meals 
most of the time; ate around 5-6pm, then chores, homework and bed each night
00:06:30 -- High School & Coming into Kitchen Work // Joining the Team at City BBQ 
●
Left high school and started working at City Barbeque in 2007; would have graduated in 
2009
●
Started as a front-of-house person; and “worked my way up into back-of-house”
●
Works as an hourly manager; “but I cover two positions in the store, because we’re short on 
people”; roles include “prep” and “boards”
●
00:08:00 -- Description of the diﬀerent roles back-of-house at City BBQ: “prep” and 
“boards.” Other roles include the pit/dish person, who smokes the meat and does the dishes. 
Prep slices and prepares all the meat; and boards prepares the hot side dishes.
●
00:10:00 -- Interviewing for the job and seeking out City BBQ; Kursten was seventeen, and 
needed to make money at a place she could walk to, if need be.
●
00:11:30 -- First impressions of City BBQ; Kursten had never eaten here before getting the 
job -- “I thought it was all about the sauce”; now, she says that it’s all about the meat and how 
it’s done: “... it’s taking the time, and slow-cooking the meat, and making sure it’s at the right 
temperature and the right mushiness you need … and not all rubbery and hard! It’s really 
interesting, knowing it’s not the sauce: it’s the actual meat.”
●
00:13:00 -- Kursten describes walking in and the paper application process; and coming in 
for an interview; being anxious for the interview; and getting the job
00:14:00 -- Front-of-House to Back-of-House: Job Responsibilities, Challenges & Skills 
●
00:14:00 -- Kursten describes her initial front-of-house responsibilities (prepping sides, 
wrapping meat, putting orders together, putting it in the bag and helping customers get out 
the door, picking up dishes, checking in around the dining room, “making sure the tea is 
dumped,” maintaining the pickle bar)
●
00:15:00 -- Challenges in starting out at City BBQ: “mixing up the pints and the 
quarts!” [Jess has no idea what a quart or a pint are.]
●
00:17:00 -- “Moving up” to back-of-house & Kursten’s interest in back-of-house work; moved 
into prep work when she was nineteen [Pause to turn down the electric blues]; Kursten was 
interested in learning how to trim the fat oﬀ the brisket; extended description of how to cut 
the meat to make a cut that removes the “fat cap” and then lining up the grains of the meat, 
and making cuts; pulling pork and chicken; slicing turkey (“pencil-thick”); description of 
pulling the pork shoulder; pulling chicken process -- “pull the meat oﬀ the bones; and mix it 
in a mayonnaise-based horseradish sauce; … that gets made fresh every day. We normally sell 
out of it.” 
●
00:22:00 -- Recycling leftovers from one type of dish to the next
●
00:22:30 -- Challenges of telling one type of meat from the other; pork -vs.- beef; “the pork 
will be pulled/shredded … but the beef will be in slices; it’ll look like crumbles, if it is laid 
down on its side … the beef’s a little darker than the pork, so that should always help you 
out, too. But once you get that down, it’s like: you can mix this stuﬀ up all you want, and I’ll 
know.”
●
00:23:50 -- Speaking up about watching back-of-house worker do “boards,” it was slow, so 
Kursten was allowed to come back and learn; and then she started getting scheduled for 
back-of-house shifts, in addition to front-of-house; right now, she explains, she is stuck in 
those positions because they’re down a person: “Nobody wants to work, this generation.”
00:24:30 -- Workplace Culture, Work Ethics // Employee-Company Dynamics // 
Management Styles 
●
Kursten describes joining a team that was mostly twenty-somethings, and alot of employees 
who had been around for a long-time; now, it’s harder to get people to stay
●
Kursten describes the company model of City Barbeque, with something like 32 locations, 
across Ohio, Kentucky, Georgia, South Carolina, and beyond
●
 00:26:30 -- Punching in // clocking in system (on the same register where they do orders); 
changes in the clocking in/out model throughout the years; Kursten has been able to keep 
her “short” clocking-in number that she’s had from the beginning; and clocking-in system 
has moved to an iPod, instead of the computers where they take orders; but employees still 
have to clock their number into the computer to identify themselves in case something gets 
messed up
●
Started out as 32-40 hours; “... but, I told them to work me as much as they can.”
●
00:28:20 -- Discussion of wages, beneﬁts and vacation; 401k to employees; “I don’t really 
look into the beneﬁts much.” Description of the “City Cares” program, which is a sort of 
emergency micro-loan program for employees in crisis; employees put money into the 
program to build up these small loans to help others in crisis.
●
00:30:40 -- Changes in the culture over the years: “It has changed”; Kursten left for a year in 
2013 to take care of her young kids -- “When I left, everything ran like it used to; when I 
came back, in Summer 2014, it was really diﬀerent … we’ve added more things, they 
upgraded the sauces, they changed the way we did prep …”; “... all the changes usually come 
down from corporate”; but management style can also diﬀer from individual to individual
●
00:32:20 -- Dealing with diﬀerent management styles as an employee; “you just got to step 
back and let it do it”; importance of communication in good management styles and 
importance, as a manager, in “backing up your hourlies”; working “as a family … be a close-
knit group, and have each other’s backs”; description of a memorable management team 
from early on in Kursten’s tenure -- a team that “did good, and they all moved up in the 
company; most of the managers that worked here at GM’s now, or AGMs …”; Kursten 
describes how her focus on being and making a good management team comes from their 
example & subsequent success
●
00:36:00 -- Changes in how she does her job, as an hourly manager? Kursten explains that 
nothing really changed; she still goes out and tries to help her employees, and not letting 
them fall-behind; description of the fast pace of the kitchen, and supporting fellow team 
members.
●
00:38:10 -- Continuing discussion of the fast-paced culture at the restaurant, and the “95/5” 
of customers who are understanding -vs.- irate; discussion of the clientele and changes in 
demographics and popularity over the years; “City BBQ, in general, just has a very wide 
variety of customers. Certain restaurants have certain groups … here? … at this location … 
most of our clientele here are Netjets, or the pilots and the stewardesses, because we’re so 
close to the airport.” Extended description of serving airport patrons. [Very loud truck!]]
00:40:00 -- Culture & Pacing Back-of-House; Roles & Flow of Prepping the Orders 
●
00:41:00 -- Back-of-house -vs.- front-of-house culture, in terms of being watched/observed, 
“watching P’s and Q’s”; being able to listen to “not blues music” in the back-of-house kitchen 
space; thoughts on the City BBQ blues playlist after ten years (“before, it was the same ﬁve 
songs on repeat, it sounded like”); personal music cultures in the kitchen -- bluetooth 
speakers; each person at each station plays the music oﬀ their phone; balancing who gets to 
play what music // the cacophony of several musics
●
00:43:00 -- Discussion of the number of people back-of-house; and the pace/ﬂow of kitchen 
during diﬀerent moments in the restaurant, like “dollar a rib” day
●
00:45:00 -- Kursten describes the “two loads” of meat that gets smoked each day (ﬁfteen 
morning // ﬁfteen at night); but three cook-oﬀs and way more meat gets smoked on the 
“dollar a rib” night; holidays, etc. -- description of the holiday special meat orders (hams, 
turkeys with “organic stuﬃng”)
●
00:47:00 -- Description of the two back-of-house jobs: boards -vs.- prep; prep is Kursten’s 
favorite; side dishes & appeal to vegetarian customers. Discussion of making the diﬀerent 
side dishes: mac’n’cheese, collard greens, corn pudding
●
00:50:00 -- Description of the prep station: table, sink, oven, kettle (“I swear, if that thing 
ever went out, we’d be in trouble”) -- kettle makes everything way easier!
00:52:00 -- Impact of Back-of-House City BBQ Work at Home // Work-Life Balance 
●
Kursten describes cooking for & feeding her “two super picky … super picky!” kids, at home; 
relates back-of-house to not having to worry about “the picky eaters” up front, like the front-
of-house people do
●
Inﬂuence on her own home cooking: from watching her mom; “I like to cook … but, I don’t 
like to cook. If that makes any sense. Like, if I cook: I won’t eat it? It’s weird. I get done, I 
make a plate, and … I’m full. It’s more … making a big meal for everyone? I can’t sit down 
and eat … I think I’m more worried about them getting it, and making sure it’s good, at their 
level.” 
●
Discussion of how much her kids love mac’n’cheese, and noodles
●
00:55:11 -- How the City BBQ job ﬁts in with the rest of her life and family structure; 
“Honestly -- it’s mostly just work for me. I try to get days oﬀ to take the kids to the zoo or 
something.” Kursten discusses having to work really long hours sometime (like 13 hours, 
recently, during Rock on the Range); and having to make arrangements for her kids. “So, it 
sometimes runs over my life … and other times: it’s always just work, running into 
everything.” 
●
Discussion of remaining hourly, as a shift manager; Kursten says that is “good” -- keeps some 
of her hours down; with salary, “if you work over, you don’t get paid for that over-ness”; with 
Kursten’s hourly pay schedule, she gets paid for overtime if she goes above her hours
00:58:00 -- Wages, Negotiations, & Raises at City BBQ // Career Visions 
●
Started out, ten years ago, at seventeen, being paid $7.50/hour; minimum wage was 
something around $6.85; Kursten’s not the hiring manager; and doesn’t have access to what 
people are started out at now
●
01:00:00 -- Promotions and raises: “Usually, it’s like your work ethic; and how you manage 
everything.” Kursten describes how she has managed to double her pay in the last ten years; 
discussion of how raises or negotiations depend on the management: her old GM would pull 
her aside and give raises; with the new team, you may have to ask, “if you’re killing yourself 
and you know and they know.” Kursten shares that it really depends on who is running the 
show at a given time. [Wind pops out the mic.]
●
Kursten estimates her total wages for the last year were $28,000; “with two kids, that’s really 
hard. There’s no saving time. It’s literally every penny, paycheck-to-paycheck. It sucks; but we 
manage.” She balances this because her cousin -- who also works at City BBQ -- babysits for 
her during the day; and Kursten then watches her cousin’s kids at night. [More wind in the mic; 
sorry y’all!]
●
01:04:00 -- Kursten is interested in moving up with the company, and learning the 
“paperwork side of things” -- “PNLS” -- proﬁt and loss statements; discussion of how she is 
not really currently getting to manage, because she’s covering positions they’re down on, 
back-of-house; but she wants to learn how to be a GM someday, and to learn how everything 
runs in the business, so maybe she could step outside the structure, and run her own family 
business
●
01:07:00 -- Training // learning // professional development program and culture at City BBQ 
-- how do people get prepared to move up? Kursten discusses the Certiﬁed Trainer program, 
within City BBQ: certain employees take the class, and take the test, and are certiﬁed to 
accompany and train the new people in how to run the store.
●
01:09:00 -- Kursten discusses how, upon returning to City BBQ in 2014, she was oﬀered a 
management position. Discussion of management structure -- AGM // GM positions and 
how to move into those roles; role of the higher-ups (beyond the store) making decisions 
about who gets to move up into certain roles. Culture of City BBQ moving people around to 
train them at other stores to train, and then sending them to another store -- e.g., Gahanna 
person would be sent to the Upper Arlington store to train, and then to Westerville to be the 
manager. Discussion of convenience of living/working in Gahanna; Kursten shares about 
trying to not get used to the convenience, because moving up may require a long drive. 
●
01:14:00 -- Job security at City BBQ; “they will keep you as long as you want to stay. There’s 
nothing here pushing me away … there’s the drama, but what doesn’t have drama, where you 
work now?” 
01:16:00 -- Job Dynamics & Power: Gender, Navigating Respect, Getting Stuck as a Non-
Managing Manager, Work Ethics, & Employee Tenure Over the Years; & Negotiating 
Moving Up 
●
01:16:30 -- Gender dynamics back of house: “At my store, it’s mostly only been guys …” // 
discussion of lifting things back-of-house (trash, bulk tubs, cans) and needing help because of 
the size and weight of materials
●
01:18:00 -- Navigating respect; ﬁghting to get taken seriously as a manager who is also ﬁlling 
the positions of an employee; more discussion of why, in her current role, Kursten has to 
pinch-hit in employee roles (“some managers are like that … they won’t do a position. The job 
description is, we’re supposed to sit back and be able to shift from position to position to 
make sure it’s all running smoothly … so, we’re like the ﬂoater/helper person. And I’m not 
that ﬂoater/helper person. I’m the one stuck at the position, doing it … and I’m alot faster in 
both positions than everybody else.”) Kursten describes how this is “not exactly” what she 
was hoping to be doing as a manager; she brieﬂy got out of it when the location hired a few 
people last year, and got to be managing; and now she’s been moving back into the spot 
where she’s stuck in the positions. 
●
01:22:00 -- Discussion of changing work ethics and diﬃculties ﬁnding/hiring people for the 
positions; Kursten discusses growing up learning that she had to work for her money, “I was 
never allowed to go anywhere unless I worked for that money … movies, mall … so, maybe 
that’s why I have more of an … ‘Well, you need to work for that money.’”
●
01:24:00 -- Visions for the future and moving up; asking for another raise. Discussion of City 
BBQ’s two-part raise system -- part of the raise is available right away; and the other part has 
to be earned over time when particular thresholds are met. 
●
01:27:00 -- Kursten discusses how the restaurant depends on hourly workers and hourly 
managers; “they’d be pretty lost without us, right now …”
01:28:00 -- Affordances of the Job // Work at a Restaurant, as a Career 
●
01:28:00 -- Consideration of what it would look like to move up into the corporate structure; 
“I honestly don’t want to spend my time at work driving around from place to place … each 
store is about a twenty-minute drive from each other; so you’re constantly in the car …”; 
Kursten says she would rather work up to be a GM, rather than sit in an oﬃce somewhere
●
Kursten discusses the beneﬁts, for her lifestyle, of working 7-3pm
●
Night shift: “people around here get crazy at night”
●
01:32:00: “I don’t want to sit at a desk and get fat” // considerations of other potential types 
of work
01:33:00 -- Changes in Columbus Food Culture, at City BBQ 
●
Kursten discusses sourcing for City BBQ’s meat -- Amish, pasture-raised, hormone-free; and 
that this commitment to sourcing has been a part of City BBQ since she started
●
Changes in the restaurant culture over the years: restaurant boards; logo
01:36:00 -- Living & Working in Gahanna; & City BBQ’s Gahanna Connections 
●
Kursten discusses feeling “tied” to Gahanna, in a way, because she works there, and now lives 
here; before, she and her family lived out on farms near Pataskala, on the far outskirts of 
Columbus; her house in Pataskala was purchased via eminent domain for demolition [A really 
annoying car is honking a bunch.]
01:37:00 -- The Fantasy Shift // What the Ideal Workplace Would Look Like 
●
Kursten discusses what a really great shift would look like 
●
01:40:00 -- Kursten discusses what she would change, if she were in control; discussion of 
the current shortage of kevlar cutting gloves, which, she says, the restaurant is currently low 
on, which puts back-of-house workers cutting meat in a dangerous position: “They buy them, 
and they disappear; and people know they disappear … just keep them stocked up”; keeping 
the knives sharpened, because not all employees know how to run a knife sharpener. “If you 
can’t cut a lemon with a knife, we’ve got problems!” Some discussion of the dangers of the 
job, cuts and burns; and a small ﬁre. 
●
Concerns about how critical communication is to a workplace; but, otherwise, “I like the 
way it runs … I like, mostly everybody’s attitudes.”
●
Kursten clariﬁes, about back-of-house work: “it’s not really easy.” She thinks this is a 
common misconception, not just amongst the general public, but also amongst the front-of-
house staﬀ; “... alot of people think it’s super easy, but there’s alot that goes into it … it’s a 
process. And there are alot of processes that go into the kitchen.” 
●
Her favorite is the beef brisket; and she doesn’t really even use the sauces anymore. Scandal! 
New sauces at City BBQ: Montréal sauce; Peach Habanero. 
01:50:35 -- Concluding Slate, Thanks & Goodbyes