Occupational Folklife Project | Food Processing and Legacy Trades | White Oak Pastures: Laura Mortelliti Multi-Media Manager
Food Processing and Legacy Trades 
Title: White Oak Pastures interview with Laura Mortelliti 
Interview conducted by: Makalé Faber Cullen 
Interview /Event Unique ID: afc2015042_04182 
Date of Interview/Event: 2017-05-30 
Location: Bluffton, GA 
Duration of Interview / Event (Total): 01:00:39  
Summary of  Interview / Event: 
Laura Mortelitti, Multi-Media Manager for White Oak Pastures, discusses her rural New York upbringing, her 
early experiences with livestock, interest in visual landscapes, communication and regenerative farming that 
have crafted her education and career to-date. Laura majored in animal science at Cornell University and 
completed graduate work in documentary photography, leading to her being hired for the inaugural position 
of multi-media manager/on-farm photographer for White Oak Pastures. Laura compares agricultural work 
and community life in the cold north and the tropical south.  
Interview Log: 
0:00:32 I’m Laura Mortelitti, born in Syracuse, New York, June 20, 1990 and here at White Oak Pastures 
(WOP), I’m the Multi Media Manager. Laura describes what it means to be a multi-media manager on a farm. 
We’re trying to tell the story about the farm and educate consumers about pastured meat because there are a 
lot of differences between conventional protein and grassfed, pasture-raised protein. So, my job is more of 
educating with multi-media. And, through educating, also marketing a bit. Laura describes composing, 
cataloging and coordinating vast amounts of varied visual content for the farm’s digital blog and newsletter, 
including videos. She also designs company ads for agricultural magazines. 
0 04 54 [One the diversity of her workday] My days are a mix of being in the field or the kitchen with a 
camera or a microphone, but I also a lot of time editing…and cleaning…It’s hard to keep the equipment 
clean because you’re all over the place you also have to be careful not to track stuff all over. [Like what kind 
of stuff?] Like if you’re in the field in the morning you want to make sure your tripod lenses are clean so that 
if you’re shooting in the kitchen later that day you’re not bringing chicken poop into the kitchen. Or, like 
when you’re out in the rain or the mud stuff just gets all over your camera and so you want to make sure you 
clean all that before you come inside and touch everything—like your hard drive. [LM discusses the technical 
specifications of the equipment she uses]. She describes the equipment in relation to the content she’d like to 
develop for the farm, in particular sixty second video spot of all manner of staff which would capture their 
professional and personal dynamism for customers and those interested in the farm and how it operates. 
0 07 08 [Describe your work place, it sounds like you’re pretty mobile…] Usually my headquarters are right 
here in the main office, which is the beef plant. I usually sit right there where Jenni is sitting. This used to be 
our store and now it’s mostly our customer service and our internet fulfillment center. Jenni, Director of 
Marketing and Brian Sapp, Director of Operations offices are based here. And that’s nice because we can all 
communicate with each other and they can communicate with the cutting room…and we can have things 
flowing out to the dock…But if I want to be more communicative with the field managers on certain days, 
I’ll go down to our auxiliary office which is in a converted church. That’s where a lot of our field managers 
Occupational Folklife Project | Food Processing and Legacy Trades | White Oak Pastures: Laura Mortelliti Multi-Media Manager
are based out of and so I’ll work down there. But I try to stay up here because this is where all our hard 
drives are.  
0.08.15 [Laura discusses mobile/multiple work sites and the company’s acquisition of a drone]. We have 
drone now. We haven’t used it that much, but that’s another thing…We’re working with a semi-local company, 
they’re based out of Atlanta, and they’re training us on getting certified for drone work so hopefully we can 
monitor our pastures with it…  
0 08 40 [Laura on the role of marketing and photography in supporting the farm operationally.] On top of 
educating about pastured agriculture, Mr. Will is involved in a lot of regenerative agriculture organizations 
and so he’s hoping to use my media to track the progress in the land…showing aerial changes over time of 
the animal impact on the land…documenting on-farm workshops also builds community 
[This job has such depth and dimension — you’re a writer, a still photographer, a videographer, you do 
strategy…How did you arrive at White Oak Pastures?]  
0 10 39 I’ve always really loved photography. That’s always been my passion. I always had a camera on my hip 
as I was doing field work. I majored in animal science. Well, I double majored in animal science and natural 
resources at Cornell so that led me to do more field work. And I always worked on farms in high school and 
through college and I always had the camera with me… 
0 11 27 I was doing farm work and I kind of saw myself going into agricultural research, but the farther into 
that I got, the more I realized there was a need for public education. Because if you’re trying to raise money 
for something like alternative agriculture, it’s hard to do that when people don’t understand the need for it.  
And so, that kind of led me to go back to get a Masters in Multimedia from Newhouse Syracuse University 
and that helped me actually get the skills in multimedia. I have a very good photographic eye, but I didn’t 
know about all the rest of the equipment. So thankfully, Newhouse was just really key in all of that. And I 
specifically wanted to do agricultural photography — multimedia work — because that’s where my passion is.  
[Were there any models or mentors or did you fashion this line of work yourself? ]  
0 12 30 I reached out to a couple of people over the years, but Kate Medley really was my main connection. 
She was the main photographer at Whole Foods. I met her at a conference and we really hit it off. She was 
really relieved to see how much about agriculture I knew and was really impressed with my portfolio and 
remembered me. I really tried to keep in touch with her because I think she’s awesome…A lot of people 
come to the regenerative agriculture movement through the lens of food and not through the lens of 
farming…Food is great and you know, food is aesthetic and beautiful and everybody has a connection to 
food. And so food photography is much more immediately relevant to the average person. So it’s on their 
minds — everyone needs to cook, everyone needs to eat. Everybody likes looking at food. I  think that’s why 
there’s such a high percentage of [food] photographers…and that’s how they connect to the farming side of 
things. But I just love animals and nature…  
Occupational Folklife Project | Food Processing and Legacy Trades | White Oak Pastures: Laura Mortelliti Multi-Media Manager
0 15 14 I loved farm work. I loved being outside and working with my hands and so it’s just what makes me 
happy. Which is why I don’t mind living in a rural area because it’s just all the components of life that make 
me happy — nature, outdoors, it’s all here, so it’s okay.  
[It sounds like you met Kate, she liked your portfolio, respected your training…she recommended you to Will 
and Jenni…When did you start work at White Oak Pastures?]  
0 15 48 I started last July, so July 2016…so it was hot. I had just finished grad school, more or less. I’d mostly 
lived in upstate New York for most of my life. I had a brief farming job in Connecticut. But most of my jobs 
were based out of upstate and central New York. [Were your parents in agriculture?] No. My grandparents 
were…But no, I lived in a suburb of Syracuse. It was surrounded by farms. I was a lot closer to the farms 
than I was to the city of Syracuse so I’d always find myself wandering over there and spending a lot of time 
at a sheep, dairy and show-cow farm that I [also] spent time working on. The funny thing is that we had a lot 
of industrial dairies in upstate New York and Cornell does a lot of industrial dairy research and work and I 
never really actually saw a problem with industrial agriculture for a really long time because you get to know 
everyone in the field and everyone cares about their job and everyone feels like they’re doing what’s right… 
0 17 56 [What kind of work did you do at those dairies?] I mostly helped with cleaning. They’re big so there’s 
lots of people working there…I did basic cleaning. There’s a lot of poop shoveling that happens in 
agriculture so I did a lot of that. It’s winter half the year, so also doing a lot of snow removal, breaking ice, 
getting the equipment free of the ice and everything…making sure the animals are clean and fed and giving 
them hay and stuff and feeding the guard dogs. I also photographed a lot on industrial dairies, too. And I 
really appreciate that they trusted me to photograph on their farms because it’s kind of a touchy subject. I 
think some people have a lot of misconceptions about it.  
0 20 22 [Tell me about your first day at work.] I had lived in upstate New York which is almost exactly as 
close to Canada as White Oak Pastures is close to the Gulf Coast.  So I just came down here. [What did you 
bring with you? Did you have a place to live?] Yes, I was really lucky. But it’s [local housing] one of the things 
the farm is struggling with. We just got a grant from the USDA to build housing for farm staff. Because it’s so 
rural, we don’t have a lot of housing relatively close to the farm. I got really lucky because one of our 
employees had just bought a house and he was renting a couple of the other rooms in the house. So I was 
able to move right in. 
0 21 30 I have a minivan, which is great for photography because I throw all my lights and gear in there and it 
stays air conditioned and doesn’t get rained on. So I packed up myself and my van. My dad actually helped 
me drive down because it’s like a 17-hour drive. He was more nervous than I was.  [Are you the only child?] 
No, I’m a triplet. Me, my brothers Joe and John — we’re, The Triplets. And then I have a 20-year old little 
sister. We’re all on opposite sides of the country now…but we talk all the time. I’ve been trying to get them 
to come visit, I love my family. They were definitely terrified. Everyone thought it was crazy.  
[What were they scared of?] You know it’s funny, even people down here, when they found out I was a single, 
young woman moving to the middle-of-nowhere south Georgia from upstate New York people were like, 
‘You’re what?’ And people up there were like, ‘You’re doing what?!’ But you know, I have faith. [Did you 
come down to interview first?] We interviewed on Skype so I didn’t even come down because we interviewed 
in March and I figured I’m going to come down in a couple months anyway… And, you know, I’ve lived in 
Occupational Folklife Project | Food Processing and Legacy Trades | White Oak Pastures: Laura Mortelliti Multi-Media Manager
some pretty rural locations in upstate New York so it wasn’t the rural side. It was that I had heard things 
about the south, like they hate northerners so I was a little worried about that. But everybody’s been really 
nice and I love that I don’t have to shovel. Syracuse is one of the snowiest cities in America, so this is great.  
0 24 23 I mean, I guess I could’ve been scared. Everyone thought I was going to be scared, but this is what I 
love doing so I figured I’d give it a try.  
0 24 39 [And it sounds like you were working with the founders to establish a new role for the company…on 
your first day.] I just want to say this is so important to me. What I’m doing is exactly what I hoped to be 
doing. I want to use my photography to help people understand agriculture. So people thought I was crazy, 
but if it was something they were that passionate about, they’d do it too.  
0 25 36 [Tell me about your photographs] If you Google “farm photography,” or if you go on Instagram 
there are so many farmers who have beautiful…I mean farming is beautiful on a daily basis. But the average 
farmer has a really dirty, dust-covered iPhone. So they’ll take a picture of a beautiful newborn calf, but it’s on 
their iPhone and blurry. And I think that unfortunately looses some of the beauty. I think farming is a very 
complex occupation and I think part of society we have become so out-of-touch with the life and death 
required in agriculture and the struggle on a daily basis with people who work in agriculture. For me that is a 
really important thing to capture. It’s not all cute baby animals and produce in the sunshine. There’s a lot of 
hard work and death also. Struggles and birth are not always beautiful. And so to me, you have to be sort of 
tasteful about it, but you have to try to help people reconnect with those parts of life if we’re ever going to 
have an educated discussion about our food system.  
0 27 27 We’re going to have to…reawaken to the rhythms of life and death that agriculture brings you so 
close to but people are often uncomfortable with. Talking about the fact that your hamburger came from a 
cow is something a lot of people are uncomfortable with. Or, you know, talking about if you’re out in the 
field, and your a farmer, and sometimes there’s an animal that has fallen and is suffering — you might need to 
kill it in its best interest. So not that I’m going to be photographing a farmer shooting a cow with a broken 
leg, but like, showing that farmers are completely invested in their work and showing that it is hard work 
growing food and we take it for granted that we can go to the grocery store and pick up a carton of 
strawberries or a nice package of patties, pre-circled…that’s convenient but that distances us from the 
realities of life and death and nutrition.  
And so, I would like my photography help people see agriculture in a more holistic way. And I’d like to show 
the individuals who work so you understand that there are people behind your food.  
0 29 00 [On crafting a photograph on the farm] I like building a frame complexly. I’m not sure there’s as 
much content out there with complex frames for agriculture. A lot of times there will be a beautiful cow, but 
its face will take up the whole frame. Or, you know, it might be just like a simple portrait. But [in composing 
my photographs] I’d like to encourage people to expand their visual education in a certain way.  
I like layers and tension and lines [in my photographs] and I try to look for that. I don’t want it to be super 
simple. So to me that’s educating people in multiple layers — it’s artistically letting people exercise their 
artistic sensibility.  
Occupational Folklife Project | Food Processing and Legacy Trades | White Oak Pastures: Laura Mortelliti Multi-Media Manager
0 30 46 I mean if we go through our day and we only see cute animal pictures, we never develop a more 
layered or complex visual language, in a way. So I would like my work to educate but on an artistic level, not 
just a facts level. With all my photos, I try to give information in the captions. I cram in as much information 
as possible.  
[Can you describe your process of seeing? When you talk about these complex, dense compositions how do 
you create those.] 
Well, here and most of the places I’ve taken pictures, it’ll be me photographing things that are currently 
happening so usually I do kind of build the frame. I’ll see what’s going on. Then I think, it looks best from 
this angle, so I’ll go to that side of the pen or barn. So I do pre-construct it in my mind. But it’s fluid because 
you kind of have to work around everyone who is actually doing farm work. You have to stay in the periphery 
and not get in the way of running animals.  
0 32 39 [On her animal science training informing her photography] But I will show up to what’s happening. 
Like herding cattle or, you know, moving chicken houses. Or, in the other farms I’ve worked on, it’ll have 
been milking. And, to a certain extent, if you know how the animal moves, then you can kind of guess how 
they’re going to move around…and you can gauge what it’ll look like. You just have to be kind of ready. But 
knowing animals, you know that’ll probably happen.  
[I like what you said about showing up to what’s happening and being really cognizant of your colleagues and 
I’m wondering if you can talk about your relationship to your colleagues, given your role.] 
0 34 27 I really like being able to know everyone on the farm. I’m in probably one of the only positions that’s 
free to go between departments so frequently. I really like working with everyone and I really do miss farm 
work to an extent, so I like kind of being around it and then kind of get excited when I’m there.  
And everyone really cares about the animals. And that’s something people don’t really think about — how 
much you really get invested in the animals…I’m the kind of person who likes to have one-on-one 
conversations. So this job has been really good for that because I can connect in a way that feels most 
meaningful to me. I feel I’ve genuinely been able to connect with people pretty quickly because…I’m 
photographing them doing what they love. I’m doing what I love. We both really like farming and we can 
both talk about that and laugh and well, just camaraderie. I get very invested in the stories and lives of 
everyone… 
0 38 31 [On work challenges] Some days nothing seems to be going right in the fields. It’s raining, a tractor 
broke down, goats got out…a  lot of terrible things happen too, that’s part of farm life.  
0 40 02 [I’m curious about how you describe what you do.] When I first got here no one knew who I was. I’d 
show up in the field with a camera and I told them I was taking pictures for the farm and they were like, 
‘Okay.’ And, you keep showing up. A lot of people ask, ‘Where are the pictures going?’ For starters, we put 
them on the hard drive. Then, we’ll use them in our blog and newsletter and Instagram. And that’s really 
where they’ve gone…If we’re doing a chicken campaign, we’ll try to profile people on the poultry crew or if 
we’re doing pork, we’ll have pictures of the hog crew… I think some people are shy…I’m bubbly, that’s just 
me…and I love nature, so people generally are pretty happy to see me and to an extent they forget — or they 
Occupational Folklife Project | Food Processing and Legacy Trades | White Oak Pastures: Laura Mortelliti Multi-Media Manager
get used to me being there. Maybe like 30% of people the first three times laugh a little or look down [when 
I’m photographing them]…you feel awkward at first but after someone’s photographed you enough times, 
you get used to it and used to how it works…[you know] she’s probably not going to use all these pictures. 
And, I’ll send them the pictures that I think are good…via text or email…or I’ll send to managers who will 
send it to them. I’ve been trying to get pictures back to them. I’m thinking of doing a gallery here in the 
pavilion or a google share folder to get everyone their pictures back. 
0 44 30 I think most people enjoy getting an artistic photo of themselves working. I think a lot of people, 
including me, don’t have an artistic picture of themselves, especially not working…I think that’s nice. I try to 
make people look a little dramatic…And it would maybe increase my self esteem for the day because you 
think, I’m doing this work and here I am!  
…The seasons and the cycles of the animals, like calving and kidding, and the different ways the grass looks 
at different times of year, or when we turn the chicks out from the brooder…there’s so much going on with 
the cycles of the animals, you really want to keep on top of that so you can use [images] later…Luckily, I’ve 
been able to keep in touch with everyone because I have to keep on track of all the schedules of production.  
[You keep a calendar? Or you just know because of your training in animal science?] Yeah, it makes me feel 
good because I feel I can use my education pretty well. but also it helps because I’m able to connect pretty 
quickly. When I talk to the field crew they feel like I’m understanding  
0 46 33 I think it’s important to have a good camaraderie with everyone. I mean if I just showed up and took 
pictures and wasn’t caring or nice or interested in what they were doing, I think people wouldn’t be happy to 
see me…the last thing I want to do is make them late or put them behind or something. So I feel good that 
I’m not imposing on their work. [Sounds like a big part of your job is establishing an authentic 
relationship…] It’s really nice to know when people appreciate what you’re doing. I appreciate when people 
know something about photography because I feel a bit of a bond…Most of the jobs here are manual labor 
and really take a toll and you have to appreciate that… 
0 50 57 [On her workdays] I live three miles down the road. My house still borders White Oak’s pastures so 
certain times of year the cows will be right next to me and I can hear the guard dogs barking at night…[I get 
to work and] I do a lot of computer work, a lot of file organizing because there are so many slightly different 
renditions of the same things — like the chickens being moved at this age and this age and this age and so 
keeping track of file organization and backups is a really big deal. And, you have to stay on schedule with all 
the newsletters and sales. But at the same time, if something is happening in the field that might be a rare 
occurrence you kind of want to get that while you can.  
0 54 33 I really spend most of my time in the office. As much as I love photography, I probably spend 70% 
of my time in front of the computer. There’s just so much editing to do—massive amounts, especially with 
video. So the time in the field isn’t as much. [There’s also] interviewing people and going through the 
interviews and editing the content. Then I’ll pop out for a few hours here and there…a lot of my schedule is 
contingent on everyone else’s schedule. So I have to be pretty flexible… 
0 56 57 [What would you change about your work]  I’d love to have more time. We have so much changing 
and going on that it’s hard to think. We’ve had a lot of changes to our marketing strategies. I’d love to have an 
Occupational Folklife Project | Food Processing and Legacy Trades | White Oak Pastures: Laura Mortelliti Multi-Media Manager
assistant at some point. I’d like to do more (exhibiting at) galleries with the pictures we’ve done here, 
promoting [their portraits] among the artistic community and the local community, taking prints to local 
restaurants. I’d really like to do more of that because I think Instagram and Facebook are good for our 
extended customers across the country but for a more local base in the Georgia area, I think it’d be nice to 
have a print gallery. I think it would mean a lot to the employees…people don’t get to see big prints anymore 
and it has just a big effect on you.  
0 59 16 [Advice / reflections for those entering this field in the future?] For someone getting into the ag field, 
there’s such a need for graphic design or coding and web work. That would be really helpful. I’m really 
passionate about composing a good frame—so much of it [i.e. educating/building/sustaining regenerative 
agriculture] is good presentation…and so much of it is organization. If you can be good in those areas, you’d 
be an amazing asset to agriculture. 
END.