AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Wayne Henderson – 2/20/2022 
1 
 
Wayne Henderson 
Where: His guitar shop 
Date: February 20, 2022 
Location: Rugby, VA 
Interviewer: Emily Hilliard 
Transcription: Emily Hilliard 
Length: 1:06:05 
 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Wayne Henderson – 2/20/2022 
2 
 
Wayne Henderson (b. 1947, Rugby, VA) is a world-renowned luthier and old-time musician and a NEA 
National Heritage Fellow. He also delivered the mail in his home community, out of the Mouth of 
Wilson, VA Post Office for 32 years, beginning in 1969. Henderson remembers that when he was 
growing up, the local carrier held an esteemed position in the community, as a resource who could assist 
with writing official letters and navigating other official business. He sees that as being part of the reason 
he took the job and kept it for so long while also growing his guitar business. Henderson’s route was 87 
miles with 200-300 boxes in a very rural area, including high elevations along Mt. Rogers, often in snowy 
weather and high winds. The first postmaster Henderson worked for, Mr. Steve Phipps, had been a rural 
carrier on horseback, and Henderson shares some of his stories. In this interview, which was conducted in 
Henderson’s guitar shop, he also speaks about the delivery vehicles he used (beginning with his father’s 
stick shift 1956 Chevrolet farm truck), developing relationships with his customers (and their livestock), 
wildlife and scenery along the route, how the area has changed over time, and the importance of a rural 
letter carrier as a community resource and service provider.   
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Wayne Henderson – 2/20/2022 
3 
 
EH: Emily Hilliard 
WH: Wayne Henderson 
 
00:00 
EH: So it's February 20, 2022. I'm in Mouth of Wilson/Rugby, Virginia and why don't you introduce 
yourself and tell me your name, where you're from and the year you were born. 
 
WH: Okay. Howdy. I'm Wayne Henderson. We're here in my guitar shop in Rugby, we call it Rugby, 
Virginia but closest post office we've got is Mouth of Wilson. And I was born in 1947 and I've always 
lived right here in this same community my entire life. Lived and worked here. And is that it? What else.  
 
EH: Yeah! Did you say the year you were born? 
 
WH: Yeah, 1947. Yeah, so getting to be a geezer now, but. 
 
EH: (laughs) Why don't you tell me how you got interested in becoming a rural mail carrier? 
 
WH: Well, I've always worked on my instruments here. And our local mail carrier was a fellow named 
Wade Richardson. And he actually lived at the house right at the end of the road--you can almost see it 
from my place here. The house is still there and everything. But he was our local mail carrier and 
everybody looked up to him for stuff. I guess he had had probably a better education than most people. 
You know, if you had to write a letter to a lawyer or something like that about something, you went out 
and got Wade to do it for you. He could, he was a little bit better at that kind of stuff than most everybody 
else around here totally was a farmer--that's all anybody ever did. And anyway he was a carrier and he ran 
out of a substitute. And I was pretty young at the time. It was 1969, I was 20 something and he come one 
day and ask me if I'd be interested in maybe being his substitute. He said you won't have to carry the mail 
much, you know, I'm not off, I don't take off unless I have to. And I said, well, I never, ever, ever in the 
world thought about being a mail carrier, you know, but I was available. You know I worked on the farm 
with my dad and had my little shop you know, where I worked on guitars. I did both that. And I said, well 
I'll try if you think I can learn how to do that! And I thought that was the most complicated thing in the 
world. And I said I'd try and I remember, I rode with him I think maybe 2 or 3 days and he showed me 
how to do it, and it was overwhelming you know, because I'd never ever done anything like that and stuff, 
but it worked pretty good and nowhere near the amount of mail where it got to be on the end, you know. I 
remember I had one little bundle of first class letters he wanted you to keep separate in one place, so if 
you messed up something don't mess them up, you know, mess up a newspaper or something and you 
kept them all in a separate bundle, which was a little odd to have to watch 2 bundles of mail. Later on 
they taught you to do different, you know, all in one thing. But anyway, that was pretty, that's how I got 
started doing it and I remember, I still remember the first day I ever carried the mail was the day after 
Labor Day, which was a holiday and then if you was a regular carrier, you always let your substitute go 
on those days (laughs) because the mail would be doubled up and heavy and the first day I carried was a 
heavy mail day. And all I had to carry the mail in, you know us rural carriers use their own vehicle and 
they paid you so much on your equipment allowed--it's on your check to use your own vehicle and all that 
kind of stuff. And so I had, all I had to carry the mail in was my dad's old '56 Chevrolet pickup, which 
was okay, but a straight shift, you know, it was the old farm truck, is all we had you know. And Wade 
said that would be alright, you know, so I got the mail done that day! And I got paid for that one day of 
work and I had never even asked or anything, but when I got my check for that one day it was 30 dollars 
and the most I'd ever made is 50 cents an hour for throwing hay bales for the neighbors, you know. And I 
could not believe! I thought Lord-a-mercy, old Wade must be the richest person in the world! You know? 
(laughs) If he gets that much every day and I was totally flabbergasted at how much that was for the time, 
you know, that was 1969. And I was just amazed at that for sure and so I was always happy to go carry 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Wayne Henderson – 2/20/2022 
4 
 
the mail anytime he asked (laugh). And then as he got older and feebler, he would depend on me a lot 
when it snowed and on the heavy mail days, you know, days after holidays he would always use that. 
Well that is a pretty common thing to do, take a vacation, you got an extra days pay I think for the holiday 
and stuff like that. And us substitutes we just got paid the day we worked and stuff like that. So you had 
to work tough days a lot. Then when Wade got older, when it snowed, he'd always want me to go. And I 
dreaded that and I have, at that time, the route was up here, in this area right where we are right now, and 
then further up to Mt. Rogers toward the state park [Grayson Highlands State Park] and that's, the 
elevations over 4,000 feet up there. And when it snowed, lots of times down at Mouth of Wilson, the post 
office, there'd be a, you know, a quarter inch of snow, you get up on Mt. Rogers and it's 10 inches deep, 
you know, and you had to deal with that! I've put chains on that old pickup trucks as many as 4 times a 
day, cause your route, you'd have to go up a holler and chains were expensive and hard to get too and 
you'd have to get up some holler where somebody lived, the road would be horrible, you know? Snow 
deep and everything and they almost never plowed those roads for days or 'til they had to. And I'd have to 
put chains to get on there, but then when I'd come out and get out on this road, and you know, you'd have 
several miles of open highway where they had plowed the snow off and everything, you'd wear your 
chains out (laughs)! And then you'd have to put 'em back on to go up the next holler and it was--that stuff 
was hard you know, really. But I guess if you were young and didn't know any better, that was--all I could 
think about was that 30 dollars a day, you know? 
 
EH: Right, right, yeah! 
 
WH: So that was an inspiration and stuff, and you had to go through a lot of stuff like that to do the things 
and then it is a, you know, I sorta enjoyed it pretty much. It was sort of a hard job and like every 
organization or anything, regulations got worse and stuff and I know when I first started, the postmaster 
was an old fellow--I never ever had but two--that old man, when I first started, Mr. Steve Phipps, was the 
coolest old dude you ever seen. And he told me about, he was a carrier, mail carrier, before he got to be 
the postmaster and he did it on a horse! He didn't want to hear no complaining from me about, I got to 
ride you know, in a cab where it was warm (laughs) 
 
EH: Right, right! 
 
WH: He said, you oughta have done that on a horse! That old horse, you couldn't keep him from stopping 
at every--that horse wanted to rest, you know. 
 
EH: Yeah. 
 
WH: And every box you come to that horse would pull over top, you would have to gauge him to keep 
him going if they didn't have no mail, or if you didn't have a stop. And that horse wanted to stop at every 
box (laughs) and you had to constantly work on him, gauge him to keep him going. He told me all kinds 
of stories about--one of the coolest ones, do you know what a Victrola is? 
 
EH: Yeah. 
 
WH: A record player, a big box? They're big things, they're 3 feet, 2 feet by 3 feet. Said it was in a big 
box and said the only way that he could carry that thing is to balance it up on the top of his saddle, on the 
horse, and said he carried that thing most of the route and said when he got there, the saddle horn punched 
a hole in the side of the box and made a hole in the side of that Victrola and said when he got there, the 
people wouldn't take it! (laughs) They said you have to send that back, it's tore up! And he said he had to 
haul that thing the rest of the trip back, and the probably had to deliver another one some other way, you 
know, when the second one came. He said that was one of the worst days he ever had. 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Wayne Henderson – 2/20/2022 
5 
 
 
EH: (laughs) Right! 
 
09:40  
 
WH: Said he had to balance that thing up there and then do his mail. And a horse box is different! I still, I 
had plenty of them on my route when I started. I'd have to stick my head out, lean out, lean on my belly to 
stick out the window to look in 'em and I never ever had a right hand drive vehicle or anything. And a 
horse back is a long mailbox--the lid opens straight up on top of it because that's what you need. You're 
sitting on that horse, you look right there and that's the way they work. And the people that had those 
things would never change them. They didn't want to change their process of anything, you know like any 
of us, about. And it's what they was used to and I had to deal with those old horse boxes for years. 
(laughs) And they were hard. And then you'd have to reach in there with all the spiders and everything 
you know. You can't be a mailman and be afraid of spiders or bees. 
 
EH: Yeah, did you ever get bit or stung? 
 
WH: I probably got stung because people, sometimes they would, you know waspers would build nests 
back in the back of the box and usually you just didn't bother them you know, if you open, you, if you 
were there every day, you know where that nest is! (laughs) Sometimes you tell people to get rid of that 
nest but they, most of the time they didn't want to fool with it or anything. And I've gotten stung a few 
times. Never recall being spider-bit but almost every box on the route's got a spider in it. It's where they 
stay, you know? (laughs) 
 
11:11  
 
EH: Yeah, it's their house. 
 
WH: And I guess maybe not dangerous ones or something, I don't know. 
 
EH: Yeah, yeah. 
 
WH: But I didn't pay much attention to them because I didn't bother them, they didn't bother me normally. 
 
EH: Yeah. What other stories did the, what was his name, Stan? The... 
 
WH: Mr. Phipps? 
 
EH: Yeah, Mr. Phipps. Yeah, what other stories about carrying the mail by horseback did he tell you? 
 
WH: Well he would, that's the mainest one I remember so good. I'm sure he told me plenty of them but 
it's been, you know it's been 45 or so years ago. But he'd, he'd tell me about, said you head to be careful 
because back in the early days it was like a political deal. They would pull all kinds of tricks to try to get 
rid of you, you know. 
 
EH: Really? 
 
WH: That finally changed in maybe like 1970 or something. They changed their whole process of stuff 
and said you'd have to, according to what president was in. Then you had to be, you had to switch sides or 
act like you did or something, you know?  
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Wayne Henderson – 2/20/2022 
6 
 
 
EH: Because it was an appointment or what? 
 
WH: It was sort of an appointment. Political appointment deal in the early days. Any kind of a mail job. 
But I think it was such a good job everybody wanted that job because I think at, back at that time it was a 
nation-wide deal and I think a carrier right here in Rugby got the same money for work that somebody in 
New York City got. And it was, it was just an all over thing and it didn't matter how long it took you to do 
it and had a, it was a, you know I'd go in to start with, I wouldn't have to go in probably before 9 o'clock 
with that little amount of mail that I had to deal with. But I always had a long route, like it was 80-some 
miles every day that I had to drive. And I think they based it on that and later on they got to evaluated 
route, they counted how much mail you got and all that kind of stuff. And everything, the whole time, that 
32 years that I worked for 'em, they got a little tighter on stuff like that all the time. And I think way 
worse after I retired. But it was always sort of a cool job and fun job and I'd watch after, you know you 
know everybody on the--a rural carrier like out here. Of course, when I started, I knew almost everybody 
anyway, you know, to start with. But a lot of old people and if you didn't see them you worried about 
them enough to check on them. Sometimes you'd do that and one old lady, that was later on or something, 
I saw her sitting down at the mailbox. I thought, boy that's unusual! I couldn't see her just over there 
sitting down in the sun so I went back and checked on her and she couldn't get up! And she had sort of 
fallen down, sitting down, and I got her up and got her to the house and that was okay with everybody, 
but you really is not supposed to deviate off of your route or anything at all. It was the rules and stuff 
were real strict. All that kind of thing. But something like that you know you had to and you had to watch 
out for people and you found people that were not, their mail would be in the box a day or two, especially 
if it was an old person, you'd check on 'em and find out that they'd been sick. and can't get out and send 
them help and stuff. You did that kind of stuff all the time, which is probably pretty important. 
 
EH: Yeah. 
 
WH: And it got later on you had so much stuff to do you almost didn't have time to do that. You had to 
hustle to make your time and everything.  
 
EH: Right. 
 
WH: But back earlier that stuff was more important than stuff that you did a lot. 
 
EH: So you're really kind of taking care of people and they might not see anybody else that day. 
 
WH: Oh yeah! Some of these hollers you go up, the mailman, and a lot of time the old folks, they'd come 
out and want to talk to you too! They want to know what you know! You know, who's oh, what you call 
him down there, what's he being doing? And it was that kind of stuff all the time too. 
 
15:44  
 
EH: Because you probably, you know, you learn a lot about people carrying their mail. 
 
WH: Oh yeah! I'd seem like I knew, ever since I've retired and quit and I just stay holed up in this shop, I 
never know any news of no kind! Never, I mean, people have kids and die and do all kinds of things that I 
don't ever even know about! (laughs) And you used to, if you was a mailman, you knew bits about 
everything and all kinds of stuff like that. It's pretty cool. 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Wayne Henderson – 2/20/2022 
7 
 
EH: Yeah. Yeah, why don't you describe the terrain along your route a little more for people who might 
never have been to this area. What does it look like and what's the terrain like? 
 
16:26  
 
WH: Well it's in the Appalachians here. You know, this is definitely in the mountains. Nothing, you know 
people out in Washington state would not call this a mountain at all or anything like that, but it's just 
pretty rough and the roads were hand done, pretty much, especially back in the time when I started in the 
60s and early 70s and stuff like that--the roads were, they followed the creek, the way that the most of 
them did, or the lay of the hill--that's the reason they're so crooked around here and as roads got built later 
on you know, they had the machinery and stuff they could excavate and straighten things out and could 
make a little bit wider and better roads, but every one of these roads that I travelled on was, got better 
over the years because they would work on 'em you know and do stuff. But when I first started, it was 
pretty much, these old mountain roads were fairly hard to get over. My dad, that same old Chevrolet pick-
up, my dad carried school kids. But he would go on some of these roads that a regular school bus couldn't 
get up across the mountain or up that narrow of a road, and he had a regular job of loading them in that 
old pick-up truck. He built a capper bed on it and would go run certain runs and routes and he would carry 
'em out and that's, the roads were so rough that that's the only way school kids could get out and go to 
school. And they he'd haul 'em out to the bigger road and they'd get on the school bus then. And that was 
something he did for years and that same old Chevrolet pickup that I carried the mail in, you know? 
(laughs) And that's, the roads, they were always working on 'em you know, scraping 'em, grading 'em and 
I guess the worst is when it snowed, come a big snow. You'd just have to put on chains and load cinder 
blocks in the back of that truck so it'd have weight. It wasn't for years before I got a 4-wheel drive vehicle 
or anything. And then I'd have, get one of them, it was almost more trouble than it's worth, you know, it 
was hard to, almost all my vehicles for years were straight shift and 'cause that's what people had, you 
know. When I had the, first time I got an automatic transmission car, I thought that was deluxe! You just 
sat there and drive, you know, didn't have to shift gears and your leg wasn't sore out when you got done at 
the end of the day from holding the clutch in and stuff like that. But those roads were, the mountains 
around here, like I say, the elevation up the highest place I would go is probably over 4,000 feet and 
which, and then right here my shop is 3,200 feet right here and then down at Mouth of Wilson where the 
post office is, I'd imagine it's 20-some. You probably varied a good thousand feet or more elevation from 
one place to the other. And when, that's mostly about the roads and I can't remember the exact thing but I 
had you know, it was divided on some paperwork, how much of it's gravel, dirt road, and paved road. 
And there was a lot of it, gravel and dirt road and probably more than half of it I'd say. And so you had, 
you had rough roads to deal in and some of the worst stuff you'd have to deal with was in March when the 
snow would sort of quiet and you had mud! You know, where the roads had been frozen solid all winter, 
they start thawing out? And that was the absolute worst! You know you can usually plow through a snow 
drift and stuff like that but when you sink up in a mud hole, right in the middle of the road and you have 
to try to go around where there's not too big a rut and that was, and then they'd come start dumping gravel 
in, you know, put gravel in there but you would have it pretty rough before they got all that done. And 
that was some of the worst. And sometimes it'd be almost everywhere, you know, and I think that got a 
little bit better because over the years they'd put so much gravel in there that there'd just be a few places 
where it was soft and what happens, it thaws where it's been frozen and it just turns into a mud hole, you 
know? (laughs) And you got to go plum out of the road to try to go around it or if you get in it, you're in 
trouble. You gotta go walk to the neighbor's house to get a tractor or something to pull you out. 
 
EH: Did you have to get pulled out? 
 
WH: Oh yeah, I've had to be pulled out and I've had all sorts of stuff happen. One pretty, thing I used to 
do was, it was after I was a regular carrier, you know, more toward the end. There was a family that had a 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Wayne Henderson – 2/20/2022 
8 
 
goat! A big, long-horned Billy goat and he would come, he was friendly or something, he'd come right up 
beside the car and I'd give him a corner of my peanut butter sandwich. 
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
WH: And he got to like that and he would, he was the most regular customer I had to show up at the 
mailbox! (laughs) And sometimes I'd see him way up on the hill! You see his feet going. He knew my 
little red car and I'd try to get there and get to the mailbox and be gone before, but you couldn't do it. He 
knew, he needed to be there, you know, to get that piece of a sandwich. And he got so he would jump up 
in the window! You know, put his feet up on the side of the car and stick his head right in the window, 
you know? And of course you know, I'd mess with him and talk to him, and everything. And one day I 
guess I forgot about the goat, and you're concentrating on getting 2-inches away from the mailbox to get 
as close as you can, and when I was pulling up to that, and I pull up to the mailbox and here come this 
goat jumped up there with his head stuck in the car and I almost went out the other side--I wasn't 
expecting that and it scared me! And I got to thinking, well my substitute next Saturday will be working 
for me and he don't know about the goat (laughs) and I was just wondering what's gonna happen, because 
he won't even be thinking about it! And I know that goat's gonna go jump up in his window and I think I 
heard later from some of the other guys at the post office, they said he about went out the other window 
too! 
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
WH: So that was, you know stuff like that would be sorta entertaining and funny. Probably stuff you're 
not supposed to do, you know, but... 
 
EH: Yeah, did you have other animal encounters, whether wildlife or livestock? 
 
WH: I love to look at wildlife anyway, and there's plenty of it around here. You see deer every day. And 
wild turkeys and stuff like that. And then snakes and I would never bother snakes, but I would mess with 
them, you know, sometime if there was a big old black snake in the road, I'd get out and get him out of 
the road. Most everybody else would run over him, you know, 'cause they don't like snakes, you know, 
but I knew those snakes wasn't gonna hurt nothing. I'd get 'em out of the road. But while I was out there 
sometimes I'd pick 'em up because I knew a black snake's not gonna do much to me, you know, but scare 
you, but that was a little bit of excitement, you know. I'd do that to almost every snake I saw, you know, 
stuff like that. Unless I didn't know what it was, you know, I was afraid of it too. There's a few 
copperheads around, it could have been one of them. So that kind of stuff made you day a little bit of 
exciting instead of just boring stuff. And one thing I did, I guess I couldn't get in trouble with the post 
office now, at this time for stuff, but I was going down the road one day--they even told this story in the 
book they wrote about me--about me making Eric Clapton's guitar. I told this story (laughs) and they--it's 
right in that book! (laughs) And I was going down the road and there was a buzzard! An old friend of 
mine told me one time--we had went up above his house and there was a rock cliff up there and there was 
buzzards in there. And he said now don't get around there, them buzzards, if you disturb 'em and get 
around there, they'll puke on you! And I thought, I'd never heard tell of anything like that, you know, and 
almost didn't believe it. But anyway, I was just routinely going up the road and I looked away up ahead of 
me and there's a buzzard eating on a dead possum that got run over in the road. And I got closer and 
closer and that old buzzard's eating on that possum and wasn't paying attention to me. And I thought, now 
this, it might be fun to just chase him a little bit. Because I'd got close enough, I know he can't get out of 
the way (laughs) because they're slow, you know. So I sort of goosed it a little bit, and I run right up 
smack, and that buzzard, of course he took off when I was getting close to him and I just eased up and 
speeded up just enough and he was right in front of my window, just going as hard as he could go, and I 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Wayne Henderson – 2/20/2022 
9 
 
don't know how come he didn't just turn off, but he was going and I was having the most fun chasing that 
buzzard--I was in 3 feet of him, you know, just going up a straight road, miles and miles from anybody or 
anything. And (laughs) I guess after a while I got too close or he got, and he cut loose and absolutely 
puked all over my car. The hood, windshield, I mean this is gross, you hold customers out, I guess, but 
you can imagine the dead possum being throwed up right in the middle of your windshield. Turned the 
wipers on, that made it worse! And I had to stop and luckily I had an antifreeze can or something in my 
truck and I got out to the creek and would dump that on there and it finally got enough so I could see how 
to drive--that was a mistake. The buzzard won out on that deal. That made the worse mess you ever saw. 
And I thought, well there ain't much of the route left and it's Friday evening and I've got a vacation 
coming--I'm gonna be off all next week. And I thought, it's got to rain before next Saturday (laughs). I'd 
leave my car at the post office. 
 
EH: Oh okay. 
 
28:03  
 
WH: Generally at that time I did. I just had a car that I used for my mail and nothing else. And I'd leave it 
sit behind the post office all the time. And I pulled that thing in there and then that was my thinking. And 
it did rain you know, before I come back but there was spots of that on there, the rain didn't get off and 
it'd eat the paint off and that was a real mess!  
 
EH: That sounds awful. 
 
WH: Yeah, that was pretty awful. But anyway, it taught me a lesson not to, don't chase buzzards and that 
was a mess, an experience. But I was on the mail route that day when that happened.  
 
28:50  
  
EH: How did you drive straight shift and deliver the mail? Did you sit in the middle at all? 
  
WH: Yeah, you'd sit over, I used later on, you know, I had them old trucks and things to start with, but 
you didn't have quite so much stuff to mess with. And it was a little easier but when I got to be a regular 
carrier and stuff I would always, I'd use more than anything else a Ford Escort, which was a small, you 
know, pretty small vehicle. And it's front-wheel drive and it is a pretty handy vehicle and sometimes I 
had--a couple of 'em were station wagons, that way you had all kinds of room for your mail. It got so 
you'd get enough mail so you'd pile, fill up the whole back seat with packages and stuff like that. And I 
would just lean over, sit as far as I could. They had like the bucket seat in 'em. I had a few cars that had a 
bench seat--that worked the best 'cause you could slide over as far as you could and still have room for 
your mail to work in here. And when I first started carrying the mail, there was about as many boxes on 
the left as the right! And they changed that rule while I was carrying the mail. And then it got so you 
always had to lean over and it would have been hand to have...in fact the first people, the carriers to have 
stuff, they had an apparatus rigged like a sprocket that went over and they had two steering wheels. And 
so they'd rig up things like that. You could even buy 'em in the rural carrier magazine. There were 
companies that made--it was two, a lever apparatus that hooked to your brake and the gas and it went over 
so you could actually sit on that side. But anybody that ever had a right-hand drive vehicle, the only ones 
that ever had one which was nobody around here, but they come from England or something. You know, 
some places like that where the cars are made like that. 
 
EH: Right. 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Wayne Henderson – 2/20/2022 
10 
 
WH: But I'd heard of a few people having them, but nobody around here. And then it got so later on, Jeep 
and Subaru was making them. And I never had one of those but nowadays almost everybody I know's got 
one of those things. That would be really a cool thing to have had, you know! (laughs)  And I had to 
stretch as far as I could that way 300 times a day which I thought was surely bound to be good exercise, 
you know, but I don't know for sure. I can't hardly move now.  
 
EH: Yeah, do you have any physical impact of that? 
 
WH: Uh, not, I don't, I wouldn't know now that it might not be just old age you know, I'm 75 years old 
almost and I have a hard time moving around quite a bit but that's just been in the last few years you 
know. I always sorta felt like it was probably pretty good exercise and stuff, you know. I did a stretching 
deal every day, all day. (laughs) 
 
EH: (laughs) And working that clutch too when you had the stick shift. 
 
WH: Yeah, yeah. That was always--you'd definitely be worn out when you got done in those old days, 
you know, when you had to drive the clutch. And as the mail and stuff got heavier and built up more, it 
got so it had been really hard to do that. Had every kind of thing. I had--you know those old cars. I had 
mechanics that were close by that they had worked on my cars and kept them running. Talking about that 
bench seat thing, a real good car I had one time was a Maverick! I don't know, you probably can't ever 
even remember any such thing as that. 
 
EH: Yeah, I dunno. 
 
WH: It was a Ford compact car that Ford made and it had a bench seat. That was a good vehicle to carry 
the mail in. But I remember I was going up the road one day on one of these old dirt roads. Bright, sunny, 
pretty day, no snow, nothing. Not a thing in the world in the road. And I was going up the road and all of 
a sudden, the back end of my car went straight up in the air and I thought, I didn't know, I thought I'd 
been bombed by an airplane or something you know? I didn't know, couldn't figure out what in the world 
had possibly happened! And (laughs) got out and looked and the muffler, you know, a thing this long was 
right at the back end. And the front coupling of that muffler vibrated loose and fell down and stabbed into 
the road. And the tail end of it was still hooked, like under the trunk. And it just stabbed solid into the 
road and it just knocked the back end of that car straight up in there and I got out and looked and my 
whole car was bent in the middle, right from the back doors back. It went, it was just shaped like that 
(gestures an L-shape with his hand). And you know I was probably doing 30 miles an hour. It was on a 
dirt road, not very fast. But that was plenty fast enough (laughs) 
 
EH: Oh that's not good! 
 
WH: And you can imagine what a shock! You know, you're just going up the road and all of a sudden 
here the back end of your car is knocked straight up in the air and comes back down (laughs) 
 
EH: That is terrifying. 
 
WH: And I know there wasn't nobody--I'd have seen if somebody had been following close enough to hit 
me that hard, you know.  
 
EH: Yeah, wow. 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Wayne Henderson – 2/20/2022 
11 
 
WH: But I figure out pretty quick, as soon as I got out and looked, I saw that muffler. It just crunched up 
that muffler. But the worst thing, I drove that car around for a pretty good while after that with the tail end 
of it sticking up. It was a really new design, you know! (laughs) And it still ran and all that stuff! But that 
was a shocking thing that happened one day too. 
 
EH: Yeah. 
 
34:47  
 
WH: So that is a, you know, all kinds of stuff like that would happen to your vehicle. Certain times you 
would get stuck and slide off the road. One time I was, I had a 4-wheel drive vehicle at that time. I can't 
even remember all the vehicles I went through, all different kinds. And I had one that was a real steep 
grade, it went, you know, a quarter mile straight up and it was one of those times that there's ice 
everywhere. That's the worst. You could deal with snow. And that 4-wheel drive always handled all that 
stuff. And it got to standing at the top on that ice and finally it started going backwards back down. And it 
went all the way to the bottom of the hill without going off. It didn't go in the ditch or over. It was a pretty 
bad bank on this side if it had went over that. And it went all the way to the bottom before it slid in the 
ditch. Then when it slid in the ditch that 4-wheel drive pulled right back out of it, but it was, that time at 
the end of that route was, I mean the end of that road came out on another part of that route and I went 
around. I didn't miss any boxes. I was real adamant about trying to get every box. It was very few times I 
ever missed somebody’s mailbox. But a few times you know, this road was just totally impassable, you 
know. You couldn't, but that's the only way I would miss one. I would go around and go to the other end 
and come back the other way and got to the top of that hill anyway (laughs) where I got every box on that 
route, but I had to do a little bit of a maneuver to get to it, and then I was back on track. And you do stuff 
like that all the time, you know. And the old man I worked for appreciated that. The later postmaster, he 
was afraid to drive on a stick road or anything like that his self too much. If it was a bad enough time, he 
would never say anything to you about missing somebody's route. But I always, I knew most of those old 
people, how important it was to get the mail or see the mailmen or whatever. And it had to be the most 
miserable of anything before I would miss a box.  
 
37:07  
 
EH: Are there some people that know you more as a mailman than a guitar maker? 
 
WH: (laughs) Well, let's see, I remember one story, we had a new feller move in, build a house on the 
route over, he would come out and I would try to be friendly to him and everything because he didn't 
know people, you know, and maybe except his neighbors. And I'd always try to talk to people and be 
friendly to 'em and everything. And he'd come out and you know, I told him I was a musician. At that 
time I had got in to playing quite a bit and he, just talking to me at the box as I went by and he said, 
"Where are you playing?" And I said, "Well, it's pretty cool, this next Saturday I'm playing in Carnegie 
Hall!" And (laughs) he'd, "Oh, is that right?" And he had, his neighbor, the fella that I knew that lived 
there all the time, said he'd come down there and said, "You know what, said that mailman that come by 
here told me he was playing in Carnegie Hall! You ever heard the beat of that?" (laughs) 
 
EH: He thought you were lying? 
 
WH: Oh yeah! He thought I was totally full of it you know. He said, "Well, tell you what's the truth," said 
"He probably is!" (laughs) 
 
EH: (laughs) 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Wayne Henderson – 2/20/2022 
12 
 
 
38:28  
 
WH: He said, "What?" And I did! And that's where it was that I was playing the next Saturday night. And 
(laughs) anyway, that fella that was out there, he thought I was Elvis then. From then on, you know? So 
that was pretty cool. Cause he went up and told the neighbors, said "That mailman is full of it as anybody 
I've ever seen! He told me he's playing in Carnegie Hall next week!" (laughs) 
 
EH: That's really funny. Did you listen to music while you were delivering mail? 
 
WH: All day. I listened to, I had programs I listened to a lot. Mt. Airy, North Carolina would come in on 
an AM channel and they played old-time and bluegrass all day and I'd listen to Galax country music a lot. 
I listened to Paul Harvey News every day. (laughs) I'd listen to him. (laughs) I'd almost never miss that, 
you know it come on a certain time a day. But most of the time I'd listen to that Mt. Airy station the most 
because it played our old-time kind of music and all kinds of stuff. I really did listen--that helped your 
whole route and something to do, listened to music all day every day. 
EH: Are there other relationships between mail carrying and being a musician or being a guitar maker? I 
am finding that there are a lot of musicians that carry the mail. 
 
40:01  
 
WH: Yeah? Well, Brian Grim is a young fella who still carries the mail and he's a great fiddler and 
musician. He's done it ever since he was a little bitty kid. And he's one. One of my favorite fiddlers in the 
world is a fellow named Buddy Pennington, lived in Stuart, Virginia and he was a rural mail carrier! And 
he was a pretty famous one, you know he played a little bit with Bill Munroe and stuff like that. And I 
was lucky to get to play a lot because they would let me do, I could always, as long as I had a good 
substitute, they would let me off to do sort of a big deal. And I'd always say well, you know, I talk about 
the Postal Service and stuff even if I'm playing in Carnegie Hall or wherever and they would, a few times 
I would do a tour, an overseas tour but that was for the State Department mostly. I played all over Asia 
and Africa and places like that and I got fortunate to get to do that. I was even more fortunate that the post 
office would let me take off, you know sometimes even more than my normal vacation. You got good 
vacations and stuff you know. But sometimes if I was doing something like that, they would let me take 
leave without pay to go as long as I had a good substitute that would come work and it sort is almost like 
government work when you're doing stuff like for the you know Smithsonian or the State Department and 
stuff. We did quite a bit of that stuff back probably in the 80s. And I did that a lot. Probably not too many 
jobs I could have had that would have let me take off a month to go do an overseas tour and stuff like that. 
So I was real fortunate to, always appreciated them for letting me do stuff like that. All kinds of things 
that I couldn't have done doing something else, you know. So I got to play and I played a lot. That was 
something I've done all my life too. And being an instrument maker and having a shop made me good to 
being a substitute, you know, I'd almost every day when I got through with my mail route, I would come 
work in the shop. Work in the afternoons and evenings and, 'cause I really loved doing that so much and 
had sort of a name for it. And I've had orders for instruments for the last 50 years and so I was able to do 
that and do my...and it got later on my shop business got so busy you'd think about, well maybe just do 
that, it's a little more exciting and glamorous than doing the mail, but I'd done the mail for so long I didn't 
want to quit doing that and I also thought, well one of these days I'll retire and have a retirement, which is 
better than most. I mean I'm an old-timer that worked under civil service and that got cut out too back 
pretty early on. But I always, since I was in it, they couldn't throw me out of it, so I kept that! It was 
always different retirement plans they wanted you to do, said they thought was better and all this stuff. I 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Wayne Henderson – 2/20/2022 
13 
 
said I'm gonna stay with the old-timey stuff and it was a good thing I did 'cause it turned out much better 
than stuff nowadays or for a pretty good while back. And probably not too many old geezers that was 
under the civil service stuff is still around, you know. Or didn't switch.  
 
EH: Yeah, tell me a little more about your relationship with your customers and who they were. 
 
WH: Well you know the close part of the community, I'm probably some a kin to the most of them, you 
know! (laughs) And stuff like that. And like I'm saying about the fella that moved in, I always tried to get 
to know everybody. And back in those days, you know, there wasn't that many people. My whole I think I 
only had 250 or 300 boxes on my whole route, but I had to drive 87 miles every day. Had a lot of that. So 
I guess compared to nowadays and routes that people have, that was pretty small and it's almost, I knew 
just about every one of 'em, you know, personally. Knew, of course you have to know their kids and 
everybody in the household, you know, know their names so you can deliver the mail. I went by that a lot. 
You were supposed to just go by the numbers no matter who it says, you know. But I was sorta always 
well that's you know, so and so lives up there and I know all their kids, all that stuff and so you personally 
knew just about everybody on the route. And even the new people that move in. And eventually get to 
know 'em and stuff. And you always speak to 'em and talk to 'em, they're always friendly and willing to 
tell you who they are and what you do and stuff like that. So it was always important to me to know 
people and really the rules and regulations, you're supposed to just look at nothing but their number and 
that way you probably make fewer mistakes 'cause some people can have Joe Reedy and Joe Perry could 
be so close together, you'd get their mail mixed up sometimes you know, if you were just looking at their 
name. And if you strictly go by that number, it's a whole lot more accurate.  
 
46:10  
 
And that kind of stuff like that. 
 
EH: Did they leave presents for you in mailboxes? 
 
WH: Yeah! Christmas! It was pretty good. It wasn't a real big deal, but I'd get boxes of candy and I'm sure 
everybody knew that's what I liked. I never, ever got money. Of course I don't think you was supposed to 
take that or anything like that and I wasn't interested in that anyway. I'd have whole lot rather had that box 
of candy, you know. (laughs) I loved that! 
 
EH: Yeah! Homemade stuff? 
 
WH: Yeah, sometimes it'd be homemade stuff. And you'd get a loaf of some kind of fruitcake looking 
banana bread and stuff. Always you'd get stuff like that and that was cool. You know? All that kind of 
stuff and all sorts of...I remember one time, I mean this has got nothing to do with, it's almost like a 
present thing, but one day a lady bought a book of stamps and when I'd get the money, lots of times 
people wouldn't buy stamps, they'd just put money in the box, which was aggravating and it took you a lot 
of time because you sort of had to count it because you had to keep your money straight. It had to be 
right, you know. So it didn't matter if it was 6 cents. When I first started carrying the mail, a stamp cost 8 
cents. And that was a pain, you know. That's an odd thing. And the next jump was a dime. 10 cents. And I 
thought that was the coolest thing in the world, you know? It is so easy to count and everything and that 
didn't last very long at all until it was turned into 11 cents or something which made back a mess again. 
Seemed like it was always something odd like that. But this old lady bought a book of stamps or 
something one day and I got the money that was in there. I looked and every piece of it was old. You 
know, silver stuff. And I would look at that. If I saw a silver dime or something like that, I mean I could 
spot 'em. You know if you're used to looking at that stuff you can see it all the way across the room 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Wayne Henderson – 2/20/2022 
14 
 
(laughs). You can tell what it is. And I would get money out of my own pocket and I'd put it in there and 
I'd keep those things just for collecting. And that day that old lady had a whole bunch of it in there! And it 
was you know, she was really a cool pillar of the community lady, ran the community center and stuff, 
but she had retired, all that stuff. And I, so I switched out all that money and got a dollar and something's 
worth, or whatever it was. And I got to thinking about it when I got home, you know, "I bet she didn't 
know she did that. She was getting old and I got to worrying that she had maybe done away with that 
without meaning to, and I called her and told her I happened to notice today when you bought that book 
of stamps, every bit of that money that was in there was old stuff. And I said, did you really mean to put 
that in there? I mean I was going to give it back to her if she didn't. And she went, "Oh yeah, I knew I did 
that!" Said, "I've got a whole box of that stuff!" Said, "I just decided I'm gonna spend it and get rid of it!" 
(laughs) And I said well if you want to get rid of it, would you want to sell it? Because I like stuff like 
that and had some. And she said if you want that, you can have every bit of it for exactly what it says. 
And I said, well some of that stuff is worth more than that! You know, the silver 50 cent piece is probably 
worth a dollar, you know, you could get somewhere, you know. I told her all that stuff. She said, "I don't 
care. I want you to have it!" She said, "If you're interested in that stuff, I'd a whole lot rather somebody 
had it that." And I said "Well, I'll come over." And I went over to her house and she had like a cigar box 
full of it, of all kinds. There was a 2 and a half dollar gold piece in there that I had never seen one, in my 
life. But that thing's worth like 300 bucks! Or something. And I told her, I know this thing's worth more 
than 2 and a half. "I don't care! I want 2 and a half dollars for it!" And I think she just wanted to give it to 
me, I think. And I felt a little bit bad about it but she just insisted she would absolutely not have...I mean 
it turned out to be not a, it was worn so bad it was an 1856 Flying Eagle penny. They only made it 3 
years, '56, '57, and '58. And it's really hard to determine a worn one, a 6 from an 8. You could imagine 
those 2 numbers looking alike. And it was listed and she had had that stuff in a bank at some time or 
another and had a lot of it listed out because she knew what it was you know. But she had just gotten 
absolutely tired of fooling with and wanted rid of it and wouldn't, I mean I offered to pay her extra and 
everything, you know because I didn't know what but I know it's worth more than that. That 1856 penny, 
I had it inspected later. It was worn so bad it turned out to be a '58 instead of a 6. If it had been a '56 it 
was worth thousands of dollars. And you know they only made 1100 of them or something, you know. It 
was a prototype penny. But even a '58 was worth 12 dollars or something, you know, not much. But that 
gold piece was the coolest thing in there. And I told her, I know this gold thing's worth more than 2 and a 
half dollars. And she, "I don't care, I want you to have it." And so I got 'em! And I kept it for years and 
ended up making, collecting silver dollars and that's the only things I still have. But I sold some of that 
stuff, or traded it actually for a silver dollar I didn't have in my book or something, you know. But 
anyway, you would find stuff like that on the mail route, you know lucky lick, you know, and I thought 
that come out, I was actually trying to be real honest with that old lady because how that whole deal come 
about, you know? I could have just...and I don't know. 
 
EH: Yeah! You got rewarded for your honesty. 
 
WH: Yeah, yeah. A little bit there. 
 
53:11  
 
EH: What was your favorite part of the job? 
 
WH: Uh, I think just riding when the weather was nice, just riding around through the countryside. These 
mountains are absolutely beautiful, especially if you do it in April and May in the spring or in the fall 
when the colors are out. It's not too hot and not too cold and just, I enjoyed just riding the roads every 
day. I looked forward to it. I did not like casing mail. You know, being in the post office and sticking 
them in those holes. I dreaded that you know, and wasn't extremely good at it. I had substitutes that would 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Wayne Henderson – 2/20/2022 
15 
 
work that could stick that stuff in there like a machine, you know (laughs), and I never could do that real 
good. I mean I could do it good enough to get by. But my favorite part was just out riding around and of 
course you never enjoy it too much when the weather's rough and you got to worry about danger and the 
road's slick and stuff like that. Only ever had one accident on the route that whole time. And I got run into 
by a motorcycle. And the fella was on a dirt road where he's going too fast around the curve and it 
actually wasn't my fault but you know they really give us a going over about safety and you know, I guess 
we'd have to have the same lecture that everybody had about leaving your car parked and I guess that's for 
city carriers probably, where they got to park their car and deliver to one back or the other and back down 
and you gotta leave, and then evidently they leave, their brake comes loose or don't put the brake on 
properly and turn the motor off and that's something you hate to do if you have to go to somebody's house 
to deliver something, it just seemed like so much trouble to lock the car and put the brake on and turn it 
off and take the key out. That's the procedure of what you're supposed to do and you might break those 
rules a little bit once in a while but if something actually happened while you was doing that you'd be in 
really big trouble, you know. And but that, that kind of stuff you know, would get on your nerves, but you 
know that's the rules and that's what you're supposed to do. So all that kind of stuff, but when it come a 
pretty fall or a spring day and you could ride--I mean I still enjoy looking at these countries, countryside 
and never ever got tired of that I don't think, even if it was the same old thing every day! (laughs) You 
know, but not exactly the same old thing every day because scenery changes, it's just, to be out when the 
weather is nice and on these mountain roads and it's just still something that I enjoy doing. 
 
56:24  
 
EH: Did you see the area change at all since when you started driving the route? 
 
WH: Well I'm sure it did because I guess mostly as people started doing other things and in this 
neighborhood, you know there's not much work around here. When I first started carrying the mail, 
almost everybody, if you wasn't just a full-fledged farmer, you worked in a factory down in 
Independence, Galax or Marion or Jefferson or somewhere. People did that an awful lot and it's just a 
different thing, people had everyday jobs they did like that. And then as time went on, they got less of that 
'cause those factories moved out and it's like a, when I was out playing music, I'd have my buddy Herb 
sing a song about old mountain dew, about the moonshiners, you know that's a business, and I said that's 
one industry around here that they have not figured out how to move to China yet! (laughs) 
 
EH: (laughs) Right! 
 
WH: And that was the deal, you know, so much industry and stuff moved and went other places and went 
out of business and quit. And that's a change and everything. It makes the whole neighborhood a different 
thing because the people are at home and working on their farm and more animals and stuff like that. I 
think that's a big difference that I'd see from when I first started until later on. And more people move in. I 
mean that's, our neighborhood here, one of the I think attractions to it now is where people retire maybe 
from Florida or up north or anywhere, they'll buy these old farms where the old people have passed on or 
went out of business and they're still around and they'll come and build a house up on top of the mountain 
where they can see forever and a lot of that kind of stuff goes on. And that changes the whole 
neighborhood, you know. All these little country stores you know, that used to be every mile that people 
could walk to, they're gone. You don't ever see that. And they was always, some of those stores along the 
route, I mean I'd stop and get you know, I'd have my peanut butter sandwich for lunch you know (laughs) 
usually but there was a lot of little stores where you could stop and get you a Pepsi or something and that 
kind of thing. I don't believe they're there now, not much to do that. And it was always ran by the 
neighborhood people, you know that probably lived there all their life, that kind of thing. (phone rings) 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Wayne Henderson – 2/20/2022 
16 
 
EH: I can pause it. 
 
WH: Yeah. (phone rings, tape pauses) 
 
EH: Yeah, I can't remember where we were, but what do you think the importance of rural mail carriers 
and your job was to the community you served? 
 
WH: Well I always felt like it was pretty important because you know it goes all the way back to my old 
original guy that was a carrier that asked me to be a substitute. He was one of the most important fellas in 
the whole community. And he was, you know, could deal with, like was probably better educated than 
most and could deal with business stuff that people depended on him for and he did a lot of that. And but 
mainly being that old time mail carrier back then it was the only connection people had to information, 
news and like I say, the mailman considering all that got talked about in the post office and then 
everywhere else that you saw everybody else on the route. You knew all of it. You knew everything as far 
as news and you know, community, all this community stuff. And you was pretty important to people to 
find out stuff and like I had all kinds of people on my route that I was the only person they saw every day. 
And you know, unless there was an occasion, but I was there every day. And I felt pretty important to 
them people just if it was nothing but to talk to for 2 minutes. And then you know, you did all their 
important stuff. I guess the most important thing was you brought their social security check to 'em every 
3rd of the month, you know (laughs) that was--they would be out, they would be out to see you that day! 
And then some of them would, something they would do, they wanted it early you know, they'd waylay 
you on the route somewhere and I used to always do that. You're not really supposed to, but I'd try to dig 
out their thing. And they'd, "I just wondered if you had any mail for me?" They know that, they would 
never admit they was wanting their check, you know. But said, "Did I get any mail today." and they'd say, 
"Save you a stop!" (laughs) They'd always say that every time. But I felt pretty important to those folks 
and all that kind of stuff and like the few times you thought you helped somebody, the old lady who fell 
down and I had to get her up and get her to the house and that was out in the middle of nowhere--she 
might have sat there until the next day, you know, I don't know. Stuff like that happened a few times. And 
you know, all kinds of, I thought, and I always remember from when I was a kid the mailman that'd come 
by. I thought well he's, that's a big deal, that fella. He's got, even if it was, no telling what he brought you 
know, if you'd get your milk check and stuff you'd get like that you'd look forward to. And I always told 
everybody down at the post office, said I don't ever deliver NOTHING but checks and love letters. And 
said that substitute is the one that brings them bills! (laughs) 
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
1:02:48  
 
WH: And that kind of stuff like that (laughs). Packages from Sears and Roebuck. It's probably NOTHING 
like it is now. I guess you think about Amazon and all that stuff, but back years ago when I first started 
doing it, the only way people had to shop out of the Sears Roebuck catalog is what they had then. And I 
delivered all kinds of stuff, you know, packages and sometimes big stuff. And I told you the story about 
the old man, that old postmaster delivering a Victrola on a horse and punched a hole in the side of it and 
he had to keep his balance on his saddle horn up here. And said when get got there it punched a hole and 
the people wouldn't take it! (laughs) He had to keep carrying that thing. A victrola's a pretty heavy thing! 
(laughs) I always you know, thought he was important, you know we brought people, stuff to people, 
especially Christmas you know, that was always pretty tough and heavy time. You had all the packages 
everybody got for Christmas and stuff. But we felt like we was Santy Claus, you know. (laughs) That felt 
pretty important back in those days. And there wasn't no such thing as them little brown trucks. We can't 
even mention them, you know (laughs). That bunch. That was, I think the importance of mail, people just 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Wayne Henderson – 2/20/2022 
17 
 
contact with the community and that sort of thing. And I don't know how it is nowadays but probably not 
as much or something. 
 
EH: Do you think that's one of the reasons that kept you doing it when you could have made guitars full-
time? 
 
WH: Yeah, I think so. I did enjoy stuff like that enough to, I mean I probably could have quit doing it and 
just run my shop, you know, and tried to be, do more work with that. I feel like I could have made it just 
fine, but I might not have had, you know I got a good retirement and stuff now, and have had. They've 
done, I've done come out good on that, cause I've been, had that for 20 years, you know. And that and just 
'cause I felt like I was sorta important probably kept me doing that. And that's probably the main thing, 
probably. 
 
1:05:27  
 
EH: Well is there anything else you want share that we haven't talked about or that you remember? 
 
WH: I'm sure you know I'll probably think about something, but I can't right now, I can't think about too 
much I ain't done talked about! (laughs) 
 
EH: Well thanks so much, Wayne! 
 
WH: Well you're certainly welcome and hope you get something or other out of this, you know. 
 
EH: Yeah! It's great. 
 
WH: And I've enjoyed it and I appreciate, like I say, it's made me think about stuff about doing mail that I 
haven't thought about in a long time. 
 
EH: Nice. 
 
WH: And surprised that I could remember all that stuff about it.  
 
EH: (laughs) Cool. 
 
WH: So that's pretty cool. Thank you. 
 
EH: Yeah! Thank you.  
 
1:06:05  
 
END OF TAPE