NEW BEDFORD FISHING HERITAGE CENTER 
Date of Interview, June 8, 2017 
Guadalupe ~ Oral History Interview 
Corinn Williams 
Guadalupe. Interview by Corinn Williams. Workers on the New Bedford Waterfront. New 
Bedford Fishing Heritage Center. June 8, 2017. 
This oral history was produced in 2017 as part of the Workers on the Waterfront Oral History 
Project conducted by New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center with funding from an Archie Green 
Fellowship provided by the Library of Congress. 
New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center 
38 Bethel Street 
P.O. Box 2052 
New Bedford, MA 02741-2052 
Interview with Guadalupe, June 8, 2017. 
1 
Background 
Name of Person Interviewed: Guadalupe 
Facts about this Person: 
Age 
Sex 
Female 
47 
Occupation 
Residence 
Fish packer 
New Bedford 
Ethnic Background El Salvador 
Interviewer: Corinn Williams [CW] 
Transcriber: Pricilia Gamboa [PG] 
Interview location: New Bedford 
Date of Interview: June 8, 2017 
Key Words 
El Salvador, New Bedford, cod, Salmon, fish cutting machine 
Abstract 
Guadalupe is an employee at a company that cleans fish. She shares her work experiences and 
life experiences. 
Interview with Guadalupe, June 8, 2017. 
Index 
[00:00] Introductions. Cleaning fish is her main job but she does many other jobs. Originally 
from San Vicente, El Salvador. Grew up going to school then began to work in a lab drawing 
blood. She had a degree in health sciences in El Salvador. The war in El Salvador and 
earthquakes caused her to leave and come to America. 
[08:35] Life changes from arriving to America from El Salvador. It takes time to get used to the 
surroundings. Family member helped her get the job in the fishing industry. Coming to America 
was tough because she had no idea what her job was going to be. Sometimes it is difficult to 
meet the quota at work and some employers are tough. 
[13:01] Describes the changing of times of cleaning fish. Before they had to do it all by hand 
with a knife, now they have a machine that helps them clean. The machine cleans the fish faster 
than by hand. The machine has helped increase production. She has been working in the same 
company for around 3 years. She left for a while to live in Maryland, but she did not like the area 
so she moved back to New Bedford. 
[18:10] Normal work day is usually early but since she has a child that rides the morning bus her 
work day starts around 7 AM. Other coworkers begin the day at 4 am. Co-workers that arrive 
earlier use sharp tongs to remove bones from salmon. She sometimes cleans or sometimes packs 
the fish. Fish is also weighed at the factory. 
[24:54] Fish comes from different places, unaware exactly from where. She worked a while for a 
company based out of Canada. The most interesting part of job is the actual cleaning of the fish. 
Taking the bones out and making sure it is clean. The fish is always cold and the work 
environment is cold, she waits a while before entering her home, to make sure her body 
temperature is adjusted. Work environment is similar to an assembly line. 
[33:34] Most of the fish that is packed is for stores. Talks about the diversity of coworkers. Talks 
about how sometimes there is an inequality at the job because supervisors choose favorites. She 
still hopes to continue to work there. Believes wage raises are sometimes not given fairly. Paid 
vacations are not given to employees. 
[41:41] Comparesjobs in El Salvador to jobs here in America. Uniforms are required and safety 
equipment. If injuries occur at work they must notify the supervisor at once. Women do different 
jobs than men because man are required to do more heavy lifting. Differences between women 
and men at the job is discussed. 
[49:48] Work hours are discussed. Typically works less than 30 hours a week. Busy weeks are 
around 50 hours. Working overtime is sometimes hard for her because she has a child. Her 
daughter used to work in fish processing but switched over to a job in a textile factory. Advice 
for future fishing industry employers is to always be respectful to others. Having a small child 
has caused her a little bit of struggles with work hours. She says that family is always first and 
her job is second. 
Interview with Guadalupe, June 8, 2017. 
3 
[01:00:50] Discusses stmggles at work, with getting time off and tough superiors. It is a tough 
job. She hopes to continue working there in the future. 
[01:04:59] End of recording. 
Interview with Guadalupe, June 8, 2017. 
4