Kentucky Folklife Program 
 Interview Transcription 
 
Project name:  Ranger Lore (LOCRP) 
Field ID and name: #0033; Phil and Mary Jo Veluzat 
Interviewee:  Phil and Mary Jo Veluzat 
Interviewer/Recordist:  Brent Björkman 
Date:  7/24/2014 
Location:  Cave City, KY 
Others Present:  N/A 
Equipment used:  EOS 70D DSLR Camera 
Microphone:  Rode, VideoMic Pro Compact Shotgun Microphone 
Recording Format: .mov (converted to .wav audio file) 
Recorded Tracks in Session: 1 audio track (compiled from 13 video files) 
Duration: [01:26:58] 
Keywords: supervisors, technology, children of working parents, wages, work and 
family, clothing and dress, families, income, job postings, job vacancies, architecture, 
mentoring, office politics, quality of work life, sex discrimination in the workplace, sex 
role in the workplace 
Corresponding Materials:   
Forms: KFP2014LOCRP_0033_BBms0001 - KFP2014LOCRP_0033_BBms0006 
Audio recording: KFP2014LOCRP_0033_BBsr0001 
Video files: KFP2014LOCRP_0033_BBmv0001 - KFP2014LOCRP_0033_BBmv0016 
 
Context:  
Technical Considerations:  Audio file was created from the compiled video files for the 
purpose of transcription 
Transcription prepared by: Jennie Boyd 
 
Transcribing Conventions:  
Use of square brackets [ ] indicates a note from the transcriber. 
Use of parentheses (  ) indicates a conversational aside.  
Use of em dash — indicates an interruption of thought or conversation. 
Use of ellipses … indicates a discontinued thought. 
Use of quotations “ “ indicates dialogue within conversation. 
Use of italics indicates emphasis. 
Use of underline indicates movie, magazine, newspaper, or book titles. 
Names of interviewee and interviewer are abbreviated by first and last initial letters. 
Time is recorded in time elapsed by the convention [hours:minutes:seconds]. 
 
Note:  This transcription is as accurate and complete as possible.  In any question of 
interpretation, the researcher is referred to the recording itself as the primary document 
representing this event. 
[time elapsed in hours:minutes:seconds] 
 
BRENT BJÖRKMAN: Okay, today is June 24, 2014. This is Brent Björkman, director of 
the Kentucky Folklife Program, and we’re continuing our project on Ranger Lore, 
about the occupational working lives of park rangers. We’ve been really lucky 
enough to have a lot of great voices that are connected to Mammoth Cave park. And, 
and they’ve told so many great stories, and I know that the two of you have some 
great legacy things, you know, coming back from, from growing up around here and, 
and some, some traditions from, from family who’ve worked here too. And I 
understand you met at the park. And so there’s a lot of things we’ll explore. And 
we’ll, we’ll do it very, very fluidly. And can you just tell me your names and maybe 
the last thing that you did at, at the park? 
 
MARY JO VELUZAT: Okay. Hi. I’m Mary Jo Veluzat. And I retired as assistant chief of 
maintenance at Mammoth Cave National Park.  
 
BB: Okay.  
 
PHIL VELUZAT: And I’m Phil Veluzat. I retired as a chief ranger in 2000.  
 
BB: Okay. And so tell me a little bit, Mary Jo, I think that was one of the things that I 
was really intrigued about how, you know, you have a deep, long connection to 
Mammoth Cave and, and, and the work that’s been, been done there by observing 
family members and things.  
 
MJV: Right. And deep connection with the park service. My father, of course, retired 
as superintendent at Mammoth Cave National Park, but he started his career before 
Mammoth Cave National Park was actually a park, because he came from Indiana 
into the Y, the CCC, Civilian Conservation Corps camps. He, of course, graduated 
from high school during the Depression, and jobs were few. And so he and some of 
his other buddies from up in Terre Haute, Indiana joined the Civilian Conservation 
Corps. And they went to a camp in Indiana, and they were there just a brief time, 
then they were transferred down to, to Mammoth Cave. Dad was actually in Camp 
Four, which was the camp over, across the river, that, well, a place they called Cade, 
Kentucky. It, we now, Mammoth Cave has a group campground there on the spot 
where the, where the CCC camp was.  
 
BB: Huh. What year would this have been? I mean, his, his CCC time? 
 
MJV: Daddy graduated from high school in 1932, so this probably would have been 
’33 or, or ’34 when he came to, to Mammoth Cave.  
 
BB: Uh-huh.  
 
MJV: And the purpose of the Civilian Conservation Corps at that time was, number 
one, Roosevelt was putting people back to work. But the main purpose of the, the 
boys there at Mammoth Cave was to actually make Mammoth Cave a national park. 
It had already been accepted through Congress as a national park area, but nothing 
had been done. There’d been no families moved out, no improvements, no nothing. 
So the, the Civilian Conservation Corps folks came in, and of course, they were 
guided by engineers and all the high uppy-uppies that told them what to do. And 
they planted trees and they actually razed the, the farmhouses that were there. And 
the landowners were, were moved off their land. And I know I heard my dad talk 
about it. They, the local landowners didn’t hold the CCC boys responsible at all for 
doing that, because they were just doing a job. They were just getting paid. But now, 
the, when the government workers came in, you know, they, they weren’t too, too 
fond of, of them because they had been told stories that, well, you, you sell the land 
to the park, and then you can live here until, you know, you pass away. And, but that 
wasn’t the way it was. They had to, they had to move out.  
 
PV: Beautiful buildings too.  
 
MJV: Yeah.  
 
PV: The CCC.  
 
MJV: Yeah.  
 
BB: That they built.  
 
PV: Yes. Still, still remaining, many of the— 
 
BB: Um-hm.  
 
MJV: Yeah, the spring houses.  
 
PV: Took, yeah, the great rock work of that.  
 
MJV: Well in fact— 
 
PV: Sandstone.  
 
MJV: The house, the place that I retired from, my office was in one of the old CCC 
warehouses.  
 
BB: In that maintenance area down in [ ]? 
 
MJV: Yes.  
 
PV: Still existing. 
 
MJV: Yeah.  
 
BB: Uh-huh. 
 
MJV: So, they were, they were quite the craftsmen. And then, Mom and Dad were 
married fifteen, sixteen years before I was ever born. So it was almost like they had 
a whole life before MJ came along. And really, after they, they passed away, I have 
come to find out more of their beginnings together. They actually met at, at 
Mammoth Cave. My mother— 
 
BB: You didn’t know that until later? 
 
MJV: Well, I knew that they had, but I didn’t know—I, I, I found some of my dad’s 
journals. Daddy was a big [0:05:00] journal keeper. And so I found some of his 
journals of when he was in the CCCs and when he would, would go out and, and go 
on a date with mom, you know. And it’s like, really, you know. And, but mother was 
a telephone operator there at the exchange at, at Mammoth Cave. And they always 
told the story that my mother butchered Daddy’s last name, which is Caliza, spelled 
it really bad, and Daddy, being the little cocky thing that he was wanted to see the 
dumb, stupid woman that couldn’t spell his name right. So that was how they met, 
which, [Laughs] but I guess it’s— 
 
PV: Which his writing and accounting talent is what he did in the CCs, so.  
 
MJV: Yeah. Yeah.  
 
BB: Okay. So, he was actually one of the boy workers initially.  
 
PV: Administrators, really.  
 
MJV: Well, he was, he was actually I, I read a story from one of the guys who went in 
the, the camp with Dad when, when he, when they first went into the camp at 
Indiana. And one of the directors up there at that camp’s name was Dick Kagel. And 
Dick was in the, in the service, I guess at the time, and he was educated, and—of 
course, Dad had a high school education, and, but he was, he was a smart man. And 
the city posted a, a notice on the, on the board, Dick Kagel did, they needed 
somebody to help with, with filing. And they said this young, new recruit came up 
and said, “I’d like to apply for that job.” Said, “I noticed that, well, his uniform was all 
nice, and his shoes were shined.” And he said, “Well, boy, can you type?” And 
apparently my dad’s response was, “No, sir. But I can sure learn.” And my daddy was 
an excellent typist. I mean, when I remember Dad, Dad was the one that taught me 
to type. And I mean he could type like a hundred words a minute on an old manual 
typewriter.  
 
BB: Wow.  
 
MJV: So he got, he did learn to type. So when the camp moved down here to, to 
Mammoth Cave, Dad was already in the office doing the office work. But he was still 
a, a recruit. But he was just doing the office type work.  
 
BB: Um-hm. And then he was with the CCC at, in that capacity and then went into the 
park service proper, or [ ]? 
 
MJV: I get a little foggy as to what transpired where or when. I know Dad was a fire 
control aid. That was his first job at the National Park Service and, in fact, I have one 
of his badges, fire control aide, in some of his stuff. And he was in that capacity for a 
couple of years. Of course, back then, forest fires were a big deal. And, you know, 
now, we have controlled burns, where I’m sure my father turns over in his grave 
every time the park service lights one, because he spent his whole career putting 
them out, you know. But they, he prob-, he went from the fire control aide to just 
being a regular ranger. And in fact, he and Mom lived in the CCC house over across 
the river, at Maple Springs when they first married. Strangely enough, that’s where 
Dave and Joy Lyons also lived.  
 
BB: I was just going to ask if that was true. Yeah.  
 
MJV: So, things have a way of— 
 
BB: Small world.  
 
MJV: The paths cross and, yeah. But when, when the war broke out, Dad was in the, 
Dad was a little bit older, but he, he got called up. And so, he, he went to war. And 
I’m assuming his service with the park service at that time was, you know, severed 
while he was in World War II. Daddy was in the European theater. And so he was in 
Belgium and France, and then when he came back home, why, he got the job back 
there at Mammoth Cave.  
 
BB: Huh.  
 
MJV: And I was born in 1952. And once I came along, why—and this was really 
strange too. I always remember my father saying that he never wanted to go West. 
Never wanted to go west. But yet, when he joined the CCCs, that’s where he wanted 
to go. So, I guess it changed after he got married and had a family, you know. He 
didn’t, he didn’t want to go West to these desolate places, at that time, where you 
were a hundred miles from, from a grocery store.  
 
BB: Hm.  
 
MJV: But it was ’54 or ’55, Daddy accepted a, a district ranger position at, at 
Shenandoah. So he and mom packed me up and, and we moved to, to Shenandoah. 
All, way back when— 
 
BB: Do you remember that, what that was like to be a—I don’t mean to derail you 
[0:10:00] but— 
 
MJV: Yeah, that— 
 
BB: Do you remember what, what that was like as a, you were very, I mean, you 
were just young. 
 
MJV: I was, I was really young.  
 
BB: Yeah. Yeah.  
 
MJV: Yeah. I, I don’t remember moving, but I do remember, because we stayed there 
at, at the, if I said Shenandoah, I’m wrong. I meant Smoky Mountains. We moved to 
Oconaluftee. And I remember when we, we were some of the first families to move 
into the new houses there at Oconaluftee. And I started school there. I went to 
school with the Native Americans. And I do remember that, you know. And I was in 
second grade when me moved from there to, to Shenandoah.  
 
PV: She remembers horses from there.  
 
MJV: But I remember horses too. My, that’s where my horse career started. I started 
on the, on the pony, pony rings. But way back when, you know, I guess they, people 
applied for jobs, but it wasn’t like it is now. The service was so small that everybody 
knew everybody. And I mean, Dad was on a first-name basis with Conrad Wirth and 
George Hartzog. And when, when they got ready to, to, to move you, they’d just pick 
up the phone and say, “Well, are you ready to go someplace else?” you know.  
 
BB: Um-hm.  
 
MJV: And, because they always had a mission as to, to why they, they sent you 
someplace, you know, and—  
 
BB: Um-hm.  
 
MJV: That’s just sort of, sort of the way it was.  
 
BB: Yeah.  
 
MJV: When we were in Shenandoah, while Dad was chief ranger there, and I do 
remember him fighting terrible fires there, because Shenandoah was established as 
a park the same time Mammoth Cave was, as was Smokey Mountains. And there was 
the disgruntled locals at Shenandoah just like there were here at Mammoth Cave 
because they were moved off their land, and people would start fires. That was their 
way of sort of getting back. And so, like I said, Daddy, Daddy did have to fight a lot of 
fires. And while we were at Shenandoah, of course, Daddy was chief ranger there. 
And that was a little higher position, and way back when, the women, the wives had 
a part too. My mother was expected to entertain. There was, there was no choice. 
When the guys came to the park for different training and whatnot, why, you know, 
Mother was supposed to have a cocktail party for them. You know, that, that was 
just expected. And I have been told, I’ve never seen the old applications, but some of 
the old applications actually had a place on there for how the wives would interact, 
you know, with, they thought, the other wives and whatnot there in the park, you 
know. The wives were judged just like the— 
 
BB: Wow.  
 
MJV: The main worker was. Which wouldn’t fly now, but.  
 
BB: Right. Right, right, right.  
 
MJV: But that’s, that’s sort of the small community, and neighbor, and family type 
deal that, that the park service used to be.  
 
BB: Did that, did Shenandoah and the Smokey connection—did they know the Lees 
at that time then? 
 
MJV: Yes.  
 
BB: Uh-huh.  
 
MJV: Strangely enough, there used to be a little place out at Mammoth Cave before 
Mammoth Cave was a cave, and it was called the Homelike Inn. And it was a little, 
sort of a bed and breakfast type place that was run by Dan Lee’s family.  
 
BB: Hm.  
 
MJV: And so, that’s why they always called Dan Pee-Wee. Because I think he was the 
younger of the, of the, the Lee kids that were out there. So they always called Dan 
Pee-Wee. Pee-Wee Lee.  
 
BB: Hm.  
 
MJV: So, isn’t that a small world, too? 
 
BB: Yeah, it is a small world.  
 
MJV: Yeah.  
 
BB: So they were out there and— 
 
MJV: Smokey Mountains. Shenandoah.  
 
BB: Shen-, Shenandoah.  
 
MJV: And then Dad came back to Middlesboro, Cumberland Gap National Historical 
Park as superintendent.  
 
PV: And surprisingly, those, the parks don’t change that much like a city does, 
because, I guess, what? Five years ago, six years ago, we went to, to Shenandoah to 
the housing area.  
 
MJV: Oh, yeah.  
 
PV: What, and I mean— 
 
MJV: The houses were still there.  
 
PV: Just, just like— 
 
MJV: They didn’t look near as big as they did when I was a kid, you know, but. 
[Laughter] And the hills that I rode up on a bicycle didn’t look near as steep as they 
did when I was a kid either, but everything was pretty much the same.  
 
BB: Hm.  
 
MJV: And, of course, everything with the parks is centrally controlled with the 
regional offices and the Washington office. So, there’s always that top-down 
direction coming that sort of keeps everything—but there, there is a difference in 
philosophy from Eastern parks and Western parks, as far as how, how they’re run, 
and managed, and what not.  
 
BB: So the Eastern parks would be more— 
 
MJV: East of the Mississippi.  
 
BB: Yeah, yeah, no, but the Eastern p— 
 
MJV: They— 
 
BB: How would that, what would that philosophy, tell me about the two 
philosophies then.  
 
MJV: The, the Western parks, [0:15:00] of course they’re closed a lot of the parts of 
the winter because of the snowfall and whatnot. And so those areas are so large that 
they don’t control the land and stuff as much as the Eastern parks do. Like the 
Eastern parks, if you build a trail and somebody’s getting off the trail, you know, you 
put up sixteen signs to keep people on the trail. You know, the Western park, meh, 
they don’t worry about it. A grizzly bear will get them or something, you know. 
They, they just don’t, they’re a little bit more laid back in the Western parks than in 
the Eastern parks.  
 
BB: Yeah.  
 
PV: Most of the Eastern parks are full, year-round parks.  
 
BB: Yeah.  
 
PV: Which makes for a big difference in the, in the way that staff interacts out West 
as opposed to in the East. They have a lot more time for training in the winter if 
they’re full-time employees.  
 
BB: Um-hm.  
 
MJV: Yeah. 
 
PV: A lot more time to reorganize.  
 
MJV: Yeah, but like here at, here at Mammoth Cave, you know, when I, when I was in 
the maintenance division, we were cutting the fire out of the grass in the 
summertime, and then plowing the heck out of the roads in the wintertime. You 
know, my staff was busy constantly.  
 
BB: Yeah.  
 
MJV: At the Western parks, they just close them down.  
 
BB: Right.  
 
MJV: Until the snow melts.  
 
BB: Like a tobacco crop, thirteen-month thing.  
 
MJV: Yeah. Exactly. Exactly.  
 
BB: Wow. So you grew up in this environment.  
 
MJV: Yes.  
 
BB: And, and your first job, or your first connection to working at Mammoth was— 
 
MJV: My first, I said as a kid I’d never work in the National Park Service. Never say 
never. I’m an animal lover, and when the parks were first established, my father 
worked for Taylor Hoskins twice as superintendent. And Taylor was vehemently 
opposed to having pets in park housing. So I couldn’t have a cat, couldn’t have a dog. 
I said I’d never work for the park service because I always loved cats and dogs. But 
as it turned out, I’ve got a degree in medical technology from the University of 
Kentucky, so I had a lot of science background. I worked at T.J. Sampson Community 
Hospital for about five years and got tired of nights and weekends. And the National 
Park Service, about ’73 or ’74 kept, made the discovery that the caves had radon in 
them. No threat to the general public, but the guides—and in fact, the office workers, 
because the old visitors’ center, when it was built in the ‘60s, the cooling shaft for 
the air conditioning was actually funneled in cave air. Well, the secretaries were 
getting more radon exposure than a uranium miner out, out west. So we had to start 
monitoring radon for the, the workers. And so that was when I got my first job with 
the National Park Service. They were looking for a seasonal person to, again, keep 
some records, you know. I learned to type and to keep records. And so, I started 
working for, for Bobby Carson monitoring radon in the summer. Bob Deskins was 
the superintendent at that time. And I guess if I have to attribute any part of my 
career to anybody, Bob was, Bob was a great mentor.  
 
BB: Bob Deskins? 
 
MJV: Bob Deskins. Yeah. He— 
 
BB: What did he, how was he, how was he special for you?  
 
MJV: Bob was special for me in, in a lot of ways. Bob actually came to Mammoth Cave 
as the director of the job corps center. And Bob was fresh out of, of West Virginia. 
And I think my dad went to the airport, or somebody, and, or someplace, and, and 
picked him up. And they became very good friends. And Bob and his wife, Joyce and 
Zoeda, lived in the house just below where the superintendent’s house is there at 
Mammoth Cave. And their daughter, Zoeda, loved Phillip too. And Phillip was 
working at the park at the time. And she was just so tickled that Phillip and I were 
going to go out on a date. And Joyce used to always tell the story about Zoeda. She 
just had to keep a hold on her the first night that Phillip drove up to the house to 
take me out on a date, it was like, “Oh, Phillip’s going to get Mary Jo.” You know, and 
Zoeda was what, about five or six years old?  
 
PV: She was a tyke, yeah.  
 
MJV: Yeah. And so we, we were just always really good friends because we did live 
so close together, and you know, my dad ended up hiring Bob as assistant 
superintendent.  
 
PV: Which was, that was the Department of Labor.  
 
MJV: The job corps was.  
 
PV: Position, the job corps.  
 
BB: Yes.  
 
MJV: Yeah. Yeah.  
 
BB: Huh.  
 
MJV: So, yeah, just connections.  
 
BB: Yeah.  
 
MJV: But Bob was, Bob Deskins was one of those [0:20:00] guys that, Bob grew up 
hard. Bob grew up in a coal mining town. And he made it out. And anybody that had 
any work initiative, he would always give them a chance.  
 
PV: Personality plus.  
 
MJV: Yep.  
 
PV: Could talk to anybody, anywhere, anyplace.  
 
MJV: So— 
 
BB: Let you find your own strengths and, and help you along with those.  
 
MJV: Yeah. Yep.  
 
BB: That’s great.  
 
MJV: Yep.  
 
BB: Yeah. So you started working there and—so you were, were you single then 
when you, I’m trying to— 
 
MJV: No, no.  
 
BB: One of the questions I’ve asked people, and maybe you didn’t have to deal with 
this because you, I’m trying to think— 
 
MJV: Well see, Phillip and I married— 
 
BB: Seasonal housing, and I’m trying to think about being single in the, in the park 
and how— 
 
MJV: Phillip lived in seasonal housing.  
 
PV: Yeah, when, when we were dating, I did.  
 
MJV: Phillip was hired as a ranger in, what? Seventy-three? 
 
PV: Seventy-two.  
 
MJV: Seventy-two? 
 
BB: Okay.  
 
MJV: I’ll let him tell the story, but I’ll start it. He just, had just gotten out of the 
service. And the park service was traditionally non-confrontational.  Even when my 
father was a ranger and would have to go out at, as chief ranger at Shenandoah, and 
catch poachers and whatnot, they didn’t wear a gun.  
 
BB: Hm.  
 
MJV: They kept the gun in the, in the glove box. And I remember one night— 
 
PV: Not because they wanted to, but because that was the policy.  
 
MJV: That was just the culture. That was the culture and the policy. I remember one 
night, they, Daddy almost got run down by a, somebody fleeing in a vehicle. Way 
back when, the poachers would always bring a, a female with them, because it was 
all male rangers, and they couldn’t frisk a female. And so any guns that they hadn’t 
tossed into the woods or something, they’d hand it to the female, and she’d hide it in 
her dress and whatnot, and they couldn’t, they couldn’t frisk her. So, I mean it, it was 
not a non-dangerous situation. But Phillip was hired. Him and Jim Waddle and Billy 
Cassidy, because poaching had become such an issue out here at, at Mammoth Cave 
that they were killing deer on the front step of the hotel.  
 
BB: Wow. So that, that precipitated, did that precipitate this, this issue of poaching, 
was that one of the reasons that— 
 
PV: Really, it, it, it was larger than that. I don’t know if you all have ever heard about 
the Yosemite problems in Yosemite Valley. I can’t, I can’t remember the, the 
meadow, but there was a confrontation there that was, I guess sort of brutal and 
reached the level of Congress, and Congress said, “You must either get out of the law 
enforcement business, or become professional.” So that’s probably the only reason 
that I was hired is because I just came out of the military as a military policeman. 
And there was the mandate to the park service to, to hire some people with 
experience in, and training in that area. So, that’s probably the only reason that I 
came to be hired.  
 
BB: And you’d just come out in ’72 or ’73 or something? 
 
PV: No, I’d come out in ’68 but I’d been in college since and—  
 
MJV: Had a degree in crim-, criminology, and you know, so.  
 
PV: Degree in sociology and area of concentration in criminology.  
 
MJV: Yeah.  
 
PV: And it wasn’t particularly what, you know, was attractive, historically, to the 
park service.  
 
MJV: To the park service. 
 
PV: And even after I was hired, was not particularly attractive to a lot of managers, 
because professional law enforcement, you know, would bring confrontation. And 
they really didn’t like that.  
 
MJV: No, strangely enough, when the superintendent—okay, my dad was 
superintendent when Phillip and I married, so obviously, there was a little bit of a 
conflict there. So Daddy went on and retired in ’76, in May of, of ’76.  
 
PV: But— 
 
MJV: In— 
 
PV: I was hired by Bob Burns.  
 
MJV: Bob Burns, yeah.  
 
PV: Yeah. Who was the chief ranger in ’72.  
 
MJV: Yeah.  
 
PV: And Bill Nichols was a, in fact, a law enforcement specialist who, who was my 
direct supervisor. Great guy, too.  
 
MJV: Right. He was a great mentor to Phillip. But the superintendent that, that 
followed Dad really forbade the ran-, the law enforcement rangers to wear their, 
their weapons in public. They had to keep them in the glovebox, again. We’re back in 
the glovebox.  
 
BB: Hm.  
 
MJV: And I don’t know if you guys initiated it or what, but that, there was a class 
action suit with the law enforcement rangers that, I guess— 
 
BB: Nationwide or, or, or— 
 
MJV: It went nationwide.  
 
PV: Yeah. Well, really, it was a, it was a classic case of [0:25:00] a mandate for 
professionalism but a resistance on the part, historically, of many managers. So 
incident after incident, and Congressional involvement, and, and eventually, why, 
the park service had to decide to either have professional law enforcement or cease 
to have law enforcement, so I, I think it was the best option to have people that were 
professional at it.  
 
MJV: Yeah.  
 
PV: And that’s what they’ve chosen.  
 
MJV: And I guess at that time was when you all started having to have a commission. 
Because when you were hired, you didn’t have a commission, right?  
 
PV: Well, yeah, there was a certification.  
 
MJV: But— 
 
PV: But the, the whole growth of professionalism in the park service, in law 
enforcement, brought about a training regiment much like any other federal agency, 
DEA— 
 
MJV: Just like secret service, DEA.  
 
PV: DEA— 
 
BB: So, like, when you went to FLETC, is that when that started?  
 
PV: That, right. Everybody but the FBI was at FLETC. And so eventually there came 
to be the division of law enforcement, basically. Not that we lost those other, those 
other areas, but they became professionalism, they became professional too. Like 
the firefighting. The same thing was going on to move the park service away from 
generalists.  
 
BB: Um-hm. 
 
PV: Simply because of the needs.  
 
BB: Um-hm.  
 
PV: So firefighting, resource protection, the biological part of it, archaeological 
protection, all those things have become specialized. And so, law enforcement was 
just another one of those.  
 
BB: Did any of those specializations started, was it in the ‘70s as well when this all 
kind of— 
 
PV: Yeah. I would say it basically started in most forms during the ‘70s for all those 
disciplines: resource protection, archaeological protection, fire fighting. And then 
there was the time when managers would realize, like, like I did that, look, you can’t, 
we can’t have a structural fire department, a wildfire department, a law 
enforcement department, and an EMS department.  
 
MJV: Because of all the training.  
 
PV: You can’t, you can’t, you can’t survive with that.  
 
BB: Right.  
 
PV: So, that’s when some became professional and some we started contracting out, 
which makes a lot of sense, you know.  
 
MJV: Like the structural fire at Mammoth Cave, they had a memorandum of 
understanding with the Park City— 
 
BB: Um-hm.  
 
MJV: To take care of the structural fires here at Mammoth Cave because it just 
became cost prohibitive to man a, a structural fire truck with it, the equipment and 
with the training needed.  
 
PV: And— 
 
BB: Right. Right.  
 
PV: Outside the park service, all those areas were becoming sp-, very specialized. 
You know, you didn’t throw someone in the back of a station wagon anymore when 
they were having a heart attack, which was what happened in the park service. I 
mean, you had, had no other way to get anybody to the hospital. But those— 
 
BB: Huh. 
 
PV: Those areas became specialized in the communities.  
 
BB: Uh-huh.  
 
PV: So, and relationships developed into a less bitter form with the, with local 
communities, you know, as time passed.  
 
BB: Yeah.  
 
PV: So, we had peers in law enforcement. We had peers in EMS, and we had peers in 
structural fire. So, it became easier, you know.  
 
BB: Um-hm. Hm.  
 
PV: But I, I don’t think there’s anything—at the same time this was going on in the 
park service, this law enforcement thing, it was going, it was going on in BLM and, 
and all the other, forest service. 
 
BB: Um-hm.  
 
PV: Some of them chose not to have as much, but many of those that chose that 
didn’t have the number of visitors that the park service did.  
 
BB: Right. Yeah, there’s a real direct need then because of the visitorship. Yeah.  
 
PV: Yeah, we were, in ’72 and ’73, all those fields were full of cars, visitors at, at 
Mammoth Cave. Around the hotel, we’re talking about wall to wall cars. And I— 
 
MJV: There was no limit on the tours.  
 
PV: I can’t— 
 
MJV: I mean, they didn’t, they took people through the caves just like cattle. Three 
and 400 people on, on a tour.  
 
PV: I don’t, it seems to me like some days we had 650 cars parked in those fields.  
 
MJV: Yeah.  
 
PV: So it was, it was the hey, it was, as far as visitation was concerned, it was the big 
time for natural areas in the park service. The hey-day.  
 
BB: Wow.  
 
PV: And down very much now, because of other opportunities for people.  
 
[INTERRUPTION—PAUSE IN RECORDING] 
 
BB: Sorry, just had to restart. So either one of you, [0:30:00] we’ve kind of jumped to 
introduce Phil— 
 
MJV: [ ] 
 
BB: Phil’s piece on the, in the whole, and the law enforcement piece. So, you know, 
your job of monitoring and being a, a scientist— 
 
 
MJV: Yeah.  
 
BB: And doing scientific work, that evolved over time. You continued to do that, and 
did that for— 
 
MJV: I did that for, ooh, I guess about seven or eight years. Never had a weight 
problem when I was running through the cave because the, you had to get in and get 
out to get your samples, you know, read and stuff, because they’ve got a short half-
life. But again, you know, I was looking for a little advancement and whatnot, so that 
was about the time that computers were becoming more and more prevalent, and 
the National Park Service introduced a, a budget program on computer called AFS3, 
except then it was AFS2. And— 
 
BB: Early ‘80s? 
 
MJV: Yeah. So they—well, no, it would have been more like the mid- to late ‘80s, 
because I, I didn’t hire into the park service until about ’81. So, they had a, a budget 
position come open in the maintenance division, so I thought, well, I’ll, I’ll apply for 
it. And I was pretty good with math, you know, and I knew a little bit about 
computers. And I didn’t get the job. A lady who was a bank vice president up in 
Munfordville got the job. And it was like, okay, you know, I’ve, I’ve got a job. It’s no 
big deal. But she came down, they showed her the job, they showed her the 
computer, and she said, “I don’t, I don’t do computers.” And they said, “Oh, but you 
must. We’ve, we’ve moved to a new—” “I don’t do computers. I don’t want this job.” 
So I always said I got my budget job, by gosh and by golly, I got it by default, you 
know. It was like, oh, okay, yeah, we’ll hire you. So many tears and many crying 
trying to try to figure out the National Park Service budget stuff because it’s unlike 
any other debit and credit budget, budget stuff in the world.  
 
PV: The government basically is— 
 
MJV: The government— 
 
PV: Is reversed from— 
 
MJV: Is reversed from— 
 
PV: Traditional— 
 
MJV: Traditional. Yeah. It, you don’t, you don’t do debits and credits. All you do is 
spend and track it, and you plan it. And it’s a whole, it’s a whole different ballgame. 
So, I finally mastered the budget end of it. And so then I started managing some 
small projects in the maintenance division and whatnot. And finally was able to get 
the assistant chief of maintenance job. Worked for Steve Kovar for—who is still the 
chief of maintenance out at Mammoth Cave—worked for him, I guess eight or nine 
years, didn’t I, Phillip? 
 
PV: Yeah, we went through the, basically that’s probably, if I had to point to 
something that the whole law enforcement issue was, you know, it was a big deal, 
nationwide, but probably the biggest change that we went through in our careers 
was the move to computerized systems.  
 
MJV: Computerized systems. Yeah. 
 
PV: You know, when, when we both started— 
 
MJV: Everything was pen and paper.  
   
PV: You’re talking about a written ledger.  
 
MJV: Yeah. We had, we had the first computer in, when I was doing radon in the 
park, and it was a teradact, had the big eight inch disks. And it did nothing but 
crunch numbers and we had a really small computer division up in Washington, DC, 
that was supposed to be taking all of our radon data and getting it organized so we 
could use it. Well, that never got done, because teradact was from Scottsdale, 
Arizona, and they went under, and we lost all that information. It’s probably still in 
boxes out there in the park someplace.  
 
BB: Wow. 
 
MJV: Yeah.  
 
PV: I re-, I remember our first nationwide law enforcement printout in the National 
Park Service, I believe was ’74. And it was, you can imagine, it was volumes, the one 
printout that showed all the parks. And that, in fact, was the first attempt to define 
what areas had a law enforcement need and where to apply resources. In that 
particular case, during that time, because of, somewhat because of job corps law 
enforcement criminal incidents combined with the normal park service criminal 
incidents, Mammoth Cave was in the top twenty of criminal incidents in the United 
States—fel-, felonious criminal incidents—which was sort of surprising, you know, 
because no one ever talked about those kind of problems in the park service.  
 
MJV: But, yeah, when I, when I retired from the National Park Service, of course, it, I 
was in charge of operations in the maintenance division, [0:35:00] so when the 
computers were down, my, my guys could still mow, they could still clean the 
bathrooms and stuff like that, but if, if they asked me a question about anything, I 
couldn’t answer it because everything was on the computer. If the computers were 
down, you know, management’s down. That’s just sort of a, sort of the way it was.  
 
BB: Can’t go back to the ledger.  
 
MJV: Had to go back to the ledger. Exactly. And, in fact, we had a very, the 
maintenance division had a very intense program called maintenance management 
which was an attempt to standardize the maintenance park-wide, region-, service-
wide. And it all got into the cost of ownership and yada, yada, yada, which 
supposedly, based on the rankings of the buildings and whatnot, the buildings that 
were least used and whatnot were supposed to have been, you know, not kept up 
and torn down. But most parks, that hasn’t happened because superintendents just 
don’t give up buildings that easy. But [Laughs]— 
 
BB: Right.  
 
PV: Well, specialization gets into that because you had a strong historical, cultural 
connection. They’re specialized.  
 
BB: Huh.  
 
PV: So, it was points of emphasis.  
 
BB: Yeah.  
 
MJV: Right. That’s like, we didn’t have the money to, in our maintenance division, to 
maintain those old CCC houses out there. But yet, because they’re, the district itself, 
you know, is a historic district, no superintendent would ever say, “Oh, okay, let’s 
take pictures and tear them down.” You know, not, not going to happen. Same way 
with the seasonal housing. The three com-, apartment complexes out there, we 
don’t, the park didn’t have the money to keep them up like they should be kept up. 
Rent was pretty minimal. But, yet, everybody said we got to have housing for the, for 
the seasonals.  
 
BB: Right.  
 
MJV: So, we just kept putting Band-aids on stuff.  
 
PV: That computer error, I, I, Mary Jo will tell you, I frequently would laugh and say, 
“It’s the only thing that I know that you can, you can ask—the computer system is 
down. We can’t do anything, but nobody’s at fault.” 
 
MJV: [Laughs] Yeah. Like, huh, computer did it.  
 
PV: Close it down.  
 
BB: Right. Well, just, tell me about some, some stories about working at the parks 
and something that made you really proud or some, and, and, maybe both separate, 
personal kind of experiences, whether it’s law enforcement or maintenance or 
maintaining computers or something that put you over the edge and scared you, or 
you were, like I said, proud of, or maybe, maybe with law enforcement it was 
something that you and your colleagues worked together on solving a, solving 
something. I mean, how much you feel comfortable sharing.  
 
MJV: Sure. I will say one thing about Phillip’s law enforcement. We lived in, when we 
first married, in one of the first CCC houses out there, and Phillip often got, you 
know, when he wasn’t working nights, he got calls to go out at night. And that was 
back before the days of dispatch. So it was just him and whoever other rangers he 
was meeting. And until somebody has experienced it, you don’t understand the fear 
that you feel when your spouse is putting on their, their weapon belt to go out, 
because you don’t really know what they’re going to face.  
 
BB: Yeah.  
 
MJV: That’s, that was just all part of it though.  
 
BB: Um-hm.  
 
PV: That, that really is a phenomenon that many people don’t understand. Many of 
the standards for law enforcement come from inner cities where you might have 
within a four-block radius, you might have four or five patrol cars. Whereas— 
 
MJV: Fifty-two thousand acres.  
 
PV: In the West, and in parks, generally people are alone, like miles from any help, 
you know, and [Laughs] surprisingly—that’s another thing that often came up was 
the need for the park service night to, not to be in isolation. And they were an 
isolated agency in the early years that Mary Jo’s talking about. I mean, basically 
devoid of interaction. And that, with the professional law enforcement came the 
need to, to start dealing with other law enforcement agencies, not just when you had 
a terrible incident, call the FBI, and let the FBI deal with the US Attorney. There 
came the need to be a part of the law enforcement community.  
 
BB: Um-hm. Yeah.  
 
PV: So that was a big change. And park managers had a hard time adjusting to that. 
But that was necessary because we didn’t, we did not have a [0:40:00] great 
residential population. The people that could make crimes against the resource 
basically are usually local people that live in the community, so— 
 
MJV: Right.  
 
PV: If you don’t, if you don’t interact, you, you don’t come to know those, who those 
people are.  
 
BB: Right. And you got to know many of them, I’m sure.  
 
PV: Oh, yeah. Yeah.  
 
MJV: But you asked about one of the proud moments. When I first started doing 
radon, I was in what we called the field uniform. I, I didn’t have a badge, and just 
basically because we were running through the cave all the time, they didn’t want us 
scuffing up the badges and the Smokey Bear hat and stuff, you know. But when Dave 
Mulhollock—and Dave Mulhollock was another great mentor, too, to me—but when 
Dave came to the park as superintendent, he put Bobby Carson and I in Class A 
uniform. So, got my first Smokey Bear hat, you know. I think I went by Mom and 
Dad’s one day after I’d just gone in Class A uniform, and my dad looked at me and 
said, “You look pretty sharp in that uniform.” That was a real proud moment.  
 
BB: Absolutely. I’m sure you felt proud, and he felt proud.  
 
MJV: Yeah.  
 
PV: That and the, the Presidential visit. That’s always a— 
 
MJV: Yeah.  
 
PV: That’s always a— 
 
MJV: Yeah, President Reagan came for a visit.  
 
PV: Which that’s a— 
 
MJV: In the ‘80s, right? 
 
PV: Yeah, I guess ’82 or something. I don’t know if, I can’t remember the years.  
 
BB: I think that’s right.  
 
MJV: Yeah.  
 
PV: Yeah, I think ’82.  
 
MJV: Yeah that was, of course, I love horses. I always got my horse in anyplace I 
could. And I got to ride—no, that was the fiftieth anniversary.  
 
PV: No, you did both. You were there with, when— 
 
MJV: No, I wasn’t on, for the President. But with the fiftieth anniversary, I got to ride 
my horse as a mounted ranger, just to ride through because we had cars parked 
everywhere to keep car clouters—at least I could holler on the radio and say, you 
know, “Hey, Bubba’s over here breaking in.” And, so I got some really neat pictures 
of kids coming down from Louisville for that big celebration, and it’s like they’d 
never seen a horse. And my horse just loved it, you know. He’d just put his head 
down there. All the kids were gathering around, petting the horse. That was pretty 
neat too.  
 
BB: Yeah.  
 
PV: But that’s, that’s a, a phenomenon that’s been carried out in all law enforcement 
agencies. Inner-, you know, cities use equine patrols because— 
 
BB: Yeah.  
 
PV: People, people talk— 
 
MJV: Can interact with them. Yeah.  
 
PV: You know.  
 
BB: Yeah, even in New York City. Yeah.  
 
PV: Yeah.  
 
MJV: Yeah. Yeah.  
 
PV: Most all of the big cities still have their—and the national, I guess the park police 
still have their unit. I’m, I’m not a hundred percent sure.  
 
MJV: Yeah.  
 
PV: But the park police was, was of course the, you’d call it the professional police 
agency in the National Park Service. And there was some crossover. We had law 
enforcement specialists from the park police in every region.  
 
BB: Hm. Um-hm.  
 
PV: And they were a professional force before this whole law enforcement 
controversy within the parks came about. That’s one of the things that, that 
Congress and the Department of the Interior did was allow the park police to 
become—really, they mandated that they become—involved with law enforcement 
in the park service.  
 
BB: Um-hm.  
 
MJV: And as far as one of the most scared or spooked or whatever, of course, going 
through the cave monitoring radon, you know, when you’re by yourself, you can talk 
yourself into a lot of things, you know.  
 
BB: Did you have headlamps and— 
 
MJV: Oh, we had headlamps and stuff, because, yeah, we’d be in parts of the cave 
that was lit and, and parts that weren’t. And if they had a special trip going, then 
Bobby or I’d have to go check the radon out for that week. And I know one time, they 
were going to take some of the seasonals in Crystal Cave, and of course, Crystal Cave 
was where Floyd Collins’ body was for the longest time, you know. And then you had 
chains around it, and you could sort of lift it up and peek. But it always sort of 
spooked me and Bobby going in there anyway, and we had, we’d gone in there, and 
we’d gone up in the area where the, the masks used to be. Floyd had made some 
really strange clay masks, and had laid them up there in a, in a passageway. And we 
were coming back through, and I swear I heard something. And I said, “Bobby, did 
you hear that?” He said, “Nope, nope, nope.” And we just kept walking. [Laughter] 
 
PV: Well, you were with somebody. That was— 
 
MJV: I was with somebody and it spooked me. Yeah.  
 
PV: When I started in ’72, that was my, hey, there is no question that is my greatest 
terror, because I had to, late in the afternoon, one or two nights a week, go to Crystal 
Cave, go in, and I was alone, by myself. It was bad enough because [0:45:00] that 
entrance was, the rock walls were full of copperheads.  
 
MJV: Copperheads. Yeah.  
 
PV: But go into the entrance and go down and check the casket to make sure the 
remains had not been tampered with. And that, that definitely was, that was trying. 
[Laughter] 
 
BB: More than busting anybody out in the, on topside, just, you know.  
 
PV: Yeah, it was, what, as far as the issue with enforcement, very seldom did, did I 
have a great problem with any arrest or, now and again, honestly the, the biggest 
problem was mentally ill people. They are— 
 
BB: Local ones or people that—or could it be anybody? 
 
PV: Most of those were not local. Most of those were visitors.  
 
MJV: No, most of them were from Texas. No.  
 
PV: They would have a fixation. They would have a fixation with things in the cave. 
And combine the mental illness with drugs is what occurred many times. Those 
were without doubt the most dangerous incidents.  
 
MJV: Lord, we had that one incident though, the motorcycle riders from Texas. 
Phillip and I had just gotten off, and we’d come into town to eat at Hubbar-, 
Hubbard’s Cupboard. We had just gotten our meal. And of course, we lived with a 
radio. I mean, from the time I was a child, there was always a radio, you know, a 
walkie-talkie in the house. So we were there, and Phillip had the radio. And it came 
across the net, you know, that there had been a man shot and bleeding at the post 
office.  
 
PV: Brad may have even talked about that.  
 
MJV: Yeah. Yeah.  
 
BB: No, he didn’t.  
 
MJV: And, and so Phillip said, “We’re gone.” So we jumped in our car and burned it 
nine-oh, Phillip did back to the park. And it ended up this big standoff there at the 
post office, then it used to be a camp store there. You’ll have to go into it because I, 
there was— 
 
PV: Well.  
 
MJV:  There was a trained kill dog and— 
 
PV: There, it was a, two motorcycle gangs that, if, gang members, if you can believe 
this, just happened, great adversaries, just happened to meet at Denison’s Ferry, 
which is a back country camp, campsite in the North end of the park. And words and 
shooting was involved. And it was the Banditos from Texas, I believe, and the, I think 
maybe the Iron Horsemen. I, I can’t, I can’t remember the second group.  
 
MJV: But they had big Doberman.  
 
PV: And so they ended up carrying their fight over to the, to the visitor’s center, the 
post office. And yes, there was a guy bleeding on the porch there. And Rich Caldwell, 
a ranger who still lives, a retired ranger who still lives here, and Brad were there 
before, Brad McDougal was there before we arrived. But [Laughs] the guy on the 
porch was bleeding, and the guy in the truck had a dog. And I’ll never forget Rich 
saying, “Phil, Phil, he’s an attack dog!” And I said, “Well, Brad, tell that guy he’d best 
not utter one word.” [Laughter] 
 
MJV: Really. So after they finally got them all rounded up and they, they went to the 
ranger station to start doing interviews from the guy, the guy’s foot was shot or 
something, I don’t know. They didn’t have anybody to take notes but me. So here I 
was, trying to take notes. They were interviewing. I’m wanting to go, “What! No 
kidding?” You know, I mean, you wouldn’t believe the wild stories they were telling.  
 
PV: That one was of interest to the DEA and the, and the FBI also because— 
 
MJV: Well, yeah. The old girl was wanted for— 
 
PV: Well, two of the people that were surviving witnesses there ended up dead in a 
short period of time, about six months. So, those kinds of things do happen in the 
park service, even though they don’t really make headlines in the daily park service 
bulletin, you know.  
 
BB: Um-hm. Was it hard to keep the local outlaws at bay on different things? I know 
that the park is used for a lot of different things, and, you know, we talked about 
poaching a little bit, and— 
 
PV: Well, the, what I would say is that once during the period of when Dick Strange 
was the chief ranger, who, I was hired and then Dick was hired shortly thereafter. 
During that period when law enforcement was, number one, we had some 
resources. And number two we had the, the skills and the techniques, abilities to, to 
carry out professional operations. Once the local population figured out that we had 
no hesitation to arrest them, to track them, to get warrants outside the park to 
search for things they’d done, archaeological resources, [0:50:00] or whatever. After 
four or five, ten years, the US Attorneys started, to put it kindly, they started 
appreciating the professionalism that was, they were seeing from the people in the 
park service. So they became very involved and then it became obvious to even 
some hard-headed poaches and people that violate archaeological sites, netters on 
the river, it became obvious to them that they did not want to go to federal court, 
because federal court was not like they were accustomed to.  
 
MJV: Not a happy place.  
 
BB: Yeah. Not county courthouses.  
 
PV: So, after—exactly. So after, after that period of time, those type incidents started 
to diminish. But it, and it, and they will as long as there’s staff. But when staffing 
levels drop, why, they recognize that, you know, if you don’t have any, if you don’t 
have any presence, they know that.  
 
BB: Um-hm. Um-hm.  
 
MJV: Because in your later years, why the marijuana patches were the, were the big 
deal.  
 
PV: Now, when we had the 650 cars, and I might be wrong about that, but it was a 
lot.  
 
BB: Yeah.  
 
PV: What’d that parking lot hold.  
 
MJV: I don’t know.  
 
BB: Was it about the same size as the current parking lot? Is it the— 
 
PV: Yeah, and all those fields— 
 
MJV: All the fields, too.  
 
PV: All the way up to the service center would be filled— 
 
 
MJV: Just filled with cars.  
 
PV: With cars. And there were professionals from even Louisville and Nashville, and 
most of them was city folks who knew that there were parked, cars parked there 
with valuables in it, in them.  
 
MJV: Well, the car clouts. 
 
PV: That the people were going to disappear for two hours or more in the cave, and 
that they couldn’t take valuables with them.  
 
BB: Um-hm.  
 
PV: So, there was a period of years there where the car clouts and thefts were just, it 
was a, a daily problem. But you can imagine that’s, for a good thief, that was the 
optimum. People, you didn’t know, I mean, if they were next to a car, and somebody 
was, those guys got, they were pretty good at getting in cars. You’d, they didn’t know 
who was next, who was next to them.  
 
BB: Um-hm.  
 
PV: They might think they were getting in their own car. So that was, that kind of 
problem existed.  
 
BB: So you had, did you have a parking lot assigned to a parking lot patrol? 
 
PV: Oh yeah. We even used horses there for a while.  
 
BB: Um-hm.  
 
PV: Used horses and, and undercover, we used undercover, those type things, once 
law enforcement came, became established, well, you, it, you would use those 
techniques to deal with those problems.  
 
BB: Um-hm. Yeah.  
 
PV: So, probably the biggest, obviously the, I think the biggest event that we dealt 
with was that Presidential visit because that is, as you can imagine, you know, the 
Secret Service arrives like a month and a half— 
 
MJV: A month and a half ahead of time.  
 
PV: Before the event. Even, I mean, we’re talking even if it’s a, an appearance and the 
President says, “Hi.” It’s a big deal. And it, and involved I don’t know how many 
rangers from other areas. So that, that was a, that was a big event.  
 
MJV: Yeah. Of course, the worst, Murphy reared his ugly head that day. The plane 
with the President was just getting ready to land. I was there in the parking lot at 
the visitor’s center, and they had lookouts on all the tops of the buildings and stuff, 
you know. And there in front of the visitor’s center used to be an old bicycle rack. 
And there were several bicycles sitting there. Well, just about the time the bird was 
getting ready to shut, to drop down, we heard, “Ka-pow!”  
 
PV: You can imagine.  
 
MJV: Well, everybody thought, Oh my God, it’s gunshot. And I mean, you, guns came 
out, and everybody was looking, and they started taking the bird back up. And they 
very quickly realized it was a bicycle tire— 
 
PV: I think one of the interpreters saw the tire.  
 
MJV: That had gotten hot and blown. [Laughter] It was like, ah.  
 
PV: I believe that President Reagan probably came to the park because, obviously, 
with his California connections, he recalled the, there was a movie about Floyd 
Collins in the ‘50s. 
 
MJV: Yeah.  
 
PV: And I believe he recalled that movie, which probably made him, even though he 
had an appearance in Bowling Green, if I recall, I think that probably made him come 
to the cave.  
 
MJV: But when they handed him his, they gave him a Smokey Bear hat, and when 
they handed it to him, it was a little bit big. Well, it wasn’t his first rodeo. He took out 
his handkerchief, and folded it, and rolled it up in the headband, and it fit perfect. He 
knew how to make a hat fit.  
 
BB: That’s right.  
 
PV: And the park wasn’t new to me. I was, I was born here in Cave City, so, until I 
became an employee out there, it was, I was another local user. [0:55:00] 
 
BB: Um-hm.  
 
PV: And— 
 
BB: Took a class trip there and all that stuff too? 
 
PV: Yeah. Picnic, family picnics, all those things were big. Fourth of July. But with no 
insight into what really went about managing the park, you know.  
 
BB: So that, you, we talked about, a little bit about mari-, the marijuana and different 
things like that. There was some [ ].  
 
PV: Yeah. During these years, I was, I was probably involved operationally with Brad 
more than, Brad McDougal, more than anyone else.  Because he became the law 
enforcement specialist when I was the chief ranger. And, yeah, marijuana then was 
a, it went through that period just like the poaching, the river violations. People 
knew that, number one, unless they were caught in the patch, there was no— 
 
MJV: No way to tie them to it.  
 
PV: No way to tie them to it. But then again, we got very good at that too, with 
cameras and, I, the biggest field that I remember was 700 and some plants. But it 
was a challenge for, for the guys operationally then to use whatever techniques, and 
cameras mostly. But even in a, in a field that large, we were able to get a, get a 
photograph of the person in the field. And that turned out, again, I, I talked about the 
interaction with, with external law enforcement. That turned out to be a part of a 
much larger sales and growing operation in the nor-, Michigan, Wisconsin, those 
areas. They had what they called land contracts. And it was a group known as the 
Mafia, what did they call it?  
 
BB: Cornbread Mafia.  
 
PV: Yeah. Cornbread Mafia. So, in fact, that guy that we identified was affiliated with 
that group and was part of a much larger operation, obviously with DEA at that 
particular time, so.  
 
BB: Yeah.  
 
PV: But that was the largest field that I remember. And then, I can’t remember, I can 
remember maybe some fishhooks as booby traps. Those guys that were living in the 
field wanted something to make noise, you know. But generally, just a, if you’re 
professional with people, I never found that it was a, that it was very difficult to, to 
enforce the law against them, and even take them to jail. I could, right now, I have 
people that I arrested that are still my friends. And— 
 
MJV: Which is odd. [Laughs] 
 
BB: But kind of strangely understandable.  
 
MJV: Yeah. Yeah.  
 
PV: But professionalism has a lot to do with that, you know. You treat people with 
respect, they, they will generally respect the brand you’re riding for. And— 
 
MJV: And that’s the deal.  
 
PV: Some— 
 
MJV: That’s what we always said. We rode for the brand. We might have— 
 
PV: Disagreed with a lot of it.  
 
MJV: Might have disagreed with some of it.  
 
PV: But now, like the law enforcement issue, I disagreed with that because it was 
officer safety. It was ridiculous, you know, given my, I mean, I’d already been to a, at 
that time, the military police school at Fort Gordon, Georgia, was pretty professional.  
 
BB: Um-hm.  
 
PV: So, I was appalled at some of the policies the park service had at that time. But I 
believe that deal in the valley out there involved some of the park staff giving axe 
handles to the, some of the staff, and advising them to go out there and beat the so-
called hippies up with, I don’t have to say any more, you can see in the modern 
society how that, that can not work.  
 
BB: Um-hm.  
 
PV: And that was a time when many, many people were coming to the parks. So, you, 
you weren’t just dealing with mom and pop on a— 
 
MJV: On a Sunday afternoon.  
 
PV: On a Sunday afternoon. You were dealing with a great diversity of the 
population, and many of them with very liberal views. And to say, I guess it’d be fair 
to say that the park service was pretty conservative at that time. [Laughs] So, but all 
those things worked themselves out.  
 
MJV: Yep.  
 
PV: We both had great careers, you know.  
 
MJV: Had great careers. Wouldn’t have tr-, wouldn’t have traded it for the world. I 
said, when my mom and dad passed away, I, I know they both still bled green and 
gray, I— 
 
PV: And what, one of the—I didn’t mean to interrupt.  
 
MJV: Phillip and I tried to maintain interests otherwise, you know.  
 
PV: Well, it was a small enough organization, and it did, that husband and wife 
teams, which were very, which are very common in the park service. There’s still, 
there can be those— 
 
[INTERRUPTION—PAUSE IN RECORDING] 
 
BB: Okay. Thanks.  
 
PV: Well, there are some sensitivities when, when two people are [1:00:00] working 
in a unit that small, and somebody’s always willing to say, “Well, chief ranger took 
that position because his wife’s in maintenance.” And I, I’ve often said, it’s really 
strange that people have asked me before, what my perception of my staff had of 
me, what, what that was, and I’ve often, I’ve often said they, that many times, they 
were very critical of me because I was a division chief and dealt with four or five 
other division chiefs, and there’s only so much money. And obviously, the other 
division chiefs’ staffs are the same way, they see their entity as being the most 
important. So, probably, some of the staff’s most critical of me because they felt that 
I was too supportive of other divisions in the park. But that’s understandable 
because— 
 
BB: Um-hm.  
 
MJV: There is, there was—  
 
PV: They were in a directed, they were in more of a directed position.  
 
MJV: Right. But there is, there was, and now is just so much money to go, you know, 
very little money to go around.  
 
BB: Right. And doing more with less is something I hear.  
 
MJV: Yes.  
 
PV: Well, that’s a, I would point to that as being a major problem with the park 
service. Basic operations is not popular anymore in the park service, whereas in 
Mary Jo’s dad’s era, all the— 
 
MJV: That was what there was.  
 
PV: That’s what you were judged on. What, how good a job did you do in running the 
park? As more and more politics became involved, and, how can I say this?  
 
MJV: Resume building and— [Laughs] 
 
PV: Yeah. The selection process became more about what new have you done lately? 
That turned superintendents into more aggressive pursuers of wanting to say 
something about a new initiative, rather than saying, “Hey, we had a great year.” 
 
MJV: The bathrooms were clean, and nobody got killed. [Laughs] 
 
PV: And it, it reached the point there, before my retirement, when I, I just thought it 
was ridiculous the, the money that was taken from basic operations for new 
initiatives, many of which, I am certain can’t be found in policy or regulation 
anywhere as a mandate of the National Park Service.  
 
BB: Um-hm.  
 
PV: But they were popular with politicians, and they were popular with the resumes. 
So you start to see the park resources diminish. When, what I knew as basic 
operations, which was basically the interpretive, interpretive division, the 
maintenance division, ranger division, that being law enforcement, wildfire and 
structural fire, and EMS. So you, you start seeing that diminish, and I suspect that’s 
continuing.  
 
BB: Right. So it’s kind of like a, a, a, a pork project without any pork. Right, without 
any— 
 
MJV: Right.  
 
BB: Taking away from the basic— 
 
MJV: Right.  
 
BB: Your basic structure.  
 
MJV: Right. We— 
 
PV: I, I can give you—I’m sorry.  
 
MJV: That’s all right. We could get all kinds of s-, what we call soft money to do 
projects and stuff, but your basic operations money was just, it was set, and when 
the cuts were made, every region, and in Washington, that’s where the cuts were 
made. And it, it, it just hit the heart— 
 
PV: Yeah.  
 
MJV: Of, of the park.  
 
PV: Yeah, I can give a specific example. The, I don’t know whether I was wrong or 
right, but the park service was big for a while on what they call the DARE program, 
which was an outreach program to the community for the purpose of keeping youth 
from, from using drugs. Well, I admit that that’s a, that is a great idea. But there is 
absolutely no mandate anywhere in the National Park Service to do that.  
 
BB: Right. It’s not really [ ].  
 
PV: There is a mandate to keep people from growing marijuana in the park, to, 
destroying resources. But those type things pulled those valuable resources that I’m 
talking about. And it was a great thing. Superintendent gets to go shake hands with 
the politicians, and the, but the reason that I didn’t like the program is because, as a 
law enforcement professional, I knew that there were s-, there were study after 
study that showed that the program was no, of no value. And I believe now, you very 
seldom even see the program.  
 
BB: Right.  
 
PV: But it was not effective. And, and quite to the contrary, some studies showed 
that it was teaching young people to use drugs.  
 
MJV: Yeah.  
 
PV: So you see a lot of those type of things that I, I was just a basic operations kind of 
guy.  
 
BB: Um-hm.   
 
PV: You know.  
 
BB: Yeah.  
 
PV: Take care of the people, if they’re sick. [1:05:00] Take care of the resources.  
  
BB: Yeah, what, I mean, what do you think the basic, you’ve had good crews. I mean, 
you, you’ve enjoyed the career. You’ve been proud of the career.  
 
MJV: Yes.  
 
PV: Oh, no questions. It was a great career for us, you know.  
 
MJV: No question. Um-hm.  
 
BB: Yeah.  
 
PV: Now, I did, there was this, this deal that I dealt with. As a park ranger, in the old 
park service, you basically couldn’t advance because they would say, “You don’t 
have any supervisory experience.” Well, what, ’79? 
 
MJV: Um-hm.  
 
PV: After this initial law enforcement controversy, I had an opportunity to go to one 
of the youth programs called YCC, very similar to the CCCs that her, that her, her dad 
was in. And in that program, I was able to get supervisory experience. I was able to 
get managerial experience. And then I, I had the qualifications by the park service 
standards to come back to, to a supervisory position, which is what I did. But— 
 
BB: Did you have to go away from the park to do that? 
 
PV: I never, that’s why they say I’m a, [Laughs] I’m unique in that, in that way, 
because I had some involvement with Cumberland Gap and Abraham Lincoln, but I 
never, I was always stationed at Mammoth Cave through my entire career. Now, I, 
that was a, that was a park service cultural tradition, because any analysis would tell 
you that there is no difference in professional supervision and professional 
management at one park or another as opposed to any corporation. They’re all the 
same. So that was one of those park service things like Mary Jo talked about that— 
 
MJV: Yeah.  
 
PV: It was a pick up the phone, you need to move, and I’ll give you a promotion. But I 
was able to, with the help of people like Bob Deskins and a lot of people still believe 
that Mary Jo’s dad hired me, but that’s not true. He didn’t. He wasn’t there until after 
I was already hired. I can’t, was it Benoise who was there? 
 
MJV: Hm.  
 
PV: He was gone when I was hired, already transferred. Who was that? I can’t 
remember who the superintendent was. At any rate, he was, he had already 
transferred, and Bob Burns was the chief ranger who hired me.  
 
MJV: Chief Ranger. But one thing the park service, besides the wonderful career, I 
mean, I was, I was very blessed in the fact, I brought up the computers earlier, that I, 
I was fairly good with computer programs, and I was able to get in and do a lot of 
teaching with the maintenance management type programs, and I was able to go to 
a lot of different parks on the government’s dime, and you know, teach, teach the 
program.  
 
BB: You trained.  
 
MJV: And trained, yeah. Go to Grand Canyon. I went to San Francisco on a think-tank 
kind of thing for a week out there. I mean I was very blessed for the travel with that, 
that I got to do.  
 
PV: Great people.  
 
MJV: Yeah.  
 
PV: In the park service. All those that we worked with.  
 
BB: Great friends today that you’re retired with even and stuff like that, too? 
 
PV: Yeah.  
 
MJV: Yeah.  
 
PV: For sure.  
 
MJV: Yeah, for sure. Yeah. We— 
 
PV: So it was a great career. It, it would have be, those things that I talked about as 
problems would be no different if I was with a police agency or with an EMS 
division. Those kind of things happen.  
 
MJV: All right, in fact, the friendship, when we were, my dad was at Shenandoah, 
there was a fellow up there that was struck with lightening. He was the ranger that 
was struck more times with lightening than— 
 
PV: Seven times.  
 
MJV: Yeah, than, than any other—and strangely enough— 
 
PV: Supposedly.  
 
MJV: Yeah. A reporter from the Washington Post called, it was last year, wasn’t it?  
 
PV: Um-hm.  
 
MJV: And had gotten my name because my dad had worked with this guy up there. 
And of course I was a teenager, a young teenager. I didn’t, I knew the incident, but I 
didn’t really remember anything. But I remembered a young ranger who was this 
Bill Nichols that Phillip was talking about that he had worked with so closely when, 
when he first got into the park service. And Bill was retired down in Mississippi. So I 
got in contact with Bill Nichols, and Bill had actually supervised this guy. But I mean, 
you know, you still keep your little contacts, you know. It’s, in fact, that’s, that’s the 
one thing that I, that I did. I, you know, you hate to pick out those gravestones for 
your parents, but my mom and dad had a very, very close relationship, and they, 
they actually passed away within about four months of each other. So, I had, when I 
picked out the gravestone, I thought, you know, they, they dedicated their life to the 
National Park Service. So I studied and studied, and I finally came up with a, with a 
drawing. And the guy who did the stone did beautiful work. It started out at the top 
with a, [1:10:00] a picture of the Historic Entrance in granite, and moved around to 
a, to a bear for the Smokey Mountains, and then to the Blue Ridge range for the 
Shenandoah, and then the Pinnacle area for Cumberland Gap, then back to 
Mammoth Cave. I said, they made the full circle.  
 
BB: That’s nice.  
 
MJV: So.  
 
PV: You know, in that whole issue that I was talking about with the, the mobility, 
that too changed because— 
 
MJV: Oh yeah, because— 
 
PV: Someone was smart enough to recognize that it made no sense to take a GS9 
park ranger, spend $150,000 to move them to another park for a GS9 position. The 
only benefactor there was the ranger was getting to ex-, experience a new, new area.  
 
MJV: Right, but when my father got in the park service, the park moved you. That 
was when park housing was all, you know, the Mission 66 houses and stuff, and 
you’re moving from park house to park house. Nobody lived out in the community. 
They paid the moving van for your, your load. You were allotted so much. Anything 
over that, you had to pay. And so the moves weren’t that expensive.  
 
PV: Maybe $20,000.  
 
MJV: Yeah. But then, in the late ‘60s, early ‘70s, the park housing started going down. 
People started moving out in the communities. And then the park service started 
getting in the pant, the house-buying business. If you couldn’t sell your house within 
so many months, then the park would have it appraised, and the park would end up 
buying it. And I mean, that would be part of your move. I remember when we moved 
John— 
 
PV: Gentry.  
 
MJV: Gentry from California. Why, his move was close to $200,000. I mean it was, it 
was incredible, because we had to buy, the park service had to buy his house out 
there.  
 
PV: So that employee was basically doing the same thing at another park, and the 
park service has spent $200,000, so— 
 
MJV: Yeah, so that’s why [ ].  
 
PV: Great for the employee, but it was pure business that brought an end to it. Now, 
it’s not uncommon to see somebody spend eighteen years in one area.  
 
MJV: Yeah, the mobility has— 
 
PV: You know.  
 
MJV: Has ceased as much now because of that high costs.  
 
BB: Do you think that’s the same—you know, I, that’s the story I hear at Mammoth 
Cave because there are so many things about Mammoth—I think it’s the area, and 
people love it. Do you think that’s the same at, at all parks, is— 
 
PV: Oh, yeah, there’s no question that that’s— 
 
MJV: Yes.  
 
PV: That’s been a financial issue throughout the park service. 
 
MJV: Yeah.  
 
BB: Kind of people staying in one [ ]? 
 
PV:  Anyone, any auditor, any auditor would question why you’re doing this. And 
there’s some cases where you need to do it, obviously. Those people that, you know, 
there’s, there’s a level. Now you’ve got that professional level. Chief ranger in law 
enforcement, unless you’re going to a regional office or the Washington office, most, 
most people don’t have, they don’t aspire to be superintendents anyway, so.  
 
MJV: Yeah, well, a friend of mine down at Cumberland Gap that I went to high school 
with, that I didn’t remember until years later, he went in the military, in the air 
force, came back, moved close to Middlesboro, and ended up as the chief of 
maintenance there at, at Middlesboro. Park didn’t have to move him, you know.  
 
BB: Um-hm.  
 
MJV: And he came in, I think he was like a colonel in the, in the Air Force, so he was 
more than qualified to, to do the job.  
 
BB: Um-hm.  
 
PV: So diminishing funds had a, you know, has a lot to do with— 
 
MJV: With the mobility.  
 
PV: With the mobility issue.  
 
BB: Um-hm. These are great thoughts. Do you have any final things you’d like to 
share with me? We’ve shared some great stuff today.  
 
PV: Well, some of those, I would like to say, you know, some of those were just 
sharing experiences that, that I had through my career. But those, the career was 
great. And I wouldn’t trade anything for the opportunity that I had.  
 
MJV: Yeah. And I, I wouldn’t have traded, even though, I, I said I never grew up with 
family. I was an only child and I always lived away from my aunts and my uncles and 
stuff, but, but still, you know, I, I wouldn’t have traded my experiences that I had 
with, with my mom and dad growing up, and I sure wouldn’t have, wouldn’t have 
traded the experience of meeting my husband and having a good life and a good 
career together with him. 
 
PV: Of course, we were, let’s see, from ’75 until when’d we— 
 
MJV: Eighty-one.  
 
PV: Til ’81? We were in required occupancy. I don’t know if anybody’s brought up 
that concept or not.  
 
BB: Uh-uhn. No tell me about it.  
 
PV: Well, it was traditional for the park service to— 
 
MJV: It might have been ’83, ’84.  
 
PV: Choose positions that they deemed to be too critical to be out of the park. Now, 
the, the complication of that was, other agencies, if they did that, then they would 
pay you for it. The park service would simply issue a letter saying, “You are required 
to be in this residence here in the park.”  
 
MJV: “Here’s your rent bill.” 
 
PV: And you would continue to pay rent. [1:15:00] Well, you know, with other 
agencies, basically saying, if we want you here, we’re going to pay you to be here. So, 
again, that turned into being one of those growing pains for the park service, and 
obviously, in the, in the modern era, that, you, you can imagine that that does not 
exist, you know.  
 
BB: Um-hm.  
 
PV: We even had, we had an IRS issue with, with that, and the IRS, IRS people 
basically said, “Well, you know, the park service just doesn’t know what they’re 
doing, because we, it’s, we deal with this with other agencies, and if you’re required 
to live there then it’s obviously—” 
 
MJV: Your residence is provided. You don’t pay for it.  
 
PV: Your, no, you don’t pay for it.  
 
BB: Um-hm.  
 
PV: Or if you do, it’s deductible. So those type things, you know, it’s just growing 
pains that all agencies have. Poor old IRS, right now, is having their share of— 
 
MJV: Growing pains.  
 
PV: Growing pains.  
 
BB: Absolutely.  
 
MJV: So.  
 
BB: Now, one thing I didn’t ask you about, and I talked a little bit about Jo-, with Joy 
and with Vicky, and about, and with the time that you were there, and maybe even 
in, in the maintenance department, the change in women, more, more roles for 
women in the parks. I mean was it a, was it an issue? Is it, was it a, was it, tell me 
about your experience of, or— 
 
MJV: I had a very strange experience. When I, when I went to work at monitoring 
radon, my office was up there in the maintenance yard. And I don’t remember if 
there were any females on the maintenance crew at that time or not. I wasn’t on the 
crew, maintenance crew, but I was in the maintenance yard, and I, I guess first, third 
day on the job, I, I just had a [ ] office with no bathroom. I went to go up to the 
carpenter shop to go to the bathroom, and was like, there wasn’t a lock on the door. 
There was two stalls and a urinal, but no lock on the outside door, so I was like, hm, 
so I hollered and got somebody to watch the door while I went in the bathroom, and 
so, needless to say, I came back, and I told Bobby, I said, “Bobby, there’s no lock on 
that bathroom up there.” And it was like, now you know, we’ve never needed it, so,  
[Laughs] so they had to put a lock on the bathroom.  
 
BB: Right.  
 
MJV: And, of course, when I got in a position to, as I could, you know, I would try to 
hire females into the, the maintenance division. Maintenance obviously is a, 
generally a pretty hot and sweaty job. I had one tractor operator, female, that, she 
also operated the, the ferry and stuff too, and, but, we just— 
 
PV: I think Vicky came, her first job was with YECC with me.  
 
MJV: Her first job was with YECC. Uh-huh. Yeah.  
 
PV: Which was, was the works program.  
 
MJV: Right. Right. But yeah, when, I remember when, at Shenandoah, my dad’s 
secretary, Ms. Reeves, Dad put her in uniform, and that was like, that was like the 
Holy Grail, you know, putting a woman in uniform, a secretary, a woman. But, you 
know, she met the public a lot, because she was there at the, at the desk, and so he 
put her in uniform. So that was kind of a big deal too.  
 
BB: Um-hm. Probably another evolutionary thing.  
 
MJV: Yeah.  
 
BB: You know, talking about— 
 
PV: Well, it happened in law enforcement. Women are very good in law 
enforcement.  
 
MJV: Oh, yeah.  
 
PV: The park service sort of became a leader in that in federal agencies. Became 
much more common for females to, to, to be in law enforcement. They’ve always 
been strong in EMS, and they, they do a great job.  
 
BB: Yeah, we’ve got a new chief ranger that’s, now.  
 
MJV: That’s right. Laura. Laura Pepper. Yeah. 
 
PV: Laura was there when we were there. She came back.  
 
BB: Right.  
 
MJV: Fine lady.  
 
BB: That’s good.  
 
PV: Really, a lot of situations, females have the, they have ability to not exhibit some 
of the more, I guess you’d call it the more aggressive nature— 
 
MJV: Well, I— 
 
PV: Of men, with, with, with perpetrators.  
 
MJV: I’m on the Cave City fire department. I don’t do fires, but I do EMS. And so, if I 
make an EMS run, I’m the one that keeps people calm, you know. [Laughs] And that’s 
just, a lot of times, what the, what the females can, can accomplish.  
 
BB: Um-hm. Well, thanks for your time today.  
 
MJV: You’re quite welcome. We enjoyed it.  
 
PV: [ ].  
 
BB: It’s been really great.  
 
PV: Brings back some old memories.  
 
MJV: Yeah, boy.  
 
PV: You’ve already done Brad? 
 
[INTERRUPTION—PAUSE IN RECORDING] 
 
PV: [ ] our issue. Early in my career, the land management [1:20:00] agencies were 
basically protecting the West. Well, as more and more people were determined to 
have big estates with wooden roofs out West, it became more than the federal 
government could handle. So now, you see that role somewhat diminishing, and I 
know you notice on TV those very professional wildfire-fighting units hired by the 
cities now. So that’s diminished some of the pressure that, in the wildfire area, that, 
that it, that, like through the mid-, late-‘70s, early ‘80s, there was tremendous 
pressure to send your resources out there.  
 
MJV: Oh, yeah. Send, send your resources out.  
 
BB: Help out with these fires from your park?  
 
PV: Oh, yeah. I mean you, yes.  
 
MJV: Oh, yeah.  
 
BB: Hm.  
 
PV: Not uncommon to have three, four, or five people— 
 
MJV: You’d send red-carded people out, and they’d be gone for a month. Yeah.  
 
PV: So.  
 
BB: So that would leave you short-handed at times? 
 
MJV: And— 
 
PV: Oh, well, yeah, you just learned to deal with those type, type of things back then.  
 
MJV: Certain of the maintenance guys were red carded and fire fighters, so, it would 
leave maintenance and rangers short.  
 
PV: But, now, you see, through the process that, that has occurred with so much 
need out West, all these, all these large communities have built their own. There, 
there’s still the smoke-jumpers and the federal units, but you can readily see that a 
lot of the, the wildfire now is being handled by the local departments who have 
specialized in, in wildfire. So those type of things occur. But those draws on your 
resources were, the same thing with law enforcement events. You might get a, you 
might get a call from a special event— 
 
MJV: [ ] Yeah.  
 
PV: At another park for four, like a, I think we had forty rangers here for the 
Presidential visit from other parks. So that, that occurred all the time.  
 
BB: Um-hm.  
 
PV: And I guess they still have the SET teams. I’m not sure. They call them special 
event teams, not SWAT teams. [Laughs] 
 
BB: All right.  
 
[INTERRUPTION—PAUSE IN RECORDING] 
 
BB: So tell me about that, Phil, we were just talking about— 
 
PV: Well, when I was a, a young ranger in law enforcement, I sort of, I guess I had a 
reputation of having a long hair, which I still, I still carry that. But it was not 
uncommon to get called for special events.  
 
BB: Hm.  
 
PV: And on one occasion, at the Cumberland Gap National Historical Park, a group of 
partiers had taken over the campground, and basically expelled all park staff, and 
decided they were going to take up residence, and sort of have a, a, it was sort of a 
mixture of drinking, and smoking, and, and just enjoying themselves. But when we 
got down there, it was one of my first experiences with the park police. There were 
three of four of us that got there really quick, because we were close. And we were 
told there’s some Job, empty Job Corps barracks here, make out the best you can, get 
in there and find you a bunk. Well, the, this was a major event, so the advance people 
from the park police who had been called, they showed up, and I guess park staff 
said, “Well, you know, there’s the, there’s the Job Corps, the old Job Corps barracks.” 
And the advance man for the park police said, “You don’t understand. There are 
motels in this town. There are rental cars. There are caterers. And when you get 
those things arranged, our SET team will be here.” So that was one of my first 
experiences with the so-called structured law enforcement at, at a SWAT, you know, 
a SWAT type incident. But to carry the story further, I, with my long hair, I was, I was 
obviously a good target for the guys to say, “Hey Phil, get your, got, get on your 
civvies, and we want to send you in there, and you, you, as you go through there, 
why, you can do some recon for us, tell us what’s going on.” [Laughs] And well, I did 
that. And we had, now had a parameter, so I went on the inside and I guess that was 
like a hundred and f-, it was a big campground, maybe 100, 100 sites, 150, I don’t 
know. Big area, lots of people. So I start down through there, and I hadn’t gone 
probably, maybe 400 feet, and everybody’s partying. You can imagine, you see, you 
can imagine everybody had their, their vans and [1:25:00] their tents, and there’s a 
big party going on, and you could, you could pretty much get high just breathing. 
And I went around the, a little bend there, and somebody said, “Hey, Phil. What are 
you doing here?” [Laughs] And it turned out to be a cousin of mine who was there 
enjoying, enjoying the, the event. [Laughter] But I, I quickly said, “Ken, just be quiet. 
Go back to doing what you’re doing.” But as I went through there, I, I guess this 
terminology is, is not used in the drug world now, but, this guy comes up to me and 
says, “Hey man, you want a lid?” Which a lid was a, an amount of marijuana, and I, 
[Laughs] and I said, I gave it my best shot. I said, “Look, buddy, I’m a law 
enforcement officer, and you’re under arrest. Don’t yell, and don’t run.” Well, you 
can imagine. What am I going to do, you know, there’s, there’s 500 people in there. 
He, he both ran and yelled. [Laughter] They said that, they said when he went out 
the bottom of the campground, he was yelling, “We’ve been infiltrated.” [Laughter] 
Spies at the campground. But I, that was one of the, one of the interesting stories. 
We took the campground back. [Laughter] 
 
BB: You took the— 
 
PV: But, but it took the, I believe that was in Virginia, wasn’t it Mary Jo that— 
 
MJV: In Virginia, yeah.  
 
PV: It took the Virginia state police the, the, the SWAT team, and, the, and twenty or 
thirty rangers, and finally, cutting off the water that, to take the campground back. 
But that’s a, that was one of my more interesting stories. [Laughter] It was sort of 
fun. Nobody got hurt down there.  
 
BB: That’s good.  
 
PV: That was the good deal.  
 
[RECORDING STOPS—END OF INTERVIEW]