Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 1 of 39 
 
Interview completed by the Southern Oral History Program 
under contract to the 
Smithsonian Institution’s National Museum of African American History & Culture 
and the Library of Congress, 2011 
 
 
Interviewees:    
 
Mr. Fletcher Anderson and Mrs. Cynthia A. Baker Anderson 
Interview Date:   
 
May 27, 2011 
Location:   
 
 
The Andersons’ home, Bogalusa, Louisiana 
 
Interviewer:    
 
Joseph Mosnier, Ph.D. 
Videographer:   
 
John Bishop 
Also Present:    
 
Ms. Elaine Nichols, Project Coordinator 
Length:   
 
 
1:22:09 
 
 John Bishop:  We’re rolling, Joe. 
Joe Mosnier:  Good morning, Mr. and Mrs. Anderson.  It’s a pleasure to be with you.  
Thank you for welcoming us to your home this morning. 
Fletcher Anderson:  Um. 
Cynthia Anderson:  Morning. 
JM:  My name is Joe Mosnier of the Southern Oral History Program at the University of 
North Carolina at Chapel Hill.  We’re here in Bogalusa, Louisiana, um, to do an oral history, uh, 
interview for the Civil Rights History Project, which is a joint undertaking of the Library of 
Congress and the Smithsonian, specifically the Smithsonian’s Museum of, uh, African American 
History and Culture.  Um, my – uh, I am with colleague, uh, John Bishop, who is our 
videographer, and the project curator from the National Museum, uh, Ms. Elaine Nichols, is here 
as well.  And we are in Bogalusa with Mr. Fletcher Anderson and Mrs. Cynthia Anderson to talk 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 2 of 39 
 
about the movement and the Deacons, um, in the ’50s and ’60s and, um, and talk about all that 
history.  So, thank you again.  It’s good to be with you. 
FA:  Thank you. 
JM:  I thought I’d start if, um, if either of you would like to just [clears throat] – or both – 
um, would like to just reflect a little bit about, say, Bogalusa in the late ’50s and early ’60s, sort 
of set the context for the, uh, more active phase of local, uh, struggle that will emerge in the ’64-
’65 period. 
FA:  Okay.  Well, our first instance come from the cross burning that happened in the 
’60s when the Ku Klux Klan burned a cross in our yard.  And that’s really what got our attention 
to something was going on, and from that point on, we definitely got involved with the Civil 
Rights Movement, making conditions better than what they were.  We, uh – we was always 
aware that we was treated as second-class citizens, but we was kind of in a fix where it was 
acceptable.  But as we saw things changing in the rest of the world, and laws begin to change, we 
wanted to be a part of that change. 
And that cross burning come about because when I went to work at the box factory in 
1962.  And then, when I went to work at the box factory in 1962, they had separate everything: 
separate bathrooms, separate drinking fountains, separate doors that you go through to go into 
the job, separate pay lines, separate working places.  So, I and some more of the employees, 
black employees, there wanted to make a difference.  And first I started – as a new employee, the 
black employees that were previously there had me to do things that they wouldn’t do, because I 
was a new employee, as if I knew no better.  So, I would go and drink out of the water fountain, 
attempt to take showers in the white bathroom, but as far as the bathroom was concerned, I 
would be turned around.  The water fountain – then they frown up and say, “You’re not 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 3 of 39 
 
supposed to do that.”  Well, the oldest black employees knew I wasn’t supposed to do that – it 
wasn’t allowed – but since I was a new employee, they kind of had me to test things.  [Laughter] 
And, uh, at that point, we started filing lawsuits against our workplace.  And we went to 
court along with, uh, Mr. Robert Hicks.  He filed a suit, and we were participants in that suit.  
We all had to testify in federal court about our working conditions.  And from that point, things 
kind of opened up at the workplace concerned.  We was able to work on jobs that blacks had 
never been able to work on.  And we was able to get our black females employed at that plant, 
which had never happened before.  And we was able to get supervisors in the plant that had 
never been before. 
And this is when things really started getting heated up, because that’s some changes that 
had never happened before.  And sometimes change is hard to come by, because people get set in 
their own ways.  And the white employees, they didn’t want to make a change; they didn’t want 
to see this happen.  So, things got to be hot and sticky, as we might say in Bogalusa. [0:05:00] 
So, that’s when we, [clears throat] when we left out of the plant – we got the plant pretty well 
situated, but out in the streets, in the community, things were talked about, and it was heated. 
We were dealing with a city that didn’t hire black city workers.  Even on the garbage 
truck, we didn’t have a black person.  Working in the ditch, we didn’t have a black person 
working.  There was no elected people on the council or any form of government inside of the 
city limits of Bogalusa.  And these are the changes that we went about trying – these are things 
that we went about trying to change. 
And by doing that, we had to have many, many marches in Bogalusa, in the city of 
Bogalusa, to the city, uh, courthouse.  And we ended up having to go to federal court to try to get 
some of these obstacles removed.  And, in doing that, we had to testify in federal court.  Then we 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 4 of 39 
 
had to get an injunction against the police department in Bogalusa to keep them from brutalizing 
the black people of the city of Bogalusa.  And we had to go – I was one of the ones that had to go 
and testify in federal court to make these things happen.  I was a participant in all of the – most 
of the changes that happened inside of the city of Bogalusa and the surrounding areas. 
We didn’t have no black policeman.  I had the opportunity to set down there with the 
negotiating committee and the committee that put [nb: here, at 7:01, he mentions a name that is 
unclear] from the AFL-CIO from the state of Louisiana.  They come in, and I presented three 
names.  And out of those three names that I presented, two of them was chosen as the first black 
policemen of the city of Bogalusa.  Those three I presented was my classmates, the Class of 
1959.  They also worked with me at the box factory.  And they was chosen to be the first black 
policemen of the city of Bogalusa. 
JM:  Yeah. 
FA:  And we had to get the injunction against the city, uh, the police, because they were 
terrorizing the black citizens of Bogalusa.  They was beating them at will.  They were doing – so 
we went to court.  We got an injunction, so some of that ceased.  Some of that ceased. 
And then, we marched to Franklinton three times to try to get some things opened up in 
the Parish.  We marched one time; it didn’t do no good.  We marched a second time; it didn’t do 
no good.  Then we said, “We’re going to take it to the governor,” Governor John McKeithen, in 
Baton Rouge.  So, we marched to Baton Rouge.  And at that particular time, we didn’t get the 
chance to see the governor.  He wouldn’t meet with us.  But things began to get so heated up 
then, he flew into Bogalusa.  And we had a meeting with him at the airport.  And I was able to 
set down in that, be a part of that meeting with him.  And we went over a lot of things, and a few 
things opened up for us through that meeting. 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 5 of 39 
 
But we kept the pressure on.  We kept marching, we kept picketing, we kept 
demonstrating.  And me and a lot more of the blacks, we would picket merchants to get them to 
open up and give black people jobs, employment.  And as we kept pressure on them, as the 
blacks quit shopping in their stores, they began to open up and hire.  And so, we were successful 
there.  In most of the things that we did, we were successful and opened up employment for our 
people.  Uh – 
JM:  Mrs. Anderson, would you like to – we’ll [pause for a minute]. 
FA:  Okay. 
JM:  Well, thanks. 
FA:  Okay. 
JM:  This is a wonderful start. 
FA:  Okay, okay.   
JM:  Thank you.  It’s a – 
FA:  Alright. 
JM:  It’ll be a – 
FA:  Okay. 
JM:  A lot of history. 
FA:  Alright, um-hmm. 
JM:  Mrs. Anderson, do you want to start with some of your early recollections? 
CA:  Well, my first [0:10:00] interest was when they burnt that cross in my yard.  And, 
uh – 
JM:  Do you remember when that happened? 
CA:  Well, I know it was – 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 6 of 39 
 
FA:  ’63. 
CA:  Yeah, about ’63. 
JM:  ’63?  Yeah, that’s when the Klan was really heating up. 
FA:  Um-hmm. 
CA:  Yeah.  And when he left work – he was safe in the plant, but when he left work, 
between the plant and home they would attack him.  And they kept calling him “Bob Hicks.”  
So, he came home one evening and he said, uh, “Come on, I want you to go with me.”  And I 
said, “Where are you going?”  “I’m going to find out who this person I’m about to die for.”  
[Laughter] So, he had found out where they lived, and we went to the Hicks’s home. 
JM:  You hadn’t known them at that point? 
CA:  I knew her, but I never had any kind of conversation or relationship with her.  And 
when we went, we got to their house, and I walked in the door, she asked me for my driver’s 
license.  [Laughs] I gave them to her.  And from that point, we were a team.  Yeah. 
JM:  May I ask a little bit, just a little bit more of the longer background.  Um, could you 
each say a little bit about your family and, um, your parents and –? 
FA:  Well, uh, my grandfather was George Anderson, my grandmother was Maggie 
Anderson, and they was pioneers in Bogalusa.  They eventually – uh, came from Mississippi, 
which is, uh – Street, Mississippi.  And they left Street, Mississippi, and came to Bogalusa, 
looking for a better opportunity and for a workplace, because they had the paper mill here, they 
had the box factory here, and they were looking for employment.  And my grandmother, she 
went into real estate.  And my grandfather, he ended up being a taxi driver, and that was his 
employment. 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 7 of 39 
 
He was one of the first black people to register to vote in Washington Parish.  And he 
was always active in civil rights.  Anything to help to elevate [someone coughs] the blacks 
during that particular time he was very instrumental in helping that to come about.  My 
grandmother, she had, uh, boarders; people that come into town she roomed and board, roomed 
and fed them, while they worked at these different jobs in Bogalusa.  And – 
JM:  You grew up here in Bogalusa? 
FA:  Oh, yeah.  Uh-huh.  Right here in Bogalusa.  And my grandparents, they were a 
really good family.  They were property owners and they was instrumental in – my grandfather, 
he attended college, and my grandmother, she attended college.  And my mother was a very 
smart woman, too, but she was – my grandmother became ill, and my mother seen after her.  
That’s basically what she did, took care of her mother.  And, uh, but they were wonderful, 
wonderful, wonderful people. 
JM:  Yeah. 
FA:  Um-hmm.  And I married, uh, Cynthia Baker, and out of that union, we had three 
kids.  It was Sonia Anderson, Gamble Anderson, and Patrick Anderson.  And Sonia, she is 
blessed to have a wonderful daughter.  Gamble, she is blessed to have two wonderful 
grandchildren for me.  And, uh, they reside now in Dallas, Texas.  And my son, he is in, uh, 
Mount Hermon, Louisiana. 
JM:  Um-hmm.  Where did your grandparents go to college? 
FA:  Alcorn [State University].  My grandparents went to Alcorn. 
JM:  Mrs. Anderson, do you want to share some recollections of your family history?  
Did you also grow up in Bogalusa? 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 8 of 39 
 
CA:  Yes, I did.  My history is much different from his.  Uh, my father was Johnny Louis 
Baker, Sr., and my mother was Esther V. Watson.  [0:15:00] My mother was from Franklinton, 
Louisiana.  My dad was from Zachary, Louisiana.  We grew up – I grew up – yeah, well, we – 
my brothers and I – grew up in the mill quarters. 
JM:  The mill quarters, yeah. 
CA:  Yeah.  And, uh, and, uh, we were considered, uh, the poorest of the black people.  
We were outdoors-type people.  We hunt, fish.  Uh, when I got in the seventh grade, my 
basketball coach told me to go ask my mama could I play basketball.  And when I went and 
talked to her, she didn’t even turn around.  She said, “Yeah, as long as you make the Honor 
Roll.”  I made the Honor Roll from then on. 
JM:  Um-hmm. 
FA:  Um-hmm. 
CA:  I had a good life growing up in Bogalusa, and when I found out how people really 
felt about me, it hurt.  And then, I wanted to fight back.  And when they desegregated the schools 
in ’54, I had a whole group of girls ready to go on over to the high school and take care of that 
little desegregation.  But, uh, the teachers liked to had a heart attack. 
JM:  Yeah. 
FA:  Um. 
JM:  Tell me, if you would, a little bit about, um, Mr. Anderson, your decision to, um, 
seek a job at the, at the box factory, and what it was like to – what your job was at the factory, 
and what it was like to work in there. 
FA:  Yeah.  When I first went there, my first job I was working in the shipping 
department.  I was what you call a loader.  That’s loading boxcars and trucks.  And from that, I 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 9 of 39 
 
went to trucker.  That’s when you’re promoted to drive a forklift and do the loading with a 
forklift.  And I left that and moved to another department, which is called the corrugator, and I 
went on the job there as a take-off person.  And I moved from the take-off person to a slitter 
operator, and I moved from that to a First Helper.  And I left that position to go to an overhead 
crane operator. 
And all those jobs was held, previously held – all but a take-off person – was held by 
white employees.  And I was able to work myself through that line, and it wasn’t easy.  Because 
when you really had to be trained by a person that you was going – eventually replaced him.  
And that’s not easy.  That’s not easy for anybody to do, so you can imagine about how much 
training you would get.  So, we basically had to, basically, train ourselves.  We had to train 
ourselves. 
And the hard thing about when I went to the overhead crane operator, I didn’t have no 
training whatsoever.  I had to train myself on it, and that’s a dangerous job, too, overhead rail, 
and a crane operator.  And that is the job that I basically got injured on – probably the lack of 
training – that I had to retire from. 
JM:  Uh-huh, I see.  I see. 
FA:  But to get a change in that box factory, going back to that workplace, we had to 
walk – I had to walk amongst some of our other employees – picket on our own company.  And 
that’s not easy, walking picket on your company, and then you’ve got to put the picket down and 
punch in and go to work for the same people that you’re out there fighting.  So, you can imagine 
how the tension in the things was there.  It was, it was, it was, it was, it was tough.  It was tough. 
JM:  Yeah. 
FA:  And – 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 10 of 39 
 
JM:  May I ask –?  Excuse me. 
FA:  We went on to a – my wife mentioned about we went to the Meredith march when 
James Meredith got jumped on when he was going back to Ole Miss [University of Mississippi] 
for a reunion of some sort.  And we were asked as the Deacons to come and protect the march.  
And from the time that we got there, we was able to march them in with no incident after that.  
And that [0:20:00] was during the time, because we were very good at what we did, protecting 
people.  We protected our neighborhoods that stopped people from driving by, shooting up in 
their houses and beating them.  We had walkie-talkies.  We had things that communicate with 
one another all through the community.  We’d know where everybody was at.  We’d know if – 
we had block captains.  We had everything set where anything – if anybody come in there, we 
were able to block the streets off.  Because we have to be – we had to be our own protection, 
because the police were not there to protect us. 
JM:  Exactly. 
FA:  They were there to protect the Ku Klux Klan. 
JM:  Yeah.  How did you first hear about the Deacons or become a member of the 
Deacons in [’61]? 
FA:  Uh, first we were just sitting around, and, um, somebody come from Jonesboro. 
JM:  Yeah. 
FA:  And was talking to us.  And I was in that meeting.  And they was talking about how 
they was able to form – they formed this organization.  We become a charter member of it. 
JM:  You were at that very first meeting in February? 
FA:  That’s right. 
JM:  With the – with, um, the two folks from Jonesboro? 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 11 of 39 
 
FA:  That’s right.  It was with Jonesboro.  And it sounded pretty good to us. 
JM:  Tell me what you remember from that meeting.  I think that – I think they were, um, 
Ernest Thomas and Fred Kirkpatrick. 
FA:  That’s right.  And I remember setting in on the meeting.  They were explaining what 
they did in Jonesboro, and how they did it, and what we needed to do.  And from that meeting, 
we just kind of bought into it.  And then, we just kind of set up our own Deacons for Defense, 
and ours eventually kind of overshadowed theirs.  But it originally came from Jonesboro. 
JM:  Yeah.  Had you grown up using a rifle or shotgun to hunt, or how did you –? 
FA:  Yeah.  We’ve all been hunters.  We’ve all been hunters.  We know how to hunt.  We 
know how to take care of weapons.  We know all of that.  But that’s the onliest reason we – I had 
never shot at a person or nothing like that, because we never dared.  We always were law-
abiding citizens.  We knew, hear about – we come up, and our elders would tell us what certain 
things you can do and certain things you can’t do.  “This is not for you.  Don’t do that,” because 
they were basically trying to keep us out of trouble.  And, uh, trouble was easy to get into back 
then. 
Because I was – I remember one time I was – me and three of my civil rights workers 
was coming out of that restaurant at Acme Café.  And I walked out of the café, and somebody 
was on the side of me in the dark and hit me with some weapon.  And from that incident, me and 
my three workers, we were charged with attempted murder, uh, of three waitresses in the 
restaurant that worked there. 
JM:  In ’66, I think. 
FA:  In ’66. 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 12 of 39 
 
JM:  Yeah.  And, as I – if I – you can tell me if this is right or not.  I read that, um, that 
when you were attacked, in an effort to fight back, a gun was discharged.  And then, later the 
authorities charged you with attempted murder on the staff inside the restaurant. 
FA:  That’s right.  That’s exactly how that happened.  And the amazing thing about it, 
when I got – who arrested me was my two classmates, [laughing] the same two blacks that I 
helped to get employed.  That’s just the way it, it worked out.  But they were doing what they 
were told to do.  They were doing their duty. 
JM:  Sure. 
FA:  At that particular time. 
JM:  Yeah.  I want to come back to a lot of these things.  But, Mrs. Anderson, I know that 
you must have had a very interesting, um – well, I’d love to hear about – you had mentioned 
Mrs. Hicks and your relationship with her.  I’d love to hear about that and I’d love to hear about 
your perspective watching your husband move into the Deacons and watching all that history 
unfold in front of you and your role inside of all that. 
CA:  We were partners.  The, um, when they beat him, I was in Covington, Louisiana.  I 
taught school there.  And, uh, when I came home, they had arrested the car, too.  So, his head 
was all swollen.  And, incidentally, we were the only family that were involved in civil rights 
that could go to a doctor in Bogalusa.  Everybody else had to leave town. 
JM:  Why was that? 
CA:  Cause they knew we would sue them. 
JM:  Because they knew you would sue them? 
CA:  Yep.  So, when I got home, he was swollen up.  Where’s the car?  [0:25:00] We 
didn’t have but one at that time.  And when they told me I could come get it, it was in the fire 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 13 of 39 
 
station right next to the police department.  And, um, they had the door down.  That’s a big, 
heavy door.  And it was funny to the firemen.  No black fireman there.  And I tried to pull the 
rope to get – I weighed about a hundred and ten pounds.  And I couldn’t open the door.  So, I 
climbed up on top of the car, caught ahold to the rope, swung down on it, and sent the door 
flying!  Drove my car out – the back window was out of the vehicle – and came home. 
I really – I was held back, because I’d have been in jail or somewhere.  Mrs. Hicks was a 
calming factor to me, because when I wanted – if somebody did something to me, I wanted to get 
them back.  She would say [speaking calmly], “No.  No.  Don’t do that.  Don’t do that,” and she 
would talk me out of a violent act most of the time. 
In my family, when you were four years old, you were taught how to shoot and you were 
taught how to swim.  When you made nine, you were given your own rifle.  And all the time, I 
can remember when I was in a wagon as a little girl, and my daddy would take us hunting.  And 
we’d stay and play around the wagon, and he’d go hunting.  But I’ve been a hunter all my life. 
JM:  Were you, um – what did you think about, um, your husband joining the Deacons? 
CA:  All of the advice that other people gave me: “Leave him!  You’re just going to get 
yourself killed and get your children killed.”  No, that’s not my way.  I believed in what they 
believed in.  If you don’t defend yourself, who do you think will? 
JM:  Yeah.  I want to ask you both for your feelings and recollections of, um, the, um – 
early ’65 Robert Hicks, Gayle Jenkins, and, um, A.Z. Young will take, basically take control of 
the Voters League. 
FA:  That’s right. 
JM:  And, um, and Andrew Moses resigns. 
FA:  Um-hmm. 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 14 of 39 
 
JM:  And, um – oops, we’ll stop one second. 
JB:  What happened? 
JM:  We lost a light.  We’ll stop for a second.  [Laughs] Just pause for a second. 
JB:  That’s bizarre.  [Pause] We’re live. 
JM:  Okay.  I’ll just put the question back again. 
FA:  Um-hmm.  Okay. 
JM:  Mr. and Mrs. Anderson, I’m very interested in your thoughts and reflections about, 
um, early ’65, um, when younger folks, including, um, A.Z. Young and Robert Hicks and Gayle 
Jenkins, effectively take control of the Voters League.  Andrew Moses has resigned.  And there 
are a lot of – there are a lot of, um, conflicting opinions and perspectives on what’s the best 
course to pursue civil rights in Bogalusa. 
FA:  Um-hmm. 
JM:  Some older folks have opinions.  There’s a lot of different range of opinion.  And 
Mrs. Anderson, you had mentioned a moment ago, for example, that some people advised you, 
your friends even advised you to stay clear of the Deacons and direct involvement like that.  So, 
could you talk a little bit about the various opinions that were in the community at that time, and 
how different people thought about trying to pursue civil rights? 
FA:  Um-hmm.  Well, as far as the black population was concerned, the black 
community, a lot of them was afraid, because they had never stood up for opposition against the 
white establishment.  They was afraid.  And they was afraid that – they know who was in power.  
The police was in power, and they would come in and whup them.  Some of them worked in the 
houses of these people.  That’s the onliest employment they had.  And they was afraid that if 
something happened, they was going to get fired.  They couldn’t work at factories or nothing.  
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 15 of 39 
 
They didn’t hire them.  They wouldn’t hire them at stores.  They was maids in these houses.  
And when you’re talking about picketing and going into restaurants and eating at the same 
counter, they were frightened.  They was frightened, and they didn’t know – they were just 
confused, though, which [0:30:00] direction to take. 
And then, when A.Z., uh, come into the Bogalusa Voters League, I was very pleased with 
it, because we worked together.  We worked in the same department. 
JM:  At the plant? 
FA:  At the plant.  So, I’ve known him.  And, uh, he was never elected.  He just come 
into the Bogalusa Voters League and, I would say, acted as president, because he wasn’t ever 
elected as president.  But he did ask, um, Bob Hicks – he’d take it if Bob Hicks would come with 
him.  And both of them worked at the plant with me, but I worked with A.Z.  I knew Bob Hicks 
worked there, but I didn’t really know him.  I’d see him, but I didn’t know him. 
But I knew A.Z. from the time – A.Z. used to be in the taxi business.  He owned taxi 
cabs, and I had worked for him during that particular time.  And we worked together on the job, 
so that was very – Mrs. Jenkins, I didn’t know Mrs. Jenkins at that particular time. 
I know when we met with her later on when Edwards – Edwards was elected governor of 
the state of Louisiana.  He appointed Gayle Jenkins on the school board and he appointed R.T. 
Young, which was A.Z.’s brother, to the school board.  And that’s when I began to know 
something about her. 
JM:  Yeah. 
FA:  Yeah.  But I didn’t really know her.  And, uh, most of the positions that we got on 
the city council and the school board, they was appointed positions.  They was not elected.  
Then, after we fought and went to court, they started redistricting and [giving] the black 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 16 of 39 
 
community majority in the population where a black person could be elected.  And from that, 
Mrs. Jenkins got reelected to the school board, and also R.T. Young. 
JM:  Right. 
FA:  And we got our first city elected officials, which were William Bailey and 
Richmond, Michael Richmond – were the first two.  They were first appointed, and then after 
they redistricted, they were able to get elected by the black community.  And that, and that 
redistricting still stands.  That’s the only – the same two that they had, that Governor Edwards 
appointed, is the same two that’s there now!  Not the same two people, but the same two 
positions – nothing changed.  City council – nothing changed.  Nobody had never been elected at 
large. 
JM:  Right. 
FA:  Other than in that district. 
JM:  Yeah, because the black fraction of the Bogalusa population [was/wasn’t] large 
enough to – 
FA:  That’s right.  That’s right. 
JM:  Yeah.  That’s interesting. 
CA:  Well, we had established ourselves on the north side of town.  And when – 
JM:  As a young couple? 
CA:  Not young. 
JM:  No.  Sorry, when you said you established yourself on the north side –? 
CA:  Uh, we was in the ’60s. 
JM:  Okay, yeah. 
CA:  We was in the ’80s when this happened. 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 17 of 39 
 
JM:  Yeah. 
CA:  When we became aware this was happening.  We had to reregister, had to change 
our voting place.  And when we got our cards back, they had him in District D and me in District 
C.  So, I went down in the community and asked people to show me their cards.  And when they 
showed me, just about everybody on the street had lived in the same house, but they had them 
voting in different districts.  And this was one of the ways they used to help keep us – 
JM:  Exactly. 
CA:  From being a power for one particular candidate. 
JM:  Exactly. 
CA:  So, uh – 
FA:  Um-hmm. 
JM:   Yeah.  May I ask you, Mrs. Anderson – I’m interested, um – you mentioned your 
friendship with, or meeting Mrs. Hicks for the first time and then your friendship with her. 
CA:  Um-hmm. 
JM:  I’d like to hear about that relationship, and I’d also be interested in any thoughts you 
can share about [clears throat] kind of comparing – this was a movement here in Bogalusa that 
had very strong, very strong leadership, and very strong leadership both from women and from 
men. 
FA:  Um-hmm. 
JM:  And I’m interested in your thoughts about how women played their roles in this 
history. 
CA:  This is one of the few communities where the black women had a voice.  [0:35:00] 
Uh, the men didn’t try to keep them from talking or being involved.  In fact, the majority of the 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 18 of 39 
 
time, uh, when they were taking care of banking business or something like that, when the, uh, 
person got through talking to them, they’d turn and ask their wife, “What you think?”  Or 
sometimes the wife would be the person to pay attention and explain to him what was said.  So, 
uh, it was just a normal thing for the black women to step up to the plate. 
JM:  What can you tell me about, um, about Gayle Jenkins?  What do you – when – if I 
were to ask you to help somebody, many years later, to know what’s really the essential things to 
know about Ms. Jenkins, what would you say? 
CA:  I would say that, uh, she was a fireball.  She would, uh, get excited and – and the 
older people liked her and they would do what she say do.  When Gayle was a senior – well, not 
a senior – when she was elected Miss Central [Central Memorial High School], I was in the 
second grade and I was a part of her court.  So, I had known Gayle for a long time. 
She worked a, uh, Desport Clinic [pause], and her aims wasn’t high.  See, then, in our 
community, you didn’t have role models.  And I remember her saying one time her role model, 
her intention in life, was to wear a white uniform, go to work at some white person’s house, and 
bring the newspaper home under her arm when she got off work in the evening. 
But when it came about – when civil rights came about in Bogalusa, it just, like, opened 
up like a flower for her.  She and some more women – when “Willie Boy” Crawford first, uh, 
won the suit to desegregate Vo-Tech [Sullivan Vocation School], Gayle and a whole bunch of 
ladies went to school there.  It’s a two-year school.  Four years later was when I met them again, 
from childhood to then.  By this time, I’m working in Covington. 
I said, “What you majoring in?”  They told me.  I said, “It don’t take but two years for 
that.”  They had been there four.  What they were doing, they would add courses to their field 
every time it was – well, every year they did it after the two years until they had attended school 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 19 of 39 
 
for four years, and they never did graduate from Vo-Tech.  So, then they had to drive to New 
Orleans or to Poplarville to school, and they became nurses. 
JM:  Yeah, yeah.  Mr. Anderson, let me ask you about the Deacons, um, your 
recollections of the leadership.  It looks like Charles Sims, um, Mr. Moore [nb: JM meant Sam 
Barnes], um, and how – well, let me start with them.  I’m sorry, let me start with – if you would, 
I’d love your, um – 
FA:  Charles Sims?  Charles Sims was at – from the meeting that we had with the group 
from Jonesboro, Charles Sims was elected president of the Deacons for Defense.  Robert Hicks 
was vice president from that, from that meeting.  Charles Sims appointed me lieutenant from that 
meeting. 
 I’ve known Charles for a long time.  He – first, he had worked at the same plant that I 
worked at.  And he got laid off.  He got in a brawl, him and another white employee, and, uh, 
Charles Sims, uh, hit him with a hammer, and they, uh, dismissed him.  And I’d been knowing 
him for a long time, and he was a fiery person.  He was a [0:40:00] fiery person.  He could 
arouse a crowd.  He had a – he was a very intimidating person.  And he did a great job as 
president of the Deacons for Defense, yeah, along with Robert Hicks, which was the vice 
president. 
Me and Robert Hicks had occasion to travel.  We went to California, raising money for 
the Bogalusa Voters League.  We were very successful in doing that.  And me and Robert Hicks 
worked shoulder – we walked picket together, we marched together, we did near about 
everything together.  We sure did.  And, um – but Charles Sims was a great leader, a great 
leader. 
JM:  How about –? 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 20 of 39 
 
FA:  Along with Sam Barnes and, um, Skipper Piper, and, um – they were tough.  Uh, 
Perkins – Reese Perkins, and, um, and Willie James Preston, they were there.  They were there, 
and, uh, Bertran Wyre.  Bertran Wyre.  Albert Davis, he was, um – they were some of the key 
members of the Deacons for Defense. 
JM:  Yeah.  Let me ask you to think back to the first meeting again in February of ’65, 
because I wonder if you – I wonder if you, if you, if all the members of the Deacons ever knew 
that the state authorities had an informant in that meeting. 
FA:  We sure didn’t. 
JM:  Yeah. 
FA:  We sure didn’t. 
CA:  [Whispers] I did. 
JM:  You did?  Yeah, because a couple of days later, all those names were in the law 
enforcement files and on the governor’s desk, etcetera.  And I just – 
FA:  I wasn’t aware that there was an informant in there.  I sure wasn’t.  Um, um.  I heard 
about one – I didn’t – not in that meeting, in another meeting, one that come out of New Orleans, 
but I didn’t know how true it was. 
JM:  Yeah.  Mrs. Anderson, did you have a – did you want to say something about –? 
FA:  No, other than he, uh, than he was a plant in both organizations.  I don’t know how I 
got it, but usually I can tell a crook. 
JM:  Yeah.  You knew at the time or knew it later? 
CA:  No, at the time. 
JM:  You knew it at the time? 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 21 of 39 
 
CA:  And it seemed like – when you voice that opinion about somebody, people kind of 
look at you.  So, you have to be careful who you say it to, but I did say it to some people: “He’s a 
crook.” 
JM:  Yeah, yeah.  Mr. Anderson, I know that some of the – many of the folks who were, 
um, among the list of men you just mentioned, many of them had military experience. 
FA:  Um-hmm. 
JM:  And so, they had, obviously, a lot of training with firearms and so forth.  Other 
folks, like yourself and others, had hunted all their lives. 
FA:  Um-hmm, yeah. 
JM:  So, handling a shotgun or rifle was very familiar. 
FA:  Um-hmm. 
JM:  Can you describe some of the ways you organized your work?  I know that you used 
special, like, flashlight signals.  You mentioned walkie-talkies. 
FA:  That’s right, walkie-talkies.  We also bought weapons to, um, defend ourselves, 
which were carbines and 30-30s, and we had handguns and stuff like that.  We bought some of 
that stuff with the money that we raised and people brought in and donated to us, so people like 
Louis Lomax and other people from California.  And we used those funds to arm ourselves, the 
people that didn’t already have arms.  We had people like Willie James Preston and all had 
served in the military, and they were firearm experts.  And they had other people that even much 
was not a member of the Deacons, but they would show you how to do certain things, because 
they was afraid to be known and they was afraid of what would happen to them and their 
families.  But they would secretly show us how to do things, how they organized things, and how 
to – helped us all the way.  Those that – people did not – never mentioned. 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 22 of 39 
 
JM:  Right. 
FA:  You know, because they were – wanted to not be mentioned. 
JM:  Yeah.  How many, how many members would you say would have been publically 
recognized? 
CA:  Excuse me. 
JM:  Yes, please. 
CA:  May I take a break? 
JM:  Yes, please.  Let’s take a break. 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
[Brief conversation about setting up microphones] 
JB:  Okay, we’re back. 
JM:  Did it come back on?  Okay, we’re filming again. 
FA:  Okay.  [0:45:00] 
JM:  Um.  Let me ask about, um, right in the middle of the summer of ’65, when things 
really kind of come to the fullest point of tension. 
FA:  Um-hmm. 
JM:  Um, the Klan has been really fighting hard to try to beat back the – any signs that 
the movement might move forward. 
FA:  Um-hmm. 
JM:  And, um, the League is pushing real hard, marching, marching, marching. 
FA:  Um-hmm. 
JM:  Um, do you remember how you feel – you felt in those months?  Did you feel 
optimistic?  Did you feel fearful?  Did you feel – I mean, you might have felt many things. 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 23 of 39 
 
FA:  Um-hmm. 
JM:  I wondered, uh, what it was like to go through that. 
FA:  Well, what we felt is: How long is it going to take before we start seeing a change?  
You know, how long we are going to have to fight.  See, we were doing all this marching and all 
that fighting and we still have to work for a living.  And it was heated when you go to work, 
when you go into those workplaces.  And we have to travel to different places, and then we have 
to deal with the police up and down the highways and the state troopers and all that.  They’d be 
giving tickets; you’d be getting pulled over.  You don’t know, uh – we were always obedient to 
the law.  You know, we always – regardless of what you have, they are the law.  You have to 
honor the law. 
CA:  You respect them. 
FA:  And, although knowing that they wasn’t upholding the law, they was just doing 
things to make everything difficult for us.  We were getting tickets everywhere, have to pay 
them, and your record with the insurance company – insurance company dropping you because 
you get traffic tickets and all this kind of stuff, dropping your insurance on your car, your home, 
and your life insurance.  It was tough.  It was tough.  But we were determined.  We wasn’t going 
to be stopped.  We was going to make a difference in the city of Bogalusa and in the state of 
Louisiana.  We was –. They were no black troopers in the state of Louisiana until we marched to 
Baton Rouge. 
CA:  That’s right. 
FA:  And got a black state trooper assigned.  So, we opened up doors that way.  And 
some of the surrounding towns saw what was happening in Bogalusa, and they didn’t want to go 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 24 of 39 
 
through the same thing.  They started opening up to the black community, in hiring, and opened 
up some doors for them in other areas.  But it was tough. 
JM:  Yeah.  Um, when you think back, again, on the Deacons and your work to protect 
the black community, is there any one episode or a couple of episodes that really come first to 
your mind when you think about that as a particularly interesting or particularly memorable, 
significant moment? 
FA:  Well, it was a significant moment when we were marching from – we had been to 
the courthouse, we were coming back, and one of the Klansmen, uh, attacked the march, 
somebody in the march.  And he had to be shot.  And that was, um, something that we was 
hoping that nothing like this had to happen.  But it was a case of self-defense and what you have 
to do. 
Even much when me and my two fellow workers was arrested for this, it was throwed out 
of court.  You know, they would just put charges on you and bring things on you that they knew 
couldn’t stand up in the court of law.  And we were fortunate enough to have Elie and Robert 
and, uh – Nils [Douglas], [Lolis] Elie, and Robert [Collins] to come down and fight our case, and 
they just throwed it out of court. 
JM:  Yeah. 
FA:  I never – never went to – never went anywhere. 
JM:  Yeah. 
FA:  Never went anywhere.  And at that particular time, they were three of the highest 
bonds ever been in Washington Parish.  It was seventy-five thousand dollars on each account. 
JM:  Yeah. 
FA:  It was two hundred and, what, twenty-five thousand dollars that the – total. 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 25 of 39 
 
JM:  Yeah. 
JB:  [Speaking to Mrs. Anderson] What were you going to say? 
CA:  They, uh, arrested me.  I was coming home from work.  I stopped behind a school 
bus where they used to have a railroad track [0:50:00] when you just – when you got on 21.  
There was a state trooper behind me.  He rode behind me, and I was behind the bus, made every 
stop the bus made, until we got to Waldheim. 
JM:  Until you got to –? 
CA:  Waldheim, Louisiana.  He pulled me over.  He said, uh – I handed him my driver’s 
license.  He said, uh, “Where you going?”  I said, “Home.  I live in Bogalusa.”  He said, um, 
“Hmh!  Do you work?”  I said, “Yes, I do.”  “Do you work?”  “Yes, I do.” “Do you work?” 
“Yes. I. Do.”  “Follow me.”  So, I did a U-turn and followed him to jail.  He put me in jail, 
locked me up.  My bond was forty dollars.  I had it!  I called Fletcher and told him I was in jail, 
come get me.  And he came to Covington and picked me up.  That charge was never taken to the 
next level.  It was just harassment. 
JM:  Yeah.  I’m pretty sure I understand the point you’re making about his repeated 
questions, but for the recording, can you say why you think that –? 
CA:  Because I would not say, “Yassuh.”  Wasn’t about to do that.  And when I got in the 
cell, I was in the cell with a young lady and I was fixing to go into my act.  And she asked me 
would I please not, because they would make it hard for her after she left.  And they tried to 
make it hard for me, going in there, but I got on their nerves real good. 
JM:  Mr. Anderson, let me – you mentioned the shooting in July of ’65. 
FA:  Um-hmm. 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 26 of 39 
 
JM:  Can you describe that situation in a little more detail, why it was, how that 
happened? 
FA:  I don’t – we were just marching.  They was heckling on the sides, you know.  They 
were – uh, the guy that got shot was slinging racial, uh, slurs and everything at the marchers.  
Then, uh, quite naturally, a few guys slung back at him.  And when they would give it back at 
him, it was just something that he couldn’t take, and he just dashed toward the march. 
CA:  But that wasn’t the guy hit Hattie? 
FA:  And, uh, he got shot, um-hmm. 
JM:  Henry Austin shot him? 
FA:  Mmmm.  No, it was, uh, Milton – who the man that caught him – was it Milton?  It 
was another guy. 
JM:  Milton Johnson was with – 
FA:  Milton Johnson.  That’s right, Milton Johnson. 
JM:  Yeah, because, see, Milton Johnson was getting attacked by the mob. 
FA:  That’s right, um-hmm.  Milton Johnson. 
CA:  Uh, Hattie, too?  Was that when they attacked Hattie? 
JM:  The little girl? 
CA:  Yeah, Hattie. 
JM:  Yeah.  I think that’s right. 
FA:  And I remember one occasion we was picketing on, uh, public property, me and, uh, 
Robert Hicks and a bunch more of us.  And they arrested us and put us in a school bus and 
carried us to St. Tammany.  Well, the bus broke down, throwed a rod on the way to St. 
Tammany.  So, we had to set in the bus and wait till they brought another bus.  And, uh, that was 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 27 of 39 
 
one of the tech – one of the things.  We was on public property.  No private property.  Nothing 
came of that – busload of us – nothing became of that.  No charges, no fine, no nothing.  Got 
bailed out.   
CA: [unintelligible remark] 
FA: Our lawyers come in and got everything dismissed.  We just walked out of jail.  That 
was it.  Never heard no more about it. 
JM:  Yeah.  Let’s take a little pause briefly, if we could. 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
FA:  Well, you know. 
JB:  We’re back. 
FA:  Some of the people that were there?  Is that what you’re talking about?  Yeah, well, 
some of the people, like I say, that was with us was Willie James Preston and his brother, Oliver 
Preston, and they were very, very active in the movement.  There was, uh, women like Helen 
Jefferson, and, uh, a guy by the name of James Brown.  And they was – 
CA:  Cornelius? 
FA:  Cornelius Griffin.  And they was very [0:55:00] – Cornelius Griffin was the one that 
used to pick up James Farmer from court when he’d come in.  And, uh, we would pick him up 
from the airport.  We would protect him while he was here.  We would protect his workers, the 
CORE workers, the civil rights workers, while they were here, make sure no danger comes to 
them.  It was – that was Cornelius Griffin’s and my job.  That’s what we were assigned to.  And, 
uh, all the top people that would come in, we were the ones that watched them.  We were the 
ones that protected them, Cornelius Griffin and myself, during that time. 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 28 of 39 
 
And he was – Cornelius was attacked on Columbia Street in front of Winn-Dixie, when 
Winn-Dixie was on Columbia Street.  They, uh, beat him up pretty badly.  And nothing was – 
ever come to that.  Anytime that something would happen to a black person, they would never do 
anything about it. 
We had, uh, one of our dear friends, [Captain Donald Ray] Sims, come in from the 
military, Captain Sims.  He was making a phone call in a phone booth right there on Columbia 
Street.  A Klansman shot him in the phone booth.  Nothing, uh – [Secretary of Defense Robert] 
McNamara had to come to Bogalusa to see after him.  Nothing ever happened to that.  And we 
were just open game.  And even much with the protection that we were giving, some people 
come to town, like Sims, he wasn’t aware of what was happening here.  And he went to a phone 
booth to make a phone call, and all this happened to him.  He’s in the military, fighting for this 
country, and gets shot.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Never one thing. 
JM:  Yeah.  Can you share your recollections of, um, folks in CORE and the 
collaboration between the League and CORE? 
FA:  It was great!  It was great.  They was a lifesaver to us.  And they came here with a 
lot of knowledge, too, because they were marching, demonstrating, and all that kind of stuff.  
They were very knowledgeable of what to do, and how to do it, and how to stay out of harm’s 
way. 
CA:  And how to protect yourself. 
FA:  And how to protect yourself.  They were very knowledgeable.  And James Farmer 
was a – oh, boy!  I don’t know what we would have did if it hadn’t been for him.  I have so much 
respect for him.  And Dick Gregory and all of them, they would come in and they would help us.  
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 29 of 39 
 
They would help us to raise money and do and help to keep the movement going.  Dick Gregory 
was a lifesaver, too.  He was very helpful to us. 
CA:  He taught the black people of Bogalusa how to stop a pattern that had been set or 
established.  And, instead of buying a Cadillac, buy a Volkswagen and drive that until you could 
buy you a Cadillac, you could afford it.  They emphasized, “Don’t make the other man fat off 
your labor.  Let your labor work for you.”  And as far as the Deacons are concerned, when we 
were on our way to Baton Rouge, we got to Hammond. 
JM:  You mean on the march to Baton Rouge? 
CA:  Oh, yes! 
JM:  Yeah. 
CA:  And, uh, we decided we were going to spend the night in the park, in Greenville 
Park.  And that’s where the football field was for a black high school.  And the police 
department, sheriff’s department, came down from Hammond, from Tangipahoa Parish, and told 
us that we could not stay there, that that was private property.  So, we told the police that, “Okay, 
we’ll march up to Southeastern University and we’ll spend the night there.  We pay taxes, so 
that’s somewhere we can spend the night.”  Well, they discussed it and they decided it was all 
right to stay in the park.  We circled the cars in the park like the wagons in the Indians’ time.  
And, uh, they sent state troopers.  Now, the state troopers were there to guard us, [1:00:00] not 
protect us.  And, uh, we spent the night in the park.  But the next morning, they wanted to search 
all the cars, black people’s cars. 
And that was the one time that I was proudest of the Deacons, because, see, when we 
were on that march, we didn’t have – people wouldn’t let us use the bathroom, we couldn’t drink 
water, we had to provide all our own needs.  So, Mr. Wyre built a latrine on the back of a truck, 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 30 of 39 
 
and he and his wife drove the latrine.  That’s Bernadine’s Mama and Daddy.  The, uh – when we 
came out of that march and headed – I came out of the park and headed toward Baton Rouge, 
they sent me home.  The rest of them headed toward Baton Rouge.  But when I went that way the 
next day, they had tacks as thick as rocks for miles on that walkway, on that road going toward 
Baton Rouge. 
JM:  The Klan had put down all that, all those tacks? 
CA:  Yep. 
FA:  Um-hmm. 
JM:  Did you, um – what was your, um, sense of the Klan in the community after, finally, 
the federal government came in and really came down on them with a lawsuit?  And, uh, did you 
have a sense that things had shifted in an important way, or no? 
FA:  Well, the onliest thing that happened at that point, they was – some of them was 
exposed. 
CA:  That’s right. 
FA:  We knew who they were.  You know, they was identified.  The federal government 
had identified them, because some of them I worked with on my job.  And, uh, some of them 
was my supervisors, people that was over me.  And it’s hard to – you can imagine how tough 
that can be, when you know that your supervisor is a Klansman.  And he is there, and you can 
see him taking up money to send to the – to help the Ku Klux Klan in the fight out here in the 
streets and in the state.  And you’re working there and you have to take all this from your 
supervisor, whatever he tells you, you have to do.  And you’ve got to respect him, whatever – as 
telling you what to do, yeah, you have to respect that.  Because if you don’t do that, then you 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 31 of 39 
 
lose your job and you can’t support your family.  And we have to always keep that in mind, too, 
always keep that in mind, too, at the workplace. 
But one thing about where I worked, regardless of what you did outside the plant, that 
was your business, as long as you were able to report back to work.  They didn’t penalize you for 
what you did outside of the plant.  That’s your business.  You could do – we could do anything 
we wanted to do, as far as our activity for a march.  And they might could [brief unintelligible 
few words] but they couldn’t take your job, but they didn’t do that. 
JM:  Because of the union, really, probably. 
FA:  That’s right.  We had a strong union.  But at that particular time, we had two unions.  
We had a white union and a black union.  And that is some of the things that we were – that they 
should do, is merge and make it one. 
JM:  Through the lawsuit? 
FA:  Yeah.  Yeah.  And that made it – when we all come together, that made things a lot 
easier.  It sure did. 
CA:  It didn’t help education, though. 
JM:  That’s a great point, and I want to ask that in [one minute].  But can I take you 
back?  You were shaking your head a moment ago when asked the question: Did it feel like 
much had changed after the federal government came down on the Klan?  And you were shaking 
your head. 
CA:  No.  No.  In Bogalusa, when they make an announcement [pause], you can tell from 
the location whether black folk can attend.  You’re not welcome.  All they want you to do is 
shop in town. 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 32 of 39 
 
JM:  It’s your sense that, [clears throat] in that most essential way, the community didn’t 
really change through the ’60s and beyond? 
CA:  This town died to keep from changing, literally died.  You can see the street.  Drive 
down the street.  It’s dead. 
FA:  As far as education, to my knowledge, [1:05:00] it’s that – at first it was separate.  
You know, we was getting the books that come from the, uh, white school.  But when we 
integrated, we still was – we’re reading out of the same books, we’re having math and 
everything, it’s the same, but we’re on the same level.  From that point, I think things are better, I 
think things are better. 
But, although we – my last recollection was we are sixty-forty in the school system, black 
kids, sixty percent black, forty percent white.  But we’re not in control of nothing.  You know, 
the school board is predominately white.  The principals and assistant principals and everybody 
in authority is predominantly white.  So, even some of the whites in Bogalusa have sent their 
children to [DeParry].  They won’t even much send them to public schools, because they say 
they can’t get a good education in the system, because they quit teaching.  That’s what is being 
said.  They’ve quit teaching anybody, so they say.  They’ve opened up a lot of private schools 
and they send their kids to private schools because they don’t trust the public school system.  
And by integrating, we’re kind of on the same level, as far as being in the same school, with the 
same books and, you know, all that. 
And it helped the relationship of the young people with each other.  They can see that 
what their parents had told them down through the – that’s not so.  That’s not the kind of people 
they are.  They are good people.  They come from good homes.  They are this, and that 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 33 of 39 
 
relationship with them is a lot better.  And I think that comes from the integration of the school 
system, um-hmm. 
CA:  They, uh, they hired a lot of teachers that are not qualified.  You’ve got – the 
biggest group when you go to a college graduation is the general education people.  And when 
they came out, looked like all of them came to Bogalusa and got hired.  Now, when they first 
desegregated the schools white teachers who could not stand the thought of teaching black kids 
retired.  Some teachers stayed, and they could not stand the thought of teaching black kids and 
they taught the white kids.  They changed the method of teaching.  Teachers used to stand in 
front of the class and teach everybody, and everybody learned.  After desegregation, the teachers 
had to walk up and down the aisle and pay attention to individual students and correct them.  
They did not correct the black kids.  They just continued to go wrong.  Then, they inter, inter, 
invented special education and modern math.  All these things hindered true education. 
FA:  Hmm. 
JM:  Yeah. 
CA:  And it’s still hindered. 
JM:  Do you have any final thoughts, things we haven’t talked about, or Elaine, do you 
have thoughts, any last issues or words? 
Elaine Nichols:  I actually do.  If you could do anything different, if you could change 
anything that you did back then, would you change anything? 
FA:  If I could change anything?  What I would like to see that it comes a time when we 
see each other as a person, as a person, when the race – not the color of their skin, not anything 
to do that – we’ll see a person as a person for what he is.  Therefore, as far as – and that’s what I 
would like to see.  That’s the change I would like to see.  Will I ever see it?  I guess – seems like 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 34 of 39 
 
there’s going to always be racism.  I guess there was racism from the time that the country was 
ever formed.  I believe the [1:10:00] – I can see it every day in the news media.  I can see it 
every day in Bogalusa.  I can see it at the workplace.  What makes it?  I don’t know.  I don’t 
know. 
But I’ll tell you one thing.  We’re going to study and fight to try to make a change.  
We’re going to study and fight to try to make a change.  And all these changes that we have 
made so far, I know it was just the help of the good Lord that kept us here to fight it, because we 
have been in some battles. 
And even much that march to Baton Rouge, it was fights all the way, all the way there.  
And it got so bad at one time, we got halfway there, they wanted us to go – take [Highway] 55 
and go up through McComb, [Mississippi], and, uh, come back home.  And at that particular 
time, we told the state trooper that if we have to die on the highway, we would die the way we 
come down there.  That’s the way we’re going back.  And we decided to come back that way.  
And there was – shots were fired at us coming back.  But we made it back.  We made it back. 
And, uh, that’s – we never did back up for no – regardless of the circumstance, we didn’t 
back up, and I’m just so proud of that.  I’m just so proud of the accomplishments, that I was able 
to work alongside of A.Z. Young, Robert Hicks, and Charles Sims to make a difference in 
Bogalusa and in the state of Louisiana. 
And there were women like myself [FA means his wife] and Mrs. Hicks and Mrs. Jenkins 
that was a part – and Mrs. Wyre – that was a part of this, that were part of – these strong women, 
strong women that made a difference.  Strong women that had their husbands’ backs when they 
[unintelligible few words].  Strong women that protected these children and marched them to 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 35 of 39 
 
school when they were the first blacks to go into the school and were there to protect them while 
their husbands were at work, made sure there was no danger come to them. 
And we’ve definitely got some strong black women in this town, and some of them are 
still in the school system, still fighting to make education better for the blacks and the whites, 
because the black ones is still teaching.  They’re still there teaching, because they know 
everybody needs an education.  Whether you’re black or whether you’re white, you need an 
education.  And the less educated is where you’re basically going to find the Ku Klux Klan, 
because the educated person mostly has more knowledge and education and sense to do the 
things that the less-educated Klansman does.  An educated person is very seldom going to drag 
you down the streets behind a car or lynch you.  They’re not going to do that, but the less 
educated person will. 
And that’s why education is so important.  It is the key.  It is the key to racism, I think.  It 
is the key to America being a better America than it is.  And we need education.  We have to 
strive to have education, whatever we do.  And this – 
EN:  Can I add one other question, based on your response?  A number of people who 
were involved in the civil rights movement have talked about their great disappointment that 
young people have not taken up the banner and found areas where they could create change and 
make a difference themselves.  What’s your thinking about the role of young people today? 
FA:  That is a question that troubles all of us.  I – either – now, some of those young 
people don’t know nothing about the movement, and we do as much as we can to get the history 
out, the same thing y’all are doing now.  And the more knowledgeable they become, hopefully, 
they will get involved in it. 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 36 of 39 
 
But some have said that drugs were planted in the community.  Drugs were planted in the 
community by the policemen and the federal agencies, I’ve been told.  I know it’s here.  How it 
get here?  I don’t know. No black person have no way of getting it here.  And it feeds their drugs 
in the community, and they get hung up on drugs, and that’s all they look for. 
They’ve got these teen pregnancies that there’s no man [1:15:00] in the home, and that 
makes a difference.  That makes a difference, and they’re not doing the things that we figured 
they should be doing to make life better.  Because they get – if they’re trapped in poverty, some 
of them have got where they don’t see no way out.  And for some reason, they think that if they 
could just stay high on drugs, stay in the situation that they are in, that they’re going to survive.  
But that’s, that’s, that’s not what’s going to happen. 
Either you’re going to get your education and you’re going to come out of the situation 
you’re in, or you’re going to die in poverty.  You will not – to be a leader, to help, you have to 
have an education.  You have to have an education.  And these, uh – and some of the young 
blacks that have went on to have an education and they – I think they think if they make a wave, 
it will interfere with their life. 
CA:  They’re scared for the children. 
FA:  If I’m doing pretty good, I’m not going to reach back and help nobody else.  If I’m, 
uh – got a commercial or something, when it comes to athletes, I’m not going to speak out 
against anything.  I’m just going to take the good, easy road for myself and my family.  But 
that’s not the way we were.  That’s not the way the civil rights was based on.  That’s not the way 
Martin Luther King, that’s not the way the rest of us have – A.Z. Young, Fletcher Anderson, 
Robert Hicks – that’s not our thinking.  You’ve got to help somebody else.  You’ve got to help 
somebody else, regardless of – life is not worth living if you can’t think of something you did to 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 37 of 39 
 
make life better for somebody else.  I think we all are put here for a purpose.  That purpose is to 
help life better for yourself and somebody else in your family, to make this world a better place 
to live in than when you found it.  Make it better.  Make it better.  My children are supposed to 
have more than I have.  Their children are supposed to have more than they have.  We’re 
supposed to grow, not sink.  But if some of the blacks stay on drugs they’ve got them where they 
just become stagnated right where they are.  They don’t choose to move.  But, hopefully, through 
what y’all do, through history, through what they can see what the other blacks have achieved 
during their struggle, what’s still left to be achieved, they will step up to the plate and start doing 
something.  I hope I can live to see that day.  I hope I can live to see it. 
JM:  I’ve got one final question. 
FA:  Okay. 
JM:  Um, when you think back on the Bogalusa movement, could it ever have taken the 
form that it did without the real capacity in the community for self-defense? 
FA:  I don’t think so. 
CA:  Me either. 
FA:  I don’t think so.  Because we have to be able to – for the community to see that there 
was somebody going to protect them, that they could go to bed, knowing that somebody was out 
there protecting them, that they wasn’t going to be drug out of their houses, they wasn’t going to 
be killed, their children wasn’t going to be an Emmett Till or those type situations happening to 
them.  And once they knew that, they was able to come out and go to their jobs and come back.  
A lot of them suffered.  A lot of them got laid off.  A lot of them got laid off because they come 
out of the maid business, and some of the – some of them that was the onliest income that they 
had, because some of them didn’t have husbands. 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 38 of 39 
 
CA:  A lot of them. 
FA:  And they suffered, too.  They suffered, too.  But without the Deacons of Defense, 
your question, no, it couldn’t have stood.  The Klan in Washington Parish is as powerful as any 
population in the world.  Population size is strong as any place else in the world, and that still 
exists.  That still exists.  That still exists. 
CA:  Only they got on a three-piece suit, now, and a tie.  That’s the difference in them. 
FA:  But, uh, the fear is gone.  The fear is gone out of black people of the Ku Klux Klan.  
That fear is gone.  There is no more fear there.  The Deacons took the fear out of it, because they 
taught them that the same [clears throat] bullet [1:20:00] that will kill you is the same bullet that 
will kill somebody else.  There’s no difference.  There’s no difference.  But it also shows you 
that you don’t look for trouble; all you do is protect yourself.  Protect yourself.  And, um, so far, 
that’s been happening here.  Yeah.  We have very few killings when we have a black killing a 
white.  Our thing is black on black crime.  We have a lot of that.  We’ve been working with that.  
And there’s not as much here as in other places.  Very seldom it happens here. 
CA:  It used to be if a white killed a white, they’d go through the black community 
beating up the black men.  [Pause] 
FA:  Um-hmm.  And we’ve been able to keep that black-on-black crime down 
tremendously in this city, in this city.  That is one of the things that I think a lot about and I’m 
very proud of, I’m very proud of.  And talking to the young black people is something that we 
constantly do, in our churches, in our communities, and everywhere else to make things better. 
Right now is – Bogalusa is trying to get one YMCA.  You know, they had a black one 
and a white one.  Now, they’re coming together to get one.  [Someone coughs] That’s the first 
time that’s ever been did in the history of Bogalusa.  In all other cities, you probably see just one, 
Cynthia A. Baker and Fletcher Anderson Interview, 5-27-11 
Page 39 of 39 
 
where all go the same one, but here they still got a black one and a white one, and this is 2011.  
This is 2011.  Well, thank the good Lord, thanks the help of the Lord that this is going to bring 
about a change, bring about a change. 
JM:  I really want to thank you both so much on behalf of all the folks involved in the 
project.  It’s been a real privilege and honor to be with you.  Thank you both so much. 
FA:  Thank y’all.  Thank you all. 
CA:  You’re quite welcome. 
FA:  Thank y’all for coming.  Appreciate it. 
[Recording ends at 1:22:09] 
 
END OF INTERVIEW