Date 
October 16, 2020 
Time 
1:50pm 
Interviewer 
Edward Y. Millar 
Interviewee 
Jennifer Martin 
Location 
Ransomville Speedway 
Audio log 
Prepared by: 
Edward Y. Millar 
Collection 
Number 
AFC 2020/013    
The Ransomville Speedway: Dirt Track Workers in Western New York 
 
Archie Green Fellowship Ransomville Speedway Interviews,  
American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fieldnotes 
Pre-Interview 
We arranged for the interview to take place at the Ransomville Speedway offices at the track itself, and 
unfortunately I ended up arriving slightly late. When I arrived Jenn was chatting with two friends and 
longtime patrons of the track who popped by to check in. I setup my gear and bag in the corner near the 
door, and we arrange to have the interview take place at her desk, with the tripod setup with a 
Shotgun/directional style microphone to eliminate background noise (though she also turned off the 
heater to help with that also!) 
Before the interview we walked through how the interview would be structured and the different things 
that we’d try and cover, some guidelines for public recording videos, and talking through and signing off 
on the release forms. 
Interview  
During the interview, we focused on Jennifer’s background working and history with the Ransomville 
Speedway, where she has been working for over two decades. Jennifer came into dirt track racing in 
high school, once moving up to Lockport, and became involved with working at the Ransomville 
Speedway, first through selling 50/50 raffle tickets, then through some writing in the Speedway 
Programs that accompany each race and then organizing Kids Club’ at the track.  
As General Manager (2017), Jennifer explained that she is involved in a wide breadth of activities from 
scheduling and booking races, to ordering supplies and stock, pursuing and securing sponsorships, and 
more. As such, unfortunately there were some things we didn’t end up covering. We focused a good 
portion of the interview on scheduling and the way races are organized and booked, and on her job 
responsibilities as a general manager both within the season and in the off season. 
Post-Interview 
After we finished the interview I took out my camera and took a few photos of Jenn, but with the 
pandemic this year the typical responsibilities / work of her position has shifted considerably, so we also 
talked about working / checking with Tom Stevens for ‘action’ shots of Jenn while she was working. We 
continued to talk after the interview about some of the things that we didn’t cover in the interview itself 
in terms of her responsibilities, including the car shows that she organizes every year, which are now 
back at the Fashion Outlet of Niagara, the major local mall that is frequented by both WNY and Canadian 
shoppers.  
After wrapping up photos, I packed up my gear and headed back to work to copy over the materials 
before the weekend, driving down Dickersonville Road to 104 and back to the museum.