BATON ROUGE FOLKLIFE SURVEY 
AUDIO RECORDING LOG 
 
 Audio Log # 
  
 Photo Log # 
  
 I.D. Form # 
 
 
 Interviewer(s) 
 Maria Zeringue 
Date & Time 
06/18/14 
3:00pm 
 Recording Title (informant or event)                                                               
Brad Dupont, boudin maker and owner of 
Ronnie’s Boudin and Cracklin House #2 
 Location of Interviews 
Ronnie’s Boudin and Cracklin House #2 
9830 Florida Blvd, Baton Rouge, LA 70815   
 Recording Equipment                                                    
 Olympus Digital Recorder DS-4000 
 Format 
WAV. 
 Length of Interviews 
51m 46s 
 
 Note: Due to the location of the interview, which took place in a booth near the 
entrance of the store, there is heavy background noise in this recording. 
 
 
 
0 BTime 
1 BSubject 
2 BInterviewee 
Part I 
 
Brad Dupont 
0:23 
Brad talks about where is grew up. He is from Saint 
Amant area and he has family in Church Point and 
Rayne. His father’s parents are from Acadiana. He 
moved to Baton Rouge because it was the middle point 
between his family and his wife’s family, who are from 
White Castle, LA.  
 
1:14 
 
The current location of Ronnie’s Boudin on Florida Blvd 
is the original #2 location. The original location was in 
Opelousas when Calvin and Henrietta Bellard first 
started Ronnie’s. Their daughter Ginger had the Florida 
Blvd location and then Brad bought this store from 
Ginger and her husband. This location is now the 
flagship store. He has another one in Hammond which 
opened last year in July. He is not related to the 
Bellards.   
 
0 BTime 
1 BSubject 
2 BInterviewee 
1:58 
Brad describes his business: Ronnie’s is “a Cajun 
specialty meat shop that specializes in boudin, cracklin, 
stuffed deboned meat.” Ronnie’s also has daily lunch 
menus. Boudin, cracklin and the homemade sausages 
are biggest sellers in the shop 
 
2:28 
They make about 600 pounds of boudin a day. They 
make steamed pork boudin and smoked boudin. They 
also make crawfish boudin (steamed and smoked) and 
deer boudin (steamed and smoked). 
 
3:00 
Brad talks about winning first place in the specialty 
category at the 2013 Lafayette Boudin Cook-Off with his 
smoked boudin. He describes the contest and how it felt 
to win. 
 
3:50 
Brad and Maria Zeringue (MZ) talk about Acadiana 
being the center of boudin in South LA. “Jennings is the 
boudin capital of the world, and Scott is the boudin 
capital of the universe.” His dad’s family is from this 
area. 
 
4:27 
Brad talks about boudin making in Baton Rouge: “The 
product is already intertwined in the culture here. This is 
a large Cajun culture here in Baton Rouge.” Talking 
about Jerry Lee’s: “Between the two of us we pretty 
much have Baton Rouge covered now.” (for boudin 
production) 
 
5:26 
Other boudin makers in the area: Bergeron’s in Port 
Allen, Benoit’s in Addis.  
 
5:39 
Brad talks about winning the Boudin contest as a Baton 
Rouge boudin-maker. “Any time you can go into the 
area where it’s known for and win…to win it was really 
good.” 
 
6:20 
Winning the contest was good exposure for his 
business throughout the state. 
 
6:32 
Brad talks about his clientele, ranging from local 
customers who come every day to out-of state 
customers from places like Oregon and California. They 
ship boudin around the US from phone orders. Talks 
about his shipping process. 
 
7:32 
Brad talks about the boudin making process from start 
to finish. He also describes what is in boudin. They use 
a hand crank to stuff their boudin and use a natural 
casing. Their meat used in boudin comes from suppliers 
in Carencro and Hammond. 
 
0 BTime 
1 BSubject 
2 BInterviewee 
9:34 
Brad talks about using a hand crank and cost of high 
tech equipment. 
 
10:16 
Brad talks about his preferences of boudin texture, meat 
to rice ratio (heavier on the meat than other makers). 
He likes moist boudin except for the smoked boudin 
which is dryer. He also talks about the process of 
smoking boudin. (He uses pecan wood, moderate heat). 
 
12:13 
Brad discusses his preferred method for cooking 
boudin. He prefers the texture and flavor of boudin 
cooked on a grill. 
 
12:56 
Brad defines a good piece of boudin: good meat portion 
with rice grains not overly cooked. He likes to taste the 
onions and green pepper. And the importance of 
balancing moisture and dryness and finding a good 
texture.  
 
14:02 
Brad has tweaked the recipe over the years from the 
original one made by the Bellards when they had the 
boudin store. It took him about a month to make the 
boudin recipe to his own liking. 
 
15:02 
Brad grew up eating boudin: “it’s been a part of my 
family’s culture since well before my parents were 
born.” The boudin recipe was based off the Bellard’s 
recipe. His goal was to make the flavor consistent for 
making large scale amounts. 
 
15:49 
Brad has created his own season mix that he uses in 
his boudin. He also has a cracklin seasoning mix that 
was created by the original owners. Brad works with 
Targil, a company in Opelousas, which pre-blends the 
seasoning mix that he has created. 
 
16:46 
Brad talks about why he took over the boudin business: 
“I’ve been into cooking my whole life. I’ve cooked family 
meals since I was fourteen years old.” He did a 
specialty jerky before he started making boudin and he 
wanted to be able to sell it so he got into the specialty 
meat business. 
 
0 BTime 
1 BSubject 
2 BInterviewee 
17:34 
Cooking in his family: his paternal grandmother “is an 
old Cajun cook.” His grandmother and grandfather also 
made their own boudin, cracklin, and hogshead cheese. 
Speaking of his grandparents: “growing up in rice farms 
and on farms over in the Rayne and Church Point area, 
which they called the old country” 
 
18:17 
Talks about customer tastes in the Hammond and 
Baton Rouge store. He sells the same products, but the 
water quality is different between the cities. Everything 
else is consistent.  
 
19:12 
Brad discusses boudin balls: he gives a definition and 
how to make them. They are made the same way 
except you have to change the amount of broth you use 
with the boudin balls (which are dryer to hold its shape) 
 
20:10 
Most popular sellers are the smoked boudin and 
cracklin. 
 
20:18 
Brad describes making cracklin and what is it. He also 
talks about the end product, burnt cracklin, stirring 
cracklin for two-hours. They make 1600-2200 pounds of 
cracklin per week. 
 
21:43 
The title of best cracklin in Baton Rouge: “We’ve never 
competed in a competition for it. It’s all word of mouth 
and it’s all customers that are coming in that say it, 
people that we talk to around town… I let the customers 
say it. I don’t actually say it to people that, ‘oh we have 
the best.’ I usually say we have one of the best.” 
 
22:43 
They plan to compete this year at the 2014 Boudin 
Cook-Off in Lafayette, and Brad would like to compete 
in all three categories. They did not place in the 
traditional category last year. 
 
23:09 
He has been in the specialty meat business for three 
and half to four years, but the Ronnie’s store has been 
around for about 14 years. Brad discusses the changes 
when taking over the business. (Making smoked boudin 
is one of them). 
 
23:37 
Brad talks about the economy and sales, which have 
been about the same since he started. MZ asks, “So 
Boudin is economy proof?” Brad responds: “Well it 
could be.” 
 
24:29 
Brad took over the business in 2011 from Ginger 
Bellard (maiden name) and her husband William). 
 
0 BTime 
1 BSubject 
2 BInterviewee 
24:49 
Brad explains the system of meat suppliers and 
wholesale distributors in Louisiana. 
 
25:38 
Brads discusses a typical day in the shop from making 
smoked boudin, rolling boudin, cooking rice, making 
cracklins, cooking daily lunches and the menus. He also 
talks about busy times during the week.  
 
29:28 
Brad and his staff make their sausages in house. He 
talks about the variety of sausages that he makes 
including a brown sugar sausage and the story behind 
it. 
 
30:16 
“When possible we like to try to keep local. I’m a small 
business owner –a local small business owner—we try 
to send other local businesses business as well. He 
uses a local Baton Rouge bread maker for his poboys 
at the Hammond store. 
 
31:00 
Brad talks about how he developed the brown sugar 
sausage recipes. 
 
31:54 
Meat prices have gone up in the last year due to supply 
and demand, the recent pork virus outbreak and large 
companies like McDonalds. Brad has had to have a 
price increase six months ago. “I always joke with 
people when they say, ‘why is cracklin so high?’ 
because of McDonalds.” 
 
35:07 
Brad discusses the advantages of ordering precut meat 
from distibutors and using as much as he can from his 
meat products. 
 
36:57 
Brad talks about the types of beef jerky that he makes. 
One recipe comes from his mother. He used to make 
the jerky while working in the refinery industry. Making 
jerky started out as a hobby for Brad. Dehydration 
versus smoking jerky is also discussed.   
 
40:11 
Brad discusses boudin’s place of importance in 
Louisiana culture. “People grew up on this stuff. Their 
kids like it. Their grandkids like it, so they’re gonna 
continue to come and buy it or they’ll make it for 
themselves.” 
 
42:08 
Having the right seasoning is really important when 
preparing boudin at home.  
 
0 BTime 
1 BSubject 
2 BInterviewee 
42:50 
Rolling boudin takes practice and it can wear on your 
hands from rolling boudin. Brad also discusses busting 
links from time to time.  
 
43:52 
Brad goes over the process of stuffing and casing 
boudin and then rolling them into links.  
 
45:39 
Brad discusses Baton Rouge’s varied food culture and 
his experience as an owner of a food business within 
that culture.  
 
48:47 
The spices are the secret part of the recipes for Brad’s 
boudin and cracklin.  
 
49:00 
Brad discusses the future of his business, expanding, 
and the revitalization of Florida Blvd. “It’s always fried 
something in here. The building is old. It’s an old Cajun 
shop just what we said: We sell Cajun food. It’s an old 
Cajun shop.” “The business has a lot of room for 
growth. It just needs the time to do it.” 
 
51:46 
End of interview.