1 
 
Transcript of Interview with Kyle LeFeve, October 16, 2020 
By Ethan Sharp 
Ethan (00:01): 
Okay. Yeah, we're good. Okay. Today is October 16th, 2020. I'm Ethan Sharp. I'm here in Lexington, 
Kentucky, and I'm here with Kyle LeFeve. And you are in Louisa, right, Kentucky, and Kyle, if you could get 
us started, you know, giving us a little introduction about of yourself and telling us a little bit about your 
background and, you know, your own journey through recovery. 
Kyle (00:30): 
Okay. My name's Kyle LaFeve. I was born in 1985 in Detroit, Michigan. I lived in Detroit most of my life. 
Grew up with fairly normal childhood. And until my early teens, I mean, it was normal for me, but 
everybody's version of normal was different. My father was a biker, and my mom, you know, she was, she 
was a working woman. She died when I was 13 years old, and when she passed away, being raised by a 
steelworker and a biker is, it's a little different, you know. So basically I grew up with drugs in my life at a 
very young age. My dad was an alcoholic, addict. And pretty much, it just progressed through high school, 
you know, started with, started with lighter stuff and just went into harder. As I turned 18, I graduated 
high school. Played varsity hockey and everything else, but the drugs were still involved, drinking, 
everything else was. After that I went through a few jobs, some good ones, some not so good ones. The 
addiction pretty much conquered my life. You know, if I couldn't get high, I wasn't working. Basically in 
my twenties, met my son's mother. Had my son when I was 24. He's 11 now. And through his whole life, 
I've been to prison, spent two years in prison, spent five years in the county jail up in Michigan off, odd 
times, you know what I mean? Here and there. I dabbled with pretty much every drug you could possibly 
think of. When I was 30 years old, my son's mother had passed away due from drug addiction. She had 
developed a weak heart. Her heart gave out on her, and when she passed away, I kind of spiraled 
completely out of control. 
Kyle (02:47): 
I pretty much woke up in Kentucky. Yeah, my brother, I have a half-brother, and he moved down in 
Kentucky when I was probably about 27, 28 years old. That's where my mother, her family was from. So 
they came, my brother came up there. I didn't even know he picked me up. That's how out of my mind I 
was. And he brought me down here and said you're going to get better. Well, me being that drug addict, 
that I am, it doesn't matter where you take me, I can find drugs. Basically within a month of me being in 
Kentucky, I started doing meth and shooting Suboxone, everything you could possibly think of. That led 
to more felony charges down here. I ended up sitting in jail after so long, and in 2016, I came to treatment 
for the first time. 
Kyle (03:48): 
I went through Sanibel phase one. That's part of the ARC program. Went through Sanibel phase two. Well, 
I thought I had it. So I went home. And when I went home, made it a few months. I met who is my wife 
now during that time. We were, we were both sober, and we started dating and we got together then. 
Ethan (04:14): 
You went home to Michigan?  
 
2 
 
Kyle: No, to Letcher County. That's home to me here. Well, I went to, so I went to Letcher County after 
phase one. Met my, who's now my wife, she was just my girlfriend then. And we were both in recovery. 
She was in recovery through Mount Comp, and I was in recovery, just kind of white knuckling it. I ended 
up relapsing, and I ended up convincing her to relapse. Then, it just ended up bad. And so later, later in 
2016, in December of that year, I ended up calling one of my friends, Jason Parsons, who's the regional 
director over me now. I called him and said I need to come back. And I dropped off Theresa, who is my 
wife now, at Karen's, which is here at ARC. 
Kyle (05:05): 
My recovery journey kind of starts where at that point in my life, when I, when I relapsed, after getting 
that head full of recovery and knowing that there was a different life out there for me, when I came to 
treatment this last time at the end of 2016, I knew that I was done. I needed something different, that I 
needed to learn something different, that I needed to be something different. So I went through phase 
one at Sanibel again, went through phase two at Sanibel again. And I was on a UNITE voucher for a 
hundred, for a hundred days. And then I became an intern. I interned at Sanibel for about nine months. 
And then I was given the opportunity as an intern to come open Stone Lodge with another director, Jason 
Damron. So me and him came down here and opened Stone Lodge. 
Kyle (06:05): 
And I continued my internship and through the internship is when I joined the Peer Support Academy. It 
was, it wasn't mandatory. It wasn't something that you had to do back then. But it was something that I 
wanted to do. Me being an addict and knowing how an addict thinks, knowing how an addict feels, 
knowing how, just being able to look at an addict and know what they're going through, because I'm one 
of them made me want to be able to help another addict. You know, it just, it makes more sense to have 
somebody that can relate to you on a level that book knowledge isn't going to give you. You know what I 
mean? It really does help in more ways than most people can even understand. So after I went through 
the Peer Support Academy, which it was a phenomenal experience. You learn, you learn a lot. Most of it, 
most of the peer support that you learn, though, is hands-on experience with the clients, I mean, after I 
graduated the Peer Support Academy. 
Ethan (07:10): 
Can you talk a little bit about how the academy works? 
Kyle (07:14): 
The academy works, what the academy consists of is, there's different sections that you'll go--well, this is 
what it was when I went through--it may have changed. This was a few years ago. When I went through, 
there was different sections. There was four different sections. The first section I believe was recovery, 
recovery knowledge, I believe. And it had different things that you did on the computer that basically you 
told your testimony, you told different aspects of recovery. And it was a lot of videos and a lot of training 
on things that you don't normally know about when you're in addiction, of how to relate to somebody, 
different ways to approach, open-ended questions, stuff like, that helps with conversating. You know what 
I mean? Then the second phase that you, each one lasted about six weeks, and then the second one was 
like a health and safety, where you do your CPR training, where they do your Narcan training, where they 
did all kinds of different--like there's different things that you have to do as a staff member and as a peer 
support when it comes to, like if there's a tornado or if there's biohazard, you know what I mean? Things 
like that. So then there's the health and safety portion. Then after the health and safety portion, then 
3 
 
there's the clinical, which that gets you ready for being able to help when it comes to insurance purposes 
and the level of care for the clients, because the peer support have a say-so in the level of care that the 
client is in. Because they're more apt to open up to a peer support specialist than they are a clinician about 
different things. And so that, that's what the clinical aspect was mainly about was the ASAM scoring and 
stuff like how to properly place somebody in a certain score. 
Ethan (09:00): 
What is, what is the ASAM? I'm sorry. 
Kyle (09:06): 
The ASAM. I forgot exactly what it stands for. 
Ethan (09:07): 
I can look it up, 
Kyle (09:09): 
But what, what that basically does is it tells where the client is at for their level of care. It tells basically, 
okay, If they're in the impact of illness, if they're in a farther stage, if they're ready for, ready for change. 
So on and so forth. That just depends on how the client is doing. It just basically judges, so the insurance 
companies know where to place them as in phase one, phase two, phase three, if they're IOP or internship. 
Ethan (09:39): 
Okay, great. And then--sorry, I interrupted--and then you, and then you were going to, I think there was 
a fourth-- 
Kyle (09:47): 
Yeah, the fourth one was basically everything added up into one. And then it was you basically giving your 
full testimony, your recovery story, going out into public and relating to people and walking. Because you 
have to be able to speak to pretty much anybody as a peer support specialist, being able to talk to, 
approach somebody. There are different challenges that, that it would have, you'd have to go to Walmart 
and find two people, random people, and talk to them, tell them your recovery story. And it was, it was a 
way of opening up. And then you do-- then what, then what they have is at the end of it is, there's a one 
weeklong course. It's the peer support. They do it for staff and interns where you go, and it's a one week 
training. It's a hands-on week training, and that's what gets you certified to become a peer support 
specialist. 
Ethan (10:44): 
Okay, cool. Cool. So you I kind of interrupted you talking about that, but I was very interested to know 
about the academy because that's, you know, the kind of training that ARC provides is really, I think, 
unique and much more than what other folks provide, so I wanted to give you a chance to talk about that. 
Kyle (11:01): 
It, it very much is. Just the actual training that ARC provides, it's the hands-on experience that they're 
giving you while training. I mean, the support they give you and everything that they do in the process, if 
you even have an issue or a problem trying to learn something, ARC will step way out of its bounds to 
4 
 
come in and help you. They, they want you to succeed. And they want you to find the best possible version 
of yourself. They helped me find it, and it took me 31 years. 
Ethan (11:35): 
Yeah. Yeah. No, that is awesome. So you were talking, so you were kind of going through your steps, so 
you went through the internship and then the academy, and then-- 
Kyle (11:46): 
As soon as I got out of the academy, it wasn't long after that I became staff, but I, I didn't, I wasn't, I didn't 
jump into res staff. I went straight to a peer support role. Simply because I was around a long time, and I 
learned very fast. I always have. And when it came to the res staff role, I was able to dual role to where I 
could res staff and peer support. So I went straight into peer support here at Stone Lodge, seeing that this 
was my home, and I helped open it and helped get it started. Went straight into peer support here. And 
that's what I did for a little over a year, nothing but peer support. And people, what people seem to 
struggle with in peer support is, they worry about the documentation. And that's really the easiest part. 
That part is, what people, what people say, it takes an hour. It doesn't. It takes 20 minutes. The hardest 
part about peer support is when you can't relate to a client because you two just don't have that 
connection. And you have to try to form or force that connection to where you can relate to them and try 
to help get through somebody. That's the most frustrating and hardest part about being a peer support 
because you want to help everybody, and the truth of it is, is you can't. You absolutely can't. That's why I 
love ARC's approach to, okay, well, we're going to have multiple peer support on staff. Because everybody 
is different. Where I'm able, able to relate to somebody, well, my other peer support may not be able to 
relate to that person or vice versa, to where that other peer support, if I can't get through to somebody 
or get someone to break down and break that shell, that other peer support may be able to relate to them 
through similar life experiences or things that are going on in their life right now that they may be 
experiencing. 
Kyle (13:45): 
That's why the approach that they take to not just having one person. It's like, basically, if you think of it 
this way, if you go to a therapist and if you go to some facility for a therapist, okay, and you're out, you're, 
you're in outside life, not in treatment, and you get assigned a therapist, you're stuck with that person. 
Well, in treatment, if you have a multitude of people to talk to that are all certified peer support, it's a 
little easier. You know what I mean? It's just that, that's just the logic behind it, and their approach is 
fantastic for it. 
Ethan (14:19): 
Yeah. Could we step back? And so has Stone Lodge sort of always been doing the same thing, sort of intake 
and, and detox. Can you tell a little about Stone Lodge? 
Kyle (14:28): 
When Stone Lodge first started, we, me and Damron, and as an intern, we opened up as a phase two. We 
were a phase two for a long time. I, I peer supported through a phase two. The whole time I was peer 
support was phase two. And then even into the director role, when I took, when I took Stone Lodge over, 
we were still phase two. 
Ethan (14:55): 
5 
 
And phase two, just to clarify for folks, is, how long does it run, and, and sort of where are people at in 
their process? 
Kyle (15:05): 
Phase one is normally anywhere from three weeks to 45 days. So phase two is anywhere from that 45 day 
mark to anywhere to the 90--it all depends on the client, honestly--they can last 30 days, it can last 45 
days. It can last 60 days. It all depends on how the, the client progresses. Now there used to be a big rehab 
stigma that 28 to 30 days was how long you were in treatment. Well, ARC is trying to dissolve that. There 
should be no time limit on somebody to heal. That's why it works. It all depends on the client, their 
progression, and how they're doing. So phase two would roughly be anywhere from 30 to 60 days. 
Ethan (16:01): 
What would be the benchmarks you would look for in a, in a, in a client to move them to phase two? 
Kyle (16:06): 
From phase one to phase two? 
Ethan (16:09): 
Yeah, like what would you expect from a client, to, to make that transition? 
Kyle (16:13): 
Being able and willing to share. Being able to let go of--you can tell when clients are holding something in, 
they're not sharing, if they're not taking their meds. It's a bunch of different things. We get, every single 
day, we gather as a treatment team to decide-- 
Ethan (16:31): 
To decide who goes on? 
New Speaker (16:31): 
Right. All the way down to peer support to clinical, we all sit down and sort through that and figure out 
when that client's ready to transition. 
Ethan (16:45): 
Yeah. I'm sorry. Were you going to add something? 
Kyle (16:49): 
I was gonna say, when they transition from like a phase two to a phase three, now that basically would 
be--see, a phase two is a little different. We still do the treatment team. Not as often as the phase one 
does the treatment team and the phase two, their readiness to change will be more on the client's 
attitude. The eagerness. The way they perform in phase two, because after phase two, if they don't 
perform, phase three is not promised. It's not a guarantee that they're going to get a phase three bed, 
because at my phase two, you had to earn it. That's the way I ran things. I mean, if you, if you want to stay 
and you want to progress in your treatment and progress in your recovery, and like I said, become the 
best possible version of yourself, show me. 
6 
 
Ethan (17:43): 
Right. Right. And so when you were, as a peer support specialist, so you were working that phase two, 
with folks in the phase two stage, and, and just, how does that work? How do you interact with the clients, 
as you've got a team of folks there? Do you have sessions, you work with certain ones? 
Kyle (18:07): 
Well, what we would do is, two hours a day, me and the other peer support would each have, I'd have 
one group. He'd have another group. And what we would do in those in-between times is we would do 
individuals with the clients. As peer support, I mean, it was awesome because it was our job to go out and 
play volleyball with the clients or to spend just time with them, to share experiences with them. That's 
what makes that peer support role that we offer here at ARC so vital, because you're with them, you're 
fighting alongside with them. And in phase two when you see the growth in clients, it releases something 
inside of you that you never knew you had. 
Ethan (18:55): 
Yeah. Yeah. I can imagine. And they also meet with therapists during that time? 
Kyle (18:59): 
Oh yeah. They have their clinicals. Like the way the phase two schedule was set up is, three days a week, 
they would have clinicals. Three days a week, they would have clinicals, and four days a week, we would 
do peer support. 
Ethan (19:15): 
Okay. Okay. So usually, sort of the schedule was you have those group sessions and then meet one-on-
one? 
Kyle (19:25): 
Yeah, you definitely meet one-on-one, and it would be random. I work, me and the other peer support 
specialists would, we would just look on our chart. "I'm gonna talk to him today. I haven't talked to him 
this week." You may only be able to bill for an hour, but you may be sitting there for two hours with 
somebody, just gabbing away. 
Ethan (19:46): 
Yeah. When you were talking about documentation, you meant billing. Is that what you were referring to, 
to write down notes on everyone? 
Kyle (20:00): 
You have to do, like when basically when you do your documentation as a peer sport, the way we do it 
here is, you have your individual note and you have a group note. Okay. And every time you run group, 
you have that group note, and then individual notes you gotta do. They're a little in-depth, but it depends 
on the person too. Sometimes they won't share. 
Ethan (20:24): 
Yeah. But that's one of the things that some peer support specialists wrestle with, right? 
7 
 
Kyle (20:32): 
They, they, what they do is they take it, and then they put it way up here on their worry list, like it will 
take me this long to do this. And really, I get that that's technically one of the most important things that 
we do for the insurance purposes. Me personally, I believe that me sitting there with that client and 
getting him to open up and let go of something that's been destroying him for 20 years of his life is the 
most important part of my job. 
Ethan (21:09): 
Yeah. No, I get it. Yeah. So then when did Stone Lodge transition into what it is today? What was that like? 
Kyle (21:19): 
That was definitely a task. What had happened is, is we knew for, well, I knew for about six months, they 
had told me that we were going to be going to an admission center. From a phase two to an admission 
center, that's a drastic change for everybody involved. Because basically we went from keeping the clients 
and seeing them grow and seeing them, I mean, at a stage in their life to where they're wanting 
progression, wanting advancement, wanting to do something different with themselves to where we're 
getting the clients straight from jail, from the street, straight from detox. And we only have them as an 
admission center for three to seven days. We basically get the clients in now. We get them medically 
cleared. Get all their, their comp assessments done. Their nurse assessments, their treatment plans, their 
individuals. And then we send them to a phase one. That way, when they get to the phase one center that 
they don't have to have all these assessments done, they can start with their recovery. It kind of just gets 
everything out of the way to where they can get somewhere to focus. Now as peer support, because we 
still provide peer support services while they're here, and it's, it's a whole other ball game. Because we, 
like I said, we went from getting clients that were already adapted to wanting to share after going through 
phase one to clients that are completely closed, closed in. So it's a whole other ball game. And because of 
COVID, it makes things even, even harder. 
Ethan (23:00): 
Yeah. Yeah. When did you all change to the intake center? 
Kyle (23:05): 
We switched over in August. 
Ethan (23:08): 
Of last year? 
Kyle (23:08): 
This year. 
Ethan (23:14): 
Oh, this year. Very recent. Okay. Yeah. So yeah, I can see that. So the peer support specialists are, could 
you talk a little bit about more what they do in that situation? They're trying to get them accustomed? 
Kyle (23:27): 
8 
 
Well, basically it's introduction stuff, introduction to recovery. It's not so much as in-depth soul searching 
stuff that we do normally in a phase two or later in a phase one setting. It's more of a, "Hey, this is, this is 
what we're going to do here. Is there anything that you would like to share? Would you like to, would you 
like to talk about anything?" You basically give them the floor and work with what they give you at that 
point. What you want to do is you want to build the relationship to where they feel comfortable talking. 
And if you try to overwhelm them by giving them too much at one time, you're going to overload them, 
overwhelm them, and then they're going to, they're going to shut down. So at this point in the game, it's 
what can we do for you? What would you like to talk about? How can I help you today? You know what I 
mean? And that way it gets them to feel comfortable. It gets them to want to open up. And it's normally 
in little bits because like I said, a lot of times we're getting these clients and they're sick. They're going 
through it. 
Ethan (24:31): 
And so that's kind of what, when we, when I walked through the building, that's kind of what was 
happening upstairs with the, with the guys that were gathered there. Do they kind of stick together when 
they move on to the next phase, those, those groups? 
Kyle (24:50): 
For the most part, yes. It really depends. With all the multiple centers that we have now, it really depends. 
That is not on us. We don't make decisions. Intake is its own separate thing, and they will contact us, 
asking us who's ready to transition. We tell them the names of who's ready to transition. They tell us 
where to take them. 
Ethan (25:13): 
Okay. Just. just to, for the, you know, for folks who might listen to this, so everyone who's coming for 
treatment at ARC goes through your, all the men go through your center, and then they move out to other 
facilities. Is that right? 
Kyle (25:34): 
They move out to the other phase one facilities. In theory, that's how that works right now. We are the 
very first admission center. And we actually have another admission center for men now too. And it's, it's 
trial. We're trying to develop a system that better serves the client to where, when they get to phase one, 
like I said, that they're just ready to focus on their recovery. They're, they're not getting bombarded with 
15 different assessments, and they can relax. We're trying to figure out a system that, that almost it's like 
classification. In this way, when they come to us, say, if there's a facility that has handicap issues, like 
there's too many steps at this facility, or it doesn't have handicap accessible showers, we can say, okay, 
well, this client needs to go to this other facility because of these reasons. Instead of intake picking up the 
phone, not knowing the answers or questions, sending them to where they have to get transferred again. 
And then they feel like they're getting tossed around. 
Ethan (26:40): 
And you have the whole assessment team right there who can make those decisions. And again, how 
many facilities are there within ARC? Like, for the men who come through there, like how many options 
would there be for them, total. There's a bunch, right. 
Kyle (27:07): 
9 
 
Almost 20. It would all depend like I said, the client and what's best for them. 
Ethan (27:15): 
Yeah. And how have you seen the organization grow? I mean, so you've been in, you had your first, you 
know, you went through treatment, what four or five years ago, your first time, and how have you seen 
things change there? 
Kyle (27:33): 
Dramatically, dramatically, and not just, it's not, it's not so much change in the way of the way we do 
things, as the soul of a company. But it's just a lot of change in different like policies and stuff like that. 
Because as any company grows, as any company expands, there's going to be different, there's going to 
be different challenges. There's going to be different things that are, have to be addressed and things that 
can always be improved on. Now as far as growth, when I started with this company, I think there were 
400 employees, now there's 1200. And those are just the employees. And they're doubling in size from 
clients. There was maybe 600 clients--to where in a month, we'll have one center that houses 750 clients. 
So, I mean, we're, as of right now, we're already at a thousand clients with all the centers that we have. I 
mean, they've tripled in size, and with any type of drastic increase in size like that, there's, there's going 
to be changes. There's going to be things that happened within the company, the structuring and 
everything else that you just have to be able to adapt to, and always focus on the client care and the well-
being of the clients and what you can do for those clients. Even though that, even though the corporate 
side, they have their views on things, believe me, they know and understand what we are doing here too. 
Ethan (29:09): 
How many peer support specialists do you have working there now at Stone Lodge? 
Kyle (29:14): 
At Stone Lodge, almost everyone on my staff is peer support certified. The thing that I personally like to 
do, running style, in running a facility, is be able to have everybody trained at every, every job. That way, 
yeah, we all may have labels, like I'm a director, and I may have an office manager, and I may have a 
residential admission specialist, but every one of those can cover everybody's job. For the simple fact that 
it just makes it work like a well-oiled machine. If I have somebody sick, I can call somebody else to come 
in to fill in at that spot. It just make things work, run a lot smoother that way. 
Ethan (29:56): 
So they could come in and run meetings or do whatever. 
Kyle (29:58): 
My office manager, if my peer support has to call off because his kids are sick, my office manager can go 
do the peer support. So can my residential admission specialist. So can my midnights guy. It just, it helps 
in having all those different peer support specialists. It's a different mindset, a different approach, a 
different way that they're going to handle a situation, a different way they're going to handle a client, a 
different way they're going to see things. It makes it definitely a lot easier. 
Ethan (30:30): 
10 
 
Right. And when you were going through your, your, your process of recovery, there were also peer 
support specialists then? Can you talk about maybe how that was for you? 
Kyle (30:43): 
Oh yeah. My peer support specialist, they're great friends to me today. One of them is another director 
at a facility, and I still talk to him all the time. He's actually, he was my sponsor for years. And it's the 
relationship that you build with someone, sometimes with the peer support specialist, is never ending. 
They helped me to want to open up, because like I said, that being able to relate to me on a level of 
understanding that was right there with me, it just takes things to another level. 
Ethan (31:28): 
Yeah. Yeah. Well, just one question on that, this often comes up, is there an issue? Is there a need 
sometimes to clarify differences between sponsor and peer support specialists? Can you talk about that? 
Kyle (31:42): 
Oh yes. In theory, and I'm not sure legally or ethically how this works, if a client comes up to you and asks 
you to be his sponsor as a peer support specialist, you cannot do it. You have information, personal 
information, having access to client charts, so on and so forth, that it's not going to help the client, and 
it's not healthy. You have to sometimes clarify with these clients because they don't understand why. And 
sometimes you have to give them a detailed description of, okay, this is why I can't be your sponsor, but 
I can be your friend. "I'm here to help you, but I can't be your sponsor for these reasons." And it's basically, 
it's cut and dry, I have access to your personal records. It's not healthy for a sponsor to do that, period. 
Ethan (32:39): 
Yeah. Yeah. But they can get, where would they go to find a sponsor? 
Kyle (32:45): 
Well, normally, we would do AA and NA meetings. We take the clients. And like I said, when we take them 
to those meetings, if they find a sponsor there, they're more than willing to be able to call that sponsor. 
Talk to that sponsor. Phase two, we had visits, and we would let the sponsors come visit the clients. Being 
an admission center, we don't take the clients out, and there's certain legal things that we can and can't 
do. As far as letting anybody come see them, especially during COVID, we, we do not, you know, but if 
they have a sponsor when they come in and they would like to call them, we let them call them. 
Ethan (33:28): 
Okay. One other quick question that also comes up. Do you, do you, you know, in your personal recovery, 
do you do outside things that aren't sort of within your job? 
Kyle (33:41): 
Oh yes. Okay. Here's my broad, beautiful mind of recovery and the way I perceive it, everybody's recovery 
is different. Nobody's going to get their recovery the same way as the person sitting next to them. There 
may be similarities. With my recovery, I get my recovery through God. Through my relationships that I 
built in recovery. And believe it or not, the gym. The gym, the gym is my meditation. It's anger 
management. It's my release. It's everything. It's one of the biggest parts of my recovery. I mean, and I 
can't sit here and tell you, I'm not gonna, I'm not gonna lie and tell you that I am an AA or NA guy. I don't 
11 
 
work steps. That's just not something that works for me. And, but like I said, I've tried it. I've put my effort 
in towards it. I said, I had a sponsor. That's probably the wrong word. I had an accountability partner. 
That's the way I did things. Now I may, my accountability partner, he worked the steps. I just, it just wasn't 
for me. I have staff that do work steps. I also have staff that in their recovery, their recovery is more 
religious based. But everybody's recovery, I think that, I hate when people try to take and focus on one 
thing to get their recovery. I think that you should be open-minded and willing to take different things 
from everything for recovery, that way you have different approaches for all kinds of different things. I 
think that recovery comes from a broad band of things, it's not just from one set thing. 
Ethan (35:32): 
Yeah. Yeah. And ARC, in the organization, they're pretty open to that? 
Kyle (35:38): 
ARC's approach is the holistic approach. Mind, body, spirit, and soul, and I fully agree with it without a 
doubt. 
Ethan (35:50): 
Yeah. Well, let me ask these last two questions. So what are some things that like you know, you've 
learned as a peer support specialist that have been really beneficial to you. You may have already touched 
on this, but I just wanted to ask you that in case we missed something. 
Kyle (36:07): 
What I learned the most, that not only helped me, but helped others, is always keep your, always check 
your approach. Your approach is everything. It's everything to that client. It's everything to how you're 
going to be able to get, to talk to the client. It's everything to how even how you speak to other people in 
your day to day life. That first approach, that first encounter is how that person is going to perceive you. 
Ethan (36:40): 
So what would you be sure, certain to do in that first approach? 
Kyle (36:46): 
Always make them feel comfortable and make them make them know that, you know, you can--as a drug 
addict, which I'm a drug addict in recovery, I'm very good at reading people. I know when I see somebody, 
when they walk up, pretty much how to approach them just by their demeanor, the way they come up to 
me. I know I can read what to say to them, how to say it to them. And that's how I take the approach. I 
read that person as I'm approaching them, I look at and see just the type of person they are, and I never 
lie. They may, they may not like what I have to say, but I'm going to tell them in the best way possible. 
And that's the best thing you can do is, never lie. Never, never tell somebody something that's not true. 
As soon as they found out that you lied to them, or that you gave them false information, your credibility 
is gone. 
Ethan (37:47): 
Yeah, yeah. I can see that. And what are some other things that you would like, you know, new peer 
support specialists to know if, if there's not, if there's something that you haven't talked about yet? 
12 
 
Kyle (38:04): 
Relax. Relax. Do not overwhelm yourself. Do not try to take on too much at one time. Always be open, 
mindful and willing. Always be able to sit back and just listen. You don't have to have an answer for 
everything, I promise. 
Ethan (38:23): 
Yeah. That's a good one. So let's, let's talk about maybe some issues or challenges, peer support specialist 
face, and it could be at ARC or it could be what you see maybe, or what you've heard about from other 
places. 
Kyle (38:41): 
I can tell you directly what the problem is. As a behavioral health, we get a lot of clients that are behavioral 
health clients, which as a peer support specialist, sometimes we are not able to be able to get through to 
some of their heads. The biggest challenge that we have is the behavioral health side. Clients, especially 
being an admittance center, if you get a client that hasn't been on his meds for two, three months, that 
isn't in the right frame of mind, that is still high, it's extremely hard to even get two words out of a client 
or even to get them to answer you in a way that makes sense. I mean, that's probably the biggest, that's 
the biggest struggle that you have as an admittance center. Now as a phase two, the biggest struggle that 
you probably have is being able to get a client to open up and be truthful, to be a hundred percent truthful, 
and to let it all go. That's, that's something that just takes time. It takes time, and it takes understanding. 
And like I said, you don't have to have an answer for everything. If you don't know, you tell them, "I don't 
know, but we can find out together." 
Ethan (40:01): 
Right. But are there ever any issues or issues that you've heard about with peer support specialists working 
with therapists? I mean, you know, clashes there or issues with communicating? 
Kyle (40:15): 
Yeah. That's just going to depend on, that's going to depend on the peer support specialist and, like I said, 
the clinician. If the peer support specialist is trying to tell a clinician how to do his job, it's not going to 
work. If the clinician is trying to tell the peer support specialist how to do their job, that's not gonna work. 
Like I said, approach is everything. If you approach that clinician with, hey, I just wanted to bring this up 
to you because they said, you know, in a certain way, then, like I said, that approach is going to be able to 
make a lot of leeway. If you tell that clinician, look, this is what you need to do, cause they're saying this, 
that clinician is going to tell you where to go and how to get there. You know what I mean? There's always 
going to be those type of clashes. Especially if you have a peer support specialist say who is taking, who is 
going to school for their CDAC. They start cracking them books, and sometimes people, they, it goes to 
their head. You got somebody who is in school trying to diagnose a client. Believe me, clinicians will tell 
you, stay in your lane. 
Ethan (41:26): 
Yeah. Yeah. So it just, it takes time sometimes to figure out those roles. 
Kyle (41:30): 
13 
 
But normally, I try to stress to all of my staff, my clinicians, my peer support, that we are a family. You 
know, it makes things easier. Like, I've never had an issue at my center, no. I really have not. Everybody in 
my center is a family. We bend over backwards for each other. We love each other. Our communication's 
flawless. And I'm not going to lie to you: I've heard at other centers where it's nothing but, you know. But 
that's also kind of on the leadership for that. Leadership must amend those. 
Ethan (42:08): 
Yeah. I agree. Well, just to conclude, is they're sort of, how do you see the, sort of the role of peer support 
specialist evolving? You mentioned some people are going on and get getting additional training. How do 
you sort of see the future of the peer support specialist? 
Kyle (42:23): 
I believe the peer support specialist will be right there, right next to the clinical aspect. I believe that it's 
just as important. There is no doubt in my mind that--honest, forgive me, clinicians who read, that hear 
this--just as important and means sometimes more to those clients than the clinical aspects. I believe that 
in time that it will be pretty much perceived as a, almost as a clinical bit, you know what I mean. 
Ethan (43:01): 
An essential piece. 
Kyle (43:01): 
It is essential. There is no doubt in my mind about it. I believe it will be one of the most essential. As peer 
support, you spend more time with the clients than anybody else. 
Ethan (43:14): 
Right. And do you think that they'll, you know, you obviously have a great training program there. Do you, 
do you see training programs improving? You know, is that something you see on the horizon? I don't 
know if you are sort of familiar with what's happening in Kentucky as far as training. 
Kyle (43:33): 
I wouldn't doubt if, not a bit in my mind, if ARC's training program ended up-- 
Ethan (43:42): 
Becoming like a standard. 
Kyle (43:44): 
It would definitely, it would definitely benefit all these other rehabs. I've been to a couple. It wasn't 
nothing that I've experienced here. 
Ethan (43:55): 
Yeah. Yeah. I do hope that your model is something that, that people begin to, to adapt in other places. 
Kyle (44:05): 
I mean, they'd be dumb not to. 
14 
 
Ethan (44:08): 
Yeah. Well, I think just to conclude, cause you've got to move on to other things, but anything else that 
you'd like to add about peer support services, you know, that we haven't touched on? 
Kyle (44:26): 
Not really at this given moment, like I said, relax. We ain't gotta have an answer for everything. And 
approach is everything. That's my motto. 
Ethan (44:38): 
Yeah. That's, that's good. Well, I really appreciate your time, Kyle, and I'll be in touch by email, like I said, 
with the other things. 
Kyle (44:44): 
Okay. Thank you. 
Ethan: 
All right. Take care. Good luck.