AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Ruby Lawson – 3/3/2022 
1 
 
 
Ruby Lawson 
Where: Madison County Public Library 
Date: March 3, 2022 
Location: Berea, KY 
Interviewer: Emily Hilliard 
Transcription: Emily Hilliard 
Length: 43:31 
 
 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Ruby Lawson – 3/3/2022 
2 
 
Ruby Lawson (b. 1943, Madison County, Kentucky) is a retired rural mail carrier in Madison County, 
Kentucky. She began carrying the mail in 1989 and retired from the Postal Service in 2019. She carried 
the same rural route for 22 years. After enduring a rotator cuff injury from the repetitive motion of mail 
delivery, she stopped carrying the mail in 2016 and worked in customer service for the remaining 3 years 
of her career. Lawson was also a member of the National Rural Letter Carrier’s Association. Fellow 
Kentucky rural mail carrier Stephanie Endicott put be in touch with Lawson.   
 
 
 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Ruby Lawson – 3/3/2022 
3 
 
EH: Emily Hilliard 
RL: Ruby Lawson 
 
00:00 
 
EH: Okay, it is March 3, 2022, and I'm in Berea, Kentucky with Ruby Lawson. Why don't you introduce 
yourself and tell me your name, the year you were born, and where you're from. 
 
RL: My name is Ruby Lawson and I'm from Madison County, basically, and I was born in [redacted] 
1943.  
 
EH: Tell me how you became interested in becoming a rural mail carrier? 
 
RL: Well at the time when I became a rural mail carrier, I was a stay-at-home mom. I had worked before 
for some years and I had 2 children and when my second child was born, I decided to stay home. So after 
8 years of stay-at-home mom, I wanted to go back to work and the job offered me at that time, all rural 
carriers or mail people are hired part-time so part-time worked very well for me. The Postal Service 
served me well at that time, I worked part-time and I was home most of the time. And I just, it was for 
some extra money for my kids as they were growing up. And then I worked for 7 years part-time and then 
I became a full-time, as the Postal Service calls it, a regular, and you're in the retirement system and the 
thrift savings and all the benefits. I worked until 19, not 19, I worked until December of 2009 and I 
retired. I was hired in August 1989 so that made me 30 plus years. And I retired as a rural carrier. 
However, (whispers) can I say that? 
 
EH: Yeah! 
 
RL: However, the repetitive motion of getting the mail from your Jeep, putting it in the mail in boxes, as I 
was sitting on the right side, I was always, my left arm was going back and forth and lifting packages and 
getting mail. So therefore I had a shoulder injury, rotator cuff tear, which I thought the good Lord had 
blessed me for good health so I worked longer than I should because I didn't think that that's what was 
happening. So it become a massive tear and I had to have shoulder surgery. And when it was, to that point 
that I couldn't, it wouldn't heal, so then at that point, it was determined that I would have to have a reverse 
shoulder, which I did, and it worked, it's worked very well since. But I was unable at that time to go back 
and carry because I'd carried until 1916, I'm sorry, I keep saying 19 and 16--you fix that! 2016, then I had 
shoulder surgery and then I was off with 2 surgeries repairing and then it was to not to where I could go 
back to work so I did customer service until I retired. That was about 9 months from April of 19 until 
December of 19, then I retired then. The last few months I did customer service. But I would like to say, 
I'll always be a rural carrier and I loved my job. I loved my customers and I hated to give up being a rural 
carrier. If there had any way possible I could have gone back and carried mail, I would have because I 
carried the same route for 22 years. 
 
04:08  
 
EH: Wow. 
 
RL: And I knew my customers, their children, they grew up, they had children and I'd become as I would 
call it, "mailbox friends." "Mailbox families" become like my postal family and became very close to 
some of you with that many years. You got to know them very well because they would come out the box 
to talk to you and you would do things to help them and it was just, in my time, (whispers) in my time, 
customer service was the number 1 priority and so we worked toward serving the customer well and 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Ruby Lawson – 3/3/2022 
4 
 
helping them in a lot of ways and so you could become close with them and you got to know them and 
they trusted you to do your job and to do things for them. And that was my one thing that I valued much, 
that I earned their trust. And that's what we do. My job was to deliver their mail and not to tell them how 
to live their life. Whatever their life was, that wasn't what my job was. My job was coming to deliver your 
mail and that's what I focused on mostly.  
 
05:35  
 
EH: So tell me where you delivered on your route? 
 
RL: I delivered down South Dogwood (whispers) I'll take you there. And then I would go out to 
Cartersville Road and back over to, and in the later years back onto Flat Gap. That was just the last 3 or 4 
years. Then come back up and I go to Angel Road, Angel Spur, all the tributary roads that goes in and 
out, apartments and all that. Then over to Opossum Kingdom and then back again to Wallaceton and a lot 
of boxes. It was normally somewhere around 700 boxes all this time. A lot of apartments and a lot of 
people, packages and a lot of people, businesses. But that was what, that was my job. And then sometimes 
your route would change, it would change at different times. You're only at contractual with the Postal 
Service agreement with the union that you would only carry so many boxes. (clears throat) So that, when 
you got to be past that then they would adjust your route and so therefore, that would change what you 
would serve. So then you would have a few more people and then you would get to know them and serve 
their box. 
 
EH: How many miles was your route? 
 
RL: My route was normally, at most given times, was 40 or 41, 40ish miles or something like that a day. 
 
EH: Why don't you tell me about the landscape on your route. What does the area look like for someone 
who has maybe never been to Madison County? 
 
RL: Well my route was somewhat, it was close in to the city, city of Berea, not all of it. But then, about 
I'd say 50% was out. And then you become into the rural part. And some of the roads, and in the 
wintertime was really hard to navigate because of the snow and the ice and some of 'em was what I would 
call 1 and a half lane roads. As it stood, they were two lane and you would have to get off the side of the 
road, so would they, in order to pass, so you really had to be careful and the curves, they were so steep, 
and it was an area that you had to, always be looking at the big picture of, paying attention what's around 
you, ahead of you, and that because the roads, you would meet people and they're not always driving as 
slow as you are, and they did not always have patience with you that you were gonna stop! And they 
would cut, they would go around you whenever and you'd have to make sure that you didn't pull out when 
they were trying to beat whatever time they were trying to beat. And so you, at all times you were in a 
defensive driving mode, always. And drive carefully. 
 
09:05  
 
EH: Did you ever worry about safety on your route, of any kind? 
 
RL: I never did worry about safety from my customers. I always felt that I had developed a relationship 
with them. That was a goal--good customer service. I had no fear of my customers at all. However, I did 
fear their dogs! 
 
EH: (laughs) 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Ruby Lawson – 3/3/2022 
5 
 
 
RL: They, some of the people lived out in the country where they were not on a leash law or anything. 
They had dogs and you had to be vigilant and you had to, because the dogs were there for their protection 
and so if you, you had to be careful when you got out. Our guideline is to blow your horn and get their 
attention and if they came out and it was okay with them, then it was okay with the dog. But if they 
weren't home, they were guarding that place so you really had to be careful. So the dogs was the biggest 
fear that you would have. 
 
EH: What about other wildlife or livestock encounters on your route? 
 
RL: No, I never encountered any, much, there was just, there was not that much livestock. Very little.  
 
EH: Tell me about your customers--what kind of people did you serve? 
 
10:35  
 
RL: Well you served people of all (sighs) I'm trying to say ranks of life or... 
 
EH: Walks of life? 
 
RL: Yeah. And but for me, it didn't matter what your status was. You were my customer and my job is to 
serve you! And let's see, (whispers) I'm trying not to say it. 
 
EH: You don't need to say names or anything. 
 
RL: Oh I won’t, I don't want to say, well you won't put anything in their 'cause you're gonna type this up, 
right? 
 
EH: Well the interview will be in the archive. Yeah. 
 
RL: (whispers, unintelligible) say it. 
 
EH: Yeah, you want to pause it? 
 
RL: Huh? 
 
EH: You want to pause it? 
 
RL: Yes. 
 
EH: I mean I can edit anything out that you'd like. 
 
RL: That's what I'd like you to do, edit things out--can you do that? Okay. The different people on my 
route, it wasn't, your status had nothing to do with my delivery. I would deliver your mail, your packages, 
regardless of if you lived in a big house or a small house or if you had what I would say, a lot of money, 
or no money. That status. That had nothing to do with how I viewed you as a customer (whispers, 
unintelligible). 
 
EH: What's that? 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Ruby Lawson – 3/3/2022 
6 
 
RL: (whispers) 
 
EH: Yeah, go ahead. 
 
RL: The one thing it is businesses, specifically some of the businesses that needed, one business in 
particular, they didn't have a machine to do their postage so I would take the packages in and affix the 
postage for them and take their change back. They never, and they would give me the money and I'd take 
it, and at no time did they ever question my change because they trusted that I would do it right. And of 
course, I wanted to make sure, so I would take a receipt. But I did that for years for one customer because 
they didn't want to buy the stamp machine. And so pickups, I would pick up the mail and then pick up a 
lot of packages if that's what they wanted. It was all about the customer, what they wanted me to do, and I 
would do what they wanted within the guidelines of the Postal Service.  
 
13:18  
 
EH: Yeah. Tell me about some of the customers that you developed special relationships or friendships 
with? 
 
RL: Well, I am retired now and I still see them out and I have good conversations with them and we do 
talk about, they always will tell, they always say that I served them well and that we were, they felt good 
about my service and communicating with me and a lot of 'em I really like them, you know, as people, 
because I got to know them and so, but I still at this day, see some of them out and have conversations 
with them and I like them and at some point there would be deaths in the family and you really felt bad 
for 'em because you would see them maybe one week, you didn't see them all the time, but you saw them 
a lot of the time, and you'd feel real bad because a customer was no longer there. So, I really enjoyed my 
customers. I liked my job because that's what I like is the people out there and serving the people. 
 
EH: Were there any instances where you helped a customer as you were coming along your route? 
 
RL: Well there are few, we are prohibited from giving assistance, like towing a vehicle, pushing 'em out, 
because of a fear of injury to that person, so as far as that part, we are prohibited from giving personal 
assistance. Occasionally I had given a boost if their battery's down or something, I could do that. Or if 
they had a flat tire, I could call for them or something like that but we were prohibited from doing, 
helping them get out of a ditch or something like that. 
 
15:23  
 
EH: What about instances where a customer helped you? 
 
RL: Yes, that is, they did, as many years as I was on the route, I cannot even count, don't remember the 
flat tires they fixed. Many of them. And I've had them drive up to a customer, and you turn your motor 
off, sit there, deliver it, and come back, it won’t start! I've had people fix tires for me, I've had several, 
well, they would take my battery and go get another battery and fix it and they'd put it in. And I've had 
'em give me boosts, you know my battery would run down for whatever reason. And I had really 
appreciated my customers for their help. There were several that would give me their phone number and 
would go if you have any problem, you call me. And I did have certain people that I would go to if I was 
having problems. Vehicle problems. And they always helped me with whatever situation. It could be your 
back door wouldn't open, you know, it'd be jammed, it'd be different things. But they always would help 
me. I tried to have a good relationship with my customers.  
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Ruby Lawson – 3/3/2022 
7 
 
EH: Did customers ever leave gifts for you in their mailbox? 
 
RL: Customers are allowed to leave gifts up to 20 dollars, but not money. Yes, they did. Sometimes you'd 
get a loaf of sourdough bread. You'd get a, sometimes, lots of times food, that sort of thing. Yes, and at 
Christmas time there'd be certain ones leave it and I really did appreciate that. It was that they thought of 
you. And one thing that I appreciated a lot with my customers, that they thought to do that, when it was 
very hot during the summertime, they would bring bottles of water out and give you, and sometimes it'd 
be frozen and just thawing out enough for you. You'd find a bottle of water in your mailbox or, I, my 
customers, I'd thank them but they had no idea how important it was because it was hot and you had 
already drank all your water and yours was warm and theirs was cold, so I appreciated the gifts of water, 
during the hot time, more than anything. 
 
EH: Nice. So let's talk about the vehicles that you had over the years.  
 
18:07  
 
RL: Over the years I have drove Jeeps, Cherokees, the factory right hand, which made it so much better at 
delivering mail. I'm short, I could not sit in the middle and stretch like some people do. They're lucky 
when their legs are longer and they can, but I had to buy a new one. I had to buy a right-hand [drive]. 
Well, when I bought a new one in '96 I drove it until I retired. I drove it until 2016 but then I kept it until I 
retired and then I sold it to other rural carriers to use. The problem is, your vehicle, you're really hard on 
them. The transmissions go out--the stopping and starting. Brakes go out--stopping and starting. And that 
was your biggest thing. Then after your new vehicle, if you have one, pretty soon, you've gotta have a 
backup. So I ended up having 2 Jeep Cherokees to maintain and insure but I had to have them because 
you never knew what was gonna happen when you went out on the route. And I had, and I'll have to give 
a mechanic a lot of credit. I had 2 mechanics, one that helped me when I was...one helped me, he had a 
little garage and he would fix my vehicle at night. And he had the keys to them and I had, when I called 
him on the route, "Oh please, I'm broke down, come and get me," he'd bring me, he had the keys, he'd 
come get my one that he had fixed and bring it and take my other one back in and fix it. And having a 
good mechanic when you're a rural carrier is really, really important. And I had 2 mechanics, one 
specifically more, and I always appreciated him to this day for helping me because I didn't have to worry 
about anything as long as he was working and I knew that he would come and fix my vehicle, and he did.  
 
EH: Nice. What kind of supplies did you bring along with you in the car? And clothes as well--did you 
bring an extra pair of clothes along in the car with you? 
 
20:24  
 
RL: The thing that I kept in my vehicle mostly was a raincoat. 'Cause no matter how hard it was raining, 
you had your window down and so I would have a raincoat and then sometimes you'd have to change out 
and maybe have 2 because it would soak through. And so anyway (whispers), I shouldn't have said. I had 
always tried to take water. I always had water and a raincoat. And the main thing, I would take snacks. 
Something I could stop at a mailbox and spend a few minutes--stuff like grapes, bananas, cut up apples, 
those sort of things. We had lunchtime but there wasn't often any places to stop to get lunch. And as far as 
that, you had to plan your bathroom breaks. 
 
EH: Yeah! (laughs) 
21:14  
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Ruby Lawson – 3/3/2022 
8 
 
RL: You had to plan your bathroom breaks 'cause--I was lucky enough, I had somewhere but there are 
some people that are not lucky--they really have to work hard at having a bathroom break. But I was 
fortunate that I had somewhere to stop. 
 
EH: What was your favorite part of the job? 
 
RL: The people. My favorite part of the job was the people out there. I enjoyed meeting with the people 
every day. I didn't see every customer every day--I saw them often. But that was my favorite part is the 
people on the job. That's the part about my job I miss is the people. 
 
EH: What about the coworkers--did you develop relationships with your coworkers at the post office? 
 
RL: Yes, I did. I developed a relationship especially with my subs that subbed on my route and I still talk 
to them all the time. We had a good relationship. It became more like we were family other than just 
coworkers and I have had, I got coworkers that I still have a relationship with--we talk all the time and 
we, I did enjoy some of my coworkers.  
 
EH: What would you say were the most unusual pieces of mail you delivered over your career? 
 
RL: Well, one of the pieces of mail that was stressful was a cremated body. I wasn't quite sure that's what 
it was. So some of my customers, I had their phone numbers. They'd say give me your phone, if you need 
help or if you want to call me about something, so I luckily had the phone number because they lived a 
little bit off the road and make sure they're home and so I called them and they said the road was kinda 
bad, said I'll come and get that. I'll meet you here and get that because I knew them well because she said 
that's my son, he was cremated and the body's being shipped. And that was one of the most touching 
things. Most unusual and I thought I delivered everything but that was one that was most unusual.  
 
EH: What was the most challenging aspect of your job? 
 
RL: The most challenging aspects would be road conditions in the wintertime. It's, when you're out in the 
county part, the county just doesn't have time to get to those roads and they were sometimes pretty icy 
and the snow and ice was pretty bad. That is the most challenging. And you'd have curves and narrow 
roads and they didn't have time to get out there and salt them. That's the worst part is the roads. 
 
24:25  
 
EH: How did you deal with snow in the wintertime? 
 
RL: Well, I had a 4-wheel drive. My Jeeps were 4-wheel drive and I will say about the Jeeps, I was lucky 
enough that I only slid off and hit a tree limb one time. I was, I hit the limb of a tree--I was able to, 
somehow, I don't know how I did it but I would, I drove carefully and I used the theory, my Jeep would 
take me wherever I wanted I wanted it to go. But I never asked me to take it anywhere that I didn't think it 
could go. So I was able to navigate it because I tried to know what it was capable of. So I was able to stay 
out of the ditch and so forth except one time. 
 
EH: Do you think the weather changed over the course of your career? 
 
RL: Well, I'm not sure that it has. When I was working the only 2 days that we didn't go out, they 
declared it was too bad to go out. But now I think that it has changed, some of the carriers are not having 
to go out on the road, but we had to go and do what we can. And I've gone out on roads that all you can 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Ruby Lawson – 3/3/2022 
9 
 
do is pray--that you will somehow be able to navigate that weather condition and get back in. And so, 
yeah, I don't think the road's condition, but the system has changed their thinking about "You have to go 
out there no matter what." I think that has changed.  
 
EH: How did your work change since you started in 1989? 
 
26:28  
 
RL: When I, you could do, you somehow might have to be associated with the mail to understand, when I 
started working, everything we did was manual. We did everything manually and then at some point, I 
don't know when, it started being, gradually, some of the stuff was done automatic with machines. 
Manually going to the machines. And then it evolved from the machines, more to machines, and then 
instead of it, you scanned everything. And then you, you required more things to do to a package because 
of the scanning and the confirmation of the delivery and with internet. The internet, I will say, changed 
everything more than anything, where we delivered packages, when I started to the mailbox, they became 
on the internet and people would order from them and the mail volume was much, much more when I 
started and then it later, we got the package volume was more and the mail volume was less because 
people would do a lot of their communication on the internet instead of with the catalogs and so forth.  
 
EH: Tell me about some unusual days on the job--you know if you were delivering on a particular 
important day historically, or an unusual day in what you encountered along the route? 
 
RL: Most of the time it was pretty much the same, the route. You could encounter, you know, like a 
funeral procession. You could encounter a wreck and then you're logged up for a while. Things like that 
would be, or maybe an ambulance would stop and ask you--they couldn't find the house number and 
you're not allowed to give out people's house numbers but the ambulance or the police you can do that. 
But mostly things like that was the most unusual--wrecks or stuff like that. 
 
EH: Did you deliver during the anthrax scare? 
 
RL: (nods) 
 
EH: What was that like? 
 
RL: Well, I did deliver during the anthrax--it was in the back of your mind all the time to be vigilant, 
watch if you saw something that would come out of an envelope or you would be careful to pay very 
close attention to your mail because you're used to working mail and you can work it pretty quickly, but 
when a certain envelope or anything looks suspicious then you had a place to take it for anything that was 
called hazardous and you would place it there and then management would handle it from there on. 
 
EH: What do you think the importance of rural mail carriers are to the communities they serve? 
 
RL: Rural mail carriers are very important. So often the people out there as I learned when I was carrying 
mail, they depend on the mail because even today a lot of 'em don't have internet, they don't have access 
to go and get their medicine. Delivery of medicine is probably one of the most important things and then 
packages. But the medicine and they, some of them are disabled, they don't have vehicles, they cannot get 
to the drugstore and they live far enough out, it is not delivered to them so they have to get it from the 
mail. And so my course of, I delivered a lot of medicine. A lot of people at one time or another needing 
medication and I delivered a lot of medicine. That to me makes it very important to have a rural carrier 
out there that can deliver to people that cannot get into town, have no access or are not able to do that.  
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Ruby Lawson – 3/3/2022 
10 
 
 
EH: Could you walk me through a typical day on the job from when you first get to the post office to 
when you get home at night? 
 
31:24  
 
RL: When you walk in the door, you sometimes if you're a few minutes early, you go to the break room 
and you chit chat with your coworkers and what not. And if not, you go straight to your case. Your case is 
where your mail is and it's built with 3 sides and then that's where you will sort your mail. Everybody 
lives in a little one-inch slot. And everybody lives there because that's where your box is gonna be. You're 
gonna sort your mail in order of delivery. You're gonna put your mail in that slot because it's gonna go in 
this certain box. You sort your mail and you sort your packages and then what the mail people call, you 
pull it down. You get it ready to take out to load in your Jeep. And a lot of people now more than used to 
have LLVs, postal-provided vehicles. When I worked, I had my own vehicle. And you put it in your Jeep 
and you put it in order of delivery. So when you get to that mailbox you've got that person's mail. So then 
you would travel as your designated line of travel and then you would do that for however long it takes 
depending on how much mail you have, maybe 5 or 6 hours to deliver it and 3 or 4 hours to case and 
prepare it. So you could be, just on a regular day, 9 hours a day or something, 10, but when it comes 
Christmastime and all that, you could work 12 or 13 hours a day. That was because the volume was so 
heavy. But then as you're delivering, you pick up the outgoing mail. You pick up packages from 
businesses that want you to pick up their packages and take 'em in and then you do that. Then you go 
back to the post office and you unload and you take it to the designated place because it's gonna go on the 
truck that afternoon to your processing center. So that in short is your day. 
 
EH: Were you a member of the union? 
 
33:47  
 
RL: Yes, I was a member of the union and I was very active in the union. I'm a pro-union person. The 
union is very important to the businesses. I believe in it and I worked with it a lot. The union is, the union 
and contract between the Postal Service and the union is as I always wanted to say, even to management 
when I talked to them about it, the contract is not just for the craft people, it's for management also to 
follow. So that is what I felt was important about the union. Both parties should follow the contract. 
 
EH: And did you become friends with other union brothers and sisters? 
 
RL: Yes, I did. As I worked with some of the meetings, and I become close with some of them and I liked 
working with them because if you had a question and you might not know the answer, you could always 
call them and say, "hey, what about this or that." And they would always be helpful for you. 
 
EH: What kind of things did the union do for you as a worker? 
 
35:05  
 
RL: Well the union was very important at negotiating your salary, health insurance, your time. It would, if 
management would harm a craft person, the union was there to say, to try and work the situation out. So, 
the union is very important. 
 
EH: What are the stories that rural mail carriers tell to each other about your work when you get together? 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Ruby Lawson – 3/3/2022 
11 
 
RL: Well most of the time we don't call names unless--the person usually knows who we're talking about 
even though we never call names. We talk about things, maybe some funny thing that happened on the 
route. Somebody's...and I don't say what but just something funny or it's usually something humorous, 
good spirited. Maybe in the office somebody is you know, said something that is funny or and mostly it 
would be about management! 
 
EH: (laughs) Yeah! 
 
RL: But not always. 
 
EH: Well that's normal. People complain about their bosses everywhere! (laughs) Are there any kinds of 
jokes or language that's particular to the craft? 
 
RL: Well, a rural carrier in my opinion, is one of the best jobs in the Postal Service. It is. And if you're a 
rural carrier, you'll understand how important. I had rather be a rural carrier, I don't know about the other 
crafts, but it's not. There was one joke, well it doesn't matter but I'll tell you anyway. The rural carriers 
would say, and the management said that just, in good spirit, "If you don't want to work, you clerk!" You 
know, and that was coming from a rural carrier. And so we were just saying it in good faith and good 
spirit to a clerk. Because they worked hard, I mean you did. But it had nothing to do with anything, just 
something humorous in the office. 
 
37:30  
 
EH: Let me take a look at my questions here to make sure we've gone through everything. Did the 
landscape along your route change over the years? Like development or farms? 
 
RL: Yes. Actually, it did a lot. In the beginning there was one large farm. A lot of acres. It was a farm 
when I first started. And before I stopped carrying, there was 2 subdivisions. It was developed and it was 
really strange from '89 until '19. But that was one of the biggest things that was a big change was that one 
farm and it had just become, and it happens--sometimes when I'm out and I see some excavating going 
on, and it's a farmland, and most likely it's going to be a subdivision. But that did happen on my route. 
Farms become subdivisions. 
 
EH: Do you remember what kind of farm it was? 
 
RL: It was a working farm. It was just not the land. But they had hay on it. It was mostly that kind of. I 
don't remember that there was any livestock, but it was a working farm for hay and that sort of thing. 
 
39:14  
 
EH: Were there any unique mailboxes on your route? 
 
RL: No, not really. They were pretty normal. Now however, though, when I'm driving along the road, you 
can see, there are, I didn't have any on my route, but I have seen some that, it's looks like a tractor, 'cause 
they're out in the country. They look like a car or something and I have seen some really unique ones but I 
didn't have any on my route. 
 
EH: Did you feel that you were well compensated for your work throughout your career? 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Ruby Lawson – 3/3/2022 
12 
 
RL: Well I was satisfied with my salary. I think so. I have to say, being a letter carrier is a very hard job. 
It's mentally and physically demanding, but I can't say that that wasn't for my benefit too. And I was 
happy, I was satisfied with my salary. 
 
40:36  
 
EH: What do you wish that the general public knew about the work of a rural mail carrier? 
 
RL: As a rural carrier, we do realize that the general public does not know all the work that is involved in 
getting that letter or that package to them. It would be helpful, they would be less likely to complain about 
something if they knew how much work went into that. All the years that I worked, there was people, a 
lot of people come and went, you know, they would, and the thing that most everyone, and I can 
remember would say, "I didn't know you all had to work this hard! Gosh, I didn't know you did all this!" 
And some people would quit. They'd say, "I don't want to do this! It's too hard!" And it would be great if 
everybody has a better idea at what is entailed about being a letter carrier!  
 
EH: What do you think the future holds for rural mail carrying and the post office in general? 
 
RL: I hope that it stays like it is. It would be, as always, it's my opinion, it would be a disaster if it was 
privatized. It would change the landscape of the mail. It needs to always be 6 days, it needs to be like it is, 
but I would just, would not want to see it changed in any way. 
 
EH: Is there anything else you'd like to share that we haven't talked about? 
 
RL: Well, I can't think of anything. You've covered most of what it entails. But I would just, the only 
thing I would say, as we were talking, the last thing, if everybody could know what you do, and be, and a 
lot of people are appreciative of their letter carrier. I found that out when I was working, and be very 
appreciative of that person that gets you that mail every day. 
 
EH: Right, yeah. Well thank you so much! 
 
RL: Well thank you for having me! 
 
EH: Yeah, it was great! 
 
RL: It's been wonderful sharing my experience as a rural letter carrier. 
 
EH: Thank you. 
 
RL: And I'd like to say, as a rural letter carrier, I would never want to do anything else. That was, I loved 
my job and I had a job--I didn't like it as well as this. I would not ever want to be anything. I would not, 
except a rural letter carrier. 
 
EH: That's wonderful--thank you. 
 
43:31  
 
END OF TAPE 
END OF INTERVIEW 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Ruby Lawson – 3/3/2022 
13