Connie Osborne Don Osborne John Salistean Interview Log  
Time Code  Content 
  
  
00:00:00 
Introduction. Connie J. Osborne, H. Don Osborne, and John Salistean from Houchen 
Bindery Ltd., Utica, Nebraska. Interviewed June 4, 2017, at the Roslyn Hotel, Roslyn, 
New York. Interviewed by Whitney Pape, librarian. 
  
  
00:00:36 
Roles: Connie has been with Houchen Bindery for 40 years, since she and Don 
purchased the business.  Connie is presently as assistant CEO and an owner of the 
company.  Don is the CEO of the company and currently helps in whatever capacity he's 
needed.  John has also been with the bindery for 40 years.  He is Vice President, and has 
been responsible for every area of the business over his career.  
  
  
00:02:42 
History: Don and Connie purchased the business May 1, 1977.  The company was 
founded by Irvin Houchen in 1935, in a building owned by his father Dr. Homer 
Houchen, which also housed a drug store and an ice cream shop.  The Osbornes 
purchased the company from Irvin's son, Tom.  John, engaged to their daughter Kim, had 
just finished college and the Osbornes invited him to work with them.  None of the three 
of them knew anything about bookbinding.  The Osbornes’ sons, Damon and Landon, 
also came to work for the bindery.  John and Kim's son Tom has graduated from college 
and is also working for the bindery.  Three generations working together.  All six of Don 
and Connie's grandchildren have worked in the bindery during summers in high school or 
college. 
  
  
00:05:40 
Interest in Industry: Connie saw the bindery as a way to provide for their family in a 
nice community.  When they went to visit the bindery to consider purchasing it, Connie 
thought she was never going to set eyes on the place again. 
  
  
00:06:54 
Mentors: Fritz James was very helpful when they started out, visiting the bindery often.  
Once they started attending Library Binding Institute (LBI) conferences, Jack Bendror 
was also very helpful; he said he was teaching Bookbinding 101 and Connie was 
yearning for knowledge.  The Osbornes have learned from all of their suppliers, and their 
customers, too.  Werner Rebsamen visited the bindery to critique and offer advice for 
improvements.  Connie was invited to serve on the board of the LBI, and she feel they 
would never have survived as a company without it.  She's grateful to Fritz James for 
recommending that they attend a conference back in 1977.  Fritz later confessed to 
Connie that he thought they were never going to make the business a success. 
  
  
00:09:44 
Roles: Connie has also done just about everything and anything in the bindery, even 
though she had no intention of working in the bindery when they bought it.  She had been 
teaching piano.  Her first job was cleaning the bathrooms and she somehow became 
hooked by the business.  She attended conferences and workshops, including a week-long 
conservation workshop at Stanford University.  Connie did sales calls, planned their 
booths for state conventions, planned the parties and events, and planned charitable 
giving.  Looking back, Connie feels she established the culture of the bindery and she 
hopes that culture continues. 
  
  
00:13:43 
Technology: Connie knew from the start that computers were going to have an 
increasingly important role in bindery's production; she learned this from Jerry Flesher of 
Flesher Corporation. 
 
 
00:14:43 
Goals: Connie wanted to establish a very fine bindery with an excellent reputation.  She'd 
like to see the business continue to succeed, even if that means they need to work in 
different formats or develop a new business plan. 
 
 
00:15:59 
Regrets: There were naturally missed opportunities.  If Connie were to do this all again, 
she would have established a timeline for retirement.  She and Don drive out at least once 
a week from Omaha to the bindery, and when she leaves, she wishes she could stay. 
 
 
00:17:22 
Greatest Accomplishment: Connie feels that saving the written word is important, as 
well as providing jobs for families, and helping small town America grow and remain 
vital. 
 
 
00:18:03 
Building and Plant: They have 20 signs overhead describing the 40 steps to binding a 
book, which are very helpful for tours.  There is one remote location in St. Louis in the 
University Bindery where restoration work is done.  They don't refer to themselves as a 
factory, they think of themselves as craftspeople in a service industry. 
 
John adds that the two original buildings totaled less than 20,000 square feet.  They were 
old, at different levels, and needed a lot of work.  They started their first addition in the 
mid-1980s, and the building is now more than 40,000 square feet, much of it constructed 
from modern steel with a functional loading dock.  The older parts of the building now 
have break rooms, offices, and some storage. 
 
 
00:20:13 
Employees: Connie points out that they always use the term "team members," and they 
have many long-term loyal employees supplemented by a summer crew of up to 30 
people.  Employees feel like the business is a family.  22 employees have been with the 
company for 20, 30, or 40 years.  Low unemployment (4%) in the area means that they 
must compete for quality workers, especially in Utica, Nebraska, a town of 800 people. 
 
 
00:21:55 
Changes in Business over Time: They started with 100% library binding. Now closer to 
50/50 between library binding and edition binding. 
 
 
00:22:38 
Interesting Projects: They bound an edition for Tom Smothers of the Smothers 
Brothers.  He came to a gathering at the Osborne's home with the staff and their families 
and performed yo-yo tricks, showing their grandson how to do some tricks. 
 
 
00:23:30 
Greatest Accomplishment: Awarded the Small Business Award in the Omaha area for a 
bindery of their size in 1981. 
 
 
00:23:53 
Changes to Industry: Connie:  the work ethic has changed in small towns.  Young 
people are not looking for summer jobs like they used to either.  The use of computers 
has been a big change as well. 
 
 
00:24:41 
Advice to Next Generation: Connie:  Come to this work only if you love it.  Come 
prepared to diversify.  Come prepared to work hard. 
 
 
00:25:22 
Interest in Industry: Don moved to Omaha to get into the dairy business, but it was in 
decline at the time.  He saw the opportunity to purchase the bindery in the newspaper and 
thought his sales experience with school in the dairy business would serve him well in the 
binding business for school, and the seller promised to teach him the business and 
transfer the customer base to him.  The seller quit soon after selling the business, and the 
customer base was significantly more modest than promised. 
 
 
00:31:01 
Growth of Business: Hard work built their business.  Don did the sales calls and John 
made good on Don's promises. 
 
 
00:32:54 
Mentors: John and Connie worked on the production side, and Fritz James helped them 
improve their quality.  Don Grantham from American Bookbinding Company helped 
quite a bit as well, and Jack Fairfield provided a lot of guidance. 
 
 
00:34:38 
Roles: Don used to have his hands in everything, but responsibilities have been delegated 
to others.  He had to build the volume of business to be able to afford modern binding 
equipment.  They purchased 14 small binderies, and were energetic in sales.  Don was 
traveling 50,000 miles per year.  Customer service involves less travel today, but still 
important to maintain relationships with customers.  The company still picks up and 
delivers shipments with their own trucks and drivers. 
 
 
00:38:22 
Goals: Don was trying to grow a business adequate to provide good jobs and income for 
his children if they had an interest.  He also wanted a solid company after their rocky 
start.  Don took no salary for the first 10 months of owning the business; Connie earned 
$25/week. 
 
 
00:39:55 
Regrets: Don wishes he had moved into edition binding sooner and harder, along with 
other diversification of the business.  The industry is shrinking. 
 
 
00:41:08 
Greatest Accomplishment: Don is proud of the acquisition of all those binderies, and 
they have a few they're interested in currently. 
 
 
00:42:33 
Employees: Don feels that the binding business requires quality-minded, conscientious 
people who want to make a good product and a sales force that doesn't believe their task 
is impossible. 
 
 
00:43:53 
Advice to Next Generation: Don feels the next generation should be prepared for 
change.  Diversify.  Diversify.  Diversify.  Not only the bookbinding, but all businesses.  
Don feels bookbinding is still a very good value, protecting expensive goods for the long 
term. 
 
 
00:45:42 
Mentors: John had two job offers when he graduated from college:  work for the Gallo 
Winery in Los Angeles, California, or work for his father-in-law's bookbinding business 
in Utica, Nebraska.  John's mentors are Don and Connie Osborne, and Fritz James, who 
gave them the advice to join the Library Binding Institute (LBI).  If they hadn't done so, 
John feels the business wouldn't have survived.  Jack Bendror supplied equipment and 
invented machinery and processes that are taken for granted in the industry today.  Jerry 
Flesher's innovations changed the binding business.  Ted Greene with GP2 Technologies 
contributed important innovations in hardcover turning machines.  John Jacobson, Sr. and 
John Jacobson, Jr. with On Demand Machinery made machines that made a world of 
difference.  John also mentions the support they received from Wisdom Adhesives.  Al 
Brooks with Davey Bindery Board Company contributed a great deal to LBI and the sites 
for annual meetings.  John also mentioned Scott Harris, Gane Brothers, Joe Lauricella, 
Dave Robbins, and the Quills at Ecological Fibers, Holliston Mills, Cover Material Sales, 
and Paulymark.  Hank Racette, who wrote the LARS (Library Automated Retrieval 
System) bindery software deserves mention as well.  Other LBI figures who were 
incredibly helpful include Dudley Weiss, the Grauers, the Moyers, Joanne Rock, Deb 
Nolan and especially Werner Rebsamen.  Fellow bookbinders around the country were 
very helpful as well. 
 
 
00:54:45 
Changes in Business over Time: Computers revolutionized the bookbinding business, 
first for the better, then for the worse when they revolutionized the publishing industry. 
 
 
00:55:40 
Goals: John reread the Mission Statement Connie wrote:  "Dedicated to providing high-
quality hard- and soft-cover binding, serving libraries, schools, commercial printers, 
newspapers, we preserve your printed word, we intend to make enough profit to generate 
a fair return for our investors and to finance continued growth and development of quality 
products." 
 
 
00:56:40 
Regrets: They had the opportunity to bid on a contract for the University of Kansas and 
Kansas State, and balked at the condition of purchasing computers for the libraries for the 
LARS software.  They lost the bid, and John wonders how things would be different 
today if they had won that bid and grown their business.   
 
 
00:59:08 
Advice to the Next Generation: John's son is in the business.  John feels that the 
downturn in the library binding industry is matched with increases in expenses 
(healthcare, etc.) for an impact on their profitability.  It's a good, clean business, and there 
will always be some demand for library binding, but John cautions his son against 
counting on great profits. 
 
 
01:01:23 
Roles: Connie made a point of citing John's contribution to the library binding 
community through serving on the board and as president of LBI. 
 
 
01:02:33 
End of interview.