STEVE DAVIS – LOG  
Blush Salon and Make-up Studio 
 
 
INTERVIEWER:    
Candacy Taylor   
INTERVIEWEE:    
Steve Davis 
DATE & TIME:    
September 2, 2012   2:26pm 
LOCATION:  
 
Blush Hair Salon and Make-up Studio 
                     
 
40 S. Main St.   Yardley, PA  19067 
 
RECORDER:  
 
Marantz 661 – 24/96 
LENGTH:  
 
00:52:21 
TRANSCRIPT:      
13 pages  
 
KEY:  
 
 
CT – Candacy Taylor (Interviewer) 
 
 
 
SD – Steve Davis (Interviewee) 
	  
	  
In the hotel I was staying in there was a copy of Philadelphia Magazine and in it hairstylist 
Steve Davis won “Best Colorist.” I happened to have a stylist cancel an appointment with 
me for that day, so I had the afternoon free. Although it was a Sunday morning, I took a 
chance and called Mr. Davis and left a message on his machine asking him if he would be 
available for an interview. He returned my call and said he was at his son’s game but 
afterwards he would meet me at his salon. 
 
I arrived at Blush Salon around 2:30pm. It was confusing a somewhat stressful getting 
there because there are two Blush Salons in the area and I went to the wrong one. 
Fortunately I had left early. I called Mr. Davis and he said his salon is located in Yardley, a 
suburb of Philadelphia. I rushed over in the rain and arrived about 10 minutes late and he 
was there, waiting patiently. Blush is a beautiful, upscale salon with a glass chandelier, a 
make-up counter, jeweled sconces on the wall and a huge flower arrangement on the 
reception desk. The salon was closed that day so we conducted the interview in the 
reception area. Mr. Davis was extremely professional and had a lot to share about 
coloring hair and the chemicals used in the salon. This was the only salon owner I 
interviewed that offered health insurance and retirement benefits for its employees. I 
was mindful of Mr. Davis’ time since it was technically his day off and he had planned to 
spend the day with his son, but he was very gracious. The interview lasted approximately 
and hour. I took photographs afterwards and left by 4pm.