Civil Rights History Project 
Interview completed by the Southern Oral History Program 
under contract to the 
Smithsonian Institution’s National Museum of African American History & Culture 
and the Library of Congress, 2013 
 
 
Interviewee:  
 
Robert Clark 
Interview Date: 
 
March 14, 2013 
Location: 
Pickens, Mississippi 
Interviewer: 
 
 
John Dittmer 
Videographer:  
 
John Bishop 
Length: 
 
 
01:58:24  
 
[Sound quality is uneven throughout the interview, almost as though the recording is 
voice-activated, and there is quite a bit of static.] 
John Bishop: We’re on. 
John Dittmer: Today is Thursday, March fourteenth, 2013. My name is John Dittmer, and 
I am here in Pickens, Mississippi, with videographer John Bishop to interview Mr. Robert Clark, 
the first African American to be elected to the Mississippi House of Representatives in the 
twentieth century. This interview will become part of the Smithsonian’s National Museum of 
African American History and Culture in Washington, D.C. Representative Clark, we are 
delighted to be here today and we thank you for taking the time to talk with us. 
Robert Clark: It’s a pleasure to have both of you here today. 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
2 
JD: Well, thank you. I usually begin the interview by asking the participant to talk about 
their family, and I’ll do that, but I’m going to start this one by asking you to talk about this house 
that we’re in now. 
RC: This house—I was born in this house. My father built this house approximately a 
hundred years ago, and this is the only address that I have ever had. I have never left this place. 
JD: Tell us about the history of the house and the family. 
RC: Well, my great-grandparents were slaves on this same property that we own today. 
And after slavery, my great-grandfather’s former slave master sold him the property, and it has 
been in the family ever since. And when I was growing up, I felt like I wanted to go to Chicago 
or, like everybody else was doing, leave Mississippi. But after I graduated from twelfth grade, 
my father, who was living here then, and my mother had deceased, and my older aunt—my 
father said, “Me and Sister Annie want to see you.” 
Well, I got really afraid. I didn’t know what they wanted. So, finally, I made my mind up. 
I said, “Daddy, let’s go over home and see what you and Sister want.” And I drove our [2:23] car 
over there, and we got to the gate. I thought I was afraid before, but I really was nervous and was 
shaking. So, when I walked in, she was standing over the stove. Now, I really thought some girl 
had told a story on me and had said I had impregnated her. [Laughter] Well, I knew that wasn’t 
true! [Laughter] 
So, my father said, “Sister Annie, here this boy is.” She said, “Boy, when you go to 
school and finish, we want you to come back home and take care of the family property.” “Oh, 
no, not me! You know I don’t like the country! You know I can’t stand the filth!” I put up a 
strong argument, but my father and my aunt never said a word. So, finally, when I had argued all 
I could, I said, “I don’t want to, but if y’all want me to, I will.” And she said, “We do.” [Laughs] 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
3 
And that’s how I wound up coming back home and being on this place where, as I said 
earlier, my great-grandparents were slaves right on this plantation. This is the plantation where 
they were slaves. 
JD: Did you have brothers and sisters? 
RC: Yes, I had one brother and one sister by my father’s first marriage. Then after my 
mother died, my father married again, and he had another son. But my sister, you know, saw fit 
to go to the big city and bright lights. She went to California, then Chicago, and she finally 
wound up and she’s still living in Las Vegas now. 
JD: Oh, wow! 
RC: But my brother left home to go to school in Memphis, high school, because we had 
no high school for African Americans then. High schools was only in the little towns, Durant or 
Lexington, but you had to board to go to school there. So, after my brother went to Yazoo City 
School [0:05:00] for ninth grade, staying with an aunt of ours, he decided to go to Memphis and 
stay with an uncle of ours and go to high school at Booker T. Washington. 
JD: Ah. 
RC: So, he did, and he never came back home. 
JD: Oh, so you were the one? 
RC: Yes. 
JD: You were the one. I’m going to read you something, a quote. Jack Bass, in his 
foreword to Melany Neilson’s book about your campaigns for Congress, begins with this 
sentence: “As an eleven-year-old black youth in Holmes County, Robert Clark was jailed with 
his father, who was arrested on murder charges. The boy was released the next day. A white 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
4 
lawyer in the county seat of Lexington defended the father and won an acquittal on the grounds 
of self-defense. The year was 1940.” Wow! Tell us about that. 
RC: [Laughs] Well, that is exactly right. I didn’t know anything about what was going 
on. But we know we had lots of law enforcement officials here, and they not only carried me to 
jail and locked me up overnight, but they carried my brother to jail and locked him up. They 
locked both of us up. 
JD: Well, tell us what happened. Why were they out here? 
RC: Well, they had found an individual dead about a couple of miles from here, not on 
our property, but off of our property. And they suspicioned that it was my father. 
JD: Oh. 
RC: But I—you know, I was so small and young and I didn’t know what was going on. 
JD: So, he was acquitted. 
RC: Yes. 
JD: But you spent—why did—why do you think they put you in jail, too? 
RC: Well, they not only put me in jail. My older brother—they put us in jail, also. I really 
think they were just trying to intimidate us by putting us in jail. You know, in nineteen and forty, 
at that time, I was 12 years old. [Laughs] 
JD: Wow. Wow, what a—I assume that there—most of the time was somewhat calmer 
than that, though. Tell us what it was like growing up here. 
RC: Well, growing up here, we grew up on our own place, and I can truthfully say I 
never worked on a plantation one day in my life. I never worked in a white man’s cotton field 
one day in my life. But because we grew up on our place, a lots of blacks, most of the blacks, 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
5 
looked at us as being different. And I’ve always told them, “I’m no different than you. All of us 
is one and the same. You are just as much as I am.” 
And growing up here, we had to go to school. That was no “if and and.” School terms 
may have been four months or five months. It all depends up on how early you got the cotton out 
of the field before school would start, because the white man did not want the black children on 
his plantation leaving the cotton field to go to school. And it all depended, in the spring of the 
year, on the temperature. If it got warm, then school closed, because you went to the field and 
you sprouted and you knocked stalks and what have you. So, I grew up with a four-to-five-month 
school in grammar school. 
JD: Where did you go to school? Where was the school? 
RC: I went to school Sallis Flat. That’s three miles this way. 
JD: How did you get there? 
RC: I had to walk there. Rain, sleet, or snow, we had to walk. And when my aunts taught 
the school west of here, Holy City, which was two-and-a-half miles, we went to school there for 
two years. But we had to—we could go through the field [0:10:00] and, if it didn’t rain, and get 
there. But if it rained, we had to go around the road to get there, which was three-and-a-half 
miles. 
JD: Wow. 
RC: But one of the things my mother made sure, that rain, sleet, or snow, that we never 
missed a day out of school. And since you asked about that, the white children would be riding 
busses, and they’d come by throwing spitballs out after us. So I, you know, would get off behind 
my uncle and aunt, who were schoolteachers, and I would get a pocket of gravels. And when 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
6 
they would throw those spitballs off after me, then I’d throw those gravels back after them. 
[Laughter] 
But I am proud to say at least two of those individuals have come to my house and have 
sat right here in this same room where we are today, asking me for my help, to help them. Yes, I 
helped them. I didn’t hold it against them. But I did not forget to remember, “Do you remember 
throwing your spitballs off after me?” [Laughs] 
JD: Bet that made them a little uncomfortable, didn’t it? 
RC: They would just laugh it off. 
JD: Yeah, yeah. 
RC: Um-hmm. 
JD: Was this a one-room schoolhouse? Would you have one teacher or more than one 
teacher in your school? 
RC: It was two teachers. Two teachers. 
JD: Eight grades? 
RC: Two teachers, eighth grade, and that was it. Now, that was high school—I mean, that 
was grammar school. But after high school, you had to board off from home, because there was 
no busses to get African American children to school. 
JD: Now, how far away was the high school from here? 
RC: Um, 16 miles to Lexington. The next one, 24, Durant. Now, my first year, my uncle 
became the principal of Mount Olive Vocational High School. That was north of Lexington. My 
ninth grade year, I stayed there in the teachers’ home. But his family was multiplying very, you 
know, rapidly, and there wasn’t enough room for me to stay there. So, then, my tenth grade year, 
I enrolled in the Holmes County Training School, which is now Williams-Sullivan at Durant. 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
7 
JD: Yeah. 
RC: But every Monday morning, rain, sleet, or snow, I stepped off of that porch headed 
to Pickens, just like I’m headed to my car shed or carport, headed to Pickens to catch that 2:00 
a.m. train to get to Durant. 
JD: Uh, wow! 
RC: Rain, sleet, or snow. 
JD: You know, there—that is amazing, but also probably most of the people, kids you 
knew, didn’t go to high school, did they? 
RC: They didn’t go to high school. They did not go. 
JD: But your parents really were insisting that you were going to do? 
RC: They insisted that I was going to go. And after, you know, when I was third or fourth 
grade, oh yes, if it had not been for them, I would have dropped out of school. But after, you 
know, I had reached that age, I was determined that I was going to get an education. 
JD: So, here on—what did you do? Did you have cattle, hogs, cotton? 
RC: We had cattle, we had hogs, we had chickens, we had turkeys, we had geese, and of 
course, we had the horses and mules—the horses and mules to pull the wagon and to pull the 
plow. And I started to making a full day in the field when I was seven years old. 
JD: Wow. 
RC: Plowing when I was seven years old. 
JD: Growing up in a hurry. [Laughs] 
RC: And I had to reach up for the plow handles. 
JD: Wow. 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
8 
RC: It was over my head. And I can remember them—they’d always give the youngest 
person what they called their old hag. That’s, you know, an older mule or horse. And the old 
horse that they gave me when I first started, she didn’t walk. She just trotted very fast. [Laughs] 
And I can remember [0:15:00] one day when I was plowing, and the plow hit a stump, and the 
handle went up and hit me under the cheek and knocked me flat of my back. 
JD: Oh, my goodness! 
RC: Yes. 
JD: Oh! 
RC: But one thing I did—I knew. I knew that we had our farm, but I knew I was not 
going to farm for a living. 
JD: Yeah, yeah. 
RC: But when I—when I went to college, my aunts was farming. They had never been 
married. As quick as I’d get out of college, I would come home and take care of their crops for 
them. 
JD: Um-hmm. How many acres did you have here? 
RC: It’s 228 acres in the family place. 
JD: Oh, that’s a good-sized plot. 
RC: 228 acres in the family place, and I have bought 82 acres surrounding the family 
place, which was originally—all of it was in the family. But some of it had gotten out of the 
family by some of the individuals dying and their spouses marrying again, and it got out of the 
family. 
JD: Yeah. What was—was religion very important in your life? Education certainly was. 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
9 
RC: Religion was very, very important. It was very, very important. And frankly 
speaking, I confessed Christ at three-and-a-half years old. And individuals asked my mother, 
said, “Elaine, you going let that boy join the church and be baptized?” She said, “Yes! He knows 
what he’s doing,” and that was the truth. If my mother had not allowed me to join the church and 
be baptized, that would have been a tragic mistake. 
JD: Yeah. 
RC: Because that—what I got at three-and-a-half years old has carried me thus far. 
JD: Wow. 
RC: [Laughs] 
JD: Where did you go to church? 
RC: Pleasant Green. That’s a little church about two miles from here, a little wooden 
church. We’re trying to rebuild a brick church. 
JD: Oh? 
RC: The only reason we have not rebuilt because my grandfather, when they built the 
church, you know, the white folks just let them build on their land and, you know, they built 
there. But we can’t—we had no deeds to it. 
JD: Yeah. 
RC: So, we can’t rebuild there without deeds. 
JD: Oh, I see. 
RC: So, we’re going to rebuild the church, Pleasant Green. 
JD: So, you said, I believe, that you didn’t have many experiences with whites growing 
up, that you were not on a plantation, that you were going to separate schools. Tell us a little bit 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
10 
about what segregation was like in this part of the world. Where did you become aware that there 
were two different ways of doing things? 
RC: Well, my mother always told me and my brother, when we would leave here riding 
our horses, going to Ebenezer—every time she would tell us, said, “Now, y’all, you all is just as 
much as those white boys.” She would call their names. She said, “But you can’t do this, you 
can’t do that.” She’d say, “It’s not right, but that’s the law and that’s what you’ve got to do.” 
And I’ve been knowing, you know, segregation all of my life, because since I was large 
enough, my folks taught me. And I had a grandfather, my father’s father, who was a slave in 
Hinds County, and he was eleven years old at Emancipation. And he told me about him never 
have worn a pair of pants until after slavery. He always wore something like a dress or a gown. 
But when I got, you know, too large for them to carry me to church at night because I’d go to 
sleep, and he was too old to walk to church at night, and when I was not large enough to go to 
the field, and he was too old to go to the field, then they would leave him at home with me. But 
he told me as a child what slavery was like. [0:20:00] And he says, “Young man, things is going 
to be better, but young men like you is going to have to grow up and make a difference.” 
JD: Oh. 
RC: So— 
JD: Wow, you had that from the very beginning. 
RC: That from the very beginning. 
JD: So, when you and your brother rode your horses into Ebenezer, what did you find 
there? What was the town like? And what did you have to be careful about? 
RC: Well, you had to be careful about that you didn’t make any—infuriate any white 
person. You didn’t say “yes” and “no” to any white person. You made sure you didn’t look at a 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
11 
white lady. If she was coming, you’d turn your head, because they may get upset about you 
looking at her. 
JD: Yeah. 
RC: And she, you know, she always told us—and, you know, we adhered to what she 
said. And I always knew—and that’s one of the problems that we have today and that’s one of 
the things I’m going to be spending the rest of my life to work on. Many African Americans 
don’t know who they are. Some African Americans right now, if a child is smart and doing well 
in his books, they’ll tell him, “You’re trying to act like you’re white,” see, and that’s one of the 
things that we’ve got to get rid of. 
JD: Yeah. 
RC: But this is something I have known all of my life: that I was equal to anybody. I’m 
not as smart as anybody, but I’m equal to anybody. [Laughs] 
JD: When you finished high school, then, you decided to go on to college, and even 
fewer blacks were going to college at that point. And you chose Jackson State, which is a good 
distance from here but still within the state, within a couple of hours drive. But tell us what it 
was like, your decision to go there, and what was Jackson State like just after World War II? 
RC: First of all, let me tell you my first choice was Tougaloo, because I wanted to be a 
lawyer. You may have heard of Perry Howard. 
JD: Oh, yes. 
RC: Perry Howard lived north of here, between here and Ebenezer. And I always wanted 
to be a lawyer and I thought I had to major in pre-law to be a lawyer. And I wanted to enroll at 
Tougaloo, but I wanted to be—had to be a work-aid student, and Tougaloo told me that it would 
take me eight years to graduate if I did work-aid student. So, I decided to go to Jackson College. 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
12 
That’s where my father had gone and some of my other folks. And my uncle wanted me to go to 
Alcorn. That’s where my uncle had gone. But I know I didn’t want nothing that had farming, so I 
didn’t go to Alcorn. 
So, I went over to my aunt’s house, the one I was telling you about. They gave me, I 
think, a dollar and a quarter. I came back by, went down to my Uncle Lewis’s house—that’s a 
grand-uncle of mine—and he gave me a dollar and fifty cents. So, I left here, headed to Jackson 
College—it was Jackson College for Negro Teachers at that time—with less than five dollars in 
my pocket. 
JD: Wow. 
RC: And I left here, walking, walking to Pickens. Walked to Pickens, caught the bus, the 
Trailways bus, and rode into Jackson. Then, I caught the Ten Lynch Mill Street bus and rode out 
to Jackson College. So, when I got out to Jackson College and I got ready to enroll, I told them, 
“I want to be a work-aid. I want to work my way. I don’t have any money.” They said, “It takes 
money to go to Jackson State. If you ain’t got no money, call your folks and tell your folks to 
come get you.” I said, “Well, my folks don’t have a phone.” “Well, call a neighbor.” “Well, not 
any of my neighbors have a phone.” 
So, they said, “We’re going put you up for the night. But if you ain’t got no money when 
you get back here tomorrow, you’re going have to go home.” Alright, all the other students, you 
know, who went to register, they got the meal ticket, but I went back to the barracks, Room 205, 
where they assigned me, and I stayed there all day. [0:25:00] No food. 
So, the next morning, the other kids is getting up, going to the dining hall. But I got up 
and went to the registrar’s office and I was sitting there, reading the registrar’s paper, when the 
registrar came in. And the registrar said, “You have any money today?” I said, “No, sir, I don’t.” 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
13 
He said, “Well, we’re going to send you down to the president’s office.” So, we went—they sent 
me down to Dr. Reddix’s office. 
When I walked into his office, he said, “Young man, I understand you’re wanting to go to 
college and don’t have no money.” I said, “Yes, sir, that’s right.” “Don’t you know it takes 
money to go to college?” I said, “Yes, sir, I know that.” He said, “Well, I tell you what, young 
man. You can lead a horse to the water, but you can’t make him drink.” He said, “Now, we’re 
going give you a chance to get an education, but we can’t get—well, we can’t make you get one, 
but we’re going to make sure we bump your head against the wall.” 
So, what he worked out then was to—I could work with the custodians on the yard for 
twenty-five cents an hour. That would pay for half of my tuition. And the other half, I had a job 
of moving the garbage out of the women’s dormitories, two women’s dormitories. And as God 
would have it to be, you know, I went through that year. 
And I participated in basketball. Alright, I’m a fox hunter, and we used—you know, have 
followed the dogs all across the woods at night. And I went out for track, and they asked me, 
“What do you run?” Well, I didn’t know anything about no two-twenty, four-forty, or anything 
like that, and I said, “Track!” [Laughter] They said louder, “What do you run?” I said, “Track!” I 
was saying that because I didn’t want to tell them I didn’t know. 
They said, “Well, we’re going see what you run.” So, then they put me into—you know, 
started me out, and I outran everybody in everything except the hundred-yard dash. [Laughter] 
So, we got the conference championship that year in track. And then, after that year, I was the 
first person to get a track scholarship at Jackson State University, a full-time track scholarship. 
JD: That’s a very interesting story about what you had to go through just to be able to be 
there. 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
14 
RC: That’s right. 
JD: What were your favorite subjects? Now, you said you wanted to be a lawyer. Was 
that still your ambition now? 
RC: Well, I wanted to be a lawyer. And the dean of students called me into her office one 
day, and she pulled her eyeglasses off and leaned over. And she said, “Young man, I see where 
you want to be a lawyer.” I said, “Yes, ma’am.” And she put her finger so close to my nostrils 
until you couldn’t get a strand of cat hair between them. She said, “We are not going to let you 
use the teaching profession to become a lawyer! And if you want to become a lawyer, you pack 
your duds and get away from here!” 
JD: Ugh! 
RC: And I went back home, went back to the dormitory, and packed my clothes—she 
said “duds”—but they never called me back. And, you know, after they didn’t call me back, in a 
week or so, I unpacked them and just went on. [Laughter] But I didn’t have anyone to tell me 
that I could have been a lawyer without majoring in pre-law. 
JD: So, you decided to become a teacher then? 
RC: Yes, sir, I decided to become a teacher because that’s all, practically all an African 
American could do at that time, other than being a janitor or going to the field. 
JD: Yeah. I see here where you left Jackson State before you actually graduated to teach 
second grade in Durant and that you graduated in 1963. 
RC: 1953. 
JD: 1953— 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
15 
JD: Before you graduated to teach. Did you need the money? Or you wanted the 
experience? 
RC: No, sir. No, sir, [0:30:00] let me tell you what happened. They had, during my junior 
year, they implemented a program in health and physical education. And the dean, Dean H. T. 
Sampson, set up a program for five of us. And we could, you know, graduate and get our degree 
in health and physical education, but we’d have to go back to school that summer. So, it was four 
men, four males, and one lady. And the lady met me on campus one day and said, “Hey, we’re 
going to have to be here for five years!” I said, “What do you mean we’re going to have to be 
here for five years?” She said, “That’s what Dean Sampson say.” 
So, I went to Dean Sampson’s office. I said, “Dean, I have the grade point average. I have 
passed all of the tests and I have done everything. I have met all of the requirements that you set 
up.” He said, “Well, Clark, I’m sorry. I can’t set up a program for one student. But I can set up a 
program for five.” So, when he said that I was going to have to stay there that fifth year, that’s 
when I dropped out of school. See, we were on quarters. 
JD: Yeah. 
RC: And that’s when I dropped out of school, at the end of the fall quarter. And I—Mr. 
Sullivan, where I finished high school, hired me to teach there. So, that was the reason that I 
dropped out. I wasn’t going to stay there five years, because when you be there, you know, and 
students that have stayed there, and when they come back on the campus and see you there when 
they come back to a basketball game, “Hey, Grandpa!” 
JD: [Laughs] Yeah! 
RC: “Hey, Grandma!” [Laughs] 
JD: Yeah, I see. 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
16 
RC: But I had not flunked a thing. 
JD: No, no. So, you didn’t get your degree then? 
RC: I did go back and get my degree there. 
JD: A year later, in 1954—well, two years later in—well, two events. One was the Brown 
versus Board of Education decision that came down in ’54. What was the word around the 
community then? Was that—a lot of publicity nationally about school integration. What was 
happening here? 
RC: The word was “Segregation now and segregation forever,” and that was it. And they 
did not believe that Brown versus the Board of Education—they did not believe that they was 
going to have to adhere to it. And any individual that acted in a manner where they believed in 
that, those individuals was immediately released. 
JD: Yeah. 
RC: For example, over in the Delta, when I was teaching school over in Louise, we had 
an eight-month school. But your first six weeks or two months would be half-days, and then, in 
the spring of the year, your last two months or six weeks would be a half-day. Because in the fall 
of the year, they’d be going home to pick cotton, and in the spring of the year, they’d be going 
home to go to the field. 
JD: Yeah. 
RC: So, when I had taught over in Louise for seven years, the superintendent of 
education sent for me to come to his office one afternoon after school. And I went to his office 
and said, “Yes, sir, Mr. Brown. I understand you want to see me.” He said, “Yes. I heard that you 
said it would be alright for white children and black children to go to school together.” 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
17 
I said, “Yes, sir, Mr. Brown, I did say that. And I said that the white parents need to 
explain to their children that it’s fine, and the black parents need to explain to their children that 
it’s fine.” He said, “You really believe that, huh?” I said, “Yes, sir.” He got up, [0:35:00] put his 
hat on, walked out of his office and left me sitting there in his office. But at the end of the school 
term, I got a message that I was no longer needed in the school system. 
JD: So, just because you said that, you were fired? 
RC: Um-hmm, um-hmm. 
JD: Well, this was a tough time, because the next year, in 1955, Emmett Till was 
murdered. 
RC: Um-hmm. 
JD: Talk about your recollections of that and how you felt. 
RC: Well, I knew it was wrong. During the time that Emmett Till was murdered, I was, 
you know, a high school official and a college official also. We were at the fall conference, 
getting ready, workshops for the Southwestern Athletic Conference, when he got killed. But I 
was not a bit surprised. But one of the things—some of the things that happened in Louise, you 
know, around Louise after I left—I was glad that the superintendent did fire me, because of some 
of the things that had happened to some of the other folks, had been put in lakes and etcetera, and 
I was, you know, glad it did not happen to me. 
But at the same time when that happened to me, there was three gentlemen came to see 
me. One gentleman was just a parent, quiet, you wouldn’t think he—you know, never say a word 
if you don’t say anything to him. The other gentleman had students going to school there, and his 
wife also taught there. And the other gentleman was a preacher, but he was a non-pastoring 
preacher. They came to see me. 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
18 
And that preacher told me, said, “I understand the superintendent don’t want you.” He 
said, “You don’t have to go nowhere. You ain’t teaching a damn one of his kids.” I said, “Well, 
if he doesn’t want me, I don’t want to stay here.” He said, “But you ain’t teaching his kids!” But 
God put it on my heart to go ahead and stay and to not fight it. And I was glad that I did. 
JD: Well, I see in the ’50s you taught for seven years at the Humphreys County Training 
School in the Delta. Is that correct? 
RC: That was the Humphreys County Training School in the Delta. And while I was at 
the Humphreys County Training School in the Delta, I think the year was nineteen and fifty-six, I 
believe it was, ’56 or ’57, but when we were getting ready for baccalaureate services, we went 
into Belzoni, me and another black instructor, to get our hair trimmed that night. And when I got 
up out of the chair, Reverend Lee took my seat. He was sitting there waiting next. And when we 
got to the baccalaureate services the next morning, we had a young lady that lived in Belzoni 
going to our school, and she broke the news to us that Reverend Lee had been killed, you know, 
had been shot about two houses from the barber shop. 
JD: And he was shot because he was starting to ask people to register to vote, correct? 
RC: Because he was asking people to register to vote, and that’s why he was shot and 
killed. And it is my understanding that some of the individuals that may have known something 
about it, that their bossman gave them money to send them away from here. 
JD: Uh-huh. 
RC: Um-hmm. 
JD: Yeah. About that time, the Citizens Council was born, too, in opposition to the 
Brown decision. Was that a—? 
RC: Well— 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
19 
JD: The white Citizens Council—was that a presence in your area? Were you aware of 
what they were doing? And did they try to interfere in anything that you were doing? 
RC: Yes, sir, I was very much aware. The Citizens Council was ruling things then. Not 
the legislature, and not the governor, but it was the Citizens Council ruling things. And I 
happened to see [0:40:00] in the—you know they had the Sovereignty Commission? 
JD: Um-hmm. 
RC: I happened to see in that report some years later that the superintendent of 
Humphreys County reported to the Sovereignty Commission that “I have gotten rid of all of the 
troublemakers.” [Laughs] And I assume I was one of those troublemakers that he was talking 
about. 
JD: Oh, I see. Yes, yeah. 
RC: And another thing. This is not, you know, not talking about me. My father was a 
schoolteacher. He was fired in Holmes County because he was teaching voter registration 
classes. Alright, he went to Madison County and taught at Madison-Rosenwald School, principal 
there for two years. And then, he was fired there, and he could not get another job in Mississippi. 
See, what they would do, they would take your name and give your name to the Sovereignty 
Commission. That Sovereignty Commission would send those names to all of the 
superintendents of education. 
JD: We should probably say here that the Sovereignty Commission was an agency 
appointed by the state, and it was really a secret police, wasn’t it? 
RC: That’s right! 
JD: And they had files on practically everybody. 
RC: That’s right. 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
20 
JD: So, it was really dangerous to be a teacher and to say anything that went against the 
white supremacist system. 
RC: Well, they—you know, most teachers, or lots of teachers, you know, allow their 
manhood or personhood to be taken away from them. But never was I going to allow my 
manhood or my personhood to be taken from me. 
JD: Um-hmm. 
RC: For example, over at Louise, when we got our first set of new books in the library, 
he sent word down—I was assistant principal—for there is a book in the library with a picture of 
a black rabbit and a white rabbit on the back of it, and for me to pull that book and bring it to his 
office immediately. Said if black children see that, they will get the idea that they are supposed 
to play with white children. And I sent word back to the superintendent, “If you want that D-A-
M-N book pulled, you’ll have to come by here and pull it yourself.” [Laughter] 
JD: And you kept your job! 
RC: Well, no, I—you know. I guess that led up to my termination, which was fine. 
JD: So, it was just very difficult. Your father and you and probably others who dared to 
say what you meant and what you believed were likely to get in trouble and pay for it. 
RC: Yes, sir. And I remember my granddaddy, what I was talking about when I was 
small, he’d get up at the church and be telling folk about they should register to vote and do this 
and that and the other. And I’d see folk walking out. I was about three or four years old. “Old 
Man Clark going get somebody killed.” 
And I was wondering, you know, “Ain’t no white folk here. How they going know it?” 
But I didn’t know at that time that folk go back and tell white folk everything. 
JD: Yeah, the Sovereignty Commission had black agents. 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
21 
RC: Yes, um-hmm. 
JD: At some point you—when did you go to Michigan State for your master’s? And talk 
about what it was like? 
JB: Can we pause one second? 
JD: Yeah, um-hmm. 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JD: Okay. 
RC: Okay. I had been taught all of my life, and psychology books had taught me that 
blacks are equal to whites. You know, ability is not given to race, creed, or color. And most of 
the blacks at that time was going to Tuskegee. Alright, and, as you said a few minutes ago, a lots 
of them was flocking to Indiana. But I wanted to go to a place where I wanted to make sure to 
see if I measured up, if I really was equal. 
So, I chose three schools. I chose [0:45:00] Michigan State, I chose Notre Dame, and I 
chose the University of California. The University of California was so far. Because I didn’t 
have money to get out there, I’d have to go to Jackson and make loans on furniture I didn’t have 
in my house. And Notre Dame taught too much religion. You know, I’m a Christian. I wasn’t 
against religion, but religion wasn’t what I wanted. So, then that left Michigan State, so I went to 
Michigan State. 
JD: I guess we should point out here that there was no place in Mississippi where you 
could get a master’s degree. 
RC: There was no place in Mississippi I could go to get a master’s degree. I had to leave 
the state of Mississippi to get the master’s degree. They would pay—the state would pay the 
difference for you to go there and get a degree. And during my last year at Michigan State, one 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
22 
of the professors at Jackson State asked me about coming back there. And I’d tell him, “No, I’m 
going to go ahead and finish my work at Michigan State.” He said, “Oh, you think they’re better 
than we are.” [Laughs] I said, “No, sir, doc. That’s not it.” But I really wanted to see if I 
measured up to white folk or not. I wanted to see. I had been taught that all of my life. 
JD: Well, they asked you to teach in an all-white school. Talk about that and the decision 
you made there, Mackinac Island. 
RC: Yeah, at the Mackinac Island, I was offered a job up there to integrate the system up 
there. And he thought that I had been accustomed to integration and that I could stand it better. 
And I first accepted the job, but after thinking about it, I called him and told him that I was not 
going to accept the job. 
Now, let me tell you about my first class at Michigan State University, a class of, I think, 
about 35. I was the only African American in the class. And the professor asked a question. I 
can’t remember what the question is, but I remember that question from maybe my sophomore 
year at Jackson State. But I was too nervous to raise my hand. 
One guy from the West Coast raised his hand and answered the question. I knew he was 
wrong. The professor said, “No.” A guy from the East Coast raised his hand, answered the 
question. I knew he was wrong. The professor said, “No.” By that time, my little shaking hand 
had gotten up, [laughing] and I answered the question. And he said, “Sir, you are correct.” 
And from that day until this one, I have had no fear. And that’s why it did not bug me 
when I went to the House of Representatives, a hundred and twenty-two members, a hundred and 
twenty-one of them white. That’s why it didn’t bug me one bit! [Laughs] 
JD: Ah! So, it was good that you got away— 
RC: Yes, sir. 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
23 
JD: And saw what the competition was like. 
RC: That’s right. 
JD: Then you came back. You turned down that job and from 1961 to ’66, you taught and 
coached at Lexington High School back in Holmes County. And that was the period when the 
Civil Rights Movement really got underway here. Tell us what you remember about those years, 
both in terms of your teaching and in terms of what was going on in the community. 
RC: Well, I was teaching during that time. And I do remember when the Mileston 
Fourteen—happened Mr. McLain sent me uptown that day. 
JD: This was when they decided to try to register. 
RC: Yeah, when they was—decided to try to register. And I might reiterate here that my 
father and one other man, black man, were the last two names, black names, that they erased off 
the books because they didn’t erase theirs off. And then, when I found out about the Civil Rights 
Movement—I really [0:50:00] didn’t know about it, and when I first tried to become a part of it, 
some of the blacks thought that the white folk were sending me to spy on them. And I really got 
into the Movement through Henry and Sue, when I, you know, went to meet Henry and Sue and 
talk to them. 
JD: Now, we should probably point out these are the Lorenzis. 
RC: Yeah. 
JD: These were a white couple who came to Holmes County in the fall of 1964. 
RC: That’s right. 
JD: Okay. 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
24 
RC: That’s right. And Henry and Sue, you know, accepted me. And then, they gradually 
accepted me. But they thought I was coming for, you know, to get the message and carry it back 
to the white folks. 
JD: Well, it was—yeah, and when you were teaching at that time, were any of your 
students actively involved? Did they see the Civil Rights Movement as something they wanted to 
do? 
RC: Oh, yes, sir. Yes, sir. I had quite a few students actively involved. One young man, 
Walter Pitsford, he was one of my football players. He went down. They punched him in his 
side, and he had to miss spring practice for about two weeks. 
JD: Oh. 
RC: And we had, you know, quite a few students that was involved. 
JD: We had the Freedom Summer here in 1964, where a lot of students came down from 
the North. Many of them were white, and about thirty of them were in Holmes County. Do you 
remember Freedom Summer and the challenge of the Freedom Democratic Party? 
RC: Yes, sir. I do remember the Freedom Summer and the challenge of the Freedom 
Democratic Party of 1964, but I was proud to be a part of the challenge in 1968. [Laughs] 
JD: Yeah, yeah. 
RC: And then, the legislature passed an act allowing counties to have an adult education 
program. And I went to my superintendent and asked him if he would implement an adult 
education program, because I knew many of the parents were not able to help their students with 
the lesson, and that would be better for the students. Well, he said, “No. I don’t think it’s in the 
best interest of the county to do that.” I said, “Well, may I come before the board?” He said, 
“You can come before the board, but don’t bring no droves.” 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
25 
So, I got two individuals to go with me. I got Mr. [53:17] Polk, who was the social 
science teacher down at Tchula. That’s Marshall High School now. I got Mr. Curtis Lodge, who 
was the social science teacher over at Durant, which is Williams-Sullivan. And we went. And I 
explained to the board what I wanted. 
And the board says, “We will have an adult education program when the superintendent 
asks for one.” I said, “You mean if the superintendent asks for one, you will have one?” They 
say, “Well, that’s correct.” I said, “Well, next year, you will implement an adult education 
program, because I’m declaring my candidacy for superintendent right now!” [Laughter] 
So, it was needless to say that at the end of the year I got a message, you know, that my 
contract was not renewed. 
JD: You were out again. 
RC: Out again! 
JD: Oh! 
RC: Alright, then, we were—the legislature was in session. We had two legislators. I’m 
running for superintendent of education. 
JD: Yeah. 
RC: But they get a “local and private” passed. Now, the “local and private” eventually—
it has been ruled unconstitutional. You can’t do it now. But they draw up legislation like “any 
county where Highway 12 and Highway 17 intersect may appoint [0:55:00] their 
superintendent.” [Laughs] 
JD: Uh-huh, yes, yes. 
RC: And when they drew that up and got that passed, and I could not run for 
superintendent of education, and that’s how, why I ran for the legislature. 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
26 
JD: Ah, that is really interesting. 
RC: Um-hmm. 
JD: But before we get to that, there’s something I really want to ask you, because in 1965 
the Holmes County schools were forced to desegregate, the white schools. How did that affect 
you and your students? And how did that play out over the next couple of years? Was it 
successful? Did white and black students go to white schools? Did whites stay? What happened? 
RC: [Laughs] No white students went to black schools. Some of the students had to pay 
the price, and they had to pay a hell of a price. 
JD: Talk about that. 
RC: One of the things we was talking about last night, you know, yesterday evening—
planning for the civil rights celebration that we’re having, we were talking about that. One young 
lady that went to school there—she later went to school with me after I got fired when I was 
teaching over at Saints. But she said, “Mr. Clark, you don’t know how cruel it was.” She said, “I 
never will be the same again.” And it really had a heck of an impact on that particular young 
lady. 
JD: What did she have to face in an all-white school? 
RC: Well, she just said it was cruel. 
JD: Um-hmm. 
RC: And, you know, they were not treated like they were human beings. 
JD: Yeah. 
RC: And I remember over there at Durant, one young lady who lived in a rural area, Mrs. 
Georgia Clark’s daughter. The superintendent suspended her from school one day, and she’s 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
27 
eight miles from home. But we gave him all kinds of trouble about just putting that young lady 
out. [Laughs] 
JD: Yeah. 
RC: [Laughs] And I don’t think he ever did that again. 
JD: Yeah. From 1966 to ’67, you worked for Dr. Arenia Mallory as director of adult 
education at Saints Junior College in Lexington. Tell us about Dr. Mallory and Saints and your 
time there. 
RC: Well, the superintendent, you know, fired me, okay? That was good. It really wasn’t 
the superintendent. That was in God’s plan, because I wanted an adult education program, right? 
JD: Um-hmm. 
RC: When I started working for Dr. Arenia C. Mallory, she had three hundred adults 
coming in six days a week, four o’clock, from Monday, four to nine, from Mondays through 
Friday. 
JD: Wow. 
RC: And then, on Saturdays, they’d come in for vocation from nine until twelve. So, 
when I went over there, she started me out as the coordinator of the program. Then, within about 
three months, I was made director of the program. So, that was God’s way of moving me and 
putting me in charge of those adults. And we had adult education programs on Saints Junior 
College campus. We had some at the church in Lexington, Asia. We had a class in Pickens, we 
had a class in West, and we had a class in Tchula, also. 
And one of the things about that. When I ran against J. P. Love and won, J. P. Love, one 
of his challenges was that I had forged signatures, said, “because there’s one of my hand,” that 
his name is there, and I know he can’t read and write. But what Mr. Love did not know: that he 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
28 
had gone to adult school that I was heading, and they had taught him [laughs] how to read and 
write. 
JD: Oh! Oh, that’s wonderful, that’s wonderful! I wonder if we could take a short break 
here. 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB: We’re rolling. [1:00:00] 
JD: There were a lot of political developments going on in the mid ’60s. One of them was 
Lyndon Johnson’s Great Society. And out of that came the idea of the Community Action Board, 
the CAP Board that was supposed to be composed of local people who would be implementing 
various government and other programs. And you were briefly a member of that CAP Board in 
1966. Talk about your experience there. 
RC: Yes, I was a member of a CAP Board and, frankly speaking, that’s when we had the 
first integrated meeting in the county at the courthouse, when we had blacks and whites sitting 
around the table. That’s when we became a part of Central Mississippi, Incorporated. And we 
were fortunate to get two white men to sit around the table with us. But one—let me get off the 
point a little bit. 
JD: Sure. 
RC: You can get me back on point. But one of the things that I remember most about that 
night: I guess maybe a hundred gallons of water was drank out of that fountain that night by 
black folks, [laughter] because they had never been able to drink out of that fountain before. 
JD: Did the water taste any different, I wonder. [Laughter] So, that was the first 
integrated meeting? 
RC: That was the first integrated meeting. 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
29 
JD: But I heard that you weren’t entirely happy with what—the direction of that board. Is 
that true? 
RC: Ah, I’m not at all happy with the direction where the board is going now. The—I see 
the Civil Rights Movement that started in Holmes County—we always said the cause is more 
important than any individual, and we’re supposed to be working for the cause and not working 
for ourselves. We’re not supposed to develop an idea and say, “I want to do this, and it’s going to 
be done my way or no way.” And if individuals, you know, cannot reach a compromise—and 
frankly speaking, I’ve got a letter drafted now that I have not had typed up yet that is going to 
come from me and the Freedom Democratic Party for Holmes County. And it’s going to be 
calling on individuals, elected officials, in Holmes County. You either do your job—if you can’t 
do your job, then you need to resign. 
JD: Wow. 
RC: [Laughs] You need to resign. And the CAP Program, it went well for a number of 
years. First of all, it started out as a social program to get small children used to being away from 
home, from Mama, before he or she went to school. Then they wouldn’t be at school crying for 
Mama. Then, it gave individuals jobs who had never had jobs before. But one of the things I did 
when I was over at Saints with Dr. Mallory, at her approval, of course—we, with Rust College, 
developed a jobs program to have night school for those Head Start teachers, because I wanted 
those Head Start teachers to do more than just go there and babysit and play. 
JD: Yeah, um-hmm. 
RC: But, you know, that should have been done statewide, but it was just done on a small 
scale. Now, the thing—the Great Society that Lyndon Johnson started, particularly with the Head 
Start Program—if I am one thing, I know I am an educator. It may have been some time since I 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
30 
was in a school, but I know I am an educator. And Head Start needs to be a pre-K school, a pre-
K program, because children [1:05:00] starting to school, first grade, and can’t read, don’t know 
his letters, he or she is starting off behind, and they’re going to always be behind. They ain’t 
never going to catch up. 
JD: The—you had mentioned that you were going to run for county superintendent, and 
then they made that, temporarily at least, an appointed office. So, you decided to run for the state 
legislature. And I want us to turn to that now, because this was a historic event. How did—were 
you approached about running? Did you volunteer? How did you get into the race? 
RC: I volunteered to run. I volunteered to run. See, you know, I was an educator, and 
that’s what I had wanted to be all of my life. And after, you know, I couldn’t be superintendent, 
then I—the day after they changed that law, I ran against them out of spite. [Laughs] 
JD: Yeah, yeah. Well, by this time, the Voting Rights Act had been passed, and there 
were a lot of blacks on the voting rolls in Holmes County. But still there are lots of counties 
where blacks are in a majority, and yet in that election you were the only one to win a legislative 
seat. How did you campaign? How come you were effective and others weren’t? 
RC: Well, one of the things—I present myself to individuals in a manner to let them 
know that I am one of you. I’m not no big I-O-U of somebody. And then, the next thing was the 
strong Civil Rights Movement we had in Holmes County. And then, the next thing was I got a 
chance to have contact with those three hundred-plus adults that was coming to the migrant 
school. For example, one coming in, you know, leaves the field and heading there and have a 
flat. And he would get there—supposed to be there at four o’clock, and he’d get there at five 
o’clock, and the teacher’s giving him the devil. I wouldn’t allow the teachers to do it. [Laughs] 
JD: Yeah. 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
31 
RC: I wouldn’t allow the teachers to do it. You know, let’s compliment him for getting 
here at all! 
JD: Yeah. 
RC: See, those were poor folks. 
JD: Um-hmm. 
RC: And definitely, and definitely, those three hundred-plus black folks that I got a 
chance to be the director of, they was a part of the group that helped put me over. Plus the fact, 
the strong Civil Rights Movement that we had, and many of the parents—when I taught at 
Lexington, many of the parents had heard their children talk about me, and they knew the kind of 
person that I was. 
JD: You certainly had a strong reputation. Tell us about your opponent and the tactics of 
that campaign. 
RC: Well, I ran as an Independent. 
JD: Now, tell us why you didn’t run in the—you decided—you all decided not to run in 
the Democratic primary, but to run as Independents in the fall. Why did you do that? 
RC: Well, we could not—we could not be members of the Democratic Party. We could 
not be members of the Democratic Party. However, I decided, you know, to run once, because 
individuals that have never been to the polls before, you know, they may get tired of coming out. 
JD: Um-hmm. 
RC: So, just take your one shot. 
JD: Yeah. 
RC: So, we decided to run as Independents. Alright, J. P. Love and Wilburn Hooker—
they had two representatives from Holmes County before, but the federal government had 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
32 
intervened, and they had to redistrict and they had one district. So, J. P. Love and Ed Wilburn 
Hooker ran against each other. 
JD: In the primary. 
RC: In the primary. And J. P. Love won, and that’s who I met in the general election. 
And he’s the one that I mentioned to you [1:10:00] a few minutes ago that contested the election. 
He contested it all the way [1:10:05], and I didn’t know until fifteen minutes before I was seated 
that I was going to be seated. Marian Wright was my lead lawyer. But he contested all the way. 
JD: Were there any tactics of intimidation during that campaign? Were blacks free to vote 
at the polls, or were they being questioned? We see a lot of that going on now. You certainly got 
the vote out. You got the vote out. 
RC: Well, in 1967, the blacks didn’t allow other blacks to be afraid or be intimidated, 
because they was there. And we had not official poll watchers, but we had watchers or guards, as 
we would call them, at every precinct, at every voting place. And they knew that they was going 
to be protected if they came to the polls. 
JD: And that didn’t happen in some other counties. 
RC: Pardon? 
JD: That did not happen in some other counties. 
RC: Oh, yes! 
JD: And blacks were intimidated. 
RC: Yes, yes, I know! 
JD: And kept from voting. 
RC: Um-hmm. 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
33 
JD: So, you won the election. And it was—must have been quite a party that night. 
[Laughs] 
RC: Yes, I won the election. I—the first night, you know, that we had—I mean, the first 
time I ran, I was running behind, alright, and Cruger had not come in. 
JD: Cruger is a precinct? 
RC: Cruger and Durant. Cruger, that’s adjoining the four-county line in the northwestern 
part of Holmes County. Well, I knew the votes I was going to get in Cruger. I knew those votes 
and I was counting those votes, and that wasn’t enough to put me over. But, lo and behold, when 
Durant came in, I won Durant, and that put me over. [Laughs] And that’s because of—you said 
you visited—we call him Jimbo Bruce. 
JD: Yes? 
RC: And all of his gang over there. 
JD: Really organized, isn’t he? 
RC: That’s right! That’s right, and that’s—I was trailing until Durant came in. And when 
Durant came in, it put me over to the top. 
JD: Well, you’ve mentioned that—usually you’re elected to the legislature and you go in 
and you take your seat. It wasn’t that easy, was it? 
RC: No, sir. 
JD: Talk about the first day when people were being sworn in. What do you remember 
about that? 
RC: Well, we went through quite a few lawsuits, a lot of suits, and Marian Wright was 
my lead lawyer. And the first day, I didn’t know if I would be seated or not until 15 minutes 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
34 
before I was seated, when Marian Wright came back on the outside, where I was on the south 
side of the Capitol, and told me, “Robert, they have decided to seat you.” 
And then, when I went in, again because of my experience at Michigan State and 
Western Michigan University, being one black among a 121 whites that did not intimidate me at 
all, because I knew what I knew. And one thing that I knew, what I was going to zero in on, was 
what I was an expert in, and that was education. And I knew no one there knew as much about 
education as I did. 
JD: But you had to wait a while. You were the—I think for about eight years you were 
the only black in the legislature. 
RC: Yes, I was the only black in the legislature, and when I went in that first day, the 
regulations of the House was, you know, you had districts. And the senior person in that district 
would choose the seating for the rest of the members in his or her district. So, on this side, where 
I’m sitting now, [1:15:00] that’s the door where you come in, right in front of me, that’s the door. 
Alright, and this first line was two seats, alright, and then an aisle come between us, and that’s 
three seats. So, the old gentleman that was the senior of my delegation, he chose this seat for me, 
this seat for me, then his seat is across the aisle from me, then the other member from my other 
district, his seat across the aisle from me. 
Alright, now, the vacant seat is for the Speaker of the House, whenever the Speaker of 
the House is not presiding. But the Speaker of the House had him another seat moved to the back 
of the Capitol. 
JD: Now, this was Buddie Newman? 
RC: No, that wasn’t Buddie Newman. That was John Junkin. 
JD: Oh, okay. 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
35 
RC: That was John Junkin. John Junkin. And so, I— 
JD: So, you were separate but equal. [Laughs] 
RC: I sat in that seat by myself without an opponent for eight years before someone 
finally sat beside me. 
JD: Well, tell us a little bit about that those early, well, the first and second terms. Were 
you excluded from everything? You were determined that you were going to be a good 
legislator. How did that work out with all of the prejudices? 
RC: Well, first of all, I couldn’t get the floor of the House. If I would stand for 
recognition, somebody would make a motion. I’m already standing. He is supposed—you know 
Robert’s Rule of Order. 
JD: Yeah. 
RC: But he’d recognize somebody else. They cut me out, and I couldn’t get the floor. So, 
one night, this was my first term, I walked out. And Bill Minor—you know who Bill Minor is? 
JD: Very, very courageous correspondent. 
RC: Yes, and Butch Lambert, they came out. I had cleaned my desk out and had 
everything. And they came out and coming after me, and I pushed them out of my way and I 
reached for my door. And about that time, Bill Minor said, “Okay. Go ahead and do it. You’re 
doing what they want you to do.” 
JD: You were just ready to walk out. 
RC: I was ready to walk out! Walk out! And when Bill Minor said, “You’re doing what 
they want you to do,” and when he said that, I dropped my hand and walked back in. And when I 
walked back in on the floor of the House, man, they was having a hooray! They was wolf-
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
36 
whistling, they was clapping, and they was doing everything! And when I walked back in, they 
got just as quiet as a mouse. [Laughter] 
JD: They thought they’d won. 
RC: That’s right. But what I did when I first went to the legislature, you know, I had been 
in school, and that helped me. You know, I prepared myself on what legislation was coming up 
and what I was going to argue on. Sometimes I did just like I did at Michigan State or Western 
Michigan—I was sitting there, burning the midnight oil, so I would be prepared. And if they 
didn’t agree with me, they knew that they couldn’t say I was wrong, that I knew what I was 
talking about. 
JD: How long was it before somebody asked you for your vote? 
RC: Uh, [pause] maybe about eight years. 
JD: Really? 
RC: Maybe about eight years. 
JD: It took that long. 
RC: Yes, sir. And after eight years, we got the group in Jackson elected. 
JD: These are a group of black elected officials to join you in the state legislature. 
RC: Yes, sir. You got three from Jackson elected. They did redistricting and got them 
reelected. But after—some of those issues, you know, I would speak out on them, some of the 
technical issues, and I could present myself on them. And some of those same elderly white 
gentlemen that, you know, was opposed to me being seated—now some folks said I was being 
[1:19:54] for doing it, but sometimes they wouldn’t know what’s going on, [1:20:00] and when 
time came to vote, they’d be jumping up, trying to get my attention. And if he’s supposed to vote 
“aye,” I’d tell him “aye.” If he’s supposed to vote “no,” I’d point to my nostril. 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
37 
JD: These are your younger colleagues in the—? 
RC: No, these are some of the older— 
JD: Oh. 
RC: Older white gentlemen. 
JD: I see! So, you—that’s a big change. 
RC: The older white gentlemen. That’s why some of the black folks was telling me that, 
you know, that I was being a [1:20:31]. But I didn’t do them like they did me. 
JD: Yeah. 
RC: Particularly if somebody come up, like the gentleman from Vicksburg was real 
sharp; the gentleman from Biloxi, real sharp; the gentleman from Greenville, real sharp. And if 
they had something they didn’t know, they’d look to me for me to direct them. 
JD: Oh, that’s so— 
RC: But the truth is I never directed one in the wrong manner. [Laughs] And the first seat 
mate that I had was a white seat mate. Then, when it come up that he’d have to be [1:21:15]—if 
he’s supposed to vote “no,” I’d say, “You’re supposed to vote no.” And then, finally, he asked 
me, he said, “I want to ask you one thing. What you trying to do—get me defeated?” I said, 
“What you talking about?” “You’re telling me to vote one way, and you’re voting another!” I 
said, “Hell, man, [laughs] I’m trying to tell you how to vote how your folks back home want you 
to vote!” [Laughter] Um-hmm. 
JD: Well, about ten years after you were first elected, you were appointed chairman of 
the House Education Committee. How did that happen? I mean, here nobody would talk to you, 
and now you were chair of an important committee. Tell us how—what had to happen before 
that could happen. 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
38 
RC: Alright, that is very interesting. That is very interesting. When C. B. “Buddie” 
Newman was running for Speaker Pro Tempore, or to fill in for John Junkin when John Junkin 
got sick—John Junkin was the— 
JD: Speaker. 
RC: Was the Speaker. So, Buddie Newman met me on the first floor of the Capitol. I had 
been following a group of so-called liberals, my good friends, but they’d all get good 
appointments, and I’d wind up with nothing. 
JD: Yeah. 
RC: So, Buddie Newman asked me—he met me on the first floor and he said, “I need one 
more signature and I will have a majority, and can I get you to sign it?” I said, “Let me see it.” 
And I looked at it and I saw he needed one more. And I thought about—I was thinking about all 
these years I’m not following my other boys that I’ve been following, and they get appointed and 
I don’t get nothing. I’m going to look out for myself. So, I saw. Then I signed it. 
And when I signed it, he dropped to one knee and he said—he dropped to one knee and 
he kissed that pen that I signed it with and he said, “Whoever thought that a white man would be 
on his knees to a nigger?” And I said, “Mr. Speaker, you peckerwoods are going to have to do a 
lot more of that [laughter] for black folks in the future!” 
JD: And Buddie Newman was a segregationist. 
RC: And Buddie Newman, Buddie Newman, um-hmm. And I signed that. Alright, 
then— 
JD: You caught some flak for that, didn’t you? 
RC: Then Buddie and I, you know, became—well, we could communicate. 
JD: Yeah. 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
39 
RC: We could communicate to each other, with each other. And then, after Junkin died, 
Buddie became Speaker. I wanted Buddie to appoint me as chairman of Wildlife and Fishery. He 
said, “No, I’ve got something else for you, better than that.” So, he appointed me vice chairman 
of Education. 
Okay, alright, President Carter was elected. And George Rogers, who was the 
chairperson, he was appointed [1:25:00] to President Carter’s cabinet. Alright, Aaron Henry was 
convening the state NAACP Convention in Vicksburg, and that’s in Buddie Newman’s district. 
He lived in Issaquena County, but his district was Vicksburg. So, I went. Aaron invited me to be 
the keynote speaker, and I spoke and I told, “Black folk, it’s time for you to get up and do 
something for yourself! Don’t sit around and wait for white folks to be giving you a handout! 
Get up and do something for yourself!” Lo and behold, the next day in the paper in bold 
headlines: “Potential Negro Chairman Gives Black Power Speech.” [Laughter] So, I just knew it 
was all over. 
JD: Yeah. 
RC: So, about ten days, Buddie Newman sent for me to come to his office. So, when I 
went to his office, he had three boxes about that high sitting on his desk. And he opened up one 
of the boxes and pulled one of the papers out and said, “Take that. Look at that. I want you to see 
that.” I looked at it. I said, “Well, yes, sir, Mr. Speaker. I did. I gave the speech. I said it.” 
He says, “What I called you in here to tell you that there ain’t no vacancy yet. But when 
there is a vacancy, I will appoint you.” [Laughs] And that really changed my attitude towards 
him, with him having the pride to override all those folk in his district and to do that. 
JD: Yeah. Well, that—you know, that was something that I think [1:27:02], and that you 
did what you had to do to become chair of the Education Committee. And as a result of that, you 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
40 
were responsible for, along with others, for pushing through one of the most important pieces of 
legislation in, I think, a long, long time, and that was the Education Reform Act. Tell us about—
William Winter, I think, was governor then. Tell us about that debate and what the act does or 
did for the state. 
RC: Alright, as we get into that, before that, a white lawyer from Lexington happened to 
call me and tell me what’s coming up on the floor important, or I wouldn’t know. So, I was 
trying to get on the inside. I went to the legislature as an education legislator and I had been 
pushing for education, progressive education. The first bill I introduced—when I went to Dr. 
King’s funeral in Atlanta, they called the bill up and killed it that day. 
Alright, then, after Governor William Winter became governor, which was great, and 
then, he—we worked out a bill with him and we put together a bill, Education Reform, we called 
it. And I would make sure that I would get my bills out first. You know, the bills come out and 
be on the calendar according to how they come out of the committee. But the Rules Committee 
had the authority at that time to rearrange the bill, the calendar, and they could kick the bill to the 
heel of the committee. 
So, I met in ’82, had meetings before we went into session, and we got our bill out the 
first week in the session. Alright, then they constantly kicked the bill back to the heel of the 
calendar, kicked it back to the heel of the calendar. So, getting near the end of the session, I got 
my vice chairman, who was a white person, and another individual, who was very conservative, 
but he was a white person, but he supported it. And we went to the Speaker’s office. 
I said, “Mr. Speaker, I came to your office to let you know that I’m going to call this 
bill—I gave the number of the bill—up for immediate consideration.” [1:30:00] He says, “I hope 
you wouldn’t do that.” I said, “Well, the time has arrived, Mr. Speaker, for us to do that.” And he 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
41 
said, “Some of these boys can’t stand the heat.” I said, “Mr. Speaker, there ain’t supposed to be 
no boys on the floor of the House. [Laughter] And if there’s any boys, they’re supposed to go 
home.” And I shook his hand and I said, “I’m going to make the motion.” He says, “I’m not 
going to recognize you.” I said, “Thank you.” Then my vice chairman said the same thing. He 
said, “Mr. Speaker, if you don’t recognize him, I’m going to make the motion.” 
So, then we went to the floor of the House and we began to, you know, convene. At the 
proper time, I stood and made the motion. “What does the gentleman from Holmes wish to be 
recognized for?” “Mr. Speaker, to call House bill such-and-such-a-number up to the top of the 
calendar for immediate consideration.” Rapped the gavel, “You’re out of order! You’re not 
recognized!” And then, my vice chairman did the same thing, alright, and he did the same thing 
to him. Alright, then the House got in such an uproar until they just had to adjoin. 
But during that same time, I was seeing letters that one of my colleagues from Cleveland, 
Mississippi, had brought, white colleague, “what we’re going to do to your wife and your family 
if you vote for that bill.” I had seen a letter from one of my colleagues in Yazoo City, “what 
we’re going to do to your wife and family.” I had seen a letter from one of my colleagues out in 
the east, west Jackson, out in Clinton—that’s where he’s really from, Clinton—“that’s what 
we’re going to do to your wife and family.” 
JD: Now, who was writing these letters? And these were letters to people who were 
supporting the Education Reform Act? 
RC: Letters to people on my committee, who were supporting it. These would be from 
people back in their home, telling them what they’re going to do to their family. But they didn’t 
have no names on them. 
JD: Yeah. 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
42 
RC: They didn’t have any names on them. So, then, at the end of that session, I went to 
Governor William Winter’s office. I said, “Governor Winter,” I said, “if we can’t get some kind 
of support, I don’t know if I can keep on putting my members through this bloodbath again.” 
And he said, “What we need to do?” I said, “You need to take it to the people.” I said, “You need 
to take it to some of the old-line organizations, like the Mississippi Southern Baptists, like the 
Farm Bureau.” And he and I, we had that conversation, and that was the only conversation me 
and him had. 
So, when I was campaigning for Congress in ’82, and I attempted to go to his meeting he 
was having in Greenville at the Convention and Visitors Bureau, but I couldn’t get within three 
blocks of that convention center, it was so many folks there. So, after he had those meetings, he 
summoned six legislators, three members of the House, and three members of the Senate, to their 
mansion, the Governor’s Mansion. And he says, “I’m not calling y’all here to ask y’all if I 
should call a special session or not.” He said, “But I’m calling y’all here to let y’all know I’m 
going to have a press conference.” He gave the date. “And at that time, I will announce if I will 
call a special session or not.” So, that was the essence of that meeting. 
So, sure enough, Governor Winter called the special session. Alright, the Speaker, Mr. 
Speaker, summoned the same three legislators, members of the House, to the Lieutenant 
Governor’s office. And the Lieutenant Governor summoned the same three members of the 
Senate that had met with the Governor. And they had a discussion [1:35:00], and their discussion 
was constitutionally, if he calls a session, constitutionally, we’ve got to convene. But the 
consensus was, among them, we don’t have to do anything. 
So, finally, Mr. Speaker said to me, said, “Mr. Chairman, you’re mighty silent over there. 
What have you got to say about this?” I said, I’m talking to Buddie Newman now, “Mr. Speaker, 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
43 
I serve at your will and pleasure. And if you have not removed me when the Governor calls a 
special session, I’m going to do everything I can to get a bill out of that House, out of that 
committee, and get it passed.” And I turned to the Lieutenant Governor. I said, “Mr. Governor, 
and it’s going to look mighty bad if I send a bill over there, and it ain’t nobody over there but the 
news media and empty chairs.” [Laughter] So, that was it! And he did not remove me. 
And as the bill—there was a section in the bill where I didn’t want any taxes. Alright, and 
then, after the bill passed both houses, we met in the Education Committee room. That’s the 
Conference Committee. Well, if you meet on the Senate side conference, the chairman of the 
Senate Education Committee chairs, or if it’s the House, the House Chair chairs it. So, I was 
chairing the Conference Committee room meeting. I called it to order. So, Senator Ellis Bodron, 
a blind senator but smart as he could be, you know who he is. 
JD: Yeah. 
RC: He says, “Mr. Chairman, gentlemen from [1:37:07], I suggest that we go around the 
table and see what parameters we are going to work within, and what we are going to take and 
what we are not going to take. And I suggest we start with you.” Now, I hadn’t thought, not one 
bit, on this thing. “I will not accept any taxes,” and I went on to give my speech. And he says, 
“What about one percent?” I said, “I think—I will not accept any taxes.” “What about one-half 
percent? I think the gentleman from [1:37:48] is very smart, and I think he knows one-half is 
taxes.” Then I realized what I had done. I had put myself into a jam. So, we stayed tied up for 
three weeks. They was trying to kill the bill. 
Now, Mr. Speaker, the first time he ever did this, he put the chairman of Ways and 
Means on there, because it was money. He always do that. Okay, that’s good. But then, he put 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
44 
somebody on there who was opposed to it. That’s the gentleman from Grenada. [Laughs] So, he 
was trying to stack the committee on us. 
So, after we had met and met and met for three weeks, then Mr. Speaker, Buddie 
Newman, says, “When you meet a long time on legislation like that, you have a tendency to kill 
it. If you want your bad bill, you better go ahead and try to work some way to get it out.” But 
what I did not do—what I did, I still held out for no taxes, but I got with one of the senators and I 
worked out a plan with one of the senators and let the senator present that to the committee and 
let the senator give a speech on that, like he was talking to me. [Laughs] Now, I’d worked this 
out and I had given it to the senator. [Laughs] 
JD: Now, why didn’t you want taxes? I mean, this is a program— 
RC: Pardon? 
JD: Why didn’t you want to raise taxes? 
RC: Well, at that time, I felt that we had the money to do it, and taxes were just a way to 
kill it. 
JD: Um-hmm. 
RC: And if we was—you know, money for everything else. Why we can’t have money 
for education? 
JD: Now, tell us just what that bill did when it became law. 
RC: Well, it—compulsory [1:40:00] school attendance. 
JD: Now, that bill had been repealed around the time of the Brown decision, that law. 
There used to be compulsory attendance— 
RC: Yes, sir. 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
45 
JD: And then, school integration came along, and so there was—Mississippi, I think, was 
the only state in the union without a compulsory attendance law. 
RC: It was the only state in the nation without a compulsory school law. We were maybe 
the first state to pass one and the first state to repeal it. I think we first passed one in 1924, if my 
memory serves me correctly. 
JD: And what else did the new bill do? 
RC: Early childhood education. 
JD: So, it was kindergarten. 
RC: Yeah, kindergarten. 
JD: It was a bill that—well, you’ve told us how difficult it was to get passed, but just 
tremendously important, in terms of where the state was going. And, as the education person on 
the committee in the legislature, why, you were instrumental in making it happen. 
RC: Well, yes, sir. It—you know, it was my intention. I had not—for example, one time 
before Governor Winter, they would—the Education Committee, 31 individuals, I was not 
chairman then. But they would get up to leave so they’d make sure we wouldn’t have a majority. 
But what I did, I had my individuals, saw them in the cloakroom, saw them in the closet, saw 
them in the bathroom, and counted them. And when they got up and left, I went and knocked on 
their doors. [Laughter] And when I knocked on the doors, they came back, and we had a 
majority. 
JD: Wow. That’s politicking. 
RC: And I moved that we would bring the bill to the top of the calendar for immediate 
consideration. I was not chairman then. Somebody else was chairman. 
JD: Yeah. 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
46 
RC: For immediate consideration. And I looked around and said, “Well, you’ve got a 
majority. Guess you’re going to have to carry it.” So, we got it out of the committee, and that 
was it. But one individual came back to the committee room the other day. When he found out 
that bill had been called, he got up on that table, and he walked down that table, stomping and 
screaming, just because that bill had been brought out of the committee. 
JD: Wow. Well, thank you so much for going into this detail. This is important for the 
historical record. We’ve kept you long enough, but I can’t let you go without asking you about 
your two campaigns for the, for Congress, for the U. S. House of Representatives. What made 
you decide to run for Congress? And talk a little bit about those two campaigns. 
RC: Well, the reason I decided to run for Congress is I wanted to direct Washington’s 
attention away from the way it had been directed down through the years. For example, you go 
through Louisiana and Texas, and you can see those plants and etcetera there that were built by 
the federal government. And I was going to be for the farmers and I was going to fight for the 
farmers. But I was not going to go with the mentality that nothing can come to the Delta that will 
hinder farming. 
JD: I should probably point out that Delta planters had historically had a lot of political 
power in Mississippi. 
RC: They had political power, the most political—two of my friends—I got a chance to 
meet both of them and campaign on the stump with Senator John Stennis in ’82, and they both 
were my friends. Jim Eastland, I got to know him. He was my friend. 
JD: I think people—because of what has happened, it’s hard for people to realize that 
when you were running for Congress back then, there were a lot of important Democrats elected 
to office, and that they supported you. 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
47 
RC: Yes, sir. Yes, sir. And when I ran for office, we did not have the districts that we 
have now. My district ran from down in Port Gibson all the way over to Webster County, all the 
way up and over to Webster County. [1:45:00] And then, even with that district, another thing 
that we found out when we did a study of the election, if we had had poll watchers at more 
places, at certain other places, we would have won. 
JD: So, talk about the—well, there were racial tactics in that campaign. Tell us about 
your opponent and how he campaigned. Webb Franklin, who was— 
RC: Yeah, well, Webb campaigned. He had, you know, a lots of money to campaign. I 
had just enough to get asked. But, you know, Webb, so far as I’m concerned—I’m the kind of 
individual that we can have different philosophies and we can disagree, and I don’t fall out with 
you and get angry with you. And, you know, a lot of folk did not turn out in some areas. 
JD: Now, why was that? 
RC: In some areas, well, frankly speaking, right here in Holmes County, down in the bed 
of the Civil Rights Movement, I didn’t get the turnout down there. 
JD: Was that because of the Eddie Carthan thing? 
RC: Yes, yes. 
JD: Carthan was the mayor of Tchula, and he was accused of a number of crimes. 
RC: Yes. 
JD: And how did that play out into the election then? 
RC: Well, it played out into the election that I was not coming down and putting my arms 
around him. [Laughs] 
JD: You were essentially saying, you know, “Let the court system operate.” 
RC: Yeah, that’s right. 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
48 
JD: Um-hmm. And there were some folk who didn’t like that. 
RC: That’s right. 
JD: Did you think that cost you the election? 
RC: That cost me the election. If Mileston had turned out the way they have turned out 
for me every other time I’ve run, I would have won. Got 49 percent plus, just didn’t get 50 
percent plus. 
JD: Did you think you were going to win? 
RC: What did you say? 
JD: Did you think you were going to win Election Day? 
RC: I wasn’t sure. I never was. I was always, you know, curious. I wasn’t sure. 
JD: Well, this was an election that attracted national attention. And you’re very charitable 
to Mr. Franklin, but I just found one of his campaign slogans: “Elect Webb Franklin; He’s One 
of Us.” 
RC: Um-hmm. 
JD: [Laughing] Now, what does that mean? 
RC: Yeah, well, that’s playing—that’s racism. 
JD: Yeah, um-hmm. 
RC: That’s racism playing to the white folks. 
JD: I think another one was: “Do You Know Who I’m Running Against?” That was 
another of his slogans. 
RC: Um-hmm. Well, that’s another one, you know. But like I have, you know, there were 
white folk, and I worked with them. Alright, when I first ran for, attempted to run for Speaker 
Pro Tempore for the Mississippi legislature, I did not run because there were some African 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
49 
Americans was not going to vote for me. And I didn’t want their grandchildren saying, 
“Grandmama, Granddaddy, why you didn’t vote for that black man?” 
But the second time around, you know, I said, “I am going to run. I’m begging you for 
your support. I’m pleading with you for your support. If you don’t support me, I’m running 
anyway. So, out of 35 African Americans, I got 17 of the votes. But I got 87 percent of the total 
vote of the Mississippi House of Representatives. 
JD: Wow. 
RC: And I got those votes. Those men and women knew that I was black, and they saw 
that I was black. But they voted for me as a person, and not as a white person and not as a black 
person. 
JD: Yeah. And you had established yourself, your credentials, and they respected you. 
RC: That’s right. And during the time I was, you know, the Speaker Pro Tempore, there 
was times when they tried to get me to spend in the red. See, I was in charge of Fiscal Affairs of 
the House. If you put the money in the budget, we’ll spend it. [1:50:00] But if you don’t put the 
money in the budget, we will not spend it. [Laughs] 
JD: Uh-huh. Just a quick word about your second campaign. You came so close in the 
first campaign for the House. Two years later, you ran against Franklin again. What was different 
in that campaign? And talk a little bit about how that went down. 
RC: Well, the campaigns went very much the same. The second campaign we were—you 
know, we was better organized and we knew more about what we were doing. But the two 
campaigns went very much the same. There were several of the farmers in the Delta that, you 
know, tried to—supported me and tried to get the rest of the farmers to support me. But if the 
farmers of the Delta had supported me, I would have won, particularly the second election. 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
50 
JD: I remember that election, and some of us were thinking that what was working 
against you was that they identified you as being with the Civil Rights Movement, as part of the 
Civil Rights Movement. 
RC: Yes— 
JD: And then, when you did have a black candidate eventually winning, why, Mike Espy, 
why, he was not identified with the Civil Rights Movement. 
RC: Well, one of the things with Espy, though, we had changed the district. 
JD: Um-hmm. 
RC: We had changed the district when Espy ran. 
JD: Um-hmm. And it was a much larger black district. 
RC: Yeah, we had changed the population. The percentage of population was larger. We 
had really given him a winnable district. You see, I really, so far as—if you’re going to take 
Mississippi, black and white, as it was then, with my district running all up into Winona and all 
into Webster County, [laughs]— 
JD: Well, they had gerrymandered that as soon as it looked like blacks were going to 
vote, so that this would not be an overwhelmingly black district. Then they made it an 
overwhelmingly black district, and, of course, that made it more difficult for Democrats to win in 
other districts. 
RC: That’s right. 
JD: And this is what we’re dealing with nationally now. Well, I was going to point out 
that after that you came back and you continued to serve with distinction in the legislature. In 
1992, you were elected Speaker Pro Tempore of the House, and in 2000 there were 35 black 
representatives in the Mississippi legislature, and that represents some progress, at least. 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
51 
But before we let you go, one thing we haven’t talked about is your family. Tell us about 
your family. 
RC: Well, where do you want me to start? 
JD: Well, I mean, you were married in 1971 and you had two sons. 
RC: Yes, I didn’t get married until I think I was 38 years old. I had [1:53:17 ] family 
here, my sister’s children, and, you know, helped to educate them, and they’re doing well today. 
As I said, my nephew that I raised here, he is a cardiology specialist in California, and he was the 
youngest cardiologist at the time when he graduated from the University of Michigan. And my 
great-grandparents were slaves here, and they bought the place, and my grandparents was here. 
And my grandparents, as well as my parents, always taught me that I was somebody and that an 
education was important. 
JD: And you taught your children the same thing. 
RC: And I taught my children the same thing. For example, you know, that’s my wife, 
my first wife’s photo up there. Sometimes there would be two dozen little boys out there. They’d 
be playing with different equipment that they had. But I had them to know that you are not any 
more than any of those little boys out there. But once they grow up, they’re going go one way, 
and hopefully you’re going to go another way. And I’d tell them that if you go the way I want 
you to go, I’m going to stick with you. But, now, if you go the way you want to go, end up going 
the right direction, you can be sitting on the big store porch at Ebenezer. I’ll wave at you. 
[1:55:00] But you’re going to have to get out and take care of your own if you don’t. 
JD: Uh-huh, yeah. 
RC: And they both did it, and they both are lawyers. 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
52 
JD: Ah. You have been on the scene for a long time. There’s a final question I am asking 
most of the people that we are interviewing. What have been the most positive changes that have 
taken place in the state during your lifetime? And what pressing problems remain to be solved? 
RC: [Pause] I’m hesitating, not because of lack of words, but the main problem I see in 
the state of Mississippi now: We need to eradicate political parties, because we have government 
now by the party and for the party, and not for the people. And you have government now, if this 
party is for it and wants it, this one is going to be against it, and vice-versa. And our political 
parties, as I see it—and I have a right to believe in what I believe in, because I have been out 
there—our political parties is our greatest hindrance in the state of Mississippi today. 
JD: It’s sort of like it is in Washington, too, isn’t it? 
RC: It’s like it is in Washington. If the Democrats want it, and it’s going to make the 
Democrats look good, we ain’t going be for it. If the Republicans want it, we ain’t going be for 
it. 
JD: Yeah. What’s the biggest positive change that has taken place in the state? 
RC: Well, the biggest positive change that has taken place in the state is that, you know, 
people are free—hasn’t much change taken place, really, since the Civil Rights Movement. 
People are free to go where they want to go—go in any place they want to to eat and go to any 
motel you want to and stay. But the Civil Rights Movement was great. It was great. We couldn’t 
have been where we are today without the Civil Rights Movement. 
But I’m afraid—and I’m working on it right now—that if we don’t do something, history 
is going to record that, for lack of leadership in Mississippi, all of the good works of the Civil 
Rights Movement died. And I’m working on that right now. 
Robert Clark, March 14, 2013 
53 
JD: Well, that is probably a good way to end, that Representative Clark has spent his 
whole life in public service, and he’s not through yet! Thank you again for giving us your time. 
This has been a splendid time for us. 
RC: Thank you, thank you. Thank you very much. 
 
[Recording ends at 1:58:24] 
[END OF INTERVIEW] 
Transcribed by Sally C. Council