1 
 
afc2020008_015_ms01 
 
Jude Bejarano interviewed by Vyta Pivo on May 26, 2021 at the Lehigh Cement Company 
Plant in Evansville, Pennsylvania. The interview transcript has been edited for clarity.  
 
[00:00:00] 
 
Vyta Pivo: 
Today is Wednesday, May 26, 2021. This is an interview for the occupational 
history archive, which is part of the Folklife Center at the Library of Congress, funded by the 
Archie Green Fellowship. As part of this project, I am interviewing cement workers in the 
Lehigh Valley, Pennsylvania, the birthplace of the modern cement industry in the United 
States. The recording and transcript will become part of the permanent collection at the Library 
of Congress. I'm Vyta Pivo and today I'm speaking with Jude Bejarano here at the Lehigh 
Cement Company plant in Evansville, Pennsylvania. And just to confirm, you give me your 
permission to record the interview, is that correct? 
 
Jude Bejarano: 
Yes.  
 
VP: 
Thank you so much. So, could we start by you telling me your full name, your year of 
birth and where you were born? 
 
JB: 
My name is Jude Anthony Bejarano, and I was born 1971, in Kearny, Arizona.  
 
VP: 
Is that where you grew up?  
 
JB: 
No, that's where I was born, because my dad was a copper—he worked in a copper 
mine over there. And so we were living there, but we lived a little bit outside of there in 
Arizona. That's how that's how I started actually—in mining—is a copper mine.  
 
VP: 
Wow, what did you do at the mine?  
 
[00:01:24] 
 
JB: 
I worked as a… first, my first job, you know, because you always start as a laborer, 
but… I worked underground, and there was a big underground mine. It was one of the biggest 
in the world—it's closed now. But, I got into copper mining because my grandfather worked 
in the copper mine also. So, it was just like, in our family. I had uncles that worked there, but 
I was a laborer and then I just loaded—they have trains underground and I would just load the 
trains with the ore. And then after that, I transferred to the process of the flotation process 
where they extracted the copper. So, I went to a different aspect where they extracted the copper 
out and they plated it to a copper plate. And then it was like ninety-nine percent copper. So, 
then I got into that. I left that industry for a little bit, and I went to school because I wanted to 
be a supervisor and they told me I needed a college. So, I went to college, and got a degree in 
bachelors and business management. And after that I left a little bit, went to work for Dillard's 
clothing store. And I didn't like it because it was like, nonprofit. The money wasn't that good 
because money is good in mining. So then I went back to mining and then I went to go work 
for a small mine in California because I had family in California and that's—my grandparents 
lived in California. So, I was always back and forth. So, I went to go work for a small mine in 
California, or they made for that as… I got Lithuania on my mind but what’s that—it's part 
of… it starts with the L… it's a component of a battery… 
2 
 
 
VP: 
Lithium? 
 
JB: 
Lithium! And we mine that up, and it was part of a government funded mine. And from 
there I met a guy—and that's what I told you earlier—I met a guy and he came from cement 
and he was like, ‘you need to get in cement.’ And I was like, ‘why would I want to like, go to 
cement?’ And I said, ‘I worked in cement for a little bit before, but they didn't pay that much—
as much as the copper mine or another mine.’ And he goes, ‘But cement is not a commodity—
it doesn't go on the stock market as much as like copper, gold, silver. It's just a solid industry.’ 
And I was like, ‘OK, I'll try it.’ And once I got into cement, I worked in California for a cement 
company.  
 
VP: 
What year did you start? 
 
JB: 
In cement? 1999. And then I went back to copper and then—because I bounced back 
and forth, right—but I stayed in the mining industry and then I came over here like in 2014, I 
wanna say. And I worked in the Lehigh Valley because I was like ‘Oh, I've never been over 
here to the East Coast.’ So I started working at Essroc Nazareth. And then from there, Lehigh 
bought it and—from the industry—because everybody knows everybody. Like if you were to 
go to Redding, California, and used to say my name, people would be like this: ‘Oh, I know 
Jude.’ Or if you go to Arizona and you go to different mines because everybody just jumps 
from mine to mine, they would know, you know, they would say, ‘Oh, I know Jude.’ So, from 
Nazareth, like, if you were to, like, I know you interviewed people over there, and if you 
mention my name to a couple, they’d be like, ‘Yes, I know Jude,’ and I'm not even from here, 
right? So, from there I went to California. Redding, California. Worked till ‘17 and then I think 
2017, I transferred over here and I've been in Evansville ever since then.  
 
VP: 
Are there similarities between the copper industry, mining, and cement? 
 
[00:05:18] 
 
JB: 
Yeah, it's all… it’s basically the same, but everything's like on a smaller scale for 
cement because… in copper, there's mines that are huge, like, you know, five miles wide. Here, 
you don't have that area where it's five miles wide. This little quarry where they get the 
limestone, that's all they're… they’re mining, and they're pulling out of the ground—it’s for 
like, limestone and chip in copper mine. They're going for the copper, or they're going for the 
gold, or the silver. Mostly, it's for the copper that I used to work at. And those mines are huge. 
The trucks are bigger than the building that we're in, right? You know, you see them on the 
Discovery Channel, they're like… they hold 240 tonnes. They're like, humongous like, you… 
you know. And the… but the similarities are: the conveyor belts, the rollers, the process of, 
you know, the maintenance—because I'm in maintenance of keeping everything up—and the 
demand that, you know, you have to keep everything going because you're part of the process 
of point A to point B. You help those guys extract it, you bring it up, you process—you go 
through a process with production—and then it gets to the final where you ship it. And that's 
the same thing as in copper, you know. So, the only difference is, is that everything is 
humongous and big where you come to this industry, it's really small and really, you know, 
like the plants are not that big, you know, but I like it like that.  
 
VP: 
So, could you tell me about the different types of jobs that you had in the cement 
industry?  
3 
 
 
JB: 
Uh, in the cement industry? Just… first, labor like shoveling, basic shoveling [unclear] 
because you always start at the bottom in a cement plant. And then, from there, you get, you 
know, like to the production side. But luckily for me, I went into the apprenticeship side of 
learning maintenance, and everything like that, of having to deal with maintenance. I didn't 
finish apprenticeship. From the apprenticeship, I was thrown into a supervisor role—young—
like, I was twenty-five, I ought to be fifty, right? So, when I was 25, this… I was with the best 
because, you know, I try to get myself with somebody who can help me out. And this man, he 
was the best mechanic, and he'd been at the plant, I want to say, like, twenty-five years, and I 
was twenty-five years old, right? So, he knew so much, and his word… he was building me up 
and I was like his, you know, protege and he built me up so good because he was doing all the 
jobs and doing all the work and I was just… my name was on it, you know? His name was 
Harry. So, it'd be ‘Harry and Jude,’ ‘Harry and Jude.’ And actually, it was just Harry, I was 
just the [unclear], right? Well, my name got built up with Harry, and Harry said, ‘We need a 
supervisor. You could be the supervisor’—because I was going to school at night, after—and 
he goes, ‘You know, you’re party… the young guy, and you don't want to be like me.’ And I 
would look at him and I was like—I didn't tell him this—but I was like, ‘Yeah, I don't want to 
be like you,’ because he was just tired, you know? And it was the manual work. And he goes, 
‘I can show you everything. I can show you to weld, I could show you like, to torque spec on 
a mill, you know, like, to turn the wrench, and I can show you the wrench and I can show you 
everything to get yourself hired. But you're not gonna go so high. If you go for a supervisor, 
you can go really, really high and you can help yourself out and help the plan out, because 
you're not that kind of guy that,’ he says, ‘I see that.’ And he goes, ‘So I'm going to put in a 
good word for you to be a boss. So, when I was twenty-five—on his recommendation because 
he was so good—they gave me the job and going from union to salary was like a big no. Here, 
I think now it's OK. But twenty-five years ago, man, I got so much backlash, right? Like, they 
filled my—I could tell you the stories like they told me. So, they fill my boots up with like 
foam, like hardening foam, right? And in my locker they filled it up with foam and they glued 
my locker, you know, because once they knew I was going to be salary there, it's kind of like I 
betrayed them, right? So, and I told Harry, I said, ‘Harry, you said that I was going to be OK.’ 
And he goes, ‘Hey, you're one of them now.’ He goes, ‘I'll do whatever you tell me, but I can't 
tell you what the other workers are gonna—they feel betrayed because you were one of us and 
now you're one of them.’ But he said, ‘You'll be OK, but you have to like, put your foot down 
and show ‘em that.’ And it was hard because I was young and those guys—Harry was already 
an older man. He was like in his 60s, right? And he goes, ‘It's hard for them to take orders from 
somebody young.’ But he was like, ‘You have to show that you care.’ And I learned from him 
in the mechanic-wise, and the job-wise, but I also learned the leadership-wise, right? And he 
goes, ‘Go to school, get that degree, so you can mesh in with the guys up top.’ ‘The suit guys,’ 
he called them. And he goes, ‘Because you can mesh in with the workers, but when you 
transfer, you got a mesh in with the top, And once you get with the top, don't forget the 
workers,’ right? So, I still… like, Harry's always on my mind, like, he's the greatest guy. Like, 
you know, my daughter wrecked into him on the road one time, and she was like 16 and he 
was an old man already, like 80 years old—I don't know, 75, 80. And my daughter hit him and 
I said, ‘Oh, man, you wrecked our car.’ And she goes, ‘Yeah, this old man, Harry, says he 
knows you.’ And this was like, in Phoenix. And we weren’t even in… from Phoenix, right? 
And I was like, ‘Harry? That guy? I wouldn't be where I'm at today.’ She goes, ‘What do you 
want me to do?’ And I said, ‘Just let him go, we’ll pay for the car.’ So, I was like, well—
‘because if it wasn’t for that guy, we wouldn't have a car, just let him go.’ But that's just another 
side story.  
4 
 
But, so then… the pain of working, and being, like, kind of insecure, like so young. I 
see it with, like, young engineers now, because I'm already forty-nine—I'll be 50. But, having 
that confidence of dealing with people who, you know, put the foam in my boots, they glued 
my locker, right? Or, the… the mouse trick. Now what they have now is they take the battery 
out, but back then they put rubber cement on my mouse so I couldn't move it when I came in, 
you know, and like, nobody had a key to my office so that, I had to deal with that aspect. And 
then, becoming a supervisor so young, they put me in an office with an older maintenance man, 
right? And he was old school maintenance guy. And he didn't have a degree, but he was just 
there so long and he was the one that was leaving. And he would tell me, ‘Hey, you're not going 
to use my printer.’ And I was new, right? I was like, ‘Well, there's not another printer here,’ so 
I'd have to print everything. And he was serious, too. He was like, you know, kind of like a 
bully, but he was like real seriously territorial. And so I’d have to print everything at night, 
right? Or in the early morning, like, wake up early and come in. And he used to say, ‘You're 
not going to do this. You're not going to do that,’ but he was a real big smoker and he smoked 
in the office with those, right? And they knew I didn't smoke. So he'd have a big knot there. 
And then, he'd cover it when somebody would come around, like in the office, because we 
were in an office like this. So, one time, he was smoking and he put the cigarette inside the big 
knot and then he covered the knot, but you could still smell the smoke. And they asked me, 
you know, ‘Ay, is Bill smoking?’ And I was like, ‘No, he's not smoking.’ Then after that it was 
like, ‘Oh, I could trust you.’ And I was like, ‘You could trust me all this time.’ He goes, ‘No, 
when you put in a situation,’ and I learned this from him, he goes, ‘When you're put in a 
situation where you have to perform or you have to prove something, then I'll believe you, 
because I'm an old school kind of guy, because these young kids nowadays, they just go on 
their word: ‘He's a nice guy, he's this, he's that, he knows…’ I'm old school. You have to be 
like, you know, show me what kind of man you are, and what kind of guy you're going to be.’ 
So then after that, I took that from him, too. And that's how I am now, you know. So, I try to 
live like that because anybody can get a degree, really. You know, you see a lot of people, they 
can get degrees, especially in cement. You got a lot of engineers and they're young and we 
have one, you know, that I work with now. But I always tell them, like ‘I want to be, you know, 
where I can mentor you.’ But in my mind, I think I want to be Harry or I want to be Bill, you 
know, because like I told you, cement… is always there. Like, you step on it, you're in it. It's 
everywhere you go.  
And now you be part of the process and you see like the kilns working, or you see like, 
the conveyor belts. And it's so dusty. And another thing that—I don't know if anybody has ever 
told you this in these—but another guy told me, ‘Hey, we're not doctors, we're not lawyers, 
we’re just dealing with dust,’ he goes, ‘It's just dirt. And we mix it up and we bond it together 
and it's concrete cement,’ right? He goes, ‘And if you can get that in your mind every time you 
come to work that it’s just a dust plant—that's all it is, it’s a dust plant—and you're just grinding 
it up and what is cement? The powder, just the dust.’ He goes, ‘We’re a dust plant.’ So, I use 
that from all the industries that I'm at, I'm always like—or plants that I work at—I’m like, I tell 
these guys, ‘Hey, don't worry, man, we're not doing open-heart surgery, we’re just working 
with dust.’ And they'll be like, ‘Wow, I never heard that,’ and they've been here like 30 years. 
But for me, being in California, Arizona, Nazareth, I bring that, as you know, part of my, you 
know, leadership and being with the maintenance guys because in all cement plants, the 
maintenance guys are the most seasoned guys. I don't, you know, you'll see that if you go to 
any cement plant, the most seasoned guys are usually, if there's no quarry and they're not getting 
old and going to go drive, you know, a haul truck to just get the [unclear] out or the lime out. 
They’re the guys that… been there the longest, they make, you know, the highest pay because 
they're on call. And, in maintenance, you're expected to stay—even if you're an hourly—you're 
expected to stay till the job's done. So, if your salary like me, I'll stay here till like 11:00. And 
5 
 
while those guys are getting paid on the clock, I always tell them, ‘I'm making five dollars an 
hour right now, you know, like my pay is going in reverse.’ But they—and what I notice, too, 
is that most people… in this industry you have to show that you, because you could be in the 
office like me, and, you know, you could see me kind of clean. But, when it's time to get dirty 
with time, when it's really, really hot and even though I've been in the AC, they know I’ve been 
in the AC. But, if I show up on a job and I stay with them, they value that like, or ‘It's really 
important because you're here with us,’ you know? So, that's what I see like in my… like, with 
cement workers, and in mining in general. But, cement workers in this plant specifically, it's 
like, if they—you show that you care, they'll do whatever for you. You know, they'll break 
their backs for you. And a lot of them, they'll stay, you know, 16 hours on a job, you know, 
that's like, all the way through the whole night after working all day just to get this place going. 
And I appreciate them, and I tell them, ‘You have no idea, because without you guys, you guys 
are like my hands, and without you guys, where would I be at?’ So, as a leader, and now the 
position that I'm at, I remember Harry, when I first started, and everything with Harry, how he 
used to be taken care of, but how he used to take care of his boss. And he used to tell me, ‘If 
you take care of me, I'll take care of you. You just use me? And if it's all about just making you 
look good? Eventually, I'm just going to lay down. And once a person lays down, he as a person 
is not going to want to perform or they're just going to do the bare minimum—they're not going 
to go above and beyond.’ And I'd use that, as all these cement plants that I go to and I work 
now, that, to get these places going—and it's high demand now, especially at this pandemic—
you have to get the people to buy in and have to show like, ‘Hey, it's really important to make 
the cement, make the product,’ and we have to keep everything going so… 
 
VP: 
And so, in the Lehigh valley, the cement industry is so historic, so very much part of 
the community. Was it difficult for you to come in as an outsider?  
 
[00:18:47] 
 
JB: 
Oh, yeah, yeah, especially in Lehigh Valley. You know, they don't care about anything 
outside of Lehigh Valley. And I noticed that, too, especially being from—when I came from 
California—they were like, you know, ‘Who are you?’ And I was like, ‘Let me,’ you know, 
‘give me a chance.’ And a lot of them, they wouldn't, you know, they were like, ‘We’re not 
gonna talk to you,’ because in maintenance—I'll go back to the industry of maintenance—It's 
really short-term with maintenance supervisors and plants, because if you're not keeping the 
plant running… the workers don't go, you go… the salary goes. Because they're like, ‘You're 
not making the plant go, you're not making this get to where we want to be. So, it's gotta be 
you.’ So when I came in, I was over there working at Nazareth, right in the Lehigh Valley, and 
I just remember I was trying to build a rapport with the guys and I asked them on a job. And 
Jack Santo, the guy you interviewed, he was on the job, and he was a worker back then. So, I 
was a supervisor and I asked them ‘What's taking the job so long around here?’ And they were 
inside a mill and it was hot. It was so hot, and it was like eleven o'clock at night. And I just 
heard all the tools cling cling cling cling cling, hitting, you know, the steel, and they come up 
and they said, ‘You don't even—you're asking us from up here, it's really nice. You need to get 
down in here. We're going to take a break, and if you want to know what's going on, then stay 
inside here with us, because you know what? This ain't California Dreamin’.’ They always tell 
me, you know, ‘this isn't California dreaming or this ain't Hotel California.’ They always make 
reference to California. So, I was like, ‘All right.’  
But how I won those guys over, I would be out there all the time and I would have to 
stay late because I was an outsider going back to where I started. And my wife would be like, 
‘What's going on here?’ like, and I go, ‘I'm trying to find a routine. And I can't find a routine 
6 
 
here because I have to show these guys that I care and then I have to learn the system of salary.’ 
So, I go like this, ‘I'm doing like two jobs here. Like, two completely different jobs.’ And I go, 
‘It's taken me’—and it was a team of guys—'till nine o'clock at night.’ So, I was getting there 
at 6:00 and I was leaving at nine o'clock at night. And then my family was hurting, right? So, 
then I was like, ‘I got to figure out a better way.’ So, I would not take no breaks and I'd be with 
the guys out there working to show them that, yeah, I'm from California, but I know the 
industry, and I've been around, and I know different things, and I've seen different things, you 
know, and I always think back to Bill. I got to show these guys they could trust me because 
they're old school guys and people are people, so, that's what I did is… in Lehigh, when it came 
to Lehigh Valley, it was hard because “Pennsylvania Dutch” plus, you know, I'm Hispanic, 
you know, and I'm not like Puerto Rican-Hispanic, but they see that… I'm Mexican. So, they 
were kind of like, ‘What the hell, why'd you come out here?’ And I said, ‘I came out here for,’ 
you know, ‘a different look on life.’ And I go, ‘and… I just came in here to work with you 
guys. Our paths crossed and we're here together!’ You know, ‘we're going to become family.’ 
And they were like, ‘Get the hell out of here. We're not your family.’ And eventually, I won 
those guys over. Like, I could go over there right now to Nazareth, I could walk in that plant 
and be like, ‘Hey, Jude!’ and I could do whatever I want. But to get to that point, it took a lot 
of leadership skills and it took a lot of time—my time—and my wife was like, you know, 
because we were—she's from California, and she was like, ‘We don't have no family here. 
You're all I have. And then now you're like, all the work is all you got.’ And I said, ‘I know… 
I don't know how to juggle the work because we're outsiders here,’ I go, ‘And these guys from 
Pennsylvania, they're tough.’ So she managed it and she understood it. So, the home life, she 
held it down. And then… I have kids, so they would go to the plant too and we'd eat lunch or 
we’d eat dinner at Nazareth, right, at that plant—there's another, plant three. We’d eat dinner 
over there and I bring them on site. And I had an office over there and I’ll tell her, ‘We have to 
eat over here.’ Those guys would see that. And I was like, ‘I'm not leaving, I'm here.’ And 
they'd be like… so then I got the trust. And the relationship started just because I showed them 
that I care and I showed them we had a family and I'd have my wife bring food for them, you 
know, like hot dogs or donuts or whatever. And then they were like—because they'd be 
working really hard—and I was like, ‘I appreciate you guys.’ And when I left to transfer, I 
went to each and every guy. And that's why these three memories, because I said, ‘Hey, thank 
you for doing everything you did for me, because without you, I wouldn't have been able to 
feed my family here.’ And they were like, ‘What?’ And I said, ‘Yeah, they could have fired 
me if you guys laid down, but you did the work for you. You knew you had to do the work, but 
I appreciate it.’ And they were like, ‘No, you come out here like at two o'clock in the morning,’ 
and my wife would be sleeping in the parking lot, right, because we only had one car at that 
time and they were like, ‘No, don't leave.’ And I was like, ‘I already... I have to leave back to 
California.’ I go, ‘Nothing to do with you guys, but I'm going to go help somebody else that I 
knew in the industry start over there.’  
So, then I left, and then I seen a job opening at Union Bridge and I wanted to go there 
because they make cement real cheap. Here we make it like, at the cost. So, when you go to a 
cement plant that makes something that cheap, they're usually sold out and they get whatever 
they want, as far as like money. And the budgets are really, really high. And that's what I look 
at it now. But that didn't work out because they hired somebody in front of me that they wanted, 
and they said, ‘We got a plant called Evansville.’ And I was like, ‘Well, I guess… Evansville, 
but… I'm not even from Pennsylvania, I worked at Nazareth,’ and they said, ‘Yes, in the Lehigh 
Valley, come back.’ And I told my wife and my wife was like, ‘No,’ at first, she was like, ‘I 
love Pennsylvania, but…’ she goes, ‘It’s too far. California is close to everything because we 
have family in New Mexico, Arizona.’ We're like, you know, West Coast. She goes, ‘We're 
going to be there alone again.’ And I said, ‘Look, did you like Pennsylvania? It's close to 
7 
 
everything. New York, you know, Washington, D.C., Maryland.’ I go, ‘We know this 
already—let's come back.’ And to be honest, this is the best decision I made, like to come back. 
With these guys, with the people, and Noelle, to feel [unclear] because she's HR. But for me, 
like I don’t—it's easy now like, having to work at all these places. Now I can relate to the 
workers here more, and they trust me now because they call people at Nazareth and they'll say, 
‘He's been around.’ So, I don't get that “Pennsylvania Dutch” kind of thing. And these 
Pennsylvanians like, they know that I'm an outsider, but they still you know… 
 
VP: 
So, do you think in comparison to what you experienced in other states, in the cement 
industry, the Lehigh Valley has like a particular… like a different kind of a culture of cement 
that’s unique?  
 
[00:26:25] 
 
JB: 
Yeah… they actually have a lot of pride. And it's… if you haven't worked in other 
places, because I've run into other people who's they asked me that before, and I said it's the 
pride, but it's also like, the knowledge and, you know, the longevity that people stay in the 
industry here. Because you got guys here who worked like 54 years and 30 years, 20—the 
whole maintenance gang is like twenty years. You got a guy that's seven years and he's the 
youngest but… they stay in the industry, they don't go nowhere. Like, you go to like California 
and they jump from plant to plant to plant like me. That's what I was doing. I go to copper 
because copper is making more money, copper has higher bonuses. So you chase the money. 
Here, they could go to like carpenters still down the road, but they stay in the plant and they 
see that cement is, you know, a viable way to make a living because, you know, they're selling 
the trucks. And if you've been here a while, they just… they care. And the knowledge of the 
workers from staying in the industry so long, you can't get that anywhere. And I haven't been 
like, to the Midwest, but I know in California I would take these guys over there and they would 
be rock stars. They would be incredible. And they don't believe me, I tell them that in 
maintenance, how you judge a maintenance department is the rework, just like a car or any 
industry. You work at something, and if you have to go back, you have to. But it's the limited 
time. And that's how I judge us, you know, the maintenance supervisor. And I said, ‘Here, it's 
minimal.’ And I told that to that guy. I go, ‘In Redding, California. We are always going back, 
you know, and [unclear] you know, we're always going back, you know, in Arizona, we always 
going back to Tulsa,’ is like a high rework rate. Here, it's slim to none that you go back. And 
if it is, it’s something small, because they've been here like twenty years, you get three guys on 
a job, you have sixty years in between.  
 
VP: 
Why do you think they're so committed to the industry and stay so long?  
 
JB: 
I think it's because… it's not because of the money, I think it's because of the process 
of how it comes up and how they're valued even before me, right? And they just get where 
they… and I asked them before they get to where they know their coworkers are comfortable 
and they like working at a plant where they know that they go over there—and this is what I 
learned from these guys—they know already where everything's at. So, something breaks 
down, it's not going to another plant, having to figure everything out and starting fresh—like 
I've done that. So, they say they don't go somewhere else because they want to master this 
place, right? And I look at them like, ‘I get it,’ like, that's something that I’ve never seen, and 
that's something that they have over everybody else. They don’t—they want to just be the best 
at this plant. And when somebody leaves and somebody comes back, they're like an outsider 
all over again, right? And… because you got people here like 20, 30 years, and if you leave 
8 
 
and they're kind of like, ‘I told you so,’ or they're kind of like now like the mom and dad, that 
the kid had to come back home because they knew… they didn't listen. So, you know, they see 
that, and they see people come and go. But they, for the most part, they've been working around 
people and they don't all get along, I’ve seen that. But when it comes to a job, they all get along 
well. They all have the same goal, and they don't leave because they all know each other. They 
know each other's families, they've been here forever. And I think, well they told me that, but 
I think that it's good that they stayed in one spot and they know why they stay in one spot, you 
know, because they know, they know, they know the tricks. And I ask them, ‘Why don't you 
go to [unclear]?’ They said they’d start with new coworkers and start over again, even if we 
wanted to go,’ or ‘So and so went, and look what happened to them, they're back.’ It’s not… 
you know, the grass is greener and they're old school now, guys that are in their 50s and 60s, 
you know, and 40s… they are for the most part, they… they're really committed. And once 
you're in cement, you stay, what, ten years? Unless you're a guy like salaries like that, then you 
go somewhere else. But hourly? You're in it. You know, this is the grind that you say, ‘I want 
to retire, is this company good enough to retire?’ And they get paid well—that's another good 
thing is they don't get paid, you know, you got this battery plant out here, that's your 
competition on this side. And they pay well, too, but they don't pay as well as you know…those 
guys.  
 
VP: 
Do you know what the difference is between the wage? 
 
JB: 
I want to say it's like four dollars, five dollars, you know… and that's a lot, especially 
the perks of—they're not steelworkers. The Steelworkers Union is a big deal, too. And being a 
steel worker has a lot of benefits, you know? I was a steel worker—that's how I started, and it 
has a lot of benefits. And the insurance is a big thing. And once you start getting up—and a lot 
of these guys see that as they get older—having good insurance is, you know, a key in life. 
You know, when you're young, people tell you, ‘You need insurance.’ My mom used to tell 
me that. And I’d be like, ‘Whatever.’ Now I'm like, ‘Oh, yeah,’ when I go pay that bill for the 
dentist, I'm like, ‘Oof.’ Luckily I got good insurance.  
 
VP: 
So, what is it like to work out in the plant with all the dust and the elements and the 
heat?  
 
[00:32:24] 
 
JB: 
Um, at first it can get to you, you know, but now it's just everyday life, you know. But 
if you're not used to it when you first get out there, you could just feel it on your neck and in 
your ears, on your face, in your eyes, in your hair—you don't even know you have it in your 
hair, you know? You could be walking around. And then like, if you go eat, it'll be falling into 
your food if you don't blow off, you know, because it's dust. So, it can be overwhelming 
sometimes. But after a while, it's like, it is what it is. You're going to have it on you… And I 
see a lot of guys give up on being clean here too, you know what I’m saying? Like, after the 
first five minutes, they might be clean, and then after that they're like, ‘Yeah, I'm dirty.’ And 
you see, I'm completely with, you know, grease and oil and dust all mixed into that. And I'm 
like the cleanest guy out there. And they look at me and then I start to get a little bit dirty and 
I'm just like… you just give up. Like, it's going to happen. But yes, you can never stay clean. 
Are you going on tour? You're going to get dust. It depends on where they take you, but you'll 
feel it. And then you leave here and you'll be like, ‘oh, I got a little bit of dust on me,’ you 
know? So, it's kind of annoying. And the heat, right, and then the cold, you don't really… 
everything is like patted down, but then you've got to deal with the cold over here. But when 
9 
 
it's hot and it's really humid—like it's a little bit humid today—just that extra dirt on you It's 
like, you know, like it's annoying. But for me, I forgot all about it, like that feeling, you know. 
But I do see it once in a while because I'm like, ‘Oh, he was clean this morning at seven o'clock, 
it's nine o'clock, and he's like completely black,’ you know, he's like, ‘Yeah, I gave up, 
whatever. I got to get in there, I don't got no time to be trying to stay clean and try to keep this 
clean [unclear].’ And it's just like nothing, you know, everybody knows it, you know, and if 
you're—that's another thing—So, if you're a worker and you're clean, they think you're not 
doing anything… they think you're not doing it. They think you're hiding on the job, you're 
running around and you're just messing around or you're talking to somebody else. You 
better… if you're a worker, you better be getting dirty because that's your reputation, too. You 
know, me they already know that. They always call me like ‘Hollywood,’ sometimes, or like, 
‘Look at this guy… he’s Hollywood.’ But if you're a worker—and I see them too—they're like 
this guy, he's a little bit clean, and he might be a little bit dirty, right? And I'm like, how are 
you dirty? I'm like this now. He's on the same job and everybody better be getting their hands 
in there and they better be looking like they're working. So… they hold themselves to a standard 
to, you know… 
 
VP: 
Appropriate level of dirty. 
 
JB: 
Yeah, you have to, you know? You can’t… stay clean all day because then they’ll 
think—if you're the worker, you better be getting dirty cause they’ll think—they associate that 
with ‘You're not working.’  
 
VP: 
How about the sound? It's very loud at the plant as well.  
 
[00:35:24] 
 
JB: 
Oh yeah. You have to wear earplugs, you know, and you have to be conscious with that 
because I'll walk around with no earplugs and I’ll have to walk all the way back and go get 
earplugs if I can’t find them or... But it's really, really important. And when you're young—a 
lot of these guys are like, yeah, they're a little bit deaf, right? And I'm like… because he's been 
around us so long. And I tell them, like, ‘You guys, you got to use earplugs,’ and they'll be 
like, ‘Yeah, we do.’ And I'll tell them or I'll go out today—just yesterday, I was like, ‘Hey, 
where's your guys’ earplugs at?’ And they'll have a box there. Then I'll look around and they 
won't have no earplugs in. So, I got to tell them, you know, but it's really, really loud. You can't 
even talk out there sometimes. And I don't—like, my ears, I don't know, like if they're sensitive 
because I always wear the earplugs, but I pull it out and it feels like it's amplified and then 
they'll pull it out and they'll be like ‘Let me tell you this…’ and I’m like… and they’Il be like, 
“Have been around,” and I go, ‘Oh, me too.’ But, I put my earplugs in all the time. And they're 
like, Yeah, same with the PP, the hard hat, and everything like that. It kind of all goes together, 
you know. So… but it is loud out there. You have to take care of your ears.  
 
VP: 
What would you say is the most challenging part of your job?  
 
JB: 
The people. The people. But you know, because like I said, you got… we got twenty 
guys. They've all probably done every job out there. It's the people of who you get out there 
and who you wanna… and you got to get them to work and then you've got to mix and you got 
to deal with different personalities and you don't know what they're going through. You know, 
even up in this building, you don't know like, what people say. So, every day it's some people 
are like tired or it's getting hot or they're going through a divorce out there in the plan. I listen 
10 
 
to them a little bit. You know, I talk to them, and I ask them how they're doing. And it's kind 
of like dealing with different personalities, you know… you know who's really, really quiet, so 
you don't push them and get them to talk all the time. You know, you just ask them how they're 
doing and go on where you got the guy who wants to talk all the time. And then, you listen to 
him and then you got the guy who going through a divorce because we have a guy out there 
and I'll ask him how his kid’s doing, you know, and, you know, just make a little joke, because 
I'm… you know, I've been around, so I make little jokes here and… I don't know, if they need 
anything they could call me. And, the difficult part is… just being open and understanding. 
And once they’re trusting, once they could trust you and you build that rapport, it makes your 
job ten times easier, you know, because if you don't, they don't trust you. They're going to be 
like, ‘I'll do whatever you got to say because you have a title, or because you're in this position. 
But that's all I'm going to do. You know, I'm not going to really clean up after this. I'm just 
going to try to do this job, get out of here and we'll clean it up later.’ But, you know, I'll go 
there, I'll be like, ‘Hey, let's clean this up.’ And if I come to clean it up and I leave, they’re 
gonna be like, ‘Hey, where the hell you going, you've got to stick around. You really want it 
cleaned up?’ You know, and I'll talk to him or I'll help. Sometimes I'll, you know, just… little 
small stuff here and help them because most of the time they'll be like, ‘No, we got it, we’ll 
take care of it.’ You know, ‘our tools go in our certain spots,’ but I'll help them or I'll stick 
around and I'll just ask them how they're doing or where they're going after this. It could be 
like ten o'clock at night. I'll be like, ‘What are you guys going to do,’ that, like, you know, 
‘Gonna go to go to sleep or go eat,’ like, you know, but that's the difficult part: people. All the 
time. Because the equipment is going to break, and equipment can fix, equipment don't talk 
back to you. Equipment don't have emotions, you know, and the cement is this. The dust is the 
dust, but it's the people that you have to… And that's what makes everything go around 
anywhere you go.  
 
VP: 
And what's your favorite part of your job or why do you keep working in the industry 
and specifically here, in the Lehigh Valley?  
 
[00:39:21] 
 
JB: 
The area, like the area, like I feel—and I always tell this to guys here—that sometimes 
they don't know what they have in Lehigh Valley, like, you know, me being around other 
places. I said, ‘you don't…’ You know, I lived in Las Vegas, too, before, when I was working 
at that mine in California because it was in California at the border. So, I go… I've been to 
different places, lived different places where people want to go. But I go, ‘I love this place 
because it's in the middle of nowhere,’ and you come to work and you get to do different 
challenges every day. But it's just like if you look out, there's a big lake out there. You know, 
we don't go fishing, but it's just the area and the location within Lehigh Valley, you know, like 
it's just a great place to work. And… I like coming to work here because of it being Lehigh 
Valley, you know, in Pennsylvania. And then again, it's the people like, you know, I… me, I'm 
a people person. So, I, you know, if I can make the people like me, then even if you don't like 
me, I'm going to… I will… You know, we're going to be together for a long time. So, you got 
to like something about me. 
 
VP: 
So, in closing the interview, is there something I didn't ask you about or is there 
something you'd like to, kind of, comment on?  
 
11 
 
JB: 
No, I just hope I covered everything and I talked a little bit. So I don't know if you edit 
this out. So I just hope I covered everything, you know, gave you a little bit of knowledge on 
different aspects.  
 
VP: 
We actually don't edit anything out, so it’s— 
 
JB: 
Oh. 
 
VP: 
—It’s all going to be continuous. 
 
JB: 
Oh, OK. Then, yeah, I hope, and if somebody looks into this, they, they see, you know, 
that there's different people at different aspects of people and it's a diverse group, you know, 
within the cement industry. Like, like I told you, like they told me, why wouldn't you want to 
work in cement? It's everywhere, you know, say that you're stepping on it, you're building on 
it, you know, as long as those buildings, they're going to always be somewhere, you know, 
so… unless they come up with something else. But I don't see that happening because this place 
has been here for one hundred years, like cement plants been around forever, right? So, if they 
don't come up with anything, you know, to replace it, they're not going to… you know, that's a 
good thing. So, that's good. And it's… builds the foundation and the foundation is cement, and 
they're always gonna need a good foundation.  
 
VP: 
Well, thank you so much for your time.  
 
JB: 
Yeah! Thanks.