Theresa Peterson, Kodiak, Commercial Fisherman 
Interviewed by Josh Wisniewski and Marissa Wilson 01/22/2022 
American Folklife Center 
 
 
 
0:00-10:00 
Born 1961 in San Diego.  Going on summertime adventures while in college. 
Friends had gone to Alaska to work in cannery.  Couldn’t get friend to go to 
South America, so goes to Alaska with other friends.  Hitch hiking from Haines 
Alaska to Homer.  Arriving in Homer in the back of a pick-up truck.  Inspired by 
beauty of Kachemak Bay.   Camping out at cannery trying to get job.  Getting job 
at “shady” outfit.  Quits to look for job on a boat.  Walking the docks getting to 
go out on shrimp trawler.  Getting to sell herring bycatch for bait to charter fleet.  
Taking a quarter off from school to look for fishing job in Kodiak. 
 
10:00-20:00 
Arriving in Kodiak, crabbing town.  Intimidated to ask for job.  Teased by 
fishermen, feeling out of her league.   Gets ride on sailboat back to Homer in 
Bristol Bay double-ender.  Coming back the following spring to get a fishing job.  
Gets a job on a halibut boat. Boat breaks down, skipper says boat is sinking then 
changes her mind.  Towed into town, skipper crashes boat into dock. Finding job 
on another boat in the bar. Living on coffee, eggs and candy bars.  Learning to 
gut halibut. 
 
20:00-30:00 
Learning to do things “the right way” getting on the Bobby J. Working for Mark 
Jacobs, long time Homer area fisherman Halibut fishing, Barren Islands, and 
South end of Kodiak.  Getting job on the Kamishak Queen for 12-day trip, 
becomes 27-day trip.  Mentored by Robert Pupura.  Crew rotation through 
different duties.  Using fixed gear with j hooks.  
 
30:00-40:00 
 Portuguese style coiling long line gear. Two-day turn around for second trip 38 
days long.  Halloween and Thanksgiving on boat. Inspired by kindness of Robert.  
Getting permanent position on boat, taking over as cook.  
 
40:00-50:00 
 Living in Homer.    Fishing in Aleutians on Kamishak Queen with halibut schooner 
Eclipse.  Killer whales eating Black cod off of longline gear.  Anchoring with 
Eclipse, meeting future husband Charlie.    Fishing on Eclipse in January in the 
Aleutians.   Getting on the Judy B. Rigging boat to longline black cod pots.  Losing 
all of the black cod gear.  Switching back to longlining.  Catching 90,000 lbs. in 10 
days.  Moving to Kodiak, getting boat with Charlie.  Longlining P-Cod. 
 
50:00-60:00 
Getting small seiner with Charlie.  Learning new fishery, making mistakes.  1989 
Exxon Valdez oil spill shuts down salmon fishing.  Only big boats getting contracts 
to help with clean up.  Being committed to fishing life.   Amazed a spill could 
happen and lack of clean up response plan.  Vulnerability as fishermen 
 
1:00-1:10:00    IFQs.  Fished for Seattle based halibut boats who supported IFQ because season 
was so compressed. Living in Kodiak “hard-charging” fishing community, 
Theresa Peterson, Kodiak, Commercial Fisherman 
Interviewed by Josh Wisniewski and Marissa Wilson 01/22/2022 
American Folklife Center 
 
understanding two different fleets perspectives on access to halibut fishery.  
Was able to fish short halibut openers as a mom.  Forgetting boots on a halibut 
opener using plastic shopping bags duct tape and tennis shoes.  Fishing on 
different halibut boats than husband.  Fishing week-10-day black cod trips. Not 
paying attention to management system.  Winding up with 2000 lbs.  of halibut 
quota.    Quota program cuts out ownership access opportunity for many who 
had longlined their whole lives as crew and running boats.  After 1995 getting on 
boats that paid crew well continuing to long line until 40, and having third child. 
 
1:10-1:20:00 New opportunities, friends sell set net operation at Cape Hepburn on the south 
end of Kodiak.  Begin fishing in 2003.  Plan to set net while Charlie runs salmon 
seiner. Big storm on first trip, anchor dragging, 80 knot winds, beaching boat 
tying to beach anchors. Doesn’t want to fish there alone with kids, Kodiak Fish 
and Game advisory council gets job with Alaska Marine Conservation Council 
(AMCC)to help map important crab habitat to protect from draggers.  Seeing the 
need to advocate for fishing communities.  Expanding social world.  Meting 
fishery advocates and activists.  Participating in the North Pacific Fisheries 
Management Council (NPFMC) process.  Joining the NPFMC advisory panel. 
Nominated to join NPFMC    Council, from 2016-2019.  Life as learning 
opportunity. Community based fisherman need to be active in the management.  
Giving back to fishing  
 
1:20-1:35:32 Changes in fisheries.  Harder to get in as owner, Harder to work in fishing and 
make enough to save and buy a boat.  Crews don’t make as much smaller 
percentage for captain and crew.  More money going to quota lords living in 
retirement.  Working on by catch reduction controls for the industrial trawl fleet 
to not impact community-based fishermen dependent on halibut, black cod rock 
fish, caught as by-catch by trawl sector as life’s work with AMCC.  Seeing more 
young salmon fisherman starting with small salmon seiners, fishing tanner crab, 
jigging and diversifying into different fisheries.  Halibut and black cod out of 
grasp, investing in state fisheries can start for a couple hundred thousand 
dollars.  State fisheries require owner on board.  Hoping family will take over 
fishing business.  Son runs family seiner, wants bigger boat.  Responding to 
climate change.  Differences in how species are impacted.    Fleet diversification.  
Shifting from high quantity to slower fishing and more utilization of whole fish. 
Exploring unique markets supporting small scale harvesters.  Kelp farming, 
slowing down carbon foot print for species to adapt preserving opportunity for 
future generations.  Getting to experience wild places because of fishing. 
Fisheries change fast.  Importance of documenting fishing life. 
 
135:32  
End of Interview