Charles McDew Interview, 6-4-11 
Pagel of 27 
Civil Rights History Project 
Interview completed by the Southern Oral History Program 
under contract to the 
Smithsonian Institution ’s National Museum of African American History & Culture 
and the Library of Congress, 2011 
Interviewee: 
Interview Date: 
Location: 
Interviewer: 
Videographer: 
Length: 
Mr. Charles McDew 
June 4,2011 
Campus of Albany State University, during the “Southwest 
Georgia Civil Rights Movement 50th Reunion” conference 
Joseph Mosnier, Ph.D. 
John Bishop 
81:53 minutes 
Joe Mosnier: ... little opening announcement just to - 
John Bishop: It’s running. 
JM: [Clears throat] Okay, today is Saturday, June 4, 2011. My name is Joe Mosnier of 
the Southern Oral History Program at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. I am with 
videographer John Bishop, and we are here to complete an oral history interview for the Civil 
Rights History Project, which is a joint undertaking of the Library of Congress and the 
Smithsonian’s National Museum of African American History and Culture. We are in Albany, 
Georgia, today, uh, in fact on the campus of Albany State University, where these last couple of 
days has been held the 50th Reunion of the Southwest Georgia Civil Rights Movement. 
And we’re very lucky this morning to be with Mr. Charles McDew. Mr. McDew, thank 
you so much for sitting down with us. It’s going to be a pleasure to talk with you about this 
history. Thank you. 
Charles McDew Interview, 6-4-11 
Page 2 of 27 
Charles McDew: Well, thank you for having me. 
JM: I wonder if you could - 
CM: I’m happy to be here. 
JM: It’s a real pleasure for us. Um, I wonder if you could sketch, urn, to begin, urn, just 
the basics of your family history, because I know you grew up in Ohio. 
CM: I was born in Massillon, Ohio, June 23, 1938. Urn, Massillon is a community of 
about thirty-five, thirty-six thousand people. Urn, it’s generally known for the production of 
steel and, uh, football players. They have great high school football teams and have had for 
years. [Someone coughs] Urn, Paul Brown, uh, was from Massillon, Ohio, uh, and the teams 
that Paul Brown had, uh, were famous and there’s long tradition. Uh, my father had played for 
Paul Brown, urn, and the Massillon Tigers. My grandfather had played, uh, in Massillon for the 
Massillon Tigers. 
Urn, the pro Football Hall of Fame in Canton [Ohio] is eight miles from Massillon. The 
big rivalry there is the Massillon-Canton football rivalry that goes back well over a hundred 
years. Um, so I was born in Massillon. 
JM: Did your father work -? 
CM: And my father worked for, uh, Republic Steel, urn, and the big places in town to 
work were the steel mills. Republic Steel and Massillon Steel Casting, uh, were big. There’s a 
long history of, urn, workers in the steel industry that came from Massillon. I remember, uh, Ben 
Fairless, the president of the, uh, United Steel Workers [president of United States Steel 
Corporation] was from Massillon, was from the - uh, uh, General Jacob Coxey and “Coxey’s 
Army,” uh, started in Massillon, Ohio. And Coxey, General Coxey, who led the Army of the 
Charles McDew Interview, 6-4-11 
Page 3 of 27 
Poor, was from Massillon. So, there’s this long history of, uh, workers in Massillon, uh, who 
worked in the steel mills. 
JM: Yeah. Did you come up in a house where, urn, politics and race were matters of a 
lot of attention? 
CM: Uh, yeah. Yeah, uh, because of all the things I’ve just told you. I remember my 
father was very active in the union. 
JM: Yeah. 
CM: Uh, he grew up - or I grew up playing for Local 1124 of the United Steel Workers. 
You grew up playing for steel mill-sponsored, union-sponsored teams. Everybody worked - that 
worked - worked in the steel mills. My grandfather, my uncles, my father, [5:00] uh, all worked 
in the steel mills, and they were all involved in the union activity. The teams we played for, the 
things that we sponsored, the parks we played in, uh, the fields we ran down, were generally 
things that had been produced, uh, by the unions. They built the schools and - 
JM: Tell me about those schools. What was schooling like up there? 
CM: Well, school -1 think the schools were very good. Uh, in fact, my sister, uh, was 
one of the first black teachers, uh, in the Massillon public schools. My father, uh, was trained, 
uh, to be a teacher, but when he got out of school, there just weren’t many, if any, black teachers 
in Northern schools. Urn, schools were - throughout the country were really segregated before, 
urn, the ’54 decision, were highly segregated when it came to hiring. 
But I went to -1 had never been to a black school until I went south. The schools were 
highly integrated. You know, you went to, you’d go to class with the kids in your neighborhood, 
and, uh, so I guess they were neighborhood schools. And so, the grade schools were all in 
neighborhoods, and then there were three junior high schools, uh, and then one high school. Uh, 
Charles McDew Interview, 6-4-11 
Page 4 of 27 
so, quite often you’d go to school with the same kids I went to the first grade with. I went 
through twelve years of schooling and graduated with the same kids I had started from. 
JM: What was the approximate proportion [JB coughs] white and black in Massillon in 
those days, roughly? 
CM: Uh, no, I know what it was just about exactly. The, uh, there were - when I was 
growing up, there were thirty-eight thousand people in Massillon. Uh, and there - roughly 
thirty-five hundred of that thirty-eight thousand were black. Uh - 
JM: Okay, yeah. 
CM: So. 
JM: Had you been involved in any what we might now call civil rights activism or 
activity, the local NAACP, any - before you came south? 
CM: Yeah. Uh, sort of, yeah, and it was really, once you moved - it was stuff that 
would take place outside of Massillon generally. I remember one of my aunts’ boyfriends was a 
guy named, uh, Bobby Grier. Bob Grier, uh, played football for University of Pittsburgh, and 
when Pitt - one year Pitt was National Champion. And they were going to play in the, uh, 
Orange Bowl, and the people at the Orange Bowl said they would not play against a team with 
black players. 
And, uh, and so Pitt - so, they said that they would play Pitt if Bobby Grier could not 
play. And I can remember, urn, going from Massillon to Pittsburgh, which was about a hundred 
and twenty miles away from Massillon, uh, as a child really to support Bobby Grier. And my 
parents said, you know, “He’s one of us, and we have to help support him.” 
Uh, later on, or I guess before that, at the high school, James Lawson, who was a, uh, 
[10:00] advisor to Dr. King, and I believe was the one who really introduced nonviolence, uh, to 
Charles McDew Interview, 6-4-11 
Page 5 of 27 
the American people. Uh, I can remember writing letters of support to him when he was in jail 
for being a conscientious objector, urn, and us supporting Jim Lawson, uh, because Jim Lawson 
was, uh, the minister in my mother’s church, in St. James A.M.E. Church. So, I’ve known James 
Lawson my entire life and, uh, met him long before he became prominent in the civil rights, uh, 
struggle. 
Uh, had relatives - Horace Gillom, who was the end and punter for the Cleveland 
Browns, was my uncle, uh, so because of football, one, and where that was going and how that 
was being - there were a lot of civil rights issues in football about who could play, where they 
could play, and that sort of thing. It sort of brought the outside world [someone coughs] into 
Massillon. And, uh, and Massillon was, uh, really a town of worker immigrants. It was a, uh, an 
immigrant culture. People came from all over the world to work in the steel mills. 
JM: You mentioned before we started that one thing that you - 
JB: Can we take a little pause? 
JM: Okay, we’ll take a quick break. 
JB : I want to make a - 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB: We’re on. 
JM: Okay, one last quick thing: It sounds as if - and before we had started the interview 
you mentioned - there was a lot of ethnic diversity in Massillon in the white community because 
of all these different immigrant groups. And even as a young person coming up, you had seen 
that there are fine distinctions between, you know, what others might have just seen as “whites” 
or “white culture,” you already were recognizing all these close distinctions in ethnicity. 
Charles McDew Interview, 6-4-11 
Page 6 of 27 
CM: Oh, yeah! Because, as I said, we were - Massillon was very much an expression of 
the American dream. The people came from different cultures. Uh, the majority of the people 
who made up Massillon were immigrants and the sons and daughters of immigrants from 
different cultures, from Greece, from Spain, from Yugoslavia, from Czechoslovakia, and from 
the American South. And they were - people who came from the American South were just as 
much immigrants, uh, as the people who came from Czechoslovakia. 
JM: Yeah. 
CM: They were in a country where, uh, they were in a place where they could enjoy the 
fruits of citizenship for the first time in their lives. Uh, they could enjoy the fruits of their labors 
for the first time in their lives. Uh, and, uh, they had been the underbelly of the societies that 
they came from, and they came looking for a better life, a life of decent jobs, decent schools, and 
decent health care, uh, for their children, and were experiencing these things for the first time in 
their lives, too. So, it was very - as I got older, I understood that Massillon, Ohio, was very 
much, uh, the American dream. 
It was, it was, it was, you know, apple pie and all of that, which, in fact, because it was a 
working community, made up of workers that came from all over the world, I learned about 
economics in Massillon, things I learned - plus, I grew up listening to General Coxey. He was 
still alive, [15:00] and when Fd go to the barbershop, General Coxey would be sitting there, and 
the old men - some old men, like my grandfather, who had been a part of “Coxey’s Army” of the 
poor, who had marched in Washington years before I had, you know, before I ever existed, they 
had done that. But I learned and got sort of an appreciation of history by listening to these men, 
who were making history. 
Charles McDew Interview, 6-4-11 
Page 7 of 27 
Uh, and my own family, too, the first black people to be in the hospitals, and the doctors, 
like my aunts, uh, and my mother were the first black people hired at the hospital as nurses. 
And, uh, I remember my aunt said after the Second World War, urn, that one of the doctors told 
her that, uh, now - she was studying nursing, and there were a couple of places for black people 
in the country to study nursing. And one, uh, was in Chicago, and one was in St. Louis, a place 
called Homer G. Phillips and the Homer G. Phillips School of Nursing. So, she had gone away 
there to study, my aunt. And, uh, the doctor told her that, uh, she could now, there was - she 
could go to nursing school and work and study and get a job there in Massillon. So, she was - 
my aunts were the first black nurses in the county and, and in the city. 
And, as I mentioned before, I learned about economics, because I knew in school that, uh, 
that ore would be mined in Minnesota in the Mesabi Iron Range. That iron ore would be sent to 
Massillon to be - the ore would be made into steel. The steel would be sent to Chicago, Chicago 
and Detroit, mainly, that would be then made into items, which would be sold to buy more ore, 
to make more steel, and so it was like that. So, I learned that when the men were working in 
Massillon, if there was full employment, uh, and there was even, uh, overtime, they were making 
lots more steel that would be stockpiled for Detroit. So, there would be a time when there would 
be really good times, where the, uh, the production of steel would go up, and then there would be 
- after that was done, then there would be layoffs. So, that’s how I learned about, without 
knowing what it was called, supply and demand and all of that sort of thing. There were 
economic theories I learned later in college by seeing the reality of it working when I grew up. 
JM: Exactly. 
CM: So, I can remember, uh, there’d be times of plenty, and then there’d be times of 
scarcity. There would be times of, uh, where you could buy - everybody had enough money to 
Charles McDew Interview, 6-4-11 
Page 8 of 27 
buy whatever they needed, and then there’d be times where you would have to get, uh, handouts 
from the government in order to survive. 
JM: Yeah. 
CM: You would have to pick up coal thrown off of or falling off of trains, uh, to heat 
your home, because there was no money. 
JM: Let me ask, if I could - I’m sorry. 
CM: Go ahead! 
JM: You mentioned college just a moment ago. I’m really interested, and I’m also 
[20:00] watching the clock, because I know we have only a fixed amount of time here today - 
urn, what’s the story of how you went to South Carolina State? 
CM: How’d I get to South Carolina State? 
JM: Yeah. 
CM: Uh, well, remember I started saying that Massillon produced steel and football 
players. I was one of them - [laughs] not steel, a football player. And, uh, and so, I was 
preparing - I sort of had it in my mind what I was going to do with my life, uh, long before 
college. My plan was I would play ball, go to [University of] Michigan, play ball at Michigan, 
then, uh, go into the pros, uh, marry a good-looking woman, have smart kids, and then make a lot 
of money, then retire from the pros, retire and then buy a used car lot or liquor store or whatever 
they did with their money, and, uh, I was set. That was going to be my life. So, I knew - I 
figured I knew by the time I was in ninth grade what I was going to do, how I was going to live. 
And that was my plan, uh, for years. 
But my father sort of, uh, put a monkey wrench in that, not intentionally, I didn’t think. 
But my father felt that we - “we” being myself, my brothers, my sisters - should all go to a 
Charles McDew Interview, 6-4-11 
Page 9 of 27 
historically black college or university for at least one year of our matriculation. Um, and so, I 
was sent - pardon me - to, uh, South Carolina State University in Orangeburg, South Carolina. 
That’s where he had gone to school and that’s where he had graduated from school, urn, and had 
taught. But, see, at the time he had taught in, uh, South Carolina, uh, been a, uh, chemistry 
teacher. 
But when I was coming up, when I went to school, they didn’t have black teachers in the 
North at that point. There was a sort of two-edged sword that, uh, you could either go south and 
you could work, uh, or you could come - you could go south and you could work and you could 
be a teacher, or you could come north and you could work and you could be a miner or a steel 
mill worker. You weren’t going to be a teacher. Uh, they didn’t have black teachers, uh, in most 
Northern schools until ’54, until the Supreme Court decision of Brown v. Board of Education. 
Urn, but he wanted me to go south to see really that there was a professional class of 
black people who did other things and there were people who did things other than the traditional 
black models, role models, we saw as athletes or - the professionals were the black athletes or 
the black funeral directors or the black preacher, and that was sort of it. That topped out what 
you could be. And so, he wanted me to go south to experience another group of people, group of 
black people. 
JM: When did you arrive in Orangeburg - fall of 1956? 
CM: I went to Orangeburg in the fall of 1959. 
JM: ’59, okay. Had you been south before? 
CM: Nope. 
JM: Not one time? 
CM: Not one time. 
Charles McDew Interview, 6-4-11 
Page 10 of 27 
JM: Wow. Do you remember your first impressions? 
CM: Uh, well, when I first was taken, uh, we drove and [25:00] we drove from 
Massillon to Orangeburg, South Carolina. And I’d never been south. To go from Massillon to 
Orangeburg, you take Route 21, which starts in Cleveland. Route 21 starts in Cleveland. It ends 
in Beaufort, South Carolina, in the ocean. It goes - but if you follow that road, it also goes 
through Orangeburg. So, to get to South Carolina, you go - get on 21 and ride down to South 
Carolina. Uh, the first place you go after you leave Ohio, the first - the next state in West 
Virginia. Uh, in West - Ohio, West Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina - you’re there. 
It was my first experience that my father told - with segregation. My father pointed out 
that, you know, you have to do the bathroom and all, because once we leave Ohio and we’re in 
West Virginia, we can’t use these facilities. So, what does that mean? Uh, so once we left 
[Ohio], by the time we got to Bluefield, West Virginia, uh, we were experiencing segregation. 
There were no places to get food, so - but my father - we had packed, my mother had packed a 
lunch. [Someone coughs] And, uh, so the further you got away from Massillon, the stranger it 
was. 
And as we went, uh, to, uh, Charleston, South Carolina - uh, Charleston, uh, West 
Virginia, and then by the time we got to Bluefield - there’s a series of black schools along the 
way - urn, Bluefield, West Virginia, and then on down into North Carolina and into South 
Carolina. Urn, and the wondering and the questions weren’t - my father really wasn’t giving me 
answers about how - what all this means, how I was -1 didn’t understand it, didn’t give it very 
much thought, uh, until we got to, uh, South Carolina. And there, it was very nice, because I was 
in an area -1 had never been to a black school before. I had never been south before. 
Charles McDew Interview, 6-4-11 
Page 11 of 27 
And in Orangeburg, the first day on campus, I recognized that I saw more - uh, you 
know, I was like sixteen years old, and there were all these girls, all these pretty little black girls. 
I thought my father was a brilliant man [laughing] to send me down there and let me be 
[someone coughs] - uh, experience my culture, especially since I can still hear my mother 
saying, uh, “You like who? That’s your cousin! You can’t like her!” It seemed like I was 
related to every black girl in Massillon, [laughing] so I - there was a bit of frustration, because 
there was nobody to date and things like that. Urn, but when I got to Orangeburg, I thought I 
was in heaven. There were thousands, hundreds -1 saw more black girls in one day than I had 
seen in my entire life! And I was related to none of them. And that just seemed like life could 
not be better. 
JM: How did you, how did you get drawn into the civil rights question? 
CM: Well, how I got drawn into the civil rights, well, like I say, I first got there. I’m a 
freshman. And I remember, uh, [30:00] it was 1959 when I entered, uh, and there was, of 
course, there was news on television and everything about the schools being integrated, which 
had started after the ’54 decision. And so, the pictures of kids walking through mobs to get into 
school in Little Rock Central High School and all that, you know — so I first fell in love with one 
of the children marching through this mob of people. 
Urn, but so, I wasn’t, you know, like all that keenly - I knew these things were going on, 
but it wasn’t just preying on my mind, because I was in paradise [laughs] for the first time. But 
it got to - so, I’m there and I’m studying, and at first it was wonderful, just wonderful. But I 
hadn’t been off the campus. When I was brought to school, I was brought to school and I stayed 
there and I was studying and stuff. 
Charles McDew Interview, 6-4-11 
Page 12 of 27 
But at Thanksgiving of my very first year, [clears throat] I had to - they closed the 
schools on Thanksgiving, and you had to go somewhere but you couldn’t stay on campus. So, I 
had four roommates, and one of the roommates, urn, a guy named Charles [Gasten], uh, took me 
home for Thanksgiving. And, uh, home for him was Sumter, South Carolina. So, we went to 
Sumter for Thanksgiving. 
And, uh, we went to a party at one point. And after the party, we were driving back to 
[Gasten]’s home. Uh, and the other young men in the car drank, and I didn’t, so I was like the 
designated driver. And as we were driving home, uh, the cops pulled us over. No big deal since 
I didn’t do anything. Urn, so the cop pulls us over and asks for my license and registration stuff. 
[Sirens sound in background] I gave him that, and we’re talking. 
And so, and the cop said, uh, “Where you from, boy?” [Laughs] I said, “You’ve got the 
license. Can’t you read? It’s from Ohio.” Well, I didn’t understand that that wasn’t quite the 
way you addressed, uh, the local constabulary, by saying, “Can’t you read?” Uh, I think that 
must have been it, because he was a tad peeved and hit me, uh, when I - and said - oh, before he 
hit me, he said, “Didn’t they, didn’t they ever teach you how to say, ‘yes suh’ and ‘no suh’ to 
white men up there?” I said, “You’ve got to be kidding. ‘Yes sir’ and ‘no sir’ to white men - 
[laughs] why should I do that?” And he hit me. 
Now, this - mind you, this is before the nonviolent civil rights struggle. And I came from 
a tough steel town in Massillon, and where if somebody put your hand, their hand in your face, 
you returned the favor in kind. So, when the cop hit me, I hit him. And, uh, before he hit the 
ground, I was kicking him and stomping him about the head, neck and shoulders. And, you 
know, [laughs] I was going to beat his, uh, uh, butt. 
Charles McDew Interview, 6-4-11 
Page 13 of 27 
Uh, so as I was hitting this cop, his roommate -1 mean, his fellow officer, uh, his partner, 
jumped into the fray. So, it’s these two cops and me, fighting, and the guys in the car sort of not 
doing anything except quivering in the background. And, as these cops were beating me, I was 
saying to them, “Fm going to get you for this,” because they weren’t helping me, which was 
unacceptable behavior in my mind. 
And the cops beat me bloody, broke my arm, busted my jaw, urn, and, uh, that’s where it 
all began, that afternoon, uh, that evening in Sumter, South Carolina. Because after the cops had 
beat me and jailed me -1 was arrested for the first time in my life and charged with disturbing 
the peace and, uh, disobeying an officer, put in jail. They took me to the hospital and got me 
patched up, and then I went to get on the train to go back to the school. 
And when I went to get on the train, the conductor said, “All right, get on back to the 
baggage car.” Says I, you know, “What is this baggage car nonsense?” And it seems that on 
every car, on every train in the South - this is in 1959 - there was one car on the train for black 
people, uh, the car right behind the engines, where the soot and dust would come through. And 
when that was filled, you’d sit in the baggage car. I said, “No, no, no, sport. Not for my little 
ten dollars and fifty cents do I ride with suitcases and mangy dogs. I don’t do baggage cars. 
And there are plenty of seats right here, and Fm having one of them,” and sat down - and was 
rearrested for sitting in the white car and violating the laws of segregation. 
Got back to the school - and once again, I was back in jail - six hours after Fm out of 
jail, Fm back in jail. Got back to Orangeburg, and there’s a garden, uh, in Orangeburg called 
Edisto, E-D-I-S-T-O, Edisto Garden, beautiful park, but it was between the train station and the 
campus. And I was hurting from the beating, so I took a shortcut to get back to the campus and 
was arrested because it was against the law for black people to be in a public park, except on two 
Charles McDew Interview, 6-4-11 
Page 14 of 27 
days during the week, or one day during the week, and that wasn’t one of the days. So, I’d been 
arrested for the third time in two days, um, and that sort of started it. 
By the time - one, I learned, very quickly, how much was off limits. If something said, 
“Open to the public,” it meant it was closed to black people, and you would be arrested if you 
would go there. And, uh, there were all kinds of ridiculous laws I learned about at around that 
time, like it was against the law to look at a white woman, to look a white woman in her face. It 
was a form of assault. Uh, so I learned - because, you know, I’d cost my father all this money 
for medical bills and for jail bonds. 
So, by the time I got home for Christmas, urn, my father was saying, “That’s it! Forget 
it! You can come home. You’re not going make it. You’re not going to live to be down there 
long enough. And, uh, it takes really experienced black people.” And by that time, I was saying, 
“That’s fine.” I didn’t want to be there anymore, and, uh, just, “When can I leave?” 
Uh, and it happened that we were on semesters, and the semester ended at the end of 
January, end of February rather. And on February first, 1960, four students from North Carolina 
A&T College, black students, sat down at a lunch counter in, uh, Greensboro, North Carolina, 
and that was the first sit-in. Sit-ins took place in other parts of the South, and a group of students 
came to me and, uh, said, “Chuck, you’ve heard what’s been happening in Greensboro, haven’t 
you?” And I said, “Yes, of course I have.” And they said, “Well, we’d like to do that here.” 
My response was, “Well, go ahead and do it. What’s that got to do with me?” Uh, and 
they asked me to be their spokesman, because at that time I had a reputation of being unusual, 
uh, unusual in that I’d speak to white people - [laughs] I heard somebody say, “Talk to white 
people just like he talks to you and me, just like they’re regular people, and he doesn’t respect 
them for being white, or something. So, this is who we should have to be our spokesman.” 
Charles McDew Interview, 6-4-11 
Page 15 of 27 
My response was, “No, I don’t want to do that. I don’t want to be your spokesman, 
because, uh, in another few weeks, I’ll be gone from here. My father will be back down here to 
pick me up to take me back to Ohio. And after that, I will never come further south than 
Columbus [Ohio] for the annual Michigan-Ohio State game, and that’s fine with me. [Laughs] I 
never need to be any further south than that in my life.” And, uh, that’s how it all began. 
JM: How did you get from February of 1960 to Raleigh for the SNCC founding 
conference? [JB coughs] 
CM: Well, I became the head of what we called the Orangeburg Movement for Civic 
Improvement. I became the student leader for the, uh, student protests in, uh, Orangeburg. Uh, 
and we were having sit-in and we were having wade-ins. We were testing all these things, uh, 
challenging all these things, and so I started getting arrested. 
I remember being arrested in, uh, in, uh, Columbia, as we took a petition to the governor, 
then-Governor Hollings, Fritz Hollings, uh, to ask that there no longer, that laws against going to 
public places - libraries, beaches, parks - be struck down. And, uh, when I went to see 
Governor Hollings, was arrested, because black people were only allowed to be at the capitol, 
like, between the hours of four and six on Sunday. Uh, so you can’t do any business then, so I 
went there at ten o’clock on a Monday and was arrested and put in jail. 
Well, that was just one of many. There was a -1 led a group of students, uh, to deliver a 
petition in Orangeburg to the city to ask that public places be desegregated. And, uh, about eight 
hundred of us were arrested. And so, while this was going on, got a letter from, uh, Dr. King at 
the Southern Christian Leadership Conference that there would be a meeting of students [45:00], 
urn, at, urn, Shaw University in Raleigh, North Carolina, to discuss the student sit-ins. 
Charles McDew Interview, 6-4-11 
Page 16 of 27 
That took place in April, 1960. I attended that meeting as a representative of the South 
Carolina State students. And uh, and we were there discussing the Movement with students from 
all over, uh, the South. Urn, during that meeting, uh, Dr. King felt we should all join SCLC. 
Um, I disagreed, because Dr. King felt if you joined, if you used the practice nonviolence, uh, 
that you should accept nonviolence as a way of life in your life. 
I disagreed with that, because I said, “Yes, I use nonviolence, and we use nonviolence, 
but it’s for me, it was strictly a tactic. And I didn’t believe - and personally, I didn’t believe it 
would work. It was a tactic that I think had a -1 felt had a short life and wouldn’t work. My 
position was when, uh, when Gandhi, uh, tried nonviolence in South Africa, uh, he was beaten, 
jailed, and run out of the country. As I said, in the United States, uh, nonviolence won’t work. 
Because when Gandhi used, in India, the tactic of having people lay down on railroad tracks to 
protest, I said, “and it worked.” 
I said, “But if a group of black people lay down on railroad tracks here, in South 
Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, Texas, Louisiana, any of these Southern states, a train 
would run you over and back up to make certain you’re dead. You cannot make a moral appeal 
in the midst of an amoral society.” And I said that it was not immoral. We lived in a society that 
was amoral, and as such, nonviolence was not going to work. And so, I said I couldn’t and the 
people with me could not join Dr. King. And, uh, “Thank you, [laughs] but no thanks.” 
And then, said, “Those, you know, people who said - who agree, who think like I do, 
we’ll have a meeting down the hall and talk about it.” And that meeting we had down the hall 
became the first meeting, was the genesis of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee. 
Uh, it was at that meeting at Shaw in Raleigh, on the Shaw campus, in April 1960, that we went 
down the hall and talked about forming a new group. 
Charles McDew Interview, 6-4-11 
Page 17 of 27 
And at first we were going to call that group the Student Coordinating Committee and we 
were just going to exchange ideas between campuses. But there were some people in the group 
[clears throat] who still greatly believed in nonviolence and the viability of nonviolence and the 
practice of nonviolence, urn, and we felt they should be a part of the group. And most of those 
students were from, uh, Nashville, urn, and had been taught by Jim Lawson. And I knew Jim 
Lawson, and he was an important person to me. And so, we thought that was a good - it was a 
good thing to include nonviolence in our title. And so, we created this new group and called it 
the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee. 
JM: [Clears throat] Do you -? 
JB : Let’s take a quick break. 
JM: Okay, take a quick break. 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB: Okay, we’re back. 
CM: Now, wait. Wait. I need to - what time is it? 
JM: Uh, it’s quarter after eleven. [50:00] 
CM: All right, I need to tell -1 need to - 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB: We’re rolling. 
JM: I want to ask - you had mentioned, Mr. McDew, about that meeting down the hall in 
Raleigh, at Shaw - 
CM: Um-hmm. 
JM: And how the nonviolent - you wanted to bring those nonviolent people in. Many of 
them are from Nashville, influenced by Jim Lawson. Do you think - I’m just wondering. I don’t 
Charles McDew Interview, 6-4-11 
Page 18 of 27 
know if the answer matters too much, but you had that personal connection through your family 
to Lawson. 
CM: Um-hmm. 
JM: And absent that, do you think you might have been quite as receptive to that, to that, 
to bringing those folks in? 
CM: Yeah. Yeah, I do, uh, for several reasons. One, uh, they were very dynamic. They 
were very smart. They were committed. Urn, yeah, even if it didn’t - 
JM: Okay. Yeah. 
CM: They obviously, uh, were just like us. I mean, uh, I had no grand - I didn’t know 
what the - where we were going with this thing. Uh, I just knew how we were going to get 
there. I just knew that I was not going to, uh, swear that I would be nonviolent all my life. And 
that was the initial reaction, uh, to why I didn’t want to join, uh, Dr. King, Dr. King’s 
organization rather. 
JM: Tell me how you got pulled forward, the choices you made coming out of that 
meeting in the spring of 1960. 
CM: Well, uh, okay. Coming out of that meeting, the - two things were about to happen 
that summer. Uh, the, uh - both the Democratic and Republican parties were having their 
conventions. And, as I recall, one of them or both of them were in Los Angeles. And we wanted 
to make, as students, sit-in students, a statement of, uh - to the political parties with the 
understanding -1 didn’t know much about politics. None of us did, but we did know some 
things. And so, we were talking about giving a plank in the convention on civil rights and, uh, 
and explaining why we were doing what we were doing, and hoped to get both parties to, uh, 
understand and push for greater civil rights. 
Charles McDew Interview, 6-4-11 
Page 19 of 27 
Uh, so we then elected somebody - not somebody - we elected Marion Barry as our first 
chairman to, uh, take our concerns to these groups, uh, in their conventions that summer. Uh, so, 
and then later, the next fall when we started meeting again, uh, SCLC had, uh, provided money 
and office space and material for us to get going to set up an organization. 
JM: Yeah. 
CM: And then, as that organization grew, uh, and our ideas developed and our 
philosophy developed, uh, I guess there also was the development of a, of a [nb: unintelligible 
word here] how you’d say it - a movement, an organizational personality of who we were and 
what we - and how we thought. And, like I say, I would have accepted their, uh, putting 
nonviolence in the title or not. If they didn’t want it in there, fine. My thing was that whatever 
needs to be done to keep us going [55:00], uh, I would do. 
JM: Yeah. You soon after replaced - was it at that fall meeting in Atlanta that you 
replaced Barry as, uh, Marion Barry, as the formal chair of SNCC? 
CM: Um-hmm, yeah. 
JM: And did Rock Hill then follow in the fall of ’60? 
CM: Um-hmm. 
JM: Can you just describe the Rock Hill -? 
CM: Well, Rock Hill [South Carolina] wasn’t - it was important, but - plus it was in my 
state. I mean, by that time, I started seeing myself as a Carolinian. Uh, a lot of the people were 
active, and the programs that we were developing were happening very rapidly. Uh, so we were 
talking, started looking at things like how long can we keep going if they just keep arresting us? 
We cannot get out. So, we talked about, urn, a “jail, no bail” program, uh, and where that was 
going to be tried out was Rock Hill. 
Charles McDew Interview, 6-4-11 
Page 20 of 27 
And the people who would try it out, who would do it, were going to be, uh, SNCC 
[“Snick”] people, because - and SNCC people, we even became SNCC very quickly. And it was 
- the name was a creation of, I don’t know, somebody, some reporter somewhere, just taking the 
letters S-N-C-C, the initials for the organization, and then, uh, calling it, “Snick.” Uh, so 
SNCC’s personality as an organization was going to be sort of structured and determined by 
what we did. 
And so, once we started talking about, well, “jail, no bail,” Rock Hill - uh, there were 
some wonderful people up there. Uh, I remember it was Reverend [Cecil] Ivory who was very 
involved in Rock Hill. And the head of the NAACP at the time, a guy named, uh, [Reverend] I. 
DeQuincey Newman, and Mr. Newman was head of the [South Carolina] NAACP, and they 
were sort of - they had a strong presence in, uh, in South Carolina. But the Rock Hill program 
specifically was going to be directed at, uh, trying out the “jail, no bail” ideas that we had 
developed. 
JM: Uh-hmm, um-hmm. Tell me about, urn - and I’m just watching the clock a little bit. 
I know that we could stop at any of these things and spend a full hour on any of these things 
easily. Urn, you made a trip with, urn, a couple others of the core [i.e., meaning central, not 
“CORE”] SNCC folks to Mississippi in ’61. And I’m wondering if you can quickly frame that 
up and then maybe provide an example of what you really encountered and learned in 
Mississippi. 
CM: Well, by that time, by the time we got to Mississippi, we then had - SNCC had a 
personality. Uh, and SNCC was SNCC, and we had established our own identity and 
separateness from those other groups. So, when we went to Mississippi, it wasn’t CORE; it was 
Charles McDew Interview, 6-4-11 
Page 21 of 27 
SNCC. Uh, the Freedom Rides had taken place, and we were then about to be involved in the 
voter registration. 
And so, we went to McComb in southwest Mississippi, um, basically to register voters. 
And, uh, [1:00:00] because we had started by that time hammering out, uh, our programs of voter 
registration and direct action, and that’s what we were going to do. We were going to have two 
programs of mostly - one was going to be direct action, sit-ins, wade-ins, that sort of thing, urn, 
and the other was going to be the registering of voters. Urn - 
JM: Can you explain why you picked McComb? 
CM: Um-hmm. Uh, one, we already some - the - perhaps explain to you also why we 
did voter registration. In developing this SNCC personality I speak of, we talked about where 
we came from as people, as black people, and how black people were stopped in doing things, 
progressive things in their interest and favor, by violence. And we had to understand - uh, agree 
that no violence was going to stop us. And we had, uh, and we had, uh, determined the voter 
registration because we wanted to do something that would have a long-term effect in a very 
short period of time, uh, because, in essence, we had planned the death of the organization in its 
horning. When it was created, we said that it’s only going to last for a certain period of time, a 
finite period of time, like five years, and then we were going to move on. 
Now, the reason we said five years was, uh, two things. One was the very practical thing 
that you had to tell your parents something. Most of us were the first in our families to go to 
college. [Someone coughs] Urn, and we were not - as black students, we were just not given the 
luxury of saying, “I’m going to find myself.” “I’m going to find myself, Dad. I have to my 
old man would have knocked me out if I claimed, “I’m quitting school to go find myself.” 
Charles McDew Interview, 6-4-11 
Page 22 of 27 
[Laughs] You had to say, “That’s it. I have to do this. This is what I’m going to do, and 
I’m going to do it forever. There’s going to be a period that - I’m going to do this for five 
years.” And, uh, when we said that, when we put a number on it, it was for - in our interest, too, 
because, once we really got into talking, we knew or we felt we wouldn’t be able to last much 
longer than five years anyhow. Uh, you’d get burned out or burned up or dead, that you’d be - 
in five years, you’d be in jail, insane or incarcerated. And so, we got a little time to do this in 
and a lot to get done. 
We chose, uh, looked at the American political structure and the power in the Senate and 
the House, and concluded the power in this country isn’t really in the presidency. The greater 
power is in the House of Representatives and the Senate. Uh, and these places got - you got 
power by longevity, uh, by being the heads of committees, and you got that by being in the 
House and Senate. So, therefore - and they were all held by white men, white southern men 
from the Black Belt of the South, from Louisiana [1:05:00] - the most powerful men in 
government were, uh, in the House and Senate, were from Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, 
Texas, and they all came from these places that had heavy black, uh, populations where black 
people didn’t vote. And they didn’t vote because of disinterest - they didn’t vote because of fear 
quite often. 
So, we chose the worse places in terms of retaliations against people voting, uh, in these 
Black Belt counties in Mississippi, Georgia, Alabama, South Carolina, and Georgia, etcetera, and 
said we would go there. And if we can get people to register in these places, we can get them to 
register anyplace, uh, in the world - if we can make it work in these places, in this place where 
I’m sitting right now, in Terrell, in Dougherty County and Terrell County and Baker County in 
Charles McDew Interview, 6-4-11 
Page 23 of 27 
southwest Georgia, in Mississippi in Amite County and Pike County and Walthall County, in 
southwest Mississippi. 
So, you take southwest Mississippi, Georgia - we take the worst places in, uh, all these 
Southern states. Uh, we take a place that was heavily black, for example, and you’d find 
counties with sixty or sixty-five percent black, and nobody was registered - not one soul - and 
these would also be the places where the Stennises and the Eastlands, uh, came from, and the 
Byrds and the Talmadges. They all came from these heavily black areas where black people 
didn’t vote. So, it was really a very simple, amazingly simple sort of plan is just get people 
registered to vote in those areas and you can disrupt the balance of power. [Someone coughs] 
So, if you get a place in one of these Black Belt counties where somebody has been there 
forever, like Stennis, and was a very powerful man, and so, you get Politician A in a seat and you 
get a new politician running against him, Politician B. And Politician B says, “I’m going to cut 
the throat of the firstborn black child born in every house.” Well, see, my position was, “Fine. 
Let’s vote him in, because the reality is he won’t be able to do that. He won’t be able to just - he 
won’t have enough time to kill every baby.” Never thought of that he wouldn’t try, but he just 
wouldn’t have enough time to do it. Get him in, which would mean if you vote for the worst guy 
in the world, that’s cool. You get the guy in power out. And this new guy comes in, a freshman 
senator, and has no power. Uh, and if you do that in enough places, we can change this country 
in a, in a short period of time. 
But in order to do that, now, these people didn’t get, uh, where they are by being dumb. 
They will recognize the real threat is our voting and they will fight hard and long to see that that 
doesn’t happen. So, the real battle ahead - the battle ahead we talked about is not just to get 
seats at lunch counters [1:10:00] or to go to beaches and stuff. It’s to get and use the vote. Now, 
Charles McDew Interview, 6-4-11 
Page 24 of 27 
black people in the past have been scared off by violence, uh, when they tried to make - so we 
have to pledge among ourselves that violence is a part of the game. It isn’t going to scare us off. 
We know it’s going to happen, but we have to pledge to each other that when it does happen, 
whether we’re beaten, bombed or killed, we will not turn away from what we say we’re going to 
do. 
And I always felt that that was the key, that we accept, we knew that, uh, we let that - we 
said the United States is the most violent country on the face of the earth, has made true the 
Biblical prophecy that there would be war and rumors of war all the days of our lives. Said if it 
isn’t shown here, then the late great J.C. [Jesus Christ] didn’t know what he was talking about, 
uh, because they was sure, had he been around, the late great J.C., they would have hung him on 
a cross, too, urn, here, rather, in Georgia or Mississippi. Urn, and we had to pledge that we knew 
there was going to be a blood price that had to be paid and that we were going to pay it. But pay 
it we would, but change this world, this country, also. 
JM: Yeah. 
CM: And that’s how we got here. That’s why this whole, this whole area, Dougherty 
County and every county around it, was one of the key places that we had to deal with. 
JM: Let’s pause for just a second. 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JM: We’re back on after a break and we’ve got about five minutes, so final points that 
you want to register. 
CM: Well, I think, uh, the key for our future as Americans, as black Americans, is 
education. I think that, uh, that the more we learn, it better equips us to deal with the changes 
that need be made. Uh, I was at - a couple of weeks ago, I was at Colby College in Maine. And 
Charles McDew Interview, 6-4-11 
Page 25 of 27 
Colby has a -1 see that, uh -1 was speaking to the Posse Group. The Posse Group is, uh, black 
students, black and Hispanic students, urn, who, uh, attend, uh, college at Colby in Maine, and 
there is a Posse group at Harvard, there’s one at Brandéis, at all these top, uh, universities. I 
think it’s one of the great programs that they are funding. 
And one of the things I was saying -1 was very impressed - I’ve been doing public with 
students for, you know, years, and Colby was the first school I had spoken at outside the South 
in, uh, forty-five years where the audience was all black American students. All of the students 
were black Americans. Uh, and I was very impressed with that. I mean, I identify with my 
brothers from Africa, uh, surely, but this was the only school and the only time that I had just 
kids from America, uh, who were being educated, uh, at some of the finest universities in the 
country, uh, and taken advantage of that. [1:15:00] 
I see that, uh, President Obama, when he won, uh, the Nobel Peace Prize, gave a 
considerable amount of that money to the Posse Program. Uh, so even though Donald Trump 
says that, uh, you know, he bought his way [laughing] through Affirmative Action, uh, into, uh, 
Columbia and Harvard and these other places, uh, I don’t care. I think the fact that he gave his 
money to support the Posse Program was important, and, uh - because I can only see that as 
growing, and continued, uh, support for the, uh, black universities and colleges in the South, too, 
ought to be supported. 
And so, there’s a need for more teachers and certainly for more students, and their 
education needs to be broadened. I think, like in Mississippi, the Mississippi public schools, uh, 
you have to take a course and pass a course in civil rights before you finish college. I think 
that’s something that should be a part of every state, uh, in this country, because we need to look 
at, uh, the education or the mis-education of our children. And, uh, I had to come south to even 
Charles McDew Interview, 6-4-11 
Page 26 of 27 
find out about our role in black history, in the history of this country. And I think that role was 
unique, and there are lessons to be learned, uh, and I think that the soul of the nation will be 
cleansed, strengthened and helped by understanding the philosophy of the personality of SNCC 
and the civil rights struggle. 
And I think, uh, there’s - when I go on this campus, I was talking to a kid yesterday who 
had never heard of us and knew very little about what it took for him to be in school at this place 
at this time. So, the mis-education of children has to be corrected. And I think a part of that 
correcting will be that it all - certainly, Martin [Luther King Jr.] was in the battle, but the 
struggle continues. It is not over, and there are many things that need to be done. And their 
education, our education, uh, is important in moving the agenda ahead. 
Uh, I think the work of, uh, the Children’s Defense League - Fund, I’m sorry - the 
Children’s Defense Fund is wonderful in what it’s doing and, uh, and should be supported. 
There should be more support from the private sector to many of these things happening. I think, 
for example, that, uh, as “President” [Sarah] Palin bops around the country, she should, uh, learn 
about this part of America also, that America is not just symbols of liberty, and freedom is not 
free, and that there is a constant sort of struggle to make democracy work. Uh, and the way you 
spread democracy in the rest of the world is to show the rest of the world and ourselves that it is 
a viable and good philosophy, uh, that can help people, uh, wherever they come from. 
So, [1:20:00] the immigrants that I knew as a child in Massillon, and, and the American 
dream that people came here to achieve, uh, is still a worthy and viable sort of thing, and the way 
to keep it moving forward is more and better education. I know that the new, uh, museum that’s 
being put up by the Smithsonian, I think is important, because there is something that, because of 
the relationship of the African people who were brought here to be civilized and Christianized, 
Charles McDew Interview, 6-4-11 
Page 27 of 27 
the relationship to our country and the, uh, helping define how our citizenship works, urn, is 
important. And I’ve learned that every day I’m thankful for waging the struggle here, and, uh, 
and it needs to be continued and have greater support. 
JM: Yeah. Mr. McDew, I tell you, I wish we could spend a couple of days together, but 
this has been a wonderful couple of hours. So, thank you very much. 
CM: Well, thank you. 
JB: Can everyone be really quiet for about ten seconds? [Pause] Uh, that’s just some 
room tone, uh, for any noise reduction that needs to be done. 
[Recording ends at 1:21:53] 
END OF INTERVIEW