WILLIAM DIEHL 
 
(BAD MIC AUDIO AT MOST PARTS) 
 
SUMMARY: Capt. William Diehl talks to Pat Jasper about his career in the coastguards 
and at the Houston Port Bureau. He recollects how the coastguards handled Hurricane Ike 
and what it means to save lives. He also talks about how important it is to develop the 
waterways as a pivotal point in global trading.  
 
TOPICS: accidents, Armed Forces, corporations, job hunting 
job postings 
 
Thursday, May 15, 2012 
 
Port of Houston Authority, sub office of greater Houston Port Bureau 
 
00:00:37 
Born in upstate NY. Father college professor. One of 9 children. 6 boys and 3 girls. Had a 
great childhood. First generation in Maritime Industry. Father had masters degree in 
organic chemistry. Enlisted and put him in a camp analyzing people coming back from 
Korea. Older two brothers decided to enlist in the army and got sent over to Germany. 
Brother went to air force academy. Applied to Meapolis, West point and Coastguard. 
Finally picked the coastguard. Went on a ship to San Francisco, met wife in SFO. Asked 
coastguard if could go to graduate school. Was sent to University of Michigan for two 
years. Got a degree in Naval architecture and marine and mechanical engineering. Was 
sent to DC. for engineering work. Found it to be very boring.  
 
Exxon Valdez was to be moving from Alaska down to the shipyard in Southern 
California. Wanted to know whether it was going to break in half? While he said that was 
a total guess, the next person said he could try. Then a ship blew up off Galveston. 
Needed a naval architect to come and see whether the ship would break in half. Was sent 
to Galveston.  
 
00:20:03 
They needed advice on how to solve. Volunteered to help. Show the ship footage from a 
videotape. Decided it wasn't going to break in half. Explained why and was asked to go 
out there to represent them.   
 
Next day get out to the ship. Meet ship crew firefighters who are there and who had 
fought at Desert Storm. Learnt many important lessons during the initial years of working 
there.  
 
 
 
After that another ship blew up. Salvage crew knew his name and asked for him to be 
sent to Michigan. Wanted to create a salvage team. Formed a coastguard salvage team.  
 
00:34:31 
Learned was comfortable in a crisis and not nervous. Have the right mindset to function. 
Years later promoted to be at the top of the job and moved to Houston. Had a very 
capable assistant. Had a few search and rescue cases., casualties, oil spills, drug busts. 
Responsible for 1200 people. Went to meet the Admiral because center was fairly new 
and was getting a lot of calls for every job. Went back to the office and decided on a new 
way to work. Told employees to send text messages instead of calling for every little 
thing. Came on the heels of Katrina and Rita. Coastguard was struggling over how to do a 
hurricane response. Game plan was to go to San Antonio. Plan was to find a place close 
enough but far enough away. Wanted a place to stage all coastguard equipment and 
would be able to rush in when the storm passes. Finally decided to set up in Katy. When 
hurricane came had enough trial runs under the belt and knew exactly what to do. Had a 
good team on board. Felt comfortable about doing a good job. Trick with Hurricane Ike 
was it was headed to Freeport, and when the storm entered the Gulf of Mexico it was 
time to act. Was informed about the numbers of Hurricane Ike by the authorities. Had to 
stay put until everyone had evacuated.  
 
00:52:38 
One helicopter stayed back to take pictures so it can be looked at later and studied. But 
had to send them to pick up three people down at Corpus christi. But it turned out there 
were more than a 100 people stranded. Do not rescue people before a hurricane. Have to 
be ready to act when it does hit. Had to have a big discussion and ended up rescuing the 
people stranded there. One of those crisis where no one will advice against it. Had to get 
some military helicopters from DOD. Was flying them to Ellington and dropping them 
off. Since it was too far off, instead took them down to the dog track on I 45 and asked 
the police to cut the locks and just dropped more than a 100 people over there. It was also 
like a pitstop for the pilots. Really pushed the envelope.  
 
01:00:01 
People started calling asking for help. Had to tell them would come to them when the 
storm passed. Weighed heavily on conscience.  
Another incident when ship was to hit the bridge. Called the captain from the office. 
Asked ship captain to back down full. WEre about to hit the 610 bridge. If ship hits the 
bridge, the cars on the bridge would go straight to the water. Tried to get cops to get on 
the scene and close the bridge. Told him to steer to the middle of the bridge when close 
by and go full back and then full forward. Had tugs ready to respond but they were not 
ready to go out in a hurricane.  
 
01:14:39 
 
 
When storm is upon them, plans have to be followed and not changed. Buoy tenders that 
push them up to Galveston. Brought them up all the way up to Galena Park and put them 
at the Manchester Terminal. They come up the ship channel and they are slow. 
Orchestrating all this from the Katy office. An employee from New Orleans calls up and 
disagrees with the buoy idea. This decision is non reversible to move the cutters to 
Manchester terminal. If it goes up another four feet it would tip over. It would mean they 
would lose the coastguard cutters. Senior chief suggested abandoning ship when the 
measurement device showed two feet. Thought would lose two cutters but would manage 
to save everyone on board. But in the end, the wind shifted and ended up not losing the 
cutters.  
 
01:26:22 
IN the coastguard there are a lot of young people. Have a son who turned 18 recently, 
through career had a lot of people between 18-22 as employees. Despite all the other jobs 
that a coastguard has to do the main thing is saving lives. Putting the buoys on the side of 
the ship channel, like painting the white lines on the side of the road. Telling people till 
where they are allowed where they will be safe. It all comes back to saving lives.  
 
01:30:23 
Felt had a good career at the coastguard. Had dinner once with people from Shell and 
wanted to talk to him about oil spills, response etc. THey had brought up the topic of 
raising children. Shell did a study about what happens when moving  a child before high 
school, it is beneficial to the child, more confident and comfortable etc. If they move 
when they are in high school, it has a detrimental effect. Did not want to move family 
unnecessarily. Looked at jobs in the maritime community. Had a few job offers. Was 
asked to be city manager. But if went away from the water front, would be very difficult 
to come back. Knew that needed to stay at the maritime community, The chairman 
invited him for dinner and offered him the job to take over the port bureau. But port 
authority was doing very badly then. Was told by port authority that would be fired if it 
did not make money. 
 
01:40:00 
Simplified what the port bureau does like he had done for the coastguards. Port bureau 
provides information. Whether it is about networking, or ship movement the port bureau 
gives information about ships, industry, and community. Have been working on those 
lines. Back in 2009 had 95 companies and now have a 140 companies. Probably a 50% 
increase in revenues.  
 
01:43:43 
Membership - Exxon and Shell and large terminals, tug companies to the ships 
themselves, to the agents, owners reps, the mooring companies, the bunker fuels - 
everyone who touches the ship needs info to be successful.Most places people can go 
down and see the port. But in Houston cant even see the ship channel, can only see 
 
 
refineries. In Houston bracketed by the oil industry, the refineries. For eg. when going to 
Bush Airport, there is ticketing agent, the pilot, the airline, food service etc. Have the 
same thing. Have a pilot, fuel trucks or bunker barges, line handlers, owners reps or 
agents, there are a lot of similarities between both the modes of transport. Instead of 
looking at the big screen at the airport with flight times, dispense info in a different way. 
Use a program called Harbor lights.  
 
01:53:06 
((PHONE RINGS LOUDLY)) 
 
01:53:07 
Association of 160 companies. Want to do the same thing that the port bureau does. Tell 
them that we would do the same thing for them. There are people dealing with each 
company. Do three organizations.  
 
01:56:38 
Port of Houston authority is a government organization, MAke a lot of money off 
containers. Not in the soil business. There are a 150 companies and secondary companies 
along the ship channel. Serve as a conduit between what they want to do to a broader 
discussion with the other industry members. At the same time when the industry wants to 
get involved, and make their concerns known.  
 
01:59:00 
The port exists to move commerce, goods. The security is not needed unless moving 
bodies. There are people on board but it is mainly packages. Try to acknowledge the 
liability or try to transfer the risk to someone else most often through insurance. 
Environmental issues, cant gran that risk and control it and mitigate it, could go out of 
business. Security is a liability too. If there is a terrorist incident, could go out of 
business. It is a new liability that wasn’t there before. Need to figure out how to minimize 
security liability. After Exxon Valdez all oil companies were told they  need to have spill 
response equipment, specialized trained personnel ready to act and firehouses on every 
street corner. What happens is, few year later all companies are equipped with all the gear 
that is now just sitting there. Because there aren't fires every week. So what is being done 
at the ship channel security district is to gather the funds and pay the people who are in 
office to keep up the security. Wanted to focus on officers at the spot rather than 
equipment. THere are officers with badges and have given them the equipment to 
maintain security.  
 
02:10:15 
The value of the port is so underestimated. As a country build the dept. of transportation 
in the 1940s model where there are going to be highways and rail so that the whole 
country can engage in commerce. Now, things have accelerated, the world is in a global 
market. But infrastructure remains the same. No one maintains that the port is worthy of 
 
 
anything. But the role of the port has changed in global commerce. Has become more 
important. Teddy Roosevelt - Panama canal, love for waterway. Need to place a lot more 
emphasis on waterways. Port cities will continue to do well, ramps to global highways. 
Moving commerce globally through ships. Other countries like China have caught on to 
this idea except for America. A quarter of all the tonnage comes through Houston. 
Houston is the juggernaut of commerce. Maritime capital of the US not just the energy 
capital.