Multi-Generational African American Farmers of the Midwest
Anna-Lisa Cox
Library of Congress AFC Archie Green Fellowship
Date of interview: July 2019
Names/s of those interviewed: Victor Anderson, Carl Anderson, and Tina Neeley
Primary Interviewer: Anna-Lisa Cox (ALC)
Secondary Interviewers: Georgia Cravey
Interview Location: Lawrence County, Indiana
Transcriber: Mary Kamara-Hagemeyer
Abstract: Victor and Carl Anderson (brothers) were raised on their family farm in Lawrence
County, Illinois, where African Americans have been farming their own land since the late
1790s. Tina Neeley is Victor’s daughter. Their brother, Harry Anderson, is also a subject of these
interview on multi-generational African-descended farmers in the Midwest. Carl Anderson is
known as “Slug” because he was such a good “slugger” in softball. Most of the Andersons
(including Harry and his sister) were fantastic fast-pitch softball players.
1
Index/Log (5 Minute Time Stamped)
Log 1 of 2
[0:00] Introduction to the project and to Victor, and Carl Anderson and Tina Neeley
[5:00] Discussion about the livestock on the farm and how the Anderson brothers helped each
other out.
[10:00] Vehicles on the farm, including tractors and cars. What each brother did during the years
of World War II. Childhood routines on the farm and the different tasks that were assigned.
Describe the process of shucking corn.
[15:00] Tell stories about transporting crops and how livestock was utilized on the farm and what
dairy products were made out of the milk produced. Discuss their vegetable gardens, what was
grown in them, and how they enjoyed gardening.
[20:00] Raising hogs and the process of butchering. Hunting animals and which animals they
usually caught. Hunting for mushrooms and wild greens and the details about when to go, and
how the mushrooms were cooked. Talked about how the wildlife in the area is diminishing
[25:00] The home remedies the Anderson’s mother would use to cure small ailments. What
mother would make and buy and what was eaten on a daily basis. How the house was heated.
[30:00] How potatoes were stored through the wintertime. Discuss their integrated school and
the racial segregation instituted in town and school. Victor and Carl remember the separate
softball team and how good the team was.
[35:00] Talk about the first tractor purchased and how the tractors were used. Selling and caring
for Hogs, attending the Gibson county fair, and the different activities there.
[40:00]  Discuss gigging, the tools and tactics used, and what was caught. How the water has
changed because of the changes in farming and the increasing use of pesticides and other
chemicals.
[45:00] The primary school Victor and Carl attended was not segregated. The brothers discuss
how they don’t drink much alcohol. Discuss their favorite time of year and the activities that
went with them.
[50:00] Talk about the difficulties of Winter and sharing a room with all their siblings. Talk about
how their mother would sew much of the children’s clothing and the multiple uses of flour sacks.
2
[55:00] Tina remembers different activities she and her cousins would play at.  Talks about the
different activity options in town and whether or not they were segregated. Lists some of her
favorite foods growing up, how they were prepared, and still impact her food choices today.
[60:00] Discuss segregation and how the brothers would sometimes occupy places that were
segregated. Further discuss being of mixed race and being ethnically ambiguous. Respond to
ALC's question about their racial identity and talk about how they would like to be identified.
Talk about current political leadership and racism within politics.
[01:02:06] End of part 1 of this interview – interview continues in part 2 audio
3