Multi-Generational African American Farmers of the Midwest
Anna-Lisa Cox
Library of Congress AFC Archie Green Fellowship
Date of interview: August 31, 2019 (2nd August interview)
Names/s of those interviewed: Stanley Madison
Primary Interviewer: Anna-Lisa Cox (ALC)
Secondary Interviewers:
Interview Location: Lyles Station School and Museum
Transcriber: Breana Nolan
Abstract: Stanley Madison was raised in the African American farming community of Lyles
Station, Indiana. He is the founder and Chairman of the Lyles Station Schoolhouse Historical
Museum, in Lyles Station, Indiana, which tells the history of Lyles Station and the community of
African American farmers there, which became the basis for the exhibit on Lyles Station at the
Smithsonian’s National Museum of African American History and Culture. Stanley Madison was
raised on his grandparent’s farm, and wanted to continue farming family land. He had to work in
the local power plan in order to support and grow his farm (this is a similar pattern for many
African American farmers in the region, and throughout the Midwest).
Stanley Madison’s interviews reveal the skills that African Americans learned and used to
enhance their abilities to survive as farmers in Gibson County, including metal-working,
engineering, hunting and foraging.
In his interviews Stanley Madison pays particular attention to the flooding that occurred
in the farms of Lyles Station, which was the result of a racist policy where levees were not built
for years along the rivers surrounding the African American community, which resulted in
annual flooding of the community and the surrounding farms. He discusses in detail the ways in
which African American farmers were able to survive during these floods, and even found ways
to use the floods to feed their families through fishing.
Stanley Madison is a community leader as well as a farmer. He has sat on the Princeton
Hospital Board as well as on the Tourism Board for Gibson County, and was President of the
Tourism Board at the time of the interviews. He also is active in his church, the historic Wayman
Chapel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Lyles Station, Indiana.
1
Index/Log (5 Minute Time Stamped)
[0:00] Stanley talks about doing business with Glenn Morris, the calves he gets each year and
why he purchases calves every year. Discusses why African American farmers generally don’t
take out loans.
[5:00] Stanley discusses buying seed in advance and African American farmers being shut out
from seed storing and trade deals.
[10:00] Stanley and Dr. Cox discuss the USDA lawsuit about loan practices and the tractors that
he began farming with.
[15:00] Stanley talks about losing crops to flooding, the KKK presence during his grandfather's
time
[20:00] Stanley and Dr. Cox sign off
2