AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Route Ride Along with Kay Foltz – 5/8/2022 
1 
 
Kay Foltz 
Where: Her rental vehicle  
Date: May 8, 2022 
Location: Pleasantville, OH & Rushville, OH 
Interviewer: Emily Hilliard 
Log: Emily Hilliard 
Length: 1:09:40 
 
 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Route Ride Along with Kay Foltz – 5/8/2022 
2 
 
A ride-along on part of the route of Julia “Kay” Foltz (b. 1969, Chillicothe, Ohio) a rural mail 
carrier working out of the Bremen, Ohio post office in the Rushville and Pleasantville, Ohio 
areas. In this ride along, Foltz point out sites, frequently flooded areas, and animals along her 
route and speaks of the new homes being built in the area and how they are changing the 
community and rural landscape. She also expresses concern over the Postal Service’s move away 
from mail counts to determine rural carriers’ pay and into greater reliance on scanners.  
See the interview with Kay Foltz for more information.  
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Route Ride Along with Kay Foltz – 5/8/2022 
3 
 
EH: Emily Hilliard 
KF: Kay Foltz 
 
00:00 
 
KF: "Everything is dirty on the mail route." 
 
00:19  
 
KF: "I don't have a sub right now so I had to work yesterday. I usually don't work Saturdays." 
 
KF is in a rental car while her personal mail vehicle is being repaired. 
 
"So part of Pleasantville Road, and I'll let you know when we get there, is actually part of my 
mail route so we'll just go straight out Pleasantville. It's a little windy but." 
 
00:53  
 
EH: "How big is Pleasantville?" 
 
KF: "It's not big! We have stop signs. We don't have a stop light. Actually what you've seen is 
half the town already so it's not very big." 
 
KF says the Pleasantville Elementary School building used to be Pleasantville College. 
 
(window noise) 
 
KF says her ex-husband is still on her mail route.  
 
EH pauses tape for off the record conversation. 
 
02:10  
 
KF says some of the newer houses in the area are bigger, expensive houses.  
 
EH says a lot of people from California are moving to rural Kentucky because they can afford to 
buy houses there and many are conservatives because they see Kentucky as a conservative state. 
 
KF: "Yeah, you'll probably still see a lot of Trump signs out here." KF speaks of political 
preferences in the area along her route. 
 
KF points out llamas as she passes a nearby farm. "I forgot to tell you about the loose kangaroo, 
did Bruce [Elliott] tell you about that?" 
 
EH: "James did. Were you trying to find the loose kangaroo?" 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Route Ride Along with Kay Foltz – 5/8/2022 
4 
 
 
KF: I knew people that were! I was not involved in the kangaroo shenanigans there, but that was 
funny stuff in Bremen. That was a big story for a minute." 
 
04:09  
 
KF speaks of how she liked James Ebersbach, her former coworker. 
 
EH pauses tape for off the record conversation. 
 
04:28  
 
KF points out "giant farm." 
 
EH: "What kinds of things do they grow? Corn?" 
 
KF: "They alternate soybeans, corn, so I'm not sure what they'll have this year but that's where 
they live now. As you can see last year it was corn over here and I think that was soybeans last 
year so they rotate with crops." 
 
05:10  
 
KF: "So they do have a burn up here. They did a controlled burn. They burn these fields 
sometimes." 
 
EH: "Is that like a farmer would do that?" 
 
KF: "No this is a property owner." Speaks of weeds growing up in the field where the burn 
happened. 
 
EH: "Do you have any Amish families here?" 
 
KF: "I do not. Not on my route. Some of the other Bremen carriers do. We do not have any 
Amish on my route." 
 
EH: "Yeah, James said he had a few." "That looks like an old school!" 
 
KF: "It is an old schoolhouse. Out in the middle of nowhere so I can't imagine how far people 
had to go to get to school." Kay says there is another old schoolhouse on her route, but only one 
is lived in, the other is abandoned. 
 
06:16  
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Route Ride Along with Kay Foltz – 5/8/2022 
5 
 
KF says she has a church on her route that has a horseshoe grave, which is supposed to be 
haunted because "some guy got killed over a girl" and there is apparently a horseshoe imprint on 
the back of a tombstone. 
 
KF: "It's very rural."  
 
EH: "It looks similar to where I grew up [Northern Indiana] but a lot more rolling hills." 
 
KF says she'll just do a short loop, not the entire 67 miles of her route. 
 
07:26  
 
KF: "So now we're in Perry County, so that's all of Fairfield County that I do. It's different 
country out here." 
 
EH: "So Perry County is north? Or where are we?" 
 
KF: "It's east, southeast of what you would think of as Fairfield County. All these people, no 
matter how bad they look, people live in. It's a little depressing but I guess better than being 
homeless." 
 
EH and KF see a fake black cat cutout. 
 
08:15  
 
KF: "So this is kind of the nicer end of the route."  
 
"So I have a lot of farmland. Believe it or not the farmers out here are the ones that have the 
money." 
 
EH: "Yeah, that makes sense." 
 
KF: "They own all the land." 
 
EH: "It's industrial farming, so." 
 
KF: "Yeah and they have the nicest trucks and the nicest cars." 
 
EH: "What do other people mostly do around here if you're not a farmer?" 
 
KF: "Teachers, a lot of nurses. A lot of nurses moved out this this way. I have like 5 law 
enforcement people that live on my route." 
 
"So this road is Rush Creek so if you keep going that ends up at the lake." 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Route Ride Along with Kay Foltz – 5/8/2022 
6 
 
KF and EH decide to go left. 
 
KF points out pole barn and old grain elevator. "It is really neat...That was a working grain 
elevator at one point in time. If you look in the front there was a place where there was a bunch 
of wood and that's where they would drop the grain from the trucks and then it would elevate 
up." 
 
KF: "I don't think there's anything too special on this route. You could take a picture of the 
Charging Goat sign." 
 
10:10  
 
KF points out an ad hoc petting zoo along her route. The petting zoo owner also has mobile 
classrooms on his property, along with a Victorian house and the Charging Goat sign which says, 
"Charming the Goat." 
 
KF remarks on quirks of the rental car. 
 
KF: "This lady that lived here, they found her in a ditch. She had been there a couple days. That's 
the bad part of living out in the middle of nowhere is that if something happens to you, there's 
not always someone there to see it." 
 
EH points out a blue bird which she thinks is an Indigo Bunting but KF says it's an Eastern 
Bluebird and says there are a lot more bluebirds in this are than their used to be. 
 
KF: "This guy, he buys busses and things so he can put more stuff in 'em!" 
 
KF: "This used to be an old canal. You can see part of the old stuff here on the left." 
 
EH: "Yeah, along the creek." 
 
KF says Rush Creek rungs along 664, so this is probably not Rush Creek. 
 
13:42  
 
KF points out abandoned houses. "Do you ever feel bad for houses? I do sometimes!"  
 
KF: "Straight ahead, this is all Somerset and to the left is Somerset. I go right." 
 
EH points out another big farm and KF says she doesn't think they actually farm it anymore and 
have sold it to a younger couple. 
 
KF: "It is pretty out here. And in the fall!" 
 
KF says she picked up a school table from someone along her route and it's now in her backyard. 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Route Ride Along with Kay Foltz – 5/8/2022 
7 
 
 
15:36  
 
KF mentions blind customer 
 who had been exposed to Agent Orange in 
Vietnam. She says he finally got his settlement and many of his health problems had been caused 
by Agent Orange. 
 
EH points out brick Victorian house. 
 
KF: "This is 22. It runs from Somerset that way a few miles all the way back up to Rushville and 
then it takes you all the way up to Lancaster." 
 
EH says she was in Lancaster yesterday. 
 
18:03  
 
EH mentions that she's interviewed a few people who met their spouse through the Postal 
Service.  
 
KF: "This road's a little scary too because it's very busy. And no one wants to get stuck behind 
the mail person. So they pass me even if they can't see, they pass me. I'm like holy cow. I had a 
dump truck do that and there was a car coming the other way. He couldn't see it and I just like 
closed my eyes. I thought for sure he was gonna plow me over and he actually ended up going in 
the ditch. Wrecked his car pretty good. But that was pretty scary because there was nothing I 
could do. He was going too fast for me to just go." 
 
19:36  
 
KF: "So we're gonna go up Avalon Road over here. When I started the route, none of these 
houses were here when I started. In fact, this was all new delivery. And this is very scary in the 
winter." 
 
EH: "Yeah, it's kind of paved but kind of gravel." 
 
KF: "It's got a lot of gravel on top of the paved, so you slide pretty good! So if there's ice, they 
don't get mail down there...These are all new."  
 
KF points out a house formerly called Stagecoach Inn, a historic inn on Stagecoach Road that 
was owned by an older woman and bought by a couple from California for "way too much 
money." According to her, the couple spent too much money and then returned to California. 
The inn had been a stop on a stagecoach road. "All the big stuff is all addition." 
 
21:13  
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Route Ride Along with Kay Foltz – 5/8/2022 
8 
 
KF: "Everybody out here is pretty nice. You always get those exceptional grumpy people." KF 
refers to the customer who would make zucchini muffins for KF to deliver to the postmaster but 
not to her.  
 
22:19  
 
KF: "I'm going to take you down to where the tire incident was. This is Township Road 140 and 
you can see where they're digging up all new wire lines out here. It's unfortunate for some of the 
people out here. Their water bill is going to be $40 a month just to have a hook-up, whether they 
use their water or not." 
 
EH: "And they have a well that they use?" 
 
KF: "Yeah, so you can chose not to have the water but you still have to pay for the hook-up. I'm 
not sure how that works." KF says that could be a lot of money for some people along her route. 
 
23:12  
 
EH: "So this is a very bumpy and steep sort of paved road." 
 
KF: "Yeah, I think they call it chip and seal. They put some gravel down and throw some tar on 
top. And then a little bit more gravel." 
 
KF: "This house burnt down the day after Christmas." KF says they do not know the cause, but 
there were 3 houses on her route that burnt down in the past year. 
 
23:58  
 
KF points out where she got a flat tire (see interview with Foltz). 
 
KF: "One day I got stuck on here. It started raining ice and my car would not come up this hill. I 
tried like 10 times and luckily, I had a cell phone by then and I called my Post Office. I called the 
postmaster and I said, you tell those township people to bring some gravel out here right now 
because I can't get out! You know what, they were out there in 15 minutes." KF says Ohio uses a 
lot of salt on the roads, but not out where she was. "15 minutes, I scooted right up the road!" KF 
says the road can be scary when another car comes because it's not really a 2-lane road. Says her 
car sometimes bottoms out on these roads. 
 
26:21  
 
KF: "There's several Township Road 140s and they're all connected. Well they were connected 
at one time. They're not anymore. That's why it's all one named road." 
 
KF points out a farm that looks like an Amish farm but isn't. 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Route Ride Along with Kay Foltz – 5/8/2022 
9 
 
KF points out a farm along her route that has small cows that are all white with a black nose and 
can go under the fence. 
 
KF points out the place where the junkyard used to be, where the owner fixed her car with a 
garden hose. 
 
KF: "So it is pretty. It kinda looks more like West Virginia here than Indiana. Not quite as hilly. 
West Virginia is more mountainous. We're more hilly." 
 
EH: "This is also similar to where I live in Kentucky. It's kind of the foothills." 
 
28:16  
 
KF points where cows are getting out. KF and EH remark on cows.  
 
30:07  
 
KF: "The only bad part about this route is it's 67 miles but there's not a lot of miles where you 
can just keep driving. So you'll have a mailbox spread out just enough to where you can't go real 
fast." 
 
EH: "What do you think you average for speed?" 
 
KF: "I'll admit I'm not the fastest person in my office. But you know what, I do what I'm 
supposed to do and it just takes some time. Anyway, my average speed is probably, it's just so 
much stop and go. In between boxes, it's probably 25-30 mph. It's really not a lot faster to what 
I'm going now. Trying to get stuff ready for the next box, you're really not going very fast." 
 
KF points out area where it floods and said one year it was flooded for 6 months and she had to 
make a huge detour. She says they do get paid extra for a detour but she would rather not have it 
because it's a pain. 
 
31:37  
 
KF: "With the new people too, these roads are becoming more of an issue because they fly down 
these roads and they have way bigger cars. So those big trucks, the F150s and the big Silverados 
that people got now, they take up a lot of road space." 
 
KF: "Oh look at that hawk! That's not a hawk. The sun hit it right--I thought it was a hawk. It's a 
vulture. I'm hoping we see some turkeys today. But I can have turkeys anywhere out here. They 
cross the road. Did you know they can fly? I didn't." KF says they don't fly far. "They kind of fly 
as well as kitchens."  
 
KF talks about flooding along the road. "My logic is if you see cattails everywhere, probably 
best not to build a house there."  
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Route Ride Along with Kay Foltz – 5/8/2022 
10 
 
 
KF says one year she came down here and there were tadpoles in the flood water and she got a 
scoop of tadpoles for her daughters. 
 
KF says she has to get out sometimes to assess the depth of flood waters before driving through 
it.  
 
34:01  
 
KF points out pole barn recently built on flood plain.  
 
EH: "What are these yellow flowers?" 
 
KF: "I'm not sure. They're not ragweed. I'm not sure what they are." 
 
EH: "They're very pretty." 
 
KF: "They look like tiny daisies." 
 
34:55  
 
KF points out other areas that have flooded.  
 
KF remarks on confusing naming of roads. 
 
EH points out sheep and KF says there are also goats on the same farm. 
 
KF: "So Mr. and Mrs. Artz passed away and they auctioned off all their land out here so now 
we've got, that's a new lot there, gonna be--you can see where they're starting to build a new 
house. And then the new house. And we're out in the middle of nowhere and some of these 
houses...we'll turn on Township Road 139 next and go up and around and they're putting a house 
there. This is brand new. That was probably finished within the last year. So." 
 
EH: "And how many miles away from Columbus are you?" 
 
KF: "I want to say 35-40 miles. At least. And that was the Artz’s house and they've really done 
an HDTV on that one. Doesn't look anything like it did when they lived there. But some of these 
coming up are, they're beautiful places, but I couldn't imagine. I always wonder where they work 
if they can drive, where they're driving to to work." 
 
EH: "Yeah, this one is very HDTV." 
 
KF: "Yeah, they built that. They lived in that [a barn] while they had their house built. I know 
people out here couldn't even afford to build that! And that's what they're building just to live in 
until their house was done! I was like that's just crazy." 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Route Ride Along with Kay Foltz – 5/8/2022 
11 
 
 
EH: "I wonder if they're going to Airbnb it or something." 
 
KF: "This was new. This has been built in the past 10 years. It looks older but it's new." 
 
EH: "Maybe they can work remotely." 
 
KF: "I would assume you would almost half to. There's going to be one right there going in. 
They sold off all the lots. They're building on all of them. This one here is another HDTV house. 
That's what I call them. They just look very." 
 
EH: "I know, they do kind of look a little cookie cutter." 
 
KF: "And their yard just drops off. There is no backyard. It just totally drops off. You got the 
pole barn house." 
 
EH: "So they live in the pole barn?" 
 
KF: "Yep, yeah. I love that house back there. You'll see it when we get a little closer. You'll have 
to see it from up here because you can't see it from where their driveway is but I don't know if 
you can see it very well now that the trees are full and out, but it's really pretty. It's kinda 
modern." 
 
EH: "Cool." 
 
KF: "A little different for being out here." 
 
38:43  
 
KF: "But these roads they don't plow them very often in the winter. They can get a little dicey." 
 
EH remarks on modern house. KF says it has a glass garage door.  
 
KF: "Like I said, they just live so much different than the people who have been out here a long 
time. I can't even imagine anybody out here that has a glass garage door. See it? It's glass." 
 
39:13  
 
EH: "Does it feel like there's a culture clash between these new people and old people?" 
 
KF: "You know, I haven't heard that there is any. I don't imagine they'll all have big block 
parties, because they're a lot different. But I don't think they're not getting along, they just don't 
interact a lot." 
 
EH: "Yeah, they maybe aren't as part of a rural community." 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Route Ride Along with Kay Foltz – 5/8/2022 
12 
 
 
KF: "Right. I think the mindset's a lot different." 
 
KF says you can't go too fast on these rural roads. She points out where there used to be a trailer 
and where she used to go to the bathroom, but the new house on the top of the hill might be able 
to see her. 
 
40:18  
 
KF: "It is pretty." KF points out a twisted tree growing in an unusual way and says she'll miss it 
when it finally falls down. "So spending your days out here is not a bad thing. Some days are 
frustrating when you have lots and lots and lots of mail, but for the most part, it's nice." 
 
EH: "Do you know how many steps you get in in a day from getting out and delivering 
packages?" 
 
KF: "Way more than I used to which is terrible because I'm getting older now! I really couldn't 
tell you. I should get one of those things you put on your shoe. I don't carry my phone enough to 
use it." 
 
41:39  
 
KF: "I think this guy's got a camera somewhere. He always knows when I deliver his mail. And I 
know he can't see me." 
 
KF: "Gotta watch out for the potholes out here. They're maneaters." 
 
KF points out swamp along the road. She talks about droughts on the west coast, while the area 
where she works and lives has a lot of swamps. "I guess we're fortunate. And as time goes on 
with climate change, we might be even more fortunate." 
 
EH: "Yeah, I think the Midwest will be the place to be." 
 
KF: "I think so. First of all, you don't want to be on a coast because there might now be one. Not 
where it's at now. And then the dry weather. My stepson lives in California and it's just dry. No 
water. No yards anymore." 
 
EH says it will be good to be by the Great Lakes. 
 
42:51  
 
KF says of customers "I have to honk at them when they're sitting out because they get offended 
if I don't!" She points out a dog who is always on a heavy chain outside every day of the year and 
has no fur. She says she feels sorry for him and gives him a Slim Jim every day. "I spend $300 
on that dog a year! That's terrible!" 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Route Ride Along with Kay Foltz – 5/8/2022 
13 
 
 
KF says she's going this way to show EH Perry County.  
 
KF points out an area with many campers and says people live in all of them. "You know, people 
live the best they can... A lot of my route has been like that over the years." She notices that 
some of the campers are missing and there's a large pile of dirt instead.  
 
KF says that because she's in a rental and not her typical mail vehicle, people aren't recognizing 
her.  
 
45:02  
 
KF points out the end of her route on this street and turns around. KF says she'll take EH back 
off her route, but she can see another way back.  
 
KF says she's not sure how the routes were divided because there are some roads where she only 
delivers one mailbox and then has to turn around.  
 
KF says Columbus is getting more roundabouts and there is one in the nearby town of Somerset.  
 
47:02  
 
KF says this area that is not her route has more paved roads. Says Somerset has more money and 
that's why they have paved roads. 
 
 
KF remarks on how quiet and nice it is out here. She says she can see why people would want to 
move out here.  
 
In the area where she grew up, there are much fewer cornfields and now it's all development and 
strip malls.  
 
KF turns on to Stagecoach Road.  
 
50:00  
 
KF says she doesn't have her keys, otherwise they could go to her Post Office. EH asks which 
one she goes to. KF: "We got moved into Bremen. I always worked in Rushville." She said she 
had a heart attack 13 years ago due to a blood clot from sitting in a car all day and says she has 
one currently. "You feel like it's a ticking time bomb." She says a week after she got back after 
her heart attack, they were moved to the Bremen Post Office. 
KF: "See we heard the plan was at the time, they were gonna shut down all these little, tiny post 
offices. And I think that really is what the plan was. Luckily that didn't happen Rushville is still 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Route Ride Along with Kay Foltz – 5/8/2022 
14 
 
open but now we're still stuck in Bremen. But I really like Bremen better because we got so 
many more people in the office and you know, it's just nice." 
 
EH: "Did they reduce the Rushville hours that it's open?" 
 
KF: "No!" 
 
EH: "Weird!" 
 
KF: "I mean there's less clerk hours because they don't have to do any of the mail, they just have 
to..."  
 
KF stops herself and points out Stagecoach Inn and the other house that burnt down along her 
route. Says her customers are currently living in the garage after the fire. She said she heard there 
was a lot of ammunition in the garage so the fire department could not do much since the 
ammunition started exploding.  
 
52:02  
 
KF: "All these roads we've been on so far are all part of my route, so it is pretty big." 
 
EH points out dogwood tree in bloom. 
 
KF: "This is one of the few roads you can go fast on. Going all the way up to 45!"  
 
KF points out more new houses. 
 
KF: "They took part of my route away that I had in West Rushville because my route got too big 
and I say in 5 years, I'll probably have just as many houses as they took from me at West 
Rushville just from all the new houses being built. 
 
EH: "So how many hours is yours evaluated at now?" 
 
KF: "It's evaluated at 46. It was 48 until they took West Rushville, but I've already got 4 new 
houses so I don't know how they're gonna do the evaluations now but they're gonna do 
everything through the scanner. I assume you know about mail counts?" 
 
EH: "Yeah, mmhm." 
 
KF: "The mail counts, we're not gonna have 'em anymore." 
 
EH: "Just because of the scanners." 
 
KF: "I don't know if that's area-specific but the scanners...which I don't believe are totally 
accurate, because they're not. I mean they tell me I'm 5 feet from something and I'm not even 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Route Ride Along with Kay Foltz – 5/8/2022 
15 
 
close to that. But that's gonna determine how we get paid and we're all just praying that they're 
accurate enough and we don't lose a bunch of money. Now some of the routes like John's route in 
Pleasantville, he's got a lot of dead miles which are like the miles to and from his route from 
Bremen, so he's got 20 dead miles that he drives a day." 
 
EH: "And does he get compensated for that?" 
 
KF: "He gets compensated the same as I do for every mile I drive. Well, they're gonna start 
compensating the dead miles differently because obviously he's just you know, he's driving to the 
route and from the route which is way different than stopping every so much. And instead of 
getting rated for 12 minutes per mile per week, he's gonna go down to like, they talked about 
going down to like 3 minutes, which is still, you know, that's a lot of time that he would end up 
losing. You know, we work hard. It's not right to keep cutting from the bottom. We're the ones 
that do all the dirty work, so to speak. You know, we do all the hands-on work and it seems like 
the first place they always wanna start cutting is from the bottom. And the Post Office as a 
corporation, they're really top heavy." 
 
EH: "They have a lot of management?" 
 
55:33  
 
KF: "You know we've got the postmaster, the POOMS, his super, you know, it just seems like 
it's pretty top heavy and maybe that's true with all big companies but when we're out there and 
I'm eating money, my own money to keep my car running every year, and they just decide that 
they can cut our pay every year it's just, at some point salaries on the outside are gonna start 
going up more than I'm making. And that shouldn't be. I mean honestly do you want the lowest 
paid person delivering your checks and your medicine? You don't. I mean let's face it, the less 
you pay people, the more untrustworthy they're gonna be. It is what it is. I mean they talk about 
contracting out postal work at one point. Well do you really want the lowest bidder handling all 
your sensitive material? You really don't. Because that's the kind of people you're gonna get that 
are gonna, they got side hustles, selling your. 
 
EH: "And people who don't feel invested in it." 
 
KF: "Right. I am a government employee and I'm not gonna sell your information. I'm not 
allowed to. I'm not even allowed to make up like a list of customers. I'm not allowed to do that. 
A contractor is not bound by that. They're just not, so like you always hear, you get what you pay 
for. First of all, people think I make a lot more money than I make. 'I make a hundred thousand 
dollars a year and I have free insurance and free stamps.' And I'm like listen, I don't even get 
dental insurance. I have to pay for that myself and that's an extra insurance. We don't get free 
stamps. We don't even get discounted stamps! Trust me! I pay for more stamps for customers a 
year than I even use probably! And you know, you asked earlier about what I think about the 
Post Office. I think it should always be here. There's just a lot going on that you don't want a 
contractor doing. How many times have you heard that UPS kept a package on the truck for 3 
days before the delivered it? We're not allowed to do that. FedEx same thing. Their scanners 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Route Ride Along with Kay Foltz – 5/8/2022 
16 
 
don't even tell them where they delivered it. And I know that because I had packages missing 
that I had ordered. And I called FedEx and they can't even tell me where they delivered it! It's all 
based on what the driver said. And you've seen some of the Amazon drivers. This winter 
especially I noticed how bad our Amazon delivery person out on my route has gotten. He was 
dropping little tiny packages right at the bottom of the mailboxes! It didn't matter if it was windy, 
snowy, rainy, you know it didn't matter. They got delivered. Well yeah, they're delivered, but 
who know where that's gonna end up after the wind blows for 2 days and they didn't see it." 
 
EH: "I mean and they're just getting, that's the same thing, they're not paying their workers very 
well." 
 
KF: "Yeah, so you get what you pay for." 
 
58:50  
 
EH: "So it's not, so they're barely making ends meet so that's why they're probably dropping off 
packages and trying to cut corners as much as possible." 
 
KF: "That's exactly what they're doing. Because they're not allowed to put them in the mailbox." 
 
EH: "Yeah, right." 
 
KF: "And I will call and complain about that because if I have to get out to deliver something 
that would fit in the mailbox because your package is in there, I'm throwing a fit! (laughs) I've 
got over a hundred packages AND mail a day. I can't, I don't have enough time in the day to do 
that all day. There's just not enough time. And but I really pray that it, and not just for my job 
because like I told you, I can retire in less than 10 years. But you know, when I get to the point to 
where that's what I'm depending on for everything, I hope I'm not depending on some untrained 
lowest common denominator. I just don't want that." 
 
59:56  
 
KF: "So what is the consensus between everybody that you've asked what they think about that?" 
 
EH: "Well yeah people are concerned about what the future of the Postal Service will be and do 
also say that it seems like they're pushing people into contract work. I talked to a few highway 
contractors who had been long-time carriers and it just seems like they're barely scraping by. 
They can't get insurance." 
 
KF: "So they have contract postal employees?" 
 
EH: "Yeah it was interesting, this was in Eastern Kentucky and I talked to some who they were 
highway contractors but they're full-time and they still have to provide their own vehicle but then 
the next post office has full-time rural carriers and they didn't know when that changed, or..." 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Route Ride Along with Kay Foltz – 5/8/2022 
17 
 
KF: "I don't know of any around here." 
 
EH: "Really? That's interesting." 
 
KF: "I heard, you know you get these threatening things, like you hear they're threatening to your 
job, whatever. And I've heard about having that out here and that's what I was always telling 
people. Do you really want the lowest bidder delivering your stuff? You already, a lot of people 
question, 'I should have got this, I should have got that,' and maybe not get it." 
 
EH: "Well and it seemed like there was kind of a hustle so I talked to a guy, he was about my age 
and he carried for a few years, but basically the way he got the route was this guy big on all these 
rural routes and he bids very low and he got it because he was the lowest bidder--not him but the 
person that the guy I interviewed worked for. And he then subcontracted it out to this guy." 
 
KF: "That's even worse!" 
 
1:02:03  
 
EH: "Yeah, it was really bad and so he's scraping, skimming money off the top--the original 
contractor and then the sub-contractor is making very little. And he really liked the job and he 
wanted to stay in it but he was just..." 
 
KF: "Can't afford it." 
 
EH: "Yeah, exactly." 
 
KF: "I know what it cost. That's why I was always like, I don't know how people afford to 
deliver. Like they used to deliver the newspapers. I don't know how they afford that! Because I 
know what I spend on car maintenance. They're probably not spending a whole lot less. Because 
they've still got gas, brakes, insurance, all that. Tires. And I actually deliver a lot of newspapers 
in the mail now because they don't have delivery people out here anymore. I would hate to see it 
go that way. But I think they just passed that Postal Reform." 
 
EH: "Yes, yes." 
 
KF: "So I'm hopefully for at least until something else happens that you know, we're good for a 
while. But also it is in our constitution to have free rural delivery. That is a constitution. They 
would have to change the constitution to change the fact that you get rural delivery. Now what 
that looks like could change but I'm hopeful. Hopefully there will always be rural delivery, but I 
hope it's more people like me and less like the person that just bid on a bunch of routes. But 
there's always that guy out there wanting to make the money the easiest way possible." 
 
EH: "Definitely. I know." 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Route Ride Along with Kay Foltz – 5/8/2022 
18 
 
EH and KF remark on the llamas again. Says her customer has them for pets but may hire 
someone to shear them for wool. 
 
1:04:24  
 
KF: "I am lucky to have this job because you know what, I've made a career of it, I can make a 
career of it and both my kids went to college. Not that I think college is necessarily a must. Not 
everybody needs to go to college, but they wanted to go." 
 
EH: "Where did they go?" 
 
KF says Emma went to Miami University and her other daughter went to Ohio University in 
Athens. EH says she was in Athens yesterday. KF says it's one of the poorest counties in the state 
aside from the college. She says her other daughter does rural outreach work. KF says southern 
Ohio and Appalachia in general is very poor. 
 
1:06:17  
 
KF points out a hawk and birds pestering the hawk to protect their nest. KF says she sees many 
more hawks these days. KF says once she saw a snowy owl on a telephone pole during the day 
and had to stop the car and take pictures. She says her phone was stolen that had all the photos of 
wildlife she had documented along her route. It also had the last pictures of her mother and the 
last text from her. 
 
KF points out the "town gossip" as she passes him and remarks on a yard sale. 
 
1:09:18  
 
EH: "Well thank you so much, this was really cool!" 
 
KF: "Oh thank you! It's nice to be even thought about! I think we're just kind of always there, 
kind of in the background. Nobody sees you unless there's something wrong and then..." 
 
EH: "Right. They've got a lot of complaints. Well yeah, I'll take your picture." 
 
KF: "Okay." 
 
1:09:40  
 
END OF TAPE 
END OF RIDE-ALONG