Katy Clune  0:25
Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell here on March 19 at Double Hung, in Greensboro and David, get
us started by telling us your full name and what you do for a living.
David Hoggard  0:37
David Eugene Hoggard. I am the owner of Double Hung LLC, historic window restoration.
KC  0:45
We're gonna start by going well, sorry, I didn't mean to cut you off.
DH  0:48
No, no that's alright. That's all I do.
KC  0:51
Let's, let's start at the beginning. Tell us where you were born and what your parents did for a
living.
DH  0:58
I was born in Hodgenville, Kentucky, in 1955. My parents--- actually that's Abraham Lincoln's
birthplace. It's our claim to fame in central Kentucky. My parents, Dorothy and Gene Hoggard
were both educators. Mom was a second grade teacher. And special---- special reading teacher.
My dad was a band director started the LaRue County High School Band of Hawks in
Hodgenville, 1950. And was the most--- one was celebrated band directors in Kentucky history.
Yeah. Selling musicianship.
KC  1:40
What do you play?
DH  1:41
Piano mainly. Sax---- being band director's son, saxophone. I did a lot of timpani work.
Saxophone, all three of them, whatever needed. In drums in the marching band, wherever he
needed an extra hand that's where I was. So I was brought up in the middle of a concert band.
Still love it. Anyway, that's their.....
KC  2:06
What did you study?
DH  2:08
In college? You knew I went to college?
afc2020009_004--David Hoggard  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
KC  2:11
I don't know.
DH  2:11
I did, actually. Yeah. [crosstalk] That's interesting. Wh--- I went to Western Kentucky University
for eight, seven years, much to my parents chagrin, and [inaudible] get 15 hours shy of
graduating before I got a job. I was studying political science. And minored in English. Loved
English better than political science. And, my---- I thought I was gonna be a lawyer. That's what
I want to be.  'Cause dad said "Don't go into music, unless you want to starve." Buth that's
what--- so I did Political Science but never quite got out. 15 hours shy of a seven year degree for
an undergrad. But that's where it is. Western Kentucky University.
Julia Gartrell 3:04
And what happened after this journey through college?
DH  3:09
While I was, I was working in a music store, while I was in Bowling Green, Kentucky. And, an
old friend of mine---- you know, band director---- of musical instruments, meaning more horns
than guitars and stuff. And worked there all through college. Got to know a couple of sales reps
for musical instrument companies who'd come in. We become buddies, they come out and stay
with me. And there was a friend of mine named Don Whalet [sp?], who called on me---- moved
in with me for a little while, because we became good friends. And he was an on the road
salesman. Wholesale musical instruments and they had an opening in North Carolina. And I
wasn't doing anything but going to school. So he put my name in the hat to go, to take that job
and I went down to Atlanta and interviewed for it and went out on the road selling musical
instruments. The Music Man like 76 trombones and all that.  It was a company out of Atlanta,
called C. Bruno & Son, and did that for 15 years on the road. That's why I moved to Greensboro
actually. Because it was in the center of the territory. I traveled North Carolina and East
Tennessee and Western Virginia. And had like 200 music stores that I'd call mom and pops at the
time. They don't, they don't have those much anymore, but that's what they were at the time. I
was in band--- I was a, I played piano bars all through college. I'm a singer as much as I am a
piano player. I'm, uh, the piano man is [inaudible]. So you know, continue that, after I moved
here, then I didn't do it but I still play piano from time to time. Mostly when I'm drinking
bourbon. And there's friends around it's a lot of fun, a lot of fun. So anyawy that's why I ended
up in North Carolina working for a musical instrument company. I was on the road for--- doing
that for about 15 years. Guitars and amps and drums and all the stuff. And, well during all this
time I got married to the love of my life. Jinni, Virginia Hoggard. Jinni Hoggard, Tapscott
Hoggart. She was at--- met her at college back in Bowling Green. And she got this job. She was
in Denver taking her own thing. So I got this job, finally thought I had some---- enough to go out
buy a ring and ask her to marry me and I did.  Flew out there and--- so I moved here. She
afc2020009_004--David Hoggard  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
followed about six months later. Bought me a mobile home out north of town. Loved it, loved it.
Still wish I could be in that thing. And anyway, she moved in there. And we--- jeez that was a
long time ago, 40 years ago, I don't know, a long time. I could look at the back of my ring to
remember. Eighty four I think it was. Then---- I was still on the road, I was on the road. And,
I---- we found [inaudible] for three years living---- two years in a mobilehome we were gonna
found a house. We started looking around and I was---- found a house over in one of the local
historic districts here in town called, it was called Aycock at the time. Aycock historic district.
Now called Dunleath. And we found this old bungalow, and bought it and said let's move in here.
So that's what we did. And tore at it because it needed a lot of work and my dad because he
was--- his dad was a carpenter. So he was an itinerant carpenter, which passed that down to me.
As a---- not just music. Always taught me to just try it. You'll figure it out. How hard can it be?
And so, Jinni and I started on that build, that house on Cypress Street. Kids start coming. Oops,
here they come. So I was still on the road, of course, travel. Which I mean, I'd be gone, I'd leave
on Monday come back on Friday. I was gone a lot. And so she keep the home fires burning. Had
one child, the one you met in there, Jack. Then the second child Josie was born. And she lives in
Athens, Georgia now. And then got a third one on the way, and we said we need a bigger house.
Oh, no during that time.... Let me not forget the reason I'm doing this--- because we live in
historic dist--- our idea was to buy rental, now that we had settled there were a lot of houses that
were transitioning in the neighborhood.
DH  7:52
So we saw some opportunities and we bought--- our idea was to buy three houses for---- one for
each of our kids. Fix them up and you know, restore them. Rent them out for 15 years, sell them,
pay for our kids' college education. Well we ended up with six houses. Three kids. It just one of
those things that kept---- opportunities kept coming so we kept buying them and fixing them and
that's pretty much you know. I was on the road but when I was off the road that's what we were
doing was stripping paint, taking windows apart. Of course it's a historic district. It's always---
that's under the guidelines that you have to, you don't want to replace your windows you got to
repair 'em. Don't have but it's what's recommended. So we just learned as a matter of course not
because that's what was--- it's just what you had to do to make the house work. You want your
windows open you got to know how to work on it. So we did, and then finally we figured the
house was too big and we went down the street. The house it was---- had been a boarding house
for years. It was as like 3500 square foot house. We bought that one. Completely gutted it. Took
it apart. I mean all the old intricate moldings inside of old houses we took it all apart. Because it
was nasty. Roaches and the woman had 12 cats. It's just terrible. So we discovered a product
called methylene chloride which is a paint stripper. So we take them out Jinni set up a strip shop
out in the garage. Kind of what we're doing here but with chemicals. So, stripped every piece of
woodwork. Every door, every window within that, in that building. And it took forever but what
else did we have to do? While I was on the road and uh---- took all the paint off. Got it all
neutralized. Got it back in, primed it up. We discovered we didn't mark the stuff to go where it's
afc2020009_004--David Hoggard  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
supposed to go back. Kind of important. The nail holes need to line up. This window is not like
that window. Learned a pretty big lesson on that. Jinni didn't mind, she's a jigsaw player, but it
drove me nuts. I mean, she loves jigsaw puzzles. So, we did that house. And by that time, I was
getting a little tired of the road. And I got a job doing something else, kind of got off the road
and started a buying group for musical instrument, retailers. Called Musical Instrument Retailers
of America, over in Winston Salem for a couple of years. And worked that while I was doing
this, this other thing that, so it gave me a little more time to work on houses. And during this
time, you got to know the neighborhood. The neighborhood was such that if somebody needed
help, you go help them. It was like, everything was like a barn raising. You know, people need
help people go on [inaudible], alright, let's go fix that. You know, Tom, who works here, there's
several people--- they're still around, but you know, we'd all help each other out. So, you know,
helped a few people do things, especially the windows. I mean, you wouldn't think anything
about it, it just was. So during that time, I was--- I'm an itinerant, I'm a political gadfly, if you
will. Well, a little bit later, but I was well connected in the city, in the preservation side. So they
were--- there's this thing called Historic Preservation Commission, that governs the historic
district guidelines. And every 10 years or so you're supposed to rewrite these guidelines, or, you
know, revise them. So, this is interesting I hadn't thought about a lot of this stuff in a long time,
and so I was asked to be on the committee that was rewriting thos. Because they knew I had done
some houses and I was [inaudible]. We were, about ten of us around a table trying to rewrite
these guidelines, which governs historic properties. Which, you know, it's what you're supposed
to do to make--- to do it right. It goes through the roof, and the landscaping, and the thing, and
the street scene and all the different portion. We to got the part on the windows and, and at the
time it was, it's 25 years ago, there was a great push. People want to replace their windows.
[coughs] Excuse me. And we got to the part on windows and going around and I said, you know
we got to figure out this because, you know, everybody wants to replace their windows. How can
we figure out what--- it's governed by the Secretary of Interior Standards for historical
rehabilitation. Which says very clearly it is always best to repair rather than replace historic
fabric in general. But windows in particular, because they're such a defining portion of the house.
They're the eyes of house, I mean, it's pretty important. And so we're reading through that, saw
that and, and--- said look, you know, but nobody knows how to do that. And I went, well I know
how to do that.
DH  13:14
How hard can it be? I've done my own houses. So that's when it started. That--- around that table.
I said, [inaudible] I know how to do that. Tell people I can do that. So as I was transitioning
through [inaudible] jobs, I got a job--- I would help neighbors do theirs, as I said, not for pay.
But then a lady over and Fisher Park wanted  to get it and she'd heard that I've done some
windows and she had called me and said would you come over take a look at my windows. See if
you can fix 'em and I said "sure". So I went over and did it, took it on by the hour thank God
because I would have gone broke and I didn't. So set up shop in our house in between--- I was
afc2020009_004--David Hoggard  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
doing it on weekends, I wasn't doin' it full time. I's just trying it. Hired a---  didn't hire, had some
friends come over to help me out pay him 20, 15 bucks an hour, whatever. And got through it.
And she loved 'em. Learned how to cut glass, very basic thing. And she loved it and I ended up
making some money off of it. And somebody else called to do it, and so I went over to help
them, got paid for it. And then during that year a little bit later, the state Preservation Office was
having it's annual meeting at--- when the depot downtown was getting redone, had just reopened
it. So they're gonna have a panel discussion around historic rehabilitation methods. And one of
the guys from the city here recommended I sit on it as the window expert. I'd done a house,
right? So I did. So I pulled a few articles together, went down and told what I knew about
window restoration, which was not much. And in the audience was a man, still a friend of mine,
Mike Davis, out of Charlotte---- it was a statewide convention. And Mike was up there
representing---- his development company was getting ready to redo a big apartment building
down in Charlotte called the West. And he was having---- he wanted to replace the windows, the
state wouldn't let him because he was going to use the historic tax credits. You can't do it if
you're going to do tax credits, you got to restore the windows or make 'em match exactly if you
rebuild them. So he said, would I come down and take a look at his building. Well it's 200
windows. Said sure, how hard can it be? So I did, I went down and looked at it. And I said----
well, one thing you need to know during this time, my wife, Jinni had just had breast----  just
diagnosed with breast cancer. As this that this will enter into it later. And so, and I just come
back in off the road and here, I was--- you know kids grew up a little bit now,  but now she's got
breast cancer. And I've agreed to take this job in Charlotte. Which is, you know, it's a five month
job. So anyway, I bid it. Didn't do it by the hour. I bid it I said I'll do it for whatever the number
was. And what saved me was I kind of knew how long it would take to do 'em because I'd done
one or two. So I multiplied that--- how many hours it was times $45. Most people going in would
now think it back: I'll make 20 bucks an hour, I'm good. How bad you know--- that's what saved
me. So because I, because I started thinking: how much the plumber charge? They're 60 bucks an
hour, whatever. There's 28,000 plumbers out there, there's one of me. So I should be worth about
at least about the same as the plumber. So, that---- setting that labor rate is what caused this
because I had money for growth. And we ended up doing the job down there that 200 windows.
Took us about four months or something like that. We set up there, didn't have a facility. Came
back up for Jinni's treatments and different things, but pretty much we lived in Charlotte in hotels
down there for that, for that period of time.
DH  17:26
But while we were there, people found out we were there. And we're still in Charlotte, we still do
a ton of work in Charlotte. Because of that, once people find out in an area---- you've got these
little yard signs, it's your, you're gonna stay there as long as you want to stay. So we still do. We
do a lot of business in  Charlotte. Got through that one and during that time I got a call from a
general contractor over in Raleigh. No--- I got a call again from the state Preservation Office that
afc2020009_004--David Hoggard  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
wanted me to meet with some people at North Carolina State [University] because they're getting
ready to do a---- y'all aren't State people are you? North Carolina State?
KC  18:15
I'm, I mean... I work for Duke.
DH  18:17
It's okay if you are, it's just fine. The reason I'm asking I want to pull you into the conversation,
I'm doing so well. Anyway, reason I asked cause you would know, they were getting ready to do
Leazer Hall. If you know what Leaz--- it was the original cafeteria for, for the campus. Big
beautiful hall with just beautiful building. It had---they were converting it into the School of
Design over there. So there were a lot of architects were involved in that. So they call---- they
call me in because they, there again, they were up against historic guidelines, this is historic
property. So they wanted to replace the windows, and they wanted to hear another view. So they
called me over to say, you know, what is this, what can you do with these windows? So I was
sitting next to the dean of the School of Design and all this stuff. And you know, now I've done
two buildings and the architects and the developer in the GCs and all this stuff said what do you
know? Said well, one thing I do know is that new windows are crap. Because the way they're
made. I've run into enough of 'em. That--- and I kind of knew this, you know this inately too, but
all the new ones have insulated glass. That's the thing. It's two pieces of glass with air and space
in between them. It's not the glass that does it, it's the airspace that does it. But that fails over 10,
15 years, it fails, and you throw the windows away and you start over. So we just save $40 on
your gas bill, but you throw your windows away in 15 years, so it makes no economic sense. So I
gave him some ideas on that on how their windows were built, how much better they'd be that---
they were at that time about 80 years old. What's to keep 'em from going another 80 years if you
tak care of them. So my price---- their price to replace them they've already received, I'm gonna
make this up now, I won't be too far off, was I will say $800,000 to replace all the windows. I
didn't find this out 'til later, I would have bid it higher I had did around $600,000. To do them all
or some number, I'm not too far out. So they got those two numbers and they, so they found it's
gonna take more to replace them. Plus they only last 15 years. So they're--- whatever savings
goes and they have to replace them again. And so they, they had their students do this study on
the cost benefit analysis of replacing versus restoration err, windows. Which made the rounds in
universities, it's still out there. You know, that, that was the first time anybody'd really taken a
look at. So we got hired to do it. And did it. And there again, moved to Raleigh pretty much, got
an apartment moved over there. Jinni was doing fine going through the stuff. Gettin' through all
of her treatments. And so we got--- we did that one. I hired--- that's when I hired my first
employee. Before that I was--- just people come in and help. Some are still here, right, Sondra
and Tom are still here. So we did that one. Still in Raleigh. We hadn't left [inaudible], we do a lot
of business in Raleigh. We ended up doing two buildings at North Carolina State we've done four
or five buildings over at [University of North Carolina at] Chapel Hill. Good Lord, I mean did
afc2020009_004--David Hoggard  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
you see the gallery of different ones we've done--- state capitol in Raleigh, we just keep going.
But during all this time, we were also doing res--- it sounds big, we were still doing residential.
That was what brought us, that's what started us. People need their windows fixed. But we got
very good at doing large projects: 200 windows, 300 windows because we--- I have a process
mind I can think it through at the time and pull things through. So anyway, we did that. Still
didn't have a facility, we'd go to the site and set up we didn't have a shop. But when we got
through with that one in Raleigh, all those years ago---- I could, I could guess at the year 18
years ago, something like that. All of a sudden didn't have any business. I mean, didn't have that
space that I could go work. Now it's people [inaudible] you don't do this in their homes. It's
pretty nasty business. So I decided to move to my garage, I didn't need much. And mean I didn't
even have a truck at the time. But driving an old 1977 Scout was what I drove at the time---- still
have that by the way.
DH  22:48
So, I cleared out my garage, and we set up, me and the other---- my employee at the time set up
in that same garage that Jinni did all the stripping of stuff all those years ago. And went back out
and started getting smaller jobs again. And, you know, and did. Wherever we could find 'em.
Kept trying to hire different people and teach them how to do it. And did, but pretty soon, I mean
we just kept getting more and more jobs. And so I said I need another place. During all of this----
I'm leaving out a few things. Like I said I was a political gadfly. I used to write a blog called
Hogg's Blog. I did it for years. Political---- local political blog starting in 2000, maybe '98. I was
early adopter. And it was real widely read, we--- I mean wasn't 100,000 people, it's who read. It
was very, you know all the local pols read it, it was you know it was--- I always had a take,
always read the papers, say "Here's what I think about this what y'all think?"  Started discussions
and throughout all this I got a name for myself doing that. And, and through trying to save an old
baseball stadium here in town part of my preservation background, got a lot of notoriety. Was on
the TV a lot doing this stuff. So I said, hell, let's run for government. So I ran for city council.
And this was actually, this is before Jinni got--- before I went to Charlotte now that I'm thinking
on it. Didn't win, thank god, ran at large. I live in a majority black district. And designed that
way. There was no--- so a white guy's not gonna do it. We, I mean, this is [inaudible]. No
problem with it. So I had run at large which means run county wide. So I went out at I said, I'm
gonna win this sumbitch and went everywhere. And got to know a lot of people, and got to know
the ins and outs [of] government and all the different portions of it. Lost. Thank God. They take
three, I was fourth. The other three were incumbents. They're all friends of mine. And I was
fourth. So I was at large protem, I guess is what it was, but I didn't get in. And by the time it
came around again, two years later, after I was ready to go again, and everybody said yes you're
gonna get itthis time, because one of 'em was going to--- one of the three was going to retire. So
it left a spot open, it's just kind of the way it works. So I was next up. And that's when Jinni got
cancer before I went to Charlotte, that's back---- bringing my political side back into this. But all
that lead tom because of the blog and 'cause the political connections and stuff. The News &
afc2020009_004--David Hoggard  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
Record hired me as a columnist for two years. So I was columnest for the News & Record. Every
other week, I had an opinion column in the Record, which was very heady.
KC  26:10
What was the name?
DH  26:11
The column was just DH column---- every, every column had a title or something. It wasn't a
blog, that was a separate thing, but I was writing---- was parallel to each other. And so I did that
for about two years. Writing on a deadline, don't ever write on a deadline. Finally got tired of it.
And also not only that, well they quit paying for it. It was about the time when papers were
retracting. So--- "we will let you keep doing it." They were only paying me $100 a column
anyway. So I said, that's okay, y'all go on with.... So I, I didn't do that. But I kept the blog going
for a little while. And aft---- no I kept, the blog kept going. Because during that time, is when
Jinni got cancer. Because I had this notoriety and was very open about it on the blog, talking
about it. The News & Record called Jinni and said do you want to write a column? So she wrote
one called Jinnis's Journal. It was a feature every--- once a month for 12 months of what it takes
to go through breast cancer. With very [inaudible] and very brave of her to do what she did. Very
open, very--- things that she, she would tell and got a lot of support with that. So at the end of all
that I said, now, now I got to know I can run for city counc--- I could probably run for state
senator now. Everybody knows who we are. And, but then this business grabbed a hold and
started building. So I put the political aspirations aside. Found a little building downtown,
Greensboro, actually below the Rhino Times, which was a weekly publication and set up shop
down there. And cleared it out, it's an old, see it's a basement, right downtown Greensboro. And
so, set up in there and cleaned it up and started fixing windows and hired--- well I think I had
three employees at the time. So, built that out, stayed there for three or four years, maybe three
years. And Pete, who's [inaudible], who was a part of this group over here, now Pete Williams,
came to me one day and said "well [inaudible] kicked out." He's one of the carpenters in our
building now. He said, I'm getting kicked out of my building, I need to find another building, but
I can't afford it myself would you want to go in and rent a space. And so we found--- so Pete had
another guy, Eric Thompson, who is also still here. And we came and looked at this place here.
And we said here? We'll never fill this sucker up. You know. It was very small. So the three of us
set up shop in here, rented the place for nothing. I mean, $1500 a month. 'Cause nobody was
renting at the time. Just the back end of it. I had my home office was still home, I didn't have the
front up there. Because I woulda had to paid extra for it. So I didn't need all the front. So we
brought in all our stuff and set it up and I had five empl--- four or five, I dunno. So we set up in a
little corner of the thing. Our idea was we're going to have that and we're going to rent out space
to other people and we have plenty of space and all this room. Well, we don't. You know, we've
kept growing and growing and changing and different things. So we, about six years ago, bought
the building, between the three of us, we bought that. Anyway, so now it's--- we have a have a
afc2020009_004--David Hoggard  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
home. Kind of cut to it, I mean now we're 40 employees, almost $3 million in sales, seven trucks
that I got to keep running, and both of my sons are working here and--- Oh, I'm so sorry.
KC  30:09
That's okay.
DH  30:10
Knocked your microphone over
KC  30:11
No, you're okay. I'm trying to make it so the court doesn't [crosstalk]
DH  30:20
Thats fine that's fine. So, but you know, during all that time I did the work. That's what I love
doing.
JG  30:28
The hands on work.
DH  30:28
Yeah, the hands on work. I loved it. I mean, that's what brought me to the dance. I just loved it.
I'm making these windows look like they do and make them work. Ant it's cool.  And did that
forever. Until I started hiring people and teaching them, er, how to do, it different person. And
pretty soon, it's like that old commercial--- it say's I'm the father of the bride, I write checks. You
know, if you've seen that, that's what I do. I write checks now. And really miss working out in the
shop, but it's just the way it goes. Just the way it works. So I got my two sons---- Jack and Jesse
trying to bring them along. I'm 65 years old. Another five years--- three.... I said five years ago
five years ago. So we'll see. Yeah, what am I going to do? Become a Walmart greeter? I dunno.
I'll keep working. But anyway, we've grown and now we're one of the largest companies that
does this in United States. In this little industry. You know, it's very specialized. We cast a wide
net. We've been as far north as Grand Rapids Michigan. Did a big University building up there.
Tallahassee, Florida, [inaudible] Atlanta. Wherever. We're trying to get established now in the
Lowcountry down in Charleston, Savannah. And spread the Double Hung word. But...
KC  30:39
It's a pretty good name you came up with.
DH  31:56
afc2020009_004--David Hoggard  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
That's interesting, isn't it? Double entendre, nothing like it. But it's obviously--- you take from it
what you will. But it's, it's obviously the windows, but it had a reason for it. And if you notice
the double hung--- it's double entendre, love it. I love it.
KC  32:20
I like your motto, "repair don't replace."
DH  32:22
Don't replace, repair. Yep. It pretty much says it all. Because the--- not just the windows industry.
In general, we've become throwaway. You know? When I grew up, you know, I took
phonographs---- phonographs! Not record players, phonographs apart. You know, make--- see
what make them run. You know, you could fix things. You, you would try to fix stuff. People
don't do that. No, let's just throw it out, start over. So it's--- when does our [inaudible] very much
repairable? New---- older ones, new ones are not. New ones, there's a couple of sayings in
industry that they call them replacement windows, because you have to keep replacing them.
Well they'll last 15 years you throw them away start again. These will go two, three, four
hundred years if you keep going. The other one is, they call 'em "maintenance free." It's called
you can't fix them. Just can't fix 'em.
KC  32:50
When did that tech--- like when did the, that window manufacturing change to the point where...
DH  33:27
Seventies. Yeah, Anderson came out with it in the in the mid 70s. There was no such thing as
window replacement until Anderson came up with this marketing idea: to replace your windows.
What--- you think about how ludicrous would be a chimney replacement, wall replacement
company. It's just, it's something that's visual. People said, well, it must be leaky. I can see
outside. You know. Yeah. It's a racket,
KC  33:57
For the energy efficiency?
DH  33:58
Ah, screw that, not true. No, no, not when you look at the whole picture. There's there's a couple
parts of it. There's embodied energy. Embodied energy that---- that addresses these old 100 year
old windows. The wood 100 years ago, a truck went out and got the wood it went to a sawmill,
somebody cut it down they spent the energy to get it to, to bring it to market. All the energy that's
embodied within that, that window. You take that and throw it away. So that's, that's first one that
you--- it's there. And the newer windows, vinyl especially its petroleum. But they may come out
in the--- and the lumber is just crap anymore that they may them out of. And they're finger
afc2020009_004--David Hoggard  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
jointed pine, and they just don't come together. But you talk about the energy efficiency... First---
that's what I was getting to. How energy efficient is to replace your windows every 15 years. But
that's the cycle. It's not. Windows, windows are holes in the wall. They're inefficient. I don't care
what you do. When you compare it to a wall, like a two by four wall with insulation, it's a hole in
the wall. If you want to live in a concrete block building, you're good to go with energy
efficiency. You gonna have to make compromises. So if you want to see outside, you're gonna
have some inefficiencies in there. So, the calculations just don't work. It's been, there's many
studies out there. But we're fighting a big industry. How many window replacement ads do you
see...?
KC  35:36
You're also fighting culture?
DH  35:39
Yep, yep. And we have been. Now, I will tell you this--- 15 years ago, we were fighting hard
because nobody heard about what we do. And now, it's much easier, there's more information out
there on the benefits of doing this. People are more authentic, thinking more authenticity, as
opposed to newfangled. There's a movement to, to that. You know, the saying is the greenest
building is the one that's already built. Is the term. And the greenest window is the one that's
already built also. If you can just make it air--- there's two parts of energy losses: there's
infiltration, that's the air that goes around the window sill. You know, it comes around it. It
doesn't go through the glass doesn't--- the wind goes around it. So you weatherstrip the edges of
the window, and you stop that infiltration, that exchange of air between the inside and the outside
spaces. Second part is thermal, which is why they do insulated glass. It's not the two pieces of
glass that do the insu---- it's the airspace in-between which is inert, dead air. And so it's a pretty
good insulator. The wider that insulated glass is, the more efficient it is. The more airspace you
have. Well traditionally, that was accomplished with a storm window. Still do. Still the right way
to do it. So you add a second piece they now call it secondary glazing. You put it to the interior,
the exterior, you create that airspace. You accomplish that same thing, but it's reversible. And it's
fixed and it's repairable. It's a single piece of glass, you don't have to throw it away. You just
recaulk it, start over, you go again. So it's a fallacy. All the energy efficiency it's just. It's just
bull. It's just--- it's marketing is what it is. There's just nothing to it. Just nothing to it.
JG  37:27
Can you speak to the changes you've seen in your business as people become a little more hip to
repair or replace?
DH  37:35
Well, it's--- the sell is not as hard if you, if you will.  It's---- I'm not just the lone guy out there,
you know, yelling in the woods. Now there's, there's studies out there, there's people---- you
afc2020009_004--David Hoggard  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
know, there's.... Type in window restoration, you search window restoration into the Google and
it ain't hard to find now. It was hard to find 15 years ago. Not as much as it is now. Now there's
more and more people getting into it, because there's billions of windows out there to be
restored. Truly, billions. We've done some calculations. They're, you know, all these windows
that are build before 1950, which is about the cut off: 1950. And back to the 1600s. Those are all
fixable, well worth the effort. And they'll last a good long time because that's when the good
lumber was. Now the good lumber is gone. And I don't care what you make you windows out of
now. It doesn't make any difference. Now they're going to fiberglass which.... anyway. So, the
education portion of it has made it easier. That and government pol--- governmental policy has
helped. In some ways. It doesn't help from the code side, because you build a new house. you
can't put my old windows into your new house because of code. But governmental code having
to do with historic tac---excuse me, historic tax credits. I gotta belch.
KC  39:01
Be sure to get that on tape.
DH  39:02
Yeah, the belch? Or the historic tax credits [laughs]. Yes. It has helped a lot, because people can
take on, take on a large project, developer take on a project. Re---- redoing these, refurbishing
these old mills, old schools, things of that sort. It's not economically feasible to make it come out
from an investment standpoint without putting in those tax credits. When you account for the tax
credits, you can get it for like 20, 25% tax credit on a million dollar project. That's real money.
Well, it can justify doing the things you have to do to start building. But surprisingly enough, the
full restoration of, of a window is a little less than a really nice wood window. It is.
KC  39:51
Do you think part of the growth in the industry has been, kind of, reuse of old structures?
DH  39:56
Yes. That's exactly it. When, whoever coined that phrase, the greenest building it the one that
was already built. That's exactly what it is. That people are--- people are turning, I think turning
around to the throwaway, somewhat. Throw it, throw it away, start over, I just think it's there.
Re--- adaptive reuse has become a big thing. All the cool places now are adaptive reuse historic
properties. If you think about, you don't do, go into any high rise glass places that are cool to go
and see. They're all downtowns or out old mills, or whatever it is that have been repurposed. So,
so to make those authentic, it needs it's old windows. It's part of it. Wavy glass, the ropes and
pulleys. Creaking as they go up and down, it's all part of it. You know, it's sound, it's visual. And
you change that you change the building. Completely chang the building. You go to a piece of
glass with muttons [?] stuck in the middle of it, they give a blank stare to the world as opposed
to, you know, the clear eyes that these things are. They're, you know, kind of the eyes of house---
afc2020009_004--David Hoggard  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
or the building. You change that you change everything. Yeah, but I think that's the reason for it
is, this move, this movement.
KC  40:20
Tell me about the--- clearly Lori and Holli, and even just a couple of the guys, I was chatting
with love working here.
DH  41:25
Mmm hmm, yeah.
DH  41:27
Partly, I'm sure it's because of, you know, the leadership and culture you've built in the shop. But
what else do you think it is?
DH  41:34
I think it's people think they're making a difference. You know, this is, it's pretty cool work. I
mean, you're--- you can see something start and you can see it end and you see what it looks like.
You know, we--- our people go out and they help pull the windows out. And then they go back
and put them back in. See the transformation, of what they do. And it's pretty, you know, it's
pretty addictive. And that people--- some people see it, like, ones you mentioned, they get it. I
mean, they they really like it because they think they don't think they are, they are accomplishing
something important. You know, something will be here in another 100 years, you know, your
work's gonna be there in 100 years. Because we're doing it just the way they did it 100 years ago,
why would it not? It's going to be exactly, you know, how it is. So if you're around, you get to
restore them again, another 100 years. Or 30 or 40. How, however they maintain 'em.  But I think
that's a big part of it. And working with--- it's meaningful work. And it's a fun place to work.
JG  42:34
It seems fun.
DH  42:35
It is fun.
JG  42:35
There's a great vibe.
DH  42:36
Yeah. Dogs and stuff.
KC  42:39
afc2020009_004--David Hoggard  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
We love Franklin [the dog].
DH  42:40
You met Franklin, of course! Franklin the dog is Apollo [?]
KC  42:43
He's our next interview [laughs].
DH  42:44
He should be.
JG  42:46
He'd make a good portrait. What--- do you think there's a possibility for policy change for new
construction? You know, like, is there advocacy that is yet to be written or done?
DH  43:03
For new construction?
JG  43:04
Yeah, I mean, I'm kind of thinking of this selfishly because I live in an 80s spec home, I've had to
replace the windows. I grew up in a nineteen-teens home
DH  43:13
Has its original...
JG  43:14
Has it's original windows. And, and I missed the character of that, and what, as consumers can
we do to kind of....?
DH  43:22
Well, I think regulatory-wise, I think that---- the industry that I'm in, even though there's a, an
alliance of people that do us and we pool our money. To get the regulatory changes is expensive.
You got to have people on K Street in Washington, you know, affecting that change. You got to,
got to get all that done. It's terribly expensive to full time--- the replacement industry, yeah, they
got it, they got him up there. And they're plugging away, you got to put this in the code. This is
the way the code is gonna save all this money and dah dah dah. So I think the best we can ask for
is you know, if somebody is building onto a historic house--- see right now if you've got an old
house, and you want to put an addition on, you can't put old windows in there. You got to put the
newfangled windows in there because it's code. And you got to put the insulation--- even though
the rest of the house is leaky is hell. This, you know, this part of the building is going to be tight,
afc2020009_004--David Hoggard  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
by God. So, and to that, so you might know, you probably realize that---- old wind--- old
buildings last because they're leaky.
JG  44:37
Right, they're breathing.
DH  44:39
They breathe. Now we're tightening them up and you get sick house syndrome, you get mold,
you get all this stuff. So that might turn it around, someday. People find----
JG  44:49
We get too good at it.
DH  44:50
We are so good at it that we've completely sealed ourselves in. And the only fresh air we can get
is what come through the vent system. You know that it's all--- right now, with with coronavirus
going around, people want to open their windows again.
KC  45:06
I was thinking all of the offices where you can't open the windows.
DH  45:08
Oh, you can't. They're carbon based, you got no choice. You're in--- they caulked up.  You
cannot--- there are no windows to open. And now all the schools--- same way, they've built these
buildings, there ain't no window to open. Oh, wow, we need--- we've got HVAC. Yeah. So says
Mother Nature, you might need them someday. So we've, we're getting calls of people want to
just, unstick 'em. Just get 'em so we can open 'em. Let me out, you know. You know, 1918 a lot
of buildings we work on 1918 to 1930. They all have these sleeping porches. Now, if you've seen
them, those were tuberculosis cures. And, and the Spanish flu. That was a,in response to that. We
need fresh air. So we have these sleeping--- you open all, you were sleeping outside, you know,
and they're wonderful. I expect they'll be coming back. But on the regulatory side, that's,
that's----  I just think that that horse has left the barn, and it'd be hard to bring it back. I think
opening, operational windows, I think that'll come back. But will they be made of wood and
wavy glass and ropes and pulleys? No, no. You've either got it or you don't. That's the way I
think of it.
DH  45:30
So when you were doing your windows in the early days, and becoming an expert rather quickly,
what---- did you reach a barrier of knowledge where you had to seek out training, or?
afc2020009_004--David Hoggard  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
DH  46:41
There is a--- no, I didn't seek it out. But there is a community of people. Like it's embodied right
now in a group that I helped started about six years ago called the Window Preservation
Alliance. It's a national group that we started at some trade thing---- we all got together. It was to
go after the replacement window. We were tired of hearing of that crap. So we banned up, five or
six of us that band together and we went out and recruited, we got a website and start bringing
people in. So we got about 200 now that do that. So it's----
KC  47:17
200 businesses across the U.S? Woah.
DH  47:21
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Most of them are smaller shops, but not all. But yeah, and so there are some
people that are early in there, and still, it's a very giving group, very open. They want more
people, we want more people to do this. So we mentor each other and have for years, there's a
guy--- some guys up in Maine. Up in the Northeast, what we do is not as unusual as it is down
here, because there's so many more, more buildings. But, that that was a big part of you know,
learning---- a lot of hard knocks, just.... But a lot of you just look at and "how did they do it 100
years ago?" Backwards engineering. You know. How hard can it be? Right? And so we, that's a
big part of just use the same materials, same glaze [inaudible], same glass, same thing---- all of
the, all that stuff's available. Same rope. What's new, I mean? It's just re--- so only thing we had
to learn new is how to take the 100 years worth of paint off. And it's lead paint, as you probably
know, mostly. So that was the challenge. It's just how to do that efficiently.
KC  48:06
And I hope this isn't too personal. But you mentioned a specific stripping chemical. And then
you mentioned Jinni getting breast cancer.
DH  48:38
Ah hah! Very good. That was good. It was called methylene chloride. But no, it had nothing to
do with it. Good point. She was always zoot suited up and [inaudible]. But good. Very good. No.
KC  48:48
Good.
DH  48:49
Didn't have anything to do. She has that, whatever the....
JG  48:52
BRCA
afc2020009_004--David Hoggard  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
DH  48:53
Yeah, whatever the thing is.
JG  48:55
Do you have--- well, when we were talking to Jack, your son, he was saying that you'll be
driving around the countryside and you'll--- you have a really deep knowledge of the history of
North Carolina at this point, through the windows.
DH  49:07
Because of that. That's true. It's true.
JG  49:10
What--- what have you learned and how have you learned about the history of the state through
the window?
DH  49:18
How have I learned it---- I've just absorbed it. I don't [inaudible] I mean, a lot of it I you know---
if you if you take on an old church  outside of New Bern, North Carolina, you're going to just go
in there and you're gonna learn some things because you're talking to the committee that's
[inaudible] you know, that's doing this. That you're going to just absorb whatever that is. If you
work on old lifesaving station in [inaubible] on the Outer Banks, there're gonna be people
coming out and tellin' you stuff. You know?
JG  49:53
Oral tradition?
DH  49:54
It's really is, it is the oral tradition. What, what's out there so it just fascinates me. All the stories
that are out there. Oh, my dad used to do this, or that and all the things that people are associated
with buildings.
KC  50:09
Do you see a lot of emotional connection to....?
DH  50:12
Seems to be, yeah, they're, I mean don't see a lot of crying. But people, you can tell they're
attached to these buildings. Or you know, even if you just went you went to school there. We do
a lot of how---  have you heard of a Rosenthal schools?
afc2020009_004--David Hoggard  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
KC  50:26
Yeah!
DH  50:26
Rosenwald, I'm sorry, Rosenwald schools, we've done four of those. And they're extraordinary.
To go in and the people that come--- because there's a movement to bring those, to make those
into community centers in the black community. And the people who take those things on, I
mean, they were alumni, they're eighty years old, eighty years old now. But they went to school
there. And we've done several of them over the years. And the stories they tell, I mean it's pretty
amazing. Because that way you learn why is this building out the middle of nowhere? What's this
school, I mean this four room schoolhouse, why here? Well, at the time, this village was
whatever it was. Now the road went through and it's gone. School was out here and it so it's that
kind of thing. It's it's really not a, you know, real repeatable history, I can tell you what that guy
told me about this. It's just, oh, wow, that happened down here, whatever that was. So it's it's
been quite a quite a journey. That's the part of this I'm going to keep. I don't care how many of
my children come in here. That's what I'm keeping, is going around and seeing those
properties--- the first visits. Oh, yeah. And walking through the bones of the buildings and going
up in the attics and seeing all the stuff. That's the coolest part. Whole thing, and then come back
and say y'all, y'all take care of I've done what I like. So hopefully, that's what I'll keep hold of.
When we get through it. But you're talking about what Jack says--- as we get into this, and that
you'll see it. All the employees here--- I noticed old windows, like most guys noticed pretty girls.
It's amazing. You'll have--- [mimes] look at that. And a lot of these folks now do that. It was
really, it's really interesting to---- they come back talkin' about "you oughta see the windows,
how wavy that glass was." And you know. So they become, they create this appreciation for
something people didn't pay attention to much before.
JG  52:24
Do you have a favorite type of window? One that you'll stop and get out of the car and gander
at?
DH  52:30
Yeah, I will. Mostly they're double hung windows--- it's, they're diamond top. I dunno if you've
ever seen them--- they're they're, they're pretty extraordinary. They were the granite countertops
of their day. You know, if you want to show something, put it in your windows. And those are
very cool. But we've worked on some big huge casement windows that are basically doors to the
outside that, especially up at the University of Virginia, there were 10 feet tall, but stuff like that.
And church windows are always fun.
KC  53:05
Any surprising stories of something crazy found you in an old window?
afc2020009_004--David Hoggard  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
DH  53:11
We find things all the time. Yeah. We find--- people leave notes in 'em. There's dates written
inside of them. We leave cards, we do it too. We, you know, we'll leave something in there.
Newspapers and stuff like that. And nothing of any value just  little quarters. And, you know,
1923, well that's the year the house was built. So you know how that got there. And one thing
yeah, here's one---- we were working over in Raleigh at Peace College and St., St. Mary's. This
was Peace College. And we were doing the windows and it was one of the---- it was 1880s
dormitory. It's called Main, Main Building. In the two wings were dormitories. So we walked in
there, we were hired to do the windows and we were in there getting ready to take them out. And
we noticed all the scratching on the glass. It's where the girls over the years took their diamond
rings and they'd write in "Betty loves Bob 19--- 1876" You know, or this or, you know, in these
old rooms. There were eight or nine of 'em. Different panes here, one there in that room, another
one in this room. And we got them in here. And noti--- we've noticed, we really didn't that much
notice till we got in here. So I said well, that we got to keep. And he's got to go right back there
because this girl who went to school there back in 1943 is going to come back for her reunion
and wants to go to her room and she's going to look for that "Betty loves Bob 1883." So I----
there were maybe nine or ten of them like that with these inscriptions on 'em. And we pull them
out, carefully pull them out and put them aside. And, of course, I was working at the time,
actually working at the time. And I broke one of 'em. It was "Betty loves Bob 1893." I said ,
[sighs] they didn't even know we were doing this. I mean it's not something we made a big deal
of. It's just something we do. So [laughs] I got a piece of old wavy glass, put it on top of it and
got a diamond. [laughs] And traced it. Put it right back in there. [laughs]
JG  55:34
Well now the secret's out!
DH  55:35
Yeah, I know, I know I'm past the what is that....?
JG  55:39
That's amazing well, that shows attention to detail. and Lori mentioned just, the idea that if you
grew up in a house, and it was that pane of glass you're looking for that was mediating
experience to the outside world, it is actually important.
DH  55:53
It is.
JG  55:53
To place it in that exact spot.
afc2020009_004--David Hoggard  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
DH  55:54
It is. It, it's it's such a small thing, but it's not smaller to the person looking through the piece of
glass. You know. Because it is how people view their world through that. And but  it had that
little fold in that piece of glass right there. So we, we anguish over glass. It's pretty important
stuff. [inaudible] But that's probably the most diabolical thing I've done. It was kind of the--- I
mean, I was trying, I just didn't want that,  whoever that was to be disappointed. And we never
said anything to the coll-- we just put it back. Put it back in there. If I'd made a big deal about I
probably would have told the truth. You can't tell. I'm a good tracer. [laughs] You can't tell it, I
kept that piece around. I kept the piece around for years, I don't know what happened to it.
KC  56:44
And your, the business is expanding?
DH  56:46
It it it--- it is. It is. Yeah, perhaps a little too fast.
KC  56:53
What do you attribute it to? That your---- success and growth?
DH  56:58
Longevity. Reputation. We've been doing this for 23 years, I dunno, a long time. That's a big
part. You know, we've gotten to know, general contractors who are in this business. Arch---
national architects who do historic rehab. Not everybody does that. And we've worked for a
bunch of the big ones and the good ones. Yeah, I think it's that. I mean, we get, we got called. We
were one or two bidders on Trump Tower up out in the old post office up in DC. So I was like,
thank God for unanswered prayers on that one. But yeah, it was a big honor to be one of two to
become a----
KC  57:44
It helps put your reputation....
DH  57:46
Right, right. We've, we've bid some large things that were probably too big for us. But I always
wanted to get in on some-- one of the senate office buildings up in DC. My--- my thing is
wanting to move that way and get up there. But now I'm saying well, let's go to Savannah and
Charleston.
KC  58:02
Good choice.
afc2020009_004--David Hoggard  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
DH  58:02
So that's more my--- yeah I think so too. Its more my style.
KC  58:06
I used to live in DC.
DH  58:07
Yeah. Yeah.
KC  58:10
What are you most proud of?
DH  58:13
The organization. People that work here. What, what they, what they can put out here. And what
we do in general, you know. It is, it's, it's a great story. It's an interesting story, and people
appreciate it. I just think it's a great story to tell. And I really like what we do. I mean, we're, as I
said, we're doing important---- to me important work. It's not like framing a house with two by
fours you know. We're doing stuff that's gonna last. I'll be there a long time. I Like the, I like the
green part of it. I all that, the reuse part of it. Thats a big part. But what your question? What did
you ask me? How'd you ask that?
KC  59:03
I asked what you're most proud of
DH  59:04
Oh, the people. There's no question. The people and, and the work, the finished product. When
its all in there and done, it's very satisfying.
KC  59:13
Yes. I don't often get that feeling of a job complete.
DH  59:18
Yep, that's it. If things are just ongoing, it's a process. This is---- you start it and you finish it.
Move to the next one. 'Cept for writing checks. That's never ending. That's what I do now. But
the jobs are. Yeah, it has a start point, it has an end point. You got to get out of there. Put the
windows back and gotta stop lovin' on them at one point. At some point. It's fun. It's fun
business.
KC  59:47
afc2020009_004--David Hoggard  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
That's amazing. You've built a lot.
DH  59:52
Seems amazing now. I get it. I do. It's just it's not something I planned. I didn't say ohh-- well,
you heard the story it's not like I said well, one of these days, I'm gonna do this, and we're gonna
do 3 million. Naw. I just wanted to help people fix their windows. And I kind of like doing the
work.
KC  1:00:09
How do you think your politics experiences help? Or knack for it?
DH  1:00:16
Well, the knack is the gift of gab. That's really it. You know I'm, uh. Yeah, that's it. Yeah, yeah. I
like to talk
KC  1:00:24
And the sales experience with the musical instruments.
DH  1:00:27
I'm a very good salesman. Oh yeah. A good salesman, you don't know you've been sold
something. I'm really good at that. But I don't tell people things they don't need. Generally. No,
no, I don't. I just don't. I mean, I got to sleep at night. And what would you, why would you not
want to buy this? [laughs] See, there you go, you didn't know it.
KC  1:00:58
I'm sold on Double Hung window restoration.
DH  1:01:00
Let's go to work.
KC  1:01:01
Yeah, right?
DH  1:01:02
Let's go to work.
KC  1:01:03
You saw me cut that glass.
DH  1:01:04
afc2020009_004--David Hoggard  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
I did. You did it like a champ, like a champ. You did.
JG  1:01:10
You're half trained.
KC  1:01:11
Julia, you've got other questions?
JG  1:01:14
Well, we do tend to ask people--- I know you're not as much on the floor now. But we do like to
know what the favorite tool that you use is.
DH  1:01:23
That's easy. Oh, yeah. It's called it's called a pry bar. It's also known as a beekeepers tool. It's a
very slim pry bar. That when you're taking things apart, you don't hurt 'em. It's--- I love that. It's
the best tool in the whole wide world. Just love it. I use it for so many things.  That and a real
good paintbrush.
JG  1:01:48
A what?
DH  1:01:49
A real good paint brush. A real good paintbrush. But that, you know. The Hyde pry bar. I highly
recommend everybody own one. Yeah.
JG  1:02:01
Are there any last things you want to share about your business about your [inaudible] love of
repair?
KC  1:02:08
Or advice for young people considering their options?
DH  1:02:15
Well I do have, just for America in general, you got to get back to the trades. What happened to
vocational training?
KC  1:02:23
What--- no one, no time in my education was someone like, Hey, you can make a living with
your hands.
afc2020009_004--David Hoggard  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
DH  1:02:30
Right? That's right. Plumbers make 120 bucks an hour. Metal workers, I mean, bring back
vocational education. It's just amazing. What auto-- automotive, who's gonna fix your car? Who's
going to heat your house who's gonna... You know, that's, it's just satisfying work. So, you know,
just for people in general, you just got to, you got to get back to the trades. Or we're gonna lose
all that. These are old trades. I mean, they're very specialized trades, but how to fix that piece of
metal there. You know, you can make a good living doing that. And get out of college with no
debt. There is no college. No debt. None of my kids have any college debt. They went to
community college and did that and go to the office and you get your own stuff. They learned
trade. You know, and I can't imagine starting out 23 years old $50,000 in debt. I just can't. You
all might have it. And I'm sorry if you do, but I just can't. It's such a, such a handicap. But like
you said, Nobody told you. Nobody told you. That you could do that. And would you have
listened to them if they did? I don't know.
JG  1:03:44
You might have.
DH  1:03:47
You might now, you might have. Yeah. Yeah,
KC  1:03:51
I wish my mom--- she is an artist. And she didn't do a good enough job telling me not to follow
that path.
DH  1:03:59
Like my dad did with the music. Well I still loved music and still play it. So I appreciate it more
than most people, but it just wasn't the path. Still got it. You can still have art and you still work
on windows.
KC  1:04:13
Oh, yeah.
DH  1:04:15
Come on.
KC  1:04:15
We need like a young  trade--- young girls trade school after school program. You know?
DH  1:04:22
Love it. I love it.
afc2020009_004--David Hoggard  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
KC  1:04:26
You did--- you'd be an investor?
DH  1:04:27
I'd be in.
KC  1:04:28
All right.
DH  1:04:29
I'd be in. Tomorrow.
KC  1:04:31
I--- seriously though. There's something about the independence of being able to fix and
knowing that, you know, things will always need repairing and you're the one who knows how to
do it.
DH  1:04:44
That's right. Makes you important. Yes, and as you've probably found, women are the best at
this.
KC  1:04:52
Tell us why.
DH  1:04:52
It's just--- I don't know why. I think it's meticulousness that a lot of men don't have for whatever
the reason I don't know exactly why. I didn't want to get into the psychology of it, but they just
are. But just always the most detail oriented, I don't know that that's just the way it is, I guess it's
just nature, I suppose. But it does sure carry through to here. Not to say that we don't have
some--- whoever's listening to this we have some very talented men. But if I had ten of one or
ten of the other seven of the women would be very good at, and knowing me, four of the guys
[laughs]. I don't know it's something in that range.
KC  1:05:33
Well, we will tell you this that we've been doing this project since, I don't know, October, and
we've talked to three women out of 13 interviews and two of them were in your shop.
DH  1:05:44
Really?
afc2020009_004--David Hoggard  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
JG  1:05:45
Yes, it's hard to find women in repair trades.
KC  1:05:49
So, kudos to you for making it such a nice place to work.
DH  1:05:56
Kudos to [inaudible] for working. [laughs] It's a marriage made in heaven right there.
KC  1:06:01
Yeah! Do you have any suggestions for other folks we should talk to on this project? Since
you--- it seems like Greensboro is kind of rich with historic...?
DH  1:06:11
Yeah. Well, we've got one right in here. Two in here. Pete. I mean, he's in the same facility. Pete
Williams is fabulous.
KC  1:06:22
Cabinetry?
DH  1:06:22
Cabinetmaker. He, yeah, he's just he's good man to talk to. And he just very, very talented. [audio
redacted as requested by David]
DH  1:06:51
Are there other architectural repair specialties? You got windows covered.
DH  1:07:27
Masonry.
KC  1:07:30
We talked to a third generation plasterer.
DH  1:07:33
Really.
KC  1:07:34
Really cool, African-American guy. Worked on walls his granddad did.
afc2020009_004--David Hoggard  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
DH  1:07:40
Wow.
KC  1:07:40
Found the horsehair in the brown layer.
DH  1:07:43
Oh yeah. Right. Right. Right. Right. Where, from Durham? Where?
KC  1:07:48
Hillsborough. I think I have a card I can a picture of it. Yeah. He said he's like, you know, the
one of the only ones around and ---- it's interesting his father's side were plasters and his mother's
side were bricklayers. But yeah, I'll let you take a picture of this card.
DH  1:08:09
I'd love to. What's the name of his company?
KC  1:08:13
It's just And--- Whitted Plaster and Stucco.
DH  1:08:15
Sorry to hit your...
KC  1:08:16
That's okay. Get me back for hitting you earlier.
DH  1:08:20
Andy Witted. There's masons, that uh...
JG  1:08:28
Get Andy some business. Love it, he's so sweet. He just restored a big old, the Orpheum
Theater.... in Oxford he did all their decorative plaster... recast, uh...
DH  1:08:48
No kidding. Wow.
KC  1:08:51
But yeah, we've had a lot of fun talking to specialists--- special....
afc2020009_004--David Hoggard  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
DH  1:08:55
Specialty specialists.
JG  1:08:58
[laughs] it's the end of the day....
DH  1:08:59
Expert, expert. Well they say an expert is an ordinary person away from home giving, giving
advice. That's always been my thing. Bout an expert.
JG  1:09:09
What's interesting, actually, because several people we've talked to said "anyone can do this." I
just happened to be the best woodwind repairer in the state. And it's, it seems like a lot of people
kind of tumble into it. And then their skill set just manifests into this one thing.
DH  1:09:28
Yeah.
JG  1:09:29
But I mean, yours is similar. Like he just kinda happened
DH  1:09:32
Just happened into it.
JG  1:09:35
Do you live in historic home?
DH  1:09:37
Oh yeah.
JG  1:09:37
What do your windows look like?
DH  1:09:38
1908. They're in very good shape. Thank you for asking. Well, that was the one we did with the
strip shop and Jinni set it up all those years. This is the second one--- when we took 'em, took
'em all out and did them all so they are all. We finally found where they went and all the right
stuff. They're wonderful. Actually. Not like the cobbler's shoes. Remember? [crosstalk] They
actually work quite well. But it's---- they still work. I mean, haven't done anything to them since
we did them 20 years oh, God bless, maybe 30 years ago now, whenever it was.
afc2020009_004--David Hoggard  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
KC  1:10:13
Is that phrase embodied energy, like... ?
DH  1:10:16
It's common.
KC  1:10:17
It's common? I've never heard it before.
DH  1:10:17
Well it's coming up. I mean, it really comes out of the preservation side. It's the concept is sound.
Kind of similar thing, that truck right there. I've got a truck over there with 300 and, no 300,000
miles on it. Or, even better, yep, that truck right there, it gets 22 miles a gallon. But it's paid for
it's done [inaudible]. So alright, if I'm gonna go get a car, a truck--- it's still running all right, and
go get a truck, that electric truck, it costs $70,000. And the batteries are this, but the energy is in
that thing, so you can repair it. As opposed to replace it. It's the same, same thing. The energy is
embodied in this and how much of that you're going to throw away so you will save $400 in gas
in the next year right.
DH  1:10:43
Yeah, I like it too because it makes you think of it as alive and then think of the caretaking aspect
of restoring.
DH  1:11:28
Yep, yep, you keep--- you keep that up. You want to, you want to preserve it. Preservation it's
very conservative business. Actually, it's not. It's very left brain I think. Anyway. Thanks again.
JG  1:11:48
Thank you so much.
DH  1:11:49
Quite welcome.
JG  1:11:50
We have a full spectrum of your business.
KC  1:11:52
Right we started with Holli and then Lori and then the man, the boss. [laughs] Really. cool.
afc2020009_004--David Hoggard  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
DH  1:11:59
Well, I am glad y'all like it.
afc2020009_004--David Hoggard  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell