Project Name: Ranger Lore: The Occupational Folklife of Parks 
Interviewee: Dennis White 
Date: June 11, 2014 
Location: Salamonie Reservoir 
Language: English 
Fieldworker Name: Jon Kay 
Log Prepared by: Hannah Davis 
 
afc2013014_02245_mv01 
JON KAY: [0:00:00.0] Leader; June 11, 2014 
DENNIS WHITE: [0:00:47.0] Okay, well, I was retired last fall as property manager at 
Salamonie Reservoir. And I actually started working at Monroe Reservoir, it was called 
Monroe Reservoir at the time, back in 1969, right out of college. Went to IU and got a 
degree in biology from there. Started working at Monroe and then when a job opened 
up here at Salamonie back in 1972, I moved up here as an assistant property manager. 
And so I was assistant property manager for a couple of years, then I was a wildlife 
specialist for about fourteen or fifteen years. Then I moved up to the manager's job. 
Altogether from the time I started at Monroe, about 44 years as a member of first the 
Division of Reservoir Management, then the Division of State Parks and Reservoirs 
within the department of Natural Resources. 
afc2013014_02245_mv02 
JK: [0:00:00.0] tell me about where you came from 
DW: [0:00:08.8] Okay, well I grew up in Lawrence County. Just south of Monroe 
Reservoir which is in Brown County. I grew up down there on a small farm. I went to 
school in Mitchell and my family was a camping family. We didn't have a lot of money 
back in those days. It was fairly inexpensive to camp. So we'd traveled and camped all 
over the United States. We went to the Rocky Mountains and Smoky Mountains, the 
Rockies as often as possible. We liked Colorado. So I grew up in not only the small farm 
and the outdoors there but also in recreation and camping. And had that connection 
with recreation areas. National parks, national forests, things like that, wildlife refuges. 
Those were all those state parks. We camped a lot in the summer. Camping weekends 
in state parks and then we'd take a big vacation and take a couple weeks and go to the 
Rockies. It was kind of a typical summer for us.  
DW: [0:01:12.1] Spring Mill a big part of that? 
JK: [0:01:14.9] Spring Mill was a pretty big part of it because it was the park that was 
closest to us. We camped there several times. Once I got my driver's license, we spent 
a lot of time at Spring Mill. My friends and I would go down there and go swimming 
because the beach was open at that time. It was a good place to hang out and meet 
other people and things like that. 
afc2013014_02245_mv03 
JK: [0:00:00.0] not your typical job... did you have some type of experience like that? 
DW: [0:00:25.8] Well, I think that I always had the connection with the outdoors. I liked 
to hunt and fish when I was younger. As I said, I liked to camp. And so I really enjoyed 
that. And when you are in high school and even in college in some degree, you kind of 
look at other fields and say that might work. That might be a good career for me. But I 
kept coming back to things that I enjoy doing. When I got my degree in biology, there 
weren't a lot of jobs waiting for someone with a bachelor's degree in biology from IU. 
And so they would happen to be about the time when Monroe Reservoir was hiring for 
the summer. [0:01:08.2] So I thought well, I'll work there this summer and that'll give me 
more time to think about what I want to really do with my life. And I really enjoyed it. I 
like the connection with nature, with the campers. I liked the work atmosphere. It was a 
different job every day. And if I had worked in factory jobs, when I was in college, 
summer jobs to save money for college. I worked everything from manufacturing school 
buses a couple summers to manufacturing bombs one summer at Crane. So it was... I 
knew what kind of factory work, how repetitive it was. Working at an outdoor recreation 
area was just the opposite. Every day is different. [0:01:51.7] I think that's what made 
me immediately comfortable. And the people that I worked with made a big difference. 
Because it was a different work atmosphere than I had ever been exposed to. And in 
some ways working as a laborer at Monroe was very satisfying. I didn't make a lot of 
money and I wasn't using my degree but working there as a laborer was a good job for 
me. Later on, when assistant manager job opened at Salamonie, and there was one 
open at Monroe at the same time, I applied for those jobs. And I was lucky enough to 
get the job at Salamonie. And moved up here. It... again, it just seemed like I, in some 
ways, I fell into it. In some ways, I feel like I lucked into the job because it was such a 
good fit. It was a good fit right out of college. 
afc2013014_02245_mv04 
JK: [0:00:00.0] talked about getting out of university and going into this type of work... 
time frame? 
DW: [0:00:31.8] It was 1969. I actually graduated after the first semester. So I graduated 
in January of ‘69 from IU with my degree. And then I started in April at Monroe 
Reservoir. Just working as a laborer, picking up garbage, cleaning restrooms, mowing 
grass, those kinds of things.  
JK: [0:00:50.6] right on that cusp of the environmental movement... when you started 
this type of work or was it just labor? 
DW: [0:01:07.2] I was aware of it. Because at that time, the Corps of Engineers, which 
owned Salamonie Reservoir and Monroe as well, actually was in the process of building 
these flood controlled reservoirs in Indiana. And some of them, there was some 
controversy about. Some of them were actually de-authorized and not constructed. But 
Monroe was the first to be finished. And then they were working on Brookfield(?) at the 
time. And they were working on Salamonie and Mississinewa and Rausch(?), all there 
of the upper Wabash Reservoirs all at that same time period. [0:01:40.4] So I kind of 
lucked into it. I was aware of what they were doing, I was aware of the construction of 
flood control reservoirs and how it was supposed to reduce the flooding in the Wabash 
River and on downstream. So I was aware but that was also aware of some of the 
controversy around some of the reservoirs. Because there were some reservoirs that 
were opposed and actually authorized that would have done... would have inundated 
some pretty unique habitats on some river systems. And I think most of those were later 
de-authorized because of that, because of that controversy. 
afc2013014_02245_mv05 
JK: [0:00:00.0] want to talk about recent work as well... part of my family's farm was in 
the reservoir... talk about what was going on during those years 
DW: [0:00:40.5] Well actually the reservoir was open when I started there. We actually 
had a campground that was already opened. Modern campground was just opening, I 
think, when I started. They were still -- the crews were still in the process in some cases 
taking down old buildings that were there by the previous landowners. There was kind 
of a transition at the time. But the lake was fully flooded. The interest in my part was just 
to be able to work around the campers and be in the campground and to work on the 
lake. Because it's a beautiful property. Over ten thousands of acres of water. It was the 
second largest body of water from Indiana. [0:01:27.9] And so it was nice to have that 
as kind of a work environment. Because sometimes we would be out on the lake for a 
few days. We'd go out and put up buoys, idle zone buoys and things like that. Or we 
might be going out to do a wildlife project. I was even fortunate enough once in a while 
to go out on waterfowl counts during the fall water fowl season. They wanted to know 
for the water fowl hunters what kind of ducks were moving in and how many and where 
the ducks were located and things like that. And so those waterfowl were something we 
felt like we were lucky to get in on. [0:02:06.1] The other things that were being 
developed at the time were... they had the beach houses were being constructed. They 
had two beaches, one of Fairfax(?) and the other one Paynetown. A lot of the 
recreation facilities were still being developed at that time. The essential ones had been 
developed by the Corps of Engineers before it was leased to the state. And then the 
state was developing other recreation facilities. It was a good time to be on the property 
because there was a lot going on and you were seeing a lot of things on the property 
grow as you were there. 
afc2013014_02245_mv06 
JK: [0:00:00.0] talk about you getting the job up here... 
DW: [0:00:09.4] Well, when the job came open is actually the property manager's job at 
Monroe that I knew was open, the assistant property manager. And so when I applied 
for that, they said are you also applying for the job at Salamonie and I said sure. I 
wanted to get into a career position with the Department of Natural Resources. And so I 
was lucky enough to get the one at Salamonie. And when I first came up here I really 
didn't know that much about northern Indiana, northeastern Indiana. It was pretty flat as 
compared with Monroe County. [0:00:41.5] And I wondered is this really what I want to 
do? Is this where I want to be? And so I said to myself well three years tops. I'll be here 
and then I'll move to another job within the Department of Natural Resources. Maybe 
back down in the hills of southern Indiana, where I'm from originally. But I met my wife. I 
liked the job. I liked who I was working for. My boss was good to me. And it was a good 
fit. So I stayed on and my wife and I got married and we started... she had roots in this 
area and didn't want to move out. And so it just worked out well for us to just stay here.  
JK: [0:01:25.2] moving into that more management position made you keenly aware of 
the political side...? Any stories? 
DW: [0:01:51.9] Yeah. It was more political in those days than it is today. Because one 
reason why the assistant property manager job came open was the property manager's 
act had just gone into effect. They had passed a property manager's act which 
supposed to establish professional positions that were not political within the 
Department of Natural Resources for property managers. So the positions that used to 
be kind of patronage were the property manager of a park or a reservoir or a fish and 
wildlife area might be somebody who was well connected in the political community. 
Often that was not somebody who was a professional manager. [0:02:35.5] So they 
wanted professional natural resource managers to run these properties. And I was 
fortunate enough that there weren't very many applicants but there were a number of 
jobs that came open about that time. So I was lucky enough to get one of those. But 
once I came to Salamonie I found out that there are... you don't really get out of the 
politics of it. Because that changes slowly over time, to remove politics from it. So while 
they had professional property managers, there were still some political influence on 
jobs below the management level. So quite often you had to talk with the local county 
chairman, whether depending on who was in power, Republican or Democratic 
chairman and get references for people who had summer jobs. The people who were 
lifeguards or mowing grass were often people that were connected with the party that 
was in power. So it was something you had to deal with. 
afc2013014_02245_mv07 
JK: [0:00:00.0] in a situation where you couldn't hire the person you actually wanted?  
DW: [0:00:07.9] Not really. I don't remember that anybody was actually turned down that 
we wanted to be hired. There was... it was kind of interesting. I wasn't the manager at 
the time, I was Assistant Property Manager. I know the manager said there was one 
time, probably before I started here, when one of the local county chairmen came to him 
and said I'll have your workers for you when you're ready for them. And so he went to 
the other counties that we serviced and he got all of his workers in the other counties. 
And when that county chairman came around, he said why haven't you contacted me 
for your workers? He said I already have them all for the summer. They came from 
Wabash and Grant County. It was... he found a way to work around that. [0:01:01.4] In a 
way you try to do the best you can to control it. But quite honestly it doesn't really make 
that much difference which party is represented by your workers for the summer. What 
you're looking for are people who are willing to deal with visitors in a positive... and 
leave a positive impression. Or somebody who is willing to mow grass all day long, 5 
days a week, all summer long, and do a good job. Or clean restrooms, which is always 
a difficult position to fill but they're willing to do it all summer long because they need the 
money for college or most of them for a like path (?). And at that time, you could make 
enough money at a summer job to pay for much of your college. Maybe not cover all of 
your expenses but you could pay quite a bit of it. That's not the case now. You can't 
make enough in a summer job to pay for college expenses now.  
JK: [0:02:01.2] that's very true unfortunately 
DW: [0:02:04.1] I know. I still have a daughter in college.   
afc2013014_02245_mv08 
JK: [0:00:00.0] reservoir is different than a park... describe the differences... 
DW: [0:00:30.4] Yeah. I think that a reservoir... first of all the land is not owned by the 
state of Indiana, it's owned by the Corps of Engineers. And so anything that is done on 
a reservoir property is kind of under the supervision of the Corps of Engineers as well 
as the Division of State Parks and Reservoirs. When I was in Division of Reservoir 
Management, it was a fairly small organization. They kept growing as more reservoirs 
were added online. So I was in the system before Brookfield(?) was added and before 
Patoka was added. Before Hardy Lake(?) became a part of the reservoir system. 
Before Raccoon and Leeber(?) State Recreation Areas became a part of the Division of 
Reservoir Management. So it seemed like we were always growing but it was still a 
fairly small staff and kind of a shoestring operation. [0:01:24.2] But we had so many 
things to do on reservoir properties, in addition to what was going on in official wildlife 
properties and park properties and forest properties and all of the others. It was like a 
property where you did all of the things that those other divisions did but you did it all on 
one property. For example, at Salamonie we have the beach, the modern 
campgrounds, we have a marina. We have all of the boat docks and things like that, 
nature trails, we had all of those things that were in common with state parks but we 
also have 9000 acres of hunting and fishing area. Hunting area that we primarily 
manage for the hunters. And then we have a lake of 2855 acres that we manage for 
fishermen. So we were dealing with boaters, with recreational boaters as well hunters, 
fishermen, bird watchers, hikers, and a number of other groups later on. We were 
dealing with horsemen as well because Salamonie had the only horse trails that were 
developed on reservoir properties. And after they were developed here then the Corps 
of Engineers said we're not going to allow horse trails on the other reservoir properties. 
But we still have them here. [0:02:46.2] I'm kind of speaking of the present as though I 
was still manage, but I don't. I'm retired but it was something that we were pretty proud 
of that we had all of this diversity of recreation. We had mountain bike trails, we had the 
only snow mobile trails on any DNR properties at that time. And so the diversity of 
activities on the reservoir properties, I think, is what set us apart in many of ways. We 
identify as much with the Division of Fish and Wildlife as we did with Division of State 
Parks. Because of our philosophy of renewable resources, not really protection. We 
thought of state parks being as more of a protective type of property, where things are 
protected and although there are recreational facilities there, there are a lot of rules 
about what you could and couldn't do on state park properties. On reservoir properties, 
not so much. You could do a lot of things that you couldn't do on other properties. We 
even at different times would work with either National Guard or with the Marine... Navy 
Reserve, not the Marine, Navy Reserve units and so on. And they would hold military 
maneuvers on the property. And those kinds of things were unique to reservoir 
properties. 
afc2013014_02245_mv09 
JK: [0:00:00.0] almost like a restoration ethic... is that somewhat true for reservoirs 
DW: [0:00:30.7] Well when the reservoirs first opened, when they first came on line, 
there was a lot of open area. A lot of the ground at the reservoir properties had been 
farmed. It was in small farm unit from various landowners, that some of them willingly 
sold their land, some were actually taken to court to give up their land for the reservoir 
project. So all of that open land then was going to be managed for wildlife. At a property 
like Monroe Reservoir where they took a lot of land that was covered with trees, there 
wasn't as much management, there wasn't as much of an effort to try to figure out what 
to do with open land because it was already in trees. [0:01:16.2] But up here, at 
Salamonie and northern Indiana, Mississinewa and Salamonie and Rausch(?), those 
are a lot of open farm fields. And so for somebody who's interested in managing wildlife 
as I was and still am, it was like a black slate. Here's 500 acres of fields with very little 
cover, what do you do to manage for wildlife in this area? And so you would sit down 
with pen and pencil and try to figure out what is the best kind of wildlife habitat that you 
can develop in order to make it a attractive, not only to wildlife but also to the hunters. 
And later on, you approach nongame wildlife management in the same way. What does 
the species need to survive? Where's the species found now? Is it a migratory species 
or is it a resident species and what do we do to help it? What can we do to provide that 
kind of habitat? So there was a lot of restoration going on from that standpoint, mostly 
habitat restoration. [0:02:21.0] I think in comparison with state parks there was more 
often until Prophetstown came on line, most of the parks were in big woods. They had a 
lot of big trees, they had the recreation facilities, they had unique scenic attractions like 
Turkey Run and Clifty Falls. And some of the others had unique geological attractions, 
that kind of history of trying to protect those things and develop recreation facilities 
around them. Some of the restoration such as Spring Mill, there was obviously a 
restoration effort there to restore the village and try to make it a working village to 
demonstrate skills and crafts that were in use back when Spring Mill was... before it 
became a state park. [0:03:15.3] So I guess there's really two different philosophies at 
work here. And when we merged back in 1996, I believe it was, there was kind of a 
merger of the two missions as well. So that was an interesting time mainly because on 
one hand you had this philosophy of managing renewable resources. For example, 
when some wildlife habitat got too far advanced that it wasn't beneficial to the wildlife we 
were managing for, we would come in with a bulldozer and knock it down and then start 
again. You couldn't do that on a park property. Bulldozers were not encouraged on state 
property, on state park property, because you can't just take out the trees and put in a 
field for mourning doves or something like that. On reservoir properties, you could. 
afc2013014_02245_mv10 
JK: [0:00:00.0] were describing almost like as a manager have a certain degree of 
lateral control... today's system is much more top-down... change on that front? 
DW: [0:00:47.8] Yeah. I think a lot of it has to do with the difference between a wildlife 
program and recreation program too. Because with the wildlife program, we had a lot of 
flexibility. We had a lot of flexibility to take an open field and make it attractive for 
wildlife. That was the payoff. If you were a wildlife manager, if you took an open field 
and you put in a small marsh, and you put in some food plots around the marsh and you 
saw ducks come into your marsh and you saw quail or rabbits and other wildlife using 
the fields that you put in, it was kind of a payoff for you. So you had a lot of flexibility 
there. You had the ability to take what little money and what little labor and equipment 
and so on that you had and do something with it and watch for the payoff. [0:01:42.7] 
When it comes to the recreation facilities, there's a lot more planning involved. Because 
you have to make not only... you get a little bit of a theme with your buildings so that you 
hope that a lot of the buildings that go in kind of fit together in kind of a theme with as far 
as the exterior of the buildings have kind of a theme. You hope that that theme kind of 
representative of that part of the state that you're in. You want it to be an outdoor 
recreation area that has facilities that are I guess able to absorb changes in recreation 
patterns. [0:02:26.1] For example, when I first started, there were a lot of tent campers. 
There are fewer and fewer tent campers and more and more campers with large motor 
homes, that requires larger campsite paths, more electrical power to campsite, more 
modern comfort stations. On some properties, they have double A campsites where you 
can hook up your water and your sewer and electricity to each camp site so that you 
can handle larger motor homes. That's just a changing recreational scenario. A 
changing recreational scenario where the facilities have to handle that. What this all 
involves is a lot more planning on where you're going to put water lines, where you're 
going to put electrical lines and how many shower facilities you're going to have to 
accommodate all of those. [0:03:25.8] On reservoir properties, it also needs to be close 
enough to the marina that you can have utilities running to your marina and the marina 
can use, can take advantage of that group of visitors who are in the campgrounds who 
are wanting to get on the lake so they can get gasoline for their boats and have a ship 
store and things like that. All of that together takes a lot of planning. And so that's a little 
different than a wildlife program where it's like maybe the wildlife manager, they will sit 
down with a blank sheet of paper or a map and say I want rabbits here. What's it gonna 
take? 
afc2013014_02245_mv11 
JK: [0:00:00.0] land would change a lot over the years... recreational groups at odds 
with each other... talk about the different user groups 
DW: [0:00:51.2] I think that quite honestly, they fit together better than most people 
expect them to. For example, we had horse trails that ran through our wildlife areas. So 
during hunting season, there were horse riders who said you need to close off hunting 
in these areas because your horse trails run through the wildlife areas. And we said 
that's never been a problem. We encourage everyone during hunting season to wear 
hunter orange so that they're very visible. But you will encounter hunters but there's 
really nothing to worry about because we've never had a hunting accident involving 
horses or hikers and hunters. We just never had, over 40 years that I was here, it never 
happened. And so those people finally got used to one another. [0:01:41.7] Those 
people who were maybe a little bit nervous about riding through a wildlife area. They 
might ride over at Salamonie River State Forest even though they didn't realize it, but 
most of that is open to hunting as well. But they felt like 'I don't want to encounter 
hunters'. That's fine, it's hunting season and that's what we're here for. That's part of our 
mission, is to provide hunting opportunities. The same thing could be said of mountain 
biking because we have mountain bike trails at Salamonie through hunting areas. And 
really no conflicts at all. We had some cross-country ski trail that kind of ran through 
some areas that were open to hunting. And again we really didn't have a problem with it. 
[0:02:24.2] So I think that what might surprise a lot of people is to just allow people to do 
what they want to do, what they're there for and put as few of controls on them as 
possible. And they get along. Those people who are maybe a little bit uncomfortable, 
they ride during a different season. They don't ride during deer season. They might ride 
in the spring and the summer and maybe ride at a different property during hunting 
seasons. But you find out also that on the other Division of Forestry properties, they 
have horseback riding and hunting going on at the same time. You don't have to keep 
those two user groups separated if they can coexist safely. 
afc2013014_02245_mv12 
JK: [0:00:00.0] idea of work being almost like more than a job but also part family 
DW: [0:00:34.7] I understand where you're coming from but you become so associated 
with the property and with the people who are working there, that you're a little bit like a 
teacher who when you have these people working for you in the summer, they may be 
in college studying to be a dentist or studying to be an architect or studying to be a 
physicist or whatever or teacher. And they work for you for a few months, quite often 
they enjoy the work and so if they're still in college, next summer, they come back early 
wanting their job back. Because they want to work in that kind of work environment 
again the following summer. [0:01:18.1] There are some people who will actually 
change their majors so that they become natural resource professionals themselves. 
And there are some that they make those connections with the resources and with the 
properties that once they get out of school and start their careers, then they introduce 
their families to those recreational opportunities that they enjoyed when they were in 
college. And some of them have never camped before. There are a lot of people, and 
this was one of the hardest things for me to understand when I started here, because as 
I said I had always been in a camping and an outdoor family. But there are people 
fifteen miles away in Huntington who have never been to Salamonie. And that was as 
true thirty years after I'd been here as it was when I first moved here. There were still 
people in Huntington like, “I intend to come out there some time and see what that's 
like.” [0:02:15.8] Sometimes we would have their children, their young people either 
high school sometimes more often college age students, who are working here in the 
summer that had never been here. And yet then they became connected with the 
property. I think a lot of the things that connect people and natural resource managers, 
let's call them, whether they are a conservation officers or foresters or fish and wildlife 
biologists, fisheries biologist, recreation managers or whatever, one of the things is that 
connection with the resources. And that's what kind of sets us apart. One of the things 
that I think surprises most of us is that that same kind of connection's happening on the 
other side with those people who camp here or who come here to swim or come here 
for boating or something like that. [0:03:13.4] One of the most memorable things that 
happened to me was one summer, and this was a number of years ago, we had some 
campers that camped in the campground we since had to close. But they camped same 
campsite as often as they could get it, almost every weekend during the summer. They 
lived nearby. They didn't have a lot of money. But they enjoyed camping. It was a 
primitive campground, so it didn't cost a lot to camp there. And they would pick the most 
scenic campsite overlooking the lake. And so week after week you would see them on 
those campsites because they would get in early, first come first serve. They would grab 
at those campsites and try to stay there as long as they could. [0:03:55.5] And one 
morning, it was a weekend morning, I remember because often on the weekends when 
you first came to work there would be someone waiting to talk to you about something 
that had happened in the campground the night before. Well this gentleman came in 
and he said Dennis, he said, “Could you call an ambulance, my mother has passed.” 
And I said, “I'll call 911 and we'll get somebody here to help.” He said, “No it's okay, 
she's already gone.” He said, “But this is where she wanted to be.” And so I went with 
him over to the campsite, I called the ambulance, went with him over to the campsite 
and got to talking to him. And he said, “You know, Mom loved this campsite. She loved 
watching the sun go down over the State Road 105 bridge. She watched the boats go 
by. And she knew she was going to go and so she told us a couple days ago ‘I want to 
be at Salamonie.’” So that's why we're here. [0:04:55.6] And it's like you have this 
connection because you're our resource manager because you have the connection 
with the resources and you understand that among your fellow resource managers. But 
you don't realize that it's just as important sometimes to your visitors. That they have 
that connection with your property. And I think that was one of the big surprises for me. 
afc2013014_02245_mv13 
DW: [0:00:00.0] I told that before and I almost got choked up telling it because I really 
didn't know the fellow that well. But you find out that when you've been on a property for 
a while everybody thinks that they know you pretty well even if you don't know them 
very well. But he came in and he said, “Hey Dennis, I need for you to call an 
ambulance.” And I'm thinking, “Okay, what's his name?” And then he told me what was 
going on and I said, “Names aren't important, let's get this taken care of.” 
JK: [0:00:30.6] Wow. Can you tell me how you learned to do your job? 
DW: [0:00:41.9] Trial and error. Trial and error I think is... My degree is in biology and so 
I graduated with a bachelor's degree in just general biology because I liked biology. I 
liked that field of study. I liked dealing with plants and animals and things. But I was not 
really an expert at anything. And as a property manager you learn a little bit about a lot 
of things. But you're not an expert at anything. Because you are more involved in things 
like human resource issues, with supervision and people management, both the people 
that work for you or with you and the people that come to visit your property. [0:01:33.5] 
So you become kind of an expert in some ways on those kind of things. But it's almost 
coincidental that you do that. It has nothing to do with biology that you learned in 
college. Just about everything that you learned is by trial and error. You become an 
accountant because you have money. You're collecting money and you may not have 
that accounting degree but sooner or later you have to make everything balance out. 
You have budgets that you're working with. And if you've got a budget that is between 
$700,000 and a million dollars a year and you are kind of overseeing some projects that 
are pretty sizeable, you become a project manager, you become accountable for fairly 
large sums of money. You have to submit to audits and things like that so you make 
sure that everything adds up. [0:02:28.9] And so you become kind of a jack of all trades. 
Everything that happens on a property becomes something that you have some 
knowledge about. Because you're overseeing people that are doing those things. And 
there are times when I kind of compared it to being like a farmer. If you are a farmer 
anything that happens on the farm is your responsibility. Whether it's planting crops or 
whether it's marketing the crops or buying seed or whatever, when it comes to 
managing a property, you're in charge of not only buying all the materials and 
equipment and things that are needed, but you're in charge of collecting all the funds, 
you're in charge of making sure that those funds are properly accounted for. And you're 
supervising staff. You have to become somewhat familiar with some of the public health 
regulations as well as human resource regulations. You become a kind of a person who 
knows a little bit about a lot of things. But you're not really an accountant, HR specialist, 
in some cases the biology is kind of a part time thing. 
afc2013014_02245_mv14 
k 
I 
DW: [0:00:00.0] Something that you learn by trial and error, it's not something that you 
can go to school and say okay if I take this class in accounting and this class in human 
resources and this class in biology and this class in purchasing and budget 
management, then I'll have everything. You basically have to work into the job and learn 
as you go.  
JK: [0:00:27.9] not a lot of parks in this stretch of the state... mentors for you 
DW: [0:00:54.9] Yeah there was... The three Upper Wabash Reservoirs were pretty 
closely associated with one another. Because you have one maybe twenty-five miles in 
one direction and the other's fifteen, twenty miles in the other direction. And you're kind 
of in the middle when you're at Salamonie. And so there's a lot of interaction between 
management staffs on those properties. Whether it's wildlife management or recreation 
management, you're talking with those people. [0:01:19.8] Any time you have an issues 
that comes up and you're thinking well I don't have the equipment to do that, maybe 
Mississinewa has that piece of equipment, maybe I can borrow it. So there's a lot of 
sharing equipment and things like that and sharing of ideas. Sometimes it's kind of 
competitive. You could get in a situation where Mississinewa found an answer to this 
problem, why didn't they tell me that this was an answer. So you go over and see and 
talk with the manager over there. How did you get this funded? What did you do to solve 
this problem? And then you copy them. Some of the best ideas are the ones you copy 
off your neighbors.  
JK: [0:02:01.4] any key staff people that worked with you 
DW: [0:02:08.1] Oh sure. The manager that I worked for when I first came up here was 
and still is a very close friend. He was... His degree was in wildlife and so that was his 
main interest, was wildlife management. And he was kind of managing the recreation 
facilities because that was the job. If you manage the recreation facilities, then you get 
to manage the wildlife areas as well. So I learned a lot about wildlife management from 
him. Also learned quite a bit about people management because he was a good people 
manager. He was a naval officer in the naval reserves and so he was used to being in 
charge. [0:02:48.4] But he wasn't exactly a firm, inflexible person. Not in the military 
sense. A lot of people think of military officers being very inflexible and do it my way and 
everything. He was very open minded about things. And he had liked to see people try 
new ideas. Sometimes he would change things just to change them, just to try 
something different. Sometimes it didn't work and sometimes it did. And so you learn 
from things that don't work as well as things that do work. So he was definitely a mentor 
for me. [0:03:24.3] And the manager at Mississinewa had been in the system for quite a 
while as well. And so he was a good person to talk with. In the Division of Reservoirs, it 
was a fairly close knit family in a lot of ways. When managers would get together on a 
pretty regular basis and share stories and share ideas about how to get things done. 
And it was not uncommon at one of our division meetings to have people give 
presentations about this is the problem that we were faced with and this is how we 
resolved the problem. And then other managers were thinking I could do that or maybe I 
can learn from that. Or maybe one of them would get a contact of someone who was 
providing a certain service. And then you would share that information as well. 
[0:04:19.9] Some of that I think came about because the Division of Reservoir 
Management was a fairly small division for a long time. And so it was easy to get 
everybody together in one room and have those kinds of conversations. The director of 
the Division of Reservoir Management, Bill Donseel(?), for so many of those years, was 
somebody that you just called up any time you had a question. You'd call him up and 
say, “Hey Bill, this is Dennis.” It didn't make any difference whether I was a manager or 
assistant manager or wildlife specialist. If I needed something I didn't have to go through 
a chain of command to call Bill. I would just call Bill and just say hey can you help me 
I've got this issue. And he would put me in touch with somebody who could help me if 
he didn't know the answer. It was not a real strong chain of command, it was more like a 
group effort. 
afc2013014_02245_mv15 
JK: [0:00:00.0] talk about that time when parks and reservoirs came under one roof 
DW: [0:00:11.0] Yeah. I think in my career that was probably the most life-changing 
event that happened. Because I still don't know to this day if it was a good thing or not. I 
think that there was a lot to be said about the old Division of Reservoir Management. 
But there's also a lot to be said about the combined Divisions as well. The thing that is 
unique about it is... Parks has such a high visibility. The park properties have such high 
visibility because everyone thinks well I know what a park is. And if they'd been to 
Spring Mill or they'd been to Brown County or one of the parks, this is what a park is. 
And so if I'm talking to a camper at a reservoir property, they may say you got a nice 
park here I really enjoy coming to camp in your park. And part of you says well thank 
you, I'm glad you're enjoying yourself. And part of you thinks I hope you know the 
difference between a park and a reservoir because there's a lot more going on here 
than what you're seeing in the campground. [0:01:19.9] And so when the merger took 
place, there was a merger of the two different missions as well. You have the mission of 
the Division of Reservoir Management which is more of a multiple use area, managing 
multiple use areas from everything from hunting and power boating and water skiing 
and horseback riding and snowmobiling and those kinds of things, merged with a 
division that is more of a protectionist. And so they said well the first thing we're going to 
do is we're going to have a combined mission. And I thought I don't see how that's 
gonna happen. I'm not sure how that will happen at all. And so those were interesting 
discussions. And you end up with kind of a watered down mission for each of the two 
divisions that are involved in the merger. It didn't so much change the way that you did 
things. It wasn't as precise as it had been in the past. [0:02:26.9] The Division of 
Reservoir Management was a very flat organization, very efficient. There was a staff in 
Indianapolis, the director and assistant director and a few staff specialists and then 
there were property managers. And the property managers had a lot of autonomy to 
manage their properties the way they wanted to. They were given money for personnel 
and equipment and materials and things like that. And we were told go manage a 
property. And do a good job because it's important that we manage for our visitors. And 
in the Division of State Parks, there were several different levels between the director 
and the property managers. And so you kind of had to go up through the different levels. 
There was more of a chain of command structure. [0:03:22.2] And I think that was 
where it caused some issues initially that, not big issues, but it was an adjustment on 
everyone's part to do that. I recall that during one of the earlier administrations, I think it 
was during the Bayh administration, they had someone who came around and was 
talking to different properties about what their jobs were, how it could be made more 
efficient, how the new organization could be more efficient, how the organization 
functions and things like that. And it was all kind of, it was a period when there was a 
recession, and so they were trying to look at efficiency within the Department of Natural 
Resources. And this wasn't the first time that happened or the last. There's always 
some kind of an effort to make it a little bit more efficient. Once they learned more about 
the Division of Reservoir Management, and how flat the structure was, they said you 
may become more of a model division for some of the other divisions within the 
Department of Natural Resources because of that structure being more efficient. But 
nothing ever came of that study. At least nothing that we saw any results from. It was 
interesting because we knew it because we had, as property managers, we knew that 
we had a lot of autonomy. 
afc2013014_02245_mv16 
JK: [0:00:00.0] very emotional charged? 
DW: [0:00:19.9] I think there was a lot of that on both sides. It was not something that I'd 
think anybody really wanted to happen. But it was kind of dictated from above that this 
is going to work and so you need to make sure that it does. And in the end it did. It 
worked. There was the merger I think was successful in that I can't say that Salamonie 
ever really suffered because of the merger. There's the properties that... There were 
sometimes some things that suffered because of lack of money. Because it takes a lot 
of money, sometimes money that is not that spent in such a visible fashion to maintain 
things. Too much emphasis on income means that those things that you do that don't 
drive a lot of income, doesn't generate a lot of money from the visiting public, those kind 
of have a tendency to get pushed aside in favor of those things that are more high 
profile and do generate income. And so that can become a problem. But I don't know 
that that is so much an issue of the merger as it is just an issue of economics. I think the 
same thing probably happened at the university level. 
afc2013014_02245_mv17 
JK: [0:00:00.0] talk a little more personally... proudest of? 
DW: [0:00:31.5] I think the thing that gives me the most pride is seeing the changes 
over the years. Not only seeing employees that used to work for you who have become 
leaders in their communities. The dentist I go, for example, he worked here when he 
was in college back in the, I think it was the ‘70s, early ‘80s. And he was cleaning 
restrooms, he was collecting things and things like that. And so he's one of the dentists 
here in the Huntington area and a very good dentist. I still go to him. [0:01:09.9] You see 
people grow. You see the property change. I came to Salamonie just a few years after it 
actually became a reservoir property and was actually turned over to the state of 
Indiana for management. I came a few years after that and so I have 42 years of 
watching the property grow and change. Along with that, you've seen recreation 
facilities that have been added and you've had a part of that. You've seen the 
interpretive program grow from almost nothing to what it is now. The Upper Wabash 
Interpretive Services is kind of a model for a lot of other programs within the Department 
of Natural Resources because the Upper Wabash Interpretive Services services not 
only Salamonie but Rausch(?) and Mississinewa and they services also the 
surrounding counties and provides those services for a 5 county area. For a while even 
Wabash State Park was involved in the Upper Wabash Interpretive Services. And so it 
has been the growth of that program and this interpretive center where we're meeting 
today are examples of things that have grown over the years. And I would say are a 
huge success. [0:02:34.1] The other things that you see in the wildlife programs... I've 
been here when wildlife species were reintroduced. When I first came here, it was 
unusual to see a Canada goose. And now Canada geese have become a nuisance. A 
species in a lot of areas around northeastern Indiana and we actually encourage them. 
The first time I saw geese nesting on the property, I was really excited about it. We 
actually put out some geese that were pinioned so that they couldn't fly away. Then they 
raised their young here and their young a few years later came back here. And it grew 
into a larger population. We did the same thing with wild turkeys. We did the same thing 
with river otters. Salamonie was fortunate enough to be one of the few river otter 
release sites in Indiana. And they were actually released about a quarter of a mile from 
the house that I lived in on the property. And so it was really exciting to see those kinds 
of things be successful. [0:03:42.4] It's exciting to see the recreation facilities as I 
mentioned. With modern campgrounds growing and marina growing in size and 
becoming successful. And to see the wildlife habitat that you helped establish start to 
attract not only the game species but also nongame species that used to be found in 
this area but maybe weren't found here in the early ‘70s when I started. Now they're 
found a lot more routinely. Bald eagles are nesting in this area now. Not because of the 
reservoir but certainly the reservoir, the habitat that is provided on the reservoir and the 
availability of fish and other things that they eat make it an attractive area for them to 
nest. [0:04:37.0] If you are a wildlife manager back in the early 70s, if you tried to 
imagine what it's like to send migrating water fowl to fly over northeastern Indiana... So 
much of it is flat, open farm ground with very little habitat. And the river systems are like 
little green stripes through that area. As if you're flying from north to south, you cross the 
Wabash River and Salamonie River and the Mississinewa River and there's these green 
corridors. And then the reservoir properties are like big bulges in the green corridor, it's 
like the snake that ate the elephant. You've got a green corridor and then you've got this 
big bulge of green view from the air and that is a reservoir property. [0:05:26.8] And if 
you look at it from that standpoint, you can better understand what it looks like to the 
migrating water fowl or the migrating song birds or something like that because there 
are these islands of habitat in an area that doesn't have a lot of other mature habitat 
other than some isolated woodlands and things like that. And here's this 12,000 acre 
property and that becomes a magnet for these things. You find out over the years that 
there are some things that are found here that are not found anywhere else in Indiana 
or very few other places in Indiana. And it's nice to know that you're a part of that. 
afc2013014_02245_mv18 
JK: [0:00:00.0] successes and the gratification that you gained from seeing a job well 
done 
DW: [0:00:36.6] I think the gratification that comes from the job is more of I feel like I 
lucked out. I think you would probably from a lot of the property managers. They feel 
like it was such a good fit and there are so few of us that are able to make a career out 
of this, that you feel a lot of gratification from being one of the lucky ones that was able 
to do that. Certainly there are some frustrations along the way. Near the end of my 
career, I spent way too much time on a computer and not enough time out there with 
the visitors. And that was kind of frustrating. [0:01:20.0] But when you talk with the 
visitors, then there's a lot of gratification in hearing their stories. You hear about the 
family who for the last 25 years has held their family reunion every Fourth of July at 
Salamonie. When we unfortunately had to close some of our primitive campgrounds 
because we really had too many campgrounds, it was becoming inefficient to maintain 
all of them, we had to close some of them. I heard a lot of stories of people who said, 
“How can you close this campground? I raised my kids coming to this campground. And 
my grandkids have been coming to this campground. Just like that, you're going to take 
all that away?” And it's kind of hard to divert them from that campground where they 
have so many memories to the campground that you have left that is not where they 
spent their time when their kids were small. But they come in and they tell you how 
important it was to them and to their family. And that's the payoff for the career, I think, 
is hearing those stories and knowing they connect with the property in many of the 
same ways that you do. I guess that's the big payoff. [0:02:42.8] You can see as I said 
earlier some buildings that had been constructed and programs that have been put in 
place that you're really proud of. Like this interpretive center, the wildlife program. I was 
able fortunately to kind of get in on the ground floor of developing a wildlife program for 
Salamonie. And that has carried on and now the current wildlife manager has such a 
diverse wildlife program that I think it is becoming kind of a model for a lot of other 
wildlife programs. Because he looks at it not only as a program for wildlife on Salamonie 
but a program for wildlife in northeastern Indiana with connections with kind of a 
landscape scale. When you see those kinds of things happening and you've been in a 
position to either facilitate those kind of programs getting started or where you, as I was, 
in on the ground floor. That's a very rewarding thing. 
afc2013014_02245_mv19 
JK: [0:00:00.0] probably longer than you thought... couple more questions... 
DW: [0:00:10.7] I'm... that's fine 
JK: [0:00:13.9] some of the stories of a career here... 
DW: [0:00:45.6] There are some that probably shouldn't be shared because what you 
find out is that on a weekend when your campground is full, everybody who has issues 
with other family members at home, they bring those issues with them along with the 
family members. And so sometimes you have some things that happen in the 
campgrounds that you wish didn't happen because people bring their family issues with 
them. [0:01:14.9] But on the other hand, you do interact with a lot of people that, as I 
said earlier, have a connection with your property. Some of them have come here for so 
long that they've seen some of the changes in the property, the same that you have. 
And so those stories... They like to talk about those things as well. There are kind of a 
flood of different stories that come to mind. Some of them not that may be interesting to 
the viewer, it kind of struck me at the time at being interesting. Some of them not very 
happy stories. There were people who came here and for whatever reason, they had an 
accident, a boating accident or car accident or something like that, something tragic 
may have come out of it. [0:02:20.7] There are other stories where people have 
volunteered just would walk in the door and say, “I want to help.” And maybe they 
represent a particular user group and they want to help in any way they can and they 
end up becoming one of the organizers for a support group. That happened with the 
mountain bike movement. We had a man who came in. He said, “I like to mountain bike; 
what can I do?” He says, “You don't have any mountain bike trails; why not?” And I said, 
“We don't have time to lay them out.” And he goes, “I'll lay them out.” And he did. He 
laid out our first mountain bike trail. It's a good trail. And he works for a hospital, so he's 
not a professional landscape designer or something like that. But he enjoyed mountain 
biking. And he kind of opened our eyes to what the possibilities were for mountain bike 
trails at Salamonie. And that was very interesting. And he got an award. He got some 
statewide recognition for the work that he had done not only at Salamonie but other 
things in the community connecting with biking, on-road and off-road biking.  
JK: [0:03:40.2] name? 
DW: 0:03:43.7] Nick Hancock(?).  
JK: [0:03:46.5] Nick Hancock(?). Seems like mountain biking was kind of a new thing 
in all the parks.  
DW: [0:03:58.0] It is kind of a game changer because it's becoming so popular. And it 
draws in so many people. I had someone from the Hoosier Mountain Bike Association 
came to speak with us about our trails. And he said, “I think quite honestly that with the 
right funding, and some of the grant money actually most of the grant money, we can 
probably make Salamonie kind of a destination for mountain bikers.” Because the kind 
of biking that they have here, because of the lay of the land, we have along the south 
side of the lake, high bluffs overlooking the lake. When you're mountain biking or hiking 
along those bluffs, it's a beautiful area. And it's kind of unique in northern Indiana, 
particularly northeastern Indiana. [0:04:52.6] And he says, “I think you could become a 
destination.” And you're thinking, “Okay, this guy is very excited, this guy has a lot of 
good ideas.” Where do you find the time to work with him and to work with the local 
volunteers? And can you make that happen? And actually I think it's a work in progress. 
It's a work in progress. The local volunteers are trying to organize and they would like to 
make mountain biking more important in this part of the state and maybe in surrounding 
states. Because kind of like hikers, everybody who mountain bikes wants new areas to 
mountain bike in. And so they travel quite a ways and they spend money. And that's 
good for the community, it's good for the property. And if you couldn't get trails that are 
designed so that they are very low maintenance, that's a good thing. 
afc2013014_02245_mv20 
JK: [00:00:09] history of interpretive program here and, has it always been a positive 
thing? 
DW: It's certainly grown, but the former manager, Neal Case, when I first came here, 
within a couple of years, he was talking about how he would like to have an interpretive 
program, a "naturalist program" it's sometimes called. And he had an active program of 
outreach in the community as a manager, he said when we have requests from groups, 
uh, for a speaker, we always say, "Yes, we can." If one of us is available, we say, "Yes." 
I did not consider myself to be a particularly good public speaker, so that was an 
adjustment for me. I said, "You mean me, too?" He says, "Oh, yeah. You'll be, you'll be 
doing this." Because that's part of his job. And so if we got a request from a service 
club, you know, from rotary, or some men's group, or women's group, or if we got a 
request from a teacher, uh, to bring the kids out here for a day out of class, we had a 
trail that Neal had started called "The Tree Trail," and it was a mile and a quarter, and 
so it was about the right length for young kids to walk it in about 45 minutes. And so if 
your timing was pretty good, a teacher could bring a busload of kids out, walk the trail, 
maybe have a picnic lunch or something and head back to school and not miss any 
other classes, and so that became an expected part of our jobs was to, to pass on 
whatever we could about wildflowers and trees and leaves and nature. And Neal kept 
talking about, "Well, someday, you know, we want to have a naturalist here, we'd like to 
have a nature center," and it took a long time. [00:02:59] It took a long time to get that. 
Some other properties within the Division of Reservoir Management, actually Patoka 
was the first to get a full-time interpreter within our division, and I think it became, uh, 
expected that at some point most of the properties would like to have an interpreter, 
because we kind of saw it, as managers, we saw the recreation program, the 
campgrounds, the boat ramps, the lake, and the boat docks and all that kind of thing as 
one part of the recreation program. Our wildlife program, which was part of our mission, 
and was part of our charge from the Corp of Engineers to manage wildlife, and then the 
interpretive program was actually developing, but we could see that it was going to be 
on that same level, because of what the interpreters can do for natural resource 
management, and for public education, natural history education, because it's a, we 
know from our own experience as young people, that if you make those connections 
early in life, you can maintain those connections with natural resources. And you start 
thinking, "Are there going to be parks for our grandkids and our great-grandkids if we 
don't introduce parks and reservoirs and these outdoor areas to our young people?" 
And so it became, the educational component of property management was always 
emphasized at Salamonie. So we have recreation, wildlife, and interpretation. So being 
strategically located in the middle of the Upper Wabash Reservoirs, it was a good place 
for that program to get going. [00:04:50]  
JK: So were those seasonal... the first people hired specifically to do that, were those 
seasonal, or did you end up with a full-time staff position for that? 
DW: We ended up with a full-time staff position, mainly because we were able to justify 
it as a full-time staff position for three properties. At that time, Rouse Lake was still a 
part of the Division of Reservoir Management, so there were three Upper Wabash 
Reservoirs to get one full-time person and maybe a couple of seasonal staff that could 
run a program on all three of the properties, and so while they were housed at 
Salamonie, they were actually working for all three property managers. 
JK: What year was that then? 
DW: Uh, well, Ginger Murphy was our first. 
JK: Okay. 
DW: So that was in 198-- I think it was '85. It was mid-'80s, mid- to late '80s. I don't want 
to make Ginger any older, hopefully I'm not misstating that, but Ginger, when she 
actually applied for the job and interviewed for the job, she was exactly what everybody 
was wanting. I mean, I like Ginger, I've known her all these years, and she's a fantastic 
interpreter, but she also is very visionary, and that came across in the interviews. Uh, 
the reason that it works so well in the Division of Reservoirs, I think, is because we had 
a philosophy in the Division of Reservoirs... 
afc2013014_02245_mv21 
DW: [00:00:00] ...take the ball and run with it. All you have to do is, is get Ginger at the 
ball and things will grow from there because things will happen. It worked out very well 
with our philosophy, and so as a manager later on, even after Ginger had moved to 
Indianapolis in her, first as the division coordinator of all the interpretive programs and 
later on as assistant director, and one of her understudies, Marvin McNew became our 
chief interpreter for the Upper Wabash Reservoirs, and he had the same qualities, and 
it's great for a manager because you don't have to supervise these people. They know 
what they need to do, and they can't wait to do it. So what you have to do is just remove 
barriers, and get out of their way, and let them go. And that's very satisfying, because 
as I said, it was kind of the philosophy [00:01:01] we always had in Reservoirs, of just 
kind of letting the manager manage and try to keep, try to keep enough money and 
personnel and materials and so on coming their way that they could get done what 
needs to be done.  
JK: That's fantastic... 
afc2013014_02245_mv22 
DW: [00:00:00] And I'm not trying to make any brownie points with Ginger, but it really 
was such a good fit when she became the interpreter here. You didn't have to train her. 
You just had to get out of the way. 
JK: Yep. And provide the resources for them to do their job. 
DW: Yeah. 
JK: That's fantastic. 
DW: But the payoff is not money. I think, if there's anything -- you know, we talked 
earlier about politics, that stands [00:00:30] in the way of progress anymore. It's a lack 
of money. And every time that we enter a recession as we've been in since 2008, and 
even beyond, since the early 2000s we had a little mini recession. It's been a bit of a 
struggle for the last 15 years to have the money to do what you know needs to be done, 
and, uh, I would be lying if I said our facilities didn't suffer as a result of that. They're not 
what they should be. [00:01:01] It's a difficult sell sometimes to politicians to spend 
money on recreation facilities. But then, quite honestly, as politicians become connected 
themselves with outdoor recreation, and as they hear from these communities that it is a 
quality of life issue, to have good recreation facilities in your -- close by, it ought to be 
easier to talk to politicians into letting go of a little bit more money to develop better 
recreation facilities. That's not always the case. There's a lot of give and take in there. 
afc2013014_02245_mv23 
JK: [00:00:00] [indistinguishable] they're not necessarily talking about parks, you know... 
DW: You know, most of them, I would say don't mind spending some money on 
recreation facilities. They don't mind spending money on camping. What -- the 
disconnect that they have is that they don't realize that even though it seems like a fairly 
high camping fee that they're paying, it's not really that high, and it doesn't cover all of 
the things that go [00:00:30] into maintaining that campground throughout the year. Uh, 
and so it becomes, um, sooner or later on the tax payers' in general that have to cover a 
part of that bill. 
JK: Right. 
DW: We've talked about a user pay scenario, where we expect the users to cover most 
of the, the finances for a property, but that's not always possible. [00:01:00] Certainly 
not possible when you have, uh, 9,000 acres of wildlife management area and a small 
group of people that are trying to manage that area, and what they pay for in hunting 
and fishing licenses wouldn't begin to cover it. 
JK: Right. 
DW: Uh, it doesn't cover a interpretive program, you can't charge for interpretive 
services enough money to make, to pay the salaries, to maintain the buildings, and 
maintain, you know, the salaries of the staff, uh, the raptor center and things like that. 
And yet, all of these things are essential to the mission, so...  
afc2013014_02245_mv24 
JK: [00:00:00] Are there any questions that I haven't asked you that you'd like to 
answer? You know, things we haven't talked about that you think we should? 
DW: Not really, we've covered it pretty well, I think. I -- I appreciate the opportunity to 
kind of talk about my connection not only with Salamonie, but with Natural Resources. 
As I said, I feel like I lucked out right out of college. I lucked out in getting this job and 
having this as a career. It's been a good one. 
JK: Great. 
DW: Okay. 
JK: Thank you very much, Dennis.