Teachers Offstage--The Occupational Folklore of Wisconsin Teachers: Archie Green Fellows 
Project, 2013-2014 
Renee Schumacher interview, 2013-08-23 : interview conducted by Mary M. Hoefferle 
Interview ID: afc2013017_00801 
Date: August 23, 2013 
Duration: 01:47:35 
 
00:00:  Introduction. Renee Schumacher, elementary art teacher, interviewed at Roosevelt 
Elementary School, Oshkosh, Wisconsin, on August 23, 2013, interviewed by Mary Hoefferle. 
She has read and signed the release form. 
 
00:00:29 
Background information: years of teaching (one and a half years) and grade 
levels at what schools. Educational background (BFA in Art Education from University of 
Wisconsin Oshkosh). 
 
00:01:08 
Described a typical day of teaching art in an elementary school. Arrives at 7:30 
am, converses with a few classroom teachers, organize materials, write learning goals on the 
board, ensure smartboard is working. All students spend first 15 minutes of the day with 
classroom teacher reviewing PBIS (Positive Behavior Intervention System), which sets and 
teaches school-wide behavior expectations. Renee serves on the school’s core PBIS planning 
team. 
 
00:10:09 
First class arrives at 8:00. Describes the sequence of a typical class: whole group 
discussion, review goals of the day, whole group motivation or small group activity. Classes are 
50 minutes long, once a week, and generally class size k-2 is 15 kids (SAGE school). Third grade 
– fifth up to 35 children in one class. Students have independent work time most of the class 
until she rings the clean up bell. Classroom teacher picks up class, next class immediately 
enters. 
 
00:17:25 
Typically, she teaches five classes in one day. Teaches three different grade 
levels in a row, then has a 50 minute lunch and eats in her classroom so she can monitor 
students who want to use recess to make art. She drives 10 minutes to the high school for the 
last hour of the day. She shares the room there with another art teacher. Explains how she 
teaches differently for older students (different teaching methods, assessment, software, 
critiques). The last class ends at 3:30. Discusses “contract time” or required time in school. 
 
00:27:01 
After school work and extra duties: make sure clay is mixed and ready for the 
morning, tools cleaned, load and fire kiln on the weekends (can’t have the kiln running while 
kids are in the classroom), ensure photo chemicals are still good. Finishes at school at 4:30. 
Rarely does work in the evenings. Other duties served only at one school, which included 15-
minute bus monitoring in morning, monitored lunch recess, after school hall monitoring after 
school. PBIS coordination duty. Last year, Renee taught at three schools and teaches 24 
different groups of students each week. Volunteers and aids will now cover lunch duties. 
 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
1
00:33:38 
Favorite part of the day/week and favorite part of job: Crazy wonderful, fun 
class that becomes the highlight of the day, and it’s great when students want to come to art 
over their lunch break. Excited to be full time and eligible for insurance. Many art positions are 
NOT full time. Every part of the job is really fun, sees so much progress from the beginning to 
the end of the year. 
 
00:36:35 
Things to change about her work: each school is in its own world, no 
collaboration, so much collective decisions need to be made. Due to the collapse of unions, 
teachers spent lots of time arguing and fighting over things, salary is frozen. They are 
remedying the problems. Securing collaboration time that is meaningful. Huge teacher turn 
over to retirements or forced retirements. I was nervous that I would lose my support. I wish I 
got paid double – we only got a 2% pay increase, which translates to about $200 a year.  
 
00:39:26 
Professional development expectations: one paid day of PD a year, which is 
teacher choice. Renee goes to the state convention to network. District built in development, 
which is basically about individual school test scores and plan how to address problems. PD is 
about school wide issues not art education directly. Every year is something different. Provide 
evidence in a portfolio of how we met the 10 teaching standards. Now they have to write 
student learning goals and professional goals (professional development plan –PDP). Unclear 
of who will actually review the plans or how they will be evaluated. 
 
00:44:15 
Relationship with co-workers: strong connection with high school art teacher 
(worked with her as a clinician in college) who serves as an informal mentor. I do not socialize 
with classroom teachers outside of school except one teacher. This friend would join her for 
dinner a few times. The classroom teachers have stronger relationships due to common 
planning time and all live in the same city.  
 
00:48:20  
Relationship with administrators: super supportive principals, they offered life-
changing advice on lessons. Both principals have moved on. We now have a new principal 
here and is sweet and supportive of art budget. Principals observe her three times a year and 
write an evaluation and reflection that becomes part of permanent file. One principal would 
pop in at least once a year and jot down a few suggestions.  
 
00:53:20 
Relationships with other staff: the custodians are really awesome, informs her 
about fire codes, the custodians even do PBIS with students. They save me coffee containers 
and boxes/cardboard, newspaper. Secretaries are amazing – they know everything, 
gatekeeper and key master, ordering supplies.  
 
00:56:00 
Traditions, jokes, inside stories with faculty: not really connected to the staff 
because of being a traveling teacher and doesn’t share lunch hour with them. Often miss staff 
meetings and didn’t even know some of the teachers’ names. PTO offers lots of delicious 
desserts and junk food throughout the year. Renee and the new third grade teacher organized 
a Brewer baseball game outing in Milwaukee, WI. Roosevelt teachers showed up with coolers 
full of beer and grills. I was desperate to go to see them outside of their element. Didn’t 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
2
attend the Christmas party at one of the teacher’s house. Usually have staff meetings once a 
month but very business-like and not very productive. 
 
01:05:16 
Response to emphasis on standardized testing and student test scores: At some 
point, Renee envisions her pay will be tied to students’ test scores. So, tries to integrate math 
and literacy into the art curriculum. Districts are putting a lot of stock in the Common Core 
State Standards. Many veteran teachers don’t like these changes. She doesn’t have to address 
the Core, but she does anyway.  
 
01:09:03 
Relationship with parents: only PTO moms show up for parent teacher 
conferences. Never met a father. Some PTO moms volunteer all day long. PTO mom helped 
with labor-intensive project. This parent did her special needs child’s artwork for him. A few 
parents call after report cards if their children fail art or come storming into classroom. One 
third grader sexually harassed a classmate – got parents involved.  
 
01:18:40 
Favorite student: Kindergarten who talked non-stop and loud, messy, and just 
didn’t get the concepts. She was in the holiday concert singing at the top of her lungs, 
overpowering all the other kids. This kid is really funny. I really appreciated her after that.  
 
01:21:29 
Stereotypes of art teacher: father thinks she plays with kids on the playground 
all day, most people don’t really understand what art teachers do. The typical art teachers in 
Oshkosh were veterans, disorganized, the hoarders.  Then half of them retired two years ago 
after Act 10. All the new people know facebook, google, pintrest, more worldly, and more 
social and teach students social, communal ideas with a fine art emphasis (not crafts). I don’t 
fit – I’m overly organized. I’m really social with teachers at school not necessarily outside of 
school.  
 
01:26:04 
Discrimination related to role as art teacher: Other teachers think I get 
privileges. I sense resentment from them. I am this separate entity in the building. Other 
specialists don’t understand – they are traveling, too. I only saw the gym teacher three times 
last year. I like being the only art teacher – I can do what I think is good. I do feel alienated 
when you are not in the building for the whole day. 
 
01:29:53 
Art shows for the community: District wide art show in the fall at the Masonic 
temple. Hang up the projects that students worked long hours on in the hallway. I also 
displayed projects that aligned with school-wide initiatives. 
 
01:32:00 
Tattoos and lip rings: Visible tattoos in the education world are still taboo. 
Parents take a double take. Art teachers are allowed leeway. She takes out her lip ring but 
leaves in her tongue ring. It’s not that visible. She doesn’t want to distract students. It doesn’t 
come up that often. I covered all tattoos for job interview. None of the tattoos are 
inappropriate. 
 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
3
01:34:38 
Gender issues and homosexuality: She knew being gay would be an issue at 
some point. In college art classes, it was no big deal. Anna (her partner) was the subject of 
most of her art. In education classes, she had this fear – you can’t be gay and be a teacher. 
Parents are going to think she is a pedophile. That’s the first thing they think. Didn’t want to 
be dishonest about it. It came up and out right away with teachers I felt comfortable with and 
that was fine. One teacher responded very negatively and weirdly and avoided Renee. Nothing 
was said overtly. Being gay came up at the high school not at the elementary. 
 
01:47:35 
End of interview. 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
4