Date 
January 27, 2021 
Time 
2:30pm 
Interviewer 
Edward Y. Millar 
Interviewee 
Dave Botsford 
Location 
Dave’s House 
Audio log 
Prepared by: 
Edward Y. Millar 
Collection 
Number 
AFC 2020/013  
The Ransomville Speedway: Dirt Track Workers in Western New York 
 
Archie Green Fellowship Ransomville Speedway Interviews,  
American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fieldnotes 
Pre-Interview 
I got to Dave’s place in Medina around 2pm or so, traveling down 104 pretty much the length of 
Niagara County. Medina is located right over the border in Orleans County, the neighboring 
county to the east. Orleans and Niagara have a number of connections, like the BOCES and the 
library systems: and a number of the drivers at the Ransomville Speedway come from Orleans 
County as well (primarily Medina). Dave mentioned that we’d be meeting in a trailer on the 
property, and I kept my eye out for it. But, 104 is also Ridge Road for a reason – there’s a drop 
off on the north side – and I drove straight past the driveway. Gave it a few more minutes down 
104 looking for a place to turn round, but with the snow / ice, couldn’t really tell where 
someone’s driveway was (a good proportion of folks in the area, including myself, usually don’t 
bother shoveling when it’s only a few inches) so just pulled off to the side, waited for cars to 
pass, and did a u-turn. This did let me park on the same side of the road as his place, which was 
helpful. I hopped out of the car, gave Dave a call on my cell to let him know I was there, and 
descended down the snowy driveway to the back.   
Once inside we spoke a little bit about our families, everyone staying healthy and all of that, 
and a bit about the memorabilia, newspaper clippings, and everything he has throughout the 
walls, before starting to setup for the interview and talking about the structure of the interview. 
We setup on two chairs in the living area, spaced a good distance apart, but I ended up moving 
to the floor someways through the interview, as it felt more comfortable to sit on the floor while 
I was taking notes. Dave mentioned that he was really thankful for the speedway being 
included in the library of congress, as we spoke a bit about what that would mean, and gave me 
some more recommendations on some of the old timers that would have some great stories of 
the older days as well. 
 
Interview 
During the interview, Dave spoke a bit about his earliest experiences with dirt tracks and the 
Ransomville Speedway. Dave’s knowledge of. Dave explained that every member of a crew 
team tended to have their specialty, and that his was ‘motors’, and he considers himself a 
motorhead. But first we talked a little about his first foray into dirt tracks and racing for a few 
years, and going to the track with his dad (who was a racer too). Dave shared about how they 
built their first car, and talked a bit about the roll cage how it’s formed, and cut, and how they 
had to do things back then without specialized tools for notching.  
When we got talking about who he learned it from and his early memories of his experiences 
working in the pits and on a crew team, Dave got emotional talking about his mentors, and 
especially Billy Campbell, who he jumped up to go and grab me the card from his wake (can’t 
remember the name of them, but are the prayer cards/memorial cards usually found at wakes). 
As with many people who’ve been involved in dirt track racing for as long as he has, everyone 
becomes really close – and like family – with one another, and as Dave mentions, after all these 
years it still hurts to talk about them.  
Dave mentioned, in focusing on his experience as a crew chief (though again, he didn’t 
particularly like that term), and how it really was him choosing who to – and that most recently, 
he really has a lot of admiration and respect for Derek and the way that he races, and all of the 
talent that he felt he was one of the reasons that he agreed to join up with him. Dave also 
brought up how it reminded him of how Danny Johnson drove as well. Dave also shared a 
funny anecdote about requisitioning parts, and being an old timer interacting with younger 
drivers like Derek. Dave also shared how the economics of racing have changed a lot over the 
years, as the purses for winning have gone down but the cost of parts continues to rise, and the 
importance that sponsors (many of which are local businesses in the communities these tracks 
race in) play in keeping things going.   
Dave got emotional talking about one of his big worries as a crew chief, and something that he 
wants anyone interested in working on one to remember: that you’re responsible for the people 
in the stands too. So take your time checking and double checking and don’t cut any corners. It 
was clearly a difficult subject to talk about, and Dave shared how every night there was always 
that fear in the back of his head, knowing that his wife and kids were in the stands, and other 
people’s families too. Dave mentioned that he’d seen it happen -  where a tire broke loose, or 
some other part comes loose from a car, and with how fast the cars go, the safety fences and 
railings only do so much, and he’s seen/known of people getting seriously injured from that. I 
didn’t want to press Dave further on this as it seemed like a really difficult topic to talk about, 
but he identified that as being his biggest challenge and worry in what he does: that if he makes 
a mistake, that mistake might lead to someone getting hurt, either on the track or out. 
Dave closed out the interview by talking a bit more about what a typical day of a crew looks 
like during a race, keeping an eye / with an eye on track conditions, and talking about how the 
types of adjustments that can be made between a heat race and the feature, and on some 
particular standout memories of on-the fly fixes they had to make, or really big challenges.  
Post Interview 
After the interview, Dave and I chatted for a little bit more, talked about a timeline for getting 
him the digital copy of the interview (about a day or two due to other responsibilities), and I 
made my way back up the driveway to the ridge / where my car was parked, hopped in, and 
drove down 104 back home to lewiston.