BATON ROUGE FOLKLIFE SURVEY 
AUDIO RECORDING LOG 
 
 Audio Log # 
 DMM-
BRFS-17A 
 Photo Log # 
 DMM-
BRFS-17P  I.D. Form # 
 DMM- 
BRFS-17 
 Interviewer(s) 
Douglas Manger 
 
Date & Time 
 
01/27/15 
2:16 p.m. 
 Recording Title (informants or event)                                                               
Bill Favaro 
3003 Weller Ave. 
Baton Rouge, LA 70805 
 Location of Interview 
 
Favaro’s Rod & Reel Repair Shop 
 
 Recording 
Equipment                                                    
 Olympus Digital Recorder (Linear PCM Recorder), LS-11 
 Format  Waveform Audio  
 Length of Interview 
32:14 
27:48 
 
 
Time 
LS110327 
0BInterviewee 
00:00 
Introduction 
Bill Favaro 
00:24 
Favaro, born in 1946, has been fishing all his life. Caught 
his first “thing” (an eel) when he was six years old at Pier 
Park near Bayou Corne. Favaro was fishing with a steel rod 
equipped a Pflueger reel. His daddy took the eel, cut it up, 
and used it to catch three bushels of crabs. 
 
02:08 
Favaro’s daddy (“daddy” is the term he prefers) started his 
rod and reel business in the 1940s while he was still selling 
Esso gas at his filling station. Filling stations post WWII 
used to sell parts for fishing reels. Bronson, Pflueger, and 
Shakespeare reels common brands at the time. Customers 
kept asking if Favaro’s daddy would put the parts on for 
them. Soon a rod and reel repair business was born. 
 
 
2 
03:45 
“Daddy used to take us fishing and momma used to play 
bingo” at Bayou Corne. Favaro caught his first fish, a brim, 
at Bayou Corne.  
 
04:45 
Favaro’s daddy started him out with an action rod with a 
“bait cast” reel on it. The line was exposed. Later, “spin 
cast” reels came on the market. All enclosed, the line came 
out of a hole in the center of the front cone. Favaro 
mentioned a Mr. Johnson, inventor of the spin cast reel. 
Also mentioned Zebco 33 spin cast reel that came on the 
market in 1955. (Note: The first commercial Spin-Cast reels 
were created in 1949 by Denison Johnson Inc. and ZEBCO 
Zero Hour Bomb Company. Henry Denison and Lloyd 
Johnson of Denison Johnson Inc. in Mankato, MN., invented 
the spin cast fishing reel known as the Johnson Model 20 
Sidewinder.) Zebco reels are now made in China. 
 
07:05 
When Favaro’s daddy started the rod and reel business as 
an offshoot of his grocery store, Favaro, still in school, 
began repairing reels. Steinberg’s Sports Center in 
downtown Baton Rouge would outsource their reel repair 
business to Mr. Favaro. Charter boat captains would bring 
their large (center) “pin reels” for repair and cleaning. 
 
08:21 
Only advertisement for the business was in the Yellow 
Pages. Only repair shop in Baton Rouge in the beginning. 
“We basically still are,” Favaro remarked. Had several 
competitors over the years, but they didn’t last. 
 
08:55 
Repeat customers have been coming for years...second, 
third, even fourth generation. Favaro once kept an array of 
pictures on the wall. Proud fathers would come in with their 
sons to show them images taken years back of their big 
catch, “White, Black, whatever, they keep coming back,” 
Favaro commented. 
 
 
3 
10:05 
Favaro shares a favorite fishing stories: Favaro’s daddy 
took a friend of his, Red Campo, fishing at Pat’s Bay near 
Plaquemine. Once there Mr. Campo began fishing with a 
(Smithwick) Devil’s Horse, a popular topwater lure that has 
three hooks on it with two spinners to attract fish. Later, 
when he reeled the lure in, he found he had not one, but 
three fish hooked on the lure. The fishermen in the boat 
nearby yelled over, “We see it, but we don’t believe it.” 
(Note, Smithwick ad copy: “The Devil’s Horse topwater lure 
has been quietly winning bass tournaments in the South for 
decades. When you throw a Smithwick, you’re fishing with a 
legend.”) Favaro believes it happened in the 1960s. The 
story was later written up by a columnist at one of the local 
newspapers. 
 
14:00 
Favaro’s daddy started him out repairing some basic reels--
Shakespeare, President’s, Pflueger Springs. Pflueger 
Springs was the “Cadillac” in those days with only a few 
parts and no ball bearings. In contrast, today’s reels may 
have 10 or 11 ball bearings. Favaro talks about different 
brand named reels. One has a computer chip that tells you 
how far you cast, but “you can’t get wet.” Favaro still uses 
his old round type Ambassadeur fishing reels with but three 
bearings. (Back to his training.) “Oh, you just learned as we 
went,” Favaro remarked. “People would bring in ideas.” 
 
16:42 
Favaro enjoys the one-on-one with his customers. He also 
enjoys the challenge of repairing reels. “The reels, you 
know, is like a puzzle, you know. You got and try to figure 
out, what’s wrong with them.” Given his years of experience 
in repair work, Favaro can often gauge what the problem is 
as soon as he sees what brand reel the customer is coming 
in with. Modern reels are low-profile. Must be taken 
completely apart to determine what is wrong. Hour to an 
hour and a half to repair one reel. In contrast, on the old 
Ambassadeurs, all component parts are exposed. May be 
possible to put in a replacement part in five minutes. Most 
reels marketed today in the U.S. are made in China. Lower 
quality with plastic parts. CNN News claims 10% failure rate 
on imported tackle equipment from China. Twelve different 
things might go wrong with a reel made in Hong Kong. 
Favaro tries to avoid working on those. Manufacturers’ reps. 
today are found at trade shows. No longer make personal 
visits. 
 
 
4 
20:30 
Years ago (1950s) Abu-Garcia reel company incorporated 
ideas offered up by Favaro’s daddy into new line of reel. 
 
22:00 
Neighborhood high school students hired in the shop over 
time to help clean reels. One is now a captain in the Fire 
Department. Current helper is a retired auto mechanic who 
worked in the shop as a kid. “They come back and say hello 
to us,” Favaro remarked. 
 
22:10 
Favaro helped his daddy while still in (high) school. Favaro 
concentrated on reel repair while his daddy handled rod 
repairs. With the many styles of reels available on the 
market today, Favaro jokes, “you have to keep a diagram 
with each reel that comes in.” Cites the “33” that was (is) 
manufactured in many configurations.  
 
24:44 
“People are people,” Favaro observed. Customer attitudes 
vary. Some want it yesterday, others say take your time and 
do it right. “We try and do all of them right,” Favaro 
commented. “That’s why we’ve stayed in business all this 
long.” 
 
25:45 
Topic changes to the youth market. Favaro mentioned high 
schools starting to form bass clubs. Good for business. 
“Today these kids, they got money to burn so they join 
these clubs.” Students in the bass clubs have mentors that 
teach them the fine arts of catching bass. Student clubs 
compete in tournaments at high school and college levels. 
“Like we had one reel,” Favaro observed, “they might have 
three or four different reels.” Teenage customers “in a hurry 
to get their stuff fixed.” 
 
27:50 
Favaro’s also sells lures. “You got to keep the fishermen 
happy.” Will order lures that customers can’t find anywhere 
else like Mann’s Jelly Worms. 
 
28:35 
Ladies tend to fish salt water, according to Favaro. At one 
time, two or three of the bass pros in Baton Rouge were 
women. Some women from the area keep their fishing boats 
at (their) camps on the coast. 
  
 
5 
29:50 
Good luck lures that customers insist upon. One customer 
uses a Jelly Worm, but specifically with a grape scent to it. 
Years ago, Favaro commented, the Flag Worm gained 
popularity among local fishermen for fishing at False River 
in July and August. Purple worm with white dots on it and a 
red tail. Used with 1/8 ounce jig. Used to “swim it” by the 
different piers. So popular Favaro’s sold them by the carton. 
“Doll fly” also very popular. Feather tailed lure.  
 
32:14 
End of first segment. 
 
 
 
 
 
LS110328 
 
00:00 
Favaro describes his rod wrapper. Supplies include different 
types of guides--silver, chrome, stainless steel, and 
aluminum oxide--with single or double foot (one or two 
legs). The single foot is lighter.  
 
01:18 
Favaro describes how he wraps the rods. Uses flex coat, 
coated thread for custom build rods which makes for a 
smooth wrap. Uses lacquer for ordinary repair jobs. Lacquer 
dries in two minutes. Customer can order wrap in any color 
they desire. Favaro typically works with 500 yard spools or 
smaller. His rule of thumb: 2.5 rods with five guides and a 
tip will require a spool of 100 yard thread. 
 
04:13 
Favaro’s daddy developed his “trademark” way of splicing 
broken rods back together. Favaro is still using the  
technique to this day. Graphite rods of today don’t flex as 
much as the earlier fiberglass rods. Favaro explained, 
bamboo fishing rods were followed by solid glass, fiberglass 
rods after WWII. Next, hollow fiberglass rods to make them 
lighter. Then manufacturers began combining materials. 
That led to carbon graphite rods with different degrees of 
high modular graphites. Fenwick one of the first, followed by 
G. Loomis. Favaro’s sold many a fiberglass action rod in the 
early days--casting, fly, and spinning rods--available in basic 
colors. Today black is most common. Some rods sold by the 
Pro fisherman come in such colors as yellow and black 
(Skeet Reese), carrot stick orange, fluorescent green. 
Whatever color, action, length desired “they got it,” Favaro 
remarked. 
 
 
6 
07:15 
Some customers favor “Ugly Stik” rods that combine 
graphite with fiberglass tip. Only rod in the industry with 
seven year warranty. Most major companies warranty their 
rods anywhere from six months to a year. 
 
08:07 
Favaro’s sells rods; custom wrapped rods using blanks. 
Favaro’s daddy used to take Fenwick rods, which were 
yellow, and put purple wrapping on them to make “Tiger 
Rods” for Louisiana State University (LSU) fans.  
 
08:46 
Favaro shares story of LSU football player who wanted to 
become a surgeon (and did!). Would come by the shop. 
Favaro’s daddy would show him how to wrap and tie knots 
on a blank rod using different guides. He later earned All-
American status. “Dr. Casanova” still brings his reels in 
today to be serviced. 
 
09:48 
Many rods awaiting customer pick-up fitted with new tips, 
new guides, or spliced. Rods awaiting repair include the 
latest micro rods with tiny (micro) guides on them. If a 
fisherman uses too thick a line on these rods, the rings 
(guides) may pop. Describes reels being repaired or 
awaiting parts for a repair job. Favaro describes work areas 
in the shop. His helper Jeffery’s is up front; Favaro’s is 
hidden in the back. 
 
11:14 
There is also a work station to put line on, monofilament or 
the new braided line. Years ago they had Dacron lines, 
camouflaged lines in various colors. Most of the 
monofilaments are clear or clear blue, olive drab or green. 
There is also a solar monofilament line. Easy to track its 
motion.  
 
12:06 
Customers often do not know what type of line to use. 
Favaro recommends heavier 20 pound test line for cat 
fishing. Too heavy a test line (i.e. 40 pound) on a rod may 
cause it to break. Also will strip a reel out with too heavy a 
test line. Too heavy a test line on a jig pole will break the 
pole. Six and eight pound test line is fine, but a 20 pound 
test line may break the pole. For casting reels, common use 
is anywhere from 12 to 20 pound test line. For a spin cast 
reel anywhere from 10 to 12 to catch brim. For saltwater 
from 17 to upwards of 100 depending on the type of reel 
being used (spinning or casting reel).   
 
14:30 
“We try to fix things right the first time” so returns are rare.  
 
 
7 
15:06 
Favaro comments on a Shimano 300D spinning reel under 
repair. Missing a ball bearing. Comments on Red 
Ambassadeur spinning reel they recently repaired. Owner 
immediately went fishing with it at University Lake. Caught a 
record breaking 15 pound bass. Favaro commented, “Like 
to think we had something to do with it.” 
 
16:52 
After considerable effort Favaro is able to clear a path to his 
work desk. Super Lube is used to grease the reels. A 
multipurpose lubricant CRC is used to spray the bearings. 
Alcohol is used to clean the reels.  
 
17:42 
Use basic tools for repair: screw drivers and nut drivers to 
take the reel apart, thumb(?) files, various brushes to clean 
the reels out including denture and tooth brushes.  
 
19:05 
Favaro commented on different quality reels. Calcutta reel 
at $200 each versus an Ambassadeur spinning reel at $65 
to $75 each. Favaro commented on design of 5500C (Abu 
Garcia) Ambassadeur reel. The “Cadillac” of reels today, in 
Favaro’s view, are the Calcutta ($250), Kaleigh ($400-
$600), and Stella ($600) spinning reel. Offshore salt water 
reels runs thousands of dollars. Favaro commented on 
foreign spinning reels: Uccello (Italian), D.A.M (German), 
English, and Australian. 
 
23:40 
Favaro commented on his work routine. Also problems with 
reels that are difficult to resolve. Recently took a reel apart 
half a dozen to times to try to resolve a noise issue. Finally 
gave up and changed the one-way bearing. 
 
24:40 
Pricing for reel repairs varies from $12.00 to $15.00 per 
reel. Favaro resists gouging customers. “That’s why we’re 
still here today, I think...we treat people fairly.” 
 
25:29 
New customers come in everyday referred by friends who 
didn’t know about Favaro’s. Large retailers like Cabela’s 
and Bass Pro Shop refer customers to Favaro’s.  Also some 
customers outside the state insist on Favaro’s to service 
their rods and reels. 
 
27:21 
No one within the family to pass the business on to. 
Favaro’s cousins are into other things. “But they’ll be 
somebody come along that, hopefully, will keep it up,” 
Favaro concluded. 
 
27:48 
End of interview.