Finding Roots: Asian American Farmers in Contemporary America 
Laura Xiao 
February 10, 2021 
Interview conducted by Katelyn Reuther 
Laura Xiao farms in southern Vermont. 
This was a 
remote interview conducted during the COVID-19 pandemic. Laura Xiao joined the 
interview from Newfane, Vermont, and Katie Reuther joined from Boston, Massachusetts. 
Interview Log 
00:00:00 
Introductions 
00:00:41 
Laura describes her family's food culture when she was growing up. Both of 
her parents immigrated to the United States from Guangdong province, China, in 
their early twenties. They first lived in Nebraska, where they had a 
strong 
community of white Midwestern families and started incorporating stereotypical 
Midwestern American dishes into their diets. 
They raised Laura and her sister with a 
mix of southern Chinese (Cantonese) food 
and western food (from the Midwest). Laura's dad enjoyed barbecuing, so they 
also had slabs of meat at the same time. Laura recalls meals during the week 
alternating between Chinese food and Midwestern American food. When she was 
younger, it was important that they all ate together at the table, especially dinners. 
Food is a 
major part of how Laura looks back on her childhood. She learned to 
enjoy eating as an experience, and she jokes about being very food motivated 
now. Her sister, on the other hand, doesn't care about the experience of eating. 
Starting at a 
young age, Laura has always anticipated her next meal. 
00:05:05 
Laura says they had preferences for both Chinese food and western/American 
food at different times. Her dad loves the Souplantation buffet, so he would 
suggest going out to eat there or at a 
Cantonese restaurant nearby. Chinese food 
and American food were the main options. They didn't typically branch out into 
other cuisines. 
00:06:40 
When Laura initially started farming, it was more about how small-scale, organic 
farming has the potential to impact larger economic and social patterns than about 
Laura Xiao Interview Log, February 10, 2021 
1 
a 
personal sense of her food culture. Laura liked food, cooking, and working 
outdoors. 
00:08:08 
Laura talks about how she got involved with agriculture and farming. When she 
graduated from college, she knew she wanted a 
short-term physical labor job. She 
never felt like she belonged in very academic spaces, and by the end of college, 
she was questioning what value a 
heady, intellectual space had for her. She 
wanted to get back to the idea of being someone who likes to be outside and 
enjoys physicality, so she joined a 
nonprofit backcountry trail crew for the 
summer. By the end of the season, she was fed up with the white outdoor bro 
culture of trail work. She still wanted to do something outdoors, but wanted to be 
motivated by something that felt more meaningful. 
For her, that meant trying to create more resilient, sustainable, small, local-based 
economies that revolve around working closely with and on land. Farming felt 
like an obvious transition. That winter, she started looking for farm 
apprenticeships and internships. She ended up interning at Mountain Bounty Farm 
in the foothills of northern California. 
She went into the internship thinking it would just be for one season. After 
majoring in environmental policy, Laura felt that it would be disingenuous to do 
policy work without having done work in that field. She believes there is a 
disconnect between policy makers and people impacted by policy, and there needs 
to be more policy making from people doing that work. If she were to pursue a 
career in policy, she felt obligated to have some farm experience first. 
Since then, she has dropped the interest in transitioning to policy and is focusing 
more on what it looks like to be a 
serious farmer. 
00:12:20 
While attending Middlebury College in Vermont, Laura lived in Weybridge 
House, the College's local food house. That experience was one of the best 
decisions she made about how to spend her time and where to put her energy. It 
helped Laura understand the realities of local food and what it means when 
people say they want to buy locally. 
Buying locally is a 
commitment, and it involves both sacrifices and privileges. 
Even if you have the privilege of making decisions about how you buy your food, 
you still have to make sacrifices (money, time, the work to source food, 
limitations to diet depending on season). Laura did not eat a 
one-hundred percent 
all-local diet, but she did get a 
taste for what that might look like, how difficult it 
is, and how limited consumers are in their choices by what the market looks like. 
Laura notes that it's important not to place the burden on consumer choice, but to 
step back and recognize that not everyone is even in the position to eat in a 
certain 
Laura Xiao Interview Log, February 10, 2021 
2 
way because of what's available. One person's buying power is not going to 
create a 
diverse marketplace. It's not any single family's responsibility to do that. 
A 
lot of the language around consumer choice and food puts the responsibility on 
individual people, a 
strategy under capitalism to prevent change from happening 
and to hide the fact that change is not happening at a 
systemic level. It scapegoats 
the individuals who don't have the power to do that. 
00:15:57 
As a 
freshman in college, Laura went on a 
service learning trip to Lancaster 
County, Pennsylvania, where she and ten other students delved into the complex 
world of natural gas fracking. They stayed in a 
house, bought groceries, and 
cooked together. That felt really good to Laura, who had been living in a 
dorm 
and going to the dining hall for meals. Two of the students in the group lived at 
Weybridge House, and she recalls talking to them about their experiences at 
Weybridge and how they compared to those during the service trip. 
00:18:30 
Laura started living in Weybridge House as soon as she could based on the 
College's housing rules. She lived there for a 
total of four semesters, plus one 
month over the summer while she was a 
preservation intern. 
00:19:10 
Living in Weybridge pushed Laura to pursue food and agriculture afterwards. At 
the beginning, she wanted to be there for the personal benefit (living in a 
house on 
the outskirts of campus, having access to a 
kitchen, being able to cook and make 
her own cup of coffee). Making her own cup of coffee was one of many daily 
experiences that built up. Living in Weybridge and being a 
preservation intern 
made Laura think more about scale and the local economy that goes beyond the 
individual person-level. 
00:20:30 
Laura describes her time as a 
preservation intern at Weybridge House. As part of 
the yearly budget, Weybridge pays students to preserve food in the summer and 
early fall when the Vermont growing season is at its peak. They primarily focus 
on canning, freezing, and sometimes dehydrating. Her work involved calling 
farms, ordering food, and then processing it after it arrived. Laura again notes the 
sacrifices and privileges people need to make and have in order to eat in a 
certain 
way. 
Preserving food is a 
whole skill set that a 
lot of people take for granted. With the 
pandemic, it's actually very difficult to get gardening and food preservation 
supplies. Ultimately, it's a 
good thing that people are now interested in valuing 
those skills. During the internship, Laura had a 
lot of learning moments around 
how to preserve food. She didn't grow up gardening, so she didn't know anything 
about preserving food. She says canning is a 
whole science that looks a 
lot easier 
than it is. Even today when she works on farms, it's important for Laura to do a 
lot of canning to preserve food. She can trace her commitment to canning to that 
Laura Xiao Interview Log, February 10, 2021 
3 
summer, and to feeling like she wants to get better and keep experimenting with 
new recipes. 
00:23:38 
Only after interning at the farm in California did Laura get any sense of growing 
food. At Weybridge, she wasn't interested in farming, but in what farming means 
to society as whole. She didn't ever think she would decide to farm. 
00:24:20 
Laura ended up choosing the farm internship in California for two main reasons: 
first, she missed being closer to her family. Second, when her Vermont trail job 
ended in October, it wasn't an option for her to start farming at that time of year if 
she stayed in Vermont. Because of the timing of the growing seasons, it was better 
for her to return to California to start farming. 
00:25:13 
Laura explains how she chose to intern at Mountain Bounty Farm in California. 
She knew she wanted to be on a 
farm that had a 
crew, and that she wanted to work 
with other young people. She was afraid of being the one outsider on the 
American nuclear family farm, which was what her perception of a 
farm in the 
United States was at that time. She also wanted to be on a 
farm that emphasized 
the educational piece. 
Mountain Bounty wanted everyone to be learning, and to learn by doing. This is 
in comparison to looking for a 
farm internship program through a 
university 
extension where you learn the skills, but not in a 
production farm setting with the 
same bottom line. 
00:27:13 
Laura describes her experience at Mountain Bounty Farm as a "mixed 
experience." She assumed a 
lot of college-educated people without farming 
backgrounds who started farming in their twenties and thirties were all interested 
in farming as a 
way of subverting capitalism. Much to her disappointment, that 
was not the case. Laura views farming as a 
practice with the potential to push 
back against late-stage capitalism if done in a 
certain way. Coming to terms with 
the fact that not everyone thinks capitalism is a 
problem was difficult for Laura. 
Laura was the only person of color on the crew, and one of only a 
handful of 
people of color in the small farming community where Mountain Bounty was 
located. Despite California's size and reputation for ethnic and racial diversity, 
Laura found herself in one of the whitest counties in the state. It was difficult for 
her to be there and feel so alone a 
lot of the time. She also struggled with one of 
the other interns who was having problems of his own at the farm. 
Laura spent the first half of the season thinking about leaving, and then shifted to 
being very determined not to leave. She knew she wanted to stay and see her 
Laura Xiao Interview Log, February 10, 2021 
4 
commitment through, but she also thought about what it would look like if she 
left. 
She was excited about having a 
culture of young, active farmers, but then felt 
pressured to be part of such a 
big group of people. In addition, the whole town 
community was familiar with the farm, and Laura didn't like how visible it was 
(and thus how visible she was as part of it). 
00:32:03 
Laura worked at Mountain Bounty for one season. She started working there on 
her twenty-third birthday, and she stayed until Thanksgiving. 
00:33:21 
Laura still values the fact that her first farm experience was on a 
financially viable 
production farm. She always had to be working fast and looking for ways to be 
more efficient. She notes that it's exhausting always having to look for ways for 
the farm to get better and faster, and she has deep respect for people that are able 
to do that and not feel burned out. 
Laura says the potential for burnout is very high and normalized in farming. 
There need to be more conversations about how people can push themselves and 
others to be more efficient, but at the same time, it's really hard to be in an 
environment where you're never good enough, fast enough, etcetera. How do we 
find a 
balance? She still thinks a 
lot about these questions today, and believes that 
a 
farm needs to be at a 
certain pace and efficiency to stay viable. 
00:36:01 
Although she originally intended on leaving after the season finished, Laura met 
someone and ended up staying in the area to continue spending time with him. To 
keep doing outdoor work, Laura looked for farm work at different farms. At the 
end of her second season farming in Nevada City, she felt like she wanted to 
continue with farming into the future. She says the end of year two was a 
turning 
point for her short- to medium-term commitment to farming. 
00:37:20 
Laura started farming in April of 2018, and by the fall of 2019, it felt more like a 
salient choice to her. 
00:37:44 
By the end of 2019, Laura says farming felt good, and she wanted to keep being 
challenged in certain ways. She and her partner decided to leave California and 
move to Washington to try farming there. Moving to Walla Walla, Washington, 
felt like a 
situation that would be equally good for both of them. 
00:38:38 
Laura's experience in Walla Walla, Washington, was difficult. Interpersonal 
differences with the two owners made going to work every day very stressful. 
Laura wanted a 
farm job where she had more managerial responsibilities, so part 
of the stress was also the management component of the job. Along with a 
Laura Xiao Interview Log, February 10, 2021 
5 
management role comes more potential for disagreement with other managers. 
When Laura's opinions and decisions came into conflict with those of the 
owners, they had difficulty communicating that in a 
way where everyone felt 
good. 
Fundamentally, Laura believes people should stick up for each other, especially 
when you recognize that there's a 
power dynamic. It was important for her as 
someone who had named positional power to uplift people at the farm that didn't 
have that power. She felt the owners discouraged her from doing that. 
00:42:06 
Interactions with and comments from the owners of the farm make Laura think 
her experiences were related to her race. She believes she was cast as being too 
outspoken and too disagreeable, and if she was a 
white woman, it wouldn't have 
been interpreted in that way. 
One of the owners once called her "hard to read," which was a 
time for her to 
question whether the person said it because she's a 
woman, a 
person of color, or a 
woman of color. Those two identities are so interlinked that you can't separate 
why it was said from one reason or the other. Laura is skeptical the farm owner 
would say that to a 
man, or even a 
white woman on the crew. A 
final debrief at the 
end of the season put the rest of the season in perspective for Laura. 
00:45:41 
Laura discusses race in her work. There are so many little moments in Laura's life 
that they are now normalized. She can never experience farming while not being 
an Asian American woman, so it makes her question everything. Whiteness and 
capitalism make those who are not in the dominant position of power question 
themselves. She has experienced a 
lot of microaggressions and annoying, 
offensive comments from white people. 
Laura has been mistaken for being a 
different Asian woman in the area. She also 
notes that there are many offensive seed and vegetable variety names in the world 
of small-scale, organic farming. There have been instances where her white co-
workers refer to "Asian" eggplant and "normal" eggplant, or "Thai" basil and 
"normal" basil. 
She also wonders what people are saying based on her identity as a 
farmer, and 
what they are saying based on seeing her in a 
rural, white area. Although it's not 
all related to her being in a 
farming space, it's all interlinked because farming is 
the reason she has ended up in these rural, white spaces. 
00:50:02 
When Laura first started farming, she assumed everyone farms because they're 
trying to find ways to push back against late-stage industrial capitalism. After 
Laura Xiao Interview Log, February 10, 2021 
6 
realizing that's not the case, she decided she wanted to work with and for people 
who are clearly skeptical, if not anti- capitalist. 
She describes the class versus race debate, where some believe we must focus on 
class in order to eliminate hierarchy and oppression, while others believe we need 
to focus on race-based marginalization in order to eliminate other forms of 
oppression (including class hierarchy). Now, the next iteration of Laura thinking 
about farming is finding ways to work with people who want to farm for the same 
reasons she does: to use farming as a 
tool to remake local economies and make 
them more equitable, including on race-based lines of oppression and hierarchy. 
She's realizing that it's important for people to have a 
strong anti-racist analysis in 
their work, not just an anti-capitalist one. 
How can you be a 
financially viable farm business and do so in a 
way that's 
actively anti-capitalist? A 
lot of people, including white farmers, struggle with 
this. Laura notes that asking, "How can you be an anti-racist farmer in your day-
to-day work and how you run your business?" is a 
big question. It's easier if 
you have a 
broader definition of what anti-racist work means, and don't build into 
it the elimination of all forms of market economies. 
00:53:43 
Laura wants there to be more farms where the workers and owners have a 
strong 
commitment to actively fighting the inevitable racism that shows up in their day-
to-day lives. Everyone is complicit in white supremacy, especially white people. 
Laura says she herself upholds white supremacy on a 
daily basis. She is trying to 
be around people who understand how that's possible and that that's work they 
also need to be doing. She thinks there are a 
lot of new techniques yet to be 
invented for how people can run economically viable farm businesses that do not 
exploit people, land, water, air, or soil. 
Laura likes focusing on the power of imagination. One of her favorite writers, 
Adrienne Maree Brown, writes about the power of imagination to bring forth 
better, more evolved ways of living. Laura wants there to be more farms where 
people believe in that, in trying new things, and in the power of things they don't 
yet know or haven't tried, thought, or imagined before. 
00:56:48 
Laura is starting to think about whether she wants to start her own farm. She 
doesn't quite know what she's looking for, but she knows it's hard to find. One 
way to settle into something might be to create the thing she wants the most. For 
the next few years, Laura is trying to commit intensively to thinking about 
whether she wants to start her own farm business. If so, she wants to do research 
and understand how whatever she creates can fit into existing structures and 
support the work that people are already doing. Instead of establishing something 
completely new, she wants to take into account what more marginalized folks are 
Laura Xiao Interview Log, February 10, 2021 
7 
already doing so that she can use her resources and privileges to support that 
work. 
00:58:35 
Laura has struggled to find strong community around being an Asian American 
farmer. She recognizes that she doesn't have a 
strong community around being 
Asian American in the first place. Only since she started farming has Laura begun 
to own her Asian American identity. Being in a 
very white space has made her 
lean into that more. 
Laura has had important support from the Asian American Farmers Alliance in 
California. Last year, while she was outside of California and enduring the 
pandemic, it felt good for her to get the Alliance's emails. Getting those emails 
was a 
reminder that "we exist." There are a 
lot more Asian diaspora farmers than 
people think, and Laura is interested in learning more about them and about the 
history of agriculture, especially in California. That history has been purposefully 
erased to disconnect people from knowing where their food comes from, but also 
to hide how immigrants have always been the backbone labor of this country. 
Laura notes how closely linked the Gold Rush is to Chinese labor in California, 
and how that relates to her life as a 
Chinese-descended person deciding to live in 
Gold Rush country. 
1:03:56 
Laura's second year farming, she worked with a 
Japanese diaspora farmer in 
California. He grew up on an agricultural commune in Japan and came to the 
United States at different times under different visas. He ended up going to school 
in northern California and graduated from the University of California Davis with 
a 
bachelor's degree in economics. After graduating, he continued to navigate how 
to farm in the United States, especially with his unique background. 
Laura knew him during her first season working at Mountain Bounty Farm, and 
then she worked with him during her second season farming in the area. They 
talked about living in that area and being Asian farmers. He was an important 
connection for Laura during that time. 
1:06:40 
Laura wants to work with more Asian diaspora farmers, but she says that it is 
tricky because of who lives where. Her interest in working with other Asian 
American farmers, and being around other Asian people in general, is sometimes 
in conflict with her desire to live in rural areas. She knows there are many rural 
places with a 
lot of people of color, but they are purposefully hidden. Despite 
there being more Asian-owned farms around cities like Seattle and San Francisco, 
Laura says she doesn't do well living within close proximity to a 
big city. 
Laura Xiao Interview Log, February 10, 2021 
8 
In return for choosing to live at a 
certain density, she must sacrifice being around 
Asian American communities or other communities of color with whom she 
shares experiences. 
1:09:24 
Laura talks about how the 2020 coronavirus pandemic and major mobilizations 
around police murders of Black people impacted her and her work. The pandemic 
significantly impacted stress levels (for her and everyone else) at her job last year. 
The farm owners were stressed about transitioning their farm marketing outlets 
away from high-end restaurants and in-person farmers markets. As the pack shed 
manager, this shift affected Laura the most. It felt like her responsibilities were 
unclear from the beginning. Everyone's heightened stress levels made 
communication among crew members much more difficult. In addition, because 
the crew was unable to have any pre-pandemic bonding time, it was hard for them 
to really know each other without the added pandemic stress. 
When George Floyd was murdered and people across the country responded, they 
had conversations on the farm about race that didn't go well. As a 
farm, they 
never established clear communication norms or protocols about anything, 
particularly anything very emotionally charged. It was difficult for Laura to be the 
only person of color amidst all white people who were coming to terms with their 
own whiteness and white privilege. Their conversations are not the same ones 
Laura needs to be having as someone who is not white, but still benefits from 
white supremacy. It was frustrating for Laura to feel that there was no awareness 
around how those conversations were impacting and harming her. 
Laura and her partner, who is white, tried to suggest boundaries around white-
people-only conversations, but they were not interpreted as clear boundaries by 
others. Laura noted how important it is in the future to enlist the help of her white, 
male partner to establish clear boundaries around what is and isn't appropriate to 
be processing around people of color. Laura feels that her responses to people 
who were processing their whiteness were used against her. 
1:15:42 
Laura describes her dream food system. She wants everyone to be able to work 
outside; to breathe fresh air; to be near land, water, and plants; to grow things and 
be compensated well for it. Farming shouldn't be something you access. It should 
be something you do if you want to. It shouldn't be a 
privilege, or used as a 
tool 
to exploit people. Laura emphasizes that her experience farming has been in the 
very privileged white, college-educated, organic, small-scale farm movement. She 
is not talking about the dominant food system of the United States, where mostly 
Latinx people are exploited. The organic system only exists because of the 
conventional one. People should also be able to grow culturally relevant food that 
they want to eat, grown in ways that do not degrade land or the planet. 
Laura Xiao Interview Log, February 10, 2021 
9 
1:19:33 
Laura gives advice to other people of color who are trying to get into farming. She 
says: just know that you're not alone, even if it feels like it. Have faith that there 
is a 
community, or that by you continuing to farm, you are building the possibility 
of community. The first wave of farmers of color is necessary to build a 
larger 
community. After hearing from other farmers of color who have had much more 
isolating experiences, Laura feels lucky to be coming into farming a 
bit later. 
The internet has been important for Laura. Despite being anti-social media, she 
made an Instagram account during her second year of farming and saw how it 
connects a 
lot of small-scale farmers. The world of small-scale, organic farming is 
very isolating, even for white people, and Instagram is a 
tool for farmers to 
connect and learn technical information. Within the small-scale, organic farm 
Instagram culture, there are pockets of farmers of color. Instagram helps Laura see 
visually what's out there and what she could try herself. 
1:23:43 
Laura notes that Instagram serves a 
dual purpose as a 
platform for not just farmer-
to-farmer connection, but also farmer-to-customer communication. Farmers can 
share a 
fake sense of what their world is like. 
1:24:52 
End of interview 
Laura Xiao Interview Log, February 10, 2021 
10