Transcription: Alicia Diaz (English) 
1 
CT:  Ok, we’re starting the interview. My name is Cynthia Torres and I am an Archie Green 
Fellow grant recipient and this is our first interview for Custodians and Janitors in Colorado. It is 
September 22, Wednesday, 2021. We’re going to go around the room and introduce ourselves. 
 
JF:  My name is Jennifer Fluri and I’m a professor at the University of Colorado. 
 
MS: My name is Manuela Sifuentes and I am an interpreter. 
 
AD: My name is Alicia and I am a worker at a hospital and I work in housekeeping. 
 
JF:  Alicia, could you also tell us your birth year? 
 
AD: I was born in 1967 
 
1:07  
 
JF:  Can you describe your job duties to us? 
 
AD: So my responsibilities are to disinfect public areas and also areas in imaging. And at this 
time I’m also working in other areas of the hospital like surgery and sometimes also making 
beds. 
 
JF:  Could you tell me a little bit about yourself and how you came to live in Colorado? 
 
AD: The work that I did previously to this job was in home care. I came to Colorado really 
looking for the opportunity for better pay and also following my son. About three years ago I 
had visited Colorado and had very much enjoyed it. I liked the climate here, and so that’s when 
I decided to move here to also be with my son. 
 
3:25  
 
JF:  When did you start your job? How did that come about? 
 
AD: So, my son helped me find this job. It was the first job that I applied to. I started working at 
the hospital in food service, but as I said, I really was looking for a better paying job and I heard 
that in housekeeping, the EVS (environmental services) department, which is the housekeeping, 
I heard that they offered better pay and so I applied for that job and that’s what I have and it’s 
been great. That was two and a half years ago. 
 
5:05  
 
JF:  Can you describe how your job has changed over the last two and a half years? 
 
Transcription: Alicia Diaz (English) 
2 
AD: The biggest change was when I started in housekeeping, just learning and getting familiar 
with the chemicals and learning about the housekeeping which is something I hadn’t done. But 
the biggest, biggest change really happened once the pandemic started.  
 
6:15 
 
JF: Can you tell us about when you first started, or describe your first day of work since it was 
all so new to you? 
 
AD: My first day was a little hard because you want to really learn all of these things in one day, 
but also to get to know the team, to meet the team and get to know everybody. Also, to learn 
and remember the different parts, the different areas of the hospital where we need to clean. It 
was a bit difficult. 
 
7:47 
 
JF:  How did you learn what to do? Did someone teach you or did you sort of just learn on your 
own? Could you describe that a little bit? 
 
AD: Yes, yes, there was definitely training. Training on getting to know the chemicals, also how 
to mix the chemicals, how to keep areas clean, and how to keep your little cart that you have, 
how to keep it organized, so yes, there was training and it was very, very good training. 
 
9:04  
 
JF:  Can you describe your work environment? Think of this and describe to someone who has 
never been in your work environment – sort of paint a picture, if you will. 
 
AD: One of the things I never thought or I never pictured was that I would be in a situation of 
cleaning surgery rooms, like the O.R. It’s really very difficult because we have to do the cleaning 
and disinfecting, we have to disinfect all of the pieces that the surgeons use--the operating 
equipment, the bed. We have to look for potential blood splatters on the walls, and on tables, 
and on the instruments. It was hard and I felt really that was something difficult to learn, but 
with time, one of the things I feel very proud about is that they have now asked me to do 
training. So, for me to train others on the proper way to clean and disinfect. And I feel very 
proud of that.  
 
12:25 
 
JF:  Can you tell me more about your co-workers and your relationship with them? You 
mentioned the training, but if you could just sort of expand on your connection and relationship 
with your co-workers? 
 
Transcription: Alicia Diaz (English) 
3 
AD: For me, from the very beginning, I wanted to establish clear communication channels with 
my co-workers and always open to be able to share what I already know or what I have already 
learned. To teach other people about that. Especially if new employees come on, to help them 
and teach them what I already know how to do. Also, to ask people, “Hey, how was your day? 
How’s it going?” But always in a way that is not quite a friendship, but to establish good 
comradery with my co-workers. I don’t get into their private life, but to establish good 
relationships. 
 
14:49 
 
JF:  So, you mentioned before how things changed after the pandemic started, so would you 
walk me through a typical day both before and after COVID or they pandemic started. 
 
AD: The biggest change with the pandemic was learning to use new chemicals and learning how 
to clean and disinfect--really fully disinfect--all areas in a room. That was sort of the hard part. 
But we learned and it ended up being very good for all of us. There was definitely an increase in 
the amount of work activity and learning all of the new ways and steps that we needed to have 
in order to clean and disinfect all the areas. This also included the proper way for us to wear the 
gowns, the masks, the glasses and the gloves and to have the masks on at all times, 100% for 
the full 8 hours that we were at work. But it was good, and for me, I think, the other thing that 
was important for me is that I felt very safe at the hospital. I could just be there. It made me 
feel very safe. 
 
19:15  
 
JF:  What special knowledge or skills are you required to know for your job? You talked a little 
bit about that with the medical tools and being able to sterilize them, just as one example, but 
could you talk about how that changed at all after COVID or after the pandemic? 
 
AD: How to disinfect other things.  
 
JF:  She talked a little bit about the training she had for her job when she first started, but did 
that change, like special training or any kind of specific training change after COVID, I guess? 
 
AD: There were trainings on how to remove your gloves, trainings on how to sanitize, definitely 
a lot of emphasis on us never sort of overlooking areas that needed to be disinfected. A lot of 
the training was on how to put on a gown, how to put on the gloves, how to use the sanitizer, 
how to sanitize your hands, how to wear the mask. When we were leaving a room that we had 
gone in to clean that was an infected room, also how to take everything off and what to do with 
a mask after you had left a room that had been infected. All of those things. For me it was hard 
in terms of learning--remembering--to do all of these things, at the beginning, but then it 
becomes habit. So those were the trainings.  
 
23:51  
Transcription: Alicia Diaz (English) 
4 
JF:  Could you talk a little bit about how working in the hospital after COVID affected you 
personally, in your personal life at all? 
 
AD: So, no, personally, I don’t feel that I have been affected by the pandemic. There was 
definitely different things to learn and to do things differently at work, but from a human 
perspective, I don’t feel like that it affected me. I didn’t get nervous. I also didn’t have a lot of 
fear--so, no. 
 
25:38  
 
CT: I just wanted to follow up with that. Was your family at home worried at all about you being 
impacted by COVID by being in a hospital? 
 
AD: Yes, especially my son. Really, he did not want me to go into work at the hospital. But I told 
him, “No, son, actually I feel safer at the hospital than outside of the hospital.” I feel safer there 
because they have chemicals to disinfect and they had all this training. And the hospital is a 
place that really needs to keep everything clean and disinfected for the sick patients, for the 
general public, for the workers. So, for them, they were a little afraid that I might be more 
impacted at the hospital, but, no, I wasn’t, and I did not get infected and to now, I feel great. 
 
28:13  
 
JF:  Just as a clarifying question, did the hospital provide all the extra--the gown, the mask, the 
gloves--was that provided by the hospital or did you have to pay for that? 
 
AD: The hospital has everything and provided it for us and we did not have to pay anything. 
They give us everything that we needed. 
 
JF:  That’s wonderful to hear. 
 
29:07  
 
JF:  Can you tell me what is most meaningful to you about your job? 
 
AD: First of all, I feel–I just feel happy to have a job. So, that’s the number one thing. I’m very 
glad that I have a job and with this job that I was able to get as soon as I got here to Colorado. I 
like it. I like it. I don’t know, I like what I do. Yeah, I feel good. 
JF:  Wonderful. That’s a great answer. 
 
30:27  
 
JF:  What advice would you give to someone starting in your job or your field? 
 
Transcription: Alicia Diaz (English) 
5 
AD: To me, I think all jobs are the same. If you go in and you are going to learn to do something-
-at least, I think, for me, I really enjoy working in this place. So, if you go to work at a hospital, 
the main thing is to be enthusiastic about what you are learning and to have a good outlook on 
your job and be excited. I think if somebody applies at a hospital, it’s because they would like to 
work at a hospital. It’s really about being enthusiastic about your job and you’ll like it. 
 
32:22  
 
JF:  So, I’m finished with the formal questions in the interview, but if you want to add anything, 
or is there anything else you want to share with us about your work or your life, we’d love to 
hear it.  
 
AD: The only thing that I would sort of have to add is that from the moment I came to Colorado, 
I just felt so, so good, from when I came from New Mexico to here. Like I said earlier, I started 
working in food service without knowing anything, and so, I’ve been very grateful for everybody 
that has helped me, that has taught me things, for all the training that I have received. Training 
from like how to use the grill to make the hamburgers, also how to serve people at the 
cafeteria, when you’re serving the food. You would see all the hospital workers go by and that 
was great because I got to meet a lot of different people. Back in New Mexico, I was not a very 
social person, but here I’ve sort of opened up. I’ve lost my shyness and have been able to be a 
more social person. So, I’m grateful for everybody. 
 
35:26  
 
JF: Well, thank you so much for your time. I really appreciate you participating in this project. 
 
AD: Thank you for the invitation and this is another place where I’m getting to know new 
people, meet new people, and socialize, so I’m very grateful.