Community Health Workers in Downstate New York 
Interviewee, Olga Bracero 
Interviewers, Aaron Paige and Elinor Levy 
Conducted on August 20, 2021 
Interview conducted remotely via video conferencing software 
Aaron Paige (00:00:00): 
Today is Friday, August 20th, 2021. My name is Aaron Page spelling, A A R O N. Last name 
Paige, P A I G E and I am here today with fellow interviewer and folklorist Elinor Levy, spelled 
E L I N O R. Last name Levy, L E V Y today, Eleanor and I will be interviewing Olga Bracero 
as part of the Archie Green Fellowship project, titled Community Health Workers in Downstate 
New York. Olga, would you please state and spell your full name? 
Olga Bracero (00:00:46): 
Sure. My name is Olga Bracero. O L G A. B like boy R A C E R O. 
Aaron Paige (00:00:57): 
And Olga, where were you born and where did you grow up? 
Olga Bracero (00:01:02): 
I was born in Mexico, Chihuahua, Mexico. And I can let you know right now, part of my life has 
been in Mexico and in the U.S. 
Aaron Paige (00:01:14): 
Where do you currently work? And, and what is the general location of where that work is 
based? 
Olga Bracero (00:01:21): 
I work in Sun River Health in Goshen at the Alamo Health Center. This health center is also 
seeing a lot of farmworkers and it's basis in a lot of community too. 
Aaron Paige (00:01:43): 
And what is your current job title at Sun River Health? 
Olga Bracero (00:01:46): 
Right now, I'm a patient navigator. 
Elinor Levy (00:01:52): 
And what does that mean? I'm sorry. 
Olga Bracero (00:01:56): 
The patient navigator means like the bridge of connections for farmworkers. And not only 
farmworkers, for everybody. If a patient come today and my provider give a referral, I'm the one 
who made those appointments. I'm the one who helped the patient and let them know where to 
go. Not only that, we also, we do a negotiation with the prices of the visit. We do a lot of support 
for them. We provide transportation and we provide also a translator in case they need it. 
Aaron Paige (00:02:41): 
Olga, we'd like to know a little about your work history. Would you please tell us about what led 
you to being a patient navigator, a community health outreach worker. Were there any 
experiences that you had growing up that led you to make this choice? How did you come to do 
this work as a community health worker? 
Olga Bracero (00:03:08): 
Well, I'm going to tell you a little bit how that I start being in the health center. It's going to be 26 
years already when I was a farmworker. The ___came to me and they said that they would like to 
offer something better for me. Giving me the opportunity to be in in the AmeriCorps, no the 
Vista program. The Vista program. And they send me to the Alamo in Goshen. That's where I 
start working, doing education, transportation. And after that, I complete a year and then I moved 
to Peekskill. That was before it was a Peekskill area health center. I did the Vista program. No, 
I'm sorry, The AmeriCorps program. Four years, like almost like eight months. After that I 
started working at the WIC program and when I see an opportunity to come back to work with 
the migrant side, I moved to New Paltz. 
Olga Bracero (00:04:14): 
From there I was working about four years with the farmworkers…all this beautiful community. 
I've really been enjoying working with all farmworkers. And from there, when I see the 
opportunity, I moved to the Goshen side at the Alamo. Since that time, I've been here. I was 
doing the outreach worker. Then I moved to community partner and now I'm a patient navigator. 
But I think that everything is the same. It's always with the community helping the patients to 
follow... I'm gonna give you an example. When our patients come to us, they come for a reason. 
They have problems and they need a solution. So we are the solution. They come with us. I look 
for the solution. And they're happy. And this is the point. And not only that, they're very, very 
happy because we have the time. We spend time with them. It's not like, oh, I'll call you or come 
back the next day. No, we see them right away. And they want solution. If they don't see 
solution, but no one says that because most of them, all our patients, they get the solution. I can 
share with you a lot of histories of the people that they've been here many, many years, 
farmworkers, coming like for, and they need surgery. They come here and they got what they 
need. 
Elinor Levy (00:06:09): 
So they wait until they come back to this area for their surgeries? 
Olga Bracero (00:06:15): 
Well, when people are here in the area working, you know, our community, they never see any 
doctor in Mexico. Most of our people that are here in this area in Goshen, they are not only from 
Mexico, but years ago, there was only Mexican and there was some of them from Honduras, in 
the beginning I remember. Usually, we don't see doctors in Mexico. We don't see dentists, 
ophthalmology, nothing. When we come here, we have problems. We don't come to see a doctor 
until we are very, very sick. That's why we have to go there. We have to go talk to them. Ask 
them how their doing, if they need to see a doctor, if they don't have the time, because I know 
when they come here, they come to work because they need money. 
Olga Bracero (00:07:14): 
They have to send money to, to their family. And when they come here, if they're sick, my 
provider gives the referral and I do my part. It's not easy. It takes time. Then we have the 
solution because we have the outreach worker who provides transportation and the interpretation. 
There is something good. I'm the one who is in charge of make the appointments and also doing 
the applications for the financial assistance program or to get in touch or to, I'm the bridge also to 
get them Medicaid, emergency Medicaid for patients. So basically we do everything for them. 
And then we live in our health center. They come here and they say to me that this is their home. 
They feel like they are with the family because everybody is very nice with them. Everybody 
speaks Spanish also. And if someone doesn’t speak Spanish, they try. This is home, the second 
home for them. A lot of them, they say that it feels like home. And that's something that made 
me so happy. 
Elinor Levy (00:08:39): 
Do any of them know that you were a farm worker once ? 
Olga Bracero (00:08:44): 
Some. Maybe no. But sometimes I share with them and they are like [inaudible], are you sure? I 
say yes, I used to be working in the same place as you. And I have to ride my bicycle 40 minutes 
every day to come and to go home. That's what I say to them. But not everybody, some of them. 
Yes. 
Elinor Levy (00:09:07): 
Do you think that the ones you tell, does that make them feel more comfortable? 
Olga Bracero (00:09:11): 
Yes, because when I start talking to them, I ask them what you do? Well, I did that part too. I 
remember being in a high area, washing all those potatoes. Are you sure Olga? Are you really, 
you've been doing that job? I say yes. Then not only that, I say I was also, when onions are, fill it 
up, I close it and put the "y yo puse el saco de sebollas a un lado. Yo lo cerraba y lo ponia.” So 
they know what I'm talking about. 
Olga Bracero (00:09:47): 
And they're very happy. And I also am from Mexico. I'm from Chihuahua. But let me tell you 
something. I feel like there's somebody from where you come, that's from what you have inside. 
That's it. Because I remember working in New Paltz, there was a lot of people from Bangladesh. 
They're so good. I remember taking the WIC checks to the houses. Those ladies, when they come 
to the clinic, you don't see her face. There was her face was covered. But when you go to the 
house, there was nothing on the face. That was something beautiful in my life that I've been seen, 
being in New Paltz. Different communities, different beliefs, different, but at the end, for me, 
that's the heart. That's the passion to have people with love, patience, compassion. That's it. 
Aaron Paige (00:10:57): 
Did you have any experience of community health work or what you would call maybe patient 
outreach or patient navigation in Mexico when you were growing up? Community health work is 
really essential the health ecosystems of a lot of places outside of the United States. So I was just 
wondering if you had any experience of it. 
Olga Bracero (00:11:26): 
No, I was a secretary. I always seen that I was very patient with people. I also had a lot of people 
___on me. I can say something. I grew up with a very poor family. My father died when I was 
five years old. So my mother was working for many years. I say one day I would like to work 
and my mother can stop working. I don't see my mom because she was working six days a week. 
Since that time, I remember that I has to work and help my family and my mother, but not only 
my family and my mother. I think that is something that you already have it inside of you. Not 
everybody has those talents. I've been helping a lot of patients that are crossing through my life. 
That's natural. It's nothing like that you have to do it because you have to do it. You are natural. 
Elinor Levy (00:12:43): 
When you were a farm worker, can you tell us about your first experience with Sun River Health 
or it was Hudson River Health, then I'm sure. 
Olga Bracero (00:12:53): 
I can share that I never know about what is the Alamo clinic. I didn't know that. I remember that 
I was working at M&M. It's not too far away from here. And one day I have a pain on my molar 
and I really, I don't know what to do. I don't know what to say. But at the person that I was 
living, there was American people. And they take me to another doctor, but I never know about 
the Alamo until I came to work. But let me tell you something. When I came to that clinic, I 
remember, I know how to put my name, address, telephone number. How old are you? That's the 
basic. So they say to me, Olga, you're gonna start transporting patients to Westchester. And I say 
and what is Westchester? That day, I went to pick up the patient and I remember saying to the 
patient, excuse me, do you know where is Westchester. Do you where we going? She said, don't 
worry Olga, I'll let you know where we going. And she speak English. 
Olga Bracero (00:14:16): 
I never forgot. She take me to the place. But after that, when I'm going back, do you know that is 
a lot of place, a lot of office over there. When I went the second time, it was not easy for me. I 
remember going early, like maybe an hour early, if I get lost. So every time that I make an 
appointment for a patient to take it to Westchester, they send me directions. It was no cellulars. 
We was probably computer, not too much. We don't have a computer at that time. So it was not 
easy for me. It was very, very difficult. But, you know, I learned. I learned how to get there. I 
remember people from India, all the time in the gas station asking do you know where is this 
address? I definitely, I didn't understand what they say to me. But I say thank you so much. 
Olga Bracero (00:15:15): 
And I went to the van without understand anything. But let me tell you something, I learned to 
do my job by myself. Everything that I was doing of that time, I did it by myself. Nobody was 
here telling you what to do. And when you learn something by yourself, it's something that you 
never going to forget. I have connections with doctors. I talking to doctors, you know, we don't 
have money. Our patients they're farmworkers. They start saying to me, you know Olga, they 
going to pay $10. We have a doctor. There is Dr. Ramos. He's wonderful. I know him 20, 26 
years. He's still seeing our patients. And right now he's seeing our patients for free, for zero 
money. He is so good. So not only Dr. Ramos. We have other patients. They're very happy. 
Olga Bracero (00:16:17): 
I talk with them about what I do and what community we serve. They're very happy to have our 
patients. We have doctor, that's under _____Oh my God, oh my God. That was, this doctor, he 
always said to me, Olga, you are the only one who's going to let me know how much I'm going 
to charge to each of these patients. I'm not going to put the price because you know them and 
you know how hard they work. I always say that to them how much? Sometimes I say to them, 
that patient doesn't have a money. And he said to me, don't worry. It's not going to be nothing. 
You are the one who put the prices. He already die. He died. That was Dr. Wolf. He died two 
years ago. But we was seeing our patients for like 26, more than 26 years. 
Olga Bracero (00:17:15): 
So I can be here talking to you about many of the doctors, that they've been doing good for our 
community, for our patients. And I'm still continue having conversations with other patients that 
they really would like to have our patients, our community. At least he say to me, I've met one of 
them. And he said, what you do all Olga? Where do you work? And I say to him, what we do, 
for what company, what I work. And he say, do they need help? I say, we need a lot of help 
doctor. He said, you know, let me tell you something. I would like to see all those patients but I 
can't because I'm _____ health care. But let me tell you something, if the doctor has any 
questions, let her know to call me, I'm going to answer any question for the patients. He said, GI. 
So for me, every time that I go outside and see a doctor, I start having conversation. And I 
always say for what I work and what I do. And what I want for my patients. If they willing to 
help that will be good. This is my mission. This is my passion. And I think that I'm going to 
continue doing what I like that, 
Aaron Paige (00:18:33): 
What is your day-to-day like as a migrant farmer outreach worker, as a patient navigator? What 
does a typical take us in into a typical day? What you might be doing either in the field or in the 
office or your interactions with patients? 
Olga Bracero (00:18:53): 
I can share with you a little bit when I was an outreach worker. A day, so I wake up, I come and 
see the schedule. If someone needs transportation, we provide the transportation. I go and pick 
up them. Take them to the appointments. I come back. I called some patient during the launch 
and ask them how you doing? Are you're taking your medication? Everything is fine? Do you 
need something? If everything is okay, all right. At the afternoon, I can go and visit other farms 
and ask them how they doing? If they need any appointments to see a doctor? We see patients, 
they're diabetes patients. I go. talk to see ______ Asking to see the medication to check if they're 
taking medications. Sometimes we have patients, they don't like to take medications. 
Olga Bracero (00:19:50): 
It's better to go and check them, how they doing, what they doing. If they're okay. Sometimes 
you go, that's, that's that I'm talking to you, that I used to do in the past, okay? Sometimes they 
don't take medication. I talk to the doctor and I say, well doctor I'm with this patient. He's not 
taking medication. Can I take the patient today over there? There is space? And they said, yes, 
come Olga, bring the patient. You know, and I'm doing education. I used to do a lot of education 
HIV. When I was doing the HIV, I go first, talking to them. I do an education about 45 minutes, 
an hour. And I ask them, if you are interested to do the HIV test, please let me know. 
Olga Bracero (00:20:46): 
And everybody say "me Olga, me Olga". So the next day, when I go there, I prepare everything 
just to do the test and they can sign up for. So I remember, doing in the past year, we are able to 
go to the camps and do those things. Eighteen, twenty people. That was a good number. Always 
it's very important to educate our patients in everything. They hear and they forgot. That was 
very quickly. You have to go and repeat and repeat and repeat. They're like kids. It is true 
because, even myself, when I go to a places, uh oh, if I don't know something, I'm going to ask 
and ask and ask. Because I already know my people. I always repeat to them more than one time. 
This is very important. And the good thing is that I have the patience. Because they always 
calling me, asking me the same thing over and over. 
Olga Bracero (00:21:52): 
So a lot of patience. You have to have too much patience. Being outside in the farms, visiting not 
only them, also, I remember visit the owners. Asked to them, if your workers need time out from 
work, because they need to be seeing a specialist, I want a permission. This is something very 
important. Sometimes those people, they don't think that they have the opportunity to ask for a 
time off, just for a few hours. They're afraid. When I was there, I always communicate. And I 
always say to them, let me talk to your boss. Let me ask permission so you can go to your 
appointment because that's very important. And even like that, "no no Olga, I don't have the 
time." No, no, no, no, no. Give me your permission, because it's important your appointment to 
see this specialist. They say, are you sure Olga? You're not going to...He thinks that if I'm doing 
that, maybe the boss is going to, because you know, sometimes, owners, they're not very happy 
when you take those workers out. I say, no, because I already know them very well. I already 
talked to them. But they always say to me, Olga, if you know, there is a patient who need to go 
to see a specialist, please come and let me know first. And this is my community. They're not 
talk too much. They prefer not to talk. They're very shy. So that's why I was there. 
Aaron Paige (00:23:41): 
How do you get to know the growers? And what kind of relationship do you form with them? 
Olga Bracero (00:23:48): 
Well, because when I go, I can give you an example. I can go there just to say, hi, this is Olga 
Bracero. I work at the Alamo. I'm here if your workers need to be seen. Please call us, let us 
know. We can provide transportation, interpretation. And not only that, if you workers are 
healthy, you're gonna, how can I explain to you? They're gonna be like, do more productivity at 
the job. And they know me. They know me because every time that I go to the packing house to 
pick up patients, I go first to the office. Hello, this is Olga. I'm here to pick up Louis. Oh, okay 
Olga. And they call Luis and Luis come out. And because it's been already many years, it's 
easier. And I remember in the beginning, it wasn't easy for me. Nothing is easy in the beginning. 
They don't listen to me. I remember one of them say to me, I don't want you here around the 
area. I wanted to be outside, please. But you know, little by little, it's everything. Everything is 
little by little. When you build that... 
Elinor Levy (00:25:11): 
Trust? 
Olga Bracero (00:25:11): 
Yes. The door is open. And I can let you know, I've been on the fields, in the fields, doing fields 
for other people, with their permission. And not only that, sometimes I talk to the owners, and I 
say something very important to them. You know, people come to this country to do the job that 
not all the people want to do it. And you're giving the opportunity, and I'm so happy for that. But 
also, they're going to be happy if you give them the opportunity to have the time to go to the 
doctor. And he said to me, one day, you know Olga, you're right. But every time that you take 
people from my farm, don't take more than three. Just one or two. I said, don't worry, I'll take it. I 
know a lot of them. They're very nice. Some of them, they already die during the time that I've 
been here. There are some of them, a lot of them, their sons are there. 
Olga Bracero (00:26:30): 
That I remember meeting them when they were like 12, 11 years old. The thing that we supposed 
to, I'm always good on that. I don't talk too much to them. Only the necessary. That's it. 
Whatever they ask me, I answer. I don't talk more than what they want me to hear. And I do a lot 
of education. You can see me every day in the farms doing education. A lot, a lot. In the old 
times we doing education only at night. It wasn't possible during the day. No other time. You 
have to do education at night. It wasn't easy, but for me it was easy. I don't have a kids. I don't 
have nothing. It was only myself and two brothers. 
Elinor Levy (00:27:31): 
How long are the farmworkers usually here? What month do they arrive? And what month do 
they leave? 
Olga Bracero (00:27:38): 
Well, let me tell you something. This is a started, yes a few years that people start coming 
because there was a year that it was no farmworkers. And the owners, they didn't finish to pick 
up all the vegetables and onions because they don't have people. So that's when they start 
thinking about, we need to bring people from Mexico. And I know that in a lot of farms, they 
have people that had been working for many years. There are talking to those people and they get 
connections with peoples in Mexico. They do the papers, the application and everything. And 
now, they start coming in March. Some of them, they come in April. And they coming back in 
December in the area of Orange County. In New Paltz, they start coming, some of them, they 
come in June. Others in July. Others in August. Because, August, right now, this is the time that 
they're picking the apples. They're going to be until December. Yes, some of them, they come 
only for three months. 
Elinor Levy (00:28:57): 
Do they then move on? Do they go back to Mexico after three months? Or do they move on to 
somewhere else? 
Olga Bracero (00:29:03): 
No. The ones that they bring a lot of people from Mexico, they going back to Mexico. There is 
also a lot of people that already are working the whole year around in the packing onions. So 
there is people also when there is nothing in the farms, they go and look for like restaurants, 
other places. But yes, there are farmworkers, now they are coming, the ones that are coming in 
here, in Orange, all of them from Mexico. And they coming back and forth. And let me tell you 
something, not everybody coming every year. Sometimes they give you the opportunity to other 
people to come. 
Aaron Paige (00:29:53): 
What is your relationship then to the farmworkers as they move out of the service area, whether 
it's to another farm, outside of the region that you serve, or back to Mexico. What's your 
communication like with them? Does the job end when they leave? Does it continue? And can 
you, can you give an example 
Olga Bracero (00:30:18): 
Sure. There is a few farms that they continue working the whole year. There is one of them, the 
one that I was working. And they packing onions and potato. There is work during the whole 
year because they also buy onions from other places. The ones that they close, those people, a lot 
of them, they go back to Mexico. And the other ones, they don't live there. They live in 
Middletown, Goshen, _____ Florida. When the next season's coming, they coming back. That's 
why they work, sometimes they work 80, 90 hours a week. So they make the money, but they 
also have to hold some money for the few months that they now work. And not only that, when 
they don't have money to pay rent or something, because there is people almost by December, 
that they don't have money. They're looking for people to lend money and they come to the 
community center to get food. You know, that's good. There is the whole year around there. So 
they do food pantry. So at least they have a place to get something to eat. 
Aaron Paige (00:31:48): 
Do people reach out to you with health related issues when they're not in the service region? So, 
say a worker has gone to Florida, but you have a relationship with that person. And you've 
communicated a lot with them about their health needs. 
Olga Bracero (00:32:10): 
Well, you know, it was, I remember it was years ago because we have a lot of people coming 
back from Florida, from Texas, from Michigan, from Carolina, from all over the place, but not 
anymore. But I remember having those issues. Yes, we have patients with HIV that we 
connecting that patient with another agency in Texas. Yes. That was in the past. But right now, 
not anymore. There is not too many people in this area in Goshen that they go back to another 
place in the United States. None. Most of them, they coming from Mexico and also from El 
Salvador. But that's it. 
Elinor Levy (00:33:06): 
If you have a patient who stays here from May to December and they're diabetic, for example, 
can you send them, when they leave in December, can you send them with enough medication to 
last? 
Olga Bracero (00:33:21): 
Well, you know, we don't have those kind of, the thing is we have only young people. They 
bring people from the age of 19, 20, 25. Most of those people, they don't have diabetes. But let 
me tell you, we have patients who are here and they go back to Mexico to a state there, six 
months or something. Yes. They go with a lot of medication. Yes. But not the farmworkers, 
because most of them, what I say to you, they're not diabetes patients. 
Elinor Levy (00:34:01): 
So they don't have chronic illnesses. 
Olga Bracero (00:34:03): 
Yes. Yes. That's only young people who come to do the job. They don't bring people like 50 or 
60 or 40. Nothing like that. But let me tell you something, in New Paltz, there is people who's 
going back to Jamaica. And yes, we have some people with diabetes. Diabetes patients. Yes, I've 
been seeing that they go back with sufficient medication. And we have a patient in here that's 
from Texas, both wife and husband. Both of them, they're diabetes. They always call Figueroa. 
And when they need refills, they do video phone calls from Texas to here. This is so wonderful 
now, having a video phone call. They're continue seeing Figueroa. And they coming back every 
year. That's the only two people, they're traveling from Texas to New York. 
Elinor Levy (00:35:10): 
That's good to hear. I always worry. What is the continuity of care and are they willing to 
continue that care even when they're, when your not here to nag them and say, take your... 
Olga Bracero (00:35:26): 
I always say to them, because when people come here they have something and they need to 
continue what they, before they going back to Mexico, I always said to them, because I know 
most of them. They coming from Puebla. A lot of them they're from Puebla, from Chila. I know 
those places. I've been there before. So Benny Soliz. Also she's from Puebla. I say, Benny, so 
you know, places where they can go? And she say, yes Olga, we can let them know where to go. 
We ask them where you live is there a place that they able to see you, and sometimes we get in 
touch. I have a doctor, this doctor is from Puebla. He's one of my friends. He came with a 
program by National US Mexico. That was years ago, but he still continue being my friend. 
When something happen with a patient. I remember in the past, happen something with one 
patient, I get in touch with him. And I say, this patient is going to call you. He needs your help. 
Yes he say, don't worry Olga, he can call me. So those little things we do, we feel like that it's 
gonna help to them to continue with treatment. And the Doctor that I say, that is Doctor Edgar. 
He know our people in this company. And also Wilfredo and Vilma too. Oh God, that was good 
memories, in the old time. Yes. 
Aaron Paige (00:37:35): 
So, I'm sorry. I was so focused on the technology stuff I missed. I missed it. Okay. What, what 
position are you working in at Sun River? 
Guadalupe Flores (00:37:43): 
I'm a medical assistant . 
Aaron Paige (00:37:45): 
Medical assistant. Awesome. Do you work primarily at one of the health centers or do you also 
go out into the field? 
Guadalupe Flores (00:37:53): 
My home is Goshen. I don't go out into the fields. But I do travel to other sites. Monticello. New 
Paltz. Walden. 
Aaron Paige (00:38:03): 
Is there like a mobile health clinic program? Yes. 
Guadalupe Flores (00:38:07): 
We have a mobile health van. Yeah. And I've been on that too, but I've never had the pleasure to 
go out to the farms. Everywhere that I've been has been more for the homeless. 
Elinor Levy (00:38:17): 
So are you seeing a surgeon in COVID right now? 
Guadalupe Flores (00:38:21): 
Yes. 
Elinor Levy (00:38:23): 
Is it as bad as I think it is? 
Guadalupe Flores (00:38:27): 
I mean, I don't, I don't think people are as scared as the first time. I think that's, that's the 
difference. I think the first time patients were a lot more scared and they were like constantly 
calling or they wanted to be checked or they want to be tested. Right now, people are more 
relaxed. People are getting sick, but they're not seeking out care as much as they did the first 
time. 
Elinor Levy (00:38:51): 
It's worse then, in a sense. 
Guadalupe Flores (00:38:53): 
I don't know 
Elinor Levy (00:38:56): 
If they're not seeking out care and if they're not asking to be tested, that worries me. 
Guadalupe Flores (00:39:02): 
Yeah. Yeah. Because then they don't know. And then I guess that's why it's spreading out more. 
Elinor Levy (00:39:07): 
Right. It means I can't go out, 
Guadalupe Flores (00:39:11): 
You know, like everything, we just gotta be careful, you know, wash your hands, keep our masks 
on. 
Aaron Paige (00:39:18): 
Do you work collaboratively with any of the community health workers or outreach navigators, 
patient navigators? 
Guadalupe Flores (00:39:27): 
Yeah. I work with my friend Olga. 
Aaron Paige (00:39:30): 
What does that relationship look like? Like how do you, how do you work together? 
Guadalupe Flores (00:39:36): 
I help her with her referrals? So if I see she's a little bit backed up, I usually take care of the 
mammograms that come in, reports, getting those scheduled, stuff like that. She teaches me part 
of her CSP, how to apply for patients. If I know that there's a patient in the back that really needs 
help, I'll be like, Olga, I'll give her like the alert, like this patient really needs our help. Let's try 
to get it done. Or tell me what I can do to facilitate for you to get a step ahead. So stuff like that. 
But we're really we're really a small site. We're like a house. So we're like back to back on each 
other. So there's no like missing and nothing. I can see Olga all the time and Olga, do you need 
help? Olga, we have this patient. Olga, we have this. This patient's about to come out and he 
needs this. Same thing with the outreach. Again, we're a small site. So outreach is like, we're not 
gonna make it in time to pick the patient up at the farm and Olga will probably go out and get 
them. So everybody's linked to each other here. 
Elinor Levy (00:40:44): 
I've been at the Goshen site. I've been at the Alamo site. I've been to the new community center, 
now that it's somewhere else. Yeah, about three, four years ago, I did a Dia de Los Muertos at the 
site. 
Guadalupe Flores (00:40:57): 
Okay. I've never been to the event. 
Elinor Levy (00:41:01): 
Lupe, because you've chatted with us we probably need to get your full name and spelling as 
well. And we'll have to ask you to sign a release, which we'll email along to Olga. But if you 
could just give us your full name and spell it for us, please. 
Guadalupe Flores (00:41:19): 
All right. I am Guadalupe Flores. You spell it out G U A D A L U P E . Flores, F L O R E S. 
Elinor Levy (00:41:34): 
Thank you. 
Guadalupe Flores (00:41:36): 
No problem. All right you guys.It was nice talking to you. Olga is back. Let me hand her the 
throne. 
Aaron Paige (00:41:55): 
I had just asked the question, which was, can you give us an example of a moment where you 
really felt the importance of the work that you do as a navigator and as an outreach worker? 
Olga Bracero (00:42:11): 
You know, I appreciate that this company has those kind of complement. Outreach is very 
important because outreach does the bridge. We can bring a lot of patients to us, to here. And I 
always say, thank you so much, because with those elements, I can say that with those elements, 
we compliment our health center. Because we bring patients and we help them. Having seen 
other places that don't have those kinds of compliment, it's like they're not doing what we are 
doing. That's why people come with us. 
Elinor Levy (00:43:09): 
Back when you were a farmworker, did you ever come to Sun River as a patient?  
Olga Bracero (00:43:33): 
No, never, never. I know that's too bad that I never came. And one day I say to one of my 
friends, why did you never told me about the Alamo. Why? I went to another place to spend a lot 
of money. 
And she say, you know Olga because you work on the farm. I said, but nobody came to me. 
Nobody at that time, nobody came to do anything, what I was doing now. When I start doing the 
farmworker, I have the whole time. I was single. I was 26 years old. I don't have nothing to do. 
So all my time that was dedicated to the people. Even Saturday, Sunday, I go there and visit 
them. So I don't have other place to go. I don't have too many friends. I don't have anybody. Like 
what I say to you, there was only my sister and my brother and myself. I think that being by 
myself with no family, I was, I put part of my family, the farm workers too. They invite me to 
parties. Used to go there and have fun. I spend a lot of time with them. 
Aaron Paige (00:44:54): 
Would you share with us a little bit about one of those relationships, either with an individual or 
with a family that, that you have made, that you've stayed in touch with. 
Olga Bracero (00:45:07): 
Sure. I have too many, but I'm going to share one of them, the most recently. This person, she's 
been in this country for a few years. She works in one of the farms. And this year, that's last year, 
she was separated from her partner. And she didn't know that she was pregnant. And she moved 
to another place. And she brought the two babies to Mexico, a child, and a boy. A girl and a boy. 
I don't know what was the reason, but they send them to Mexico and she was here. But she got 
pregnant. She didn't know that she was pregnant. She was six months on and she didn't know yet 
that she was pregnant. That was during the COVID. So her son died from the flu in Mexico. 
Olga Bracero (00:46:21): 
So she came to my house one day, crying and crying. And she told me that she was pregnant. 
And she was afraid that when the baby, or where she's gonna to stay, because she has to move to 
the other house where she is right now, where she was before. And I said, I want you to come to 
my house. I don't want you to be afraid of nothing. I'm gonna give you my support. I'm gonna do 
the best that we can. I want you to move to my house. I want also you to bring your daughter 
from Mexico. I want you to be together. But relationship, it was not only one day. It was many 
days. It was months. It was years. That she feels so comfortable to come to my house and ask me 
for help. 
Olga Bracero (00:47:16): 
She passed with me a month, living in my apartment. I help her to brought her daughter from 
Mexico. She had a baby girl. She's so grateful. She's not living anymore with me. She's living 
with her mommy. She brought her mommy, her brother. And she's so happy. This relationship 
that I made with her and her family, it was because she doesn't speak English, she needs 
transportation, she needs to come to the clinic. That's the reason. And let me tell you something, 
they come to me with a lot of programs. They don't tell to the provider nothing. Only the 
problem. They come to me with a bunch of different situations and difficult situations. There's 
sometimes the husband, being abused by the husband. Or molesting by other people. So it's not 
been easy for me. Everything that I hear is always with me. And they know me. 
Olga Bracero (00:48:37): 
They know me that I respect them. That I'm not talking to other people. And I always say to 
them, everything they say to me, it's with me and no one else. And it's been building a lot of 
trust, a lot of ????? [inaudible] Not only am I an outreach worker, I'm also counseling. And I'm 
sorry to say that because that's how I've been helping a lot of people. Because they've been 
through many difficulties that they don't say to the provider. They come to me. So when they 
come to me, I start talking, well, you know, you need counseling. We have Kenny. You need 
help. How can I get to do a counseling? So you need to talk to the provider and ask for a referral. 
They opened the door to me to provide to different places wherever they need to go. And this is 
important because we've been through many difficult times with family members, with kids. 
There is so difficult moments and they come to me all the time. And I know sometimes they say, 
Olga, too much time, too much time. But I'm listening to people crying there, in the chair. 
Olga Bracero (00:50:09): 
So there's been so many many moments like that. And I try to do my best for them. And this lady 
that I say to you, this family, up until now, we have conversation. The babies sometimes come to 
my house, or mommy say to me, or I ask for the baby. I say, can I keep the baby on Saturday? 
She say "yes Olga, no problem." So every Saturday, most of every Saturday, the baby is with me. 
This is because a good relationship, time, love, passion and embrace. You those little things to 
B???? And a lot of people know me, what I did for her. I know Olga that you been helping. I say, 
yes, if you need one day something, you can come and let me know. But you know, they knock 
sometime my door. 
Olga Bracero (00:51:20): 
It's okay. No problem with me. If I'm going to help them, I'm going to be there. My phone open. 
Now with the vaccines, everybody know my number. But it's important. That's how we've been 
bringing a lot of patients. This is part of Olga. Olga is like that. It's not gonna change. I'm always 
going to be like that. 
Elinor Levy (00:51:50): 
Do you want to spend the rest of your career as a patient navigator? Or do you think about 
getting, becoming a counselor? 
Olga Bracero (00:51:58): 
Well, you know, no. I think that, first of all, my English is not, it's not like to go and study. I feel 
like there, being in my, if I go to another, I think that it's not going to work. I'm not going to have 
the... 
Olga Bracero (00:52:25): 
It's a big difference. You're not going to do the same thing, what I'm doing in here. So I feel like 
being an outreach worker or patient navigator that's almost the same. You are with the 
community. You are like face to face, talking to them, and taking them to a specialist 
appointments, doing what I like to do. Take care of all those people when they need me. A 
patient came today, this morning. She was crying. And she said to me "Olga, I need your help." 
And I said, how can I help you? I had an appointment with endocrinology. You've been sending 
me to the same provider, but I don't know when I'm supposed to come back. I'm tired about my 
diabetes. I'm tired about all my illness. I cannot do anything. I prefer to die. And when she say 
that to me, oh my God, she is not okay to me today. I say, I'm going help you. Let me call your 
doctor and I can make another appointment for you. And she say to me, I need more medication. 
Don't worry, I'm going to ask for medication. I did the appointment. I did the application. I asked 
for the medication. And I say, how you feeling now? She say, ???? I feel much better ????????. 
But also Olga, I need more medication. I said, it's okay. Let me bring Lupita or Benny. They 
came. They spend with her like almost like 40 minutes. They fix all the problems. They call the 
pharmacy. They make this solution. After that she came to me. And I say, because I'm going to 
be on vacation, I'm going to go with you to your appointment on Tuesday. And she say, [?????] 
Yes, mommy. I'm going to go with you. She was so happy. And I asked at the end, how you 
feeling now? She said to me, ???????. So we make a big difference this morning with this 
patient. Not only me, that was Benny and Lupita. So she went home feeling much better. So 
that's what this health center does for our community. 
Aaron Paige (00:55:00): 
You've talked about some of your greatest accomplishments. What are some of the greatest 
challenges that you face as a patient navigator? 
Olga Bracero (00:55:12): 
I can say to you, there has been a lot. But I remember one of them. It was a young guy who was 
sick. He came to us. And I take him to the appointment with endocrinology because he feels 
something, my provider in here. And I took him to the doctor and the doctor said to me, oh, it's 
nothing to be worried, Olga. It's nothing. But we need to get an ultrasonogram. He was 17 years 
old. He cannot able to do the application by himself. At the moment, I also, I was doing the 
applications for Medicaid and for childhood plus. So, I say to him, we're going to talk to your 
uncle so that he can do the application for you. He said to me, no, I don't want to. I don't want no 
one do for me because he's gonna get angry with me. 
Olga Bracero (00:56:19): 
I say, no, let me talk to him. He say, no. And I went and I say, you need this test. It's better to 
talk to your uncle and finally he said yes. Okay. And his uncle say he was not too happy. He 
said, no, I don't want any problems. He thinks that maybe doing the application, it can be through 
something with immigration or something like that. But I say it's nothing that he has to be 
worried because he can get a free insurance. Okay. So, I need this information. He said, okay, 
come back next week. And I was always worried for this person. No, no, no. Anyway, the patient 
is start getting sick, more sick. And I say, you need this test? And then I spoke with the uncle 
again. And I said, you're not gonna lose nothing. 
Olga Bracero (00:57:19): 
You better to do that because he need it. He decided to do it, at the end. Okay. So we pay the 
patient, they do the test. Cancer. Oh my God. When they said that it's cancer. They have to do 
the radiation. They have to do a lot of stuff. We take him to Westchester. We was working so 
hard, many appointments. And he always say that to me, I don't want to die Olga, I don't want to 
die. I don't want to die. I said, your not gonna die. So anyway, they do chemotherapy and 
everything and it was okay. Just only for one year. The next year he has to come back for a ??? 
test, something like that. And the cancer appears. Oh, my God. Okay. Continue with visits. And 
then going back to the hospital. It was not easy for us, for Rodrigo, Marilyn, and myself, because 
the three of us, we was working so hard, with the situation. 
Olga Bracero (00:58:23): 
It was very sad because he was the only one, and the uncle. So no mom. No dad. No one around. 
And he always say to me, "I don't want to die. I don't want to die." It was, it was like very, very 
difficult moments and everything. Well, they decide to do more chemotherapy and continue 
doing and it doesn't do anything to him. Rodrigo, Marilyn and I, I remember that we had a 
conversation and we say it's better if the doctor stop doing what he's doing and send the patient 
to Mexico. So at least he can spend time with the family. So he decided to continue. And then at 
the end, it was nothing. That's it. There was the cancer all over. He doesn't have too much time. 
So he doesn't want to go to Mexico. I was like fighting and talking, come on, you need to go to 
Mexico, you're going to be with your family. And he always say to me, no, Olga, I don't want to 
go with my family. But you better to go back. You need to see your mom, your dad, your 
brothers and sister. It was so difficult moments because we cannot do anything, if we don't say 
yes. So let me tell you something. I spent one night. I went to his house. I went like about six 
o'clock and I was with him. And I said to him, you know, I think that it's better to go to Mexico. 
I'm your friend. I'm with you for a few already years. It is better to go to see mommy. And he 
said to me, but Olga, really, I want to live. I don't have words to say, nothing. I cannot say 
nothing. 
Olga Bracero (01:00:19): 
He was crying and crying. All what I did was give him a hug. And I said to him, you know, I 
know that we don't know where we're gonna be. We're not going to be here. And I know that we 
gonna go one day. We don't know when. And we don't know when are you going. But this is a 
moment that you need to go and visit your family. That's what I want to say to you. And he say, 
okay Olga. So we called an agency. We made the arrangement, everything. At the night that we 
are planning to take the patient to the airport, he died. Oh my God. It was a very, very difficult 
moment. It was like oh, yai yai. It was something that, he always in my mind. It was something 
that I couldn't explain. I couldn't. It's not going to be easy because it's always going to be in me. 
That is, it's also something that I can share with other people when they don't want to get any 
treatment for any reason, or when they don't want to apply, because they're afraid or because 
they're doing papers and the lawyer say don't do it. And they're sick. So sometimes I share that 
story. So he went. But he went 
Olga Bracero (01:01:56): 
?????? And a brother came. It was a very difficult moment. Difficult moments for me, for 
Marilyn and Rodrigo, because we spent a lot of time with him. And that's why, in every day we 
find those moments, but in different situations. And we try to do the best that we can. And it's 
always, it's always a window. I always say to them, when one door is closed, you can open 
another one. It's going to be always another one, another window, another door but you better not 
stop. It is always me like that. Like when sometimes a patient needs a specialist or something, 
and we know that those prices are too high. I say, let me see, let me go and look for another one. 
Let look for another one and look for another one. To be in my position that I am is not easy 
because I have to find a solution for the patient, for the client, for the human, that's it. That's it. 
We continue working and working. 
Aaron Paige (01:03:26): 
Do you work with other community health workers and patient navigators at Sun River? And if 
so, how do you work together? 
Olga Bracero (01:03:43): 
Yes, there is one in New Paltz. Her name is Grace. And Emily in Walden. Tomasa in Monticello. 
When we have patients with us in our company that we send... I can give you an example. A 
patient who need to be seen OBGYN. I send her to Monticello, Tomasa is there. If the patient 
need any sonograms or need to go to Westchester, for any reason, she call me and she say you 
know Olga, this patient need this this this this. But also, she does what she can do. If no, she send 
it to me. We have an example. We have a patient who need to go to OBGYN. Patient come to 
me. They make the appointment. I do the financial assistance program. Because she lives closer, 
she can bring those papers. I send them. If we can provide transportation, we provide the 
transportation. 
Olga Bracero (01:04:49): 
We communicate. The other day, also, there was a patient in Walden. That was a diabetes 
patient. He's a farmworker. Emily called me and she said, this patient needs transportation, Olga. 
I said, don't worry. Give me the information and I'm going to get in touch with the patient. I took 
the patient, we took the patient to the ophthalmology appointment. So we really work together. 
We try to our patients, either work being or going to another place, get what they need. Or if 
there is a provider that is cheaper in New Paltz than in here, we send them over there. We go all 
the way down. So yes, it is communication. 
Olga Bracero (01:05:42): 
And especially with our farmworkers, we try to help them and provide the transportation. And 
whatever they need. There is not only me. There's Emily and there's the other patient navigators, 
can able to do it. And you know, this is just started just a few months ago. With this epidemic 
we've been together. We've been working together more, because I've been going to Monticello 
for vaccines, to Walden, to New Paltz. They've been coming to the Alamo. Before, oh, Walden, 
oh New Paltz, oh, we don't know anybody. But now there's been completely different. I feel like 
there is more union with the COVID. We are together. Before it wasn't the same like now. So 
Tomasa and I, we've been working together with vaccines. 
Olga Bracero (01:06:55): 
We've been going to different places. Before, I don't know who was Tomasa. Before, I was 
calling Tomasa and I had somebody in my mind with different face. And now I have Tomasa, 
they're really Tomasa. And you know, when you call someone, you put in imagination, but now 
not anymore, because I already know her. Emily, now Emily is a new patient navigator in 
Walden. She's very good. Every time that she need me, she call me. And I feel so good that she 
feel comfortable, calling me many times that she wanted. And Grace too. Grace is in New Paltz. 
She is also a new patient navigator. So I feel like the four of us, we're working together for our 
patients, our population. 
Olga Bracero (01:07:54): 
I would like to say something that we've been going with the mobile van to different places, 
doing the vaccine for the COVID. And it has been very, very good. All the peoples who arrive, 
coming from another country to work, their owners, they've been very, very good too. They let 
us know. They make an appointment for their workers. So I can say that almost all the 
farmworkers that are coming from the outside, they're being vaccinated. So we're very grateful to 
serve this community. 
Olga Bracero (01:08:40): 
Olga, we can't thank you enough. This has been, we got to interview Eileen on, on Tuesday and 
you're our second interview and you have set the bar very high.