AFC 2020/004: 31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
     Lehua M. Taitano 
 
Living Nations, Living Words: A Map of First Peoples Poetry 
Poem commentary by Lehua M. Taitano, 2020 
 
Speaker: Lehua M. Taitano 
Date of recording: July 19, 2020 
Location: Pomo/Miwok Territory, Santa Rosa, California, poet's home 
Length: 9 minutes, 11 seconds 
 
START OF RECORDING 
 
Lehua M. Taitano:  This is Lehua M. Taitano, daughter of Catherine Taitano, granddaughter of 
Maria Flores Taitano, reading my poem “Current, I.” 
 
[Lehua M. Taitano reads “Current, I”] 
 
LMT:  “Current, I” is a piece I originally wrote for a digital exhibition curated by the Smithsonian 
Institute’s Asian Pacific American Center titled “A Day in the Queer Life of Asian Pacific 
America.” As such, the poem is a response to the question: “As a queer Pacific Islander, how are 
you doing?”  
 
It seems a simple enough question, but the fact is that as a person whose sexuality is only one 
identity in an intersection of identities I inhabit as a CHamoru woman living in diaspora, as a 
visitor on others’ native lands (in this case, Pomo and Miwok lands in Northern California), the 
question of “How am I doing?” is one that asks so much more. It’s at once a question of my 
wellbeing, perceived and actual. It’s a question of how I see my place in my community, my 
workplace, my family, my social groups, and in the world.  
 
So “Current, I” calls on what I know if situating myself in a world in which the very idea of 
queerness is more of a social construct in Western society, where sexuality and gender 
expression are categories of selfhood. In the context of my own Indigenous CHamoru 
sensibility, however, queerness is not a category that, traditionally, our people assign to one 
another. Rather, we might consider how we are part of the whole, rather than displaced or 
apart from it.  
 
Part of this poem references the CHamoru creation story, in which the world was created by 
siblings, siblings who sacrifice their bodies to create the ocean, the land, the sky, the sun and 
the moon, and our people. This is a framework for our cultural worldview, and it resonates 
deeply with me when I consider how to situate myself in this world, where my homeland is still 
occupied and under colonial rule. As of today, Guåhan, or the island of Guam, as it is often 
referred to, is still an Unincorporated Territory of the United States, wherein our native land 
continues to be taken, desecrated, and destroyed by the U.S. government. The graves of our 
ancestors are, at this very moment, being unearthed, the land bulldozed in order for the 
military to create a live firing range, where U.S. soldiers will set up targets to bombard with 
thousands of rounds of ammunition and live ordinances. Because we as CHamorus consider 
ourselves descendants of those gods who created the land, sea, and sky, we are also 
descendants of the land, sea, and sky itself. To honor and respect the natural world, then, is to 
honor our ancestors, to honor ourselves and the future of our islands. As CHamorus, how do we 
situate ourselves in such chaos and displacement? How can one ever feel “ok” or “well” in the 
throes of occupation and oppression? 
 
For me, in this poem, anyway, I try to address those questions, and ultimately rely on what I 
know of the interconnectedness of my humanity to my nonhuman relations, to ancestral 
knowledge and persistence, and to an ongoing belief that fighting for our independence as 
CHamorus honors the very earth itself. How am I doing? In “Current, I” I hope that I express 
that I am galvanized. I am connected to my culture and my community. I am WE. And we are 
fighting for our freedom. 
 
END OF RECORDING