DOMESTIC WORKERS UNITED 
Interview: afc2015027_03280_ms02 
Magdalen Wilson interviewed by Patricia Francois 
00:00:02 
Interviewer: Good day, my name is Patricia Francois and I'm from Domestic Workers United, 
Chair of the Board, and what we are doing is archiving the stories of domestic workers so we 
can archive domestic worker's stories within the Library of Congress. Could you tell me your 
name? Let me hear your first name.  
My name is Ms. Wilson. Magdalen. 
00:00:47 
Interviewer: What motivated you to be a part of this program? 
Well, to tell the story of mostly about my job and what I have accomplished and what I have 
been through with my job. 
00:01:09 
Interviewer: What is your current occupation? Could you expand a little bit more on it? 
My current occupation is babysitting. Talking care of children. I'm taking care of kids. 
00:01:28 
Interviewer: What borough or neighborhood do you live in? 
I live in Brooklyn. 
00:01:36 
Interviewer: Where are you originally from? 
I'm from St. Lucia. The Island of St. Lucia. 
00:01:46 
Interviewer: How did you become a domestic worker? 
I became a domestic worker when I came to this country I started working at a daycare. I was in 
Virginia then I moved to New York and my first job was babysitting. 
00:02:08 
Interviewer: How long have you done this work? How long have you done domestic work? And 
how many positions have you had? So that's two positions. 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
1
 
This job? Oh, I've done domestic work for the past 12 years. Oh, I've done elderly care likewise 
with babysitting. Two positions. 
 
00:02:43 
Interviewer: So what I'm going to ask you about now is what your day-to-day experiences are 
like for domestic workers, what do they learn, teach, and experience? Please walk me through 
a typical daily routine. What are your day-to-day responsibilities? 
 
Well, my day-to-day responsibilities is to take care of kids like washing and doing laundry, 
cleaning the house, sending them to school, and taking them to the park and playing with them 
as much as I can, that's what I do, and [unclear.] 
 
00:03:38 
Interviewer: So you told me from the beginning you are a nanny, you do childcare. I also heard 
you mention you do house cleaning? Elaborate a little bit more on the house cleaning. The 
reason why I ask that questions is because housekeeping in itself, is it a job by itself 
housekeeping? So you're doing childcare/housekeeping? I just want some clarification. 
 
Yeah. Well, when I return in the morning the first thing I do is start sweeping and washing 
dishes and then after I go upstairs, get the kids, change them, change them, bring them 
downstairs dressed for school and give them the breakfast with the boy wait for the school bus, 
send him to school and then I have twins so I stay with them most of the day bring them to the 
park, bring them back. Yeah, because that's what they do now, that's what the people in the 
area where I work do. They just give us a package instead of giving us one thing they just make 
us do everything in one. 
 
00:05:07 
 
Interviewer: What skills do you need to be a domestic worker? So what you're saying is you, 
being a mother, you automatically know how to raise and care for kids. What are the things you 
can do or you can have to assert yourself more within the domestic work industry? So what's 
going to help you to retain you know while in childcare and doing babysitting. What skill will 
help you to assert you a little bit more? What I was really looking at is one of the skills could be 
CPR. Well, wouldn't this be helpful within your childcare within your daily routine? 
 
We don't really need a skill to be--as long as we have children of our own, even if we don't have 
children of our own, as long as we know how to take care, know how to love them and know 
how to take care of a child that's it. Yeah. You don't have to be a mother too, as long as you can 
show a child love. Well, the domestic workers industry, if you can be certificated--because I'm 
certified to do elderly care, which I've done, but when there doesn't have elderly I have to work 
so I go to the babysitting. That's the only reason. I get what I take. Well, what would help me by 
educating myself more about that, about them because right now I want to do the nursing like 
the [unclear.] to go into the nursing, that's what I want to do. Oh, I've done CPR many times. 
Yeah, it would, it would help me, because I've done it already. I meant to say I did the CPR--how 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
2
many courses--I did it through the firemen, I did it when I went to do the nursing course, I did 
it, so I knew in case of anything like something happen to the child I know what to do to take 
care of that child. 
 
00:07:34 
Interviewer: What training is necessary to be a successful domestic worker? What training is 
necessary to be a successful domestic worker? So what you're saying is, Domestic Workers 
United gave nanny training courses? So you want to tell me a little bit more about that? In that 
nanny training course, was there something particular that was new to you? 
 
I would say the childcare, the childcare the Domestic Worker gives, the nanny course, like if you 
go to the nanny course you would know a little bit more. Yeah, they help you to get the nanny 
course. Well, what I would say that I know of the Domestic Workers you come to the meetings 
and you learn a lot, you learn a lot about your rights as a domestic worker, what rights they 
have, what you can do, and you also can get training to know more about taking care of a child 
and you can have a certificate in your hand. No, I haven't done it yet. No, I would like to go and 
do it. 
 
00:09:09 
Interviewer: Is there some specialty or expertise that you have? You personally. When you 
mentioned you get an opportunity to perform on stage at the Delacorte Theater, I saw that 
sparkle in your eyes, you know. Jews for Racial and Economic Justice? So you performed in 
Purim. So Domestic Workers United has a lot to offer. 
 
Yeah. You would say mainly or something else?  Yeah, I'm a bartender, I'm a certified 
bartender, so that would be one of the other things I can do, and being in the Domestic 
Workers, I even got to be on stage to perform so that was one good thing I liked about it and 
you know so if some other people come to that meeting they can also get a chance to get on 
stage, because it's for Domestic Workers I end up being on stage with so many other domestic 
workers like myself, and that was a good experience, which I never thought I'd ever have, so it 
was good. Even we get an opportunity to be with the Jews at Purim to take part in their shows. 
Yeah, perform in Purim, yes. Yeah, a lot to offer, so far I've been with them and I've learned a 
lot. 
 
00:11:04 
When caring for a child, what are some ways you help them fall asleep? So I gather from that 
two efficient ways that you get them to sleep is by giving them a nice bath and cooling them 
down and as well they love the country music as well and that soothes them. 
 
Well, I have a little one at this present time. After I give him his bottle, well usually when 
children want to sleep sometimes they need a bath so it can cool down their body so 
sometimes I bathe him, give him a bottle, and rock him to bed and he sleeps so well and the 
skill I have now, the thing I do with him I play country music. I have country music on my phone 
and I don't know for some way he loves it he does [unclear.] and he's staying there and the 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
3
twins too they lie down by me the country music playing and when I look, all three of them are 
sleeping. So I noticed that's a good thing so I play my country music and I played them country 
music all the time, even the people doing the country they even texted me some more music, 
yeah, maybe they see me on their site all the time. 
 
00:12:35 
Interviewer: What are some ways you get a child to eat? So by the time you call ten relatives' 
names--so the plate is empty and they're looking out for more? 
 
Oh, how I make them eat? Like if they don't want to eat, usually I do all the tricks, because I'm 
somebody that'll do tricks with my eye with head, everything and go with the play like be very 
funny with them and I always tell them eat for somebody, 'If you really love Maggie, you have 
to eat for her.' And I will make them eat for so many people that by the time they finish eating 
for their family their plate will be empty because they're eating for their family, that's what I do 
with them, you know 'Eat for mummy, eat that one for daddy now, Maggie, you know 
everybody so by the time they finish eating for the family their plate is empty. And they say, 
'Maggie I have more to eat, you didn't say that one.' Like I didn't see that one. 
 
00:13:46 
Interviewer: What are some ways you get a child to stop crying and fussing? You know 
sometimes they get fussy especially if they're teething and things like that. 
 
Well, usually when they're crying or something is wrong and you really don't know what's 
wrong, children like you to bubble their belly. I think that's why they're so close to me they're 
so close to me and sometimes I just wonder. I would put them up and I would bubble on their 
belly. You have to be--laugh when someone bubble your belly. Yeah, I would put them up and I 
would bubble their belly and you would see that smile coming out and everything going on 
alright, I just take them and bring them out because children like to go out of the house. 
 
00:14:44 
Interviewer: As nannies and caregivers, you know when you go out to the park and you all meet 
up together and sometimes have play dates you all exchange different experiences and 
different things with other workers out there. You should be happy as well. 
 
Well for the past--honestly speaking, for the past years I have been going on the train and the 
bus and talking to the visitors and I notice they're not happy. The hardest job out is a 
babysitting job, I'm telling you, and yes, too, the babysitters. I don't think--maybe if they have a 
babysitter that's happy, maybe two, but most of the baby sitters they're not happy. They're 
doing the work because you cannot stay in the country and not do work, but they're not happy 
because especially the place where I work, these babysitters are not happy.  
 
I work in Long Island, because how they'll tell you all the mothers get together and just make 
one price to pay somebody and they're not happy. The babysitters are not happy, and I find it's 
not good for a babysitter to be unhappy in taking care of a child. That babysitter should be 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
4
happy, because as babysitters we leave our family and we leave our homes to go and take care 
of somebody else's child. Now we have to learn to love that child, so we should be taken care 
of as much as we're taking care of that child we should be taken care of by the parents. We 
should be very happy, because if you don't have a good mind, a happy mind, that person will 
not be happy because parents must understand that we as caregivers who come home and 
take care of your family or your children you have a chance to go out there and make the big 
money to build your big house and mansion and be rich. We as babysitters cause you to do 
that, because if you stay in the house to take care of them somebody has to take care of them.  
 
If you have to stay and take care of them you will not be able to pursue what you are doing 
now, so you have to respect someone coming and loving your children and making them 
remember you like if you're taking care of a child and that child is thinking of the mother all the 
time, that child is unhappy, crying all the time for the mother, but when you come in the house 
and you can fill the mother's place you know to take care of that child and that child loves you 
too and that mother can go out with a free mind and she's very free and comfortable, that 
mother in return is supposed to give you big respect as a nanny, because it's hard work.  
 
Taking care of children is very--people wouldn't know, they have to be in it, because the 
mother herself cannot deal with it. They have them on the weekend and they cannot deal with 
it so they should understand that we have them for five days how tough it is for us. 
 
00:18:09 
So have you ever used homeopathic remedies or folk remedies to help cure a child who is sick? 
Cleaning their bladders. Yeah, it keeps them hydrated.  
 
No, I have never used anything, because some parents are very funny and I wouldn't want to be 
into that. The only thing I do is most of the places I work they say don't give them water until 
they're a year, but sometimes because the little one I have I give him water and he likes the 
water so I ask the mother so now she brings in water for me, because the children that are 
thirsty and I don't know how a doctor says not to give the children water, alright, and we in the 
Caribbean, we give our children water from the time they're born and we do that up to know 
and there's nothing wrong with the children.  
 
Water is life, so when you tell me that breast milk is sweet, that's not water, so when you tell 
me you're not giving the child water alright, when you give the children water their urine is very 
white, they drink a lot of water, that shows you why it's good to give them water, because 
when they don't drink water their pee is very yellow and you see it, but when you see them 
drink a lot of water they go an urinate cleaning their body and helping them out. Yeah, because 
he now loves water so know the mother brings in the water and I don't see anything--he's 
drinking the water and he doesn't pass out yet, the water is good for him. Yeah, so that's the 
only thing I have done and the mother agrees with it now. 
 
00:20:09 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
5
Interviewer: Is there any special skill you might have taught your employer? Like anything you 
used to do back home in taking care of your children, shared anything-- Give us an example of 
one of your little songs. A folk song-- 
 
Well, not really. Oh, the only thing I've shared is like singing to them. I know I cannot really sing, 
but they don't understand that good because they're not old enough to know I'm croaking, so 
they love it so they have a song I used to sing for my kids and I do sing it for them, but when the 
mother comes to sing it they say, 'You don't even know it, Maggie knows it.' I noticed in the 
past years the children like you to sing to them, they just like you to sing for them. One of the 
little songs, its name is Mama [unclear.] it's like a French song, because you know my country is 
both creole and English so it would go [sings in French.] Now that's in English, 'Our mother 
cooks with rice,' I'm telling them my mother cooks with rice, you know, sweet rice, and then 
she gave my sister and she didn't give me now the [unclear.] I say that she gave my sister so 
why should god let that happen? [French phrase.] Why should god let that happen and she 
giving my sister and she didn't give me. So they like it and they like the old face. They just laugh, 
you know, so they just like the song and it has going on with different things. Now they're 
trying to sing it, but Mama [unclear.] when they sing— 
 
00:22:46 
Interviewer: What is the best part of your job? Please give an example.  
 
Well, the best part of my job is playing hide and seek with the kids. I love to play hide and seek 
with them because it makes them so happy. You know, like when they catch me the way they 
just fall down and laugh? That's one of the best parts of my job. I would hide them and they 
would look for me and they would say again and again, but sometimes I'd just be so tired and 
that again and again I just have to change the topic because they can do it for the whole day, 
just again and again. 
 
00:23:27 
Interviewer: What is the worst part of your job? Please give an example. So, being underpaid? 
Long hours and short pay? So did you negotiate from the beginning? 
 
Well, the worst part of the job is on a Friday and not getting enough paid. I would say that. 
Long hours and yeah, I would say it should have been a little more, but what to do, I get it. No, 
well, in Long Island that's how it is. All parents pay the same, that's what they do. They have a 
meeting and I think unless the law is not enforced it will not change. It will not change unless 
we enforce the law. 
 
00:24:19 
Interviewer: What is your relationship with your current employer? Give me an example. So 
you would say you have good communication? 
 
Very good. Well, we talk to each other if something is wrong she will come and tell me, even 
something on her job she will come and tell me. We have a good relationship. She will drop me 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
6
at the train station when I'm late, you know-- Yeah, I have had jobs and I've had bosses I fight 
with not physical fights, but not agreeing at all. Disagreeing because they weren't nice. I stayed 
with them three years and I just walked out, but— 
 
00:25:12 
Interviewer: Are there relationships with previous children you have cared for that are 
particularly memorable in a good or bad kind of way? So you have one or two that are 
particularly that you remember? The ones that you have now? 
 
Well it depends. Some is good, some is bad compared with others and some is good and some 
is bad because my last job it was the most relaxing job I had. It was a good job if it wasn't for 
the boss, I didn't like the boss, I would not leave, you understand? But that one is a little 
challenging because I have twins the one I have now but it depends. But I love everybody. I'll 
remember these for good, the way they act, I'll remember them--Yeah--I will remember them, 
trust me, because I'm always telling them I'll remember them, and they have this little one I 
used to keep care of in upstate New York. I'll always remember her, I'll always remember. 
 
00:26:32 
Interviewer: Do you feel that the amount of hours you work and your holiday schedule are 
being respected? 
 
Well, some of the holidays we don't get it, well, my boss I can see that she works. Most of them 
work on the same. 
 
00:27:15 
Interviewer: Would you say that you or any worker that you know has been exploited due to 
immigration status? You don't know anyone that has been exploited? 
 
No. No. 
 
00:27:35 
Interviewer: You know, I didn't really get a clear answer as to the amount of hours you work or 
your holiday schedule being respected. So when you do work holidays, do you get time and a 
half? No? So why the country say it's a holiday? If the country recognizes it as a holiday, it's a 
holiday. That is because they don't want to pay? You never asked? So when they're working a 
holiday, you work on the holiday? But officially when anybody works on a holiday it's time and 
a half, because it's considered over time. Well, as you mentioned earlier, when the Bill is 
reinforced-- 
 
Oh, I work ten hours and holidays? I do get some holidays but the other holidays they work so I 
have to work on it, but I do get time and a half. It's more the Veterans and these holidays, I 
don't think they really take that as a holiday. The Veterans Day and Martin Luther King they 
don't take that as well. Well this is not like, it's not like Christmas day or New Year’s day or--I 
don't know, but I do get time and a half.  
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
7
I do get time and a half because they work too. They're working. That's what--unless the Bill is 
not enforced it will not happen because some people respect the law and some don't. 
 
00:29:20 
Interviewer: Do you ever share cultural things from your heritage with the family you assist? 
For example: food, language, folktales or beliefs about life and death? So you share your food 
with them? So they're kosher? So, like you mentioned earlier how you soothe the kids by 
singing your folk songs for the kids, so at least you share that, your folktales, but what about 
beliefs? 
 
Well, for food for sure I cannot, because they eat different from us. No, no. I cannot, because 
remember they are Jews. They're kosher so I cannot bring food into the house either, so I 
cannot share food with them. Yeah, I share that. Well the beliefs and things like you're talking 
about my religious beliefs and things? No, well, she knows what religion I go to and she 
respects that and I know what religion she goes to, so. 
 
00:30:35 
Interviewer: How do you manage balancing your personal life, family life, and your work life? 
But how do you balance it? Do you have kids of your own? So you're telling me like work home, 
home work? 
 
Well, when you have to do what you have to do, you have to make it work, does that make 
sense? So that's how I make it work, because I have to do what I have to do. Oh, well, I balance 
it alright because I know I leave work at six I get home maybe a little after seven. I still cook 
sometimes and I still cook when I reach home. Well, I have a big son, not kids, but I do cook for 
the house and then what I do I take a shower and I go and sleep and I wait for the next day to 
come. Yeah, that's what I do. 
 
00:31:34 
Interviewer: Okay, so this is where I'll ask you this question: Are you a member of other 
organizations or groups? 
 
Oh, I used to be a member of the Mary Kay, but I'd be so tired sometimes when I come from-- 
And I am a member of Domestic Workers. Sometimes they have things during the week, but 
because of my work schedule and the distance I am coming from work, by the time I reach 
home I'm all tired and I cannot really leave the house, because even when I got and lie down in 
bed watching a program I would just fall asleep. Very tired. It has me tired, because taking care 
of kids you will be tired. 
 
00:32:23 
Interviewer: So you mentioned that you are part of an organization? So I understand that Mary 
Kay deals with the cosmetic products and what Domestic Workers United is all about? So, to be 
a member of this organization you could documented or undocumented?  
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
8
 
Yeah, well, I do like Mary Kay is an organization and I am part of Domestic Workers United. 
Domestic Workers teaches you your rights as domestic workers it tells you about your rights in 
that country whether you are legal or illegal, you know, it tells you how many hours of work 
which they do--some of them do--but it tells you your sick leave. You know, you learn a lot. 
That's why I always tell the girls when I'm in the park or even when I go to a meeting and I get 
the papers I always share it with the girls that they can come out and see that the more people 
we have then maybe we can try and enforce the law that they will be happy that it will be for 
all of them. Yes. 
 
00:33:44 
Interviewer: When you are doing domestic work, do you feel part of a larger group or 
community? Do you feel like there's a support system out there for you? Do you feel connected 
to other domestic workers or baby sitters? So you and the other baby sitters come together as 
a group. So we must look into that a little bit further. Yes, that's very interesting that when you 
get to meeting because I believe other babysitters and nannies and caregivers must be having 
similar experiences.  
 
We do connect, because a group of us what we do--well, some of them just started last 
summer, we still have parties for the children in the park, bring the pool in the park, and I 
would say about ten babysitters would always get together, bring the children in the park and 
put balloons up and the children in their bathing suits and they're just having good fun. Yeah. 
But one thing I don't like, and I would like and I don't know if they have a law against it, as a 
nanny in the park they have a camera in the park, but mothers just come in the park don't have 
anything to do at home, they come in the park and they take pictures of baby sitters and they 
put them on the internet, so I would like to know if that's right, because you're not supposed to 
take someone's picture without their consent and then put it on the internet and I would like to 
know if that's a right thing to do.  
 
Yeah, because sometimes it can be a good nanny and the child just strays for one day. It can be 
she's a good nanny and the child--because sometimes the children do run away from you just 
like I have the little one I'm watching there and when you're inside they would just open the 
door and go outside and his mother told him she would call the police on him, that's why he's 
not going outside again, because suppose he go outside and somebody take him? That means 
I'm responsible when I don't even know he went outside I have four of them. You understand?  
 
So this type of thing--I don't mean to say that some of the nannies I don't mean to say they are 
bad nannies--sometimes the child just strays. You understand? Because they have a picture I 
watched on one of the things and one of the children walked far a little far from the nanny and 
they already put her on the thing and that's spoiling her reputation because maybe somebody 
else might not want to give her a job, but what I'm saying is sometimes I have the twins I have 
the little one and the twins running right in front, but they know they have to stop when to 
cross the road, but what somebody sees is they're running right in front and they're not by me 
and you're going to take my picture and you're going to put it on the internet? So they have 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
9
some things you cannot just come and do because if somebody takes their picture and just puts 
it on the Internet, they would not like that. You understand?  
 
So we also have to--when I go to the meeting the Domestic Workers meeting, I have to 
mention that to see if they have something they can do about just taking our people's picture 
and then trying to spoil their reputation. Yeah, because it's not right, because when we leave 
our home to come to take care of somebody's child we have to learn to love that child. Learn. 
It's not like you're meeting somebody and you fall in love. You see him and you like him and 
you'll become partners, it's something we have to learn to do, because I went to an interview 
one day and the mother told me she don't know how we do it. A mother. She told me she 
didn't know how we can take care of people's children, how we can do it, because she would 
not be able to do it. She herself told me that and she's a mother. An interview I went to. 
 
00:38:32 
Interviewer: When and why did you become a part of Domestic Workers United and how did 
you hear about it? Is it a union or an organization? No, because my understanding to be 
unionized you have to have fifteen or more employees under the same roof. But no, what I'm 
saying is these people have to be working like in a factory you know factories have umpteen of 
people working, they could have a union, but domestic workers are employer to employee. I 
think it is within that level that scale is where exploitation and abuse could come in, because 
it's just employer employee, so it's an organization. How long ago was that? What year? Okay, 
quite a few years, because it's 2016 right now.  
 
Oh, well, I was in Manhattan and a girl came in the park with flyers, which I saw some people 
just taking it and throwing it, but I said--I couldn't read it that time because I had to take care of 
the kid. I put it in my pocket and I said, when I get a chance and then when I went to the house 
and I had a chance, I said let me see and when I saw it was a union I said I would show. It's sort 
of an organization, but sort of a union too. Yeah, but at that time we had that a month, when I 
came to it we had a lot of people and the-- Yeah, an organization, so when I heard about that I 
came to the next meeting and I've been there ever since. That was about 2011/12. 
 
00:40:32 
 
Interviewer: What has it meant for you and your work that the Domestic Bill of Rights passed in 
2010? So this Bill, it hasn't improved anything within the work industry? So no sort of 
effectiveness? 
 
Well, it's a good thing, but a lot of us are not enjoying it because most of the mothers out there 
don't respect it. If they were respecting it, I think we would be happy, because a lot of workers, 
like I tell you, every day on the train, every day in the park is angry babysitters and everybody is 
the same voice so if they were respecting it like other people are happy like other people that I 
know their boss respects it and be happy, but the boss not respecting it, but they're not happy. 
The boss might think they're happy, but they are not. No, it really didn't. I will not say it doesn't 
improve, because some people are respecting the law and some are not and most of them the 
majority of them that want to make you work and don't pay don't respect it. 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
10
 
00:41:59 
Interviewer: So what would you like to see happen in the future with the Bill of Rights? So this 
Bill wants recognition? 
 
Well, I would like to see that more babysitters, especially those that are complaining come to 
the meetings to see if we can enforce the law, because if the law is enforced I feel we'll be 
happier, because they will not have a choice, they will have to do what they law says. Yeah, it 
has to, I think, and unless it's not like that babysitters won't be happy. 
 
00:42:36 
Interviewer: From your perspective, why is Domestic Workers United important for domestic 
workers? Such as? So in other words what are you saying? Like, in the future you would like the 
Bill to be reinforced, you would like the Bill to get more recognition, you know, and for 
employers to follow the law, because happy workers are more productivity.  
 
It's very important because it's an organization that can do things as long as you come and 
everyone comes together we can do things for the better of the domestic workers. Such as 
getting the right pay, getting our sick leave, getting our holidays, you know, as long as we get 
that we'll be fine. As long as the Bill, like the bill that passed is recognized, everybody I'm telling 
you everybody will be happy with their jobs. That's all people need, because I know of people 
that work at this present time and they have no holidays. They work twelve hours a day and no 
holidays just the two days Sunday and Saturday and I feel if they could hold them Sunday and 
Saturday they would do. And it's wrong for you to work twelve hours and they don't pay you 
overtime, and don't give you holidays. If you take the day off they don't pay you for it and it's 
really wrong when they themselves go to work and they get paid. 
 
00:44:25 
Interviewer: Are you happy with the Bill's impact? No, you're not happy, because like we're 
mentioning now a minute earlier. The impact it had it wasn't effective in New York still not 
getting any justice. But if the baby you have two babies in front of you, one little one on this 
side one little one on that side running around-- 
 
You know I would say--No, because right now like I would say that some of the nannies right 
now if the bill would pass it would be like heaven for them like it would be recognized it would 
be heaven for them. I'm telling you because they're really sad and it's so sad. And if I tell you 
the amount of people that died, the amount of nannies that died out of stress, they have those 
that die on the job and they're not evening putting that out on the news. That's a lot of stress.  
 
Now, let me give you an example of a lot of work and good pay. If you're somebody that's 
getting paid, the work wouldn't even bother you. If you'd just get paid you would do that work 
and would even want to have more work to do and you'd do extra because you'd want to stay 
in that job. 'She pays me well and I want to stay on that job,' you'd do extra to make her happy, 
to make everybody happy so like [unclear.] and you getting paid honestly speaking--as long as 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
11
someone's getting good pay, whatever they do it would not bother them, but when you're not 
getting paid and then you're getting work it will bother you, but you don't have a choice. 
 
00:46:29 
Interviewer: So due to the fact that the Bill has to be revisited to be reinforced, what would you 
like the legislators to know? Right, like you're talking to the legislator, let the legislator know. 
Leave her child with the same sick person-- This is what someone's nanny probably gets caught 
up with feeling for the kid and don't want to walk out and don't want to walk out. 
 
Well, I would like them to know what's going on with the babysitters. I would like them to know 
that we are not happy--I'm talking on behalf of a lot of babysitters out there, because I meet 
babysitters every day. They are not happy. They are sad babysitters going to work. Looking for 
jobs and cannot get it frustrated and some of the kids are not very nice to them some of the 
parents are not very nice to them, so what I would like them to do to reinforce the law and 
make it better for the babysitters, because the babysitters are taking care of all the legislators 
children and grandchildren that they become--how they have all their education, through baby 
sitters they become like that, because if all of them had to stay in the house to take care of 
their little children they drop down nothing would be done, so a good nanny a good babysitter 
that comes into your house takes care of your children 'til your children can have a good 
education themself, show them the love that you don't have time to give your children, you 
should appreciate that, because a stranger coming into your house and giving your children 
love, so we want a lot of things that we can be happy.  
 
We want to be like any other worker in the country. Eight hours, we can work twenty hours, 
but after the eight hours we want our overtime so we know I'm going to go home late, but at 
least I have something. So we want that to happen and we want babysitters that have to wake 
up at 4:00 in the morning every day to get themselves to go and take the train and then leave 
work about 6:00 in the night because you have to wake up early in the morning to get the early 
train to go how far you're going, you understand? So like it's a whole day out of tiredness and 
unhappiness and whatever so they're supposed to make sure that the elderly care and the 
babysitters are taken care of by the parents, because a lot of people have been going in the 
ground, which is not nice, and they are not even recognizing [unclear.]  
 
Babysitter die, what she died of or whatever? They die of stress, because when their blood 
pressure goes up, that's stress, because I can remember a friend of mine was telling me at 3:00 
in the morning she heard her phone ring she looked she said, 'Why she calling me at 3:00 in the 
morning?' She didn’t answer it. It ring again so she goes to answer it. They have this babysitter, 
that stroke take her, she had a mild stroke, so her boss is a doctor, her boss came in, saw her, 
the boss said or a mild stroke you're having she sprayed something in her eye and her mouth 
and she tell her when I come back from work you'll go home, so tell me that boss care about 
the children? They don't care about the children. Honestly, these people make children for tax, 
because they have big houses and don't want to pay tax so they have twenty children.  
 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
12
That's what I always say, because if you're telling me they don't have no way I would have a 
child and it could be my daughter and anybody taking care of that child and I'm a doctor and 
that person having a mild stroke and I'd spray anything in that person's mouth and eye and 
leave that child with my [unclear.] leave the same person and then when she come from work 
the girl go the doctor told her to never do that again and the girl [unclear.] herself and the 
doctor told her, 'Walk out.' Don't ever do that again. Yeah, you feel for them because I get 
better jobs that pay me more and I don't walk out. I've got jobs that paid me more and I didn't 
walk out because and look now I'll be out of a job soon, because the children are going to 
school, you understand? You don't walk out, but when it's time to go home, you go home, but 
it's our heart to their hearts, we have a different heart. 
 
00:51:34 
Interviewer: So what areas of education or skills are you looking to gain? Here in Brooklyn? 
 
Well, I went to high school, but the thing is I like I tell you, I don't mind going and doing the 
[unclear.] because as a young child I always wanted to be a nurse. I always like to take care--
that's why I'm doing the babysitting and elderly care, I just like to take care. It can be a little rat 
I just like to take care of things. Animals, everything. Imagine that if I tell you I had a goat in my 
house, a baby goat, living in my house. No, back in my country, and the baby goat was so 
trained it would never mess on the floor it was just like a cat. It [unclear.] some sand it was 
going and peeing in the sand and when it was hungry coming and looking for me. It knew my 
voice and everything. Somebody would come in the house they would never know there was a 
goat because the house wasn't smelly it was just like a pet. I like to take care of things. 
Everything. Even little rats I don't mind taking care of, but I have to kill them because they'll 
destroy me, but if it wasn't for that I would take care of them, you understand? I like taking 
care of things. 
 
00:52:54 
Interviewer: What skill did Domestic Workers United teach you? What kind of training? And it 
seems as though Domestic Workers United does a lot for their members by educating their 
members and letting them know their rights and asserting them in their workplaces, by the CPR 
and the nanny training courses or leadership training. As well, do you want to have a cultural 
committee? Tell me more about the culture committee. It sounds like it was good. It sounds 
like it was motivational. 
 
Well, like I tell you we have the nanny training course, they have the--sometimes we get to do 
the CPR and I even heard them say that we'll be doing, they'll be trying to get us to do the 
[unclear.] no, the baby nurse course, so it's good. It's very interesting. People just don't know, 
they have to come to the meetings and they'll see what they're missing out. Yeah, we have 
that, that's why we ended up reaching at the theater--Well we have a culture committee.  
 
They have a girl names Christine and I remember when--I remember some people were just 
haters. I remember in starting to come to that meeting and then Christine came up for the first 
time seeing her and then she said she had that cultural committee, she was forming up that 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
13
group and if we're interested come and the impression on some of these women's faces, but a 
good thing I went through. It was very interesting, it was helpful a lot, yeah, it was really helpful 
for all of us that came with her, yeah for all of us that followed her because we still had more 
things doing and we had more things to come. Through her again and Pat we were at the 
dinner the Democrats had where they would recognize us, honor us. It was nice. We're doing 
good work; we just need more people on board. 
 
00:55:47 
Interviewer: Do you have any last words or parting shots you would like to share? So, 
Magdalen, I want to thank you very much for being a part of this program and I appreciate you 
sharing your story. 
 
Well, my last word I would say that I don't regret being a part of the Domestic Workers and I 
am trying my best to get more people to come in and I will get them because when you're 
trying you have to try and try and try. Maybe when you're fully in their head one day they'll say, 
'Let me go and see what she's talking about.' 
 
 I'll try my best to and I love what I've accomplished with them and I'm still looking forward to 
accomplish more things, so up to last night we ended up going to see a play and it was through 
them, so I would like a lot of nannies to come on board and if they come on board they'll be 
experiencing the same same same that I and the other nannies that are on board. Thanks for 
having me. 
 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
14