Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
1 
Project: Archie Green Project 
Interviewer: Andy Kolovos 
Interviewee: Cheryl DeVos 
Interviewee Contact: 
 
Location: Green Mountain Organic Creamery, Hinesburg, VT 
Date: 4 June 2015 
Length: 01:18:43 
Recording Format: Digital 
Accession: au2015-1015 
Collection: vfc2014-0005 
Indexer: Shannon Esrich 
 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
START-00:00:35 
Introductions. 
Introduction 
00:00:35-00:01:42 
Married into farm life, but was city kid with farm background. Dad grew up 
on farm in Iowa. Lived outside San Francisco in Alameda and had no farm 
experience growing up. Married a farmer. Husband originally from 
Newburg, NY but has been in VT since childhood. 
Childhood, family 
00:01:42-00:04:46 
Dairy is husband’s business. Father-in-law from Holland started farm after 
WWII in Newburg, but sold it in 1968 and purchased current farm in North 
Ferrisburgh, VT. Original farm was 210 acres, in 2004 purchased 550 total 
acres. Farm 900 acres organically (rent some). Farm and creamery are 
distinct businesses. Green Mountain Organic Creamery, but milk bottled 
under Kimball Brook Farm. When purchased by original John DeVos, farm 
was abandoned and run down. Remodeled and made it nice working farm. 
Named the 2011 Vermont Dairy Farm of the Year. 
Origin, production, organic, milk, 
Vermont Dairy Farm of the Year, 
Green Mountain Organic 
Creamery, Kimball Brook Farm 
00:04:46-00:09:07 
Had been married previously with two kids, went to class reunion and re-
met current husband. Married in 1988 and joined farm. Farm wasn’t 
running at current capacity. 2 businesses in Ferrisburgh, their farm and J. 
Family, history of farm, change, 
organic, milk, Northeast Organic 
Farmers Association of Vermont 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
2 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
DeVos Trucking owned by husband and family. After 12 years, husband 
rejoined main labor on farm and turned into working farm again. Previously 
was side business with hired laborers. Herd was 80 cows when married, 
now have 200. Had tie-stall barn, now have free-stall barn with milking 
parlor. 2004 switched into organic system. 2005 certified organic by 
NOFAVT. Was not keen about going back into farming based on first 
marriage, but knew raising family on farm was going to be valuable. 2 sons 
from previous marriage, 1 son and 1 daughter from current husband. 
Youngest son goes to college in Wales and getting married, daughter works 
on farm. Oldest son in Navy, will go to Israel for work. 
(NOFAVT) 
00:09:17-00:11:00 
When first became organic, were largest organic dairy farm in VT at that 
time. Friends in Bridport have about 500 cows. Most organic farms run 50-
100 cows. Anything over 100 cows is big for organic. Have mixed herd of 
mainly Holsteins, Jersey-Holstein, and Jerseys, plus a few Swedish-Red 
mixes. For health reasons, try to breed new heifers to have small first calf. 
Trying to avoid health problems because organic and don’t have as many 
options to save a cow’s health. 
Organic, animal health, 
production, size of farm 
00:11:00-00:15:55 
Have 3 Mexican migrant workers full-time, daughter is ¾ time on dairy, ¼ 
time in creamery. Trying to bring on new family at farm to share business. 
Tom and Jennifer Kennet, had a shared family farm at Liberty Hill Farm in 
Rochester but that farm too small for 3 families. Good timing, looking for 
experienced dairy farmers because very busy with creamery too. Probably 
isn’t common to work with other families, but applying to Vermont Farm 
Viability Program for grant to facilitate transfer and legal process. Will 
provide generational farming, but not necessarily just within family. Will 
split business 50/50 and original farm will likely stay in DeVos family. 
Animals and equipment will be shared in partnership, land owned by DeVos 
still. DeVos will probably rent house to other family since they have kids 
and DeVos kids are mostly grown. “It’s a little tough! I will say that. It’s been 
Labor, migrant, Mexico, business 
plan, family, change, future, 
Vermont Farm Viability Program 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
3 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
our house forever, since we’ve been married, so it’s been tough giving it up. 
But we really feel pretty strongly that they’re the family that can help us 
make that farm go into the future. With us here at the creamery, we just 
can’t keep a great eye on everything that’s going on there. We need 
somebody else to help us out, and Tom Kennet probably is that person I 
think.” 
00:15:55-00:21:12 
Creamery is in third year of production and just beginning to get profit, but 
have had to maintain creamery and is difficult. Would not recommend their 
process to others. Put strain on farm when built creamery, can’t give farm 
enough attention. Husband at creamery a lot instead of on farm. Need to 
keep track of herd and their health. Need someone who has ownership in 
farm and passion for it to help. Found that with Kennets. Put 2004 farm for 
sale and met Jennifer Kennet interested then. Decided that they could 
partner instead of selling the farm, and maybe in future Kennets could buy 
land but not in financial place to do that now. “I think we’ve chosen this 
path. I think it’s going to be a great path, a great way of going forward into 
the future for us.” Just started working with Tom in February, began talking 
last fall. Feel like Tom has turned things around on farm and is caring for 
their animals well. Jennifer will help with 4 Sunday dinners on farm in 
summer. Met Beth Kennet at workshop but otherwise didn’t know the 
family well. Want to do more agricultural tourism, and Jennifer brings that 
interest as well. Jennifer runs camp in Rochester bringing kids into 
countryside and teaching about food. Cheryl wants people to know their 
milk comes from their farm, that it’s organic and comes from a Vermont 
farm. 
Finances, change, future, business 
plan, partnership, agricultural 
tourism, education, organic, milk 
00:21:12-00:24:50 
Kennets were already trying to find farm to transfer into through Vermont 
Farm Viability Program, and DeVos had used program beginning in 2008 to 
convert creamery into reality. Realized did not have equity to build 
creamery on their own, used Slow Money to find about 20 investors mostly 
Vermont Farm Viability Program, 
finances, debt, producer, High 
Mowing Organic Seeds, business 
plan, challenge 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
4 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
from their area in Vermont. Investors understand their farm is not big 
money maker, may eventually make interest and could eventually hold 
equity if investors decided to. Did convertible debt, called private placement 
memorandum, used Eli Molton from Merit, Merit, and Molton in Burlington. 
Had done similar projects with High Mowing Seeds, Hardwick agricultural 
enterprises, on how to create business when do not have equity to put into 
it. Have invested over one million into the creamery. 
00:24:50-00:29:37 
Migrant laborer has worked on and off for 12 years, other workers for two 
and one years. Have been related to other workers that have worked with 
them. One speaks English pretty well except for occasional confusion in 
verb tenses. Cheryl knows a little Spanish to communicate with them 
regarding work. They live on the farm in provided housing. Experience has 
been positive. “They’re great guys, I haven’t had too many issue with any of 
them. They always show up on time, they’re very thoughtful as far as their 
work goes - we really love what they do. They definitely take care of the 
animals the way we want to, and they seem to understand our work ethic 
and they really put a lot of effort into it, so we really appreciate what they 
do.” In addition to family and migrant workers also have part-time young 
woman who works with calves. Workers tend to be mid-20s, are hard 
workers but tend to see the farm as a path in progression towards a 
different or better job. “Dairy farming is really hard work. You’re getting up 
at different hours that nobody else is getting up – the cows get milked at 4 
O’clock in the morning, and that schedule for most people is not a schedule 
they want. You have to work with cows that poop on them sometimes when 
you’re in the parlor – you’re not going to be clean! You really have to love 
animals in order to do this, and I’ve had a really tough time finding people 
that would stay.” Trying to make current part-time help more full-time by 
adding creamery work. 
Labor, migrant, Mexico, family, 
challenge 
00:29:37-00:35:14 
Typical day for migrant workers has same chores every day. One does calf 
Schedule, labor, migrant, pasture, 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
5 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
chores some days and some milking, work 6 days a week. Other workers 
milk twice a day, early milking, bring cows to pasture, return for afternoon 
milking. “It’s a pretty rigorous schedule, and it’s what a normal famer used 
to do, but not too many of them do it anymore.” Calf workers feed calves 
early in morning and come back in afternoon for chores. Daughter, Tom, 
and husband do field work. Setting up fences for pasture. Have a lot of fast 
growth in June pastures so have to clip them to make sure cows don’t ignore 
good grass. Milking cows do get some grain mixed into food, TMR, total 
mixed ration, with hay silage. Don’t want cows to separate pasture and 
grain food. Grains can be barley, oats, wheat, corn, all put into mixer wagon 
to combine it all and adds water to make sure cows can’t separate out grain.  
Cows went to pasture around May 10th, usually have flooding from Lewis 
Creek that cuts through their farm. This year didn’t flood, so had later 
pasture. Usually out by May 1 through October, heifers out through 
November or December. Often turn them out to hay fields if have excess 
hay.  
grain, Total Mixed Ration (TMR), 
flood 
00:35:14-00:38:07 
Heifer is a dairy animal that’s never had a baby before. Youngest heifers are 
calves, from newborns to 3-4 months. Heifers are the next age. Breed them 
around 12 months, calving around 2 years as new moms. Bull calves go to 
market for meat. If had ability and more land would raise them as organic 
beef, but don’t have enough land to do that. Is market for it, raise some 
steers and sell to Mark Boyden at Boyden Farms to be used in local 
restaurants. Think that bull calves go outside of Vermont for slaughter, 
though auction through Addison Commission Sales.  
Heifer, animal health, calf, 
producer, Boyden Farms, bull, 
beef, organic, processing, Addison 
Commission Sales 
00:38:07-00:40:54 
Grow 100 acres of organic corn and about 400 acres of hay, rest is pasture. 
When started farm it was not organic, was financially based decision to 
transition. Went to workshop and learned about other farmers being more 
profitable because of it. Prices remained fairly stable for them. Transitioned 
in 2005, in recession organic price went down to started looking at building 
Organic, corn, hay, pasture, 
change, finances 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
6 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
creamery to control their prices. Before recession, had very profitable years.  
00:40:54-00:41:51 
Before creamery and now use Horizon Organics as organic milk company to 
bottle any milk they don’t bottle at the creamery. Nice to have second outlet 
for milk since don’t have sales for all of their milk. Really hard to balance 
production with sales, so Horizon helps bring a balance. 
Distributor, Horizon Organics, 
producer, challenge 
00:41:51-00:50:56 
Cheryl is CEO of creamery, husband is production and runs the plant. Cheryl 
controls marketing and sales. When began business didn’t understand that 
side of business, is difficult but necessary and is now fun for Cheryl. Fun to 
get a sale, tell people about their milk. Sell milk throughout New England, 
trying to break into NYC. 1 of 4 major dairies in the state. Thomas Dairy 
bottles other farms’ milks, may be biggest in state. Monument Farms Dairy 
has own dairy farms, second biggest. DeVos probably 3 biggest, then 
Strafford Organic Creamery who does milk and ice cream. Right now DeVos 
only does milk, hoping to add butter soon. Just started bottling in glass, used 
plastic for 2 years. Plastic is easier to sell, especially out of state. Use 
distributors like Black River Produce and Albert’s Organics to sell outside of 
Vermont, and really difficult for them to use and bring back glass bottles. 
End up having 2 delivery charges, so still figuring that out to sell outside of 
Vermont with glass. Everyone thinks glass has no issues, but is much 
heavier, requires more fuel, electricity, chemicals to make and use it. Don’t 
have enough data to say whether one is better than other. Other people say 
glass is a tiny bit better but not much. Customers buy their milk because 
milk is good for them, planet, Vermont, and glass brings back nostalgia and 
has positive environmental connotation. May not have done glass if redid 
business. No markup to customers for using glass, although retail stores 
could choose to add markup. More labor connected to glass production, and 
glass is only 10% of their production. Still questioning it. When started 
business had all machinery ready to start glass production. Went to MI to 
creamery working with juvenile delinquent program that wanted more 
Business plan, retail outlets, 
producer, Thomas Dairy, 
Monument Farms Dairy, Strafford 
Organic Creamery, distributor, 
Black River Produce, Albert’s 
Organics, glass, plastic, ice cream, 
milk, butter, value added, 
processing, consumer, labor 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
7 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
labor, so went from bottling glass to making cheese to create more labor. 
From them got front end of creamery machinery, filler and tanks. 
00:50:56-00:59:56 
“My vision really is not to just be our farm, and we haven’t gotten to the 
point where the vision really has happened yet. We’re close to it, but I 
would like to have other Vermont organic dairy farms come on board and 
we want to be this exclusive Vermont organic product. That’s our vision. 
Our vision is to have a Vermont product that is well-known regionally.” 
Would keep Kimball Brook brand name in that vision, more about quality of 
product. Other farms would have to meet their standards. Green Mountain 
Creamery is already a name of a different producer, and like Kimball Brook 
Farm name better. Would like to have another farm in future, have been 
talking with farm in Williston but not there yet. Looking for geographically 
close partners. Investors knew from beginning about this vision. Looking at 
other things like bottling, brewed iced tea to have another market for 
different products produced on farm. Will use Vermont spring water to 
make the tea value added product from Vermont. Will be organic. Could 
produce non-organic product, would have to do split-certification with 
NOFAVT. Had discussed with Cold Hollow Cider Mill about sharing 
equipment when theirs had issues and would have not been issue with 
NOFAVT. Already produce ice cappuccino drink, and coffee and tea products 
are big in dairy industry right now. Have all equipment to make butter, but 
right now don’t have a lot of cream. Sometimes have extra cream, is 
premium product that makes most money but without market have to ship 
extra cream to Trickling Springs in PA, an organic creamery that makes 
butter. Would rather make the butter themselves. In talking with retailers, 
is large interest in having Vermont organic butter on larger scale. 
Butterworks Farm will sometimes produce butter or cottage cheese but not 
usually. Would like to increase butter production and let it grow. Best 
market right now is cream since requires less labor. Don’t ultra-pasteurize 
Future, change, organic, Vermont 
brand, partnership, value added, 
processing, tea, coffee, producer, 
Cold Hold Cider Mill, Northeast 
Organic Farming Association of 
Vermont (NOFAVT), butter, 
Butterworks Farm, cream, 
Trickling Springs, retail outlet, 
pasteurize 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
8 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
anything, many customers want that. Many creams have carrageenan but 
can’t make butter with that. 
00:59:56-01:07:15 
Do about 75% distribution in VT, Black River Produce does the rest of in-
state and some out of state distribution. Albert’s Organics goes further than 
Black River. Distributors take a pallet down to Market Basket in Boston 
area, paying for their transport. Have employees to handle distribution 
logistics for most Vermont accounts. Tend not to rely on distributors to find 
clients, so try to sell to client lists from the distributor. Distributors are very 
sensitive about that information, don’t want farms taking their business, but 
would rather use distributor than not, especially in further markets. Lots of 
logistics to manage, fuel, trucking. Husband has worked in that industry so 
built in shipping and packaging into their business. Do sell down to 
Woodstock in VT, in Burlington, Jeffersonville, Morrisville, Montpelier, 
Stowe. Most accounts are retail with a few restaurants. Many restaurants 
not willing to spend extra money on cream of premium products. Candy 
makers like them. Red Kite Candy, Lake Champlain Chocolates. Large 
institutional buyers are very important. Biggest market is Market Basket, 
followed by City Market. Last year had $100,000 sales to City Market. 
Hospital also large account and consistent. Healthy Living, Hunger 
Mountain Co-Op, Lantman’s Market, Shelburne Supermarket. Also Shaw’s, 
Hannaford’s, and Price Chopper in the area. Don’t feel big enough yet. 
Hitting some Whole Foods, but not all. Local chains, but not outside 
Vermont with exception of Market Basket. They self-distribute, and many 
large companies won’t do that. Want to sell more outside of Vermont. 
Distributor, Black River Produce, 
Albert’s Organics, retail outlet, 
Market Basket, producer, Red 
Kite Candy, Lake Champlain 
Chocolates, institution, University 
of Vermont Medical Center, City 
Market, Healthy Living, Hunger 
Mountain Co-Op, Lantman’s 
Market, Shelburne Supermarket, 
Shaw’s, Hannaford’s, Price 
Chopper, Whole Foods 
01:07:15-01:12:37 
Don’t have a lot of money to put towards marketing, most of budget goes to 
Seven Days. Use demos a lot to advertise, especially outside of VT, because 
can’t spend money on sending employee to do it. Inside VT do demos too. 
Try to give away products, get people interested in what they’re doing. Have 
great regular milk but also great flavored milk. Chocolate (whole and low-
Seven Days, marketing, 
consumer, milk, institution, 
school, value added, local, 
milkshed, retail outlet, future, 
diversified 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
9 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
fat), low-fat maple, iced cappuccino with 4 different flavors. Sell to 
individual schools as well with smaller portions, 12-oz bottle. Hoping to 
build lifelong customers with products in schools. Only independent lunch 
programs can afford their milk, outside companies double their milk’s price 
in the lunchroom and then no student can afford it. “My hardest things with 
schools is I know the districts think that those companies give them a 
cheaper lunch program, but I don’t think they’re great for the students and 
the products that they get out of them. A lot of these schools don’t sell local 
milk because of that.” If could increase school market outside of VT would 
be great. Tried to work with larger lunch service, and company has broad 
reaches but increases price and DeVos doesn’t agree with increasing the 
price solely for profit. “To sell my milk outside of state at that price, it just 
seems so crazy. I wish they would throw out profit basically. I mean I 
understand profit, it’s what we do too, but there is not the local component 
with that whole thing. And we consider local, we are part of what was 
originally the milkshed. And so Vermont was a milkshed for the big markets 
- Boston, Portland, New York City – they’re really our local market. I don’t 
think we’ve dipped into that whole thing enough.” Are looking to market 
into those areas more efficiently. 
01:12:37-01:17:03 
“The original premise [of the creamery] was to make it more profitable for 
the farm. It still is. Our premise is that this [the creamery] becomes 
profitable and the farm is not taking care of the creamery so much, and that 
we give the farm a better price than the national market can. And that’s our 
hope not just for our farm, but for other farms out there…That’s why local 
may cost a little bit more. People wonder about that, but sometimes the 
national market can cheapen that whole product up, and you know the 
farmer needs to get a good price for his or her milk. I wouldn’t leave either if 
I was with Organic Valley or Horizon and I was getting a set price and 
somebody came to me and said you know, you could sell your milk and it 
Future, finances, local, 
distributor, Organic Valley, 
Horizon Organic, value added, 
diversified, success, challenge 
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
 
 
10 
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
would be more local, you would know where this milk as going to – I don’t 
think the economics are going to overcome that good feeling kind of thing. 
They’ve got to make money.” Decide price a few dollars above the average 
price of the national market. Remains that way even if national market price 
goes up slightly. Still more profitable than sending to national milk market. 
Do better when selling milk themselves as long as being profitable. When 
not profitable, have to hold back money from the farm, which is tough. Milk 
production never stops, but sometimes money coming in doesn’t match 
milk going out. When started business made $4,000 month. Now in best 
months can make $150,000, but still varies. June is Dairy Month because has 
lowest dairy sales of the year, which is partly why trying to provide iced tea 
product instead of milk to boost sales. 
01:17:03-END. 
“I think the whole premise for us, and has always been, than we’re trying to 
stay a farm and it’s not that easy and we believe that the creamery being 
profitable will make it more profitable for Vermont dairy farms as we grow. 
We think we can improve the economics of the area, we think we can 
improve the food that the people are getting, and basically the jobs that are 
out there.” Community was excited to see them and Vermont Smoke and 
Cure move in to bring jobs back into the community. “Pretty proud of what 
we’re doing. It’s not been easy and it’s still not easy and I hope in the future 
it becomes more easy but we think we did the right thing with building the 
creamery and bringing a really great product to the community.” END. 
Future, change, community, 
finances, jobs, success, producer, 
Vermont Smoke and Cure, 
challenge