Interviewee: Mark Nafziger (MN) 
Interviewer: Meredith McGriff (MM) 
AFC Collection Number: AFC 2018/030 
Interview ID: 5081 
Date: October 22, 2018 
City/State: Archibold, Ohio 
Venue: Brush Creek Pottery (in the display area of Mark Nafziger's studio) 
Language(s): English 
 
 
Note: This interview was recorded in both audio and video formats. Timestamps in the transcript are keyed to the 
audio files. 
 
 
Audio File (afc2018030_05081_sr01.wav) 
 
MN  0:10   
Turn off my Dr. Dog radio. 
 
MN  0:29   
...plaid shirt. This is the approved shirt... 
 
MN  0:43   
You just put me wherever you want. 
 
MM  0:45   
Yeah. If you would shift just... get rid of that... 
 
MN  1:25   
Okay 
 
MM  1:31   
So, just for the record, I am Meredith McGriff and today is October... 
 
MN  1:39   
 October 22, I believe.  
 
MM  1:40   
Thank you. October 22nd, 2018. And if you would introduce yourself and maybe just say a couple words about 
where we are. 
 
MN  1:48   
Well, my name is Mark Nafziger. We are in the studio at Sauder Village, at Brush Creek pottery, that's my own 
business name. I'm DBA Brush Creek Pottery, Archibold, Ohio. We are actually about a mile and half from the 
farm that I grew up. So yeah, Brush Creek pottery. Brush Creek is little creek that runs through the back corner of 
my dad's farm. So... So that's where we are. Right here. 
 
MM  2:18   
Great. Maybe we'll start with a little background. Would you talk about how you got interested in clay? 
 
MN  2:25   
Well, I I tell folks, I'm a bit of an accidental Potter because I feel like I just sort of fell into it. I went off to college 
to, I attended Goshen College, Goshen Indiana. And, I went with the intention of studying mathematics. I did end 
up with a degree in mathematics. But I also ended up, while Goshen being a small liberal arts school, you're 
exposed to a lot of different aspects of the arts and different... And I began taking some art classes. One thing led 
to another, and I found clay, did clay, and I ended up with a degree in both mathematics and art. Thinking that I 
would when grad, upon graduation, I was thinking I would go on into graduate school for architecture. And I 
moved back home. Well, we had gotten married, my wife and I gotten married, and expecting our first child and 
moved back home into the area trying to decide okay, what, where to go, what to do next as far as pursuing the 
architecture degree. And it just happened that that summer, the opportunity arose to set up my own business here 
at Sauder Village. And I thought, Well, that sounds interesting. I think I will, you know, try that for a while, see 
what it's like to try to make a living as a potter. Now, granted, I'm still trying to figure out what it's like to make a 
living as a plotter, but, but anyway, so I thought I'd try it for a while. And a while has been now since 1981. So for 
the past 37 years, I've been doing pottery as my, as my livelihood, as my business now. So now, so. So I never 
really had that as an intent or a goal, you know, to be a potter, but that's what I'm doing. 
 
MM  2:31   
That's fantastic. So what year did you graduate from Goshen College? 
 
MN  4:26   
Well, I sort of messed around there for a couple extra years. But I ended up graduating in 1981. I went, I attended 
Goshen from '75, through '81. So I think I'm considered part of the class of '79, but actually graduated in '81. Now 
I know that you've talked to Dick Lehman and, or will be talking to Dick Lehman, and I actually helped Dick 
build his very first kiln in 1981, in the fall of '81, soon after I'd started here. Dick also was starting making that 
decision to do full time pottery. So, yeah. So my connections with Dick run deep. In fact, my, well, I don't think 
this isn't appropriate, you can cut it if you want. But my, my mom was in his parents' wedding. So yeah, they, my 
mother attended the same church that his parents did my mom and his parents. And I mean, it's kind of like one of 
those Mennonite connections that you often find. So anyway, so yeah. 
 
MM  5:34   
There's quite a lot around here.. 
 
MN  5:35   
Yeah, there are. 
 
MM  5:39   
So tell me about...  
 
[visitors try to come in but the shop is closed all day] 
 
MN  5:43   
I should put a rope across the door.  
 
MN  5:52   
Yeah, okay. 
 
MM  5:57   
Tell me about getting started with the Village here, how did that come about? 
 
MN  6:01   
Well, okay, there was, okay, Erie Sauder, the founder of Sauder Woodworking and Sauder Manufacturing, the 
ready-to-assemble furniture. He had this vision of this village, because he often would give tours of the factory, 
uptown. And often, often, children would say, "Oh, Mr. Sauder, when I get older, I want to work for you, you 
know," and he said, "Well why?" "Because all you have to do to make something is to push a button." And he 
thought to himself, kids just don't get it, what it takes to make something. And so he was also an avid collector of 
antiques, and farm machinery. And when people knew he was collecting stuff, they'd give me more stuff. And 
anyways, that sort of evolved into his idea of starting this village, which was to tell the story and the history of 
northwest Ohio, which really, up until the mid 1800s, was swampy, and Europeans had not really moved into the 
area, and it was one of the last areas of Ohio to be settled. So his idea was to tell the story of northwest Ohio. And 
part of that was this craft component and you know, people actually seeing what was going on. And so the very 
first potters that set up shop here were Jane Graber and Phil Yordy, two senior art majors from Goshen College 
that came out, and Jane Graber and Phil Yordy, they got the shop up and running in 1976. Phil Yordy moved to 
Canada and Jane Graber stayed on as the potter through 1979. Jane Graber then went on when she left here to 
make little early American reproduction miniatures. She's up in Michigan now. But she lived for many years in 
southern Indiana making the miniatures. But anyway, so then when they moved on the potter that was here in 
1980, was a fellow by the name of Steve Smith. And then he decided he really wanted to teach at the college 
level. And he got a teaching position at Defiance College in '81. And so the position opened up in the middle of 
1981, which is when, just sort of coincided with when I moved back. And the position was open and I, along with 
a number of people, applied for it and saw it as an opportunity. And, you know, and then went on from there.  
 
MN  8:49   
But now when I first set up shop here, the studio wasn't as nice as what we're sitting in right now. I started out in 
just a very small building. It is now housing the basket shop here at the village, but in that building, the, it's built 
up on stilts. And so the water was turned off in the winter time. So all winter, I would carry buckets of water. It 
was small and tiny. And it felt like every time you take three steps ahead, you'd have to take two steps backward 
and handling the pots too often. Anyways, it was just not a very ideal setting. And I realized that boy, if I want to 
do this for a career, that space wasn't going to make it you know, it just wasn't going to work. And so I 
approached the Village, I approached Erie Sauder, and I just, I posed the question. I asked them whether they saw 
the position as being an incubator type position, where you come and learn, and then go elsewhere to really 
pursue it or develop, or if they envisioned it as a career possibility. And Erie Sauder said, well, and Karen Sauder, 
his daughter in law, who was the director said, "Well, we always hoped it could be, hoped it could be a career 
right here at the village." And I pointed out the problems and Erie being the entrepreneur that he was understood 
and said, "What can we do, what can we do?" And after brainstorming, thinking about building on to that 
building, or moving into a different space, or we came up with the idea of having a barn raising. And so during, 
during the summer of 1989, we had a crew come in, and they cut all these timbers out on-site as an ongoing 
exhibit here at the village. People could watch them, you know, do all the layout and cutting and joinery. And 
then in the fall of '89, I believe it was over Labor Day weekend, in the fall of 1989, we had a barn raising, where 
we had volunteers from the area that came in, we had bleachers set up, so people could watch. And we had a two 
day barn raising event where we pushed it all up together, pegged it together and spent that winter on, working on 
getting the wooden floor laid, you know, cupboards and things built and I was making pottery in here then in 
spring of 1990. So it's hard to believe I've been in this building for 27, eight years now, but I am. But so that's 
kind of how I got to where I am.  
 
MN  11:53   
But I also think part of what saves me, I think, is, you know, we're in a position where we have a lot of traffic 
coming through the winter and seasonal, you know, we have a lot of folks come in and watch your every move, 
you know, in the shop from throwing the pots to decorating, to trimming, to glazing to blowing your nose, I mean, 
when you up there, they're watching, you know, so it's like, you're on stage. And I think since it's six months on 
and six months off, you know, that's really what's helped. Because in those six months off, you can sort of catch 
your breath and kind of regain a little momentum and little, you know, to be ready to go again in the spring. So, 
and it allows you then, to do maybe some other projects that you really can't do when people are looking over 
your shoulder, or repair equipment or build equipment, what have you. So, but that, so there's a nice, I think, 
rhythm to the, to the times, to the work because of that, so. Yeah. Did that answer your question or meander? 
Okay. 
 
MM  13:21   
Meandering is fine. 
 
MN  13:22   
Okay. 
 
MM  13:26   
So, when you, when you were going to school, you weren't thinking ahead to being potter, and then you ended up 
becoming a potter. How did your style develop from college to now? 
 
MN  13:38   
You know that's, I often reflect on that because, you know, I mean, I see, I can see a relationship in what I'm 
doing now and what I did in college because Marvin Bartel, my professor worked with a lot of slip. And you 
know, in his decorating and stuff, but granted, he did a lot of brush work or, you know, other methods of 
application of slip. But he tended, he tended to decorate, and I have a tendency to decorate using slip. And, you 
know, it's it's interesting to think I sometimes wonder what, you know, what would my world be like if I hadn't 
worked here, because working here I had a tendency, at least at first, to look at Early American pots and slip 
trailing, and some of the old crocks and jugs and design work, plus quilts and quilting is a very big deal. Not only 
here, I mean, but in Mennonite churches, in general, quilts are a big thing. And I can remember growing up, you 
know, sleeping under, falling asleep under quilts, my mom will be quilting on stuff. So I think, I think pattern and 
geometry is reflected in my work, you know, maybe partly from my math background, but also maybe the 
influence from like quilts and that kind of thing. And so I, you know, I think that's all in there someplace.  
 
MN  15:19   
And I sometimes, you know, even though I've worked in front of the public my whole career, you know, being 
exposed, I also at times, feel a bit like I've worked in isolation from other potters. You know, I really haven't. You 
know, I didn't, I haven't studied under, under anybody, I haven't really apprenticed with anybody I haven't, you 
know, sure, I attended, you know, when you attend workshops and you see what other potters are doing and so on. 
But I, but I think that's different than really working closely with another potter and kind of, you know, you kind 
of build on each other to a certain extent, and you can see this connectivity of styles or, or ideas that are 
generated, you know, from that, that working relationship. But I really, I don't know, at times I look at what I'm 
doing and I, I just feel like I've kind of worked up, I kind of work, well, isolated to a certain degree. I don't know 
if that's just in my own head or if it's... I don't, I don't know how to explain that, but... yeah, so. 
 
MM  16:40   
So that's interesting, because something I wanted to ask you about is, I met you through the Michiana Pottery 
Tour. As you say that's an event where you, I'm assuming don't get to talk with other potters a whole lot because 
of all the customers... 
 
MN  16:54   
No, I don't, I don't. 
 
MM  16:55   
But is that Michiana group part of your community, is, in terms of pottery... 
 
MN  17:01   
Either... I feel it is. You know, I attend, I attend a workshop in Wooster, Ohio, the Wooster Functional Ceramics 
Workshop every year. I've done that since the 80s, and have gotten to know potters there. And I look forward to 
that, every spring going out to this workshop. It was started by Phyllis Clark, Phyllis Blair Clark. And she always, 
she's no longer with us. She passed away a number of years ago, but it's now it's run by Ohio Designer Craftsmen. 
And so there's a community there that I connect with and that I feel a part of. But yeah, I do feel connected with 
the, the Goshen, the Michiana folks out there. Partly because I was a Goshen College graduate, and have known, 
them even though it's been a kind of a distant relationship. I do feel connected with them on a lot of different 
levels. Well, just like the connection I have with Dick going back so many years, you know. But it's, yeah, it... I 
feel connected, although yet I'm far enough away that I don't feel a real. Yeah, I feel like I'm kind of out here in 
the middle of corn and bean fields. But that partly is my own, that's my own nature though, too, is not, I mean, I 
just don't get out a whole lot. But, and that's, and that's why I really appreciate it, Dick inviting me to participate 
in it about four years ago, because it was kind of this opportunity to get together with some of these folks, you 
know, at least on an annual basis, you know, so, yeah. 
 
MM  19:00   
What about other artists that work here at the Village? Do you have good connections here, conversations? 
 
MN  19:10   
Yeah, Mark, Mark Matthews, next door, the glass worker is he's been here since 1985. He's the one that I have the 
closest connection, with the biggest connection, just because he's been here, so long. But you see, there's really 
only three of us here at the village that are in the same self-employed situation that I am. The rest are either 
employed or volunteer like the, in the basket shop with the spinning and the weaving and the brooms and the, and 
the cooper shop and the tin. They're all employed by the village. So there's three of us, the blacksmith, myself, and 
the glass. And, and the blacksmith, I'm not real connected with him. He's been here a couple years. He... so I, but 
the former blacksmith Mike Bendele I was very good friends with and we talked a lot about, we did some 
collaborative work, you know, iron tables with tile inlays and different things that we had done together. But he 
lives down in Delphos, Ohio, which was quite a commute for him and so, it's probably been about 15 years ago 
that he quit here and just works out of the studio at home now, but, but Mark Matthews and I are pretty, pretty 
good friends, and it's not unusual to come in and talk about what he's got work in progress. And we'll look at some 
of the stuff I've got going and bounce ideas off each other down. So it's good, yeah. 
 
MM  20:56   
It strikes me there's some, some interesting parallels between these types of work with working with fire and 
working with I would think, a substantial amount of equipment, is there. Is there historically, any reason why the 
three of you are the self employed and the others are in a different situation?  
 
MN  21:17   
I think I, you know, I don't know why those three, that's, I mean, that was the situation I walked into, back in, you 
know, the 80s, that it was the three of us that were the independent ones. I don't know if maybe partly financial on 
the Village's part, you know, as far as yeah, we'll give you a space but we can't really afford, you know, all the 
stuff that it takes to run a pottery shop or a glass shop, you know, or blacksmith shop, or if it's just that they've 
always found people who wanted to do it as an independent business. You know, because it is, it's a little bit, it's a 
little bit tricky, you know, because they, they charge admission to the place, to the village. And so, you know, 
when people come in to watch you, they think they've paid a ticket to see, to buy a ticket to see you perform, you 
know, and if I'm not turning pots on the potter's wheel, sometimes people feel cheated, like, I'm not working 
today, you know, I could be in the middle of doing whatever, you know, but, and as you know, the process of 
making a pot is just that it's a process, it's just this much of turning pots of the potter's wheel, you know, and so, so 
part of my, I really feel part of what I do here is educational as well. And granted, it's not educational in the sense 
that you have an apprentice or student that you're seeing progress in their knowledge of the craft. It's a much more 
basic education, just this basic exposure to what, what the craft is, but yet, I think a very valuable one that people 
will go out of here and go wow, oh. There's a lot to that isn't there? Yeah, there's a lot to that. You know, and I 
find it... Yeah, even though it can be quite repetitive, you know, answering the questions and same questions right 
after the other. But I still feel like, that I am teaching, I am providing a service.  
 
MN  23:48   
But, so but, to answer your questions, why those three ended up being the independent studios? I don't know, 
except maybe it's viable to make a living at those three than some of the others, in a certain sense, I don't know. I 
don't know. I mean, but I know. I mean, I guess you talk to a weaver and they'll say no, you can make a living as a 
weaver, you know, you can make a living as a basket maker and so that I shouldn't really make that blanket 
statement either. So I'm not I'm not sure why. Or maybe they just haven't found a life purpose. Right, right, 
haven't found the right person to step in and say, Yes, I, could I have the opportunity to set this up as my own 
studio, I just I don't know.  
 
MN  24:48   
Part of it also is the way that the different crafts here are defined, I think. Because some of those, like the cooper 
shop and the tin shop, they're considered here at the village be part of the historic trades. So they are working in 
more of a time frame setting. Whereas like the glass shop, myself, the blacksmith, we're three of what we call the 
continuing trades, where, you know, when you're working with ceramics, with glass, or any of these, you can't 
deny thousands of years of history behind what you're doing. I mean, you know, a potter, 100 years ago, 500 years 
ago, a thousand years ago, was responding to the demands and the needs and the wants of what a pot had to be 
then. And so in that sense, I'm very much in keeping with that, because I'm responding to what is, you know, for 
now, for the day, you know, I'm not trying to reproduce a certain little time period I'm making pots for, for now. 
So that's, that's how we define this as the continuing trades. And so in my, in my shop, you know, I'm not, you 
know, I work on an electric wheel, I have electricity and fire with natural gas, I do fire with wood also. But I'm 
not trying to live a certain time period here. And I think until we got that really clearly defined here at the village, 
it confused people sometimes because they would go into some of the shops and see them working with old 
equipment, making reproduction items. And they'd come out and come in my shop, and they say, well, what's 
going on in here? So it's like, but so you know, I feel a real connection to all those partners throughout history. 
Maybe more than I would if I was trying to reproduce what one of them was doing back then, I don't know. So, 
but... that might be part of the reason why, you know, the three of us are independent as well. 
 
MM  27:01   
Interesting... 
 
MN  27:02   
Yeah. 
 
MM  27:05   
Talking about equipment and all that it takes to run a shop, when you took over the pottery shop here, were you 
also taking over equipment, or were you having...  
 
MN  27:17   
Yeah, there was there was a basic, there was a basic core amount of equipment that was here. There was like a 
clay mixer, there was a kiln on site, there was a potter's wheel, there was some basic, there was a basic, yeah, 
basic amount of stuff. And then what you see around you in the shop now was a lot of my stuff that I've added to 
that basic stuff, you know, there's still like, well, like the, like the kiln back here, when we built that. Yeah, they 
initially bought me some brick. And then I used my labor and my time and everything, to built the kiln you so it's 
kind of a shared a shared expense on that, you know, and then when I rebuilt the kiln, when I built it in 1990, they 
did that. When I rebuilt the kiln, I bought my own brick to replace the brick, you know, to rebuild the kiln. So I 
don't know if that kiln is my kiln, their kiln, but I use it, you know, it's... but they you know, there was there was 
some money outlaid there. It's kind of, it's kind of fuzzy. And some of the kiln shelves back here are mine, some 
are theirs. The wood-fired kiln out back, we did that kind of... 2006, 5... I can't even say off the top of my head, 
2006 I built that, I think. But anyways, we did that as sort of a crowdsourcing before, before the websites were up, 
you know, for GoFundMe. And so what I did was I made, I made 100, I made 100 mugs and jugs, little jugs and 
mugs, and signed and dated and numbered them. And those then I fired in the first firing of the wood fired kiln, 
donated those to the village, the village sold those. The money that went from the sale of those went to buy the 
brick for the kiln. So it's kind of like, I paid for the kiln, but it was through the village by me making these pots 
and donating them. And, in fact, we had, we announced that we were doing this even, while I was building the 
kiln. So people were signing up for number so and so and so and you know, they were signing up for these mugs 
and jugs, even before they were fired, you know, so. So it was kind of a, sort of a, I mean, the village, the village 
appreciate that because, I mean being a non profit 501c3, they're, you know, funding is always is always an issue. 
You know, where do we get the money for this or for that? And so in an attempt to try to make myself as 
independent from the village and not be... I mean, I truly hope that my time here has been a symbiotic 
relationship. Hopefully, it's been mutually, a mutual beneficial arrangement. And that no one feels like one or the 
other has been a parasite, you know, on the other, you know, so. I mean, I think that's the case, you know, but sort 
of try to make that as viable for them as well as for me to get a kiln, you know, it's a, was a kind of a fun creative 
way to get that built, yeah. 
 
MM  29:01   
That's great. 
 
MN  29:14   
Am I talking too much? 
 
MM  31:14   
No, no, you're fine. I just want to make sure... 
 
MN  31:16   
My wife is here, she can... 
 
MM  31:17   
Oh, no, no. And see from my standpoint, that's great. 
 
MN  31:21   
You didn't know what you're getting, you didn't know what you were getting into when you asked to interview 
me, you see, that's... 
 
MM  31:25   
No, you're fine. I have to keep an eye on this, because I have a 29 minute file size limit.  
 
MM  31:33   
Okay.  
 
MM  31:33   
And so I'll just have to, restart it, every 29 minutes. 
 
MM  31:38   
So, I, what was I... Oh, okay, well process. You were actually just leading into that. I was noticing you've 
obviously got different, what some people would call lines of work or different styles of work. Could you talk 
about your, your basic process and how that varies for different types of things that you make? 
 
MN  32:04   
Well, I'm, I'm a turner. I make you know, I work on the potter's wheel, obviously, almost everything I make is 
round. On occasion, I might alter things, but that's not, that's not the norm for me, it tends to stay round. Although, 
you know, it seems like, you know... When I tried, when I tried to alter pieces, I mean, I, I've had some success 
with some things, but it always just seems, it doesn't seem, maybe it's because I don't do it enough or haven't done 
it enough. But it doesn't seem to, it doesn't seem to fit my decorations in my designs and that sort of thing. 
Although, although I really appreciate altered forms, I tend to, tend to stick to round. And I think, you know, and 
then reflecting on how maybe my setting where I work has maybe influenced me in that case also. Keeping with 
round pots might have been the easier path rather than trying to alter things and work out the problems and the 
issues of that while people are looking over your shoulder. So sometimes, I kind of wonder, you know, how much 
of where I work has influenced what I make also, you know. And when I initially started here, I started working 
with slip and I did a lot of feather combing or feathering initially. And part of that was in the reaction, as a 
response to people requesting it because Jane Graber the potter before me, done a lot of feathering. And so I kind 
of said okay, I don't know how to do it, but I'll try to figure it out. So I figured it out and I did it for quite some 
time. Still do it on occasion. Not too much, but... A lot of it initially was you know, more cobalt blue gray, you 
know kind of traditional Early American-looking kinda type stuff that you know and, and then I started, well, I 
always liked different glazes as well, different types of things and we'd use some of this, use some bit and... And I 
really, really when I was in college, really enjoyed the Islamic luster ware, that metallic luster but that's an 
earthenware process and it's, you know, it's a lower fire and I really was interested in doing a stoneware. And so I 
was always kind of on the lookout for some of that luster metallic-y looking kind of finish at the high temperature 
of the cone ten reduction firings that I was doing. And I was starting to get that with this glaze that's behind me 
here with this blue glaze.  
 
MN  35:25   
But when I first started using that glaze, and was applying it to the pots, I just wanted it that blue color, that was 
what was intriguing me. But, I still remember at one point, my wife coming into the studio and I had done this 
large platter. And on that platter, and it was sitting on the shelf and had other pots piled on top of it, and was 
dusty, and it was one that I, you know I kind of was disgusted with it. And she picked stuff up and she looked at it 
and said, you know, "what's up with this platter?" I said, "Oh, it's one that I got, didn't get the glaze on right, got it 
all too thin, it's like..." And she looked at it and pulled it out, she said, "But Mark, it's beautiful." And so I looked 
at it again after being away from it for a while not looking at it, and saw the, saw the beauty in it through her eyes. 
Because here this glaze that I use a lot now, when it's on thicker it gets that bluer color. When it's on thinner, it 
gets this oranger color. And here I had gotten it too thin, I thought, in the middle so its an orange, but it faded out 
nicely into the blue at the edge and gave that real nice transition in color. And it also had that lustery metallic-y 
kinda look that I kind of, that I was, that I enjoy. And after seeing it with her eyes, I thought, oh, that is pretty 
cool. And so I started trying to replicate that and play with the thick and the thin of that glaze and I'm still doing it 
still, still working with that same glaze. And that was from the late, late 80s already is when I started using that 
glaze.  
 
MN  37:18   
And then using that traditional slip trail technique, which you see on Early American pots, and you see it on 
European pottery, well you see it on Japanese pottery you see slip trailing, you know, using that real traditional 
technique, but in a little bit different way with that, you know, kind of that metallic luster kind of effect coming 
through. But so, I don't, you know, and I've never really, I guess I never really pursued change in the work just 
for, just for change sake, it's always seems like things kind of have evolved, you know, I do one thing and I do it 
like this, it becomes this and it kind of evolves. But yet I can kind of I can see a relationship between what I'm 
doing now and what I've done for quite a few years. So I don't know if I answered your question or avoided it.  
 
MM  38:23   
Yeah, no. The wood-fired work, particularly.  
 
MN  38:32   
Oh the wood fired work.  
 
MM  38:33   
I didn't ask about it. But I was thinking of, what's the relationship there? 
 
MN  38:34   
 Well the wood-fired work... Back in, okay, I started here in '81. And I think it was in '83, or '84, I built a small 
wood fired kiln. And then it, and I fired it, and I was doing wood fired salt glaze. Again, with you know, and it 
looked like fairly traditional gray and blue. You know, like, crockery kind of stuff, like the Bennington stuff, and 
you know that, you know, the Early American salt glaze stuff. Because I was really intrigued by that. Because, 
you know, a lot of places, a lot of cultures can trace back, you know, cultural significance of clay and you know, a 
heritage in clay. But in the United States, it's kind of a, about the closest thing we have is that, you know that 
stoneware, that stuff that comes out of New England or the South that, the products, the jugs, you know, the 
incredible craftsmanship, if you look at those pieces that went into those. I was really intrigued by the forms and 
the shapes and the techniques.  
 
MN  39:49   
And so back in the 80s, I had a small wood fired kiln. And it was before, really, I knew anybody that had wood 
fired kiln, and I fired that some and made some pots. And then when this shop went up, in '89, and I moved over 
here that kiln was torn down. And I never, I always I just got busy doing you know, busy with making pots, and 
life and, and... And I always in the back of my head wanted to build another wood-fired, salt glaze kiln. But I just, 
you know, time and just everything I just never did. And then I kept watching more and more people firing with 
wood, doing the, you know doing soda firings, and all this stuff, and you're killing me, you're killing me, because 
there's some dynamite stuff that's being done out there. And so the opportunity presented to do this kiln out here 
because the village was expanding. And they were doing a early settler section of the village back here, they 
started, well after Erie Sauder passed away, and had this whole collection of buildings, but it was all kind of, it 
was kind of randomly scattered. And so they had to decide, okay, what is the direction, what's the future for this 
village and where it's going to go. And they did some long range planning and all this stuff. And they came up 
with the idea of having a walk through time. So it starts back in the back, back here in like 1834 with a Native 
American trading post and camp site back there. So it's like, that's the year of Ohio statehood. And then you want 
the path and you walk up through they're in the middle right now of developing a 1920s Main Street. And then it 
goes on into the 1920s farmhouse over here. So, it's this whole walk through time. But anyways, when they were, 
when they were building this, they came to a time period, there was some homes and stuff that they were asking 
me, okay, we need some crocks and jugs, we want to be able to cook with this stuff. We want to be able to use 
this stuff, we don't want to use artifacts that might get damaged or broken, you know, and can you help us out, can 
you make... I said, well, you know, I really can't make it because I don't have the right kind of kiln. I don't have, I 
can't, if you want something that's really period appropriate and works and fits, you have to fire it in the right way. 
There's no way around it. Otherwise, otherwise, it looks like you're trying to fake it with something else, you 
know. And so I said, let's build a wood fired kiln again. That's what led to the wood fired salt glaze kiln. So it 
gives me the opportunity if I need or want to to, to do some reproduction stuff. But not necessarily has to be 
reproduction stuff, you know. So well, like over on this table over here, there's a butter churn and they're using 
one of my butter churns out back that the kids have opportunities to dash butter and make butter and stuff and it 
seems like about once a year I need to make another one for them because they get overzealous in their dashing 
and dash the bottom out of it. So, but, so yeah. So that's kind of what led to the wood fired salt glaze. Something 
that I like I said, did back in I don't know, '83 or 4 or something. But then didn't do until 2006 again, it was kind 
of a long lay off from that. But you know, I, when I started the firing with wood, I understand the appeal, just that 
interaction with the flame, and the fire, and the smell and the sound and, you know, the organic quality of the pots 
when they come out in the way they're.... Yeah, so. So I really, yeah, I really am anxious to fire that thing again, 
this fall. I haven't fired it for awhile. Looking forward to it. But anyways, so. So that's where that, that's where that 
came in. And that's how that fits in. And that's how it, yeah. 
 
MM  44:30   
So that's a big job.  
 
MN  44:32   
What, firing the kiln? 
 
MM  44:33   
Firing a wood kiln.  
 
MN  44:34   
Oh, yeah, yeah. 
 
MM  44:34   
Building and firing them. Do you have help? 
 
MN  44:38   
I have, well, afterwards, you can look at this little beam up there. You see those handprints up there? 
 
MM  44:44   
Yeah. 
 
MN  44:44   
I've had some college students assist me in the summertime already. And so, I didn't have anybody this last year, I 
missed it here. I missed it a lot, not having an assistant in here. But for like three months during the summer, I will 
often have a summer assistant in here, just to kind of help deal with people and, like, if I need to go in the back 
room and spray glaze on pots, they can be up here talking to people or if I need to, you know, it's, yeah. But other 
than that, I really don't have any assistance. 
 
MM  45:26   
How long are your firings? 
 
MN  45:27   
My wood firing? Well, I have a relatively small wood fire kiln. And, I fire it in two days, but it's split up. I warm 
it up one day with just a small fire to dry things out and warm up the brick. Then I close up the kiln overnight. 
Then I come in early in the morning and I start the fire in there like at 5, 6 o'clock in the morning. And then I'm 
firing it all day and it's usually done by 10, 11 o'clock at night. So it's one, one good day. But I'm not, you know, 
since I'm doing salt in there, I'm not going for a lot of ash build up and that, you know that real crusty, ashy sort of 
effect. Because I'm complimenting the glaze with the salt, not just depending on the ash flow itself. So, and I 
probably could fire it quicker than what I do. But I kind of enjoy firing it. So I just keep firing it. But so that's 
usually my firing schedule now, so I can show it to you afterwards. 
 
MM  46:45   
Is that usually once a year, twice a year? 
 
MN  46:48   
Oh, I like to fire it about three times a year. If I can get, I've fired once so far this year, and this will only be the 
second time that I've fired it this year. I have fired more than that, 4 or 5 times a year, but, but usually it's I think 
it's been averaging about three times. Yeah. 
 
MM  47:24   
For people who don't know the process, as far as going from clay to a finished pot, would you just maybe talk a 
little bit about the different steps?  
 
MN  47:35   
Okay. Well, I'm not one that goes out and digs up my own clay. There's some folks that do that. And when I was 
in college that was kind of one of my dreams when I was, you know working in there and when I first started here 
at the village that was kind of one of my dreams and thoughts and you know. I guess the term that they use today 
is wild clay, people are using wild clay to make their pots, the fine folks like out in North Carolina, southern Ohio 
and you know, different sections of the country, they're digging their own.  
 
MN  48:14   
But, but I purchase clay, you know, like dry powder, flour, I'm not buying moist clay I mix my own. So my clay 
body is a blend of about eight different clays. A lot of it's out of southern Ohio, Kentucky and Tennessee. So I 
mix it, blend it, store it in barrels, when I'm ready to use it I run through a pug mill which completes the mixing of 
the clay. And that's extruded out into a solid cylinder, the pug mill, and then you weigh out your amounts from 
that pug of clay, turn on the potter's wheel. After it has dried for a while then you will go back before it's too dry, 
trim it, finish the bottom, clean it up. Fit lids if you have a pot with a lid or put knobs on lids, put handles on, all 
that stuff that has to be done before it's too dry. Then, if some of the pots I decorate by carving into the clay, at 
that point, I would carve the clay to decorate it. And, oh sometimes right before I set it off the potter's wheel, I 
would put bands of slip on, colored clay, to do the banding that you see at the top of the bottom of these mugs. 
That was done as it was on the potter's wheel right after I shaped it, on the wet clay. Then after it dries 
completely, then I would go back there and do the rest of the decorating in between those bands, you know, in 
between those border lines. So handles are put on, or pots are finished, dried completely. Then decorated with step 
trailing. And then bisque fired, you fire it once. And then at that point, I treat my pots a little bit different than 
some potters do in that I sign them on the bisque ware with iron oxide that I dip a calligraphy pen into iron oxide 
and write my name on the bottom.  
 
MN  50:15   
So when you look at the bottoms of the pots, there's a color contrast to my signature on the bottom rather than a 
signature that's carved into the clay. I often, I often have a hard time identifying somebody's name when it's 
scratched into the clay it's like well, you know. So I've done that since, oh, the 80s, where I sign my name with 
iron oxide. Then the pots are waxed, when you seal the bottom with wax, then apply the glaze either by pouring, 
dipping or spraying. The larger pieces, the bowls, platters jars, larger vases I will tend to spray the glaze on. Other 
than that, then they're dipped That's actually what I'm in the middle of today is glazing. Then when they're all 
glazed, my kiln holds right around 300 pots per firing, 3-350 pots per firing. They're loaded in the kiln, and I have 
a car kilns, so the door in the floor, the kiln's on wheels so that rolls into the back room. That final firing, I fired at 
a cone 10, which is approximately 2350 degrees Fahrenheit, and I fire in a reduction atmosphere, or reducing 
atmosphere, and that takes about, it takes me about 24 hours. I kind of pre-heat it and warm it up overnight, come 
in in the morning and then I fire it throughout the day and I'm usually, it's usually ready to turn off in 24 hours 
after I started the pre-heat, so it's about a 24 hour firing, and then a day and a half to cool it down. Voila. The pots 
are finished. Yeah. So I usually tell folks that the average length of time for completing a pot is about three weeks 
and that's exactly what it sounds like, some pots sit around longer, some get done quicker but, you know about 
three weeks we get a pot down. So it's a fairly standard routine of the bisque firing, and the glaze firing. Yeah. 
And again, with my with my wood fired kiln, I do bisque the pieces first, I do fire them at a lower, at the cone 05 
bisque and then glaze the inside of the pots and then the outside is just glazed from the atmosphere of the kiln, 
from the ash and the salt glazes the outside. So I don't single fire the wood kiln, I know some folks that do, but 
that's really touchy to do the single fire. 
 
MM  53:17   
Sure. Absolutely. Do use the same kiln for bisquing in? 
 
MN  53:23   
No I do I have a smaller electric kiln in the back room that I can do my bisque firing in smaller batches. And then 
when I have enough stuff collected then fire the gas kiln for the final cone 10 firing. Yeah, yeah. 
 
MM  53:42   
And the assistants that you have, are they often ceramic students, or are they just here to get business experience... 
 
MN  53:50   
The last, yeah, the last number of students, let's see, Gina was a fourth year or maybe she was a fifth year 
ceramics BFA major at Bowling Green State University. The helper before her was David, he is now a second 
year student at Bowling Green State University. He was just out of high school, getting ready to go to BG. Scott 
was a BG, yeah, I've had a lot of students from Bowling Green State University to help me. So yeah.  
 
MM  54:35   
That's great. 
 
MN  54:35   
Well actually, my, my helper that I miss the most is my daughter. When she was in middle school, in high school, 
she was my summer help.. But, but she graduated high school already back in 2004. So it's been a while since I've 
had her as a helper. 
 
MM  54:55   
Does she do any pottery herself? 
 
MN  54:58   
No, not really. She, you know, I mentioned that I was thinking about doing architecture. She went on, she went to 
the University of Cincinnati and studied architecture and got a Masters in architecture, and she is the exhibit 
designer for the Cincinnati Museum Center. That's what she does. I don't know if you're familiar with the 
museums. It's the art, it's the old Union terminal in Cincinnati. It's a big art deco Union Station that is now a 
museum, so that's what she's doing. She grew up in a museum and now she's working in a museum. But, yeah. 
 
MM  55:39   
Good for her. I wonder if this might be a good point for us to maybe shift and look around at some things? 
 
MN  55:47   
Sure, yeah, let's look around.