CARL BRADLEY LEGG INTERVIEW TRANSCRIPT 
 
 
INTERVIEWER  
Candacy Taylor   
INTERVIEWEE:  
Carl B. Legg (prefers to be called Brad) 
DATE & TIME:   
August 29, 2012   12:40pm 
LOCATION:  
 
Studio 304 
 
 
 
306 Second St. 
 
 
 
Rainelle, West Virginia   25962 
 
RECORDER 
 
Marantz 661 – 24/96 
LENGTH 
 
00:38:49 
TRANSCRIPT:  
13 pages 
KEY 
 
 
CT: Candacy Taylor (Interviewer) 
 
 
 
BL: “Brad” Legg (Interviewee) 
 
 
{Testing audio levels} 
CT: Tell me your favorite place to eat around here and what you like to have.  
 
BL: Pizza Hut and a deep-dish pizza. 
 
CT: Tell me why you like it. 
 
BL: I like it because it’s different. I like our Pizza Hut here because they are very friendly, 
friendly service, clean service and Italian food is my favorite food. 
 
CT: Did you grow up eating Italian food? 
 
BL: We grew up eating brown beans and cornbread here. My father was a coal-miner. 
We were on and off food stamps from time to time. Back then there wasn’t even a Pizza 
Hut in Rainelle. 
 
CT: So you’ve probably seen a lot of changes? 
 
BL: Oh, yeah. Many changes. 
 
CT: Just state you full name, your profession and the number of years you’ve been doing 
hair. 
 
BL: My name is Brad Legg and I’m owner of Studio 304 in Rainelle and I have been a 
licensed beautician since 1986.  
 
CT: So that is almost thirty years. 
 
1 
 
BL: Yeah, almost thirty years. 
 
CT: And you grew up in…? 
 
BL: I was born and raised in Quinwood which is about eight miles east of here. I was 
born actually in Summersville but was living in Quinwood, my father was in the Army 
and he was in Korea when he served his four years there he came back and I had an 
elder brother and him and my parents and I moved to Canton, Ohio. I think I was three 
months old. We lived there until I was in the second grade. My father worked at the 
Hoover Company, making Hoover motors. 
 
CT: For vacuum cleaners? 
 
BL: Yeah. My mom has always been a housewife. Actually we moved up there with just 
us four and moved back, that was in 1966 and 1973 we moved back and there was 
seven of us. I had one older and I have three younger brothers and my parents.  
 
CT: How did you get back here? 
 
BL We moved back here from Ohio in 1973 and we stayed here until I graduated high 
school in 1984. I left here in 1984 and I moved to Charleston, West Virginia. I lived there 
from 1984 to January of 2000. And 1986 is when I decided I wanted to be…I always 
knew I wanted to do hair. I always was fascinated with fixing people’s hair, so I finally 
went to school. I put myself through college. My parents were still living here and the 
economy wasn’t doing that well here so I moved. But I put myself through college, it 
took me about two, two and a half years to get through it but I done it. Of course, I was 
a single person then and it was kind of hard to be in beauty school where you don’t get 
paid and pay rent and buy groceries so I had to have two or three different part-time 
jobs throughout it all. But I done it. I finally graduated beauty school actually I believe it 
was the last part of 1987. I tried several salons in Charleston and I worked for a little 
while but you know in Charleston there such a bigger…salon…you could go to a mall but 
I didn’t want to work in a mall, which that’s probably what I should have done. 
 
CT: Why? 
 
BL: To build clientele up. When you work for the more independent salons you basically 
have to have a following. But I wasn’t opposed to manicures and pedicures at that time, 
doing the gel nails or the acrylic nails, however now I don’t really care to do them. I 
honestly don’t have time to do them because I’m so busy with hair. But I was just going 
from job to job. I’d work at one salon for three months and twenty dollars a week 
paycheck doesn’t pay the bills. So I would have to quit doing hair, put my license on 
inactive and I’d go manage a warehouse that done dry-cleaning and costume rentals. I 
worked there for eight years. And that was my life. Doing hair back and forth, I had 
 
2 
several different jobs in Charleston, I just couldn’t hold on to them because I couldn’t 
live. So then I moved to Tampa, Florida in January of 2000, and I stayed there until 
October of 2001, I was there about thirteen months, that was about the time 9/11 hit 
and I was a little nervous, I really didn’t care too much for Tampa but I didn’t do hair in 
Tampa. I did work at Busch Gardens, I was one of the greeters that greeted you with a 
camera and you’d push me out of the way because you wanted to get home. And I then 
I was a chef for a few months in Tampa cooking live seafood. I had never done it but 
they were willing to train me. I thought, well I’m a Jack of all trades and a master of 
none [laughed]. And then, the last place I worked at in Tampa, Florida was that I ran a 
forklift in a medical warehouse. I forget how many tractor-trailer truckloads of air masks 
that we sent to ground zero. It was ungodly overtime hours trying to get those masks 
out to the workers [saving] people who were hurt at the World Trade Center. So then I 
got to thinking that I wanted to go home. And the guy I was staying with at the time 
said, “Why do you want to go back to Charleston?” And I said, “I’m not going back to 
Charleston, I’m going back home to Rainelle.” He said, “There is nothing there.” I got to 
thinking. My parents are getting older and my other brothers are not going to be able to 
help them like I can. I’m single. I can call off work and take them to doctor’s 
appointments, which I have done. I’m more at peace now being with them closer to my 
family. My parents would never have traveled…they had maybe once or twice but I’m 
going to value the time I have with them. 
 
CT: You said your dad was a coal-miner? 
 
BL: Yes. 
 
CT: So after he came back from working at Hoover he… 
 
BL: Yes he came back from the Hoover Company when we came back here in 1973. And 
he took his training class to be a coal-miner, he had actually done it as a child, because 
my grandfather…actually I’ll go back a little farther back than that, my great-great 
grandfather, Robert Lee Legg was the very first man to bring the union to the town of 
Quinwood and he has a statue in the town of Quinwood stating that he brought the 
union the UNWA to the town of Quinwood. And then my grandfather, which was his son 
owned a few coalmines on Big Mountain which is in the Quinwood area. And that’s 
when my dad actually went into the mines with my grandfather with mules and 
wheelbarrows and crates and pulled out house-burning coal and sold it from the time he 
was thirteen years old until the time he left for the Army at eighteen. 
 
CT: So he had that history. 
 
BL: Yeah, he had the history. And when my dad came back here from the Hoover 
Company, he was in the coalmines from 1973 to….I think he has twenty-six years in the 
coal mines. He’s now retired.  
 
 
3 
CT: Does he have any physical problems from it? 
 
BL: He does have black lung. Yes. 
 
CT: He does. I’m sorry to hear that. 
 
BL: Yes, he has been tested several times and he got his money for the lump sum. I just 
don’t think you could ever work in the coalmines and not have it. It just comes with the 
territory, I guess. But that’s basically the way of living around in this area. If you want to 
stay here you’ll probably be a coalminer or you would have to drive probably to Beckley, 
which is about a forty-minute drive to a bigger city or the opposite direction which is the 
same amount of time to Lewisburg. By the time you spend your money in gas and 
everything, it’s hard for people to do that nowadays. 
 
CT: Was there every any assumption that you were supposed to follow that path [to be 
a coalminer]? Was there ever an issue about you choosing to do hair? 
 
BL: Never an issue, never an issue. My two youngest brothers are in the coalmining 
industry. My brother now works about seven miles east of here, he is luckily not laid off 
yet but mines he’s working are probably getting ready to shut down. 
 
CT: And they’re both coalminers? 
 
BL: They’re both coalminers.  
 
CT: What about your other siblings? 
 
BL: I have a younger brother who was born two years after me. He lives in North 
Carolina and my eldest brother passed in a Harley Davidson accident in 1996. And his 
wife was nine months pregnant with their first and only child. 
 
CT: Wow, that’s sad, tragic. 
 
BL: Yeah, still I wonder sometimes what he’d look like if he had gray hair…he was a joy. 
 
CT: So all boys? 
 
BL: Mom had five boys and survived it. She’s more tomboy than anything. Mom would 
get us in the truck and we would go cut three or four truckloads of wood. 
 
[His mother and his assistant walks in the room and they sit in to listen] 
 
CT: So I think hair is amazing in terms of how important it is. There was a Yale 
psychologist that did a study on different types of hairstyles and how they affect how 
 
4 
people see them. She took the same face and put five different hairstyles on that face 
and got completely different opinions about how wealthy these people were, how 
smart they were etc… 
 
BL: Right. 
 
CT: How many of your clients radically change their hairstyle and what influence do you 
have, if any? 
 
BL: Well not many of my clients change hairstyles. Whenever they do change hairstyles 
they usually go on the computer and print off something that they think they would like 
but being a hairdresser you just about know what will work. Usually they end up 
wanting something that they can’t have, they either got baby fine hair and this hair is all 
poofed and jacked up and layered and everything and there’s just no way… 
 
CT: What percentage would you say want something they can’t have? 
 
BL: About twenty-percent. 
 
CT: I’m surprised I thought maybe it would be even more. 
 
BL: It may be, I would say about thirty percent. 
 
CT: When you tell them that this probably isn’t going to work do they believe you?  
 
BL: They believe me. 
 
CT: Oh good, they trust you. 
 
BL: Yeah I have trust in all my clients. I would say ninety-five percent of my clients would 
trust my word over their thoughts and then they say, “Gosh, I’m so glad I didn’t do 
that.” 
 
CT: How many years did it take to build a solid clientele here in Rainelle? 
 
BL: Okay, I got here in October 2001, there used to be a little beauty shop right across 
the street and I walked in and I told her I’d like to start doing hair, because I had been 
off and on doing hair like I told you before. 
 
CT: So this was after Tampa? 
 
BL: Yeah, this was right after Tampa. I went to her and she offered me a job. I had to get 
my license back so I had to wait two or three weeks. And I lived in a little trailer going up 
the mountain that was infested with ladybugs. So I told her I was also looking for a place 
 
5 
to rent. She threw me keys and said, “well you got the job now go across the street and 
look at this big yellow house, she said if you’re interested.” I said, God, I got a job and a 
house in the same day. So I ended up working for her for about a year and a half when 
that ended I went up to the end of town and started working up there and I worked 
there for six years and after six years I kind of got burnt out because I built up such a big 
clientele and I had never done it that solid…that’s from 2001 – 2006, five years of 
standing and I would be at work at 7:30 in the morning and get off at 8:00 at night so I 
was suffering a little bit of burnout so I took a two-year break. 
 
CT: There’s a lot of people in Rainelle getting their hair done. 
 
BL: Yeah. Well at the time, we were the only two guys in town doing hair. It was me and 
another gentleman and we had major clientele, both of us. We stayed busy, 
continuously, we could work seven days a week, twenty-four hours a day. So I thought 
I’d take a six-month leave of absence and they were willing to let me do that. So during 
that six-month leave of absence I got into heating and cooling. It was different and I 
liked it. So I done that for about a year or so and it kind of slowed down so I told mom 
“You know I could go up the street and work with them and give them half of what I 
make or I have this big house, why not put a beauty shop in here? Of course at that time 
I was drawing low earnings so during this time I was buying a little bit of sheet rock for 
the salon and I wanted two tanning beds and I want my room, which is my work area 
and this room for a waiting area and a reception area and I said, “That will be big 
enough.” So we were getting pretty close to opening and we kept saying okay “We’ll 
open this day, we’ll open this day…” I finally said, “Mom, we are either going to open or 
we’re not. We have to pick an opening date and that day is October 1, 2007. The day 
before that, we were in the little field across from where you parked. We got all our 
junk together, we had a yard sale and I had a black minivan at the time and I took a 
white sheet that said “Opening Tomorrow. Studio 304. Hair by Brad.” So while Mom was 
taking money for the yard sale she was taking appointments also, so for three and half 
to four weeks I was booked solid. I was working Monday – Saturday 8-5. So October 1st 
will be five years and it’s still the same, I’ve learned to slow down a little bit so I don’t 
have to be so…you know two haircuts in between a foil and everything. My clients like it 
more, one on one. Ninety-eight percent who come in, Mom knows their first name, I 
know their first name. It’s so country here, it’s like, “Well come on Darlene, get on over 
here in this seat.” “Ma’am would you like to come over and sit in my seat.” It’s just not 
like that here. It’s more family and cozy and comfortable I even have them come in in 
their pajamas. “My husband just woke me up and left for work and I didn’t have time to 
take a shower. I knew you were going to wash my hair anyway so here I am in my 
pajamas.” It’s like, “Okay.” I just like a laidback atmosphere. I’ve had a lot of people say, 
“I’d like to have a job here with you.” But I’m not willing to expand. I’m at the age where 
I’ll probably retire. I’ve got a niece that’s graduating and going to cosmetology school 
and I will probably do the desk job and maybe work hair a day or two and let her do the 
rest. 
 
 
6 
CT: That’s great. So what’s the significance of “304?” 
 
BL: 304 is the area code for the state of West Virginia. Actually there’s two area codes 
now but at the time there was just 304.  
 
CT: Can you talk about Rainelle a little bit and the changes that you’ve seen? 
 
BL: Wow, since I’ve moved back here in 2001. When I left in 1984 we had a skating rink, 
we had a Twin Cinema, we had a bowling alley, we had a major sewing plant which my 
mom worked at for twenty years. The town was booming, from Thursday evening all the 
weekends, it was jam-packed in this town. There were so many kids before I left to go to 
Charleston. When I come back in 2001 there’s buildings that have fallen down, there’s 
buildings that have been town down, there’s buildings that need to be town down, 
there’s really nothing here for the kids. It basically would be a good place to retire.  
 
CT: So what changed? The coalmines are still open right? 
 
BL: One of the biggest, there’s two major things that happened in this town since I left. 
The first thing is that they completed Interstate 64. See it used to stop at the Sam Black 
Church exit and it didn’t go onto Beckley. They would have to travel Route 60 to get to 
Beckley. They call it the Midland Trail, Route 60. It’s very scenic, it’s beautiful. The 
interstate was put through which knocked off people coming through from out of state 
and the sewing plant. I would say seventy-percent of the people in Rainelle worked at 
the sewing plant. So not as many kids and for the kids that are here, there really isn’t 
much to do. Our mayor is trying to help with that. She’s doing a lot to try and do what 
she can. They’ve got a job on their hands and it will take a while to get it straightened 
out. We see changes already. 
 
CT: So you say your customers come here in their pajamas, how intimate do the 
conversations get, how much do people reveal? 
 
BL: Sometimes too much. I would say that any hairdressers who’s been doing hair long 
enough has probably heard the same if not more than me. Yeah, they can get pretty 
intimate [chuckle].  
 
CT: And how much do you reveal about yourself? 
 
BL: I’m standoffish, not much. 
 
CT: You’re more the listener. 
 
BL: Yeah, I’m more the listener. 
 
CT: Does it ever feel like it’s a therapy session? 
 
7 
 
BL: Yes. 
 
CT: Does it ever get to feel like it’s a little too much? 
 
BL: No, I’m fine with it. Everyone’s got their problems. If I’m the one that can help them, 
then I’d be proud to help them. 
 
CT: It’s probably one of the traits that you should have if you’re a hairdresser.  
 
BL: Yeah. 
 
CT: If that bothered you, you probably wouldn’t want to do the job. 
 
BL: Right. That’s for sure. Sometimes it’s a little much, but I try to figure out a way to 
calm it down and get back to…but a lot of them say, “I just can’t wait to come back. Do 
you mind if I stop by if I’m downtown and grab a cup of coffee and just chat with you 
guys for a few minutes?” I say, “Mom’s usually there and she can chat, but I can’t 
guarantee that I will be able to, so.” We do have a few that stop by. Ann is one of them. 
She checks up out and sees how were doing. 
 
CT: So when I walked in you said, “Oh, I don’t get to do black hair anymore.” So what 
percentage of your clients would you say are white? 
 
BL: Probably eighty-five percent white and fifteen percent black. 
 
CT: Oh, okay. So mostly women? 
 
BL: I’d say about twenty percent male, female eighty percent. 
 
CT: How important are tips? 
 
BL: Tips? Not important. I don’t live off of tips. Tips are wonderful if they’re there. It’s 
not a big thing. I don’t do less for a customer because I think, oh Gosh, here she comes, 
I’m going to do all this work and she’s going to give me a dollar tip. Whereas I have had 
as high as fifty-dollar tips. I love tips. Who wouldn’t? But it’s either there or it ain’t. I 
don’t live off of tips. 
 
CT: So what is the most common hair treatment or style that you do?  
 
BL: In this salon here, most people like quick, fast and easy. I ask them if they want the 
“QFE” and most of the customers here know that’s, “Quick, Fast and Easy.” Just a simple 
layered haircut, that’s either short, medium or long, lots of layers. Most of them really 
never had anyone take the time to ask them what they really wanted. You show them a 
 
8 
picture and they really don’t get what they want and I get more into detail. I don’t rush 
them through it. I may run into the next appointment but most of my customers say, 
“That’s okay. Take your time. I’m not in a hurry.” Most people do know it’s a one-on-
one, by appointment only. That’s what I like. I do run over sometimes, it’s usually not 
over ten or fifteen minutes. And most people in this area are very appreciative of it. It’s 
not a big deal. But I do take my time and listen. Communication and hearing and 
understanding what the customer is saying, sometimes you have to get a little bit in 
detail, because they say one thing but they mean another. I tell them, “You know I give 
you so many opportunities, if you walk out and you’re not happy, I want to know why. I 
can take constructive criticism. So you can say, “Gosh, this is wonderful.”  
 
CT: So how can you tell if someone is saying something but that’s not what they mean? 
Or is it usually after the fact? 
 
BL: It’s usually after the fact. They’ll say, “Well I didn’t really want it that short or you 
didn’t cut it short enough.” But they’ll say, “It’s okay. It’s just hair. It will grow back.” But 
then there are sometimes that I can tell before like if they keep going back to a certain 
thing it’s like they feel like they’re not really stressing what they really want. I can 
usually tell by looking at them in the mirror, I try to keep eye contact. That’s the best 
way, eyes and ears. 
 
CT: The mirror is a really powerful tool right? 
 
BL: Yeah. 
 
CT: Do you ever use a mirror to kind of turn them away? 
 
BL: No. 
 
CT: I’ve heard some stylists say if something is in transition and they know that the client 
is nervous then they will turn their chair away from the mirror… 
 
BL: Yes, I occasionally have done that. Hair color. Because sometimes hair color doesn’t 
look…especially because I have a fluorescent light over there and it does not give off 
good tonal value whenever your hair’s wet so sometimes it will look like it’s egg yolk 
yellow when it’s actually a beautiful golden blonde and if they would see that. “Brad, 
what did you do to my hair!” And it’s really not like that. I don’t have many new 
customers although we do get some from time to time. And we didn’t have a sign out 
for almost six months and we were still getting new customers. It’s just word of mouth. 
I’ve never advertised, never advertised in a paper. Never. I had such a good clientele 
and following people were waiting for me before I opened the shop. People kept saying, 
“Brad’s opening a beauty shop. Brad’s opening a beauty shop.” So they all waited. And 
we didn’t start off with the tanning bed. We opened up in October and in January we 
had the tanning beds because I had several customers who were going to the shop I 
 
9 
used to work at that they would continue coming here if we had tanning beds. So we 
went ahead and got two tanning beds and they actually paid themselves off in a year. 
We do well here. It’s not something you’d ever get rich at, but we make a living. It’s a 
small town. It’s wonderful. 
 
CT: So what parts of your body, if any, do you think are most affected by the physical 
labor of the job?  
 
BL: It would probably be my legs from standing and a little in my hands. From 2001 to 
2012, that’s eleven years of standing on my feet, not including the other jobs I had that 
had me standing, but when I opened this salon, we got the mats which does help, but 
after all those years of standing, it doesn’t have to be doing hair, just any standing at 
any job, and at my age, I’m not old, but I’m not young either it starts affecting you. 
Sometimes in the back…I get checked regularly every three months I do have the 
problem with my legs not being able to carry the fluid out of my legs so I swell 
sometimes, but I just prop them up and it’s fine and my hands…arthritis in the fingers. 
But we get that anyway whether we’re hairdressers or not. I did have them check me 
for carpal tunnel and I don’t have any signs of it yet. If you look up carpal tunnel, 
hairdressers are the number one people who get that. So I’m fortunate.  
 
CT: How often does politics come up? Or people who may be talking about something 
personal and how often does the conversation turn into something that you’re… 
 
BL: Not wanting to talk about? 
 
CT: Yeah. 
 
BL:  Well I usually don’t talk religion or politics. It’s one of the first things they really 
teach you in beauty school. However there are some that want to talk about it and get 
into some detail about it but I try not to voice an opinion either way until they can get it 
out of their system. If it’s something local here I may go into a little more detail because 
I like to help Ms. Browning [the Mayor’s assistant] and Ms. Pendleton [the Mayor], 
because they ask me, “What’s going on in town?” So I can tell them, you know. 
 
CT: The salon is really the hub of the community. 
 
BL: Yeah, it is.  
 
CT: Do you have any other ways that you work with the community? 
 
BL: I’m a member of the garden club so I help with the flowerbeds and go to monthly 
meetings it’s me and over sixty women [laughing] which is fun. I was helping her with 
the festivals committee, I was a volunteer but then it go to where I wasn’t able to attend 
the meetings and I would try to rush to get through and I don’t like to rush my clients 
 
10 
here because this is my bread and butter and it kind of conflicted with the meetings 
because they were at six and sometimes, you know my sign says 8-5 but I might be 
cutting hair at 7:30 or 8 in the morning and I might not get done until 8:20 at night. It 
just depends. I work with people who in this area and may get off at 4:00 or 5:00 and 
I’m not going to deny a 5:00 hair color because I want to close at 5:00. 
 
CT: Right, you’re a businessman. 
 
BL: Right, you’re in business to make money. And we do help local organizations. We 
just did a fundraiser. Our food pantry at our First Baptist Church here in Rainelle, they 
depleted their supply of their food pantry during the storm we just had on June 29th, 
they fed lots of people. We were without power here for nine days and I think my 
parents were out for like fourteen days. We had a food drive for them and helped them 
with their food pantry but we were also taking monetary donations, I posted it on my 
Facebook page and we raised over $3,000 for them. And several months before that the 
Quinnwood homeless shelter asked if we would help do a food drive and at that point in 
time we had food all throughout the salon and we completely filled their food pantry. 
We had my hallway lined up, you could hardly walk through there. My dad took the 
whole truckload of food. So we care and work with organizations.  
 
CT: You are a major resource and I think hair salons are often in a good position to help 
especially if they want to. 
 
BL: Yes. That’s why I like to keep it on the down low, like I am now, one on one, but you 
can get more by being nicer. Like they say, “good things come to those who wait.” I 
waited long enough to have my own salon and now I have it. If I can help someone, I’ll 
help them. 
 
CT: Has the downturn in the economy affected your business? 
 
BL: No. No. My numbers for the last four years have stayed about the same. 
 
CT: What’s the most old-fashioned hair technique you do here? 
 
BL:  Shampoo and set. I had a client that came to me the six years I was down there and 
she’s been here the five years I’ve been here. She is eighty-three years old and she still 
comes to me every Friday. All she wants me to do is shampoo her hair real good, pick it 
out and put it on the rollers, put her under the dryer for ten minutes, she’s dried, put 
her back in the seat and take a pick and just run the pick through it, no tease, no 
nothing. And that’s every Friday at noon. Faithfully. 
 
CT: What about the most modern…? 
 
 
11 
BL: Modern? Of course we’re back a few years from the bigger cities. It’s the foils, the 
younger girls and the foils. They either want the chunks or the regular highlights. They 
want it foiled and chunked on the top and then they want the black underneath. That’s 
probably the most modern thing. 
 
CT: What the most common hair color you use? 
 
BL: The most common hair color I use? The shade or brand? 
 
CT: Both. 
 
BL: Shade is probably our milk chocolate, which is a level six. It’s by Color Touch by 
Wella. 
 
CT: There are just some general background questions. Do you have health insurance? 
 
BL: No. 
 
CT: Did you ever?  
 
BL: No. It’s really hard. And I talked to people who branched out and got their own and 
then they’ve gotten sick and it doesn’t cover much and they paid this big premium for 
something that doesn’t even get covered. So I’m a little leery. I don’t want to be paying 
a $300 premium a month for health insurance and then something happens and I go to 
the hospital and they say, “I’m sorry but this isn’t covered.” I couldn’t not withstand 
coming home knowing I had a $40,000 bill from the hospital. 
 
CT: Does Rainelle have any services? 
 
BL: We do have a Rainelle Medical Center and they have a sliding fee and it gives you a 
discounted price. 
 
CT: So that’s better than having insurance? 
 
BL: Hmm mmm. Yeah, $15 office visit and regular price I think is $87 without insurance. 
 
CT: The system is so dysfunctional. 
 
BL: I agree. It’s not to help the people who work, I think.  
 
CT: What are your plans for retirement? 
 
 
12 
BL: Retirement? Once I retire, I’ll probably travel a little. I’ve probably got at least ten to 
fifteen more years I want to do this because within that time I’ll have my house paid off 
and I don’t owe anything. 
 
CT: Will you have your social security, or have you put money away? 
 
BL: I’ve not put any money away, I’ll probably just get social security, if not disability, 
because of my legs, my doctor started a disability type deal in case they ever need to go 
back on it. 
 
CT: Do you have children? 
 
BL: No children. Single. 
 
CT: Are there any questions that I haven’t asked you that you wanted to talk about? 
 
BL: No, nothing.  
 
CT: One other question I could ask is, by being your own boss do you prefer managing or 
doing hair? 
 
BL: Doing hair. I don’t know how well I would take it sitting there watching someone 
else doing hair in my salon but like I say if my niece does, I’d be there to help her if she 
has any questions.  
 
CT: Sounds like this was something that you knew that you were supposed to do.  
 
BL: It’s just falling in, just like a jigsaw puzzle putting itself together. I’ve always piddled 
in hair since I was little, young, very young. I’m talking single digit, seven, eight, nine, I 
used to tease my mom’s hair and brush it out. It would put her to sleep and that was 
before I was ten years old. I was always attracted to doing hair. The thing of it is, being a 
hairdresser, no one ever does yours. 
 
CT: Yeah, where do you get your hair done? 
 
BL: I do it myself. I put the half-inch clipper guard on and take the back and sides off and 
scissor the top and shake it and go. I was blessed with naturally curly hair. 
 
CT: You have a nice head of hair.  
 
BL: Well thank you. 
 
CT: Alright, I think we’re good. Thank you.  [END] 
 
13