Ironworkers Documentation Project 
 
AUDIO LOG FORM 
 
Interviewer's recording no(s).:   BH IW Audio 1 [Ledwith 1] 
 
Contact:  
Ledwith, Robert  
 
Interviewer:   
Clark “Bucky” Halker 
 
Interview: 
Robert Ledwith 
 
 
     Date:   
August 13, 2011 
 
     Place:  
Iron Workers Union International Convention 
 
Sheraton Hotel on the River, Chicago, IL 
 
     Other people present: 
None 
 
Background noise:  Ledwith was interviewed in the exhibit hall at the convention.  We were 
literally inside the history exhibit for the IWU.   The room is loud and boomy and people come 
and go to get things out of the supplies inside the exhibit space where we were sitting.   
 
 
 
 
Equipment used:   Marantz PMD 661 digital recorder and Shure SM57 microphone.     
 
Recording medium used: Transcend 8 gigabyte SD memory card, uncompressed WAV format. 
 
Recording engineer: 
Bucky Halker 
 
 
 
Summary description of audio interview contents:  
Ledwith works for IWU #46 in New York City and in the interview his personal background, 
entry into the iron trade, the history of the local and ironworkers in New York City, his 
involvement with the union, unionism in America, technological change, and the contemporary 
state of affairs in the labor movement and the larger society.                                            
 
 
Audio Interview Contents 
Counter   
No./Time                   Topic 
00:01 My name is Robert A. Ledwith and I’m known as Bob Ledwith, Local 46,  New York, 
New York.  [It’s a German name?]  No, it’s Irish.  Now, that’s what happened.  I grew with the 
kids in the streets of Washington Heights in Manhattan, hearing that I was a German, I was a 
German.  And my parents always said, well you’re really from Irish Heritage.  A few years back, 
my wife said, “We’re going to Ireland.”  So we went to Ireland.  We found a…  We found the 
political district known as Ledwith Town.  [How do you spell it?]  Ledwith.   So over the years, 
it was Bobby Ludwig.  Bobby Ludwick.  Bobby Ledwitch.  And really the name is a simple 
name.  It’s Ledwith, like the marchers led with their left feet, but growing up is a very interesting 
experience in the streets of New York City, where it was very much Irish neighborhood with the 
first generation, basically, of kid and the brogues were all over the place and for some reason, 
they wanted to single me out as a Dutchman, as a German, but I really was an Irish American.  
[So you born in New York?]   Born in New York in November 30th, 1941 in Columbia 
Presbyterian Hospital in a neighborhood known as Washington Heights.  Mary and I lived in the 
suburbs for 25 years and we moved back.  What we did…  I thought about this that I wanted to 
move back to the same neighborhood I grew up in, with the same zip code, with the same 
telephone exchange.  And, they say you can never go back, well…we went back.  [Good for 
you!]  It was quite an experience.  I went back to my church where…  I am a product of a 
Catholic education.  There I attribute everything that I have to the School of Incarnation.  We 
were growing up basically in a very poor neighborhood that would be known basically as a slum 
now.  It was street.   Gang wars and a lot of different things that went on.  It was difficult 
growing up.  A lot of alcohol, a lot of other social problems that people identify today,  but 
weren’t quite as sophisticated back  then.  But the Catholic School was the scene, the discipline 
was so strict that…  You have 53 kids in a classroom and nothing would be tolerated other than 
strict attention.  So that broke some of the wildness in your spirit, but also educated you if you 
wanted to be further in life so…  From there I went to Catholic high school.  The first time I ever 
went to school with a girl was when I went to CCNY  [City College New York] at night to get 
my college degree.  That was the first time.  We were all, back then, separated the boys and girls.  
[Did you have separate entrances in the school?]  Absolutely.  LAUGHTER  The east end of the 
school steps, on one end of the building, was for the girls.  It said GIRLS right on top.  And on 
our west side of the building was BOYS and you went up those stairs.   
2:42  [Well, how did you get from high school then to being an ironworker?]  Well, in 1959, my 
Dad…  I had got…  I was accepted into both City College at the time and Manhattan College.  
Manhattan College was a Liberal Arts Engineering School.  Again, Christian brothers were my 
educators.  And I decided to go to Manhattan, even though they had told me in high school that 
because of the situation with money and everything, I should really go to CCNY because the 
tuition was going to hurt you.  So my Dad put me out on what was known as a permit.  For the 
first time I tied rebar for a salary was in June of 1959 on Governor’s Island building barracks for 
the officers of the U.S. Army because the army was based there.  And that Island was right at the 
tip of Manhattan and the view was absolutely magnificent.  So that was our first job, my first 
chance to work with all the men, to share the experience of working outside in the hot sun.  What 
we call pumping rebar, working hard and I loved it.  It was just something I liked, but I went to 
college then, for a year.  Got credits.  Ran out of money.   I was evicted, I just couldn’t pay the 
tuition.  Then I went back on permit, then in 1962, I was called into my apprenticeship into Local 
46, metallic lathers’ union.  And from  ‘62 to ‘65, I started my apprenticeship.  So it was ‘59 
to…that I started.  June of ‘59 and by May of 1965 I was a full-pledged journeyman in my union.  
[In Chicago, a lot of the ironworkers went through indentured apprenticeship.  Did you do that?]  
Yeah, I did.  There’s different terminologies where, in different parts of the country, yeah, it was 
called indenture.  Indenture went back to the old school, where the indentured workers in the 
colonial times when you became indentured 5 or 10 years with  a craftsman and then they went 
out on their own but they didn’t have citizenship and everything.  That was their passage to 
America.  You have the slave issue in the South and then you have the indentured servants and 
workers in the north.  And it just kept that term.  So yes we took an oath.  So you take an oath as 
a member and to your brotherhood, your brother members.  [What local was that?]  Local #46.  
And it’s been local 46 historically…and I was just telling Rich [Rich Rowe] about this.   
5:06  Our local was originally charted in 1897.  That’s why I was referring to the fact that we’re 
old and most of them are corporations.  And traditionally, as an institution, we have existed, for 
all of these years, three centuries.  So our logo has a bridge with the original logo of wood, wire 
and metallic lather international union which in 1979, collapses.  The bridge…bridging…the 
generations...bridging the centuries to the ironworker logo and it just…identifies itself as the 
metallic lathers union Local 46 of New York and vicinity.  So this thought process, right from 
1897 is that we would…in the beginning be very independent because at that time, the building 
trade unions were all forming.  There was problems with jurisdiction.  Who did this and who did 
that.  And New York, it come to a crisis with a big lock out in 1902-1903.  That created an 
instrument called the New York Plan, which still exists today, to settle jurisdictional disputes.  
That lock out, every union craftsmen was fired.  And if you were a member of a union, you 
wouldn’t be re-hired.  [Was that in the construction trades in general?]  Yeah, the whole war was 
declared on the construction unions at that time, which they believe got too powerful.  The 
money interest has always been there as our enemy driving to stop us.   
6:30  So at that point in time, about 1905, our founder, a man named John “Bull” Tagget, 
because we all had nicknames and he was the “Bull”.  He was known as the “Bull”.  He was a 
very warm hearted generous man because I did interviews of old-timers when I was first elected 
business agent in the ‘80s who remember him as a business agent.  I was very curious about what 
was back then and how was he...  And by that time, maybe the automobile still wasn’t there for a 
business agent.  They called them “walking delegates” because they walked, particularly in the 
central cities like Chicago and it was the same for New York.  It was all in the central cities so 
basically you could walk, and they were known as walking delegates.  Then in 1905, Bull Tagget 
went to the ironworker convention in Philadelphia and asked the general membership would they 
accept the metallic lathers’ union local, the metallic lathers’ union of New York into the 
ironworkers charter.  The convention overwhelmingly voted yes because Mr.  Bull had great 
relationships with the ironworkers going back right from the beginning when they were all 
formulating.  For instance, in 1903, 190…  Actually, it was about 1901, 1902, there was a big 
strike in New Jersey.  And the Bull put all of the ironworkers that were striking in New Jersey to 
work in New York so they could feed their families and they won the strike by this brotherhood 
across the Hudson River.  There was no bridges built then.  You had to use ferries and everything 
else.  But that was our relationship then with the ironworkers and the Bull did not want to go 
with the wood, wire, and metal lathers, for the reasons that he believed they were weaker union 
and they end up being a weaker union.  And he appealed before it really got settled, with 
Gompers making his moves with chartering an international unions back when the ironworkers 
would they accept us.  They did.  But…the hierarchy said no, it’s not a good idea because the 
head of the lathers’ union came in and spoke to the leaders of the ironworkers.  And he says, “If 
you take away New York, I will not have an international union.  They’re too…  They’re too 
integral, too important for us so please don’t charter ‘em.”  We never got a charter so we would 
have been, if accepted by the delegates at that convention, we would have been ironworkers 
since 1905. 
8:47   Instead, in 1907, Gompers makes a ruling that unless you are chartered by an international 
union, you will lose your jurisdiction.  So in 1907, I have it hanging on the wall in the union hall.  
We were charter by the Wood, Wire, and Metal Lathers.  The Bull never signed the charter.  
Never signed the charter.  His signature is not on it.  And it was a deal where the secretary of the 
Lathers’ International was Terry Ford, who was a business agent which is now the Metallic 
Lathers’ of Local 46 of the Wood, Wire, and Metal Lathers.  So I can imagine there were deals 
or what have you to facilitate our organization to join.   Now we pulled out of the Lathers three 
different times,  because they came in and they tried to push us around.  And Bull would say, 
“You’re not pushing us around.”  So up until 1924, when he passes away, we pulled out 2 or 3 
times.   He said, “Just go to hell.”  [Did you do it…as an independent union?]  Yeah, we were 
going independent and then Gompers probably got all bent out of shape and sent telegrams to get 
it back in here again.  And the ironworkers wouldn’t take us so we had no choice but go back 
again.  So we would go back again.  Those were the formative years in the trade union 
movement.  There was a tremendous amount of flux.  A lot of people didn’t know what was 
going on.  Because in the beginning, we were part of Local 2 of the ironworkers.  Local 2, if you 
look at the boards, they lost their charter.  And what happened was there was a guy named Sam 
Parks, one of the walking delegates, who stood up to the international union in a lot of different 
ways.  The international union is…you take the urban centers where the strength of the labor 
union was created and still, whatever strength it has is in the urban workers.  And we evolved our 
own way…  And when people from the outside come in who don’t have much knowledge or are 
looking to make a national deal, and subjugate you to something that you negotiated out of your 
agreement and then they’re telling you you’ve got to do it for the good of DeMoine Iowa or 
someplace else you were talking about.  So there was is friction and Sam Parks ends up going to 
Sing Sing because they said he was corrupt and everything else.  He gets out of Sing Sing, ok, on 
an appeal, went back in again.  And then they took the charter away from him.  He ends up dying 
in Sing Sing Prison in Ossinning , New York.  But he was sort of a model of what a walking 
delegate was and the Bull was his pal.  So they used to walk around the city of New York and try 
to straighten out jobs and what have you, ok?  And the international union said there would never 
be another Local 2 again.  
11:20  But at the meetings, and this is what’s interesting about reinforcing ironworkers, ‘cause 
that’s because that’s basically what we are when it comes to the ironworkers.  In 1902, I believe 
it was, or 1903, we were part of the Local 2 Housesmiths of the International Ironworkers.  The 
bridgemen, or was it structural…  I think it was just the bridgemen’s international union.  And 
ahh… we made…the men back then made so much noise.  Did not represent them as well.  You 
know, you only care about the grid iron, the structural steel, you know, etc. and on and on it 
went.  And they finally said, “Why don’t you just get out of here and form your own local.  We 
don’t need your headache.”  So the guys just walked out.  They severed their ties with Local 2 of 
the ironworkers back in 1902 before their charter was lifted and I think it was lifted in 04.  And 
there will never be another Local #2.  So when you look at the Locals, there’s 1…#3 is 
Pittsburgh, and our 46 gets an “L” after it to represent the Lathers because Springfield, Illinois I 
believe it is, has the first 46.  So they’re a mixed local.  We are lathers, so they figured we’d 
want to keep the number.  So there’s a lot of pride in a lot in different things and one of our 
prides is in our locals numbers so 46 is…that’s us.  That’s your identity.  So the ironworkers was 
gracious enough to say, “No, we’re not going to give them a new number.  Let’s just put an “L” 
right after the number.”  We’re now known as 46L.  CHUCKLES   
 
12:44   [Were there any other lathers locals in the ironworkers anymore?]  No.  Here’s another 
piece of history.  In 1970…in 1977 I was on the Executive Board…in 1977…of my local 
and…they had an eastern seaboard conference of lathers .  And at that conference, the beginning 
of the dissolution of the Wood, Wire, and Metal International, the Lathers’ International… it was 
about beginning.  What it was…it was shrinking membership, same phenomenon that you see 
today with some of the international unions.  So with shrinking membership, lack of revenue, 
loss of revenue.  So they had made a proposal and we all voted at this conference in New York 
City that we would take the whole lathers’ international and make it a subdivision of the 
ironworkers.  So that every local union in the United States would then, whether it was 
Cincinnati or…  Because it was spread out the way other internationals locals were…  There 
were local unions all over.  And it was voted unanimously to be accepted as a department of the 
bridge, structural, and ornamental ironworkers.  That was voted down for some reason.  
Whatever higher powers at that time did it.  So now that’s ‘77.  In ‘79, a big vote comes in and 
the carpenters are making, the carpenters international, UBC, making a big push to take over all 
of the lathe local unions and take over their jurisdiction.  Fifty years they were attacking the 
jurisdiction of the lathers.  Finally, they weakened them to a point that they were able to put the 
Bull on the line.  And so now you have 46. Now 46 is a rebar local with lathe.  Our revenue at 
that time perhaps was about 65-70% rebar and 30% traditional wire lathe sales.   So we’re not 
about to become carpenters.  So…in ‘79, there was a referendum.  And it was interesting how 
you voted.  I had to vote to become part of the conferences with the understanding with a side 
letter that we voted…I think only four guys voted not to join to join the carpenters.  [Yeah.]  So 
anyway, we voted with all the other lathe locals to vote at the conference … because there was a 
side letter that you would immediately were chartered by the ironworkers.  So all those lathe 
locals went with the carpenters and became a division of the carpenters international union. We 
became ironworkers, a part of the ironworkers.   So then over the years, I’ve met some of those 
lathe locals, like Chicago had a very strong lathe local.  And…I was at a bar one time down in 
Washington at a conference and I heard some guys arguing.  So I say, “What’s going on?  I 
heard you say you’re a lather.”  “Yeah, I’m a lather.”  “I’m a lather too.”  “But you’re an 
ironworker.”  “Yeah, but we’re both lathers.  We served the same kind of apprenticeship for the 
same kind of work.”  And I says, “What’s this all about?”  “Carpenters are trying to steel our 
studs.  We’re doing the studs in Chicago.  You guys never did it in New York.  We’re not going 
to deal and capitulate with these guys.”  “You got it, no problem.”  Now the two of us start 
picking on the carpenters.  LAUGHTER   Because we were both lathers, even though he was a 
carpenter lathers.  The carpenters international did the same thing.  A lot of them kept the same 
local numbers but I put an L after.   But the carpenters never promoted the work, never had any 
type of education with the architecture or anything else.  So they have allowed the whole trade to 
die.  And so when…   
 
16:00   You mentioned before about going into restore, ornamental plaster, all the ancient stuff…  
A lot of times, we’d get calls from New York City to go and restore a ceiling in a theater in 
Jersey and some place like that.  They never taught the skills to their new apprentices so we 
became the depository of basic lather skills throughout the country.  There are a few still left.  I 
think Minnesota has a strong lathe local.  California builds the stucco.  That’s plaster.  [Yeah, 
that makes sense.  Yeah.]  Down in Florida, those places are very antiunion…the right to work.  
[Yeah.]   It’s about…I guess…five or six lathe locals within the carpenters that still do it 
traditionally, but we do New York as ironworkers.   
16:50  [Do you still work in the field then doing this kind of thing?]  No, that’s a whole other 
story.  [Ok.]  So in 1981, ahhh… well, actually in 1977, I’m on the executive board.  In 1979, I 
run for business agent and it was in the basement of a Catholic church on the west side of 
Manhattan, Sacred Heart.  So we went there and I got my card and I have always been a person 
with ideas.  I don’t like to knock anybody and I’m not interested in personality [?].  “I’m looking 
for future vision and where we can go as an organization.”  I was always running campaigns like 
that.  And there was the establishment.  And the establishment was always, I guess, very 
conservative.  They didn’t want to think outside the box.  They saw me as an enemy rather than 
some asset.  So now we have this big election.  It’s for business agents.  Starts as a full-time 
paying job.  And I had to very rocky history about gaining employment with the establishment 
not particularly keen on my ideas.  And the ideas were very simple.  Let’s have a political action 
committee where we can engage the politicians so we can keep their feet to the fire.  Let’s have 
the technological change committee so they can watch what’s going on in the outside world and 
in the development world to see if there are new materials coming out  so that we can protect our 
jurisdiction or the threat of being eliminated by technological change.  Oh you can’t do that.  Oh, 
my God.  But anyway, the members sort of liked those ideas and it was a fascinating, it’s like a 
movie.  Sometimes I think I live in a movie.  There was the first machine.  There were three 
machines.  And it was all by secret ballot.  The first machine we’re up 24 votes, which means 
that we were the 4th and there were four business agents.  We were… basically more votes than 
the incumbent for that 4th position.  The second one…we’re up 47 votes so now amazingly, 
everybody comes over and he says, “Hey Bob…how are ya doing?”  People…  All of a sudden, 
you see people taking their buttons off and putting your button on and really…interesting human 
behavior to say the least.  I said, “Listen everybody, calm down.  There’s another machine to 
go.”  I had no idea what was going to happen.  I’m down, like, 48 votes.  I lost the election by 
one vote.  It’s interesting what happens.  I’m a religious guy.  The good Lord has a plan for us 
and we just got to execute it to the best of your ability.  So now 1980-81 comes and I’m running 
for re-election because we have two year elections back then.  I’m going to run in November of 
‘81 for office again.  I came so close and I wanted to be a business agent.  I really wanted to do 
that.  It’s good work.  You do a lot of things for a lot of people.  I mean, you can do some 
wonderful things.  So that being said, the business agent who beat me by the one vote, passes 
away from a heart attack.  LAUGHTER   And back then, we had special elections.  There’s no 
president appointed like from the ironworkers.  I’m a firm believer of democracy.  I’m the 
product of the vote, not of an appointment.   
19:51   So…  here we go.  And there was a convention of ironworkers in 1981.  Now remember, 
in 1979 which was grand for ironworkers, newly minted[?] ironworkers.  The first convention we 
were going to attend is the 1981 convention.  So the fellows asked me who I’m supporting and 
said, “Are you going to run for the convention.”  I said, “Well, do you want to know something.  
#1, I haven’t been working steady.  I don’t think so.  That’s traditionally the officers, it would be 
an upstart type of thing.  I’m going to concentrate for November.”  That’s the real election.  The 
other one is just for the convention.  So I decided not to run.  In the meantime, this fellow passes.  
A special election is set up.  I win the special election.  They all go to the convention  and I’m 
running the whole local union with only two weeks on the job.  And what I did is I brought my 
whole philosophy and ideas and everything to the job and they all come back and say, “What are 
you doing around here?  And I says, “Well, I can only get one contractor.  It’s the biggest 
contractor in New York.  He has over 50 jobs going at the same time.  A brilliant business man.  
I admire a good business man.  So all throughout all this, I’m majored in economics.  I 
understand what the risk and reward kind of stuff, but I didn’t like what he was doing.  He 
wasn’t paying the benefits.  So I shut him down.  They all came back and said, “What did you 
do?”  I says, “He’ sthe biggest guy.  Some of us…”  I don’t care.  I really don’t care.  Either he 
pays his benefits or not.  You can now undo what I did because you’re back running the show 
and I’m going to back out to where I am as a business agent just in the one area.  The bottom line 
is that as long as I was here, I had to make the decisions.  So from that point on, not only was it 
the thinking that there was this type of a radical in the house.  There was also this thought 
process that maybe he’s resonating what the membership always thought.  Maybe there’s a 
hunger and a thirst for leadership and for guts or what have you.  So from that point  on, I’ve 
been re-elected by my members.  It has been a wonderful journey.   
21:54   In 1999, when the business manager retired, I became the…  I ran for business manager 
and I won that office.  For 30 years I’ve been blessed with this wonderful job to be able to help 
people, to give them strength.  The whole idea of a union officer, and this goes back into the 
history.  Why was there a thing called business agent, walking delegate?  Well, the men, the 
workers, they tried and it was so difficult...that really, you bent over in our case case or working 
very hard.  You don’t have time to cogitate and think about, “Do I need a better pension plan?  
Should we have an annuity?  Should we think of a vacation plan.”  So you elevate your own to 
be a full time, to be thinkers, and doers and to create a better world.  So as you work hard, you 
expect that elected official that you put into office to be full time.  He doesn’t have to worry 
about earning a salary from the boss.  Is it intimidating?   Is it independent and free?  And he can 
make decisions in the best interest of the member and not any other reason what-so-ever.  You 
have to elevate them.  You can’t expect a man to work hard all day, for seven or eight hours, and 
then have the where with all, even during the day, to make decisions about the union.  So the 
whole concept of a business union, this is where my friends in the C.I.O. and I have a debate 
about all the time.  Because the business union isn’t like…it isn’t a dirty word.  It’s not a dirty 
prospect.  We weren’t artificially created by legislation in Albany and any place else.  We were 
rank and file, lifting up, figuring it all out.  We created a business agent position, a business 
agent.  There was no business managers back then.  Put them out there full time, have a dues 
structure.  Run it like a business.  You have to have an office and eventually a telephone.  So you 
add a telephone and you had to have electric lights.  Someone’s got to pay for the lights.  So this 
whole idea of a business union that many of the C. I.O. look at it as a detracting thing.  To me it 
was something that…  Look it, we flourished because they realized that this was the way to run a 
business. 
24:05  Now, the union has the union ethic.  You have what we believe in.  Besides that, the union 
has to have rhythm.  It has to be run like a business, like have secretaries.  Financial secretary as 
part of my job.  I have to run it like a small business.  Besides looking out for the welfare of the 
members, besides negotiating with collective bargaining agreements.  Besides watching all the 
politicians and all of their chicanery and everything else.  You know, basically, you have to run 
it…  And when I meet with this group, particularly the municipal unions.  They’re divorced from 
this concept.  Like, we have this frictional thing, like, we have our own pensions.   Each term, we 
secure collective bargaining agreements for the employees.  We bring it to the membership and if 
they ratify it, and they usually ratify it, we then vote democratically.  The men decide where the 
money goes.   So suppose you have a $3 package.  Three dollars an hour raise.  We go to the 
members and say, “Well, look.  Our analysis, the pros that we hire say that we need a dollar for 
medical, because we’re slipping a little bit there and medical costs are rising.  So we recommend 
that if you put into your proposals democratically that you put a dollar into your medical.  The 
rest of it, right now, if you want to put pension annuity envelope, whatever you want to do.  They 
get up and give suggestion A and suggestion B.  And they vote on it, right there by voice.  And 
we end up with about 4 or 5 different selections.  The men then say, “Okay.  Fine.”  We’ll vote 
on whether or not we want that $2 to remain in the envelope or not.  I want a dollar in the 
envelope, a dollar in the annuity, and dollar in the medical.  Or I want a dollar in the envelope, a 
dollar…  $.50 in the annuity, $.50 in the pension and a dollar in medical.  They always 
religiously have given us what we asked and what we needed for their own protection.  So it 
wasn’t a matter of negotiating…going for a contact with a mayor or with a governor.  This was 
something that we secured and then we voted on so when they appeal to us with their problems 
with pensions and other things, it’s kind of like…  Did you ever look at it the way we look at it?  
It comes right out of our total package.  So you’re saying that over 30-40-50 years, you’ve 
negotiated something that you didn’t really vote on. You didn’t have the interplay with your own 
members.  Maybe they would’ve looked at it a little differently.  So now when these pension 
funds  so [?] and the tax payers were up in arms.  We‘re with you in Wisconsin.  We’re not going 
to run.  We’re labor people.  But understand that maybe your model might not be the best model 
for the perpetuation of the union.  Your union, not ours, because we’re ok.   
26:56   [Well, does that make you think maybe in a way that the silver lining within this 
economic crisis is that some of those public-sector unions are going to have to rethink how they 
structure their unions or what kind of approach they take to their memberships where do they go 
in the future?]  I hope so, I hope so.  Because we’re also active in the Central Labor Council of 
New York City which is a million people strong, so it has this tremendous potential.  
Unfortunately it hasn’t seen the fruition of that potential, but never the less it’s there.  We have a 
new, for the first time, a full-time administrator of the CLC.  It used to be like a part-time job 
with a pension but with a million people that you represent.  [I can’t imagine that.]  No, it was 
kind of…  That thing was structured not by the building trade.  We were just part of it.  It was 
structured again by that mentality that you just asked me a question about.  My hope is that yes, 
that they re-visit.  Let’s say for instance.  If they had structured it differently and it teachers’ 
union or the municipal clerks’ union or whatever.  And I say, Ok, fine, Mr. Mayor and his 
bargaining committee.  We would like to have $3 an hour raise.  We will decide where the $3 go.  
They could never come back to those folks and say, wait a minute.  There’s too much money 
going into the pension, there’s too much… because you took that money yourself and you 
allocated it yourself and it was part of your money.   Instead of having negotiated a 2% increase 
in the pension or 1% or whatever, you controlled your own destiny.  And by controlling your 
own destiny, you have a lot more, I guess you have a better right to say what you want to say 
rather than have now be the subject of a whipping boy, between the tax payer and the politician.  
That’s what’s happening.  So I would hope that they would look at our…and not look down on 
us.  I used to get that feeling that…  All right, all right. You’re educated.  I got it.  We’re just as 
educated.   I was just explaining it to one of the fellas.  I was on a panel with the Regional 
Planning Association in New York.  The Regional Planning Association was always involved 
with transportation issues, whether it was mass transit, whether it was bridges, or what have you.  
All of a sudden, they were commissioned, because some people came out of the American 
Heritage Foundation who took over.  We’re going to have a nice little union busting document 
that we’re going to create particularly against the building trades and it was full of all sorts of 
falsehoods and misconceptions and what have you.  I was asked did I want to be on a panel.   I 
would call up the president of the building trades, because I’m vice president of the building 
trades also, as business manager of 46.  And I said, “Gary, do you want it?”  “Naw, I don’t want 
to get…to hell with them people.”  So I said, “Would you mind…?  I won’t go to represent the 
building trades.  I’ll go and represent #46.”  And he says, “No, no, no problem.  You do it 
because, you know, you’ll be ok.”   And I said, “Yeah, I know I’ll be ok.” 
 29:52   When we got on the panel and it’s a strangest environment that you live in sometimes.  
On the left hand side was a non-union builder of affordable housing who, he and I had been at 
each other’s throats over time.  On my right hand was one of the major CMs in New York City.  
It was a Tishman person, big name.  And then, hmm, on the end was this Mike Locker [?], who 
we’ve been friends, who we run all the kind of new interesting stuff that we’re doing with 
corporate campaigns and everything else.  And another one was a non-union developer who 
became a union developer.  The most friendly of all of the people other than Mike Locker, who’s 
out of the labor movement, was the guy who was non-union.  He said, “You know, they work 
hard.  There are certain things that, if things could change somewhat, I would become a union 
developer because of the skills and apprenticeship training and safety and everything else.”  The 
union, Tishman, was knocking the hell out of the unions so…  With a panel, and if you’ve ever 
been on a panel, you know this.  You gotta seize the moment.  You can’t let somebody say “Ok, 
fine.  You’ve got one minute and that’s it.”  What it was, and I tried to explain to the folks there, 
and it was everybody from the press.  The Times, Crain’s,  the Post, it was just a whole bevy of 
people, people from different communications.  And I said, “Look it, you really are right now in 
the Harvard Club.  Now, I could never ever afford to come to the Harvard Club nor could I ever 
afford Harvard University.”  And I admire them because I had a professor from Harvard one 
time a long time ago at CCNY and he has impressed me ever since with his knowledge and as a 
teacher, how he elevated my thinking and understanding of things.  But let me just say something 
about that.  It’s 96 degrees out and its 100% humidity.  You’re in an air conditioned 
environment, nice and cool and comfortable.  When you leave here, please don’t forget the men 
and women who are working out in the construction trades now, in 100% humidity, plus 95 
degree temperature.  Ok?  Breaking their backs…as you go to your other climate controlled 
environment.  As you work in your office in air conditioning.  Then in the winter time, when it’s 
nice and toasty warm in your controlled environment.  You think about us out there.  Because, no 
matter what, we’ll never complain.  And I’m not complaining.  I just don’t like some of the 
attitude that you people have that you think that we’re menial and that we’re less than you.  
We’re a lot better.  We’re your fellow Americans.  We fight and die for this country.  But 
understand when you look at the skyline also.  A painter paints, painting or a mural.  A poet who 
writes a poem.  An author writes a book.  A sculptor sculpts a statue.  We guys in construction, 
here in construction, we sculpt the skyline.  So when you look at that skyline of New York, you 
should think about the hands and the brains and the heart that built that.  Don’t think about the 
negative, how you might be jealous of the fact that we make a high hourly wage.   But at the end 
of the year, perhaps we make less than you do because of weather, because of unemployment 
and other things.  So we’ll never complain to you, but we do want to be appreciated as a fellow 
American.  That we’re just as integral to the American dream as anybody else.  And the 
American skyline is ours because we built it.  And there was silence.  I mean it was just like 
silence.  And that’s what I wanted to do.  I wanted people to understand that we don’t complain.  
We’re not people that do, but we damn well demand respect. 
33:20  [You raised an interesting point.  I’ve noticed this a lot in the interviews I’ve done here in 
Chicago and we talked off record before we started the interview.  But I’m always impressed on 
just how smart the guys I know in the ironworkers are.  People that work in the ironworkers.  
They’re really good problem solvers.  It seems to me that and there’s a lot of individual initiative 
that’s required on the job.  Maybe they don’t have college degrees, but maybe you could talk just 
a little bit about that because I sense… maybe they’re not book learners but a lot of bright people 
are in the rank and file of the ironworkers.  Could you comment a little bit about that?]  Oh yeah.  
This really has been a fascin…  We have a learning center, where I mentioned that we have our 
own museum.  We also created a showroom.  And the showroom was created to show new 
architects, and existing architects, and engineers the creativity of the craft of lathing.  And when 
you walk into it, each one of those, those ceilings and walls, were created by an architect or an 
owner who went to a lather and said, “Look, I want…maybe bizaare.  I want to put a cracked tea  
cup in the corner of my living room.”  Now these are wealthy people and these are real things, 
ok?  So…  I listened to the lather and said, “You want something to do?  Let’s build a cracked 
tea cup to show in the creativity center.”  So in our showroom, we have a cracked tea cup and the 
crack is a bead that which we would use to terminate or expand and contract plaster and 
elements, ok?  So the bead itself became the crack in the tea cup.  So I said to the guys, “What 
else?”  Well, one time a guy asked me…again, sorry for the expression…  “I’d like to have a 
ceiling in the shape of an umbrella.”   An umbrella…and we built it.  So now we have… [Cool! 
Laughter]  We have a ceiling, just a mock up, of an umbrella, inverted, ok?   Created with the 
hands and the ingenuity of the wire lathers who were problem solvers, which is what you’re 
asking.  So we have a tooth ceiling on a declining plane, ok?   That is used in acoustical plaster 
so when you look at that…  I said to one of the guys, “Did you ever build one of those?”  He 
says, “Absolutely.”  So I said, “Ok.  Do me in the corner, build please for me a saw tooth ceiling 
that you have created by an architect telling you not necessarily on a drawing but ‘create this for 
me.’”  When I was serving my apprenticeship I was always amazed and that’s why I wanted the 
show room to show the craft.  So we have saw tooth, we have inverted umbrellas.  We have 
acoustical plaster, where you could literally stand in the middle and then you have a stage where 
you could have the perfect intonation of the voice.  Move slightly this way, that way and the 
whole tone changes because of the acoustical plaster.  And the plaster itself is secured with the 
wire lathe.  That’s what the lathe is hooked on to.   
36:21  So we did all of these kinds of ceilings, perhaps 8 or 9 of them.  That came out of when I 
was an apprentice boy in about 1963.  The old timers would tell me that…literally on a piece of 
paper, an architect would come in and say, “I want this shape.”  And you’d just say, I don’t 
know…but I drew it.  Right?  [Yeah.]  And they had to do that.  And what they would do is that 
they literally would build it on the ground and chain it up and secure it into the ceiling.  So every 
time you look at an old building, ok, that has, or an old theater, you can look up at this craft that 
these guys…a lot of times just created out of experimentation and their own creativity.  There 
was a problem solved.  We were working for an architect. We wanted to work, because that’s our 
employment.  This was going to pay by the end of the week and you’d be able to feed the family.  
But the creativity was never…   The architect had the vision and dream.  It’s the men’s minds 
and hands that created it and solved the problem.  And so many times when you would read a 
drawing, you would call up the architect and say, “Did you realize that you just put a light in the 
middle of a sprinkler pipe and in the middle of a duct?  And the electrical light is not going to 
work.”  Well, shucks.  Well, tell us what you want to do with this because you’re the architect 
and we’ll just…  Ok, let’s solve it.  You want it over here, ok, now we have to frame the ceiling 
differently.  We have to do a bunch of different things.  And the same thing with architectural 
concrete when we do the rebar.  Many times the people who think these things up are…  They 
want it, but they wouldn’t have the slightest clue how to build it.  So you give it to a craftsman.  
The craftsman uses all the generational history that he’s learned that has been passed from 
generation to generation with the craft and makes it happen.  There’s nothing that we can’t build.  
When went to the Museum of Natural History – like I was telling you about the cultural days 
when the  members and their families enjoyed the culture of New York City-there’s a big whale 
in the middle of the Museum of Natural History.  We built the whale.  Now somebody came to 
use and said, “We’d want to replicate a life size whale.”  What do we do?  All right, fine.  We 
frame it out of metal.  We’ll tie the wire lathe on and put the beads in the right place.  Make sure 
that the eye sockets and everything on the side of the whale with the help of the architect who 
designed it but we built it.  We built the whale.  And sometimes when you go into places, in a 
hotel lobby.  There’s trees and there’s rocks.  We build that out of wire lathe and they plaster 
over these…cement plaster and other products.  But they’ll say, “Build a rock.”  And the 
creativity of the Bronx Zoo.  We do a lot of work in the Bronx Zoo.  We had a place where the 
elephants.  They wanted us to build a place for the elephants to be comfortable.  And when you 
deal with people from the Zoological Society, they want to think like an animal.  The animal that 
they’re building the exhibit for.  So this one was interesting.  What it was was that the zoologists 
wanted to have a good place that elephants could scratch his back side.  LAUGHTER  So 
anyway…  Alright fine.  What do you need?  So we built the first one and the elephant didn’t 
like it, so the zoologist was, “Well, you got to change this.”  Ok fine.  We experimented with 
four or five different installations before the elephant was happy.  The zoologist was happy.  
Most importantly, that we were creative enough to be able to adjust whatever it was that once we 
knew what we needed…  Not the elephant, well, maybe the elephant too.  With both the elephant 
and the zoologist, we were able to do it.  And loved the job, pleasing the elephant and pleasing 
the zoologist.  So that’s the kind of stuff that you’re trained to do in your apprenticeship, 
particularly that you’ve got to think on your own.  You have to be creative, that you will be 
presented with a problem every day.  You’ll have stuff that doesn’t fit where it’s supposed to fit.  
You’re going to have mistakes in the drawings.  Lord knows there’s a lot of that.  And you’re 
just going to have to build around it and you’ve got to get it done at the end of the day.  There’s 
no excuses.  You’re hired as a schooled craftsman.  So we’re very proud of that and I imagine 
that’s what you’re hearing from guys.  How . . .  every day is a unique day.  You never know 
what’s going to be presented as far as an impediment for you to complete your task for the day 
and you have to get around it.  Otherwise the project falls behind.  It’s money.  They don’t make 
any money until they turn the key and have tenants, whether it’s an office building or apartment 
house.  We’ve got to deliver on time, hopefully ahead of time and under budget so that they hire 
us for the next job.  This is really…  We’re gypsies.  We finish a job and we move to another 
job.  Many times you might not work with the same men for 20-30 years because these are large 
locals.  We’re large. We have 1500 members.  So you might not work with a man or woman for 
another 15-20 years, but that one experience that you have, that most of the time is really a great 
experienced.  And you share all of that as you look at the skyline as your career develops and 
you say, “Wow.  I built that and I built that.  My blood and guts are in that one.”  That’s the 
sculpturing of the skyline of New York City.  So yeah, the creativity, the thinking on your own.  
Thinking outside the box.  That’s right from the beginning.  You are taught in training to do that. 
41:36   Because if you can’t solve the problem, they don’t need you.  They could just have a non-
union, unskilled person.  If it’s a mechanical job that you do, like a factory.  And buildings are 
very complex.  To put up a building is quite a complex event.  It’s really interesting.  Because if 
you watch all the trades work in a big city, particularly where there are these time lines that you 
have to have done.  It’s an amazing thing to watch the cohesiveness of the trades as you learn 
how to work with each other also.  So you’re not only learning your trade and learning to work 
with your fellow tradesmen, in our case lathers, you’re also are learning how to work with the 
other trades in conjunction.  So that the product that you’re going to produce is produced on 
time.  You can’t be fighting and arguing over geography.  On job site there is only limited places 
where you put the materials.  You really have to really think it through, ok.  The carpenter has 
his stuff here.  The ironworker has his stuff over here.  The lather has his stuff over there.  The 
pipefitter… and on and on it goes.  So all of these things have to be coordinated and many times 
management doesn’t have the slightest clue.  The trades themselves have to realize what has to 
be done and how you do it, and then cooperate with each other to make it happen.  All this 
problem solving is, on many multiple levels, is not just so simple.  There’s always some 
problem.  Many times there are problems that you didn’t think of yet.  As we sit here, there could 
be a problem on the job tomorrow or Monday that nobody ever saw before because the 
technology and materials change.  There’s constant change all the time around you and you have 
to adapt.   
43:08   [Well, I know we don’t have a lot more time because people are coming to your door but 
I did want to ask you another question because you’re obviously a thinking man about all these 
things.  What do you think the labor movement. Obviously we’re in an anti-labor period again in 
the United States.  Labor is on the defensive.  Membership is down.  Economy’s not helping 
even the building trades.  What’s your twist on where you think the labor movement in general 
might go, how they need to strategize for the future if they want to remain a vital element in 
American society?  What can they do to move themselves forward and maybe help developing 
countries as well.] That’s a complex, complex problem.  I’m a student of history also.  [Yeah.]  
And as a student of history that majored in economics in college, I’ve always followed 
economics.  I love to watch what’s going on in Wall Street because it’s our pension plans.  
There’s a lot of different things.  I think that the assault on the labor movement began 
basically…  It’s always been there.  But there’s these ebbs and flows.  For instance, Teddy 
Roosevelt, when he was president, was more progressive.  He was known as a progressive as a 
Republican, the last great Republican in my mind.  As were Nelson Rockefeller and some other 
liberal Republicans.  [Yeah, they’re gone aren’t they?.]  They’re gone and they destroyed 
the…they destroyed the eastern wing of the republican party.  As a result, the Republican party 
was always non-existent in most areas of the northeast because of that.  Because they appealed to 
the working men particularly in the building trades, in that they would say that we are socially 
liberal but we’re fiscally responsible, so we don’t go into budget deficits and everything else.  
And that appealed to a lot of people because they have to balance their own books.  The far right 
Republican Party now is nowhere near whatever they were.  But when you look at the ebbs and 
flows, so you had, you had the gilded era, that you mentioned before, where the wealthy 
capitalists just completely raped  working people and in the beginning, as I studied it, I came to 
the conclusion…  America has always been a cheap labor nation.  And one of the ways is 
immigration and technological innovation.  So when I look at the labor history and our problems, 
that number 1…  I keep being told that we are a right-of-center nation and if we’re right and 
centered nation, many Americans themselves aren’t too happy thinking about a union because 
they were told about union bosses.  They were told horrible things about unions.  So right from 
the beginning, when Gompers was trying to put this together, there was an anti-union ethos.   It 
went high and low as the economy basically goes up and goes down.  The membership would go 
up in boom and decline in bust.  We’ve had panics in this nation.  Just recently we saw what 
happened in the market this week.  But that goes back to the 1893.  It goes back to after the Civil 
War.  But as a cheap labor nation, if you look at the garment industry for instance.  The garment 
industry began in New England with farm girls, who were not educated, who would work 12-14 
hours a day, 6-7 days a week, and be exploited.  As the women in Lowell and other places began 
to organize, the cost went up so we’re a cheap labor nation.  We got to move it down to the 
garment district in New York City where we had a lot of immigration coming in from Eastern 
Europe and Italy, and all the places like that so we could exploit them for cheap labor.  That got 
expensive because the unions and the ILGW [International Ladies’ Garment Workers Union] got 
organized.  So now they moved to the Carolinas.  At the Carolinas they have their cheap labor 
again, with the Blacks and the poor servant white girls going to the factories and working.  I 
mean, that’s Norma Rae.  You remember the motion picture. They organized and got too 
expensive.  Then they found Central America and Mexico and they moved the jobs there.  They 
started to get a little too expensive.  They  moved to China, Thailand, Sri Lanka, you name it 
where it is right now.  In search of cheap labor.  So I often wondered, when they’re teaching their 
MBAs, Harvard, MIT, and Wharton Business School, do they really predicate everything on you 
must have cheap labor because that’s the only variable?  Land costs the same.  Materials cost the 
same.  So control your one variable of course which is where labor and keep it cheap.  Now in 
the face of that is the union. No, we should have dignity.  We should have decency.  So we have 
to come to grasp with the answer…  What environment do we live in?  Expose it for what it is… 
and one more time, appeal to the American people’s decency.  Because the labor movement 
strength and weaknesses were strong when the American public is with us and we’re weak when 
they’re not.  And right now, American people are suffering terribly with the policies that the 
Republican Party and the Bush era’s tax policies where the rich don’t have to really pay any 
taxes that we have to pay as a percentage.  What they’ve done sucked that money out of the 
economy.  It’s simple economics.  The more money you make, the less money you spend, 
because you bank it, you want it for prosperity.    So there’s a certain threshold after which 
you’re not going to spend any more money.  If you got a Bentley, you’ve got a Bentley.  You’re 
not going to have two Bentleys.  So the spending of any human being declines as the income 
goes up because it becomes harder and harder to spend a lot of money.  And they don’t invest in 
America.  They’re investing in global economy.  And I’m coming to a point now where I’m 
wondering whether or not a lot of people that we have to listen to in the mass media are really 
treasonable and not patriotic.  Because we’re moving all of our wealth overseas, whether it’s the 
jobs or whether it’s the corporations and their headquarters and all their tax loopholes.  General 
Electric not having to pay any taxes last year.  What has become of America as a nation?  So if 
we can appeal to the American public to one more time, look at the labor movement as a good, 
as a decent thing to do.  It’s the only thing that’s going to help working people rise because 
they’ll have collectiveness there’s strength and in individuality, there’s weakness.  But they’ve 
been taught right from the first day going to school about American exceptionalism.  American 
individuality.  The manifest destiny, that you are your own rugged individual.  And you don’t 
need anybody else.  Ronald Reagan is going to march into the movies and go off some place and 
take America with him.  That’s not real life.  That’s a movie.  That’s fiction. So somehow or 
another, we got to solve the problem of communicating both with the politicians with our vote 
and American public that you should look kindly upon the unions.  Not as union bosses.  Not as 
detractors of the American way.  Not as anti-American.  Not as an anti-individual, but as a 
method of lifting all the individuals to a higher plain in sharing the wealth of America as best as 
we can.  Until we decide that, whether it’s with tax cuts and we’re able to do that for the general 
public, we’re going to be beaten up constantly in the press and the media because they don’t 
want us.  They’re are fascinating things…  I can go on and on…   
50:30  We had a meeting out in Jersey.  This is interesting.  We had a corporate campaign going 
against Sam Zell.  Sam Zell is the guy who bought the Herald Tribune…excuse me, the Chicago 
Tribune and he ripped the pension plan apart and put it all into his pocket and declared 
bankruptcy.  He was a very unscrupulous person.  But he owns Equity Resident…Residential 
Equity and the biggest INAUDIBLE in the United States of America.  They build on non-union 
jobs.  So we decided to go into a corporate campaign rather than just the traditional stuff.  As 
we’re going through this thing, you got to realize how the wealth of American had shifted so 
much to a handful of people.  And those handful of people, because of the limit of what you can 
spend, the concentration of wealth just gets greater and greater.  It doesn’t trickle down like we 
were promised through Reagenomics and all that.  It’s not real.  It’s a make believe story and it’s 
something out of a movie out of Hollywood.  So when we look at it as trade union movement, 
I’ve watched it happened over the years.  We have lost tremendous purchasing power and we’ve 
been reduced in this country as working people, union or non-union, to a point where it’s getting 
depraved.  And when they’re talking about taking away the social safety net, whatever’s left out 
there, the labor unions were the ones who supported Social Security and helped Roosevelt get it 
through.  We supported food stamps and heat programs, so that those less than us could have a 
safety net.  Now they’re talking about dismantling and there’s no safety net, putting us back into 
Hoovervilles.  Anybody who knows the history knows about how Herbert Hoover and the 
Republicans were so paralyzed by the stock market crash in ’29, which was the end… October 
’29, that by ’30-’31…’31 was a power story.   Roosevelt gets elected in ’32 so the nation near a 
revolution because you had the Nazis rising in Germany.  You had the Socialists rising, and the 
Fascists rising in Spain and Italy.  And in America, we had Father Coughlin.  We had a lot of 
people out there and the Communist party was growing.  So Roosevelt saved capitalism, but he 
was never appreciated for that.  And they just wanted to keep going back to those original Gilded 
Age model where we were subjected as working people, to 10-12 hour days, a miserable 
existence, because we are less than they are.  And there’s a whole list of Calvanism.   And how 
Calvanism has taken over the economic mind of the United States of America about this being 
pre-ordained.  We talked to rich people, wealthy people who were born into it and they believe 
they were preordained.  We’re different than you and we just don’t get it.  I go back to…what 
you were saying about building tradesmen and ironworkers having a good brain.  That’s very 
offensive because maybe you were born with more in life but I’m still an American citizen.  I 
still vote.  You vote once, I vote once.  You breathe the same air I breathe.  You drink the same 
water I drink.  You travel on the same roads that I do.  So yes, you are wealthy, but you’re not 
better than me.  That’s not America.  That’s something else that’s become foreign to the 
American dream and we’re not going to… I’m not going to tolerate it so…  I was more than 
happy to do this because I want somebody to realize that...  You know, we know what they’re 
about.  We want them to become Americans just like us and become patriotic and understand 
that this nation is a one ship.  If this ship goes down, we all go down with the ship.  It is very 
important that they get back again to be patriotic and care about their fellow Americans and not 
be so isolated from the rest of Americans that it becomes a divorced concept that they can’t even 
wonder how a person doesn’t have enough to eat.  There are millions and millions of children 
that go to bed hungry in America.  This is the richest nation in the world.  How can these things 
be?  What kind of a conscience has this nation adopted, with the Paul Ryans and others, the  Ayn 
Rand concept.  There’s a whole other thing about Ayn Rand, Rand’s objective has completely 
consumed Republican Party as far as it is concerned the right wing.  And I tell ya, I could go on 
about this.  Charlie Rangel was a congressman, he’s my congressman from Manhattan because I 
live in Manhattan.  And I asked him a question, a Q&A.  It was a director’s fundraiser.  I said, 
“Charlie, you’ve been down in Congress a long time.  I would like you to think a little bit outside 
the box and listen to me and just give me some guidance, because you’re the man in Washington 
in the House of Representatives.”  I said, “Look it up.  There’s a philosophy called objectivism 
that Ayn Rand…from Atlas Shrugged…created objectivism.”  I was a devotee myself years ago 
when I was much younger.  I was interested in it.  What happened was I drifted away because I 
went back to Catholicism and go back to my humanity.  But anyway, I still understood the 
philosophy.  It’s built on the virtue of selfishness.  And Paul Ryan, in his Congressional office, 
before a staff worker begins working for him, they must read Atlas Schrugged.  Now you have to 
understand what Atlas Schrugged and objectivism is saying.  Ok?  So you understand the 
methodology and the reasoning behind Paul Ryan and the Tea Party.  Because that there is the 
virtue of selfishness in saying there is a handful of people that are the thinkers the world, they are 
the ones that matter.  The rest of us are just out here.  We’re not really part of a society.  The true 
good creators of wealth, etc. etc.  And objectivism, time and time again, is the virtue of 
selfishness that really, because you earn the money, because you are the creator, because you are 
the one, you’re John Gault, you don’t have to share anything with everybody else.  You earned it 
and it’s yours and that’s all there is to it.  The rest of society can go to hell.  Now if you look at 
the whole platform that they’re running on, whether it’s the destruction of the unions, the trade 
workers, whether its…the tax breaks for the rich.  Whether it’s de-assembling the social 
programs and social safety nets, what is it all about?  It’s about objectivism and how that 
philosophy has captured the right wing of the Republican Party.  As long as you are a Democrat 
and stand up and say, “Wait a minute.  There are all these fallacies in our philosophy, and we’re 
not going to tolerate it.  We’re going to talk about the true nature of the American people and tell 
the Republicans all about it…”  What did you just say?  Then he went into very interesting…  
His answer was…  And then he says, “You know, I’ve been talking to the Monsinours and the 
bishops and I’ve been talking to the ministers and the Rabbis about how America has to begin to 
look at its soul again, whether or not we are our brothers’ keeper and everything else.“  I said, 
“Charlie, that’s what I just said to you, but I’m trying to give you the tools to attack the people 
who are trying to de-assemble all of that.”  Then I said, “But I really love the answer that I gave 
you because that is the answer.  But what are we going to do about it when we counteract those 
people in debate for the American mind and American soul and their vote.”  You have to 
understand what these people are all about, what their philosophy is.  Just listen, you know, Rand 
Paul, he’s a senator, right?  He’s the son of the Texas congressman.  What is his first name?  
Rand.  Where do you think the name Rand came from Ayn Rand.   When are we going to start 
thinking about what’s going on here?  Ron Paul named his son Rand.  What higher honor can 
you give a person than to name your son after that person.  So that philosophy is grippin’ him.  
So when you listen to Ron Paul or Rand Paul, think about objectivism.  Think about the fallacies 
that are in that philosophy and attack those philosophies.  Don’t attack the individual, but attack 
the thought process.  So I talked to another congressman about it.  And he said, “What are you 
talking about?”  I says, “You guys represent me.  I’m a tradesman.  I’m thinking through all this 
stuff as best that I can and you’re not listening to me.  You’re going to continue to lose the 
debate. Americans are big hearted - we’re not selfish.  The virtue of selfishness…  Once they 
realize what these people are all about and how greedy they are, emotionally greedy, monetarily 
greedy.  They would then say, “Wait a minute.  I want to reject that because I want to share with 
my fellow Americans this wonderful American experience of self-governance - what our nation 
is all about.  We’re not going to have rich or poor.  We’re going to have a huge middle class in 
this country that can share all the wonders of this nation, not just a handful of people that have it 
every day while the rest of us don’t.  That’s not the America that I know or the America that I 
want.  But someone has to answer to these people.  I’m only a laborer official.  You’re the guy 
that can take the Congress floor.  You can get people together.  You can challenge this.  You’re 
in a state of mental depression.  I got it.  You allowed this, not the Senate, the Congressman...  
You allowed a handful of people with a filibuster to destroy a philosophy that you were trying 
to...  Why don’t you just make them into telephone book?  They would have ran out of energy.  
They would have not stayed up there forever, reading a telephone book.  Because they’re lazy.  
Republicans like to play golf.  They don’t want to be reading in a filibuster.  But anyway, so I’m 
frustrated with my, our own people who are supposed to be support us politically and they don’t 
want to think outside the box of the traditional thinking.  We’re not going to survive either as a 
political party, a Democratic party or as a labor movement.  Finally, it’s a question of thinking of 
outside the box, we look at the vulnerable points of our adversaries who are trying to destroy us.  
Take advantage of those vulnerable points and bring them to the table, make them understand 
that were all Americans.  It’s our future too. 
 
[Perfect.  Thank you so much.  I really enjoyed.  It was a pleasure to talk to you.] 
END 1:00:05