Jose Negron 
Thrall Farm 
23 years old/ Born in 1991 
Interview: 00:14:30 
August 11, 2014 
I am from Puerto Rico. I knew this old man from Puerto Rico who worked here before. I was looking for 
a job last year. This is my second year working here. Before that I worked with soy beans in Puerto Rico. 
The hoeing when the plants were little. All day long. 5-6 in the morning to 6 at night. I lived right here. It 
depends on how many people are working but we hoed for maybe about a month. Then we cleaned the 
dirt around the plants. Then we do another hoeing. The plants are already big so we pull the first three 
leaves from the bottom so that they can grow bigger. Those leaves get thrown away. Then is the first 
pick. 
03:10 The first day of picking was terrible (laughter). You got to pick three leaves. I was picking three 
good leaves and bad I picked them too. It was terrible the first day. (Dale takes a quick photo) The first 
pick you are sitting down and the 3rd or 4th pick you can stand up or walk on your knees. Standing is easy 
but on the knees no good. When it rains you get all wet. Leaves are sticky, your hands, ooof, it is terrible 
to get it off. You have to wash it really good. The supervisor tells us to take care of the leaf, you can’t 
break the leaf, and put in them in packs of 8-12 in a basket, no more than that. You put the basket on a 
tarp and there is a type of bike. You pick 8-9 bents. When you go out you start peddling and take the leaf 
out. No breaks at the end of the row. All day.  
05:45 There are 6-7 picks and then you go back home. I was here 2 months and 10 days last year. This 
year I got here on May 3 and I go back to Puerto Rico on August 31. Sleep and get rest when not 
working. Always have worked in the field. I hope that next year I can get back here. I am unemployed in 
Puerto Rico. My Mom and sister live in New Jersey. I want to just keep working. I know that the first year 
I was difficult. The living, too many people. But this year, you already know the people and the place so 
it is easier. Some friends from last year.  
8:45 I like it. (Small talk with Dale about haying in Vermont) I have never been in the barn working. I am 
good with the field. It think it is easier in the field. In the barn there is pressure to put the leaves up and 
no break there. I know people who work in the barn but they don’t like it there. They do it because it is 
there job but they say it is difficult. You get paid the same if you are out or in the barns. You pull the leaf 
off (don’t cut it) It strips off fairly easy. Mark on our arm for length. You leave short leaves on the floor. 
You still have to pick it.  
11:20 That’s good. (I turned off the recorder and then another topic came up about working with 
broadleaf on a farm in Massachusetts so he we did a few more minutes of taping.) That is a different 
tobacco than the shade one. No tarp or nothing. When the plant gets like that you have to cut the 
flowers and put a chemical on it so that the leaf will grow bigger. You put the chemical right where you 
cut the flower. To harvest you have a tractor and you cut the whole plant and hang it upside down. That 
barn is scary. The spaces of the rails is long. After work, because there were not a lot of hours at the 
beginning here, I worked over there. I was a water man first. Start my day here and then go to 
Massachusetts. Last year there was a lot of work here. No women in the fields. They are in the barns. 
When they start bringing tobacco leaves to the barn they all go to the barn. There are a lot of women 
who work here too. They live in the city not here.