The Reverend Joseph Lowery Interview, 6-6-11 
Page 1 of 26 
 
Civil Rights History Project 
Interview completed by the Southern Oral History Program 
under contract to the 
Smithsonian Institution’s National Museum of African American History & Culture 
and the Library of Congress, 2011 
 
 
Interviewee:  
 
The Reverend Joseph E. Lowery 
Interview Date: 
 
June 6, 2011 
Location: 
Sanctuary of Cascade United Methodist Church, Atlanta, Georgia 
 
Interviewer: 
 
 
Joseph Mosnier, Ph.D. 
Videographer:  
 
John Bishop 
Length: 
 
 
1:02:49 
Special Note: 
Cheryl Lowery-Osborne, Reverend Lowery’s daughter, drove him 
from his home to the church and stayed to watch the interview 
from a rear pew. 
 
John Bishop:  We’re rolling.   
Joe Mosnier:  Today is Monday, June 6, 2011.  My name is Joe Mosnier of the Southern 
Oral History Program at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.  I am with videographer 
John Bishop.  We are in Atlanta, Georgia, at Cascade United Methodist Church to complete an 
oral history interview for the Civil Rights History Project, which is a joint undertaking of the 
Library of Congress and the Smithsonian’s National Museum of African American History and 
Culture.   
And we are especially privileged and very pleased today to be with Reverend Joseph 
Lowery.  Um, Reverend Lowery, thank you so much for sitting down with us. 
Joseph Lowery:  You’re quite welcome.  You’ll get a bill in the mail.  [Laughter] 
The Reverend Joseph Lowery Interview, 6-6-11 
Page 2 of 26 
 
JM:  I thought I might, um – I thought, as we’re going to be talking here today mostly 
about, I think, the ’50s and ’60s, um, and then a little bit, um, a little bit – a few questions 
thereafter, mostly ’50s and ’60s.  And I thought I would – I thought I would take you back to, 
um, Warren Street United Methodist [Church] and have you talk a little bit about, um, Mobile, 
Alabama, and, uh, and Alabama more generally in the ’50s, and what you encountered there, 
and, um, how you began to lead your congregation and participate in efforts to change the – 
JL:  Well, I went to Mobile, Alabama, to Warren Street Church, in 1952.  And, uh, the, 
uh, NAACP was holding its regular meetings in Warren Street, so I just jumped right in with 
them, because, uh, we had not organized SCLC at the time.  Uh, SCLC came into being in the 
latter part of the ’50s, uh, following the, uh, [clears throat] Montgomery Boycott.  But the 
NAACP was active and, uh, as I said, they met in Warren Street Church, usually on Sunday 
afternoon.  And so, I had already been active in the NAACP in earlier years, and so it was just a 
natural for me to join with them.  And, uh, uh, we engaged in voter registration and in 
educational activities designed to, uh, help African Americans understand our predicament and 
how it was incumbent upon us to, uh, find a way out.  And, uh, uh, it was an interesting journey. 
The NAACP was headed by a man named John LeFlore, who was, uh, active in Mobile, 
and, uh, until my arrival, I don’t guess John had any, uh, opposition – not opposition, but 
competition for activism in the city.  He and I became friends, uh, and then later, the friendship 
experienced a meltdown, [laughing] as we, as we sort of went our separate ways in terms of 
activism.  Uh, John was a typical NAACP and a great person, but his, uh, uh, forte and his – 
probably the maximus of his activism was filing suits and writing up complaints and, uh, protests 
against what happened. 
The Reverend Joseph Lowery Interview, 6-6-11 
Page 3 of 26 
 
Uh, but, uh, Mobile was an interesting town.  It was racist but not the same toxic racism 
that you found in Birmingham and Montgomery.  So that, even during later years when the 
Movement became, uh, prominent and active, uh, you didn’t read as much about Mobile as you 
did about Montgomery and Birmingham, because Mobile was, uh, in many instances quietly 
effecting change, uh, and there had to be an occasional, uh, explosion of activism to keep them 
honest. 
But, uh, Mobile had some interesting leadership.  A guy named Joe Langan, who was a 
Roman Catholic, uh, was a city commissioner, and he was a man with a warm heart and did not 
have the cold and icy [5:00] stare of the heart toward the black community.  And so, in many 
instances, we were able to achieve change without the, uh, disruption of the community that we 
had to have later to achieve even more drastic change. 
But, uh, Mobile was, uh, sort of like a little New Orleans.  As a matter of fact, the people 
in Mobile claim that the Mardi Gras was initiated in Mobile, not New Orleans.  I never bothered 
to research that [laughing] to decide where I come down, but, uh, Mobile, uh – the Roman 
Catholic influence did not lend itself to activism in terms of, uh, of change, social change, so 
that, uh, resolutions and lawsuits and, and, uh, that sort of thing were the main focus of the Civil 
Rights Movement.  And as the years progressed, activism progressed, and we moved away from 
just resolutions and, uh, statements and so forth, uh, to activism, uh, to sit-ins and march-ins and 
other things. 
JM:  May I ask –? 
JL:  And – 
JM:  I’m sorry. 
The Reverend Joseph Lowery Interview, 6-6-11 
Page 4 of 26 
 
JL:  Oh, it, uh – when the Montgomery Improvement Association, when the boycott 
started, I was president of the Interdenominational Ministerial Alliance, and, uh, we carried the 
first thousand dollars, I think – [laughs] which was a lot of money at that time – from the 
churches in Mobile to the Montgomery Improvement Association.  And I spoke at a mass 
meeting that night, and when I announced we had a paper sack full of money, the crowd went 
wild, because that was the first outside support they had received for the boycott, and they were 
very happy about that. 
And, uh, then later, we initiated our own bus movement in Mobile, which, uh, went off 
much smoother than it did in Birmingham.  And there again, I credit Joe Langan, his leadership 
with the City Commission, for the attitude that, uh, existed.  We – the, uh, ministers decided that 
since I was president of the Ministerial Alliance, I ought to ride the Pritchett, Pritchett, Pritchett 
Route, which was perceived to be the, uh, the most dangerous, volatile route.  Uh, the KKK had, 
uh, considerable routes in Pritchett. 
And so, we chose one day to ride.  We’d had workshops.  We had people down from 
Fellowship of Reconciliation to lead workshops on how to conduct nonviolent demonstrations.  
And, uh, so we met that morning, and everybody cleansed themselves, purged themselves of 
weapons, and had prayer, and we took out on the bus route sitting in the front of the bus.  And 
Reverend S.M. McCree, who was pastor of Mount Zion Baptist Church in Mobile, was my 
partner, and we rode on the first [clears throat] seat that faced the front on the bus, [clears throat] 
going toward Pritchett.  I think it was Number Five. 
And, uh, not long before we got started, a fellow got on the bus with a sack in his hand, 
with, uh, obviously a bottle [laughs] in the sack, and he sat down on the little side seat right 
behind the driver.  And at first he didn’t notice us, but as he experienced a sobering ride to 
The Reverend Joseph Lowery Interview, 6-6-11 
Page 5 of 26 
 
Pritchett, uh, he recognized that here were two black people sitting on the front pew or seat.  And 
so, he told the, uh, bus driver to make us move.  And the bus driver said, “You just ride and leave 
the driving [laughs] to me.” 
And he said, “By God, if you don’t make a move, I’ll make a move.”  And so, he stood 
up.  And there was our first opportunity to put into practice the, [10:00] the nonviolent tactics 
that we had learned in the workshop.  And the bus driver, in the meantime, was pulling the bus 
over.  He was going to intervene, I think.  And, uh, I – Reverend McCree punched me with his 
arm, looked like he put his hand in his pocket.  I said, “Uh-oh.”  And anyway, the fellow kept 
coming. 
I said, “Sir, please be seated.”  I said, “It’s dangerous to stand up while the bus is moving.  
I know you don’t want to get hurt, and we don’t want to see you get hurt.  You mean us no harm; 
we mean you no harm.  Please sit down.”  And, uh, everybody held their breath, not knowing 
what the reaction would be.  And, believe it or not, he sat down, [laughs] and, uh, we were the 
most – two black preachers were probably the most surprised people on the bus.  And in two 
more stops, he got up and got off the bus, slammed the door.  He was very angry.  He said 
something back to the bus driver.  I don’t remember what he said. 
Then we went on, rode on to Pritchett, to the end of the line, and there were some black 
people on the front.  When we got off, uh, we mentioned to one of the ladies.  She said, “Y’all 
are segregating the buses?”  [Laughs] I said, “Yeah, we’re segregating the buses.”  I said, 
“Aren’t you tired of having to ride in the back?”  She said, “Yeah, I guess so.”  She said, “But 
I’ve been back there so long, I’m not sure how I feel right now.  But I’m glad y’all are doing it.”  
We said, “Thank you.” 
The Reverend Joseph Lowery Interview, 6-6-11 
Page 6 of 26 
 
And so, we caught another bus going back to town.  That was the end of the, uh, the 
experience that was worth sharing in Mobile.  But, uh, Mobile, uh, as I said, was racist, but the 
racism wasn’t as toxic. 
JM:  Let me take our, let me take our conversation toward Montgomery. 
JL:  All right. 
JM:  We’re just going to stop for just – 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB:  Okay. 
JM:  Okay, we’re back after a quick pause.  Reverend Lowery, let me, let me have you 
describe, if you would, those, um, very busy and tumultuous months through late ’55 through ’56 
and the boycott, and how that context would give rise to SCLC.  And, in part, originally, I think, 
because the Alabama state officials, of course, had come down so hard on the NAACP that there 
was a place now for a group of ministers, pastors, to begin organizing. 
JL:  Well, of course, the Montgomery Improvement Association was organized to handle 
the boycott.  The NAACP was outlawed in Alabama.  And Governor [John] Patterson, uh, saw to 
it that, uh – well, he demanded the roll, membership roll.  And, of course, the NAACP refused to 
give it, because that meant they were going to harass, uh, the members.  And so, they held the 
NAACP in contempt and eventually went to court.  But, uh, the people refused to give up the 
membership rolls, and the Montgomery Improvement Association was organized. 
Uh, Dr. King and Dr. Abernathy [Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Dr. Ralph Abernathy] 
were the leaders, and, uh, uh, Dr. King’s leadership was pivotal in the, in the effectiveness of the 
boycott.  And, uh, even when they bombed his house, he challenged the crowd to go home and 
not return an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth, and that we were on the right side and that, 
The Reverend Joseph Lowery Interview, 6-6-11 
Page 7 of 26 
 
uh, we’d win because we were on God’s side.  And, uh, that movement, of course, spread to 
other places, to Tallahassee, Baton Rouge, and other places.  And that led us to the experience 
that I mentioned earlier, our riding on the bus.  That was after the Montgomery people had, uh, 
had begun their initiative. 
And, uh, the conversation among leaders of the movement in Tallahassee, in Birmingham 
with [Reverend] Fred Shuttlesworth, Tallahassee with [Reverend] C.K. Steele, uh, in Nashville 
with [Reverend] Kelly Miller Smith, uh, in Baton Rouge with [Reverend] T.J. Jemison – uh, all 
of us came together to meet in Atlanta.  And we decided that we were going to organize a South-
wide movement to strengthen each other, support each other and to have a national impact.  
[15:00] And while we were meeting in, uh, in, uh, in Atlanta, uh, they bombed Ralph’s [Ralph 
Abernathy’s] home and church. 
And we adjourned the meeting and reconvened later in New Orleans.  And so, the official 
birthplace of SCLC was New Orleans, and, uh, only because we interrupted the meeting in, uh, 
Atlanta to, uh, so that Ralph could go home and see about his church and home and family.  And, 
uh, of course, great turmoil ensued in Montgomery and Birmingham, Fred Shuttlesworth leading 
in Birmingham and, uh, Martin [Luther King Jr.] and Ralph [Abernathy] in Montgomery. 
Uh, they had a big mass meeting one night in Montgomery, and we drove up.  And when 
we got there, the Klan had already seized the town, as it were, and we ended up not being able to 
get to the church.  Uh, the Klan was – we went to the hotel, the old Ben Moore Hotel [in 
Montgomery].  And, uh, while we were, uh, hiding, I guess, as it were, in the hotel, we were cut 
off from the church.  And, uh, Martin called the Attorney General, and they dispatched law 
enforcement to the church, and disaster was avoided. 
The Reverend Joseph Lowery Interview, 6-6-11 
Page 8 of 26 
 
But that was the beginning of SCLC.  We, uh, decided that we’d have a South-wide 
organization, that we could strengthen each other and, uh, spread the Movement across the 
nation. 
JM:  Sure. 
JL:  And Dr. King was elected president, and I was voted vice-president.  Well, I think I 
was elected secretary at first and later vice-president.  But, uh, that was the beginning of SCLC. 
JM:  Let me ask you a couple more questions about those – that period when SCLC was 
coming into being.  Um, did you have much contact with Bayard Rustin? 
JL:  Yeah, Bayard came down to Montgomery. 
JM:  Yeah. 
JL:  Uh, several times, and met with us, uh, in pulling together the, uh, written theses that 
formed the basis for SCLC, and, uh, he was very helpful in that and, uh, he was a brilliant man.  
And, uh, uh, we welcomed his assistance, uh, and he didn’t charge us anything, which was good, 
because we didn’t have anything – [laughs] so, no charge, no debt.  But, uh, Bayard Rustin, yes, 
he came down several times and worked with us for a long time.  Uh, later, there developed 
some differences in the Movement, and, uh – but Bayard was a very influential figure in pulling 
together the paperwork, particularly, in the early days of SCLC. 
JM:  Let me ask, if you would, just reflect a little bit on young Reverend Doctor King’s 
emergence through those several years. 
JL:  Well, Dr. King, of course, emerged in Montgomery, uh, leading that boycott.  It was 
the first time that a city with fifty thousand black people had successfully and effectively, uh, 
implemented a boycott.  Uh, [pause] their houses were bombed, uh, threats came, but Dr. King 
stuck to the nonviolent motif and, and, and led the people to accept nonviolence.  Many of them 
The Reverend Joseph Lowery Interview, 6-6-11 
Page 9 of 26 
 
accepted nonviolence because they had confidence in the leadership, not because they were 
convinced that nonviolence was necessarily the best way.  Because I remember in Mobile, some 
of the ministers that worked with me used to tell me pointblank, “I’m not going on this march 
with you, because I’m not sure I can be nonviolent.”  [20:00] I said, “Well, don’t go.  If you 
can’t be nonviolent, don’t go, because you’ll bring harm to the Movement if you resort to 
violence.  We have to – we have to take clean hands.” 
And, uh, of course, Martin’s leadership was recognized.  Uh, the Montgomery Boycott 
for over a year was effective, the first time in our history we’ve been able to sustain that kind of 
boycott for that long a period of time.  So, he was heralded, uh, across the nation and then across 
the world, as a nonviolent leader.  And, of course, his eloquence as a speaker, his personality as a 
minister and a pastor, was extremely effective, and, uh, he became the natural leader.  And when 
we organized SCLC, it was natural that he was the first person who, who came to mind as, uh, as 
the president and went on to, uh, to give the kind of leadership that justified our confidence in 
him. 
JM:  In those early first few years, late ’50s, for SCLC, much of the day-to-day work 
through the late ’50s was carried by Ms. Ella Baker, and I wonder if you could reflect, share 
some recollections – 
JL:  Ella was, I guess, the first real executive director, fulltime executive director that we 
had.  We had a fellow named M.E. Tilley, who came out of Baltimore, who had done an 
effective voter registration drive.  But he didn’t last long and didn’t – and then, Ella Baker 
became the fulltime executive director.  And, uh, I think history may have overlooked – she was 
the first woman to give that kind of executive leadership to the Civil Rights Movement and she 
was very effective. 
The Reverend Joseph Lowery Interview, 6-6-11 
Page 10 of 26 
 
She, uh, didn’t get along very well with the preachers.  Uh, I’m trying to remember what 
was at the bottom of that.  I don’t remember.  But, uh, she was a strong woman.  And there may 
have been one or two, maybe, maybe, preachers who had some problems with strong women, 
like some of you fellows may still, in this time, have problems with strong women.  But, uh, she 
did a good job.  She was effective.  And out of her leadership and inspiration, students, uh, were 
inspired and organized SNCC, uh, and they became this young wing of the nonviolent Civil 
Rights Movement. 
JM:  Let me ask, um, and we’re going to turn to that history from 1960 forward in just a 
minute, but I want to ask one last question about – two questions maybe – about this critical 
period.  One is: In your own thinking, as it evolved through the ’50s, what was your perspective 
on – you’ve already touched on this, but can you say a little bit more about the theory of 
nonviolence, and how it connected to your Christianity and to your both tactical and theological 
perspectives about the Movement? 
JL:  Well, it – you’re right.  It had a practical aspect and it had a theological aspect.  Uh, 
from the practical perspective, uh, we looked at our Army and we weren’t very – there weren’t 
very many of us, we didn’t have any weapons, [laughing] we didn’t have any uniforms.  And we 
looked at the National Guard and the state troopers and the deputy sheriffs and police in cities, 
and we were outmanned.  So, from a very practical perspective, uh, we could not have won a 
violent confrontation.  It would have been, uh, catastrophic for us. 
And, uh, it’s also interesting that the white organizations, the Ku Klux Klan and others, 
they didn’t know how to deal with nonviolence.  Uh, they were frustrated, because the more 
they, uh, were violent against nonviolent people, the more they were criticized and the more the 
world saw them for what they were and began to sympathize and support.  Even those who may 
The Reverend Joseph Lowery Interview, 6-6-11 
Page 11 of 26 
 
not, at first, uh, have supported [25:00] sit-ins and direct action were disgusted with the violence, 
and it turned the tide. 
The other side, the theological side, was [short unintelligible phrase] because if you 
notice, the leadership in the Movement was almost always preachers and in the churches.  And 
that was – there were two reasons for that.  One was the preacher was the most independent 
leader in the community.  He was accountable to the congregation, not to the Chamber of 
Commerce.  And, uh, so therefore, he could withstand, uh, oppression from the white 
community, economic oppression or otherwise, better that anybody else.  And secondly, uh, the 
example of Jesus, the teachings, particularly in the New Testament, led, uh, led us to 
nonviolence.  Uh, Jesus on the cross, uh, asked his Father to forgive those who had nailed him to 
the cross. 
And that spirit of nonviolence and non-retaliation and non-hatred of those who had hated 
you, uh, was a thing that we went through, so that, theologically, we were committed to love, 
and, and “Love your enemy,” as the New Testament says, and, “Bless those who persecute you.”  
And we discovered that that was – it was not only effective, uh, outwardly, but it was effective 
inwardly for us.  We became new creatures, uh, because we pursued that theology.  And we 
actually avoided hating. 
I never will forget the two or three times I met with George Wallace that he, he, uh, 
remarked – he was astounded by the fact that our spirit was, uh, was nonviolent and reflected 
love, or if you couldn’t quite make love, we did not reflect hatred, uh, in, uh, our attitude toward 
even those who persecuted us.  And, uh, that was a strange weapon for white ruffians.  [Laughs] 
And even the Citizens Council, who were the respectable, you know, group among the two, but 
they couldn’t understand it and, uh, they tried to call it cowardice.  But you couldn’t call cowards 
The Reverend Joseph Lowery Interview, 6-6-11 
Page 12 of 26 
 
people who would, who would, uh, walk into the face of fire and into the face of the beast, uh, 
unarmed and, uh, singing, “Glory, glory, Hallelujah.”  And that was the power of the Movement, 
and it touched people’s hearts everywhere. 
I remember a white lady saying to me once in Nashville that she was opposed to the 
direct action movement.  She thought it was stirring up trouble.  But once she watched how we 
conducted ourselves and how, uh, our oppressors conducted themselves, she said, “There’s no 
comparison.  The Spirit of the Lord is upon you, and I’m opposed to what they’re doing.”  And it 
was a long – she’d come a long, long way, because at first she was opposed to – she wanted 
everything to be settled through the law. 
But, you know, we never did, we never did get a clear judicial interpretation of the sit-ins.  
Uh, I don’t think, even to this day, we have a clear-cut opinion from the Supreme Court about 
sit-ins.  But, of course, they outlawed segregation in public accommodations – the Congress did 
– and so forth, so it became a moot point.  But, uh, the power of the Movement, both in terms of 
touching those who opposed or oppressed us, and in terms of our own spiritual behavior and our 
spiritual strengthening, it was a great experience for us. 
JM:  Yeah.  Let me also ask you – in ’59 – oops, John’s going to switch tracks.  [30:00] 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB:  Okay. 
JM:  We’re back on after a quick break.  Reverend Lowery, let me ask.  Obviously in – 
through the late ’50s, um, you and others were targeted in a libel campaign meant to obviously 
harass and knock you back a notch, and it did have its effect.  I mean, ultimately, the Supreme 
Court would reach its decision, but that was years down the line.  Can you talk a little bit about 
the personal ramifications of, say, the property seizures and others in ’59 for you? 
The Reverend Joseph Lowery Interview, 6-6-11 
Page 13 of 26 
 
JL:  Well, you might talk to my children, who, uh – some of them can remember when 
the, uh, officers came and took our car.  When they got the judgment, uh, all they could find was 
my automobile.  I was living in the church parsonage, so they couldn’t attach my house.  And, 
uh, so that was the only thing that was clearly in my name was, uh, was, uh, the automobile.  
Now, I can say it now, but I lived in Mobile, but my home was in Huntsville.  And I had 
inherited – my sister and I – some property from my father in Huntsville.  And so, we told our 
attorney, “For God’s sake, don’t, don’t mention Huntsville, because we don’t want them to, to be 
awakened to the possibility that they might take our property in Huntsville,” as they did [Ralph] 
Abernathy.  They took farmland from Abernathy, uh, in Merengo County [Alabama].  So, the 
lawyers agreed they’d not mention Huntsville. 
So, when I got on the stand in Montgomery, they first asked me, uh, “Where do you 
live?”  I said, “306 North Warren [Street] in Mobile.”  “And where were you born, Reverend 
Lowery?”  And I almost, uh, fainted, because we had already agreed, but the lawyer forgot.  He 
was following his routine questioning.  And I guess my answer should have been, “Huntsville,” 
but the Lord spoke to me, and my answer was, “Madison,” because Huntsville was in Madison 
County.  And there was a little town in Madison County named Madison, but I didn’t say – I just 
said, “Madison.”  And so, they never discovered the property that we had, which they would 
have seized, as they did Abernathy in Merengo County, because they found out about his land. 
But, uh, that was an interesting suit, uh, when it was argued before the Supreme Court.  
Uh, one of the justices was Jewish, and, uh, the, uh, little lawyer, Nachman [M. Roland Nachman 
Jr.], who was representing the city of Montgomery, uh, persecuting us.  Uh, and the New York 
Times was sued, along with the four of us, Abernathy, Shuttlesworth, [Solomon] Seay, and 
myself.  Uh, the New York Times would not let us be covered under their bond – they made what 
The Reverend Joseph Lowery Interview, 6-6-11 
Page 14 of 26 
 
they called a supercilious bond – and [clears throat] I’m a little reluctant to buy the New York 
Times today.  [Laughs] I usually read somebody else’s.  But they would not let us be protected 
under their bond.  And their reason was that, if they did, it would give them some stake in 
Alabama citizenship where they could be subject to persecution by the Alabama authorities if 
they had any reason to claim Alabama – they claimed they didn’t belong to Alabama, and the 
Alabama authorities had no power to attach them.  But, uh, it didn’t help us any – they took our 
property.  And, uh, the, uh – of course, the Supreme Court later reversed the lower courts. 
And in our argument before the Supreme Court, I was about to say, this lawyer named 
Nachman, uh, was asked by the Justice, said, “You, you, you demanded that, uh, the defendants 
produce their property and you kept –” uh, Sammy Davis had just married – I think her name 
was May Britt – a blue-eyed blonde, and, uh, [35:00] the white folks in Alabama were very 
displeased with that.  And Sammy Davis was on the list of citizens that sponsored the ad that 
gave them the right to sue in the first place. 
And when Nachman was making his summary to the jury, he said, “You ministers were 
sitting there with an air of injured innocence.  You were proud to be on the stand with, uh, 
Reinhold Niebuhr and Sammy Davis Jr. and with Harry Belafonte and Sammy Davis Jr.”  They 
called Sammy Davis’s name every other name because that reminded the jurors that Sammy 
Davis had just married a blue-eyed blonde, and that was very, very unpleasant for the Alabama 
jurors.  And so, they didn’t stay out very long.  They went out and came back almost 
immediately and found us guilty and, uh, took our, took our property.  But the Supreme Court 
later, of course, uh, vindicated us, overruled the lower court. 
And, uh, when they sold Abernathy’s car and Shuttlesworth’s car, and Seay, they all got 
new cars.  But my members were more astute.  [Laughs] They’re Methodist boys!  They went 
The Reverend Joseph Lowery Interview, 6-6-11 
Page 15 of 26 
 
down to – when they auctioned my car off in Mobile, my members went down and bid.  I think 
they bought it for eight or nine hundred dollars.  And then, they brought it and gave it to my 
wife.  The fellow who did the bidding was a fellow named DeWitt, R.B. DeWitt, who was 
secretary of the YMCA, which was right across the street from our parsonage.  And, uh, he 
bought it and brought it back and drove it in the yard and gave my wife the key.  And she gave 
him a dollar.  And, of course, the community raised the eight or nine hundred dollars and gave it 
back to DeWitt that he paid for the car.  But I’m the only one that didn’t get a new car!  
[Laughter] Because those, those smart astute Methodists, uh, went down and bid for the same car 
and saved money.  But the Baptists let them take the car, and they bought Abernathy and 
Shuttlesworth and Seay new cars.  But I drove my same old car.  But that was a – that’s a historic 
case in libel. 
JM:  Let’s pause for just a moment. 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB:  [Clears throat] When the Supreme Court said that – [clears throat] reversed the – 
what happened with the property?  Did you get the property back? 
JL:  Yeah, they never took it.  He got – everything – the Supreme Court returned 
everything.  They had to turn back everything.  They, uh, they turned back, uh, the money we got 
– the money that they got for the sale of the car.  They had to give it back to us, and we gave it 
back to the organization, which had furnished the money in the first place to reimburse the man 
who spent it. 
JM:  Let’s pause just one quick sec. 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB:  We’re good. 
The Reverend Joseph Lowery Interview, 6-6-11 
Page 16 of 26 
 
JM:  Reverend Lowery, you mentioned a few moments ago that, uh, obviously, when the 
students get involved in 1960 and the dam sort of breaks with the direct action sit-in movement, 
um, the tenor of the Movement shifts pretty quickly forward.  And, uh, I’m really interested in 
your perspective on that period between early 1960, the Greensboro sit-ins, say, and that several 
years through the early sit-in phase; the Freedom Rides of ’61; Albany, southwest Georgia, ’62; 
and then the eve of Birmingham in ’63, when SCLC will really now take a first step that will 
really shift SCLC onto the national stage in a very, very dramatic way. 
JL:  Well, the Movement was, uh, evolutionary, although it seemed revolutionary at the 
time.  But, uh, uh, things changed considerably, and, uh, it became a worldwide movement.  
And, uh, it not only dealt with voter registration and public transportation, as it did in the 
beginning with buses, but it had to do with segregation as a whole.  And public accommodations 
were significant.  The, uh, court did rule clearly on public accommodations.  And in ’64, the, uh, 
the, uh, Courts made it very clear that segregation in public accommodation was 
unconstitutional, and, uh, that was a tremendous move. 
And I remember I was in Nashville at the time.  [40:00] It may have been ’63 or the first 
of ’64, I’ve forgotten which, and we were demonstrating at various restaurants.  And we were 
demonstrating, and Morrison’s [Cafeteria] was one of them.  And Morrison’s, which is out of 
business now – I think they were bought out by Piccadilly [Cafeteria].  Where do you live? 
JM:  North Carolina. 
JL:  All right, there’s Piccadilly in – 
JM:  We had, uh – 
JL:  Well, there were Morrison’s in North Carolina. 
JM:  Yeah. 
The Reverend Joseph Lowery Interview, 6-6-11 
Page 17 of 26 
 
JL:  But anyway, uh, uh, they, uh – the fellow who owned Morrison’s, I’ve forgotten – I 
think they were based in Mobile.  And I was living in Nashville.  I went to the governor of 
Tennessee and asked him to ask the president of Morrison’s to desegregate, uh, and we could 
stop the demonstrations.  And he called the head of Morrison’s, and I was sitting in his office.  
And he told – the head of Morrison’s said, “I will never – over my dead body!”  And the Civil 
Rights Act took effect, I think, in June – 
JM:  July. 
JL:  Of ’64, and Morrison’s was desegregated in July, and the president died a month 
later.  So, he was true to his word.  He said it would be over his dead body [laughs] that blacks 
would eat in Morrison’s.  He went on and died.  [Laughter] I don’t think he planned it that way, 
but that’s the way it happened. 
But by that time the, the, uh, the issue was universally recognized as a new era.  And it 
was – I think the new era began in Montgomery with the boycott.  The Montgomery Boycott was 
the first, uh, boycott of an entire community that worked, uh, and that was what I call the 
beginning of the era of self-determination.  It didn’t matter what the courts said or what the 
legislature said, we were through with the back of the bus.  And blacks took responsibility for 
their fate in their own hands, uh, and decided we weren’t going to ride the bus as long as they 
were segregated.  So, I think that was the era of self-determination. 
And later, the sit-ins was another expression of self-determination, where we decided we 
weren’t going to permit them to sell us toothpaste and safety pins on one counter, and we had to 
go to a black counter to eat lunch at Woolworth’s.  And, uh, I got an award from the people in, 
uh, in Greensboro, North Carolina, uh, some years ago, uh, people who were responsible for the 
sit-ins in, in North Carolina, which was another expression of self-determination, that, “You can 
The Reverend Joseph Lowery Interview, 6-6-11 
Page 18 of 26 
 
say what you want in the courts.  We’re not eating at the black lunch counter.”  And so, 
eventually, they disappeared. 
JM:  Just a last couple of questions. 
JL:  Okay. 
JM:  Because you’re being very generous with your time, and I want to not keep you too 
long. 
JL:  All right.  I like you.  I like the rate you pay.  [Laughter] 
JM:  Okay.  Um, let me ask about, uh – when you think about the spring of ’65 and, uh, 
Selma, uh, I’d like for you to describe your, you know, what comes to your mind when you think 
about that, that, all of Selma and all of that march.  And, in particular, I’m very interested in how 
you yourself confronted and dealt with all of the fear associated with facing that kind of 
situation.  It wasn’t new to you by then, but nonetheless it was acute. 
JL:  Well, it’s interesting, uh, as I said to you earlier, that the spirit of nonviolence not 
only had an impact on the oppressors, but it had a spiritual impact on us, and we became new 
creatures.  We did not hate Bull Connor.  We did not hate, uh, the man who killed Dr. King, 
James Earl Ray.  We would never – we wanted them not to – to spare his life.  We wanted them 
not to execute him.  Uh, uh, it had a spiritual impact on us. 
And, uh, the Selma Movement, uh, was an interesting movement, in that it was after the, 
uh, Birmingham Movement that we went to the [50:00] A.G. Gaston Motel in Birmingham and, 
uh, held a retreat and decided that we were going to Selma to conduct a campaign to get the vote.  
Because we went to Mr. Johnson [President Lyndon B. Johnson] and said, “We can’t vote!”  He 
said, “Well, we’ve got to slow down, fellows.”  Said, “We just passed the Public 
Accommodations Act.”  Said, “We can’t have another Civil Rights Act this quickly.  Y’all take it 
The Reverend Joseph Lowery Interview, 6-6-11 
Page 19 of 26 
 
easy.”  So, we left and went to Birmingham, met in A.G. Gaston Motel and planned the Selma 
Movement. 
Picked Selma because, I think – SNCC may have been already there, but they had been 
abused and persecuted terribly.  They were even forbidden to hold meetings.  And, uh, also the 
Black Belt of Alabama was a natural place because it was so black.  They said it was black 
because of the dirt, but I think they called it black because so many black folks – we were the 
majority of the population.  And Dallas County [Alabama], where Selma was located, uh, was 
majority black and didn’t have but a handful of black registered voters in 1964 and ’65.  And so, 
the Movement was begun in Selma. 
And, uh, the march from Selma to Montgomery, which was the climax of that Movement, 
began after Jimmie Lee Jackson was killed, uh, who was killed in Marion, Alabama.  And, uh, 
my wife has a project under SCLC Women, which she heads.  She, uh, has put statues and 
memorials of people like James Reeb and Jimmie Lee Jackson and others who died.  Jimmie Lee 
Jackson was the first death in the [Selma] Movement.  And we, we, we determined – we were 
determined to get the right to vote.  And after we had Jimmie Lee Jackson’s funeral, we were 
marching to his grave, that’s when somebody suggested we ought to march to Montgomery, to 
the state capital, to demand the right to vote.  And we did. 
And, uh, that Bloody Sunday, uh, they didn’t get any further than the bridge.  But that 
next few days we did go on across that bridge.  And then, in the next few days, we let out for 
Montgomery and reached Montgomery.  And you know the rest – history.  Uh, after the mass 
meeting in Montgomery that day, when Martin spoke – “How long?  Not long –” and he named a 
committee to take the demands of the march to Governor Wallace and he named me chairman of 
the committee. 
The Reverend Joseph Lowery Interview, 6-6-11 
Page 20 of 26 
 
And Mr. Wallace had sent word he wasn’t going to meet with anybody who wasn’t from 
Alabama.  And so, I was pastoring at Birmingham, so he named me, E.G. Gaston, L.H. Foster, 
president of Tuskegee, several outstanding citizens of Alabama, to meet with Governor Wallace 
to discuss the demands of the march.  And, uh, so I had the demands at the close of the mass 
meeting and I went to the general who headed the National Guard and said, “I want to take these 
demands up to the capitol.”  So, he got on the telephone.  I assume he was talking with the 
Governor.  And finally, he said, “Go ahead.  You can go.” 
But when we got to the steps of the capitol, the troopers, what I call the “Blue Sea” – they 
had on these blue uniforms – uh, they lined the steps of the capitol and would not let us through.  
And, uh, uh, I know how – who was that – Moses felt when he faced the Blue Sea.  [Laughs] He 
– it was the Red Sea he faced, but I faced the Blue Sea.  We couldn’t get through.  So, I looked 
back at the general and I said, you know, pointed to the troopers, and I said, “I thought you said 
we could go.”  And he yelled out some military command.  I don’t know what he said – Hup!  
Hup!  And the National Guard came from around the corner, and they stood in front of the 
troopers.  And they put their bayonets across their shoulders, and the Blue Sea parted [laughs], 
just like the Red Sea did.  They parted, and we walked through [50:00] and went up to the 
Governor’s office. 
When we got to the door of the capitol, the Governor sent his secretary to say he would 
take the petition.  I said, “No, no.  We walked fifty miles.  We’re not about to give it to a 
secretary.”  So, I refused to give it to him.  And about four or five days later, the Governor called 
and said he would meet with certain members of the committee, and he picked out some.  I was 
not one of the – [laughs] the chairman was not one that he picked to meet with.  But I polled the 
committee, and the committee voted unanimously: It was all or nothing at all. 
The Reverend Joseph Lowery Interview, 6-6-11 
Page 21 of 26 
 
So, the next day, he called and said he would meet with us.  So, he did.  He met with us 
for about ninety minutes.  And while we were meeting, the Governor had a little piece of paper, 
he tore up a little piece of paper, and by the time we finished, we had a big mountain of little 
scraps of paper he had torn up while we were meeting.  And, uh, I told him that God was going 
to hold him accountable for how he stood in the way of people making progress and coming 
together as children of God.  But, uh, that – and, of course, pretty soon we had the Voting Rights 
Act of ’65, which is probably the most significant piece of legislation in our lifetime, because it 
changed the whole voting pattern of the nation.  And that fellow we have in the White House 
today would not be there had it not been for the Voting Rights Act of 1965. 
JM:  That’s my last question [clears throat], um, is to have you reflect a little bit on – of 
course, you gave the, uh, benediction in D.C.  I was there that day.  I heard you live in person 
and was very pleased for that opportunity.  Um, just your reflections on, on, on, uh, how that 
long arc from, from Mobile and Birmingham and Montgomery all the way to the Mall in 
Washington – 
JL:  Washington. 
JM:  Yeah. 
JL:  Well, you know, we were talking the other day.  And I noticed for the first time 
during the Freedom Riders film I heard Bobby Kennedy say that there’s going to be a black 
President one day.  Now, somebody said he said “forty years.”  I didn’t hear the “forty years,” 
but I did hear him say there’d be a black President.  We all felt one day that we’d have a black 
President, but none of us thought we’d live to see it.  It just – the way things were at that time, 
we just couldn’t foresee a black President. 
The Reverend Joseph Lowery Interview, 6-6-11 
Page 22 of 26 
 
And here, in 19--, uh, in 19--, what year was that we had the –?  Anyway, when Barack 
Obama decided to run, something happened to me spiritually, and I became one of his early 
supporters.  When hardly any other civil rights leaders were supporting him, I was out there 
supporting him.  And I just felt like God was moving in history, and the time had come.  And I 
wasn’t sure he could be elected, but I thought the time had come for him to run. 
Unlike Jesse’s campaign [Jesse Jackson’s presidential campaign], which was purely 
symbolic – none of us ever, you know, nobody ever thought Jesse was going to win.  But it was a 
symbolic run, and it was a good thing.  But Barack Obama’s campaign took on a different hue, 
and it appeared he might have a chance to win.  And so, I went all over the country and went to 
Selma in March of – now, what year was that? 
JM:  2007, I think – Brown’s Chapel [Brown Chapel A.M.E. Church in Selma]? 
JL:  Yeah, Brown Chapel.  It was 2007.  And, uh, I was supposed to speak at First Baptist 
Church.  I had spoken at Brown Chapel the year before.  And Barack Obama was scheduled to 
speak at Brown Chapel.  When I got to First Baptist, I heard Obama was supposed to speak at 
Brown Chapel.  I got a headache.  And I – [laughs] I said, “I can’t.  I’m going to send you to 
somebody.”  So, we sent somebody, and I went to Brown Chapel [laughs] to hear Barack 
Obama.  And, uh, he made an interesting speech. 
Uh, I said in my remarks – they called on me to make remarks before he spoke.  [55:00] I 
hadn’t counted on that.  But I said that, uh – I talked about “good crazy.”  There’s “good crazy” 
and “bad crazy.”  The YouTube picked it up, and people have seen it all over the country.  But I 
said that I was going over to Brown Chapel to meet with the crazy people who talked about a 
black President.  And I said, “People are saying you’re crazy,” said, “but there’s good crazy and 
The Reverend Joseph Lowery Interview, 6-6-11 
Page 23 of 26 
 
there’s bad crazy.  And, uh, good crazy, uh, you know, is on the right side and the right side of 
history.” 
And he spoke that day and he said that he represented the Joshua generation.  He looked 
back at me and John Lewis.  He said, “You guys represent the Moses generation.”  I thought that 
was a sneaky way to call us old, you know, [laughs] but he was right.  And he said he 
represented the Joshua generation, and something happened in me, that this guy’s inspired, and I 
think God is moving.  And, uh, I decided at that time that I would support him and I marched 
across the bridge with him that day, my wife and I together. 
And, uh, and then, later he came to Atlanta and spoke on the Georgia Tech campus, and 
he asked me to come out and pray that day.  And, uh, maybe that’s where he got the idea that I 
might want to pray at the Inauguration.  But that was at Georgia Tech, and about twenty or 
twenty-five thousand students and people out there.  And I went all over the country. 
He, uh, he, uh, he asked me, called me once and asked me if I’d fly to Jackson, 
Mississippi, to speak for him.  He had – uh, couldn’t keep it.  He and Hillary were supposed to 
speak.  And this daughter here, Cheryl [Lowery-Osborne], uh, said she was going with me.  They 
were going to send a plane.  And I don’t think she knew they were going to send a little small 
plane, because I didn’t know.  [Laughs] I’m not sure I would have agreed to go if I had known 
there were sending such a small plane.  But anyway, he sent this little small plane, and we flew 
over there, and I spoke that night.  [Someone coughs] And I went all over the country, speaking 
for him, North Carolina, Virginia, Alabama, Georgia, Iowa. 
Matter of fact, after Georgia Tech, I went to Iowa.  I wanted to see if the white folks were 
serious, whether they said they would support him.  I wasn’t sure.  I knew he couldn’t win 
without getting white support.  And I went up there.  It was getting chilly, and I saw people 
The Reverend Joseph Lowery Interview, 6-6-11 
Page 24 of 26 
 
standing on the corner with red noses and red ears and little signs that said, “Yes, we can.”  And 
I said, “God is in this plan.”  And I went all over the country speaking for him, and he won. 
And, uh, most of my friends, uh, Andy Young and John Lewis, they supported Hillary.  
They couldn’t see it.  But I told them it wasn’t because – [laughs] they weren’t living close 
enough to the Lord.  But, uh, we felt it was a God-inspired plan.  And surely enough, he was 
elected. 
And, uh, when he called me, he called me on my cell phone.  And I wasn’t there, and he 
left a message.  And when I got the message, he asked me to call him.  And I called him back 
and I said, “I want to speak to the fellow who’s going to be the forty-fourth President of the 
United States.”  And he said, “That would be me, Brother Lowery.”  And I said, “You called?”  
And he said, “Yes, I called you.  I want to ask you if you would give the benediction or the 
invocation at the Inauguration.”  I said, “Well, let me check my – let me check my calendar.”  
[Laughs] And quickly, I said, “I’ve checked it and I’m free that day.  I’ll be glad to do it, glad to 
do it.”  And he said, “Well, we’ll call you.” 
Well, he called me – well, in fact, it appeared in the paper before he called that I was to 
do the benediction.  And some of my friends called and said, “Oh, we’re going to protest.  We 
want you to do the invocation.”  I said, “No, no, no!  I’ll take the benediction and I’ll have the 
last word at the Inauguration with the benediction.” 
And, of course, it was a good – people told me in Washington, they said when you stand 
on the steps of the White House [nb: he intended Capitol], you’ll be able to see the Washington 
Monument and the Lincoln Memorial from that, looking down that Mall.  And I looked forward 
to it.  And I could see a little of it, [1:00:00] but there was a slight haze that day, and these old 
eyes were – they were about eighty-seven or eighty-eight years old at the time and they failed 
The Reverend Joseph Lowery Interview, 6-6-11 
Page 25 of 26 
 
me.  I couldn’t see both the Monument and the Lincoln Memorial.  But I didn’t have to see it, 
because I heard [the word heard echoes in sanctuary] that day, from the steps of the Lincoln 
Memorial, I heard the voice of Martin Luther King forty-some years earlier, uh, summoning the 
nation to come up out of the lowland of race and color to the higher ground of content of 
character. 
And here I was witnessing and participating in the nation’s response to that summons in 
the election of Barack Obama.  And I think it was God’s plan and God’s intent, and, uh, I think 
the will of God was fulfilled.  And America – I never liked the “Star Spangled Banner.”  I 
always thought it was a poor choice for – “bombs bursting in air” and so forth.  But that day, 
when they played it after I gave the benediction, it sounded better than it had ever sounded 
before.  And nothing had changed, but the – the “Star Spangled Banner” was the same, but the 
country had changed.  And I was overwhelmed and I cried.  I hate to say I did, but I did, a grown 
man.  As cold as it was, it’s a wonder my tears weren’t icicles.  It was cold that day.  But the 
“Star Spangled Banner” sounded good that day as it played when they inaugurated the forty-
fourth President of the United States. 
JM:  Reverend Lowery, we’re just so grateful for this chance.  Thank you so much for 
coming over to the church today and sitting down with us. 
JL:  You may send contributions to Post Office Box – what’s the Institute’s post office 
box? 
Cheryl Lowery-Osborne:  [inaudible] 
JL:  10897 – what is it?  What is it, Cheryl? 
CL:  92801. 
JL:  Huh? 
The Reverend Joseph Lowery Interview, 6-6-11 
Page 26 of 26 
 
CL:  92801. 
JL:  Yeah, Post Office Box 92801, Joseph Lowery Institute!  We’ll be glad to receive a 
[laughs] contribution from the Smithsonian and from all of its affluent staff and representatives 
who fly around the country with cameras, taking statements. 
JM:  I think those would be funds well spent.  Thank you, Reverend Lowery.  It’s a real 
pleasure. 
JL:  I’m glad to have been here.  I’m sorry I was late. 
JM:  No, thank you so much. 
JL:  It slipped – I don’t know what it – it slipped me. 
JM:  Thank you so much. 
JL:  It slipped me.  [To Cheryl] You going – you all are still here?  I won’t have to call 
your mother. 
CL:  Yeah, come on.  We’ll take you. 
JL:  You can take me back, okay.  They brought me over. 
[Recording ends at 1:02:49] 
 
END OF INTERVIEW