1 
 
Transcript of Interview with Nick Kimberlain, July 27, 2020 
By Ethan Sharp 
 
Ethan (00:00:00): 
Okay. This is Ethan Sharp. I'm here with Nick Kimberlain, and today is July 27th, 2020. We're here at Voices 
of Hope and to get started, Nick, I'm wondering if you could tell us a little bit about yourself, where you 
were born, where you grew up? 
Nick (00:00:25): 
Sure. I was born in Charleston, West Virginia, across the lines, West Virginia. We lived there when my Dad 
was attending college until about, I want to say, one, maybe one and a half. And then we moved back to 
my mother and dad's hometown, which is Pikeville, Kentucky, Southeastern Kentucky, you know, right 
there on Virginia-West Virginia borders. I grew up, you know, running through the mountains barefoot, 
like any good boy from Eastern Kentucky, you know, learning how to whittle, learning how to spit, learning 
how to dig and hoe in the garden, riding dirt bikes, and just having a great time. You know, I had a great 
childhood--got, got a good education along the way. way too. In high school, had a great time, played 
sports, had lots of friends, prom king. 
Ethan (00:01:23): 
So you went to high school there? 
Nick (00:01:27): 
I did. Yeah, Pikeville. It's a small school, Pikeville high school. So, it was known as the independent school. 
So I guess you had to pay the tuition to go there, but it was, it was a great experience for me all, all around. 
Childhood was a great experience. 
Nick (00:01:44): 
Like I said, I, I lived there till I was about 19, and I moved to the big city of Richmond, Kentucky, and went 
to EKU. I didn't finish there. I moved back and forth, you know, between Richmond, Lexington and Pikeville 
for a few years. And as, I guess I got, around that time, you know, I started to use drugs and use alcohol 
quite a bit, which that led into, you know, trying other drugs, cocaine, later methamphetamine, which my, 
my, my huge downfall though, growing up, a lot of people they know Southeastern Kentucky as a place 
where I guess they, it was the, I want to say the area of experimentation for prescription opioids, you 
know, in the nineties and into the mid two thousands. I had a lot of my friend's dads were doctors. You 
know, a lot of them lost their license. I've had countless, countless friends and family die of opioid 
overdoses and diseases related to opiates and opioids. And that was something that I hated my entire life. 
I watched it destroy my cousin's life, and I watched it destroy other people in my family that were coal 
miners. You know, my uncle was, was basically paralyzed from the coal mines, you know, because he hurt 
his back so bad. For years and years, I watched him dwindle and get prescribed more and more opiate 
medication until finally he overdosed on fentanyl just this past year in October. 
Ethan (00:03:25): 
Wow, just recently. 
2 
 
Nick (00:03:27): 
Yeah, he was 49 years old. Left behind three grandkids, two sons, a slew of family. I had watched his 
downfall. Yeah. When I was little, you know, I guess he got caught in what they call rock fall, but I guess it 
was the collapse of a ceiling. Luckily, he didn't get killed. I think someone else, a couple other guys maybe 
even got killed. I know a lot of guys got really hurt at the same time, and it basically crushed some 
vertebrae in his back. And, you know that happened when he was about 36 and the past, well, maybe 32, 
33, I don't know. He, he kept working and working until he basically just couldn't walk anymore. But 
anyways, yeah. So I watched that devastate a community that I love and grew up in, you know. It touched 
everyone around me. 
Nick (00:04:25): 
And so later on in life, I guess, being away from Pikeville. And although I did try opioids for the first time 
with some friends of mine that were from Pikeville, but we were up here in Lexington. And I guess I just 
got curious, you know, I got curious, and I tried them. And like a lot of people's story, just like that, the 
next thing I know, you know, desperately addicted to Oxycontin and onto oxymorphone, which is Opana. 
And with that, you know, I kept snorting them and eating them for a while, internasally, I guess. And then 
I started to IV them, shoot them up, they say. And that went on into, you know, there in 2012, I guess, 
they really cracked down on prescription opioids. And then all of a sudden, you know, the next huge thing 
that came through was heroin and into fentanyl. 
Nick (00:05:32): 
I've been there to see, luckily, you know, it hasn't killed me. I've been there to see kind of the ups and 
downs of the opiate world, you know, being from where I'm from and to the extent that I've used them. 
And in that, when I was about 25, 26, maybe I tried methamphetamine for the first time. And along with 
alcohol, methamphetamine and heroin, those are my three big drugs of choice, I guess you'd say. I nearly 
drank myself to death. I was drinking about a fifth to a liter of bourbon every single day for years. And I'd 
say that I began to drink daily when I was about 16. I had my first drink when I was 11, actually. And where 
I'm from too, you know, moonshine is a big thing. A lot of my family, they make the stuff. We're not all 
barefoot and toothless, just to let everyone know, but you know, those sorts of things are traditions, you 
know, where I come from it and it's looked upon, you know, as a normal thing. Actually, my dad is a very 
successful businessman, very successful in the job that he is at. And he also has a small business that he's 
owner of for about 30 years in Southeast Kentucky. So that aside, he's the one that always was there to 
tell me, "You better stop. You better stop this, Nick. You've seen what it's done to everyone around you. 
You better Stop." 
Nick (00:07:10): 
But anyways, later on in my twenties, I was in the restaurant industry for about 14 years. 
Ethan (00:07:19): 
So you were working here in Lexington? 
Nick (00:07:22): 
In Lexington and back in Pikeville, all around really. And it just so happened at this time. I was, I think I 
was 29. I was working in restaurants, you know, for years and just had discovered methamphetamine, 
being a great way mixed with booze and work, you know. And work and work and work. 11:00 AM until 
3:00 AM, five days a week to, you know, two of those days being really late, late day, sorry, on the 
3 
 
weekend, you know, but at least until 11 o'clock. But anyways, what I'm getting at is that, during that 
time, the summer of 2017, I contracted endocarditis, which is, okay, it started out as a blood infection, 
and then it went to infect the--you know what I can't remember what the valve is called, but it's like the 
exit valve of my heart. And I was only getting about 14% of the blood pumped through my body that I 
needed because the valve had swollen up and closed off pretty much. Luckily, you know, I got to the 
hospital in time, and I guess, I coded, they call it, a couple of times once I was there. It took them a little 
while to figure out what was wrong with me. And once they did, you know, they even told my wife, "Call 
his family, get them up here. Because you know, he's not gonna make it. He's not gonna make it." Luckily, 
I did make it. And that was followed by about eight weeks of intensive, like the myosin, it's called therapy, 
antibiotic therapy, three hours a day IV antibiotics for six weeks, I think, or eight weeks. 
Ethan (00:09:13): 
Were you, you were in the hospital? 
Nick (00:09:15): 
I was the entire time. Yeah, and also I contracted mercer [MRSA] from the first hospital I was at. Because 
I went to the hospital closest to my house and then they put me to a hospital, which should I say? 
Ethan (00:09:30): 
It's up to you. 
Nick (00:09:31): 
UK, UK Health. I mean, they saved my life. Being in there, you know, I witnessed three or four people die 
from the same thing that was wrong with me. I watched a man realize he was paralyzed because of this 
infection. And that was what was happening all around me at the time. 
Ethan (00:09:51): 
And so that was related, that was related to your use? 
Nick (00:09:52): 
IV drug use. Yes, sir. Endocarditis is, it's an infection that gets on your heart valve, and it causes, well, it 
caused a hole, and a lot of people, they have to have their chest opened up, and they have to replace that 
with either a robotic valve, they call it, or a pig valve. Luckily, mine was just, just not severe enough to 
where the doctor said, “We're going to have, we're going to want to wait until you're about 40 to go in 
there.” Because, or 50, because you know, each time they open your chest, it weakens you just a little bit. 
And one of the last things the doctor told me before I left the hospital, he came in, and no one else was 
there, and he said, "Mr. Kimberlain, do you want to live? Or do you want to die?" And I said, "Well, of 
course, I want to live." And he said, "Well, don't ever stick a needle in your arm again, if you want to live, 
don't continue to use IV drugs. If you want to die, by all means continue." And I'll have to say, I got back 
out and got worse than I had been before I got in there. And I'm not proud of that. I'm not proud of that 
one bit. And while I was in the hospital about a week after I got in there, my wife called me, and she said, 
"I'm pregnant." So yeah, she's pregnant. Even now thinking back to that, it's like, whoa. But anyways, so 
yeah, I kept telling myself, okay, well, when she's, when she's eight months, I'll stop. Okay, she's nine 
months. I'll stop when the baby's born. 
Nick (00:11:39): 
4 
 
And about a month before she gave birth, I was in a 30 day rehab which is called Stepworks. It's in 
Elizabethtown. And that place really help me put everything in perspective. And it was a great experience 
all around. And yes, from then on I stayed, I stayed clean. Well, during my addiction, this last time being 
in the throes of it, I ended up catching a felony, okay. I was on Xanax, which is benzodiazepine, and 
fentanyl. I went into the restroom, to a restaurant restroom. And I IV'd some fentanyl, and I had already 
taken several Xanax pills, bars, two milligrams Xanaxes, and I, what they call fell out and overdosed in 
there. And they didn't check the restroom before they shut the building up and locked up for the night. 
They locked me in. I come out in this stupor and apparently tried to open the cash register, I guess. And I 
stole three beers. And with that three beers, I went from trespassing to burglary in the third. So anyways, 
after I get out of rehab, I go to court on a traffic ticket. Come to find out I have three warrants that I knew 
nothing about because I didn't remember getting any. I didn't remember this, this DUI that I got. They 
found me overdosed at a red light here in Lexington on a main busy road, Richmond Road. And I had a 
warrant for not showing up for that, because I guess I didn't know that I had to. And then for the burglary, 
and then the reason I mentioned that is because I got the chance, at the time I thought it was a curse, but 
I got the chance to participate in the drug court program here in Fayette County. And at times I used to 
hate saying this, and I finally had to admit that it saved my life! 
Nick (00:13:55): 
I had a little mess up at the beginning of drug court. Since then the structure and the accountability of 
that program, coupled with participating in a place like this, Voices of Hope, it helped me with a complete 
change of character and a complete and utter lifestyle change that I needed. And that enabled me to be 
a good father, to be a husband, to be a friend, to be a son. And now into my couple of years of recovery, 
a peer specialist for someone else, that's there, that's in the dark, that's at the end of the rope, underneath 
the ground basically. They think that there's no way out of that. What I tell my, my participants is there, 
there is nothing you can tell me that I haven't had firsthand experience with, or that I know someone who 
has, and I've been very closely involved with that. 
Nick (00:15:00): 
And 99 times out of a hundred, the things they've told me, they were like, wow, you really have had 
experience with pretty much every horrible thing that could you can do, or that can go wrong in drug use 
and addiction. I've had the experience or someone close to me has, and I use that, all that negative that I 
put out there. That was my idea from the very beginning, when I wanted to get, aside from the fact that 
I've always really liked to help people. I love to learn, and I love to teach. So, I take all that negative that I 
put out there, and I make it into a positive, you know, something that I want, I mean, to be a good 
influence on people, to be the guy that someone tries to be like in recovery. 
Ethan (00:15:57): 
No, absolutely. That's, that's what I love about peer support that you, like you say, you turn a negative 
experience into a positive experience. So you, when you were in drug court, was Voices of Hope here 
already? 
Nick (00:16:16): 
Yes, actually. They were relatively new. You met, well, you met her upstairs at the desk. She actually came 
to speak to my court in drug court. When you're in phase one, you have court once a week, three groups 
a week. Phase two, two groups a week, or sorry, two groups a week, court every two weeks. And on and 
on. Phase three, every three weeks, one group a week, into aftercare. But anyway, so I actually met her 
5 
 
that day, and she spoke to my court. Then, the next week she came back and spoke again because I was 
in there with people that were in phase two that hadn't heard it yet. So I kind of got a double dose of 
them explaining to me what it was. And I was like, you know what, they've got a bunch of meetings there, 
why not? Why not? So I came down here. I got involved. They, they do something called the TRS, 
telephone recovery support. And, you know, they called me every week to check on me. And then in the 
end there, I told you I had a little mess up at the beginning of drug court. Well, I decided to use, and 
everything quickly went off the rails again. Okay. I used a little bit of methamphetamine, and I used a little 
bit of heroin. And then I went, and I had a drink. And then by the end of it, I was smoking cocaine, you 
know, freebased cocaine and all that. And it all went to heck very quickly. And in that, the reason I 
mentioned that is, that lady up there that you met called me every single day once she realized that I had 
gotten myself into another horrible situation. In my early, early recovery. And coupled with her being 
there for me and drug court, twisting my arm to make me tell them the truth as to what I was doing and 
what was going on, I got the help I needed. 
Ethan (00:18:26): 
And when she called, you know, she would just check on you? 
Nick (00:18:29): 
Yeah, she first, "How's, how's your recovery going? Is there anything I can do or anything we can do as an 
organization to help you?" I was like, oh, as soon as she called, I was like, it was like a relief. I was like, 
thank God. "Look, I messed up so badly." And all the things that I didn't want to come clean about, I just 
came clean to her. And another thing is that we don't give, we try not to give advice, but just with her 
listening and saying, "Okay, break it down, Nick. It's not that bad. It's not as bad as you're making all this 
out to be. You still have a chance to grab, you know, grab the ring they're thrown in after you, you know, 
you have a chance to grab the rope." 
Nick (00:19:18): 
And after I spoke with her, I was working in a restaurant directly across the street from the drug court 
office. I went to my boss and said, "Look, okay, I had a setback. I've been using drugs. I need to go talk to 
my worker at drug court." And she was like, great. You know, "I'm proud of you. Thank you for telling me. 
You know, awesome. I was wondering what was going on with you." You know, cause I hadn't been myself, 
and you know, I had been up for 3, 4, 5, 6, who knows, days. And I went over there, and I was like, look, I 
got to come clean. She was like, all right, finally. They weren't, as you know, great and nice and welcoming 
as everyone else. They were like, well, because the week before that I had gotten a positive drug screen. 
And I begged, the judge, said, "Please, please don't put me in jail, please. I'm a father." I brought my kid 
into court, my wife, like, oh, please judge, please. She was like, Nick, this is your one shot. She was like, "If 
you have another positive drug screen, I'm going to put you in there, and I'm going to leave you in there 
for a little while." And I was like, I won't, I won't, I swear. After court, I went and dropped my wife and 
daughter off at home and went and got some drugs. And so going in front of the judge this time was not 
as great, you know, but at the time, you know, I didn't realize, but the actions that she took changed my 
life forever. She put me in jail. And I was like, how long? She was like, "Well, Nick, we don't know. We 
don't know yet.” So they, they left me waiting for, not for too long, you know? It was about, at the end, I 
think it was like 12 or 14 days. But when you're in jail, you know, that's a long time not knowing what's 
going to happen the whole time. But what they were doing was giving me time for one, to think about 
what I had one, and for two, to think about the impact that it was having on my wife and my daughter. 
And my wife, she brought my daughter. Her name is Nora. She's two now, or almost three. She brought 
6 
 
her in there to see me. And at the time, I was in solitary confinement. But not for anything that I'd done 
just due to overcrowding. 
Nick (00:21:37): 
They came in on a little box, "Kimberlain, you got a visitor." And I was like, oh God, you know, I didn't want 
it. I didn't want it to be Nora and Taylor, my wife. She was like screaming for me, daddy, daddy. She was 
only one at the time, but maybe not even one, but she wasn’t saying daddy of course, but she was 
smacking at the window and hollering and wanting me. And I was like, just get her out of here. You get 
out of here. And my wife was crying. She was like, "This place, it smells so horrible. It's freezing cold in 
here. They're so rude to you when you come to visit anyone." And I was like, just get out of here and don't 
come back please. And I went back into that cell that night, and I got locked down again for about 14 hours 
and it was just me and my sheet, you know, and my mat and that was it. And that was the day that I 
decided, you know, you gotta do this. You gotta do this for Nora and you gotta do this for my mom, got 
to do it for my dad. I gotta do it for my wife. But most importantly, I got to do it for myself because , I've 
totaled eight cars since I turned, since I turned 19, I've totaled 8. I flipped some. I've blown some of them 
up. I've wrapped a couple around, one around an oak tree, one around a pine tree. I flipped them into 
embankments. I flipped upside down in water that was deep enough to drown me. And I've overdosed 
countless, countless times on oxymorphone and on fentanyl and on cocaine and oxycodone mixed 
together. All those times I came back. I was lucky enough that someone had Narcan, and they threw me 
in a cold shower. I walked away from every single wreck. 
Nick (00:23:43): 
And then the endocarditis. I lived. And I knew then that this was it. And I had to do it right. If I wanted to 
stay out of these types of places, rehabs, most importantly jails, you know. And I did that. And when I got 
out of rehab for a second time at Stepworks, they sent me to another 30 day program out of jail. And that 
was in Bowling Green at Stepworks. They have several locations, another good experience, but really, it 
was just a time for me to kind of take a breath and look at everything in perspective and say, "Here we 
go, here we go." I was excited the day I left there because I was excited to show everyone how hard I was 
going to work because no one believed a word I said at that time. And I was okay with that. 
Nick (00:24:37): 
Even my worker at drug court, like I figured they would be all like, "Oh, we're so proud of you for going to 
rehab. Like good job," you know? No, no, it wasn't like that at all. My worker still thought everything out 
of my mouth was a lie. And I thought at the time that she hated me. And I went to the lady that ran drug 
court and I was like, she hates me. She's not giving me a chance. I want a different worker, or I quit, 
basically. And they were like, "Oh, you know what? You don't get to pick any, you don't get to pick anything 
here. We pick this for you. She's your worker. Take it or go back to jail for a year." Okay. So it just so 
happened that my worker didn't hate me. Her and I are very close now. 
Nick (00:25:26): 
She just knew that the only way to get to me was by the way she was acting, you know, and she knew she 
had to be that way towards me. And she, you know, over the months and months, loosened up. Because 
I had lied to her a lot, and it takes a lot to, to get back, especially with someone like, you know, she is a 
worker, but a parole officer, you know, a probation officer and to get her trust back [inaudible]. She's 
kinda like that. Kind of like a social worker, she's a caseworker at drug court. So she's kinda like a probation 
officer, kind of like social worker, but anyways, so it took a lot to get her trust back. You know, I learned 
7 
 
something very valuable about being honest in that time, you know, and so through drug court, I 
discovered this place, Voices of Hope. And I got myself a peer support specialist, Larry. And one of the first 
things he said to me, he was like. Well, I told him what I wanted to do. I wanted to achieve long-term 
sobriety. And I wanted to become a peer support specialist and turn all this negative into something 
positive. 
Ethan (00:26:44): 
And you said that from the beginning? 
Nick (00:26:44): 
Yeah. That's what I wanted to do. And he said, "Alright, great. When do you want to do it? Do you want 
to get in the class tomorrow?" I was like, yeah. Tomorrow would be great. And he went, "It's not going to 
be tomorrow. It may not even be in a year. But I'm going to be here to help you the whole way." He was 
kinda messing with me, I guess. You know, now Larry and I are very, very close. I feel very close with Larry. 
Him and other people here have been there with and for me every step of the way. They came, they came 
to court with me before. You know, they've made hard phone calls with me. You know what I'm saying? 
Ethan (00:27:30): 
So as you, when you came back from Stepworks the second time, then you sort of had a plan you had to 
follow? So you had come to meetings here? 
Nick (00:27:45): 
Well, so in drug court, you have to go to three meetings, well, sorry, two meetings a week, right, in phase 
one. Recovery meetings. So I chose AA and I came here because they host a slew of meetings. And also I 
got into the SMART clinic at UK Psychiatry for, well, for counseling and therapy, but also for 
buprenorphine, Suboxone, which I still take. And you know what, I'm proud of that. I'm proud that that's 
a part of my recovery, and I'll touch on that in just a second. Okay. So coming to AA-- 
Ethan (00:28:29): 
In addition to that, you also met with Larry? 
Nick (00:28:31): 
Yes. Yes. 
Ethan (00:28:34): 
So those three things? 
Nick (00:28:35): 
Those three things. Peer support, meetings, and buprenorphine therapy, and one-on-one therapy with 
actual therapist. And he's 
Ethan (00:28:48): 
So you also met with a therapist and a peer support specialist. 
Nick (00:28:55): 
8 
 
So, but anyways, that got me here more often, you know, and also the AA group that meets here, it's kind 
of controversial in AA for you to take anything, you know. But those people that are in the Man-O-War 
Live AA group, my sponsor, I still have him. He's still my sponsor. I still talk to him many, you know, a few 
times a week and see him once or twice a week. But they welcomed me with open arms, and you know, 
it's prescribed. It's medicine from a doctor, and I take it the way I'm supposed to. And he said, "As long as 
it helps you, great." And so being involved here, getting to know everyone here throughout, you know, 
about that year and a half, drug court selected me to be one of maybe 10 participants that they decided 
to send to a peer support specialist class to get certified. 
Nick (00:29:52): 
Yeah. And so they paid the 400 bucks that it cost or whatever. And so I did the class. 
Ethan (00:30:03): 
Was that at New Vista? 
Nick (00:30:03): 
It wasn't, it was through, if you hadn't asked me. 
Ethan (00:30:10): 
It's okay. Don't worry about it. 
Nick (00:30:12): 
KY Stars. NAMI. They were great people. Myself and actually two other employees here now, one was 
already employed that was in drug court with me, and then you'll be interviewing Shanda, she was the 
other participant, one of the others they selected to put in there. And so the whole time I had in mind 
that my goal was to work at Voices of Hope. I had talked with the SMART clinic about a job that pays more 
and some other places, some that paid as much, some that paid more, but I was like, I'm holding out for 
Voices of Hope. And I was in contact with Larry a lot, you know. And someone else that works here, as 
soon as that job came open, they told me, they called me, they said put your application in. Nothing was 
guaranteed, but I got, I got it in there as quickly as possible. I was in this room actually right here with 
Shelley and [inaudible]. We had a great conversation, and I was hired, you know. A couple of days later 
they called me and told me I was hired. It was a feeling that I don't, I don't think I'd ever felt before, like 
of accomplishment, you know, and being able to, being able to give back to the program that gave me so 
much, so much confidence and taught me how to, basically helped me learn how to not hate myself for 
all the bad things I've done, you know. And now finally my chance to turn it, to turn that negative into a 
positive. 
Ethan (00:31:55): 
That was a couple of months ago? 
Nick (00:31:57): 
Yeah. Yeah. Just a couple of months. 
Ethan (00:32:02): 
9 
 
Well, I think we talked a little bit about what, you know, what Voices of Hope is. Just a clarification about 
that. So the medication assisted treatment, it goes, it occurs through the SMART clinic? 
Nick (00:32:23): 
Yeah. Not through here. 
Ethan (00:32:24): 
But there is sort of, but this is a space where that's more accepted as opposed to-- 
Nick (00:32:37): 
Any pathway to recovery including harm reduction. So it's not just abstinence. 
Ethan (00:32:45): 
But there are other places around that are less open-minded? 
Nick (00:32:48): 
Yes. We do a meeting here that I, that I facilitate. This coming Thursday will be our fourth meeting, third 
meeting, I'm sorry. It's called MARA, Medication Assisted Recovery Anonymous. And that's not just 
methadone and Suboxone, which that, that is a huge part of it. But it's any other medication, you know, 
for depression or anxiety or, you know, anything that's helped you in your recovery medication related. 
We come there, and the whole program, I've spoken with the guy that started the whole thing, that's 
actually writing the book. It's borrowed a lot from my AA. It borrowed a lot of things for AA. I'm not saying 
he's partnered with AA, but he, he has been in close contact with their international office, I guess, or 
national office. And he's gotten permission from them to borrow certain aspects of the program officially. 
So the 12 steps, 12 traditions. Sponsorship. So, yeah. As far as I know, it's the only one around here. And 
Voices is open to, like I said, all pathways, be it, you know, even marijuana maintenance is in there too, 
you know. I mean, harm reduction, using a clean syringe every time, every time you IV or, you know, don't 
share a cooker or, you know, anything, any type of harm reduction or medication. Abstinence is accepted 
too. And SMART recovery is another one that's popular, which is a holistic approach. 
Ethan (00:34:44): 
The SMART clinic is different? 
Nick (00:34:48): 
SMART recovery is completely non-related to the SMART clinic at UK. That's completely unrelated. Sorry. 
Ethan (00:34:57): 
No, that's good. I just wanted to clarify that little piece. Cause I've heard just, just to give you the 
background for my question is someone said, you know, if somebody's seeking medication assisted 
treatment, I heard this the other day, I send them to Voices of Hope, and I was like, what does that mean? 
Nick (00:35:20): 
Yes, that's, you know, that's something that I myself or one of my coworkers as peer support specialists 
could assist is helping you find somewhere to go. 
10 
 
Ethan (00:35:34): 
So I wanted to see if you could talk about like what your work week is like, you know. What are the, what 
is the work? What does it involve? 
Nick (00:35:43): 
Well, my work week looks like, so let's see. I'm here on Mondays from 12:30 to 9:00, Tuesday from 1:00 
to 9:30, Wednesday from 1:00 to 9:30, Thursday, 12: 30 to 9:00. It varies 9:00 to 9:30 getting off. And then 
every other Thursday, or every other Saturday, Shanda, I switch off Saturdays. So most of the time, I have 
the weekends off or like this, I have Monday off. So, you know, we come in we have a list of clients. Each 
of them are in a different place, you know. And some of them, I'm kind of more apt to call on a daily basis. 
Ethan (00:36:35): 
So you have your own caseload? 
Nick (00:36:35): 
I do. Yes. I think I have 37 on mine right now, and we're required to call them once a week. That's like 
minimum, but others, you know, you call daily. I had, I had four voicemails from the same guy on my 
phone in there right before I walked in here. So tomorrow morning--I'm not allowed to work off the clock 
obviously--so of course I'm going to call him, and there's several other people that I left off with, you 
know, the other day that I know I need to call back. And it's also always being there, you know, to answer 
your phone and being there to talk, you know. That's one of the main things for me is being able to listen. 
Just someone that'll just listen, you know, not give you advice or judging you. That was a huge thing for 
me coming in too. And I like being that person. And facilitating meetings on Thursday nights at 8:00. I do 
MARA. And then also Monday afternoon, someone else does the, men's all recovery, but I sit in on that 
sometimes. And then the SMART recovery on Thursday nights, I sit in on that sometimes, but all of us, 
each of us do a meeting pretty much. Most of us. And aside from that, talking with people, I do a lot of 
research, you know. Not, not just on like places to go and things like that, but like what the climate is like 
right now for people that take drugs. [Inaudible] in research on fentanyl and what's, what are the new 
statistics this month on, on deaths? Where's, where's the best place, you know, to call to get assistance 
with rent or, you know, is it going to be worth it for you calling HUD, the housing authority, and signing 
up? Or should we look for other places or should we do both or what places allow a sex offender to live 
there? Okay. Here's a list of that. Well, it was a violent sex offense. Okay. Well, here's a list smaller than 
that. 
Ethan (00:38:52): 
So if a problem like that comes up in your conversations, you try to find the solution. 
Nick (00:38:58): 
Yean. Everyone, everyone deserves a second chance. First of all. Everyone, no matter what they've done, 
because I've seen it myself, people change and I've done it myself. 
Ethan (00:39:08): 
But are there sort of like considerations about how far you can go? 
Nick (00:39:14): 
11 
 
Absolutely. Absolutely. Yeah, there is. Yeah. And as far as that, I go as far as to give them a list of names 
and phone numbers and what they do with it. If they want me to call them with them, yeah. But I'm not 
going to sit here and call 20 apartment complexes for you. You have to participate in your own recovery. 
Nick (00:39:33): 
And yeah that's a huge of that right there too. And also helping people find jobs. So it'd be like what is the 
best fit for them. Maybe. You know, like for instance, I have this guy 60 years old, unemployed, about to 
get kicked out of his, his recovery house. So, okay. "Well, I need help paying my rent." Well, you need help 
paying your rent, which I'll help with figuring out, try to help you figure something out. But most 
importantly, number one on our list is going to be getting you a part-time job because I can help you pay 
it this month, but what's going to happen next month. You need something that's going to sustain. It's 
going to keep, you know, keep giving you enough money to pay your rent because he says, you know, “I 
love the program I'm in, I love the house. I love the guys. I think I finally found a place where I can stay for 
a while, but they're going to kick me out if I don't pay my rent.” Obviously. Okay. Let's, what are we going 
to do first? Okay. First he's worked in retail. Okay. Well, there is a job for a bagger at Kroger. Okay. There's 
a job for someone to collect carts at Walmart. It's all part-time, things like that. It doesn't matter if it pays 
the most money, but it pays some money. 
Ethan (00:40:58): 
And do you connect them with the rent assistance, or do you have plans here? 
Nick (00:41:05): 
We have like emergency funds that we can ask for. But that has to be a very special situation. It can't just 
be, I don't have a job, I need to pay my rent. We can't, here you go. We can't do that. In a perfect world, 
I wish, I wish we could hand everybody 600 dollars. 
Ethan (00:41:23): 
But if not, you can find other people? 
Nick (00:41:25): 
Well, not necessarily. There's no guarantee that I can find it. And we also once a year we have something 
called the FAHE grant here, which is, you know, people sign up for peer support. You have to be signed up 
for peer support. Once you do that, I can request up to $1,200 the first time. And then it's up to $600 for 
someone in a sober living house. And you can, usually sober living houses cost about $400 a month. 
Ethan (00:42:00): 
And that, that assistance is tied to being involved in the peer support program. 
Nick (00:42:05): 
It is. You have to be signed up for peer support and, you know, so we can give them the 400 for their 
house, and then they still have another 200. Maybe we can help them pay their phone bill, and then 
they're allowed to request funds. Don't quote me, but I think twice while it's going on. 
Ethan (00:42:25): 
I see. I see. And do you also meet with folks here? Do they come in? 
12 
 
Nick (00:42:29): 
In-person meeting, yeah. With COVID, it's been strained, but you know, I've had some really great face-
to-face meetings here. 
Ethan (00:42:40): 
But primarily it's by phone, right? Checking in by phone 
Nick (00:42:45): 
A lot of the time it is, but anyone that wants to make an appointment with me now, can you come on in? 
And they're encouraged to, we like to do in-person. 
Ethan (00:42:54): 
But you know, but you know, having, you know, having that telephone support system. It seems like that's 
good that you had that in place before COVID. 
Nick (00:43:04): 
You know, the TRS is completely different than peer support. So the TRS is, it's like, these people sign up 
for TRS and they get called once a week by a volunteer, or sometimes I make the call. Sometimes someone 
else makes calls. They're guaranteed every week to get a call, "Hey, how's your recovery going?" But you 
sign up for peer support, it's a little more in depth, you know. I not only call and say, "Hey, how's your 
recovery going on?" It's, "Hey, did you do this? Or hey, do you remember when we talked about this? And 
we said we were going to sign up for this." 
Ethan (00:43:39): 
So then you kind of keep notes on where they're at. Do you have a plan for each person or is it sort of just 
kind of what they want? 
Nick (00:43:46): 
We kind of help them build their own plan, basically. So in a perfect world, I would say, yep, we have a 
plan for every single one of my participants, but that's not the case. You know, some people--of course, 
some people only want me to help get them free money somehow, which is exhausting sometimes. But 
you know, there's that other 60% of the people that really want to make a change and they really want to 
participate and become different. Not necessarily different people, but completely change their lifestyle 
and attitude, you know. And that's something that, those other people that just want money I'll deal with, 
you know, because that, doing that right there is why I'm alive. I tell people that all the time it's why I'm 
not dead. It's why the drugs didn't kill me. It's why I didn't drink myself to today. I didn't die in a car wreck 
because I need to be right here, right here doing what I do. 
Ethan (00:44:47): 
But maybe we could come back to that. Like how do you, how does your personal story, how does that 
come up? How do you bring that to your work? 
Nick (00:44:57): 
Like I said, man, there's not a horrible situation that I haven't been a part of or hasn't happened to me. 
13 
 
Ethan (00:45:04): 
I mean, they're telling you about your problems, and you just share what you've been through? 
Nick (00:45:08): 
For instance, the other day, this girl calls me, she said, I'm like, Hey, or I called like, "Hey, how you doing? 
You know, how's everything going?" "Well, Nick, I overdosed, and the cops had to bust my window out. 
And I was dead, and they had to revive me. And I got kicked out of my sober living house, and I have no 
money. I moved back in with my parents," blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. "I'm in Louisville." Like just, she felt 
horrible. And she was just in shambles emotionally. And I said, I was like, "First of all, let me tell you 
something. The same exact thing happened to me. The exact same thing happened to me. I had taken 
benzodiazepine. I did some fentanyl, and I overdosed behind the wheel of my car, and the police had to 
bust my window out and drag me out. I went through all this. I lost my job." She, by the end of that, just 
an exchange of that, before I even started to help her try to put a plan together as to what she needs to 
do, she was like, "Thank you so much because you sharing what happened to you has really put this into 
perspective for me, and it's calmed me down significantly." And just being able to do that for somebody, 
it's like, ah, great. And yeah, so that, and just being like, you're not the only one that this has ever 
happened to, I promise. 
Ethan (00:46:40): 
I did want to ask you, like when you, do you talk to, so say you've got someone you're working with, do 
you talk to other people they're working with, whether it's a therapist, whether it's a caseworker, is there 
coordination like that? 
Nick (00:46:58): 
No. See the only, one of the big parts of Voices of Hope. One of the main things is that it's completely 
confidential. So no matter what you tell me, unless you say, obviously, they're going to harm someone or 
harm themselves, I'll never, ever tell anyone about it. So that's one of our big, I don't want to say draws, 
but you know, it's kind of a draw. Like you can tell me anything, anything, and I'm never going to tell 
anyone about it. They can give my number to their social worker or to their PO. And the only thing I'm 
going to say is, yes, he participated, he is participating, or no, he has participated in the past. 
Ethan (00:47:42): 
And they would never call you and say, "Hey, this person has this problem." 
Nick (00:47:46): 
They can say it all they want, you know. Sometimes they do. 
Ethan (00:47:51): 
But they wouldn't say, "Could you work on this with this person?" That, that's, that's never-- 
Nick (00:47:55): 
They could ask me that. I would be open to that. But as long as they don't ask me any questions about 
anything, then yeah, I'm going to work with them. Absolutely. If that's what the participant wants. It's not 
the, it's not the court's choice for me to work with whoever on their behalf. You know, they're going to 
have to want me to do that. They can't say you have to work with Nick and he has to work with your PO. 
14 
 
Ethan (00:48:21): 
So for you coming here was, you know, starting this, I mean, you were working in the restaurant industry, 
but now you're a peer support specialist, was that a difficult transition? 
Nick (00:48:38): 
It was. Office life, you know. Which I love to read. I love to research. I love to write. I've always loved that. 
I'm a musician myself too. So yeah, it was a huge change of pace, you know, 14 years of being a line cook, 
being a trained chef as well. You know, I trained under some great chefs here and in different parts of the 
state. But it's, it's manual labor man, you know, you're constantly running, running, running. Doing this, 
doing that. You know, it's a, it's a very synchronized chaos that everyone on the cook line has to participate 
in. It's a little more hot headed. And this is very professional. I mean, I can be professional. Absolutely, I 
can be professional, but it was definitely a huge change, especially things like appointments. Which is 
something that I have experience with through drug court. You know, but it's still such a scatterbrain, but 
thank God for Google calendars. Right? 
Ethan (00:49:51): 
Do you have an office set up here? 
Nick (00:49:52): 
I do. Yeah. I have, myself and two other people share one big office right here. I have like a cube and then 
a cube behind me, but I mean, it's an open office, so, you know, we can chat with each other. And we do 
all day long, get each other's opinions and talk. 
Ethan (00:50:10): 
That's another peer? 
Nick (00:50:13): 
Yes, two other peer support specialists in there with me. But yeah, that, and then documentation was a 
hard thing for me at first, but I'm getting into the swing of it. Learning how to use different computer 
programs, things like that. 
Ethan (00:50:29): 
So you have an internal documentation system everybody has to kind of follow? 
Nick (00:50:36): 
Five CRM. I believe it's called. 
Ethan (00:50:39): 
So you would say, I mean, it's been a good transition, but you've had your challenges. 
Nick (00:50:50): 
Yes. It has been great. It continues to be every day. 
Ethan (00:50:53): 
15 
 
Well, you mentioned, you know, you talk to other folks in the office, so let's talk a little bit about, you 
know, the relationships with other people you work with and how's that. Because you know, there's not 
just the peers here, there's other, there's other professionals. I don't know if you want to talk about that. 
Nick (00:51:11): 
Yeah, sure. I mean, everyone here except for our main boss, I guess, which is Shelley. I don't want to say 
main boss. That doesn't sound good. The CEO Shelley and then [inaudible] is the operations manager and 
they're not in recovery, but everyone else is. But you know, Shelly's son is in recovery. And [inaudible] has 
had many friends and some family that are, that have had problems with substances. And even though 
they're--first of all, it's good to have that outside look on things--and even though they're not in recovery, 
they certainly are always open to discussing things with us and getting our opinions and how we feel about 
it. And then on the other end of that, they give us how, you know, their opinions on certain things. 
Ethan (00:52:08): 
Pretty much then everyone else is in recovery? 
Nick (00:52:18): 
Yes, yes. Everyone else. And yeah, it's basically like just, it's a great atmosphere, especially for what we're 
doing, you know, because everyone, and even though we're all in recovery, it doesn't mean we all have 
the same opinions, but everyone-- 
Ethan (00:52:33): 
So it's not maybe like a Stepworks where you'd have a peer, but you'd also have a therapist and social 
worker and the CEO. So you have all these different roles, but you don't really have that? 
Nick (00:52:45): 
Yeah. It's just us and different grants and working for different things under different things-- 
Ethan (00:52:52): 
Different projects. 
Nick (00:52:54): 
But you know, the JCOIN people come to talk to the Hazelden people and our CC's talk to the JCOIN and 
the HEAL [teams]. And, you know, we all put our own opinions into different things. And you know, some, 
I work on the Hazelton grant. Which we've gone into Perry County jails, Southeastern Kentucky jail system. 
And some, some of the best ideas that we've come up with have come from someone on a different grant, 
you know, sitting in this very room and just throwing things out there and discussing it. It's, I've never had 
really a negative interaction with someone about anything because everyone here--well, that's, the main 
thing you have to be to work here is open-minded. So it's all good. 
Ethan (00:53:46): 
Yeah. No, and I've just, you know, I've heard like in other places where you do have maybe therapists 
working with peers, there's some problems sometimes. 
Nick (00:53:59): 
16 
 
Yeah. I mean, you know, one of the main things they teach you in the, in the peer support certification 
classes is that, you know, we're not part of a clinical team. We may have some sort of input with the 
clinical team, but we're not on the clinical team. We're something completely different. 
Ethan (00:54:15): 
And you really put that into practice here. 
Nick (00:54:21): 
Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, absolutely. And I know that a lot of people, or a lot of places, especially, well, my 
personal experience being with the SMART clinic at UK is that, you know, they put up all of our flyers. They 
send people, well, they don't send people here, but they, they give them our information all the time, 
especially when they're new, because they know that they're the clinical side of it. But, you know, you can 
come here and get so much extra, so much more, maybe not necessarily more, but you know, to add to 
what we're doing here as therapists and doctors. And I'd say my whole, you know, my whole life, since 
young teen, since I was a young teen, I needed a therapist, and I never could find one. And I finally found 
one at the SMART clinic at UK that I've stuck with for a long time. So, you know, I think there's a lot of 
value in the clinical work for sure. Like a lot, a whole, whole lot. 
Ethan (00:55:32): 
And then you probably learn from that experience, kind of apply some of those lessons here, but do they 
also learn from you, right? 
Nick (00:55:47): 
Yeah, absolutely. You know, my therapist, he's in recovery as well. 
Ethan (00:55:53): 
Well, what about like within the, you know, since this isn't, I mean, the reason the Library of Congress is 
interested in this, because it's a new, it's a new profession. So what about like, within your, you said among 
the peers, you know, you consult with each other you know, what are those relationships like? Do you 
trade, do you talk, maybe share stories of things you're dealing with, challenges? 
Nick (00:56:24): 
Especially challenges. And especially when, like, when we need some ideas for a project of like, well, you 
know, just for instance, different ideas of things we can take in to the jail or, you know, different ideas of 
even a topic for a meeting I have to do tonight or anything like that. We can just all sit there and spitball 
ideas. And if I'm ever having a hard time or a rough day, I absolutely lean on these guys. And they do the 
same with me, you know, having a problem or having trouble, or hell, if I miss my daughter or if I just want 
to go home and I don't feel like being here. I've developed friendships here over the years of being here 
as a participant and now working here that are just, they're something else. That's all I can say. You know 
what I mean? It's, it's like no friendships I've ever had, you know. I feel incredibly close to a lot of people 
here. 
Ethan (00:57:36): 
But you didn't talk, you had mentioned for the jails, you go into the jail every week? 
17 
 
Nick (00:57:46): 
We don't actually physically go into the jails. We do peer support calls to the jails. And they call us. We 
can't call them in jail of course. They call us once a week. We'd have support team participants. 
Ethan (00:58:01): 
That's part of your caseload? 
Ethan (00:58:01): 
Yeah. Actually, yeah. I don't know why I didn't mention this, but sorry about that. Yeah. It's the Hazelden 
project. So far, like when it gets going a little more, I think we're going to have some Suboxone clinics on 
board too, as their like backup peer support. And those calls will be made on the weekends. And right 
now, we have one jail, but the goal is to get, you know, many others. We're also, something I think is huge, 
is that we're putting a library in the Perry County jail. I actually just made a, a huge list of books that I think 
should be in there. Not necessarily all recovery related. A lot of them are, but you know, some classics, 
Alexander Hamilton's biography, things like that. And also like some how-to books and books about 
carpentry, books about auto mechanic, books about welding. Well, just some people that, that write like 
self-help books. 
Ethan (00:59:13): 
And Perry county is where? 
Nick (00:59:15): 
It is Hazard, Kentucky. Southeast Kentucky. So, you know, that's something that's never been brought in 
there. 
Ethan (00:59:24): 
They don't have to access to books there? 
Nick (00:59:28): 
Nope. And where we work for under the Hazelden grant, they have an entire publishing company, 
Hazelden does. So every, not only books that, we have $350, you know, a limit that's how much we can 
spend. That's how much they have allotted for us to spend on books, but the entirety of the library in their 
publishing house is free. And we can pick any book that you want. So that's cool. And they do have to 
participate in the peer support program to have access to it. It's easy and free. 
Ethan (01:00:07): 
Because it's Hazelden, do you, do you have to emphasize twelve steps? 
Nick (01:00:11): 
No, no. It's just peer support. 
Speaker 1 (01:00:21): 
Well, we're at an hour, so maybe we, maybe we should move on to talking about sort of the profession, 
you know, how you see it, you know, what are some challenges and where you see it going in the future, 
18 
 
you know, as a whole, because you know, there are peer support specialists working here, but you've got 
them working in different places. 
Nick (01:00:44): 
So as a whole, some things that I think can be challenges for us? 
Ethan (01:00:51): 
Well, you know, I mean, we, we mentioned sometimes there's like, there could be issues in the workplace 
in some places. There is also one thing I've heard about is an issue with billing, which maybe you could 
talk about that here. I don't know, that's not really an issue here because you're all grant funded. 
Nick (01:01:18): 
It's 100 per cent grant funded. 
Speaker 4 (01:01:22): 
But you have heard about that? 
Nick (01:01:24): 
Oh yeah. Absolutely. And in the class, you know they taught us about the Medicaid billing and all that. But 
I mean, one challenge that I could see is that people don't take it seriously, like sometimes. A lot of people 
do, but it's usually people that have information about it that have learned a little bit about what we do, 
you know-- 
Ethan (01:01:46): 
So people who are signing up for support? 
Nick (01:01:50): 
Not only that, but people from an outside perspective. Some people don't agree that, that we are open 
to every, you know, every, any topic, anything you could consider even a little bit recovery related. A lot 
of people, you know, are like you're just trading one for the other, with that Suboxone, and methadone is 
just as bad as heroin, things like that. That's really like the only type of negative thing that I can ever see 
is that some people don't take it seriously or people don't understand exactly what we're doing here. 
Right. And as far as the future goes, like-- 
Ethan (01:02:31): 
I mean, like you've talked about some of the difficulties of getting adjusted and, you know, I don't know 
if you've heard stories of people like getting burned out. Maybe looking at other professional 
opportunities. I don't know. How do you keep all that, how do you sort of avoid those things? 
Nick (01:03:03): 
Well, for one, the most, most important thing is to always concentrate on your recovery, worry about 
your own recovery before anyone else's recovery. And to make sure that you keep up with that, like, you 
know, like myself, I try it on my days off, I go to a meeting and then sometimes in the morning before 
work, I'll go to a meeting and stay in contact with my sponsor, talk to other people here, you know. Always 
number one priority is my recovery before anyone else's recovery. And I think that, that goes along a lot 
19 
 
with being burned out, you know, because things that I've learned in AA and in MARA, you know, are self-
care, meditation, right. I'm not a Christian, but prayer to my higher power, you know? So a lot of self-care, 
you have to be like rigorous about self-care. And just being honest with people around you and yourself 
about what's going on. If you're getting burned out, you got to throw your hand up and say, "Hey, this is 
dangerous for me," and take a step back. 
Ethan (01:04:28): 
And do you see a future when peer support specialists are, like you said, a lot of people don't know about 
it or are not sort of open to the different pathways, do you see a future when we get beyond all that, 
where the peer support specialist is really established around the country? 
Nick (01:04:51): 
Yeah. Once you see the results of what we're doing and things like medication assisted treatment, and 
what's that done for the overdoses, fentanyl overdoses in 2025, you know. And the rates at which people, 
which people, you know, return to use when they're not seeing a peer support along with a therapist. 
Ethan (01:05:18): 
So you're checking those statistics? 
Nick (01:05:20): 
No, I'm just saying when you look at that, then you'll see, you'll see that it's a huge, important part of 
recovery. And I think it's something that's underutilized, but I think it's something that will, as it becomes 
more and more understood, it will be more and more utilized. And I think it is paramount to my recovery. 
I mean, as myself, you know, and I think it's paramount to many other people's recovery. Having someone 
that's been there, that's done it, changed their life and came out on the other end healthier and better 
and smarter, you know, and there's your example, you know. Here's how you can work toward that. Not 
saying to be just like that person, but just to have an attitude and lifestyle completely changed, that it can 
be done. And not only old men do it, you know, not only old men in AA do it. 
Ethan (01:06:20): 
So you lived that, you're seeing it, you're seeing other people experience it. In addition to that, you're, 
you're also kind of keeping some statistics. 
Nick (01:06:35): 
Well, when people look back, I'm just saying in general, at the statistics of that--I mean, I'll check statistics 
a lot of the time--but what I meant by that was, you know, when they look back at statistics and studies, 
then they'll, they will see, they will see that it just made a big change for a lot of people. 
Ethan (01:06:58): 
But I know that Shelley's, you know, worked with UK on some research projects. I don't really know the 
details. And HEAL I know they're doing some interesting stuff. I don't know the details on that either. 
Nick (01:07:15): 
I don't either. I know they do some great things. 
20 
 
Ethan (01:07:21): 
I know there's a lot of good things going on. Is there anything else you'd like to add? Anything maybe we 
didn't cover or anything that you'd like folks to know? 
Nick (01:07:38): 
Recovery is possible. Happiness and recovery is possible. If you think that you can't make a change because 
of all the things that you've done, you're wrong. Help is out there. You just have to look hard for it 
sometimes. But once you find it, and if you're really ready to make a complete change, it is possible. 
Anyone can do it. You have to do it for yourself before you do it for anything or anyone else. You have to 
break it down for what's best for you. 
Ethan (01:08:17): 
That sounds like a good place to end. Thank you. 
Nick (01:08:21): 
Thank you so much.