Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
1	  
Project: Archie Green Project 
Interviewer: Greg Sharrow 
Interviewee: Tara Kelley 
Interviewee Contact: 
 
Location: Rutland, VT 
Date: 17 December 2014 
Length: 01:04:30 
Recording Format: Digital 
Accession: au2014-2035 
Collection: vfc2014-0005 
Indexer: Shannon Esrich	  
	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
START-00:00:17 
Introductions.	  
Introduction	  
00:00:17-00:02:41 
Grew	  up	  outside	  Boston	  in	  Watertown,	  MA.	  Lived	  in	  Oakland,	  CA	  for	  10	  
years,	  did	  community	  development	  work	  with	  Spanish	  Speaking	  Unity	  
Council,	  did	  neighborhood	  redevelopment	  work	  with	  neighborhood	  
engagement.	  Got	  degree	  in	  Urban	  and	  Regional	  Planning	  from	  San	  Jose	  State	  
College.	  Worked	  for	  Strong	  Neighborhoods	  Initiative	  in	  San	  Jose,	  CA.	  Kelley	  
and	  partner	  decided	  to	  come	  back	  to	  east	  coast,	  landed	  in	  VT.	  Made	  the	  
decision	  to	  come	  when	  Kelley	  went	  to	  planning	  conference	  in	  NYC,	  partner	  
wanted	  more	  rural	  living,	  found	  job	  in	  Rutland	  area,	  and	  moved	  13	  years	  
ago.	  Job	  was	  with	  Regional	  Planning	  Commission	  to	  look	  at	  future	  of	  region	  
and	  help	  small	  towns	  plan	  for	  future.	  Started	  January	  2003.	  	  
Childhood,	  Boston,	  California,	  
community	  development,	  
institution	  
00:02:41-00:06:09 
February	  2003	  opportunity	  to	  attend	  professional	  development	  course	  
through	  Cornell	  on	  role	  of	  agriculture	  in	  community	  development.	  Went,	  
more	  focused	  on	  community	  development	  than	  policy,	  so	  a	  good	  fit.	  2	  year	  
course,	  first	  year	  crash-­‐course	  on	  community-­‐based	  agriculture,	  where	  
goods	  are	  exchanged	  locally	  rather	  than	  nationally	  of	  internationally.	  CSA	  
Cornell,	  community	  
development,	  policies,	  CSA,	  
local,	  retail	  outlets,	  economic	  
development,	  producers,	  
institutions	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
2	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
(community	  supported	  agriculture)	  wasn’t	  that	  prominent	  yet,	  farmers	  
markets	  not	  yet	  big,	  so	  learned	  about	  that.	  Taught	  by	  ag	  extension	  
professionals	  in	  New	  York,	  being	  a	  planner	  meant	  listening	  and	  learning	  
about	  what	  was	  happening	  on	  farms.	  Second	  year	  meant	  to	  implement	  a	  
project.	  Had	  been	  putting	  together	  economic	  development	  project	  for	  VT	  
region,	  and	  Cornell	  folks	  interested	  in	  how	  to	  integrate	  farming	  world	  
thinking	  into	  mainstream	  thinking,	  previously	  separate	  tracks.	  Project	  
aimed	  to	  take	  economic	  development	  strategy	  for	  the	  region	  and	  
intentionally	  incorporate	  agriculture	  and	  farming	  into	  it.	  Began	  gathering	  
people	  who	  had	  interest	  in	  project	  idea,	  from	  farmers	  to	  UVM	  Extension	  
people,	  Natural	  Resource	  Conservation	  Districts,	  Green	  Mountain	  College,	  
etc.	  Out	  of	  this	  process,	  RAFFL	  was	  born.	  	  
00:06:09-00:08:33 
Family	  based	  dairy	  was	  suffering	  under	  national	  dairy	  trends,	  but	  more	  
small	  farms	  on	  fewer	  acres	  doing	  more	  direct	  sales,	  and	  that	  trend	  was	  
increasing,	  so	  wanted	  to	  support	  that.	  A	  local	  trend	  in	  Rutland	  County.	  First,	  
put	  together	  Locally	  Grown	  Guide,	  copied	  from	  MA	  group,	  and	  group	  from	  
White	  River	  Junction	  and	  the	  Intervale	  in	  Burlington.	  Took	  best	  ideas,	  
combined	  and	  implemented	  what	  they	  could	  in	  Rutland.	  Wanted	  to	  gather	  
whoever	  was	  interested	  in	  the	  local	  food	  system	  and	  have	  engagement	  in	  
commerce	  with	  local	  agriculture.	  Using	  community	  development	  
background,	  tried	  to	  be	  as	  open	  and	  transparent	  as	  possible,	  letting	  people	  
know	  a	  group	  was	  meeting	  that	  was	  concerned	  over	  the	  future	  of	  
agriculture,	  and	  if	  they	  had	  interest	  could	  come	  to	  meet	  group.	  	  
Dairy,	  retail	  outlets,	  direct	  sales,	  
local,	  Locally	  Grown	  Guide,	  
meeting	  
00:08:33-00:12:07 
Had	  meetings	  all	  around	  county	  that	  Kelley	  facilitated	  or	  put	  together	  with	  
original	  group:	  Marley	  Rupe	  (Poultney	  Meadowy	  Natural	  Resource	  
Conservation	  District),	  Philip	  Ackerman-­‐Leiss	  (Green	  Mountain	  College),	  
India	  Bernette	  Farmer	  (Intern	  at	  Regional	  Planning	  Commission),	  Megan	  
Sheridan	  (Vermont	  Fresh	  Network).	  Then	  Vermont	  Land	  Trust,	  UVM	  
Extension,	  other	  Natural	  Resource	  Conservation	  districts,	  famers:	  Bill	  
Meetings,	  producers,	  
institutions,	  retail	  outlets,	  
communication	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
3	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
Clarke	  (maple	  sugar),	  Greg	  Cox	  (Loreman	  Hill	  Farm),	  Dawn	  Haliba	  (Haliba	  
Potatoes),	  Ken	  Leech	  (dairy).	  Many	  meetings	  had	  guests,	  very	  open,	  
periodic	  larger	  meetings	  at	  Green	  Mountain	  College	  called	  Farmers	  
Gatherings,	  100	  people	  would	  come	  to	  focus	  on	  particular	  topics	  about	  what	  
was	  happening	  in	  field,	  where	  was	  agriculture	  heading	  and	  where	  could	  we	  
reconnect	  agriculture	  with	  local	  markets,	  institutions,	  restaurants,	  farmers	  
markets,	  etc.	  Meetings	  talked	  about	  strategic	  vision,	  lots	  of	  brainstorming	  
and	  listening	  on	  trends.	  Needed	  communication	  tools	  to	  take	  action	  on	  
interests	  together.	  Core	  of	  6-­‐10	  people	  made	  it	  possible,	  getting	  data,	  
putting	  it	  together,	  getting	  people	  to	  read	  it.	  	  
00:12:07-00:14:14 
Went	  back	  to	  agriculture	  census	  data,	  they	  did	  mailing	  to	  all	  farmers	  they	  
were	  aware	  of	  to	  connect	  them	  to	  RAFFL	  and	  put	  them	  in	  the	  guide.	  India	  
Bernette-­‐Farmer	  made	  publications,	  sold	  advertising	  for	  funding.	  Attracted	  
philanthropic	  couple	  to	  help,	  along	  with	  Green	  Mountain	  College,	  Regional	  
Planning	  Commission,	  Natural	  Resource	  Conservation	  District.	  Helped	  to	  
have	  professionals	  with	  some	  backing,	  “It’s	  much	  harder	  with	  pure	  
volunteerism	  to	  get	  something	  off	  the	  ground.”	  Had	  consistent	  
communication,	  reached	  out	  to	  every	  planning	  commission	  in	  whole	  county	  
to	  connect.	  Weren’t	  starting	  from	  pure	  scratch,	  had	  knowledge,	  connections,	  
network	  that	  was	  helpful	  to	  the	  process.	  	  
Publication,	  institutions,	  
volunteer,	  communication,	  
network	  
00:14:14-00:16:35 
Applied	  for	  grant	  to	  let	  India	  step	  off	  of	  Regional	  Planning	  Commission	  and	  
become	  RAFFL	  Coordinator	  to	  make	  projects	  happen.	  Not	  much	  youth	  in	  
agriculture,	  incubator	  farm	  idea	  seemed	  like	  good	  project	  to	  get	  people	  
started.	  Found	  out	  didn’t	  work	  well	  in	  Rutland,	  land	  prices	  not	  as	  high	  and	  
farmers	  already	  attracted	  to	  the	  area.	  Turned	  focus	  to	  supporting	  those	  
farms	  with	  business	  and	  economic	  expertise.	  So	  would	  take	  an	  issue,	  
investigate	  it,	  build	  necessary	  connections.	  	  
Grant,	  Intervale,	  land,	  
connections	  
00:16:35-00:20:05 
Mark	  Blucher,	  director	  of	  Planning	  Commission,	  allowed	  staff	  to	  spearhead	  
interests.	  Rutland	  City	  and	  other	  towns	  very	  separate,	  didn’t	  want	  to	  be	  
Creative	  economy,	  agriculture,	  
meetings,	  Rutland	  Farmers	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
4	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
city-­‐centric,	  wanted	  to	  focus	  on	  agriculture	  but	  also	  creative	  economy,	  
entrepreneurship,	  while	  maintaining	  focus	  on	  farming.	  In	  2004	  RAFFL	  
focused	  on	  farming,	  then	  2005-­‐6	  added	  focus	  on	  creative	  economy	  with	  
Vermont	  Council	  on	  Rural	  Development	  creative	  economy	  forums.	  Big	  
public	  meetings,	  getting	  best	  ideas	  from	  community,	  very	  similar	  process	  to	  
RAFFL.	  Much	  energy	  around	  local	  food	  in	  those	  forums.	  Rutland	  Winter	  
Farmers	  Market	  began	  because	  much	  community	  interest	  in	  forums	  on	  
having	  more	  local	  farm	  products	  available	  year	  round.	  Worked	  with	  RAFFL,	  
knitted	  those	  together,	  started	  market	  behind	  local	  co-­‐op.	  Now	  Rutland	  
Farmers	  Market	  has	  formed	  separate	  organization,	  bought	  a	  property,	  have	  
large	  year-­‐round	  market.	  	  
Market,	  local,	  retail	  outlets,	  
consumers,	  co-­‐op	  
00:20:05-00:20:56 
Grew	  up	  in	  Watertown,	  same	  town	  where	  father	  grew	  up	  in.	  Watertown	  has	  
big	  Armenian	  community.	  
Childhood,	  parents,	  Watertown	  
00:20:56-00:22:23 
Aside	  about	  faking	  being	  Armenian	  in	  high	  school.	  
Aside.	  
00:22:23-00:23:54 
Grew	  up	  in	  west	  part	  of	  Watertown,	  more	  Irish	  and	  Italian.	  Dad	  was	  
firefighter,	  grew	  up	  there,	  large	  Irish	  Catholic	  family.	  Old	  time	  firefighter	  
about	  giving	  back	  to	  community,	  being	  part	  of	  community.	  Kelley	  grew	  up	  
with	  spirit	  of	  community,	  and	  Mom	  was	  involved	  too.	  Took	  care	  of	  elderly	  
couple	  next	  door,	  always	  volunteering	  for	  something.	  Huge	  neighborhood,	  
kids	  played	  together,	  owned	  the	  town	  space	  in	  spirit.	  When	  moved	  to	  
Rutland,	  felt	  similar	  to	  Watertown.	  Despite	  mixed	  reviews	  of	  Rutland,	  has	  
strong	  community	  spirit,	  which	  I	  liked.	  Dad’s	  spirit	  is	  what	  really	  got	  me	  
involved.	  
Irish,	  Italian,	  Catholic,	  
firefighter,	  community,	  spirit,	  
volunteer	  
00:23:54-00:28:57 
Was	  a	  troublemaker	  kid,	  did	  well	  academically	  but	  floundered	  around.	  
Went	  to	  good	  school	  in	  Boston,	  began	  with	  biology	  because	  good	  at	  science	  
and	  math	  but	  didn’t	  have	  patience	  for	  lab	  work,	  decided	  to	  study	  sociology	  
in	  undergraduate.	  Worked	  at	  McDonald’s	  since	  age	  16,	  thought	  she	  would	  
pursue	  career	  there,	  but	  Dad	  said	  that	  was	  not	  the	  right	  path.	  Dad	  was	  
volunteering	  for	  Pine	  Street	  Inn,	  a	  homeless	  shelter	  in	  Boston,	  encouraged	  
Childhood,	  Boston,	  career,	  
parents,	  volunteer,	  diversity,	  
social	  services,	  politics,	  urban	  
planning	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
5	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
job	  options	  there.	  Worked	  for	  men’s	  homeless	  shelter,	  forced	  Kelley	  to	  focus	  
and	  grow	  up	  quickly.	  At	  shelter,	  was	  co-­‐worker	  that	  moved	  to	  Oakland,	  
visited,	  and	  loved	  the	  diversity.	  Boston	  felt	  segregated,	  and	  Oakland	  felt	  like	  
true	  melting	  pot	  of	  race	  and	  economic	  class.	  Missed	  family,	  moved	  back	  
after	  10	  years.	  Community	  development	  interests	  born	  out	  of	  passion	  for	  
sociology,	  people,	  community,	  trying	  to	  understand	  how	  to	  make	  those	  
work.	  In	  CA,	  stayed	  in	  social	  services	  for	  a	  while.	  Was	  in	  middle	  of	  recession,	  
had	  array	  of	  jobs	  to	  make	  money,	  one	  job	  at	  mayor’s	  office	  as	  temporary	  
employee	  to	  run	  Healthy	  Communities	  event	  in	  Oakland	  for	  mayor’s	  office.	  
Doing	  that,	  connected	  with	  East	  Bay	  Lesbian	  Gay	  Democratic	  Club,	  club	  was	  
excited	  that	  Kelley	  was	  a	  young	  lesbian	  working	  in	  mayor’s	  office,	  so	  made	  
her	  president	  of	  the	  club.	  She	  knew	  nothing	  about	  politics,	  very	  nurtured	  
and	  mentored	  through	  the	  process,	  only	  25	  years	  old,	  got	  Kelley	  into	  
politics.	  Left	  Center	  for	  Independent	  Living	  for	  job	  with	  local	  council	  
member	  newly	  elected,	  got	  introduced	  to	  urban	  planning.	  Then	  realized	  
community	  development	  and	  urban	  planning	  could	  be	  a	  profession,	  then	  
went	  to	  Spanish	  Speaking	  Community	  Council,	  kick	  started	  career.	  Went	  
back	  and	  got	  degree	  in	  that,	  ended	  up	  in	  Rutland.	  
00:28:57-00:29:14 
Aside	  about	  other	  woman	  in	  regional	  planning	  committee.	  
Aside.	  
00:29:14-00:32:23 
Locally	  Grown	  Guide	  first	  published	  2005,	  renewed	  every	  year.	  When	  
started,	  mostly	  educational	  about	  why	  people	  should	  care	  about	  local	  farms,	  
how	  to	  connect	  with	  them,	  inventory	  of	  farms.	  Guide	  has	  grown	  because	  
more	  farms,	  businesses,	  market	  demand,	  more	  people	  moving	  to	  VT	  focused	  
on	  food.	  Now,	  guide	  more	  information	  resources	  rather	  than	  education	  tool	  
because	  other	  things	  used	  for	  education.	  Organization	  now	  does	  direct	  
technical	  assistance	  to	  new	  farmers,	  work	  to	  understand	  customer	  demand	  
not	  yet	  met,	  have	  program	  to	  bring	  food	  form	  farms	  to	  peoples’	  work	  sites	  
beaus	  people	  can’t	  get	  to	  market	  on	  Saturdays.	  Open	  new	  market	  places,	  try	  
to	  understand	  barriers	  to	  local	  food	  access,	  including	  price	  point,	  
Locally	  Grown	  Guide,	  
producers,	  consumers,	  retail	  
outlets,	  education,	  institutions	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
6	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
distribution,	  seasonality,	  scale,	  etc.	  Communicating	  to	  each	  side	  between	  
farmers	  and	  food	  service	  to	  overcome	  barriers.	  Some	  planning	  work,	  also	  
projects	  to	  move	  things	  forward	  once	  needs	  are	  understood.	  
00:32:23-00:36:59 
RAFFL	  started	  pre-­‐Farm	  to	  Plate	  Network.	  Identified	  needs,	  investigated	  
feasibility	  of	  possible	  actions.	  First,	  understanding	  current	  state	  of	  farming,	  
what’s	  changing,	  how	  to	  producers	  to	  consumers.	  This	  was	  the	  Locally	  
Grown	  Guide.	  Second,	  concern	  about	  the	  new	  farmer,	  next	  generation	  of	  
farmers.	  Looked	  into	  more	  major	  investments	  like	  incubator	  farm,	  wasn’t	  
needed,	  so	  instead	  have	  New	  Farmer	  Initiative	  for	  5	  years.	  Rutland	  County	  
too	  small	  to	  work	  in	  isolation,	  so	  partnered	  with	  Vermont	  New	  Farmer	  
Project,	  UVM	  Extension	  supported,	  includes	  Intervale,	  Vital	  Communities,	  
NOFA	  Vermont.	  Together	  look	  at	  needs	  for	  new	  VT	  farmers	  and	  resources	  
for	  them.	  Bring	  experts	  into	  Rutland	  County,	  create	  workshops,	  discussion,	  
initiatives	  specific	  to	  need	  farmers	  in	  area	  feel	  is	  high	  priority.	  Example,	  
partnership	  with	  Land	  For	  Good,	  helps	  landowners	  lease	  land	  to	  farmers	  
and	  match	  business	  plans	  between	  farmers	  and	  landowners.	  Provides	  
deeper	  assistance	  than	  RAFFL	  could	  do	  alone.	  Land	  For	  Good	  is	  New	  
England-­‐wide,	  part	  of	  Farm	  Viability	  Network	  that	  does	  business	  planning	  
with	  farmers.	  RAFFL	  acts	  as	  gateway	  service	  for	  farmers	  to	  access	  further	  
services.	  	  
Farm	  to	  Plate	  Network,	  
producers,	  consumers,	  New	  
Farmer	  Initiative,	  institutions,	  
retail	  outlets,	  Land	  for	  Good,	  
services	  
00:36:59-00:39:48 
Now,	  there	  is	  a	  sector	  set	  up	  to	  help	  farmers	  because	  other	  services	  don’t	  
apply/are	  not	  relevant,	  so	  now	  have	  services	  to	  assess	  investment,	  land	  use,	  
risks,	  marketplace	  dynamics.	  Farming	  is	  served	  differently	  than	  other	  
industries,	  more	  all-­‐inclusive,	  affects	  peoples’	  living	  habits,	  family,	  lifestyle,	  
etc.	  Rutland	  needed	  communication	  to	  maximize	  impact	  of	  statewide	  
organizations	  and	  services,	  and	  with	  RAFFL	  there	  was	  more	  interest	  and	  
access	  to	  services.	  Needed	  the	  communication	  link,	  don’t	  need	  replication.	  
Services,	  communication	  
00:39:48-00:42:59 
Every	  county	  has	  an	  extension	  office,	  but	  in	  Rutland	  was	  very	  dairy	  focused.	  
Farm	  to	  Plate	  formed	  because	  interests	  were	  different	  and	  more	  varied	  than	  
Institutions,	  extension,	  dairy,	  
Farm	  to	  Plate,	  4H,	  innovation	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
7	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
Agency	  of	  Agriculture	  and	  UVM	  Extension,	  which	  were	  focused	  on	  dairy,	  but	  
other	  types	  of	  agriculture	  making	  resurgence.	  UVM	  Extension	  in	  Rutland	  
county	  was	  dairy	  and	  family	  nutrition	  focused,	  with	  home	  economics	  and	  
4H	  clubs	  focused	  on	  animal	  and	  dairy	  agriculture.	  Fruits,	  berries,	  meat,	  
grains,	  mushrooms,	  all	  innovations	  did	  not	  have	  local	  expertise.	  Vern	  
Grubinger,	  of	  Vegetable	  and	  Berry	  Producer	  Association,	  has	  expertise	  but	  
located	  in	  Brattleboro	  so	  refer	  people	  to	  him	  often	  for	  information.	  	  
00:42:59-00:45:38 
Agency	  of	  Agriculture	  and	  UVM	  Extension	  got	  significant	  budget	  cuts.	  
People	  thought	  agriculture	  was	  dying	  industry.	  Upswing	  in	  alternative	  
agriculture,	  legislature	  commissioned	  Vermont	  Sustainable	  Jobs	  Fund	  to	  
develop	  strategic	  plan	  for	  VT	  agriculture,	  wanted	  to	  know	  what	  was	  
happening	  and	  future	  of	  agriculture.	  “The	  Vermont	  Council	  on	  Rural	  
Development	  had	  just	  come	  out	  with	  their	  Future	  of	  Vermont	  study,	  and	  
that	  study	  it	  said	  that	  same	  thing	  that	  we	  had	  already	  identified	  locally,	  that	  
in	  peoples’	  hearts,	  they	  want	  it	  to	  be	  a	  farming	  and	  agriculture	  state,	  like	  in	  
essence,	  it’s	  considered	  part	  of	  the	  essence	  of	  Vermont,	  it’s	  important	  to	  the	  
Vermont	  brand,	  and	  the	  tourism,	  and	  it’s	  important	  to	  the	  people	  that	  live	  
here.”	  Vermont	  Farm	  to	  Plate	  went	  around	  state,	  did	  similar	  planning	  
process	  to	  RAFFL	  but	  statewide	  with	  public,	  sectors	  of	  agriculture,	  whoever.	  
Also	  looked	  at	  data,	  melded	  that	  together.	  
Institutions,	  alternative,	  Farm	  
to	  Plate,	  agriculture,	  Vermont	  
brand	  
00:45:38-00:49:52 
RAFFL	  does	  well	  with	  one-­‐on-­‐one	  connections	  between	  farmers,	  public,	  
restaurants,	  etc.	  People	  come	  to	  RAFFL	  and	  RAFFL	  seeks	  connections	  out.	  
People	  call	  RAFFL	  with	  wide	  variety	  of	  questions/concerns,	  also	  have	  to	  be	  
out	  in	  public	  getting	  people	  involved.	  RAFFL	  connects	  regionally	  with	  Farm	  
to	  Plate,	  ACORN,	  Food	  Connects	  in	  Brattleboro,	  Green	  Mountain	  Farm	  Direct	  
in	  Northeast	  Kingdom,	  Center	  for	  an	  Agricultural	  Economy	  in	  Hardwick,	  etc.	  
Intervale	  ahead	  of	  curve	  doing	  similar	  work	  in	  Chittenden	  County	  and	  
Burlington.	  Collaborate,	  share	  information,	  have	  groups	  working	  on	  similar	  
issues	  but	  still	  learn	  from	  one	  another.	  Farm	  to	  Plate	  Network	  has	  working	  
Connections,	  producers,	  
consumers,	  retail	  outlets,	  
institutions,	  local,	  Sodexo,	  
distributors	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
8	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
groups	  set	  up	  for	  issue	  areas,	  brings	  in	  statewide	  entities,	  private	  sector,	  
and	  farmers	  to	  work	  together	  to	  solve	  issues.	  Network	  helps	  to	  move	  
research	  projects	  forward	  or	  collaborate	  around	  an	  issue.	  For	  example,	  
Sodexo	  is	  food	  service	  for	  Rutland	  County	  school.	  RAFFL	  alone	  can’t	  move	  
Sodexo,	  but	  must	  be	  moved	  to	  include	  more	  local	  food	  purchasing.	  UVM	  
with	  Sodexo	  as	  food	  service	  producer	  starting	  to	  apply	  same	  pressure,	  so	  
now	  it	  is	  statewide	  concern	  of	  purchasing	  local	  foods	  and	  what	  
roles/leverage	  points	  exist.	  Agency	  of	  Agriculture	  got	  involved,	  but	  from	  
Farm	  to	  Plate	  Network.	  
00:49:52-00:50:10 
Jake	  Clittero	  works	  at	  Vermont	  Sustainable	  Jobs	  Fund,	  really	  involved	  
supporting	  working	  groups.	  	  
Aside.	  
00:50:10-00:52:10 
Consumer	  education	  and	  marketing	  a	  lot	  of	  what	  RAFFL	  does.	  Constantly	  
reminding	  people	  about	  important	  of	  local	  food.	  In	  theory,	  can	  divide	  
consumer	  population	  into	  target	  groups,	  but	  beyond	  RAFFL’s	  capacity	  to	  
handle.	  Vermont	  Farm	  to	  Plate	  Network	  has	  working	  group	  Consumer	  
Education	  and	  Marketing	  to	  take	  that	  on	  with	  professionals.	  In	  2015	  will	  
create	  materials	  for	  all	  of	  VT	  to	  use	  across	  counties,	  creating	  more	  
consistencies	  and	  power.	  
Consumer,	  education,	  
marketing,	  local	  
00:52:10-00:56:11 
Local	  food	  movement	  strongly	  perceived	  as	  mainly	  educated	  middle	  class.	  
Talking	  to	  senior	  citizens,	  they	  think	  local	  food	  system	  has	  always	  been	  
right	  and	  makes	  sense,	  business	  as	  usual.	  Hunters	  that	  get	  their	  own	  food	  
and	  share	  with	  neighbors	  are	  good	  example.	  Paying	  for	  that	  food	  becomes	  
interesting	  dynamic,	  people	  would	  first	  think	  to	  share	  extra	  with	  neighbors	  
rather	  than	  buy	  it	  a	  farmers	  market,	  selling	  at	  a	  market	  wasn’t	  a	  profession.	  
Cultural	  divide	  in	  VT,	  maybe	  not	  educated	  middle	  class,	  but	  there	  is	  a	  divide.	  
Groups	  working	  on	  local	  food	  systems	  intentional	  about	  making	  it	  
accessible	  across	  economic	  spectrum,	  but	  not	  all	  people	  hear	  the	  message.	  
Popular	  with	  people	  not	  from	  VT,	  new	  to	  local	  food,	  but	  trying	  to	  reach	  
different	  people,	  cultures,	  languages,	  messages,	  etc.	  Also	  bring	  volunteers	  to	  
Local,	  education,	  class,	  hunters,	  
retail	  outlets,	  producers,	  
consumers,	  accessible,	  
volunteer,	  glean,	  distributors,	  
processors	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
9	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
glean	  farms	  and	  distribute	  to	  food	  shelves	  and	  meal	  programs	  to	  get	  food	  to	  	  
00:56:11-00:57:12 
Some	  people	  have	  shifted	  values	  to	  recognize	  importance	  of	  buying	  local	  
foods,	  but	  when	  they	  say	  it	  is	  too	  expensive,	  it	  usually	  has	  little	  to	  do	  with	  
economic	  means.	  For	  example	  RAFFL	  non-­‐profit	  staff	  not	  paid	  much,	  but	  all	  
buy	  local	  food	  while	  wealthier	  people	  say	  it	  is	  too	  expensive.	  “It’s	  not	  tied	  to	  
that	  person’s	  individual	  economic	  circumstance	  necessarily;	  it’s	  tied	  to	  
whether	  or	  not	  they	  have	  a	  value	  that	  says	  it’s	  worth	  me	  paying	  a	  little	  extra	  
for	  that	  local	  food	  because	  I	  know	  it’s	  helping	  my	  local	  farmer	  and	  my	  local	  
economy.	  It	  really	  comes	  back	  to	  that	  in	  a	  lot	  of	  ways,	  and	  making	  it	  work	  
for	  yourself	  somehow	  and	  whether	  or	  not	  that’s	  a	  priority.”	  
Local,	  affordable,	  value	  
00:57:12-01:00:52 
Growing	  up,	  neighboring	  dairy	  family	  gave	  produce	  from	  4H-­‐sponsored	  to	  
Kelley	  family	  because	  didn’t	  want	  to	  eat	  it,	  a	  huge	  cultural	  statement	  and	  
divide.	  For	  some,	  farmers	  markets’	  food	  seems	  useless,	  plus	  need	  to	  change	  
entire	  thought	  process	  around	  buying	  food.	  Trying	  to	  lessen	  those	  barriers	  
and	  make	  it	  more	  like	  normal	  experience,	  but	  no	  full	  solutions	  yet.	  Going	  to	  
Community	  College	  of	  Vermont	  (CCV)	  to	  lecture,	  amazed	  by	  students	  on	  
assistance	  or	  WIC	  who	  prioritize	  local	  food	  more	  than	  others	  off	  assistance.	  
Not	  simple.	  People	  say	  low-­‐income	  people	  need	  cooking	  education	  and	  
don’t	  know	  how	  to	  use	  local	  food,	  but	  not	  the	  problem.	  Rich	  people	  don’t	  
cook	  either,	  it’s	  not	  about	  that	  education,	  food	  stamps	  require	  cooking	  to	  
afford	  feeding	  a	  family.	  Not	  purely	  an	  economic	  thing,	  more	  complex,	  
culture	  plays	  large	  role.	  	  
Dairy,	  produce,	  4H,	  producers,	  
consumers,	  culture,	  retail	  
outlets,	  institutions,	  education,	  
cooking,	  food	  stamps	  
01:00:52-01:02:20 
RAFFL	  has	  grown	  organically,	  asking	  ourselves	  about	  priorities,	  what	  do	  we	  
need	  to	  take	  on,	  put	  more	  energy	  into,	  can	  someone	  else	  do	  it	  better?	  	  
Priorities,	  goals,	  future	  
01:02:20-END. 
Greg	  requests	  referrals	  to	  producers	  and	  others	  with	  background	  in	  
farming,	  4-­‐5	  people,	  and	  people	  with	  more	  traditional	  farming	  background	  
who	  is	  part	  of	  new	  economy.	  Wellsmere	  Farm	  in	  Wells	  is	  ideal,	  some	  dairy,	  
animals,	  farm	  stand,	  cater	  to	  lake	  crowd,	  also	  do	  food	  service	  at	  Wells	  
Village	  School	  and	  runs	  local	  food	  shelf.	  B.J.	  Hathaway	  of	  Hathaway	  Farm,	  
Conclusion,	  producers,	  
traditional,	  new	  economy,	  
dairy,	  distributors,	  processors,	  
corn,	  beef,	  Wellsmere	  Farm,	  
Hathaway	  Farm	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
10	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
grandparents	  in	  dairy,	  mom	  started	  corn	  maize,	  he	  started	  beef.