Briana O’Higgins interviewing David Robertson February 4, 2013 
 
Ok, my name is David Robertson and I’m a maintenance, heating air conditioning on 
Boeing’s equipment. I was also elected on the membership. I am one of the two 
representatives for health and safety.  
 
In the union. 
 
Well, at Boeing, there’s two representatives that meet with the company once a 
month on any kind of safety issues.  
 
Are you from Wichita? 
 
We were just talking about this, were you raised in Wichita? 
 
No ma’am I was born and raised in Viola, Kansas, outside of Viola.  
 
Um, when you were growing up were you aware of Boeing? 
 
My dad worked there 38 years on flight line.  
 
So you were aware, do you remember as a kid what you thought of Boeing? 
 
It was kind of neat that when I was a kid I played in the Boeing baseball leagues and 
that. My dad was working there, and uh, they used to have picnics for the families. I 
helped, I guess, demolition the swimming pool and the parks when I first went to 
work there in the 70s, but I remember playing on that same ball field, and they had a 
swimming pool open to Boeing employees and their families, and they had a park 
where you could go camping, that kind of stuff. 
 
Did you ever want to work at Boeing when you were grown up?  
 
I wanted to go to Boeing to use it as a school and learn what I could because they 
would pay for a lot of schooling. Learn what I wanted to do – and after going in as a 
laborer, which does a little bit of everything, I worked at Cessna, I left Cessna to go 
there, and I was not a, eh, I was not really … uh, I don’t know how you say it.  I come 
off the farm… I worked at Cessna; I went out to lunch everyday. I don’t care if it 
snowed, rained, whatever, I could not eat inside that building, that massive building. 
I went to Boeing because the job that they had open was a laborer, and that is a guy 
that is going to be outside, not matter what the weather was. And than after I did 
that for a few years, I decided, I was working next to guys who are my age now. They 
were in their 50s, and they were expected to run a 100 lb jackhammer, and things 
that I was doing in my 20s. So, I went to night school and got into more of a craft, 
and that is why I went into heating and air.  
 
Um, did you have any other family members that did, or do, work at Boeing? 
I have had brother-in-laws, sisters, I’ve had cousins, I mean. At one time, if you look 
at the history books in the 50s and 60s, 1 out of every 17 people in Wichita worked 
at Boeing. 
 
Can you talk more about your path to those jobs; did you go right into the industry? 
 
UH, actually I was in the aircraft industry before I was out of high school because I 
could work the third shift, and I worked at Cessna while I was finishing up at 
Comway Springs High School, a real rural school. But once I realized to me that that 
was sheet metal, and don’t get me wrong – it’s an art, and there are people... My 
brother in law, that’s been in it between Cessna, Spirit and Boeing, for well over 30 
to 45 years. He hates what he does, and I decided that wasn’t going to be me. So I 
went into something where I could use my hands and mind, and heating and air at 
that time was the best thing, I thought.  
 
So Boeing gave you the training? 
 
No Boeing paid for my schooling. And the biggest part, the majority… we have the 
joint programs that I spoke of earlier, and that is between the company and the 
union and that got started in 89, I had most of my schooling prior to then. But, you 
are allowed, if you are an hourly employee and you agree to the agreement… I think 
it is 2500, 3000 a year. So I’ve went and took all kinds of classes, ISI, the safety class 
because last year when this place finally closes that is one of the things I am looking 
at. One of the things I am planning on going into. But I am trying to keep current on 
things, and those classes are 700 and some dollars for a week. Well, thought our 
joint programs that is paid for.  
 
I want to back up a little. When you were working um, when you were in high school 
was that because you wanted to get into the workforce, or were you needed to help 
out your family? 
 
No, that was because I wanted to be in the workforce, I didn’t want to be like a lot of 
my buddies and just be farmers. Now, my dad didn’t have a big enough farm. I mean, 
we had like 110 acres, that is not enough to live off. And, my dad worked at Boeing 
for well over 38 years. 
 
Was your dad ever laid off while you were growing up? 
 
No, and in fact that is one of the oddities of my dad and me. My dad is passed now, 
but I left Cessna to go to Boeing because I was told they were having interviews, and 
I had my dad’s name on there, but he didn’t pull no strings for me. And, the 
gentleman offered me a sheet metal job, and I said, “No I do not want that.” And I 
was kind of young and had a lot of vinegar in me, and basically told him I wasn’t 
taking it. I left in the parking lot and he followed me out, and at that time I was 
taking two different Dojos, which basically that is a school, a martial arts school. 
And, I thought he was mad at me and I turned around and I thought we were going 
to fight. And he said, “What are you doing?” and I said, “well I guess you want to 
fight.” And he said, “No, I’m going to give you a job, when can you report.” And I told 
him I thought I should give two weeks, because that was what I was taught. Went 
home, called my parents and my dad just laughed at the other end of the phone. That 
weekend we were cutting calves, and I told him what day, and he said, “ remember 
skill can get you the big game, but luck can win it.” He said, that’s my anniversary 
date. So, me and my father have the same anniversary, of course it was 20 years 
earlier that he was hired in, April 18 is both our anniversary dates at Boeing, and I 
have never been laid off or busted. I mean that is kind of the oddity out there.  
 
Why do you think that it worked out like that for you? 
 
Part of it is because of the work I do. Once I got into heating and air, there’s such a 
demand out there because even the equipment, tank line and stuff like that, has to 
have refrigeration, air conditioning like most people think in their homes. What they 
call coal box… they freeze the sealer, they mix it up and that is what goes 
underneath the ribs when they put the skin on. And they have to have that, well our 
freezers, they get down to used to they get down to minus 80, and then myself and 
another gentleman when they were doing away with venting and refrigerant, we 
called the factory and kind of went around some of the Boeing red tape, and uh, the 
stuff we got was called Delaminate and it is a citrus by product and once we put that 
in there, all these can go down to 125, 140… I mean below zero. So, you work on 
some real neat equipment. I have worked on some actual equipment on some actual 
airplanes before.  
 
Will you talk a little bit more about what you do day to day, what your work is? 
 
Uh, day to day, there is only three of us now that do what I do, and one guy is 
stationed at the building on flight line, the other guy is stationed south down around 
47th street and the lake, I back both of them up because they get there two hours 
earlier than me, so I am there later in the day. And, my main focus is what they call 
portable equipment, anything that’s got wheels. Whether it’s a five ton air 
conditioner, which if you have a fairly big house, you might have an air conditioner 
like that. Up to, well the one I just got done plugging in before I left. You got two 
hundred amp service at your home, well this has to have 400 amps to run it. The 
chord is literally that big around and it take two guys to plug it in. And it is a 100 ton 
air conditioner, but they plug them in different spots, and it cools the planes around 
the ramp and it keeps… a lot is not so much for people comfort as it is when they run 
tests, the equipment and everything heating up. And we’ve got diesel trucks that are 
kind of the same set up, they are 100 ton. I work on a lot of big stuff, which I enjoy. 
 
So, forgive my ignorance, you’re not really working on airplanes, but support 
systems. 
 
Yeah, I have never been one that actually touches the airplane. 
 
Um, what is the most frustrating part about your job? 
 
(chuckles) right now, is knowing that I was going to finish my work and career at 
Boeing, and that’s real, real, doubtful for me now. I mean, with them closing down. 
It’s nothing to do with the people in Wichita, because prior to this announcement a 
couple years ago they went around and did a comparison with Boeing, whose got 
the best tooling within the company, whose got… Wichita Kansas has got the most 
experience in the way of… I mean, unless you’ve got 20, 25 years out there, you are a 
kid. That’s the kids, in the way of the guys working on the planes. And actually in the 
way of about anybody, maintenance – overall maintenance I am talking, we’ve got 
one kid that is in his 40s, everybody else is 50 or, we’ve still got a guy that is 73 
working on jacks that hold the plane up, uh, the experience that is here, you can’t get 
anywhere else. 
 
What do you like about your job? What have you like about it over all these years.  
 
UH, its changed some in the last four to five, but Boeing used to be a company when 
I was a kid, that I thought “They care.” They really do. I mean, they had little ball 
teams for kids my age, you know, and a swimming pool and they always had 
activities. Uh, since the division with Spirit and we became smaller, we went under 
St. Louis and for the management side of it, and they’ve got a little different thought 
on, I think care about their people as much. I know that sounds crude, but when I 
was coming up at Boeing, I was, even now, would be considered a young person, if I 
wanted to go off and learn about something, Boeing was saying “where is the 
school?” My second level is that way, right to this day. He wants to send me to school 
on the big units I work on, because he says that will help your resume. I mean, there 
is still guys like that, he knows that in a year and a half or so I wont be there, but he 
is willing to spend the money to send me to school in Texas for a week, just because 
he knows that will help me. 
 
He cares about you.  
 
You know, he cares about people. And you’ve always got people that feel like just 
clocking in, and then you really aren’t getting much out of them. And then, there’s 
people that keep busy and work. I am there for eight hours, Boeing is paying me for 
eight hours, so I need to be doing something for eight hours. And they are actually 
doing away with the contract they have for all the lawns and stuff, because we have 
talked our upper management into that because there are going to be layoffs at the 
end of this year, if not most everybody. And, we said, why are you paying several 
hundred thousand to a lawn company? So, our welder is working on a trailer right 
now because last week they purchased a big riding lawnmower and they are going 
to get a mower for a smaller Ford tractor that we got to bush hog stuff, and we are 
actually going to have some of our guys that would be hitting the street are going to 
be out there mowing and weeding but, if it keeps somebody employed, if you want 
to pay be 30, 40 dollars, which that is pretty much the range that everybody… well 
hardly anyone makes 40 dollars an hour, everybody is mid thirties to 40s, and if you 
are going to pay 30 or 40 dollars an hour to do another job for six months or a year,  
then I think that’s a good thing. I mean, that is the positive about some of our local 
guys. 
 
Will you talk about how you got involved with the union back when, whenever you 
started getting involved? 
 
I got involved in the late 70s,  
 
What was going on, and why? 
 
Well one thing was I was being… I worked at Cessna and the union representation 
was not too good at that time there, and when I went to Boeing, I did not join the 
first day. And that was not a good thing, because most the guys I worked around 
were. And I talked with my dad about it, and what he basically said was he said, I’m 
in management… second level at what time, he was what they call an ops director. 
He was the main guy over any kinds of planes and flight line… he said, union wages 
are indirectly put food on this table, clothes on your back and a roof over your head, 
and he said you remember 1977? And I said yeah, he said you remember when we 
went out to that strike? I said yeah, because I didn’t know what the devil was going 
on. We got in this line and it took us like hours to get up to the gate, we get to the 
gate and these guys kind of start shooting the fat with my dad, and I knew some of 
them because they had been out to our farm before, bought cattle from us and stuff. 
And then we left and I asked him, “what just happened? Those guys got groceries 
from the back. We left really early in the morning from the farm and went to Wichita 
came to Dillon’s and got $1800 worth of groceries in our pickup and these guys took 
all the groceries out… And my dad said, “Like I’ve told you before, union, what these 
guys get stems what I get. And I made a deal with my management, I’ve got a letter 
in that glove box, I’ve got a letter in my desk that if anybody touches my vehicle I am 
turning around.” And my dad was a second level manager and he never went across 
the line one day in the strike, because he said, “that’s not right, period.” So, after I got 
asked to join the union, I went back and talked with my dad the next week or so, 
after I was officially at Boeing, he reminded me of that. So, he said, “you don’t ever 
ride a fence. I didn’t raise you to ride a fence. You get over on that side, you may get 
your butt kicked and thrown back over, but you don’t ride a fence, if you don’t like 
what’s going on, you get involved.” So I have been an executive board member for 
our local for over 30 years, and that election is very three years, and the numbers 
have been good enough that I think I served them well. I am on the district delegate 
for over 30 years, and I am on the executive board. Labor fed of Hutchinson/Wichita 
and I am on that executive board. That one is only about 20 years. Union labor, we 
are having our 34th chili feed this weekend, I helped start that. We have a big chili 
and hobo stew, bingo and all you can eat. We have all kinds of prizes, a 42” TV that 
me and one guy go in and buy. Um, our safety committee, I was appointed to that in 
99. That was my full time job, up there on Rock road. I did not go to Boeing, I mean, I 
went to Boeing everyday to check stuff. From there until the split I had a 
counterpart that was a first line manager, and we worked safety problems on the 
floor. Training, we did a lot of other training. I loved that job. Because you could 
have the opportunity to help somebody everyday to go home with all their digits, 
you know, and that was phenomenal. And that was a great program. Now it’s almost 
nothing because we are so small. 
 
Why is being in a union important? 
 
Because, as I have learned from a lot of my friends from up north, I have got to know 
a lot of these guys through union stuff and Seattle, Portland and all of them. They 
have to belong. Up there you don’t work at Boeing unless you belong. Here it’s a 
choice. And they have always told me your members are always stronger than ours. 
Because your members are doing it because they want to. They don’t have to. And 
up there, if you miss your dues for three months the company and security walk you 
out. They lock your toolbox up, and they walk you out until you go get straight, and 
soon. Whichever local you are out of up there. But here, our people have the right 
not to be in, or be in. And to me, I think that is a big, big issue. And that is one reason 
I have never taken a union steward job. I have been asked to do that, but most a lot 
of our people that have always been involved was because by our by laws a steward 
has to come to the monthly meeting. And I said we should prove that you don’t have 
to be a steward, you don’t have to be forced to come to these meetings, you should 
do it because you want to. And I mean, that was just kind of the way that I was 
raised.  
 
What, if any, I am sure there is something, is the divide like on the floor at work 
between union and non-union? 
 
Well, years ago it was a lot bigger divide. But uh, ever since the split with spirit, I 
guess you would say, our union membership has held in the 80s, some percent and 
even in the upper 90s. So, you can pretty well walk through that plant and tell, well 
that one guy isn’t and that one lady isn’t. I mean, they’re so small, but we work with 
them everyday. But it is just like: you may like me outside of work, or you may not. 
But while we’re at work you be professional. If I need to talk to you to get that job 
done, we talk, we get ‘er done. You are there to do a job. So you don’t have to be rude 
to these people. Doesn’t mean you have to go to supper with them either. But, its not 
as big an issue now as it has been in the past.  
 
What were periods of strike like for you? 
 
(Laughs) very interesting. Um, the… boy… I, because at the time I was getting to 
being involved and being elected to things, well, you take on jobs. Uh, I did the 
transportation. My guys drove people out to the line, got them back. Um, what would 
it have been? … 95, yeah 95, we at that time were still using a tent. Since then, we 
never use a tent. That is because six stitches up here, and three down there. That’s 
because the wind came up and the tent was blowing away and people were trying to 
save chairs and all kinds of just junk. And I said I don’t care if the damn thing blows 
to Derby, get the damn thing the hell out of here. And about the time that I said that 
a 4X4 whacked me and I went to the hospitals and that was kind of an exciting deal, 
because I have twin daughters that will be 30 in April, and my daughters have 
probably walked more picket lines and been on more union label parades than most 
people remembers. And, uh, to me, that’s what it is all about. It should be about 
family. I mean, I have one girl in Afghanistan that comes back this month, and she 
has been there for nine months. And her twin sister is in Boston. But, the thing that 
really gets me, if you talk to any of our military people, especially a lot of the young 
guards that we have at Boeing, they’ve been in Afghanistan, or recently and most of 
them Pentagon guards. Because with Air Force One you have to have a Pentagon 
guard at each corner, along with Boeing. But they’re nice kids. I mean, their air 
conditioner didn’t work and I got all that fixed and we all become buddies. But, 
those guys, the things they say about the Boeing planes, said, we feel very 
comfortable when we are in a fox hole and somebody says, this is coming over and 
we know it’s a Boeing plane. A B52’s coming, he said it can calm everybody. And 
hearing that from those guys, and they truly mean it. That just, I don’t know. 
 
You mentioned retiring from Boeing, but the question here is did you ever imagine 
that you would retire from Boeing? 
 
That was my original plans. But, now I am not sure.  
 
What’s… do you have a social circle; it seems with the involvement with the union 
you must hang out with those guys sometimes? 
 
Yeah, and I try and, well, I have done a couple… I guess it would be almost three 
years ago now. I say I live out on a farm, I’ve got two big metal sheds and invited a 
bunch of people that wanted to run that were not new members, I mean some of 
these people were in their 50s and stuff, but they had never ran. While, we don’t 
have the big commercial side anymore, so, and flight line was always kind of out 
weighed and if someone over there ran for an office, there was always so many 
commercial. So flight line for a lot of years had not really been that involved, and 
when the split happened they had to appoint people. And our DBR at the time…. I 
was the last man standing, by the way. I was the only one that was legally on the 
executive board or on anything else. Everyone else that was on any of that took a job 
with Spirit. So they appointed everyone on the executive board, and I stayed as a 
trustee, I said I want to do that because if I walk away you don’t want a president or 
vice president that’s never done anything. So a lot of our people to get them 
involved, they are just not used to it. And we have just had to reappoint three 
positions. And I got moved to Vice President, but we’ve got so many people taking 
jobs in Seattle, and some of them are in their year 50s. I mean one of them was a vice 
president. Great kid. I mean you couldn’t ask for a better person… him and his wife 
and two kids. But he just turned 51, and he knows he will not be able o finish his 
career here. And we have to get to 55 to have any kind of retirement, any kind of 
early retirement without any type of penalty. 
 
I didn’t look, are you 55? 
 
I just turned last summer. So that’s at least an advantage for me.  
 
So employees that you work with now, and before, express loyalty to Boeing, do you 
feel a loyalty to Boeing? 
 
In years past, yes. Since the announcement, no. They do to a point. They are still 
honest people and you are paying me for 8 hours, I am going to work for you for 8 
hours. But as for people their mood, and really caring about a lot of stuff, its still too 
unknown because we are still hearing all kinds of rumors about the next Air Force 
One coming here, because Texas is not ready for it and does not have the people. We 
have the people, I can prove it. And we hear the rumors about the company has a 
contract…they’re a oh, they’re not the main contractor, because Boeing is, but they 
are sub on the things that happen to Air Force Ones, and uh, they have had that 
contract back in the early 80s, and there is talk of them buying this site and offering 
our people jobs because where can you go in the world and get this pool of 
experienced people on that kind of plane? You just can’t. I mean Seattle, our guys are 
going there, we are supposed to stay as one team and work on this plane, Wichita 
people. Seattle hasn’t done that with any of our people. For the last two years, or 
more, people go up there… say me and you go up there. They will put you with 10 or 
12 kids, me with 10 or 12… people…. I say kids because nobody up there that my 
guys have ran into has 5 years experience, they are mostly 2 and 3 years experience 
because up, because honestly if you have your MP license and stuff, Boeing is not 
good money. You can make a lot better money. And when our guys were on strike I 
had a lot of them that were in Boston, and they were making 38 dollars an hour and 
17 of that was paid to them in per diem. Per diem is non taxable. They were making 
better money there than they could if they came back. So the kids aren’t doing that, 
they are working at Boeing to get 3 to 5 years experience, cause that is what most of 
the big contractors want, and then they are leaving. 
 
In 2011 when Boeing announced that they would pull out completely from Wichita, 
do you remember what you were doing? Or how you heard the news? 
 
They brought us all into a hanger. I mean every Boeing employee. And it was, I felt 
like it was somewhat of an arrogant slap, and so did most of the people. Because 
they had a gentleman who was not heritage Boeing, he was McDonnell Douglas, day 
one. And when the merge happened you had no one on the board as of four years 
ago, on the Boeing main board that is heritage Boeing. They are all McDonnell 
Douglas. And basically just told us and what most of the people thought was a slap in 
the face, we had already been told well… us maintenance guys get told everything 
because of security and everything everyone tells us everything. But they had 
already been to Sedgwick County and the city of Wichita had more police officers 
out in the parking lot. They had all the security people from Boeing that usually 
works second and third shift come in. Like we were a bunch of  little kids and we 
were going to hear this news and we were going to tear up a plane, or something 
silly. And most the people took that as a real slap in the face. You know? You don’t 
think that we are professional enough to take this bad news? I didn’t want to hear it, 
but I’m not going to go destroy property, and neither is any of the rest of our people. 
And I took that as a slap in the face when I went into the parking lot and saw all 
these Wichita and Sedgwick county PDs out there waiting for, I don’t know what, a 
riot or something.  
 
Had there been rumors leading up to that? Did you think it was coming? 
 
I basically knew it was coming. As soon as we signed the contract extension in 
December the year before. And when you read on there and it says, Wichita will be 
the finishing center IF still a viable open site. And when we read that we said, “we’re 
closed.” “We don’t know when, but we’re shut.” To me, that was black and white.  
 
Boeing said in December 2010 that they didn’t know it was going to be closed. 
 
My father was in management for a lot of years, and they say a lot of things. I 
honestly don’t think that Steve Wade, which is more or less the president of Wichita, 
and Kevin DeVine and then Brad Bourssey. I don’t think they knew. I honestly don’t 
think those guys did. Two of those guys were born and raised in Wichita, all their 
family is in Wichita, and I think they were fighting very, very hard to keep work 
here. I mean, I really, I don’t blame those guys for anything, because I think those 
guys have been out doing what they could to try and keep it open, but we’re under 
St. Louis and St. Louis wanted to close us the day that we joined with St. Louis.  
 
Over the years how did Boeing contribute to Wichita and the Wichita community? 
 
Well, last year it was $493,000, I can tell you exactly because I am on the… they call 
it ECF: Employees Community Fund. I am the only hourly person that has been on it 
since the split with Spirit. And that is elected by the people that donate money every 
month out of their check. I am the only hourly person on that and w have our 
meeting Friday. And last year our results were…. Well 50 of that was because of that 
tornado. Everything that we earmarked for south east Wichita where those homes 
were just destroyed and we gave it to United Way. And said, we want it to go to 
them people. But uh, we get grants from anybody and everybody and um, last, well 
before Christmas, the second or third year I have helped with it. But, uh, we have a 
shoes and socks deal because we cant just go out and buy things. We gave the money 
to United Way as a broker more or less, and they paid for all the shoes and socks in 
three different low income schools. And I sit on the board and got the volunteers 
and we went and fit every kid and I had to put a Santy hat one, because once they 
got their stuff they brought it to me and it went in the bag… but well…. The 
children’s place just right down the road here, one way or the other, I cant 
remember exactly where, I helped build the equipment there. And that was donated 
by our local 834, and when we were still with what is now Spirit and a large group, 
our community service committee, this is the union’s committee, would come up 
with… we would always get names of someone who is retired member or retired 
Boeing employee, whether it was salary or hourly, it didn’t make no difference, and 
people turned the names into us on the committee and Boeing was really good 
about hey, we will take care of the labor. And Boeing would take care of the bill and 
we would have no idea how many wheelchair ramps we have built in the counties 
around here. And it was labor– the air conditioning guy, maintenance it doesn’t 
make much difference. We got together and we put up wheelchair ramps, and we 
still do that with the United Way. We could talk for 6 hours. For 30 years, Boeing and 
the union have worked hand in hand on doing all kinds of stuff in this community. 
We are having a walk next month, Boeing and their families and any one who walks 
in it, St Louis and corporate give $50. And all that money goes in our pool, and we 
will be giving them away. And since I have been on the board we have had $400 to 
$500,000 a year. That’s all within Butler County, within 5 counties. Sedgwick County 
and those around. But we normally give a half million dollars and 90 or 95 percent is 
all money coming from me and everybody else that takes it out of their check every 
month. And what people don’t realize, and I am on the United Way has what they 
call allocations committees, and they pick people from wherever and you go out 
there and look at the agencies and see how they spent United Way money last year, 
and what they want this year. I’ve been doing that for 15, 16 years, and the year 
when they announced the split, we are talking about 7 or 8 years ago, Spirit. I went 
to the training I was supposed to go to and they said right there on the screen and 
said a quarter of our funding we don’t know about and some people said,” what do 
you mean you don’t know about?” and they said, “its coming from the south east 
part of Wichita and we don’t know with the split how it is going to affect giving.” I 
mean it was a big, big concern for the United Way of the Plains.  
 
But the funding did sort of dwindle down after the split? 
 
It dwindled down on the Spirit side, ma’am. Where they have a whole bunch more 
people. The Boeing side, the last two years, and actually since the announcement 
we’ve had more people sign up for the United Way that have not been in it for years, 
or have never been in it. More people are saying before I leave, while I am making 
good money. And everybody that goes to Seattle that is in it they have to sign a little 
card, and we have not had one that has been up there that their money doesn’t come 
back to this community. 
 
What are you coworkers, colleagues planning on doing when Boeing closes? 
 
About anything. I mean, anything and everything. I think our 73-year-old guy is 
finally going to retire, that’s what he tells me. I don’t think he will the ornery old 
coot. But, it’s just all over. A lot of our people don’t want to relocate. I mean, they are 
in their 50s, and families and stuff.  
 
Are there offers? 
 
Well see that is the thing. If you are an operations person like the guys that are going 
to work on the plane, they are making some packages. All of facilities, we don’t fall 
under operations; we fall under what they call SSG, Shared Services Group. So they 
wont give our guys a package. If you are in operations you can, right now, sign up 
and if they move you you will get $10,000 the first year then the next two years if 
you stay you get $10,000 each year. So it is like a $30,000 plus, plus, they will 
normally give those people time to get up there, like a week. You know, to transport 
yourself. We had a facilities guy go last year and he had to take vacation of his own 
for 6 days to drive him and his family up there. So it all depends on what group you 
are in. The most the people, they say, that most everybody that’s got a Yankee White 
clearance, and I have that, it takes 18 months to two years to get it. The FBI talks to 
your third grade school teacher and your neighbors and your banker and everybody 
in the world. But, if you have that kind of clearance, that’s not easy to get and at one 
time the military contract was that 125 Yankee Whites on site. They didn’t all have 
to be people touching the plan, they could be people like myself to accept the plane. 
Well, last we heard Texas doesn’t have them, and they have been working ever since 
the announcement, and they don’t have 40. And they fired a bunch of people 
because of what they found out about them, too. Before the announcement, in 2010 
they did a survey deal of anybody Yankee White. Wichita had 180, around 190, 
Seattle had 3 or 4, Philadelphia had like 16, Texas had none. So the majority of 
Yankee Whites have always been in Wichita. 
 
Because of Air Force One? 
 
Well, because of that and… I am not trying to say anybody is worse, but you have to 
keep a certain lifestyle. If you get picked up for DUI, you do bankrupt, they can pull 
that right now, Boom. We had two guys that got in a fight on our union bus during 
the strike, they lost their Yankee White clearances. Yeah, you have to report 
anything – you get a speeding ticket, you better report it. And if you report it, it is 
kind of up to their judgment whether you keep it or not. 
And it cost the government, well it cost Boeing, I just did my renewal this year, this 
last year. And they said that it costs the federal government.. if it goes through, 
you’ve got to get secret, once it goes through then you are going to apply for top 
secret, and once you get that then you can apply for Yankee White. It cost around 
$25,000 per person. If there is any hitch in it and you say well I think you should 
have checked this out, I don’t believe this is correct and then they start it over it is 
$50,000. And supposedly the government said they are not going to pay for those if 
it goes to Texas, that bill will be on Boeing. 
 
So what is going to be going on out at that Boeing plant? 
 
Something, there already is something, Learjet is looking to rent part of it. Spirit is 
already in it; one building has been for a while, probably 5 years 6 years. There will 
be something that is too big a building and too much revenue not too. 
 
Will Boeing leaving Wichita hurt the community? 
 
Oh yes, and if nothing else, personally, I think it is because of the giving. All the, if 
somebody is making $40 a hour, and I have this chili feed coming up this weekend. I 
have walked up to guys and they just hand you money. They are not going to come. 
They say buy tickets and mark kid on them, so when some family brings kids, the 
ladies give them free tickets. I mean that is just the way our people have been. But if 
you are making $40 a hour you can do that and feel comfortable. But if, if you don’t 
have that kind of giving people and United Way has already told me that we have 
less than 400 hourly people and they are already worried about when we shut 
down. And most groups of that size–3 or 400 people– they are really not a big deal. 
With our people it is. Because the amount of money that they are willing to give. And 
I couldn’t tell you how many of our guys are involved in school board members, I 
know one of them is in Douglas, one of them that you are going to talk to. And you 
know, they are out in the community and they don’t want to leave here, they want to 
help. But some of them are going to be forced to go to Seattle, I think.  
 
What about the psychological impact on the community? 
 
Yeah, yeah, we got retirees that come to our union meetings and one of them, he was 
an M plant business rep and he was our DBR for years, I mean I worked with him for 
years. And, uh, he called me up two days after the announcement and says, “is there 
anything I can do to help you?” Its going to be hard on a lot of people, it’s going to be 
hard on me, I know that. Face it, if you go to another job, depending on what you go 
into, whoever it is out there. Most the guys, youre not going to be getting time off. A 
lot of jobs you are going to have to be there 5, 10, 20 years before you get a few 
weeks of vacation. The way ours is build up, and most of us has been there so long 
that you know, we can get four weeks or more of vacation. Well, if there is an 
activity going on that they need help at we just clock half a day of vacation and we 
go help United Way. It ain’t hurting us, you know, because we are getting paid for it. 
I mean, we are using our vacation time and that’s helping us be there. I mean there 
are just so many things that people don’t look at that without that group– and this is 
not just hourly people by any means, we’ve got salaried people that are just as 
helpful. And we work a lot of projects together. And that wont be there. If I gotta go 
work somewhere for 16 dollars an hour, and take that kind of a cut from what I 
make now, I am going to have to stay there. I mean everybody is going to have to 
shrink down, and a lot of people are going to retire. A lot of people have been there 
long enough that they will just say I am going to retire. And a lot of people when it 
happened, Spirit came about. They have a lot of what they call double dippers, and 
what it amounts to is they are over 55 and activated their Boeing retirement and 
then started working for Spirit, so they are getting their Boeing retirement while 
working at Spirit. And I think that that will happen with a lot of our guys, any one 
over 55, why not? Our retirement right now goes on years of service and right now, 
because of January 1 it went to 85. So it is 85 dollars times how ever many years you 
have been there. Ten years or thirty or whatever. In 2016 it goes all the way up to 
91 dollars, well 91 dollars for a guy who has been there thirty years is a good chunk 
of money. Enough where if he has paid off things he could survive. And I think that is 
what a lot of our guys will do. They’ll activate their retirement, they’ll take their 
severance, and they will go to work somewhere else. They don’t need to make as 
much, and they can still stay in that same kind of frame of when they really want to 
totally retire and that. but, a lot of our people don’t have a lot of other skills besides 
aircraft. 
 
I have friends in other states that have come here, and I don’t want to say that they 
don’t understand… well it would be like me going to some friends I have up in 
Michigan, UAW all their life, their grandparents all they talk about is colors, and they 
know about every color. But I remember going to church and something would fly 
over and would ask, what is that dad? And he would tell us exactly what plane it 
was, Yeah it’s a KC, he was part of the KC program when they first got started with 
the military and you know, it is such a history and ingrained in people and you’ve 
got second and third generation air craft people in this city, whether it is Cessna, 
Boeing or whatever different plants. So I think that history is really going to bother a 
lot of people. There are a lot of people from other Locals like Raytheon, Cessna, Lear 
that they just say we will take anybody you guys got. I mean, our guys if they want to 
stay around here and work aircraft, they can probably get a job. But, it’s not going to 
be even near the pay, even if they go to Spirit. Which is about the highest paid one 
besides us around here. I mean, if I walked to Spirit tomorrow, I would lose at least 
$12 to $15 an hour. And that is the best one. Lear is a lot less, Raytheon, Cessna, 
most of our guys, well if they are flight guys, they would for sure lose $20 an hour, at 
least $15 to $20 because most of the places are paying in the 20s, and our people 
some of them cant even remember when they made $20 an hour. I mean, they are 
more up to that $41, that kind of stuff. It is just sad that part of it.  
 
Film Woman: have you decided what you are going to do? 
 
No ma’am. My wife, it makes her no difference. We could go to Seattle tomorrow and 
she would have things packed before I got home. If she wasn’t in China. But I don’t 
want her to… her business is about three years now and I mean, her business has 
gone unreal she’s got anywhere from 12 to 17 patients everyday that she is there at 
$60 some a pop. I said, I don’t want you to relocate, if I go there it is probably going 
to be me going there and then flying home and her flying up there. Thank goodness 
we don’t got no small kids right now. We got a grandson, and he will be 2, but he 
goes to Alaska when she gets back from Afghanistan, that is her next assignment. I 
thought Everett was close [to Seattle] then she googled it for me– I’m not a 
computer person, and I said yay! Two, three hours, it is 3,000 miles from everything! 
It ain’t no closer than being right here almost. But I think I am going to look more 
into the safely stuff, and my wife is kinda pushing some of that, because I am … 17, 
18 years I have been on this site. And the members have thought I am doing a good 
job and elected me and then the other job that I held was a full time job, well you 
start adding this stuff up, well it is pretty good stack of resume for that type of work. 
So, I don’t know. 
 
How much time do you think you have at Boeing?  
 
That I have at Boeing? 35 years this April.  
 
I mean left? 
 
Whenever the last plane leaves and they are wanting it to leave at the end of this 
year. They really, the flight people don’t think they will get done with it until 2 
maybe 3 months into next year. But our management, and I will give the second 
level, not first level but second level a lot of credit, really kind of went to bat to say, 
let these guys close it down. This is their house. Don’t bring a contracting group in 
here to shut it down, and so far the upper management we have in Seattle and St 
Louis is supporting that, unless that changes. Which, you never can tell. If they allow 
that to happen, then maybe mid year next year. Somewhere around June. And 
according to what he is wanting to do, which I think is a very honorable thing: 
Instead of doing onsies, twosies layoffs, that is the reason we are going to start 
mowing. I suggested bringing a couple of other things back in house that would save 
them about 150,000. And if they do what he is wanting to do we will all get a layoff 
notice at the same time. They are going to have to layoff a few people at the end of 
this year when the buildings down south around 47th street close, but that is mainly 
going to housekeepers and possibly one AC guy that takes care of that area. And he 
had no clearance like myself and the other one. Yeah.