Teachers Offstage--The Occupational Folklore of Wisconsin Teachers: Archie Green Fellows 
Project, 2013-2014 
Diane Thompson interview, 2013-11-21 : interview conducted by Mary M. Hoefferle 
Interview ID: afc2013017_00862 
Date: November 21, 2013 
Duration: 01:15:52 
00:00:00 
Introduction: Mary Hoefferle interviewing elementary art teacher Diane 
Thompson at Riverside Elementary School in Fond du Lac, Wisconsin on November 21, 2013. 
Diane read and signed the release form. 
00:00:21 
Educational background and years of service: started teaching at 34 years of 
age. Graduated from UW Stout with Bachelors Degree. Teaching for 20 years. Started at Jr. 
High for a couple of years, enjoyable but frustrating. Transferred to elementary. Also taught 
cognitively disabled high school students. 
00:03:39 
Typical day. Arrive at 7:30, set up for morning classes, which arrive at 8:30. Back 
to back classes until noon. 30 to 40 minutes of outside recess duty, 20 minutes for lunch, then 
teach two more classes until 3:05 when the last class leaves the room. Teaches six, 45-minute 
classes a day. All specialty teachers have to shoulder most duties during the school day due to 
scheduling. 
00:06:08 
Grading, weekly schedule, contract time: Students used to take art in an 80 
minute block every two weeks. Then it went to 45 minutes for most classes, then 30 minutes 
for kindergarten once a week. Starting two years ago, it’s 45 minutes once every six days. 
Really have to keep on her toes. Teaches 745 different students every six days. Grading and 
contract time: All on line now. New technology staff trying to figure out new grading program. 
Now, have two weeks to enter grades for 745 students. This will take up her nights and 
weekends. Contract time is 7:30 – 4:00, but now there are before and after school meetings, 
so rarely get out before 4:30. Travel between two schools. Teaches day 3, 4, 5, and at the 
other school, days 6, 1, and 2. If we have a snow day, then everything gets messed up. 
00:09:09 
Morning ritual and outside of class work: She shares room with 4K interim 
person. One of the storage rooms is now the 4K person’s office, and Dianne visits with her 
every morning. Also check in (mail) at the office because no time to do so during the day. 
Check email, then set up supplies/materials. Do lesson plans on the weekends at home. Do 
grading, planning, and research new ideas all at home – no time during the school day. Plans a 
week ahead of time.  
00:12:10 
Very little contact with adults during the day – lunch hours do not coincide. At 
one school, she doesn’t have lunch duty so is able to get to know more staff members. Diane 
usually tells stories at lunch about students. Perks of working with elementary children – they 
applaud when you do something right. Colleagues don’t give you that. 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
1
00:14:58 
Pros and cons to the job: She likes the interaction with children, actual time 
teaching, wonderful to see when students get excited and finally understand. Changes to the 
job: ensure that other people have a better understanding of what art teachers do. Of the 
Encore teachers, the art teachers are the only ones still traveling to double buildings. Laid off 
one art teacher in the district due to new six day rotation. People don’t realize how much prep 
time is required for back to back classes of all different grade levels. Can’t leave supplies out in 
one school since the room is used by Boys and Girls Club. 
00:20:30 
Relationships with staff and faculty: Love the custodian. Need the custodian on 
her side. They are another group of people that others don’t appreciate. They have the same 
issues and concerns – no one understands the amount of work and things they do. Mutual 
admiration and help. She talks to the night custodians every night. Classroom teachers feel 
overwhelmed. Too much on their plates.  
There has always been accountability, but now classroom teachers have all the assessments 
on-line. Because reading and math have become such a focus, they want everyone, including 
specialists, teaching literacy. She doesn’t mind including reading, but doesn’t feel there is 
enough time writing. Specialists are not included in the professional development for how to 
apply new curriculum but are expected to integrate literacy. Even need to read and write in 
physical ed. 
00:27:47 
Relationship with administrators and community support for art: Overall, good 
relationship. Gives examples of support. Fond du lac is not a city that’s really into the arts. Art 
is not very much on the radar. The music in the district is huge – parent support group. If push 
comes to shove, sports win out. People who think they can do your job better than the 
teacher. Very creative parents who are frustrated not being teachers.  
00:33:18 
Multicultural student population: Dianne is trying to teach more cultural things 
(huge Hispanic population). Three or four schools in the district are now very diverse. Once 
school is primarily Hispanic, one has lots of Hmong, another with many African Americans. 
Pockets of diversity. 
00:34:30 
Changes in education: Boomerang effect of programs – same idea, different 
form. More worry and concern about job stability due to economics – where do districts cut 
first? Usually specialists. Sees this concern statewide. Art teachers trying to be everything to 
everybody to ensure they don’t lose their jobs. More and more expected for no 
pay/compensation. To do all of it, lose own family in the middle of it.  
00:41:00 
Changes with students: Very distinct changes. When first started, had a handful 
of students who were real pistols, but mostly silly, off-task behavior. Now, have many 
students who are SO angry. The anger comes out in screaming, throwing, hitting. More 
disrespect and loss of empathy is huge. Not sure why. Some groups of kids just don’t like each 
other at all. Parents blame teachers for child’s poor behavior. More students born into 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
2
poverty. Some children are so emotionally disturbed, they have to be in a self-contained 
classroom. More students identified as having emotional disorders.  
 
00:46:00 
Public perception of teachers: About five years ago, saw a huge disrespect for 
teachers in general. The state protests brought it to a head. Perception that school is just 
having fun. Outsiders don’t realize the problems children have today – broken families, abuse, 
transients. Fears the widening gap between rich and poor. Perception that if we can just get 
the schools right, all problems will be solved. 
 
00:51:27 
School-related jokes among the staff: There used to be, but the stress level in 
the last few years is so high that there isn’t much joking anymore. When we pass each other in 
the halls, we might make funny faces at each other. All the economics thing, unions, 
protesting – people lost their sense of humor. Just too much. All teachers need a sense of 
humor.  
 
00:53:33 
Advice for new teachers: It’s not like anything you expect. College level 
instruction is not realistic. Education is taught in pieces. The classroom is highly complex – mix 
of student needs, not prepared for that. This is a job that college can only prepare you so far. 
My first year, I taught in a cafeteria. Or how do you organize teaching art on a cart? Be 
prepared to admit what you don’t know. Describes dos and don’ts with teacher attire. 
 
01:03:00 
Professional development and teacher assessment: District provides in-service 
days. Specialists used to have to sit through writing or reading curriculum workshop – waste of 
time for Encore people. Now, the specialists have been given the time to figure out for 
themselves how to integrate core standards. Takes six college credits every five years. All new 
teachers are on the Professional Development Plan. Salary schedule is more complicated 
because of two different paths for professional development. Principals were supposed to 
observe every teacher three times as part of new teacher evaluation plan, connected to pay 
raises – using corporate evaluation in a setting that’s not conducive to it. Teachers not 
prepared for the changes in student population. 
 
01:15:52 
End of interview 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
3