Patti Price Interview Index 
00:00:00  
Introduction. June 20, 2014, Ruth Olson in Madison, Wisconsin talking with Patti 
Price, teacher at Augusta Middle School. 
Born in Chippewa Falls, WI in April of 1954. Identifies ethnicity as part Austrian and part 
Polish. Grew up in Cadott, WI, a small community. As an adult, she has learned that her family 
really didn’t pay much attention to ethnicity. She thinks that because her parents, as first 
generation Americans, just really wanted to blend in. Her family didn’t celebrate traditional 
holidays or foods.   
00:01:33  
Her great grandfather was a teacher, but her dad was a plumber-electrician and 
owned his own business. Her mother helped him with the business. Dad was mayor of Cadott for 
a while, very active in the community. Patti got into teaching mid-life. She lost her husband and 
needed a career. It was really a time of change in her life. She went back to school to be a social 
worker, in her 40s at the time. She couldn’t get the answers she was looking for. Classes kept 
talking about programs that people could be on, when Patti thought people needed to take care of 
themselves. So she thought, maybe she needed to be in education to make a difference. Went to 
UW-Eau Claire and got her degree in elementary education and special education, and then went 
on to get her Masters degree through professional development at UW-La Crosse. 
00:03:45  
First teaching job was in Unity school district—Balsam Lake, Centuria. She 
taught elementary special needs kids, and loved it. But it was further away from the Chippewa 
Falls area that she wanted to come back to. She was a widow and had family in Chippewa Falls, 
so really wanted to come back. So after one year, she applied for a job in Augusta at the middle 
school. She took the job, thinking she would keep it until she could get something in elementary. 
She fell in love with the whole middle school population and has been there ever since, fifteen 
years. In Unity 1999-2000, and Augusta from 2000 on. 
00:05:32  
Typical day at school. Day starts at 7:45 am, and that’s when Patti typically 
arrives. She has a wonderful aide who works in her classroom who is usually there before her. 
Her room is full of kids before school starts because they like to hang out there, and they are 
welcome to do that. Patti finds that the energy hits her when she enters the building. The air is 
electric from the energy of the kids. Patti starts out by making sure everything is in order—for 
example, that they have their lunch menu because for middle school that is really important. First 
hour has been for many years a math class; she usually teaches three sections of math—6th, 7th 
and 8th grade math. Then teaches three sections of reading—6th, 7th and 8th grade. She teaches 
remedial reading in a self-contained classroom. Her classes are small, usually 3 to 6 kids. Most 
of the kids are several years behind in reading and/or math, so it is important to Patti to get them 
caught up to high school. In the morning, before school starts, about 15-20 kids are in her 
classroom. They congregate there. There are other classrooms that are popular. They come in to 
get help with homework before school starts. Patti has a bunny in her classroom, “They love 
Larry.” She has kids come in to see Larry and be sure his cage is clean. They come in and bring 
breakfast; Patti thinks it is a soft spot to land before the day begins. Lot of kids wait for you to 
say Good Morning to them; it’s the way they start their day. 
00:08:32 
First Hour is not an hour long. Classes are 43 minutes long. There are five periods 
before they break for lunch, lunch is about 35 minutes, then 3 periods after that. Patti’s schedule 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
1
depends on the school’s matrix, to determine when she can pull kids out of class. So she has to 
wait to see how the school’s schedule is set before she knows what she can do with her kids. She 
teaches reading and math, but it depends on the kids’ needs. She has had years where the kids are 
strong enough that Patti can go into a reading class, take her kids with her, and she just modifies 
and co-teaches with another reading teacher. She has to be really flexible. Ideally, Patti parallels 
what she teaches with what is going on in another classroom. What has worked best for her is to 
really get to know her kids and their parents. She designs her curriculum not only based on the 
kids’ reading levels and abilities but also on their interests. She has a wide array of novels. She 
has a lot of boys; there is a higher percentage of boys with learning disabilities than girls. So, 
she’ll design a unit based on their needs; they did a series this year with readings based on 
French voyageurs. Patti likes to take the time to pre-teach the unit before the reading, so they 
have the historical background and can understand the food, the dress, the customs etc. of the 
people they are going to read about. She likes to throw in a lot of extras to set the hook for 
reading. So for that unit, they made jerky, and she brought in a lot of clothing so they could dress 
up like voyageurs. Once you set them up like that, they can go anywhere with the reading. They 
will work so hard on vocabulary, work so hard on decoding and on inferences. You can take 
them anywhere you want once you get them hooked on a story. It’s fun when they ask for a 
sequel. Sometimes she can show them a movie and they can get into the differences between the 
book and the film version. It’s fun because kids always prefer the books. 
00:13:45  
Patti loves teaching, she is really creative. They do lots of fun things because they 
can; she has lots of small groups and she has really supportive parents. So, for the voyageur unit, 
they read about pine tea, and people went out and gathering pine needles so they could have pine 
tea. It all supports the magic of the book. She has learned that she can do the same thing with 
math. You can’t have as much fun with math, but you can have some fun. Her middle school 
kids aren’t so sophisticated that they don’t want to get their snow gear on so they can go out and 
learn circumference by making snowballs. They still like to play. They do some cooking, they 
have pancake days, where they work in fractions. Patti wants to make learning fun. To fit this 
into a class period, Patti has to have several things up her sleeve. To teach math by making 
snowballs, the conditions have to be right and they have to have the right clothes. They have to 
make a snowman and be able to measure the circumference, the area, the radius of the head and 
the body. It’s a lot of fun; Patti acknowledges that she gets a lot of support from her school. 
00:16:40  
Who do you count on the most? Her paraprofessional, who has been with her for 
ten years. They are pretty opposite in their skills. The paraprofessional is much more organized, 
more of a linear thinker. Patti is all over the place; she pulls the reins in on Patti once in a while. 
They have gotten to be good friends. They are like a pair of really good draft horses. She knows 
just where to find things for Patti. She can take over resource hour for Patti; she is an unsung 
hero. Patti thinks that paraprofessionals need to be looked at as professionals, because Patti is 
aware of just how valuable they are and how much the kids depend on them. Patti handles the 
middle school special ed students; there are three staff who handle the elementary special ed 
students in Augusta. The early childhood person is under that umbrella. There is also the CDS 
teacher who teaches the severe kids and picks up any extra scheduling needs, both in the high 
school and the middle school. Two special education teachers in the high school, one for learning 
disabilities and one for behavioral needs. They all do a lot of collaboration. They do a lot of work 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
2
transitioning kids from elementary to middle school. It’s really important to the kids and to the 
parents. They need to know Patti is their kid’s advocate in school, that she has their back.  
00:21:25  
Patti not only collaborates with the other special ed teachers, she works really 
closely with the general education teachers, especially reading and math, because she has kids 
who go to those classes and then come in to her during resource time for some modifications of 
assignments and to take tests. The administrators often come and ask about how to handle certain 
things with certain kids, if there are suggestions on how to help. Patti feels that she can really 
count on their help if problems come up. At Augusta, they have been lucky to be able to schedule 
an hour a day for collaboration. It’s not always Patti collaborating with someone else; it might be 
the three English teachers getting together for that period. Twice a week there is a middle school 
staff meeting to be sure they are all on the same page. They are a small school, and they see each 
other after class in the hall, and they check on kids then. It really is quality education because the 
kids have so many quality people making sure they do well. 
00:23:57  
Patti has learned to always schedule a prep time for herself. You need that 45 
minute period every day, otherwise you get bogged down with the daily paperwork—not the 
IEPs or assessments—there is just a ton of paperwork and scheduling, and Patti’s own work that 
she is correcting for her own students. Noon hour comes along and she is rarely having lunch on 
her own; she always has kids with her. She has kids who don’t do well in a big loud cafeteria full 
of kids, either because of autism or just shyness. Usually anywhere between four and eight kids 
at lunch. In the afternoon students leave around 3:20, and the teachers’ contract time is 3:45. 
Patti usually leaves school around 5:20, catching up on paperwork and getting ready for the next 
day. Her classes are small, but she is still planning for six classes. Her lessons are pretty cool; 
she takes time to be sure the kids are going to bite into what they are doing. The whole thing 
with special needs kids is to make them believe that they can do it. They may not be the best in 
math, but they have got to see that they can make progress. At the end of the month, they will 
know more than they did at the beginning of the month. That’s what keeps them healthy and 
motivated. About two nights a week, Patti does school work at home. She has IEPs she has to 
write up—Individualized Education Plans, gives their background, sets goals for the year, and if 
they are 14, goes into transition for what they will do in high school. Because she has so many 
people in her classroom during the day, she can’t get serious work like that done at school so she 
has to take it home—or sometimes the school can send a sub in so Patti can go to a different 
classroom to do the paperwork. This year she had 21 students. That’s a lot of paperwork. 
00:29:00  
Kids coming into the classroom at lunch is an informal arrangement. It’s what’s 
best for the kids. Patti will also shoo them out, if she feels they are strong enough to be out there 
because she doesn’t want them overly dependent on her. But with autism, you have to start 
small. Certain things happen in middle school that are part of the yearly calendar. When the 
school year starts, they have orientation so parents can meet the teachers and see the classroom 
and lockers, and get the supplies that they need. Then as the year rolls on, there is some 
involvement in homecoming activities, but to a small degree since they try to stay separate from 
the high school. Then, Halloween and all that fun stuff. Usually there is a middle school dance 
the last two periods of the day. Then, in Augusta community, hunting season is a big deal so they 
get into that and Thanksgiving. Also there is state testing first week or two of November. Then 
there is Christmas break, and then there is January, February and March, pretty intense academic 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
3
times. Patti is a forensics coach so that activity starts then. It’s really a great activity for kids. 
Forensics is about three months. They will be starting “Smarter Balance” testing in the spring, 
probably a better idea, since it isn’t fair to test kids on curriculum they haven’t covered yet. 
00:34:05  
Patti likes her classroom, it is really nice. It has a huge window which looks onto 
an empty space, but an Eagle Scout is going to be putting a flower garden in for Patti and other 
plants so she and her students can go out and read. Patti doesn’t like her classroom to be really 
cluttered, because the students bring in so much clutter. But it is very important for her kids to 
have a classroom pet. They still have the need to cuddle with something sometimes. Pets don’t 
care if you are popular, if you did poorly during a game, they just love you. Patti has one comfy 
chair, if someone isn’t feeling well, or is having a bad day or needs a quiet place to read. Her 
classroom is set up with tables because proximity is important to them. She’d lose them if they 
had to sit at desks in rows. She works with them in small groups at the table. She keeps her kids 
hydrated. She has coffee mugs they can fill with water. She feeds them. These are hungry, 
growing kids, maybe the parents couldn’t afford to pay the lunch bill. So she has stuff like a 
container of cereal, pretzels, etc. Her classroom is an inviting place. They like quirky things in 
middle school, so she has lamps that look like tornadoes. She uses technology in her classroom. 
She uses an iPad for her calendar, or to look up videos to show something like the Dust Bowl 
right away. Her kids are so attention deficit that even to walk to the back of the room to look up 
something like the Dust Bowl is too much of a distraction.  She has a projector in her room and a 
smartboard, but she doesn’t use them that often because she is right there at the table with the 
iPad. Proximity is a huge issue for kids with ADD. Also uses individual white boards. Do math 
that way, so they can see how to do it. Patti does a lot of drawing because her kids are visual 
learners. If you can diagram it or show it in a visual way, they will be stronger in the concept 
than if you just talk about it. The individual white boards are just pieces of shower board cut into 
smaller pieces, and they work just great.  
00:41:10  
As far as the curriculum they use, it’s all based at the kids’ instructional levels. 
You have got to start where they are at. Patti has a ton of stuff after fifteen years. She can usually 
catch their attention at the level they are at. At lunch time, there is just barely time to put things 
away and grab a sandwich, then want to be out in the hallway for when the kids come back, to 
watch. Patti feels she has a lot of support from her colleagues; she gets along well with 
everybody. You just find ways to work well with everyone. You have to, you have to keep the 
lines of communication open for the kids. Patti is one of the senior people now, they have a lot of 
longer staff that she learns from, and they appreciate what Patti brings to the table. Patti’s 
administration has been pretty strong. You always hear complaints, but Patti’s strategy is that 
when she goes in with a problem she also goes in with a possible solution. That usually has 
worked. She feels respected. The administration has a job to do, and the teachers may not always 
see them solving things, but maybe don’t see the whole picture.  Teachers at Augusta receive 
some recognition for what they do. They are on a point system, get points for evaluation, and 
points for unpaid committees and extra activities. She is in line for an increase in salary when 
they can afford it. She has been recognized; been up for a Herb Kohl award, runner up three 
years in a row. Got an Excellence in Education award from Eau Claire County. 
00:48:20 
Patti feels she understands the culture of her school. She doesn’t always fit in, but 
she understands it. She understands the hunting culture. Augusta is rather isolated, doesn’t have 
a lot 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
4
of diversity; Patti doesn’t have a lot of tolerance for racial or gender jokes. She wants her kids to 
feel comfortable but she draws the line at that kind of thing. Patti feels that the public has a 
stereotype of teachers. In her area, teachers are among the best paid people in the area, so people 
think they are rich and don’t work hard. Get paid summers off. But the people who believe that 
stereotype are the ones who believe stereotypes about other groups as well. In Wisconsin over 
the last few years, teachers have been demonized and have taken the brunt of a lot of abuse. It’s 
been painful and hard to not feel bad about it. Almost all teachers put their hearts into the 
profession and do it for the right reason. Patti feels a lot of support from teachers in her district 
and teachers that understand special education. Special ed teachers are a little different because 
they are asking kids to do stuff that is really hard for them. Maybe because Patti entered teaching 
in middle age, she has never felt she had a network of teachers across the state but she has a lot 
of support from teachers she crosses paths with. It’s an actual rather than an abstract relationship. 
00:53:20  
Lots of stories about kids. Teaching is a lot like acting. Even if you meet a 
student that makes you crazy, find one little thing you like and work with that, and they will 
grow on you. If you work with people, it must be that way with every profession. Look for the 
good in people. Act as if you are having the time of your life, and you will find yourself 
believing it. “I don’t think teaching is for everybody. It’s a career you either have a heart for or 
you don’t You can know a lot and not be a good teacher.” Patti has told some stories to younger 
staff, but doesn’t want to be that person who talks about how things used to be. She has a lot of 
student teachers, and it’s a positive experience. She talks with them about the good and bad 
experiences; it’s a lot of hard work. She really enjoys the flow of the school year. Patti loves the 
humor of kids, notes they write and things they say. She keeps a file of that stuff. A boy who 
used to stay with her after school—if Patti left the room, he’d leave a note on the board “See you 
tomato!” She never had the heart to correct him. What has really changed over the years is that 
teachers now always have to prove that they are capable teachers. Patti doesn’t mind people 
coming into her classroom and watching her, but so much criticism of teachers these days. With 
the standardized testing, especially for people with learning disabilities, you can’t expect them to 
always do well. She thinks we are shifting academically from standard skills—reading, math—to 
more abstract skills like inferencing, how to apply math. Important but hard to do if you don’t 
have basic skills. 
What makes her most proud is having the kids come back. She feels she has been a really 
positive influence. She and the parents have created a good place for them. The part of her job 
that makes her feel most burnt out is the paperwork and the emphasis on data. To refresh herself, 
she goes home and spends time with her family and her husband. He is so interested in 
everything going on with kids; it’s good to have that partnership. He can tell her “this is just 
another bump in the road.” When she lost her first husband, she had a big life change and needed 
a way to support herself. She feels that having this career made her whole. She has remarried 
another man who is very supportive, and she can share the joys with. Augusta is a small town, 
and the teachers use the resources they have in town all the time—go spend time with the senior 
citizens, play cards with them. The kids’ grandmas and grandpas—when they do “make a 
difference” day, they know the seniors they help. The community supports the middle school 
play, and needs it. People really live their lives in Augusta, it’s not a bedroom community. 
01:06:55 End of interview 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
5