Page 1 of 6 
 
Interviewee: Dr. Ann Stanton 
Date: 06-19-2019 
Interviewer: Charitie V. Hyman 
Location: Bay View Public Library, Milwaukee 
File Name: afc2018032_05042_ms01 
Background Noise: People moving around in library; due to mix-up we were sitting in open area 
rather than in meeting room and there is some feedback or echo. Some vehicle traffic from 
outside.  
 
Summary of Interview: Ann Stanton describes her introduction to nursing through an 
apprenticeship program in her hometown of Manitowoc, WI. She talks about working as a CNA 
her last year of high school and soon completing college courses to become an LPN and then an 
RN. She says she’s attracted to fast-paced, dynamic jobs, but also recognizes the stress in these 
environments. She describes some set-back she had before turning things around to go back to 
school for her PhD. She currently works in a crisis unit, teaches at a tech college and plans to go 
back to school to become a prescriber. 
 
 
Time 
Content Description 
0.00.00 
Introduction 
0.00.28 
She states she is from Manitowoc, which she describes as a conservative blue-
collar town. She talks about her family; three brothers, middle child, “tom-boy.”  
00.01.28 
She talks about high school. She hated school and was going to drop out; her 
mom found this apprenticeship program that gave college and high school credits 
simultaneously. It was in nursing and she got her CNA license; her senior year 
she worked part-time and went to school part-time. She says it was “ideal” for 
her.  
00.02.47 
“Once I became a CNA, I was like ‘This is awesome; I love this.’” Her mom 
picked the nursing program; it was the “only one oriented to women” out of the 
programs. Her older brother went to medical school.  
00.04.08 
She states both of her parents were social workers employed for the county 
though they started in child welfare. She notes that her mom worked at a technical 
college and that same college was where the apprenticeship program was based.  
00.05.07 
She talks about her first job as a CNA which was when she was still in high 
school; it was a county nursing home. She started there is 2002. She states she 
really enjoyed working there; she gives examples of some of the patients she 
worked with and what some of her duties were. “Originally, I was like, I’ll be a 
CNA forever. I don’t need to go to school.” About 6 months in, she says she 
realized “This is extremely hard … This is physically exhausting. I worked 5am 
to 1pm.”  
00.07.56 
She describes the staff there and a mentor that she worked with, “She really 
showed me the ropes.” She talks about another nurse who was very caring that 
she remembers.  
00.08.50 
Charitie asks about the training. Ann says it was 8 weeks at the beginning of fall 
semester, she had clinical practice, then took a test to get certified. She worked 
Page 2 of 6 
 
“side by side” with her mentor. Reports that she didn’t realize it, but this place 
had great staffing compared to later jobs she had.  
0.10.20 
While she was still working there, she talks about how she became an LPN and 
the nursing home was sold. They moved to a new facility that was brand new.  
0.11.23 
She notes that she kept going to school and after she finished her CNA courses 
and worked a bit, in the Spring semester she took more nurses classes and then 
she went into the LPN program at the tech college. It took her 3 years total to get 
her RN license from the same tech college. She describes herself as being lucky 
that her mom put her into that program.  
0.13.13 
She describes some of the differences between the licenses (CNA, LPN, RN), but 
also notes that the roles really overlap in actual practice. CNA is “basic, frontline 
staff.” They work with activities of daily living (ADLs). Medications are added to 
the role of an LPN; more planning; physical assessment; wound care. “The 
difference between an RN and LPN is a subject of debate.” She notes it’s 
supposed to be that more assessment occurs with an RN role, but at the same time 
an LPN is “An underpaid RN in certain situations.” She emphasizes that there is 
role overlap, “I’m a CNA at heart.” She describes herself as one of the nurses who 
will always help a patient with any needs.  
0.17.04 
As an RN, she worked in intensive care (ICU) at a larger hospital in Milwaukee in 
“medical respiratory” ICU. “I had barely any idea what I was doing but they had a 
great orientation program.” The orientation was about 6 months. She describes 
her first day there. She had shadowed one nurse before she accepted the job offer 
because she was initially uncertain about the job. Her first experience was with a 
super sick patient; Ann describes thinking then it may be an exciting job.  
0.19.06 
She worked nights, which was where most of the opening were; she worked four 
nights a week—“two twelves and two eights.” They had a variety of options for 
scheduling for nurses, some of which was based on seniority. She worked there 
from 2006  to end of 2008.  
0.20.38 
She talks about why she liked it. “It was really exciting. It was really cool to be 
there with people and their families in such dire, drastic, dramatic situations. To 
really feel like you were helping.” “People were dying, we were trying to stop 
them from dying, coding … We did a lot of CPR.” She notes she didn’t work that 
much with families because she was on nights, but some were quite memorable.  
0.22.30 
She describes leaving the hospital, “Things kind of took a turn for me where it got 
super stressful and overwhelming. I ended up getting fired. It was a great thing 
now, which is over 10 years later. I ended up really getting a bad drug problem 
and I got fired for that. That was the end of 2008.” She talks about losing her 
nursing license and going to treatment.  
0.23.29 
She describes the state-based rehab program for nurses in Wisconsin which she 
got into. It is a way for nurses to regain their license. She finished the program 
and got a job at a nursing home in 2009. “It was the worst time to be fired as a 
nurse because the hospitals were eliminating nurses, replacing them with medical 
assistants. Not to mention my record. Completely competent nurses with years of 
experience were losing their jobs because of the recession. It was horrible 
timing.” 
Page 3 of 6 
 
0.25.08 
Charitie follows up with her about the nursing rehabilitation program. “It is a 
problem among nurses.” Notes it is about 6% per population of nurses for 
substance abuse, but it is probably underreported. Two factors are access [to 
medications] and the stress. “Some of our work is really traumatic and we aren’t 
always the best at setting boundaries and taking care of ourselves. There’s not a 
ton of resources for coping with the crazy things that we see and do. We’re not 
really taught that stuff in school or at least I wasn’t. I don’t remember learning 
anything about that.” The program, she says, is administered through the state; 
there are two tracks: voluntary and involuntary. “I didn’t self-report. I had no 
idea; I was messed up.” The program reviews the nurses’ record and develops a 
specific plan for each nurse to make the state feel they are competent and safe to 
practice. For example, five years of therapy and 72 drug screens a year. Therapy 
and involvement in AA/NA are necessarily; you have to call in daily. “It was 
pretty intense and rightfully so. It’s a serious thing. I can’t deny that it was 
dangerous. I was dangerous at the end.”  She says that the individuals can pick the 
kind of therapy that works for them, whether inpatient or intensive outpatient.  
0.29.28 
She explains she only worked at the nursing home for about a year and then she 
moved to a care management agency. She explains what that is; it is for low-
income individuals on Medicaid you need long-term care. These programs were 
previously managed by the county to help people stay in their homes for elderly 
low-income and developmentally disable adults. The state took over and started 
the Family Care Program [which is what she worked for]. Part of the goal was to 
cut costs.  
0.31.14 
She talks more about the financial aspects of the program. “I was always looking 
… I’m caring about this person, but I’m also caring about the budge, which was 
tough.” “I saw myself and still see myself as an advocate for people … They were 
pushing to cut costs more and more over time.” She talks about getting very 
frustrated with the program and the tension between cost and what was best for 
the person. Her case load there [the number of patients she worked with] was 
about 80, she says. At times, she did go into people’s homes. They worked in 
teams with a social worker.  
0.33.40 
She describes more of the tasks with the patients at this job. She coordinated with 
other agencies. “It was tons of paperwork.” They had to fill out forms for 
“everything.” States it was frustrating and became very stressful to cut services 
for people. “I had worked with them for years; I had established so much trust and 
then I had to take this service out of this person’s home. I have to tell them, ‘No, 
we can’t pay their family member.’” She says it started out great, but over time 
created an “ethical conflict” between services and care. “What is best for this 
person is not what my job is telling me to do.” “It’s so infuriating when we put 
money over people. That was one thing I learned in intensive care; this person’s 
insurance changes whether they live or die.”  
0.36.40 
She describes leaving and moving to a new position in 2013. “I was getting antsy; 
they were putting a lot of pressure on us ... You saw the arm of the corporations.” 
While there, she talks about getting interested in research because she had to look 
up all this drug information for insurance purposes. She also got interested in 
mental health. She talks about working with specific patients other nurses didn’t 
Page 4 of 6 
 
want to due to her own experiences with addiction and recovery. She applied for a 
nurse practitioner program, but she didn’t get in.  
0.40.35 
She talks about contacting UW Milwaukee about their nurse practitioner program 
and how she actually ended up getting a PhD in nursing. She wanted to do 
research and liked writing, so she started the program. Notes that the degrees in 
nursing are rather confusing; people assume she can prescribe medicine because 
she has a PhD in nursing. She wants to go back to school to become a prescriber.  
0.42.40 
She describes her research on the mental health of mothers of minor children after 
they’re released from jail or prison. We chat about Paul Farmer the anthropologist 
and global health. She talks about “structural violence” in her own research and 
work. She visited her cousin in Uganda prior to graduate school; she decided not 
to do global health. She then looked into the U.S. as far as what she could study 
with similar issues of health and access. She notes she had contacts with people in 
the justice system and the impact that had, which is how she got interested in her 
dissertation topic. “The criminal justice system is f-ed and we … It’s a human 
rights issue and it’s right here.” Her professors were initially worried about IRB, 
human subjects access, but she eventually settled on doing a qualitative methods 
study and thus, interviewed the mothers (mostly in Milwaukee).  
0.47.40 
She talks about the jobs she held while she was in graduate school. Her record 
was an obstacle. She ended up working at Rogers Hospital in mental health. “Just 
not practicing and loving practicing was such a tough thing. I was going crazy just 
writing a lot; it was too theoretical almost.”  
0.49.12 
She talks about getting stressed with working at Rogers and trying to work on 
IRB approval [to do research with human subjects]; she decided she did not want 
to go into academia, felt there was a high level of burnout. That same semester 
she applied for a job in crisis at a county program.  
0.50.32 
She describes working for the county at the Mobile Crisis Team; she worked a 
while full-time but is now part-time there because she teaches at a tech college. 
She talks more about the tasks of this job for the crisis team. She works with 
people in the community who are having or at risk for a mental health crisis; for 
example, anyone who is placed on a Chapter 51, danger to self or others. “We’re 
the doctors’ eyes and ears. We go out and interview them.” Determine the level of 
care that the patient needs. She also works with the police to assess if a person is 
at risk. Also, follow-up with people who have utilized the crisis line. She goes to 
people’s houses, help them set up appointments, and sometimes work with respite 
houses “because homelessness and mental illness go hand in hand. We have a lot 
of people who need long-term stays because they have zero income, no support, 
no place to live.” She notes also they work with people who’ve called 211 [A 
program through United Way that is an information and referral service for people 
looking for help].  
0.54.39 
Charitie asks her to define “imminent risk,” a term she mentioned earlier. A 
person in imminent risk is assessed to be at a level where they will hurt 
themselves or someone else within 72 hours. They might have a specific suicide 
plan or access to means to harm themselves or others. She assesses for “risk and 
protective factors.” Another aspect of risk is the inability to meet basic needs 
(within 72 hours). “Do they need to be forced into treatment? Another thing is, 
Page 5 of 6 
 
they can’t want treatment. Anyone who wants treatment, we help them get it, but 
they are no longer … They go voluntarily.”  
0.56.30 
She talks about how she learned all the skills needed for crisis intervention. She 
notes that she first learned a lot at Rogers Hospital but also from her own 
recovery. “I’m exploring my own experiences in life, my own crises and 
substance use and depression.” She describes more about her work at Rogers and 
why she didn’t find it a good fit for her as a job; in part, she felt they were too 
profit oriented. “I saw what best practices were for certain things and ‘Oh, they’re 
not doing best practice because it’s not the most profitable thing.’” Points out 
issues with specific physicians as well. Felt that certain psychiatrists treated her 
poorly and were “terrible” to their patients. “In certain situations, I was a buffer 
between the patient and this doctor.”  
0.58.48 
She talks about leaving for the county to work with “people with the highest 
needs.” Also, she wanted to work for the county because her first job was at the 
county and her dad worked for them as well. “It was cool to relate to my dad.”  
She worked 20 hours a week her last year of graduate school.  
1.00.11 
She describes the staff she started with at Rogers Hospital; it was team-based, and 
she felt like she fit in well. One issue was a doctor not prescribing certain 
medications that she disagreed with. She states she saw this as “revolving profit.” 
She describes another reason for leaving was changes in staff “Our really great 
manager took a different job and they replaced her, not only with a man, but with 
a man with a promotion and more power. I was just like, ‘No.’ I was really 
pissed.” He was not a nurse; notes her anger was related to “women’s rights.” She 
talks about quitting.  
1.03.26 
The manager was a therapist, she explains. “My experience in the mental health 
nursing world has been often our managers have been therapists.” She notes a bit 
of role conflict between nurses and social workers; gives a humorous example. 
She describes that they have more methodologies and for nurses, they are not 
trained in those specific methods (such as Cognitive Behavioral Therapy). She 
describes how she talks to patients in contrast to how a therapist might talk to 
them. “Hey, I’m on your side here, let’s talk about this. I want to know the truth.” 
In regard to being a therapist, she says [laughing] “I don’t want to know any of 
your mind tricks. I just mess with them. With the therapist I work with, ‘Are you 
using therapy on me now? … Are you motivational interviewing me?’” 
1.06.30 
She states that overall, it’s been a great experience with the therapists in mental 
health. She says her worst experience was inpatient at the hospital, “the nurses 
were so stressed out and burned out.” She says she felt a lot of pressure and 
“conflicted morally” at that job. 
1.07.29 
She explains what her future goals are. She wants to stay teaching at the tech 
school and stay at the county and also take classes slowly towards her nurse 
practitioner license. She also wants to publish her dissertation; she is writing she 
says, “a paragraph a month.” [laughs] She teaches intro to nursing; she just started 
this year. “It was a tough transition, but I do like teaching right now.” She notes 
that her loans for school are tied to her teaching for four years; she’ll get loan 
repayment assistance. So, teaching made sense financially. “Certain aspects of it 
Page 6 of 6 
 
are amazing.” She highlights the connection between getting a degree at a tech 
school and now teaching at one.  
1.10.20 
She describes how people assume she is a student or inexperience; she was a 
nurse when she was 20. She tells her students, “I get it guys; this is really hard, 
and I have a lot of empathy for you. It’s worth it. I totally believe that; nursing is 
one of the best professions … I think I’m very lucky to get in nursing and very 
lucky to have stayed in it … I could not imagine myself doing anything else.” She 
relays her dedication to nursing even when she lost her license. She describes how 
nursing has many career options.  
1.12.07 
Wrapping up the interview.