Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
1	  
Project: Archie Green Project 
Interviewer: Andy Kolovos 
Interviewee: Hank Bissell 
Interviewee Contact: 
 
Location: Lewis Creek Farm, Starksboro, VT 
Date: 9 March 2015 
Length: 01:05:25 
Recording Format: Digital 
Accession: au2015-1004 
Collection: vfc2014-0005 
Indexer: Shannon Esrich	  
	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
START-00:00:25 
Introductions.	  
Introduction	  
00:00:25-00:01:48 
Born	  in	  NYC,	  went	  to	  school	  there	  through	  8th	  grade.	  In	  summers	  came	  to	  
Putney,	  VT	  and	  stayed	  in	  house	  at	  Putney	  School	  which	  had	  dairy	  farm	  as	  
part	  of	  school.	  Hung	  out	  there	  to	  learn,	  watch,	  help.	  Years	  later,	  farm	  
manager	  said	  Hank	  didn’t	  ask	  too	  many	  questions.	  Went	  to	  Putney	  school,	  
worked	  on	  farm	  while	  there,	  helped	  start	  vegetable	  garden	  there,	  managed	  
that	  for	  several	  years	  post-­‐grad.	  1981	  bought	  Lewis	  Creek	  Farm.	  
Childhood,	  New	  York	  City,	  
Putney	  School	  
00:01:48-00:18:30 
Lewis	  Creek	  grows	  organic	  vegetables,	  not	  certified	  but	  use	  lots	  of	  organic	  
practices.	  Makes	  more	  affordable	  food	  generally.	  Mid-­‐sized	  for	  VT	  vegetable	  
farms,	  about	  12	  larger	  than	  them.	  Uses	  IPM,	  looking	  to	  see	  if	  pests	  are	  there	  
before	  you	  spray	  for	  them.	  Large	  scale	  US	  ag	  sprays	  preventatively,	  not	  
what	  they	  do.	  Motivated	  to	  use	  IPM	  because	  in	  organic	  direction,	  but	  not	  
whole-­‐hog	  organic	  because	  thinks	  there	  is	  a	  place	  for	  sprays.	  Everything	  in	  
moderation	  and	  carefully	  used,	  just	  like	  medicine	  for	  humans.	  More	  
thoughtful	  managing	  crops	  this	  way	  than	  routine	  spraying,	  need	  to	  be	  able	  
to	  identify	  and	  anticipate	  problems.	  Try	  to	  us	  least	  toxic	  sprays,	  many	  times	  
Organic,	  IPM,	  green	  manure,	  
organic	  waste,	  institution,	  
Cornel	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
2	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
organic	  approved	  spray.	  If	  not,	  look	  at	  toxicity	  levels	  to	  manage	  carefully.	  
Example,	  conventional	  farms	  focus	  on	  cash	  return	  on	  crops.	  Hank	  looks	  at	  
environmental	  impact.	  With	  potatoes	  as	  example,	  losing	  crop	  not	  worth	  risk	  
of	  carefully	  picked	  spray,	  would	  rather	  not	  be	  organic	  then.	  Conventional	  
farms	  spray	  strongest	  material	  to	  get	  best	  kill	  rates	  of	  pest,	  looking	  strictly	  
at	  cash	  bottom	  line.	  Hank	  tries	  to	  balance	  environmental	  and	  cash	  bottom	  
lines.	  Aside	  about	  insect	  pests	  responding	  to	  sprays.	  Sprays	  that	  kill	  all	  
insects	  not	  good,	  kill	  beneficial	  insects	  too.	  Hank	  tries	  to	  selectively	  choose	  
sprays	  as	  needed.	  Visually	  monitor	  crops	  for	  pests.	  Hybrid	  approach.	  
Organic	  has	  broad	  concepts	  of	  soil	  health/fertility,	  non-­‐toxic	  sprays,	  healthy	  
plants.	  1970s	  USDA	  report	  on	  organic	  agriculture	  reported	  organic	  waste	  
and	  total	  crop	  acreage	  throughout	  country.	  Not	  enough	  organic	  waste	  in	  
country	  to	  make	  all	  acreage	  organic,	  organic	  won’t	  solve	  bigger	  problems.	  
Hank	  has	  worked	  with	  green	  manure	  crops	  (instead	  of	  scavenging	  organic	  
waste),	  but	  don’t	  work	  as	  well.	  Organic	  ag.	  Takes	  organic	  waste	  out	  of	  larger	  
system	  so	  organic	  appears	  to	  be	  working,	  but	  in	  larger	  system	  universal	  
organic	  is	  not	  possible	  from	  fertility	  point	  of	  view.	  Lewis	  Creek	  uses	  
chemical	  fertilizers,	  a	  lot	  of	  green	  manures	  for	  35	  years	  and	  counting.	  Cover	  
crops	  protect	  fields,	  green	  manures	  meant	  to	  be	  plowed	  under.	  Rotation,	  
cover	  cropping,	  and	  green	  manures	  help	  immensely.	  In	  ag	  school	  at	  Cornel	  
in	  1974,	  they	  taught	  this,	  but	  people	  in	  world	  weren’t	  doing	  this	  yet.	  Recent	  
focus	  on	  Lake	  Champlain,	  saw	  flyer	  from	  Addison	  County	  of	  farmers	  trying	  
to	  stop	  lake	  pollution,	  called	  their	  practices	  innovative	  but	  these	  go	  back	  to	  
Roman	  times.	  Very	  frustrated	  with	  basic	  concepts	  getting	  left	  out	  of	  real	  
practice.	  Sometimes	  cash	  crops	  sacrificed	  for	  green	  manure	  crops.	  
00:18:30-00:21:52 
Veg.	  crops	  have	  high	  per	  acre	  value,	  but	  lots	  of	  labor	  in	  to	  get	  that	  high	  
value.	  Dairy	  farmers	  growing	  corn	  with	  little	  labor,	  get	  small	  per	  acre	  cash	  
value.	  With	  smaller	  net	  profit,	  adding	  cover	  crop	  would	  be	  money	  out	  of	  
their	  pocket,	  and	  with	  low	  grossing	  product	  would	  make	  a	  difference	  in	  
Land	  value,	  crop	  value	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
3	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
income.	  Real	  return	  on	  cover	  cropping	  is	  within	  decades	  and	  centuries,	  not	  
instant.	  Hard	  to	  show	  return	  to	  farmers	  with	  small	  income.	  	  
00:21:52-00:30:00 
Lewis	  Creek	  is	  145	  acres,	  cropable	  land	  is	  50	  acres,	  10	  acres	  pasture,	  rent	  
25	  acres	  from	  a	  neighbor.	  Grow	  over	  50	  different	  crops.	  Biggest	  are	  carrots	  
and	  potatoes.	  Have	  beautiful	  soil,	  no	  rocks,	  well	  drained,	  good	  to	  grow	  crops	  
that	  grow	  below	  ground.	  Started	  farm	  with	  plan,	  but	  has	  changed	  so	  many	  
times	  depending	  on	  what	  worked	  well	  on	  farm.	  Trying	  to	  match	  production	  
with	  market	  demand,	  but	  that	  changes	  and	  fads	  come	  and	  go.	  Aside	  about	  
kale	  fad	  in	  1980-­‐90s.	  Need	  to	  be	  flexible.	  Changing	  demand	  is	  part	  of	  job,	  
trying	  to	  stay	  ahead	  of	  trends,	  Hank	  not	  very	  good	  at	  that.	  Others	  into	  high-­‐
end	  cuisine	  magazines,	  watch	  trends.	  Dairy	  farmers	  have	  given	  away	  
marketing,	  sell	  all	  wholesale,	  price	  takers.	  Much	  profit	  in	  vegetable	  farming	  
is	  in	  the	  marketing,	  changing	  price	  depending	  on	  sale	  outlet.	  Dairy	  farmers	  
can’t	  do	  that,	  must	  make	  money	  on	  growing	  crop.	  Hence	  no	  cover	  cropping,	  
too	  expensive.	  Hank	  able	  to	  sell	  large	  crops	  across	  many	  markets,	  small	  
crops	  to	  high-­‐end	  markets.	  Adjustments	  all	  the	  time	  to	  match	  market	  
demand.	  Kale	  is	  back,	  now	  for	  eating,	  before	  as	  bedding	  for	  salad	  bars.	  Slow	  
evolution	  of	  figuring	  out	  what	  grows	  and	  sells	  well.	  Potatoes	  and	  carrots	  
both	  great	  on	  their	  farm.	  Distributor	  for	  wholesale	  years	  ago	  told	  him	  
iceberg	  lettuce	  and	  potatoes	  are	  highest	  selling	  crops,	  didn’t	  believe	  him	  but	  
now	  growing	  lots	  of	  potatoes	  
Farm	  size,	  carrots,	  potatoes,	  
business	  plan,	  market	  demand,	  
flexibility,	  trend,	  retail	  outlet	  
00:30:00-00:31:52 
Wasn’t	  interested	  in	  marketing	  in	  beginning,	  but	  knows	  he	  is	  good	  at	  talking	  
with	  people.	  Feels	  uncomfortable	  in	  social	  situations,	  so	  on	  phone	  felt	  good.	  
Selling	  wholesale,	  connections	  are	  largely	  on	  phone	  whereas	  retail	  is	  face	  to	  
face.	  Hires	  other	  people	  to	  work	  the	  farm	  stand	  to	  talk	  to	  people.	  “I	  have	  
people	  who	  work	  the	  farm	  stand	  here,	  and	  there’s	  other	  people	  who	  work	  in	  
the	  fields,	  and	  sometimes	  the	  farm	  stand	  person	  works	  in	  the	  field	  as	  well.	  
And	  I	  have	  to	  make	  it	  clear	  to	  them	  that	  there’s	  a	  big	  difference.	  When	  
you’re	  at	  the	  farm	  stand,	  talking	  is	  so	  important;	  when	  you’re	  in	  the	  field,	  I	  
Marketing,	  talking	  to	  
customers,	  labor,	  employees,	  
consumer	  retail	  outlet	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
4	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
want	  to	  see	  as	  they	  say,	  ‘asses	  and	  elbows’.	  It’s	  just	  head	  down,	  working	  
hard.	  And	  once	  in	  a	  while,	  you	  find	  someone	  who	  can	  do	  both	  of	  those	  
things	  –	  and	  it’s	  not	  me.	  When	  I	  talk,	  I’ve	  got	  to	  wave	  my	  hands	  around…and	  
I	  don’t	  get	  any	  work	  done.	  But	  once	  in	  a	  while	  you	  find	  someone	  who	  can	  
talk	  a	  blue	  streak	  and	  get	  a	  lot	  of	  work	  done,	  and	  they’re	  fun	  to	  have	  
around.”	  	  
00:31:52-00:39:23 
Mid	  to	  late	  1980	  Lewis	  Creek	  got	  logo,	  first	  printed	  carrot	  bag	  had	  name	  on	  
it	  but	  wasn’t	  visual	  center	  point,	  just	  said	  Vermont	  Carrots.	  20	  years	  later	  
redesigned	  with	  logo	  as	  centerpiece,	  a	  slow	  evolution.	  If	  wanted	  to	  sell	  
carrots,	  had	  to	  sell	  in	  bags.	  Co-­‐ops	  will	  sell	  loose	  carrots,	  but	  everyone	  else	  
in	  bags.	  Had	  to	  design	  bag,	  buy	  enough	  to	  get	  good	  price,	  had	  to	  get	  5-­‐year	  
supply	  of	  each	  type	  of	  bag.	  Working	  with	  market	  demand/limitations,	  
turned	  it	  into	  branding	  which	  has	  been	  real	  value	  of	  it.	  Sell	  large	  quantities	  
of	  potatoes	  in	  bag	  partly	  because	  of	  bag,	  the	  branding.	  Younger	  farmers	  
more	  aware	  of	  farm	  branding,	  more	  crept	  up	  on	  Hank.	  Feel	  sometimes	  
young	  people	  have	  too	  much	  vanity,	  but	  also	  recognizes	  it’s	  important	  to	  
their	  business.	  	  Finds	  irony	  in	  wasteful	  plastic	  bags,	  advertising,	  branding,	  
like	  it’s	  part	  of	  corporate	  business,	  but	  it	  is	  what	  helps	  farms	  stay	  in	  
business.	  Certain	  brands	  of	  things	  in	  wholesale	  market	  have	  reputations	  
that	  get	  them	  higher	  wholesale	  prices,	  similar	  to	  retail	  markets.	  Brand	  is	  
known	  for	  consistency,	  and	  at	  wholesale	  level	  a	  given	  producer	  will	  pack	  
under	  two	  different	  labels	  for	  two	  different	  quality	  foods,	  but	  all	  same	  food	  
and	  same	  producer.	  Wholesale	  markets	  can	  take	  different	  products	  than	  
retail	  markets,	  there’s	  always	  a	  place	  (market)	  for	  every	  crop.	  
Branding,	  logo,	  bags,	  wholesale,	  
retail	  outlet	  
00:39:23-00:42:13 
Lewis	  Creek	  sells	  10-­‐15%	  to	  distributors,	  25-­‐30%	  retail,	  rest	  to	  stores	  and	  
restaurants	  through	  self-­‐distribution.	  The	  closer	  to	  the	  end	  consumer	  the	  
higher	  the	  price	  given	  to	  the	  producer.	  Distributor	  also	  has	  to	  make	  money.	  
Perceived	  higher	  value	  of	  direct	  from	  producer	  that	  allows	  for	  price	  
premium	  on	  foods	  delivers	  direct	  to	  stores	  and	  restaurants.	  This	  was	  trend	  
Retail	  outlets,	  distributor,	  direct	  
markets,	  self-­‐distribution,	  
consumer,	  Buy	  Local	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
5	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
before	  buy	  local	  movement,	  maybe	  was	  the	  leading	  edge	  of	  the	  movement.	  	  
00:42:13-00:45:30 
Are	  we	  in	  middle	  of	  fad	  with	  local	  food,	  or	  systematic	  change?	  Frozen	  foods	  
were	  a	  fad,	  now	  looked	  on	  as	  low-­‐end	  product.	  “Inevitably,	  everything’s	  a	  
fad.	  Things	  change.	  What	  will	  be	  the	  thing	  that	  makes	  –	  it	  would	  be	  easy	  –	  to	  
make	  local	  product	  undesirable?	  It’s	  more	  expensive.	  That	  would	  be	  easy.	  
That’s	  a	  very	  easily	  motivating	  factor,	  and	  I’m	  a	  little	  surprised	  that	  during	  
the	  Great	  Recession	  that	  that	  didn’t	  happen.	  But	  I	  think	  Buy	  Local	  was	  on	  
the	  upswing	  and	  it	  couldn’t	  be	  beat	  back	  by	  the	  higher	  price	  in	  a	  poor	  
economy.”	  When	  starting	  farm	  making	  decision	  to	  be	  certified	  organic	  or	  
not,	  made	  decision	  to	  not	  be	  because	  people	  care	  more	  that	  it’s	  local	  than	  
whether	  it’s	  organic.	  Others	  prioritize	  organic,	  but	  mostly	  people	  care	  more	  
about	  local.	  This	  was	  all	  back	  in	  1980s,	  before	  local	  food	  fad.	  
Fad,	  Buy	  Local,	  price,	  consumer	  
demand,	  values,	  organic	  
00:45:30-00:56:00 
Early	  partners	  in	  getting	  Burlington	  Farmers	  Market	  started,	  was	  president	  
of	  market	  for	  several	  years.	  Farm	  still	  participates.	  Hank	  goes	  weekly.	  
Thinks	  farmers	  markets	  are	  important,	  but	  that	  they	  remain	  with	  farmers	  
so	  people	  can	  see	  farms.	  Doesn’t	  want	  majority	  craft	  or	  food	  fair	  
undertones.	  BFM	  struggling	  with	  that	  now,	  often	  perceived	  as	  food	  fair.	  
Aside	  about	  father’s	  work	  developing	  Faneuil	  Hall	  Marketplace	  and	  other	  
marketplaces	  in	  historic	  parts	  of	  country.	  Vendors	  found	  better	  sales	  with	  
prepared	  foods,	  turned	  into	  food	  fest.	  This	  happens	  all	  the	  times	  with	  
farmers	  markets,	  result	  of	  lure	  of	  consumer	  demand.	  BFM	  has	  high	  
percentage	  of	  prepared	  food	  vendors	  that	  are	  the	  farmers	  making	  their	  own	  
products.	  Considered	  agricultural	  vendors	  even	  though	  they	  look	  like	  
prepared	  food	  vendors.	  BFM	  gives	  good	  sales.	  Marketing	  there	  not	  sure,	  the	  
people	  you	  see	  there	  are	  mostly	  Burlington	  people.	  It’s	  about	  the	  sales,	  not	  
about	  creating	  brand	  there.	  “A	  good	  package	  goes	  much	  further	  towards	  
creating	  a	  brand	  and	  marketing	  than	  I	  feel	  that	  our	  presence	  at	  the	  farmers	  
market	  does.”	  But	  market	  still	  worth	  doing	  from	  financial	  perspective.	  Also	  
do	  South	  Burlington	  Market,	  smaller,	  still	  growing,	  Sunday	  market.	  People	  
Retail	  outlet,	  Burlington	  
Farmers	  Market,	  prepared	  food,	  
value	  added,	  South	  Burlington	  
Farmers	  Market,	  marketing,	  
prices,	  consumer	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
6	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
really	  interested	  in	  shopping	  at	  open-­‐air	  farmers	  markets	  on	  Saturday,	  not	  
Sunday.	  Big	  difference	  in	  customers.	  Farmers	  markets	  are	  big	  piece	  of	  net	  
earnings	  and	  gross	  earnings	  for	  farm,	  but	  could	  work	  around	  it.	  Would	  take	  
a	  while	  to	  adjust.	  Prices	  at	  market	  based	  on	  cost	  of	  production,	  plus	  what	  
will	  the	  market	  bare?	  What	  are	  others	  charging,	  what	  is	  perceived	  value	  of	  
yours	  versus	  general	  market?	  Heavily	  what	  will	  the	  market	  bare.	  Have	  fairly	  
steady	  pricing,	  but	  things	  fluctuate	  as	  growing	  season	  of	  each	  product	  shifts.	  
Excess	  crops	  go	  on	  sale.	  “People	  have	  a	  perception	  that	  it’s	  very	  high	  priced,	  
but	  you	  can	  shop	  around	  and	  always	  find	  almost	  everything	  at	  a	  very	  
competitive	  price.	  It’s	  really	  quite	  reasonably	  priced	  overall.”	  One	  of	  larger	  
vendors	  at	  BFM,	  has	  some	  impact	  on	  other’s	  prices	  and	  price	  comparisons	  
but	  part	  of	  larger	  market	  comparison.	  Farmers	  markets	  are	  valuable	  to	  get	  
Hank	  off	  farm,	  gets	  interaction	  with	  people,	  talk	  about	  product.	  Not	  
conversationally	  inclined	  but	  likes	  to	  talk	  about	  product.	  Also	  very	  short	  
interactions	  with	  people,	  can	  use	  same	  conversation,	  gives	  people	  feeling	  of	  
connection.	  Enjoys	  it	  a	  lot,	  why	  he	  continues	  to	  do	  it	  himself.	  Gets	  to	  keep	  
the	  jobs	  that	  he	  likes	  for	  himself,	  but	  when	  coming	  up	  short	  on	  money	  or	  
labor	  has	  to	  do	  what	  others	  are	  no	  longer	  available	  to	  do.	  	  
00:56:00-00:58:30 
Fletcher	  Allen	  Hospital	  is	  good	  customer,	  buys	  certain	  items	  very	  
consistently.	  Does	  lots	  of	  business	  with	  them,	  but	  also	  really	  supports	  their	  
mission	  to	  serve	  healthy	  foods	  to	  patients.	  Large	  institutional	  buyers	  
typically	  want	  products	  that	  farm	  is	  not	  producing,	  like	  peeled	  onions,	  
peeled	  potatoes,	  don’t	  want	  their	  kitchen	  staff	  to	  do	  it.	  Problem	  for	  farm	  
business.	  If	  local	  producers	  were	  able	  to	  meet	  those	  demands	  would	  be	  
large	  market,	  but	  would	  then	  need	  to	  become	  food	  processor	  which	  has	  its	  
own	  complications.	  	  
Institution,	  University	  of	  
Vermont	  Medical	  Center,	  
wholesale,	  retail	  outlets,	  
processor	  
00:58:30-01:01:02 
Value	  added	  to	  Hank	  is	  bagging	  something,	  putting	  in	  storage	  facilities	  to	  
keep	  foods	  later	  into	  season.	  Would	  otherwise	  have	  to	  sell	  things	  to	  Black	  
River	  Produce	  at	  very	  low	  price,	  so	  return	  on	  storage	  is	  being	  able	  to	  almost	  
Value	  added,	  storage,	  
distributor,	  Black	  River	  
Produce,	  grant	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
7	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
double	  price	  on	  product	  by	  storing	  it	  through	  winter.	  Very	  simple	  version	  of	  
value	  added.	  Storage	  increased	  business	  by	  40-­‐50%,	  had	  always	  done	  some	  
but	  put	  investments	  into	  it	  in	  2006.	  Got	  value-­‐added	  grant,	  so	  had	  to	  spin	  
story	  to	  show	  packaging	  and	  storage	  as	  value	  added.	  	  
01:01:02-01:01:50 
When	  started	  farm,	  had	  so	  many	  ideas	  of	  possibilities	  of	  future	  on	  farm,	  
very	  exciting	  to	  try	  out	  all	  of	  them.	  35	  years	  later,	  still	  tons	  of	  ideas	  that	  he’s	  
excited	  to	  try.	  Hank	  loves	  what	  he	  does.	  
Business	  plan,	  opportunity	  
01:01:50-END. 
For	  many	  years	  hired	  local	  people,	  often	  college	  students,	  just	  in	  summer	  
when	  season	  ended	  with	  Thanksgiving.	  Now	  with	  winter	  sales,	  harvesting	  
through	  mid-­‐November,	  need	  people	  to	  stay	  and	  work.	  Hire	  very	  few	  people	  
for	  just	  summer,	  became	  harder	  because	  seasonal	  employment	  for	  someone	  
with	  year-­‐round	  responsibilities	  (versus	  student).	  Labor	  market	  also	  goes	  
through	  cycles.	  Started	  hiring	  Jamaican	  workers	  as	  legal	  guest	  workers	  
through	  H2A	  program	  in	  2001	  during	  peak	  of	  technology	  boom.	  Then,	  
someone	  out	  of	  college	  could	  get	  great	  starting	  job	  with	  quick	  promotions,	  
so	  no	  workers	  for	  hourly	  wages.	  Fall	  of	  2000	  didn’t	  have	  enough	  people	  and	  
ended	  up	  leaving	  some	  crops	  in	  field,	  then	  joined	  H2A	  program	  in	  2001.	  
Jamaicans	  are	  great	  workers,	  also	  have	  US	  workers,	  but	  backbone	  is	  H2A.	  
Jamaicans	  come	  mid-­‐April,	  stay	  through	  mid-­‐December.	  Do	  all	  handwork	  on	  
farm,	  drive	  tractors,	  etc.	  
Labor,	  employees,	  Jamaica,	  
harvest,	  institution,	  H2A