Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
1 
Project: Nursing America's Veterans 
Name of person interviewed:  Linda Stanley [LS] 
Facts about this person: 
Sex 
Female 
Occupation: Nurse Practitioner 
Residence: 
Oceanside, California 
Interviewer:  Alana Glaser [AG] 
Transcriber:  Lisa Winters 
Interview location:  remote 
Date of interview: 4/17/21 
Key Words  
Living in California, family, school, serving in Italy, Germany, Iraq, Afghanistan, Korea, views 
of the Veterans Administration, life as a nurse, affects of COVID-19, PTSD, trauma. 
Abstract  
In this interview, Linda Stanley describes her life growing up in California, her family, becoming 
a nurse, and entering the service. She describes her time in the service as a trauma nurse in the 
military, and being part of the Veterans Administration (VA), explaining her own experiences of 
PTSD as well as the effect of PTSD on her patients. She describes the impact of the COVID-19 
pandemic on the VA, as well as her contributions to the VA system, her years stationed abroad, 
and her hopes for the future. 
Index 
[0:00] Introduction to Linda Stanley, brief history of where she grew up, early life, family 
background, and schooling. 
[03:34] Linda’s nursing profession, entering into the military, moving around to different bases, 
trauma of war in Iraq and Afghanistan, and PTSD. 
[09:14] PTSD in veterans and its effects. 
[14:17] Nursing in Iraq, head trauma, burn patients, amputees, PTSD, caring for them, and 
therapies. 
[22:03] The technical aspects of trauma nursing, running the ward, taking care of soldiers, Iraqi 
individuals, civilians, children, babies, and prisoners. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
 
 
 
2 
 
[36:05] Aspire facility and programs through the VA, admitting patients, traumas, and therapies. 
 
[42:10] Linda’s healing process and handling this stressful job day to day. 
 
[46:24] Linda’s desire to work in the VA rather than the civilian world. 
 
[47:25] How COVID-19 affected the Aspire facility day to day, changes that had to be made, and 
the isolation due to COVID-19. 
 
[52:37] Difficulties of working as a nurse for the VA, the Burn Pit Registry, going to Congress 
and the Senate for Veteran advocacy, services dogs, etc. 
 
[01:01] The rewarding aspects of a nurse and nursing as a career, helping people, and improving 
services for veterans.  
 
[75:51] End of audio 
 
 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
Interview with Linda Stanley 
 
[0:00:00] 
 
AG: Hi Linda. Thank you again for participating in these Library of Congress oral histories. Can 
I ask you to introduce yourself? 
 
LS: My name is Linda Stanley. I live in Oceanside, California. 
 
AG: Wonderful. Can we begin by talking a bit about your early life growing up and your family 
background? 
 
LS: Yeah, so, I grew up mainly all over California. My dad actually entered the military at 14 
years old, and so he was a big influence in my life [inaudible – 0:00:32]. 
 
AG: Oh Linda, I’ve lost you. The audio went away again, ha. 
 
LS: Yeah [inaudible 0:00:49]. 
 
AG: I can hear you now. 
 
LS: Maybe it’s the [0:00:52]. 
 
AG: Yes. Oh, I wonder if – if like the little jack is tight enough. 
 
LS: I’m not gonna touch it, so that’s fine. 
 
AG: Okay. I apologize about that. 
 
LS: That’s okay. 
 
AG: So, I heard you say that your father served and that he entered the military when he was 14. 
 
LS:  Yes, and then they realized he was 14 and at 16 he had to leave, and then he had to come 
back in at 18 to get his GI Bill, and he was a -- went back to school on the GI Bill and became a 
teacher, then a principal, then a superintendent.  So yeah, we lived all over California, and he 
probably was the biggest influence in my life as far as career and what I chose to do later on. 
 
AG: Did your mother work as well? 
 
LS: My mother was a teacher’s aide and she ended up going back to school when she was in her 
50s and worked for the IRS, yes, so. 
 
AG: You were all over California. Was it typically the southern part or was it like throughout the 
east? 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
 
 
 
4 
 
LS: We started in Southern California, and then moved up to Eureka, California, and then Pacific 
Grove in the middle, and ended up in Northern California, in, you know, the Inland area, so. 
 
AG: When you think about growing up, were there like classes that you particularly gravitated 
toward or subjects in school that you enjoyed? 
 
LS: I liked science, but I was a big tomboy, so I never considered a career in nursing at the 
beginning. I --  I’m, um -- I also have a degree in art, so that is what I started at, and then I met 
my husband very young. I was -- I got married at 21. He had just gotten out of the Navy as a 
Navy Corpsman. I had my children, and when I had my first child I thought, wow, this nursing, I 
saw the nurses in action, and I was really surprised at how much that I wanted to become a nurse. 
So, as my kids were growing up, I wanted to stay home with them when they were really little. I 
went back to school along with my husband who used his GI Bill to get a degree in mathematics, 
and when my children, I have three boys, when my youngest was ready for, I think it was around 
three, we both were in school full time at Chico State, me in nursing, and my husband got his 
degree in mathematics.  
 
[0:03:34] AG: Was it those experiences, like in the labor and delivery unit, that introduced you to 
nursing as a profession? 
 
LS: It is. You know, I always thought I couldn’t handle if I saw some baby die and it just so 
happened on my third child, there was a mom in there at the same time as me having her third 
child and the baby ended up dying, and I saw the nurses crying, because I thought, I think I’ll cry 
if something like that happens, and so I saw them crying and that really cemented it that this is 
probably what I felt my calling was. So, after graduation my husband and I, and my husband is a 
big surfer, I decided I was going to go into the military, and I wanted to move to Hawaii because 
of my husband, and I ended up going into the Army first because they did give me Hawaii, and 
we onto -- after Hawaii, I moved to Landstuhl, Germany, and at that point I wanted to become a 
nurse midwife and the Army was not allowing nurse midwives. They weren’t, you know, 
sending you to school for that time. So, Landstuhl is a big hospital in Germany. It is the main 
hospital where everyone comes through and it is an Air Force-Army [0:05:00] Hospital, so I 
ended up switching to the Air Force because they were doing midwives. They were allowing 
midwives in their advanced graduate school, but I had to end up going to Missouri for a year, 
Whiteman Air Force Base, Missouri, and for my family and myself who surf and ski, being in 
the middle of the country with none of those things was not good, so they were, they were 
closing down the hospital, so I ended up going to Japan for 4 years, so I couldn’t go to midwifery 
school, and in Japan I ended up going to Italy for 3 years. My kids all graduated overseas. My 
husband became, he was a Department of Defense school teacher, so we basically had to stay 
overseas. At that point, after Aviano, Italy, I -- somebody requested me to end up being the flight 
commander in Texas, and that was when I was at Wilford Hall, and I ended up getting deployed 
to Iraq in 2006 to -- I was a trauma nurse there, and that situation changed my life. It was 
probably during the time of high casualties, and I worked at night, and no matter how much you 
prepare for something like that it was very difficult to see. After Iraq, I ended up and wanted to 
get back to my hus- -- my husband who was in Italy, so I ended up going to Korea very quickly 
after I returned from my deployment, to be in charge of a lot of people, and it was in Korea that I 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
 
 
 
5 
started having problems sleeping and just tried to, what military people do, suck it up, and kept 
thinking I’ll be okay once I get back to Italy with my husband. I got back to Italy, and I still 
wasn’t  still okay, and I was going to be retiring from the Air Force, and I ended up seeking help 
for my PTSD. Iraq, you know, not only were we mortared and shot at, but it was the human part 
of war that was really difficult for me to handle. And why I talk about this, because this all has to 
do with my service at the VA, so after retirement I really wanted to become a psychiatric nurse 
practitioner to help others who have PTSD. I'm one of those older veterans that saw what 
happened during Vietnam, how those veterans were treated, and I didn’t want the same thing, 
and I think my first, um, my first appointment at the VA wasn’t the best. Thank goodness I had 
gotten help prior to getting out and retiring and, I thought, if this is what most people come to, 
with someone typing with their back to me, it is not going to work. If I hadn’t gotten help, I 
probably would have never come back, so I thought, you know I really want to work at the VA, 
and I went back to graduate school at USD and became a psychiatric nurse practitioner. I did my 
clinicals at a marine base in deployment health, and I started working at the VA in 2012 as a 
psychiatric nurse practitioner in the Emergency Psych Clinic, so I saw, um, those that just got out 
of the military and those that a lot of them were suicidal too, and, um, I worked there for several 
years, but I had heard of this place called Aspire, and Aspire is a VA program for combat vets 
who served in Iraq and Afghanistan, and it is a holistic program, meaning that the patients come 
to us and they stay with us basically for 6 months, and we treat not only medical conditions but 
psychological conditions also.  
 
[0:09:14] AG: Can I ask you from both the perspective of a psychiatric nurse practitioner and 
from your own experience, to explain what PTSD is and how it manifests? 
 
LS: Sure, so PTSD, you have to, the first thing is it has -- you have to be exposed to a very 
severe trauma. You have to either witness it or have someone close to you that unexpectedly 
died. You know, since we are not talking about a grandparent or something like that. We are 
talking about the trauma has to be significant, in person, usually. And then, you have to have 
four factors. You have to -- the way people -- probably the signature symptom [0:10:00] is not 
sleeping first. You know, that is probably the easiest. There is also a part of it that is avoidance. 
You avoid thinking about it. You know, so when I was in Korea in the military, on the TV they 
only have commercials that are made by the military. They can’t promote any kind of civilian 
business, so every -- every commercial would be about Afghanistan or Iraq, and I’d sit there, 
because when you’re there you can’t even let your emotions happen because if you started 
thinking about what you were doing, I think most people would be in tears, and you have a 
mission to perform and you have patients waiting for you, so you avoid thinking about it, and 
that avoidance is the way you kind of keep going. So, if you don’t think about the stuff or  -- 
have the things that remind you, um, you can kind of function. So, there is a physical response to 
triggers, there is avoidance, there are thoughts, you know, of helplessness, um, guilt. Ah, so there 
is a multitude, there is four things that usually you have to have to be diagnosed with PTSD, and 
it has to be after 30 days because most people who expose to a trauma in those first 30 days will 
have a lot of those symptoms and, um, so it is one of those things that most, I did want to ever 
have it. You know, I kept thinking, you know, it’s not right. I was doing all the post deployment; 
I would call up all the people in Korea that had been deployed and check on them. There is a 
way that the military does this after 4 to 6 months when you come back, because most of the 
time when you get back you’re just happy to have a bathroom and a shower, so you’re in this 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
 
 
 
6 
kind of honey moon period, but after 4 to 6 months that is when people notice irritability, can’t 
sleep, you start isolating, um, you don’t want to be around people, ah, you know, spend a lot of 
time by yourself, um, impulsive. Those kinds of things. So, a lot of veterans turn to alcohol and 
drugs. I did not. I became a work-acholic and by me working nonstop I didn’t think so much 
about Iraq, and I didn’t want to tell anyone either. I was kind of, you know, it shouldn’t be but, 
you know, most military veterans don’t really want to have that diagnosis.  
 
AG: It sounds like there is some, would you say there is some stigma? 
 
LS: Oh yeah. 
 
AG: I see. 
 
LS: There is definitely a stigma. We try to work, it’s better than it used to be but, you know, we 
understand there is a physical response that happens when you’re exposed to trauma. You 
become very hypervigilant. The hormones, the adrenaline, the things that usually help you in an 
emergency situation, when you are in Iraq or Afghanistan it is always running, no matter how 
calm you act because there is no enemy over there. There was, you know, you would be 
mortared any time, your translator could come in with a suicide vest on, so you are always on 
edge. You know, you’re always on edge, and your body gets used to that and there is a rush too, 
you know, when the trauma happens, you know, you kind of, and it’s the same thing with the 
soldiers and the marines, you know, there is a kind of, I don’t want to say a high, but there is 
adrenaline going when you’re in a battle and so your body never really relaxes, and so you end 
up with a lot of physical problems too.  
 
AG: Alright, so it sounds like there is a psychological component, but the predominant 
symptoms are physiological. 
 
LS: I’d say they are half and half, you know, yeah. 
 
[0:14:07] AG: Is it okay to talk a little about what it was like for you nursing in the Iraq context? 
Where were you [crosstalk]? 
 
LS: I was in Balad, Iraq. 
 
AG: Okay. 
 
LS: And it was one of the main hospitals because we had the neurosurgeons there for the, you 
know, the head traumas, which when you talk about IEDs you’re talking a lot about TBIs 
(traumatic brain injuries) and we also had where we would transfer them very quickly to 
Germany, to Landstuhl, that hospital I worked at before. So, severe burns, sometimes people, up 
to 95% of their body, that you probably don’t realize they are not going to live, and what’s really 
hard is when they come in to, you know, we get them in that golden hour, the golden hour, and if 
they made it to us most of them [0:15:00] lived because we had this trauma system set up where 
everything was just very quick. I mean, we could deliver a whole lot of blood very fast, like 
almost shooting it in, for civilians to understand. We had a CT scan. This is all in a tent. We were 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
 
 
 
7 
in a tent situation. But some of those patients that were burnt really bad, you know, we’d have to 
intubate, and we’d tell them they are not going to wake up until Germany, you know, and if they 
were burnt really bad some of them would never wake up. We also had to take care of, not only 
our guys, but civilian casualties, Iraqi policemen and Army, children, babies, being with people 
that sometimes were just coming off from being shot at or shot. It was very difficult to see the 
families, you know, what they’ve gone through. So, it was hard, you know, while you’re there 
you try not to let things happen. My battle buddy, there would be times that we’d look at each 
other if somebody died and, you know, your eyes tear up, but you can’t, you can’t go there. You 
just can’t go there because you have to keep going. You know, you work 13-hour shifts every 
night. You might have a night off at some point. In the midst of all that you’re being mortared all 
the time. Balad was called Mortaritaville, which was kind of, it’s funny, but it was just constant 
mortars, and our hospital in tents was right on the perimeter of this giant base and, you know, so 
we could see shooting and everything. So, you not only have the traumas of seeing people die or 
severely injured or, you know, amputating 2 legs, 2 legs and an arm. You see them very fresh 
and raw, and a lot of times I would have the satellite phone because every third night I’d be in 
charge and have those individuals call their families. It was really hard hearing them talk to their 
parents after being injured. So, you know, you -- you just focus on getting through. There are 
some funny times that happen there, good friends. There is something clinically as a nurse, very 
exciting, because you’re really focusing on nursing care. You are not focusing on joint 
commissions where you have to write all these notes, you know, black and white things have to 
be done. You know, it was one note, and you focused on just taking care of patients. Got to know 
a lot of Iraqi families. Yeah, it was, it was the best of things and it’s the worst of things for my 
life because after an experience like that you realize what is important in your life. It really, you 
know, you see a young man, a 20-year-old, die, you realize, you know, things are really nothing. 
It’s your health, your family, your friends, living in the moment, which is really hard for most 
Americans, and that’s -- there are a lot of positive things I’ve learned from going through therapy 
and having PTSD and being on this whole new profession that I wasn’t thinking I was going to 
be on. I actually have a different master’s degree before that while I was in the military in 
International Health because I’ve always liked the humanitarian part of taking care and that was 
always going to be what I did, but that was before I went to Iraq and experienced things that 
affected my life. 
 
AG: How long was your deployment? 
 
LS: I was there 6 months, from January to May. I was one of the last to leave. The Air Force was 
really fortunate, that we usually did 6-to 7-month tours, where the Army, when I was there, they 
were usually a year, but they were extended to 18 months, sometimes 24 months. Marine Corp is 
usually about 7 months, and then there were very few Navy. There were a few but, you know, 
more the shorter tours. So yeah, so that was enough. 
 
AG: Quite a long time, in that context especially. You mentioned sometimes you would have an 
evening off. Was there any place that you could retreat for any calm in that environment? 
 
LS: So, you know, the evenings off though were rough though because you would want to stay 
nights, [0:20:00] so you’re up all night long. There was one time that my friend and I, one of the 
other nurses, we were walking along and then a huge mortar attack and we are laying in the 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
 
 
 
8 
ditch. They had like little ditches that you could run to if you were out in the open and all these 
mortars are going off. I mean, we’re laughing, which is, it’s kind of bizarre, because you’re 
sitting there, you could be killed, and we’re just laying in the dirt in the middle of the night 
laughing. You know, there was a little coffee bar, believe it or not, that some Indian individuals 
had that you could go get coffee. I’d go over, back to the tents, because there were computers 
over there, because this was not later on, you know, people could have their computers, Wi-Fi, 
and everything. We didn’t have that. We didn’t have your ability to phone. I was lucky because 
my husband was in Italy and so we had the military phone system that sometimes operators 
would connect me to my husband, but there were times I didn’t want to tell him, you know. 
Other times, I had to go because we were being mortared and I really didn’t want him to know, 
you know, and to worry because, you know, my kids were all adults then, you know, in college, 
and, you know, I didn’t want them to worry over anything. My husband ended up breaking his 
leg while I was over there, snowboarding, so that was, you know, there were things that went 
back home that, you know, on your days off, I’d go a lot of times and help out. The unbelievable 
thing is when we were over there, there would be people that would come and help at the 
hospital after working 12 or 13 hours, they’d come and say what do you need, you need 
something swept, you know, they were volunteering to do anything for us. It was such a 
comradery with all the staff that I’ve never seen in any other area of nursing that I’ve ever been 
in . 
 
[0:22:03] AG: Could I ask you to describe a little bit about what a trauma nurse does, I mean, 
particularly in this high-stake scenario but, you know, kind of some of the technical aspects of 
trauma nursing? 
 
LS: So, you know, the wards were just a big tent with maybe 16, not beds, we did have a few 
beds because we had some people, the Iraqi patients would stay with us for months sometimes 
but were on like a cot and they were all trauma patients, severe trauma patients. The ICUs, if you 
were on a vent, you were in ICU. If you were not on a vent, you were not in ICU. No matter how 
critical you were, they were all ICU patients or vent patients. So, you had severe traumas that 
you and another nurse and 2 technicians would be taking care of all night long. The nice thing in 
the Air Force is, I got assigned a technician and he was with me the whole time and I didn’t 
know him prior to getting there. He was a reservist and we had to do, kind of, some on-the-spot 
training and he was awesome because, like I said, every third night I’d be in charge of the 
hospital, so I’d have to respond to any trauma calls in the ER. I had to walk around, see whose 
there. I had to prepare a program to update all the dayshift people when they came in. The 
commander, we’d all be there, the doctors, surgeons. So that night, I’d be all around doing all 
kinds of things, getting air evac, you know, finding out how many patients were flying out to 
Germany, and so during that time my technician would watch my ward, which there was a ward 
for our military soldiers and Marines and airmen or whoever else was there, and then there was a 
ward for Iraqi individuals, civilians, children, babies, and then there was one more ward that was 
the middle ward and that would have insurgents, your prisoners, children, babies, women, you 
know, because you had to have sheets around them because they can’t be, so it was very unique 
and it was busy all day long, all night long. 
 
AG: So, after you were in Iraq, that is when you went to Korea? 
 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
 
 
 
9 
LS: I came back. I was light commander of OBGYN in Texas, okay, which was a big flight, and 
I wanted to get back to my husband, and the way to get back was to go to Korea for a year and 
then I would get what they call Follow On, which he was Italy [0:25:00] this whole time. So, that 
was probably the mistake I made. When people leave too quickly to a new place, then nobody 
knows how you are before you deployed, and as those things started coming out and I was in 
charge of a lot of people, I really couldn’t make friends or have close associates the way it is in 
the military, you know, because of my rank and what I did, and it was a very remote base and we 
played what we call war one week out of the month, you know, that is with bombs going off, 
people shooting at you, because Korea is such a high intensity spot. You have to be ready. So, 
that was probably the worst place for me to go, when I look back, but that’s how I ended up in 
Korea for a year. 
 
AG: Was the role that you had in Korea, was that a nursing role? 
 
LS: It was. I was flight commander, this was in a hospital, so I was flight commander in charge 
of the primary care, the mental health, immunizations, and physical therapy. So, I was in charge 
of all those people and there were only a few nurses there, and so that’s what I did. It was a busy 
job too.  
 
AG: Absolutely, and so when you say flight commander, that is the level when you’re in the Air 
Force as a nurse? Is that right, or is there something about that title that I’m misunderstanding? 
 
LS: The flight commander is like the boss. So, like flight commander at Wilford Hall, I was 
actually in charge of doctors, nurses, airmen. So, you’re in charge of everybody. So, each 
different service has their own words but, you know, for a nurse, a lot of times there is nursing, 
you know, a lot of nurses, and there is a nurse manager, and then there is usually a flight 
commander and then a squad commander. You know, so it’s all a little different in the different 
services. 
 
AG: I see, that makes sense. So, you were saying that because of both the level of responsibility 
and sort of the isolation in Korea, it might have been the worst place in terms of how the PTSD 
symptoms developed? 
 
LS: Yes, because I could easily hide from it because I really focus on my job and doing what’s 
best for the people who I serve, and so it was really easy to avoid thinking about it and, you 
know, you can’t really have a lot of close friends if you’re in charge. You only really may have a 
few options. I did have some close friends that were in another base about 2 hours away and I 
would go and see them. That was kind of my relief but, you know, I still was just struggling with 
having problems from there. You know, there was a part of me that felt guilty. Like, you know, I 
saw so many people die or get severely injured, so what right did I have to have issues. You 
know, and that, you know, PTSD is funny. The same symptoms happen if you’re the person 
shooting a weapon at someone or being a nurse seeing that kind of thing, or you’re in a motor 
vehicle accident, or you respond to humanitarian tidal wave. The body doesn’t care what the 
trauma is. It kind of responds the same way. And I did not want to go to mental health because I 
was in charge of mental health, so I tried to just, kept thinking, just you know, the typical suck-it-
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
 
 
 
10 
up Linda, it will get better over time. You know, um, and that was my answer to it. I just tried to 
focus on that and get back to my husband in Italy, and I thought things would be fine. 
 
AG: Do you remember the sort of period when you decided that you wanted to address it or that 
you felt like you had to address the PTSD, that it wasn’t going to be something you could just 
suck up? 
 
LS: So, I couldn’t remember things. I was really having a hard time trying to complete my 
professional education. In the Air Force you have to do the same tests as any other pilot or any 
officer. You have to learn about, like Vietnam, strategies in a war, the Tet Offensive, and it’s a 
lot, and I tried to take a few tests and I couldn’t remember things. I’ve never failed anything, but 
I failed my first test [0:30:00] and I was just, because your mind is jumping around. You sit and 
read a book and you turn the page, and you think I don’t even know what I remember, and that is 
part of PTSD too. So, I thought, I’m just going to get out. I’m just going to retire and get out 
because I didn’t want anyone to even know, not even my husband. I didn’t want him to know. 
So, when I got to Italy, there were a few situations that came up that made me try to get help. I 
tried to get help once and it ended up the person who I’d seen for a few times ended up going to 
be deployed and he was going to have me see someone else and I’m like, I’m okay. I kind of 
shrugged it off, but eventually there was a situation where a woman died in labor and they called 
me to come in and my young lieutenant wanted to see her, who had taken care of her the night 
before, and so I told her that I would take her down after everyone left, because that is a very 
unusual thing. It’s never happened in my whole career, and we went down to the morgue, and 
she is crying and I’m thinking I don’t feel anything, because you just get to the point where you 
don’t feel anything and, you know, I looked at her body and I realized, you know, this is no way 
to live. There were other things cussing I can tell you, but I’m not going to cuss but, I decided at 
that moment, you know, this isn’t getting better, it’s getting worse. My husband noticed I didn’t 
want to go out anymore, I didn’t want to be around people, I didn’t know when I was going to 
get triggered by something. I couldn’t talk to him. He was a Navy Corpsman and I remember 
telling him one horrible story and he was in tears, and I think he thought, God, my wife had to 
see this. You know, and there is still a lot of that, so I didn’t want to talk to him about it. So, I 
ended up going back to mental health and seeing the person and we did evidence-based treatment 
which was prolonged exposure to health and then after that, that is when I kind of decided, I got 
into neurobiology and studying what the brain does in trauma and realized that I think I want to 
do this. I think someone who has been through it and I’m not saying you have to be through it to 
understand it, but I can tell you this, the vets that I see, it is so much easier to talk to them and as 
soon as they figure out, they figured out pretty quick that I’m a veteran and that I also deployed 
by the questions I ask them when I screen them, and it just opens up a door of trust with those 
veterans that I use to help them. I’ve also had several of my fellow friends commit suicide. One 
nurse, in particular, that I was in Italy with. I went to Iraq, she went to Afghanistan, and when 
she came back, she moved very quickly to a new base, and she killed herself 4 months later. 
Also, an OBGYN I worked with two different places had gone to Afghanistan and he retired a 
Bronze Star winner and within a few months killed himself, and so veteran suicide is very much 
on my mind, and I have this saying for my practice, and it has to do with a starfish. I have a lot of 
starfish around my house and in my office. There is an AFN commercial, remember those are the 
commercials of the military commercials during when you’re overseas, and some people have 
seen it that aren’t in the military, of a grandfather and a son, a young son, walking along the 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
 
 
 
11 
beach and all these starfish are washed up from the waves, and the little boy is throwing the 
starfish back in quickly and the grandfather says, “Son, there is just too many. You can’t save all 
of them,” and he picks up one starfish and he throws it in and he says, “For this one, I save him,” 
and that is how I feel about what I do with the veterans at the VA. I can’t save all of these guys. I 
can only give 100%, and whether I was working in the Emergency Psych Clinic or where I’m 
working at Aspire, I give them as much as I can to help them find their way back because they 
deserve to have a good life. Whether you are a Vietnam Veteran [0:35:00] when I worked in the 
emergency clinic or, you know, the youngest guy that just go out, I try to listen and look at them. 
I don’t type when I’m with them because that is something veterans don’t like. They want people 
to think that they are listening to them and what some providers don’t understand, and there is 
always that balance, you know, you are always trying to get your work done, but you’ve gotta 
connect with them first before you even can try to help them. If they don’t think you’re sincere, 
then their gonna shut you down, and so that’s my starfish. I usually wear starfish. I think I’m 
wearing a dolphin today, but I truly believe that when I see a veteran, I’m gonna give them all I 
can to help them, and that is how sometimes I deal with the recent suicides that I’ve seen, so. 
 
[0:36:05] AG: At the Aspire facility, what is your day-to-day role there? Are you providing like 
therapy to patients? Is that how it works? 
 
LS: So, Aspire is a very unique program that the VA has that we bring vets from all over the 
country for this program for 6 months and we give them evidence-based treatment. If they have a 
substance abuse problem they have to, prior to coming to Aspire, attend a 28-to 30-day substance 
abuse and then come to us and we will continue that program. We have an addiction therapist. 
And we look at their physical needs. A lot of vets have a hard time, especially if they have a TBI, 
keeping up with appointments, followup, that kind of thing. My role is unique that I get the 
consult and I am the one that does a chart review and then I call them up wherever they are, New 
York, Florida, and I screen them. I screen them for legal issues, I screen them for how motivated 
they are to get better, I talk about our program, I go through their psych history, I talk about their 
meds, I talk about their social life, are they married, where are they living, are they homeless, are 
they living in their car, do they have a service dog and, you know, I actually have a service dog 
that has helped me, and I talk about our program. And then after myself, there is another nurse 
practitioner who will go over their medical-like needs, and then we usually meet as a team, 
myself, the other nurse practitioner, and the psychiatrist, and we offer them an admission date 
and we fly them out here and I admit them, usually. I go through and do their whole history and 
physical, set them up, they each have a room, we really focus on sleep, talk about what therapies 
will be offered to them. So, we do therapies, we do art therapy, we do music, we do yoga, we do 
face your fears, mindfulness, grounding exercises, In Vivo, experiences, like say they have a 
problem going into a store. We do that. We go into the store with them. I teach anger 
management, so that is one of the things, and it is anger management from a combat perspective, 
a 12-week program. I teach Safe Vets. It’s when they first get admitted, like the next week, I talk 
about overdose, opioid addiction, how to look for the signs and symptoms of overdose. I talk 
about veteran suicide, how to help, because they might be one of the vets that help another 
person. I talk about bullying and mobbing because sometimes in veteran community there is this 
kind of my trauma is worse than your trauma and I try to get them to avoid that, and kind of what 
safety measures they can do while they are at Aspire. And then I do some of the In Vivo where 
we take them out to, maybe Rosecrans, which is where a lot of the guys are buried out here in 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
 
 
 
12 
Point Loma, and we have times to reflect, or take them to a mall or take them on a trolly and help 
them to adjust. We also have like communication classes, so they learn to be a better spouse or 
boyfriend or husband [0:40:00], and then we do some fun things too. We have cooking classes. 
We have a dietitian to help them get their body back in shape. We have a gym. So, it’s a whole 
program that focuses on, and a huge vocational rehab. I talk about with them at admission how 
important finding a purpose is, because me finding this purpose has really helped me to get 
better, and for them to find something that has kind of the salt of their life after their military 
service, whether they are retired from the military or they served for 8 years, finding that purpose 
again is very important as far as their overall life and how well they do after Aspire. 
 
AG: Are there certain diagnoses that typical inpatient or residents of Aspire present with or could 
it, like when (inaudible 0:40:58) or? 
 
LS: We focus more on PTSD. If they have a lot of psychosis, it is very hard for them to relate. 
Um, if there is psychosis because of drug use that is a little different. So, TBI (traumatic brain 
injury), so, you know, that is mostly what we’re focusing on is PTSD from the military and not 
MST, not military sexual trauma. Most of those people need to go to a specific program that 
focuses on military sexual trauma. So, ours is more, you know, were you in a helicopter crash, 
were you in combat, were you a rescue swimmer in the Coast Guard and lost someone. So, all of 
those kinds of traumas that involve military service is kind of what we focus on, and if they are 
homeless, I mean, I try to get them in quickly. We have a lot of young vets living in their car, so 
that is one of the things, that I try to get them in very quickly if they are homeless.  
 
[0:42:10] AG: I know you said that it’s been helpful in your own healing having this purpose. 
How are you able as well to, you know, kind of handle the day to day of such a stressful job? 
 
LS: You know, people ask me that because we’ve had some that we’ve lost to suicide too, and it 
goes back to the starfish. I, every time I’m with one of those veterans, I’m going to give them 
anything I can to help them, and so when I come home, I know I’ve done as much as I can and 
that is where I can handle it. Um, hearing their traumas doesn’t affect me like most people would 
think. You know, because I’ve done really well with my own traumas. Um, there were times 
though. You know, someone said did any stories or anything that you’ve heard really get to you, 
and there was one particular time when I was working in the emergency clinic at the VA that this 
man, a Vietnam Vet, came into my office and he obviously had been beat up, he was homeless, 
and I said oh, you know, I said we need to take you to the ER first. Let me get you physically 
some help prior to this. He came for, you know, meds, psych meds or something, and I’m 
walking him down the hall, because I’d walk him to the ER, and he turned around and looked at 
me with tears in his eyes and he said, “I just want to be safe,” and, I mean, it just go to me, that, 
you know, first that someone would beat up a homeless veteran, you know, for no reason, and 
that all he really wanted was to be safe, and I teared up. That was really hard. Sometimes it’s 
really hard seeing what these, you know, and I know what they’ve done. I know their MOS. I 
know what their job was. I can imagine them prior to having PTSD, what they were like, what 
responsibility they had, and then to see where they’re at. That is hard sometimes but, again, even 
with him, you know, I felt like, you know, there might be some that wouldn’t walk him down. 
There might be some that wouldn’t care. I’m sorry to say. I mean, most of the people at the VA 
really care about veterans but it’s going that extra amount. There was another nurse practitioner 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
 
 
 
13 
and I that used to do hamburger therapy, and she worked in the ADTP, the Alcohol Drug Unit, 
and we would walk down and buy them a meal, a hamburger, you know. You know, here, they 
came for meds, but sometimes just someone [00:45:00] saying, “I care about you,” just to get 
you a warm meal is what these guys really want. 
 
AG: How long have you been in this position with Aspire? 
 
LS: So, let’s see, the Emergency Clinic was from 2012 to, I think, 2016, and the reason why I 
kept telling my boss, I really, I want to do more than meds. You know, a lot of times when you 
are in the Emergency Clinic you are just seeing them one time, maybe two, giving them meds. I, 
you know, was trained to do therapy too. As a psychiatric nurse practitioner, you have to do 
individual therapy, you have to do group therapy, and I really wanted to do group therapy, and 
she knew I wanted to do more than just medication management and that is why I moved to 
Aspire, to be able to do other things, and now I admit people. You know, I do groups, I do 
individual, I still manage a few medications, a few of the veterans. I will say, “I wanna keep 
you,” because I don’t want to give that up. You know, I admit them and start all their meds but, 
you know, the psychiatrist is there too, so usually I just pick a few to follow myself, and I have a 
really good relationship with him. 
 
[0:46:24] AG: And so, when you were retiring from the Air Force, did you know you would go 
into the VA? Was that anticipated?  
 
LS: Yup. 
 
AG: Is that very common? 
 
LS: I wanted to either work active duty or the VA only. I really didn’t have a desire to work in 
the civilian world. It’s something that I understand and know. There is a chain of command in 
the VA and the military, and the comradery is different in the military than the civilian world, 
and that’s why I stayed in the military. You know, I went in because my husband was a surfer 
and I knew he wanted to surf, but I fell in love with the relationships, the people, how people try 
to do the right thing, that there is always a chain of command if things are not being done right 
and so, yeah, for me, I knew it was either going to be one or the other.  
 
[0:47:25] AG: Can I ask you a little bit about how COVID-19 affected your facility on the day to 
day? 
 
LS: So, we’re one of the residential programs that did not shut down during COVID. Most of 
them did. Um, and it’s still affecting us know. So, for a while we could only take people in our 
state. I couldn’t take anyone, which was really hard because I had a list of people waiting to 
come from New York and, you know, I’d be talking to them every week, hoping that things 
would open up and when it finally opened up, you know, I think I brought 11 people from New 
York that had been waiting to come. So, yes, you know, a lot of people went remote, and they 
are still remote. I tried to do remote one day and it just didn’t work for me, so I’ve always gone 
to work. There is a group of us, because it’s a residential program, so there was a group of us that 
always came. So, like the meetings are remote. You know, we’re all, it’s kind of disconnected, 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
 
 
 
14 
you know, because we don’t see each other, but the vets, you know, we had to wear masks. We 
wear masks still, and like our gym was closed for a while. The volunteers, we have a lot of 
volunteers, like the yoga instructor. We do wood turning as something to kind of keep you in the 
moment and a lot of them are retired veterans that would come and help, so the volunteers 
couldn’t come. So, we are just now getting to the point where, you know, we are able to start 
having people come back but we kept admitting patients all through this. 
 
AG: Do you have a sense of how, if at all, COVID-19 might have specifically affected vets, 
either before or – 
 
LS: Oh yeah. 
 
AG: -- after they came to the facility? 
 
LS: Because isolation is one of the things that you do with PTSD and with COVID, you isolate. 
You know, we’re told to stay home. Don’t go anywhere. Don’t see your providers. You know, so 
it’s really hard and a lot of the guys, it’s hard to do therapy on a video. I mean, that’s just the 
way it is, and that connection to being a human, you know, that’s what you lack with PTSD. You 
don’t feel like a human and not having a person there as you’re going through therapy, it was 
hard for a lot of veterans to do. A lot of them, [0:50:00] you know, couldn’t do it. It’s just such a 
disconnect, and so, COVID-19 has really affected how we do therapy, how we take care of 
patients. Even in my own going to the VA, you know, how do they do a physical when I’m not 
there or, you know, so it -- it’s different -- it’s different. You know, it was really good when the 
vaccination came out. It was just like a relief, and the VA did that very well. I actually 
volunteered to help with that for a few days and it was so neat to see. It was when they were only 
doing 75 and older. Talking to those old veterans, seeing how much they appreciated you, and 
getting the, you know, I think we did 700 one day and then 500 the other day. It was amazing to 
me to help with that, and it was a smooth process that the VA did. I was really impressed. So 
yeah, it’s, like I said, I’m hoping that spring is here and we’re looking a little forward that some 
of the measures, the disconnection, the groups that can’t happen, start back again. 
 
AG: Are there any lessons that you are sort of taking forward from the COVID-19 pandemic into 
your nursing, into your life more generally? 
 
LS: I haven’t gotten sick for the whole year, and a bunch of us realized that the mask, you know, 
in Japan, when I was stationed in Japan, you know, they wear masks all the time, not just during 
COVID-19, all the time, and we were just talking about this the other day. Doing your hands so 
much, even more, and wearing your mask. I learned how to, probably, stay away from getting, I 
don’t really get that sick but, I mean, not even a cold or anything. So yeah, I’ve learned to be a 
little bit more careful of my surroundings, wiping my hands when I get in the car. You know, all 
that kind of thing. Um, and learning how fragile, even, you know, again, a pandemic, who would 
have ever thought something as – that it would affect the whole world, you know. 
 
[0:52:37] AG: Can I ask you some questions, sort of more broadly, as you think back – 
 
LS:  Mm-hmm, yeah – 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
 
 
 
15 
 
AG: on your career? So, first of all, what would you say is the most difficult part of working as a 
nurse for the VA? 
 
LS:  Um, leadership, yeah. You know, in the military you may get a really good leader and then, 
you know, they are going to leave in a few years, and you might not have such a good leader but, 
you know, it’s frustrating seeing some of the things that you can’t change in the VA, trying to 
change those things, seeing the frustration that veterans go through, along with myself. I’m a 
huge advocate of the burn pit, if you know what that is. So, in Balad, and most of the people who 
deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan were exposed to the – they burnt everything in a giant pit, and 
in Balad it’s probably one of the worst ones. It was acres big, and they burned more at night 
because I think they didn’t want people to see how bad it was, and we would go outside and your 
lungs would just burn, and the Burn Pit is going to be like the Agent Orange for post 911 
veterans, and just like Agent Orange took the VA forever to acknowledge it, they are still 
fighting it with like the Blue Sailors, you know, the bill that went forward for the sailors that 
loaded the Agent Orange onto the planes. They are fighting the burn pit. So, they finally agreed 
to a Burn Pit Registry, and I do a lot of education with my veterans, and most of them have not 
even heard of that. But what we’re seeing in people who have been exposed, I have an 
autoimmune disease that I never had. I have sleep apnea and my neck is very tiny, and I’d say 
50% of the patients that I see, I test, and they all have sleep apnea. So, lung problems, respiratory 
problems, weird cancers, skin conditions, they are all associated with this burn pit, so I am 
hoping in the next year or two -- that right now there are several bills in congress to [0:55:00] 
address this because it’s something that they haven’t acknowledged as a disability or associated 
with our service. My burn pit had not only plastic, body parts, it had depleted uranium, it had JP-
8 diesel fuel. It had everything that you could imagine that is very illegal here in the United 
States to do, they did over there, and it’s something that frustrates most veterans because we 
were the 1% of us that serve anymore, we’re exposed knowingly to something that’s cancer 
causing and toxic. So, I actually do a lot of education on that with my veterans, and the claim, 
the Disability claim, you know, they are going through the same kind of fight that Agent Orange 
did, and I hope that we’ve learned that it doesn’t take a lifetime to acknowledge these conditions 
that are associated with our service and take care of those veterans who have been exposed. 
 
AG: Absolutely, wow, that’s shocking. I hadn’t heard of that prior an -- and that was -- is the 
rational just that they need to clear those items from the region [crosstalk]? 
 
LS: The rational is that they didn’t have any place to put all that trash, and then the VA’s rational 
is, you know, we don’t see scientific evidence that this has affected your health, and now they’re, 
I mean, a few years ago they decided to go ahead and do the registry, and then now it’s a big 
thing because of the administration right now, our President Biden’s son, Beau, died of a weird 
brain cancer and was exposed to a burn pit. So, we have John Stewart who actually fought for the 
911 First Responders. He is now fighting for the Burn Pit, so we will see how that goes in the 
next year. So, I do a lot, that’s another thing, this whole thing ended up getting me involved with 
politics, where I’ve gone to Congress and Senate with Iraq, Afghanistan, Veterans of America, 
and sat in with senators and congressman about veteran suicide. We passed a Clay Hunt Suicide 
Prevention Bill that added more peer support to the VA and that did a lot of other things. I – I 
just, last time I went, we were passing a bill for female veterans that just passed. So, I do a lot of 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
 
 
 
16 
things outside of the VA to promote veteran advocacy. I also volunteer with a service dog 
organization for PTSD called Tender Loving Canines Assistant Dogs. They are with the Blind 
Dogs of America, and that’s where I got Willow, my own service dog, who is very helpful with 
my triggers of helicopters and being more out in public. 
 
AG: Right, that’s wonderful. You had mentioned that you have been to the Nation’s Capital 
doing this advocacy, and it’s predominantly lobbying and having conversations with congress 
members? 
 
LS: It is. We actually go to go to the White House several times and watch the bill that we fought 
for with President Obama get signed into as law, that Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention Act. We’ve 
worked on 911 GI Bill things, suicide. The Burn Pit is right now the big one, and then the 
Female Veteran Bill. So, you know, and that was something I never thought I’d be sitting in the 
rotunda of the congress, you know, right with Nancy Pelosi and all these people, I thought, who 
am I, you know, to be here? Our being – the Ambassador of Afghanistan invited us to dinner. 
There were 20 of us. So, we got to sit down and talk with him and his wife. I mean, there has 
been some – and the VA. I actually went to the VA and sat down with the secretary, a previous -- 
2 previous secretaries, and talked about some of the issues that came out of what our members 
were wanting to see in policy changes, which was kind of odd because here I am an employee 
but I [lost audio] 
 
AG: Oh, Linda, I lost you again. 
 
LS: Am I back? Okay.  
 
AG: That’s so impressive. How long have you been involved with the -- [01:00:00] the 
[crosstalk]? 
 
LS: Ah, after my retirement, because, you know, when your active duty you’re not really 
supposed to do those things. So, I think the first year I went to what’s called Storm the Hill, is – 
was in 2011 or 12, and that was with the for-profit schools that try to get GI-- the GI money and 
it really, you know, and then-- then the next one was the mental health, the suicide. We placed, at 
that time, on the National Mall a flag for every suicide that had happened that year, and I got to 
place the first flag for Melissa Birtzer, which was my friend, the nurse that killed herself, and to 
see all those flags out there, thousands, it was a picture, you know. We have so many veterans 
and we continue to have so many veterans commit suicide. Even though the wars might be 
mostly over, the problems that have happened, the families broken, the amount of substance 
abuse and suicide has just increased over the years.  
 
[1:01:03] AG: I was going to ask as well, what do you think that the most rewarding part of your 
role as a nurse at the VA has been? 
 
LS: When I see a veteran graduate and they have a new life and they are back, maybe with their 
wife and their kids, that’s – or you have somebody that was living in their car and they get – 
graduate and they leave with an apartment and a house, you know, furniture, a place to sleep, or 
they leave with a service dog because we have a service dog organization that comes and works 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
 
 
 
17 
with them. Um, and they have a new career, or they go to a job. That is the best thing about the 
VA. And then teaching anger management. Every session that I teach, I learn something. To live 
in the moment, to not take for granted my life or what I do, and to focus on the things that I can 
change in the VA system and there is a lot of things I can’t change. I would love to change a lot 
of things. There is a lot of things that we could improve for all veterans, but I think, you know, 
with the size of our bureaucracy of the VA, sometimes they don’t listen to the person in the 
trenches, like myself, and see some of the changes they could make. 
 
AG: What are some of the services that you’d like to see either improved or provided for 
veterans? 
 
LS: Well, when I worked in the Emergency Clinic, I would like to see showers and places where 
the homeless vets could shower and clean up because there is nothing more inhuman than to 
leave someone in dirty clothes and not to be able to have a shower or a warm meal. They need to 
listen more to the people who are doing the jobs, you know, not so much the people that are up 
on the carpeted floor that sometimes don’t connect. I remember when they first came out with 
the Choice Program, for instance, and, you know, good idea, good idea. We can’t get these 
people into therapy so let’s send them out to civilians, and I remember sitting down with a Seal, 
a Navy Seal, and he was ready to get therapy and I sent him out to get therapy with the Choice 
Program, and he came back a few months later needing some meds, and I said, “Well, how’s the 
therapy going,” and he looked at me and said, “mm, I tried it,” but she had me looking in a box 
with colored lights going off, and I’m – I thought at first it was something called EMDR where 
you do some exposure therapy with veterans, but it wasn’t, it was a mood light, and I said there’s 
gotta be a way that we can look at who we sent these veterans to, that they are doing evidence-
based treatment for them, some way to do this. Like, we’d come with like a Craig’s – or 
something that would – the vets could say ‘this is a good therapist, it really helped me’ or ‘this is 
a poor therapist,’ but, you know, we’re spending all this money to send them to programs 
sometimes that aren’t good. So, you know, those are some of the things, and I went to leadership, 
and I told them, I think this choice, some of these things, we need to look at who we are sending 
these veterans out to. We need to do a lot more pain management. You know, you shouldn’t – 
pain management [1:05:00] should be a huge thing in the veteran community cause a person in 
pain is more likely to commit suicide, chronic pain, and a lot of guys young and old have chronic 
pain, and to wait to get into a pain clinic for months isn’t right. It needs to be – there needs to be 
more walk-in services. People with TBIs forget when their appointments are. You know, so there 
needs to be more like the walk-in clinic I worked, that was good, but there needs to be medical 
walk in, not just the emergency room because, you know, people don’t wanna wait 7, 8 hours in 
emergency room. There needs to be more of those services that you can just walk into for the 
veterans. There is a lot of things I’d do different but overall, you know, they try. I just think there 
-- we could improve care for our veterans. Like women, we’re the fastest growing community at 
the VA, is women veterans. Childcare, most of them are single moms, a lot of them. We have no 
childcare services, and sometimes they don’t wanna see um with children, you know, what do 
they do? You know, I would see um with their kids in the walk-in clinic. You know, and there 
are some people what won’t, so there is a lot of services that could be improved, and the VA 
could keep up with the change in times. 
 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
 
 
 
18 
AG: When you think about, you know, both your role now and then kind of maybe how it’s 
shifted over the many different iterations of nursing that you’ve done, what you think of as your 
role in providing care, you know, kind of a nurse’s role generally or the experiences you’ve had 
specifically in providing patient care? 
 
LS: I think the most important thing, whatever I’ve done, whatever kind of nursing I’ve done, 
because I’ve done everything, is to connect with the patient, you know. The person who can 
connect with a patient as a human being, they’ll always see you as doing – being the best nurse 
ever. Even if you were a poor nurse. I mean, in – that you maybe didn’t do everything right, you 
know, but that connection when you’re vulnerable, sick, ill, not trusting people maybe, you 
know, both, is the most important thing in nursing. For psychiatric things, I do a lot of – I teach, I 
go to nursing schools and talk about PTSD almost every semester, a few of them, they have me 
come back, but I always, you know, ask who is gonna --  what nursing are you going into, you 
know, the people – ER, you know, peds, OB. Nobody hardly ever says psych, and I always look 
at them and I say, “Your all gonna be psychiatric nurses.” The ability to connect is a thing that 
will make you be the best nurse that you can, whether a person is dying in ICU, the families that 
are there or, you know, how many people I was with when they lost their baby in labor and 
delivery or, you know, or in Iraq, you know, connecting with them as a human being is so 
important. I mean, there were things that I did to connect with people. I mean, I walked -- I don’t 
smoke but one of my veterans wanted to smoke and he couldn’t walk, when I was in the te- -- 
you know, in -- in Iraq and I walked him outside and I let him smoke, and he didn’t know I was 
an officer for some reason and all of a sudden he goes, “Oh my gosh, you’re a officer and your 
walking out here with me to let me smoke?” After his leg was almost blown off, you bet, you 
bet. Or, you know, a marine who lost his leg and yells out, “This fucking hurts,” and he all of a 
sudden sees my rank and he says, “Excuse me Ma’am.” I’m like, “No, it does fucking hurt.” You 
know, it’s the ability to be a human being and to connect. It is so important, and that will make 
you the best nurse, whatever you do. Even as administrator, how you connect, how I connected 
with my fla- -- you know, going around, not being so above that if they were short staffed, guess 
what, I worked at the front desk of the OB clinic as a boss in charge, checking patients in, or in 
Iraq, I remember my sergeant almost had a heart attack when I started mopping the floor because 
we had done all our work, and one of the other military volunteers came in and he said, “Are you 
gonna let that major mop the floor,” and he goes, “Yes, you don’t know her.” It’s getting the 
work done, who -- putting aside who you are and making it the best you can for our patients. 
 
AG: Do you think that, you know, for example, like  [1:10:00] your father’s experiences at 
things – 
 
LS: Oh yeah. 
 
AG: -- instilled in you, that kind of can do no matter whose technical responsibility it is and 
stepping in where -- 
 
LS: Yeah. 
 
AG: -- you could be of help? 
 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
 
 
 
19 
LS: It’s always service before self. My dad was always that way, and that is one of the core 
values of the Air Force. It was service before self, excellence in all you do, and integrity first, 
and that -- an -- and those words really mean a lot to me. They are not just BS. I’ve carried the 
core values through my career in the VA and I just try to do the best I can for each patient that I 
see.  
 
AG:  I just-- 
 
LS: No, I’m fine, I-- 
 
AG: -- [inaudible – 1:10:43] I wonder, right now in your role, typically do you like going – 
 
LS: I do like going to work. Everyone says, “When are you gonna retire?” All my friends have 
retired. You know, even the ones that retired from the Air Force and now, you know, or the 
Army, because I kept in touch with a lot of the -- my Army people too. I guess until I don’t like it 
anymore, you know. There are some frustrations, but as far as with the patient, when I focus on 
just patients and veterans and what I do in my own little world, I love it. You know, I love it. 
Um, so, I don’t know, you know. I don’t know how much longer I’ll do this, but I don’t plan on 
retiring for a while, until I don’t like it anymore or I’m not -- or I can’t take care of veterans, you 
know, or I’m not doing the job I was hired to do. 
 
AG: And how have -- how would you say nursing may have changed over the course of your 
career? Have you seen some, you know, growth or – or – ah -- or changes to the field? 
 
LS: Yeah, um, the newer nurses sometimes don’t understand, how do I say this politically 
correct, they, they sometimes expect everything right at the very beginning. They don’t realize 
that you have to do night shift, you know, that you have to be on call, that you need to help other 
people. You know, if I was walking down the hall and I heard a bell go off, even if it wasn’t my 
patient, she needed to use the bedpan, I’d go in and do the bedpan, and sometimes I see a little 
bit more of “that’s your patient.” I don’t see that in the military as much, but I did see that a few 
times, and that’s -- that’s -- that’s kind of sad because, you know, you take of one another, and 
that’s in the military. You’re really -- what people may not understand about the military and 
Afghanistan and Iraq is it is not so much about Afghanistan and Iraq, it’s the people beside you. 
You know, it’s the people that you work with. It’s your son, your daughter that you’re taking 
care of. You’re there. You try to get the political thing as back noise, you know. Why we’re 
there, what we’re doing there. When you’re there, you’re there for the people next to you and 
that’s kind of, that whole mentality of working as a unit. Sometimes I don’t see as much 
anymore but, you know, I have -- I have also, you know, I have a daughter-in-law who is a nurse, 
I have a son in the military, you know, so I have a -- I don’t have as much experience with the 
civilian world as maybe I should, but what I hear from other people that are also doing civilian 
nursing that were in the military, that’s the one thing they miss, is the comradery and working 
together as a team. 
 
AG: That, I can really imagine that. Is there anything you’d like to add -- 
 
LS: Hm. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
 
 
 
20 
 
AG: - before we conclude, Linda? 
 
LS: I don’t think so. I think that, just trying to think, I think I’ve kind of hit on everything. 
Nursing is a wonderful career because you can change what you’re doing all the time. You know 
-- you know, I started out -- you know -- I think I started out -- actually I started, I-- I was like a 
student nurse paid in OB labor and delivery as I was going to school and then you work, you 
know, med surg or you work L&D or you help in the NICU or, you know, you start doing all 
these different careers and, you know, when -- if you get tired of something, you know, change. 
You know, go to be like a consult manager or a, you know, there are so many options that you 
can do in [1:15:00] nursing. You don’t have to stay with one thing. So, that is what’s nice about 
nursing, and that you truly are helping people in probably some of their worst times of their life 
and you can either make that an experience that has some hope in it and some comfort or you can 
really make it horrible for your patients. So, humor is always great in nursing. I always have 
humor. No matter what I did, what kind of nursing, humor gets you through a lot of the tough 
times and the relationships that you form with other people that you serve with. It is lifetime 
relationships. 
 
AG: Thank you so much -- 
 
LS: No problem. 
 
AG: - for your time [inaudible – 1:15:49] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
 
 
 
21