Ironworkers Documentation Project 
 
AUDIO LOG FORM 
 
Interviewer's recording no(s).:  BH IW 2 [Ryan] 
 
Contact:  
 
John Ryan (Interview #2) 
 
 
Interviewer:     
Bucky Halker 
 
 
Interview: 
 
     Date:   
 
July 27, 2011 
 
     Place:  
 
Union Headquarters, Local #63, 2525 W. Lexington, Broadview, IL 60155 
 
     Other people present: 
None 
 
     Background noise:   
 
 
 
 
 
     Equipment used:  The Local IWU 63 headquarters can be a bit noisy and this can be heard in the 
background.  It's an industrial building for the most part, so the cooling and heating system is a regular 
problem.   Occasionally, the building even generates a line noise that is impossible to keep off the 
recording.  Sometimes you can also hear people in the office section talking and laughing or somebody 
will walk into the room.  
 
     Equipment used:  Marantz PMD 661 digital recorder and Shure SM57 microphone 
 
     Recording medium used: Transcend 8 gigabyte SD memory card, uncompressed WAV format.  
 
     Recording engineer: Bucky Halker 
 
 
 
 
Summary description of audio interview contents: 
                                          
Ryan talks about his hobby, fixing up antique boat motors.   Many of the skills needed to this work is a 
spin off from his ironworker career.    
 
 
 
 
Audio Interview Contents 
 
 
Counter   
No./Time                   Topic 
00:01  No introductory remarks.   
 
 
[John, why don’t you tell me a little bit about how you took your ironworking skills and put them to use 
in the hobbies that you’ve got.]  Of course, knowing how to work with metals and drill and tap and 
actually tap things and bend things…  I started when I retired, I had an old outboard motor in the garage.  
I was inspired by one that I had seen at a flea market that was a little bit out of my range.  I decided I 
would work on it.  So I did.  I got rings for it and decals for it.  I started with one and I have been retired 
now seven years or so and I started with one outboard motor and I have 37 now in the garage.  [Wow.]  I 
have a core of antiques, the oldest being 1913 and now I have a ‘13 and I have a '14 and ’15 Evenrud row 
boat motors.  And I have a few others that are part of my collection.  The other motors that I have in the 
late ‘30s and ‘40s I fix up and some are in the ‘50s.  I’ll get and repair 'em and get 'em to the point where 
they can run.  I generally don’t start them, the older ones, but they have compression and spark.  And I’ll 
turn them over and it supplies me with some funds for my collection.  But it’s fascinating.  My wife was 
still working when I retired, so I would go out and my ritual was…  I’d go to the coffee shop in the 
morning and meet my friend, chat a little bit and get home and start working in the garage.  And all of a 
sudden it’s 3:30 in the afternoon and the day just went by fast.  You know, I listen to some of the old 
timers that retired and they talked about they didn’t have any time to do anything.  Well, wait, you’re 
retired.  You got all day.  And I’m trying to figure out now…and they would tell me and I know…  
Where would I fit work into this schedule?  My days are filled.  Busier than heck.  Scheduled doing this 
or that or working on the motors.  I got some competitive fishing that I do.  It’s almost like my fishin' now 
is suffering because I’m not getting out enough.  You know…and I’m retired. 
 
2:32  [Did you ever make your own musky lures?  Have you transferred into making spoons and stuff?]  
Oh, not spoons.  I’ve made some wooden bait stuff that I’ve tried and I’ve caught fish on them.  I did, 
however, start…oh…it has to be 12 years ago.  I had a friend of mine that I fish with and I called him my 
net man.  But he was like one of the gurus in musky fishing.  He was president of Muskies, Inc. and 
president of our club.  He went to Canada all the time.  I kind a would like to get into fishing with him.  
And I said to him one day, I said, “You know, if you ever need somebody, I’ll fish with you.”  Well, 
we’ve been fishing together now probably 15 years.  And he and his partner produce the Chicagoland 
Musky Show.  He asked me to get involved in it.  Well, I started making some leaders because that’s one 
of the essential parts in musky fishing.  You have a good leader so the fish can’t bite off the line.  At that 
time he said, “Well, sell your leaders.”  And I said, “Well, I can’t afford a booth.  But what I’ll do is I’ll 
sell what leaders I have and some odds and ends that I want to sell and get rid of and I’ll split my profits 
with you.”  Well I did.  That was over 11-12 years ago.  And I’ve been in his show ever since and bought 
the booth.  Went on to making different leaders, again, working with metals and knowing how to put 
things together.  And so, yeah, it did help me out, working in the trade helped me out dealing with that. 
 
4:18  [Now the boat motors, what kind of work do you have to do, just strip them down and then you 
have to get all the old finish off.  What kind of…  What’s the process when you get one of those old 
motors?]  Well, one of the first ones that I had…  I had gotten involved and saw what the antique 
outboard motor club was like.  You can go into their archives and get…and download information.  And 
one of them was how to take an aluminum tank and fix it.  And of course, I knew how to cut it apart in a 
certain spot, go in and pound things out.  Get things prepped up and then go back and weld, aluminum 
weld this all together.  I did try to get a Lincoln welder with a wire feed for aluminum, with the gases and 
everything that you needed for it.  And it just didn’t work right.  So I had a guy weld it up for me and then 
I cleaned it all up.  You can buy decals and you can get paints that are close to what they were original.  A 
lot of guys try to get the original.  Sometimes I go overboard and get some wild colors, wilder colors, 
brighter colors that guys want to use for display.  So sometimes I would go that way.  You know, just 
cleaning the stuff up.  Straightening it.  I have had occasion where I gave up the idea with that aluminum 
because to do it right, you would have to go to the industrial quality welder and just a little bit overboard 
and the wire feed up in the handle and stuff.  I could do it.  I could weld it, but I thought ok, there’s a local 
guy that does it professionally.  I’ll let him do that.  So I haven’t traveled that road as far as getting' my 
own welder. 
 
6:16  But it’s exciting to go and get something that’s ready to go in the trash, clean it up and then have 
somebody say, “Wow, I want that.”  You know?  [So you sell some of them?]  Oh yeah.  Oh yeah.  I’ve 
taken some where I just kind of cleaned them up a little bit and sold them.  And others where I’ve put too 
much time in and sold them.  But it affords me to go on to the next one.  [So what’s the market like on 
those these days?  What are they going for?]  It all depends.  You can buy just a relatively…I would say 
find…anywheres from…  My cheapest one was a $10 motor that I traveled to…Iowa, or Ohio…or Iowa 
to get.  And I made a round trip going up toward Madison because I had to drop some motors off.  But I 
figured it was a $10 motor but…  Generally, a motor will go from anywheres from $70 to $100.  And if 
you fix them up, you can get, depending on what brand it is and who wants it.  I had a guy call me one 
time…  I had some motors that I was selling at my musky show, and I would have sold them at a profit 
for $175 a piece.  And I think that’s what it was.  And I didn’t sell them.  Nobody wanted them.  So I 
found out how to post my stuff on Ebay.  And I put them on Ebay and one particular motor was a Johnson 
'28, or '39, whatever it was.  But Mr. Johnson wanted that motor.  It was one that he was focused on, and 
he bought that motor for $400 on Ebay.  I would have sold it for $175.  So yeah, there’s some 
marketers…  You gotta find someone who wants it, that particular one was…  He was Johnson.  He 
wanted a Johnson.  That particular year was a '38 or '39, whatever it was, was his birthday or something 
and that’s what he wanted.  I just had an Elgin.  It was in pretty good shape.  It was camouflaged in color.  
I sold it for $10.  I put it on Ebay and nobody was bidding on it.  It was in the wrong category.  I probably 
had $30 in it.  But for good ones, I had to get rid of it.  I had it too long, so I said, “Yeah, go ahead and 
take it.”  But it's fun.   
 
8:57  One of the interesting things now…  I just had one that I looked at… A guy called me up, talked to 
me at one of the shows two years ago.  And it was a Chris Craft outboard motor.  I had seen them and you 
don’t see them around.  Chris Craft was the boat manufacturer.  He puts the motors on.  Right?  And I 
kind of let go.  So I was at my daughter’s house, painting, and I got a call one evening.  “I just came 
across that motor and your card, and are you still interested?”  And I said, “I don’t know.”  He said, 
“Well, I’m out in Aurora.”  “Well, strangely enough, my son just moved out to Oswego, and I go out 
there all the time.”  And I say, “I’ll come by and look at it.”  And I got this Chris Craft Commander from 
him.  It probably would be, when I fix it up, might be a $350 motor that I’ll have $150 in it and my time 
and I got to get decals but…   It’s just fun dealing with them. 
 
[Well, thanks again.  It’s fun to talk to you about your work and everything.  That’s great.] 
 
END 10:04