1 
Teachers Offstage: The Occupational Folklore of Wisconsin Teachers 
Interview with Teacher Mick Jay Krueger 
 
Interviewee:   
 
Mick Jay Krueger 
Current Occupation: 
5th grade teacher, Lodi, Wisconsin 
Date of Interview: 
 
March 8, 2014 
Location of Interview: 
Anne Pryor’s home, Madison, Wisconsin 
Interviewer:  
 
Anne Pryor 
Contact Information:  
Wisconsin Teachers of Local Culture, 
pryor.anne@gmail.com  
Purpose:  
Archie Green Fellowship & Occupational Folklore 
Project through the American Folklife Center, Library 
of Congress 
Deposit:  
 
 
Library of Congress 
Length of Interview:  
01:15:35 
Recording: 
 
 
WAV 32 bit 
 
Note: 
 
 
Comments: 
Only text in italics is verbatim; all other text is 
paraphrased. 
 
Time Code 
00:00:00   
Introductory comments including names, date, place of interview 
and address.  Mick was born on 
 1980 in Manawa, Wisconsin in Waupaca 
County.  Manawa’s population is about 1,200 and is mostly dairy farms. 
 
00:01:25 
His community and parents were both German background.  Now 
Mick lives in Lodi, Wisconsin. 
 
00:02:05 
Mick went to school Kindergarten through 12th grade in Manawa.  
He attended University of Wisconsin – Eau Claire for elementary education; he 
got a license with a specialty in special education.  He moved to Lodi for a job as 
a 4th grade teacher in August 2005. Then he started a master’s program in 
educational psychology at University of Wisconsin - Madison.   
The interview for the Lodi job was his 8th interview.  It was intimidating 
because there were 7 people at a table. Then they put him in a side room to write 
out answers to questions. He got called back and had to teach a short lesson. 
Then he got hired.  
 
00:03:25 
Have you done much with your special ed degree? 
 
His label is “inclusion” so a lot of his funding comes through the special ed 
department.  His classroom is normal looking.  There might be a few more 
special ed students in his room but the whole school is all inclusive so everybody 
is involved. 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
1
2 
00:03:50 
What influenced you to go into the field of education? 
That would go back to my second grade teacher, Melanie Oppor. I still 
remember her.  I just loved her to death. And I said, “I want to be like you when I 
grow up” and here I am teaching.  She seemed very caring and wanted us to 
succeed and made me feel like I was important.  She made me feel like I wanted 
to do that someday also.  
00:04:35 
He started teaching 4th grade 7 years ago.  2 years ago he moved 
up to 5th grade. This is his second year teaching 5th grade. 
00:04:50 
Can you describe a typical day? 
Well, it’s teaching so we know there is no such thing as typical (laughs).  
Normally Mick gets to school about half an hour before the kids get there so he 
can prep and get ready.  He introduces the day’s schedule to the kids because 
there are a lot of changes each day. And then they start out. For the past few 
years they’ve started with literacy. Then they have breakfast.  Then math 
followed by lunch.  Then they have science or social studies. Then the kids go 
home. 
All students are offered breakfast. The school has a low population of free 
and reduced kids but all kids can get breakfast. The students arrive at 7:55 am. 
Breakfast for 5th grade is offered at 9:55 am and for the younger kids it’s offered 
right away.  3:05 pm the school day ends.  The hours for which he is contracted 
to teach are 7:45 am – 3:45 pm.  But there are always a lot of things to do after 
school, including meetings. If he’s out by 4:15 pm, that’s a good day. 
He takes home a lot of work although doesn’t always get to it.  But he 
needs to feel ready for the next day, that he’s caught up.  A lot of time he’ll go 
home, eat, and then turn to his papers or books to get ready for the next day. 
00:07:40 
Do you have a favorite part of the day? 
It’s going to sound kind of cheesy but just seeing the kids in the morning 
when they come in.  They’re always excited in the morning.  But once we start 
teaching that kind of fades real quick. (laughs) He likes how they come in with 
lots of energy, ready to go. 
00:08:05 
Are there rituals or traditions in your classroom for either yourself or 
with your kids? 
He likes to keep the classroom relaxed so they can enjoy themselves yet 
still learn.  If the class seems to be fading, they’ll break out a joke or get up and 
move.   
Mick doesn’t sit much during the day and he doesn’t like to have the 
students sitting all day. He’ll get them moving with a purpose.  He has the luxury 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
2
 
3 
of two rooms because he team teaches.  One room, the main room, is for the 
main instruction and the other is for breaking out into small groups.  So they keep 
it moving.  But no real rituals. 
 
- 
Anything special on Friday? 
 
In the beginning we always had like, we were having special activities on 
Fridays.  The kids started to say, “It’s Fun Friday! What’s our activity?” And we 
were like, “No, we’re just doing these activities as part of the curriculum. It’s not 
‘Fun Friday.’” But they wanted Fun Friday. And I’m glad they thought the 
activities were fun. 
 
00:10:00 
How has team teaching changed your job? 
 
It’s so much easier now.  There’s always a time when you get stuck on 
something. You think, “What am I trying to say?” With team teaching, you can 
bounce it back and forth. If he makes a mistake, she’ll correct him or he’ll correct 
her.  And if the phone rings, one of them can take it and the instruction can keep 
going. If there’s a problem with two kids, one teacher can work with the kids and 
the other keep on with instruction.  
It’s rare that they’ll both be sick on the same day so he doesn’t need to 
come in and write a sub plan. The curriculum can keep going at the normal pace; 
they don’t lose instruction time via the slowed down pace that happens with a 
sub. There’s no filler time. He recommends that more teachers do team teaching.  
It’s good too since there is both a male and female teacher there.  The kids can 
go to the teacher they feel more comfortable with.  
 
00:11:55 
How does the school year flow across the seasons? 
 
The period from winter break to spring break always seems long, 
especially if it’s a long and cold winter, like this year. The kids lose their 
excitement level. There aren’t many days off either.  By the end of year, the 
students are getting that summer feeling – ‘can we just be done?’ So do the 
teachers. (laughs) 
 
00:12:55 
How do you usually spend your summers? 
 
 
Usually in a classroom taking a class.  The last three years he’s taken a 
two-week class in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) so he 
can incorporate them more into the curriculum. Then before that he was doing 
his master’s degree so he was always taking classes.  He also does some 
landscaping in the summer to supplement his current income, or lack thereof. 
(laughs) 
 
00:13:35 
Describe your classroom. 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
3
 
4 
They have tables instead of desks so they can accommodate the number 
of kids they have in the combined class.  All the tables have chairs around them 
that face the front so the kids can see the board equally. There’s a white board 
surrounding the entire classroom.  I’m kind of a white board fanatic. I’d rather do 
white boards than bulletin boards. I hate bulletin boards. He’s always writing on 
the white board.  If a kid has a question, he’ll write it on the white board. He 
figures that if one kid asks a question, someone else will ask later.  He’ll point to 
the board, tell the kid to read through it and see if they can figure it out. If not, 
he’ll go through it with him. 
There’s one teacher desk jammed against the corner. They throw things 
on there and the kids know that if it’s on the desk they aren’t allowed to look at it. 
They rarely sit there. They have a computer on the desk that’s hooked up to the 
SMART board. They have two separate rooms that they use for storage and one 
is also a break-out room. A desk is in there but they don’t sit down at the desk 
until the end of the day, if they’re lucky. 
 
00:15:20 
Do you have windows? 
 
That’s one thing he’s never had.  He has 2 little windows. Even in his old 
classroom he had only one little window. At least he has those windows so he 
can see a little bit what’s going on outside, unlike interior rooms with no windows 
at all. So, two small sad windows. 
 
00:15:40 
If you don’t use bulletin boards, do you have other decorations? 
 
They have the Wisconsin flag and the United States flag. They have the 
ABCs in cursive; they go back and forth on the cursive/manuscript writing. In the 
room that has the desk, the room they call ‘the think tank,’ they have a board in 
there with a map. The kids move along the map as they read; they call it “The 
Reading Road Map.” It’s a trip from California to New York so every time they 
read they can move along.  He also has a big Bucky Bader poster up that says, 
“Read.” 
And because there was just the winter Olympics, they had a bulletin board 
where they kept track of their country; each kid got a country and kept track of 
their medal count. So any bulletin board that they have is going to be interactive 
so that Mick doesn’t have to do all of it. (laughs) It’s not just sitting there looking 
pretty.  
 
Some teachers switch it once a month. And I’m like, how do you have 
time? And is it really that valuable? I kind of weigh that one.  
 
00:17:20 
As far as the tools you use, you mentioned white board, SMART 
board; what other technology do you have? And can you say more about how 
you use the SMART board? 
 
 
They use the SMART board on a regular basis. In the morning, the kids 
use it to check in. It gives them a little message, like “Good Morning. Open up to 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
4
 
5 
page 172; work on that.” Then they check in for hot or cold lunch.  They made it 
look like a football field, because they like football and because football season 
takes up most of the year, until January, and then they just keep it as a football 
field.  
They do all their math on the SMART board. It’s easy to flip through the 
pages going back and forth. The kids can come up and write on it, which they 
enjoy.  Sometimes they’ll watch a video or a clip. That’s the great thing about 
technology these days. If a kid says, “I went to the museum in Milwaukee” and 
they saw something great, like an art display or something, we can find it on line  
and pop it up and the kid can talk about it.  Or if they go on vacation, a lot of kids 
will email us their pictures so then they can share their pictures up on the 
SMART board. So it’s really kind of neat. 
Also, each classroom has five iPads the kids use and share to look things 
up. It makes it really easy. If a kid doesn’t know what something is, Mick will tell 
them to look it up without having to go to the computer lab and sign in, like they 
used to have to do. Sometimes the kids type something up on the iPad but 
they’re going back and forth on that since you type differently on an iPad. So now 
they’re going to try to get keyboards for the iPads to see if that helps their typing 
skills.  They can play games and activities on the iPads too in free time. 
 
00:19:50 
Do you use any tools that are not electronic? 
 
00:20:00 
For literacy, they do rounds, a “Daily Five” where it’s writing, 
reading, listening, read to others, read to self.  They pick the rounds on the 
SMART board. In between each round he rings the bell so they know the round 
is done. The bell is sacred.  No one can touch it except the teacher or an adult. 
It’s just a little dingy bell. They ring it only for the rounds.  
They also have a RED cat system in the back. They put a mic around their 
neck. Every now and then when the kids get loud he’ll bang in it.  (laughs) All the 
other teachers say I’m loud enough; I don’t need it. It’s great for the quiet kids 
when they’re sharing. Then they don’t have to tell them to speak up. 
We’re not hitting desks with rulers or anything. (laughs) 
 
00:21:25 
Is there an object that is a privilege for the kids to use? 
 
Not really.  In the beginning of the year we really set the standard high.  
We expect the most out of you. I don’t care what class you came from. I don’t 
care what they let you do. This is our classroom. These are kind of our 
guidelines. If you follow them, we’re gonna treat you with respect. But if you 
don’t, we’ll treat you like kids. I treat them as much as an equal as possible. So if 
they have to go to the bathroom, they don’t have to ask. They just get up and go. 
Of course, you always have those kids who leave all the time, so eventually they 
have to ask. If they need something, they can just get it.  Everything is equal. 
They help each other out. 
There are two separate sections of math.  Some 5th grade math and 6th 
grade math but they work together through it all. 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
5
 
6 
 
00:23:15 
Jargon?  Words? Terms? Acronyms? 
 
He can’t think of any specifically except for licensing terms like PI34 or 
PDP, terms that an outsider wouldn’t know.  PI34 – you have to write a 
professional development plan, set goals, reflect every year, show you’re 
growing.  And a new on-line assessment system they have to follow; they have to 
reflect on line; he doesn’t remember the name of that.  A learning objective is 
part of that. Everything we do has a new name. 
 
00:25:00 
Any code words that the teachers use? 
 
Not really.  We don’t hide much.  Every now and then when the principal is 
coming we’ll say, “The Eagle is coming.”  It’s the 5th grade team’s way of saying 
“You’d better be on your A game” 
 
00:25:55 
Who do you eat lunch with? 
 
His school is unique.  In the staff lounge, the 5th grade teachers eat at the 
same time and this year 3rd and 4th grade teachers are at the same time too.  
And we know when we enter that room there’s little to no school talk.  That’s our 
time to relax. We get that short little half-hour break. We’re gonna go down there, 
eat, have a good laugh and talk about something other than school.  Other times, 
they’re talking about school all the time. Yes, there are days when they have to 
talk about school during lunch. But most days, they make it down to the staff 
lounge and they chat about how life is going and how things are going at home. 
Otherwise they could work next to each other all week long and not know 
anything that’s going on, never say anything to each other but a quick “Hi.” It 
gives them a chance to catch up. We all have a good laugh and it keeps us 
energized for the afternoon.   
Their building is currently grades 1-5.  The 1st and 2nd grade teachers 
have lunch at the same time but none of them ever go to the staff lounge. They 
all stay in their own classrooms. It’s very different between the two groups.  
 
00:28:00 
Is there much socializing outside of school among the staff? 
 
We try.  Life gets in the way – everyone’s busy – but we always try having 
a winter party where all the staff gets together, or, this year we had a Halloween 
party where everyone got together. And on Fridays we try to have a meeting at 
the local establishment.  Have a drink or two, having a good time, seeing how the 
week went, then go on our way.   
But they do try to socialize as much as possible because they hang out in 
the same place all day and all have the same goal in mind so why not.  And 
some of the best ideas come from those meetings instead of the real staff 
meetings. (laughs) 
 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
6
 
7 
But in his 5th grade team, there are three teachers. They live within a mile 
of each other and they hang out together all the time. He actually rents a 
farmhouse from his team teacher so her house is right up from his. He lives on a 
chicken farm; her husband runs the farm. He and two coworkers were unloading 
baby chickens this morning.  So we stay together. We do a lot together. It’s not 
odd for one of us to be texting or calling the other saying, “I have this idea I want 
to run by you before I forget it.” I have a really good team. 
 
00:29:50 
When you have a goal for something you want to do at school, who 
do you turn to?  Who are your allies? 
 
Definitely his coworkers on the 5th grade team.  Then, other teachers in 
the building.  There are not many teachers he feels he can’t go to; they all have 
the same goal in mind.  And then, always the principal.  The secretaries are 
amazing. And of course, the custodians.  You always have to make sure you’re 
friends with the custodians and the secretaries; that’s one of the first things he 
learned about teaching. And the tech guy; Mick calls on him on a regular basis.  
He’s awesome.  If it involves something the kids need, he gets on it right away.  If 
it’s something the teachers need, then he’ll get to it when he can. 
There’s one staff person dedicated to working on technology. The 
librarian/media specialist is only part-time so they don’t get to utilize her much 
because she’s often not there. It would be nice to have her more to teach about 
new programs. The tech guy fixes things. 
 
00:32:00 
Can you talk about staff turnover and the types of staff changes 
that have happened? 
 
When I started, we had the older teachers and we had the younger 
teachers.  There weren’t a lot of middle teachers. There were a lot that were 
there for many many years and were getting close to retirement or the ones that 
were just coming out of college.  But since Act 10 went in effect, right away we 
lost all the older ones because they retired if they could. And then, our district 
has really been affected by the budget and we’re kind of one of the lowest paying 
in the area so we have lost a lot to turnover; a lot of people have gone to districts 
surrounding Lodi. So we keep getting new people in or losing staff and they just 
don’t replace them. 
 
00:33:10 
The keyboarding teacher is split between two schools, the 
elementary and the middle. So too for the music teacher. The art teacher is split 
between the primary and the elementary schools. They have 2 PE teachers and 
one goes to a different school for part of the day.  They used to have an art 
teacher all the time.  Guidance is split between two schools. And they only rarely 
see the library/media specialist now. 
 
00:34:00 
Have you observed or felt other changes due to Act 10? 
 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
7
 
8 
Personally, it’s affected my pocketbook some.  Our classroom budgets 
have been cut.  It just doesn’t seem like we have much money to move around.  
If one class had a special project, they used to be able to move funds but now 
they’re stuck with the budget they have. It just doesn’t seem like we have much 
flexibility. You’re kind of stuck to the curriculum. We can’t really sway off much 
anymore because you don’t have the funds to fund anything other than what 
we’re doing.  I’m using more out of my pocket to buy things for the classroom that 
I didn’t have to before.  And then again, more kids in the classroom every year; it 
seems to keep going up even though our general population of students is going 
down. They’re also getting rid of teachers and not replacing them so that our 
classroom size is going up. 
There are 4 school buildings: Lodi primary which is K plus a charter school 
for grades 3-5 (with 88 students); Mick’s school is grades 1-5; Lodi Middle School 
is grades 6-8; and Lodi High School is grades 9-12. 
 
00:36:05 
What are the forms of teacher recognition in Lodi? 
 
At the end of the year they have a big ceremony for the staff.  They get 
lunch on the last day of work and they recognize teachers with a pin for each 5-
years of working there.  30 years get a plaque.   
The board does an award for a teacher going above and beyond once a 
month or every once in a while at the board meeting but you don’t really hear 
about who gets it. It’s a certificate and a candy bar.   
The PTO has an ABC award (Above and Beyond) that they give out once 
a year.  Kids can recommend.  
He hasn’t gotten any yet.  Again, we don’t go into teaching for awards.  It 
would be nice but (laughs). 
 
00:38:20 
What would be some qualities in a coworker that would lead you to 
recommend them for an award? 
 
If they seem to be working especially hard or doing things that really 
impact outside the school.  I mean, we all know we all work hard. We all put in 
extra hours.  I guess if they did one thing that would really stick out, that would 
be, “Wow, that’s amazing. We should have been doing that a while ago, 
probably.”  That’s what would make him nominate someone.  He’s not going to 
nominate someone just because they’ve been here that long or they think they 
should get recognized.  He would want to see someone going under the radar. 
There are those staff members that people don’t recognize, don’t see all the stuff 
they do because they don’t brag about it as much.  
 
00:39:35 
Do you fit in to the culture of your school or do you resist parts of it? 
 
He’s laid back and goes with the flow.  He works with all women; 
everybody knows that; everybody sees that; it’s no secret.  He’s the only male in 
the building.  The only other males are the principal and the PE teacher. He tries 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
8
 
9 
to say hi in the morning on Fridays going from classroom to classroom.  He will 
talk to anyone if he thinks there’s a problem and they can talk to him. There’s 
nothing that he resists; he feels like he’s fitting in. (laughs) I grew up in a small 
town and Lodi’s a small town so it all kind of goes together. 
 
00:40:50 
Do you think there’s a stereotype of teachers? 
 
(Silent pause) That’s a tough question. (laughs) Just last night he was 
talking with colleagues about this issue. There are fellow staff members who are 
pregnant but not married.  So, do some people consider that a problem?  Some 
people see teachers as supposed to be setting a moral standard.  Like we’re 
perfect, which we are. (laughs) No, I’m kidding. (laughs) Teachers are always 
thinking, how should I act outside the classroom?  If there’s a student at the 
grocery store it’s different than if he was just relaxed.  So there’s a stereotype 
where they’re set up a little higher, where they’re supposed to handle themselves 
a little differently from someone who just works another job outside of school.  
That would be one thing.  Maybe I’m just naïve to it all but I just go, “I’m human; 
they’re human.” 
 
00:42:35 
But there’s two ways to behave? 
 
When he’s at work, he’s acting professionally but when he’s out he wants 
to relax a little more.  Not that he’s not himself at work but when he’s at the 
grocery store and sees one of his kids, he can’t have a bad day.  He has to get in 
the teacher mode of big friendly voice and asking how they are, has to be in what 
they call “teacher mode:” a little more bubbly and a little more excited.  At a 
sporting event he can’t be yelling at a ref because that would reflect badly on the 
school district.  Even though they’re not on school time, and he’s there as a 
community member not a staff member, how he acts will reflect back. He’s got to 
be acting his best. People see that. 
 
00:44:15 
Is there a difference between the stories you tell other teachers 
versus stories you tell other people? 
 
Teachers can understand other teachers better.  If he says, “Oh, I had a 
rough day. I went on a field trip and felt like I was disciplining kids all day,” 
another teacher would understand.  If he told his friends that, they would say (in 
a sarcastic tone), “Oh really, you had a rough day? You had to go to the museum 
and look at art all day? Really, you want me to feel sorry for you?” So yes, other 
teachers are more understanding because they can understand the situation.   
When he talks to his brothers, because he’s the only teacher in the family 
on either side for as far back as they go, the standard line is, “Oh, you get the 
summers off.”  Every time he talks to his brother – he thinks it’s down to 3 
months of work per year now.  It used to be, “Oh, you only work 6 months of the 
year.” Then it was 5 months. They think he has it easy because he gets the snow 
days off.  He tells them the same stories but, of course, without using the kids’ 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
9
 
10 
names. If there’s some issue that would involve cleanliness or neglect or other 
confidential issues, he doesn’t let it leave the building. But he can tell a story, 
“This one student did this today,” but he just can’t say the name.   
 
00:46:25 
Is there a “go to” story you’ve told more than once? 
 
 
There’s one he tells when he’s talking about spelling and explaining how 
important spelling is. The story is that, one word on the spelling sheet for the 
week was “single.”  His student spelled the word right. And then over on the side 
of the paper, she thought she’d be cute and wrote, “Mr. Krueger is single.” But 
she spelled the word wrong! (laughs)  She got it right and then wrong on the 
same sheet of paper. He always thought that story was cute (laughs) because 
she was trying to be funny but it backfired. 
 
00:47:15 
Are students very interested in your personal life? 
 
Every once in a while they’ll talk about his personal life but mostly they 
keep it separated.  Every once in a while they’ll ask a personal question like if 
he’s single or married or seeing someone.  He reverts the question without really 
answering.  He has a dog now and will talk about the dog sometimes and they 
can connect to that if they have a dog.  But it’s always funny if he sees a kid at 
the grocery store, they’ll always ask about the other teacher. (laughs) He has to 
explain that they don’t hang out together all the time. 
 
00:48:25 
Are there parts of your non-school life that you bring in on purpose? 
 
He hasn’t been able to swim and now he’s learning how.  He’s overcoming 
a personal challenge. If he can use something like that to make a connection – 
like, ‘You’re never too old to learn’ – then he’ll incorporate that.  It’s a message 
he can use to counter the 5th grade attitude of “I know this” or “I don’t need this.” 
But most of the time he tries to keep it as separate as possible.   
But he moved with his kids from 4th to 5th grade when he changed grade 
levels. Because he was team teaching, there were 44 kids that knew him in 4th 
grade. At that time he was going through a divorce. So they knew he had a wife 
and two dogs in 4th grade. If he’d had a new class they might not have brought it 
up but since the kids had met his wife and the dogs, the team – including the 
guidance counselor – took a day and explained that things happen, changes 
happen.  Some kids made the connection, “Oh, I’m from two households.”  It was 
kind of uncomfortable to be sharing that with the kids but the team felt it was 
necessary.  Most of the time I try to keep the personal stuff separate but teachers 
are always kind of under a mirror. People can see us and what’s going on. 
 
00:50:55 
Is that more the case in a small town? 
 
Yes.  Granted, he’s never taught in a big town but there are more places 
there to hide. When he goes running through town, people wave at him.  He 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
10
 
11 
doesn’t know them but they know who he is.  Because you do more in the small 
town. You’re a part of the community. You go to a game, everyone knows who 
you are.  So yes, a small town, it’s its own little bubble.  Everyone knows what 
you’re doing, where you’re headed and what’s going on. There’s definitely a few 
things I don’t want them to know but somehow they all find out somehow. 
(laughs) 
 
00:51:55 
Are there other changes that have occurred over the years that we 
haven’t talked about yet? 
 
 
The flexibility has gone. The creativity is gone.  We are pushed a lot more.  
In the relatively short time of nine years, he sees that he had more flexibility, 
more time to be creative, more time to bring in things of interest and freedom to 
invent fun activities that were part of the curriculum. Now it’s a strict adherence to 
the curriculum.  They’re told, “Do this this day.  Do this this day.” It’s the same 
message for reading: “Here, read these books.  These things meet the 
standards.”  Teachers aren’t able to sway off them as much. Science has gone 
down.  There’s not as much time to teach science any more.  He feels he 
definitely doesn’t have the flexibility or enough time in the day to expand a 
thought and make sure the kids enjoy it. To use the curriculum he’s given, he has 
to teach this this day. It’s hard to make it fun. A challenge I guess to make it 
interesting and more valuable. So yes, he’s definitely seen the flexibility gone.  
Also, they can’t be as open with the administration any more. It feels like if 
they say something they could get in trouble for it now.  It used to be that if they 
threw out an idea, it would be considered.  But now they’re more accountable 
and that has taken away that openness.  They can’t throw an idea out there 
anymore because there’s no room for it; they have to stick to the curriculum. It 
seems like the morale has gone down. The staff doesn’t seem as happy about 
things or as excited to teach. So it’s kind of sad. But they’re making the best of it 
and surviving. He hopes it will come back around.  
 
00:54:40 
Do you think there’s a chance for that? 
 
He’s hoping. All you can do is be optimistic. I love the town I’m in; I love 
everything about it. I really don’t want to leave but the whole morale and lack of 
flexibility has made me look elsewhere because of it. But obviously I haven’t 
gone anywhere else yet.  
 
00:55:10 
Would the situation be different in another district? 
 
Yes, other colleagues have left and gone to other districts and they’re not 
going through the same issues as is Lodi. It might be because their towns are 
bigger and their budgets are bigger. Lodi is a small town surrounded by larger 
districts.  
 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
11
 
12 
00:55:50 
You’ve described teaching as a place where individual creativity 
could be used every day to where it is now where you are a technician delivering 
a prescribed curriculum.  Can you talk about that change a little more? 
 
They used to do this guided reading, just to choose an example from 
literacy. They used to be able to use books that they chose that were approved 
by the school, of course. They could adapt them to the kids.  They could 
incorporate the standards as needed with each book.  
Now they have a hard cover book with all the stories, just like when he 
grew up with just snippets of stories.  It never seems like they’re reading a whole 
story.  When they made that change he was very resistant. The administration 
introduced it as just a pilot with just a few teachers, saying they would gauge 
their response and then decide about adopting it for the district.  
But in our district, to “pilot’ something actually means that a few teachers 
will break it in slowly and then it’s going to get adopted no matter what. One of 
the teachers who was piloting even said that this was not the answer. He went in 
and observed a couple of times during his prep because he wanted to make sure 
he wasn’t just shutting it down. Then they had a meeting about it. The teacher 
he’d observed wasn’t happy about it. She didn’t think it was worth spending all 
the money because it didn’t take care of enough issues. She made a different 
suggestion but it wasn’t considered. 
So they came to the teachers and said that teachers had the option to 
adopt it or not. Two weeks went by and then he was pulled aside and told, it’s 
only you and one other teacher not doing it. He said that was the option. And 
then of course a week later he got called again and told, “We’re switching over. 
You don’t have a choice.” Well then why even make it seem like they had a 
choice in the beginning? Mick sat down with the administrator in his office and 
said he’d teach it. He would do his job. He’d follow the curriculum but he wouldn’t 
be happy with it. He feels like that’s all he is now, that anybody could come in 
and do his job, that some days all he has to do is just read out of the book.  
But definitely, creativity has been cut back a lot. It comes down to, “We 
have to meet this standards. They aren’t doing that well on that test.” It’s all about 
testing results. It’s sad that it’s gone that way. Hopefully it will come back around.  
 
00:59:40 
The team that he’s with now, they throw out ideas and try to make it 
work. They did an art project where kids drew what they loved up on the 
whiteboard. They stood in front of it and were kind of part of the picture. The 
principal came down once when we were working on it and you just kind of 
cringe, “What’s he gonna think?“  I feel like I’m always explaining myself now, like 
I have to defend what I’m doing to the principal. I’m not saying that we shouldn’t 
but I feel like I have to put up this defense right away. When they ask why you’re 
doing it this way, what you’re doing.  Well, here’s all the reasons. You have to be 
a little more prepared for that and defend everything you’re doing. Everything. 
 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
12
 
13 
01:00:45 
We met on a Wisconsin Teachers of Local Culture tour where we 
were working with teachers so they could incorporate local culture in their 
classroom.  Is there even room for that now? 
 
Not much. Years ago he did a project when he was teaching 4th grade 
because 4th grade focuses on Wisconsin history, so it was perfect. They did 
curling in the local curling club.  There was an old house that was a local 
museum with lots on Lodi that they took the kids to. And he had the kids do a 
report on something about Lodi. But they just don’t have the time any more. If 
you’re not at the same spot that every other teacher is at, you’re going to get in 
trouble. It’s something that he really doesn’t like. You’re all teaching this lesson 
the same. You’re all teaching this lesson this day. And that’s unrealistic. It’s really 
what your students need that day. But we’re forcing it down their throats. It’s 
going to show eventually. They might be doing OK now on test scores but 
eventually it’s going to show. And then we’ll come back around and be more 
open to the arts again. So it’s definitely taken away from the openness. You have 
to stick to the script a little more.  
 
01:02:40 
Two-part question – what about your job makes you feel small 
(which you just discussed) and what about it makes you feel worthwhile? 
 
The administration seems to be gaining more power and have taken away 
more from the classroom teachers. And you can’t say anything any more without 
getting in trouble. We just don’t have that support any more. I don’t know what 
you call it, that little bubble, to protect ourselves anymore. The school district has 
become more of a business now than its own little entity, what it should be. 
Business and school are not the same. But our principal wants to be the boss 
and work on his workers. We’re not working together like we should be.  
They are trying to make it work. The superintendent is coming in their 
classrooms more. This was a concern they had expressed. They were losing 
touch with the teachers so they are making attempts to come in the classrooms. 
They are making attempts so I don’t want to make it sound all bad. I just feel I 
don’t have as much say and don’t have as much creativity. Teaching is not as 
much fun. It is not as exciting. I still love my job; I still love going but it’s because 
of the kids. It’s not because of anything else really. 
 
01:04:20 
He’s been teaching 9 years; his first class is graduating this year. 
So he’s seeing how much they’ve grown. He sees them out in the community. 
They’re always waving hi. They always bring up some project they did. Those 
moments really make you remember why you went into teaching in the first 
place. But again, will that be lost now because we can’t do as many of those 
projects? They’re not gonna remember teaching fractions; they’re going to 
remember that project you did. They don’t realize that in that project they were 
doing fractions. It just feels like we’re losing that connection to real life activities 
in the curriculum. It seems like they’re becoming separated again, real life 
activities and the curriculum.  
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
13
 
14 
 
01:05:25 
What do you do to help yourself keep going, to not burn out? 
 
He takes classes on topics like how to incorporate technology more into 
his classroom.  That gets him excited again. The kids know more about 
technology now and about a lot of things than he does. He takes what he has 
and tries to make it as better as possible. And he tries to keep busy in his social 
life so he doesn’t let school take over his life.  
He’s taken up swimming and running more. He finds things to do to de-
stress. And then he feels rejuvenated and ready to go and just kind of tackle it 
again.  
His colleagues have this discussion lately, if someone asked you if your 
kids said, hey I want to be a teacher when I grow up, what do you say? Right 
now, I wouldn’t recommend anyone to go into teaching. Especially with 
everything going on. We’re still figuring out the whole politics. But, four years 
ago, yeah, go into teaching! It’s awesome! Show your creativity.  You can help 
these kids. But now it’s like, it just feels like we’re going off a script some days.  
So it’s definitely going down. But I’m still going to teach until I retire. That’s my 
plan. But he’s had some friends who’ve said maybe they won’t. That hasn’t been 
a thought for him yet, but if it keeps going the way it is, it might be. You can go 
and be a manager at the local fast food place and make more than teaching, 
even with all the education he has. So, why, why am I doing this?  So, that’s 
something we always talk about. And I’ve seen some teachers leave because of 
that, politics and budgets. And they were good teachers.  
 
01:08:10 
Anything else we haven’t spoken of yet that you wan to be sure to 
include? 
 
There is one thing. A lot of the morale in a school district comes from the 
administration. He felt more comfortable talking with the prior principal and 
curriculum director. And now he feels like he doesn’t have that openness as 
much and that has brought the morale down not just for him but for other staff 
that he’s talked to too. If you don’t feel comfortable talking to your principal and if 
you don’t feel comfortable talking to your curriculum instructor, things aren’t going 
to get accomplished. Things aren’t going to be as positive or open. There are 
times when they’re trying something and they know it might not work. If it fails 
they’re going to be in real big trouble. So then, what is his motivation anymore to 
even try something different? The administration has been a big influence on 
things. He understands that there is political pressure on them too and it trickles 
down but how they handle things makes a huge difference.  
 
Now, am I going to go into administration?  No! (laughs) I don’t want their 
job. But this is something that school districts need to remember, that they have 
to hire administrators that will work well with the staff and not just be above them.  
 
01:10:30 
Does that shift in how the current administration interacts with the 
staff parallel how they interact with the students?  
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
14
 
15 
 
Yes. The old administration hung out with the kids as their friend and 
made it welcoming and more open. The current administration, when he’s 
hanging out with the kids, it’s like discipline: follow the rules, do this. It seems like 
he’s doing more yelling than actually enjoying the kids.  
That also comes back to the teachers. If you discipline the kids all day 
long for every thing they do, they’re not going to feel open. And then we’re 
getting in trouble if our kids aren’t following the rules. The time spent with the kids 
is the same as the previous administration but how he’s hanging out with them is 
different.  
 
01:12:35 
How are staff meetings? 
 
Uncomfortable.  You can’t say much before you get questioned about why 
you’re saying that. Mick has been reprimanded verbally for things he’s said at 
meetings.  Nothing written yet.  It wasn’t that he was saying bad things about 
something, he was just asking about trying something different. 
Administration is a big part of any district. He has friends who teach in 
Madison that barely see their principal, maybe once a month, because they’re 
going between buildings. Whereas Mick’s principal is in his room every day. You 
can see how there’s a huge shift between districts and schools. 
His previous principal was interested in trying things. This principal 
demands that every single thing about it be set up before they try anything and 
even then he’s critiquing it to the bone. 
 
01:15:00 
Closing comments 
 
01:15:35 
End 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
15