Project Name: Ranger Lore: The Occupational Folklife of Parks 
Interviewee: Mike Mycroft 
Date: May 7, 2014 
Location: Turkey Run State Park 
Language: English 
Fieldworker Name: Jon Kay 
Log Prepared by: Hannah Davis 
 
afc2013014_02243_mv01 
JON KAY: [0:00:00.0] Leader; May 7, 2014 
MIKE MYCROFT: [0:00:34.4] Okay. Well, I'm Mike Mycroft. I'm the current chief of 
natural resources for the Division of States Parks and Reservoirs. I think in a nutshell I 
oversee the natural areas program on our state parks and then wildlife program on our 
state reservoirs. In addition to that, or within that, there are multiple different areas... I'm 
part policy advisor, part biologist, part administrator, part project leader. It's quite a 
multifaceted position I guess. 
JK: [0:01:18.7] …state employee but in many ways the type of work you do follows 
outside what most think is a state employee... talk a little bit about that 
MM: [0:01:45.4] Yeah it... for starters I think it's at least quite of most of the folks I 
know... I think it's much different in that we're not all sitting in cubicles and doing the 
same thing day in, day out. Some folks I know because I let research collecting permits 
for different folks, university professors, researchers and all that. They'll submit a 
request for a permit and explain everything that they want to do so I can evaluate it and 
so forth. But then they want it by the week's end. [0:02:26.0] And what they don't... they 
think that's what my job is to sit and write these permits and I don't but once every two 
months, get a chance to sit down. I'll just do a big batch of them. So I think that may be 
kind of what you're getting at is it's pretty rare that any two days are the same. But yeah 
we are in the government but I'm always astonished at how... everybody I work with, 
they're all heart and they're really into it and what they're doing and it's so different from 
what I think the general perception is when you say state employees. You might think of 
somebody sitting in a highway truck napping on a job site somewhere. And the reality 
that I've come to know from the inside, it's astonishing. I don't know of... could imagine a 
more spirited group of folks and happy to do all these different things. Even though 
some of it may fall out of their particular job title, it's just really amazing and pretty 
inspirational really.  
JK: [0:03:37.0] …your story 
MM: [0:03:56.3] Yeah. I guess I may not as much of a conversion story as what you 
may get from many folks. I was born and raised in rural Fountain County. Had a 
grandfather who was a tremendous woodsman. Always out and about. To this day I can 
never figure out how he was able to find so many mushrooms on one outing. But he 
would come back and we would just be sick of mushrooms by the night's end. I had a 
forest nearby with a creek. So from an early age, around fifth or sixth grade, I'd go out 
with him, run around. [0:04:43.1] As I got older started doing it on my own, going out 
with buddies. In that experience, then you get interested in hunting and fishing. And I 
remember even before I was into hunting and fishing, we had a chipmunk in our yard 
and I was just dazzled by this thing. I was probably, gosh, fourth grade, fifth grade and I 
wanted to trap it, try and do the old Bugs Bunny prop the box up with the stick and all 
that. I put some corn out there from a nearby cornfield I think it was. Never did, I never 
was able to catch it. [0:05:25.9] At some point I remember, I think it was my grandpa, 
had a rifle and I'm sure it was an Eagle as all heck, I popped this ground squirrel or 
chipmunk. I remember thinking after it was done, years later looking back on it, I did 
basically just so I could get close to it. Which I think a lot of folks can relate to maybe 
even when they first start hunting. I remember dissecting it with the neighbor girls and 
they weren't nearly as enthralled with it as I was. [0:05:58.6] At any rate that led into 
more hunting and fishing and so forth. Just always really enjoy being outside. I know it's 
terrible to think of now but when I had started doing that with buddies, we thought this is 
great, we're out in the woods, we can tear stuff up, we can jump on things, we can beat 
on things, because it's the woods. Who's gonna care? And we did. Just being teenaged, 
young, pre-adolescent boys really running around. So then I think after all that 
experiencing all that with all that time out in the field, I think it started to blend into an 
appreciation of how things are put together and how they work. I remember really 
having a fondness for wildflowers at pretty young age, maybe by this time we're talking 
mid high school. [0:06:54.3] Eventually came time to think about what I was going to be 
doing after high school. At the same time all that was going on I was also a musician. I 
thought well I really enjoy band, I'll be a band teacher. I started off going to school at 
Ball State as a music major and a natural resource minor. And after one semester... I 
come from a very small town, I think my graduating class was like 53 people, so as a 
musician particularly, it can be easy to think you're a lot better than you maybe are in 
that scenario at times. After the first semester I immediately realized I was not maybe 
cut out for music school. [0:07:44.9] So I went ahead and turned my natural resource 
degree, minor into my major. Started really getting into things, actually started working 
here at Turkey Run as a seasonal naturalist during that time. And after a while I just 
kind of thought I wanted to get a little more I guess deeper into the field of natural 
resources, maybe specialize a little more so than what they were doing at Ball State. 
[0:08:16.3] So I transferred to Purdue School of Forestry and Natural Resources. And 
was still working here as a seasonal naturalist. Continued on through school, took some 
time off of school, had my son and stayed home for a little while still working here. And 
then went back to Purdue and finished up my degree. During that whole time I had 
worked at Turkey Run, Shades, and then I had worked for our central office folks at 
several properties working on resource management planning. Then I went and worked 
as the full time naturalist at Indiana Dunes and then shortly after that I ended up coming 
to my current position. Across all that, I've got my wife and my son who's 14 and my 
daughter who is 4. I guess that's kind of my story in a nutshell, sort of the genesis of 
how I came here today. 
afc2013014_02243_mv02 
JK: [0:00:00.0] What does a chief of natural resources do? 
MM: [0:00:05.7] Quite a bit. Like I said I oversee projects on the natural areas program 
within our division. And that can vary from working with invasive species, developing 
new trails and evaluating their placement to make sure the impacts aren't too great for 
the resources, doing a lot of consulting with properties when it comes to decision 
making on development of any kind really not just trails, or how to prioritize projects with 
limited funds and so forth, limited help or volunteers, how to best focus that energy onto 
natural resource projects. [0:00:53.8] On the wildlife side of our reservoirs because we 
do hunting and fishing and so forth, I'm really more of an administrator. I oversee crop 
leases. We have areas that we lease out as agricultural land. And that's a bit of a 
benefit for the wildlife because obviously wildlife like crops. And in turn we get revenue 
from that lease in order to fund other wildlife projects on the property. Oversee those 
sorts of things, I coordinate any rule changes or season changes, bag limit changes, the 
say our division of fish and wildlife is looking at going into on their properties. I'll 
evaluate and kind of determine which way we want to go and doing those sorts of 
things. And just really more of an all sort of a resource for our biologists at each 
reservoir. [0:01:52.3] Our parks are a little different. We don't really have technical staff 
at each property when it comes to natural resources. I think I'm a little busier on the park 
side for that reason. We don't have nearly the technical staff that we do on our 
reservoirs currently when it comes to the natural resource issues. Then of course 
there's the administrative side. We do quite a bit of reporting, reporting on this, reporting 
on that. We have different permits we have to get for different activities. When you 
come into a nature center or you go to a program and you see wildlife mounts, it may or 
may not be hard to believe, but every single one of those in the state is accounted for 
on a state and federal permit depending on the species and so forth. [0:02:40.9] And 
then we've got a lot of decision making on how to address different policy, updating 
policies. Sometimes issues will develop where you don't have a policy and now you 
have to determine what a good policy would be going forward. I oversee the deer 
reductions. Indiana State Parks were among the first to actively manage the impacts of 
white tail deer. And that probably takes up about 30% of my year really working on that. 
Because I start working in, gosh, I'd say March and then I'll be working on clear until 
next February off and on just because of the different facets behind the scenes of 
getting those things together. Goose reductions, I do a lot of coordination on that sort of 
thing. [0:03:32.6] Part of a lot of different committees. We've got more acronyms than I 
can keep up with really. For example the State Wildlife Action Plan is a committee going 
on right now where we're joining together all the stakeholders and trying to develop a 
long term plan for particular habitats and species that require the habitats. Also a part of 
an Invasive Plant committee which is... the group reports to the legislature and the 
legislature has a group who is going to be determining perhaps funding or different laws 
regarding invasive species in a natural area kind of context. What else? [0:04:20.4] 
Basically there's a lot of committee time and administrative time as well as the good 
stuff that we all look forward to, the field time conducting breeding bird surveys. Right 
now I'm working on a forest health monitoring system at a few of our properties and 
hoping that thing will be something we can look and expand into in the future. And that 
takes quite a bit of time out in the woods. Being out in the woods, even that's something 
I think we all appreciate and why we got into it, sometimes the work side of it is a little... 
it's not all spring wildflowers and what not. There’s ground hornets and there's steam 
metal ticks and mosquitos. [0:05:11.1] Take like if you're doing any kind of research and 
you're carrying your gear on a hot muggy day. Like I said, to me that's stuff is not what 
you remember at the end of the week or hope not to. It's all good in the end. I think it's 
all 50/50. I love half of it and the other half depending on the day I may not think so 
much of it. You take it all in stride. Like I said I just think I consider myself one of the 
luckiest guys around in the outfit but a lot of it is because of the diversity. Like I said 
there's really no two days alike. I don't think that there's ever been any two days alike. I 
think that's what makes it exciting and that's how you're able to put up with the less 
palatable aspects of any job I think. 
afc2013014_02243_mv03 
JK: [0:00:00.0] …two different directions... conservation/restoration... hunting and 
game... think of environmental-ness 
MM: [0:01:00.0] That's kind of a neat aspect about my day to day role in things is that it 
is kind of bipolar. One side we've got the more natural areas approach where we're 
looking after and protecting rare and endangered species. We're very concerned with 
the overall composition, structure, function of a particular habitat. On the reservoir side, 
a lot of that stuff is naturally in there but there's more of a consumerism behind it all. I 
like to say a lot of the work on the reservoirs we do really is more hook and bullet. We're 
going to manipulate the landscape in a lot of artificial ways in order to produce habitat 
which attracts and maintains key species that we're interested in pursuing either through 
photography or behind the open sights of a 12 gauge. [0:02:11.1] So it is kind of a yin 
and yang when you look at it. You almost consider the park side as the lovey-dovey, 
soft edge which really isn't the case once you look deeper into it. You got the other side 
where folks perceive the good old boys driving in the pickup truck with gun rack in the 
back and so forth, which again really isn't the case but that's kind of what I think you 
may be getting at there. Yeah it's, it is interesting. We do a lot of rare and endangered 
species work on our reservoirs too obviously. That's where a lot of our key species that 
have now recovered were originally released like the bald eagle and river otter and so 
forth. But overall I think there's overlap on both sides but yes there is... the primary 
focus between the parks and the reservoirs is different in those ways.  
JK: [0:03:10.4] …set up this dichotomy... what are they really 
MM: [0:03:22.0] Well okay. The natural area side of things on state parks, there's a little 
bit of a cultural residue left over from when the properties were originally established 
and set aside. And I think a lot of folks would agree that a little bit of it still remains 
within our culture, both professionally and outside within our user groups. That it's a 
state park, we've achieved land, we've built a fence around it and now we can pat 
ourselves on the back and call it saved. [0:04:08.9] This will be an area where plants 
and animals can grow and thrive beyond influence largely of modern day society and so 
forth when it... that's a great concept and it worked for us for quite some time. So I don't 
want to say anything against our founders or anything because what they did was great 
and that concept worked wonderfully for us until those consequences that we were not 
maybe anticipating began to arise. [0:04:40.8] The deer for example is a perfect 
example. Without hunting pressure, without the historic predators, the deer were left to 
essentially eat themselves out of house and home. Then we kind of scratch our heads 
like whoa now we got this problem but we've got statutes and so forth saying that we 
can't really address it. Then you try to address it and it blows a lot of people's minds 
because what you can't hunt in a state park. I think eventually the art and science of 
ecology developed to a point to where we do things now which is what brings me to the 
well but it's not really that way. [0:05:24.8] It's interesting because sometimes I'll jokingly 
say something in order to save something you've got to destroy it. And that comes into 
play in a few different instances. If you've got an area just swamped in some of the base 
like bush honeysuckle, next thing you know you're out there with a small dozer going 
through the property and getting through this stuff, weaving in and out of the trees that 
you might want to keep and visitors go by. You might be blowing somebody's mind. You 
might be generating letter to your director or the governor perhaps. [0:06:00.3] It's a 
dirty, rough world out there when you're trying to maintain these communities. 
Prescribed fire, another thing a lot of folks find kind of counterintuitive. Why are you 
burning this? Because we need to save the forest. And they're thinking... obviously I 
was... Especially the baby boomers and so forth were brought to see it quite the 
opposite. There's a lot of chainsaws, there's a lot of drip torches, there's a lot of 
bulldozers, there's a lot of herbicide, there's a lot of things that go on natural areas 
management-wise that I don't think the average quote nature lover... maybe more so 
today than the last 20 or 30 years but to me it's a much coarser world than what a lot of 
like I said your average nature folks, who would consider themselves nature folks, might 
understand. [0:06:58.5] I think that's fallen away maybe 20 or 30 years from now it'll be 
common sense. You will relate a chainsaw to helping nature. Right now we still have a 
ways to go. It's tough to get the concept of openings and forests to benefits species like 
grouse and so forth. You get a lot of folks who say oh we need more forests we need 
more forests. And some instances that may be the case but in some instances we've 
taken on enough forest that we've got some serious issues with some open habitat 
species blinking out on us. Rough grouse, quail, woodcock, just to name a few. That's 
sort of the realist side in my mind of natural areas management. [0:07:52.3] On the 
reservoir side, I think a lot of folks tend to just think of tractors, sprayers, and dove 
fields. And folks jumping out and blowing doves out of the sky the first of September. 
There's really a lot more to it. If anything on that, I think that side's maybe softer than 
what a lot of folks perceive it as. You got these guys out here who are, they are tracking 
rare and endangered species and in some cases we've got some rare butterflies that 
one of our reservoir biologists has picked up on. And I think he still monitors them. I 
think that there's a definite reality and then there's perception behind both of these 
programs and that's kind of my drawn out explanation behind the both of them I guess. 
afc2013014_02243_mv04 
JK: [0:00:00.0] …anything in the way that you were brought up that prepared you for 
this type of work 
MM: [0:00:17.4] They don't teach you to run chainsaws or drive tractors or anything like 
that at school. That was a help. General knowledge of maintenance of different kinds of 
apparatus, well pumps things like that. I think that was some advantage that I had. I'm 
not saying everybody that grows up in a rural will have that same experience or that you 
can't get the experience and not be in a rural area. I just think for me personally that 
was part of the advantage. [0:00:57.3] And there's a little bit I think, again not to say that 
this is exclusive, in my case there is a little bit of that I think rugged individualism that is 
handy especially if you are out in the field covered in ticks and there's a thunderstorm 
approaching and limbs falling down and you left your hard hat in the truck. That sort of 
thing. It doesn't rock me as much as I've seen it rock or heard it rock other people who 
may have not had that rural experience. And there could be a dozen other reasons for 
it, but I guess I would begin to assume that a lot of those characteristics come from that 
kind of an upbringing.  
JK: [0:01:39.3] …surprised how urban backgrounds 
MM: [0:01:51.8] Yeah. You know I had a similar experience when I went to Purdue in 
the forestry and natural resources department. I feared it was all gonna be us good old 
boys and so forth. I was amazed, we may have been the minority. There were a lot of 
folks with urban backgrounds. My wife's one of them. She's from the region and she's 
got two forestry degrees. That's... yeah... it's amazing how many folks. So it definitely 
goes to show you don't have to have been born and raised in the woods to work in the 
woods I guess. It may help here and there but I'm sure they've got attributes that could 
benefit me that I don't naturally have.  
JK: [0:02:41.9] …generation younger than most interviewing... how is that to be the up 
and coming? 
MM: [0:03:22.2] Yeah. Yeah, I like to think so. So what it's like to be sort of at midday?  
JK: [0:03:32.6] Yeah... what are the privileges and challenges? 
MM: [0:03:40.1] You know it's... for right now sort of if you know we are referencing 
morning, noon, and night... To be at noon where I am I kind of like it. In my mind folks, 
those of us who are maybe midway through our career, have a couple advantages. Say 
technology for example, especially as rapidly as it's developing. I'm still kind of on it but I 
can see toward the end, especially if things continue to exponentially progress, I 
wouldn't want to be the most crotchety old man around. I'm almost there now if you talk 
to a lot of people. [0:04:26.1] But at the same time I think you're established. And you've 
got some successes under your belt. You, maybe some instances, you've got things 
that didn't go so well but that's the proof that you've taken some of your knocks and so 
forth. To me I think that's the perfect scenario to be in. Because you've got a little bit of 
knowledge accumulated, experience. Like I said you've got a few scars and maybe 
twice shy at this point. But you've also still got the long-term experience to rely on from 
the folks who are at sunset. And continue to hear stories and learn and look forward 
perhaps to milestones that they could've done. [0:05:21.8] Other aspects could be good 
or bad. You know you're kind of in the line to where you may have some ideas or have 
some vision, you still got perhaps time to see it through. But yet at the same time you've 
got the experience at this point maybe to maneuver it and get it synthesized a little 
easier. Maybe toward the end obviously... chance you come up with an idea you can't, 
you may not get to see it utilized, you have to put the hope into the next generation. I 
don't know, I think there's good and bad for each phase in my mind. I think the middle 
section is not a bad place to be. 
afc2013014_02243_mv05 
JK: [0:00:00.0] …mentors... who have been your mentors? 
MM: [0:00:07.3] Oh gosh, there're so many. You talking professionally?  
JK: [0:00:11.1] Mentors in what you do... professionally, environmentally 
MM: [0:00:21.9] Definitely some of my professors at school. Particularly George Parker. 
There were a couple others that I think recognized that I had perhaps more interest 
beyond where they left things off. And they really instead of doing the 'I got office hours 
for that stuff buddy,’ they weren't at all like that. They recognized a genuine interest I 
think and kind of did what they could to foster it. That was definitely molding. [0:01:07.7] 
And then Barbara Cummings here at Turkey Run. She was what I still consider my work 
boss. Some people have work wives or whatever. I don't have a work wife but I've got a 
work mom and that's Barbara. She was my first boss in the DNR and she was a very 
inspiring individual in her... I think I can say this because I could tell her this, we 
probably joke about it. I think we're both a little OCD. Even though it was a challenge 
coming out of Fountain County and entering into the professional world to come and 
work for... everything was by the book. Everything was done with a checklist. Everything 
was very methodical. And that was just behind the scenes. When it comes to public 
service, everything was everything. Don't forget why you're in it. Definitely have to put 
her down. [0:02:10.7] And there are a few others. Like I said I don't know where I would 
stop but I'd say primarily George Parker and Barbara Cummings.  
JK: [0:02:21.8] …have a story when you decided that this was gonna be the career for 
you? 
MM: [0:02:40.2] Yeah, I think so. See at one time my primary focus [video cuts] 
afc2013014_02243_mv06 
MM: [0:00:00.0] When I had started off, my whole intent and passion wide within the 
educational side of natural resources. I can remember being a young kid, I lived briefly 
in California which is beside the point but I remember in the backyard, had like an 
Easter basket or something. I'd run around and I'd grab, I was probably five at the time I 
think, run around and gather each different plant form I could find. Like a grass, here's a 
flower, here's a shrub. I'd set them up and I'd bring my mom and my grandma out and 
I'd tell them, I'm sure I was just making stuff up, I obviously didn't know what these 
things were. But I always kind of kept that with me and thought how fun that was to be 
able to do that and share that. [0:00:57.5] And then later I remember being running 
around our woods and creek area. I remember thinking to myself at some point I wanna 
be able to walk through the woods and name every single plant that I see. Because I 
was just so overwhelmed with all the different plants. You may not know what they are 
but you can recognize their different shapes and sizes and so forth. And I thought that 
would be so cool to do that and then be able to take people out and show them, maybe 
be able to tell them hey you can munch on this, you can use this for this sting nettle, you 
can do all these different things. [0:01:31.9] Then as I got older I found out there's a 
career for all that. And that was being an interpreter. I got real heavy into the theory 
behind interpretation and the practice of communication. It was really what I lived and 
breathed for... you know a certain point it came back to plants. In doing some research 
for some programs and so forth, I'd discovered the wealth of rare, threatened and 
endangered species of plants that we have in the state. I started working with our 
Division of Nature Preserves natural heritage database folks. Particularly Roger Hedge. 
[0:02:19.8] I would probably have to include him as one of those perhaps mentors as 
well. Because he would regularly take my calls because I think I had found something. 
So I'm out here crawling around the hills of Turkey Run and hollers. I've almost got this 
database of these rare listed species memorized. Every time I think I found one, but I 
wasn't quite an ecologist or anything yet, because I just saw the list and I'd get to 
recognize them. I wasn't thinking about okay I probably shouldn't call Roger on this one 
because in order for this plant to be here it would to have crossed the Tipton Tillplain 
which is completely different physiography, drainage, soils, you name it. And the 
likelihood of that happening is just not... Those kinds of processes weren't developed 
yet. [0:03:11.4] In talking with Roger, he's such a good guy because he seemed to 
genuinely enjoy the phone calls I would constantly hit him with, but he was always more 
than happy to explain why that may not have been where I found this particular plant. 
Over time, I almost think to an extent, I may have learned in talking to that guy over time 
than I did in a lot of my classes at Purdue. Over time, my interest started to go more in 
toward that ecology and the reasons why you will find certain plants in certain regions or 
even certain plants only on certain slopes or on soils with certain pH. It just blew my 
mind and ever since it continues to just dazzle me. [0:04:03.6] There came a turning 
point where my attention went from communicating the resource to managing the 
resource. Because once you get entrenched into that ecological side of things, it's hard 
not to become concerned in some instances. And therefore you want to either prevent 
further harm to a species or maintain a species or perhaps enhance a species. And 
therefore you need to learn how to manage the species. Long story short, that's kind of 
how I transitioned from one professional persona into another. To this day I'm not at all 
dissatisfied. I'm glad I did take that. It's odd to look back at so many things I forgot about 
with interpretation. Sometimes I talk to Ginger, Vicki, or some of our other interpreters. 
I'm like oh yeah I remember that particular concept or that sort of thing. Almost feels like 
it was a hundred years ago. I'm barely 40. Who knows? Maybe I'll take another change. 
Maybe there's another morph coming down the path that I'm not recognizing yet. I could 
already be there. I don't know. I like to think I'm gonna stay right where I am though 
because I'm pretty happy. 
afc2013014_02243_mv07 
JK: [0:00:00.0] …transition from interpretation to management... anything in training 
that's helps you with your work as a natural resource manager? 
MM: [0:00:19.4] I can almost tell I wish that were that aren't as opposed to saying what 
are. One of the things I remember in the transition is that ability to communicate. A lot of 
times we I think as resources managers or biologists, ecologists, whatever, I think 
though we have sense of sides obviously we're trying to protect a little bitty flowers and 
we get accused of being flower sniffers and everything else. [0:00:54.9] But sometimes 
decisions are made or actions are performed that seem kind of hard. You throw in the 
concept of all the literature review you have to do, you're reading a lot of scientific 
journals and trying to keep up with what's going on in the research community so that 
you can utilize or perhaps at least consider in your decision making process. And a lot 
of jargon. And I think it can be difficult for some of us. I'm one of them. Once we 
encounter fellow colleagues or the public, you're still kind of living in that world. 
[0:01:46.2] Some of the best of us are excellent at switching those gears. And I'm 
unfortunately not one of those. Maybe I was at one point when I was further back 
toward being an interpreter. I'm not sure. I think my ability to deal with explaining 
complicated processes perhaps. Even when there's a decision to made by our 
overhead, I have to consciously remember there are certain key terms I may not, I may 
want to replace for something a little more loosely understandable. [0:02:25.5] And then 
just human relations I think a lot of times I get phone calls because different user is 
upset by this action that was made or this process that's going on. You hear some 
things that are just so out of this world that you can't even really see where they 
developed that strange perception but you get it common enough that I think I've lost my 
ability... I still think I go above and beyond, but I'm not nearly what I would have been 
when I was an interpreter and the way I deal with that. I think I'm a little bit more 
abrasive but I think when you're an interpreter perhaps it's a little bit easier because 
maybe you're doing it more often. And talking with visitors and so forth. I don't see or 
talk to visitors often or at all in a recreational good time context. [0:03:20.3] If I'm hearing 
from visitors it's because somebody's picked up the phone and they got a problem. And 
I think it's just maybe it's nature of the beast, maybe it's for a good thing, but I think I've 
just sort of gotten a little bit of a thicker outer coating than what I may have had. I guess 
that's what I wish I could get more back of. But I consciously recognize it and I try to 
work on it. But like I said there are almost certain key times of year, particularly when 
deer reductions are taking place or shortly thereafter, I can always just brace myself 
because I know a lot of folks are gonna call and they're gonna question the science. 
They're gonna question the decisions, they're gonna question... and sometimes it gets 
personal. I don't think you couldn't perhaps harden over a little bit after a few years of it. 
afc2013014_02243_mv08 
JK: [0:00:00.0] … greatest challenge facing the natural resources in state parks. 
MM: [0:00:22.6] I think I shared my biggest concern with a lot of others. It's the demand 
on the resources. We have an expanded population obviously and that's one thing. But I 
think the bigger part of that thing is that there's a growing user base. The diversity of 
different users seems to be increasing. Geocaching that's a new phenomenon. You've 
got more folks taking interest in foraging as the local green movement continues to grow 
and thrive. You've got more increases on foraging. [0:01:08.4] You've got more interest 
on say certain... okay big bucks, Purdue has seen big monster bucks on our reservoirs. 
You've got more people wanting to turkey hunt and more people wanting to mushroom 
hunt at the same time at the same property. You can see where those conflicts begin. 
You've got more people wanting to mountain bike. You've got more people wanting to 
bird. [0:01:34.6] I just think it was a result of the growing population, it's also diversifying 
population and that's resulting in a lot of everybody wanting their piece of the pie but 
they don't want their piece of the pie on the same plate as anybody else. So that's one 
of our biggest challenges is getting all the pies back on the same plate and everybody 
having an even piece. I don't know. I think it's something will be battled well beyond my 
career. When I get to my sunset period I hate to think of what the demands will be like 
by then because it can be... it's pretty daunting now. [0:02:17.4] We seem to make it 
work. Everything is usually approached by a case by case basis when it comes to a lot 
of these conflicts between that user and this user. It can be like I said time consuming 
but in the spirit of public service as well as protecting the resource it's time well spent. 
And all the frustration that goes away. I always tell myself one of our regional 
supervisors once told me after I soon came on, I got real worked up over everything. He 
said just slow down and ask yourself what's this gonna mean a year from now. So that's 
how I handle the frustrating part of it. 
afc2013014_02243_mv09 
JK: [0:00:00.0] …keep hearing a sense of family... not jobs but ways of life... do those 
resonate with you? 
MM: [0:00:28.4] Yeah. Absolutely. It's definitely a family and it's definitely a way of life. If 
you look at your compensation, it's not terrible but one could easily find themselves 
maybe a little dissatisfied. But that person who does I think sticks around and falls back 
on that sense of family. And because of that it becomes a way of life. I don't know that 
there's or in reality such a thing as a seven and a half hour day for most of us. You just 
stay until you get everything done. Come in on a holiday, come in on a weekend that 
may not be yours. That's all common stuff. [0:01:13.7] I don't think our species would 
ever begin to do such kind of things if it weren't for family. If you think about it that's the 
only other thing you're want to exhibit similar behavior on. I think that's definitely true. All 
the through the ranks too. All the way from our executive staff down into the folks who 
come back every summer and help with gates and cleaning restrooms and all that, 
because they're coming back year after year in many cases. And it's sometimes tough, 
retirements happen, folks take other positions and other places. You can feel a loss 
almost like I'm not gonna bump into that guy so often any more, obviously. And then 
unfortunately like all things in today's world, everything's moving so quickly, there's 
always that fear oh I'll probably never see that guy again. That kind of stuff and that 
bums you out. So that's why I definitely think that there's proof in that for most of us it is 
way of life and it is a family.  
JK: [0:02:23.0] Probably good and negative things that happen to your actual family 
from having a job that's so demanding. 
MM: [0:02:45.0] It varies. For me personally it's kind of seasonal. The growing season 
I'm out in the field quite a bit. Which means I'm staying out in hotels and so forth. That 
was really tough when our youngest was in her first couple years obviously. And I did 
what I could and luckily I had an understanding supervisor that I didn't travel out quite as 
much. It would have to be a real issue. I definitely wasn't just going places to check in 
on things. So that was a little bit of an impact. Now that she's a little older I'm able to get 
back out and do a lot more because obviously she's not as high maintenance and so 
forth. [0:03:33.5] Now that I'm in my current position, weekends aren't a big deal. But on 
the flipside when my son was younger, when I was a naturalist, weekends were almost 
religion. So that was kind of a tax because not only for the wife but for the boy. And you 
just did what you could any other time you had available. At least for me, I just 
prioritized it. We made it work, they understand. [0:04:08.1] It can be fun too, especially 
events. They can come out and help even. My son always loved volunteering, got to 
wear the little volunteer vest and all that so it was kind of a big deal. You know in my 
case you try to find ways to blend the two. Tear the wall between them and blend it a 
little bit and every little bit helps. Like I said me personally I don't have to worry about 
that so much now. I occasionally work a Saturday. But it's not nearly what it used to be. 
Apart from evenings away and evenings coming in late and then you're all dirty, stinky, 
you've been maybe off of a long drive so you're not exactly back up to talking a whole 
lot. When you get home late and you got take a while, get a shower and get cleaned up. 
[0:05:03.9] But again like I said for another aspect of this, no two days are alike. Kind of 
keeps things fresh around the house I guess because there's no two evenings alike. 
There's definitely no routine at my house. But I love that. I don't think I could have it any 
other way. Coming home exactly at 4:30 and feeding the dogs, to go on and get 
changed and sitting down for supper. I just don't think myself or anybody else in my 
family would have it any other way than what we have it. Like I said no two nights are 
alike, no two weekends are alike.  
JK: [0:05:45.6] Anything else? 
MM: [0:05:48.5] No I don't think so. I don't think so. 
JK: [0:05:51.5] Any favorite stories about working in parks? 
MM: [0:06:00.9] Oh gosh. They're either tragic or quite adult rated I guess would need 
censored. I've always... yeah. Trying to think if any of the... I thought of one on the drive 
over here and now I can't remember what it was. Gosh what was that? 
afc2013014_02243_mv10 
MM: [0:00:00.0] I'm not gonna be able to remember it. Like I said most of them involve 
unfortunately... a lot of them involve literally a death or just... it's either one side or the 
other. All the middle... 
JK: [0:00:22.5] Even a tragic story... thinking a 100 years from now someone's looking 
back at these things... 
MM: [0:00:42.7] I do remember one story and it's probably not one of the better ones 
but it's the one I can remember at the moment. Rocky Hollow here at Turkey Run is a 
box canyon. And very popular, very popular. Probably one of the most popular places in 
possibly the Midwest. But I was working with a couple folks, I think my boss was out, 
she wasn't there that day. We had raccoon, there were quite a few raccoons that 
appeared to be coming down distempered, it's a debilitating disease. Only about half of 
them make it out of it. [0:01:24.7] You don't obviously want a distempered raccoon in a 
highly visited area. So it had been quite a while, it had been a pretty long week because 
we have these raccoons popping up in quite a few places. And I had a walnut 1x1 stick 
that I would try to catch this cat with outside the nature center. It was always out and it 
was a feral cat and eating birds out of the bird feeding area there at the nature center. I 
even it written on the side 'Here kitty, kitty' and we all referenced it as my 'Here kitty, 
kitty' stick. And this was a tough stick. It was walnut, very tough stick. [0:02:16.1] And I 
would go out in the mornings and feed the birds. I would hide in the bushes. I would wait 
for this thing to come out. I'd chase it. I'd carry it to and from my car when I came to and 
from work in the event that I found the cat somewhere around the building. It really 
became this whole Wyle Coyote Roadrunner scenario for the whole summer. And 
everybody was just starting to really have a good lot of fun with it. So at the same time 
we've got this distemper going on and my friend, Angie Alexander at the time now it's 
Angie Williams, got a call or somebody came to the front desk and said hey you've got 
this nasty raccoon back in Rocky Hollow, it's hard for folks to get around it because it's 
lunging and being violent, there are kids around, you guys gotta go take care of this. 
[0:03:11.4] So I go okay well here's what we'll do. We'll take you Angie, we'll take me 
and I'm not sure who else it was at the time working with us. But I said we'll have you 
guys shut off the hollow around the bend so that way it's kind of an elbow. You stop 
traffic over here, you stop traffic over here, I'll take the 'Here kitty, kitty' stick and I'll just 
have to dispatch it. We'll take a black bag so nobody can see it. We'll be very discreet. 
Again it's one of those ugly moments or reality of the job. We go out there and I heard 
later, I got the story from Angie, that she's out there telling folks okay please just hold on 
just a little bit. Like I said this is a very crowded area. Momentarily we'll let you through 
but right now we've got to take care of something. [0:04:07.9] And then all she hears is 
this thwack! thwack! thwack! thwack! and expletives coming out of my mouth and 
thwack! And she's got all these kids and family people and she's just sitting here trying 
to smile. Oh it's okay we'll be ready just any time now. More thwacking. I could not get 
this raccoon to give up the coast to save myself and I didn't realize at the time I 
should've made... it would make sense, I'm in a canyon, how well my voice was carrying 
because I'm getting upset with myself having to experience this animal who just will not 
like I say go. And that's not a pleasant thing to be doing. Oh it was terrible. So Angie 
always got a kick out of that story because she had this whole pretty face just putting off 
the pretty smile and everything, trying to glaze everything over. And they're back there 
hearing this violence. [0:05:04.5] Later on that summer, lucky the distemper came to an 
end. I'm going out and feeding the birds and there's this HV/AC unit outside. And it's on 
so it's kind of loud. And I look under there and there's the cat laying over sleeping. So I 
thought this is great, he's in the perfect spot. I'm like okay do I grab him first with a glove 
and then thwack him or do I try to angle it right so I can thwack him underneath of there. 
And I slowly creep around, I went back in and got the 'Here kitty, kitty' stick. And I'm 
creeping back around, I'm getting so excited. It's a whole summer come down to this 
moment. He's asleep, he's got this loud fan over him, he'll never hear me walk up. 
[0:05:53.5] Well as I'm walking up there's a water fountain and there are rocks and 
things over it. And I knocked some rocks down the side of it and I look over and the cat 
doesn't move. I thought that cat had to have heard that. So I'm like well I walk on over, 
another rock falls, and actually rolls over toward him. I'm thinking may have hit his tail, 
cat doesn't move. I take the 'kitty, kitty' stick and just poke it. It's lying there cold dead. 
Stone cold dead. I've never, ever got my revenge on watching dude eat so many birds 
and chipmunks. He died. Everybody had a blast with that story, the irony behind it. 
That's probably one of my better stories. It's got a little something for everybody. Little 
violence, little revenge, little irony, little comic relief.  
JK: [0:06:46.5] All the questions. 
MM: [0:06:51.5] I think that was... Seems like a pretty good coverage.