Project name: Agricultural Pilots: Crop Dusters in the Rural Midwest 
Field ID and name: Interview 4 
Interviewee: Sam Styron 
Interviewer/Recordist: Ellen Kendrick, Samuel Kendrick 
Date: 3/24/21 
Location: Harrissonville, Missouri 
Others Present: Jackson Kendrick 
Equipment used: Zoom H6 Handy Recorder 
Microphone: Saramonic Wireless Lavalier Microphone 
Recording Format: .WAV 
Recorded Tracks in Session: 1 
Duration: 1:01:12 
Keywords: Ag pilot, crop duster, ag plane, safety, chemicals, representation, advocacy, FAA,  
  
Corresponding Materials: Photographs 
Context: Sitting/standing around the hanger where Sam flies out of 
Technical Considerations: There is a hum and tends to come and go on the recording, it makes 
listening to it difficult, but doesn’t affect the content. 
Transcription prepared by: Samuel Kendrick 
Transcribing Conventions:  
Use of square brackets [ ] indicates a note from the transcriber. 
Use of parentheses (  ) indicates a conversational aside.  
Use of dash - indicates an interruption of thought or conversation. 
Use of ellipses … indicates a discontinued thought. 
Use of quotations “ “ indicates reported speech. 
Use of italics indicates emphasis. 
Use of underline indicates movie, magazine, newspaper, or book titles. 
Names of interviewee and interviewer are abbreviated by first and last initial letters. 
Time is recorded in time elapsed by the convention [hours:minutes:seconds]. 
 
  
 
[00:00:00] 
 
EK: Record. It's March 24, 2021. We're in Harrisonville, Missouri, and it is 2:20 and we're talking 
to Sam Styron. 
SK: At the airport. 
EK: Anyway, this is a 602? 
SS: 602 Yeah, slightly bigger than, well, I think Dusty’s is a 5m 502. So, and he used to have a 402, 
which my 402 is out on the runway because there's not enough hangar space here at Harrisonville 
for me to, 
EK: That surprises me that there's not, as close as it is to the city.  
SS: Well, yeah, I don't know. I mean, we could certainly rent out more hangar space if we had it. 
But the airport's kind of landlocked, doesn't have any more space to expand the hangar space or 
the runway or anything really, so anyway. Yeah, 602, eleven hundred horsepower engine. Pratt 
Whitney turbine. It won't quite haul 600 gallons of water but it's good for, I bought it for handling 
dry fertilizer. We've gotten where we top dress corn more and more every year. 
EK:  I've noticed that, utilizing the services rather than just calling the local elevator. 
SS: Well it really it developed because we had such wet springs here four or five years ago. 
EK: Oh, and they couldn't get into the fields. 
SS: Couldn't get in the field and then they realized what an advantage it was to use the airplane 
because you weren't running down the crops. And you know if you follow those guys that top 
dress corn with ground rigs, you see their tracks all over the all over the place and it's, so anyway, 
the farmers realize it's economical enough that… 
EK: I wonder if like the trend towards no-till and cover crops and all that has also helped business? 
SS: Oh, cover crops certainly have. I don't know about the no-till part. I just don't know if that 
makes a difference or not. But certainly cover crops that's become pretty good part of my 
business. 
EK: You wouldn’t want to run over your little hills in the field and mess up your… 
SS: Oh, and compact on the terraces and things, yeah, that always the advantage to is the no 
compaction, hopefully with our airplanes. On occasion, you hit the ground, but those are not 
especially good times. [Laughter.] 
EK: Have you done that? 
SS: Yes. [Laughter.] A couple of times I've done it and kept flying and other times I've done it it was 
the end of the flight. So yeah, 
EK: Yeah, do you want to talk about it? 
SS: I can tell you what ever you want to know. The first time was actually the first season I set up 
here in 1993. And actually was haulin’ soybeans. And I took off with a full load of soybeans and I 
couldn't climb out. And I just barely got over the power lines and still wouldn't climb and every 
time I tried to climb it started shuddering like it's gonna stall out. And then I thought I'd let the 
nose down. Then I barely got over the powerline. I already said that. But the next thing was I 
hedgerow and my left wing caught the top of the tree and I just spun in the ground slid about 200 
feet, broke the plane all to pieces. 
EK: Was it in a like a 402? 
SS: No, actually my third plane over there's a Cessna Ag Wagon, rag truck. And it's Oh, it's 260 
gallon hopper, but the one I had was like that, at the time and so it was smaller. And so anyway,  
EK: You walked away? 
SS: Yeah, walked away. Yeah, the airplane didn't, it got hauled away. And so yeah, I walked away 
from that one.  
EK: We saw some pictures of the wrec, that Aaron said he had in Indiana.  
SS: Yeah, yeah, that was bad deal for Aaron. Oh, yeah.  
EK: The interesting thing I thought is that like the cockpit of the plane was intact. 
SS: That's the great thing about especially this plane, the Air Tractors, they have a really solid 
cockpit. The guy I was telling you about in Independence that knew Jacob, he, he crashed one 
maybe on takeoff or something, lost his engine? But he wadded it up pretty good but his cockpit 
was all intact. So they've done really the, this brand Air Tracktor, which is, there's another brand 
built here in the U.S. called Thrush.  
EK: We haven’t see that one though. 
[00:05:22] 
SS: A Thrush is what Kevin Kingsley's brother Kimon has. Kimon, isn’t that his  name? 
EK: Yeah, he’s on our list.  
SS: Yeah. And they're Cayman and Cayman. And Kevin I’ve met. 
EK: Really? There’s more like, they are multiples? 
SS: Something like that. [Laughter.] I kmow Kevin, and I actually had Kevin come up and, and do 
some work for me when, well, last spring. So last year, a year ago, I was I had a stent put in my 
heart in. Anyway, so I couldn't get my medical back until May of last year, or the very end of May, 
first of June. And I had the stent put in and the last day of the year, December 30, I guess. Anyway, 
but it took that long to get my medical certificate back and had to jump through a lot of hoops for 
that. Still have to. I had to do that again this year. Oh, yeah. Yeah.  
EK: You’re fit though. 
SS: Yeah, but you got to prove it. For, til, for another six years. 
EK: So what do you have to do to prove your health? 
SS: You gotta do a treadmill test and nuclear treadmill, or nuclear stress test, I guess they call it 
and so you run on the treadmill, and they get your heart rate pumping, and they fill you full and 
nucleide. So they can take pictures of you at rest and after or at exercise and monitor you the 
whole time with the EKG machine. And, and then and then you got to send in the, the video 
recordings of all that showing that your heart's pumping in the blood flow and the heart… 
EK: Who do you send them to? 
SS: The FAA.  
JK: That’s about the same level of examination of an ATP. 
SS: Well, yeah, I don't know if they do that on every year for an ATP.  
JK: Well, not every year, but I  know to get your ATP you have to do that. 
SS: You got to go through a lot of that.  
EK: What's an ATP?  
SS: Airline transport pilot, the guys that fly the big jets. So anyway, I had to do that the first time 
and prove it. And, and, you know, they get this, I actually go to Chicago to a guy that, it's a doctor 
who knows how to get through the bureaucracy in, in Oklahoma City where the main office is for 
the FAA. And  
EK: Like for the whole country?  
SS: Oh, yeah. And he says, they got 40,000 documents there all the time that they're processing. So 
anyway, but he, the great part of this guy, and the reason I got him because another friend of mine 
is a crop duster up at Carrollton. He had a brain tumor, benign, but he still had one and it was 
causing problems and headaches and stuff for years. And anyway, had it worked on but that's who 
he went to. And he said, You need to go see Dr. Chen. And so I did. And I mean, he, when I went up 
there, he gave me exam and all that and, and I did all the paperwork that he said I had to do getting 
the stress test and all that. And then he handed me a piece of paper and he says, here's what you 
need to do. When you go home, on so many days, after we FedEx the documents to them, call them 
at 8:05 in the morning. [Laughter.] And say just I'm an interested airman checking on my 
paperwork, seeing where it is. And they'll mark it down.  
EK: So you have to be very specific.  
SS: You tell him what, yeah, tell him your interest, he says, and then he says, then don't call him 
next day. Don't call him on consecutive days, call him the third day or you know, leave a day in 
between then call him. Do the same thing. And when they the red flag, or the flag that comes up is 
we've flagged your file. And he says when they say that you call me immediately and let me know 
because then I can call them and say I'm his AME, I'm his airman, airman, medical examiner. And 
he can start asking and pushing and getting stuff done. But he had I mean, he had it printed out 
exactly what to do, what date when to call exactly when and all that and what to say? 
[00:10:01] 
EK: So if you hadn't done that, if you didn't have him, you'd still be sitting here. 
SS: Well, it would have taken, he said we'll knock off four to eight weeks.  
EK: Yeah. That's money.  
SS: Well, absolutely. And you know, I here I am, season generally starts, start getting work in April 
and then if I'm spraying pasture we get down to Fort Scott there and spray in June after the leaves 
come out on the trees and the brush and, and then and then, you know, then it just rolls on into 
spraying corn, fertilizing and all that. But really, if I had to wait till middle of June, it would have 
fouled me up. I've got a sizable contract that we've been doing in Iowa, at times is half, half my 
year, and we do it in three or four weeks. So I needed to get, get fixed and get recertified 
otherwise, and I was scrambling to find pilots. Someone to just fly my plane for me. And anyway, 
and I actually ended up hiring a guy out of Australia to fly my other one in Iowa.  
EK: So he was in Australia? 
SS: He's from Austin. Tasmania, which is the south side.  
EK: Yeah. With the devils, Tasmanian devils. 
SS: According to him, they're not really very demonic. [Laughter.] Pretty docile little critters. 
EK: I think that's what we all think when we hear Tasmania. 
JK: So what made you start flying? 
SS: Okay, well, I'm an engineer, like maybe not like you, but I'm a civil engineer. 
EK: Well, I looked you up on the, when we were researching, I just did crop dusters, and you were 
one of the first names that came up. And I did like, I said, he's more than just an airplane flyer, he's 
an engineer. And anyway, I thought that was pretty interesting and saw that you had a storefront 
on the square. 
SS: Yeah, just off the square But no, I in 1991, I suppose. Anyway, I we didn't have any kids, my 
wife and I, and we lived in the city and I was working work in engineering and I like really like 
engineering actually. And so working for a firm there and, so, didn’t have any kids, my wife had a 
good job. And I was getting to fly I had my pilot license I was getting fly once a month maybe go 
rent a plane at the airport, go for a flight, maybe get a hamburger or whatever, and you know just 
once a month. It wasn’t very satisfying and I wanted to fly more and so I told my wife I'm going to 
learn fly crop dusters. 
EK: What’d she say to that? 
SS: Okay. [Laughter.] She’s, my wife is really good. I don't understand her. If that’s what you want 
to do and so I told her what I was doing and I grew up well, south you guys, Granby. 
EK: Oh, okay. 
SS: Was my hometown and where I grew up in my, we worked on truck farms out there and so 
growing up I was around small town farming a little bit. Not a farmer but I worked on a truck farm 
cutting cabbage and picking tomatoes and cucumbers and peppers and all that. Anyway, so in my 
first encounter with a crop duster, there's guy at Lamar and Carthage. I can't think of his name, 
Lou Quinn, Flew an old biplane, and Lou was quite a character. I didn’t know him, just had only 
seen him flying and stuff at different times over the years and when we’d drive through Carthage 
we’d see his airplane parked there on the ramp. Anyway, that was my first encounter of crop 
dusters.  
EK: And it stuck, didn't it?  
SS: I guess, you know, and my dad was a military pilot in World War II a little bit in pilot training. I 
don't think he ever got out of that. But anyway, he had his stories about flying and that always 
piqued my interest. So anyway, I got my pilot license, but I wanted to fly more and so I decided 
that want to move out of city and seemed like a way to do it. 
EK: So how old were you when you got your pilot's license? Did you just decide to do that? Was 
that just like…? 
SS: Well, I was in the Air Force.  
EK: Oh, okay, well… 
SS: I didn’t fly for the Air Force. I got, I was stationed in Idaho in 1977, so that would have made 
me 19 maybe? 
EK: Yeah.  
[00:15:10] 
SS: When I got my pilot's license, and then shortly after that, well, I was there for 12 or 14 months 
and then went to Germany for a couple years. And so I didn't get fly in Germany. I think they 
actually had a flying club, but I wouldn't aware of it. Anyway, I was having a lot of fun doing other 
stuff. [Laughter.] Got, got out of the service and went to college at MU in Columbia and got my 
engineering degree and last year of that I started flying again, And, and anyway, got back into 
flying was wanting to fly more. And so that's when I… 
EK: So here you are. 
SS: I started. There used to be a magazine called Ag Pilot that was produced by a guy named Tom 
Wood out of Oregon, I think, or Washington. So I got a subscription to that and started reading 
about it and studying it a little bit. I went and visited Lou Quinn down in Lamar. Yeah. He wouldn't 
have anything to do with me. 
EK: There's an old guy in Nevada. You probably know him Eddie Hamersley.  
SS: I know Eddie.  
EK: And I suspect he's of the same ilk.  
SS: Oh, and he's nothing like Lou. And Lou. I mean, he flew Stearman, but then he had, actually 
were Kevin Kingsley’s hangar is is where Lou operated out of. But he had an Air Tractor 301, 
which was one of the first Air Tractors built had a radial engine on it. But before that, he had 
biplanes, Stearman biplanes. And anyway, stories I hear Lou would pull up in his airplane to get 
loaded, and he'd throw out a can of beer and get another one and, and get loaded, both ways. 
[Laughter.] And go back to fly.  
EK: Oh, that's impressive.  
SS: Anyway, so that that's, that's the stories I hear about Lou. But my actual encounter was I went 
to his house and told him I wanted to get into business. And I was thinking, he’d take me on, he's 
getting pretty old and want to get out of his business. And I would be a way for him to do that. And 
he says, I'm not babysitting anymore.  
EK: How old was he then you suppose?  
SS: I don't know. I don't know how old he was when he died. I suppose he was, he looked ancient 
to me. And, he's kind of a heavyset guy and or big beer belly or something. But anyway, and a cigar 
in his mouth, and I can remember going in his house and him sitting on this chair, he kind of had it 
up on a platform, it looked like a throne. [Laughter.] And anyway, Lou said, I'm not taking on 
anyone, or not going to babysit anyone was what he said. So I got the message and moved on.  
EK: Yeah.  
SS: And so there was another fella named Sam Dyer in, in Marshall, Missouri. And his, his company 
name was Dyer the Flyer. [Laughter.] And Sam's, he's quite a, I think he’s still alive, I’m pretty sure. 
He was an FAA flight examiner, so if you're getting your license you can go to him. He was also an 
auctioneer. But anyway, I went and talked to him. And I said, What I got to do to be a crop duster? 
And he says, have a have an IQ of about the same as your shoe size. Okay. [Laughter.] I can 
probably manage that. 
EK: That's easy.  
SS: So anyway, and he wasn't encouraging. And then there was another guy, actually just down the 
road at Clinton, a guy named Larry Farrow. And he and he had, had for years has his runway. I 
guess they just planted it this year. He's made a, it used to be right along the road next to the 
highway. And Larry flew. Well, he had he had a Thrush also, but it wasn't turbine, it was a radial 
engine and then he had some Cessnas and another one built in Kansas called a Funk. There's an 
aircraft manufacturer called Funk and they did build a crop dusting plane.  
JK: I don't think they built very many. 
SS: No, they didn't build many. Well they built, well there’s several funk, well, I wouldn't say 
several but they're different models of the Funk. Yeah, I don't know but he had one radial engine 
on it. Actually, that’s the last airplane I seen him flying before his daughter turned him in tot he 
FAA. [Laughter.] Because he was getting old and he was a cranky old guy anyway, and he used to 
come out here. I was getting started and he'd come fly up here and he'd be loading his plane, the 
sun was on the ground their loading him, and, and he'd get out of his plane and I'd be over there 
loading my plane and he’s start hollering at me telling me I need to go to South Dakota or 
someplace and learn how to fly. Anyway, he was, he was a deal. Larry Farroiw. And uh… 
[00:20:41] 
JK: So you just kind of started flying.  
SS: Well, so I, actually so I decided I was going to do it. Making this all a real long story. 
EK: No, I, I'm thinking okay, at what point did you, just because this could be done? Because this it 
the third guy you’ve gone to. 
SS: Yeah. Larry Farrow wouldn’t have anything to do… 
EK: Nobody seems to want to… 
SS: No, all these, you know, everybody's getting old and gray headed. These guys. I'm talking to 
them, and they're not interested in getting anyone started. And so anyway, I decided I was gonna 
do it. I'm hard headed that way. And so,, 
EK: Determined.  
SS: There's a school, there was a school, still there actually, in Bainbridge, Georgia. That would 
train ag pilots. And I went down there. And I was there nearly two months, eight weeks, and got 40 
hours of training. Well, I had to get my commercial. I got my commercial license, which is 250 
hours of flying, and taking a test, and exam, practical exam. 
EK: You did that around here? 
SS: Yeah. So I did that here. We lived in Shawnee in the city. Anyway, I did that. And then went 
down to Georgia for those eight weeks and went through the training. And, and mostly the reason 
it took so long, you get 40 hours training, but there's a lot of guys there actually, people from 
Canada, and other places around the country that we're going there to learn to fly.  
EK: Are there their not that many schools?  
SS: There's not. Actually I have a guy that I'm getting started. That's why I bought this small Cessna 
over there for him to spray in this year. He's up in South Dakota, right now doing that, going 
through a pilot, ag pilot training school. And so there's not many I mean, there's a few. There's 
more than there were back when I did. Anyway, I did that went there. And then I got back home 
and started calling people and there's a Floyd McElwain in St. Joe, and he was 54 or five years old. 
Anyway, I called him up, talked to him. And he said, yeah, we made it in. 
EK: Finally.  
SS: I guess I left out one, there was another guy over, over at Ottawa, Kansas. A guy named Chuck 
Lemaster. And I was, tried to work out a deal with him. He was willing it seemed, but in the end, at 
least I think the end if it wasn't his wife, it was the insurance company that said, we can't insure. 
So anyway, and insurance is even now is a problem to get a young guy started because you can't 
get insurance unless you have experience and you can't get experience unless you have insurance. 
So it's a bit of a battle. And it's expensive. And so anyway, that's from… 
EK: Aside from everyone being a crabby lot.  
SS: [Laughter.] Yeah. Right. So, so anyway, I called Floyd. Floyd, I mean, if you know Floyd he's 
willing to do some really stupid stuff. [Laughter.] And he took me on, which is an example of that. 
But he put up with me and then the first year I flew for him and, and I was driving to St. Joe not I 
mean, on the season last four or five months. So I didn't fly up there. I didn't go up there a whole 
lot. But that season, and I got 300 hours of flying in and flying his airplane and that year, we came 
down, there was an armyworm run that year in 1992. And they were thick. And we went to Lamar 
and set up and worked there for a week or two. And there was, so actually Floyd and me and 
maybe another guy with Floyd. And then there was this guy, Larry Farrow that I was telling about 
down the road here and Sam Dyer, and a buddy of his, Dan Parker. Anyway, all of us were at Lamar 
for a week or two working and spraying army worms. And then we moved, kind of followed the 
worms up this way. We landed in Harrisonville, a guy had called and needed some spraying on 
wheat, and we stopped here for a day or two. And that guy, after the season was over and said, We 
really like to have a crop duster here. And so I was going to set up a spraying operation with Floyd 
using his plane and being here and, and do the business. But we couldn't get come to terms on how 
I was going to get paid. And so he said, Why don't you just go do it yourself? I said, Okay. And so I 
bought a plane. And the fella that wanted us to do that had, had a farm out here and we built a 
runway on his place. And I worked off of that for a little bit. But I would have starved, if that was 
my only income. And so but anyway, that's how I got started and got in this area.  
[00:26:12] 
EK: And that was in ‘92 then. 
SS: Well actually ‘93 was the year I got here, but ‘92 is when I started, and flew for Floyd that first 
year. And so I was driving down from Shawnee, down here for, for a few years. And three or four. 
Anyway. But when I got here, turned out my brother was here. He was the editor, managing editor 
of the newspaper.  
EK: Oh. That's interesting.  
SS: Yeah. And just, just happenstance. Anyway, he was here. So I had a connection here anyway. 
And then… let’s see, what happened? So got set up here and started working. And then somebody 
found out I was an engineer, and well, one of my farmers and actually a guy I went to college with, 
or was at college same time. Anyway, he's Hartzler Equipment.  
EK: Oh, yeah.  
SS: Guy, it’s Heartland now, I guess. 
EL: Yeah. 
SS: They got a shop down your way. Here, Lowell Hartzler. 
EK: Yeah, Vicki’s our rep. 
SS: Yeah.  
EK: I don't know her. I just… 
SS: We actually know them fairly well. I was in college, knew Vicki in college. I didn't really know 
Lowell. So anyway, we, anyway, Lowell had a lake that had washed out the dam. And he wanted 
me to design something. I said, Well, I need surveying work done. And he got ahold of the surveyor 
here in town, and surveyor says we need an engineer in here. So I set up an engineering office, in 
their place. They said just move in here. We got space for you. So I did. 
EK: So they needed you both.  
SS: Yeah. So that worked really good. I actually got really busy engineering. I was engineering 
night and day. And that was coming up through the ‘90s and all the housing, boom. We were 
designing subdivisions. All of that for just, I could work night and day, all weekend. Everything. It 
was just busy. I got really tired of it though. I was glad to see the boom, I mean, the bust.  
EK: And bust it did. 
SS: Oh man, it was huge. And so that happened in about 2005 or ’07, things just shut off 
engineering, but at the same time, that's when the fungicide business for spraying came in, you 
know, they had this big threat of soybean rust and it was gonna blow up from South America and 
never really happened. But people started putting fungicide on stuff. And they realized that it 
worked on beans and worked on corn and it worked on wheat. And, and that's when my business 
literally took off. I mean, you just started getting calls. Literally and figuratively. [Laughter.] It has 
always literally taken off. Anyway it was, so the fungicide business really made it where I can make 
a living. And engineering business died. I mean, I still do some of it. I was doing 60 jobs a year and 
now I do half a dozen or a dozen.  
EK: So you can just pick the ones you want then. 
SS: Yeah, well, I mean, you either take them or you don't.  
EK: Yeah.  
SS: But yeah, and they're usually little jobs. But I'd started a subdivision up in Peculiar 15 years 
ago and we did the first phase of it. And it went belly up and in the crash and then a new guy 
bought it. And I just finished that subdivision this past year. The second phase of it, and they're 
building it out now. But anyway, 
[00:30:13] 
EK: But isn't there one along the highway? Like on the west side of the highway? 
SSL In here? 
EK: Somewhere just out here? Yeah. Or is it South? Like in between Hartzler’s and here? Maybe? 
[0:30:26] 
SS: Oh, there is. Yeah, that's, yeah, those are large lots. The ones I were, do are like postage size 
stamps. Or that's what I did. Did a lot of business. Mafe Money. That's what, you know, those small 
residential lots are. They packed with houses in as tight as you can get them. 
EK: Yes, they do. I was thinking about liberty, Missouri.  
SS: Yeah.  
EK: Like, that boomed during that time. And then like, during the best, like, you drive through the 
neighborhoods and out, and there’d be all these empty houses. 
SS: Oh yeah. The one I did, they had streets and all the infrastructure in and no houses. Right. And 
it sat that way for 15 years. 
EK: Yeah. There was one up North like, between, like 152, well off of Barry Road that sat like that it 
was on Antioch to 152. And it sat, I bet it sat for 12 years.  
SS: Yeah, probably did. 
EK: Yeah.  
SS: So things are starting to shake loose now seems like. 
EK: Seems like a lot of apartments are being built. 
SS: Yeah. Seems to be a demand for apartments.  
EK: Are you into that?  
SS: I have two apartments that I rent out, but beyond that no. 
EK: No designing them, no engineering… 
SS: Not that. I don't do buildings. I just do infrastructure, streets and water and sewer lines and 
storm drainage, and that kind of stuff. 
EK: But that that's kind of neat. I mean, not for the people who went bust, but for you, like it gave 
you an opportunity to do what you really wanted to do. 
SS: Yeah, I mean, it worked. It worked great. I can do my crop dusting in the evenings and on the 
weekends or early morning and then go in the office and do the engineering I needed to do and… 
And anyway, so I did that for years. And you know, it paid for the airplane, it didn't really give... 
Kind of satisfied my flying…. Uh, need. 
EK: But it's a good living, isn't it?  
SS: Engineering?  
EK: Crop dusting. 
SS: Yeah, it is now?  
EK: Yeah. 
SS: Yeah. And I I tell people they don't hardly believe me, I make way more money flying spray 
plane than I ever made engineering.  
EK: Yeah.  
JK: It's hard work, though.  
SSL Well, I mean, you work hard when you work that… You know, there's a lot of days I get up and 
fly two or three loads and the wind starts blowing or something's not right, and you got to shut 
down and then come back out in the evening and set and wait and see if the wind’s gonna die, then 
you might get one load off. And so there's a lot of, there's a lot of that goes on. And I mean, if you're 
doing it, right. I see a lot of guys take off when they shouldn't take off. You know, the wind’s wrong. 
I mean, it's too hard. I mean, when gets to 10 you need to be shutting down. And so I, actually 
some of the guys I was telling you about that come up here and compete with sort of, they're up 
here and the wind was blowing 25 miles an hour. And, and I was running fertilizer, and you can do 
that with dry material. But when you're spraying liquid, it's not going to hit your field. And this guy 
was going and I, I'd taken off in load and headed down to my job and I, and I flew over that guy 
flying. And he was spraying and it was just going off. When I came back, he was in his plane with 
another load and I started talking to him on the radio. I said you're not really going out again. He 
was, Who is this? [Laughter.]  
EK: S concerned citizen.  
SS: I said it's Sam and I'm the guy that operates out of Harrisonville. Anyway, he turned around 
and parked his plane. Anyway. 
EK: So he just would have done it.  
SS: Oh, yeah. He’d been doing it. And the people he was working for, they got mad at him. And he 
left the next day. But anyway, I mean, that's the business. I mean… Crop dusting business, in a way 
has a bad name. They think we're all cowboys and are going to do, you know, do whatever to make 
a buck and, and… It's changed significantly. I mean, people would just, I go there now. I'm involved 
with the National Association. 
EK: Yeah, Jack said that you were going to speak in September at some convention? 
SS: Well, so I… 
EK: DIdn’t you tell me that? 
JK: Yeah, I thought you were gonna like host a panel or something? 
[00:35:05] 
SS: Well, so what I do, I'm on a team safety team, that, that goes around. So they call it, I can't even 
remember what the acronym stands for. It's PAASS. Anyway, it's basically a team that goes around 
and presents this program. Talk different aspects, because we do have deaths in this business. And 
so what's causing those deaths? And how can we mitigate it? And one of our reasons for doing it is 
so we don't get over-regulated by the government.  
EK: Oh, yeah.  
SS: I mean, there's regulations in place already. We don't want any more. And so if we can self 
police, and take care of ourselves, which it has significantly improved. Since we started doing 
PAASS program, I think it's 20 years now.  
EK: You've been involved that whole time?  
SS: No, no. I got involved, well, I've been going to the National Association for that long, but I didn't 
get involved with the safety team or this past program team till a couple years ago, I think, yeah, 
this last season was my second season. Anyway, but you know, so we have a program that talks 
about decision making, about being professional in your job, and primarily to mitigate accidents. 
And, and it has, you know, we used to have 25 to 30 deaths a year, and we're down to less than 10. 
And, of course, we like to claim that it's because of our program and awareness.  
EK: I’m sure it is. To some extent.  
SS: And, you know, I don't know if this is where I was going or not, but the people that deal with 
that, on the national level, or not national level, but you meet across the country that are in this 
business, they are highly educated aerospace engineers. Or just, you know, backyard engineers, 
but they're so smart. And you're just like, holy cow. I didn't even think of that. And so I get 
impressed every time I go and meet with those people. I'm like, Oh, holy cow. 
 
How did you get to that stage? I don't think that way. Or, or I wish I did or something. You know, I 
wish there was… 
JK: It's hard, for a lot of people, I think that like it's not a natural impulse to analyze your failure.  
SS: Yeah. 
JK: But you have to as a pilot, wouldn’t you say? 
SS: Oh, you got to. You got, you got to analyze and think about, well, I mean, covers all aspects. 
Your decision making, what, what makes you make those decisions, what biases and it was, this 
last year's program was about different kinds of biases that you make, how it affects the way you 
make decisions, you know. One of the things that causes us to have bias, buy these big airplanes, 
million dollar airplanes, I got to pay for that. Well if the winds blowin’ that's not gonna slow me 
down. So is that really a good decision? You know, what, what does that really do for the industry, 
do for you? Are you really getting ahead because you took off, you know, you're, you're flying 60 
miles, where the wind may be blowing, and totally different from where you are. And you're 
getting down there. And you see that it's that way, but you've already made that trip. But because I 
got this big airplane, I can fly there fast and do the job and and get it done. And, and so, am I going 
to do that? And is that a good idea? Well, I gotta pay for this airplane. So I got it, and I don't want to 
come back and then fly back down there. And you know… 
JK: It's interesting you say that because Aaron was talking about it. He, he didn't use the term, but 
as failure analysis, and in that process, you do think about bias a lot. But he was talking about a 
contributing factor to the big accident was he had, like ten or twelve gallons left in his hopper, and 
he just didn't want to fly back with it.  
SS: Yeah. 
JK: He didn't want to waste it because we made that one last turn of the day.  
SS: Yeah, and he's not the only one with done that. We actually had an example in our program, 
maybe previous year, where a guy did the exact same thing. And he goes back into the field caught 
a wire and crashed and fortunately lived to tell about it. And he shared you know, but you know, 
he's talking about layers of distraction when you're flying and, and what, what are, what things are 
distracting you and so… So anyway, just trying to eliminate or get the pilots to think about what 
are the things, where do I need to have my mind when I'm sitting in that cockpit flying? Well, you 
don't need your wife calling you on your cell phone. and telling you the kids are sick or, or 
whatever. And so how do you get people to say, Okay, I need to talk to my wife about, or you're 
going to meet the female pilot out in New Jersey, you know, I need to talk to my spouse and, and 
say, okay, don't call me. We'll figure out another way for me to get the message when I get on the 
ground, but I don't need to hear about this stuff when I'm in the plane, and having to keep focused 
on the job at hand. 
[00:40:27] 
JK: So do you think there's a sweet, sweet spot between introspection and self, self critique, and 
just gettin’ your head down and get the job done? 
SS: Do I think there's a what? 
JK: Oh like a sweet spot?  
SS: Yeah, well, is there a sweet spot, I know, if there's a sweet spot, or if you've got to totally 
eliminate one, and so you can stay on the job. And that's, you know, obviously hard to do to 
eliminate it completely. But to minimize the layers of distraction and get them pigeon-holed or out 
of the way, that once they're there, you know, if you're flying, it don't take a split second, for your 
mind to wander. This happens almost every time I fly, you know, you pull up out of the field, 
you're in a turn, a little bit of lag time there. Okay, and you think about something, you come back 
around, and you missed your line for the next pass. Well do I dive in the field and go ahead and 
make that pass, even though I'm offline? Or do I go around again? And, and make it right? And 
anyway, it just… 
EK: What’s the way you do?  
SS: Both. [Laughter.] Depends on how bad I think I'm offline. 
EK: Risk assessment, then. 
SS: Yeah, you just say, okay, am I really off that much, or, you know, or, or I set my limits, say, if I'm 
five feet, or 10 feet off, I need go around. Because I can't salvage the path. Gonna do a lousy job. 
JK: So you go through you set your limits with before you fly. So in situation like that you're relying 
on like a set theory here. Or a set model. So you can say. 
SS: Yeah. 
JK: This is a model that I created, you know, six hours ago here is A, B, C, or D. 
SS:  That's exactly right. And that's, you know, and that's one of the things we talked about, we tell 
when we have these safety meetings, I you guys set your limit, and say, This is what you're going 
to live by and live by it. Because the more you talk to guys that have walked away from an 
accident, they've broken their limits, and they know it. Even though they'd already set ‘em. So, and 
if they live by their limit, what they said was the line they would, they would have saved an 
airplane and… 
JK: It’s not advisable to do real time troubleshooting.  
SS: No, you need to have you need to have it set. Like this year, like we just did a, me and three or 
four the other past presenters. We went over to Manhattan, they have a simulator, Air Tractor 
simulator. And one of the issues we've had, I don’t know, maybe for years, but one of the issues 
people are flying into instrument weather, get within the cloud. And you push the limits and the 
clouds are coming down lower and lower and you keep trying to get lower and get under and then 
eventually you just can't. It just turns white. And how do you get out of that? Most of these spray 
planes don't have an attitude indicator. They might have a turning back, turn cold. Well, we flew 
the simulator, and the only one of us that got out of it was a current instrument pilot. And he was 
able to get out of it. The other two of us, we died in five minutes. 
EK: So you’re not instrument certified? 
SS: No. And so the takeaway… 
EK: You died in five minutes?  
SS: Yeah, it's unbelievable. 
EK: That's disturbing. It's scary.  
SS: Well, the I think guy died in 45 seconds. 
EK: It’s one of the indications of what you're involved in. 
SS: Well, right. So you know you think you can fly the airplane. But if all you got’s a compass you 
know. I was, after I got in the clouds I said do a 180 get out of it. Well you got a compass down here 
in that simulator anyway, which is really odd because you had to look down which really screws 
up your whole balancing that you've lost all your references. Anyway. Should you look down and 
see what 180 is going to look like and, and you start doing that and you're climbing? Or are you 
divin’? You don't have any idea. And then you know well unless you look at your altimeter and it's 
going crazy and so anyway but just keeping your eyes on all of that. And then you're looking at, 
what got me was I started looking at the window and you got these… The simulator is really set up 
pretty cool, actual, like clouds, you know, different densities. And, you know, and then I break out 
of the clouds, and I'm going straight down at the ground, and I pull out of it, and then all of a 
sudden I’m back into it was, it was unnerving? 
[00:45:13] 
EK: So then, doesn’t the issue become how do you convince, how do you convince a group of 
people who are who are self-motivated and determined? Who really aren’t that comfortable with 
being vulnerable whether it’s on the ground or in the sky to deal with that vulnerability in order to 
stay alive? Because that's… 
SS: Right.  
EK: You're vulnerable, because it's the kind of job where you've got to be tough. And you pride 
yourself on your independence and your toughness and your ability to do what other people can't 
do. Yet… 
SS: Well, yeah, say I got limits. And believe it, and, and, you know, and you, you, and those limits, in 
this particular case, you got to say, well, there's a certain spread between temperature and 
dewpoint, that, pretty likely, you're gonna have fog. And so if, if, if that rain is like three degrees, or 
four, depending on what you read and believe, if the temperature is within that you need to stay 
home, stay in bed and sleep for another hour. And so… But you know, then you get the pressure 
from the other way, I got to get out there and spray, I got an airplane payment to make. And so, so 
there's a lot of things pushing that guy, but making the right decision, how do you get people to 
make that right decision and say yes, I do have limits. I'm not invulnerable.  
EK: You can’t make the payment if you’re dead. 
SS: Right, and you don’t have to worry about that either. 
EK: I was just thinking, like, how do you like, actually manipulation. How do you manipulate a 
bunch of people, who don’t want to be told what to do, to do the right thing. 
SS: And you know, and I would probably argue, that people want to, they want to be safe. 
Generally. I mean, there's some, there's some that are just totally cowboys. It doesn't matter what 
you say, and they’ll argue with you. But most of the people want to go home to their families. It's 
most, and I, and and I think most of the people in this business are professional, they want to do a 
good job. They want to do it right. Do a good job. And, and I and I get surprised, I’ll do a program, 
we had to do several on Zoom this year, but I'll get guys calling me, saying thanks a lot for your 
time for doing that. And really learned a lot. And, you know, I've been in the business nearly 30 
years now. But I, when I go to those meetings, there's a whole lot more smarter guys than I am 
doing this stuff, and I've been doing it a long time. 
EK: Maybe. It doesn't necessarily mean that they can carry the message though, 
SS: Oh, that's true too. Yeah. But I you know, that I, I really do get amazed that the guys in the 
profession that are, they really professional, and really, really good at what they do. Anyway, I 
don't know if I finished my story how I got here.  
EK: Yeah, you did.  
SS: Sorry. Yeah. Anyway, yeah, I think I was at the point of the business started developing and 
then the fellow, I was telling you about down in Independence, Kansas. He and I had been buddies 
for almost the time we'd met. Because the following year after the armyworms, we had just 
horrendous, well, no, that was ‘90. Yeah. ’93 was all the rain we had. And, and so we seeded 
soybeans in the wheat. We did 15,000 acres out of here. And I'd called in five or six planes, 
because, seeding soybeans, you can't carry 15 acres a load hardly. And so you got to make a lot of 
trips. And so anyway, I had several people here working for me with their airplanes. And anyway, 
that's when I met Bill Warner out of, out of Independence. And so he and I, then I got called, when 
this fungicide thing started happening,we got called to Iowa to work for a guy I know up there. 
And we went up there together. Bill and I didn't have turbine airplanes just radial engines. I had a 
401 and Bill had a 301 I think. Anyway, we were the only ones up there that didn't have turbine 
engines. So the guy came to us and said, hey, there's, there's a crop service guy or somebody that 
needed our services over in western Iowa. And, but we can't take any turbines over there because 
they don't have any turbine gas. And so anyway, Bill and I went over there. And that just turned 
into a really good deal for Bill and I because we, well this was, last year was the 13th year with 
Fran up there. I think I was telling you Bill died in a plane crash a couple of years ago. People flyin’ 
real bad deal. His son and two grandsons were with him. And so those four died and, and…  
EK: Where was that ?  
SS: It was just out of Ponka City, Oklahoma, where it came up, they're gone down. He took the day 
off and flew down, they were having a pancake feed at the airport there. And they loaded up that 
plane and headed back and then crashed, right.  
JK: Like a departure stall or something?  
SS: Yeah, I think. Yeah, I'm, I'm almost certain they were overloaded. I didn't know much about 
this plane, it was called an Extra 700 or something like that. It's all composite. Mid wing, high wing 
plane. Anyway, they were overloaded, I’m certain. And they topped off with fuel and they’d flown 
down there from Independence and topped off fuel and took off. Anyway. Very sad deal, anyway.  
EK: Yeah, tragic. 
[00:51:43] 
SS: But I still go to Iowa. And I mean, it turned into a very good deal for me, because now I get all 
the work Bill was doing, so I take both my planes and hire a pilot to fly. So that's a real lesson for 
12 or 13 years, we were… 
EK: Not a very, very big, I guess, the opposite, it's a small community isn’t it? 
SS: Yeah, well, there's what 3,500 spray pilots or something like that.  
EK: Is that the number? 
SS: I think there is 35, 38. Yes, cross the country. And then and then we got, I think there's 1,500 
operators like me, well, not like me.  
EK: Independent? 
SS: Yeah. Businesses, business operators. And then they have, you know, they may have five or 10 
planes, some of them. But, you know, just one-man shows like me, and one or two is probably the 
bulk of it. And then when the fungicide business started being really good, you started seeing 
cooperatives like, oh, what Pinnacle, and West Helena Asg out of Colorado started buying up 
spraying operations, airplane operations. And hiring, you know, so they would provide that 
service themselves rather than hiring us. And so they kind of consolidated some operations, or 
they'll buy up several of them in an area and instead of being a bunch of individuals like we are. 
There's pluses and minuses to that. But… 
EK: One of the things that, well, my cousins, my family lives in Mound City. And my, my mom, 
who's about to turn 90 was talking to her 90-year-old first cousin, because I knew that, and they 
own a lot of crop land, the family does. And she, she said, Oh, yes, Garrold, he's our crop duster. 
SS: Garrold Kirk. 
EK:  Yeah. Is that his last name?  
SS: Outta Mound City, Missouri, you’re talking about.  
EK: Yeah. Yeah.  
SS: Thought you might be talking about Mound City, Kansas. But Garrold, I know Garrold. 
EK: Well, yeah. It seems like everyone does. But she was very possessive about him. [Laughter.] 
He’s our crop duster?  
SS: Yeah. That’s interesting. 
EK: And I thought that was, was interesting that like you, you know, you establish a relationship. 
And I mean, she was like, Oh, he's ours. 
[Laughter.] 
JK: Something I've noticed too with Dusty. Like, ag pilots are almost agricultural celebrities. in the 
region, you know. If you talk to somebody about Dusty, he's like, Oh, yeah. He's sprays for us all 
the time.  
SS: Yeah. Yeah.  
JK: He sprays a lot of ground. [Laughter.] 
SS: Yeah.  
JK: So I'm sure you're talking about.  
SS: Well, yeah. I don't know if I'm in the same vein. Yeah, we had him.  
EK: I’m sure you are.  
SS: We had him work for us once. [Laughter.] Yeah, I've enjoyed a good, mostly good relationship 
with most of the guys around here, farmers, and you know, in business 30 years you're gonna piss 
somebody off. Anyway. Any business that happens in engineering, or crop dusting, or whatever.  
EK: Teaching. 
[00:55:15] 
SS: Teaching? Yeah  [Laughter.] You never had any mad parents, did you? 
EK: Oh no, never. Never did. 
SS: “My kid’s, smarter than that.” 
JK: Well, is there anything? We’re getting close to… 
EK: (Garbled) association, it’s the 100 year anniversaty? 
SS: Yeah. So I haven't had my training yet. But I'm going to be one of the spokespeople for the 
100th year anniversary of Ag Pilots Well, so we're going to do training and we'll do a Zoom 
meeting and get our training and, and we've got a professional coach to tell us how to, and what to 
say.  
EK: I think you’ll be fine. 
SS: Perhaps, but, and I think most of it is going to be knowing the material. But, you know, there's a 
great history about the whole subject of crop dusting. And, uh, they started in, I can’t tell you the 
year, but on catalpa trees spreading lead arsenic, for whatever worm was affecting the catalpa 
trees boundaries, and they used converted biplanes from World War I, 
JK: I think they were Jennies. 
SS: Yeah, Jennies, I think it was. But I think that was one of the interesting facts in that is one of the 
companies involved in it was called Delta Ag Spreaders. Now, of course, they're Delta Airlines. And 
so Delta has a huge history. I don’t know if huge is the right word, but at least they have a history. 
That's where it got started, Delta Airlines did. And so anyway, that, that started doing that, and 
then, you know, and they dusted stuff, put dust out of airplanes. And it was pretty toxic stuff.  
EK: Which we breathed for a lot of years. 
SS: Well, all that was going on and, and that's a, you know, so the history of crop dusting, this is 
100 years since that started. And that, you know, people we get frustrated as ag pilots, because 
anytime there's a claim against pesticides and stuff being used and people getting cancer, they 
show a picture of an airplane spraying. 
EK: Dusty was upset about that, too. 
SS: Yeah, I mean, we're, we are… The percentage that we spray, compared to all the ground 
spraying and the lawn spraying and everything that goes on. Pretty, pretty small percentage.  
JK: But you’re visible. 
SS: We’re visible. Oh, yeah. Yeah, no doubt. And that's why they put an airplane on spraying. 
Spraying liquid. 
EK: He mentioned that very thing, that it was like, somehow connected to a Parkinson's?  
SS: Oh, that's the latest. 
EK: Something like that.  
SS: Yeah, there's, I’ve been seeing that too. Parkinson's, I don't know whether it was Roundup or 
another, another product that's causing disease. And, you know, if you look at the, the active 
ingredient, it’s unbelievable how small amount that we put on an acre. I mean, we used to talk 
about a can of soda spread across an acre. That's how much actual spray you know, the active 
ingredient. Now it's down to two or three ounces of stuff we use and the stuff we use is tested and 
tested and tested.  
JK: And it's, it's considerably less volume than even ground rigs too. 
SS: Yeah, yeah, I mean, well, and of course ground rig, we're putting out, well, some guys up to 20 
gallons an acre, but I rarely do anything more than two or three gallons the acre, total mix. In that 
mix the ounces per acre, like there's some bug spray, Mustang that we spray on alfalfa weevil or 
whatever, 2.8 ounces to the acre of the actual spray that gets mixed into the liquid, put it out in the 
mix of two gallons. But you know, just, and if you look at a toxicity chart, coffee is more toxic than 
a lot of the stuff. More toxic than Roundup and per volume. So we get anybody in, in this business, 
whether it's crop dusters or ground sprayers, or whatever, you get pretty frustrated with the 
media and the attorneys and people involved in, in making these claims that we're, you know, 
they're trying to create business and get people Well, you need to make the claim if you've sprayed 
roundup and… 
[01:00:16] 
EK: Yeah, I see the ad on TV. We’ve all been to it or something.  
SS: Yeah, so there's… 
JK: At the same time, it only takes one irresponsible pilot. Spraying in a 25 mile an hour wind. Or… 
SS: Yes. So one of one of our mottos, maybe the motto and now watch me get it wrong. The actions 
of one, upon a, the fate of all rests upon the actions of one. Basically, not exactly right. Anyway, one 
guy screws for all is the problem.  
EK: Yeah. 
SS: And that's, that's the battles we have. Anyway. I've been doing this a long time, having a good 
time.  
EK: Good. That's a good place to stop. 
SS: That’s why I said it. [Laughter.] 
EK: All right.