NEW BEDFORD FISHING HERIWIGE CENTER 
January 5, 2017 
Bergeron, Mark ~ Oral History Interview 
Madeleine Hall-Arber 
Bergeron, Mark. Interview by Madeleine Hall-Arber. Workers on the New Bedford 
Waterfront. New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center. January 5, 2017 
This oral history was produced in 2017 as part of the Workers on the Waterfront Oral History 
Project conducted by New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center with funding from an Archie Green 
Fellowship provided by the Library of Congress. 
New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center 
38 Bethel Street 
P.O. Box 2052 
New Bedford, MA 02741-2052 
Interview with Mark Bergeron, January 5, 2017 
1 
Background 
Name of person interviewed: Mark Bergeron [MB] 
Facts about this person: 
Age 60 
Sex Male 
Occupation Co-owner of Bergies Seafood 
Residence: New Bedford 
Ethnic background: (if known) French 
Interviewer: Madeleine Hall-Arber [MHA] 
Transcriber: Kyle [KZ] 
Interview location: Bergies Seafood, New Bedford, MA 
Date of interview: January 5, 2017 
Key Words 
Trawlers, Scalloping, Fishing Industry, Unions, Waterfront, Business, New Bedford, 
Restrictions, Government, Policy, Cutters, Fisheries, Community 
Abstract 
The son of a scalloper, Mark was introduced to the waterfront early. Not knowing what he 
wanted to do as a career after graduating from high school, he started buying and selling fish. 
Eventually, he and his partner worked their way up from nothing to buying Bergies. He 
discusses the changes in the business from when he started, especially the harsh realities of today 
that are a consequence of strict regulations (so fewer fish being landed) and changes in 
technology that has taken the jobs of many workers. Nevertheless, he has three children in 
various aspects of the business, so his goal is to provide both a living wage for his workers and a 
viable business that will continue to provide for his family. Mark also comments on the unions 
and on women on the waterfront. 
Interview with Mark Bergeron, January 5, 2017 
Index 
[0:00] Introduction; Owner of Bergies Seafood — New Bedford owned and operated; Family 
involvement in the fishing industry and the Greater New Bedford Area. 
[5:00] Fishing Industry Regulations — Mark talks about how things used to operate on the docks 
before massive government regulation became instituted. Mark points to the hurt that the 
waterfront in New Bedford is feeling. 
[10:00] Regulations and Driving for Success in a tight industry — Mark talks about how the 
waterfront used to allow for ambition and working long hours 
[15:00] Quality Fish and their Market Value — discussing prize fish, hundreds of thousands of 
pounds of catch per boat, to a lack of weight and smaller sizes seen today in fish. 
[20:00] Sustainability, Long Hours, and the World Market’s lack of regulation 
[25:00] Fishing used to allow for a chance at making money. Now it is difficult to ensure that 
workers’ expectations are met. 
[30:00] The old bustling waterfront, high weekly wages. The crippled industry now. 
[35:00] Government is choking out the Fishing Industry with regulations that target their jobs 
instead of finding definitive causes for trends of sustainability in fish. Seals could even be an 
answer. 
[40:00] Mark is discussing the possibly future trajectory of his business. What will become of the 
industry and even small businesses such as his. 
[45:00] Mark talks about having a working class sense of pride. Discusses the existence of 
unions before they disbanded. 
[50:00] A female labor force on the waterfront and the kinds of jobs they do. 
[55:00] Sacrifice and impending retirement - Mark talks about what it takes to be a member of 
the New Bedford Fishing Community 
[1:00:00] Retirement for Mark — Mark tries to think of ways to phase himself out of his 
business in the near future. 
[1:05:00] Talks of vacationing in Aruba and Galapagos Islands with MHA. 
[1:10:00] Meeting with Mitt Romney and Healy during gubernatorial campaigns. 
[1:12:20] End of Audio 
Interview with Mark Bergeron, January 5, 2017 
3 
(0:00) 
Madeleine Hall-Arber: Okay, I’m going to ask you to introduce yourself. Just give me your name 
and I’ll check to make sure it is picking you up. 
Mark Bergeron: My name is Mark Bergeron. 
MHA: Okay great. I'm going to give a little formal introduction just for the purposes of the tape. 
This is an interview for the New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center funded by an Archie Green 
Fellowship from the Library of Congress. As part of this project we are interviewing shore side 
workers in the New Bedford-Fairhaven fishing industry to record their stories, document their 
skills and knowledge, and better understand their important role in the fishing industry. The 
recording and transcript will become part of the permanent collection at the Library of Congress. 
I am Madeleine Hall-Arber and today I am speaking with Mark Bergeron at Bergies. The time is 
about 9:20 
MB: [unintelligible] 
MHA: Um, so again, can you tell me your name and what your job in the fishing industry is? 
MB: My name is Mark Bergeron and my partner and I started Bergies Seafood back in 1984, if 
I'm not mistaken. And we would go down and load boats and sell fish and we watched a lot of 
things take place from an abundance of fish to laws of restricting fish and as years progressed, if 
I'm saying the word right, the changes were remarkable where it hurt quite a few people. Some 
of the things are necessary that have had to take place. A lot of the things we feel that are very 
unnecessary. 
MHA: So you've noticed that with the numbers of boats and the amounts coming in that kind of 
thing? 
MB: Well the number, when we... we... I have been down, Bergies seafood has been here, I think 
now, for 32 or 33 years, but where I have been down here since maybe 1975, with my father. I 
used to go unload my father’s scalloper when he would come in from fishing and that’s how I 
got introduced to being down here. Uh, which my father didn't want me to have anything to do 
with being down here 
MHA: Really? 
MB: Well, not for any special reason, just figured that there was something else better in life to 
do than, than what they did and I had no damn clue what I wanted to do to be honest with you. 
You know, most people when they went to high school, they had an idea of what they wanted to 
do when they wanted to come out of high school. I was one of those kids that didn't have any 
clue and, you know, God had a direction for me to take and I've taken it and never looked back. 
MHA: So did you ever actually go out fishing with your dad? 
Interview with Mark Bergeron, January 5, 2017 
4 
MB: No, I never went out fishing with my dad. I did go out and it just wasn't for me. Uh, I've 
done it. I actually went out on one of my boats with my youngest son maybe 4 or 5 years ago and 
I had no issues with it and they actually wanted the, figured they were going to make fun of me 
and everything like that, and they were surprised that I would be able to keep up with them 
because the way they fish today and what it was back then is completely different. Today they 
have it easy. They have luxury hotels out there, its not what it used to be but you know. And we 
used to work very hard back then for very little. You know. And it's just— 
MHA: So where did you, I assume you grew up here- 
MB: I grew up in New Bedford, Yes. 
MHA: And where was your father from? 
MB: My father was from New Bedford. Yeah my father started fishing after he came out of the, 
a career, started fishing in the early 50's. My father fished over 40 something years. 
MHA: Wow. Always scalloping or? 
MB: No, both scalloping and dragging. It was just as it is today. Its good to know both trades and 
so I got to see, not understanding other than being gone from home, the sacrifice that was made 
and being young never realized when you didn't come home it meant that you were dead. And 
what they had to put up with back then, again the boats back then were nothing like the boats 
they have today. Along with the way the way the weather forecast and all these things from the 
time that they left and it was it you know? But I've seen huge things. I've seen it where boats 
would come in, draggers, 
(5:00) 
MB: (continued) sometimes a common hundred thousand pounds of fish and all nice size fish 
and everything but to where it got very bleak, where’d you go out for 8 to 10 days and come in 
with 8, 10 thousand pounds of fish and that's where government started to step in blah blah blah. 
You know, I don't know. I'm not very well educated on how it all took place but then that 200- 
mile Russian limit thing took place and they just, I think they just made way too many boats and 
never really studied the impact of what would take place and you know sometimes, there's a 
saying too much too late or something - [interrupted] 
MHA: Too little too late, yeah. 
MB: So now they are trying to correct all of these mistakes but in the meantime, it’s robbed 
everybody. It has taken everyone, a lot of us have aged. I mean we are all going to age but it's a 
lot of stress. More than one of us. Just trying to figure out how each year, you figure this is the 
last year according to how they— when they go and make their plans on, on, this year of fishing. 
If we do this, if we do this, then everything should be fine. We'll do this for so many years and 
every year it's something different, something different, and each year there is less and less and 
Interview with Mark Bergeron, January 5, 2017 
less. And I remember once being at a meeting and the guy said, I think there was 1600 dragging 
permits at the particular time, talking maybe 15 to 20 years ago. They said as far as they were 
concerned, they want to get down until there were 4 or 5 hundred permits. They didn't care how 
they got down to that and who stood it, but that was a number they wanted to get down to. So it’s 
like, basically for someone who really doesn't understand that, may one person said it was like a 
piece of pie. You have so many people you are going to feed and you cut up that piece of pie to 
where that piece of pie doesn't satisfy you or it is not doing you any good so you drop out. You 
know, and the longer you stay in, of course the more you have to put in, in order to stay in, 
hoping that it's going to turn around so the thing that you always wanted to do would always be 
there but in a lot of the cases if s not... it didn't come out that way. So there's a lot of hardship. 
MHA: Yeah, um let's see. Your father grew up here in New Bedford. Did his family as well? 
And your mother too? 
MB: My mother came from- my father - my mother came from England. She came over just 
after the war. She was, she worked for, I think it was AT&T over in England and then she was 
on a work program or something where she would come over here and they were teaching one 
another different things, cause that was the old days where I remember you going down as a little 
boy over here, oh I forgot what the street is, and there would be maybe 40 computers with all 
these little wires and like you are with the thing on and that is what my mother did and that is 
what I remember about my mother. 
MHA: So I assume that you have a lot of neighbors and friends who are also in the fishing 
business. 
MB: Quite a few, yeah. 
MHA: And so thaf s where you've seen some of the impacts, I imagine. 
MB: Yeah, we have quite a few people over the years, of course as part of the industry, that like I 
said are left and never come home. A lot of the ones of us that invested into the business lose 
almost everything, if not everything. And if s just a sad sight to see. Slow death. 
MHA: So how did you- you started you said, you and your partner founded- 
MB: My partner's name is Sunny Stanley. 
MHA: And how, what made you decide to start Bergies? 
MB: We just, we worked for a man named Eddie Apposa and just, what we did for him we just 
figured we could do for ourselves. Started with nothing. The man that owned this building, he 
gave us the opportunity to work in this building. We were supplying with fish. We would go out 
and take turns and work x amount of hours everyday. 
(10:00) 
Interview with Mark Bergeron, January 5, 2017 
MB: (continued) Sometimes you'd work, believe it or not, 48 hours, 60 hours, or even longer. 
But you had to do that, because that's what you did. That's what the industry required you to do 
in order to be successful. 
MHA: So how did you get boats to come to you rather than- 
MB: Well you just went and did what you would do when I worked, when we worked for Eddie 
the Polack and we just did the same thing. We’d just go over there, you'd bid on fish, and you 
would buy their fish and they would come and if they liked you, its just like you go to a 
particular supermarket or a particular show where its something you like and that brings you 
back, and honesty for the most buyers, but its hard to come by, if you talk to other people down 
there and its just part of the character I guess this industry brings, but you do have a relationship 
to build with people after a while and some of the people that choose, like my partner and I chose 
to do this, and we have friends that chose to go fishing and because of the relationship 
beforehand, they'd come here and give us a crack and just before you know it, you just went. 
MHA: So when you started out, you bought fish on the auction? 
MB: We would buy fish from the auction or boats would come and drop off their lobsters and 
thaf s what you did. You started small and it didn't happen overnight. It took us 33 years to get to 
where we are now along with all the cutbacks and all the crap that we have had to go through and 
if s just trying to rearrange everything all the time each year. Every time they make a move, you 
got to make a move and hopefully its the right move but you never really know but you have the 
faith in the man upstairs and you make it work. 
MHA: So what kinds of species do you take now? 
MB: Everything. I mean nothing really changed other than like- When my partner and I started 
we used to have swordfish, we used to have tuna, we used to take out Rodney Avila’s boat. He 
used to come in with swordfish, actually maybe 5 or 6 boats and thaf s all gone. That's something 
we really won't see anymore. That’s taken away. 
MHA: The swordfish 
MB: The swordfish is taken away. I mean we were taking out swordfish from, O'Hara would 
have contacts from Boston and he would send his boats over here. Swordfish you chase that, you 
chase that and it goes to Canada then it goes up into Portugal, then it goes down into South 
America, so when they are chasing it, of course you lose that business because they have to go to 
the nearest ports. But when it came time to get back here, when O'Hara would get his boats, we 
would always take them out, but before that we would have our own like Rodney Avila, 
Southern Seas, his partner, Bobby, [unintelligible], Harry One, Rosemarie, Unicorn, Quits 
Australia. People have done this their whole lives. You could see, you'd get 5-6 hundred pound 
fish and then there'd be, you could see as the years went on that the fish would drop down 
sometimes to like 20 or 30 pound fish. You wouldn’t see a lot of that, but you know when you 
started seeing that, you knew there wasn't as many big, they were smaller. You knew something 
was going to take place. And it’s done. 
Interview with Mark Bergeron, January 5, 2017 
MHA: Yeah, I've talked to Rodney about that before. He said he thought that the harpooning was 
a better way. 
MB: It is a better way because you get, as the fish breech you can more or less judge the size and 
you know you wouldn't- It's like going out shooting for deer, you don't shoot a Bambi, you know 
what I mean? I mean that's foolish. But some people could give a rat’s ass about that and they 
want to kill it anyways. If I'm out in the woods I'm going to come out with something cause 
that’s the wrong way to be because that way is where we are today. Just like with halibut, 
halibut. They used to take out halibut way back in the late 70's early 80's, my God. We used to 
have large yellowtail bigger than some halibut. But now with the new restrictions its, some of the 
restrictions and laws are good in order to save this industry. Now the halibuts you can see over 
the last two or three years, beautiful. They are 40, 50, sometimes 100 or more pound fish. Last 
year one time it was 
(15:00) 
MB: (continued) most probably on accident but we had a halibut off, I can't remember the boat 
but if s in the Standard Times. 357-pound fish. 
MHA: Wow 
MB: 7 1/2 feet 
MHA: Oh my goodness. 
MB: Huge, Huge! Huge. My God. 
MHA: So where can you market something like that [laughter]. 
MB: My partner ended up selling it, but if s difficult to sell something that big. A nice marketable 
halibut is 25 to 75 pound fish, those are those are premium fish. If s like a 2 to 3 pound lobster. 
Those are premium, you know, so. You just have to go out there and find the people that are 
looking for a product and hope that you can, can have their trust and hopefully the boats bring 
that in and you market that and they keep calling you, all through word of mouth in the 
beginning and put the right people in the right places, and let the man upstairs direct you. 
MHA: So you don't go through the auction these days, right? 
MB: Oh yeah, we buy from the New Bedford auction here, and the auction up in Boston and then 
we also buy from Cape Anne auction up in Gloucester so we have 3 different auctions we buy by 
fish from. Plus we source fish from other people like us that have their boats and... We buy fish 
from everywhere. 
MHA: And then you cut it? 
Interview with Mark Bergeron, January 5, 2017 
MB: We bring it in and then we cut it and then my sales people go out and they don't stop. 
MHA: How do you get your customers? 
MB: You got to get on the phone. And again it's all, I could sell you something and what I'm 
selling you there’s 50 other people trying to sell you the same thing and you have to build a 
relationship and hopefully, I mean we all basically, not all the time have the same kind of fish. 
Sometimes yours is a little bit better, sometimes yours isn't, and then you just got to be able to 
know where to go with it, you know? 
MHA: So do you have to, or do you direct your boats at all? You don't have any boats that you 
own, right? 
MB: 3 
MHA: Oh, you do! 
MB: We have 3. 
MHA: So do you tell them [phone ringing] what species you'd like them to bring in? 
MB: It's not that easy because you're given x amount of fish each fishing year. So you might not 
have as much fish. Like if I want codfish, to go get codfish for a particular time of the season, 
maybe Lent, or whatever, codfish is very limited to all our boats. So if you use, if you go and use 
that fish and you can't buy it. If you take more fish than what you've been allocated, you have to 
go to the sector. The sector gives you the fish, but once there's no more of that fish, your other 
fish that you haven't used yet you can't go get, because in case you catch cod, you're screwed. 
But now you have to be very careful, very selective of when you can go and try to pick the right 
times of the year. It’s difficult. I mean, this year for the first time, flounder as a rule are very 
cheap in the summer time. Summer time it’s more of a, especially around September, Labor Day, 
Memorial Day, um Fourth of July. But anyways, summertime is usually a lot more with lobsters 
and sword and tuna and clams, blah blah blah. I mean there's still fish, but fish is cheaper. But 
because of the big shortage, they had a 60% reduction last year of flounders. So if you had 
200,000 pounds of flounders to go get the year before, they took 120,000 pounds away from you. 
Now you have 80,000 pounds of flounder to go get and you have to be very careful that, because 
you don't know when you set your net. You could get a big set and catch 20,000 pounds and now 
you, how many trips you got left? 3? You know? So you have to be very careful on how you're 
fishing but to get back, this year flounders were extremely high, they were in the 4 dollar, for 
summer and they are usually 60-80 cents. They lost that 60% but the price being where it was 
helped them, but the consumer had to pick it up. So there is a cutoff before when you go and sit 
down and go eat. Am I going to eat prime rib at 15 dollars a plate or I'm eating a piece of fish 
(20:00) 
MB: (continued) for 30 dollars. Where restaurants would be forced to take that off The boat and 
the boat would go out and would always say well what are you going to do? What are you going 
Interview with Mark Bergeron, January 5, 2017 
to do? We have to have this. At one time that would be okay, back in the 70s or 80's but because 
you can get fish from everywhere now. From China. Our fish is no longer. People are going to 
go and get the cheapest they can because they have to manage their households, you know. And 
that hurts our boats because of the quantity that they can bring in, it's very limited. So if they 
don't get a decent price that particular trip, they only have a few more trips left in the year. 
MHA: So do you see that the general push for buying local is that helping at all? Have you seen 
that yet reflected in your business? 
MB: I mean you always try to, always try to convince people that buying local is the best way to 
go but again it's what— If local is like no you've got codfish this week, for whole codfish it's 5.50 
to 6 dollars a pound before you cut it and sell it. So if you were to cut it and sell it and I mean. 
I'm not one of my people and I overheard them say today, codfish would be 15 dollars or 17 
dollars a pound. Now you can go buy refresh fish cod caught in Alaska or from Norway for like 
maybe 6 or 7 dollars a pound and not really tell that much of a difference. So if your budget in 
your household and your buying something at 17 dollars or you're going to go buy this at 6 or 7 
dollars, so it kind of hurts us locally, but it's good for the boat, but it kills us here. 
MHA: It’s good for the boat only if you can sell it [laughter] 
MB: Yeah, only if you can sell it. Like, I bought 1500 pounds today, it doesn't, I mean 1500 
pounds, my god that's nothing, but it will probably take you the rest of the week to get rid of it, 
and I'm hoping that the market, and the only reason why cod is so high is because there is a strike 
in Iceland. So that supply isn't coming here, you know? And then you got the people in Alaska 
that see all these things going and they are just like, we have to pay attention to all the markets 
that are taking place and they see rules and the supply that we’re going to get and they see what's 
going on in Iceland or Norway and then they, their prices go up. So everything continues to go. I 
don't know if I'm saying the right thing, or not. 
MHA: No, it's, uh, fascinating. The, um, you know you always - in high school and college, you 
hear about supply in demand but to hear it actually in real life terms is very helpful. Real 
examples. So let's see. So you guys started, how has your day changed over the years? 
MB: Well like when we first started I used to have, on the back dock, we used to work out of 
three plants. That's how many boats there were, and we had a good business. But as the boats 
disappeared, you didn't need the other facilities, you didn't need as many people. But now I'm 
down to on my back dock maybe 6, 7 people from about, maybe at one time a good, 20 to 30 
people throughout, and we would be 24 hours a day. It’s still a 24 hour a day business, but 
basically everybody's trained - you try to train everybody to come in at a certain time, so you 
don't have to be up for the 24 hours anymore. You know. Which at 60 years old, it's a lot better 
for me. You know. It was tough and you know people don't realize the sacrifice on all the ends of 
this business that when we, when it was at the peak that, you try telling somebody that you 
would be up and watch the sun come up and down two or three times before you went to bed. I 
mean there would be times I’d go home sometimes and be like maybe two and a half days before 
I went to the house and you sit down 
Interview with Mark Bergeron, January 5, 2017 
(25:00) 
MB: (continued) and because of the heat because you're out in the cold all the time and then you 
get in to the house and you’ve been up that long, you just start falling asleep at the supper table, 
but if s the way it used to be. Because then there would be times after a storm would go by, your 
whole fleet would be tied up and you wouldn't work for a week. So if you could get 80 or 90 
hours in, in that one week, it would spill over for that week you only got 20-30 hours. It balanced 
out, but nothing balances out anymore. It's very difficult now. Very difficult. 
MHA: How about your employees? How many employees do you have here? 
MB: From both sides I would say maybe all together 60, 65. At one time maybe well over 100. 
MHA: And how do you find the employees? 
MB: A lot of people just come off the street or you get somebody that is good and their friend is 
looking for a job, or something to that effect. I mean down here ifs not like, working in a 
lawyer’s office or an accountant’s office where you need a degree or anything. You just got to be 
willing to put up with the crap, you know the weather, sometimes stupid hours. It's not the 
glamorous job in the world, and there have been a lot of people that aren’t very well educated, 
you know? And they end up down here, that's how I ended up down here. I had no idea. And 
again, like everything I've been through, has been with the grace of God and keeping my faith 
and you know, always being tested, at every moment. 
MHA: So have you found young people still coming in? 
[26:59] 
MB: It's difficult for the young person coming in because the young person coming in today - 
same way when I was, when I came down. You're young, you get married, you want kids, you 
chase the same American dream that you always - that everybody tries to chase. You want to get 
married, you want to have money, you want to have a nice car, you would like to have a house, 
you want to be able to put your kids in a good school system. And before, when we first came 
down, you were able to achieve those things, but today ifs very hard to look somebody in the eye 
and, knowing that this is, why this person chooses to come down here to go to work, or 
anywhere and tell them I can't guarantee you 40 hours a week. Hopefully, you can and you try to 
achieve that. Thaf s why I could put a few more people working, but by doing so it lessens for 
my- So the people that have been with me for years and years, I feel obligated to making sure I 
come as close as I can to make sure they make a living, so they can do the things that we just 
talked about. And I got a couple of young kids that I just bring in and I try to guarantee them 
about 35 to 40 hours and they seem to be content with it. And I mean today it's a whole different 
time too. Today- Back then, you give me 90 hours, I was looking for more. Today you give a kid 
freaking 35 hours, he's looking for less. I mean it's unbelievable. I don't know how they do it, but 
they’re content, you know. I’m not really content with something like that because you tell 
someone to be here at a certain time, “I overslept or didn't feel good. I couldn't find my phone.” 
Ifs terrible, ifs terrible today. Thafs why you know, ifs a few more years, I hope I can get out. 
Interview with Mark Bergeron, January 5, 2017 
11 
My son, he’s here now, he's been here with me for, I don't know, maybe 15 years. I have my 
youngest boy he fishes on my boats. He'll do that until long after I'm gone. Hopefully, my 
partner and I, we can back out of here and still keep the business and the sales, a couple of the— 
my partner's brother, and Johnny upstairs, because they still have 15 or 20 years to go. We'll still 
be able to run the place. And it all depends on what government does. I mean were not going to 
throw money in if the government’s going to keep-1 mean there's a point where you're going to 
realize that enough is enough. And hopefully we’re not at that point. 
(30:00) 
MB: (continued) But I don't feel that we are, although it is hard. 
MHA: So how about the cutting side, the filleting side. I assume people come in without skills. 
Do you have to train them? 
MB: Yes, you do. You got to have - One time you couldn't even find a parking spot around here. 
Now you can come park anywhere you want around here. And there was always people willing 
to learn and it was a thriving business. Just like when they went to California for the gold or 
whatever, and it was a beautiful thing and then what’s taken place now. Of course technology, 
you have these cutting machines and they’ve taken away from the cutters, because at one time it 
was unions and it was, you had to go by their rules and blah blah blah. Anyways, someone came 
up and put these machines and, I didn't even know there were people that smart in the world that 
can put these machines together. And I got a machine over there that can cut in a minute more 
than what 10 people can cut. 
MHA: Clean? 
MB: Clean. So you know what I mean, if s kind of like you have to do what you got to do to try 
to survive and keep going. You know, and then as time started to march on, we got less and less 
people willing to come down here to learn how to cut fish because again, at one time you could 
work whatever hours you wanted, you could take home 500 dollars a week back in the early 70s 
and 80s which was a lot of money, to over 1000 dollars a week. But then these machines came in 
and less fish, and blah blah blah and pushed them out. With all of the bad publicity in the 
newspapers about the industry. These people don't float down here anymore. If s very hard. 
MHA: So what kind of- Do you have a diverse ethnic population here? 
MB: You do. You do. You have a lot of people from South America over here. A lot of 
Portuguese people. Thaf s been for the most part of my life was the Norwegians and the 
Portuguese. Then for a time there was the Vietnamese, for a very short period of time and 
whatever. They all went, I guess, down shrimping. 
MHA: They didn’t like the cold, I bet. 
MB: It was, I mean the government helped them out a lot which made it easier for them, but 
then as things got tough, they just, they had nothing to lose. But anyways they went down there 
Interview with Mark Bergeron, January 5, 2017 
and did their thing. But for the most part it’s always been, I believe, Norwegian and Portuguese 
and who else... I'm probably one of the few French people left down here. Myself and Tichon. 
And there’s probably a few others but you know Cape Verdean. 
MHA: So, on the floor do people mostly speak English or is there Spanish a lot now? 
MB: A lot of Spanish. A lot a lot of Spanish. There's more Spanish now than, most probably - 
Just as much Spanish now or more than the Portuguese, you know? And at one time, we all 
Portuguese. Now you know, I have a fraction of Portuguese. 
MHA: How about for you? Can you communicate with them? 
MB: I can’t. I still can't even speak Portuguese. Excuse me. [aside, “Not now, Chad, not now.”] 
MHA: So what advice would you give someone starting out today? 
MB: That's a good one. I -1 wouldn't even have an answer for that right now because I don't 
know which way -1 would just tell the person, always have faith and just got to be willing to 
sacrifice everything, if you want to succeed. And thaf s not just in this business. Thaf s in any 
business, I guess. But in this business, this business, I wouldn't even know what to say in this 
business. Again, everyday you wake up, every week there's something new. Every year, there’s a 
different restriction, a different amendment and it always seems like when we are supposed to 
level out, we continue to sink and sink and sink. And then you keep hearing the old timers, 
which now we're the old timers, but before I, Rodney Avila, and other people, would say if s 
going to get better, it's going to bottom out and just, my God. The bottom, we don't know where 
the bottom is. What is the bottom? These other people that seem to control our lives right now, to 
me, I mean it could just be me being negative because I have a little bit of, I don’t know, 
resentment because a lot of the things they do do -1 think if s just like, they want to punish us. It 
seems like a punishment. I mean some things don't even make any sense. I'm not talking about 
just somebody that wants to hear themselves speak, but you talk to some fisherman that are very 
intelligent, that have done it for 20 to 30 years. They see whaf s actually out there, what’s not out 
there. They keep trying to say if s overfished. How can something be overfished when you're 
down to maybe 10 percent of what you used to have? And if that is the case, then maybe it's not 
the fishermen. You know? Maybe they need to go a little bit further and really, really kick the 
sand around and see what's really - why, why isn't the fish come back to where we thought it 
wouldn't come back and thaf s why we put restrictions on it. Is it because of global warming? I 
mean, what does it take for a fish to be uncomfortable? I mean, I live in the Northeast. If you 
take someone from Florida and they can’t stand being up here in the winter. It's too cold, so they 
want to go to Florida. Fish, I mean a degree or two in the water temperature might be all it takes 
for them to move to a colder. And then you have this seal problem thaf s been going on as we've 
seen in the last 10 or 15 years. I mean, I just - 2 or 3 months ago I seen a study that they did. An 
average seal consumed I think 140 pounds of fish a day. A day! An average seal. The seal 
population has exploded from maybe a few thousand to maybe 20, 30, 40 thousand. So, if thaf s 
the case, this is something I saw on the TV from the scientists. They went out on a man's fishing 
boat and they were - he was talking about that and he says you know, they keep cutting us back. 
So I go out fishing for the day and I'm only allowed to get 2 or 3 hundred pounds of fish. So I got 
Interview with Mark Bergeron, January 5, 2017 
one seal, you know almost half of what I'm allowed to bring in and they keep multiplying. They 
don't even have an answer for this, but I know a week ago, I heard that they were going to have 
to, like they do in Canada, figure out a solution because I mean that could be part of the problem. 
I mean there's an imbalance taking place and they keep blaming the fishermen. The fisherman is 
the easiest person to go blame. 
MHA: Well if s the only thing they can control. 
MB: Yeah, but it hurts everybody. 
MHA: Of course. 
MB: It hurts -1 mean ifs everybody, and ifs wrong. Ifs like putting someone in jail just because 
this will keep everybody quiet and the real person is still running around doing what he's going 
to go do. I hope I'm giving you the right answers. 
MHA: Oh, there's no right or wrong in these. It’s just what it is. 
MB: Well, I don't know if I'm sounding like a moron, thaf s what I'm trying to say. 
MHA: No, no ifs very interesting and I really appreciate the time. Now, your kids are both in the 
business - 
MB: All my kids 
MHA: All your kids? 
MB: I have my daughter, we have a seafood market. My son-in-law and my daughter, they've 
been over there for, I don't even know how long we've had that market over there. Time goes by 
so quick. Maybe 10 years now. 
MHA: Where is that? 
MB: Cape Quality Seafoods on Dartmouth Street. And my son-in-law came in, well, he met my 
daughter, dated, got married. Been married now for 8 years and have 3 kids and that's what they 
do and that's why it's important to me that we try to keep everything going as much as I can 
because all of my kids are webbed into this business, whether ifs fishing on my boats or over 
here on the floor or at the market and restaurant. 
MHA: Oh, so there's a restaurant too, there? 
MB: Yes. 
MHA: So, you have a son that fishes and? 
Interview with Mark Bergeron, January 5, 2017 
MB: I have a son that fishes and a son that works for me over here, and my daughter works at the 
restaurant and my son-in-law works in the market. 
(40:00) 
MB: (continued) and then my grandson, if this is able to stay, and he chooses, because my 
grandson. I've had him down since he was a little boy. Maybe 3 feet right here. I was teaching 
him how to cull fish just as Rodney Avila would teach my oldest boy here. But when he was 
small, Rodney would pay him money so as the scale would come up to say something to Rodney 
so he knows that we wouldn't put any extra fish in the tub. But my grandson would be the fourth 
generation. And that's all that anybody would really like to see. I'm not asking, I don't think 
anybody - You know you just want to do the right thing for your families. And it’s hard when 
someone's trying to take it away and it's only one way. It's that, this is the way we have to do it 
and there's no compromise, they don't want to compromise with us. They just want to make 
things - how can they stay in business, how come they are not out of business, how come more 
people haven't dropped out yet. Because we find a way to survive, you know? And it must puzzle 
the hell out of these people. It must actually piss them off [Aside comment] 
MHA: So, do you ever get involved in fisheries management at all? 
MB: Yeah, one time I did but it got to be too much for me and like I said I'm a little bit 
hotheaded sometimes. So it's best for me to just do what I do and I have friends. I mean I was on 
the Trawler Survival Fund with Rodney Avila, Pat Cavanaugh and a few other people. That's not 
my cup of tea. I don't want to be somewhere to do something that I'm just a figure. I want to be 
able to be productive. Whatever I choose, I want to be able to be someone that made a 
difference. Whether, you know, and we all pick our fields, and then someone on the fisheries, 
God bless them, hope he does the right thing and that's it. I had my chances, but no. 
MHA: So, what do you think is the hardest part of your job? 
MB: The hardest part of my job is trying to get, keep my people that work for me a comfortable 
pay. Because I mean, they are giving everything they can to make us where we are today and I, 
the least I can do for them is try to make them where they want to keep doing it and the only way 
to do that is by trying to give them as many hours as I can possibly give them. But that's difficult, 
that's difficult. And the other thing that’s difficult is watching everybody that you've grown up 
with. You see what this industry has done to all of us. I mean it's robbed us. But it’s taken a lot of 
stress, a lot of stress. 
MHA: So, what keeps you going? What do you like best about it? 
MB: Just every day is different. Every day it’s just, it's like playing chess. You're buying fish like 
everybody else. You might be buying fish and competing against 200 people, 2 thousand people. 
In order to be in this business for 33 years with all these restrictions, and I'm one of the smaller 
people, and to be up against some huge, huge people and we're still in here. And to me that's like, 
that's like being in a Superbowl. You just, you try to get into the playoffs. And being down here 
everyday is getting into the playoffs. And then just making it work. Making something that 
Interview with Mark Bergeron, January 5, 2017 
shouldn't be and turn it into something that is. That's, I get off on that. You know, when someone 
says that you can't do this and they are well educated or whatever and maybe tons more money 
than what you have. You take what you have for your workers and your little tools that you have 
and they’re baffled. And then their expression, that look on their face 
(45:00) 
MB: (continued) to me is like hitting the lottery. I remember one day, I was outside cleaning my 
parking lot with a hose and a brush and a man came down with a suit and he looked at me like I 
was a scumbag and you could tell, he didn't really want to talk to me, but he needed to find out 
where the owner was. But then the expression that he gave me when he saw me with a hose like I 
was just like a figurehead. And he was trying to sell jacks, power jacks. So I told him because the 
doors were open, it was in the summertime, you got to go inside so I’ll be able to direct you. And 
knowing that when he walked in, I could see him talking to my guys and then he turned around 
and when he saw my guys point to me, the expression on his face was worth, again, like hitting 
the lottery. And then when he came back to me, I told him you screwed up, and I ended up 
buying 3 or 4 jacks from somebody else, just because of the way he did that. You know, you 
don't look down on nobody. You know what I mean? You don’t look down on anybody. I mean I 
came from nothing. I came from nothing. My partner and I struggled to get to where we are 
today. And nobody gave us anything and we fought tooth and nail right to this moment. Trying 
to keep whatever we have and the build up to be where we are today. For nothing. 
MHA: So, was the plant ever unionized? 
MB: I don't know if Jimmy had a union at one time. Yeah, all the plants at one time down here - 
I mean I could be wrong, I think they were all underneath the union at one time or another. I'm 
almost sure, but don't hold me to that. But, I'm pretty sure at one time, everything, whether the 
ice company, the fuel company, the water boat, the fish cutters, the dock workers, it was all. I'm 
pretty sure it was all underneath the union. So this way here if there was a situation with your 
fillet cutters, everything could stop. The ice, everything. But then again, just like the boats used 
to be all unionized at one time and they all broke free. As people that worked on boats decided 
that they wanted to get their own boats and it was unlimited at one time, so you went out and 
took chances and you went out and bust your ass and more and more people started doing that 
and more and more people got away from the unions. There was quite a bit of trouble at one time 
with the unions, and with the non-union people. There were fights and riots and everything down 
there. And that was the last straw, and the union was done and vanished. 
MHA: Were you around at that time? 
MB: Oh yeah. I've seen it all. 
MHA: We may, we have another project where we are focusing on the union, that period of time. 
Not this one. This one is more for what's going on now and how people are working on the 
waterfront, but I may come back to you at some point to get more detailed information about - 
MB: And there would be one person I would like you to talk to, his name is Jimmy Dwyer. 
Interview with Mark Bergeron, January 5, 2017 
MHA: Oh, I know Jimmy. 
MB: And he could, well, most probably give you a lot more than what I could but I'll do 
whatever I can to try to point you in the right direction and help you but Jimmy Dwyer would be 
the person. One time, anyway I couldn't tell you how many lumpers there used to be down here, 
but now, again, every thing is done by fractions. Just to give a number, maybe there was 100 plus 
lumpers at one time down here. I don't think you have 15. 
MHA: Change. So do the boats, do the crew lump their own? 
MB: No, you get, like my son will, because there are a lot of boats no longer union, so there's 
maybe a handful of boats that are union still but most of the people are, we'll get people that have 
other jobs 
(50:00) 
MB: (continued) and they'll come down here. Like my son, if there's nothing going on here, if I 
got one of my boats. I'll let him go on the boat with a guy and they'll go lump the boat. I mean, 
you’re are not taking out a hundred thousand pounds of fish anymore, you know what I mean? 
You’re taking out 20 or 30 thousand. 100 thousand people, pounds, I believe, shit my God you'd 
most probably need seven to ten people to alternate. But it has all changed. Everything has 
changed. 
MHA: How about women? Are there many women here in the plant? 
MB: It's mostly women 
MHA: Really? 
MB: Yeah, I would -1 shouldn't say that - Yeah I would say, if I had to say it would be a little bit 
more of a percentage of women that work in the plant and they are good. They do their thing and 
they are good. I'm not taking anything away from the guys or not, but everybody that we have 
here, they work as a family, believe it or not. You know what I mean? No one is trying to step on 
each other’s toes and no one is trying to be better than the next person. No one is trying to get 
brownie points. It's not about that. If s just about survival and if s funny when you have to 
survive. You could hate the person next to but if you need that person, you're going to make sure 
that person is doing what he's supposed to be doing. 
MHA: Are there any jobs that, not just here in the plant but on the waterfront, that you consider 
men's jobs that women have started moving into? 
MB: No, I mean, at one time down here all the boats that were down here, I think I've maybe 
seen 5 women fishermen. Two skippers, and that’s not very many. And now I don’t think there's 
any. At one time there was a lot of women fish cutters and that’s almost non-existent now. I 
think I have one. She's been here forever. And she's a good woman and she can stay here until 
Interview with Mark Bergeron, January 5, 2017 
the day she tells me she don't want to be here. And no I don't see women filling in, like 
unloading and picking up totes and stuff like that? No, fve never had a woman do that for me. 
No reason why, but I just -1 think I would be shocked. It's hard work. Not that a woman can't do 
it but if there is a breaking point. I mean I've had multiple operations for trying to be a superstar 
at one moment or another. 
MHA: Wrecking your back? 
MB: Yeah, I've had 2 back operations. I mean I've been diced up, sliced up, all over; hands, 
palms, fingers, eveiything. I got a total knee replacement. I have a meniscus tear here that I was 
supposed to get addressed about a year or two ago. I haven't done that yet. I have a tear in my 
rotator cuff I haven't done that yet. It seems to go away. Always there, nothing will hurt until 
you actually have to go out and physically work. When your boats come and then you, hopefully, 
you irritate it because you don't have the continued period of where you have to work day in, day 
out. You get to kind of rest it a little bit. Then the doctors have been trying to get me to do my 
shoulder but, I don't want to do it until I know I don't have to do this business anymore. 
MHA: So you don't want to irritate it again? 
MB: Well, I do irritate it every time I go to work, which is kind of like, sometimes the body just 
gets used to pain. You sometimes, you get used to it and you just work with it. But for someone 
looking at you, they don't understand why you would do that and I just don't have answers other 
than you just get used to it. If I can do it without getting it operated on, you just keep working. 
Like my friend Victor, another one, he'll walk around sometimes. He's got cuts and I'm the same 
thing. You get cut. One time, it wasn’t too long ago, I cut my leg. But I didn't notice it until we 
came back in. We were doing a boat and my pants was ripped. I was like, well how did my pants 
get ripped? And I had a big cut. I couldn't even tell you how it happened. No idea 
(55:00) 
MB: (continued) just, when you work, you work and that's it. 
MHA: Very interesting, so I think I've gone through all of the questions that I had to ask you. Is 
there anything I haven't asked that you would like people to know about either your business, or 
the waterfront, or whatever? And especially thinking about how you'd like, in this fishing center, 
the museum, how you'd like it to be portrayed. 
MB: That everybody that you see in that fishing heritage that Phil has over there, have sacrificed 
a lot. More than what people could ever know. Whether it’s their home life, or their wives, or not 
seeing their kids, or their personal, themselves personally, never coming home. As far as - No 
matter how - Always go after your dream, no matter how hard it is, okay? Don't ever give up, 
because once you give up it's done. I have maybe, hopefully 4 or 5 more years and I've done this 
my whole life. And I have no damn idea what I’m going to do afterwards. I don't even know how 
I'm going to react to it. I've worked my whole life. I have a friend that went on the Trawl 
Survival Fund together, and I forget what TV program. You ever watch a program, always about 
Canada, where it got real cold and the trucking had to drive over ice. Well, they were doing the 
Interview with Mark Bergeron, January 5, 2017 
same thing here with the fishing boats against the lobster boats against the swordfishing boats. 
And they would go out and they would -1 forget what the hell they called it, but anyways. My 
friend Joe who owns the Excalihur, and worked his whole life to get to where he was. Raised his 
3 daughters, put them in school, college, the whole nine yards, which we all want to do. We were 
on that Trawl Survival Fund, we went to the protests, to demonstrations, eveiything we've done 
together down here and someone told me that he gave up. I think at 58 or 59. So I called him, 
and he said yeah. And he said you know what the hardest part was? I said no, Joe. He said the 
hardest part was waking up in the morning and having no identity. I had nothing to do anymore. 
He said, when I owned my own boat, regardless of the weather was bad or I had a shitty trip, 
when I woke up in the morning, I had a function. I had to go to the boat, I had to get it started. I 
had to maintain it. I had to get the crew morale and go out and do it again. And that's what I did 
my whole life. But when I gave it all up, I woke up not realizing I had nothing, I have nothing to 
do. I have no identity. What do I do, who am I? It's gone. And he was a hard person and that kind 
of sticks in my mind, as my years are getting close. 
MHA: So you have to start thinking about what- 
MB: Well that's why, if I can maintain my boats and like step out of the picture, but not be 
completely out of the picture. I'll always have somewhere to go or something to do. Whether it's, 
whatever, just to talk to my son or just making sure the boats maintained or whatever. You know. 
I'm hoping. I don't know. I have no idea. You know, but like Joe, that day is going to come and 
hopefully my answer when someone else asks me that. I'll have a better answer than what he 
gave to me. That scared the piss out of me. It scared the hell out of me. 
MHA: Well I can really identify that about myself because I'm past official retirement age but, I 
still like what I do so - 
MB: I've done it my whole life, honey. I mean, I don't know what else to do. 
(1:00:00) 
MHA: Yeah 
MB: I haven’t been on vacation in almost four years. 
MHA: Well hey, you can start there. 
MB: I just, my 40th anniversary just came up with my wife and I didn’t go anywhere and we 
were going to go, but it just wasn't the right time. Different things started to take place and I just 
told my wife, we will, you just never know. You don’t know. But even when I go on vacation, 
when I would go on vacation, I go crazy in the first couple of days. You know, I can’t, I go nuts. 
Oh my god. My wife - Listen, you want to sit on a beach, you want to read a book. I mean I’ve 
got to find something to do I go walk sometimes 2 or 3 miles, and go up and get my snorkel gear. 
I'd be in the ocean 4 or 5 hours and I used to time it by, because Aruba. I love Aruba. SO I would 
go off on my own and I would love it, and explore. I just love it, you know. And then I would 
know the time by the uh boats that would bring people to certain areas and drop them off to go 
Interview with Mark Bergeron, January 5, 2017 
snorkeling. That's how I judged the time. So I knew like 12 or 1 o'clock I've been out here for 3 
or 4 hours already. I'll start drifting back to where my wife would be. I would go up, eat, and 
then be off in the water again. 
MHA: Sounds great to me. 
MB: Yeah and that was -1 would be entertained. 
MHA: Yeah 
MB: And I would love it and you know I still do. That’s one of the things I tell my wife, we’re 
going to go there again. I've been there so many times. You ever been to Aruba? 
MHA: No 
MB: It's beautiful 
MHA: I was in Jamaica once and we did the same kind of thing. The snorkeling, oh my god it 
was fantastic. 
MB: I was, when I was in Aruba one of the last times, I went up a big coral. And you have to be 
careful, because the water is always moving you. So you think you're far enough but the next 
thing you know, you could be on top of it and you get cut. So I went around, and when I may, I 
started to come into deeper water just underneath the bend. I didn't, I don't know who was more 
scared, me or the sea turtle because I just had this big thing come out like it - and I'm like, oh 
shit. You know what I mean? Because you don’t know. And then I was like, one time there was a 
moray eel and I - When you get to where they are, you try to, I would always try to keep maybe a 
good 10 feet away because they like it when the prey comes really close and they grab. 
MHA: Yeah, yeah. 
MB: And I remember that. I always try to be careful and that one particular time I ended up 
going out to far so I was just trying to come in and it was just the way the water was and the 
coral reefs were when I made that turn we were both surprised. 
MHA: You know what you might enjoy, and you ought to put it on your bucket list, is the 
Galapagos. 
MB: Where is that? 
MHA: That’s out in, off of Ecuador. And - But it has amazing creatures if you - we took - Do 
you know the Goethels up in New Hampshire. David is a fisherman, and his wife. They were 
both on the Council just at different times. But, anyway, they’re the ones that recommended the 
particular company that we took. Small boat and they go - They’re a bunch of islands so they go, 
they travel at night to the different islands and then in the morning they take you on a hike and 
you'd see things like, these amazing crabs and iguanas and all kinds of things. And then in the 
Interview with Mark Bergeron, January 5, 2017 
afternoon they usually took you out on a zodiac to go snorkeling and it was just astounding. The 
little - It's really worth a trip if you want to have something thaf s just, could be in your memory 
forever. 
MB: I’ve gone to a bunch of different islands in the Caribbean. But the one I always seem to get 
drawn back to is Aruba. 
(1:05:00) 
MB: (continued) You know, if s just - My wife and I just love it. And if s just nice. It's one place 
that I can say, other than the first day or two, I can really find myself wind down. That you 
actually miss when you get on the plane to come home again. Sometimes we would go, we were 
fortunate, towards the end, we could go over there for 2, 3, or 4 weeks. 
MHA: Thaf s nice 
MB: I mean it was nice. But lef s face it, when you go somewhere for 7 days or something, the 
first day you're all, 4 o'clock in the morning, just to be at the airport so that day’s already gone 
and then the last day it's the same damn thing. But then it takes you a couple days, you know 
what I mean? So I told my wife, if we're going away you got to go for at least 10 days or more. 
But her, it's I'll go whenever, how long do you want to go for? Now with the grandkids, you kind 
of want to be home to see them cause you miss them you know? But I can't wait for the day I 
take my grandkids to there. Try to introduce them to the sea life. You know? Instead of it like 
being in your place. How it all blends. 
MHA: Yes, so many young people today think fish come in cellophane wrappers. Sorry. Well, I 
think I have asked you about everything that I have wanted to ask you. 
MB: I hope I was helpful to you. 
MHA: Oh, very helpful. Very interesting. And I - If I have other questions I'll just give you a 
call, if thaf s okay? 
MB: Yeah, no thaf s fine, thaf s fine. The interest that you want to do, people see us as a fishing 
community but a lot of things took place. I mean there was a time in this business, again with the 
riots and the unions when there was a divide in how, how - We were all family at one time and 
then when the divide came, you were actually fighting one another. I mean physically harming 
one another. Whether it would be with boats or personally, the people on the boats or whatever. 
But it all took place, if s all documented. I mean a huge riot at the auction when it used to be the 
auction hall over there. There were a lot of changes that I've seen take place in this industry. A 
lot of changes. A lot of things. 
MHA: Well, we'll hope that it’s reached bottom and it’s going up now. 
MB: There’s always hope. There's hope and I'm hoping something good happens to this industry. 
I mean if they did nothing anymore to cut us back any more, maybe whoever would be left. I 
Interview with Mark Bergeron, January 5, 2017 
mean we've found a way to survive this far. I mean it hasn't been easy but you know, you're able 
to maintain. You just have to watch your lifestyle, you have to watch a lot of things you know? 
And you got to hope that you can get resource from other places. And you just got to try to make 
it work. 
MHA: What sector are your boats in? 
MB: What? 
MHA: Your boats, which sector are they in? 
MB: Uh, sector, the dragger is sector 13, the scalloper is just in the, that trawler, I don't know 
what if s called. But the scalloper is in a whole different bracket. 
MHA: And so you have three boats, how many are trawlers? 
MB: One trawler, and two scallopers. I remember once when Mitt Romney came down to 
Bergies Seafood when he was going to become the governor and then became the governor. And 
one of the questions you asked me if I was ever on the— 
MHA: Fisheries Management. 
MB: Yeah. And he asked me at a meeting, not a meeting, a gathering, I don't know if it was at 
White's. Anyway, Rodney was standing behind me and he asked me, because he took a shine to 
me for whatever reason, and asked me if I wanted to go, I said I don’t want to go. Why not? And 
I said listen. I'm not going to stand up there and pretend to be something I'm not. This man 
standing behind me has way many more years and has a whole lot more knowledge 
(1:10:00) 
than what I can ever give to this industry and that would be Rodney Avila. He's the man you 
want. And that was it. It was just like that and I remember when Healy, she wanted to become 
governor, lost, I can't think of her name. I know it was Healy but I can't remember - Anyways, 
she came down to New Bedford, and she wanted to talk because it was a big thing with Mitt so 
she wanted to come down and talk to me again and blah blah blah and wanted me to go over to 
Eastern Fisheries and I refused and Rodney Avila and Pamela, Rogers, they all tried to get to me, 
to go and be, so she could make a TV thing and I said listen, you're in the part of the business 
down there that the scallopers are doing beautiful, the best they've ever done in their lives. I said, 
you need to come from that area and come down to where people are dying. Okay. You want to 
talk to me, you got to come down here. Beause we're dying. That over there, they are a whole 
different world over there. Over here, you're going to see the real faces. You're going to hear the 
real stories. Okay? This is - We are dying. Then she came. 
MHA: Good! 
Interview with Mark Bergeron, January 5, 2017 
MB: She did, but I stuck to my guns and Rodney kept up, no, Rodney, I wouldn't give up. Yeah, 
I wanted her to come down here cause there’s another side of this industry. Scalloping side that’ 
done. Ask Rodney, he’ll tell you, if he remembers. 
MHA: I'm sure he probably will. 
MB: He should. But anyways I'm glad, hopefully. 
MHA: Well thank you again, really, so much. 
[1:12:20] End of Audio 
Interview with Mark Bergeron, January 5, 2017