1 
 
Washington State Works 
Archie Green Project 2012-13 
Deborah Fant 
 
Interview with Paul Stuckenschneider 
Clark County Historical Museum 
Two Parts 
Part One 
00:00:06 
DF: This is Debbie Fant (DF), on January 17, 2013.  I'm at the Clark County Historical Museum, 
interviewing Paul Stuckenschneider.  A mediator and arbitrator.  And, here we go: 
 
So, Paul, tell me a little bit about yourself.  You live here in, just north of here? 
 
00:00:29 Paul Stuckenschneider (PS):  I live in La Centre, Washington, about 15 miles north, and, um, 
yeah.  We've lived there--my wife and I, we live on 20 acres, have a couple of horses, and we've lived 
there for, since '98. 
 
DF:  So, we're talking about your work life, your work history, and particularly the fact that you're a 
union man.  So, how did you get involved?  What was your first job?  And why did you take it?  What 
prompted you to take it? 
 
00:01:19 PS:  Let me back up just a little bit.  The,  uh, you said I'm a union man, and I am.  I'm a trade 
unionist.  I came out of the trade union movement, but as a mediator and arbitrator. If someone who 
doesn't know me, someone wanted to select me as an arbitrator, and they say, "Well, here's Paul, he's a 
union man," say, "Oh!  That'd be the end of me."  (Laughs)  But I've been a, uh, I became a federal 
mediator in 1977, and that's a neutral job.  A mediator--Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service serve 
labor and management.  They serve collective bargaining.  And, as such, I'm a neutral in that process.  
And federal mediators come from both the union side and management side.  And, uh, so we're kind of 
a mix.  But we have to leave behind, or at least park, or closet, our advocacy side of us in order to help 
unions and management work out their problems.   
 
And I'm an arbitrator.  I retired from the Federal Mediation Service in '04, and since then I've been 
working as a private mediator and arbitrator.  Most of my work is arbitration.  And, uh, you probably 
don't want to get into the difference between mediation and arbitration. . . 
 
DF:  No, I would love, I would like to hear that. 
 
00:02:49 PS:  Well, a mediator, as a mediator, I describe it as the role of marriage counselor in labor 
relations.  You help folks. . . you basically facilitate the collective bargaining process.  And, folks get all 
hung up for a whole lotta reasons on positions and issues in collective bargaining, and they get stuck. 
And the role of mediation or the function of mediation is very, very helpful in that process.  So I'm, ah, 
as a mediator, I have no authority (his cell phone rings) to require that the folks do anything.  And, have 
no authority to dictate a settlement.  But as an arbitrator, again, I'm a labor arbitrator, there are a lot of 
different sorts of arbitration.  But as a labor arbitrator, I'm a judge.  The folks come to you with their 
dispute and present, each of them present their side of the dispute, and based on the contract or the 
law or whatever, I make a decision.  And they have a live with it.  Most labor agreements. . .could I just 
interrupt (he takes cell phone call and we stop the tape). 
Interview with Paul Stuckenschneider 
Archie Green Fellowship: Washington State Works 
 
2 
 
 
00:04:37 DF:  I'm going to stop this for a moment. . . 
 
0:04:39:  DF: We're back. 
 
PS:  Most labor agreements, collective bargaining agreements, contain a, well, almost all of them 
contain a grievance procedure.  And almost all of those grievance procedures end with, end in 
arbitration.  The procedures end in arbitration.  So, if the parties don't settle. . . 
 
Normally, a grievance procedure in a contract is a 3-4 step process.  First step, a worker with a 
grievance, he talks to the supervisor, and tries to work it out.  If that doesn't resolve it, then they go to 
the general foreman or to personnel or to human resources, a lot of people get involved with a couple 
of different steps.  And, but, if they're unable to settle it, and it's a serious enough issue, they have an 
option of going to arbitration (CCHM telephone rings in background). And then they have a process in 
the contract whereby they'll select an arbitrator.  And arbitrators are people who are experienced in 
labor relations and collective bargaining, and they'll select from a panel.  They'll throw darts at a panel 
and select someone to hear the case.  And it's like going to court.  It's a mini-trial.  Not as formal as a 
court proceeding--it's pretty much an informal process.  But, uh, almost all of those. . . 
 
Well, where they have an arbitration process in the contract, there's a little sentence that says that the 
arbitrator's decision is final and binding.  And that's it.  They bought it. They're stuck with it. So, and it's 
wonderful.  You know, the grievance procedure in a labor agreement, a labor agreement is a contract 
with someone.  And they violate the contract, what do you do?  You go to them and try to get them to 
remedy your problem.  But they can throw you out of their office.  So what do you do?  You go to court.  
And most people know what going to court involves. (I shouldn't have done that. . .I had that one open . 
. .--talking about an open bottle of water on the desk--).  
 
What are you talking about?  Three, five, seven years to go to court to remedy something? So, in 
collective bargaining they have this fancy little process that settles their disputes.   
 
And they're a little different.  You know, the process is a little different in different industries.  But, it's, 
basically the same process. 
 
So if the parties choose to move the steps forward and quickly select an arbitrator and tell the 
arbitrator, "Hey, we need a decision in 30 days" or whatever, well, that can all be done in three to four 
to six months. Have a decision.  Anyway, that's an arbitrator. 00:08:05 
 
DF:  And so that's what you still do?  (PS coughs, "Pardon me."  DF:   That's quite all right) 
 
0:08:16 PS:  Well, I did not do arbitration until I retired from the Mediation Service.  So I was a mediator 
for 27 years or whatever it was.  But I like mediation, I don't like arbitration.  Because these same parties 
that wind up going to arbitration, letting an arbitrator decide their fate, and give them a binding decision 
that in many cases neither one of them are happy with, if they choose to call me in as a mediator, and 
we sit down and explore a lot of options. . .probably about 70 to 80 percent of the time we settle the 
issue, and it takes place in 2, 3, 4 hours.  They pay me a half a day instead of 6 or 7 or 8 days for an 
arbitration case or decision. But the beauty of arbitration [DF note: I think he meant MEDIATION here] - 
is they have negotiated and agreed to the settlement, whatever the settlement is.  I help them get to 
Interview with Paul Stuckenschneider 
Archie Green Fellowship: Washington State Works 
 
3 
 
the settlement.  And they've agreed to it.  They may not be in love with it, but it's their settlement.  It's 
the product of their efforts. 
 
00:09:39 DF: So how did you get to this?  From first, you said you were a sheet metal worker? (PS:  
Right)  And so, how did you get involved in the sheet metal, and from that to mediation? 
 
00:09:53 PS:  I was a sheet metal worker in a large manufacturing plant. Hussman Refrigeration.  
Hussman, you see the name "Hussman" on the food store eq1uipment, the refrigerators and the 
shelving and the checkout counters and the whole bit.  Their home was in St. Louis. In fact, they were 
three blocks from where I grew up, the plant.  So, I went to work there.  And I was 17 years old, and I 
worked. . . there were 10 unions representing the people in the company in that plant. I went to work in 
the sheet metal department, which was represented by the sheet metal workers, and got involved with 
the union.  I became a shop steward and I was on the negotiating committee, and I got elected to the 
executive board of the union.  And I ran, there was a vacancy, a business representative, a business 
agent, same guy, and I ran for office and got elected as a full-time business agent.  So I was a local union 
representative.  I was the only representative in a 1200-member local union.  Did that for five years. 
And, I had a strike.  I was striking, and the workers that I represented, we were striking the 
manufacturing plant. And it was an ugly, well most, all strikes are ugly, really. And actually, it was in 
1967, and I . . .that particular plant was making artillery shell casings and ammunition boxes.  And in '67 
we were hot and heavy in Viet Nam.   
 
So I was getting, we struck the company.  And, I was getting calls every day from the Pentagon, you 
know, some colonel or somebody at the Pentagon wanted to know if the Army trucks had come across 
our picket line, and pick up the product in the plant.  And I said, "Hey, you can do whatever you're big 
enough to, but we're not gonna take the picket down."  Well, they didn't want to cross the picket line, 
and I wouldn't take the picket down.   
 
So I got a call . . .we were in negotiations, naturally, and we had been since way before the strike and 
then during the strike, so I got a call from the district, from the regional director of the Federal 
Mediation Service.  Cause I, we had been involved in mediation, and I was the union rep.  He wanted to 
have lunch with me.  And I thought, "Aw, boy, here we go.  He's gonna lean on me to something." Take 
the picket down or cave in, you know, on the issues we were striking over.  
 
And, so I met him for lunch.  Remember Fred Harvey? Railroad station?  The restaurants?  (DF:  um 
hmmm) Well, that's where we had lunch, in St. Louis.  And he said, "How'd you like to be a mediator?" 
And I says, "What?" He says, "Yeah, I think you'd make a good mediator."  And I said, "Good grief, I 
thought that you were gonna lean at me, lean on me over that strike." And he said, "Nah, nah, you're 
doin' great with that strike. Keep it up!"  (Laughs!)  And, so, after a whole lot of pain and suffering, I 
made the decision.  I went to work as a mediator.  That was in 1967.   
 
00:14:00And, I was traveling around the midwest pretty much.  New mediators, you work with the 
experienced mediators.  They put you with them in the different field offices, so I was travelling around.  
And I was in Texas, I was in, well, Houston and Dallas.  Little Rock.  And I happened to be in Des Moines 
in a meeting, a negotiating meeting, in a printing plant.  And the electrician says, "Well, where do you 
come from, kid?"  And I said, well, I was a sheet metal worker. "So, you knew Tommy Gilbert?"  I said, 
"No, I know Tommy Gilbert.  That's right.  He lives here in Des Moines."  He said, "No, you KNEW him.  
He died."  Yeah.  And, doggonnit.  And, Tommy had been an organizer for the International union when I 
Interview with Paul Stuckenschneider 
Archie Green Fellowship: Washington State Works 
 
4 
 
was a local union rep, and Tommy had come to St. Louis and helped me out with some organizing 
campaigns.  So that evening, I went by the funeral parlor.  ‘Cause I had met his wife.  And the general 
president of the sheet metal workers, you know, the International Union, he had flown from D.C. to Des 
Moines for Tommy's funeral. And he said, "Hey, I wanna talk to ya."  And, so we went out on the front 
porch, and he says, "I want you to go to work for me.  I want you to be an organizer." 
 
I said, “Hey, I just changed jobs three months ago.”  Three months, almost to the day. And he says, 
"Well, if you're not interested, forget about it."  "Well, wait a minute!  What are you gonna pay me?" 
And I had seven kids at home, and I'd just taken a new job, and. . . 
 
So he had to go ask his son, who was the Director of Organization.  "What do these guys make, 
anyway?"  And, so, he offered me a job, and I took it.  So I quit the mediation job, and I went, I took the 
organizer's job.  For two years.  That was '67, October, '67.  And I traveled throughout the midwest, 
Nebraska, you know, from Indiana, Ohio--Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin, all the way to Nebraska, Arkansas, 
organizing for about three years. 
00:16:30 
 
DF:  Tell me what organizing is about. 
 
00:16:33  PS:  Oh!  You, the workers most often, you know, the workers at a nonunion workplace, and 
sheet metal workers. . .we represented mostly people in manufacturing plants.  The bulk of the people 
in that union, in the sheet metal workers' union, were construction workers, building trades 
construction workers.  But, there were a lot of us production workers, they called us.  Big manufacturing 
plants, you know, like Hussman, where I came from, were 350 people in the sheet metal department 
there, and then I represented about 20 plants, shops, all the way from shops to bigger, you know, 2--and 
300, bargaining units.  They called it the” bargaining unit,” the National Labor Relations Board.  And it’s a 
homogeneous unit that votes to be represented by a union.  They select a union.  And by way of a vote.  
The organizing involves finding those nonunion operations, those nonunion plants or nonunion facilities, 
contacting somebody in there and saying, "Hey!  How'd you like to belong to a union?" 
 
And very often, the folks had been treated not too well by the employer, and they get upset and they go 
looking for a union.  And that's what I did, for, oh, three years. Just sort of travelling around the 
midwest. And. . .  00:18:35 
 
DF:  Were there times when people didn't want you on site?  Were there ever any issues about that? 
 
00:18:38  PS:  Oh, yeah, yeah.  They'd sic dogs on you and stuff. (Laughs)  Well, the owners, the plant, 
the employer. . .Well, the law says that, you know, you've read some of those cases, where people can 
picket or in this case you were passing out handbills. And the key is to get a list of everybody that works 
in there.  Once you get enough authorization cards, you get enough people to sign an authorization 
card, you can file a petition with the National Labor Relations Board, you petition for an election, and 
then there's a hearing.  Then the National Labor Relations Board tells the company, "You gotta give me a 
list."  Of everybody in there.  But before you get that far, you have to talk to a lot of people, make a lot 
of phone calls.  Now, its uh, I would probably be lost because everything is done on Facebook and all the 
social sites.  ‘Cause nobody wants to read a handbill anymore.  I used to stand at the plant gate and pass 
out a handbill, you know, telling how wonderful my union was and how wonderful I was and what I 
could do for 'em.  But that doesn't happen anymore.   
Interview with Paul Stuckenschneider 
Archie Green Fellowship: Washington State Works 
 
5 
 
 
00:20:09 
DF:  Who wrote those bills?  And how did you get 'em, those handbills? Did you write them, each one? 
 
PS:  I would write them, yeah.  Some of 'em came from the International office, but I would generally 
write a handbill because, well. . .  I was in Cedar Rapids, Iowa.  I knew who those people were, and I 
knew what the problems were, and, uh, you know, you would try to relate them to . . . there was a sheet 
metal local in Cedar Rapids, although it was a construction local, and you know, just try  to tell 'em what 
you could do for 'em.  As a. . . If the employer had to bargain with me as a union representative here, 
some things that I can likely do for you.  You haven't had a raise for two years?  Well, hey, everybody I 
represent, we've gotten raises every year.  That was in the old days when you got raises every year! Not 
anymore! Yeah. . .in fact, probably starting in the -80s, a  lot of the unions didn't even want to reopen 
the contract, because the employers were looking to take something away.  And they did a pretty good 
job of taking things away.  You know, reducing wages, reducing the amount that they paid for the 
insurance plan, and just, you know, taking away a holiday or whatever.  There's been a lot of that going 
on. 
 
But, anyway, that was organizing, and I would, once I had a majority or significant majority of the 
workers in the unit that I was looking to represent, I'd file a petition with the Labor Board, and the Labor 
Board would come in and conduct an election.  And if I won the election, then the employer had to 
bargain with me, he had to negotiate with me.  It didn't mean he had to agree with me, but he had to, 
the National Labor Relations Act said that he has to come to the table "in good faith" you know, and 
make a good faith effort to reach agreement on the issues that we're talking about. And, in most cases, 
you get a contract. 00:22:30 
 
DF:  What would you consider one of your, the thing, the successes.  The best thing you were able to 
accomplish as an organizer? 
 
00:22:49 PS:  Probably the plan I'm talking about in Cedar Rapids.  That was a satisfying win.  And, in 
fact, very often there will be organizers employed by the International, and I was on the International 
staff at the time, and from time to time someone would come in, fly in from Chicago to help me out, 
help me handbill, help me make house calls, and. . .  I've been on campaigns. . .we were trying to raid a 
union--that's a whole different. . .  
 
DF:  Tell me what that means!  To "raid" a union. 
 
00:23:35 PS:  What it means, was, in the case of the Coleman Company, Wichita, KS, District 50 of the 
United Mineworkers, who were a non AFL-CIO, they were a non-affiliate.  They were not affiliated with 
the AFL-CIO, and the . . .  
 
Well, back at that time, Coleman made . . .you know, sheet metal workers, heating, air conditioning, 
were making heating and air conditioning units and products in that particular facility in Wichita.  That 
wasn't just coolers and camp stoves, you know.  And some of the people contacted us because they 
weren't happy with the representation they were getting from District 50.  So we put on a campaign and 
tried to take 'em away.  If you are an AFL-CIO affiliate, you can't do that.  It's a violation of the , you 
know, of the articles of the AFL-CIO.  It's an article violation in the AFL-CIO. For a lot of years the 
teamsters were out of the AFL-CIO.  Then they went in, and now they're back out again, so there was a 
Interview with Paul Stuckenschneider 
Archie Green Fellowship: Washington State Works 
 
6 
 
lot of back-and-forth raiding with Teamsters.  Anyway, with that campaign, lord, there was about 3600 
people in that plant, and we lost the election.  And that was actually the first campaign I was on in '67, 
when I went to work for the International.   
 
But that, Nisson Trampoline was the company in Cedar Rapids. They, oh, another one, another one that 
I organized was the metal building company in Hannibal, Missouri (DF NOTE:  PS says "Miz-oo-rah").  
And that was a beauty.  I learned a whole lot about the business there. I went in and handbilled it and 
made house calls, and I had probably 70% of the people sign cards.  And I petitioned for an election, got 
an election, I got beat!  And what had happened, the employer, he had violated the law.  He had gotten 
the workers together, captive audience meetings, and threatened--THREATENED!--you know, you vote 
the union, and you were gonna close this down and move back to Dixie, or wherever.  In fact, the 
company was Dixie Steel Buildings, was a metal building company.  And then called other people in. You 
know, some of my committee, people that he thought were on my committee, and he gave them raises, 
and, "You don't need no stinkin' union, we can . . .you can always deal with me!" (makes a growling 
sound) and, "Here's a quarter raise, by god!" 
 
00:26:57  PS:  Well, that's illegal. And, I found out about a lot of that, enough to get affidavits from 
people, and I filed objections to the election. And the NRLB came in and held a hearing, and I proved 
that he had tainted my majority. And he had acted illegally.  And the Labor Board issued a ruling.  He had 
to bargain with me, had to negotiate with me. And we got a contract.  Yeah.  Yep.  That was, well, it's a 
rewarding job.  It really is.   
 
And there were several others.  I did a bit of organizing, yeah, within my local union when I was a local 
rep.  And then after I went on the International staff.  And three years later, in '70, February of '70, I was 
offered a job as the Assistant Director of Organization in the International in Washington, D.C.  So in '70 I 
moved to D.C. And, well, I was Assistant Director of Organization, and two years later, it's a small union, 
and two years later the general president created a research department, and I was Research Director. 
 
00:28:25 DF:  So what did you do as Research Director? 
 
PS:  Everything that no one else wanted to do!  Everything that everyone else didn't want to do, yeah. 
Yeah.  It's, you're, sort of a resource for local union representatives.  You know, people would call and 
need some sample contract language, or they'd need some information about what was going on in 
some town, you know, what are the wages, what are the benefits that they have.  And it was a pretty 
tough job because most of the reps, you know, they lie about their contracts.  (Laughs)  They want 
everybody to think that they've negotiated a wonderful contract, but some of the stuff they sent in to 
the International Office wasn't really, the reality. . . 
 
00:29:28 DF:  How did you find out what's real and what's being reported? 
 
PS:  Well, you just have to find out.  Yeah.  Well, that really didn't have a lot to do with what I was talking 
about, what I was doing as Research Director.  But it's a small union.  Well, 130,000 members, I think. 
And the International was just starting a national pension plan.  And they just created a national pension 
plan.  Well, for a local union, like the local here in Portland, to participate in a national pension plan, 
most of the locals in the construction trades had already negotiated a local pension plan.  And those, in 
those days, a lot of them, they were Taft-Hartley Trusts.  So it was a jointly trusteed pension.  And the, 
but the national plan, actually, was a supplement to that.  And it was a Taft-Hartley plan, but it was a 
Interview with Paul Stuckenschneider 
Archie Green Fellowship: Washington State Works 
 
7 
 
national plan.  And the concept being, they could provide some, they could provide better benefits 
because of the volume of people involved.  And, what are they, demographics, and age groups, and on 
and on and on. You know, spread the  You know, spread the liability, right? and, uh, so, a young 
apprentice coming to work at the age 18 or 20, the employer has to make pension contributions on his 
or her behalf. So, anyway, it was a good plan.  It was a very good plan.  But the locals are very 
possessive, very protective, and you know, jealous protective of their own local stuff.  And they only 
want the International union around when they get in trouble to bail 'em out or whatever, or give them 
some help with something. 
 
DF:  Is this, would've meant, that, the employer would have had to contribute first to the local pension, 
and THEN to the International?  Yeah,  Okay. 
 
0:32:07.3 PS: But in those days, every time they negotiated they got increases, you know, some 
significant increases, you know, in pension contributions.  Before I left my local union in 1966, I 
negotiated the first pension in my local union. We didn't have a pension. None of the workers in my 
local had a pension. And, I was going into negotiations with employers in the kitchen equipment 
industry, in the stainless steel kitchen equipment industry.  There were about 400 members worked in 7 
different plants.  And I just told 'em, I said, "Well, whatever we negotiate, ten cents an hour is going into 
a pension plan."  And we did it.  I think we got a 35 cent raise at the time, and a dime went into pension, 
so we started the pension plan.  A lot of small a lot of production operations, you know. . .  When people 
hear about unions, they hear about the UAW, I guess the UAW, they had, all the way back in the 50s, 
well, the 40s.  0:33:32.2In the 40s, the health and welfare plans, the health insurance plan, were 
developed during the war. Because there were wage freezes on.  There was a War Labor Board. Nobody 
could negotiate a contract unless it was approved by the War Labor Board.  They were holding down 
increases--wage increases--so they created health insurance.  So they put money in health insurance.  
The War Labor Board would approve that.  They wouldn't approve wage increases, but they would 
approve money going into pensions or money going into health and welfare, into insurance.  
 
0:34:21.5So, in a lot of cases, it took a while to get that started, and small manufacturing plants, and 
pensions just didn't exist. 
 
So, anyway, 0:34:35.How'd I get over there? Onto the pension issue? 
 
DF:  IT was part of what other people didn't want to deal with, when you were in research. 
 
0:34:47.5 My job as Research Director, yeah.  The General President sent me out into the hinterlands to, 
you know, proselytize.  To sell the national pension plan. And then a couple of years later he came up 
with the scheme for guaranteed annual wage, similar to what the auto workers have.  You know, they 
have a guaranteed annual wage plan. And he created it in the construction industry.  And that was 
something brand new. And it was a great thing--it was a wonderful thing.  Except, people didn't know 
about it. They couldn't conceive of doing something like that. The big drawback there was they had to 
put in 3% of their wages. And generally, they'd go to negotiations. . . 
 
0:35:49.4 Generally, labor agreements, in those days, in the 60s, 70s, 80s, a labor agreement, a lot of 
labor agreements ran for three years. And, once you signed a three-year contract, why, you know, not 
much happened in the way of changing anything.  You didn't change anything. But when the contract 
expired, and it came open for renegotiation, then everybody came with their, you know, their Christmas 
Interview with Paul Stuckenschneider 
Archie Green Fellowship: Washington State Works 
 
8 
 
list.  Bot the employers and the unions. And that's the locals that were due to negotiate a contract, for 
example, this is January, Local X has a contract expiring in June.  And the business agent, the business 
representative, business manager, wanted to adopt that guaranteed annual wage plan. Or he wanted to 
buy into the national pension plan, supplemental to his local pension plan.  So, he'd call the General 
President, say, "Hey, could you send somebody out here to explain that to us?" And, I would do that.  I 
would go to local union meetings and explain the plans, the pension plan and the guaranteed annual 
wage plan.  And there would be fistfights and (drops his voice and mimics a union worker) "We're not 
puttin' our goddam money into an International--anything that the International. . ." and some 
interesting meetings!   
 
0:37:30.0 That's where I learned how to take votes. Yeah.  I'm an expert on taking votes, how to take a 
vote. 
 
DF:  So, tell me about that. 
 
0:37:39.6 Well, uh, the . . .So, often I'd go and, the local leadership, they'd want to negotiate a dime or 
twenty cents or a quarter into the National Pension Plan, and their upcoming negotiations, and they'd 
present that.  And in some cases, not very well or not very persuasively to the membership. And , the 
membership resisted it. "Hey, we got our own pension plan, and you told us it's a good one, and by god, 
we think it IS a good one, and we're not gonna put money, send money to Washington!" Those thieves 
up there, right? So I'd go in and I'd explain the plan, and I did a pretty good job of it.  
 
0:38:27.7 Oh, union meetings.  I'll talk about union meetings.  There's something else. You know, there'd 
be 60, 70 people, whatever, at a union meeting.  You know, you have a local unit of a thousand or 1200 
people, and maybe 60 people come to the meeting.  And, I'd stay there until I'd answered all the 
questions, and, "oh, jeez, that ain't bad," and so we said, "Well, let's vote!" 
 
Well, I found out that the folks knew that we were gonna talk about that. And my friend in Kansas City 
used to call them the 'Ginners.  [Note: Hard G, as in "against."] The Ginners would be there with all their 
friends, and  
 
DF:  Since they're agin' it?  
 
PS: Oh yeah, the Ginners were many in a lot of cases—most cases.   And then I found out that the local 
president, he passed out the ballots to the guys when they walked in the door!  And, so, well, the 
bullies, they'd get up and make a big speech against the thing, and look at their friends who are sitting 
there, and "I'm votin' NO!"  And yeah, oh jeez--voted NO!  So, the , So, anyway, well, the other thing that 
would happen is that we would go through the whole question-and-answer, explain it, and okay, now 
we're gonna vote on it.  So they'd pass the ballots out to the people in the chairs.  They'd take a handful 
of ballots and pass 'em down, everybody'd take one, and probably just took one, you know, maybe 
somebody took two or three. . .  
 
And then they'd mark their ballots and pass 'em to the end of the line, OR, maybe they'd get outta their 
chairs and walk up and drop it in the box.  And we'd get beat.  For the same reason, you know. . . The 
Ginners were active and persuasive.  Yeah.   
 
Interview with Paul Stuckenschneider 
Archie Green Fellowship: Washington State Works 
 
9 
 
0:40:41.7 And so, I changed the voting process in a whole lotta local unions that I went into.  I said, 
you're not giving out any ballots, you're not passing out any ballots in the chairs, and when we finish, 
Row 1, they're gonna stand up, they're gonna walk over here, somebody's gonna hand 'em a ballot, 
they're gonna go over there to a table, you know, and tables were spread out, and they're gonna mark 
the ballot, and they're gonna put it in the box.  So we started winning a few more elections. 
 
DF:  It was a private vote. (yeah) After the argument had been made.   
 
PS:  Yeah!  Yeah!  It was a secret ballot.  And that's what it was supposed to be. 
 
0:41:25.7 And, well, as a mediator, I went to a lot of open union meetings. You know, when we would 
negotiate, the local union and management would negotiate and we would very, yellow, maybe after a 
whole lot of agony, pain, and suffering, come to an agreement.  And the union rep, and the committee, 
they're not all excited about it, but okay.  The only way I can get this offer from the employer, the only 
way I can get this offer from management, is for you to tell me that you're gonna recommend it.  And 
the committee, the rep is gonna recommend it, recommend acceptance of the company's offer.  And 
the committee's going to recommend it. "[Groan] Well, yeah, okay, we'll recommend it." And, so they'd 
go to the meeting, and the committee wouldn't recommend it.  Or some of the committee members on 
the way to the meeting, they'd call some people, and say, "hey, we're not votin' on this piece of crap," 
you know, and "I'm not votin' for it,"  Cause, theoretically, a secret ballot, right?   
 
So, they'd get turned down.  The next morning the union rep would call the management representative 
or the management lawyer or the owner or whatever, the management, and say, "Geez, we tried like 
hell but it got turned down. You gotta make it better."  So we'd have ANOTHER meeting. And in most 
cases, they'd make it better.  They'd do something, you know, put another nickel on the shift premium 
or put another two cents into the pension plan, or whatever, and a lot of time I'd be asking the 
committee--I'm the mediator, right?--I'd say, "well, you oughta be happy with that, now.  They made it 
better.  So you're gonna recommend it?"  Well, I wouldn't let the employer put the two cents out there 
unless I got, unless I could tell him they're gonna recommend it.  And what I would do, I'd say, "Look. If I 
can get them, I heard somebody down there say two cents on the pension. If I can get him to put the 
two cents on the pension, will you recommend it?" 
 
"Oh, well, NO!  Two cents?? What're you talkin' about???"  And they'd agonize, and cry, and piss and 
moan.  And I'd say, "Well, talk about it for a few minutes.  I'll come back."  And I'd come back and say, 
"Well, whatta you think?" "Okay, okay.  grrrrrr rrrr rrr. If he'll do it. . .WILL he do it???"  And I'd say, "I 
dunno."  I says, "But if you recommend it, if we got a unanimous, you know, recommendation, I might 
get it."  And, so I'd go get the two cents or whatever.  And I would know what the employer would be 
willing to do. 'Cause he wasn't happy anyway. Nobody was happy!  So, okay. "We got a full 
recommendation, right?"  "Yeah!"  "Okay, well, we'll meet tomorrow night."   
 
Okay.  So, what if I come to the meeting?  And, well, privately, I've asked some business agents, I've said, 
"Look.  I think you've got a couple of squirrely people on your committee.  And I think they're gonna 
undermine you."  And I said, "Would it help if I came to the meeting?"  "Oh, god, yeah!"  So, I mean, that 
really supported him, because he could say, he could talk about how hard they fought, and rolled 
around on the floor and stayed up till 3 am and the commissioner here, the mediator here, assures us 
that "This is it."  "Isn't that right, commissioner?" I said, "Yeah!  This is it.  You had a deal before, and you 
turned it down, and you know, your hero here was able to go back and make it better, but this is IT."  
Interview with Paul Stuckenschneider 
Archie Green Fellowship: Washington State Works 
 
10 
 
And, in the meantime, I'd find out how he took his, did his balloting.  And if he did it the wrong way, I'd 
say, "You ain't gonna do that.  Here's how you're gonna do it."  
 
0:46:11.7 And, you know, there's times when, you know, people would ask me questions, you know.  
"What's the average wage increase?" or whatever.  And I'd give 'em a number. And they were getting 
twenty cents, or somewhere in the ballpark of whatever, "Well, okay, so you think this is a good deal?"  
And I'd say, "I think that's all you're gonna get.  And you did a good job!  Hey, you got this and this and 
this, and yeah!  It's as good as it's gonna get."  That helped a lot, in a lot of cases, that helped.  But, it's a 
fun job!  Yeah!  It was, it was a fun job! 
 
 0:47:04.8  It IS a fun job. You know, I still do some mediation.  Haven't been to a union meeting for 
awhile.  I go to the labor council meetings once in a while and sort of observe, and. . .But.. . . 
 
0:47:25.8 Then I was working for the International.  I did a lot of traveling, and I said before, I've been 
east, west, north, south, and all four corners or whatever of the country, either as a union rep or as a 
mediator.  
 
0:47:41.1 DF:  So, I have a question.  Your role as a mediator.  You're not a union member?  So, do you 
have to be invited to the meetings?  [Yeah]  You can't just show up.  You have to be invited? 
 
0:47:53.8 PS:  Yeah. But, you know if I knew that it was a situation. . . I came here in Portland, my job 
was in Portland.  And I worked all of Oregon and southwest Washington, from '78 to '90 I did that.  After 
four-five-six years, you know everybody.  There's. . .lord, I dunno, I'd have to look at the directory, the 
AFL-CIO directory, 'course, they're not all AFL-CIO anymore, but, oh lord, there's, you  know, a hundred 
and something local unions, and the districts. . .  And so, you know those people.  Because a local union 
rep, the Food & Commercial Workers, they probably have 40 contracts with 40 different employers.  You 
know, a lotta little places.  So they did a lot of negotiating.  And, if they know you and accept you and 
trust you as a mediator, they're more likely to call you and ask you to help 'em.   
 
DF: So it's the unions who make the call to you? 
 
0:49:21.0 PS: No, I've had a lot of employers call, and say, "Hey, I'm having trouble."  Well, in a lot of 
cases, the employer would call and say, "I'm really having trouble communicating with this committee, 
local union committee, negotiating committee.  And I really think you could help us to get done 
whatever we have to get done.  To communicate, to bring some order to it."  And, the job of mediator, 
the job of federal mediator, has in my lifetime, been held in pretty high regard. And , so they general 
respect you. If they don't, then you gotta make 'em respect you.  You have to just demonstrate that, 
"Hey.  I'm here to help out this process, and I'm not carry water for you or carry water for the company.  
I'm going to find out what your issues are, what your problems are, and what the impediments are to 
your getting some kind of agreement on the issues, and then try to help you get there."  And, you know, 
from my experience in negotiations, the bargaining unit, they want 50 cents. And, again, this was back 
when it was 50 cents! And, the employer, he might have that kind of money, but he wasn't going to put 
the full fifty cents up front.  So we did, 40, 60, 70, or something. Just mix it up.  And come up with some 
suggestions for options for settling all kinds of issues.0:51:45.1 
 
DF:  You said something about the union meetings that you were gonna tell me about. 
 
Interview with Paul Stuckenschneider 
Archie Green Fellowship: Washington State Works 
 
11 
 
0:51:48.5 PS:  Well, the union members, if they'll attend their meetings, is a problem.  A real problem. 
And, the [DF: Has it gone down? Or has that always been the case? 
 
It's always been bad.  Union members, you know, people that have a job, working under a labor 
agreement that just, rarely do they really appreciate what they have.  That they wouldn't have many of 
the things, the wages, the benefits, the perks, and the rights that they have if there weren't a labor 
agreement there.  and a union representative to come when they call them.  You know, when they've 
got a problem.  When they think the employer's violated the contract, and the grievance procedure.  I 
don't know how often I’ve talked to union gatherings, well, gatherings of union reps, union officials, 
union reps, and I've said, "You know what?  You're always talking about organizing, organizing, 
organizing, and going out and organizing your new units, bargaining units, and increasing the 
membership."  And of course, that's dues, that's revenue, and we're blessed out here that we don't have 
any right-to-work states.  You know, Oregon, Washington, California, . . .uh, but don't go east.  Because 
Idaho, Montana, are right-to-work states.  But you organize a hundred-person unit, well, you've got a 
hundred new members. But just, all my experience in general dealing with the problems that unions 
have and the problems that they encounter, and,. . .The members aren't loyal to the union.  They don't 
appreciate what they've got.  They don't KNOW about the union, they don't know really what the union 
does, they may have worked in some shop somewhere without a union, and, "Well, that was when I was 
young and growing up, but now I've got this good job," and. . .  They just really don't appreciate the 
difference.  And they don't support the union.  And what I would tell union officials, I would say, "You 
need to organize the people who are already paying dues.  And you need to educate them what that 
contract is, what that labor agreement is worth."   
 
0:54:59.2 Well, BNA.  The Bureau of National Affairs.  They come out every year.  And here's the average 
non-union job, and here's the average union job.  It's like $3.00 an hour, $4.00, $5.00 an hour wages 
plus they've got fully paid insurance, they've got pensions, and that stuff's published.  It's out there.  
One reason they don't do it is that they're so damn busy.  You know, they're, it's a big job.  It can be a 
killer of a job. To be a union rep and try to service all the shops and members and issues and problems.  
It's just a never-ending job. So, really making an effort to really reach out and really do an educational 
program, within the local union, it's a lot of work.  First of all, you've got to get their interest.  And get 
'em to come there.  You know, you invite 20 people, and maybe six or eight of 'em will show up. 
 
0:56:19.1 But, the one thing, the BIG thing that they have in addition to better wages and benefits and 
conditions, generally, because it's all in the contract, it's gotta be there, is the grievance procedure. I 
mean, people, you know, non-union people will say, "Well, we don't need a union, there's LAWS."  EEO, 
wage and hour laws, well, what are you talking about?  Minimum wage laws?  Do you want to work the 
rest of your life for $10.00 an hour?  And, you feel that you're being discriminated against for whatever. 
. . race, gender, religion, or they don't like ya, 'cause you're ugly or whatever. . .are you gonna file an 
EEO charge and get fired?  That's illegal for them to fire ya, but, it happens.  It happens every day. With 
the labor agreement and a grievance procedure and a representative to represent you and enforce that 
--well, that's pure gold.   
 
(PS asks DF:  You want to break, at that point?  DF: Yes, yes I do. I want to check. . .] 
 
END OF PART ONE OF INTERVIEW 
Part Two 
Interview with Paul Stuckenschneider 
Archie Green Fellowship: Washington State Works 
 
12 
 
00:00:01  PS:  People are appreciative of their own condition and you know, thereby understanding, 
that's what collective bargaining has done for you.  And you’ve gotta come to, you've got to support the 
union.  You've got to come to meetings, and participate in the function of the union.  Serve as a shop 
steward, run for office on the executive board or whatever,  when. . . 
 
I heard a guy today, on the way down here, talking about buying a gun at a sporting goods store, we 
have to do a background check vs. going to a gun show and buying a gun from Joe Blow.  And it was Joe 
Biden, and he said, "Well, lemme put it this way," he says, "You're gonna cross the bridge, and there's a 
toll booth there.  Now here's a lane that's got the toll booth there, and traffic, and you gotta pay.  And 
here's a lane that just goes right through. Where you gonna go?" (laughs) And it's the same with the 
people in the workplace. If they can show up and do their job and be satisfied, then, "Hey, I'm doing 
okay."  Are you gonna go out on a cold night and go to a union meeting and listen to some people gripe 
about stuff and get involved, are you gonna do extra work if you don't have to?  (um hmmm).  And 
generally, that's a no-brainer.  A lotta people don't want to do it. 
 
0:02:24.7 DF:  And witnessing the organizing, since the early 70s,  in mediation since the . . .  
 
PS:  '77.  Well, I was hired as a mediator in '67, and I did that for three months, and then I went to work 
for the International, and I was there for ten years. And then came back to mediation, and that was '77. 
End of '77 when I came back, as a mediator.  Went from a union rep to a mediator. 
 
DF: So, why, union membership IS falling off nationally?  (yeah).  And you've , where was it when you 
came in?  Was it still going up, or had it plateaued, and what's your theory about why that's happening? 
 
PS:  I should remember those numbers.  You know, in the 50s and 60s, in fact, in the early 60s, when I 
was, when I got involved in the union movement, and it's gone, it's pretty well gone downhill from 
there.  Well, technology, mechanization. . . Most recently, it's literally the jobs going overseas, offshore.  
There are some people who can articulate that a whole lot better than I, but you know, probably in the 
50s and 60s and 70s, the car you're driving—probably, 90% of it was totally fabricated here in the U.S. 
And now, even the ones that, the cars that are built in the big General Motors plants represented by the 
UAW, the sub-assemblies and everything, I would guess less than half of what goes into that car is made 
in the U.S.  Plus, all the imports.  Where the whole vehicles comes from someplace else. With the advent 
of, well, I think, I've often said that prior to the 80s, collective bargaining pretty much involved the 
workers. The union rep getting the workers together and say “Okay, what needs improving in the 
contract. Wage increases are 3, 4, 6%, whatever, and we're gonna get more than that because we're 
Interview with Paul Stuckenschneider 
Archie Green Fellowship: Washington State Works 
 
13 
 
behind." And keep dreaming!  It was the union coming to the table with a list of demands, and the 
employer defending against it. The union would come to the table with a demand for a 10% raise, and 
the employer spent, oh, I dunno how many meetings arguing, working on that issue.  “That's 
outrageous!” and “I can't afford it!” and blah blah blah.  And they'd settle for 3 or 4% or whatever, 
whatever it turned out to be.  
 
0:06:20.5 But in the 80s, everybody, the landmark was Reagan breaking the traffic controllers. All of a 
sudden employers woke up, and they realized that they could make demands, too.  And the striker 
replacement issue came about.  The unions, you talk about "breaking the union," you don't break the 
union but you can. . . You know, an employer winning a strike and replacing all the strikers, the union 
not being in a position to defend against that, the next thing you know you've got a non-union shop.  
 
0:07:25.5 Well, and the economy went into the porcelain facility. Everybody wants a big raise. And what 
started happening is the takeaways happened under Reagan. Employers were taking back wages, taking 
back benefits. If there were raises—the CPI may have been running at 3, 4, 5%--and people may be 
getting a 1 or 2% raise. Just the competition.  I think the offshoring of so many of the jobs and the 
production manufacturing, the imports. . .  This thing—NAFTA.  NAFTA's been deadly!  I remember Bill 
Clinton and everybody promising the unions, "This is gonna open things up," and I can't believe anybody 
believed that. I can't accept that anybody believed that because who was making enough money down 
in Mexico to buy our product? (laughs)  It ain't gonna happen!  The jobs have just been destroyed. And 
because the. . . Well, it tipped, seriously skewed the balance of power at the bargaining table. 
Companies struggling to succeed, and legitimately so, they're not just poor-mouthing, they're having 
serious problems.  They need some concessions or whatever. Most people don't think that they joined a 
union in order for the union representative to negotiate them a wage cut.  
 
You're in Seattle (said to DFant).  You should have read what's happened with the transit system here, 
Tri-Met. Over in Portland. Tri-Met is tri-county, Washington County, Clackamas County, and Multnomah 
County. The bus, the transportation system over there.  They literally had one of the best contracts, one 
of the better contracts I've ever seen, looking at contracts for 50-some years.  ANd they lost it.  They 
didn't lose the whole contract, but they lost a big piece of their health insurance, they lost a big piece of 
their pension, they have . . .Well, they were getting at least a 3% wage increase every year, and they're 
not getting any increase now.  There's a lot of reasons for that. But that's what's happening.  
 
0:10:51.9 Union members are tough people. They're really tough people.  First of all, they think that the 
job of the union rep is to go in and beat something out of management.  Go beat up on 'em and get 
something out of 'em. And they're not very understanding when the union rep comes back and explains 
Interview with Paul Stuckenschneider 
Archie Green Fellowship: Washington State Works 
 
14 
 
a bad situation, and tries to explain how they're gonna have to settle for something unpleasant. 
Something less than what they have, and hope to live to fight another day. And be happy, be satisfied 
that, "Hey, here's the circumstances, here's the ugly situation that we've got to deal with, but we've still 
got our contract."  You've got your grievance procedure, we've still got the right to bargain, and when 
things change, something changes, we go right back to the bargaining table and try to recover the things 
that we've lost or at least protect the jobs that we have. People aren't real happy with that kind of news.  
Somebody will say, "Damn union isn't doing us any good," and "My cousin worked at ‘whatever,’ and 
they decertified the union.  And they got a big raise!" Which is a lie, but people are so susceptible to 
that, and they will decertify the union.  
 
DF:  And then what happens to all the money that's been put into a pension, or, what happens if a union 
is decertified? 
 
PS:  Well, who's doing it?  Oh, Hostess!  Our twinkies!  They had a, they didn't have a Taft-Hartley 
pension, they had a negotiated defined benefit.  Do you know the difference between a "defined 
contribution" and a "defined benefit" pension plan?  (No.) A defined benefit is where the union 
negotiates, or it doesn't have to be a union.  An employer could install a pension plan for his people, 
implement a pension plan, and say, "Hey, you're here 30 years, you get 2% or 4%, well, you get 2% of 
your final salary for every year of service that you've had."  That's a defined benefit. Or you're gonna get 
$400 a month for every year of service that you've had.  $400 is a little steep.  You're gonna get $100 a 
month, or $150 a month.  Well, $100 a month for someone with 30 years of service, that's $3000 a 
month.  So that's a "defined benefit."   
 
With the advent of 401Ks and IRAs, well, 401Ks usually in the workplace, the employer would say, "I'm 
putting $2 an hour into your negotiated pension, or it's costing me that.  Or it's costing me $3 an hour 
for the negotiated pension.  I want to terminate that pension.”  If you were vested up to this point, you 
may have a vested benefit, but from now on, I want to put $2.50 an hour into a 401 for you.  AND, this 
401 sales person will be there to describe to the whole workforce, “Gee, you know, if he puts $2.50 an 
hour…” (Well, let's make it simple.  My brain isn't working math-wise.  $2.00 an hour.)  “Hey, that's 
$4,000 a year.  And that's your money.  You're not putting it into that fund for other workers in other 
plants, or for the union to control it.  That $4,000 is going into your account.  And you can determine 
where that's invested.”   
 
Well, how many everyday working schleps can do a proper job of investing their money, right? So, hey, 
one piece of it may be a Money Market thing.  What's the Money Market pay now, a percent and a half 
if you're lucky? If you're really not going to take it out for 10 years or whatever.  But that's where 
Interview with Paul Stuckenschneider 
Archie Green Fellowship: Washington State Works 
 
15 
 
pensions have gone.  And now, I never thought I'd say it, but if people are lucky!  If they're unlucky, and 
they work for Hostess. . . what were there, 18,000 people worked for Hostess nationally? And they had a 
negotiated, defined benefit plan, but the company filed Chapter 11 a couple of years ago. And when a 
company files Chapter 11, all contracts are void. Are invalid.  They can be abrogated. And they do that 
with the labor. . .They can file Chapter 11, and the labor agreement's null and void.  So, "I was paying 
you $20 an hour yesterday, today I'm going to pay you $15, or tomorrow."  The unions are powerless to 
do anything about it.  With that pension plan, most pension funds--and have been for a long time--are 
under-funded. So are Hostess's, I'm sure—I just read something about it, don't know what the exact 
numbers are, but I'd say it was 50% under-funded.  And when they filed bankruptcy, they stopped 
paying into it.  So they're probably 60-70% under-funded. So, "Whoops!  We're going bankrupt.  We're 
going out of business."  So there's a thing called a Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation," the PBGC, 
up in Washington. When, oh god, I can't think of the pension reform law years ago. . . Any negotiated 
plan--I don't know if non union plans, big corporate plans, they pay 50 cents per month per member.  I 
think that's the way it started out. Fifty cents per month per member for everybody covered by the 
pension plan.  To fund this federal entity--it's a federal entity, the PBGC. All of these companies started 
going bankrupt, and they started abandoning their pension plans to the PBGC, and they sucked it not 
totally dry, but it's being sucked dry. They are I don't know how many billion in the hole right now.  
 
0:19:09.3 PS:  When United Airlines went bankrupt, theirs was a negotiated plan.  They had a beautiful 
pension plan. The folks at United Airlines wound up getting, I don't know, maybe 50% of the pension 
that they thought they had coming to them.  And people at Hostess are gonna be really lucky if they get 
40 or 50%.  And the Hostess pension was a much lesser pension than United Airlines. You know, the 
machinists and, well, the airline industry.  They live pretty high off the hog. So they put a lot of money 
into a pension plan, and people would get, I dunno, I'm thinking way back, 15, 20 years ago maybe, 
when United went belly-up.  People were probably getting maybe $40, $50,000 pensions. But when they 
go bankrupt and they dump their pension into the PBGC, they're lucky if they get half of it. 
 
People that worked for the airline, they're lucky because they're under Railroad Retirement, and the 
Railroad Retirement benefit is much higher than just Social Security.  So their Social Security or Railroad 
Retirement benefit is pretty good. 
 
0:20:44.7 DF:  What do you think of the future? Do you have any kids who are union members? 
 
PS:  I have two, three. . .two of my seven kids are union members. And they're very happy they are. Oh 
yeah!  That's the only guarantee anybody has of anything! Without a union, literally, the employer can 
come in ("Is that Susan?"  Susan Tissot, director of the Clark County HIstorical Museum, comes in.  
Interview with Paul Stuckenschneider 
Archie Green Fellowship: Washington State Works 
 
16 
 
"Susan!"  Exchange between Paul and Susan, who says she'll talk with Paul after he's finished with the 
interview.  "You're on the record," Paul says of Susan.) 
 
Unless somebody has some kind of a contract, and I pray Susan does, 'cause I love her and I want her to 
be well forever, but, unless someone has a good personal contract, you have no guarantee of anything, 
really.  So, yeah.  Unions are having a tougher and tougher time, they're out of money, not out of 
money, but their resources are seriously diminishing because of the loss of membership.  Now, if this 
Right to Work thing, that just happened in Michigan. . . Michigan, you wouldn't think, Michigan, the 
bosom of labor, right?  It's the Republican legislatures. They can do whatever they want to do.  You 
know what they're gonna do now?  I don't know if saw it last night, but they're going to change the 
electoral system. And each representative and senator in the state will be allocated so many electors. If 
you look at this last election, and you look by legislative district, well, Romney won in a landslide. The big 
metropolitan areas are what put Obama in. But state legislatures determine the electoral system. And, if 
they change that, we'll never have a Democratic president again. When Wisconsin, and I'm sure you 
heard about this, when the Wisconsin legislature passed legislation that limited the bargaining rights of 
all public workers, except police and fire. They didn't want to piss off the police and fire. They want a 
cop to come when they're in trouble, and they want somebody to come when their house is burning 
down.  "Oh, you're the Senator that took away my contract? Gee, your house is on fire!" It just blew my 
mind, because when I grew up, collective bargaining, it was an entity and an institution that was pretty 
solid. Everybody accepted it. Employers don't like to have to deal with a union, but I would argue that in 
many circumstances, employers are better off with a union because they negotiate a contract that has 
all the wages, benefits and conditions, whatever, and that's it.  Everybody lives under the same thing. 
And if I go whining that, "Oh, Jeez, I'd like, I need more money" or whatever, well, "Hey!  Get on a 
higher-paying job.  It's in the contract. But you’re a punch-press operator, and here's what I pay you." So 
the employer doesn't have to bargain with every individual employee.  And put up with that kind of 
thing.  He bargains the contract, and that's it. And the, in terms of work rules and discipline within the 
workplace, it's pretty level. Everybody understands what the rules are.  They apply the same across the 
board. 
 
IF the employer chooses to avail himself of the right or privilege.  And, 'course, that's where I get most of 
my work as an arbitrator.  The employer plays favorites with somebody, and there's somebody who's 
not necessarily a favorite violates the same rule, well, "You just violated whatever.  I'm gonna fire you."  
And the union comes in and says, "Hey, wait a minute."  It's called disparate treatment.  And here are 
the rules. You wind up putting the person back to work, and hopefully straighten out a lot of things. I 
don't know where it's going.   
 
Interview with Paul Stuckenschneider 
Archie Green Fellowship: Washington State Works 
 
17 
 
I shouldn't remind you that you asked me what do I see for the future.  Because I don't know. I don't 
even know how to answer it.  It's worse.  It's going to get much worse for unions if the Republicans take 
the White House and the Senate.  Hey, bar the door!  The National Labor Relations Board won't even 
function. Because the Republican majority in the House, right now they're trying to de-fund the Labor 
Board.  For Federal employees, the Federal Labor Relations Authority, they'll do the same with that.  
They'll just disband it. There'll be laws on the books that say people have bargaining rights, and certain 
rights under the law, but there'll be nobody to enforce it. 
 
0:28:15.2 DF:  So, if you're looking back, and you can say what's motivated you in your life, what . . .It 
seems that being a mediator is a pretty altruistic kind of job.  You're trying to look out for everyone, in a 
way. 
 
PS:  I’m trying to see that people who want to use the collective bargaining process properly make it 
work for them. Because people have asked me, well, I came out of a union, I was a union rep, I don't 
know how many strikes I had, and blah blah blah, how do you sit and watch some employer beat up on 
the union? And I say, well, that's not my job.  I'm not the leveler.  And that's collective bargaining. The 
balance or the imbalance of power.  The outcome is based on that. That's why strikes are no more 
effective.  That used to be the big hammer. “Hey, we either settle that, you put another dime on there, 
or daylight's coming in two hours and there'll be a picket out there.” Well, Jeez, don't want to do that.  
But unions can't do that anymore.  Because the port here.  The Longshore.  The employers and the 
people who operate the various port facilities, the Port of Portland doesn't really operate it. They lease 
it to the various. . . and they deal with the longshore union, and they thought the longshore was going to 
strike. And they had several months ago, when the contract was expiring--I think it expired the end of 
September or something, well Portland, Vancouver, all the way up into Puget Sound. The employers 
brought striker replacements and put 'em up in hotels all over the place. They're just sitting around.  
They've been sitting around for three or four months, waiting for Longshore to strike, and they would 
bring, try to have them operating all the cranes and all the equipment to load and unload the ships. 
When they were really getting down to what they thought was a deadline, three non-union tow boats, 
fully crewed.  You know, a crew of a tow boat, there may be three, four, five people on a given crew.  
You're talking about 24 hours, so, you're probably talking about a dozen or 15 people, each per boat.  
Can you imagine what it would cost you to have a tow boat, a big tugboat, "I want you to sit there, I 
want you to tie up at the dock.  What are you going to charge me?"  My god, they must have spent a 
million dollars preparing to replace the Longshoremen if they went out.  And having non union tow 
boats standing by, because all the tow boats are union here in this area. And in Puget Sound.  And 
having a non union tow boat just hanging, just sitting there. Anticipating a strike.  They thought that 
deadline was a couple of weeks ago. And it still could happen. But even they, and you'd think they're the 
last ones that could be replaced, the Longshore, they do it.   
 
Interview with Paul Stuckenschneider 
Archie Green Fellowship: Washington State Works 
 
18 
 
A lot of years ago, all an employer had to do was to make a conscious decision as to how much he was 
willing to spend, and he could get rid of the union. He could get rid of the union just by way of a 
prolonged strike.  People have been, in the past, all ginned up to strike. But after they miss their first 
paycheck, well, “Hey, maybe that wasn't such a good idea.”  But if the employer can just shut down. Or, 
he has another plant in Burley, Idaho, or in Little Falls, Texas, or whatever.  Hey, he just moves and 
keeps operating, and this place stays dark until he wears them out and they abandon the strike and say, 
"Oh, well, okay.  We want to come back to work."  "Nah, I don't think so."  Or, he may have hired 
enough replacements that there are no jobs left.   
 
0:34:04.9 Even back in 1967, when I first became a mediator, I grew up, well, I grew up in Missouri to 
whatever extent I ever grew up. And, Missouri, Illinois, the Midwest, Ohio, Michigan, they were, none of 
them were Right to Work states.  They were highly organized states. Union membership now, you look 
at it , whatever it is, they say 6%. And it was probably 25-30%.  (By the way, Washington, I think, is in the 
teens.  Maybe 15%?" (Um, hmmm.  I believe so.) Mainly because of Boeing and some of the big 
employers.)  I just assumed everybody was union. I worked in a, from the time I was 17, I've worked 
since the time I was 8, but when I was old enough to work in a factory, “Hey, it's a union job!” And I 
worked for the union, and I organized some of the non-union companies. And got a contract. So they 
were union. So I became a mediator, and I'm bouncing around the midwest. I mentioned Houston and 
Dallas and El Paso.   
But going to Texas, a couple of things you don't want to be in Texas.  You don't want to be Mexican.  You 
don't want to be Black, and you don't want to be a union organizer.  Because you're fair game. As a new 
mediator, working with some of the mediators down there, I went into a negotiation one day, you know, 
you follow the senior mediators and generally observe and see what's going on. I was supposed to be 
learning. The steel workers had struck a steel plant, I used to know the name of it but I don't remember 
it. It was a, if a union strikes a company, and they strike them for a year, after a year the employer 
doesn't have to deal with 'em anymore. Or, the employer can contact enough of the striking workers, 
and if he can talk 'em into it, they can file a decertification petition and decertify the union. The union is 
out. At this one meeting, I asked the mediator the name of the company and the union, the steel 
workers, and went in and talked to the union rep and the committee for a while.  Went in the 
employers' room, and here's a single guy in there.  It was a lawyer, company lawyer. Had cowboy boots 
on.  This is in Houston. Had his feet up on the table, the conference table.  Didn't have a piece of paper 
anywhere visible. This was the last day of the union's right to bargain.  They had been striking, they had 
all been replaced.  The union rep was there to ask him, "Well, is there any way we can get some of these 
people back to work?" And he says, "No.  I'm done talking to you.  I'm done talking to you, I'm done 
talking to them." But going to Texas was like going back 30 years in history.  I think it's probably still that 
way, in terms of the unionization.  That was a spooky experience.  
 
Interview with Paul Stuckenschneider 
Archie Green Fellowship: Washington State Works 
 
19 
 
0:38:16.3 PS:   It was a Right to Work state, too. So, if the workers support the union, Right to Work or 
no Right to Work, I worked in Iowa.  And Iowa's a Right to Work state. I was working up in Iowa trying to 
organize--I was trying to take another plant away from another union, and Lennox! You know, Lennox 
Furnace. Old Dave.  You know Old Dave Lennox?  And I'm up there calling all the people and somewhere 
I went to a labor council meeting or something, and someone mentioned that it was a Right to Work 
state.  I didn't even know it was a Right to Work state!  But because the UAW, John Deere, and a lot of 
big companies represented by the UAW, and the people, the UAW did a hell of a job for them.  And the 
people joined and supported the union. It wasn't a big issue. Most of the workers, 90% of the people in 
the plant, they paid union dues. Even though it was a Right to Work state.  And I'm guessing that that 
was a real aberration, that doesn't exist anywhere anymore.  
 
0:39:47.2 DF:  So what do you want to leave me with? 
 
PS:  Can we just stop a minute?  (Needed a drink of water) 
 
Yeah, I don't know if I really classified myself.  Well, I had to have been an optimist because I survived, 
and it's been great.  And I can see great things.  But I can't see great things for our country. Our lives and 
our standard of living, as we've known it.  Our rights, our privileges, our benefits, our freedoms.  It's 
gone! It's going away, trickling away. And the trickle is going to become a rush.  I think the Era of 
Collective Bargaining… the Railway Labor Act started in the 20s, and the National Labor Relations Act in 
the 30s—35. And what it's done for workers.  What it's done for people.  Used to be, AFL-CIO used to 
run an ad about labor, “Organized labor gave you the 40-hour week, it gave you the weekend.  It gave 
you a health plan.  It gave you a pension plan.  And it gave you decent wages.” I mentioned earlier 
today, the Bureau of Labor Statistics, it published the wages.  The difference in the Right to Work states 
and the union shop states.  I don't understand why people can't see that. And, it's like so much else we 
see.  We see it but we're. . . it's like this gun thing.  We see, we know the answer, but we don't do 
anything about it, and most of us aren't willing to put out the effort to do something about it.  The 
answers are so simple.  The answer is simple.  Getting to it is another matter. But I see our whole 
system, you know, George Carlin had a routine, and maybe you saw it, I dunno, but I think the title of it 
could be "It's Over."  
 
And this country is owned by the money people, by the corporate people.  The politicians are owned by 
them.  The politicians--we have a woman here who won't even have a town hall meeting.  Well, most of 
'em won't have a town hall meeting. She's a Republican, and the labor people who are Democrat and 
Democratic supporters, she won't even make an appointment with them.  And I belong to a federal 
retirees' group, we belong to an organization called NARFE, National Active and Retired Federal 
Interview with Paul Stuckenschneider 
Archie Green Fellowship: Washington State Works 
 
20 
 
Employees, and they lobby.  The lobbying is to try to protect the federal wages, protect the federal 
benefits.  You know, federal employees right now, they haven't had a raise in three years. ANd they're 
not going to get one this year. He's got a half a percent in the budget, but it aint' gonna happen.  
Lobbying on behalf of workers, federal workers. And it spills over across the board. And our guy, the 
president of our chapter, he can't even get in to see her.  She won't even see him. People get elected, all 
the Republican House and I guess, Senate people, they drank the Kool-Aid.  The Grover Norquist Kool-
Aid.  And we're going broke.  And they've vowed never to raise taxes.  Where the hell's it gonna come 
from? So the answer is to take everything out of benefits.  Out of the social programs, and the benefits 
that people have.  It's nuts!  It's just insane! People have lost their jobs, middle-aged people have lost 
their jobs way before they thought of retiring.  And Social Security's creeping up, the age to get it, and 
they want to take the money out of Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security.  They've already stolen the 
Social Security money, I mean the money's there if they pay it back, but they've already stolen it and 
they don't want to pay it back. And they don’t want to raise taxes.  And we've blown the money on two 
wars.  I don't know how many trillion these two wars have cost us. Nobody wants to pay for it. That's the 
only place revenue can come from. That's the only way you can pay for a government. But that's the 
other piece of it.  The government is going away, it's trickling away. You know, the city government here, 
the county government.  They're not paving your road or filling your potholes, there are fewer cops.  
The cops are not answering certain calls. You know, you have your car stolen? “Come by the station, or 
go online and make a report of your stolen car.” Oh, somebody broke in, got your jewelry? “Go online 
and make a report.”  And all the services. . .  
 
DF: So, you think this is all tied to unions? 
 
0:46:24.6 PS:  Well, the union is such a key part of it. The unions pretty much got us to the standard of 
living, the lifestyle that we've enjoyed. Well, we've come to assume. And if collective bargaining goes 
away, that's all gone away.  
 
DF:  Okay.  I think that pretty well sums things up.  
 
PS:  Yeah.  I'll add that I'm glad I'm as old as I am, and there's times when I go online and look at my bank 
account, and I see my pension check there, and I kind of feel guilty. Because so much of the world, so 
much of our country, I mean, our country!  Who the hell are we? “ I got mine!”  “Oh, gee, you've got a 
problem?  That's terrible.  But I got mine!  See ya!”  We're all a bunch of individualists.  And again, I'm 
not articulate enough to go into that topic about that's what made this country great, you know, the 
individualism and on and on.  But the problem is, we either hang together or we hang separately.  
Interview with Paul Stuckenschneider 
Archie Green Fellowship: Washington State Works 
 
21 
 
 
I went into a union hall, a steelworker hall, not too long ago. It was a mediation I was doing.  They had a 
box of buttons there, and I got one. And it says, "United We Bargain, Divided We Beg."  Yeah.  Yeah.  
Amen! 
 
DF:  Okay. 
 
End of Interview