Teachers Offstage--The Occupational Folklore of Wisconsin Teachers: Archie Green Fellows 
Project, 2013-2014 
Jennifer Greenwald interview, 2014-08-08 : interview conducted by Mark Wagler 
Interview ID: afc2013017_01482 
Date: August 8, 2014 
Duration: 01:05:48 
 
00:00:01  
May 12, 2014, Mark Wagler talking with Jen Greenwald in Madison. Jennifer 
Greenwald, born 1965 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.  Is a descendent of Russian Jews. 
Ethnicity is important to her because it is part of who she is. Is certified to teach grades 1-6. 
Bachelors in Social Sciences from University of California, Berkeley. Masters in Curriculum and 
Instruction from University of Wisconsin-Madison, which is where she got certified to teach. 
Has a Masters Certificate in Sustainability Leadership from Edgewood College. Has only taught 
in Madison. Has taught grades 2-5, with different variations in that range. Has taught in 4 
different schools in Madison since 1997. Took some time off to stay home when her kids were 
born. Jen always wanted to be a teacher, was influenced by her teachers at a small private 
progressive school in Chicago, k-12. Their message to her was about her responsibility to her 
community and to give back, and to take charge for her own learning. Francis Parker School. 
That place sheltered her through her parents’ divorce and rough times, and inspired her. Jen 
loved school. She always felt what she and her peers had to say mattered. The idea that they 
should care about something greater than themselves shaped her. So she always saw teaching 
“in this cheeseball way” as her way of helping to make the world a better place. That is what 
still motivates her to stay in the job. 
 
00:04:40  
A typical day of teaching: Jen has a ten-year-old and a fifteen-year-old, so she 
wakes up at 6:30, checks her email, makes sure lunch and breakfast are packed, showers, 
makes sure everyone else is up. Isn’t actively thinking about school but checks school email so 
knows what’s on the agenda for the day. Gets to school around 7:45 and checks email again, 
checks regular mail, reviews plans for the day and makes sure she has everything she needs 
before the kids get there at 8:30. Checks in with her two teaching partners—a social and a 
professional thing. Might talk about teaching plans, particular kids, their own lives. When bell 
rings, she goes out to hall to greet kids. When the kids come in the classroom, they do what 
they need to do to get ready for the day—she usually has some jobs for them, like doing their 
lunch sticks. They have some time to socialize. 
 
At 8:45, they have a morning meeting; she has been doing that for about four years and loves 
it. They talk about what is going to happen during the day, do something fun. Then official 
teaching starts. They have literacy, math; disciplines didn’t used to be so segregated. Jen used 
to be the kind of teacher who had projects kids would be working on, rather than a period 
strictly for literacy. More and more, not really by choice, her students now have a literacy 
time, a math time, recess, then kids have their specials, then social science or science time. At 
the end of the day, they have a closing circle before they leave and can vote on how the day 
was, thumbs up, sideways or down; can share highlights or lowlights or things on their mind. If 
there is time, they do a little activity or game. After they leave, Jen cleans up, writes the next 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
1
day’s schedule on board, writes them a message, checks email and mailbox, checks in with 
teaching partners. She likes to have her next day set up at the end of the day, so she checks on 
what she needs for the next day’s plans and reviews what she taught to see if she needs to re -
teach. Checks kids’ folders to see their spelling words, their math, etc. Usually leaves school by 
4:30. Often on the way home she talks with her partner about her day.  
00:11:10 
She doesn’t know when she stops thinking about school. After school she thinks 
about particular kids, those who are struggling with a social or emotional thing, or kids who 
really need something extra or different. Often tells her younger daughter funny stories about 
kids. Often in the evening she reads things, such as magazine Teaching Kids Mathematics, and 
a magazine from the International Association of Reading Teachers. Always looking for ideas. 
Also does educational philosophy reading, something new by Alfie Kohn, or the Center for 
Eco-Literacy has published a book “Eco-Literate.” She also reads novels, doesn’t read 
educational stuff every evening. But it’s always in the back of her mind. She is doing the 
Courage to Teach retreats right now, which are more about personal well-being than 
specifically teaching. But they read a lot of poetry, which she then reads to her kids. Thinking 
about teaching never really stops. 
00:14:00 
What are her students apt to remember about her? The fun things that they do 
outside of school; when she taught older students, caving trips or ropes course trips. Has done 
overnights a lot, always a highlight for the kids. She likes getting them out into the community. 
She is still in touch with some former students, and they talk about the books that she read to 
them—they remember them better than she does. She thinks relationships are key to being a 
successful teacher—knowing them, having them trust her. That is as important as academics. 
She thinks they remember the relationship with her. Her teaching is influenced by her 
experience as a student. She also loved Berkeley; she went from a tiny school to a huge place 
where she had to learn to maneuver in the bureaucracy, but the teachers there inspired her. 
She also remembers the uninspiring teacher who lectured and stared out the window, which 
inspired her to not be that way. Colleagues influenced her—she was lucky in her student 
teaching, her cooperating teachers were mentors. Her teammates are amazing and help make 
her better. All the stuff she reads also gets her excited. She read a book by Mary Cowhey 
called “Black Ants and Buddhists” and now she wants to meet her. Jen wants her students to 
be happy people, that no matter what their “success”, they all have things they are good at 
and they all know how to learn. And that they feel fulfilled in their lives. 
00:18:50  
How does Jen include students’ lives as part of their education? They start in 
the morning meeting by sharing; they talk about what they are doing outside of school. 
Parents are welcome to come to the classroom whenever they want. And there are specific 
times when parents are invited for potlucks, or on fieldtrips, or for any part of the overnight 
trip. So they can bring their homes into the school, Jen has invited them in to do things. For 
example, they have a garden at school, and one mother’s mother came in and made fried 
green tomatoes with the students. Jen has been a multi-age teacher for a long time, so she is 
adjusting currently to her first year teaching one straight grade in the last 8 years. They are 
looking at their home cultures. For example, they begin by defining what culture means. There 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
2
is a video series that shows children living in rural areas and in urban areas. The kids look at 
stereotypes, and also look at routines, religion, the big cultural things like food, and little 
cultural things like rules. Then the kids look at their own routines and rules. Often kids 
interview people in their families and come back to school to share that stuff. They do a 
poetry thing on “I Am” and “Home Is” from Rethinking Schools.  
00:23:00  
Jen takes her kids out to study local natural areas and neighborhood. They 
haven’t done the Muir neighborhood so much as the city of Madison. They have looked at the 
timeline and the population make-up of the city. There is a nature conservancy, Owen Woods, 
down the street from the school so they go there regularly. Have a garden at school and a 
wooded area where they can look at changes over time. Jen has skills outside the mandated 
curriculum that she wants her students to learn. First is collaboration—how to work together, 
how to argue respectfully, how to try to convince someone. Some of that is in the standards in 
different ways. Those are life skills. Communication is a life skill that runs through everything 
Jen teaches—how do you present evidence to back up your statements, in math or reading, 
anything you’re doing. How do you ask a question and listen honestly and openly. Do a lot of 
social problem solving that is part of the curriculum. Jen doesn’t always stick to the curriculum 
box. She thinks people need to know how to work out conflict. She also takes them on the city 
bus, to teach them how to use public transportation, which opens up new worlds to the 
students. Teaches them how to figure out bus routes. 
00:27:20  
What are her relationships and collaboration with paid staff? Jen works with 
people in different networks. She was part of the Heron Network, where a group of teachers 
from different schools worked together doing inquiry-based projects with their students. Is a 
union faculty representative, so works with teachers from all over Madison on union matters. 
Recently she is trying to start a school, so she meets with teachers monthly at Happy Hours 
where they talk globally about education and more specifically about Jen’s ideas for the 
school. Jen feels that teachers would be more powerful and successful in the schools if they all 
shared the same ideals and goals. Her experience is that when she started teaching, she 
thought conversations about pedagogy and principles were part of what teachers did, and she 
has asked for it for years but those conversations don’t happen. Instead, they are told what 
they should expect and aspire to for their students. More and more is being standardized. The 
message seems to be that it isn’t their job to think about the big picture. Jen knows from her 
experience as a parent, that she has some fundamental disagreements with her children’s 
teachers, and she hasn’t been very successful in having conversations with her kids’ teachers. 
She tries to be extremely polite and keep the kid at the center, but she has experienced 
defensiveness. This is a personal profession, and it’s hard when an unhappy parent comes. 
Former students have come back and told Jen things, so she knows there are people in her 
building with whom she disagrees on some fundamental issues, like how to deal with 
misbehavior.  
00:32:34  
Jen doesn’t think that children should ever feel shamed. Only in extreme cases 
should recess be taken away, because they need to go out and play. There should never be a 
situation where some kids get to eat a snack because they brought it from home, while other 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
3
kids don’t. If you look around and see that all the kids eating snacks are white and all the 
African American students don’t have snacks, you are going to form some ideas. Jen has some 
ideas how to approach those issues in school—but that would be an uncomfortable 
conversation, and we don’t want to have uncomfortable conversations. Maybe leaders don’t 
know how to facilitate such conversations. That makes things confusing for kids. Consistency 
isn’t about everyone reading the same books in class, but about treatment within classes. [cell 
phone buzzes; Jen’s kids calling so recorder is paused]. 
00:34:33  
For Jen, consistency means we share some fundamental beliefs about our 
hopes for kids. Her guess is we probably do share hopes and dreams for the kids; everyone is 
going to say we want our kids to grow up to be happy. Our focus is so future, and sometimes 
we miss that they could be happy right now if we just changed a few things. But just as when 
parents don’t agree, when adults working with kids don’t agree on how to achieve things, it is 
confusing to the kids. 
00:36:15  
Jen has some parents who volunteer a lot, but she isn’t often planning with 
them. The new dean of education at Edgewood is more and more part of her network. She has 
a friend who is a parent of a former student, a professor in early childhood development at 
UW-Whitewater and Jen talks to her as a colleague. Has another friend in Athens, Georgia 
who did her Ph.D. here, who Jen talks to as a colleague. Generally, staff meetings at Jen’s 
school don’t support teachers who are a bit out of the mainstream. Jen had some amazing 
professional development at Thoreau School, which was part of a professional development 
partnership with UW-Madison and the school district. The classes had differentiation, so they 
never felt as if they were over her head or about stuff she already knew. She doesn’t want to 
sit through another staff meeting or professional development where she learns, for example, 
how to do math interviews—she knows how to do that already. She either needs something 
more advanced, or to be excused.  For professional development, they all have different 
things they are working on, and they can only do so much at a time. She just told her student 
teacher to pick one thing to work on for the year, to become really good at it. Nobody can do 
everything all at once. If we could tailor professional development more to things people feel 
they need and are interested in, that would be better. It would be good to have staff meeting 
where there was some room for people to talk about their beliefs, or more professional 
sharing. Jen has learned a lot from going to other classrooms, but they have now taken away 
their visitation days so she can’t do that anymore. That would be good use of staff meeting 
time. They used to have a little inclusion activity or icebreaker at the beginning of a staff 
meeting because the staff is huge and they don’t all know each other. One way to facilitate 
uncomfortable conversations would be to help the teachers to know each other better, by 
doing something at the beginning of a meeting where people could talk to each other and not 
just sit with people they know really well. 
00:41:25 
Teachers tell stories about kids. There are different tones in talking about kids. 
Some complain about the kids, some complain about the parents. There are some loving 
stories, about something a kid did that day. There are some teachers who shouldn’t be 
teaching; Jen is a union rep, so it is very tricky; she sees things that her colleagues do that 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
4
trouble her, things that affect her students. She writes notes for her students who are African 
American boys, saying they have her permission to be in the hallway, because they get 
stopped by other adults. But if a white girl is walking in the hall, no one stops her. Jen just 
raised this issue at a staff meeting. People got defensive at the meeting, said they ask 
everyone they meet in the hall where they are supposed to be; Jen thinks that no one should 
be asked; they are trying to build relationships rather than accusing kids. Jen does have some 
examples of people who are willing to talk about race. When they have an outside expert 
come in to invite people to talk race, they do. But in general, people don’t talk about race or 
class. They don’t look at their biases. There recently was the White Privilege Conference. Jen 
doesn’t know if anyone from Madison Metropolitan School District attended. 
 
00:46:05 
Jen knows when kids confide in her about tough things, things they see as 
unjust, that they are on the right track. Those are things they need to work on changing. When 
parents welcome her into their homes and talk honestly about their own children, they show a 
level of trust in her. When parents see their kids like school, and that Jen is willing to come to 
their homes, and that they hear a tone of care rather than criticism, that helps them trust her. 
It’s easy for teachers to focus on what the kids can’t do, but at the same time it’s important to 
focus on what they can do. They are all good at something, and it’s her job to find that and 
share it with their parents. 
 
00:49:50  
How has the profession of teaching changed since Jen started teaching? Things 
are much more standardized now, which is demoralizing. Teachers aren’t trusted to make 
decisions about a lot of things. People in Madison are still reeling from a political time [when 
public employee unions were disempowered]. There is now a culture of fear; people worry 
about losing their jobs. Another change for Jen is that she is teaching one grade this year 
rather than a multi-age classroom. She thought this change was because Madison bought an 
expensive reading curriculum, and they didn’t want to buy two kits for a multi-age classroom. 
But the superintendent came to their school—which is rare—to visit twice, and once a teacher 
at the school thanked the superintendent for getting rid of multi-age. Jen and her partner told 
the superintendent they were mourning that decision, and here’s why; and the 
superintendent said multi-aging wasn’t banned, it just has to be in the best interest of the 
students at the school. So there is some kind of miscommunication somewhere, and Jen 
doesn’t know where it is. Jen hasn’t worked this hard at the beginning of the year for a really 
long time. She knew last year it was going to be hard for her, because she wasn’t going to have 
her second year students and she would miss them, because those were the mentors for the 
new kids, but she didn’t really know how hard it was going to be until she had all second 
graders and none of them knew any of the routines or anything about how Jen expects them 
to interact. It was a lot of work and responsibility. 
 
00:53:40  
Jen can recognize good teaching. There is an energy you can see. The students 
are really into whatever they are doing, and they are talking and moving, asking questions, 
excited to share their ideas. The teacher is excited too; it feeds on itself. It doesn’t even 
matter what the content is; it’s about the engagement with the learning. You don’t necessarily 
know where it is going to go, but you know it will continue. Earlier in her career, Jen worked 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
5
hard to develop her capacity as a teacher to teach reading. She had a class that was all 4th 
graders, and she team-taught with a Special Ed teacher. She realized that she knew how to 
talk with kids about books, but she didn’t know how to teach reading. Anybody in 4th grade 
who didn’t know how to read, the special ed teacher taught, so Jen didn’t really understand 
how to help them until she took a class called “Teaching Struggling Readers” that was taught 
by a former MMSD teacher who was a reader recovery teacher-leader; had to do all kinds of 
things that made Jen uncomfortable, like go behind a two-way mirror window and teach one 
child while other people watched and gave feedback. That was a life-changing thing for Jen, 
because she finally understood how to talk to kids about reading. Instead of focusing on what 
they were not good at, she focused on what they were good at, and they could use their 
strengths to compensate for what they weren’t good at. 
 
00:57:50  
When Jen’s students were working on lots of different projects, Jen had to work 
hard to orchestrate it. She learned through trial and error, asking other teachers, using others’ 
tricks, being willing to try new things. She had to figure out what she needed to manage and 
what she could let go of. She learned to step back sometimes and listen to find out if they 
were helping each other. If they were talking to each other about their stuff, then they were 
doing what they were supposed to be doing. Some of it might feel chaotic and loud, but that is 
just the nature of having a lot of people working on different things. What is Jen proudest of 
as a teacher? Maybe it’s the fact that she is willing to learn more. One of her criticisms of 
some of her colleagues is that it feels as if they are done learning. There is always more to 
learn. She can learn from and with her students as well as her colleagues and the professional 
books that she reads. She is also proud that former students want to stay in touch with her, 
and come visit or friend her on Facebook. 
 
01:00:45  
Jen is working on a school with several colleagues. What led her to it are some 
of the things she has talked about in this interview. She thinks schools are too big. She doesn’t 
know how you can have a community where you don’t know each other. And if adults really 
share some foundational beliefs about what schools should look like, Jen thinks schools would 
be more successful. What is driving her to do it now, since she has thought about this a long 
time, is that more and more she doesn’t fit. She doesn’t want to have a script for her day; she 
doesn’t think that is how kids best learn. The direction that education in this country is going is 
wrong. She wants to get off that train. But she still wants to teach in a public school, because 
everyone should have an opportunity to learn. The current climate is that we are going to do 
more and more testing, at younger ages, and take away all of the joy of learning. There will be 
no play. She walks into kindergarten rooms today and asks ‘where’s your dress up corner?’ 
‘where’s your water table?’ She sees desks and pencils and paper, and she feels ethically 
challenged to do some of the things she is being asked to do.  
 
She just took training for a test she will have to administer next year to her 7 year olds. The 
stars aligned when she went to Edgewood and was in the Sustainability Leadership program 
and was asked, what’s your capstone project going to be? She felt she had the support of a 
respected institution. Her capstone was to start a school. We have some real environmental 
and social problems we need to address. Jen feels there is some hope, hearing the new dean 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
6
of education at Edgewood publicly speak out, and hearing the teachers in the Chicago 
teachers union recognize problems with what they are being asked to do and refusing to do it, 
inspires Jen. It doesn’t feel like enough, because it feels like isolated pockets of things 
happening, but Jen hopes it turns into something bigger. 
 
01:05:48 End of interview. 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
7