Jim Heckman Interview Log  
Time Code  Content 
  
  
00:00:01 
Introduction. Jim Heckman.  Interviewed March 14, 2018, at the Library of Congress, 
Washington D.C. Interviewed by Jeanne Drewes, librarian. 
 
 
 
00:00:46 
History: Heckman is with the HF Group, which was Heckman Bindery before 2006.  His 
great grandfather started Heckman Bindery in 1931 and Jim is a fourth generation 
bookbinder.  He joined the company in 2003.  In 2006 Heckman Bindery and ICI 
Bindery combined to form HF Group.  They combined mostly due to library binderies 
market and industry shrinking.  In 2013 the HF Group added ACME Book Binding, and 
now they have four plants around the United States. 
 
 
 
00:02:50 
Career: Heckman worked in production at the bindery during summers while in middle 
and high school.  He moved to Arizona after graduating college, but he then moved back.  
At his company, Standard Register, he learned about sales and marketing, he learned how 
to work within a large company, how to handle a new CEO, and how to work with 
people.  He is now a general manager over business development, an overall manager in 
one facility, and he makes CEO decisions with his other four partners.   
 
 
 
00:06:47 
Learning the Trade: Heckman worked at HF Group while the company was learning 
how to digitally print books.  They had always printed covers, but they also developed a 
way to do it with the book block, although binding these books was difficult.  Short run 
books were the biggest market for this and they began using “glorified office equipment” 
with lots of quality control.  Eventually they got high end digital printing equipment, 
which made them a competitor within the publishing realm.  They sold one-off and sort 
run services directly due to lots of relations in the publishing industry itself.   
 
 
 
00:09:53 
Career: Heckman’s first job when he returned to HF was sales and marketing of library 
binding.  This was a contract driven service, so his position included more customer 
service and business development duties.  
 
 
 
00:10:50 
Heckman discusses his father and their conversations about the company after his 
retirement.  Although retired, still tries to keep updated about the company through Jim.  
He is still curious about projects and day to day operations.  
 
 
 
00:12:41 
Opportunities: The biggest opportunity Heckman Bindery took advantage of was the 
merger.  Heckman Bindery and ICI Bindery were the largest competitors, but they 
realized they could do more together with the projection of the market.  Their services 
are now better because of uniting.  The two companies were “friendly outside of 
business” since ALA/ LBI allowed for connecting with competitors, even touring 
competitor’s plants.   
  
 
 
00:15:44 
Technology: Heckman describes how the HF Group brings in the technology suppliers to 
look at the plant and see how the equipment would work for their company.  HF Group 
still has several machines from past generations. 
 
 
 
00:17:24 
Greatest Accomplishment: Heckman is most proud of helping tie the print and binding 
division into the publishing industry.  He drove this idea directly and has been 
aggressively trying to diversify the business, including in this area.   
 
 
 
00:19:16 
Employees:  60% of the employees had been with the company for 10 years or longer.  
Barb Amos had just celebrated her 50th anniversary with the company, and she was the 
first person hired by Jim’s father.  The top managers have been with the company for 40 
years, Virginia Aughinbaugh, and 32 years, Tim Baker.  Other key workers have also had 
long terms, such as Sue Cripe who has been with the company for almost 30 years and 
worked her way up from production to Manager of Library Binding.  The company tries 
to fill positions internally as people are promoted or retire, or they will use a general 
application for outsiders. 
 
 
 
00:21:28 
Building and Plant: The North Manchester building itself is 100,000 square feet and 
there are approximately 130 employees working at the facility on a daily basis.  It was 
purpose built for library binding and has undergone 15 renovations, although none of 
these have been in the last 15 years.  As the business grew, space grew and they bought 
more property. 
  
 
 
00:22:55 
Interesting projects: Lots of rare and archival items come through the conservation 
department.  HF Group won an awards for a coffee table style book they made for the 
Boston Red Sox after they won the World Series.  It was a print and bind job that was 
similar to a personal photo album.  
 
 
 
00:24:23 
Change in Business Overtime: Heckman Bindery used to serve the whole country from 
one plant.  Now, after the merger, there are multiple locations to manufacture and 
distribute from, which makes the company more competitive.  They also changed from 
strictly a library binder to a preservation services provider. The services were sparked 
through the needs of university libraries.  In short, the biggest change is the expanse in 
the number of services provided.  They have always had their own delivery trucks and 
truck routes, but in recent years they have used more commercial shipping to decrease 
delivery time. 
 
 
00:28:06 
Employees: Training consists of a great deal of cross training so that all positions can be 
covered, depending on demand.  Work can be seasonal, and so workers need to know 
different areas.  New employees work with people who know a skill, and then practice 
hands on to understand the skill.  Most new labor comes from the local town with 
families coming to work together.   
 
 
 
00:29:52 
Building and plant: The location of the plant was decided because it was where Jim’s 
great grandfather lived during the Great Depression.  He started binding books for his 
friends, then he began charging for it, and then he opened a shop after the operation took 
over his basement and kitchen.   
 
 
 
00:30:30 
Employees: The company has had multiple generations work at the shop since its 
original founding.  They have a holiday party every year and almost 20 retired workers 
return each year.  These workers have seen major changes in the industry over time.  The 
number of employees at the North Manchester location has decreased over the years from 
500 employees at its peak to the current 130 personnel.  
 
 
 
00:33:55 
Future: Heckman believes that the future is uncertain.  He and his colleagues are 
committed to the book market as long as they are able to serve it.  They are willing to 
adapt to market in the long term and push the envelope on what needs to be done.  
 
 
 
00:34:40 
Changes in Business Overtime: The sizes of book products have changed.  Heckman 
and his company have stayed competitive by being willing to customize.  Unlike other 
companies, they are not committed to specific trim sizes and they will customize to meet 
the customer’s needs.   
 
 
 
00:35:36 
Heckman and Drewes describe using bookbinding terms with non-industry people and 
the confusion this can create.  
 
 
 
00:36:53 
Business:  HF Group has a large demand for boxes that house books.  They also have a 
strong digital scanning branch.  Both of these operations serve several university 
libraries. Heckman Bindery bought its first Kasemake machine in 2003.  This has 
allowed them to make cases for universities and publishers.  This service is popular with 
the horror fiction genre and creating box set casings with leather enclosures.  They can 
make these casings for high end books or standard paperbacks.  It is mostly done for 
special collections, however.  They will print books as a publisher, using library binding 
methods, mostly for theses and dissertations.  A student digitally uploads their work 
directly, it is then printed and bound, and shipped to the student’s university library and 
the student.  HF Group will print genealogies using this system as well, and ship the 
product to the author’s home.  
 
 
 
00:48:52 
Heckman discusses the company’s relationship with customers.  Customers are the most 
important thing for the business, and they have a strong customer service operation.  
Customers asking for products have allowed for the development for different products, 
like Thesis on Demand. 
   
 
 
00:51:41 
End of Interview.