DANA BLUME  
 
SUMMARY: Dana Blume talks to Pat Jasper about the environmental affairs department 
at the Port of Houston authority. The role it plays in the working of the port, the different 
departments and how it relates to the larger working picture of the Houston ship channel.  
 
August 06, 2012 
 
Environmental affairs Manager 
Port of Houston Authority 
 
00:00:36 
Born in El Dorado, Arkansas in 1968. Moved to Houston when 8-9. Liked science in 
school. Father was in Oil industry. Went to Texas A&M, studied geology. Not too many 
people in 80s studied geology. Moved away from the oil focus to environmental focus. 
Wanted to teach earth science. Back when Exxon Valdez cleanup was going on, not too 
many people were hiring. went to work in a service industry related to the port. Through 
these connections met people in the environmental side. In 90s went into the 
environmental field. Had a background in talking about oil and oil wells so got to do a lot 
of pipeline work. Participated in pipeline decommissioning project in North America 
called the Penny Ex pipeline. Gave a deep appreciation of how sensitive the environment 
is. Understood the human side of the environment. Sometimes spills actually stimulate 
the economy. Have seen while at the port 14 years. Came in 1999 to Houston Port 
Authority. Environmental attitude has changed over the years. NEPA. Delved a lot into 
air quality. Making sure operation at port authority avail of clean resources. Bayport - 
permitting process citizens were against that. Had to defend the work process to the 
public to make them understand. Don't do enough publicity for Port of Houston. Have the 
largest petrochemical complex. Houston has a big responsibility.  
 
00:11:42 
Speak a lot to children and larger groups about job profile. Take care of water quality 
issues - permitting issues, clean drinking water etc. Clean water Act very important. Port 
is very mobile resource driven. Don't make or create anything - clean in that sense. But 
puts a focus on what can be done with port equipment.  Landlord port - lease out property 
to tenants. Would not ask a tenant to do anything that port would not do themselves. 
Need to be completely compliant with federal rules and procedures.  
 
00:18:40 
Stewardship. Look at the environmental dept. in two realms. Compliance driven program, 
has permits, deadlines etc. Air quality prog is voluntary. Non attainment in ozone and 
particulate matter. Majority of roles that are written for NOX and POCS are written for 
stationary source type emissions. Mobile source emissions roles are written for the fuel 
that is used and the emissions. Air program is a stewardship program because have 
 
 
accelerated the turnover of fleet and the tenants too by purchasing the newest, cleaner 
equipment available. Do a lot of that with grant money that helps offset the cost. Do it 
because want to do the right thing.  
 
00:25:09 
Compliance driven.  Emissions are calculated through put of the facility. Number that 
comes will trigger the kind of permit for the facility.  BACT Best available control 
technology. Mobile sources don't require permitting only the stationary sources require it. 
Federal channel - to keep it dredged at the permitted level. Entities along the Houston 
ship channel and Houston port authority are very involved in talking to congress about 
making those decisions. The shallower the port is the less cargo ships can bring in. Either 
way it will affect the economy of not just Houston but the country. Only 15% of ships or 
cargo actually comes to Houston port authority. 85% goes to all the private entities. Have 
worked well with the community in areas of security, air quality and environmental.  
 
00:34:27 
Air quality about 15 years ago was told the air was bad for ozone. were put into a process 
a state implementation plan. the idea of shutting a vessel down and pulling out like a dead 
weight would to work from a safety perspective would also quadruple emissions. 
Educated not just immediate community but also stakeholders also did tours of the 
facility in a bid to educate and create awareness. Big responsibility just to educate the 
regulators about type of equipment that was available. Dealt with a lot of 'snake oil 
salesman'. Outreach and education. Been very successful in setting up funding 
mechanisms - Texas emission and reduction plan.  
 
00:42:59 
Partnered with HAC and environmental defense fund and received $9million for low 
interest loan program for truck drivers for on road trucks. Try getting the message out by 
doing a lot of outreach programs.  
 
00:44:45 
Port authority pushed back on that for a while. Focussed on cargo handling equipment, 
tug tow industry, making sure right people were at the table so that they get what is 
needed. But on road trucks have been a hard one to accept as every truck in the Houston-
Galveston- Brazoria area is not a truck that goes to the Houston port authority facility. 
Host truck fairs at property. Leveraging reputation with the truck drivers to make them 
understand what a good opportunity it is. Took on truck program because no one else did. 
Taken on the role of a caretaker of truck drivers.  
 
00:53:12 
Job doesn't pigeonhole in environmental only. Allows opportunity to take on different 
projects. along the Houston ship channel, have 9000 acres of property. Also have rights 
to the submerged lands given by state of Texas. Most areas that are not developed are 
 
 
dredge placement areas or confined disposal facilities. Don't have a big contamination 
problem in the Houston ship channel. All industries are highly regulated. For most part 
sediment is clean. Use dredge material to build areas that may be developed into 
property. Houston ship channel is man made. Buffalo Bayou drains out at the ship 
channel. It is  a big task to keep it dredged. Houston is mostly put on Beaumont clay. 
Have utilized the dredge materials to do demonstrate marshes, help a marsh flourish, in 
marsh area, have cut channels, can kayak, bird recoveries. Have a plan to create 4200 
acres of marsh area. Have recognized that the material thrown up from dredging can be 
used for other things. Sample all the sediment.  
 
Get questioned about placement areas. Why upland ones are not better fenced off. When 
they are being utilized they will be big pots of sediment which can be used. Everything is 
sampled before anything begins to be used. When communities have a question about the 
workings of the port authority, try and work together with them so they understand.  
 
01:09:54 
Federal channel. It is the channel that needed a federal corp permit to be dredged up to 45 
ft. It is the small part of the channel where ships traverse (points on map, audio low). 
Federal channel needs federal dollars so it can be dredged to the appropriate amount. 
Local sponsor help in the cost share. Take the material from the federal channel to some 
of the port's placement areas.  
 
01:12:24 
It is very costly. For e.g.. need 80 million dollars to dredge federal channel. govt. decided 
for Galveston and Houston ship channel will give 60 million. The corps are ultimately 
responsible for getting the money. The channel is important to everyone. So while talking 
to the feds, the big 8-10 chemical companies who have a vested interest will also join in. 
Harris county taxpayer money pays only for infrastructure not for dredging.  
 
01:15:30 
PR department on the medium size. Have 8 full time people. For the amount of area that 
is covered, and for the number of tenants, there is an environmental person assigned to 
every single project. Group is a set of professionals with a science degree. Way back 
then, there were only 4 people. Developed an environmental management agency and 
went after ISO 14,000, first port in USA to get ISO 14,000. Do tenant audits and tenant 
trainings. Over the last 2 years, decided to break down some groups and went back to 
cross training and general lists.  
 
DANA BLUME 
 
Flashcard #2 
 
August 06. 2012 
 
 
 
 
00:00:41 
Clean air strategy program has an outreach prog. Has internal groups and focus groups. 
Waiting to see what they bring in. There will have more community and outreach 
programs. Hotline - info line if there any questions. Suggestion for a citizen or rep should 
be put on the port commission. Every bit of advocacy or outreach enriches the port 
authority further. A lot of concerns from public about air pollution, noise etc that go into 
the NEPA program.  
 
Always tell community or citizen group that if there is a question about the port, then just 
call the port. Community will continue to be a big focus for the port.  
 
00:08:40 
Port had not built a facility with push-backs; that wasn't supported or backed. Case 
involving port and company. Port was awarded 100 million dollars. Environmental 
affairs program helps out a lot with community outreach. Not trying to save the whole 
world but make the world livable.  
 
00:18:34 
Always ask people what their biggest challenge is and how they overcame it. For her an 
opportunity is what she makes it. The port offers a lot of opportunities. Lot of people say 
biggest perk of working with the government is to not account for every hour of the day. 
Environmental affairs department was established in 1984. Work really well with trade 
development operations.  
 
00:24:33 
Have been around for 100 years. Never gone through Sunset. May have been an 
oversight. Not an agency. Self evaluation report made a lot of people aware of what 
everyone does. Here to see which areas could be bettered.  
 
The big Ditch.