Multi-Generational African American Farmers of the Midwest
Anna-Lisa Cox
Library of Congress AFC Archie Green Fellowship
Date of interview: July 22, 2019
Names/s of those interviewed: Jan (Morris) Brinkman, Russell “Rusty” Morris, Marjorie
(Peggy) Lee (Morris) Morecraft, Judith “Judy” Ann Morris Gallion
Primary Interviewer: Anna-Lisa Cox (ALC)
Secondary Interviewers: N/A
(Note: The photographer, Georgia Cravey was in the room, and sometimes spoke.)
Interview Location: Lawrence County, IL
Transcriber: Mabel Scroggins
Abstract: The Morris siblings grew up on their parent’s land near Lawrenceville, in Lawrence
County, Illinois. The first members of the Morris family moved from South Carolina as free
people of color in the late 1790s. They had been propertied and voting in that state, and some
records would seem to indicate that members of the family fought as patriots in the American
Revolution. They left for the Northwest Territorial frontier and the Wabash River Valley after
losing a petition against the state government to reverse a newly enacted racist poll tax law.
Members of the Morris family, including John Morris, were founding members of the Mariah
Creek Baptist Church (founded around 1807), which was anti-slavery. Members of the Morris
family fought in the War of 1812 in the region. (See Annelise Morris 2015) Ph.D. dissertation in
archaeology from the University of California, Berkeley, for further details on the Morris family
in early Illinois.) Jan Brinkman was the first woman of color to serve on the Lawrence County
Farm Board.
1
Index/Log Part 1 of 2
[0:00] Introduction to the Morris siblings.
[5:00] Discussion of animals on the farm, centennial farm, discussion of family ownership,
details of truck farming.
[10:00] Details of canning food, discussion of digging in the cemetery, details of raising hogs,
blacksmithing.
[15:00] Details of slaughtering and cooking pigs, details of family/neighbor get togethers,
discussion of their mother’s background.
[20:00] Discussion of their father and grandfather blacksmithing, details of milking, discussion
of their father farming with horses, their father helped others farm.
[25:00] Details of the different tools their father used, Rusty describes fishing for catfish in a log.
[30:00] Details of catching massive catfish hidden in submerged logs (by hand), details of living
in a small community, Jan was unaware of skin color as a child.
[35:00] Their parents let them choose what they wanted to be, details of their church and
Psalmfest, racial segregation at the roller skating rink.
[40:00] Details of their schoolhouse, Peggie describes the crows nest, details of their education
and graduation years.
[45:00] Details of childhood chores, their dad was known for his corn and tomatoes, details of
selling flower baskets at the farmers market.
[50:00] Their mom did not work a lot on the farm, details of their landscaping, Russell is
well-known for selling mums, details of Russell’s land.
[55:00] Jan’s role on the Lawrence County farm board, details of Jan’s acreage, Russell and Jan
ran against each other for the farm board position.
[1:00:00] Details of how much property their family owns.
2