AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Karen Button – 1/22/22 
1 
 
Karen Button 
Where: Karen Button’s Home 
Date: January 22, 2022 
Location: Park City, KY 
Interviewer: Emily Hilliard 
Transcription: Emily Hilliard 
Length: 1:21:29 
 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Karen Button – 1/22/22 
2 
 
 
I got in touch with the social media manager of the National Association of Rural Letter Carriers, Melissa 
Ray, who notified her contacts in the NRLCA about my project. Kathy Short, Karen Button’s sister 
responded, and said that her sister Karen was also a rural carrier, serving members of the Amish 
community. Though Karen lives in Park City, in Barren County, Kentucky, which is not officially an 
Appalachian county as designated by the Appalachian Regional Commission, the counties to the north, 
east, and south of Barren County, are all in the ARC. Because of Karen’s proximity to ARC counties, and 
because she serves a somewhat unique population, I was interested in interviewing her. 
 
I called Karen and set up an interview at her home on Saturday, January 22. For COVID safety, I wore a 
mask during the interview. We sat at Karen’s dining room table, with her Maine Coon cat, Angus.  
 
Karen Button (b. 1961, Park City, KY) has been a rural letter carrier for over 30 years and serves a 
community composed largely of Amish and other farming families. She has befriended many of her 
Amish customers, who have shown their appreciation for her work with homemade baked goods, fresh 
farm-raised meat, canned goods, butter churns, lap quilts, and more. Karen has also trained new rural mail 
carriers for the past 18 years. She has lived in Park City, within 3 miles of where she grew up, for her 
entire life, so she knows the community she serves very well.  
 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Karen Button – 1/22/22 
3 
 
EH: Emily Hilliard 
KB: Karen Button 
 
00:00 
 
EH: Okay, so I'm here with Karen Button in Park City, Kentucky, and it's January the 22nd, 2022. So why 
don't you introduce yourself and tell me your name, where you were born and the year you were born? 
 
KB: My name's Karen Button and I was born in Barren County, Kentucky in 1961 and I've lived within 3 
miles my entire life. 
 
EH: Why don't you tell me about how you became interested initially in becoming a rural mail carrier? 
 
KB: Well, actually my sister wanted me to go and take a test with her. At that time you had to take an 
exam and then your name went on kinda like a roster and you had to move up and so I moved up like 3 
years later I got a phone call for an interview and at that time I decided that it would be something that I 
would enjoy doing and so I went ahead and accepted the job. 
 
EH: And what appealed to you about it? 
 
KB: Just kinda being out on your own and being in the country and I just, I love to deal with people and 
so just being able to help people in a way that you couldn't otherwise, and keep in touch with people that 
you don't normally see on a regular basis. 
 
EH: Yeah, tell me what your route was like when you first started and how that's changed over time, if it's 
changed? (laughs) 
 
KB: When I first started, if we went in the post office and had like 10 packages that day, it was like oh my 
goodness, we've got a lot of packages today! And now if we only have 100 packages, we're like, where 
did the packages go? We don't have the luxury of staying in the car all day anymore. We're out of the car 
a lot of days more than we're in the vehicle, so it's changed drastically. When I first started, we would, we 
just got what they called raw mail... Should I turn that off (washing machine)? 
 
EH: Oh yeah, maybe that would be good. So we get a quieter recording. If you don't mind. 
 
KB: No! I don't mind at all. Let me turn this off too and I thought, oh gosh, it's louder and louder. Sorry to 
interrupt, but I was... 
 
EH: Oh no, no, that's fine. 
 
KB: ...But I heard it and I was like... 
 
EH: No, that's a good call. 
 
KB: ...that's not good. 
 
EH: Oh yeah, that's much better.  
 
KB: Okay, good. 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Karen Button – 1/22/22 
4 
 
 
EH: So yeah, you were talking about packages. Yeah. 
 
KB: And when I started as far as letter mail went, I don't think we got as much as we do now, but they say 
that we don't get as much now as we did several years ago, but when I first started, we got a lot but it 
didn't, any of it, it did not come in order in the route order and now that's changed because it's been 
several years now that it's called DPS, Delivery Point Sequenced Mail, so we get a lot of that, which helps 
us to get out of the post office. But then, that didn't help as much as then the packages kind of overrun the 
time that it saved us. And we didn't have scanners in the beginning. When I first started, we didn't know 
what a scanner was! 
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
KB: And when we first got the scanners there was very few packages that had the scans on 'em so we 
would have to mark the package to make for sure we didn't forget to scan it and now if it doesn't have a 
scan, then it's very, very unusual because I would say 99.9% of every package that we deliver has a scan 
and we have to use our scanners too. And that's another whole world because now the scanners track us. 
When you deliver a package then it has a little yellow dot on a map that it shows exactly where you 
delivered the package. It shows exactly where we're at during the day and it has been known to save lives 
as far as the, like this one guy had like a diabetic episode and his scanner stayed stopped for a while, so 
they go to check on him and that's what had happened. So I used to, when they first started, being an old-
time carrier, I felt like a little puppy dog with a tracking collar on, but now I see the benefits of it a whole 
lot more outweigh than not having 'em, so. 
 
EH: How did you learn the job? 
 
KB: Well, a friend of mine now and my first regular carrier that trained me, we have been in touch all 
through  the years. I still talk to her about every day. And she was really, really good about coming in and 
helping me in the beginning and helping me get out of the post office and that sort of thing. And I 
remember when I first started, I would check every piece of mail like 2 or 3 times. It took me forever to 
get around my route and my postmaster would say, "What is wrong? Are you okay?" "Yeah, I'm fine! I 
just didn't want to mess anybody's mail up!" which has changed drastically too 'cause they just want us to 
hurry up and get around and get it out there. But that's how I learned was more from her than anything. 
And then just the repetitiveness of it and just doing it over and over. And it's just, it's just a wonderful job 
as far as being out there on your own. You get to see all the wildlife and of course you deal with a little of 
weather every once in a while and stuff but it's... 
 
EH: What kind of wildlife have you seen? 
 
KB: Oh! I've seen anything from, I saw a mink one day and I asked this lady what it was and she says, oh 
they used to get in our barn all the time. Because I told her, I said that was the strangest looking animal! 
(laughs) I didn't have a clue. And then like fox, you see fox all the time and I've seen coyotes and deer 
and of course the rabbits and squirrels and that sort of thing, but you see just about anything and 
everything out there at some time or another and it's just real interesting and it's neat to be able to, it's kind 
of scary when a deer jumps out in front of ya! (laughs) But it's neat to get to see all of it. 
 
07:12  
 
EH: How, or do you have the boxes on your route memorized? Like can you recite the addresses? 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Karen Button – 1/22/22 
5 
 
 
KB: I can, if you tell me a name, I can give you a number! (laughs) I can do that easier than I can like, if 
you give me a number, you know, I'll say, tell me a name, you know. But you put 'em together. I know 
one time, it's funny because I saw the chief, the fire chief was on my mail route and I was at the movie 
theater and he walked up beside me and was getting his ticket and I said, 
 Payne Road, and he looked 
at me. I said, "You're on my mail route. I saw your (laughs) name." I was cheating because I saw his 
nametag and he said oh, I wondered how you knew that! (laughs) Anyway, so yeah, it's funny because 
people kind of look at you funny like, who's this stalker! (laughs) And then I explain and then they're, 
they smile, they think it's neat. (laughs) 
 
EH: Have you had the same route the whole time? Have you had the same people over the 30-some years 
you've done it? 
 
KB: When I started, I started in Smiths Grove, so for like 4 years I had people, I knew maybe 5 different 
houses on the route of the people that lived there. It was kinda hard. I will admit I could get home quicker 
because I didn't see anybody that I knew! So there wasn't anything to talk about! And then when I came to 
Park City, I actually worked Smiths Grove and Park City for about a year, but then I went to Park City 
because that's my hometown and that's where I wanted to be. So I subbed on this route for another like 6 
years and so I knew most everybody on here, living here all my life. So it worked out really well and that 
way it was a lot easier to learn that second route than it was the first route because I already knew a lot of 
the people and so it fell into place real quick. But then sometimes it’s, you know, you see somebody out 
and you know you gotta hurry that day. So you try to avoid people sometimes. But most of the time I like 
to talk! (laughs) So that's why I try to avoid 'em because I get myself in trouble but you know, I love them 
all. I love my people. They're good to me. And Christmas time, get a lot of Christmas gifts, that sort of 
thing, and they love me too I think, because they'll call and say when are you coming back? (laughs) We 
never know who's gonna be here. So I kinda got 'em spoiled. 
 
EH: How many boxes are on your route? 
 
KB: Around 560. It of course varies a little bit up and down. And those are all rural boxes. Like a lot of 
people, they'll have like maybe a thousand boxes, but a lot of 'em will be like apartments, so they'll have 
like the cluster box and they serve a whole lot of boxes at one time. And all of mine are just individual, 
one after the other box. So I've got 89 miles on my route. And so it covers a lot of territory and those 
boxes, there's not a lot of space that you drive, just drive, but you've got a lot of miles and a lot of boxes 
to cover.  
 
10:50  
 
EH: And so the route, the 89 miles, does it do a loop or do you have to kinda back track to get back 
home? 
 
KB: I back track. I go, they moved my, well the route, not the office. But I was in the Park City Post 
Office for, oh probably 20 years, and then I had to move to Cave City because they consolidated a lot of 
smaller offices. So now I drive like 5 miles to get to my first box. And so then, so I've got that space that I 
drive, but that's all the driving. And then I start my route and then when I end my route, I end up servicing 
a box like on the other side of the road coming back to Cave City. So I circle around a lot out in the 
country and then come back the same direction and get the boxes on the other side of the road. 
 
0 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Karen Button – 1/22/22 
6 
 
EH: I see. Why don't you tell me about the customers and the community that you serve? What's the 
community like here and who are the customers generally? 
 
KB: Generally it's a lot of farmers. A lot of farmers are on my route, and then Amish. I have a lot of 
Amish community on my route and that through the years, it's funny because especially the women were 
like stand-offish in the beginning and now, I've got two that I consider my friends. They're, oh they've 
ALWAYS, ALWAYS been so good to me. And [I] get a lot of baked goods and you know, a lot of that 
stuff. And they really do appreciate getting the service. Now mine are, I don't know exactly, but I would 
say like old order Amish, something to that effect, because they have no electricity and no running water. 
And of course no phones and that sort of thing. So they depend on the mail service a lot, you know, to get 
what they need and I know like a lot of times, they're spread out a little bit, but say there might be one that 
5 miles up the road, one person needs to get some information to and they'll come out, and they'll have a 
stamp on the envelope, but they'll say, can you please deliver this for me today because I need you know, 
them to find this out, and of course, that's a lot easier than having to get their horse and buggy fixed and 
head up the road. So they'll, and I do, and stuff like that, or you know, I'll send a message or whatever that 
I can do to help them. There's been times I know, like back, oh, back during COVID and everybody 
started canning and freezing and that sort of thing and you couldn't find jars or lids to can with, and of 
course, that's what they do all the time anyway. That's not because of COVID for them, that's a yearly 
thing, and they couldn't find any, so I found, well a found a little case of jar lids at the dollar store and 
they were so excited because I took those out there. I said "Here! Here's some gold for ya!" (laughs) And 
she was like, "Yeah, yeah, that is gold! Thank you so much!" And so you know, just little things like that. 
One time one of them needed some baby oil because they said, I didn't know why, but they said they put 
it on their wood floors to keep the dust down. And so I went to the dollar store or Walmart or whatever 
and got some baby oil and brought it out to them because they hadn't been able to find any for a while, so 
just little things. I mean, and you know what, you take care of them and they take care of you because like 
I said, I've gotten so many cookies or canned goods. Or one day they were killing hogs, this one Amish 
guy was and he comes running out there and he had me a pork tenderloin that they had just killed. 
 
EH: Wow. 
 
KB: And a lot of people are like, "Oh gosh!" But it was delicious! You know, I brought it home, cooked 
it, and it was delicious! But I mean, they've just always been good to me. Annie, one of my friends, she 
pieced me a little lap quilt. (whispers) I'll show it to you. And her dad, he was real sweet. He was always 
kind and he made little butter churns. 
 
EH: Oh cool! 
 
KB: And so he gave me like a little butter churn one day. And the same guy, he said I was wondering if 
you would want to come in the house and of course they don't, I never...I would always turn my radio 
down, try to be real respectful of their beliefs and stuff and I said, "Okay!" And his wife was quilting and 
she had this big quilt rack up and I said, "You know, I would like to have a quilt rack to hang some quilts 
on." And he said, "Oh well I can make you one like that!" And I said oh, no! (laughs) I can't quilt! I just 
want... She said, "I know what you're talking about, I'll show him." And so he made me a quilt rack to put 
quilts on so, and like one, when the grandkids were coming along, one of them was a furniture maker and 
he, Andy Yoder, and he made me a cradle for the grandbabies. So anyway, it's you know, it's always--I've 
loved my Amish community. They've always been so good to me. Everybody has, though. I mean 
everybody on the route has. You don't have very many people that are, that are very contrary to yeah, I 
mean, you know, they're mostly good people. They want their mail! (laughs) 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Karen Button – 1/22/22 
7 
 
16:43  
 
EH: What kind of canned goods have you gotten? 
 
KB: Well, relishes and like green beans and just you know different, just whatever came out of the 
garden. I had one little, a 93-year old lady, and she wasn't Amish, but she fixed a kettle of vegetable soup 
for me one day, she said it was gonna snow that afternoon, and I said, "I don't know if I can stop by or 
not, because you know, I've gotta hurry because I've got to get in before this weather." She said, "That's 
okay, I've got it ready and I'll just give it to you, just run in the door and I'll give it to ya!" So I ran in the 
door and I got the vegetable soup and I put it in the car. And I was going on around the route, well it 
started snowing on me. And so I put my seatbelt on because I had to go on a main road and as I was 
coming over this little hill, I started sliding everywhere. And I ended up turning around and heading the 
other direction and that soup, when I slung around, it slung around. So I had vegetable soup everywhere! 
And now she's still alive, she's 96 now and she calls me and when it snows, and she'll say, "You need 
some vegetable soup today?" And I'm like "No, no, Jane, I don't need any vegetable soup!" Bless her 
heart. But you know, it's just, people, and she, the same little lady, she would make me bread all the time 
and she would break up some green beans and wash 'em and she'd say, all you gotta do is put 'em in the 
kettle and cook 'em you know, so they'll be fresh. And just, I couldn't tell ya how many people. It's the 
people that if I retire, I will miss. I will retire someday but the route is getting to where it's harder to 
handle but the people are--I love my people. They're good to me. 
 
18:39  
 
EH: Are any of the baked goods, do you think they're particular Amish recipes or something you hadn't 
had before? 
 
KB: There is one thing that's very special and I think mostly the Amish make it because I finally bought 
an Amish cookbook and it was in there, but it was buttermilk cookies. And it's mostly just like sweet 
bread. It's not real, real super sweet. It's not like a cookie sweet. It's just...and I love those and they make 
those special for me a lot. And they and just like some of the breads and candies, they'll make the candies 
for me. And anyway, I just, oh yeah, they're all good too. And one of my favorite Christmas gifts through 
the years that I still, these little Amish kids, and they would get candy on occasion and that sort of thing, 
but it was kind of a special treat for them and so they had gotten some orange slices and some 
peppermints and stuff and they got a Ziploc bag and they took some of their little candy slices and little 
mints and zipped them up in a Ziploc bag and had 'em in the mailbox for me to have for Christmas. And 
that was the most precious Christmas--I mean I've gotten some nice Christmas presents--gift cards and 
that, and I appreciate all of 'em, you know, people are good to me. But that was so special because it was 
those little kids that don't normally, you know, get a lot of stuff like that. And it was so sweet. And they, 
they're really, they were always good to me too, even the little children. 
 
20:21  
 
EH: Do you think some of the mail those families get, would you consider it particular to the Amish 
community? 
 
 
KB: Yes. Because there's like chain letters that they write to each other and that sort of thing and it's kinda 
funny because you can tell when the teenagers or usually they, they'll start writing like the male or the 
female when they get around, well usually later teens or like twenty-ish. And so you can almost tell when 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Karen Button – 1/22/22 
8 
 
there's a little courtin' going on because they'll be writing this one particular person and they'll be running 
out to the mailbox, you know, to see then if they get a response. It's sweet. And but they, yeah, 'cause the 
little chain, one time they told me that they have a little chain letter that I guess once a month. And they 
get an Amish newspaper and it's in like the title of it's in, I think it's like Pennsylvania Dutch. Because the 
Amish guy told me one day what it meant. It's something news, but it's in that Dutch, and I can't, you 
know I couldn't read it at all. 
 
EH: Yeah (laughs) 
 
KB: But he told me one day he's like, "You know what that says?" And I'm like no! And he explained it. 
But it would have a lot of just Amish obituaries and that sort of thing in there. And a lot of them would 
get that newspaper. And the one thing that was really sad and I didn't really know how to handle it 
because the one that made me the butter churn and the quilt rack, he, he wasn't even that old, maybe latter 
60s or early 70s, but I thought you know, he was older. But anyway, a lot of his grown children were on 
my route too, so I was assuming, and I was assuming wrong because anyway, he got really sick and he 
was gonna pass away and they came out one day and got me off the route and they said, "If you want to 
see him, he's..." they called him Old Man Ennis, because his son was Ennis and they called him Young 
Ennis. And I was like, I can't call him Old Man Ennis because you know, to me, to our culture that's kind 
of disrespectful. To their culture it was just who he was! But anyway, so they said he was gonna pass 
away probably in a short time, if I wanted to see him. And bless his heart, I went in the house because I 
hated, what do you say?  
 
EH: Yeah, right, right. 
 
KB: And so I just went in and anyway, and just stood there a few minutes and the family was there 
talking. But that made me so sad, because then he did pass away that night or something.  
 
EH: Wow.  
 
KB: But anyway, so they really are welcoming, you know, as far as...I mean I'm sure there's a lot of 
people that just try to be nosy and move in on them or whatever but I've never done that. I've always let 
them speak first, you know, and there's been a few surprises through the years, but mostly, you know 
(laughs). Because I'm thinking, but they're Amish! Do they do that? (laughs) 
 
EH: Right, right, yeah. I know. I think we had an Amish electrician when I was growing up. (laughs) 
 
KB: Yeah, and it's like okay! How do they know about that? (laughs) Yeah. 
 
EH: And rumspringa, at 16... 
 
KB: And see, I have never paid any attention to that. And I had one guy and his wife--they were so sweet. 
They about got killed in a car wreck. We had, going into Glasgow, they had built a new intersection and 
put a new red light up and cars were just whizzing through--they weren't paying any attention. And this 
particular time the Amish buggy was going through, and it hit them. And she was life lighted to 
Louisville and when she came home, because it broke her all to pieces, but anyway when she came home, 
I took some soup over there and went in and stuff. But I wasn't going to go in. I was just going to give it 
to them because I, and they were like "No, no, it would do her good because she's kinda depressed." And 
so I went in, but they have the most beautiful simple homes. The furniture was beautiful and the flooring--
it was little narrow wooden boards. And you know, it's just beautiful! And they, but you know, after that I 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Karen Button – 1/22/22 
9 
 
mean, he would aggravate me about my tires going in circles. He said something's wrong with your 
wheels because they're going in circles (laughs). You know, I mean, he would... but they were so...but 
then they moved! That's what I was going to tell you about. And all of a sudden, and I said, "I'm so sorry, 
I mean I'm gonna miss y'all! Where in the world..." And they moved to Tennessee. And they wouldn't of 
course, private, they wouldn't ever say why, but a member of the community said that one of their sons 
had gotten in trouble. I wondered if it wasn't through that. And so instead of staying there, they just 
moved the whole family to try to I guess give him a fresh start or something. I don't know.  But anyway, I 
love being able to visit and talk with people and that sort of thing. 
 
25:50  
 
EH: What about other kinds of mail, maybe strange mail--you know people talk a lot about chickens and 
bees. 
 
KB: Oh! (laughs) 
 
EH: Yeah, what's the weirdest thing you've delivered? 
 
KB: Well, I've delivered like salamanders and bees and crickets. I guess they feed, reptiles eat crickets or 
something? I don't know. Those things--I delivered those a lot. The chickens, the baby chicks--I 
remember the first baby chicks I had, they were to an Amish family and all they long, they would go 
shuffle, shuffle shuffle, shuffle shuffle shuffle, back and forth in the box, you know? And screaming, like 
peep peep, peep peep! (laughs) And the little Amish girl was so excited, she said oh! The peep-peeps! 
And I was like, uh, yeah, thank you! Here are your peep-peeps, it's a wonder they're still peepin' but 
(laughs)! But you know, oh, there's just worms and bees, like you say, beehives. I would have, and it's 
funny because the queen bee, they mail it in a little small envelope and so that, it comes separate by itself. 
But the hives, I've delivered plenty of hives, because having the Amish especially, they would order all 
that stuff. I know one day I had this little box of chickens, it was a small box, smaller than usual, and they 
sounded funny. They were a lot, probably twice as big as small chickens usually are. And I told that 
Amish guy, I said, you might want to check these chickens out, because they seem funny! (laughs) He 
said that's because they're turkeys. (laughs) 
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
KB: So that was, I was like oh, okay! And this one guy kept coming out asking for his chickens, asking 
for his chickens, this Amish guy, and I said, no they're not here yet. "They're not here today?" No, they're 
not here yet. And so finally like 3 or 4 days had passed and the chickens came and I delivered them. And 
then he came out a couple days later and he was like, have my chickens gotten here yet? And I said, "I 
delivered them the other day!" And he said, no those went to so-and-so, you know, up the road. And I 
said, well I was trying to help you out! (laughs) 
 
28:01  
 
 
28:01  
But I was just had it in my mind that he was getting chickens, you know. 
 
EH: Right. 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Karen Button – 1/22/22 
10 
 
KB: So anyway. But yeah, there's been some funny stories that you try to keep everything straight but 
somedays you just see what you want to see I guess (laughs). 
 
EH: Let's see, oh, yeah, what are some other things that customers have left for you besides food? 
 
KB: Well, this one lady on the route was making little, the little wax candle melts, so she wanted me to 
have some so that I could smell of her different kinds and stuff. Oh, they, I've gotten anything from ink 
pens to scarves to--this one little lady, she was 100 years old and she knitted me a scarf and I've still got it 
put up in the closet because I wouldn't wear it for anything, because bless her heart. And she did that. I 
mean they have been so, just gracious. All of them, just everybody. And can't think right off hand, but 
you never know, like I mean when somebody's gonna pop up with something. And like I say, especially 
Christmas time, but a lot of times all through the year, you know, they'll, this one lady in particular, I go 
in and out of her little subdivision and when she'll see me going through and so when I come back 
through, she'll be running out with a drink and a, you know, package of cookies or something, you know, 
and just, just all kinds of different stuff. Like I said, with the Amish, they butter churn and that sort of 
thing, just things that really surprise you sometimes. It's like oh no, I don't want to take this! You know 
(laughs). But you love it, you know, you appreciate it. But anyway.  
 
EH: Do you have a right-side drive car? What kind of vehicle do you use? 
 
KB: No. I have always preferred sitting in the middle. My husband fixed me one. He was determined I 
was gonna drive on the right hand side. And but I just much prefer sitting in the middle. That's how I 
started out. I started out, the first car I had was a big old Oldsmobile station wagon (laughs). Of course I 
had 4 kids, and so anyway, and so I drove what I had and my postmaster said, "You can't drive that, that's 
too big." And I was like, I've got long legs. I can make it. And I did. And I felt safer because on the main 
roads, the tractor trailers flying around you, you know I just felt safer. But no, I sat in the middle then and 
I've continued to and I drove a Toyota Highlander right now. But I still, my husband made a little wooden 
block to sit in between the seats and I put a pillow on there and I just sit in the middle and I stay out of the 
weather and I can feel the air in the summer and the heat in the winter and stay half dry. I've only usually 
got one wet arm whereas if you're sitting on the right hand side, the people coming in the post office are 
totally drenched if it's raining or whatever. But I still sit in the middle, just old-timey! (laughs) 
 
EH: Do you get a tan on one side? I guess since you're not really... 
 
KB: I don't so much but when I train the new subs coming in, I tell them, get some sunblock because if 
they, and a lot of them have a right hand drive to start off with now. And I tell them, you're gonna get a 
mail route arm because you're tan on your right arm you know, and your other arm doesn't have a lot. And 
I don't get that as much sitting in the middle. But still, you can tell a little difference, you know, from the 
sun.  
 
EH: So why don't you walk me through your day, your normal day, like from when you start work and I 
assume get to the post office and then finish your day. 
 
KB: When we first get to the post office, our mail, like I was talking earlier about the mail that comes in 
the route order. So we usually, we can have anywhere from one to five trays. We never know, just 
depending on the day. And then so if it's a pretty light day, I'll go ahead, I'll put that mail up, even though 
we can take it out to the street, they tell us they'd like us to take it to the street. But I prefer having 
everything I've got in one spot because that way I don't come as near messing up stuff. So we go to, go to 
our cases and we go ahead and start working what mail that we have. If we've got any, we call 'em flats, 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Karen Button – 1/22/22 
11 
 
which are the magazines, newspapers, and that sort of thing. And so we take those and then we put those 
up and then we're ready to mark our packages when we get all the mail put up. And we have a buggy that 
they'll have our packages sorted in and then I only use 3 markers. I'll use a big red marker for my big 
packages and a little pink marker for the packages I can put in a mailbox and then a yellow marker if I'm 
not sure. So I get those, that little system, I put my markers in, and then it's time to pull the mail down. 
And then you just go load your vehicle and of course you have to do it in the route order, so the stuff 
you're delivering first you have up front with ya. And then the stuff at the end of the route's in the back of 
the vehicle. And so then we go out on the route and like I say, I've got the 89 miles and then my house, 
this house is about halfway in the middle of the route. And so I stop here and I swap my mail around for 
the afternoon and then when I get that done, I just start again. It's usually about two and a half, three hours 
to the house and about three hours past my house. So it's usually 5 and a half to 6 hours out on the route. 
And then I, when I get back to the post office, I don't have that much to do. I have several people on the 
route that have pickups. They have their home businesses. There's probably at least 4 or 5 pickups every 
day and I probably have at least 7 or 8 people that are regular mailers. And so of course that takes a little 
time to stop and pick up the packages but again they're all real kind to me. And so then you of course take 
all that back and then unload everything and then go home and start again the next morning! (laughs) 
 
34:48  
 
EH: Nice. So you're kind of lucky that you have your house in the middle. You can stop and have lunch 
and go to the bathroom. 
 
KB: Yes, yes. Sometimes, depending on how much time I do have, I might grab, go to the restroom, and 
then go grab something on the way out the door and sometimes like if the grandkids happen to be here or 
something I might take a little extra time. We get 30 minutes a day for lunch and so depending, 
sometimes it's not 5 minutes I'm here because I'm just trying to get back and get the job done. But you 
know, if it's a good day and somebody's here or I have something left over from the night before or 
something I'll eat a bite and then head back out again. Yes, I am very lucky that the house is on the route. 
 
EH: Tell me about what you bring with you on your route, so like snacks or emergency items or blankets, 
shovels, anything like that. 
 
KB: Well, since I would say I'm not more, at the very extreme, 10 miles from my house, so I don't carry 
as much as a lot of people do because when I do stop here during the day, if I need extra water or 
anything like that I can...and then if I have trouble then I can call my husband which is retired and then he 
can be to me pretty quick. And so I don't carry as much as other people, but I do like this time a year 
when it's snow and icy, I'll carry a little rubber mallet because I can peck on the top of the mailbox and I 
always tell them in training, just peck a little bit on the top because that breaks your ice. But this one 
woman hit right in the middle of the mailbox and she kinda made a mailbox birdhouse because the whole 
round end of the little rubber mallet went through the mailbox! But anyway, 'cause it was so frozen and it 
just pushed it right out! And but I take, I use that a lot and then I have like a strap cutter or some scissors 
because when we get box holders which means you stop at every box that day. It might be a Walmart 
paper or just those coupons you get sometime or that sort of thing. So I'll have scissors or a little strap 
cutter for that and of course ink pens and then as a rural carrier, they tell us we're a post office on wheels. 
So we're supposed to be supplied with stamps and like if they need a change of address card or we're 
supposed to have those supplies--like the envelopes to buy stamps, anything like that so I've got all that 
stuff, you know, in my vehicle, and I've got change and of course I do have my stamps, and since I do 
have the Amish, I carry rolls of stamps because they buy a lot of rolls. But I have usually, of course the 
spare tire and that sort of thing, but back in the beginning I would change my tire if I had a flat tire--I 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Karen Button – 1/22/22 
12 
 
could do it--but I would always call home and have my husband stay on standby just in case I had trouble. 
And so one day I called home and I said have your dad stay on standby I'm gonna try to change this tire. 
And I got out of the car and I looked and it was like 2 flat tires and so (laughs) I was like have your dad 
come, bring the air tank, bring the plugs, bring whatever you can bring because I've got two flats. So 
anyway, it's always on the latest day of the year, you know, you're running so late anyway and then you 
have the trouble. But just the basic stuff really, I like to have my flag up so that people can see me, like 
especially coming over hills, they can see that flag before they can see anything in the window and I have 
magnets all on the back and on the side. I have my light on top because--and then I run my flashers all the 
time because people say, well if you've got all that, you don't need to run your flashers and stuff, and I'm 
like, I want to be seen! And you know, I want other people to see me. And this was kinda mean, 'cause I 
never tell on another carrier. I mean you just don't do that. But I came up on one up at another office one 
day and I was coming over a hill, and it scared me to death because it was a main road and I was probably 
doing at least 55 if not 60 and come over this hill and there he sat. He just sat on the side of the road. No 
signs, no flag, no light, no flashers, no nothing. And I knew who it was, it just so happened, and I called 
because I said I don't want him getting hurt and I don't want anyone else getting hurt that's gonna run into 
him that didn't realize who he was and what he was doing. So I tell them in training, make sure you can 
do everything you can to protect yourself, not to mention the other people that's coming down the road, 
because you know, you want to be visible for sure because you're making so many stops. So I carry all 
that sort of thing. And I don't normally carry like an extra blanket or anything, but I do carry a coat and I 
just wear thin layers because in the winter I'd rather have thin layers than, it keeps you warmer than a lot 
of bulky, and we can't be bulky because we gotta move too much in the vehicle, so... 
 
40:29  
 
EH: Yeah, what are the things you make sure to tell new carriers when you train them? 
 
KB: Well, I always, I try to give them some of just the basic rules as far as like a little union stuff goes, 
but mainly I do tell them just to start out and be serious with this and try to learn it. They try to force them 
to just hurry up and get done these days. That's all that they're about is hurry up and get done, which is 
fine if you're accurate. But I tell them, I said, you want somebody else's mail in your mailbox? And 
they're like no! And I'm like, do you want your mail in somebody else's mailbox? And vice versa, and 
they're like no, and I'm like, well then you don't-- treat every piece of mail like it's your own mail because 
then if you pay attention in the beginning and truly learn your route, you're not gonna make those 
mistakes. And then when something happens, I've had people call in at the post office and they're like, 
"Who's carrying our route today." and you know, they're like, "Well Karen's on..." Oh, okay. Clunk. And 
just hang up (laughs) you know? But they had a complaint, but since it was me--because I try not to mess 
up! Now I do mess up, we all do, none of us is perfect. But you try to be accurate as much as you can. 
When I pick up behind myself it just makes me cringe because I want my mail delivered correctly and 
have I done it before? Yes, I've done it before--I think everybody probably has. I don't care to admit it. 
Because a lot of carriers, they're like, well I don't think I did, you know, and try to blame it on somebody 
else, it's like, you were on there so you had to have! So I just tell them to be careful from the beginning 
and try to learn their job and not just half-do their job in the beginning because they're gonna end up half-
doing their job. And I said it then, just like when people call in and they know that you've always done as 
good a job as you can, I said then they're gonna trust you more because like if their check disappears and 
you're on the route and you never did that before, they're gonna say, well you know, something has 
happened, it's got lost in the system. They're not gonna think well, wonder where she left it, so I just... 
 
EH: Yeah, tell me about the union. Was that a part of the job that attracted you to the job--union 
representation? 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Karen Button – 1/22/22 
13 
 
 
KB: Well, not really. I don't guess it at--I probably didn't think anything about it. As a matter of fact, 
when I first heard about it, I was kinda leery of unions. When we were kids, just little kids, I know there 
was a union and they had a strike, which we sign a paper saying we don't strike, so the Postal Service 
can't strike. We would pile up in a couple days. We wouldn't be able to get anywhere in the post office! 
But anyway, this company had gone on strike and one of our brother's close friends and his dad got killed 
because he got shot like on the picket line! And when I first heard union, I was thinking, I don't know that 
I want to be a part of that because you know, the only thing I had ever heard was bad. But our union, it 
has protected us as far as like our job security and stuff like that and our pay and that sort of thing. I know 
they fought hard when, we can't hardly get the mail delivered in 6 days and then when they were gonna 
try to go to 5 days, it was like oh no! There's no way! And so like they fought for, you know, they fight 
for, to me, the good things and it's about, more about the carriers than--and that's like, I tell the new hires 
like if they didn't know it, some of them are leery about the union too. And I tell him, I said, you know, 
like my sister's union-union, but I'm union, but I said, I like the union because you get the information. 
For instance, like if we're out on the route as the regular carrier and we get sick, and we've only, like my 
route's 89 miles, if I've only got 10 miles to go and I have to have somebody, my sub gets paid for the 
whole day and all the mileage. It was like I was never there that day. And here I've almost done the whole 
route. And if they didn't know that, if they weren't in the union or have somebody that knew you know the 
union stuff, then they could get cheated because they could, we don't get paid any less than 2 hours if we 
get called in, but if they didn't know that then they might think, oh I only got 10 miles and my 2 hours, 
whereas no! You get the whole... So they union's been really good to us through the years with the 
contracts and stuff. We've got a new contract coming up but it's been really good--healthcare and you 
know that sort of thing. But it really wasn't what drew me to the job, but yet I have been a member almost 
ever since I started the post office because it is, it's good. And there's a little more power with numbers if 
nobody joined then there wouldn't be one and then we'd get whatever, you know. 
 
EH: And are you part of the Kentucky chapter? Is there a more local chapter?  
 
45:57  
 
KB: We have, we are--it's kinda like the union is United States-wide. So all of us that are members of the 
union are the whole United States, all the Postal Service. But we do have our own union. Like the rural 
carriers have their union, the city carriers have their union and the clerks and postmasters, so on and so 
forth. But with us, the I was trying to think of the initials of it, but anyway, the National Rural Letter 
Carriers Association. And but when we join then we get information. We have a district, so it breaks 
down in the state of Kentucky, so we have state meetings, we have national meetings, and we also have 
our district meeting. So yeah, so it breaks down and then the, like I try to as much as I possibly can go to 
the districts and the state. And I've been to a couple I think 2, they had one in Lexington and one in 
Nashville, national conventions and so, but it's really neat. It's fun to go to and plus the main thing I like's 
learning about what is expected and you know, what we can get by with and what. 
 
47:15  
 
 
47:15  
EH: Yeah. Have you seen this community or even the landscape on your route change at all over the 30 
years you've done it? 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Karen Button – 1/22/22 
14 
 
KB: Oh yes. When I first started it was mostly people that had been there all their life pretty much, and 
farmed and that sort of thing. But as some of the older people have passed away and their farms sold and 
like people would buy and make subdivisions and that sort of things. I have a lot more of those out in the 
country now than I did. I've got one now that when they get, they've got like 4 or 5 houses so far, but 
when it gets completed, it'll be like 20, 21 houses. So even out, there's another part that's in the same 
general area that somebody bought up and subdivided. And so yes, it's definitely changed. There's a lot 
more mobile homes and that sort of thing. Because when I was a kid, it was pretty much farmland, the 
part, you know the whole route that I had, and now it's really changed and been divided up and that sort of 
thing. Some of it, I think's okay and probably maybe even for the better, but some of it, you know, 
especially like the mobile homes, they're good when they put 'em in and then when they start deteriorating 
and people move in and out a lot, then it's sad to see some of the things that happen. 
 
EH: So like more development and fewer farms. 
 
KB: Yes, yes, definitely. Now, I do have a lot of what I call big time farmers that probably have like 500 
to a thousand acres and raise a lot of tobacco and grain and this sort of thing, but for the most part, that's 
pretty much been dissolved, if its, you know, it's just little small farms that really--it's more or less like for 
a few cows or horses or something. Just more or less for kind of like the fun of it I guess, maybe not the 
fun of it, but you know, not... 
 
EH: Family farm? 
 
KB: Yeah, yeah, you know, just like a small operation and the bigger ones, they're fewer and farther 
between. 
 
EH: Yeah. What do you think the importance of rural mail is for the communities you serve? 
 
49:42  
 
KB: Well, especially like with my Amish, I mean, they're, it's hard for them to like I say, hook up their 
horse and buggy. And I've had to fight (laughs) a couple of postmasters through the years that came in 
new that were like, well you don't need to be picking up all those packages and stuff. It's like no! Well, 
we don't need to take this one back out, because maybe a sub would be on and they just, I hate to say it, 
but some of them are just lazy. I mean there's regular carriers too. I mean it's everywhere you go. But 
anyway, and they just bring back an Amish package. I'm like, that is unheard of because I can even put 
them down by the mailbox, because they don't want to have to come to the post office! I mean and we're 
not supposed to as carriers, we're not to put a package by a mailbox, but with the Amish, way back the 
Amish lanes and that sort of thing, they want their packages left! So I've had to fight a few postmasters 
because it's like, that's the only thing they have is the mail delivery! We have to get that too them! And 
but then just like there's elderly people too. And I mean I know, a lot of people will say, we don't even 
need, you know, we've got computers. If they came in a post office and so how much actual mail is still 
going through the system. And we touch everybody, every day in some way or another, whether it's a PO 
Box or it's out on a route. And some of these people, I mean, even though everybody has a vehicle these 
days, I understand that, and it's easier to get around then it used to be, but I still have people like 15 miles 
from any local post office. And so it's just handier when we can come out there and actually bring them 
their mail or packages or whatever. So and we still, now some office have had the Amazon taken away, 
but we still have that going on. So we still get a lot of packages that we deliver out in the country and 
stuff. And maybe some of the older people, that's the only way they've got to get some supplies 
sometimes.  
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Karen Button – 1/22/22 
15 
 
 
EH: So some post offices aren't delivering Amazon anymore? 
 
KB: Just like Bowling Green, Amazon's delivering their own packages now.  
 
EH: Interesting. 
 
KB: Uh-huh. The bigger cities, they've started delivering their own packages a lot. But so far they haven't 
made it to our little post office (laughs) 
 
EH: Well yeah, I think I read there's also the final mile? 
 
KB: That's it. That's why we get so many packages. Because even we get, we don't [get] FedEx anymore, 
but used to after we would leave the post office in the morning, we would get a UPS truck and a FedEx 
truck every day, because then we would deliver that the next day. They would drop it but it's like you say, 
the final mile, it's cheaper for them to pay the Postal Service to take it out. So like I'm out in the country, 
so if they only had one little package to deliver to me today, if UPS did, it pays them, it's cheaper for them 
to pay the post office to deliver that one package out where I live versus having a big truck come out and 
pay that person the extra mileage and stuff to come out to one house. So that's why we get a lot of the 
UPS and up and 'til about the last year I guess we don't get, I don't know when that happened, but we 
don't get a FedEx truck anymore, but we do still get the UPS truck every day. So people don't realize that 
but it's like you said, it is the final mile, because they say it's cheaper. 
 
EH: Yeah, do you find, do you deliver a lot of prescriptions? 
 
53:24  
 
KB: Oh yeah, and especially, you can tell the people that's got the mail order, you know prescriptions, 
and a lot of retired military--the VA sends out a lot of their meds through the Postal Service. And that's 
one thing, we can't, well now, if we forget a package, we always have to turn around and get it delivered 
because it has to be scanned and delivered every day. But, back in the day if I had medicine, for sure, if I 
would forget a little package or something, you know, I would turn around and go back and deliver the 
medicine because I knew those people were dependent on it. And one time years ago before there were 
scans, this little lady called in, it was in Smiths Grove when I first started and my postmaster called me 
and he said you don't, you didn't have a package for her today? She said she's out of medicine. And I said, 
let me go look because I don't think I did but let me look! And I looked and it had fallen under my seat 
and so I told him, I said, I will take it back to her. And so I went back to Smiths Grove and took her 
package to her because it was medicine and she needed the medicine! It was my fault, I mean I couldn't 
help it, I didn't do it on purpose, it just was an accident but I had found it so I took it back, you know. So 
it happens. But yeah, we do deliver a lot of meds. 
 
EH: Tell me about some unusual happenings, like the sort of stories you tell about you know, a crazy day 
on the job, or I think your sister mentioned something of helping customers out of a creek? 
 
KB: This little place on my route, there's a little, just a little creek that runs there and especially when the 
water's up, if it rains a couple days or something it really gets up high. So a couple of weeks before this 
happened to me, this little girl had gone over this hill. Now this was at night or whatever--I wasn't on the 
route. But she had flipped her vehicle and ended up drowning in that little creek! So a couple weeks later, 
a couple weeks go by and I was on the route! And it was about like today, it was probably in the 20s, 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Karen Button – 1/22/22 
16 
 
maybe 30s, and I had on my lined britches and that sort of thing. I was all wrapped up that day. So I'm 
coming over this little hill and I have to stop at these two boxes and I'm like, I hear a car horn! And I 
thought maybe the people, because this house happens to be up on a hill, like away from the mailbox, and 
I thought, oh, they have hit their alarm accidentally on the vehicle, so it's making the horn go off. And so I 
drove down a little bit and hit that where the creek was, and there was a vehicle turned upside down in the 
creek on the other side from where the little girl--well it was, I parked and it was all snowy and cold and 
rainy and I run down into the creek and was screaming and no one was saying anything, but the car horn 
was just blaring. So I knew it had to have not happened that long ago. I mean at least it hadn't been long 
enough to run the batter down from the horn. And anyway, and of course, I had that little girl on my 
mind. And I was like, oh no, what am I gonna do! And so I go down there and I called 911 and they said, 
"Was anybody in the vehicle?" I said, I don't know! I can't get down there! And so I said, just send 
somebody! (laughs) So anyway, so they said, “Well okay, we'll send somebody.” So I go and walk down 
in the creek in my lined britches, freezing, and I raise the top to the back--it was a camper. I tried to get 
around to the window to see but the door was locked and I couldn't get the door open and the window was 
of course up and I couldn't see anything 'cause the water was already in there. And so I go to the back and 
that opened up like it was kind of like a Blazer or something with a top that you could open, and there 
was dog food just floating in there and bags of dog food. And so I was screaming, nobody was answering 
me, so I called 911 again. I said when is somebody coming? So anyway, in the rounds of it, this guy 
comes down through there, and he's like Karen! He said, it's me! I said, there's somebody that could be in 
that car! And he said, no! It was me! And I said, it was you? (laughs) And he said, you didn't call anybody 
did you because we're getting the car--I said, yes, I called somebody, what did you expect me to do? 
You've already taken 10 years off my life because I was worried to death somebody--because I thought, 
are they buckled in? You know, I didn't know! And so he told me later, he said, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to 
scare you to death! Of course, it was one of the guys that, a farmer that I knew from the route. And he 
said, what happened, I guess he just slid off in the snow and then it flipped on him. But he said that when 
he was in there and he couldn't get his door open or anything, and he said "I thought, this is not good!" 
And he said he got up above the water with his head and he said, I finally thought maybe I can open that 
back window and so that was the only way that he did get out. 
 
EH: Wow. 
 
KB: But anyway, but stuff like, and then I went the rest of the day with wet britches with the heater 
turned up as high as it could go. But anyway, this little couple that I pick up packages from, she, I saw her 
the other night and we went out to eat and they were up at Cracker Barrel and she said you know, I still 
remember that day that you found that truck in that water. She said, you were scared to death! Of course I 
had stopped at their house next to pick up their packages and I said, yes! And I told him it took 10 years 
off of my life because (laughs). But oh my goodness. There's been things that you just, you're like oh my 
gosh! What do I do? You know, I'm not gonna not help somebody if I can and of course make the mail 
truck in the afternoons. That's one thing they, you've got to make the truck! And it's like that day, that was 
the last thing on my mind. You just got to help whoever it is, you know? 
 
EH: Right. 
 
59:48  
 
KB: One time there was a friend of mind and her little grandson, his other grandparents lived on my route 
and he was getting off the school bus there one afternoon. Well he, it's kind of off the route, and he'd 
already walked back there and he walked back to the road and I said, Cody, what are you doing? He was 
probably about 6 years old or something. 5 or 6. And of course, I knew him. And he looked at me and he 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Karen Button – 1/22/22 
17 
 
said, Nana or whoever is not at home. And I said, well honey, I said get in here, we'll go back there and 
we'll find them. And so I went back there and his dad lived back there, his parents were divorced at the 
time, and his dad lived back there and there was no one home there, and his grandparents, no one was 
home there. And I thought, what am I gonna do with the little fellow? So I just left a note on the back 
door and it was before cell phones, before I had a cellphone anyway, and I left a note on the back door 
and I said, I knew his dad, and I said I've got Cody, he's fine, I'll take him back to the post office with me. 
But no one was here, and of course I couldn't wait all day, you know? And so anyway, so I left it on the 
back door. Well he had called the post office. His dad had called the post office in the meanwhile and he 
said, Karen's got Cody and has she got back yet? And my postmaster at the time said, no, she hasn't 
gotten back, and she don't have a kid because she's on the mail route! (laughs) And he said, she left me a 
note and said she's got him! And anyway, so when I got back to the post office, Jesse, my postmaster, 
came out and he said some man called here and said you've got a kid with you! I said, I do! I said look! 
And the little thing had found him a package of--you talk about snacks and stuff that I take out on the 
route--I do take snacks 'cause he had found a bag of little Cheetos or something back there and he had ate 
his Cheetos and he was laying there asleep with his bag of Cheetos half eat. So anyways, so he done gone 
to sleep on me. But he wasn't scared or anything because he knew me, you know. But anyway. But his 
dad was! So his dad showed up and got him, but it was funny. But there's been just little things like that 
that you just do what you gotta do at the time, I mean, job or now job. You just try to take care of the 
situation the best you can!  
 
EH: Right. Have you ever had, you know, really bad unusually bad weather you had to deal with? 
 
KB: The day that I had my accident, it was in the snow. I ended up, because what I had a little country 
store and the guy that worked there he said Karen, he said, be careful because it's getting bad. I said oh 
no, it's fine. I said, you know, it hasn't done anything yet. And so I got on around and it wasn't long, 
maybe 30 minutes and it started in like slush puppy ice and I started sliding towards the mailboxes and I 
was like oh! I'm gonna have to do something. So I normally, when I pull out on this main road, I go on 68 
and 80, which is the mail road to the next little road that I have. I don't have any boxes on that main road, 
but I have to get to my other little road. So I never scoot over and buckle up, but that day I scooted over 
and buckled up because I thought ah, this isn't good. I'm gonna be really careful. And so I start going over 
that little hill I was talking about earlier and sliding and it did end up off the road because I was going the 
other direction. But I was real lucky because I was buckled up and a tree came in the back window and 
that's the only thing that kept me from flipping because it was over an embankment and these guys came 
and opened by door and held it up for me so that I could climb up and get out. (laughs) But that was really 
the worse. Now I've been out in snow and ice and everything before. Now ice you can't hardly do but the 
snow, as long as, I always say, I like for it to be whatever it is. If it--I don't like for it to start on me in the 
middle of the day, because then you don't really know what you're facing, but like if I get up and there's 3 
or 4 or 5 inches of snow or whatever, at least you know what you're dealing with, so you can kind of feel 
it out in going to work, just driving slow. And I used to be scared to death of snow or, if there came a 
snowflake, I was not going anywhere! (laughs) So I just said a little prayer and prayed for the best and I 
think the Lord took that fear away from me because it was--I got to where, because I was like, what am I 
gonna do? Because years ago they would let somebody drive us but I guess it got to be too big of a 
liability so they wouldn't let that happen anymore. The only time in the last few years that they have is 
when it did come an ice storm one time and the mail was piling up because nobody could get out! And so 
after about 3 days, they said, well this is an emergency situation, let's get, if they can get drivers to get this 
mail delivered then, so my husband drove me and then I would, he would just stop--no one was out--and 
he would just stop in the middle of the road and I would just get out and walk to the mailbox because, just 
to get rid of it. So we delivered every box that day! But I mean for the most part, if there's not drifts, 
cause when the wind's blowing and it drifts, then you can hang it up. One day I was trying to go out and 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Karen Button – 1/22/22 
18 
 
there was tractors and big trucks stuck and it was like mmm, can't do this. And then I'd go to another little 
road thinking, well maybe I could get this one, but it was not doable. So, but you know, you just take it a 
day at a time as it comes and try not to be scared or whatever, you know. It doesn't do any good to be 
scared as a matter of fact it makes it worse! (laughs).  
 
1:05:47  
 
EH: Right, that's true! What are the stories that rural mail carriers tell to each other about the job and is 
there any jokes about the job or language that you use particular to the job? 
 
KB: You know, I've been really lucky to have some good friends and we kinda will have like some inside 
jokes but it, I can't really think of anything in particular right now. But well, just like we all laugh about 
every time that you have like a new dog especially on the route or something. One time I had a dog and 
we always laugh and say, "Oh yeah, but they won't bite!" Because that's what we always get told. "Oh but 
they won't bite!" And anyway, this one woman, they had just moved in and it was way off the road and I 
go back to the house and I had a package and was trying my best to find--I'll try to find like a vehicle I 
can pull up close to or anything, and set it on that vehicle if there's a dog, especially one I don't know. So 
we make jokes all the time about dogs. That one in particular I left them a notice because I couldn't get 
close to anything and they left me a note back the next day and said, well, next time you're here and we're 
here, we'll introduce you to that dog so that you won't be scared of it and he'll know you (laughs). And I 
was like, hmm, don't really care about getting introduced to your dog, but that's nice you got him and 
everything! But as long as he acts like he's gonna eat my car, I'm (laughs)...But we make jokes about dogs 
all the time because...and then there's been times when I don't know, people are very, they're not discrete 
on their clothing when they are...or like they'll be laying out, maybe it's back a little back road and then 
they're laying out on their porch or something nude or whatever. And it's like ehh, just get some clothes 
on! You know, you try to look the other way or whatever. But it's like, you just run into just everything. 
We tease each other about, "yeah, you like to go back there!" Or you know (laughs) or whatever! Yeah, 
that's, I can't think of anything really in particular, but you know, a lot of stuff like that and especially the 
dog thing because you know, like nobody's dog bites! In case you didn't know that. (laughs) And there's 
places though, seriously, and I'll tell my sub, if I train 'em I'm like do not get out here! Because I have 
gotten bit before. Like I got bit by a pit bull one time. It got me as I was trying to jump back in the car, it 
got my rear. And I was like oh no! It just bit me! So I told them, I said we can't deliver. And I told my 
subs, every time I get a new one, I'm like do not get out there. And that guy said, well most of the time 
he's put up! And I'm like, but he wasn't that day. So we cannot get out here anymore. So I don't take 
chances and that's what I tell them in training. And you know, like a dog might like me, but you are my 
new sub and they don't like you, so I tell them, you know if you're not comfortable take care of yourself. 
But there's places, like I've got 2 that I can think of right now, they have 3 dogs apiece and they'll come 
out like they're gonna eat you in the car and everything, the mail and everything, but as soon as I put it in 
park and turn the motor off and get out, they just run back to the porch or whatever. They don't bother 
anything. But if I were a new sub on that route, you know...and I tell them, if you don't feel comfortable, 
don't do it. But yeah, we tease about the dogs not biting and stuff (laughs). Oh me! 
 
1:09:34  
 
EH: You can probably tell a lot about people through the mail. 
 
KB: Oh yes! Yes. And through the years, and that's what I tell them in training too, sanctity of the mail, 
you don't discuss if the preacher gets the Playboy or if the rich person you thinks rich gets all the late 
notices, you know? You don't, you just don't discuss it! It's not our business, we don't pay attention, we 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Karen Button – 1/22/22 
19 
 
don't do...I know one time a carrier, she thought, I think she thought it was somebody's birthday. Well 
come to find out, 'cause there were getting a lot of cards. So she goes ahead and sends them like a 
birthday card, and come to find out, they'd been sick! It wasn't their birthday, so she sent them a birthday 
card and everybody else was sending these get well cards. You know, so it don't pay ya to try, and I 
always say, don't assume anything on the mail route. You make for sure that it's a fact. They used to tease 
this guy at Smiths Grove, his sub would say do not take your curtains down to spring clean if you're on 
Kendall's route because he will turn you in a "moved, left no address" because you don't have curtains 
hanging up! (laughs) And so you know, just little stuff like that. So but anyway, but it's been fun through 
the years. It's been more fun than it has trouble. There's been days when you're crying and you're like, 
why am I doing this, you know? I am worn out! But the next day the sun's shining and you get to see the 
pretty countryside, especially in the spring when the flowers are blooming and then in the fall when the 
leaves our turning. Part of my route goes in Mammoth Cave National Park. 
 
EH: Oh cool! 
 
KB: And so I get to see a lot of wildlife. I saw a bald eagle one day out there, that was flying through, 
come to think about it. And there's, it just amazing to me. And it's amazing to me the wildlife that's out 
during the day that usually hides. I saw a bobcat one day too! It was over and it's funny 'cause you see 
these things and all of a sudden they're there and you're like--I just saw that? Oh my goodness! But I 
wouldn't have ever thought about that being out in the day, so it takes you by surprise sometime. 
 
EH: What's your favorite part of the job? 
 
KB: The people. If I retire, that's what I'd miss the most is the people because I love visiting with my 
people. And what I hate about the job the most these days is that we have to rush so much because we do 
have so many more packages and despite what everybody thinks, we've still got a lot of mail and it just 
takes a lot of time to get around so you don't have time anymore. At least used to if you saw a little 
elderly person out you may be the only person they see for well even weeks, except for you! And you 
know, how are ya, you doing okay today, and of course they'd get into at least 5 or 10 minutes of 
explaining all their aches and pains, but it's okay because you know, that's part, to me that was part of the 
job. And now it's like, oh no, I gotta hurry up and get their mail ready, you know, so that I can get out of 
here, so that I can hurry up and get back! And that's the part that I don't like these days. But I love all my 
people and through the years, like I said, they've been good to me, I've tried to be good to them, and it's 
just you know, it's just really fun to me it's been a fun job because it's really most of the time it hasn't been 
like a job. It's just been enjoyable getting out and getting to visit the neighbors or whatever. So, but that's 
what I like most is the people. 
 
1:13:21  
 
EH: Nice. Yeah, sounds like you have a very good bond with everybody.  
 
KB: Uh-huh. They're good. Like I said, they're good to me, I try to be good to them and they're very good 
to me. I'll tell ya one story that happened to me. This little old lady on the route, I had known, when I was 
a kid, like I say, I grew up here. So some of the neighbors, they were Andersons and I knew that they 
were related to this little lady--she was probably in her latter 80s at the time. And I knew they were 
related, but I didn't know how. And but I thought I'm gonna leave this letter in her mailbox because it was 
addressed to the Andersons on whatever road, I forget the name of the road, because we don't deliver on 
that anymore--there's not a house there anymore. But I thought, that's strange. I'm just gonna leave it in 
Alice's box and see what happens. Well Alice called me and she said Karen, she said, thank you so much 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Karen Button – 1/22/22 
20 
 
for leaving that letter. And I said, well I couldn't remember how you were exactly related, but I knew you 
were. And anyway, come to find out, I think it was her sister. But what it was, her, okay so that would 
make it her niece, was elderly at the time and she was in a nursing home in Louisville. And her daughter 
actually lived in Louisville and went to see her all the time but she had Alzheimer’s. So she didn't know, 
you know, but she, right before she died, she had written this letter to her mother and father and she said, 
"Dear Mom and Dad, I am doing so well. These people are so nice to me and I hope to be home soon to 
visit for a little while." And signed her name and everything and put it in that envelope and remembered 
that there was Route 1 Park City. And so Alice gave that to her daughter and her daughter was just 
thrilled to death to get that letter because her mom died a day or two after that. And so she had that letter 
that her mom had written to her parents, thinking she was writing it to her parents, you know. This other 
lady was from the eastern part of the state and actually it's her daughter that went to Berea that I was 
talking about. But she lived like I don't know, Middlesboro, or somewhere over that direction. And so she 
got a letter addressed to Janice Roark (sp?) which was not her name, Route 1 Park City. And they were 
like, I don't know who this is. And I said, I do! And so I gave it to Jan and her brother at her funeral he 
said, I can't believe that she actually got that letter. If it hadn't been for you, she would have never gotten 
that letter. And one other time that I can think of right off hand, this lady on, she was over the little church 
cemetery. And somebody had addressed a letter, but I knew that, but this letter was just addressed. I don't 
know. It just said like Walnut Hill Cemetery, Route 1 Park City, or whatever! It just didn't have anything. 
And I put it in her mailbox because I knew she took care of the...and so she called me and she said, 
"Thank you so much." Somebody had died and it was part of their estate that they had left to the church 
and she said we would have never gotten that money if you hadn't of, you know, put that letter in my 
mailbox. So there's been lots of times like that that I just, I don't know. I hate it because, and I can't be 
there forever, but you know, there's things like that that I think, now who's gonna take care of them 
because nobody will know because they didn't grow up here or anything. And of course, they could care 
less anymore, a lot of 'em. It's like "Oh well, don't know where that is. Just send it back." You know, and I 
hate that attitude. I hate it because I try every way I can to figure out who knows what for who or 
whatever, you know? And usually end up coming up with a solution. A very few times I haven't, but 
anyway.  
 
EH: Yeah, so your knowledge of the community matters and is valuable and if that went away or if you 
know, it was more mechanized or something, that wouldn't exist anymore. 
 
KB: That's true. That's very true because I mean if there wasn't, like if it was all you know, done through 
machines, then the personal part of it, that'd be completely gone, because if it didn't have the correct, 
exact address, then it would be going back or going to dead letter and never end up anywhere or 
whatever. So. 
 
1:18:27  
 
EH: Well I think those are all my questions. Is there anything that we didn't talk about that you think 
would be important or anything I didn't ask you want to share? 
 
KB: I can't really think of anything. All I know is you know, I've been there this many years. I've trained 
for probably the last 18 years and it's just kind of a whole 'nother ball game because the people--it's like 
the really caring part of the job--it's kinda, and it's not really the people that are coming in new. I don't 
think it's their fault because when they get in that office, they're pushed so hard to hurry, hurry, hurry. 
 
EH: Yeah.  
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Karen Button – 1/22/22 
21 
 
1:19:13  
 
KB: Because that's for the most part what the post office is about these days is like just get it done and get 
back and make the truck. You know? And to me they have taken, it's hard for us as the older carriers go, 
when we actually had personal relationships with people and that sort of thing, it's hard to do that 
anymore to get to know like your new people or whatever, because we're kind of stuck in the same boat. 
But you still try to put that personal touch on it, and I think that I don't know if it's this generation or 
exactly what--they are, they're under a lot of pressure. I get it. But it's almost like the newer people 
coming in, you know, they just want--it's just a job to them. They just want to do what they gotta do and 
get home and get their check every other week. And I just hate it that it's kinda come to that. And I hope it 
turns around. I hope that you know, in some way, that they realize how important that their job is, 'cause 
it's an important job! I mean as far as somebody told me, and it was a postal person, actually it was a 
postal union person, because I was saying, I hate it because you know especially with COVID and stuff, 
you know, we were trying to...and I said, you know, it's like, I said something about being an essential 
employee and this union person said, you're not essential, that's just for medical people and I'm like 
(laughs). I said we touch the lives of pretty much every human being in the whole United States on a daily 
basis! 
 
EH: Right! And you bring people medicine! 
 
KB: Exactly! And medicine and that sort of, yes! 
 
EH: And money... 
 
KB: We are! Yes! I said and what would they have done without their toilet paper and paper towels? 
(laughs) 
 
EH: Right! Especially in those early days when there was... 
 
KB: Exactly, when everybody was having to stay at home and even stores were closed, a lot of 'em so a 
lot of the only choice you had would be online or stand in line to wait your turn to get in a store when 
they were limiting the amount of people. Anyway. But no, I love my job and I appreciate you too. 
 
EH: Yeah! Thank you so much. 
 
KB: Well thank you. I appreciate it.  
 
1:21:29  
 
END OF TAPE  
END OF INTERVIEW