Lang, Thomas 
Interviewed by Christopher Sims 
September 29, 2017 
 
 
SIMS [00:00:10]: I think we’re good to go  
LANG: Okay 
SIMS: Could I ask you to start off by saying and then spelling 
your name? 
LANG: Certainly, my name is Thomas Patrick Lang but I go by 
Tommy: T-o-m-m-y L-a-n-g 
SIMS: Alright, and tell me a little bit about your upbringing; 
where it was, the type of work your parents did 
LANG: Well I was born in New Orleans. My father was an engineer, 
my mother was an accountant. As a matter of fact she was the 
first certified public accountant in Texas, as a female. She was 
also the first certified public accountant that did not go to 
college. I grew up in New Orleans, Catholic school—14 years. 
That was because I started in Kindergarten and I flunked the 
fourth grade which was a good thing for me because I had no 
business being where I was. I believe in Catholic schools. When 
I went to college, except for things to do with meteorology, 
which is what I majored in, I didn’t learn a thing in college 
that I hadn’t already been exposed to in high school. I wrote a 
paper when I was a sophomore in college that was about a book 
that I read and wrote a paper on when I was, I was a freshman at 
Holy Cross.  
SIMS [00:01:45]: So what is it, what era are we talking about? 
LANG: Let’s see, I graduated in 1973 so I was a kid of the 
sixties, 
SIMS: So what, so what would you 
LANG: Hippies and all that stuff 
SIMS [00:02:00]:  So how does the, I have a certain impression 
in my mind of Catholic school, how does that sort of intersect 
with hippies, how was that experience for you? 
LANG [00:02:11]: Well, it was uh, hippies was definitely 
different, I didn’t really get into that ‘til I was, ‘til I was 
in college at the university of New Orleans but--oh yeah, 
hippies were like this exotic thing off on the, on the left hand 
when I started getting inv-, not involved but, I started meeting 
them and, and stuff it was like “wow you like me you guys are 
normal people.” 
SIMS [00:02:41]: Was there something about Catholic school that 
you think is, other than like the academic rigor that sounds 
like it’s there, was there something else to it that you think 
is that really impacted you? 
LANG [00:03:01]: Morals to a certain extent, not necessarily 
Catholic morals but—I have this expression I call “the cowboy 
way,” you, you do what’s right, you treat people with respect, 
and you protect women and children and, and yeah I learned that, 
I learned that from Catholic school. That, that was important to 
me and it’s been important my whole life. 
SIMS [00:03:39]: Tell me about meteorology, how did you, I’ve 
never heard anyone who’s majored in that, was 
LANG [00:03:46]: Well there was this guy in New Orleans, his 
name was Nash Roberts, he was a meteorologist, he was probably 
the first TV meteorologist that was actually a meteorologist. 
And, and he influenced, he wouldn’t get up there and say “he 
it’s gonna rain tomorrow” he’d say “well we’ve got a high-
pressure system and it’s causing a, a counter-clockwise motion 
and duh-da-duh-da-duh-da and I mean I’m very interested in it, I 
started out as an air traffic controller and  
SIMS [00:04:20]: In terms of what you were studying, or? 
LANG [00:04:22]: Yes, oh I, I, I joined the Navy and I became an 
air traffic controller and at a certain point in my career as an 
air traffic controller I, I was given the opportunity to go to 
the University of Oklahoma and study meteorology and, and, and I 
did and it was probably because of the influence of Nash 
Roberts. In fact he told me at one time, he wasn’t talking to me 
specifically, he was addressing a group of us, but he said “if 
you ever go into meteorology,” he said “go into research not 
forecasting.” And of course I blight-fully disregarded that and 
wished I hadn’t. 
SIMS [00:05:04]: So just so I know the timeline, it was high 
school maybe and then 
LANG [00:05:10]: High school and then, and then the Navy, and, 
and I was an air traffic controller, came out of the air tra-, 
I, I, I got out of the Navy about eight months after Reagan 
fired all the controllers for goin’ on strike. And, in fact I 
was working at Long Beach town at the time. And I came out and I 
went right to work for the F.A.A. (Federal Aviation 
Administration), I was, I was in the Navy on Friday and on 
Monday I was working for the FAA. And I did that for about 
twenty years and then, place I was working at was getting shut 
down and they said you can do this or you can do that or you can 
do the other thing and I said “I, I’ll try the meteorology,” I 
enjoyed it. I, I still do a blog, my name is Poncho Pelos—The 
Rain-Maker and I forecast the weather for here and Monroe and 
New Orleans.  
SIMS [00:06:19]: And where do you, what, what data do you use to 
LANG [00:06:26]: I use several different websites starting with 
the national weather service which is extremely technical and 
get into the Weather Underground which is extremely user-
friendly and, and everything in-between. My favorite website is 
intellicast. It’s a, intellicast cuts the middle there. If you 
don’t have any, any knowledge of meteorology you’ll be lost but 
it’s, it doesn’t take a whole lot to understand intellicast.  
SIMS [00:07:03]: Yeah, it’s a whole world. My wife was in 
emergency management for a long while so she’s pretty, to me 
it’s sort of like the technical hard-core stuff when she sends 
the, the thunderstorm warnings 
LANG [00:07:19]: What, what I find interesting about it is it’s 
own esoteric language which is like, you know lawyers and 
doctors and everybody’s got their own esoteric language and some 
of the stuff that weathermen do is crazy like “a low-pressure 
system is a cyclone.” If I say cyclone you probably think of a 
tornado  
SIMS [00:07:41]: Right.  
 
LANG [00:07:42]: But any low-pressure system is a cyclone and 
the weather moves in an anti-clockwise but do they say anti-
clockwise? No, they say ‘cyclonic.’ “And high-pressure systems 
operate in a clockwise, but do they say ‘clockwise,’ no they say 
anti-cyclonic. I think it’s just to confuse neophytes.  
 
SIMS [00:08:09]: Yeah, I’m wondering if there’s some through-
line between, like you know Catholic School and, you know like 
different things 
 
LANG [00:08:17]: No, I see, I see where you’re going with that. 
Yeah, no 
 
SIMS [00:08:20]: Some specialized language.  
 
LANG [00:08:21]: There’s, there’s a distinct possibility  
 
SIMS [00:06:26]: Right, of whether or not I like priests, I 
don’t know.—So, tell me a little bit about your experience in 
the Navy in terms of, I guess the culture about how you feel 
like you fit in and what the comradery was like— 
 
LANG [00:08:48]: Oh, well the comradery, well that’s just—wow—I 
was just on Facebook today and somebody had made a thing about a 
guy who had carried his dog across the desert because he didn’t 
want his dog to burn his feet. And my comment was “your battle 
buddies are your battle buddies.” And, and that’s the way it 
was. You know I, I, joined the Navy because I was at a loss of 
something to do and I stayed in and I did what I did in the Navy 
because of the people I met and, and the people I worked with. 
I’m still, I’m still Facebook buddies with guys I met almost 
forty years ago when I was in the Navy and, wow. It was 
interesting. You know I’ve been, I’ve been as far east as Haifa 
Israel and as far west as Mombasa Kenya. We mapped it out one 
time and it was about forty miles short of being all around the 
world but I tell people that I’ve been all the way around the 
world. And, and you learn a lot. You have these, you have these 
buddies that, that watched your back and you watched their back. 
We had an expression when I was in the Navy, it was, it was 
“you’re too drunk for this.”  
 
SIMS [00:10:20]: Too drunk? 
 
LANG [00:10:21]: Yeah, it didn’t matter how drunk you were but 
if you were in a situation that you didn’t need to be in you 
were “too drunk” to be there. And uh……… 
 
SIMS [00:10:34]: So, sounds like you were in the, twenty years, 
in the, F.A.A.(Federal Aviation Administration)? 
 
LANG [00:10:43]: Yes, I was in the FAA for twenty years. 
 
SIMS [00:10:44]: And then, did you do anything work-wise between 
that and  
 
LANG [00:10:49]: I was actually twenty-nine years and seven 
months. That’s what the piece of paper that’s on the wall says.  
 
SIMS [00:10:55]: And is that, do they have like mandatory 
retirement because of…… 
 
LANG [00:11:00]: Uh, yeah. Mandatory retirement for air traffic 
controllers is the thirty-first of December the year after you 
turn fifty-five or fifty-six. But depending on your time and 
your experience you don’t have to, you can retire early.  
 
SIMS [00:11:22]: Mm-hmm 
 
LANG [00:11:23]: What happened to me was after I became a 
meteorologist I was still classified as an air traffic 
controller so I was still under the air traffic controller rules 
and they…contracted out the job I was doing and I was fifty-one 
years old and retired from the F.A.A. (Federal Aviation 
Administration) and I went to work for the contractor for a 
couple of years.  
 
SIMS [00:11:53]: And then, are you in DeRidder at this point 
or…… 
 
LANG[00:11:57]: Yes, there was a, what’s called a flight service 
station, which does weather and keeps track of flight plans and 
notices to airmen which are like danger notices or warnings or, 
or stuff like that and we, we kept track of all that and 
disseminated all that information and that’s where I was working 
which got contracted out to Lockheed Martin and, when I was 
fifty-one years old and I was eligible for retirement because I 
had had at least twenty-five years and I was fifty years old so 
I retired from the FAA and I went to work for Lockheed Martin 
but, I wasn’t a company man.  
 
SIMS [00:12:46]: So did you, since you were already in the area, 
what were your impressions of Fort Polk? 
 
LANG [00:12:51]: My impressions of Fort Polk was……positive as 
far as economics go because this is, this is, there’s, there’s 
three industries here in this town. There’s the forestry, other 
agriculture, and Fort Polk. And if Fort Polk closed up and went 
away, the economy here would collapse. In fact, Polk was on a 
decline when I first got here and houses were cheap to buy and 
rents were inexpensive because Fort Polk was in a, in a downturn 
at that time. But it’s a, it goes through cycles. It’s on a 
cycle right now so, things are good.  
 
SIMS [00:13:42]: And so after you left the contractor is that 
when you started roleplay? 
 
LANG [00:13:49]: Yes. Well, what happened was for a year I lived 
on my retirement salary and I put my Lockheed money in the bank 
and after like eighteen months I decided I could live on my 
retirement salary so I quit working for Lockheed. I didn’t like 
working for Lockheed but that’s…personal. And, you know, I don’t 
know you’re kinda young you may or may not have experienced this 
but you, you get an idea and you get a project and you buy all 
the stuff for the project and maybe you work on it for a couple 
of months and then something else happens and it gets pushed off 
to the side. Maybe you put it in a box, put it in a closet. Or 
maybe you buy everything for a project but you never actually 
start it. 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
LANG: Okay, so I had all these projects so I retired and I 
started doing all of my projects. Well after eight or nine 
months I had done all my projects and project money wasn’t 
accounted for in my retirement.   
  
SIMS: It’s expensive. 
 
LANG [00:15:07]: Yeah! I mean, things like my wife and I, we 
love Galveston, we go down there three or four, five times a 
year and we didn’t have money to go to Galveston, I didn’t have 
money to do my, my projects. So, I had heard about the roleplay 
at Cubic and it’s acting, and there’s gun-play, and I……volunteer 
for the community theater in town regularly. And I shoot as a 
hobby, I do what is called cowboy action shooting, and I pay to 
do that and here was somebody who was going to pay me to act and 
there was gunplay and I was gettin’ paid so hey, yeah, let’s do 
this! 
 
SIMS [00:16:05]: So what was, like what’s the interview process 
like or how, does…… 
 
LANG [00:15:12]: Well I don’t know, I went down there one day 
when I decided I was gonna do it and I went down there and I 
turned in my paperwork and actually the like, the you know, 
fourth or fifth level boss called me in and just sat me down and 
talked to me; asked me what I did, this, that, and the other 
thing and he was actually thought that I wouldn’t last long 
because he thought I would get sucked up by something more 
technical on the base.  
 
SIMS [00:16:42]: Oh, that you’d be poached? 
 
LANG [00:16:44]: Yeah. And actually, I had, I had so much fun 
that, that I was un-poachable.  
 
SIMS [00:16:52]: So what’s an, sounds like you needed or you 
wanted some money but it wasn’t as if you were trying to find 
the most lucrative option. 
 
LANG [00:17:01]:  No, no. And I, you know, collect a very small, 
very small—it needs to be increased! V.A. (Veterans Affairs) 
benefit because of a loss of hearing having to do with a air 
traffic controller wearing headsets, sounds, and all that stuff. 
And I collect my Social Security and it doesn’t quite cover what 
I was making there but it does, it does okay.  
 
SIMS: So…… 
 
LANG [00:17:36]: So money wasn’t the big, money was part of it 
but it wasn’t the sole purpose.  
 
SIMS: SO I don’t know if you remember like the first day or the 
first week that you were there but tell me like your first 
impressions of…… 
 
LANG [00:17:52]: Well my first impression was this is like 
really boring. I had come prepared with a bunch of reading 
materials and the first thing they tell me is I can’t be reading 
anything that’s in English because we’re supposed to be in Iran 
and everything’s supposed to be in Afghanistan and this, that, 
and the other thing. Yeah and after about four or five days I 
thought this is like reallllly boring. And some bad guys came 
in. The bad guys are played by the Geronimo, it’s the four 
hundred and fifth or four hundred and ninth or  
 
SIMS [00:18:38]: Five-o-ninth? 
 
LANG: Five-o-ninth infantry paratroopers and stuff. And they 
sloshed into town and we had, we had cooked some lunch that day 
so we had them eating lunch, they were sitting around the 
kitchen table eating and stuff, and the army pulled into town 
and two of them picked up their rifles and they went off into 
the woods and the third just, just sat there and kept on eatin’. 
And when he finished eatin’ he picked up his rifle and started 
shootin’ at ‘em through the window. And within five minutes 
there’s this major battle goin’ on. People are dying, people are 
gettin’ shot up. There was this one woman there, she was 
screaming so loud that I thought she was really freaking out but 
she wasn’t, she was just playing and stuff. And it was the 
wildest thing that I have ever encountered in my life. And I 
said “okay, this makes it worth it.” And it was. I, I, I had a 
good time.  
 
SIMS [00:19:43]: Sounds like it’s kind of community theatre but 
with a really big budget. 
 
LANG [00:19:46]: Yeah. Community theatre with a big budget and, 
and, and lots of gun play. We wear a, we wear a harness that’s 
not unlike a…what you would wear if you were…playing laser tag. 
And the guns have a thing on the end of them and, and when they 
fire the gun they fire blanks--just as loud as a real gun, just 
as much recoil, but…instead of a projectile comin’ through when 
the pressure hits this thing it sends out a laser signal telling 
whether you’ve been hit or not and…everybody carries a card that 
says what your injury is. And it can be anything from, you know, 
killed in action or…what they’ve done is they’ve done a study of 
battle injuries and they say, “okay well two percent are killed 
in action so two percent of these cards say killed in action. 
ten percent are shot in the butt”—there’s ten cards out of a 
hundred that say shot in the butt—and, and they go on like that 
and then they pass these cards out so that when your device goes 
off you pull out your card that tells you how you’re injured. 
You, and you act, yeah—in a manner consistent with your injury. 
 
SIMS [00:21:17]: So you, yourself, don’t know what the card says 
until y— 
 
LANG: Oh yes, you do know what the card says— 
 
SIMS: Okay 
 
LANG [00:21:22]: Because you have to be prepared to act it as 
soon as it happens.  
 
SIMS [00:21:28]: Right. And, so describe to me like if, if you 
were shot is there a noise, is there a vibration in this, like… 
 
LANG [00:21:37]: Yeah, yeah—there’s, there’s a squeal—
beeeeeeeeeeeeep. You know, not unlike somethin’ you’d hear on 
your cell phone or somethin’—a beep, a loud song, and it, it 
would say “killed.” 
 
SIMS [00:21:52]: Like, did you hear the word “killed”? 
 
LANG [00:21:53]: Killed. Yes, that’s—anytime you’re shot is says 
“killed.” If it’s really close it will say “near miss.” 
 
SIMS [00:22:05]: Okay. So like, if I’m basically shooting like 
this— 
 
LANG: Yeah 
 
SIMS: Well what do you do with a near miss? 
 
LANG [00:22:12]: Well you do with a near miss, you duck down  
 
SIMS: Right, but you don’t have to draw a card? 
 
LANG: No, no. No. 
 
SIMS [00:22:16]: You just know that you were almost shot? 
 
Lang [00:22:19]: Right.  
 
SIMS [00:22:21]: And then, so it works like…like if they drop 
bombs or something it will emit…a laser? 
 
LANG [00:22:28]: Yes. Sometimes, sometimes there’s some…there’re 
situate--scenarios that will do that, I’ve never personally been 
involved in that. But…they have what’s called…when, when they’re 
working with the Air Force…and these people are walking around 
the towns and they’ve got a specialized device that has a very, 
very accurate G.P.S. (global positioning system). Now you and I 
are what, not more than a yard apart but these G.P.S.s would be 
able to tell that you’re sittin’ there and I’m sittin’ here. And 
then  the Air Force would drop these bombs and, and they would 
do it a termination that you got hit and I didn’t get hit…can we 
take a potty break? 
 
SIMS [00:23:14]: Sure, of course. We’ll, we’ll undo your mike. 
I’m just, I’m just going to leave it running here… 
 
LANG [00:25:17]: I thought I had some of those…yeah, here they 
are…those are some of the cards that…tell you what your injuries 
are…yeah, I’ve got one there where…somebody’s shot in the butt, 
that was my favorite one— 
 
SIMS [00:25:38]: Yeah, you’ve got a rare ki— 
 
LANG [00:25:41]: Killed in action…I also have one that I call my 
mafia one…he gets shot in the knees and then the back of the 
head— 
 
SIMS [00:25:51]: Wow! 
 
LANG: And then there’s the…what I call the cupid card, that’s 
stabbed in the back.  
 
SIMS [00:26:03]: Very collectible-- 
 
LANG: No…Velma said you were lookin’ for stuff like that, you 
can have 
 
SIMS [00:26:09]: Oh, thank you. 
 
LANG: That’s for you. 
 
SIMS: I appreciate that. I tried to find these on eBay but I, 
it’s hard to know what the key word search…might be. 
 
LANG [00:26:19]: Battle damage assessment cards… 
 
SIMS [00:26:26]: Okay. 
 
LANG: B-D-A. 
 
SIMS: Yeah, I mean it seems like they’ve gotta be somewhere…but 
that’s great ta…have… 
 
LANG [00:26:33]: Like I said I think there’s like two-hundred 
and seventy of them in a deck and percentage wise it’s, it’s 
everything that happens on a battlefield. I had, I came across 
one one time that, that was a sever hearing loss and…I had a 
good friend…my, my wife wears hearing aids and I occasionally 
wear hearing aids and this, this lady had a “Kokio” hearing 
patch she was a very good friend of mine and I came across this 
one that said sever hearing loss and I said “here, Chrissy, 
you’ve gotta have this one.” [laughing] 
 
SIMS [00:27:05]: So how many times were you…shot? 
 
LANG [00:27:08]: Oh, dozens—dozens of times. My, the one I 
remember my favorite was…there was a guy in my particular 
village who was a…worked for the newspaper…was actually more of 
a……a propagandist than a newspaper person, [laughing] and the 
bad guys were gonna come in to kill him and the intelligence 
that they had was “fat guy with a beard.” [laughing] Well this 
guy just so happened he was out of the village at the particular 
time so when the guys came in I was the only fat guy with a 
beard so they, they came in and they were gonna, they were gonna 
sacrifice me and they told me to kneel down in the middle of the 
road and I said “I’m an old man I’m not gonna kneel on these 
rocks” and it was like a switch went off, they went from bein’ 
bad guys to polite, young American soldiers sayin’ “Oh we’re 
sorry, come over here and kneel on the grass.” [laughing] and 
after they got me kneelin’ they said “you okay, you alright” and 
I said “fine” and then the switch went back the other way and 
they, they lit me up. [laughing]  
 
SIMS [00:28:20]: This was a five-o-nine? 
 
LANG: Yeah. 
 
SIMS: Oh…I guess in that case, you know obviously…like they made 
a…mistake but does it really matter— 
 
LANG: Yeah—no, no that happens, that’s fortunes of war. 
 
SIMS [00:28:34]: Right, so it’s sort of realistic— 
 
LANG [00:28:37]:: Yeah, I think I made a page of the newspaper 
that day…that’s my lovely wife 
 
SIMS: Hi, I’m Chris 
 
LANG: This is Chris 
 
WIFE : Hi, my names Toby Lang, pleasure to meet you 
 
SIMS: nice to meet you 
 
WIFE : I’m gonna be very quiet 
 
SIMS [00:28:52]: So what was the s—like…what was the sensation 
like when you were pretend shot? 
 
LANG [00:29:01]: Pretend shot? Well you know it’s, it doesn’t 
really actually hurt 
 
SIMS: Right-- 
 
LANG: Because you’re not actually shot… 
 
SIMS: But do you feel disappointed, do you feel excited…? 
 
LANG [00:29:12]: Well I was, I was, I was P-O’d because I wasn’t 
the fat guy with the beard [laughing]  
 
SIMS: That was the first time?  
 
LANG: Yeah that was pretty much the first time, yeah…there were 
other times, I used to do this character called…the suicidal 
contractor. And what I’d do is I would role up on a F.O.B. which 
is a forward operating base, and I was an American truck driver 
and I just, whatever they told me that would had happened—either 
my wife had written me a Dear John letter or I had just seen a 
buddy gotten killed—but the, the crux of the problem was I 
wanted to talk to a, a…a chaplain before I offed myself. 
 
SIMS [00:30:00]: And did you come up with this scenario? 
 
LANG: Oh nono nonono no I had a good friend who was doing it and 
decided he didn’t want to do it anymore and he recommended me 
for it— 
 
SIMS [00:30:09]: Oh so it’s a regular…character— 
 
LANG: No, no I would do it maybe once every other rotation 
and…this one time I went in there and I was doin’ it and of 
course you know you roll up on an Army base and you say you want 
to commit suicide man all kind of red flares go off. And…this 
one particular time somebody said “shoot ‘im” and they just they 
all lit up on me and I’m layin’ there, dead and the O.C., 
observer controller, the, the referee if you were, he comes out 
and he starts yellin’ at them “ya dada ya dada!” and I’m layin’ 
there supposedly dead “yada yada yada ya” and he checked my 
little box just to see how—I had been shot twenty-six times. 
[laughing] 
 
SIMS [00:31:00]: So in, in something like that, like…do you then 
pull out the card and it says— 
 
LANG: Oh no no no no no the O.C. said—in fact they started 
shooting me and I was standin’ there and the O.C. looked at me 
and he said, he says “you’re dead,” and I say “yeah I know,” he 
says “then lay down.” [laughing] 
 
SIMS [00:31:18]: The O.C.s basically override the cards? 
 
LANG: Yeah. Yes, the O.C.s can override anything. In fact they 
carry killed in—they carry extra killed in action cards in their 
pockets to give you…But I really enjoyed that role. I’ve had, I 
had a-- 
 
SIMS [00:31:35]: Yeah so tell me about some of the other-- 
 
LANG [00:31:37]: I had a woman one that started cryin’ because 
she was so upset because I was so upset. They actually got— 
 
SIMS [00:31:49]: Like she was crying for real life? 
 
LANG: For real life, she said “oh this is so sad [imitates 
crying]” this a soldier. And I had a chaplain…I would say about 
one every three times they would ask the chaplain down to talk 
to me. And…this one time I had a chaplain down there and he 
starts talkin’ and stuff and he, his buddy who came down with 
him was…from the medical department…was a, a, a psychologist. 
And he’s startin’ to do all this stuff, he said “well we need to 
call these people, we need to call these people, it’s gonna be 
okay, it’s not…” and he’s talkin’ to the psychologist and he’s 
actin’ like he’s thinkin’ I really wanna off myself. 
 
SIMS [00:32:31]: In real life? 
 
LANG [00:32:32]: In real life. And, and the psychologist 
says…yeah, he says “Jeff, this is a scenario, you realize that?” 
[laughing] 
 
SIMS [00:32:43]: So is there, does that happen often? I mean 
it’s sort of like confusing about what’s real and what’s not 
real— 
 
LANG [00:32:50]: Well yes, that’s that’s that’s that’s frequent 
and, understandable because……we have this language barrier that 
we pretend—you know…the…American would say somethin’ to me and 
I’ll wait for the interpreter to say somethin’ in Afghani or 
Arabic [cough] and then I’ll answer of course in English because 
I don’t know Afghani or Arabic or I know a little bit but, and 
then the…interpreter will have to interpret it back into English 
for the soldier to go through. And we go through this and 
there’s, there’s, there’s often confusion in that. 
 
SIMS [00:33:40]: Yeah, sounds like a really boring conversation 
to, if you have to-- 
 
LANG: [laughing] 
 
SIMS: Is that a choice? 
 
LANG [00:33:46]: But we do what we have to do it’s, it’s for 
training the soldiers and that’s important and… 
  
SIMS [00:33:54]: Is there anything that you, from your acting 
experience, did you…I mean obviously there’s parallels, I mean 
did you feel there were things you could bring to that job that 
a normal person, normal person couldn’t? Like how did that 
manifest itself? 
 
LANG [00:34:12]: Yes…I, I felt in a better position, I’ve been 
acting since I was…I was four or five years old my mother, as I 
remember it, she pulls this costume—I’m sure she made it—but she 
pulls this costume out of her purse and says “put this wolf 
costume on and go onstage and say this.” And I did and everybody 
laughed and she said “would you like to do that again?” and I 
thought “I can do that again?!” I was about five years old so 
I’ve been actin’ on and off since I was about five years old—did 
commercials…did some serious television work when I was in high 
school. My dad had a…a Marathon car which is, if you’ve never 
seen a…the, the cabs…a typical New York cabs— 
 
SIMS [00:35:03]: Yeah. 
 
LANG [00:34:04]: Those were all made by the Marathon Car 
Company.  
 
SIMS: With the headlights and everything— 
 
LANG [00:35:05]: Right, yeah. And…he had one that he had 
restored and he…he had it painted like a yellow cab. In fact, as 
a, as a…a…a…a…a as a Cajun joke it didn’t say “yellow cab” it 
sad “Yallar Cab.” And…we used to do that and do television shows 
and stuff, I was in…several movies with that as the cab driver. 
But…yeah, yes there was a lot of things that I could bring to 
that…eventually I became what was called a “J.I.M.M. role 
players”—J, I…joint inter…planetary…mission…something or other, 
I can’t remember— 
 
SIMS [00:35:46]: So it’s like J-I-I-M? 
 
LANG [00:35:48]: J-I-M-M I think 
 
SIMS: Yeah. 
 
LANG [00:35:51]: Anyhow, I’d memorized it for the interview but 
[laughing], I’ve since forgotten what it was. 
 
SIMS: So is it, so what does that mean? 
 
LANG [00:35:55]: Well it was, it was a, it was a little higher 
level of…responsibility…you were supposed to be given…a role 
that you were gonna--instead of, instead of being a villager 
this time and a goat herder that time and a cab driver next 
time, you were gonna be certain character every rotation and you 
were supposed to research it and develop it…and— 
 
SIMS [00:36:22]: So what was your…role? 
 
LANG [00:36:23]: The one that I did most often when I was a 
J.I.M.M. was I was the…energy commission for the…the state. I 
was, I was responsible for the…infrastructure—all the electrical 
wires and all that stuff and the potted plants and, and such. 
 
SIMS [00:36:48]: And so, do they ask you basically…at home like 
research this type of position? I mean-- 
 
LANG [00:36:56]: Yeah, you were supposed to, yeah…and I, and I 
did to a certain extent. 
 
SIMS [00:37:02]: and then like…are you…I’m sort of guessing how 
somebody like, prepares for…theatre or acting. I mean do you, do 
you feel like it’s a process by which you are mentally sort of 
becoming this person? Like— 
 
LANG [00:37:19]: I, well to a certain extent 
 
SIMS: Method acting? 
 
LANG [00:37:23]: I, I, I, I, I’m not really a method actor, I’m 
an un-method actor [laughing], but…I would do a lot of internet 
research…the, the last country I, we, we, we…we have been…we 
have been preparing for……Eastern Europe. I don’t know how else 
to put it other than that, not really intervention but it all 
started back when…Russia chopped off that big chunk of…that big 
chunk of Ukraine. And…the country is called “Atropia” and it’s 
loosely based on Azerbaijan. So I did a lot of internet research 
on Azerbaijan, I went to the State Department website 
and…Wikipedia for Azerbaijan, Azerbaijan itself has a website 
you can go on and stuff--actually, actually it’s a very 
interesting place and in 1898 it was the world’s largest 
exporter of oil. It was the first country that actually stopped 
the Nazis…but then that was because they decided they wanted to 
take Moscow more than they wanted to take…Azerbaijan which was 
stupid because Azerbaijan had all the oil.  
 
SIMS [00:38:56]: And so do you…how does that manifest itself in 
the role that you…are performing? Is it like when you’re meeting 
with soldiers you would sprinkle in…that— 
 
LANG [00:39:05]: Oh yes, so definitely. The hat I wore had a…I 
bought it on the internet, had an infantry badge from the 
Russian infantry and they would ask me about that and I would 
tell them that because we were a satellite of Russia when I was 
a young man, I was in the Russian Army, I’d say “have you ever 
been to Afghanistan?” And nine out of ten times they’d say “well 
yeah, I’ve been to Afghanistan.” I said, I’d say, “so was I!” 
[laughing] 
 
SIMS [00:39:05]: You’d get a laugh? 
 
LANG: Oh yeah, yeah. But uh…yeah…it basically was, I, I, I, 
incorporated all of that into it…another thing was that the 
education level in Atropia was actually way higher than it was 
in the United States. 
 
SIMS [00:39:55]: Oh really? 
 
LANG: I mean, the United States has got like a ninety-one 
percent literacy rate and they had an eighty…ninety-seven 
percent literacy rate in Azerbaijan, and I would say that this 
is because of the Russian influence, the Russian schools.  
 
SIMS [00:40:15]: And how did…like being the same character, like 
for multiple rotations, did you, was that more interesting than 
kind of being…at random? 
 
LANG [00:40:29]: Actually, no. I, I, I much preferred…I would 
have preferred moving around, doing a lot of different things. 
My favorite character was, actually, was taxi-driver. I had a 
car that was painted to look like a taxi and I’d drive all over 
the box. The box is the exercise area, that’s the name we give 
to it, is the box. It’s about thirty-five miles wide, seventeen 
miles from North to South, it’s irregularly shaped but it’s got 
a couple hundred miles of paved road…about twice that of gravel 
road, and about twice that of, of dirt road out there in, in the 
Louisiana pine forest. But…I would…my job as a taxi driver would 
be, I would go from village to village and if somebody wanted to 
go to another village I would take them to another village but 
it was mostly to create traffic— 
 
SIMS [00:41:40]: Right.  
 
LANG: For the, for the army to see on the road…they would set 
up…checkpoints, where you would stop and the car would get 
searched and you would get searched and— 
 
SIMS [00:41:50]: So you would, would you have basically 
relatively complete freedom to do whatever you want, like— 
 
LANG [00:42:57]: Yes and no, another piece of thing I’m gonna 
give you here is a, this is a scenario sheet. This is what they 
would give you to define your character. And as long as you 
followed that character you, yeah, you, you, you were allowed to 
do what you want. Now this particular character here I think is 
a villager, so I wouldn’t’ve had the opportunity to be driving 
around like a taxi-cab…driver. I would be…you know, isolated to 
that village. And then you know sometimes you’d be a goat-herder 
or you’d be the mayor or a councilman or a…provisional—I mean we 
had, we had a province there which was the same as a state here 
in the United States and we had a governor, and an assistant 
governor, and a lieutenant governor--and, and, and we had a 
whole infrastructure of government out there.  
 
SIMS [00:43:14]: Yeah, it seems like as a, as a taxi driver did 
they…like who could choose whether they wanted to go to another 
town? I would expect that a, a regular villager-- 
 
LANG [00:43:24]: Well, you know we had a, a…what do you call 
that in the military…chain of command. [laughing] 
 
SIMS: Yes. 
 
LANG [00:43:38]: Okay, so in each village there was a work group 
leader which was a first level supervisor. And…if somebody 
wanted to go to the next village to visit her friend she’d say 
“hey can I take a taxi over to Sangari and go and see so-and-so” 
and she…and the work group leader would say “yes” or “no” 
depending on what her requirements were…expected for that 
particular village. You know, often times we would have weddings 
or funerals or something that was going to happen scenario-wise 
that we, we would know about—whether they need more people in a 
village or not. For a while, before I was a J.I.M.M. I was, I 
was called a…now I can’t remember what I was called there…it was 
called…I was an extra. “Surge” they called us. And there was 
about twenty of us. And, and when they would have a, an event 
somewhere, we would go over there just to provide extra bodies 
for, for an event…We might be part of a, a…refugees walking from 
one village to another village or we might be…participants in a 
wedding or a funeral…or we might, you know, have a bottled-neck 
or participate in a bottle-neck, or they want a bottle-neck at a 
particular…place and they would send us all over there to, to 
reek havoc.  
 
SIMS [00:45:15]: Did you ever bring in anything from your home 
or anywhere else to kind of supplement your character? 
 
LANG [00:45:22]: Definitely, most definitely. I…you know they 
issue you one, they call it a “garb”— it’s a man-dress 
or…equivalent to what they’d wear over there, and they’d issue 
these really chintzy hats and…I actually, I purchased online 
several garbs. In fact, one of my fears in life was…they…to get 
stopped at the airport and have them go over my thing [laughing] 
and find all these Arabic dress sites that I’ve been on [cough]. 
I bought, I bought a hat, they call them pizza-hats, that’s not 
what they really are but they’re a typical hat for northern 
Afghanistans to wear…and, and it’s round on the top and, and 
rolled up on the sides, and— 
 
SIMS [00:46:12]: So like a beret but more straight? 
 
LANG: Yeah, 
 
SIMS: Yeah, yeah. 
 
LANG [00:46:15]: And I bought, I bought several of those online 
because they were so much more--better made than the ones they’d 
given us there and I bought several…garbs online and I 
actually…I used to sew. I actually made one one time and…phew, 
that was way more work than I thought it would be, [laughing] so 
I stopped doin’ that. But…I, I, I spent a lot of money on my 
own, bought a lot of vests because the Afghanistan men wear, 
wear, wear vest and…and the ones they were givin’ us at work 
were just not, not, not, not cuttin’ it. 
 
SIMS [00:46:59]: Right. Now did you have any hobbies that you 
did, pro-project that you did while you were working? 
 
LANG [00:47:05]: No I…I, I, I, I, I work on wooden boxes as one 
of my big projects…You can see the ones here in the kitchen, up 
on the, up, up near the ceilings, and I, I buy them online and 
some of them I rescued out of the trash. 
 
SIMS: These are like old, like vintage boxes, from the store? 
 
LANG [00:47:27]: Vintage boxes, and I, I researched the logos on 
‘em and I repaint the logos on ‘em then I, I refinish them, and 
I used to do that out there a lot. 
 
SIMS [00:47:40]: SO you could actually bring your boxes to work 
on? 
 
LANG [00:47:42]: Yes.  
 
SIMS: That’s nice. So what are some of the other hobbies that 
people did? 
 
LANG [0047:48]: [clears throat] Well there’s among the, among 
the gentlemen there’s a, a, a big deal with walking sticks. We 
go out in the woods and we find a, a nice walking stick, we cut 
it, we bring it back, and we carve it up and refinish it and 
stuff like that—a lot of the ladies do [clears throat] 
crocheting…Afghans…yeah, we go a bunch of Afghans making 
Afghans. [laughing] But yeah, there’s a lot of…there’s a lot of 
down time— 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
LANG [00:48:27]: So yeah, there’s a lot of people that do arts 
and crafts out there.  
 
SIMS: What about the comradery sort of amongst the villagers, 
how would you…does it seem like a, like a workplace, does it 
seem like— 
 
LANG [00:48:46]: No, it seemed more like a family. I, I, I, I, 
I, I’ve really made some, some tight friendships with it. I know 
you know Velma, and…I don’t see Velma but two or three times a 
year but we’re still as close as a, as a, as a, as we ever were. 
And…lots of friends…and…family—family. There’s a lot of people 
out there that if they come—there’s this one guy, his name’s 
Ben. [clears throat] Ben is from Iran. He speaks Arabic, he 
speaks Iranian—well Farsi, which is what Iranian is—and he 
speaks Arabic and he speaks German and he used to be out there 
all the time and Ben and I got to be very good friends, he lives 
in Virginia and I’ve visited him several times. Several times 
he’s come here to work and he’s brought his kids down here to 
stay with us while he was out here workin’ and…if Benjamin 
called me on the phone right now and said “Tommy, I need your 
help” I would be in Virginia before I even asked him what was 
wrong. And if I called him and asked him to come up here he’d do 
the same thing for me.  
 
SIMS [00:50:08]: And what…is is…I mean obviously you’re spending 
a lot of time together is that, is that the… 
 
LANG [00:50:15]: Benjamin, Benjamin and I’s only contact in the 
last three years has been on Facebook. But we’re still tight, 
very close friends.  
 
SIMS [00:50:24]: But in terms of…I guess as a thing that I sort 
of often think about now that I’m…you know, many years out of 
high school, is that I sort of didn’t realize how, as much of a 
drag it was at the time, sort of how the fact that you’re sort 
of with the same people everyday who are like your, your group.  
 
LANG [00:50:44]: Oh, no.  
 
SIMS: Then how would you describe it? 
 
LANG: No it wasn’t like, it wasn’t like high school [laughing]. 
No…You would, you would, you would be with these people for two 
weeks on, two weeks off—and not always two weeks on, two weeks 
off. It might be four months until you end up in a village with 
the same people again…But…really, really tight 
friendships…family, seriously family. Family-type relationships 
where…where you’re not blood but you are blood.  
 
SIMS [00:51:19]: So how did they, do they deliberately try to 
move people into different villages so it doesn’t stay—get too 
congealed with the same people? Or is there any method to how 
they do that? 
 
LANG [00:51:32]: I think I’m gonna have to say that if there’s 
any method at all it has to do with madness…I was never able to 
see any rhyme or reason about the way that they—accept for like 
the J.I.M.M. roles— 
 
SIMS [00:51:46]: Right. 
 
LANG [00:51:47]: Where you were, you were the same guy every-- 
same person--same character…every rotation or where we were on 
surge, where we were together. There was a young lady on surge--
her name is Tina—and, and Tina and I, our minds just----we would 
get in a situation I would start something, she, I, we would be 
at a checkpoint, I’d start something, she’d know exactly where I 
was going. And she could support me and, and, and, and the next 
day we would be in another situation and she would start 
something and I would know exactly where she was going and we’d 
be— 
 
SIMS [00:52:31]: Seems like— 
 
LANG [00:52:32]: We were in sync. 
 
SIMS: Like improv partners? 
 
LANG [00:52:35]: Yes…we used to joke all the time. She’d say 
“Tommy’s the male version of me” and [laughing] and I’d say 
“Tina, she’s the male version of Tommy—female version of Tommy.” 
 
SIMS [00:52:47]: So could you ever request like…for a regular 
villager do you have the capacity— 
 
LANG [00:52:55]: That was, that was bad, that was bad. If you 
wanted to stay somewhere you complained about it. If you talked 
too good about bein’ somewhere you got moved. [laughing] that’s 
why I say, I didn’t see any rhyme or reason to where you were 
assigned or how you were assigned.  
 
SIMS [00:53:16]: Can you tell me about any funny or strange 
stories that stick out to you as you, as you look back? 
 
LANG [00:53:24]: Funny or strange stories…oh gosh.  
 
SIMS: And/or funny. Funny/strange or funny and strange. 
 
LANG [00:53:30]: Well, there’s a lot of funny and there’s a lot 
of strange stories. We used to do this one thing—well, we…back 
before we started training for Eastern Europe, when we were 
training for Middle East, we would have the first week was, was, 
was do the same thing everyday—we’d do it three or four times a 
day and a, a, a, a unit would roll in and we would do the 
scenario and, and four hours later another unit would roll in  
 
SIMS [00:54:00]: Right.  
 
LANG: And we’d do the same scenario…it was called S-T-X. And my 
job in S-T-X was I would park around the corner. And if the unit 
would come through and instead of stopping they were blowing 
through I would come in from the other direction and be in their 
way. Or if they would leave to early they would call me up and I 
would come in from the other way. My character [cough] was a, a, 
a concerned father…who had his wife with him, and had a baby who 
was sick. And we were trying to get to the hospital. Okay. Now 
sometimes…I…you know I’m, I’m, you can’t see that on the, on the 
computer but I’m fairly dark skinned for a white man. And…and 
there was this girl Melinda, and she was the blackest black 
woman that I have ever known in my life. And they would give us 
the pinkest little baby doll [laughing] to be our baby for us, 
so. And…I did another time, because I was in an air conditioned 
car. And it was August. And there was this pregnant woman, and 
they didn’t want her— 
 
SIMS [00:55:14]: Like a real-life pregnant woman? 
 
LANG [00:53:15]: Real-life pregnant. They didn’t want her out 
there in the heat and stuff so they would put her in the car 
with me where we could run the air conditioning. And…we were 
around the corner one time waiting for a snuff and she was 
[moaning] moaning and groaning and stuff and I, and I said to 
her, I said, I said “darling are you comfortable?” And she 
looked at me, and her head spun around on her head and she spit 
green pea soup and she says “I’m pregnant I can’t be 
comfortable.” [laughing] 
 
SIMS [00:55:52]: I’m surprised she was working. 
 
LANG [00:55:53]: She was. She was a trooper,  
 
SIMS: Yeah. 
 
LANG: She was a trooper. Her name’s…Janette. She was a trooper. 
She and her sister were there and they were, they were a 
pair…they were a pair. Another thing I noticed when I did that 
was, the unit would always come into town and, and there was a 
certain spot, now they would stop within a Humvee distance of 
this same spot every time, no matter who it was. They would stop 
at the same spot within a Humvee distance of it. I don’t know if 
it, if they were trained to stop so many yards from…from where 
they were, saw the thing problem or, or what but they would 
always stop in the same spot.   
 
SIMS [00:56:36]: Yeah, that’s…the…who am I thinking of…did you 
have a ffff-, like a favorite village out of all the ones? 
  
LANG [00:56:51]: I liked, I liked, I liked Marjani, I really 
liked it. That was where we did the thing with the—we called it 
the “baby car”—where I would, where I would come around the 
corner with the baby. And if the soldiers did it right, that was 
fine. But if they, you know, if they shot at me without going 
through the proper escalation of force, it was called—we had a, 
we had a bottle of blood, fake blood we’d poor on the baby’s 
head and we’d get out of the, with the dead baby [laughing] and 
yeah that was, that was, that was one of my favorite things. In 
fact…I can remember, O.C. one time taking that baby doll away 
from me [laughing] and walking up to the gutter and the O.C. and 
shaking that baby in his face and going “you just killed this 
baby” [laughing] 
 
SIMS [00:57:42]: Did you…di-what were the year that you worked 
there? 
 
LANG [00:57:47]: Well let’s see, I just stopped in July and I 
was there for ten years: 2007-2017.  
 
SIMS [00:57:54]: And what, aside from missions changing what did 
you notice…for example like the villages themselves, how did 
they change over that time period? 
 
LANG [00:58:11]: Actually they got more realistic. When I first 
started, there was a lot of stuff that was like “why are we 
doing this? This would never happen”— 
 
SIMS [00:58:23]: Like what, what do you mean? 
 
LANG [00:58:29]: Okay…part of this same thing, same village, 
where they had the, the, the, initiating event in this village 
where we did the baby car was suicide bombing…and a girl would 
come out and she would scream “Allah Akbar” and she would open 
her garb and there were, you could see the thing and then there 
would be a bomb on the other side of the road that would go off 
so that everybody would turn their attention there and then they 
would stick her under a blanket and, and, and scurry her off. 
And— 
 
SIMS [00:59:14]: Like the explosion was meant to represent her— 
 
LANG [00:59:16]: Right, her blown up but they would do it on the 
opposite side of the road so that they would all turn that way 
so they could get her off. Well s— that’s fine and dandy but you 
know when somebody, and I hate to be gross here, when, when 
somebody blows themselves up there’s like pieces parts. 
[laughing] So eventually they got this, this, this mannequin—we 
called it “Blowed up Betty” [laughing] and, and guys would stand 
around, they’d stand around with their hands behind their back 
with a leg and an arm and when the explosion would go off they’d 
throw it up on top of, on top of the vehicle and, and it became 
a, a, a more realistic than…than, than what it was before. And 
then there was…another thing where they, they, they, we were 
supposed to act…like we had never seen an American soldier 
before well hell, the war’s been going on for, you know— 
 
SIMS: [laughing] 
 
LANG [01:00:20]: twenty years— 
 
SIMS [01:00:22]: In Atropia? 
 
LANG [01:00:23]: Well not Atropia so much a…but…what we were 
doing in Iraq and Iran and in Afghanistan— 
 
SIMS: Right. 
 
LANG: And they wanted us to act like we had never seen an 
American soldier before and it was like “no…we’re used to 
American soldiers.” And they eventually came around to a to, to, 
to doing that. All in all I think it’s excellent training—like I 
said earlier it’s, it’s, we’re firmly training for what might 
happen instead of what has happened. You know, maybe we’re 
preparing these young men for the next war instead of the last 
war. And…if we save one life a year it’s worth the cost, it’s 
worth the effort.  
 
SIMS [01:01:24]: That’s well put. Is there anything that we 
haven’t covered that you think would be important to be noted or 
be recorded? 
 
LANG [01:01:36]: No. That last statement, that, that, that said 
about all is, is, is, it’s important work. And…if we can save a 
life, let’s save a life. And you know we’re not saving American 
lives, we’re, we’re teaching them how not to make mistakes with 
other people’s lives. 
 
SIMS [01:02:06]: Alright, thank you very much. It’s been a real 
pleasure to talk with you— 
 
LANG: It’s, it’s been good. 
 
SIMS [01:02:12]: I can see why they, they would have you be the 
one interviewed. You seem a natural at— 
 
LANG [01:02:19]: Well you know…this guy—you remember we talked 
about this contractor, this suicidal contractor—the guy who did 
it before, his name was Terry—and…Terry and I agreed a long time 
ago that when it stopped being fun we were gonna stop doing 
this…and Terry passed away unfortunately but…that’s where I got 
lost August, I mean last July, it’s just…it…stopped being fun--
For me personally, and, and that’s why I don’t do it anymore…but 
it’s an important job and it needs to be done. 
 
SIMS [01:02:58]: So are you back to working on your projects 
now? 
 
LANG: Yeah!  
 
SIMS: Create nine months worth— 
 
LANG: Yeah, yeah, yeah— 
 
SIMS: back, back large projects— 
 
LANG: Yeah I do, I do, in fact over the last three or four 
years, since I’ve been a J.I.M.M., I’ve kinda been slacking off-
-