Fieldnotes	  
	  
Project:	  AFC	  Archie	  Green	  Fellowship	  Project/VFC2014-­‐0005	  
Interviewee:	  Erica	  Campbell/AU2014-­‐1007	  
Interviewer:	  Andy	  Kolovos	  
Interview	  Date:	  December	  8,	  2014	  
Interview	  Location:	  Vermont	  Sustainable	  Jobs	  Fund	  offices,	  Montpelier,	  VT	  
	  
Funny	  thing	  about	  this	  interview	  is	  that	  it	  took	  until	  we	  met	  in	  person	  for	  me	  to	  
realize	  that	  Erica	  Campbell	  of	  VSJF	  is	  the	  same	  Erica	  Campbell	  that	  VFC	  gave	  an	  oral	  
history	  research	  grant	  to	  back	  in	  2002	  or	  3	  to	  interview	  midwives.	  	  That	  realization	  
was	  a	  trip!	  When	  I	  entered	  Erica’s	  office	  my	  first	  thought	  was,	  “man,	  she’s	  familiar”	  
and	  then	  I	  eventually	  realized	  why!	  I’m	  can’t	  remember	  who	  brought	  it	  up	  first,	  but	  
it	  was	  funny	  and	  nice	  nonetheless.	  
	  
I	  wanted	  to	  interview	  Erica	  so	  we	  could	  learn	  a	  bit	  more	  about	  VT	  Farm	  to	  Plate	  and	  
as	  a	  part	  of	  our	  general	  engagement	  with	  organizations	  and	  companies	  that	  provide	  
support	  services	  to	  VT	  farmers	  seeking	  local	  markets	  for	  products.	  	  She	  supplied	  a	  
great	  overview	  of	  VSJF	  and	  the	  place	  of	  VT	  Farm	  to	  Plate	  within	  the	  organization,	  
outlining	  clearly	  Farm	  to	  Plate’s	  goals.	  In	  addition	  she	  talked	  about	  her	  other	  
professional	  experience	  in	  local	  agriculture,	  particularly	  her	  time	  working	  in	  
Hardwick	  at	  the	  Center	  for	  an	  Agricultural	  Economy.	  	  Erica	  provided	  terrific	  insight	  
into	  the	  limits	  of	  CSAs,	  efforts	  at	  equal	  access	  to	  food,	  the	  challenges	  of	  building	  
conscious	  markets	  for	  “local	  food”	  and	  cost,	  he	  description	  of	  the	  politics	  of	  
agriculture	  in	  Hardwick	  were	  really	  interesting—in	  particular	  the	  complex	  tensions	  
she	  described	  between	  the	  older	  generation	  of	  back-­‐to-­‐the-­‐land	  farmers	  in	  the	  
Northeast	  Kingdom	  and	  new	  entrepreneurial	  farmers/processors	  who	  are	  
establishing	  themselves.	  This	  is	  a	  topic	  that	  merits	  more	  detailed	  exploration	  in	  its	  
own	  right	  and	  I	  wish	  we	  had	  the	  opportunity	  to	  explore	  it	  more	  fully.	  	  Perhaps	  we’ll	  
be	  able	  to	  down	  the	  road.