Taking Care--Documenting the Occupational Culture of Home Care Workers 
Archie Green Fellows Project, 2014-2015
(AFC 2014/021: 01420)
Archive of Folk Culture, American Folklife Center, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C.
Carol Tyndall Conlon interview, 2014-12-16 : interview conducted by Michael
Robert Bussel
INTERVIEW LOG
00:00:22:  Other jobs before becoming caregiver for her son:  medical transcriptionist, worked 
for lawyers, Oregon Health Plan, managed office for Habitats for Humanity.  Moved to Oregon 
in 1981.
00:02:21:  Formal care for her son when he “aged out” of high school.  Has been his caregiver 
since 2001.  Long waiting list for group homes.  Son needed more emotional support and 
nurturing.  Has autism, “child in adult’s body.”
00:04:57:  More one-one-one time with her son and greater bond developed.  Increase in his 
confidence and abilities.  Outcome of his growing independence will determine what type of care
is subsequently needed. 
00:07:48:  Left private sector employment to focus on her son.  Learned more about him by 
having time to observe.  Example:  son disturbed while she was driving.  Expressed empathy.  
Son is now more expressive.  Signals that he wants to be touched, looks her in the eye more 
often.  “Accidental breakthrough,” unexpected benefit.
00:11:24:  Patience key in working with people with disabilities, especially those with cognitive 
disabilities.  Lots of frustration when you can’t do things.  Must not show frustration as a 
caregiver.  Do job to best of your ability.  Employment is a journey.
00:14:51:  Finding other caregivers important in dealing with autism.  Autism support group, 
people share tips on what works—immensely helpful.  Sense of camaraderie and not being alone.
Immediate bond.
00:17:45:  Receives calls from families around the state.  People say “you understand me.”  In 
previous job, asked to speak with parents of children with developmental disabilities.  They say, 
“Now I trust you” once they learned she had child with autism.
1
00:21:17: Common denominator: finding someone who understands, who will believe you and 
trust you.
00:22:39:  Families of children with disabilities experience discrimination.  Insensitive 
comments from others.  Discrimination against her son because of his lack of cognition.  Unique 
experience of being family caregiver does not go away once children become adults.  Sense of 
protectiveness and desire that children have opportunities to access needed services.
00:24:15:  Caregivers as parent.  Have to advocate for their children, be their voice.  Protect their
health, safety, welfare, rights.  
00:26:28:  Typical day.  Cues her son the night before to get ready for work the next day.  Quiets 
house, lowers lights.  In morning, opens door, turns on light, announces time they will leave.  
Prepares breakfast, lunch, snack he will like.  Talks about appropriate clothing.  Sets the mood.  
Relationship building.
00:30:14:  Brings her son home from work.  Asks about his work day.  Cues with specific times 
for things to get done.  Will be important when he begins to live more independently.
00:31:42:  Electronic devices help her son.  Check in verbally, visually by text.  At fast food 
restaurant when son is ordering, only steps in as needed.  Has seen positive effects on people 
who interact with her son.
00:34:02:  In coffee shop, people love her son.  Know his idiosyncrasies.   He has developed 
friendships.  Quality of life better for her son.  Now laughs, has sense of humor.  Pulled him out 
of his shell.  Different person emerging.
00:37:13:  Humor is part of bringing her son into experience of human relationships.  Son has 
learned to laugh at himself.  Importance of inclusion in schools for disabled kids.
00:39:20:  Empowering for those with disabilities to have experiences similar to those who are 
non-disabled.  Build self-confidence and independence.  Define success on basis of overcoming 
challenges.  Son got a standing ovation from audience when he graduated from high school.  
Profound moment.  Fellow students changed by contact with her son.
00:45:03:  Approached SEIU seeking help on policy advocacy.  Labor issues and advocacy 
intertwine, overlap.  Union actually listened.  Felt validated.  Union has helped on political side.
00:47:46:  Called to testify before legislative committee.  Noted deficiencies in policies and their 
effects on people with disabilities.  Able to get significant legislation passed.  Changes mean “my
son is going to have a life.”
2
00:51:20:  Job is ongoing.  Has safety net in place when she is not around.  Need complete break 
at times.  Wants others involved as part of her son’s transitioning.  
00:53:51:  At a crossroads.  Didn’t want to place her son in setting with people who might not 
understand his needs.  Had to make a choice.  Sacrifice so her son could be the best and most 
independent person he could be.  Who best to help him transition but someone who is most 
familiar with him and could be his advocate.  Family caregivers will not outlive their children.  
Need to make a gradual transition.
00:55:52:  Digital scrapbooking as a leisure time activity.
00:57:35:  Early years, only knew one other mother who had child with disabilities.  Felt like two
lone people.  Got to be more of us.  Learned if something is not right, don’t dismiss it.  Never 
dreamed we would have another group in union to add to home care.  Blind faith, had no 
navigational tools.  Now get training, paid health care, camaraderie, community.  What if people 
had given up?
01:00:27:  New policies.  My child will have a life.  Things we do in life that don’t have a title or
earn economic compensation.  Gratifying.  Pushed against fears.  No road map.  Inner 
satisfaction.  Improve workers’ lives and quality of life for clients.
01:02:19:  End of interview.
3