Transcription: Andrew Frank 
 
 
1 
CT: Okay, here we go. Today is March 29th, 2022. This is an interview for the custodians and 
janitors in Colorado oral history project funded by an Archie green fellowship from the library of 
Congress. As a part of this project, we are interviewing people employed in the janitorial field to 
record their stories, document their skills and knowledge and better understand their 
important role in our communities. The recording and transcript will become a permanent part 
of the collection at the Library of Congress. My name is Cynthia Torres. We are recording in 
Colorado. The time is approximately 4:00 PM for the record. Do you give us permission to 
record your story? 
AF: Yes. 
CT: Awesome. Could you tell us your name and the year you were born and your current job 
title? 
AF: Name is Andrew. Last name is hyphenated Frank-Martin born in 1959. My job title is facility 
supervisor. 
CT: Great. Could you tell us a little bit about the place where you work? 
AF: Oh, Congregation Har Hashem. The fun house I like to call it (laugh) yes. The place to be 
yeah, Congregation Har Hashem. It is a wonderful reform, Jewish synagogue serving the 
broader public and a very inclusive environment. For those who don't know about Har Hashem, 
I wish they would know it, you know, because we are very inclusive and very welcoming of 
everyone. We do various events, there's Bar Mitvahs, there's weddings that have happened 
here. There's memorials and funerals that have happened here. There's all kinds of life cycles, 
baby naming, et cetera, cetera. There's all kinds of programming here, Torah study, which is a 
(inaudible) crowd of people, which have to try and keep in mind on Saturday mornings. And 
then, you know, we have Shabbat services Friday night and Saturday morning. 
AF: It's, it's, it's a wonderful place to be. And I, I just look forward to coming to work every day. 
And I just wonder, how the heck did I end up here? And I'm glad I did well. So at Har Hashem, 
we do a lot of community outreach. Before we used to work a lot with the homeless for about 
10 years. We had homeless people on our campus taking care of them. Right now we have a 
refugee family that's living in one of the houses that we own on the adjoined property. So yeah, 
I don’t know what else to say. 
CT: Great. And what is your role in it? 
AF: In it all? Oh, sometimes I'm the ringmaster. Sometimes I am, you know, first, first and 
foremost, a janitor, a custodian, which we normally see as the people who just do cleaning, 
that's all they do. Right? We would say custodian, I think of like, oh, one of these people that 
worked in the offices with a vacuum, the floors and empty the waste. Maybe a basket and clean 
the toilets. Yeah, that is often what's needed here. And especially when we have two large 
 
Transcription: Andrew Frank 
 
 
2 
buildings, it's a full on job. Like I do that on Fridays. It'll take me all day, starting from 8:30 in the 
morning until five in the afternoon to do both buildings and do it and do it well. But it's, I'm 
more than that though. I also do what's called set and takedowns. We have a different 
classroom, different spaces. 
4:01 
AF: The one that we're in right (referring to the room) now is where we typically do Torah 
study. And here I have to set up like two eight foot tables and put chairs around everywhere - 
like about 22 (and) have a large screen TV so that people are streaming at home. You know, we 
can see them and we have a web camera, they can see us. I set up the sanctuary where the 
magic happens, where services happen. I set up for dinners. We did a (inaudible) room recently, 
a (inaudible), and there's a spill that happened. We had like, oh, about 160 people in 
attendance, but I put the stage up by myself and I put all the curtains up, all the, all the props 
and everything else. I got all the sound together. That's part of my job. It's part of my job is 
making sure that the audio visual works correctly. 
AF: You know, another part of my job is making sure the place is in good order. Yeah. It's like 
this. You know, we just finished up a big, big project, a big project that tore down all the old 
shingles and put up these, these, these new lifetime warranty shingles to code for the city of 
Boulder. And then keeping on top of vendors, plumbing needs to be done. I do small repairs. In 
fact, before I got this gig, I used to be a handyman remodeler and ended up here. It's like, I just 
see that this is the role that I was kind of born into because it takes care of my needs to, to be 
up and moving around, takes care of my needs to be involved, takes care of my need to to, to 
fix things and build things. 
AF: You know, being slightly ADD, like I just can't sit down at one place or another, and here I 
can do something at the computer then suddenly get up, go away and do something else and 
come back. So my role is, is, is varied. I interface with caterers sometimes, right? And I sort 
oversee a catered event, make sure they're there, put up the table, put the table. Plus, I 
interface with the families who want to have the functions. I talk with the families who are 
having a bar mitzvah. And if there are any needs that they need to have they will email me or 
call me and they have things set up a certain way. I make sure that everything's ready for the 
rehearsal and everything's ready for that day. You know, (inaudible). So it's, you're a big part of 
the community. It's a big project, so yeah. Yeah. It's a lot. 
CT: Tell me about - you alluded to it right before we started the interview - but tell me about 
your early life and how, how you ended up in Colorado and here at Har Hashem. 
AF: Well, I think it was sheer luck actually because I'm originally from Australia and I lived in 
Canada for a time. And then when hitchhiking back in the eighties, when you could do that, I 
went hitchhiking around America and someone gave me a ride and they gave me a ride through 
Southern Colorado and then up in Durango, from Durango where I came up to Boulder and I 
 
Transcription: Andrew Frank 
 
 
3 
remember like walking around, seeing campus and just falling in love with Boulder and, and it 
was finals week and they just finished up. So it was a big party. They got like, oh my goodness, 
what's going on? Pearl street, everything else, just lovely. But I was just visiting. So I moved on 
and ended up in Santa Fe, New Mexico, got married, got divorced, got remarried. 
7:56 
AF: (Laugh) got, got divorced, got remarried again. And I got accepted into a program here in 
Boulder. Right. so I actually have a master's degree in elementary instruction and curriculum. So 
I was actually a trained teacher. Right. Lasted seven years. I couldn't do it. (Laugh) I wish I just 
couldn't do it, but that's how I ended up here. And then I worked at Home Depot (inaudible) for 
a while, and then I quit that and became a handyman remodeler. And then yeah, and so just my 
early life was just full of just going from one place to another of life adventures and getting 
married and got divorced. And by the way, each one of my ex-wives stays in close contact and, 
and and we truly love each other. But you know, as I say, I can love you doesn't mean I have to 
live with you. Right. And… 
CT: That's hard to do. 
AF: Yeah. So that's how I ended up kind of here this in a nutshell mm-hmm. Yeah. 
CT: And can you talk about, maybe describe, like, when you came to Har Hashem - like one of 
your, one of your earliest memories that kind of really sticks out that that made you realize 
that, you know, possibly like, this is, oh my gosh, what have I gotten my in myself into? Or my 
gosh, I found my place. 
9:19 
AF: It kind of, I guess it kind of grew on me. I converted to Judaism, so I wasn't, you know, in my 
mind I was, I always (inaudible) Jewish, but looking back and I had Jewish friends and Jewish 
this and Jewish that I just like, it was bizarre. One thing just led to this, but, you know, my wife 
and I had a child, and then I remember bringing my daughter to Har Hashem for Tot Shabbat 
and just kind of like my first taste of Purim. And that was when Rabbi Bronstein was, was the, 
was the rabbi. And she was so friendly and so outgoing. And so just lovely, you know, and really 
gentle. And the Jewish songs and prayers that they had during Shabbat was so joyous. And just 
so just, you know, it just spoke to me, I guess. 
AF: And then later on we were members of another, another community, but when it came for 
my daughter's (inaudible), we found that Har Hashem had a great educational program. And so 
we brought her, so we joined Har Hashem just for my daughter, so she can go through, you 
know, what she needs to go through to become eventually Bat Mitzvahed. And so it was during 
her journey during Bat Mitzva that I became more and more involved. And, and, and I 
remember the time when it came the time for part of the rehearsal there's a tradition where 
 
Transcription: Andrew Frank 
 
 
4 
you pass the Torah around. It goes from person to person, to person you have from mom to 
dad, to daughter, that kinda stuff. And I was told I could not hold it because I wasn't Jewish 
because I hadn’t converted, even though I'd been living a Jewish life for 20 years, I still could 
not, you know hold it. 
11:18 
AF: And that had a great effect on me. And that's when I realized that because I couldn't hold 
(inaudible), like, oh, why does this affect me so much? So that's how I became more involved in 
Judaism and Jewish life. And then I said to see like the gifts of the life cycle celebration of, about 
(inaudible) for my daughter and others, and seeing how families from all around the America 
just came together, or the United States would come together to celebrate this occasion, not 
for that, but also for weddings, not therefore, you know, which is another cause for celebration 
in some form is when someone passes away and they have a Memorial that come in and they 
celebrate the person's life, you know? So it really means a lot to me to be here. It's like, I, and I 
feel like I've been looking for a place of belonging for the longest time, and this is where I feel at 
home and, you know, and to, and to, and to work, you know, it's like working at home for me, 
you know, it's like, you can work from home during, during the pandemic. 
AF: I was here. I was the only one here, but I was working from home because this is my home. 
Right. Yeah. So that's how I see it. So yeah, I dunno what else to say to that? 
CT: Oh, that's, that's really amazing that this is an extension that your work here is an extension 
of your values.  
13:02 
AF: It is, it is. And you know, and part of the values is that you know, there's a saying where that 
my (inaudible) is where I got my philosophy. You know, I got my philosophy that it is said that 
clergy right puts a fence around Torah, right. And that means that with Torah at the center, 
Jewish law and practices, the (inaudible), right, the (inaudible) the bounds of Jewish life and 
preserves the core values of the ethics of Judaism that people come here to be reminded of 
that. And be reminded of the love of Torah, the guidance of Torah and everything else. My job 
is to put a boundary around the sanctuary. I can make a container, right? So I got goosebumps 
just feeling that right now. So that's my role. That's how I am to be of service is to make sure 
that everything's set for these life cycles to happen. 
AF: Everything's set. So people at a moment can receive. But they need to hear in that moment, 
through the Rabbi sermon, through their cantor, the Cantor (inaudible) songs of prayer, 
whatever, through the discussion of Torah study, when the Torah - they nitpick, that just one 
line that's in Torah, and they can go on for 20 minutes about that one line, but every moment 
there's an aha moment, right? It's like, oh my gosh. Yeah. I never thought about that before. 
Well, if they're running around scrambling and doing all kinds of things, if this isn't set, then 
 
Transcription: Andrew Frank 
 
 
5 
they don't come in relaxed. If they're not relaxed, they're not, they can't, they're not ready to 
receive or discuss or, or, or welcome what it is that they want to learn that day. Whether they 
know they're gonna be learning that day or not. Right. So that's, my job is to make it ready for 
people to receive. That's that's me. That's what I do.  
CT: Yeah. That's beautiful.  
14:59 
AF: That's really, that's what I do. 
CT: I know that Har Hashem has invited non-Jewish families and, and folks to be here, to live on 
their property, you know, to have housing, to have shelter. What is your role in, in that? 
15:19 
AF: Yeah. So there's a good question. Thank you. Good. We were heavily involved until just 
recently, probably about, I think we kind of ended around about eight months ago. Well, we 
had a partnership with an organization, a non-profit organization here called Bridge House and 
Bridge House, you know, as you hear of the title, is a bridge between homelessness and people 
who have who are just average (inaudible), right. And help to bring these people, not to 
recidivate, they go back into the prison and go back to jail or go back to the streets, but find 
them a path. And so to, to work. So there's an apprenticeship. So the longest time we had 
people living here during two years, during the COVID times, we had people living here as what 
is called quote unquote apprentices, you know, so they'll stay here and they'll work and then 
they'll earn the ranks to go into the next step of the program. 
AF: And so that happened for a couple of years. And also, but before that we had a homeless 
organization (inaudible) we took care of the Boulder homeless, right. Which was like, it just 
doesn't end the need to take care of our homeless population. It just doesn't end. There's a 
huge need, especially for shelter. So during the winter, especially, we had our other building 
called the south building. We had a huge square footage, like a, you know, that about like a, 
what was it? I dunno, huge, we could have up to 150 homeless men and women sleeping 
overnight here at Har Hashem. The volunteers will come in and they'll serve breakfast for them 
in the morning. I made sure the place was clean. I'll make sure the place was in good order. 
17:27 
AF: I'll make sure that they're adhering to, you know, to what, how we want them to behave on 
campus. You know what I mean? And then, then I'll make sure that it is all taken care of, you 
know with the homeless. I see the homeless coming through, right. With this shortcut. We have 
a shortcut from a trail to the main road that's behind us here. And there's a lot of homeless 
who will walk through. I would always like to stop them. Like, it's like, are you okay? “Yeah. Just 
 
Transcription: Andrew Frank 
 
 
6 
charging up my phone.” So how about it, man? The only thing I ask, if you (inaudible), take any 
trash with you, right. I go, okay. You know, and so et cetera and cetera, so treat 'em with dignity 
and respect. We have handouts that we give to them to make sure that they know where the 
services are, where they can, where they can get them. 
18:22 
AF: One time, here in the room that we are right now, for about a year, we had what's called 
safe flight and it was another homeless program, but people with their own cars. Right. And so 
instead of just sleeping in their cars, they would actually be able to sleep in here, you know, 
inside with cars parked outside. And again, they'll serve them. So we had that here for a while. I 
remember going back years ago when, when we did a Thursday women's shelter in the room 
that we are in now and including our social hall, which is a (inaudible), the sanctuary, you know, 
we had there’s in there. And so we were very much involved in getting donations for the 
homeless with, you know, with the socks and with coats and with this. 
19:21 
AF: And the other thing it's like, you know, I kind of miss it because we don't have any homeless 
around us at the moment. What happened to Boulder, they sort of shifted in their focus of 
what they wanted to do with the homeless. They have more shelter availability now. There was 
a grant that we were given to help maintain a space for the homeless. And they decided not to 
renew that, the monies for that. So yeah, I mean, all good things come to an end, but I just 
think we haven't seen the end of it yet. It is always, you know, the pendulum swings and, but 
we are ready to serve. We're ready here to help. And now there's an Afghan family, Afghan 
refugees. Their story is amazing, you know? And so it's amazing that there is a Major who 
served in the US forces in Afghanistan and Najim was his translator and transport driver. 
20:27 
AF: And and so he was able to get the guy and his family safely over here out of Afghanistan. 
And which you know, Najim was shot serving. It was over there he was serving for the US forces 
with the US forces. And he was actually shot and recovered and continued working, you know, 
with the US forces when they were in Afghanistan. But he's here now. (inaudible). (Inaudible) 
trying to get him to work for me, you know, do some maintenance stuff like raking leaves and 
stuff, the stuff that I don't really like to do too much, but yeah. But yeah, so it feels good that 
we're able to do that. Yeah, yeah. That we're able to have a safe haven, which is, again, is what 
I like to think that Har Hashem is, you know, a safe haven, you know, and any small part I can be 
a part of that, great. You know, it’s doing the Mitzvah. A mitzvah means it's good, a 
commandment, you know, doing something good. 
21:40 
 
Transcription: Andrew Frank 
 
 
7 
CT: What was it? So you know, with wanting to keep things safe and, and wanting people to be 
safe, and this is your community here. What was it like when the pandemic started? And how 
was that like for you? How did your job change and how did your community change? 
AF: Yeah, it was scary, you know, because it was, it kind of, it started to unfold slowly and we 
didn't really take it for, we didn't really just, just (inaudible) a lot of attention to it with, you 
know, a little bit of media coverage. And so more and more, we realize that we have a 
population here that, you know, a large part of the population of people who are older and 
elderly, so we gotta keep them safe. And it's kind of, and we're still recovering from it, you 
know, we're still recovering from it, but it, it was like, I don't know. I really had to say it, but it, 
it, to me now, it kind of, it seems like things changed overnight, you know, where we had 
events. It's like, I used to have a crew of about seven people to do the catering events and to 
help us set up and take downs. 
We had so much going on here so much going on that I had extra part-time people to help out 
and with all these events and, you know, and then one by one, it's like, I had to let them go. We 
got nothing anymore. We tell the caterer that worked with us and said, sorry, we don't have 
any work anymore. And so things began to close down and it was kind of sad. It was quite sad. 
And eventually I had one part-time employee, you know, like my right hand, man. And 
eventually I said, look, I, (inaudible) got enough work for you. Well, you know, there's so much 
yard work. There's so much landscape and landscaping and stuff, stuff like that that needs to be 
done. And eventually there was no more I had to make sure that it (inaudible), that I had 
enough time for myself. 
24:06 
AF: Do I have enough hours to warrant me working full time? For a period of time, no, but I was 
able to find stuff to go up to about 32 hours a week. And, and thankfully the board voted to 
keep me on full time. They keep me at 40 hours, right? They kicked in the extra eight hours a 
week, which I'm so thankful for. But I was able to get jobs done, which have been on my list for 
a long time. I don't mind working by myself. I'm very self-directed. I find things to do, you know, 
I feel guilty if I stand in front of the computer. Right? And,you know, watch TV, too many 
YouTube videos. It's like, I can't, I can't do this. I have to go. And I found painting. Like, I look 
around, you see one door from where I'm looking. 
24:55 
AF: One door is gray and the other one's brown. Well, I haven't gotten to that brown door yet 
and it has to be gray, but it's on the list. So I make all these lists of little things, which I need to 
do, like putting up security cameras, like during the pandemic (inaudible). I played a significant 
role in putting together a security plan for Har Hashem right? We now have window film to 
help, you know, rocks. They come through our (inaudible) rock and cause damage. And we got 
security cameras around everywhere. I got door locks to every door now. And where you have 
 
Transcription: Andrew Frank 
 
 
8 
to sort of put your (inaudible) your pin number in, the code to get in, or you put your card up 
next to the reader to get in. So there, we got rocks outside. So a car can't drive up and run 
through the windows, or whatever. 
25:54 
AF: So during the pandemic, I would be, I played a major role in getting all that together and 
stuff like that. So I always found something to do. There was downstairs, for example, I had 
other stuff downstairs. There was a wall that wasn't dry walled yet. Well, I had dry walled and 
painted it and everything like that. I did all these kinds of repairs that run, run new (inaudible), 
fiber cables everywhere. Came across a couple of red skeletons, but that was kind of cool. I've 
never seen a red skeleton before, but that was cool. But yeah, so I, it was, it was sad at first, but 
then I got used to it. And I'm looking forward to it. I'm looking forward to becoming more and 
more, you know, how about (inaudible) activity? I want to get back to normal again, even 
though it drove me crazy and I was running around everywhere, but yeah. Yeah, it was an 
adjustment for sure.  
26:42 
CT: You had mentioned what you were able to do about beefing up the security around Har 
Hashem during that time. And I think you're the first person who mentioned really thinking 
about security and, and managing security as a part of your job and yeah. What do you think? It 
might sound good. But for folks who are listening, who might not know, what kinds of 
situations or, or threats have you had encountered while you were here that would warrant, 
you know, beefing up the kind of security that you're talking about? 
27:27 
AF: It's just the history of the history of persecution of the Jews, right? Of the history. You know 
there was, you know, the case in Dallas, Texas, the case up in Philadelphia, the case in New 
York, you know, we've had people protesting outside, we've had rocks thrown through the 
window. I can't, we can't say there's antisemitism or not, but all we know is that, is that the 
history where we are in Boulder, Colorado (inaudible) as Boulder, Colorado has kind of this kind 
of cool image, you know, people say Boulder, it's like, oh, that's Boulder. Cool. You know, but 
we're gonna have our fair share of (inaudible) everywhere. You just have to be, you have to be 
careful. At the same time, there's this balance where you want to be welcoming. 
And so you don't want to - you wanna be welcoming people into the space. You don't wanna 
sort of scare them up. So we do what we need to do to take care of the people. You know, we 
talk about security all the time about stuff, and that's the reason why I have, why we, came up 
with these points of entries that are secure now and with the cameras to record. And I have 
ring cameras and, you know, stuff like that. I get people, you know, sometimes I get an alert like 
at midnight and I see people like trying to set up camp outside the doors, or I see people just 
 
Transcription: Andrew Frank 
 
 
9 
walking, walking down and they're getting close to the door and then shaking the door to see if 
they can get in. And then I just put on my app, I go move along, buddy, move along. 
29:20 
AF: (Laugh) So they move along. But the more that they see that we have cameras, the more 
that I'm speaking to them (inaudible) over the intercom, the more I think that makes us safer. 
And I think that people feel safer too, you know we, we don't wanna spend our life living in 
fear, but we have to have precautions and be cautious at the same time. Right. (inaudible) 
(cross talk) We've had the rock thrown through the windows and stuff like that, you know?  
29:58 
CT: Yeah. What do you like to do when you're not working? 
AF: I like to work at home. I build things. I make things like right now after this interview is 
done, I'm gonna go home and change into my work clothes and make another cabinet door 
from scratch to put, to redo, cause I'm redoing my kitchen right now. So my house is my hobby 
where I'm sort of remodeling this and building this and doing that, repainted, painting stuff and 
taking up the old house. You know, I like to watch sci-fi movies in series and stuff. I just finished 
Star Trek Discovery last night. I'd been like, oh yeah, I can't wait for the next season. Yeah, I 
think that I like to watch anime as well. You know, here I am a 63 year old dude and I like to 
watch anime, like I'm like the kid that never really grew up, you know, he's like a little, (laugh). 
31:01 
AF: So yeah, I think that I would yeah. I try to plan trips, you know, where I'm gonna go visit 
next. So right now I'm planning to go to Prague, to Europe in July. It's pretty slow around here. 
So right now I'm spending my time worrying about where I can get the next employee because 
it's just, no one's answering the call. I cannot get anyone. I do not know why. Yeah. You know, 
all you need to do is work Friday nights, Saturday morning, and work on Sundays. (Inaudible) 
the best of the week as you always, you can still go out to party if you want to. It's like, it's like, 
come on work. Yeah. 
CT: Do you think it's hard finding custodial, janitorial workers? 
31:49 
AF: Let's face it, working on a Friday night is supporting Shabbat. Right? Part of the security is 
that I greet people at the door and let them in. There's been times when I've, so I look and I 
step outside to (inaudible) tag on the last question. I would sort of step outside and talk with 
them. So one person (inaudible) kinda felt agitated. Right. He arrived, like at 6:15PM and 
(Shabbat) is six o'clock. So, services started at six. And he goes yeah, I'm, I'm here for Shabbat 
 
Transcription: Andrew Frank 
 
 
10 
(inaudible). Well, services already started and he goes well, okay. And then he just made a half 
turn around and went away and (inaudible) I say the services already started. I did not say you 
can't come in. I did not say that. You know, by then again, they said, oh, you know, I need to 
come in and say Kadish. That is the tradition of having a memory for one's loved ones that's 
passed. Right. So, anyhow yeah. What was the question again? (Laugh) I forgot what the 
question was.  
CT: Gosh, I, I did too. (Laugh) (cross talk) 
33:08 
CT: What you're talking about. Yeah, yeah. I was just going back thinking about everything that 
you've talked about and just finding a place and finding your faith - being able to have that be a 
part of your work environment. What would you say is the thing that you would be most proud 
of when you're looking at your life that you've created? 
AF: Your life? I mean, just here, my life here at Har Hashem? 
CT: Or in general. 
AF: My life in general. Yeah. That I've thrived, you know. I didn't have the best of childhoods. I 
was put in an orphanage on two separate occasions. I was like, you know, I served in the 
military, survived that, you know, I've survived two, two divorces, you know cetera, et cetera. 
I've been, I've been robbed and mugged and, and all kinds of stuff. I've been chased after with 
the guy calling me (inaudible) my dog, white trash, you know, like, you know, surviving all that, 
but doing the whole thing. I think what I'm most proud of - one that gives me the most joy is 
that I've kept a sense of optimism, a sense of hope and a sense of humor and trying to find the 
(inaudible) in everybody. You know, when I look at people, I try and look them in the eyes and I 
find myself doing that more. 
34:51 
AF: When I come (inaudible) of a person of color, I want them to know that he's someone who's 
gonna look you in the eye. And I'm proud of that. So I'm not always a nice guy. I'm not, I still, I 
feel I’m a piece of work, but I'm working on it. But I think I'm proud of that. I'm proud that of, 
you know, for me personally, but I think, you know, I'm proud of my marriage. I'm proud of my, 
of being a father and knowing that I, I did a great job. I did an awesome job, you know, I wasn't 
perfect by no means that we try to. So, and I think that I'm proud of what I'm, I'm proud of my 
philosophy of life. People ask me, Andrew, how are you doing? And I say, perfect and getting 
better. And they go, what were you? Were you, were you sick? I said, no, what do you mean? I 
was, you know, cause I'm perfect, but getting better. And they goes, well, why, why say that? I 
said, because I believe that each one of us is actually perfect that I am perfect, but I'm getting 
better at realizing it. Yeah. That's why I'm getting better. Right. (laugh) 
 
Transcription: Andrew Frank 
 
 
11 
CT: Very nice. That's awesome. That's awesome philosophy. What advice would you give 
someone who's considering being a, a custodian or maybe, somebody who might be 
considering applying for the, for the job you have posted? Cause I know some custodians just 
go in or some house cleaners and they're not very much a part of their environment. 
AF: Right. I, I luck out, right. Not against you, right. Not anyone's like me, you know, I'm not like 
anyone else and not anyone has the job that I have. (Inaudible) So it's very, as it is, but I believe 
 
36:45 
(Cross talk) 
36:48 
AF: So my, my advice is that whatever you do, you make it your own, you know, it's like, that's 
what I've done with everything. Find the music that you love. Don't be afraid to, if the office is 
open, if no one's around you, don't be afraid to dance with your vacuum. I do it all the time. 
Like you find a song and I'm like, you know, and you, and you make it fun. You know, you gotta 
you gotta say, this is, this is worth doing, you know? Yeah. You need to make the money. Yeah. 
You need to do that. But you have a choice. You have a choice, whether to be miserable doing it 
or have fun doing it. And if you can find some kind of spark, something that's gonna, you know, 
bring your joy like once in a while, I, love to stop at the desk that I'm cleaning and the people 
have pictures of their family and I stop and look and they're smiling, everybody happy. 
AF: And then I'd like to think like, I wonder, wonder what they, what they're like, I wonder what 
they do. Where, where do they go for, for, for vacations and holidays, you know? And then 
have an imagination, but you gotta make it your own. It is it. You don't have to be doing it 
forever, but while you're doing it, make your own, make it, make it yours and have fun with it. 
Whichever way you can. Again, you have a choice there, be horrible, miserable that this is my 
loving life or, you know, you want to, it's like the image that comes to my mind. Do you want to 
be walking down the hallway with a, with the shoulders hunched over or do you want be 
skipping down it? Yeah, I'd rather skip (laugh) so I still do, my knees are wearing out, but I still 
haven't stopped (inaudible) keeping. Yes. Very nice. I realize I'm banging the table too much. 
I'm sorry. 
CT: Okay. Well thank you Andrew so much for this interview. Is there anything else that you'd 
like to add that perhaps we haven't talked about or it's your story it's gonna be archived at the 
library of Congress indefinitely? 
38:53 
AF: Yeah. I love to do (inaudible) by the way. (Laugh) I didn't think to mention that I love 
ComicCon. I go there all the tim, I do on my TikTok. I got all these ComicCon things on TikTok, 
 
Transcription: Andrew Frank 
 
 
12 
you know, that I follow. You know, I'm just no, I think that one, one needs to find a purpose in, 
in any job that you have, whether it's custodial, whether it's, you know, custodial slash facilities 
or whatever, you know, people want to be of - people want have the purpose of life and and, 
and to be of the purpose. Right. And I think that I'm, I, I just think that I'm, I'm, I have a lot of 
gratitude, you know, I'm looking forward to retiring. I love to retire right now. Please love God. I 
wanna retire. But doesn't mean I hate my job. I love my job. And I mean, I'm not like this guy in 
the world to come here. People always thankful people, you know, people come here, you 
know, like you, you know, you, you come here, you're smiling and talking with other people 
you're fiding your place and, and stuff. Yeah. It's but yeah, it's a life worth living. It really is. 
Even if you're just a custodial, you know, facility, supervisor like me.  
40:13 
CT: Well, thank you. Thank you very much. And I appreciate you taking the time and I'm gonna 
end the recording now.