1 
 
Transcript of Interview with Chris Whitenack, October 1, 2020 
 
by Ethan Sharp 
 
Ethan (00:02): 
All right. This is Ethan Sharp. It's October 1st, 2020. And I'm here in Louisa, Kentucky with Chris Whitenack. 
So, Chris to get us started could you tell us a little bit about yourself, where you were born, where you 
grew up, and what your personal journey has been through recovery and into peer support work.  
 
Chris (00:32): 
Like you said, my name is Chris Whitenack. I was born in Louisville, Kentucky. I lived there for around three 
years. My dad was in the army, so we moved, we moved quite often. Yeah. We ended up settling in 
Lawrenceburg, I guess, around first grade. And so, I pretty much grew up there. 
 
I come from a loving home, traditional home. I'm not really sure why I started down the road with alcohol 
and drugs, but it happened. That's, that's the only thing I do know is, it happened. Around age 12, I can 
remember experimenting with alcohol, just on weekends at first, but I, I can remember my weeks would 
be long because that would be on my mind that I was gonna be able to drink again on the weekend. You 
know, I’d go to my grandparents, and I would sneak whiskey or beer out of the kitchen. And so that just 
turned into a nasty habit, you know, that I've have dealt with since then. So I'm 37. So 20, 25 years that 
I've, I've dealt with that issue. Graduated high school in 2001. I was just glad to have graduated, had no 
plans after, college. I had no, no thoughts on the future. Y know, my life was centered around drugs and 
alcohol at that point, and partying and that lifestyle. Working and building a career, just, it didn't seem 
feasible, man. It, it seemed like it was so far off that, you know, I could enjoy that in that moment. And so 
I did, and I stayed that way for a while. 
 
I got married in 2007. Stayed married for about eight or nine years. I ended up going to prison for quite a 
while. I had an 11-year prison sentence. I served it out, for selling drugs, more or less just a middle person, 
was just there to get someone else theirs and maybe make enough to get high. I ended up getting in the 
middle of that and, you know, getting some time over that.  
 
Ethan (02:51): 
And all that time you were in Lawrenceburg pretty much? 
 
Chris (02:53): 
Yup. Yes, sir. So was married for about eight, eight years. She stayed with me through a lot. I put her 
through quite a bit. Have two, two kids. I had the kids prior to the marriage. I had a son and a daughter, a 
daughter who actually, she passed away in 2017. She was 13 years old. I have a son. He's 17. He has a kid 
of his own. So, I'm a grandfather now. So yeah, my addiction took, it robbed so many people other than 
myself. You know, I can look back and see that now how that really affected a whole lot more people than 
just me. I went through, I think, I think I came through Addiction Recovery Care. That was my eighth trip 
through either a treatment facility or a substance abuse program. 
Ethan (03:59): 
When you were in prison, did you have the opportunity?  
Chris (04:05): 
2 
 
Yean. That's the other substance abuse program I did. And you know, I always had good intentions, but I 
never, I never made, went through with them. So we got divorced in 2016. That's a pretty dark time in my 
life, cause I went through a divorce, and my daughter got sick in the same year. And that just fueled, fueled 
my addiction. I ended up overdosing twice. Just a lot, a lot of pain. I still, I still remember all that pretty 
vividly. And you know, I numbed it. I did what I knew how to do, and that was numb the pain. So like I 
said, this was my eighth, eighth trip through a treatment facility, and we're a faith-based facility. I had 
never, I had never done that. 
Ethan (04:58): 
Yeah, you had never had been exposed to that? 
Chris (04:59): 
I had never been exposed to that, never been exposed to a program where they had peer support 
specialists. 
Ethan (05:06): 
Oh, really? So growing up, did you have that? Did you go to church? Did you have that experience? 
Chris (05:12): 
We did a little bit. I can remember we went, we were Catholic, so we went to Catholic church. I can 
remember for about three years, I was really heavily involved with the church, you know. I was an altar 
boy. I was there every Sunday, and it was, it was fun to me. I'm not sure what happened, why we quit 
going, but I remember we just kind of abruptly stopped going to church. And I'm still not sure as to why 
that happened, but I don't think we went to another service together after that. And that was when I was 
13 years old. 
Ethan (05:52): 
Can I ask you, so you had opioid use disorder. That is what you were struggling with. Can you talk a little 
bit about that, how you were introduced to that, or would you rather not? 
Chris (06:07): 
No, that's perfectly fine. Yeah, I'm transparent. So anything that you feel you want to ask. My first 
encounter with opioids was, uh, I got my teeth knocked out. 12 years old playing baseball. And I remember 
going to the dentist and he, I was 13, and he gave me a prescription for pain pills. And they took the nerves 
out because they broke them clean in half. So I obviously couldn't feel it, so I wasn't in pain. And, but I 
knew people that did like them at that age, and I was able to get rid of them, make some money. So I 
kinda saw that quick money and at first tried it. And I, I took a couple of them too, and I enjoyed the way 
they made me feel. But outside of that, I always had to go get my own, and that was probably the only 
time I ever got prescribed them by a doctor or someone. 
Ethan (07:12): 
Okay. So that's something that kind of continued as you got older? 
Chris (07:16): 
Yeah, it does. Yeah. It went to, it eventually evolved into heroin. 
3 
 
Ethan (07:22): 
Yeah. And then, what was it that made you finally come to ARC? 
Chris (07:29): 
So I was at another treatment facility in Louisville. And I'd been there about two and a half months. I was 
doing good. And you gotta get a job at this place I was at. And so I get a job working at this pizza place, 
and we can drink on the job after 10 o'clock, and I'm working with a bunch of younger kids, and they 
partied on the job. And I wasn't very transparent about what I struggled with as far as addiction goes with 
then. And so they kind of, you know, they would offer to me, and I ended up drinking. And it was like three 
days later, man, I was, I was back on heroin again. And so I started failing drug tests, and like three weeks 
in a row, I failed drug tests. So I was on my way out. 
 
They was going to kick me out. And my mom, she is a designated court worker in Frankfort. So, she gets 
people into treatment, and I called her and told her, you know, I came clean with her and let her know 
everything that had been going on and asked her if there was another place I could go. And if I'm being 
honest, at the moment, it was out of desperation. I didn't want to go back to jail. And she was like, well, I 
only have the one place, and we had talked about faith-based before, and I was just like, I don't think 
that's for me. I don't, I don't, want to do that. And she didn't give me a choice. I either got to do that, or I 
got to go to jail. And when I got there, it wasn't, I don't know, I still don't know what I had pictured it was 
going be, you know. But it wasn't that at all, you know. It was, it's faith-based, but the knowledge is there, 
but you have to embrace it. 
Ethan (09:14): 
Where did you, did you come here to Louisa? 
Chris (09:17): 
So I went to a place we have in Catlettsburg, which is about 25 minutes up the road, Sanibel House. I went 
there and then phase one and two there. And then there's another house here in Louisa, I did phase three 
at. 
Ethan (09:29): 
Okay. So how long do each of those phases last? 
Chris (09:35): 
So phase one's average of 28 to 30 days. Phase two's an average of 30 to 40. Phase three's an average of 
45. And then after that, we have phase four slash internship. So it will last up to a year. 
Ethan (09:51): 
And can you talk a little bit about what the, what that experience was like? You know, what kinds of things 
did you learn when you went through those phases? What kinds of activities did you do? 
Chris (10:07): 
Yeah, so phase one, the majority of the people in there are coming off of something. So it's a little more 
relaxed. Still have groups, you have about four to five hours of group a day. We got to go to meetings. 
This was pre COVID. So we were going to meetings three or four times a week. Church once or twice a 
4 
 
week. A lot of engagement inside the houses with the fellowship. There's chores and other activities, so 
we're all coming together and working. 
Ethan (10:42): 
And you have some one-on-one counseling as well? 
Chris (10:46): 
Yeah, you have individuals. 
Ethan (10:50): 
And then just, just to clarify, so is it sort of the Celebrate Recovery kind of program that you use with the 
12 steps combined with...? 
Chris (11:02): 
With ARC? No. We use the 12 steps in our peer support groups. But then, that can be from any of that. 
That can be from AA, NA, Celebrate Recovery, whatever. You know, we have approved literature that we 
can go by. 
Ethan (11:19): 
Okay. So the faith-based comes in, in the church meetings? 
Chris (11:23): 
Church meetings. And just, it's in the environment in itself, you know. Everything's done out of love, and 
Christ at the very center of it. 
Ethan (11:31): 
Right. And so can you talk a little bit about that period of like how you, obviously there was a change in 
your faith right, during that time. Can you talk about that a bit? 
Chris (11:49): 
So, I struggled with my relationship with God, you know. I watched my daughter suffer for nine months, 
and just wasn't sure, you know. You know, God, God's been pretty good to me. You know, instead of, so 
I'll back up a little bit, instead of coming to treatment, my original plan was to go be homeless in Louisville 
and get high and then hopefully die. And I had a sponsor while I was there, and I started dodging him 
because I was getting high and I felt like he would judge me. And I'm walking out the doors. I got my 
backpack on. It's dead of winter. It's cold. I got a couple outfits on. And I'm going out the door, and he's 
coming in the door. And I can't dodge him, he's got me cornered. And I was like, you know, I was always 
like, Hey, I meant to call you, or whatever excuse I had. 
 
And he got to hear it. And he's like, yeah, I know you've been dodging me. He's like, God kind of put it on 
my heart to come here and check on you. I was at first, I was blown away by the coincidence of it all. So I 
owed him that much to sit there and listen to what he had to say. And he told me his story, and he told 
me how he got sober and what keeps him sober and what he does each day to maintain that. It gave me 
a lot of hope, a lot of hope. He definitely, he planted a seed that night. I'm hard-headed. I am one of those 
evidence-based people, and I was like, well, that was, that was cool and all, but. 
5 
 
Ethan (13:29): 
So what, what is something he told you that really stuck with you? 
Chris (13:38): 
So we did a lot of big book work. And, and we, I still talk to him to this day. He's the first person that I 
contact before I get out of bed. And he's the same way. We do a daily commitment to our program and 
to God. And I'd say that's it, man. Just being able to, you know, I've been doing it now for 20 months, the 
longest I've committed to anything, and then stuck with it. 
Ethan (14:16): 
So you didn't, you didn't head out that night. And is that when you called your mom? 
Chris (14:22): 
That's when I called my mom. 
Ethan (14:22): 
Okay. Okay. You shared that in Lawrenceburg. I'm glad you remembered to talk about that. 
Chris (14:35): 
And then I get to Sanibel. I always use that mentality, that jail mentality, that convict mentality. It's never, 
it's a victim role is all that is, it's nothing more than a victim role. And I get there, and people, people that 
I didn't know, you know, Hey man, we love you here, man. Do you need anything? And I was real skeptical 
at first. I was like, I don't, I'm good. Obviously I wasn't, I needed things, but that never changed. And I kind 
of sat back and waited for it to. I probably spent more time than I should have sitting around waiting on 
these people's true colors to show because I felt like they had ulterior motives. And then, that never 
happened, man. It's, that's some of the best friendships I've ever made to this day, came out of that house. 
Ethan (15:30): 
And you had never experienced anything like that with your other experiences with treatment. That's, 
that's great. So, I think you were talking about, you know, the meetings that you went through, and when 
you were there, what did it, what was it like, you know, getting then into phase three and then into the, 
to the phase four. 
Chris (15:59): 
You want me to break down the phases? Is that what you mean? 
Ethan (16:02): 
Well, I just wanted to know, like, how your schedule changes and the kinds of things that you were getting 
involved in. And, and I'd like to kind of focus on where the, where the peers came in for you. 
Chris (16:17): 
So, they came in day one, the peer support specialists. So most all of our houses, every one of our houses 
are staffed with multiple peer support specialists. So there's generally, so there's generally a peer support 
specialist there 24 hours a day. So, I'm going to tell you the biggest thing for me was not only do they 
6 
 
share their knowledge with you and their experience and their strength and their hope. But they're 
walking, living examples of we do recover. And it's real comforting to sit there and actually see it as 
opposed to hear someone come in and tell you about it two hours a day and then leave. And you don't 
really, you don't really know what they do. It's kinda, it's not, it's not that it's hard to believe, but when 
you see it and they have those genuine smiles on their face. 
Chris (17:12): 
And that, that was the, that was probably the game changer for me in phase one or phase two. I remember 
sitting back and watching a couple of them, and I didn't know how they got where they were. But I knew 
I was going to be committed to, I was going to shadow him. I was just going to sit back and watch him and 
learn their things, their mannerisms, the way they talk to people, the way they reacted to situations, the 
level of maturity they showed. And it was, so that's what I did. I kind of mirrored, I kind of mirrored my 
recovery off them in the beginning. 
Ethan (17:48): 
So they were kind of leading things from the beginning? 
Chris (17:52): 
Yeah. So peer support specialists in our houses. They're going to have double, triple, quadruple roles. Now 
they may pass out meds. They're going to be getting everybody up. They're going to help make meals. 
They're gonna do groups. And they're vital to the way we run things. 
Ethan (18:13): 
And then most of them have the certification? 
Chris (18:16): 
Yeah. We, we actually have our own certification through our company. So there's obviously a course you 
can take, it's like a week. Well, we have one here. It's a little, a little more extended. It's a six month 
process. So when you get into phase four, you know, one of the requirements is that you're enrolled in 
something, and the majority of the time it's always going to be peer support specialist. 
Ethan (18:51): 
And that is the Peer Academy? Okay. And that's the six month process. But when you, you've mentioned 
phase three, you moved to another house. What is that? What is that house, and what, what, is that phase 
three? 
Chris (19:11): 
So every house will be different, phase one, two and three, but phase three, you start getting, getting 
more privileges, back. You start getting more privileges each phase, but phase three, you'll get an offsite 
visit on Saturdays. You get your cell phone back, more responsibilities. Everybody, so completion of the 
program is I think legally or technically considered phase two. So most of the time when you get to people 
in phase three, they really want this, and everyone's kind of got the same goal and on the same path. And 
phase three was a really good experience for me, but it was also challenging because, you know, I, I made 
my mind up, once I made phase three, I was just gonna, I'm gonna finish it out and intern. 
7 
 
Ethan (20:08): 
And then from there you do the internship? 
Chris (20:10): 
Yeah, I get a call from my mom too, is what it is weird, that I felt like it was God's will that I come home 
and go to barber college and a halfway house. Me and my son are talking and, you know, we got fishing 
trips planned. This is summer. I think I was scheduled to finish May. 
Ethan (20:31): 
This was just this year? 
Chris (20:37): 
Last year. And God kind of flipped my world upside down. My attitude was getting bad. I was, I wasn't in 
the book like I should've been. I wasn't, I wasn't as worried about educating myself as I was about getting 
out of there. And I had prayed, you know, God, shut the door on me, whatever I'm not supposed, shut the 
door. And it wasn't a day or two later that I get a call from financial aid concerning barber college that it 
didn't go through, but she could fix it, all's I gotta do is show up. And I was like, well, that's not a sign, or 
she wouldn't have said, come on and fix it. So I was still going to do it. And I turned down a few intern 
offers in this process. And I wasn't sleeping. I wasn't at ease. I was real anxious. I hit my knees, and all I 
can remember was those rides, man, to rehab and to prison and to jail, and the disappointment on my 
ex-wife's face, or my kids, not being there for them. I'm just reliving all these memories just in an instant. 
I knew right then that I was, I was messing up if I didn't stay. At the last second, I went in and got an intern 
spot. 
Ethan (21:53): 
And the internship was with the company. So what was that? 
Chris (22:03): 
So I started off in residential, just helping out in the kitchen and helping get the guys ready and make sure 
everybody's a group. And then I got an offer to come to ECS. It's education and career services. We handle 
all the events. We used to have convo, which was a once a month meeting where everybody from the 
company would meet, and we would celebrate and worship and praise Jesus. We haven't had one since 
March, so we planned and set all those up and all our graduations and trainings and all peer support 
specialist academy things. 
Ethan (22:41): 
And that's what you did as an intern? Is that what you're still working in? 
Chris (22:46): 
No, so, they hired me there. That's where I got hired on at. But I work in operations now. I'm an operations 
specialist. We kinda oversee the medical, clinical, peer support, case managers, food services. 
Ethan (23:11): 
8 
 
Yeah, that's a lot. But then you went through the academy. Well, I just do want to ask real quick, because 
you mentioned something about when people get through the first two phases, they think they're done. 
Is that because that's kind of what insurance covers and then beyond that no? 
Chris (23:35): 
I'm not sure on the proper jargon, but I think that'll satisfy court. Sometimes a judge will send some, not 
send, but refer them for longer stays. 
Ethan (23:47): 
Okay. Yeah. I was just curious about that. So, when you were doing the internship, you were doing the 
peer academy too. 
Chris (23:54): 
Yes, that how it works. 
Ethan (23:58): 
Can you talk a little bit about what that training is like with peer academy? 
Chris (24:04): 
Yeah. I think we had a class of almost 30 people in it. We get trained on CPR. Narcan. Multiple life skill 
trainings. 
Ethan (24:18): 
Is that like a daily class? 
Chris (24:22): 
But it's all online, and it's, it's a lot like online college. It's not much different, the curriculum. A lot of 
HIPAA. A Lot of HIPAA stuff. A lot of the diseases stuff. It's a whole lot of information. But like, they have 
that spaced out for six months. So you have assignments. They're due each day or so many per week. And 
that was really nice for me because like, I hadn't really ever accomplished much. Barely got through school. 
And to get those first grades back and in on time and get good grades. It was a pretty good feeling to get 
that sense of accomplishment. 
Ethan (25:03): 
You get college credit for that? 
Chris (25:09): 
We have partnered up with Sullivan. I think this is still true. I'm not a hundred percent, but when I went 
through, so if you do the academy and then go on to college at Sullivan, once you've completed a semester 
there, they'll give you I think it's 18 hours towards a degree in community health sciences. 
Ethan (25:30): 
Awesome. That's really cool. And that's a lot more than what other peer support specialists do. I don't 
know if you've looked into that. 
9 
 
Chris (25:42): 
Yeah. So, I'm biased anyway, but we, we breed a really special peer support specialist. 
Ethan (25:49): 
But do you get the same certificate that other people do? That doesn't seem, that doesn't seem fair, but 
that's, that's really cool. 
Chris (26:03): 
And they empower you. Like I said, so you get in the academy and you finish that, well, a college is going 
to offer me credits if I complete a semester. So you have that momentum going forward, you know. They 
want to keep you, see you succeeding in life. Like, I'm a peer support specialist, but I don't use, I don't do 
a lot of groups anymore. I did for the last couple months, but outside of that, I don't do a whole lot of 
them because I work here in the office now. 
Ethan (26:36): 
Yeah. So that's what I wanted to talk about like what kinds things that you did, so you went through the 
academy, you got the certification, then once you got that certification, what kinds of things did you work 
on? You know, as a peer support specialist? So like, as a peer support, once you get the certification, what, 
what did, what does that allow you to do? 
Chris (27:06): 
Oh, so it qualifies you for a job once you have a year of sobriety. 
Ethan (27:11): 
Okay. So did you also finish the internship at the same time? 
Chris (27:15): 
Yeah. Almost exactly the same time. And they, they have it all set up like that, that way you're not going 
out without anything, you know. A lot of places they'll send you home in 60 days, and you don't have any, 
you don't have no more than when you came in, you're just sober. So they set you up for success. 
Ethan (27:34): 
Yeah. Yeah. But did, so you were saying you, you run groups, was that part of your job? 
Chris (27:44): 
It's not part of my job, no. But if it's needed, I will go do it. If they're short-staffed at a house or something, 
I'll go. I'll go over groups. 
Ethan (27:53): 
And because of that training? 
Chris (27:55): 
I'm able to do that. Yeah. 
10 
 
Ethan (27:56): 
I see. I see. So that's part of the training too, is learning how to run groups? 
Chris (28:03): 
Oh yeah. That's, that's the whole class pretty much. I mean, I mean, there's a lot more to it, but that's 
what, that's what you have to know how to do. It teaches you how to talk to people, how to listen. 
Ethan (28:16): 
Awesome. What are the other, some other things there in the training that stood out to you? 
Chris (28:23): 
A lot of the computer skills, so like I lacked that. Yeah. Well, you have, you take a little test before you 
start and send an email and correct verbiage, and CCing, and adding a subject. Just kind of basic, but it 
was a nice refresher. 
Ethan (28:46): 
And then they, you said they covered HIPPA, like what are some other clinical things? They don't give you 
like information about what diagnoses are? I'm just curious. 
Chris (29:03): 
They do. We'll have, so I think you can see that ASAM book. We study that. So, when a client comes in 
intake, and you know, we'll have the assessment, and then we'll, we get to rate what they are, what level 
of care, anywhere from a 3.5 to a one, I think three point five [inaudible]. 
Ethan (29:28): 
So the peers do that assessment? Well, I was asking like, you know, if you're working with-- 
Chris (29:36): 
Well, the peers and the clinicians. 
Ethan (29:43): 
Working with a clinician, you know, you have to be able to work together. So I was just curious about it, if 
they went over some of that stuff with you. Well, can we talk about what peer support specialist, what 
other things, kinds of things, peer support specialists do here at ARC? So you went through the training 
with groups of people and you're now, kind of, you know, supporting peer support specialists throughout 
the organization. So what is there, I'd like to talk a little bit more about things you do, but first, what just 
sort of generally, what are the kinds of things, peer support specialists, do, you know? 
Chris (30:30): 
Like I said, they do a lot. You know, they might have four roles in the house. They might, you might be 
taking someone to court today or a doctor's appointment or, you know, whatever it may be, go get meds 
refilled or food for the house. 
Ethan (30:45): 
11 
 
So it's kind of open and then running the meetings. But there's not sort of, yeah, I was just wondering if 
there were like some specific roles? 
Chris (30:55): 
Yeah, their specific role is peer support specialist [inaudible] cover groups. 
Ethan (30:59): 
Okay. Okay. It's pretty much kind of the same role. And then can you talk a little bit about your, a little bit 
more about your job? Like things, I know you talked about it already, but some things that you, what are 
the things, like what's a normal week for you? 
Chris (31:13): 
It ranges. It changes so much. So we're opening that new facility, you know. Our office is in charge of 
making that operational. 
Ethan (31:30): 
Can you talk about that a little bit? Like, what is the vision for that? 
Chris (31:34): 
So we'll have 750 clients once we're full. 
Ethan (31:39): 
Oh, wow. Living there? 
Chris (31:43): 
Living there. And I forget the final number on staff, but it's way up there too. So you know, it's on us to 
define roles and job descriptions and get these people hired and trained. 
Ethan (31:58): 
And it'll follow the same kind of treatment model in the phase one, phase two, but it'll all be there right 
there. Wow. That's amazing. 
Chris (32:08): 
It's pretty cool. It's fun to be a part of. 
Ethan (32:10): 
Yeah. Yeah. So you, you said you were, you're working on that project. What are some things you have to 
do with that? Are you, they remodeling facility? 
Chris (32:24): 
No, it doesn't need much work. It's actually in pretty good shape. There will be some places where we 
have to put up walls and things like that. They have another crew that, that does that. We'll identify rooms, 
what'll go where. 
12 
 
Ethan (32:39): 
They have the dorm, dorm rooms that you will just be using like they are. So is that sort of your, is that 
what you're in charge of, or you're working with a team on that? 
Chris (32:58): 
Oh, yeah, I'm working with people on that. 
Ethan (32:58): 
And then what else, what other kinds of things do you get involved in? 
Chris (33:15): 
Let's see. Well, we help a lot with transportation, to take care of our fleet. We have 130 vehicles in the 
fleet. Our EMR that we use, Kipu, I don't know if you're familiar with that. It's where we track all our notes, 
our medical things, which, that's a full-time job in itself. 
Ethan (33:37): 
And that's all electronic? 
Chris (33:43): 
Yes. Man, there's a lot. I don't know why I'm struggling. 
Ethan (33:51): 
Have you had lunch yet? How many, how many, how many are you serving right now? Do you have a 
sense of that? Maybe we talked a little bit about the organization but we haven't really talked about—  
Chris (34:07): 
1100. I think we have to close to 700 residential and around 400 outpatient. 
Ethan (34:15): 
How many on the staff? 
Chris (34:17): 
I'm not sure on that now. 
Ethan (34:19): 
Yeah. But how many facilities do you have across the state? 
Chris (34:26): 
17 
Ethan (34:26): 
17. And is this, that includes the new one that you're working on now? 
13 
 
Chris (34:28): 
No, that doesn't include that one. 
Ethan (34:30): 
So that'd be 18. Yeah. That's, yeah, that's a huge operation. I'm really, really impressed with that. And 
then do you have a sense of when the organization started, and how? 
Chris (34:45): 
Yeah, so we're about 12 years old. I think, I think it's 10 or 12 and the CEO/owner Tim Robinson. He's also, 
he's an alcoholic. He was a lawyer. He stepped out in faith from his law firm, and started out. He, he got, 
he got sober, and he started out, he would, he was taking clients to treatment, and he did that a lot and 
volunteered. And I think he noticed that he usually had a spot to take the guys. But he didn't usually have 
a spot for the women. So he opened up Karen's Place, here in Louisa, and I think that's been 10 years ago. 
And that was our first one. It's still open today. Truly nice house. It was actually his house. And they moved 
out, and made it a treatment center, and it's just been growing since. 
Ethan (35:53): 
So how do you explain that? I mean, that's, that's just extraordinary, right? That, you know, in 10 years 
you go from him serving women out of his house to 17, 18 facilities. What do you think is going on there? 
Chris (36:20): 
I don't know. I value his faith for sure. Cause, you know, he stepped out. 
Ethan (36:23): 
So certainly a lot of leadership there. And as you say, faith, but maybe there's a need, right, that wasn't 
being met. 
Chris (36:38): 
And that's it, like I said, he could find places for, to take the two guys, but he would struggle finding a place 
to take women. 
Ethan (36:46): 
But then he moved on and opened places for men too. But you, from your perspective, I mean, can you 
really say, you know, can you really point to what, why it's successful? I mean, because you've seen other, 
you've seen other organizations. 
Chris (37:14): 
I feel like it's, it's got everything to do with Christ. Like I told you earlier, he's at the center of everything 
we do. Just like a CEO, you know, volunteering, stepping out on faith and, and driving people to treatment, 
and everything was out of love. And it's still like that to this day, you know. You can't walk into one of our 
houses and not feel it. 
Ethan (37:36): 
14 
 
Yeah. Yeah. But also that, that model that you've been talking about where, you know, guys who come 
through it or women who come through it, you don't just leave them on their own. They have that option 
of getting an internship, getting some training. So that's pretty new. I mean, you haven't seen that any 
place else, have you? 
Chris (38:11): 
No. I've seen a couple of places that will do peer mentor spots, and it’s not, there won't be very many of 
those. And then here's the thing, almost, if not half, almost half,  5 or 600 employees, half of those are in 
recovery and out of that half, two thirds went through this program and would do anything at any moment 
for anybody in this facility. 
Ethan (38:47): 
For you, for you, for you guys who went through it and you're in recovery, you, you mentioned that you 
stay in contact with your sponsor, but what are some things that other folks do to really maintain that 
recovery? You go to meetings still, you go to church? 
Chris (39:11): 
So, so for me, I can't really speak for others, but for me it was maintaining that relationship with God. 
Ethan (39:18): 
Do you go to church here within the organization? 
Chris (39:21): 
Well, it's not, it's not actually a part of ARC, the church isn't. It's called The Table. It's a lot of ARC folk 
there, but it's, it's a separate entity. It's actually right below us. 
Ethan (39:38): 
Yeah, I saw that. I was wondering what that was. Yeah, I know that's, that's something that's important, 
right, is continuing to maintain your own recovery even while you're working with others in recovery. 
Chris (40:01): 
Service work. I've noticed the more I stay plugged in, and it's mostly through church. 
Ethan (40:07): 
Do they have meetings in the church? 
Chris (40:10): 
We have groups, we have life groups throughout the church. 
Ethan (40:13): 
But not like Celebrate Recovery. Celebrate Recovery is kind of totally separate from what you do here. 
You don't, you don't follow that program. That's what I mean. Obviously, there's overlap. 
Chris (40:33): 
15 
 
I mean, in reality, they're all the same. They were all derived from the same place, but actually to say, it's 
that, it's not. But it's also not AA or in NA either. You know, we do a lot of the 12 step literature, though. 
Ethan (40:49): 
Yeah. Yeah. I wanted to see, if you had a, you know, another personal story you'd like to share maybe 
about someone, you, you don't have to mention names, but someone you've helped along the way that's, 
you know, really kept you going, that's inspired you. Do you have a story like that you'd like to share, you 
know, someone you've worked with, someone maybe you're sponsoring? 
Chris (41:23): 
So I've had a few people of that nature, but they usually don't stick with it. So there's no, I can't, I can't 
tell you this great grand story. I don't really know to be honest. 
Ethan (41:35): 
Or you can tell a story of someone who you thought was doing well and who didn't end up, or hit a bump 
in the road. 
Chris (41:44): 
I don't, I don't really know. I know, everything's pretty much changed for me, my mindset, what I want 
out of life, and where I'm going. I'm sure you heard me at the thing, you know, I want to preach. 
Ethan (42:04): 
Tell us, tell me about that how did you feel a call to do that. 
Chris (42:08): 
That really evolved. I spend a lot of time talking to myself. I'm sure it's not normal, but I do. I'll catch 
myself. It's almost like motivational slash spiritual. And three days I kept catching myself do that, and I can 
just feel it. I just feel that's what I was supposed to. And my boss, he's the assistant pastor or associate 
pastor. 
Ethan (42:42): 
No, I mean, he's at The Table. 
Chris (42:48): 
Yeah, I told them about it. And then, they gave me a chance to get up there and give the message. I really 
enjoyed that. So, my plan will be to go to seminary school or Bible college, and I want to be educated in 
whatever it is. If I want to teach, then I need to know, need to be educated. 
Ethan (43:08): 
What was that experience like of giving them the message? What was the message? Do you remember? 
Chris (43:23): 
The message was about following through with what you set out to do and not having pity parties. 
16 
 
Ethan (43:30): 
Yeah. Well, that must have been challenging to do it for the first time, right? 
Chris (43:39): 
It was a little bit. God gives me the ability to speak often, it seems like. It gets, it gets a little easier each 
time. It was a little, it was a different setting. I'm used to speaking to, just speaking to addicts or alcoholics. 
You gotta learn to know your audience. And I try not to always, not that I'm ashamed about it, to bring up 
I'm an addict in every conversation. 
Ethan (44:09): 
Yeah, yeah. But you, I mean, you did a really great job in Lawrenceburg, so you do have opportunities to 
do that a lot, right? So do you talk in front of the meetings here? 
Chris (44:24): 
Or the houses. Yeah. Yes, sir. 
Ethan (44:33): 
So that seemed like a natural thing for you. 
Chris (44:35): 
Yeah, it does. And then that's what, obviously I want to, I want to do God's work, and I don't mind 
speaking. So it kind of, it makes sense to do that. 
Ethan (44:48): 
Yeah. So that's what you're, you're looking at for the future, going to seminary and ministering in a church. 
That'd be the long-term goal. Well, let's talk about some, I don't know if we can talk about any other 
successes that you wanted to bring up now. We talked about a lot, but I want to make sure that we cover 
that, if there's anything else that we need to. Successes that you've seen in your life or other people's 
lives, the triumphs, the blessings, the positives. I just wanna make sure we didn't forget anything before 
we started talking about negatives 
Chris (45:48): 
It's awesome. You know, I got to bring a lot of people to treatment when COVID started and then to see 
them now in peer support academy or phase four and doing good and getting ready to get a job. And I 
see them getting their kids back and license. That's, that's always special. 
Ethan (46:09): 
Yeah. Yeah. So people are, you see people following you in your footsteps. Well, just real quick, what 
about the impact of the pandemic? You brought that up, how's that really affected? 
Chris (46:30): 
I think overdose rates and suicides and everything's up 30% right now. I haven't missed a beat during 
COVID. 
17 
 
Ethan (46:42): 
You're still accepting new clients. 
Chris (46:45): 
Everything, yeah. Now it's shut down, it's shut down the way we operate. We don't get to go to meetings. 
We don't go to church. Telehealth has been a big part. 
Ethan (46:58): 
But the houses themselves kept on going? And no issues with anybody getting sick or anything. 
Chris (47:16): 
No, no, I think we maybe have had four cases. 
Ethan (47:19): 
Okay. That's great. That's great. So let's talk about sort of challenges going forward with peer support 
specialists. Yeah. I'd like to talk about, you know, where do you see peer support specialists, what, what 
do you see that role becoming. That's one thing. And then the other, like what are some kind of issues or 
things that need to be ironed out for a peer support specialist? There's two questions there, so I don't 
know where you want to start. Like, what are some issues, challenges, problems. And then what would 
you like to see change? 
Chris (48:00): 
I think some Issues and challenges, which some, it's not, it's not, most of your peer support specialist are 
a year or two clean. And they're on fire for God and for recovery. And they want all the responsibilities, 
and they want them now. They want everything. They can handle it. And they can handle it for a little 
while, but eventually it'll break you down. And that's one thing that I see, I can look back and stand back 
and see that as a lot of [unclear] just say no. 
Ethan (48:38): 
So do you have that challenge? 
Chris (48:42): 
Still do. If they ask me to do something, I'll do it. 
Ethan (48:46): 
Yeah. But you're, you're learning to say no. 
Chris (48:49): 
I'm aware that I should say no. 
Ethan (48:57): 
Yeah. At least you're aware, but most of the folks who worked for you as a peer support specialist come 
through the peer academy, is that right? 
18 
 
Speaker 3 (49:05): 
They don't work for me. 
Ethan (49:07): 
Well, I mean for the organization. Is there any issue like with other peer support specialists that are not 
from ARC? You know, like we talked about this a little bit, you know, they don't get as much training as 
you all do. 
Chris (49:33): 
No, to be honest, most of our hires are from, from in-house. I mean, there's probably going to be one or 
two. And I, I don't know what that training's like. Sorry, I can't really speak, speak to that. I know what 
ours is like. I know it's very thorough. It's extensive. 
Ethan (49:48): 
Yeah. I was just wondering if, so If you want to, I guess they don't have the training that you all have, so it 
seems like maybe your peer support specialists are at a higher level than some of the others. 
Chris (50:14): 
Like I said, I don't know what that training looks like. 
Ethan (50:16): 
Yeah. We don't have to get into it, but that's what I was trying to get at. 
Chris (50:22): 
I know I would trust our process 100%. 
Ethan (50:25): 
Yeah. Yeah. But you don't get any kinds of, like, if you meet with other peer support specialists from other 
companies or other people from other treatment centers, there's, you know, it's all, there's no issues in 
terms of your relationships with them. I mean, there's never, no competition or anything like that. 
Chris (50:51): 
Not that I'm aware of. 
Ethan (50:52): 
Okay. All right. So my last, the last thing was what do you see, what is your vision for peer support 
specialists in the future? I mean, do you see that? It seems like it's just different. I guess this is what my 
issue is that, you know, I've been meeting people from different organizations. And they don't always 
have such a good model as you do, as your organization has, I mean to say. And so they tend to have a lot 
of complaints. So that's kind of why I just wanted, you know, if there are complaints that you have , you 
know. I see, I see the structure's really solid. So you know, I just wanted to give you that chance. 
Chris (51:53): 
19 
 
It is, and you'll meet one, you'll meet one or two when we go to the house and, and you'll see. So we're 
in our internship while we're going through this academy. So, by the time that we've done this, we've, 
we've dedicated, committed a year of our life to, to here, not to here, but to working on ourselves, to 
building that foundation. And so honestly, I haven't met an ungrateful person yet that I've came through 
the academy with, or that I've had the pleasure of going over there and speaking in front of. Everyone is 
so on fire for God and their recovery. And that's what sets us apart, in my opinion. And that's company-
wide, you know. You can hardly mistake our culture. You'll know we're there. 
Ethan (52:43): 
Yeah, no, I know. I think it's a really, you know, an awesome system. I hope that other companies would 
learn from that because I think, I think that the challenge that peer support specialists in other 
organizations face is they don't really know what their role is. You know, they do some of the same things 
that you all do, but they don't really know where it's going. So you haven't found that? 
Chris (53:20): 
And then that's another thing is when I told you there's a lot of opportunities within our company. You 
know, we, we just started a college. We have an accredited college, the Millard School. So we offer 
programs for CADC counselors and different things like that. 
Ethan (53:35): 
And some of the peers are going into that? 
Chris (53:36): 
Yeah. So they'll go into that and eventually will be able to, they don't just stop. Like you said, they weren't 
sure where they were going. That's one thing, a year and a half of momentum here, and you got, you got 
something you want to do, you know, a lot of people will set their eyes on a director role. You know, cause 
most of our directors are, come through the program. So, we know that it's possible. We can see, we can 
see clearly from the very beginning I can do that. If he did that, I can do that. 
Ethan (54:12): 
Yeah. That's something we didn't talk about. So the directors of the house are peers? 
Chris (54:18): 
Most, a lot of them. Yeah. A lot of them are certified, yes 
Ethan (54:21): 
But then you have someone who's over, do you have someone who's over all the peers? 
Chris (54:27): 
Over the peer support specialists? What do you mean the peers? 
Ethan (54:31): 
The peer support specialists. 
Chris (54:39): 
20 
 
Yeah. We have a peer support coordinator, and he's not over so much the peers. He may be. I may have 
that wrong, but he's over more or less the information and the lessons we use in each group. 
Ethan (54:51): 
But that's somebody who's also a peer support specialist. So that they can move up into those kinds of 
roles where they're more supervising and coordinating. 
Chris (55:02): 
Yeah. It's definitely a leadership role. 
Ethan (55:06): 
Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Well, that's, that's good. I just wanted to make sure that if there's any kind 
of issues or challenges that that you see that need to be addressed, but I think we're good on that. But 
you're, you're personally not interested in getting the drug counseling. 
Chris (55:32): 
No, it's not. It's not that I wouldn't want to, but like I said, I kind of got my sights set on, on something 
else, so. 
Ethan (55:43): 
Well, I think that's, I mean, we could, we could come to this last question here, you know, how, as you've 
been through this process, you know, how has that led you to think differently about recovery and your 
recovery? You have something to say to that? 
Chris (56:03): 
Yeah, I'll answer that and then we probably should—ask me again. 
Ethan (56:07): 
If you don't, if you don't have any answer to it, that's fine. How has your work led you to think differently 
about recovery? Cause you had a different idea about it when you started. 
Chris (56:25): 
For sure. For sure. One of my biggest things is we, I put limits on my potential. I don't really know, I didn't 
know what I was capable of, so I kept it, you know. I see now after almost two years that there's really not 
much we're not capable of. That's, that's my biggest takeaway from seeing my friends succeed in life, my 
own successes. And that, that's it for me. Just putting limits on my capabilities. 
Ethan (57:08): 
Yeah. Okay. That's, that's where we'll end.