Date 
December 01, 2020 
Time 
5:00pm 
Interviewer 
Edward Y. Millar 
Interviewee 
Don Spatorico 
Location 
Don’s House 
Audio log 
Prepared by: 
Edward Y. Millar 
Collection 
Number 
AFC 2020/013    
The Ransomville Speedway: Dirt Track Workers in Western New York 
 
Archie Green Fellowship Ransomville Speedway Interviews,  
American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fieldnotes 
Pre-Interview 
I arrived to Don’s house in Ransomville around 520 or so, leaving from work, taking the 104 over to 
Ransomville road, takin a left, and just staying on that till I hit Ransomville, passing through the village 
center to his house on the north side. A helpful tip in the area for navigation is a number of the roads 
(not all) are named after one or both of the towns/villages/hamlets that are at an end of it. For example, 
104 is Main St. in Niagara Falls and then turning into Lewiston Road (and goes into/by Lewiston), 
Lockport Road eventually brings you from Niagara Falls to Lockport, Youngstown-Wilson road connects 
Youngstown and Wilson, Lockport, Niagara Falls boulevard goes into Niagara Falls, Dickersonville road 
brings you into Dickersonville, and Ransomville Road into Ransomville.   
I park on the street, and knock at the front door when I arrive after gathering my gear out of the car, and 
we head through Don’s house to setup in the back porch area for the interview. 
Before starting the interview I go over with Don what we’d be focusing on the interview, talking a little 
bit about his racing career, but also focusing mostly on Spats Graphics, the graphic design work that he 
has done for race cars, more recently switching just to working specifically on kart racing. 
Interview 
After the usual ‘intro card’/ audio stamp introduction I’ve been doing for this project, we jump right into 
the interview. I decided to start with focusing on his career racing, as he recently retired from racing in 
2015, starting out in the sportsmen class. This way, the interview would provide a chronological ‘step’ 
towards the current work he is continuing (graphic design) as a side business. While talking about his 
racing career, Don talked about his early memories of the speedway, starting out in the sportsmen class, 
some of the highlights of his career, and some of the wrecks that he had as well. Then we switched to 
talking about Spats Graphics, and how he got his start in graphic design for racing. Don mentioned that 
he started it when he started racing at the same time, back then doing all the lettering and coloring by 
hand. Don talked about some of the changes that have taken place in terms of technology, and the 
impact of digital printing and vinyl on the ‘look’ and design of racing graphics now. Don focused on.  
 
Post Interview 
After the interview, Don and I talked a bit about the area and found out we both had a common interest 
in historic architecture and buildings. So we talked a bit about historic architecture in the area, and I 
made a point to jot down sharing some of the resources I have with him about historic buildings in being 
a member of the Town of Lewiston Historic Preservation Commission, and having previously done some 
survey work across the county. Going to send in the mail a copy of the niagara historic trail book I got 
from Niagara County’s Bicentennial. Niagara County has a wealth of historic buildings and vernacular 
architecture, but typically is overshadowed by Buffalo, whose architectural heritage is much more well 
known. But we got some cool stuff up here, and we joked that we could sit there all night talking about 
it (in the end I think only talked for another 30 mins or so as I didn’t want to keep us from our families 
much longer that night). Around 7 or so I made my way back down Ransomville road to 104, and stayed 
on that till I got to my home neighborhood in Lewiston.