Transcription: Isabella Soliday 
1 
CT: Today is March 15th, 2022. This is an interview for the custodians and janitors of Colorado 
oral history project funded by an Archie green fellowship from the library of Congress. As a part 
of the project, we are interviewing people, employed in the janitorial and custodial fields to 
record their stories, document their skills and knowledge and better understand their 
important role in our communities. The recording and transcript will become a permanent part 
of the collection at the library of Congress. My name is Cynthia Torres. We're recording in 
Colorado and the time is approximately 6:00 PM for the record. Do you give us permission to 
record your story? 
IS: Yes. Okay, 
CT: Wonderful. Um, could you tell us your name and the year you were born? 
IS: So my name is Isabella Soliday was born 
1996. 
CT: Okay. And your current job title? 
IS: Uh, custodian one. Okay. 
CT: And how long have you been working as a custodian? 
IS: Oh boy. Since I'd say for about six years now, six years. 
CT: Okay. Um, we're gonna weave in and out about, you know, some personal things and work 
things. So our first, um, our next question is, tell me a little bit about your early life and family. 
Where were you born and how did you end up in Colorado if you weren't already born here? 
IS: So I was born in Colorado. Um, I don't know. I pretty much had like a boring life. I didn't 
really do anything. Um, parents didn't really do anything. We didn't take like vacations or 
anything. Fancy. 
CT: Did you have a big family? 
IS: Um, not really, no. It was usually either like one child or two children and that people had, so 
it wasn't like huge or anything. Okay. Yeah. 
CT: Would you mind me asking what your parents' occupations were? 
IS: Um, my mom was like a manager for a casino and then my dad, he was a professional chef, 
so 
CT: Cool. Um, and how did you come to be a custodian? 
IS: Um, I just applied (laugh) one day. Um, I didn't really like working retail, so I kind of cash 
register, like, you know, targeted. I didn't like that. So I was like, well, I'll try, you know, 
custodian work. 
Transcription: Isabella Soliday 
2 
CT: And how did you find the job posting? 
IS: Just online. 
CT: What was the draw to apply to be a custodian versus like another [job]? Is it benefits or 
anything? 
02:59 
IS: Um, I don't really know. It just kind of came naturally to me and like, I don't know, the 
people around me were very nice. Very understanding. So, I kind of liked that smaller groups. I 
got to work with so 
CT: Not a lot of people. I think that too. Tell me a story, like from your early experience working 
as a custodian. 
IS: So when I first started, I did like houses and things like that. So, we worked in groups of two 
and three, so that was quite nice. It was a relaxing experience for me. I could just kind of be in 
my own world and do my own thing. 
CT: You said houses. Was that different, was that different from what you're doing right now? 
04:02 
IS: Um, kind of, not really. So we did basically like bathrooms, floors, vacuuming, um, just 
tidying up. So basically what I do now. 
CT: Was it a private company? 
IS: Um, yeah, it was family owned. So it was a lot smaller, but that's where I started. And then I 
just kind of just kind of grew (laugh) 
CT: Did you work in other places, like other places as a, as a custodian or janitor? 
IS: Yep. So I worked at a senior living facility. So that was fun. (laugh) Got a lot, have a lot of 
interesting stories, um, about that. A lot of fun times (laugh) there. 
CT: Can you tell us about one? 
IS: Um, Gosh, there are so many 
CT: Or was there one person there that just made it enjoyable? 
  
05:04 
Transcription: Isabella Soliday 
3 
  
IS: Um, I think everyone made it enjoyable because it felt like a family kind of thing. Like you 
could relate to everyone, you know, it wasn't uncomfortable to like share stories. Um, and that 
there was, it was very a good experience, but it was also very sad, I would say, um, a lot of 
people talking about like their loved ones that passed away, um, cuz we had a lot of widows, so 
a lot of wives who have lost their husbands and you know, just, they were telling me about 
their life and you know, traveling, their jobs, and just how it was like when they grew up 
<laugh>. 
CT: What was one of the most interesting stories? 
05:58 
IS: So we had this one resident, she has passed away now. Um, but she Told us about, um, her 
life stories that, um, traveling to like Africa, Europe, um, like China, like all over the world. Um, 
she had these like figurines everywhere. So like just to mark, you know, the places she'd been. 
So that was really, it was fun. It was wonderful. Yeah. 
CT: Can you tell me, I might go back to that in a minute, but can you tell me a story of one of 
your most challenging or memorable days? Um, working as a custodian?  
06:48  
IS: Um, gosh, I think, I don't know if I wanna talk about like say much, um, Working at like, um, a 
senior living facility see a lot, um, especially people who' passed away and um, you find them 
<laugh> oh, uh, yeah. So that was like the hardest part, because now you have to like call 
someone up to like, Um, and call a family call like nine one, one, um, things like that 
CT: Probably wasn't in your training. 
IS: No, (laugh) not really. Um, but yeah, that was the hardest I'd have to, yeah, I would deal 
with. But yeah, that can be very challenging.  
CT: What about COVID um, has been the most challenging for you as a custodian? 
08:03 
IS: I don't know. I mean, keeping facilities clean, making sure like everything is disinfected. So 
even staying, you know, a little bit later to make sure everything's ready so that, you know, no 
one gets sick - there's no contamination anywhere. 
CT: What was it like when you first started hearing about it and when everybody went home 
and is a custodian, you're an essential employee? 
08:39 
Transcription: Isabella Soliday 
4 
IS: Yeah, it was scary. Um, because you know, I've been around that for a long time, so, um, I 
didn't really know what to expect. Like would I get sick? Um, so I'd always be constantly 
changing my gloves, washing my hands, using hand sanitizer, things like that, which probably 
weren't good for me, but it kept COVID away. 
CT: So you stayed COVID free? 
IS: I did. Yeah. 
CT: What about, did it impact your family at all? Do they have any concerns about you working 
as a custodian.  
IS: No, I wouldn't say - I don't know. I just tend to make my own decisions about things. But I, I 
wouldn't say they were scared or afraid for me or anything, you know, just told me to be safe. 
Um, just, you know, look out for myself and if I felt uncomfortable, just leave.  
09:50  
CT: That must have been incredibly stressful. What outside of work? Like what do you do to 
relieve stress? What are some of the things you like to do outside of work? 
IS: So I love yoga, hiking, aerials, just gymnastics in the air, basically. Um, anything active. But 
also like reading, just playing video games, just kind of being in my own zone. (laugh) 
10:22 
CT: What aspect of your work are you most proud of? 
IS: Just keeping everyone safe, being the one to catch hazards if I see them. We clean around a 
lot of stuff so we can see wires that have been like damaged or something like that. Just like 
keeping an eye out for that. But also in the trash - if there's like glass or like sharp objects that 
aren't supposed to be there, we just take that away and make it safe for everyone. So, no one's 
like reaching in the trash to like, you know, dig something out or something. Cuz I know a lot of 
people do that. They don't really like have that knowledge to be like, oh, there's glass or 
something in there. I shouldn't put my hand in (laugh) I I've seen it. 
11:27 
CT: What kinds of hazards do you come across most in your work? Like what kinds of buildings, 
[do you work in]? 
IS: So, mainly sometimes fluids - have to pick bodily fluids, but like spills. Like if someone was 
drinking something and it spills and they just kind of leave it there. You know, that's a hazard 
cuz you don't want anyone coming in and like touching it or anything like that. That's gross. So 
(laugh) yeah. 
Transcription: Isabella Soliday 
5 
CT: Can you tell me about one of the biggest challenges you have at work or in your job? 
12:14 
IS: Um, Time management, I would say, because in custodial work, you have things like going on 
around you still. So you have to be very mindful of like other people as well. (laugh) um, kind of 
just, um, working around them, working around their schedule as well. So that's a challenging 
cuz like sometimes you get students or teachers who stay late and it can be challenging to like 
clean an area while they're like still working and (laugh) yeah. 
CT: Do you interact with those folks much or? 
IS: Um, sometimes most of the time they're ring like headphones or they're like really like 
engrossed in their work. So yeah, it's kind of hard to like talk to them (laugh) um, but no, when 
they're usually like in the hall, I'll say hi or something like that. Yeah. But usually they're just 
rushing around trying to get to the next, you know, place. So yeah. 
CT: Do you miss - like you had talked about being able to relate to folks in nursing homes and 
stuff. Do you miss those connections with the people around you? 
13:31 
IS: I do. Um, but at the same time I just wanted to like get away from that. Just cuz it was very 
stressful having so many different emotions around you all the time, you know? 
CT: Um, yeah. Yeah. Could you tell us a little bit about the people you've worked with over the 
years? Um, coworkers, um, that kind of thing. And how has it changed from one, one place to 
another? 
IS : Um, so I guess the only difference is age, I guess. Coworkers - sometimes you have younger, 
sometimes they're older. But they're very nice, respectable, always easy to talk to. Cuz you 
share the same struggles - I guess difficulties. But also just get to know people, you know? Yeah. 
Um, Yeah. 
CT: You talked about sharing some of the struggles. Would you mind talking about some of 
those? Like what, what are some of the struggles that you share? 
IS: Um, like It's basically, if someone makes a mess, we go to clean it up and they keep making 
the same mess. We just have to like keep cleaning up behind them just cause they're so - like 
they don't know what, you know what I mean? I don't think they know what they're doing 
really sometimes, but they're just kind of, you know, in their own world, you know? 
CT: Do you find that that's different in this environment as, as opposed to other environments 
that you've worked in? 
Transcription: Isabella Soliday 
6 
CT: Um, can you tell me, um, whatever's most comfortable for you to answer this question, but 
what has been one of the biggest challenges that you've had to overcome in your life? 
IS: Um, I'm not sure 
IS: I know you, you, you mentioned, you know, wanting to have, um, like a quiet space where, 
you know, you're in your own world and everything is kind of sounds like you're a bit of an 
introvert.  
16:21 
IS: Yeah. (laugh) yeah, I definitely am. Um, I guess I'm making friends. Just putting myself out 
there, um, and not really caring what anyone thinks about me (laugh) um, so yeah, that's, I 
guess that's one of the biggest challenges for me.  
CT: That's a big one. 
IS: Yeah. 
CT: How do you work through those things? Just one step at a time. 
IS: You know, turning 25, I just started not to care anyone else out of me anymore and I just did 
my own thing and (laugh) now like everyone wants to be my friend. 
CT: Very nice. I had to wait till I turned 50. Yeah. So that's good. Good start. Can you tell me 
about, or describe, um, a person or people who inspires you to be your best or that you've 
looked up to? 
17:31 
IS: Um, I guess I've never really looked up to anyone. 
CT: (Inaudible) 
IS: Um, I know because I don't know. I guess I share like different ideas and I don't agree with 
like certain ideas that people have or anything like that. So I've just been kind of a very 
independent person with that.  
CT: You said you liked to read, like who would be who's your favorite author? 
IS: I dunno. Let's say read so many just different types of books. Um, Yeah, I dunno. 
CT: That's okay. Some people have a lot of internal motivation. What are you most proud of 
related to what you've created in your life? 
  
Transcription: Isabella Soliday 
7 
IS: Um, I guess being able to live independently, so getting an apartment, getting a car, (laugh) 
having a job, um, traveling and having my own experiences. 
19:19 
CT: How does this, how does this job help you, help you with those goals? 
IS: So I don't know, 
CT: Like when I was a custodian, I think maybe there was like a stable income. And it was like, it 
gave me a foundation to do these other things. 
19:41 
IS: Yeah. I would say that like, there's always a job out there. Um, especially for custodians, you 
know, everyone's hiring for custodians, whether it be, you know, cleaning houses or residential 
working at universities, schools, retirement homes, and just basic businesses, you know? Um, 
so yeah, it's always, it's always going to be there, I guess for me. It was good to get into because 
there are opportunities wherever. 
CT: Very nice. What would, what advice would you give someone starting out as a custodian? 
Cuz you've worked in different, different kinds of environments. 
20:36 
IS: Um, I guess always be open to learning new things. So new techniques, new ideas. Um, I 
don't know, just, don't be afraid to like use different things to help you. I guess just like 
machines or like, um, I don't know, just easier tools I guess. 
CT: Like work smarter. 
IS: Yeah. Not harder. Yeah. Cause it's really, it's really an easy job and it's very calming and 
relaxing and you know, (laugh) yeah. 
CT: When you talk about calming and relaxing - you work an evening shift - how - is that difficult 
to get used to? 
IS: Um, for me, not really. Um, I definitely like evenings and nights. I'm just that kind of person. 
So I'm more relaxed in the evening than I am like in the morning. So I'm able to think definitely I 
guess just like easier, um, not be too hard on myself. Yeah. Um, things like that. During the day 
it can be kind of stressful. Yeah. And it's hard to be yourself really. 
CT: Stressful. 
IS: Yes. (laugh) 
CT: And it is quiet at night. 
Transcription: Isabella Soliday 
8 
IS: Mm-hmm, yeah. 
CT: Are there any haunted buildings [?] 
IS: (laugh) I don't know. I pretend that they're haunted (laugh) okay. Cause I make like little 
scenarios for myself (laugh) especially when I'm alone and it’s so nice. 
CT: Um, is there any advice in general that you would give to young people starting out in life 
with similar experiences of, um, that you've had and um, you don't have to talk about those 
experiences if you're uncomfortable or anything, but just think through some of those things. 
IS: Um, if it's like a bad experience, like don't be afraid to say anything, you know, to someone 
or like remove yourself from the situation. Um, I mean, if it's a good experience, then I embrace 
it, you know, cuz there could be a lot more opportunities, um, to take. 
CT: Very nice. Yeah. Good advice. What are your, um, hopes for yourself in the future? You 
know, um, you talked about hiking in some of your, um, hobbies outside of work. Like what, 
what are your, what are your future like some of your goals in the future for yourself? 
23:46 
IS: Um, so for me right now, um, just graduating school, graduating from school would be like 
where I'm at right now. Um, yeah. 
CT: Are you going to CU? 
IS: I'm not, yeah, unfortunately, um, <laugh> Front Range Community College. 
CT: What are you studying? 
IS: Um, biology right now. 
CT: Yeah. When do you graduate? 
24:18 
IS: So hopefully this fall. 
CT: Congratulations. 
IS: Thanks.  
CT: What are you hoping to do or what are your next steps? 
24:49 
Transcription: Isabella Soliday 
9 
IS: Good question. Um, I was thinking of for a year, maybe a certificate would get me in the 
door, especially if I wanna work in the medical field. Um, so getting a start on that too.  
CT: What part of the medical field are you looking at? 
IS: Right now? It's just lab tech work or lab work I'm interested in. 
CT: That's also quiet. 
IS: It is. (laugh) 
25:04 
CT: Very nice. Well, um, those are all the questions that I have. Is there anything else that you'd 
like to, to share about yourself or, or things about the job that maybe, um, people who've never 
been at custodian or a janitor, um, might wanna know or probably should know if they don't 
already know. 
IS: Um, you see a lot of things, a lot of interesting things. Um, I guess. You see a lot, you hear a 
lot as well because usually you're in someone else's space and so I don't know. 
CT: So just be mindful. 
IS: Yeah. Your sharing spaces. 
CT: Well, thank you. Thank you so much for the interview. And if that's it, I'll go ahead and 
conclude. 
IS: I think that's it. Yeah. That's it. 
26:13 
CT: Okay. Well good luck to you with everything.