Eloise	  Jones	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
1	  of	  11	  
Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  
Louisiana	  Division	  of	  the	  Arts	  
	  
Eloise	  Jones,	  Employee,	  Joe	  Gambino’s	  Bakery	  
	  
Baton	  Rouge,	  Louisiana	  
Joe	  Gambino’s	  Bakery	  
April	  3,	  2015	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green,	  Ph.D.,	  Fieldworker	  
	  
INTERVIEW	  LOG	  
	  
NOTE:	  Direct	  quotes	  are	  indicates	  in	  italics.	  	  
	  
Eloise	  Jones	  
00:04	  
Work	  Background	  
Eloise	  Jones	  is	  talking	  about	  St.	  Joseph's	  cakes.	  They	  made	  them	  at	  Cake	  Palace	  in	  Baton	  Rouge	  
for	  a	  while,	  when	  she	  worked	  there.	  	  
	  
When	  she	  first	  moved	  up	  to	  Baton	  Rouge	  from	  New	  Orleans,	  she	  worked	  for	  Juan	  Neruding	  (?)	  
and	  his	  brother,	  Walter,	  on	  Storey	  Lane.	  At	  that	  time,	  they	  owned	  two	  different	  bakeries,	  Black	  
Forest	  Pastry	  on	  Storey	  Lane,	  and	  Delmont	  Pastries,	  on	  Winbourne	  Avenue.	  Eloise	  worked	  for	  
Black	  Forest	  Pasties	  until	  they	  sold	  it	  to	  Kleinpeter	  (?).	  Then	  they	  transferred	  her	  from	  Storey	  
Lane	  to	  Winbourne,	  to	  Delmont	  Pastries.	  The	  manager	  at	  Delmont	  Pastries	  ended	  up	  being	  the	  
owner	  of	  Cake	  Palace,	  the	  business	  that	  Gambino	  bought.	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
02:02	  
Do	  you	  find	  that	  people	  in	  the	  business	  move	  around	  a	  lot?	  
	  
Eloise	  Jones	  
02:02	  
Work	  history;	  Moving	  to	  different	  jobs;	  Job	  satisfaction;	  Learning	  the	  trade	  
Yes,	  I	  think	  so.	  "But	  I've	  often	  realized	  that	  when	  you	  find	  something	  that	  you	  really	  like	  to	  do,	  
you	  don't	  mind	  moving	  from	  different	  areas.	  So	  even	  though	  I've	  lived	  in	  Louisiana	  all	  my	  life,	  
I've	  still	  moved	  from	  different	  businesses,	  different	  places.	  For	  instance,	  when	  I	  first	  started	  out,	  
I	  was	  working	  at	  Beulah	  Ledner's,	  down	  in	  Metairie.	  When	  I	  left	  Beulah	  Ledner's,	  I	  went	  to	  work	  
for	  Robert	  Gosslin,	  which	  was	  Beulah	  Ledner's	  manager."	  Gosslin	  left	  Beulah	  Ledner's	  and	  
opened	  his	  own	  business	  and	  Eloise	  went	  to	  work	  for	  him.	  Gosslin	  was	  German.	  From	  there,	  
she	  went	  to	  work	  at	  Angelo's	  Bakery,	  on	  Cleary.	  She	  is	  naming	  the	  different	  bakeries	  where	  she	  
has	  worked.	  From	  there,	  she	  went	  to	  work	  at	  Swagman's,	  where	  she	  was	  a	  cashier	  for	  a	  short	  
period	  of	  time.	  This	  work	  was	  not	  to	  her	  liking.	  She	  left	  there	  to	  work	  for	  another	  man,	  she	  
Eloise	  Jones	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
2	  of	  11	  
can't	  remember	  his	  name,	  he	  was	  out	  on	  Legion	  Fields	  in	  New	  Orleans.	  She	  is	  sorry	  to	  say	  that	  
he	  was	  not	  a	  very	  nice	  guy	  to	  work	  for,	  so	  she	  left	  after	  a	  short	  time.	  	  
	  
Then	  Eloise	  and	  her	  husband	  decided	  to	  open	  their	  own	  business—a	  restaurant	  and	  lounge.	  
They	  had	  that	  until	  about	  1975.	  They	  closed	  it	  down	  and	  moved	  to	  Baton	  Rouge.	  That's	  when	  
she	  started	  working	  for	  Juan	  Neruding	  (?)	  and	  Walter.	  Then	  she	  worked	  with	  Walter	  and	  Randy	  
for	  ten	  years	  at	  Delmont	  Pastries.	  "That	  was	  where	  I	  really,	  really,	  got	  really	  back	  into	  doing	  
what	  I	  really	  like	  to	  do.	  Because	  it	  was	  very	  challenging,	  like	  for	  instance	  when	  I	  first	  went	  to	  
work	  with	  Randy	  at	  Delmont	  Pastries,	  I	  was	  just	  setting	  up	  and	  icing	  the	  cakes.	  And	  then,	  he	  
decided	  that	  he	  wanted	  me	  to	  start	  decorating.	  So	  he	  switched	  me	  with	  the	  other	  girl	  that	  was	  
decorating	  and	  had	  her	  to	  ice	  up	  the	  cakes.	  And	  it	  turned	  out	  to	  be	  a	  real	  good	  thing	  because	  a	  
lot	  of	  times,	  the	  other	  decorators	  wouldn't	  show	  up.	  And	  I	  would	  be	  left	  to	  do	  it	  by	  myself.	  But	  I	  
managed	  it.	  And	  Randy	  was	  very	  happy	  with	  it.	  	  
	  
“So	  I	  stayed	  with	  them	  until,	  I	  think	  it	  was	  ‘85.	  And	  then	  I	  left	  in	  '85,	  and	  went	  to	  work	  at	  Hunts	  
Correctional,	  the	  one	  down	  in	  San	  Gabriel,	  as	  a	  food	  service	  person.	  And	  they	  had	  me	  in	  charge	  
of	  the	  bakery.	  I	  was,	  I	  had	  to	  do	  all	  the	  breads	  and	  the	  cakes	  and	  the	  rolls	  and	  all	  that	  stuff.	  And	  
then,	  I	  wasn't	  really	  happy	  with	  it,	  because	  I	  wasn't	  decorating	  like	  what	  I	  really	  would	  like	  to	  
do.	  So,	  I	  left	  them	  and	  I	  went	  back	  to	  work	  for	  Mr.	  Randy	  Rostrom	  (?).	  By	  that	  time	  he	  had	  
opened	  up	  his	  own	  business,	  which	  was	  Cake	  Palace.	  And	  I	  stayed	  with	  him	  for	  quite	  a	  while.	  	  
	  
Then,	  one	  of	  the	  managers	  that	  was	  at	  Winbourne	  Avenue,	  he	  was—that	  worked	  in	  the	  back,	  
and	  he	  went	  to	  work	  for	  Albertsons.	  And	  he	  said,	  he	  called	  me	  on	  the	  phone	  and	  said,	  ‘Miss	  
Eloise,	  would	  you	  like	  to	  come	  work	  for	  me?’	  I	  said,	  ‘Charlie,	  where	  are	  you?	  Where	  are	  you	  
working?’	  So	  he	  said,	  'I'm	  working	  at	  Albertsons,	  I'm	  a	  bakery	  manager	  at	  Albertsons.'"	  He	  
thought	  she	  would	  be	  very	  happy	  over	  there	  because	  she	  would	  have	  benefits,	  which	  she	  didn't	  
have	  at	  Delmont	  or	  Cake	  Palace.	  So	  she	  went	  to	  work	  for	  Albertsons	  in	  1987.	  She	  worked	  there	  
for	  a	  while.	  While	  she	  was	  at	  Albertsons,	  she	  was	  also	  working	  at	  Cake	  Palace	  part-­‐time.	  "I	  
mean,	  what	  the	  heck?	  God	  blessed	  me	  with	  the	  energy,	  so	  I	  used	  it."	  Then	  she	  got	  very	  sick	  in	  
1997.	  After	  that,	  she	  couldn't	  go	  back	  to	  work	  for	  about	  a	  year	  and	  a	  half.	  When	  she	  did	  get	  
better,	  she	  went	  right	  on	  back	  to	  work	  and	  continued	  to	  work	  at	  Albertsons	  for	  a	  short	  time,	  
and	  then	  left	  to	  work	  full	  time	  at	  Cake	  Palace.	  She	  stayed	  at	  Cake	  Palace,	  all	  the	  way	  until	  
Gambino's	  bought	  that	  bakery	  in	  2011.	  	  
	  
Eloise	  Jones	  
09:25	  
"But	  I've	  enjoyed	  it."	  Cake	  Palace	  first	  opened	  at	  Storey	  Lane,	  which	  was	  the	  same	  address	  as	  
Black	  Forest	  Pastry,	  where	  she	  worked	  when	  she	  first	  moved	  to	  Baton	  Rouge.	  Then	  they	  leased	  
a	  building	  on	  Essen	  Lane.	  That's	  where	  they	  were	  when	  Gambino's	  bought	  them	  out.	  They	  sold	  
it	  because	  Randy	  	  Rostrom	  (?)	  got	  very	  sick	  and	  died	  at	  a	  young	  age,	  age	  58.	  His	  wife	  took	  it	  
over	  at	  that	  point,	  but	  she	  didn't	  really	  know	  about	  running	  the	  business,	  so	  within	  a	  year	  and	  a	  
half,	  she	  sold	  it	  to	  Gambino's.	  	  
	  
	  
Eloise	  Jones	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
3	  of	  11	  
Eloise	  Jones	  
10:49	  
Working	  at	  Gambino's	  
"But	  I've	  enjoyed	  working	  here	  since	  I've	  been	  here.	  And	  I've	  enjoyed	  working	  with	  Miss	  Angella.	  
She	  tells	  me	  all	  the	  time,	  'Now	  if	  you	  feel	  like	  you	  can't	  come	  to	  work,	  you	  let	  me	  know,	  you	  
hear?’"	  Eloise	  has	  come	  full	  circle,	  since	  Beulah	  Ledner	  was	  her	  first	  employer,	  and	  Gambino's	  
bought	  the	  rights	  for	  the	  doberge	  cakes	  from	  Beulah	  Ledner.	  Then,	  Ledner	  still	  owned	  the	  rights	  
for	  the	  other	  things	  she	  created.	  	  
	  
Eloise	  Jones	  
11:51	  
Starting	  out	  with	  baking	  as	  a	  young	  woman;	  Training	  on	  the	  job;	  Importance	  of	  learning	  
Eloise	  was	  19	  when	  she	  first	  went	  to	  work	  in	  a	  bakery	  in	  1959.	  She	  turned	  18	  the	  year	  she	  
finished	  high	  school,	  in	  1958.	  Then	  in	  1959,	  she	  was	  living	  in	  Bunch	  Village,	  which	  is	  Jefferson	  
Parish,	  in	  Kenner.	  She	  was	  living	  with	  her	  aunt.	  "And	  they	  had	  an	  ad	  in	  the	  paper.	  I	  used	  to—
kept	  looking	  for	  a	  job,	  because	  at	  that	  time	  I	  was	  taking	  care	  of	  two	  kids	  for	  a	  lady	  right	  in	  back	  
of	  us.	  I	  used	  to	  walk	  across	  the	  railroad	  track	  to	  go	  to	  work.	  And	  I	  was	  looking	  for	  something	  for	  
else.	  I	  just	  wasn't,	  I	  wasn’t,	  didn't	  feel	  comfortable	  doing	  that	  kind	  of	  work.	  So	  they	  had	  a	  
dishwasher	  ad	  in	  the	  paper.	  So	  I	  answered	  it,	  and	  they	  hired	  me.	  And	  about	  a	  month	  later,	  Mr.	  
Gosslin	  decided	  that	  that	  wasn't	  the	  kind	  of	  job	  I	  needed,	  that	  wasn't	  the	  kind	  of	  job	  he	  felt	  like	  I	  
should	  be	  in.	  So	  he	  moved	  me	  from	  back	  there	  to	  up	  front.	  	  
	  
Like	  this,	  for	  instance,	  that's	  the	  wall.	  And	  this	  was	  his	  decorating	  area,	  and	  he	  put	  me	  right	  
here,	  next	  to	  him.	  He	  said,	  'You're	  going	  to	  learn	  how	  to	  set	  up	  cakes.	  You're	  going	  to	  learn	  how	  
to	  ice	  them.	  You’re	  going	  to	  learn	  how	  to	  decorate	  them.	  And	  when	  I	  learned	  that,	  he	  snatched	  
me	  off	  of	  that	  and	  put	  me	  on	  the	  doberge.	  So	  that	  became	  my	  job,	  to	  do	  the	  doberge.	  And	  he	  
snatched	  me	  from	  that—not	  completely	  out,	  I	  still	  had	  to	  do	  the	  doberge—to	  help	  the	  baker	  
lady,	  which	  was	  Miss	  Bertie	  (Birdie?)	  Farve—F-­‐a-­‐r-­‐v-­‐e,	  Birdie,	  I	  never	  will	  forget	  Birdie.	  We	  used	  
to	  come	  in	  at	  3:00	  in	  the	  morning	  and	  mix	  the	  dough	  for	  the	  doberge	  cakes,	  and	  all	  the	  other	  
cakes,	  too.	  But	  we	  would	  always	  do	  the	  doberge	  first.	  And	  we	  used	  to	  bake	  all	  these	  thin	  layers.	  
I	  would	  have	  to	  come	  in	  and	  grease	  those	  pans,	  and	  spread	  that	  cake	  in	  those	  pans,	  put	  them	  in	  
the	  oven,	  and	  make	  sure	  I	  was	  there	  to	  take	  them	  out	  before	  they	  burned	  or	  whatever.	  	  
	  
"But	  it	  was	  challenging!	  And	  it	  was	  something	  that	  I	  guess	  God	  gave	  me	  a	  gift	  for	  that.	  Because	  
really,	  it	  was	  just	  like	  a—each	  day	  was	  just	  like	  a	  new	  experience,	  really.	  A	  new	  experience.	  And	  
right	  now,	  sometimes,	  when	  we	  do	  different	  stuff	  here,	  it's	  just	  like	  a	  new	  experience.	  Because	  
like	  Miss	  Angella	  said,	  I	  remember,	  we	  were	  talking,	  she	  said,	  'You	  know,	  Miss	  Eloise,	  you	  never	  
learn	  too	  much.	  Always	  remember	  that.	  You	  never	  learn	  too	  much,	  no	  matter	  how	  old	  you	  are,	  
or	  how	  much	  education	  you	  have.	  You	  never	  learn	  too	  much.	  So,	  always	  appreciate	  it	  when	  
somebody	  wants	  to	  teach	  you	  something,	  or	  wants	  to	  show	  you	  something	  that	  you	  don't	  know	  
anything	  about.	  And	  you'd	  be	  surprised	  how	  much	  it'll	  mean	  to	  you	  down	  the	  road,	  in	  the	  long	  
run.'	  So	  just	  appreciate	  what	  anybody	  does	  for	  you,	  or	  the	  time,	  you	  know—people	  don't	  really	  
have	  to	  take	  their	  t[ime],	  waste—it's	  not	  a	  waste	  of	  time,	  but	  people	  don't	  really	  have	  to	  stop	  
and	  talk	  to	  you	  or	  tell	  you	  things.	  It's	  just	  that	  God	  put	  so	  many	  different	  people	  in	  your	  path.	  
Eloise	  Jones	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
4	  of	  11	  
And	  it's	  up	  to	  you	  to	  realize	  exactly	  who's	  doing	  this	  for	  you.	  Because	  you're	  not	  doing	  it	  for	  
yourself.	  You	  have	  no	  control	  over	  nothing.	  God	  has	  control	  over	  every	  single	  moment	  of	  your	  
life.	  So	  you	  have	  to	  appreciate	  what	  he	  puts	  in	  your	  way.”	  	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
16:55	  
At	  the	  time	  when	  Eloise	  was	  learning	  to	  make	  the	  doberge,	  was	  Beulah	  Ledner's	  the	  only	  place	  
making	  the	  doberge	  at	  that	  point?	  
	  
Eloise	  Jones	  
17:05	  
Yes,	  except	  Gambino's,	  because	  she	  had	  sold	  the	  rights	  to	  them.	  But	  she	  was	  still	  doing	  the	  
cakes.	  But	  considering	  the	  fact	  that	  she	  had	  sold	  the	  rights	  to	  the	  recipes,	  etc.	  to	  them,	  she	  was	  
still	  allowed	  to	  make	  them.	  	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
17:40	  
That	  was	  a	  long	  time	  ago—what	  do	  you	  remember	  about	  learning	  how	  to	  make	  the	  doberge?	  	  
	  
Eloise	  Jones	  
17:42	  
Baking	  doberge	  cakes;	  Fascination	  with	  cake	  decorating	  
As	  she	  said,	  they	  used	  to	  bake	  the	  layers	  individually.	  But	  at	  Gambino's	  now,	  they	  cut	  them.	  But	  
there,	  Birdie	  and	  Eloise	  used	  to	  bake	  them	  individually	  and	  stack	  them	  on	  pans,	  six	  to	  a	  row,	  
individually	  and	  put	  them	  in	  a	  big	  cooler.	  From	  what	  Eloise	  understands,	  Gambino's	  in	  New	  
Orleans	  still	  bakes	  the	  layers	  individually.	  But	  here	  in	  Baton	  Rouge,	  they	  slice	  them.	  We	  make	  
two	  layers.	  You	  take	  two	  regular	  8"	  layers,	  and	  you	  split	  each	  one	  of	  them	  into	  three	  layers.	  And	  
that's	  how	  we	  get	  the	  six	  layers	  for	  the	  doberge.	  Yesterday,	  Miss	  Angella	  got	  in	  there	  and	  she	  
made	  up	  some	  chocolate	  and	  lemon	  custard	  for	  the	  half-­‐and-­‐half’s—the	  half	  chocolate	  and	  half	  
lemon	  doberge	  cakes.	  	  
	  
“But	  it's	  remarkable.	  When	  you	  look	  at—if	  you	  don't	  know	  how	  to	  do	  this	  kind	  of—if	  you	  don't	  
have	  the	  skill	  to	  do	  this	  kind	  of	  stuff,	  it's,	  should	  be,	  I'm	  pretty	  sure	  it's	  fascinating.	  Because	  it	  
was	  to	  me.	  It's	  fascinating	  how	  you	  can	  take	  a	  doberge	  and	  make	  it	  look	  like	  that.	  Or	  take	  a	  
birthday	  cake,	  and	  ice	  it	  up	  and	  make	  it	  look	  like	  that.	  Or	  a	  wedding	  cake.	  And	  you	  put,	  you	  can	  
put	  all	  those	  different	  designs	  on	  them.	  And	  you	  would	  think	  you	  would,	  if	  you	  don't	  know	  how	  
to	  do	  it,	  you	  would	  think	  it	  was	  going—well	  gee	  whiz,	  how	  do	  they	  get	  that	  stuff	  to	  stay	  on	  
those	  cakes	  like	  that,	  you	  know?	  And	  then,	  it's	  fascinating.	  Decorating	  is	  a	  fascinating	  job."	  
	  
She	  doesn't	  do	  decorating	  any	  more	  at	  Gambino's,	  since	  she	  had	  carpel	  tunnel	  syndrome.	  She	  
decorates	  sometimes,	  but	  her	  job	  is	  to	  set	  up	  the	  cakes	  and	  ice	  them.	  
	  
	  
	  
Eloise	  Jones	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
5	  of	  11	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
20:30	  
What	  does	  she	  mean	  by	  "set	  up	  the	  cakes?"	  
	  
Eloise	  Jones	  
20:30	  
Setting	  up	  cakes	  
"Like	  I	  got	  a	  layer	  here.	  This	  is	  my	  board.	  I	  get	  another	  layer.	  I	  get	  another	  layer	  and	  put	  it	  right	  
here.	  If	  they	  want	  butter	  cream	  filling,	  I	  put	  it	  in	  between.	  All	  you	  need	  is	  one	  scoop.	  Most	  
people	  use	  two	  scoops	  but	  I	  just	  use	  one.	  And	  put	  another	  layer	  on	  top.	  And	  then	  you	  take	  your	  
spatula,	  smooth	  it	  out.	  You	  put	  it	  on	  your	  turntable,	  swing	  it	  around,	  you've	  set	  it	  up.	  That's	  
what	  you	  call	  set	  it	  up.	  And	  ice	  it.	  But	  like	  I	  said,	  I've	  had	  a,	  it's	  been	  a	  fascinating	  journey."	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
21:15	  
What's	  kept	  you	  in	  this	  work	  all	  this	  time?	  
	  
Eloise	  Jones	  
21:16	  
"The	  fascination	  of	  me	  still	  being	  able	  to	  do	  it.	  Because,	  even	  since	  I've	  been	  here,	  they	  had	  two	  
ladies,	  that	  we	  were	  in	  the	  same	  age	  bracket.	  Both	  of	  those	  ladies	  retired	  since	  I've	  been	  here.	  
They	  had	  two	  guys	  in	  the	  back,	  in	  the	  same	  age	  bracket	  as	  me.	  They're	  gone.	  One	  of	  them	  
passed	  away,	  the	  other	  one,	  we	  don't	  know	  how	  he's	  doing	  or	  what.	  But	  it's	  just	  the	  realization	  
that	  I'm	  still	  going.	  And	  I	  don't	  see	  me	  stopping	  any	  time	  soon.	  I	  really	  don't.	  You	  just,	  it's	  a	  very	  
fascinating	  thing.	  When	  you	  have	  a	  job	  and	  you	  don't	  enjoy	  doing	  it,	  I'm	  pretty	  sure	  those	  
people	  who	  don't	  enjoy	  their	  jobs,	  has	  got	  to	  be	  miserable.	  And	  I'm	  not	  miserable	  at	  all.	  I	  look	  
forward	  to	  getting	  up	  in	  the	  morning,	  on	  Wednesdays,	  coming	  here.	  I	  have	  everybody	  laughing	  
and	  joking.	  And	  they	  can	  always	  tell	  when	  I'm	  not	  feeling	  well,	  so	  if	  I	  don't	  talk	  during	  the	  day,	  
'Oh	  Miss	  Eloise,	  what's	  your	  problem?'	  'No	  problem,	  Sweetie.	  We	  old	  folks	  have	  to	  feel	  bad	  
sometimes!'	  So	  they	  say,	  'Okay.	  Well	  can	  we	  do	  anything	  for	  you?'	  'I'm	  fine.	  It'll	  wear	  off	  
sometime	  during	  the	  day.'	  Which	  it	  usually	  does.	  And	  then	  we,	  things	  continue	  to	  go	  on.	  But	  I	  
just—don't	  you	  find	  it	  fascinating?”	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
23:18	  
Baking?	  Yes	  I	  do.	  LMG	  asks	  what	  are	  some	  of	  the	  things	  that	  are	  important	  to	  her	  to	  teach	  the	  
younger	  employees,	  after	  working	  in	  the	  business	  for	  so	  long,	  about	  the	  work?	  
	  
Eloise	  Jones	  
23:42	  
Teaching	  others	  the	  trade;	  Maintaining	  quality;	  Technique	  for	  fixing	  a	  lopsided	  cake	  
"First	  of	  all,	  I	  tell	  them,	  try	  to	  work	  together.	  Because,	  it's	  hard	  to	  work	  at	  a	  place	  if	  you	  don't	  
enjoy	  working	  with	  the	  fellow	  next	  to	  you,	  or	  the	  fellow	  that's	  working	  with	  you.	  And	  enjoy	  
yourself	  during	  the	  day.	  Don't	  walk	  around	  like	  you're	  mad	  with	  the	  world.	  God	  has	  blessed	  you	  
Eloise	  Jones	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
6	  of	  11	  
with	  this	  job.	  Learn	  as	  much	  as	  you	  can.	  And	  appreciate	  the	  fact	  that	  you	  have	  a	  job.	  It's,	  to	  me,	  
that's	  the	  most	  important	  thing.	  And	  I,	  matter	  of	  fact,	  they	  have	  taught	  me	  some	  things.	  Just,	  
I'm	  quite	  sure	  that	  they	  have	  told	  me	  that,	  'Well,	  Miss	  Eloise,	  we	  didn't	  know	  you	  could	  do	  it	  like	  
that.'	  So	  for	  instance,	  if	  I	  could	  ice	  a	  cake	  and	  I	  could	  take	  my	  hand	  and	  smooth	  a	  cupcake	  out	  
with	  my	  hand,	  the	  back	  of	  my	  hand.?	  'Well	  I	  never	  knew	  you	  could	  do	  it	  like	  that.'	  I	  said,	  'Sure.'	  	  
	  
“Or,	  when	  I	  first	  came	  to	  work	  with	  Pat	  (Glover),	  she	  didn't	  know	  how	  to	  set	  up	  the	  doberge	  
cakes.	  So	  I	  set	  one	  up	  and	  I	  showed	  her.	  She	  said,	  'Well	  I	  been	  trying	  to	  get	  to	  work	  with	  you	  for	  
years.	  And	  if	  finally	  did	  it.'	  That	  was	  when	  we	  were	  still	  at	  Cake	  Palace."	  They	  had	  recently	  hired	  
Pat	  at	  Cake	  Palace,	  just	  before	  it	  was	  bought	  out	  by	  Gambino's.	  Pat	  said,	  'I'm	  so	  glad	  that	  I	  
finally	  got	  a	  chance	  to	  work	  with	  you,	  Miss	  Eloise.	  Because,	  I’ve	  been	  trying	  to—you	  don't	  know,	  
I've	  been	  calling	  here.'	  I	  said,	  'Calling	  here	  for	  what,	  Pat?'	  'I	  been	  calling	  here	  trying	  to	  find	  out	  if	  
they	  had	  an	  opening,	  so	  I	  could	  come	  work	  with	  you.'	  So	  she	  finally	  did.	  And	  she's	  happy	  here.	  
Sometimes	  she's	  kind	  of	  irritated	  with	  me,	  but	  it's	  never	  to	  the	  point	  where	  it	  comes	  to	  blows	  or	  
anything!"	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
26:22	  
Why	  would	  she	  get	  irritated	  with	  you?	  
	  
Eloise	  Jones	  
26:34	  
If	  Eloise	  sees	  Pat	  setting	  up	  a	  cake	  or	  something	  in	  a	  way	  it	  shouldn't	  be,	  she	  will	  bring	  it	  up.	  Pat	  
will	  say,	  “Well	  this	  is	  the	  way	  I've	  always	  done	  it.”	  Eloise	  says	  she's	  worked	  with	  Pat	  long	  enough	  
to	  know	  better.	  Eloise	  tells	  about	  how	  Pat	  once	  set	  up	  a	  cake	  that	  was	  really	  lopsided.	  She	  said,	  
“Pat,	  this	  is	  not	  your	  work.”	  “What's	  wrong	  with	  it?”	  “You	  stand	  back	  and	  look	  at	  it.”	  Eloise	  
points	  out,	  “Do	  you	  realize	  that	  this	  is	  the	  bottom	  tier	  of	  a	  wedding	  cake?	  How	  do	  you	  expect	  
the	  other	  tier	  to	  sit	  on	  top	  of	  it,	  if	  it's	  all	  lopsided	  like	  that?”	  Pat	  said,	  “Well	  you	  set	  it	  up!”	  Eloise	  
said,	  “No,	  you're	  going	  to	  straighten	  it	  out.	  Now,	  you	  don't	  want	  Miss	  Angella	  to	  come	  back	  here	  
and	  see	  it,	  do	  you?”	  “Well	  no.”	  So	  Eloise	  said,	  “Well,	  get	  it	  right,”	  and	  went	  about	  her	  business.	  	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
27:47	  
How	  do	  you	  fix	  a	  lopsided	  cake?	  
	  
Eloise	  Jones	  
28:03	  
(showing	  with	  her	  hands)	  This	  is	  the	  cake.	  If	  it's	  sloped	  on	  this	  side	  and	  high	  on	  that	  side,	  you	  
take	  your	  knife	  and	  you	  even	  it	  off,	  and	  you	  take	  that	  excess	  part	  off.	  [She	  demonstrates,	  
showing	  with	  coffee	  cups	  on	  the	  table.]	  You	  cut	  off	  the	  excess	  from	  the	  side,	  and	  that	  gives	  you	  
a	  level	  cake.	  Eloise	  says	  that	  in	  that	  instance	  she	  just	  described,	  Pat	  fixed	  her	  cake.	  Miss	  Eloise	  
talks	  about	  how	  Patricia	  does	  beautiful	  work	  when	  she	  is	  not	  frustrated,	  and	  she	  is	  not	  very	  
seldom	  frustrated.	  	  
	  
Eloise	  Jones	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
7	  of	  11	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
29:06	  
What	  are	  some	  of	  the	  other	  tricks	  of	  the	  trade	  that	  you	  have	  learned	  over	  the	  years,	  that	  are	  of	  
value?	  
	  
Eloise	  Jones	  
29:08	  
Cakes	  and	  techniques	  and	  innovations	  in	  Eloise's	  repertoire	  
When	  she	  was	  at	  Delmont,	  she	  would	  make	  the	  chocolate,	  lemon,	  and	  vanilla	  custard.	  
Sometimes	  she	  would	  even	  make	  the	  German	  chocolate	  icing.	  They	  used	  to	  make	  marshmallow	  
icing—she's	  forgotten	  how	  to	  make	  that	  one,	  as	  it's	  been	  a	  while.	  She	  knows	  how	  to	  make	  
butter	  cream	  icing	  [she	  points	  out	  a	  pink	  cake	  and	  a	  white	  cake	  nearby	  that	  have	  butter	  cream	  
icing].	  She	  knows	  how	  to	  make	  different	  shapes	  of	  roses.	  At	  Delmont	  Pastries,	  she	  used	  to	  have	  
to	  set	  up	  all	  the	  wedding	  cakes	  and	  decorate	  them.	  Sometimes	  they	  might	  have	  15	  wedding	  
cakes	  a	  week.	  She	  would	  also	  have	  to	  set	  up	  and	  ice	  the	  cakes	  that	  go	  into	  the	  case,	  and	  
decorate	  them	  whenever	  her	  co-­‐worker	  didn't	  show	  up—Theresa	  Parent	  (?).	  	  
	  
Miss	  Eloise	  used	  to	  take	  coconut	  macaroon	  dough	  and	  make	  different	  shapes	  and	  forms,	  like	  
corn,	  that	  you	  could	  color	  it,	  make	  little	  bitty	  dots,	  and	  the	  ears	  of	  the	  corn.	  And	  make	  sweet	  
peas.	  This	  was	  marzipan.	  These	  are	  all	  things	  she	  did	  at	  Delmont.	  Was	  this	  something	  she	  
invented,	  the	  little	  marzipan	  shapes?	  Juan	  Neruding	  (?)	  and	  Eloise	  did	  this	  together.	  She	  
suggested	  that	  they	  take	  the	  almond	  paste	  and	  make	  different	  vegetable	  shapes,	  and	  she	  
thought	  they	  would	  sell.	  He	  said,	  okay.	  And	  they	  did	  and	  they	  sold	  pretty	  good.	  Eloise	  had	  seen	  
this	  idea	  in	  a	  book	  somewhere,	  she	  can't	  remember	  exactly	  where.	  She	  always	  wanted	  to	  
experiment	  on	  different	  things.	  	  
	  
Like	  for	  Easter,	  she	  used	  to	  like	  to	  take	  the	  one	  layer	  cake	  and	  cut	  it	  in	  half,	  and	  put	  them	  
together,	  and	  round	  it	  off.	  And	  that	  would	  be	  the	  body	  of	  the	  rabbit.	  And	  put	  icing	  on	  it,	  and	  
take	  some	  white	  coconut	  and	  pat	  it	  on	  there,	  and	  that	  would	  be	  the	  rabbit's	  hair.	  And	  she	  
would	  take	  a	  glob	  of	  icing	  and	  put	  it	  as	  his	  tail.	  And	  then	  she	  would	  take	  the	  icing	  bag	  and	  make	  
two	  little	  back	  feet	  and	  two	  front	  feet.	  She	  points	  out	  a	  nearby	  bunny	  cake	  with	  a	  plastic	  face.	  
These	  are	  different	  from	  what	  Miss	  Eloise	  did.	  This	  one	  is	  in	  the	  shape	  of	  an	  egg	  (the	  body),	  
whereas	  she	  used	  to	  use	  a	  layer	  cake.	  She	  says	  that	  the	  bunny	  cake	  in	  the	  store	  (nearby	  where	  
the	  interview	  is	  being	  held)	  is	  a	  real	  fat	  bunny.	  She	  thinks	  the	  bunny	  in	  the	  cake	  nearby	  looks	  a	  
little	  deformed.	  Her	  cake	  was	  smaller	  and	  looked	  more	  like	  a	  bunny.	  She	  describes	  the	  process	  
again.	  She	  says,	  "I	  know	  for	  a	  fact	  a	  rabbit	  is	  not	  fat	  like	  that,	  because	  I	  have	  them	  in	  my	  
backyard	  every	  year."	  	  
	  
Eloise	  Jones	  
35:44	  
At	  Christmas,	  they	  took	  icing	  and	  made	  cornucopias.	  They	  looked	  just	  like	  cornucopias,	  and	  
they	  made	  fruit	  to	  go	  inside	  it,	  too.	  The	  cornucopia	  was	  made	  out	  of	  icing	  and	  then	  the	  fruit	  was	  
made	  out	  of	  marzipan	  and	  they	  would	  stick	  that	  in	  the	  cornucopia.	  They	  would	  put	  the	  fruit	  in	  
there	  and	  it	  made	  a	  beautiful	  picture.	  The	  cornucopia	  was	  about	  the	  size	  of	  a	  quarter	  sheet	  
Eloise	  Jones	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
8	  of	  11	  
cake.	  Another	  Christmas	  item	  was	  cornucopia	  bread.	  They	  would	  stick	  the	  icing	  and	  marzipan	  in	  
front	  of	  it.	  It	  was	  beautiful.	  	  
	  
Eloise	  Jones	  
37:28	  
Reflecting	  on	  her	  work	  
It's	  going	  on	  56	  years	  since	  Eloise	  has	  been	  doing	  bakery	  work.	  She	  still	  finds	  it	  fascinating.	  
What	  fascinates	  her	  about	  it?	  "Everything.	  Everything.	  For	  instance,	  right	  now,	  I	  like	  the	  way	  
they're	  doing	  those	  eggs,	  the	  little	  eggs	  in	  the	  bottom	  of	  the	  case,	  with	  the	  little	  stripes	  on	  them	  
(photo	  afc2014023_01961_ph27).	  We	  used	  to	  do	  the	  eggs,	  but	  we	  would	  take	  them,	  and	  we	  
would	  do	  them	  like	  that	  one	  over	  there.	  But	  that	  one	  has	  a	  little	  bit	  too	  much	  icing	  on	  it.	  .	  .	  .	  But	  
I	  used	  to	  find	  it	  fascinating	  to	  do	  the	  wedding	  cakes.	  Because	  everybody	  has	  a	  different	  design	  
that	  they	  want	  on	  their	  cakes.	  So	  for	  instance,	  that	  one	  right	  there,	  with	  the	  flowers	  in	  between,	  
and	  the	  design	  on	  the	  one	  next	  to	  it,	  that	  takes	  quite	  a	  lot	  of	  time.	  The	  work	  on	  the	  side	  of	  it	  
takes	  a	  lot	  of	  time."	  [The	  interview	  is	  taking	  place	  in	  the	  wedding	  consultation	  area.]	  	  
	  
Eloise	  is	  not	  doing	  as	  much	  cake	  decorating	  since	  she's	  had	  the	  carpel	  tunnel	  syndrome	  in	  her	  
wrists.	  She	  says	  it's	  not	  that	  she	  can't,	  but	  sometimes	  she	  gets	  stuck	  with	  it	  because	  they	  have	  a	  
lot	  of	  decorating	  to	  do	  and	  she'll	  pitch	  in	  and	  help.	  But	  so	  far	  as	  helping	  with	  the	  wedding	  cakes,	  
she	  says,	  "I	  don't	  challenge	  that	  any	  more.	  But	  I'll	  help	  them	  with	  the	  shop	  cakes	  and	  stuff."	  She	  
enjoys	  seeing	  what	  others	  are	  doing	  with	  the	  wedding	  cakes.	  "And	  the	  good	  part	  about	  it,	  the	  
little	  lady	  that	  does	  the	  wedding	  cakes,	  she's	  right	  in	  front	  of	  me.	  And	  I	  can	  look	  at	  all	  the	  
different	  designs	  that	  she	  puts	  on	  them.	  And	  I	  can	  think	  to	  myself,	  'Hmm.	  I	  used	  to	  that.	  I	  used	  to	  
be	  able	  to	  do	  that.	  I	  used	  to	  be	  able	  to	  do	  that	  but	  my	  arms,	  my	  hands,	  my	  wrists	  won't	  let	  me	  
do	  that	  any	  more.	  That's	  out	  of	  the	  question."	  	  
	  
Eloise	  Jones	  
40:13	  
Changes	  and	  continuity	  in	  the	  bakery	  business	  over	  time	  
What	  changes	  has	  Eloise	  seen	  in	  the	  business	  over	  time?	  The	  way	  they	  decorate	  things	  now,	  
and	  not	  only	  that,	  the	  different	  mixes	  that	  they	  have.	  For	  instance,	  they	  have	  the	  macaroon	  
mix.	  "Years	  ago,	  we	  used	  to,	  we	  used	  to	  have	  to	  do	  all	  that.	  And	  now,	  they’re,	  come	  in	  buckets.	  
They’re	  shipped	  in	  a	  bucket,	  and	  all	  you	  gotta	  do	  is	  just	  dip	  it	  out	  of	  there	  and	  put	  it	  on	  a	  pan.	  
Whereas	  we	  used	  to	  do	  it,	  mix	  it	  individually,	  you	  know.	  
	  
“And	  then	  for	  instance,	  the	  cake.	  Most	  of	  the	  bakeries	  now,	  they	  have	  their	  cake	  mix	  shipped	  in.	  
But	  at	  Ledner's	  and	  even	  at	  Delmont	  Pastries,	  they	  had	  a	  mix.	  They	  had	  a	  guy	  that	  came	  in	  and	  
he	  mixed	  it	  from	  scratch.	  But	  they	  don't	  do	  that	  any	  more,	  they	  have	  the	  new	  mixes	  come	  in.	  
And	  to	  me,	  that's—that’s	  moving	  away	  from	  the	  real	  thrill	  of	  being	  able	  to	  say,	  you	  go	  into	  a	  
bakery	  and	  say,	  'Why,	  I	  got	  my	  cake	  from	  such-­‐and-­‐such	  a	  place,	  and	  I	  know	  for	  a	  fact	  that	  they	  
mix	  theirs	  from	  scratch.'	  But	  I'm	  beginning	  to	  wonder	  if	  they	  even	  have	  any	  more	  bakeries	  that	  
do	  that."	  
	  
	  
Eloise	  Jones	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
9	  of	  11	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
42:29	  
So	  that	  doesn't	  happen	  here?	  
	  
Eloise	  Jones	  
42:29	  
"No.	  No,	  it's	  not	  from	  scratch.	  And	  none	  of	  the	  bakeries	  that	  I	  know	  make	  it	  from	  scratch.	  What	  I	  
mean	  is,	  you	  put	  the	  shortening	  in,	  you	  put	  the	  sugar	  in,	  and	  you	  mix	  it,	  the	  butter—I	  mean,	  you	  
mix	  it.	  And	  you	  cream	  it	  up.	  And	  then	  you	  add	  your	  flour	  and	  your	  baking	  powder	  and	  your	  salt	  
and	  whatever	  else	  you	  feel	  like	  you	  need	  to—vanilla	  flavor	  or	  almond	  flavor.	  And	  then	  you	  mix	  it	  
in,	  and	  you	  slowly	  mix	  your	  milk	  in.	  They	  don't	  use	  milk	  any	  more,	  they	  use	  water.	  Because	  all	  
mixes	  call	  for	  water."	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
43:26	  
How	  does	  the	  mix	  come?	  Is	  it	  a	  powder?	  
	  
Eloise	  Jones	  
43:27	  
"Mm	  hmm.	  Yeah."	  	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
43:31	  
So	  it's	  got	  the	  baking	  powder	  and	  stuff	  in	  there?	  
	  
Eloise	  Jones	  
43:34	  
"Oh,	  it's	  already	  in	  there.	  Just	  like	  you	  buy	  it	  off	  the	  shelf.	  You	  know,	  like,	  you	  buy	  Betty	  Crocker	  
and	  all	  that	  stuff."	  	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
43:41	  
And	  how	  does	  that	  change	  the	  consistency	  of	  the	  cake?	  
	  
Eloise	  Jones	  
43:42	  
"It	  doesn't.	  It	  doesn't.	  Because	  if	  you	  mix	  it	  right,	  it's	  just	  like	  the	  same.	  But	  the	  only	  thing	  is,	  
with	  your	  almond	  cake,	  you	  have	  to	  put	  that	  almond	  flavor	  in	  there,	  when	  it's	  mixing,	  if	  you	  
want	  it	  to	  have	  that	  almond	  flavor.	  Like	  your	  butter	  cake,	  you	  have	  to	  put	  your	  butter	  flavor	  in,	  if	  
you	  want	  it	  to	  taste	  like	  butter	  cake.	  You	  see	  what	  I	  mean?	  	  
	  
“And	  then,	  but	  they	  do—I	  tell	  you	  one	  thing	  they	  really	  still	  do.	  Like	  the	  pecan	  pies?	  They	  mix	  it	  
back	  there.	  They	  mix	  the	  filling	  and	  stuff	  back	  there.	  If	  they,	  when	  they	  make	  the	  cream	  pies,	  
they	  use	  the	  vanilla	  custard.	  Well,	  like	  I	  said,	  they	  mix	  their	  vanilla	  custard	  and	  they	  cook	  the	  
Eloise	  Jones	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
10	  of	  11	  
vanilla	  custard	  here.	  And	  that's	  one	  thing	  that's	  still	  the	  same.	  	  
	  
“But	  it's	  remarkable,	  how	  many	  changes	  they've	  made	  over	  the	  years.	  So	  many—so	  many	  
bakeries	  are	  taking	  the	  shortcut.	  You	  couldn't	  have	  paid	  Beulah	  Ledner	  to	  use	  a	  powder	  mix—
no!	  Birdie	  had	  to	  get	  in	  there,	  we	  had	  to	  get	  in	  there	  and	  mix	  that	  stuff	  from	  scratch.	  And	  then,	  
not	  only	  the	  cake	  mix	  but	  the	  custard.	  Hell,	  I	  used	  to	  cook	  the	  custard,	  help	  them	  cook	  the	  
custard.	  And	  you	  know	  something	  else	  I	  used	  to	  enjoy	  doing?	  I	  used	  to	  enjoy	  helping—his	  name	  
was	  Ronald	  Soupé	  (?).	  He	  was	  a	  little	  French	  guy,	  Creole,	  really.	  He	  was	  the	  one	  that	  did	  all	  the	  
parker	  house	  rolls—you've	  heard	  of	  parker	  house	  rolls	  and	  the	  sticky	  buns	  and	  all	  that	  stuff?	  
Well	  he	  used	  to	  do	  all	  of	  that.	  And	  I	  used	  to	  get	  over	  there	  and	  I'd	  watch	  him	  roll	  those,	  that	  
dough	  out	  in	  my	  spare—on	  my	  lunch	  hour,	  I'd	  watch	  him	  roll	  that	  dough	  out.	  And	  I	  said,	  one	  of	  
these	  days	  I'm	  going	  to	  learn	  how	  to	  do	  that.	  And	  one	  day,	  I	  did.	  He	  let	  me	  roll	  the	  dough	  and	  
take—they	  had	  a	  dough	  cutter.	  And	  you're	  cutting	  the	  rolls	  [she	  demonstrates	  with	  her	  hands].	  I	  
enjoyed	  that."	  
	  
Parker	  house	  rolls,	  they	  had	  a	  round	  thing	  and	  they	  put	  them	  in	  a	  pan	  and	  they	  would	  be	  pretty	  
close	  together.	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
47:25	  
Why	  do	  you	  think	  Miss	  Pat	  wanted	  to	  work	  with	  you	  so	  badly?	  
	  
Eloise	  Jones	  
47:31	  
Learning	  on	  the	  job,	  finding	  the	  right	  profession	  
"She	  said,	  because	  she	  had	  seen	  a	  lot	  of	  my	  work	  from	  Albertsons.	  And	  she	  said,	  I	  would	  love	  to	  
be	  able	  to	  work	  with	  Miss	  Eloise,	  simply	  because	  she	  makes	  it	  look	  so	  easy.	  And	  I've	  had	  several	  
people	  tell	  me	  that,	  said	  I	  make	  it	  look	  easy.	  When	  you	  enjoy	  doing	  something,	  it's	  going	  to	  
always	  look	  easy.	  Just	  like,	  when	  I'm	  icing	  up	  cakes,	  setting	  up	  and	  icing	  cakes,	  to	  me,	  it's	  easy.	  
Because	  it's	  something	  I	  enjoy	  doing.	  But	  if	  you	  ain't	  enjoying	  doing	  something,	  it	  automatically	  
becomes	  hard	  to	  you.	  And	  a	  lot	  of	  people	  don't	  realize	  that.	  If	  you	  don't	  like	  your	  job,	  you're	  
going	  to	  be	  miserable	  on	  it.	  I	  don't	  care	  who	  you	  are.	  I	  don't	  care	  how	  much	  education	  you	  have.	  
And	  you	  could—it's	  possible	  for	  you	  to	  have	  gotten	  educated	  for	  the	  wrong	  profession.	  And	  it's	  
too	  late!	  Because	  you've	  spent	  all	  that	  money	  to	  get	  it,	  and	  then	  you're	  not	  happy	  with	  it.	  I	  
never	  went	  to	  no	  school	  to	  learn	  any	  of	  the	  things	  that	  I	  know.	  A	  lot	  of	  people	  say	  they—I've	  met	  
a	  lot	  of	  people	  that	  say	  they,	  they	  went	  to	  decorating	  school.	  Not	  once	  did	  I	  go	  to	  decorating	  
school.	  Life	  has	  been	  my,	  my	  school.	  Life	  has	  been	  my	  school.	  Working	  with	  different	  places	  and	  
different	  people.	  That's	  where	  my	  schooling	  has	  come	  from."	  	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
49:45	  
Well	  it	  sounds	  like	  you	  were	  in	  the	  right	  school	  for	  you?	  
	  
	  
Eloise	  Jones	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
11	  of	  11	  
Eloise	  Jones	  
49:45	  
"Yeah,	  I	  was.	  And	  I'm	  still	  in	  the	  right	  school.	  I'm	  working	  under	  the—to	  me,	  she's	  a	  wonderful	  
person	  to	  work	  with.	  She	  really	  is.	  She	  really	  is.	  And	  if	  she's	  got	  something	  to	  tell	  you,	  she's	  going	  
to	  tell	  it.	  We're	  not—she'll	  tell	  you,	  'We're	  not	  in	  this	  business	  for,	  as	  a	  friendship	  thing.	  We're	  in	  
here	  to	  work.	  To	  do	  what,	  do	  your	  job.	  Now	  I	  never	  said	  you	  couldn't	  enjoy	  it	  as	  the	  day	  goes	  on.	  
But	  just	  do	  your	  job,	  and	  you	  won't	  have	  to	  never	  worry	  about	  me.'	  And	  she's	  right.	  Long	  as	  they	  
do	  their	  job,	  they	  don't	  have	  to	  worry	  about	  it,	  at	  all.	  And	  I	  better	  get	  my	  butt	  back	  to	  work,	  
before	  she	  be—"	  
	  
Eloise	  Jones	  
50:54	  
Closing	  thoughts:	  satisfaction	  with	  work	  
LMG	  thanks	  Miss	  Eloise	  and	  asks	  if	  she	  has	  any	  last	  thoughts	  or	  things	  that	  you	  want	  people	  to	  
know?	  "I	  want	  people	  to	  know	  that,	  if	  you're	  in	  a	  profession	  and	  you're	  not	  happy,	  ditch	  it	  and	  
move	  on	  to	  something	  else.	  Because	  you	  only	  live	  once.	  And	  life	  is	  too	  short	  for	  anybody	  or	  
anyone	  to	  be	  miserable	  on	  the	  job	  that	  you	  don't	  really	  like.	  So,	  do	  what	  you	  like."	  (laughs)	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
51:46	  
Amen!	  (laughs)	  
	  
END	  OF	  INTERVIEW	  
	  
END	  OF	  RECORDING