Occupational Folklife Project | Food Processing and Legacy Trades | White Oak Pastures: Laura Wall, Leather Crafter
Food Processing and Legacy Trades 
Title: White Oak Pastures interview with Laura Wall 
Interview conducted by Makalé Faber Cullen 
Interview /Event Unique ID:  
Date of Interview/Event: 2017-05-30 
Location: Bluffton, GA leather workshop in the Hide Barn 
Duration of Interview / Event (Total): 01:08:23 
Summary of  Interview / Event: 
Laura Wall describes her work designing and sewing leather goods for a new production arm of the farm — 
goods crafted from the leather harvested during meat processing. She shares her past craftwork and education 
in animal science as training for an unusual and exciting farm job.  
Interview Log: 
0 00 30 Laura Kyte Wall introduces herself and her work. She was born on September 2, 1979 in the small 
town of Jefferson, Tennessee. She is currently the leather crafter at White Oak Pastures (WOP), cutting, 
dying, and sewing patterns using the farm’s chromium tanned hides. She describes the range of leather goods 
produced and sold on the farm and notes that the farm’s leather crafter job is fairly new and describes how 
she came to the position.  
0 02 31 Laura gives details about her “crafting ADD” or 16 years of experience with, and exuberance for, 
crafts—clay, crochet, quilting, and chair caning using rattan, fiber rush, and pre-twisted—and how someday 
she might use rawhide from the farm for weaving.  
0 04 32 Laura describes her finished leather goods: ladies totes, card wallets, checkbook covers, zippered 
cushions for the farm’s tour wagon, pet collars and accessories, and a small toiletry bag prototype. She uses 
patterns that were on the farm before her arrival. 
0 06 46 Walking by the display shelf, Laura describes the added-value products designed and produced on the 
farm: hair-on bags, a sunglass case, a clutch, bracelets, and coasters. She describes the difficulty of working 
with hair-on hides. 
0 10 43 On arriving at White Oak Pastures in February 2017. She had just given up her 14-year job caning 
chairs to create a life with her new husband who was recently offered a job as WOP’s small ruminants 
manager. She describes being thrown into leather work, the challenges of working with a new material, feeling 
insecure, and wanting to do her best to create things that people enjoy. 
0 12 41 On familiarity with livestock prior to working at WOP. Laura describes growing up on a small farm in 
Tennessee, her familiarity with multiple livestock breeds and domesticated animals and having been an animal 
science major at the University of Tennessee. She describes how animals make her happy and offers examples 
of her work with animals, i.e. bottle-feeding an orphaned calf. 
0 14 08 Learning to appreciate the animal and all that it can give is essential, Laura says. From an animal 
giving milk or producing offspring, to the leather or the tallow that the farm uses to make soap and candles. 
She reflects on her work as respect for the whole animal through good use of all of its parts. 
0 14 43 Laura notes the process of receiving hides and leather in the workshop. The hides are harvested at the 
farm’s abattoir, salted in one of the barns, and sent to a tannery where they’re chromium tanned to make a 
very pliable leather that stretches like fabric, requiring a patient approach to working it.  
While sewing, she works with different needle gauges as leather, from the shoulder to the rump, varies in 
thickness. Vaccinating cattle in the rump affects gauge. In addition, each hide is different in how it will take a 
Page   of  
1
3
Occupational Folklife Project | Food Processing and Legacy Trades | White Oak Pastures: Laura Wall, Leather Crafter
stain or dye, how it cuts, and the way it can be sewn. There can be numerous textures on one hide. Laura 
gives an example of a piece of leather she pigmented blue that, due to the texture of the animal’s hide, 
resulted in a material that resembled ocean water ripples. 
She attributes design/textural differences in hides to how the animal grows and discusses swirls and various 
textures. Laura shares how the product design-production calendar connects to the farm’s and to seasonality.  
The farm harvests hair-on hides in the winter when it’s easier to keep them clean and free of insects, critical 
in south Georgia’s tropical climate.  
She describes a six-month process of acquiring leather from abattoir to leather workshop.  
Building and maintaining a leather inventory is a challenge.  
0 18 57 As a result, Laura says, her inventory of usable leather decreases faster than it can be replenished. She 
must be discerning about pieces of leather that she can work with. As the hides are hand cut off each animal, 
they contain nicks, cuts, and rough areas… But she says, those blemishes are the most interesting. She 
describes her favorite piece of leather and how she selects material for production. 
0 20 06 Laura describes her frustration as an artist in being unable to communicate her aesthetic choices 
directly to customers because she doesn’t have much interaction with them. Items are sold online or in the 
general store where the products must catch the customer’s eye. She describes wanting but being unable to 
draw their attention, not to her sewing, but to the originality of the leather. 
Laura compares this frustration to her chair caning experience, where customers failed to appreciate the art 
and skill involved until they tried their hand at it. She touches on how craftsmanship is part of the entire 
animal’s life on WOP… the rearing, harvesting and processing of the animal produces unique pieces of 
leather, whereas mass production of animals yields uniformity. 
0 23 29 Laura describes how she selects pieces to sew from individual hides. 
0 26 51 Laura details the process of cutting a pattern for leather goods, selecting color and managing trends. 
0 28 26 Laura explains her color technique and preferred dyes. Although she has quite a few colors at her 
disposal, the WOP product palette primarily consists of five colors that customers like: dark brown, tan, 
burgundy, green, and black. She reflects on learning how to dye leather well. “That’s the one thing I’ve had to 
get used to is dying leather. It’s not always the easiest thing.” 
0 29 48 Laura describes her dying toolkit and the order of procedures — cutting the pattern out first then 
dying the leather. The process of dying leather is almost therapeutic. Each section of each piece takes the dye 
in a different way. 
0 31 41 Laura describes the sponge brushes she uses to apply the dye.  
0 33 13 Sewing leather. Laura uses a Cobra Class 4 sewing machine that she named Theodore—no bells and 
whistles, it’s a workhorse and similar to cloth sewing machines. On the transition from cloth to leather 
machines, Laura notes having to get used to the pedals of a leather machine, to standing while sewing and the 
speed of the machine…Nylon thread is used because of its strength. Laura uses thicker thread for thicker 
leather. For needles, she uses Schmetz leather machine needles, which are longer and of a heavier gauge than 
sewing needles. 
0 37 41 How Laura learned to sew, read and cut patterns. 
0 39 58 Laura prefers to create patterns, even if a design fails, because the process stimulates her mind. 
Page   of  
2
3
Occupational Folklife Project | Food Processing and Legacy Trades | White Oak Pastures: Laura Wall, Leather Crafter
0 42 05 Laura discusses sketching her designs and how she diversifies her workday. She speaks of the 
importance of the feedback loop between customers and craftsman/artists. She describes her work as 
solitary. 
0 44 03 Laura reflects on the content of her work — something she says anyone can do — and why most 
don’t go into crafts.  
0 45 02 According to Laura, although no special skill or knowledge is needed for crafting leather, a person 
should be mechanically inclined to the machine. 
0 46 37 Laura describes different types of tanning and the distinct leather it produces.  
0 48 42 Laura would like to see the farm’s leather business expand but not too quickly. She comments on 
people’s appreciation for the farm’s use of the whole animal, that there’s no waste, and that the animals are 
treated ethically from birth. She hopes her future work includes more time designing and sewing as well as the 
opportunity to build a team to of workers to cut, sew, dye, and publicize how the farm uses leather. 
0 50 36 Laura observes that the farm’s leather output has increased and that she is taking more products to 
regional shows and farmers markets. 
0 52 26 Laura on working with the hides of other ruminants raised at WOP. She is particularly keen on 
opportunities to try leather made from goat hides (as accents within cowhide bags), which have many colors 
and are not as thick as cowhide. 
0 53 54 Uniqueness in hides of the animal piques Laura’s artistic interest: marks from vaccinations, bug bites, 
abscesses, and scrapes from the slaughter. The blemishes create texture. 
0 55 26 Laura categorizes her workspace as the newest and prettiest building on the farm: high ceilings, 
brilliant light, pine paneling and shelves, windows with lots of natural light, and concrete floor with a finish 
that hides dye splatters…The workspace was built with labor in mind. She describes her long, center table as 
“the perfect height to minimize bending” and locates efficiencies, including two benches were built for sitting 
and storage. 
1 00 06 Laura provides a tour of the building, including a tallow room where workers make soap, candles, and 
lip balm. A storage room for drying and storing hides, pet chews, and dehydrated chicken and turkey heads, 
etc. 
1 01 47 Laura states what she likes about being a leather crafter: selecting pieces and using her hands to finish 
a raw product. 
1 02 45 Laura’s designing process for leather craft and her toolkit. 
1 06 14 Laura’s advice for new leather crafters: Start simple. 
END 01 08 23 
Page   of  
3
3