AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
Civil Rights History Project 
Interview completed by the Southern Oral History Program 
under contract to the 
Smithsonian Institution ’s National Museum of African American History & Culture 
and the Library of Congress, 2015 
Interviewees: Clarence Magee 
Interview Date: December 1, 2015 
Location: Hattiesburg, Mississippi 
Interviewer: Emilye Crosby 
Videographer: John Bishop 
Length: approximately 1 hour, 50 minutes 
START OF RECORDING 
Female 1 : From the Library of Congress and the Smithsonian National 
Museum of African American History and Culture. 
EMILYE CROSBY : My name is Emilye Crosby, and today is December 1, 
2015, and Em here with Mr. Clarence Magee, and we’re at the University of Southern 
Mississippi, in the McCain Library, at the Oral History and Cultural Heritage Center—the 
Center for Oral History and Cultural Heritage. With me is John Bishop—or, with us is 
John Bishop and Guha Shankar, and we’re here with the Civil Rights History Project, 
which is cosponsored by the Library of Congress and the Smithsonian National Museum 
on African American History and Culture. So thank you very much, Mr. Magee, for 
joining us today. 
CLARENCE MAGEE: You’re welcome. 
EC: I was wondering if you’d be willing to start by talking about when and 
where you were born, and about your family. 
1 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
CM: I was born in Marion County, Columbia, Mississippi, in nineteen hundred 
and—well, May 15, 1932. I have two birthdays. I have May 14, which is officially by my 
mother’s record, because she was there. 
EC: [Laughter] She would have something invested in this. 
CM: Of course. The federal government came in later, said “It’s the fifteenth.” 
In order to get benefits, I say fifteenth, but I celebrate the fourteenth, okay? 
EC: [Laughter] I was going to say, what do you do when you get on an 
airplane, right? [Laughter] So you have two birthdays. 
CM: I have two birthdays. Of course. And I’m the oldest of ten siblings, five 
boys, five girls. One of the girls is deceased, two of the boys have passed on, so that still 
leaves seven of us. All at one time were married. We all have children, anywhere from 
two to five. My parents are the late Glessie R. Magee and Ora Bell Leggett Magee. 
We grew up in the rural area of Marion County. My dad initially was a 
sharecropper, and he vowed, before he ever married, if he had children, that he would 
make sure that they went to school. So our money crop, for the most part, was cotton. 
He eventually ended up purchasing forty acres of land with maybe about three acres that 
could be cultivated, and he took an ax, and he cleared off the new ground. We would 
come in after school and pick up the limbs, and pile them up, and bum them, the portion 
that we didn’t use for heating our home and for preparing our meals. See, I came up 
when there was no switch that you can flip and the heat comes on or the light comes on, 
or turn a faucet and get water. All of that, it sort of came like out of the natural—. We 
were nature people. 
2 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
We never went hungry. We always had plenty to eat. Not a big variety, because 
we grew everything. We raised chickens, therefore we had our eggs and chicken for 
eating. We raised cows, therefore we had our milk and beef. We raised hogs, and 
therefore we had our pork. We grew com. We had to gather that for the winter. We 
raised sweet potatoes. We had to gather those and make them for the winter. We raised 
sugarcane, which we made syrup from. We got water from a spring. We’d take buckets 
or pails, go down under the hill, pack the water back up the hills for drinking, for 
cooking, for bathing, for washing clothes, for feeding the livestock. [5:00] 
EC: I guess that would give you an incentive not to waste the water. 
CM: It gave us incentive not to waste water, but it also developed a sort of 
discipline to work, so we grew up having to work because of necessity. Everybody had 
to do their own share. There was something—. Once you got big enough, you knew what 
you were supposed to do. And you tried to do it before dark, because we had no 
electricity. We had lamps, and we had a fireplace. We’d get down in front of the 
fireplace and do our studies. I used, we called them—. You set up a pail and put some fat 
candles on top of it to make a fire, and you could study by that. 
My dad may have been promoted to the sixth grade. I think my mother actually 
experienced the sixth grade. However, they didn’t have the academic learning. They had 
what older people called the fifth sense. They called it “mother wits.” My daddy was a 
very good trainer, and I use “trainer” intentionally. He taught us what to do, how to do it, 
and if we did not do it correctly, he taught us what we needed to do to do it, and that it 
was better to do a job well or not do it at all. Why spend extra time doing the same job a 
3 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
second time? So we learned real fast from his training. He always encouraged us to read 
and to study when we went to school. 
My mother worked as a house person and a mother, and in the field, chopping and 
hoeing cotton and corn, and picking cotton, and up until, say about 10:30 or 11 o’clock, 
leave the field, come home, prepare a meal, so that when we came home, there was food 
for us to eat. I might be going a little too far right now, but as it comes to me, I just roll it 
off on you. 
EC: You mentioned that your parents—that your father might have finished 
sixth grade, and your mother, you weren’t sure if she experienced sixth grade? 
CM: That’s the reverse. 
EC: Oh, I got it wrong? 
CM: Yeah, just the reverse. 
EC: So did they miss not going further in school? 
CM: They did. My dad. And of course, when he was younger, his dad was—. 
Owned his own farm, but then he did extra work in order to take them through the winter 
months. And my dad tells the story about his dad promising he and his sister, if he 
worked real well this week, “Then come next Monday, you guys can go to school.” They 
were excited about it. So they got up early that Monday morning. They took care of 
their morning chores and got dressed, and they sat on the porch, and when his dad awoke, 
he said to my grandma, about that time, he says, “Get those children up, because we got 
to go do some work.” She said, “The children are up. They’re on the porch. They’re 
waiting to go to school.” “Sorry. Ain’t nobody going to school here today. Ijustmadea 
contract with this guy to clean up a new ground. That means, I’m going to take an ax, 
4 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
I’m going to cut down the trees and the bushes and all that stuff, and they got to go out 
and pick them up and burn them.” Broke my daddy’s heart. Made a vow that if he ever 
had children, that they would go to school. 
EC: Did he have trouble keeping you all in school? Was that a sacrifice? 
CM: No, it was not a sacrifice. You know, in elementary school and junior 
high, high school, we enjoyed going to school. It was a little bit a different style of life, 
because we worked hard in the fields, and we worked hard to get everything done so that 
we could go to school. So our lifestyle, having to do things, inspired us to want to do 
something different. So it was a—. We were not afraid of [10:00] school. We wanted to 
go to school. Now, once we finished high school, we might have been a little hesitant 
there, but he said to us, “There will come a day when a high school diploma will not be 
good enough. You got to go further.” 
I’m the oldest, of course, so I’m the first who went to high school—. I mean, went 
to college. Went further than high school. And I had a few setbacks. I was in Alcorn 
A&M College—it’s Alcorn State University now—thirty days to the day when my mother 
passed from childbirth, which was a total wrecker of my life. So I had to get the bus 
from—well, from Lorman. Someone took me from Lorman to Vicksburg to get the bus. 
The bus from Vicksburg took me all day to get to Columbia. My dad and my uncle met 
me at the bus station. After the funeral, my daddy says, “If you want to go back, you can 
go back.” I had a choice. I chose to go back. And of course, I was not in any condition 
to make my grades, so basically I failed. But we had the second semester. I sort of 
pulled myself together, and I passed. 
5 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
The other tragedy that happened was just about one month into the second 
semester. My daddy came down with—. He went into a diabetic coma, and I didn’t know 
he was diabetic. But my sister who was there, who was next to me, was sort of like the 
person who kept everything together with my dad. She said my dad took ill. He couldn’t 
lie down. He couldn’t sit up. He just fell into bed and he was sending my younger 
siblings to the field, at the time of the year that you would chop, cut, take a hole, and you 
cut up the cornstalks. That’s what they’d do to get them prepared. He sent them out one 
door, and she went out the back door, intercepted them, and said, “No. Go get my 
grandmomma,” which was about maybe three miles away. So they went to my 
grandmother. My grandmomma got a first cousin of mine, who had a car. Came to pick 
my daddy up. So when they moved him from the bed to the car, that’s when he went into 
a coma. 
They took him to the hospital, and when he got the diabetes down enough so he 
could talk and everything, he asked—. And the docs were getting ready to release him. 
He said, “What must I do now when I go back home?” They said, “You don’t go home 
and sit down. You go home and work as hard as you ever worked.” But then they put 
him on a diet, pretty much oatmeal. No sugar. At that time, I think he had to draw his 
urine and put a tablet in, and it would determine whether or not the glucose was up or 
lower. But he finally graduated from that, I think to insulin. Then eventually, it went in 
remission. He lived to be like eighty-four years of age, and he didn’t die of diabetes. He 
died of congestive heart failure. 
All that tied into my schooling. I could have says, after my mother passed, “I’m 
satisfied.” That would have been a terrible mistake. I could have said after my—. 
6 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
Because I had to come home when Daddy went into diabetes and stay a whole week. 
When he came back, he said the words again. “If you want to go back, you can go back.” 
I thank God I had the courage to go back, and I was able to finish. That’s tied in with 
their education and how we were motivated to go to school, to get the grades. 
And of course my daddy eventually married a couple of years after my mother 
died. He married a person who was a teacher. Of course, she had no children of her 
own, so that left my older sister and two other sisters there, two brothers there. 
Well, what happened to the other brother and the other sister? Well, when I grew 
up, [15:00] when we grew up there, we were across the lane from my daddy’s mother, 
my grandmother. We loved to stay at Grandmomma’s house. My older brother loved to 
stay there more than anybody else. When we finally moved from there to the property he 
purchased, my mother would not take this boy. She let him stay there. She raised him, 
and when my mother passed, the two younger siblings were girls. The baby was eighteen 
months old, and the other girl had to have been like four years old. So my grandmomma 
took them during them in between her death and my daddy sort of getting himself settled, 
settled down. So she ended up raising those two girls. Now she raised my older brother, 
two girls. 
My older brother, when he got out of high school, he volunteered to go in the 
armed service. So that left her with no boy, so she came to my daddy’s house and said, 
“You have two boys. I came to get a boy. I need a boy.” My baby brother was there, 
heard it, and he volunteered. 
EC: [Laughs] 
7 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
CM: She took him, but then when she got him back home, she discovered he 
had not been trained to plow. [Laughter] So she took him—. 
EC: Back? 
CM: [Laughter] To trade him off, to get the other brother. So the baby brother 
cried, and she said, “That’s okay. That’s all right. I’ll keep you.” So she ended up really 
raising four of my siblings. Was it four? Yeah, four of my siblings. But they could not 
go anyplace without permission from my daddy. Now my grandmomma would whip, but 
if you did something that you really needed a whipping, “I’m just going to tell your 
daddy.” 
EC: How far away did she live from you? 
CM: About three miles after that. 
EC: So it’s-. 
CM: Yeah, it’s pretty—. 
EC: But three miles is further then than it is now. 
CM: Oh, yes. Yeah, yeah. Well, it was—. No, no. It was closer then. God, we 
could run three miles. 
EC: [Laughter] You weren’t used to being in the car, right? 
CM: Exactly. 
EC: You had to get there. 
CM: Yeah. We run three miles, across the fields, across the pastures, and get 
there. Sure. 
EM: Yeah. So I was wondering, not many people of your generation had the 
opportunity to go to college. Sometimes they had to work. I know you were working, 
8 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
but was it hard for your father to give up your labor to go to college, or even to attend 
school every day? 
CM: You know, no, I don’t think it was. It was not hard for him to give it up. 
He just made the adjustment. I plowed a mule, and I was so interested in going to school, 
he would have to say to me, “Don’t you burn my mule out. You take a furrow, you go to 
the other end. When you get to the end, you don’t do it the lazy way, just stand there and 
pull the mule, let it. You pick up your plow, and you sort of make a swing. The mule 
turns, you turn. Boom. You’re going back the other way. And you get there, you do the 
same thing. Boom.” And a mule doesn’t know when it’s too hot or not too hot. So he 
had to caution me, “Don’t you get the mule too hot.” 
But when I left and went to college, that left one, two, three boys initially at the 
house, and then Grandmomma took one. My daddy finally got a tractor, which I never 
got an experience to use. So he made up with that by having a tractor. 
Then after practically all of us had moved out, he started cattle instead of cotton. 
He had at least thirty or forty heads of cows, but of course that kept him close, because he 
had to watch them at all the time, because he never knew when a calf was going to drop, 
or when he had to get a veterinarian to come in and take care of his cows. 
And then, of course, he finally got out of that, and he did what he loved to do, and 
that was fish. I told my dad, “I never knew that you loved to fish. When I was a boy, we 
never went.” The only time we went to fishing, we went down on the creek, and it was 
thick. It was hot. A lot of mosquitoes, and the snakes, and if you didn’t catch anything, 
you went down there to catch a meal, but you came back starving. He said, “I couldn’t 
9 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
take a chance on maybe, going to fish. I had to do whatever produced the food right 
now.” But he turned out to be a real good fisherman. He loved it. 
EC: He must have enjoyed having a chance to relax a little. 
CM: Yes. He loved it. He loved it. That’s schooling. Okay. 
Now, the biggest training that my daddy gave his children was—. Picking [20:00] 
cotton is a hot job. Picking cotton, you have to—. You see, there is a slight in doing 
everything, to make it easy. Cotton grows in burrs, so you reach for cotton out of the 
burr, you make sure you get it the first time. You can’t be going two and three times in 
that burr, one burr. So he would pay us one penny per pound. So if I picked a hundred 
pounds of cotton a day, I earned a dollar for the whole day, and I didn’t have to spend it 
on anything but myself, because we had food at home. Everything, we grew it. He 
taught us how to weigh our cotton, and then he taught us to get a little pad to put down 
our poundage and add them up. This is schooling. This is training. That’s how my dad 
was a trainer. 
Whenever he took a bale of cotton to the gin, and it produced seeds, you can take 
the seeds and sell them, or you can bring them home. If he sold the seeds, he came back, 
and he sat down, and said, “Okay, y’all come on now. Figure how much I owe you.” 
And he paid each one of us a penny per pound. Now, I learned to pick over two hundred 
pounds of cotton a day. 
EC: You were a wealthy man. 
CM: [Laughter] Brothers and sisters. Now, there were one or two who couldn’t 
pick cotton. They just never—. Everybody can’t do the same thing. They just could 
never pick cotton. But the first time I beat my dad picking cotton was the morning I 
10 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
came—. He and my siblings had gone to the field earlier, so I had milked the cows. We 
had no pastures at that time, so you put a rope on your cow. You’d take her to a green 
spot, stake it down so she can eat around that circle. So I had to do some chores and do 
that. When I came with him, he scolded me for being late. I got mad. Unlike today, I’d 
dare say nothing to my dad. I’d just beat him picking cotton. [Laughter] 
EC: You expressed your dissatisfaction? 
CM: From that day forward, every day. Whether I came at the same time he 
did, or I didn’t come the same time, I’d beat him picking cotton. 
EC: I don’t suppose he did that on purpose, did he? [Laughs] 
CM: No, he didn’t do it on purpose, [Laughter] but—. 
EC: Motivated you. 
CM: He did. It motivated me, you know. 
EC: Yeah. What were your schools like coming up? 
CM: Oh, that’s a different story. Initially, from elementary school up until 
maybe I was about—. Hmm. Ten years of age. I started early, at age five. We would 
walk from where we live better than a mile to catch a bus. My auntie’s husband had 
made a bus, or borrowed a bus, and he used the bus to pick children up to take to school. 
Now, I think the school supplemented that. But we’d walk that mile and a half, hot, rain, 
cold, whatever, to get that bus. I only remember maybe one time not catching the bus. 
And of course, my daddy being the motivator that he was, we don’t miss buses, you 
know. Cold, standing up there in the rain, under a pecan tree, many mornings waiting. 
The white kids had a bus that drove right by their house. Or, what to say? It was not a 
homemade bus, okay? [Laughter] A real bus, yes. 
11 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
EC: Did you think about that at the time? 
CM: At the time, it didn’t bother you that much. It really didn’t. Our books 
were books that had been used four or five years, because there were other kids’ names 
written in the books, so we had hand-me-down books. The parents of the school had to 
cut wood to heat the schools in the wintertime. They had a huge stack of wood out there. 
They would bore a well at the school, so you can get water from the well. There was no 
indoor plumbing. There was no indoor restroom. Everything was under the hill, away 
from the school, [25:00] so you can imagine what that was like. Rain, cold, whatever, 
you know. Smelly and all that. 
But we didn’t know we were in poverty. We only learned that once we saw the 
TV talking about people in poverty. That motivated a lot of kids. Some of them it didn’t. 
A lot fell by the wayside. Their parents were loggers, pulpwood haulers, stump haulers. 
They made a little money, so that was exciting to their kids, so their kid would go out and 
make a living and get married. 
My dad had a little close to tighter rein on us than generally people in the 
neighborhood, because he focused on education a whole lot more than others did. And, 
of course, once the neighborhoods knew that, they helped to keep us in the right path. If 
we wanted to run with the group of boys, and they see us, say, “I’m going to tell your 
dad.” That’s all they needed to say, and we’d straighten up. It kept us out of a lot of 
trouble. 
EC: I was raised out at Alcorn, so I’m especially curious. I was wondering if 
you could tell me what Alcorn was like at that time. 
CM: You were raised at Alcorn? 
12 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
EC: Yes, sir. 
CM: Okay. 
EC: I moved there in 1973. 
CM: Seventy-three. [Laughs] I went out there in 1950. It was just a cattle path 
from Lorman to Alcorn. I mean, at some places you couldn’t meet another vehicle. You 
had to choose your place, where you’d meet other vehicles. It was either up and down or 
around and round. And that’s just the way it was. In the wintertime, the buildings were 
heated by a boiler. If everything worked well, you had heat, but if it didn’t, you didn’t 
have heat. Of course, you had—. The buildings were old, and of course, you’ve got a 
problem with that. 
The children who attend Alcorn were rural children. They came from the 
country, basically. Being an agricultural school, they raised poultry, so you could work 
at the poultry plant as a student as a part of your student aid. You could work at the 
swine or hog place. Other things you could do. I’m not sure if they grew any vegetables. 
EC: Did they have the dairy then? 
CM: Yeah, they had the dairy. They did. Yes, they did, sure, because we kept- 
-. There was always plenty of milk, and pork, because they raised us hogs that were like 
that, that high. They’d grow all of that. 
We were very close-knitted, because there were no nightlights close by. That’s 
one of the reason I chose to go there. I didn’t feel within myself that I could go to a city 
school and not be affected by the nightlife. And I had been out there, I know one 
summer, with the agriculture department. I stayed a week out there, so I knew about it. 
13 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
They were quite strict on boys and girls being separated at a certain point. You 
were required to go to the vestibule service on Sunday evening. There was Sunday 
school class on Sunday mornings. 
The bad part, we only got two meals on Sundays, and of course, coming from the 
country, we got three meals per day, you know, so you had to develop not having food 
[Laughs] on Sunday evening. I think they might give you a bag with an orange or 
something in it, a brown bag to take home. Of course, they had their PX ’round under the 
chapel back there. You’d go around there and get some candy bars or stuff like that, if 
you had the money, but people like me, I’d have no money. 
Tuition was very low, but then, I worked to take care of my room and board. I 
did—. They had a model home there for the senior homemakers, where they went in and 
spent, I don’t know where, half a semester, where they had to do meal plannings and all 
of this kind of stuff, and practice purchasing meals and preparing meals, and do all the 
things homeowners do. I worked there for, [30:00] I don’t know how long, but taking 
care of the floors of that building. Then, one year, I worked at pest control. We’d get big 
bags of baits, and I’d have to take it and put it in a small package, and then distribute it 
wherever there were mice and so forth. I did that. Then, one time, I worked as a person 
who would take out the garbage off the female dorm hall. I got the name KT. All of my 
close friends knew me as KT, Kotex kid. 
EC: [Laughter] That’s a nickname you want to carry through life, right? 
CM: Well, see, look. I learned that these things are said to get a reaction, but I 
learned how not to react. If you say, “Hey, KT Kid,” I was like, “Hey, how are you 
14 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
doing?” Only you and I know what we’re talking about, so what’s the problem, you 
know? You learn how to respond or not respond. 
Ml : Do we need to break for—? 
EC: What did you study at Alcorn? 
CM: Biology major. 
EC: And what did you do when you left Alcorn? 
CM: I went to service, two years’ service. I was—. 
EC: In the draft? 
CM: Yeah, I was drafted, and I was drafted before I left school. My daddy 
knew the draft lady, and as long as I was in school, I got deferred. I’d come home for 
summer and work, go back to school, let them know I was back in school. So my senior 
year, she sent me a draft notice before the year was over, with a handwritten note, “If 
you’re not ready to go right now, ignore it.” So I finished, and then a couple of months 
after I finished, then my draft came up, and I went in. 
EC: So was that just an informal agreement? That wasn’t the policy then, was 
it? 
CM: No, that was not a policy. My dad—. I don’t know. I can’t remember 
where the lady who was managing the draft board, or not. Anyway, somehow he got 
acquainted with her, and she agreed that as long as I was in school, I could be deferred. 
If I wanted to leave, I could have gone, but I’m glad I was able to stay. 
EC: Yeah. What did you do after service? 
CM: After service, I came back. But when I went in service, I was living in La 
Marion County. 
15 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
EC: Marion? 
CM: Marion County. Marion County. I said La Marion, La Marion, La Mar—. 
That was the name of the school, La Marion. Lamar-Marion. La Marion Vocational 
High School. I taught a month there in between graduating and the time I was to leave. 
When I was discharged, we were living here in Hattiesburg then, because my dad had 
assisted my wife in purchasing a home here that belonged to his sister-in-law that was 
moving away. I was in Germany when the home was purchased, and I added my name to 
it after I got back home, so it was joint ownership. 
EC: Were you looking to move to Hattiesburg, or was it just an opportunity? 
CM: No, just an opportunity. I married while I was in service, and my wife 
was—, I met her in Marion County. She was working there. I came home on a furlough. 
We got engaged before I had to—. I think two furloughs. Got engaged. I went back and 
got orders to go to Germany. They gave me a thirty-day furlough before I went, so I 
came back home, and I got married while I was here. And I left, and I went to Germany 
for eleven months and fourteen days, so it’s in between that period that the house became 
available. The house was purchased, so when I came out of service, I ended up here. 
EC: Was your wife working in Hattiesburg then, while she was waiting on you 
to come back? 
CM: Yes, she had gotten a job here in Hattiesburg then. 
EC: Was she a teacher, too? 
CM: Yeah. 
EC: What level? What school was she teaching at? 
16 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
CM: She was in a high school at the time, in Marion County, and when she 
came here, she worked at Rowan and the high school. She worked there until Lillie 
Burney was constructed, and then she went to Lillie Burney. Then after Lillie Burney, 
during the early part of desegregation, she went to Hawkins. And then I [35:00] took her 
away from the city in [19]74. We went to Mobile. I started working with the federal 
government. 
In between those times, I did teaching as well. When I came out of service in 
[19]56,1 got a job in Waynesboro. I filled out an already-expired term of a previous 
teacher that for some reason they let go. I worked there for one year. Then I worked at 
Prentiss Institute for two years, in the high school department, but coached the college 
basketball team. Then I got a job here starting at an elementary school, and I came in. I 
taught a combination of sixth and seventh graders combined. There was one full class of 
seventh graders and one full class of sixth graders, and the overflow I had combined. I 
did that probably like three years. Then when Lillie Burney opened, I went to Lillie 
Burney as well. I left Lillie Burney in [19]69, and I went to Rowan High School. 
I left there. I went with the Southern Mississippi Planning and Development 
District for approximately two years. And after that, in between that, I got employment 
with the federal government, Department of Agriculture, Food, and Consumer Service. I 
retired from them. But in order to take that job, I needed to move to Mobile, so that’s 
when I went to Mobile, in [19]74, and I worked from [19]74 to [19]95. Came back to 
Hattiesburg, but I was still in the same job, but my office was located in Jackson. I 
worked there about three years before I retired. 
EC : C ommuting to Jackson? 
17 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
CM: Yeah. And it was not bad, because at that time, we had started working 
compressed hours, ten hours a day, four days a week. 
EC: Oh, so you didn’t have to go five days? 
CM: I didn’t have to go five days. That program started when I was in Mobile. 
The day the staff decided what days they were going to take off, I was in the field, so 
when I came back—. 
EC: You had what was left. [Laughs] 
CM: And that was Monday. Can you believe? Monday. I go to work—. I have 
Monday off. I go Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday. So I’d leave here on 
Tuesday morning, spend Tuesday night, Wednesday night, and Thursday night with my 
sister. Friday I’m back at home. Friday night, Saturday night, Sunday night, Monday 
night, home. 
EC: That’s a pretty good situation. 
CM: God looks out for people who are [Laughs] patient. 
EC: [Laughter] Whatever you’re doing, you’re doing it. [Laughter] I could 
probably go back and figure it out, but did you move to Hattiesburg like in the late 
[19]50s? Is that right? 
CM: Fifty-six. 
EC: Fifty-six. So were you in the service, then, when the Brown decision 
came? 
CM: Oh, yes. In [19]55? Yes. 
EC: Was that something that you were thinking about or aware of at the time? 
18 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
CM: I was aware of it. It was not a—. Since it was over yonder, it was not here, 
you know, not at that age, and not a whole lot concerned about it, but I was aware of it, 
yeah. 
EC: How did you—. Well, I guess, what was your first awareness of race? 
CM: Since I was about eight or nine years old, I guess. Yeah, sure. 
EC: Yeah. Was that like going to town, or—? 
CM: Going to town. But, look. In the South, the relationship between a black 
family and a white family could be just like this. That’s not race. My daddy 
sharecropped with a white family who taught school during the school year. During the 
school year, we could move from our house to their house, which was tight, had 
windows, and a huge fireplace, and be comfortable. 
In the springtime, we’d go back to our house, which was above the ground, had 
shutters for windows, had a huge living room and a kitchen, knotholes in the floor, picket 
roof on top [40:00] with cracks in it, so when the rain came down you had to put pails out 
to catch the water. When we lived in their house during their absence, we didn’t have 
that problem. We could hear the wind outside, you know, whistling and that kind of 
stuff, but in our house, we could feel the winds. Cracks in the wall. The wall became our 
library, because they would use newspaper—not newspaper. Yeah, and cover them up 
with, so we’d see pictures and, you know, from study. In the winter—in the fall of the 
year, before we moved there, we could touch the goats through the knothole—. 
EC: Through the house? 
CM: The pigs through the knotholes, you know? [Laughter] It was a 
relationship there that we didn’t have when we went to town. I can remember clearly on 
19 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
two occasions. One time I was downtown, very young. I walked into something like a 
pool hall, and people of color didn’t go in there. I wandered in there through the front 
door. They already caught me, and they ushered me out the back door, but back on the 
street. Nothing happened. 
I remember once walking down the street and a car coming. I don’t know how 
close, but it was within inches of hitting me, that, you know, that close. 
When we would go to work from my house, we had to pass right by the family 
my daddy sharecropped with. If we ate at that house, we ate on the back porch. We 
didn’t eat inside of the house. We sat on the back porch. 
EC: Now this is the family where you would stay in their house? 
CM: Mm-hmm. Yeah. 
EC: So you could live in their house, but when they were there, you would eat 
on the back porch. 
CM: Right out on the back porch, yeah. 
EC: Would they ever eat at your house? 
CM: No. So you watch what your parent did or did not do. They may or may 
not say anything, but you tell by their action that there’s some places you don’t go, some 
things you don’t say. You learn to follow the leader, if you’ve got good leaders. You 
were aware of it. Of course, now I’m—. Direct experience and participation are two 
different things, you know, [in that way?]. 
EC: So what first got you—. What was your first awareness of the civil rights 
movement? 
20 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
CM: Nineteen fifty-six, when my dad and my wife purchased our first home. 
He said to me, “Now that you own a home, you can pay your two-dollar poll tax, and you 
can register to vote.” I’m not sure that he was registered at this time. 
EC: I was actually wondering, yeah. 
CM: Yeah, yeah. So—. 
EC: But he’s telling you about it. 
CM: He’s telling me about it. You own a home, you’ve got to pay property tax. 
So every time Ed go pay my property tax, Ed pay my poll tax. So I started going to the 
clerk’s office, exercising my right, because I paid a poll tax to register to vote. And he’d 
get caught off guard. The first time I went in, a deputy clerk met me at the desk, and 
asked what I wanted. I told her I wanted to register. She said, “The registrar’s not in 
today.” “Well, what are his hours?” “Oh, he doesn’t keep regular hours.” So what am I 
supposed to do? She walked away. Em not going to stand up, that’s fine—Ell walk 
away. 
It’s twelve months, probably, later, that I go back and go through the same 
routine. This time he’s in. His name is—come on. Not Theron Lynd. 
EC : It was before him? 
CM: The one before him. 
EC: Was that Fox? 
CM: [Luther] Cox. 
EC: Cox? 
CM: Cox. Yes. 
EC: All right. Something like that. Cox. 
21 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
CM: I met the same deputy at the counter, and she says, “What do you want?” 
I told her. She called him from the back. He walked up, and I’m standing there. He 
says, “What do you want, boy?” I told him. “Who sent you, boy?” I said, “Nobody.” 
“You’d better wait.” He walks away. I walk away. 
The next time I go by—. 
EC: Can I [45:00] interrupt? How did you feel? 
CM: I didn’t feel the best at that time. I—here again, it’s sort of like a shock 
treatment. You know, here I am. I’ve done everything you say I’m supposed to do, and 
you’re saying, “What do you want, boy? You’d better wait.” And you’re not even 
holding a conversation as to why I should wait. You walk away. 
So the next time I go, he is no longer around. I think he’s deceased, maybe. 
Theron Lynd is there. And by this time, they are requiring you to fill out an application, 
and they give you a section from the Mississippi state constitution. You copy that onto 
the application process, and then you interpret it. On the application, you have to identify 
your precinct, where you would vote, and having not voted before, that’s a big task. But 
luckily they write the precinct number on your poll tax receipt. Ah, I remember. So I put 
it on there. But when he looked at it, he says, “Not quite satisfactory.” 
EC: “Not quite.” 
CM: “Not quite.” And he turns, he walks away. No conversation. 
EC: Other than your father, when he told you that, were you talking to 
anybody about this at the time? 
CM: Not really. And I guess one of the reasons why is I’m still working 
basically out of town. I’m here on the weekend. I only come home at night out of town, 
22 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
so I’m not really cognizant of the fact that others are being treated the same way. It takes 
me a couple, two or three years to realize that I’m not the only one that’s been getting this 
cold shoulder. 
EC : Did your wife ever try to register at that time? 
CM: Oh, yes. Oh, yes. She did. She did three times. She took the test three 
times. I took it six. I think they have recorded five times. She was more—females are 
more challenging than males—. 
EC: [Laughs] 
CM: And that’s the reason, because they’re free. Male—. [Break in recording] 
Excuse me. The male is not free. The female is. [Laughter] Because she raised 
the question, “What do you mean, I didn’t pass? I know I passed it.” So she’s getting a 
little bit feisty and I say, “Hey, you’re going to get me in trouble. We got to go.” 
[Laughter] But anyway. She took it three times. She recognized, for some reason, that it 
was the precinct that was hanging her up, but it also said, if you don’t know the precinct, 
just put in the nearest town. She wrote, “Hattiesburg.” Which means she’s met all the 
requirements. There is nothing that she had missed, and yet he said, “Not quite 
satisfactory.” And she wanted to know why. “Can’t tell you.” Walks away. I took her 
out. 
So we never found out until the federal court took Theron Lynd to court. We, 
along with about forty-six or forty-four other people, mainly who were teachers, were 
subpoenaed to be at those trials. Actually, she got on the witness stand. I didn’t. She 
claims that her witness broke the whole thing open, and she’s probably right, because 
23 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
when the prosecutor was—, I want to think his name was—, I know it, but I can’t 
remember now. 
EC: Was this the federal—? 
CM: Federal second court of appeals. That would have—. Doar? 
EC : Was it John Doar? 
CM: Yeah. 
EC: It was John Doar? 
CM: Yeah, yeah. He took her application and used it as comparison with a 
white gentleman from Royal Spring who was a truck driver, who could not read, could 
not write. He had taken the test and passed it. So here they’ve got two applications, one 
from a white gentleman, one from a lady of color. He passed his. When they questioned 
him about it, I think—. Of course, I’m not in there. They said they asked him, “What 
race are you?” He said, “I haven’t run a race.” 
EC: [Laughs] 
CM: “What color are you?” “Oh, I’m white.” [Laughter] You know, it was a 
challenge, but then, I started treating it as a [50:00] cat-and-mouse game, because every 
time I got a chance to go back in there, I would go. So we got—we knew each other quite 
well, because I would go. He would give me the test. I’d walk in there and say, “Hey.” 
And he’d say, “You’ve got fifteen minutes.” “Give me the test. All I want is the test.” 
Because I was studying the Constitution. I knew they weren’t getting me on that. He 
wasn’t getting me on the precinct, because you’ve got it right here on my poll tax receipt, 
so what am I to be afraid of? Not really anything. Somebody’s playing somebody, so—. 
24 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
EC: When you were studying the constitution, was that something you were 
doing on your own, or was there—? 
CM: On my own. On my own. 
EC: Was the NAACP coordinating anything at this point? 
CM: No. It was not coordinating this. It was on my own. Yeah. 
EC: How did you all find out about the lawsuit? 
CM: We were subpoenaed. 
EC: So that was the first you heard about it, was being subpoenaed? 
CM: No, we had talked. I guess they had interviewed us. Em not sure. At that 
point, we were aware that it was going to get the point of the federal second court of 
appeals, but then, we had been interviewed by them. 
EC: So did—. Do you know? I know that when they were doing that case, and 
they were doing a couple similar cases, they would try to subpoena the records, and they 
were having trouble getting even the records from the circuit clerks’ offices, so did they 
know about your applications from the records, or did they know about it from Medgar 
Evers or somebody? 
CM: No. I think they would have gotten it from the record, because Theron 
Lynd was taken in this time because he was being held in contempt. He had been in 
court before and had been ordered to stop making a difference between races, but he 
never stopped. So the records were debated through. 
EC: I knew that they really pursued it with him. 
CM: Yep. 
25 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
EC: I mean, it just—. Did you ever work with Medgar Evers? Did you meet 
him? 
CM: I knew Medgar—matter of fact, I was in school at Alcorn with Medgar 
Evers. 
EC: So he was there at the same time? 
CM: Yeah, it was the same time. 
EC: I wasn’t sure when he was finishing up there. 
CM: Yeah, yeah. His wife and I were in the same class. I finished in the 
summer, and when I left the campus, he gave me a ride from the campus. That’s the 
contact I had with him. And then of course, as I got more involved in NAACP, we had 
much more interaction from that level. 
EC: How did you get involved with the NAACP, then? 
CM: Well, the president of this county branch at that time was J.C. Fairley. We 
attended the same church, so this is where my first connection came with membership 
with the NAACP. 
EC: So would he speak at church, or would he talk to people after church 
about—? 
CM: J.C. would? Yeah. He was quite outspoken. 
EC : And you just—what made you decide to j oin? 
CM: It didn’t take a whole lot, really and truly. Just one request, and I’m in. 
EC: What was your motivation? I know it seems obvious, but so many people 
didn’t. 
26 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
CM: [Laughs] It’s quite a—, I had experience when I was in the service that 
really heightened, I guess you’d say, my sensitivity to it. I was in Fort Eustis, Virginia, 
and there was a young man who was a minister from somewhere in Ohio, who was a 
white young man. He had been to a church near the camp, and he was invited to speak. 
On the day before he went out, he asked if I would go with him out there, and I said, 
“Yeah, but then are you sure I can go?” “Oh, yeah, I’m sure. I’m sure.” 
EC: Virginia? 
CM: Virginia, yeah. “I’m sure, I’m sure.” “Okay.” So one of the church 
members came over, picked us up, drove us to the church. We got there between Sunday 
School and worship service. 
From a teenager, my habit was, when I got to church, I would go inside. I would 
not stand outside like a whole lot of people do. So I went in, and I don’t know, I picked 
up a bulletin. I was sitting over there, just looking at it, not paying a lot of attention. He 
came in with tears in his eyes, and says, “We can’t stay here. We can’t stay here.” I say, 
“Why?” “If we stay, they won’t have church.” “Oh.” So they brought us back to the 
camp. That’s one thing that really stands out. It’s [55:00] just, out in society is one 
thing, but in church, that’s gross. 
EC: What church did you and Mr. Fairley—? 
CM: St. James Christian Methodist Episcopal Church. Yeah. 
EC: Were there a lot of people from the congregation that joined the NAACP? 
CM: Practically everybody were probably members in that church, yeah. At 
my church now, it’s the same way. We’re a small membership, but practically everybody 
27 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
there are members of the NAACP. We encouraged them to do that, and they follow our 
leadership in that respect. 
EC: Were you--. Once you joined, did you participate in—? Were they 
holding meetings? 
CM: I did not attend a lot of meetings when I initially joined. As time went on, 
I got involved, and then a little more involved doing the Freedom Summer. We did 
sensitivity, especially for youngsters from the North and Midwest who came down. 
Since we knew the culture, we did a lot of sensitivity training, round circles, talking about 
what you can expect, or if you say this or if you say that. Back in some areas away, they 
were accustomed to calling policemen “pigs.” We said, “You can’t do that here. You 
can’t call them pigs” and stuff like that. That’s just one example. They were encouraged 
and trained to assist, but then we knew where the danger spots were. We knew what 
was—what comments would set people off, and things like that, so we did a lot of 
sensitivity training, not only here, but other parts of the state. I got acquainted with the 
president who succeeded J.C. Fairley, which was Dr. C.E. Smith, he and his family, and I 
became more involved, more involved with the NAACP, serving on the committees and 
things of that sort. 
EC: What were some of the committees? What was some of the work you did? 
CM: I remember one specifically, education committee, and that’s—. What we 
did, we served on a biracial committee in helping the city schools develop a strategy for 
integrating the schools. 
EC: Was that before or after Freedom—. That would have been after Freedom 
Summer, wouldn’t it? 
28 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
CM: Probably a little after Freedom Summer, yes. Yes. Yeah, yeah. 
EC: And at that point, are you teaching at Rowan? 
CM: I’m—. Lillie Burney, and then Rowan was in [19]69, is when I started. 
EC: So you might have been at Lillie Burney? 
CM: Lillie Burney, yeah, or Grace Love. The two places. Yeah. 
EC: We were just talking to Mrs. Smith earlier today. So what was it that got 
you more involved, you know? What drew you in to become more involved? 
CM: My children. We had two daughters, and I did not want them to inherit 
what I inherited. Everything I did was with them in mind. 
EC: How old were they in the summer of [19]64? 
CM: My oldest was born in [19]59—no, no, no, no, no, [19]57. The baby was 
born in [19]59. 
EC: Did they go to Freedom Schools? 
CM: No, they did not go to Freedom Schools. 
EC: Kept them home, or—? 
CM: Kept them home. 
EC: Were you worried? 
CM: No, I was not worried. We did for them what they needed to have done. 
We were not worried about that. 
EC: You just didn’t—. You just wanted to keep them at home. They didn’t 
have to attend that. 
CM: So that empowered—. That didn’t stop us from working with the Freedom 
Summer, because our church provided housing for some of them, provided meals for 
29 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
some of them, so we were involved, but we didn’t put our children out there. We were 
involved. 
EC: What are some of the things that you all were doing? I mean, you just said 
housing and food. Can you give me a sense of what the day-to-day was like? [1:00:00] 
CM: You know that there were leaders, identified as leaders, who were at 
various churches where the students would come in, and they would have the classes. 
Somebody would provide a meal for them and some form of recreation, which is like a 
regular school, but mostly dealing with the civics, citizenship. 
EC: Backing up before Freedom Summer, when—. Did you meet or work with 
any of the young people that came in with SNCC or COFO, like Hollis Watkins or—? He 
and Curtis Hayes stayed out on Mr. Dahmer’s farm for a little while. 
CM: No, no. I did not work with those persons per se. I knew about them, but- 
EC: I was going to say, and the next ones coming in maybe were Lawrence 
Guyot and—. 
CM: Yeah, yeah. I think the biggest portion of my involvement was doing the 
sensitivity trainings and things like that. 
EC: Making sure they understood—. 
CM: Yes. 
EC: The community and what the expectations were, and how to be safe. Can 
you—. So, the biracial committee. You said you were working on a plan or a strategy for 
desegregating the schools. What were those meetings like? 
30 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
CM: I learned early in my involvement that the meetings that we’d attend were 
the second meetings. Meetings had been held prior to our meetings. So we learned to—as 
people of color—to come together on our education committee and role-play. We would 
propose questions that we were going to propose. Then we’d have somebody respond to 
those questions, so that when we got in the meeting, we would be conditioned to what 
might have been said. And also we suggested a question that might be coming to us, to 
be prepared to answer those. Specifically, I remember Dr. Spinks, who was 
superintendent of the schools; and Mr. D.I. Patrick was—I believe he was principal of 
Blair High School; Mrs. Earline Boyd, who probably was the chair of our education 
committee. I served on the committee. I’m just trying to remember who the other 
person—. But I remember in meetings where these two particular gentlemen were 
involved. D.I. Patrick was a man of—I would say hypertension. He was free with his 
emotion. He would stand up and put his finger in your face. 
EC: That’s productive. 
CM: Earline Boyd was chair of that committee. And she said, “Don’t point 
your finger in my face.” He may take it down, but the next three minutes, it’s back up 
there, and then she would put hers right in his face. So we spent a whole lot of time 
trying to make sure [Laughter]—. 
EC: There wasn’t going to be a throw-down? 
CM: Trying to manage the people who were in the meeting, so that we could 
get to some point where we can do something positive. 
EC: [Laughter] That’s good practice, right? For teaching school. 
CM: Anyway, they were interesting meetings. Challenging. 
31 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
EC: Can you even go back that far in your head and think about what you 
hoped would come out of it? Obviously, you’ve lived all these years and seen how it’s 
turned out, but do you remember what your hopes were at the time? 
CM: We used the word “freedom,” and we used it sort of loosely, without tying 
it down. I’m not sure we knew what the word “freedom” encompassed. Freedom of 
expression, freedom to go to school wherever you want to go, free from being harassed. 
We were harassed. We were terrorized. The word terrorist is not new. We lived it all 
our lives. [1:05:00] 
EC: Did you have threats, direct threats, on your family? 
CM: No, not really. I had—my wife had a call, during the trial, I believe it was. 
“Carrie, what’s your opinion about this court situation?” And she was shocked. She 
said, “My thoughts are reserved to you.” 
During the trial, I wore a suit every day. In the corridors of the courthouse, there 
was a white gentleman, and we happened to be meeting, and it happened more than one 
time. He was intending to put a shoulder into me. Of course I realized what he was 
doing, so when he got to the point he wanted to put the shoulder, I’d just slide away. I 
did it more than one time. 
At the end of that particular day, right where the city jail is now was pretty much 
parking, meters in front of it. My car was in the parking lot. When I went out of the 
courthouse, I saw a pickup truck, a guy standing outside talking to the one inside. I went 
and I got in my car. I came right by them. In that way, you had two lanes everywhere. I 
came right here at the corner of the post office, turned left on Pine, went to Main and 
turned right. Then I noticed the pickup following me. 
32 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
When I got down to Walnut Street—I think it’s Walnut. There used to be a traffic 
light just across the river over there. I hesitated until the green went off and caution, and 
I ran the caution. They ran the red light to follow me. When I got down to Katie—not 
Katie, Hall—I crossed and went over on Katie. I lived on Hall, but I lived on the east 
side. I took Katie and I went west. They followed me. All of a sudden, I just hit my 
brakes real quickly, pulled to the side, and except them noticing, they would have run 
over me. Well, I got off, and then when they passed me, I just followed them. And at a 
point, I stopped, and I turned around and came back, but they came back. They just 
[whoosh], 
I got one call at one time. Somebody asked me something about Dr. King, and 
made a derogatory remark, that “I hear that he”—what did he say? Excuse my French. “I 
hear that he sucks.” I said, “You probably know. He probably had you last night.” 
EC: [Laughs] 
CM: [Breathes heavily] End of conversation. 
EC: And you said your wife was quick. [Laughter] I guess you practiced on 
each other. 
CM: I learned from her. [Laughs] 
EC: She taught you how to talk back. Em not sure Eve asked you. Can you 
say what your wife’s name was? 
CM: Carrie. 
EC: Carrie? 
CM: Mm-hmm. C-A-R-R-I-E. Bradley Magee. 
EC: Carrie Bradley Magee? 
33 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
CM: Mm-hmm. 
EC: It seems like you two were well matched. 
CM: We have been. Now we’re getting to the point where we want to be left 
alone, now. [Laughter] After sixty years. 
EC : But you both retired? 
CM: We retired from paid jobs, but we never retired from working in the 
community, working for the NAACP, and in the church, missionary work and all that 
kind of stuff. We never retired from that. Matter of fact, we got more rest when we got 
paid for it. 
EC: I was going to say, that’s why you look so young. You’ve stayed active. 
When you mentioned Dr. Smith, and you just now mentioned Dr. King, we were talking 
to Mrs. Smith, and we heard the story about her sneaking Dr. King into town, but we 
[1:10:00] didn’t actually get her to tell that story on tape. Do you know about it? 
CM: I know about it, but I have to let somebody else tell it. Unfortunately, I 
didn’t stay for the meeting. He was late, and of course, at that time, I was working, I 
think in Waynesboro, and having to get up real early in the morning to drive there. I 
didn’t get a chance to stay, because I went home and got some rest so I could get up the 
next morning, and that’s when it happened. 
EC: Do you know the--because I don’t know it. Do you know the story of how 
she snuck him in? 
CM: I’ve heard the story, but I don’t know if I’ve heard it from her, so I’d 
better leave it where it is there. 
34 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
EC: Okay. Yeah, I’m sorry we didn’t get her to tell it. It’s what we should 
have done, right? 
CM: [Laughs] 
EC: What did you hope school desegregation would look like? What were you 
working for on the committee, trying to accomplish? 
CM: Better supplies. I think that was—. Better supplies. I don’t think I was 
expecting—. Because I felt that teachers were doing a pretty good job. It could be a 
better job if they had the equipment and supplies. We never had a full lab. I told you 
earlier, we were using books that were ten years old, some of them. Supplies, equipment. 
I was not necessarily thinking about—I want to say rubbing shoulders with other races and 
so forth. Just give us supplies. Let us go where—. Why did I have to leave Hattiesburg 
to get a graduate degree? To me, that was uncalled for. 
EC: That this university—well, it was a college then, but they had graduate 
programs right here in town, and you can’t go? 
CM: It didn’t make sense, still doesn’t make sense. The state would give you a 
little money to go to a school outside of the state. You’d have to come up with the rest of 
it. Fortunately, I had been in service, so I got my G.I. Bill to help me out in that. People 
of color didn’t do too bad with what they had. 
There has been some backlash. There has been some false notion as to what 
freedom means. There’s a lot of motivation that we did on our own that we’re not doing 
any now. I use the term “freedom ain’t free.” Never has been, never will be. Freedom 
you think you have can be lost if you do nothing, because freedom incurs a huge 
responsibility. You’ve got to get uncomfortable. 
35 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
I retired. Had I said, “Hey, I’ve got it made. I’ll sit in that chair that’s killing me 
right now,” I’d have been dead ten years ago. So, sure, you need to be active. You need 
to be doing something. And there’s enough blame to go around to everybody who put on 
a dress and everybody who put on pants, when it comes to the like of properly exercising 
your responsibility as free citizens. We just take voting, for example. When I didn’t 
have the card, I hungered, I thirst for it. I used my arm. I had to struggle for it, though. 
But now that thirty seconds or three minutes, you got it already in your hand, what is it? 
It isn’t going to count. 
EC: Does Mississippi actually give you a card, still? 
CM: I’ve got a card, yeah. 
EC: Is that a voter ID? Is that one of the new ones, or—? 
CM: No. Well, voter ID is something. I don’t know what they’re doing with 
that, [1:15:00] but they give you a voter registration card. 
EC: When you register, they give you a card? 
CM: Yeah, they mail it to you, mm-hmm, most times. I think—and I keep using 
the word “false notion of freedom”—has been the biggest disappointment that I see in it. 
If you don’t struggle for it, you really don’t have the same appreciation as people who’ve 
struggled have for it. 
As long as I could drive my daddy’s car, I couldn’t care anything about tires. I 
had to worry about the oil, though. Now, he taught me, pay attention to the oil and water 
in my car. Oil and water. Oil and water. Never said a thing about tires. Never said a 
thing about gas. [Laughs] 
EC: Right. He wanted to make sure you didn’t burn that engine up. [Laughs.] 
36 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
CM: Yeah, because if the tire blew out, you’re going to stop. If the gas goes, 
you’re going to stop. But it’ll keep running without water and oil until it burns up. It 
took me a long time to understand why he said that and didn’t say the other, but he was 
training. He was a trainer. 
EC: Did the NAACP try to recruit the first students who went to freedom of 
choice, or did families volunteer? 
CM: Sure, there was some recruitment, but I don’t think the—recruitment was 
not that difficult. Everybody was in the same boat. Everybody’s either hungry or thirsty 
for education, in the same boat. Education was the ticket for the way out. We live in a 
society today. Who has to cut wood? Who has to bring water in? Who has to take care 
of hogs, chickens, cows? Who has to worry about heat? Just flip a light switch, you’ve 
got it. Comfortable. All the things that we want, we can get. Now, mind. And this has 
no eyes. Poverty has no eyes. 
People who’ve not been, let’s say, somehow educated, either in the schools or the 
family, what have you, basically get what they want, or somebody else gives them what 
they need. Where’s the incentive to do better? Yet we’re free. 
I visited—and this is different. Part of my job, initially, with the federal 
government, was to visit stores, hold training for how you handle the food stamp 
authorizing, handle the food stamp, monitor the food stamp, and to visit state human 
resources from the administrative part to check on that, and that also took me into homes 
of people who got benefits and things like that. The first home I saw a cell phone in was 
people who were needing welfare and that kind of stuff. It took me a long time, a long 
37 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
time. And of course, that’s when they had these boxes in the car, in the boxes. When I 
finally got one, I was still in Mobile, and I never used it until I came over here. 
My wife was having to drive from Mobile to Utica to take care of her dad at the 
time, but when we came here, that cut out a hundred miles, but she still had the distance 
to go. So one morning I got up. I said, “Look, I got this little phone here. I never use it. 
Let me hook it up in your car, turn it on, test it by calling back in the house to see if 
works.” I tested it, and it worked. I said, “Now if you have a problem, all you have to do 
is pick it up and call home.” She left here, went up to 59 and 49. Got out of her car to 
gas up, put her purse down by the tank, drove off and left it. The attendant saw it, went 
out, picked it up, opened it up, found the address, and called me. I said, “Okay, I’ll come 
up and pick it up.” She was in Georgetown, Mississippi, sixty miles from here, when she 
discovered that she didn’t have it. She picked up the phone. First time we ever used it. 
[1:20:00] Called me and said, “I don’t have it.” I said, “Okay, I got it.” “What must I 
do? Come back?” I said, “You can get a ticket coming back, so why don’t you go to 
Momma? I’ll be up in a few days, and I’ll bring it to you.” It took me a long time, but 
this is a dragon. A lot of people losing jobs and everything because they don’t know how 
to handle this technology. That’s not part of what you asked for. I’m sorry. 
EC: [Laughs] 
Ml: We hear you. 
CM: I’m sorry. 
EC: Did your children participate in school desegregation? 
CM: No. We sent them to private kindergarten. They went to private 
kindergarten. And by the time they got into their public school, then of course—. My 
38 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
kids were in the tenth and eleventh grade, and one went to Hawkins. Yeah. The other 
went to Blair High, because she was a senior when we left here, going away. The nitty- 
gritty part of it, I say the hard part of it, they did not—. They were not exposed to it, you 
see. 
EC: Do you know what the experience was like for the children that were the 
first ones? 
CM: Only what I hear. And we’ve heard that just recently. We had a fifty-year 
celebration of the first students who went into the elementary schools, who came, who 
told their stories. Last—yeah, this month just past. 
EC: Did any of the black teachers in Hattiesburg, did any of them lose their 
jobs when they unified the district? 
CM: None that I know of lost their job. Hattiesburg was a unique situation. Dr. 
Burger, Richard—Principal Burger. I don’t know if he had his doctorate or not. He 
would say he did not get involved much, but he was in the politics. Where the county 
schoolteachers were dismissed if it was known that they were a member of the NAACP, 
the city’s teachers were not. He was sort of like a buffer between his teachers and people 
who would do them harm. 
There was something that had happened recently during that time. Oh, yeah. The 
year I was at Rowan, the students walked out of school and marched from Rowan to over 
on Mobile Street. That was [19]69, of course. I went with them. I think a couple other 
teachers went with, but not everybody. We went as monitors to be sure that they did not 
agitate the policemen and things like that, that would cause them to react in a negative 
kind of way. For the graduation that they, for some reason—. I served as one of the 
39 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
sponsors for the graduation that year. Mr. Burger invited myself to walk with him and 
Mr. Spinks from the school building across over to the football stadium, where we held 
the graduation that night. He knew my involvement. Other people knew my 
involvement. I guess that one of the reasons I accepted an offer to do something other 
than teacher is because of the extent of my involvement. I realized—. Of course, the 
other offer paid me twice as much, now. 
EC: That’s not bad. 
CM: No, it’s not bad. It caused me to realize that if Dr. Spinks, at the end of 
the school term, says, “Magee, I don’t have anything for you to do,” I’m out, but I wasn’t 
making anything in the first place. Other job, I had the same opportunity to the same 
thing, but at least I made something, so I took a chance on doing that. 
EC: Because the teachers didn’t have any tenure. 
CM: No. If he decided he didn’t need you, and especially if you’d been 
involved. And of course, from that standpoint, I don’t—we didn’t suffer the wrath as 
some of the counties did, because of what we were doing. I knew we were crazy. There’s 
one other thing that happened during this period, in 1962,1 believe it was. Because of 
my activity, my wife and I were subpoenaed, along with one other black man, T.F. 
Bourne, to go to Aberdeen, Mississippi, to be witnesses that Clyde Kennard was still 
alive. He was in Parchman at the time. And I never shall forget it. We left here on the—I 
think it was late December, the twenty-first. [1:25:00] I don’t think it was [19]62. Very 
cold. Theron Lynd was subpoenaed. I don’t know. About three other—two other whites 
were subpoenaed, because they passed us on our way up. We got to Aberdeen. We went 
into the courthouse, and we sat, and they brought Clyde Kennard in from the side door 
40 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
near the chamber. We waved at him. He waved at us. Just to be witness. Now, my wife 
and I questioned that, because we’re teachers. Two teachers. We could see if one of us 
had been subpoenaed, and somebody wanted to take retribution against us, then the other 
would have a job, but both? We went, not knowing what would happen. 
EC: Do you know— 
CM: I know who subpoenaed me. Yeah. R. Jess Brown. Attorney R. Jess 
Brown did it. There were only two black attorneys that I knew of in the state, Jack 
Young and R. Jess Brown. 
EC: Who was the—. I don’t understand the purpose. 
CM: Well, the government had ordered them, with a writ of habeas corpus, had 
ordered them to prove, show that he was still alive. 
EC: I see, because of the—. 
CM: Yeah, condition that he was in. 
EC: It was part of the effort to try to get him out. 
CM: Yeah. 
EC: What did he look like at that time? 
CM: He was real dark. Now I know that he was on chemo or something, but I 
mean, truly, real, real dark complexion. 
EC: Did he look ill? 
CM: Well, from a distance, we only just waved to him, and that’s it, so—. That 
was it. We’d done our job, and now we’d come back to the city. 
EC: Did you know him before he was arrested? 
41 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
CM: I didn’t. I didn’t. I knew everything that he was involved in, but I had not 
personally met him. 
EC: Did you know R. Jess Brown? Did you know him separate from this? 
CM: Mm-hmm. I knew him from trials he and Jack Young had held here. 
EC: So they knew you because of the voter registration cases, perhaps? 
CM: I’m sure. I’m sure. I’m sure that’s it. 
EC: I never knew about that. I’d never heard about that, you know, going to 
witness that he was still living. Did you know Mr. Dahmer? 
CM: I knew Mr. Dahmer, but I knew him primarily through his sons. Two of 
his sons were classmates with me at Alcorn, Vernon Jr. and Martin S. We called him 
“Little Dahmer.” We called Vernon “Junior.” Bo, that’s what they called them. Martin 
S. we called “Little Dahmer.” Sure, I remember them quite vividly before, while I was in 
school. Then when I came here, of course, they were in service, because they left school 
and volunteered for the service, and I stayed and finished my time out. 
I didn’t have the connection with him personally that others had, but one 
experience after he expired, and there’s nobody else to verify this except for me. Several 
of us volunteered to just go up that way, park beside the highway, and just observe. Mr. 
Charles Phillip and myself drove up there together one night, shortly after they burned his 
house, and stood watch. 
EC: Can you describe the community’s reaction when they burned his house? 
CM: A lot of sadness, of course. A lot of sadness. That was very close to 
home. There were groups—. A group. They called them “The Deacons”—not too many 
42 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
people knew who they were—who were like watchmen, who kept watch for anything 
that’s funny that’s going on. The only other thing that happened to me—. 
EC: Did the Deacons organize here after he was killed? 
CM: I think it was after he was killed. 
EC: I think so, too. 
CM: The only other thing that happened to me that would claim my attention 
right now. Somebody sprayed chemical on my lawn in the form of a cross. 
EC: Was that during this time? Do you know who did it? 
CM: No. 
EC: Did that worry you? [1:30:00] 
CM: Not a whole lot, but I let my wife and babies sleep in the back room. I 
slept in the front room with a rifle. 
EC: Did anybody else come help you keep watch, or did you just take care of 
it? 
CM: I just took care of it myself. 
EC: Were you here when they had the trials, the first trials, when they actually 
convicted a couple of the men? 
CM: I was here for the first trials. One of the guys who was given some time 
was pardoned by Governor Waller, I believe. 
EC : I think that’s right. 
CM: I wrote a letter to him, how terrible it was to pardon a man. I sent the 
letter to the editor. I sent him a copy, and I sent it to the editor. They did print it in the 
43 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
paper. I was here when the last man was sentenced. I went to his trial. I’d heard all of 
that, see. 
EC: Did you ever get a response from the governor? 
CM: No, no. 
EC: Nothing? 
CM: I didn’t get a—. As a matter of fact, Em not surprised about that. But it 
was in the mail, it was in the news. 
EC: Were you surprised that they were able to get the conviction in the late 
[19]60s? 
CM: Not really. I guess you’d say yes and no. As they began to get others, 
then I figured at some point that everybody would be held accountable for the misdeeds 
they had done. 
EC: Did the conviction of—now I’m blanking on his name—Sam Bowers. 
CM: Sam Bowers? 
EC: Yeah. How did it—do you have a sense of, did that impact the community 
when he was finally convicted? 
CM: I don’t know if there was a relief or not. It had been so long from the time 
of the crime to the time they convicted him. I was at that trial. They were—. Outside 
their immediate family, the younger people would not have had that much emotional 
attachment to it as the older people would have had to it at that time. 
EC: What are some of the things that you would like people to know about the 
civil rights movement? 
44 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
CM: The courage. The legacy that we have the courage to keep on keeping on 
in spite of the odds. To not let their opportunity of making things better pass them by. 
We have a lot of legacy, a lot of people who invested in what we now call freedom, and if 
we don’t continue to invest in it, then what will our future generation have to inspire 
them to keep going? 
I feel like for the young people today to hear it, is sort of like a fairy tale. That 
couldn’t happen if—I was bom since then. I’ve gone to school anywhere I wanted to go, 
lived basically where I wanted to live. That couldn’t have happened, but it did happen. 
We miss telling the stories because it’s not in the “history books.” It was not in history 
books then, but we were history. People before us were history. My grandparents were 
history. 
And of course, the older the grandparents get today, the less they get a chance to 
pass on to succeeding generations, because we warehouse them for convenience. If we 
work, we need to put them in the resting home, or if they’re real, real sick, we just need 
to put them there. But when we came on, there was no rest home, no nursing home. We 
had an extended family, so we benefited from each other’s experience. We were there to 
encourage each other, that there is a better way. 
Many times I will say to people, “Three words will solve all the ills that are in this 
country. The first word is education. The second word is education. And by now you 
know the third word is—education.” [1:35:00] There are a lot of smart people, but a lot of 
them not educated. 
45 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
EC: You’ve spoken to this a little bit, and I think you just did, but you’re a 
leader of the NAACP still today, so what is it that you think are the most significant 
issues that need to be addressed? I feel like I’m asking you the same question now, right? 
CM: At the top of the list—. 
EC: What is it? 
CM: [Laughter] Education. [Laughter] Education, and what we’re work—. 
Education, jobs, which would include employment. Education, jobs—. And the freedom 
to exercise whatever gifts and talents that you have without regards to your skin color. 
We need to do some more with our community policing. We’re working on the 
community policing. There is not a friendly dialogue between the police and the 
community. Police come from the same community, many of them, that they police, but 
there still is a breakdown in communication. So communication is very important. 
People need to be heard. People want to be heard. We had an experience back here that 
we resolved, but it’s not satisfactory. 
When the city council took away the citizen forum for ninety days, ended up 
keeping it for fifteen months. All kinds of suggestions to go back to it. They only went 
back when we took them to court. That was unnecessary. 
We shut it down because people who have a problem communicating sometimes 
get very emotional, and they’ve got to get through their emotion before you can hear 
what they’re trying to say. A lot of people come to me with problems. They don’t know 
how to explain the problem, but I have a listening ear. I know how to ask the right 
question so that you can get it out, and sometimes that’s all they need, is to know that 
somebody heard them. Then, now, we can work on a solution. But if you don’t hear me, 
46 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
you’ve got the baby’s mentality. A baby can’t talk. The only way they communicate is 
crying. And if you’re smart enough, you figure out whether it’s because I’m cold, 
because I’m wet, because I’m hungry, or because I’ve got some kind of pain. If you can 
figure it out, you can communicate, but if you never figure it out, when the baby can’t get 
attention, it starts striking, fighting. Some of us become adults never being able to 
communicate. 
EC: You were telling me before we got cut off about the group of black men 
that you worked with on housing. 
CM: Yeah, the Hattiesburg Association for Civic Improvement. One of the 
members had gone to, I want to say Dallas, Texas, and he saw a similar project. He and 
his wife came back and sold the idea to us, and we made an application with HUD, and 
that bill, that plan, cost us $121 million to put up. We only put up like $3,000 to get it 
started, and that kind of stuff. Nobody earned any. Nobody got any money from it. 
Only people who were privileged to work there got paid, and I never worked there. 
EC: So in some ways, it was an investment, but it was also an effort to provide 
housing and services? 
CM: It was investment, not for individual profit—. 
EC: But for the community. 
CM: But for the community, to help people to advance. Now, all of the others 
were put up by private owners for investment. Eventually we had to get rid of it, because 
Katrina didn’t help us out, the insurance didn’t pay all the damage then, and then long¬ 
term residents, when they moved out, there was so much renovation needed to be done, 
we had to drain our reserve. We were not making inspection, so we had to get rid of it. 
47 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
But the other thing that came out of that is that the first community action agency here 
was started by this one group. We sent two people—. 
EC: This was part of the War on Poverty? 
CM: No. 
EC: Community action? 
CM: Community action agency. 
EC: Okay. 
CM: For Head Start. 
EC: Oh, okay. 
CM: HeadStart. Head Start, yeah. We sent two people to Atlanta to find out 
[1:40:00] what it was about, and they came back, and we formed a biracial committee, 
and put the application in to learn that Judge Pittman, who was Senator Pittman at that 
time, had put one together. It had to be biracial. We took it to Washington, ready to 
walk it through, so when they start contacting those who they say they had on it, they 
knew nothing about it. 
EC: [Laughs] They just put people’s names on it? 
CM: Yeah. So they came back here and said, “You all tear yours up. Sign onto 
ours, and we’ll walk it through.” And we said, “No, no.” 
EC: They didn’t know who they were talking to. 
CM: We are responsible for getting the Forrest-Stone Community Action 
Agency. Just recently it was known for what pays Head Start, and because they had 
some problems down there, they’re under new management now, but that’s a part of what 
came out of the Freedom Summer and the Civil Rights Movement, trying to—. You 
48 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
know, these are our markers that, yeah, we progressed. The school is the other—. The 
schools are still struggling, but we know these happen. So we—. At my age, Tm still 
trying to get a community-wide unity, police-community kind of thing. That’s in the 
process. But we’re supposed to be talking about history. I know that, but—. 
EC: Well, no, we’re actually—we’re interested in the continuities. We’re 
interested in legacies. 
CM: So we’re still trying to build a community relationship. White, black, 
ministers, clergy, judges, policemen, presidents of the universities, and we think we’re 
making a good start with it. 
EC: So that was—. You know, we’re here in the McCain Library today, and 
President McCain was here, was part of keeping Southern segregation. What kind of 
changes have you seen with the universities? 
CM: A tremendous change with the, you know, the population, the 
demographics of the population, is just tremendous. Of course, you’ve got an African- 
American president, and we’ve got that closeness. I had close contact before he came 
here, but it grew out of other things. President—who was just before him? It was a lady, 
and I didn’t have that much contact with her. I maybe had only one meeting with her. 
But before him, [Shelby F.] Thames. 
EC: Okay, yeah, I remember that name. 
CM: I had some relationship here that grew out of a football game between 
Jackson State and USM, where there was some altercation between some people. We 
brought that to his attention. We had a lot of back-and-forth involvement there. And of 
course, since that time, now I still have a good relationship with Dr. Eddie Holloway and 
49 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
other persons that are here. I get calls from all over. A couple incidents that stand out in 
my mind. 
One has to do with a student from Kansas City, Kansas. He was on the basketball 
team, a good player. He and his roommate got into an altercation. He got his jaw 
broken. The coach didn’t report it, and when he reported—. And he and the doctor 
agreed that one thing happened, but the film shows something else happened. The 
mother came down intending to take her son out of this school. He was a good player. 
He initially agreed, but then he said, “Mom, the basketball team is going to be good this 
year, so I’m going to stay and play,” but, now, daddy didn’t have that same spirit, so they 
had to deal with him. 
The other had to do with a family from Illinois who had a daughter down here, 
who had a roommate of a different race. They had some problems, so I was called in on 
that, and got that resolved. I think we are making a difference. There is a difference on 
the campus. 
EC: Does it feel like it belongs to the community more? 
CM: The campus makes a special effort to reach out to the community, 
celebrating Freedom Summer, celebrating other things like that, and trying to get the 
community involved. The community is reaching out to them, so I do see some progress. 
We are in a unique situation, that we have not had a Ferguson here, and that’s one of the 
reasons why the late [1:45:00] effort was done, starting from the NAACP, that we want 
to spare this city from a Ferguson. 
That was a tragedy. It was just the flip-flop of what we were trying to prevent. 
And no tragedy is good, but the thing that kept us focused there, that it was a black 
50 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
officer and a white officer, so we couldn’t do finger pointing. The only thing we can get 
here is try to bring people together, because both shed blood in the same soil, and the 
blood happened to be red. It just happened to be one officer of color and the other white. 
That’s one—. That’s what I call being proactive. 
I live in the community. I live in a neighborhood. I know a lot of people. A lot 
of people know me. There’s still a lot of problems, a lot craziness, people getting killed, 
people getting robbed and all that kind of stuff, but it’s not going to go away by itself. 
The community has a big stake in it, to say whether it continues or discontinues. So 
that’s one way to thresh this. 
EC: So are there other—? You’ve talked about a number of the legacies and a 
number of the things that you’re still working on. Are there other things that are 
important for people to know about either the struggle or the work that you’ve done 
since? 
CM: Well, this—what I’m going to state now—it does not leave me with a 
bitterness, but I had a great-uncle who was lynched here on Richburg Road, like in 1929. 
My great-uncle was lynched. 
EC : What’s the name of the road? 
CM: Huh? 
EC: I don’t know the area that well. What was the name of the road? 
CM: Richburg Road. 
EC: Richburg Road. So is that right here, in this—? 
CM: No, that’s going out toward—you know where the Pine Belt complex is 
down here, off of Broad Street? If I went down 49 and turned just as I passed Walmart 
51 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
going back in that direction, which is Old Highway 11. Turn off of there onto Richburg 
Road, back in that way. And no one was ever brought to trial. 
EC: Did you know about that as a young man, or as a child? 
CM: Not as a child, I didn’t know that. It was after I moved here to this area 
here that I learned about—that my family had spent part of—. 
EC: How did you learn about it? 
CM: Em trying to remember. How did I first learn about it? I don’t know if 
somebody approached me and informed me about it, and then of course there’s 
newspaper clippings and all that kind of stuff. 
EC: So you researched it? 
CM: Yeah, I did. 
EC : Do you know who was involved in it? 
CM: Nobody. Well, there’s some ideas of who were involved, but nobody was 
ever brought to court. 
EC: Has there been any effort in this area to deal with lynchings, to 
acknowledge or try to do any kind of—? 
CM: I talked to one person who was going into some deep research on it, and I 
don’t know—and I do have some notes on it, but I can’t put it together right now. 
EC: Because I know a few communities—not many—are trying to do this 
restorative justice, you know? That must have—what was it like to find out that your 
family member had been lynched? 
52 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0113 
Clarence Magee 
CM: It’s like, “It was them. It could have been me.” I’ve been in places where 
there’s no protection, out in the open, boondocks, you see the space. You don’t know 
what kind of reaction you’re going to get. You just never know. 
EC: Yeah. 
CM: You just never know who’s going to do something crazy. 
EC: Yeah. Did you find out about that—has that been recently, or was that 
when you moved to the area? 
CM: No, this—. I’ve known about this now ten, fifteen years or more. 
EC: Yeah, yeah. Do you have any other thoughts you want to share? 
CM: I can’t think of any other right now. 
EC: Well, we really appreciate you coming in [1:50:00] and sharing your 
experiences and thoughts with us. 
CM: Weh, I am honored to be alive, that I can still talk about it. [Laughs] 
EC: Yeah, and not just alive, right? Still working, still contributing. 
CM: Oh my. 
Female 1 : This has been a presentation of the Library of Congress and the 
Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture. 
END OF RECORDING 
Transcribed by Audio Transcription Center, March 22, 2017 
53