1 
 
February 26, 2013 
Home of Andrew Gilbert, Parishville, NY 
Project: Archie Green Fellowship: Dairy Farm Workers in Northern NY 
Interviewer: Varick Chittenden (VC) 
Interviewees: Andrew (Andy) Gilbert (AG) 
Transcribed by:  Mimi Rooney 
(0:00:00) 
VC: This is the 26th of February, and we are sitting in the office of Adon Farms in Potsdam, Parishville 
Road, Route 72. I am talking with Andy Gilbert and he is part of the family operation. Could you give a 
thumbnail personal history and then we will talk about the farm itself. 
AG: I am 54 year old; I grew up on this farm on the brick house right here. I went to school in Parishville, 
at Hopkins Central School. I wanted to get away from the farm for awhile, I had never done anything 
else, we were my father’s principal help and so I went to Clarkson University as a pure Chemistry major. 
I did that for about a year and a half and decided that I liked farming more than I thought; just never had 
being away from it all because we worked vacations and holidays. Like most kids that grew up on dairy 
farms that time, we all did the same things. We’d get a week off in the summer for 4-H camp. Then I 
graduated from Cornell in 1980, came home to the farm directly. 
VC: Cornell was for agriculture? 
AG: My degree is actually a B.S. in Agriculture, but it is Economics and Finance. Since then I have been a 
full time farmer. I did participate in the LEAD program which is a two year post-graduate agricultural 
educational institute run by Cornell and the New York Agricultural Society.  It’s centered on developing 
leadership skills and understanding the political system. I also got involved as a director of a number of 
agricultural companies; Agway, and Director of Farm Credit East; I am on the board right now. I have had 
a number of educational things related to those; a MBA upgrade degree, which they call a part time 
MBA degree from Syracuse University, I have been through the Penn State Director’s School, and I am 
currently, by the time we get done Friday night I will have, outside my Corporate Director’s Certification, 
it’s training that Farm Credit puts on. So I’ve got one more module after that training, so I will be a 
certified corporate director for any kind of corporation and a number other of training of being a coop 
director over the years. I have also run a large pension fund for a short period of time, of about a half 
billion dollars of assets and have been on a trust committee of a smaller pensions funds for 6 years. I’ve 
also been on the board of the trade association for Washington D.C. also for 6 years, representing Co 
Bank. So my wife and I have 4 children. They are all currently in college, various levels of degrees. One of 
them is going to Law School in the fall, the other one is looking at doing his doctorate and has been 
accepted at SUNY Buffalo and Dartmouth, and he’s interviewed there for the Doctorate Program in 
Biology. And I have a math and physics major, the two undergrads. I’m a big believer in education and 
2 
 
that’s why I like doing the director trainings. I’ve farmed my whole life with my parents, my mother still 
does book work, and I’m in partnership with my brother, and my nephew graduated from Cornell and he 
is working with us, which is great. 
(0:04:09) 
VC: So this is where you grew up and your father had a farm here? 
AG: My grandfather bought this farm in 1929. The farm house, the brick farmhouse was in existence 
prior to records dating its existence. It was one of the first houses built in the area, so it would have 
been in the very early 1800s, right around 1800, 2, 3, 4. The earliest deeds that lay this place out 
mention the house being here, so it was here pre-dating when they broke the actual land. They got it 
from the King of England a long time ago and it was in big blocks. When they broke it up to Parish, along 
with Gary Snell’s house, right up the road here, the buildings look quite similar. That is the farm my 
grandfather bought in 1929. 
(0:05:22) 
VC: His name was? 
AG: George. George Gilbert bought it in 1929. My grandmother Elizabeth, they ran the farm until 
approximately 1948 and my father took it over and he ran it and worked with us until he passed away. 
We changed it into a partnership then. 
(0:05:46) 
VC: When you were growing up, how many acres would it have been? 
AG: We had maybe 4 or 500. My parents bought the farm next door, which a family named Planty 
owned; we called it the Planty Place. Then we bought the Taylor Farm, where my house is now. Then we 
bought Harold Kelly’s which is down on the sharp bend on 72. My parents had bought those and we 
rented some of the land we still rent a few fields now. Since then my brother and I’ve added either land 
we own or rent. 
(0:06:26) 
VC: So the 4 or 5 hundred acres that you had when you were young, would have been pretty large even 
in that day? 
AG: It was large a lot of the land we currently crop that is in that was pasture, which we since put tile 
drain in and we crop it; grow crop or grow hay or alfalfa. We had about 200 acres of tillable land, about 
100 in corn and a 100 in hay at the time, and then the rest of it was pasture. 
(0:05:59) 
VC: A lot of the small farms had wood lots and maple sugaring. 
3 
 
AG: We had that. We had on this farm a small sugar bush. A small bunch of woods, maybe 40 or 50 
trees, and my father had pastured it, so no small trees had grew up. A lot of these other farms that we 
bought or we rent have maple trees on them still. We have people that we just let tap the trees. Very 
little of it has been cleared, but not the maple parts of the woods. We cleared what we called the sugar 
woods, but there were maybe 20 or 30 trees at that time. It was right here behind this current facility. 
Several of the other places still have woods on them. 
(0:07:54) 
VC: You told me this before, but between owning and renting, you have how many different farms? 
AG: We have almost 40, but it depends how far back you go on the ownership. For example, we have 
what we call the Ashton Farm. Bob and Delmar Ashton were brothers that ran, neither one was married, 
so it’s their nephew that owns that now. That farm was originally, when Bob and Delmar had it, we 
called it one farm, but actually they had 3 different places there. They had the farm where the barn was, 
they had Herby Champney’s, and he passed away quite a while ago. There’re actually three farms that 
made up the Ashton place. So it depends on how far back you want to go. From what we knew as farms, 
there were 35, but if you go back to what my father would have known as farms, there would have been 
more, a lot more. Ashton’s Farm for example, there is only maybe 100 tillable acres there, which was  
decent size farm in the 60’s or 70’s, but it was three smaller farms way back. There are only two dairy 
farms left in the town of Parishville, and the other one is a smaller farm, they milk around 35 cows, and 
then there is ours. Even when I was going to high school there were several dairies. Even in Hopkinton, 
there is only a few of us left. 
(0:09:36) 
VC: So you now have farms in the town of Parishville, the town of Hopkinton, and Potsdam. 
AG: We have farms in Parishville that we own or rent, we also have a farm in Hopkinton I think 
Stockholm and Potsdam. There is land I think, it maybe the town of Colton, I am not sure where the line 
is. There is not much land in the town of Colton that is farm land anymore. We have all the land on the 
northern edge of the Adirondacks on this stretch of 72 that we farm. There is maybe a field here or 
there that somebody owns, but that is about it. 
(0:10:26) 
VC: So the total acreage of what you have? 
AG: We don’t exactly know, but we basically had 1500 acres of corn last year and 3000 acres of different 
hay crops own and rented. We own well over 2000 acres, some of that is woodland, some of it is the 
farmstead, some of its swamp. 
(0:10:56) 
VC: Do you pasture any of your animals? 
4 
 
AG: My mother does all the mowing. We have a few sheep and we have to put fences around all of the 
manure pits so when people see them they don’t run into them on snow mobiles. So we fence around 
all of the manure pits. We just share them for their comfort; we don’t use the wool, we don’t eat them, 
we just keep them, and they look nice, and they keep the pasture all clear. We have 15 acres across the 
road if we get some cows that are dry a long time, in the summer we put them over there. The land 
across the road is very stony; there is a pond there, so it is not for crop, at least not now. 
(0:11:54) 
VC: When in the history of the farm did you start to grow big? 
AG: When we came home, the old barn we had held about 70 or 80 cows. We had a small barn at my 
house for some heifers, we kept heifers outdoors, and we just decided at that time if we were going to 
stay in this, we had to modernize, go to free stalls, and get larger. One of the things they told us at 
Cornell back at that point was that farms keep getting bigger; it’s just a natural trend that keeps on 
happening. Technology is expensive, and in order to take advantage of new technology and to get 
machinery that takes advantage, your size has to grow. So we have been on a steady path of doing that 
since then. We started out with an 80 cow free stall barn, and then we added a wing on that to go to 
150, and that then we added a wing on that to go to 220, then in 2002, we built this barn parlor to go to 
700. We went from around 250 to 700 in one jump. We grew almost 3 times in one jump which is 
difficult, it’s tough to do. Your equity goes really low, and everything kind of has to work for you because 
you don’t have a lot of cushion because it is such a big jump in size. Then we were able to buy a parlor 
like the one we had from a farm going out of business. We added on to the parlor we had. We built this 
original parlor so we could make it a double 20. So we bought this other parlor from a farm going out of 
business just like ours, we added on the extra 10 and built another barn for 400 cows. Then we built the 
dry cow barn before that because we needed a dry cow room. The farm next door went out of business 
and we bought that for heifers. We have our heifers up there. So we have just done it in steps. It has 
taken us 33 years. It has taken us a long time to do that. For instance, we are buying a self propelled 
mixer wagon. It will be here Friday, but it is very high tech. The engine runs at 1650 RPMs all the time, 
and depending on what you’re doing, whether you are facing feed or loading it, it proportions it so you 
get that optimal speed for fuel efficiency. It will put my hydraulics to the defacer if you are using that, 
and it slows down the mixing, it takes less power there rather than revving the engine up. 
(0:15:11) 
VC: This is for mixing feed? 
AG: Yeah. Instead of having a pay loader and a mixer wagon and defacer, it’s all one machine. The 
machine itself it 390 thousand dollars, so you can’t afford it if you are not bigger, but it is going to save 
us fuel, it’s going to save us labor, time mixing and it is going to save us speed because it automatically 
loads itself. The computer, if you are loading 600 pounds of corn, when it gets down to 550, it slows 
down the loading conveyor and stops at 600, reverses the conveyor and puts the rest back in the 
building. Since it is loading itself, you are not shaking it over a pay loader bucket where the wind can 
blow it around. You are not driving back and forth to load it; you are going right to the silage pile, so you 
5 
 
don’t have the silage dropping of the bucket wasting it. It is a lot of money, but we believe it will save us 
money. 
(0:16:06) 
VC: This machine would take how many men to operate it? 
AG: One. 
VC: It is doing the work of how many? 
AG: We have one guy feeding now but it takes him 10 or 12 hours a day. We’re going to cut the loads we 
feed in half. We’re going to save time each load because you are not parking the mixer and  driving pay  
loader all the way back and forth, so we believe it will save us time and do a good job mixing. 
(0:16:30) 
VC: Will this machine require special training for this man? 
AG: They will have to figure out how to run it. Even when our nutritionist makes changes in the diet, we 
will put it in the program called Feed Lodge; it automatically loads it into the computer in the machine, 
so as he does batches it is automatically in the machine how much he needs. So he is watching the 
screen on the thing, and he knows how much to load, so it automatically changes the diets whenever we 
make changes. It is over 30 feet long, so he has to be a confident operator to operate it. If you run into 
buildings or whatever, you can’t do that. It takes a good operator to run something like that. That is the 
one issue with technology we’ve found, is you get these machines that are bigger and harder to operate, 
you need good operators. You don’t have as much room for people with less skill. It is something you 
read about in the paper; as technology moves forward, you need people with good skills to do things. 
(0:17:52) 
VC: Did you have hired help growing up on the farm, or was it just your family? 
AG: Most of the time we had all the family, but maybe one person. Sometimes we milked 80 or 90 cows 
and back then it was a lot more hand labor. We had a time when we had a small silo, and didn’t have a 
silo loader. We would throw down the silo and we wheeled them with a wheel barrow to feed cows. A 
lot of dry hay so you were haying a lot of small square bales in the summer. We still bale a few, so we 
still have some for bedding, calves, but maybe a couple thousand bales. We don’t feed it generally; it’s 
just a little bit to get them to come in the lock ups. So we did a lot more hand labor and the milking went 
slower, so you had a lot more labor per cow. Basically my father had one person and that was it. 
VC: He didn’t live on the farm? 
AG: Sometimes, like when we owned Kelly’s place, we burned those houses because by the time we got 
control of them they were in pretty bad shape, but sometimes, like where my brother lives, when we 
had a guy working for us, he would live there. Basically just one person at a time. 
6 
 
(0:19:30) 
VC: What is your brother’s role, and does he have a college background in agriculture? 
AG: He went to Cornell, graduated in 1983, graduated a semester early actually, came home. He does all 
the cropping; we crop a lot of acres. This would be a pretty good size crop farm if we were a crop farm 
on its own. He does the cropping, the machinery repair, we also have a gravel business we own with my 
cousin Donald Snyder. He runs that and provides our free stall sand and a number of other farms along 
with aggregate, crushed stone, and gravel, and he does all that. Spreading manure alone on an 
operation like this takes a lot of work. 
 
(0:20:26) 
VC: So he doesn’t deal much with the animals? 
AG: No, because I don’t get out of the barn, you just can’t do both. What happens is, that’s the nice 
thing about bigger farms, you can specialize, and everybody can pay more attention to their area. If you 
try to do everything, things get by you. If one person managed this operation, it would be just about 
impossible, there is just too much to do. My sister-in-law does the books for the pit, there is sales tax 
involved with that and a lot of other stuff. My mother does a lot of the book work for the farm, there is a 
lot of that, if you were just one person, you’d go nuts. You have to have people working for you 
managing different areas. 
(0:21:20) 
VC: How many employees do you have now? 
AG: We have 28 to 30. Some of them are part-time, a couple kids that go to college; do work, 9, 10 
hours a week. We have part time people that drive milk truck for us. We have people that don’t work all 
winter, that drive manure truck and dump truck for us in the summer, help us mow hay and all that. 
That is what we basically have for a work force, plus we haul our own milk. There are a couple of guys 
that just haul milk. Our milk goes to Great Lakes and Adams most of the time it is sold through dairy lea 
and it is a fair ways down to Adams, so one of the guys comes, loads the trucks, drives it down there, 
unloads it, and washes the tank. It is a pretty good shift, 7 hours just to take a load in. We are shipping 2 
loads one day and one load the next. It is a full time job for one guy and a good part –time job for 
another just to haul milk. 
(0:22:21) 
VC: The capacity of those trucks? 
AG: 70 thousand pounds.   
VC: You’re shipping? 
7 
 
AG: Around 90 thousand a day. A little bit over right now, 92 or 93, we are shipping a load every 18 
hours right now. 
(0:23:22) 
VC: The number of cattle you have and the specialized areas, too? 
AG: We are milking a little under 1100 cows right now. We have about 100 dry cows. We have 80 calves 
on milk and approximately another 150 that you would consider smaller calves that are getting a pretty 
good high grain diet. We will have 350 pregnant heifers at any one time. So we have about 8, 900 heifers 
all together. All told, we have 2150 animals. The other thing that might be interesting is we use sand for 
bedding and we use 15 to 20 tandem loads of sand a week. They like the sand, it gives them good 
traction. Cows don’t really lie down too slow. When they get to a certain point they fall. So it really helps 
to have the sand because it is soft. It is also inorganic, so it doesn’t grow bacteria, so it helps with udder 
health and mastitis, plus it gives them very good footing when they go to get up; they’re big and it’s 
more like being outdoors in the dirt. 
(0:24:56) 
VC: This all comes from your own pit? 
AG: Yes. We screen the sand to get the rocks out of it because the rocks don’t do well in the barn. That 
works very well, and we have the gravel for driveways and we sell to other people. 
(0:25:23) 
VC: Holsteins, any other breeds that you have? 
AG: We breed all artificially, so we breed proven sires, which are all Holsteins. When we were 
expanding, we had to buy cattle for it. We had one Brown Swiss, one time we had a few Gurneys, some 
red and white Holsteins, which are very nice. We’ve had a lot of Jersey crosses because a lot of dairy 
farmers use a Jersey bull on heifers because the cows are small, so there is less difficult calving when 
they first calf. We have a lot of Jersey crosses, and you will still see a lot of cows around here that look 
like a Jersey because probably a couple of generations back they had a Jersey parent; it depends on how 
the genetics works, some of them look more like Jerseys than others, but basically all Holsteins. 
(0:26:22) 
VC: Holsteins have larger milk production? 
AG: A larger quantity of milk, they don’t test as well. A good testing Holstein, a real good one would be 
3.9 or 4 % butterfat and 3.2 protein. A Jersey may test 5% and be 3.5 or 3.6 protein. But the Holsteins 
give more and are bigger so you have to size your facility; it’s hard to mix purebred Jerseys and purebred 
Holsteins in the same facility. The biggest cow we ever sold, we sold a couple of weeks ago, she weighed 
2184 pounds. A big Jersey would weigh 12 or 1400. There is a huge difference so you can’t have the 
stalls the same size. Even in the parlor it doesn’t work well. Some people do, but it is just really hard. I 
8 
 
Holsteins tend to run bigger, our cows tend to be bigger than the average Holsteins. We milk 3 times a 
day. 
VC: So its 24 hours a day. 
AG: Its 24 hours a day. We wash between each milking; a lot of hot water and soap to keep everything 
nice and clean. ON the farm we have 5 wells; it takes a lot of water to run this place. We are lucky there; 
we are in a good spot with a very good water supply. The heifer barn we bought up the road, it is a good 
barn for heifers, it is a great location, but there is an issue with water. There are 3 wells up there. One of 
them we don’t even use, it only produces 2 or 3 gallons a minute and its 200 feet deep. When we first 
moved up there we had a fault break and we ran the other wells dry because we just don’t have that 
much water. The cows make a lot of manure so it takes a lot to spread the manure. We move it all over 
with tanker trucks, so we get the nutrients spread out all over the land. 
(0:28:36) 
VC: So you spread the manure all over your land? 
AG: Oh yeah. We are a CAFO, which is a Concentrated Animal Feeding Operation, so we have a manure 
management plan for all those acres. Then we take the tractor trailers and move the liquid manure 
whenever we need to, depending on what we are going to put on for a crop, or what the soil tested for 
the land. We will start in another month or so and have 3 tractor trailers on the road, 6 days a week just 
hauling manure and spreading it getting ready to plant corn in the spring. 
(0:29:16) 
VC: Let’s talk about your workforce, you hire mostly local men? 
AG: All local people. Everybody thinks about it differently, a lot of farms have Hispanic workers, they are 
great workers, but unfortunately we all know about the issues with the legality. I grew up here; my kids 
go to school with a number of the people that works for me have been in high school with my kids. They 
are good guys, they work hard, and this is hard work. We have a number of guys that have been with us 
quite awhile that have had farms of their own that are very good because they like working on a farm. It 
works out well for us, it has. You always have turn over in this kind of a job. Some people get bored with 
it or think they can do better. We have had issues like that, but have a pretty good group of people. You 
talk to people that are running other business and you always have issues on how labor works; getting 
everyone to work on time and all of that. We have a lot of number of people that work for us in the 
summer that retired from other jobs and they come back and work for us or they work driving truck; it 
makes it nice for t hem in the summer, and it makes it nice for us. We have guys that work construction 
or work for the county and one of the guys that runs the pit for us worked for the county for a long time. 
He had 40 people working for him, but he comes back, works 3 times a week for us in the pit in the 
summer, and he likes it. It’s great for us and good for him and works out well both ways. 
(0:31:42) 
9 
 
VC: A lot of people in the North Country have a hard time finding people to work, but you don’t seem to 
have trouble with that. 
AG: It’s more of a management thing; you have to decide if you are going to have local workers, you are 
going to have some people that don’t show up, you have to change people. Young guys have a hard time 
with high school, but you look at it and say, “It’s hard for them to sit that amount of time or you need to 
learn maybe a different way.” The guys are rambunctious, and by the time they settle down, they have 
already dropped out of school. They are smart enough, but you have a fair amount of turnover and you 
work through it and find people that are good and try to work with them and my father always said, 
“That everybody goes over fool’s hill and for some of them it’s a mountain and for some of them it’s a 
little bump in the road.” So you just have to get it to the point, are they at the situation where they are 
going to work at it or part way over fool’s hill or people just get sick of this job and move on. If you talk 
to people that even have Hispanic labor, a lot of them work for a year or 2 and then go home. It’d no 
different here; younger guys work a couple of years and go try something else. With Hispanics, it’s 
always someone from talking with people, even living with the guys working for them that come to work 
immediately. My nephew, one of the good things he’s done, he has never had a job application, and 
now we have one, so when people come, we have them fill it out, and we talk to them and see, and 
some of the guys that work for me know some of the other young guys and they say stay away from this 
one, so that helps too, and we listen to them. We have had people that come and have never had a job 
before, and some of them work out pretty well, it’s just a learning experience, too, you have to be on 
time and have to learn what you are suppose to do. You have to keep working. When you are sitting 
taking a break, you have to punch out.  You have to be ready to work when you get work. You have 
issues because you have guys on the night shift that think they can be up all day and work at night and 
have their whole day off, but you have to sleep. Jim Matthews says you got to go to bed at night. If you 
are going to be here at 2 in the morning, you got to go to bed at night and that is something a young guy 
has got to learn. This milking job, you’ve seen the parlor, we have mats on the floor, and the floor is not 
solid, there is some give to it, but it’s a younger guy’s job. I had a guy work for me for quite a long time, 
and he got to be around 40 and he’s now driving a milk truck for another. He came to me, gave me his 2 
weeks’ notice and said, “You know, I like it here, but I just can’t be on my feet that much and hustle back 
and forth.” That’s fine; you are going to have some of that. I had people that just can’t adjust to it. If 
someone starts milking full time, it takes them about a month to be used to being on your feet that 
much and using your arms and everything; you’re sore. People just can’t get used to that. The sad thing 
too, I’ve talked to people that own laundry in town or whatever, you look at minimum wage and you can 
argue whether it should go up or whatever, but try to live on minimum wage, you can’t do it. My mother 
even says for these guys we pay 10 or 11 an hour for people to milk, and if you manage well and are 
careful, you can get by, but you are not getting rich, and we keep that in mind, too. We do the best we 
can with it, and we have to stay in business, too. It is just a balancing act. Basically, Varick, I like them. I 
am a little more lenient than I should be, but I believe in the basic goodness of human nature. 
VC: They appreciate it, I’m sure. 
(0:36:56) 
10 
 
VC: You have 4 kids; do you think any of them might take over the farm? 
AG: I don’t know. I don’t think the one going to law school, would want to be. You can’t tell, but it seems 
like they have chosen other things and that’s fine. You’ve heard, the Irish particularly, the pick out in the 
family, you wouldn’t want somebody doing a job they are not happy with. Last night I was watching a 
show on Netflix. One of the only things that my wife and I like is Law and Order. So we are watching it. 
One of the guys that were milking called me that the parlor computer wasn’t working right. So I came 
down, reset it, fixed it and all. That is the way this job is, if something happens at night you are going to 
be here working. Cows are hard to work with everyday; they step on you and get manure on you, that’s 
just the way it is. You want your kids to do something they life where they can be good people and make 
a positive impact on society, but you don’t necessarily want them to be farmers. It would be nice, and 
most farmers are more like that than other people, they want somebody in their family to take over 
their farm. There is some of that; you are raising kids, not farmers. 
VC: That’s true. 
AG: It will be nice Varick, you know, one of the places he got into was Norte Dame. I said to my wife, “It 
would be nice to get to visit Norte Dame if he was going to law school there.” My other son just 
interviewed at Dartmouth, and I have never been there. Andrew also got in to Georgetown Law, I visited 
that, I was in Washington D.C., like I said for the counsel stuff for 6 years, so one afternoon I had some 
time so I walked to the campus, and it’s a beautiful campus. We’ll see where they end up. My one son 
who is a math major, he doesn’t like farming at all. He works here, they all worked here, but I know he’s 
not going to be the one. 
(0:39:26) 
VC: So you were in 4-H as a kid? 
AG: Yes. 
VC: I talked with Clark Decker and his wife and Kevin Acres, and they were all active 4-Hers. 
AG: Kevin, we went to 4-H camp together. I think Clark is a little bit older than I am. Walt Cook used to 
have a farm, he used to have a farm outside of Potsdam and Walt and Clark went to Cornell together, I 
think. We showed cows, and we went to 4-H camp for a number of years, a great thing. At that time, it 
was mostly farm kids. You had common experience, because we all did the same things. We all just 
worked on farms, you worked after school and all your vacations, it was nice, it was a lot of different 
things you learned. You learned how to speak in public, where you showed how to make something; I 
can’t remember what it was. 
VC: Demonstration. 
AG: They had all the kind of stuff. Even when I got home from Cornell, Conrad Cook had a small farm up 
the road, and he had registered Holsteins, real nice ones. Conrad, he and his father used to show. His 
11 
 
father passed away, Scott Cook. So I went to the Malone fair and took Conrad’s cows because we didn’t 
have registered cows. It was a lot of fun. 
(0:41:26) 
VC: Do you think 4-H had any impact of you becoming a farmer, or was it mostly because of your family? 
AG: It’s hard to say. You did it, and it was a lot of fun. As much as anything, so many farm kids back then 
at least, now, my nephew at Cornell did an internship one summer, he spent a summer in Sweden, they 
didn’t do that kind of stuff. So a lot of farm kids were no different, they had never been off the farm.  
What really got me was the Chemistry thing. I love chemistry still, even when I got to Cornell, I took 
organic and bio-chemistry and I didn’t even need to, for the fun of it, because I liked chemistry. It’s just 
being indoors all the time and the lab work was tough. We had labs at Clarkson you’d go in at one 
o’clock and you had to finish what you were doing, and you might be there at 7 at night. That is the job 
you’d have, that is what Pure Chemistry people do and some people love it, and that’s great. But I 
couldn’t. I remember it would be a beautiful day in March or April and you can see the sun coming in 
and you are in here doing this. The other part, I remind my brother of this, since we talk about it, it’s 
been a great business for us, but the reality of dairying is, we are down to 50,000 dairies in the country. 
There were 300,000 when I got out of Cornell in 1980. It has been great for us, we’ve done well. We 
have been able to put our kids through college and have a good living out of it, but for a lot of people, it 
hasn’t been pretty. A lot of the farms that have gone out, they struggled mightily, then went out of 
business. This is a brutal business because it is by demand and they are having a minimum wage 
discussion, but there is not minimum price on milk anymore. It is just whatever the market bears. There 
is no union to help. 
(0:42:29) 
VC: Even the co-ops have lost some of their. . .? 
AG: They don’t have marketing clout as far as change in the price; it’s all on supply and demand.  The 
CME prices set it, it depends on worldwide conditions. If Australia and New Zealand have a really good 
year, and the Ukraine and Europe, then our prices lower because there is a bi-monthly option for dairy 
products. It sets the prices of products shipped around the world. If our cheddar cheese price is too high 
we won’t sell any, so our prices have to go down. From that point it’s been a brutal business because the 
ones of us that are left are survivors of a lot of people that used to do this. It’s been great for us, I just 
love living in the country. You look around northern New York, the reason we lose so many young 
people that live here, is because there just aren’t opportunities for jobs. I have been able to stay here 
where I grew up and have a good living and enjoy what I do, but it hasn’t worked for a lot of farms. You 
can tell by how many are gone. 
(0:44:46) 
VC: Do you think there is room for artisan cheeses here and small niche business? 
AG: There is room for it, it’s a great thing. My sister-in-law actually lives up the Taconic Parkway in  
12 
 
White Plains. She does a lot of these knit things, like the ring where you felt them and stuff, but she’s 
living in an area where there are more people and there are more people that have good incomes. She 
sells a lot of stuff and she sells stuff online, so the online thing can work up here. The one issue that is 
really hard is that we have such a low base population. For artisan things, a lot of what people sell is 
more spur of the moment. Where Martha lives down there, it’s just above New York City, a lot of people 
commute. They are home on the weekends, they go to farmers markets. You go around here, nobody is 
going to come this far. I am on the chairman for Farm Credit East, I do the 19 customer meeting we have 
all around the Northeast with our CEO, and I meet people. One guy that I met did maple candy and 
everything. He makes his living and he’s in southern New England. He goes to all these shows and all 
these things where people buy locally produced candy and everything. He and his wife sell and they do a 
great job. If you were around here, you have such a low base of population, that’s what really makes it 
very difficult for us. You can do it on the websites and stuff, but people actually like to connect with the 
person, they want to go to the farm show and connect with the farmer. Here there is more farmers and 
a lot fewer other people. Look at our per capita income in this county, how low it is. So a lot of people 
realistically can’t afford to feed their family and buy the food that is produced this way. My wife is 
reading a book, and the family has a CSA in Essex County. You may have seen the book, I can’t recall the 
name. 
VC: Oh yeah, Dirty. . . that woman who . . .[the book referred to is The Dirty Life by Kristin Kimball] 
AG: Yes, she lived in New York City and she met her husband. I have been to the website because it is 
intriguing how they do it. They have 10 people that work for them, and they feed about 200 people a 
year. If you look at the number, it’s a lot of people to feed doing the farm work to feed 200 some 
people, but if you look at what it cost, and you had a regular family. If you had a family with 4 teenagers 
like we did at one time, it would be 10 or 12 thousand just for your basic food and that doesn’t include 
ice cream and different stuff that they don’t produce. How does a family here with a median income of 
18 or 19 thousand, how do you spend 12 or 14 on food? It’s not that it’s not a good thing, or that the 
food isn’t great or any of that, for people that can afford to have that choice, but we just don’t have the 
population and the population with income. 
(0:48:44) 
VC: Have you ever gone to Whole Foods, which is outrageously expensive. 
AG: Even if you go to a Wegmans, it’s a high end supermarket. Around Rochester and places where 
there is more money, those stores do better than other places they have. It’s great that people have 
choice; it’s not that I am opposed to it; it’s just like this idea of sustainability. I believe we have a 
sustainable farm because we are improving the land, we rotate crops, we use the manure, are judicious 
and we keep doing what we are doing with relatively few outside inputs of fertilizer. That’s one view of 
sustainability. The other view is that you don’t use any commercial herbicides or pesticides, but then the 
real issue with that is, if you look at the world going on and try doing that, who aren’t we going to feed, 
and that’s a big issue. People don’t stop to think, GMS crops or any of those kinds of things, the people 
that suffer is poor people in Africa and poor people in Asia. If prices of food go up a little bit, we use 10% 
13 
 
or 15% of our income for food. If you are using 50% of your income for food, and food goes up 30%, it 
takes almost all you got left to feed yourself. You can’t, so you need to think of things like that. It’s like 
the roof top highway, some people want it, and some people don’t. You go on Route 11, the other side 
of Malone. If you put a 4 lane, it will kind of go where Route 11 goes. There is no traffic on Route 11 on 
the other side of Malone, so how do you justify spending billions of dollars tearing everything up for a 
highway that will be like 87, north of Warrensburg. I drive that road coming back from Connecticut a lot. 
Sometimes I go through Lake Placid just to vary my drive. You get on the road 87 north of Warrensburg, 
and there is nobody on the road with you. That is the trouble with northern New York, just step back 
and say, “What do you have here?” We have beautiful land, it’s a gorgeous looking place, but as an 
economic driver of things, we don’t have mines, we don’t have factories. Syracuse is a cross roads, so 
you have that going on. We have nice farms, we have good higher education, but higher education 
doesn’t cost a lot from a road system. Just get the kids here, and then they go home. It’s not like you are 
trucking things in and trucking things out. We don’t even good rail access here. That is one thing we 
struggle with here. We buy a lot of things out of Canada. Our canola comes out of Canada. If you look at 
the rail system in Canada, the reason that it is cheaper for us to buy grain that is shipped from western 
Canada than from a guy in Vermont, because he gets it from the rail line going across Canada through 
Montreal and then dropping down going to New York City, he is right on the main line. If it comes the 
other way, it comes to this little line going into Canton, the short line. The pricing is a lot different. There 
is not competition on the short line so it is cheaper for us for it to be railed all the way to Vermont and 
then trucked back to us then to get it coming up the rail into Canton and then trucked out to us. People 
say to us all the time, “Why do you buy from there?” It’s cheaper transportation. 
(0:53:04) 
VC: Have you employed major changes in the farm over your life time? 
AG: One of them that is interesting, is an upright silo, you see them all over the country, we don’t have 
any. We have all bunker silos. There’s a thing that has been a big improvement in safety because upright 
silos have silo loaders that farmers get hurt in, conveyor, they have the silo gases because it’s enclosed, 
they had the height of the silos, so these bunkers are a lot safer for the workers. That is a benefit to the 
whole safety of agriculture. Over the years agriculture has been one of the top occupations that is 
hazardous to people’s health. We don’t even have the enclosed, in the old barns the hay in the hay mow 
would get musty and you’d be breathing in that stuff and you’d have farmer’s lung. It’s all open around 
here. 
(0:54:16) 
VC: You don’t seem to hear about barn fires in recent times. 
AG: We don’t put up dry hay. The issue is what caused a lot of barn fires was, you bale hay, it’s hard to 
get dry in northern New York because we live in a humid climate. So you try to get it dry, and you are in 
a hurry, so you bale it a little bit wet when you put it in, and spontaneous combustion, barns burn. You 
look around this barn it’s all open. Even if you had an electrical box that went bad, there isn’t the hay to 
catch fire. You might burn part of it, but you’d see it. These big free stall barns don’t barn just don’t burn 
14 
 
like those, especially because there is nothing much in them to burn. When you got just rafters, no hay, 
even if you started a rafter on fire, how does it get to the next rafter? 
(0:55:21) 
VC: I would think in this climate, in the open barns, the animals would be cold, but they are obviously 
not. 
AG: That is an interesting thing. People drive by and look at a cow. People always project human 
characteristics onto the cow. You have to remember, the cow has a rumen in her, so the rumen is full of 
bacteria, and any bacterial fermentation produces a lot of heat. The cow is also big, so she has a very 
low surface to volume ratio, and she’s got a coat on her, so the cow’s thermal neutral range is 15 to 20 
degrees Fahrenheit to about 50 degrees Fahrenheit, so in that area, she is thermally neutral. She is not 
too cold, not to warm. If you are driving by a field and look out, if it’s raining, or the wind is really 
blowing that is different, but if you drive by a field and look at a cow standing there and it is 20 degrees, 
especially if she is a black cow and the sunshine, she is perfectly comfortable, maybe even warm. Most 
humans would look out there on a 20 degree day and say, “That poor cow ought to be cold,” but she 
isn’t. A 70 degree day is far more uncomfortable for a cow than a 10 degree day. The only thing we 
really need to do out here is keep the manure from freezing and the water from freezing so we can 
clean them and they have water to drink. They are very comfortable at 20 degrees. So today is 30 and 
we have the curtains down. If it warms up much more we are going to drop them all the way and got all 
the doors open. We have more of a problem trying to keep them cool in the summer; we never have 
any trouble keeping them warm in the winter. If you have them in a barn and wind can’t blow on them 
and its zero, they don’t care. If you study them at all, the dairy breeds, like the Swiss obviously came 
from Switzerland, and the Holland, the Dutch had the Friesians, they are a northern European animal. In 
northern Europe when they evolved, it was cold. They are much better off in the cold. The ones we 
pasture, we have a pond over there, and they will go right down into the pond in the summer time, right 
up to their necks and they are as happy as they can be, nice and cool. We shower them here in the 
summer. We have big fans and smaller ones pushing air over. We shower them in the alleys; we work 
hard to keep them cool. We still aren’t successful at it, they could be cooler. 
(0:58:16) 
VC:  Has the knowledge that the farm needs to have changed over the generations? 
AG: It has, computers obviously. We are sitting here in my office and I have 2 separate computers. One 
is for running the parlor and actually talks; the one I have here that runs on MS DOS, it’s a regular 
Windows face computer. So you have to know how to use computers. We use them to sort cows; we 
use them for all kinds of stuff. The computers also let us balance rations, and we do all of our book work 
on computers. Another thing that has changed in agriculture is vaccinations. We don’t use any 
antibiotics. Antibiotics are closely regulated, everything is tested, and milk is tested for antibiotics and all 
that. The vaccines available to us are way better than they used to. We vaccinate for all the respiratory 
diseases and things like DDD, we even vaccinate for coli form mastitis and celosia mastitis, and there are 
just not antibiotics that work well for those. The vaccine programs and the vaccines available are just 
15 
 
way ahead, and you have to keep track of that. There is just a lot more to know, so there is just a lot 
more you have to know. So that is more of a management focus on farms. It’s great really, because you 
take the stall designs so the cows are more comfortable, the vaccinations, the way they are fed, so they 
are healthier, the whole thing is just more knowledge based I guess. 
(1:00:18) 
VC: You have a pretty complete set of information on each animal, right? 
AG: Very complete. Of course computers help. If you had this many animals and no computers, you  
would have to have a full time person just keeping track of when they were pregnant, when they have 
to be dried off, all that, their offspring, who they are, who their sire and dam were. We also get 
information everyday on what they give. The cows that are down in milk, we can check those. We keep 
record of all the cows we treat on separate paper records so we can tell when the antibiotics are clear of 
her system. We do all of that. We just have all kinds of information that you just didn’t have years ago. 
You kept track of when they were pregnant and when you had to dry them off, but other than that, you 
had some other data, but it was all on cards. The computer makes it a lot better. 
(1:01:26) 
VC: Inspectors? 
AG: The co-ops have inspectors and they come around and check that you are doing everything you are 
supposed to do. I can’t remember what it is, you get a federal rating, so you have federal inspectors 
come and check the farm. For the CAFO stuff we get an inspection by New York State to make sure you 
are not polluting or doing anything like that. They inspect your records and where you put manure on. 
We actually have a CAFO planner we pay that puts out a plan for us every year and we go over things we 
need to fix to keep stuff from polluting water and all that. For the gravel pit we have MShOV, which is a 
mining inspection. All the DOT stuff, like the milk truck, you get DOT inspections on all of that so the 
trucks are up, and the breaks are good and all that things. 
(1:02:32) 
VC: Do you think things are over regulated? 
AG: It’s tough. The trucks for example, they haul a lot of weight, and if truck brakes fail you will kill a 
person in a little car. Unfortunately, if everybody did their job right and did what they were supposed to 
do, you probably wouldn’t need as many regulators, but people try to get away with things. If you are 
trying to do things right, we don’t have a lot of trouble with it at all. It’s just like the dairy here, we keep 
things pretty clean, so I am watching it all the time. You need some of that, because if you didn’t, there 
would be a few people that would take advantage of that. It’s like the speed limit, if you had no speed 
limit or no police on the roads, most people would drive reasonably, but a few people would go 100 
mph and they would anyway. If you drive around enough, I go through the Adirondacks a lot and you’ll 
see people trying to pass where they have no business trying to pass. People always complain about 
over regulation. It’s the same thing with animal welfare. These animals, the ventilation is much better 
16 
 
over what farms used to be 50 years ago, and animals are way better off, but you have to treat them 
well. If you go in a herd where the cows are afraid of you and they don’t know you at all, it’s like if I went 
to see somebody’s dog they might be afraid of me because they don’t know me, but you can pretty well 
tell how the cows are treated.  You watch our cows, they are all watching you, you let them out of the 
parlor they don’t run away, they kind of stand there. So that’s a good thing. I do this, I like cows, I can’t 
see why anybody would be mean to them, but people are. It’s the same, people get on farmers about it, 
but I always say to them, “Think of the times you hear cruelty to animals things where people’s dogs and 
cats and horses that don’t get taken care of,” there is as much of that as there is on farms. You have to 
have some regulation if people do stuff they shouldn’t do.  
(1:05:03) 
VC: My aunt and uncle had names for all their animals. 
AG: Some of the guys here name these cows. They have names for them because they make pets out of 
some of them. The trouble is, we had a cow, she wasn’t able to get bred back so we had to sell her, but 
they made kind of a pet out of her, but you had to be careful of her because she’d come right up behind 
you and hook you because she wanted to play. Well, you get a 1500 pound Holstein. We have a cow out 
there with a bell on her because she doesn’t like a couple of the guys and if you pet her she will get too 
aggressive, so we put a bell on her so we know where she is. Most of the time she is fine, but 
occasionally she doesn’t happen to like somebody or wants to play too hard, and you have to be careful 
of her. 
(1:06:06) 
VC: So they are playful? 
AG: They are; they actually hurt each other more than we do doing anything to them. They are mean to 
each other. Or they will get running on a good day and then fall down because they aren’t the most 
graceful of creatures. They get feeling good and run back and forth, and then they’ll fall down. Or they 
will fight, and one will slip and fall, and you will think, “Oh my gosh, she hurt herself.” One day my 
brother was standing at the end of the parlor, they were bringing up a group, and they opened the door 
and they took off running because they felt good. They ran all the way up through the holding area, got 
to the parlor door, the one if front stopped; the one behind her couldn’t stop and landed on top of her. 
We thought the one on the bottom would be hurt and wouldn’t be able to get up, and they just do stuff 
once in a while, you know. They ride each other and will hurt the other one because they are big. They 
are very curious, if you leave stuff around they will tear it all apart and really raise hell with it. 
(1:07:20) 
VC: So you and the men actually have a relationship with some of these animals? 
AG: I was picking on one of the guys that works for me, this guy named Chris. He was helping putting 
them in, and some of the last ones don’t go in and he was itching one of their chins and I hollered to 
him, “You know Chris, you are not supposed to make pets out of them, you are supposed to milk them.” 
17 
 
They do, they are friendly, and you have to like the animals, and they are hard to deal with everyday, all 
day long. Mostly guys like them and make pets out of some of them and some of them are friendly. It’s 
like any group of people. You have a wide range of personalities; some of them want nothing to do with 
you and are kind of skittish, and some of them will just hang around. Some of them are the last cow in 
every group. There are a couple cows where they will be bringing the group up and rather than driving 
them, they will just let them follow them right along like a dog. We have some of that. 
(1:08:26) 
VC: Do you keep any bulls? 
AG: Yes, we have a bull group. Cows that we breed a number of times A.I. that don’t get pregnant for 
whatever reason, and we have couple of bulls down there. We have bells on them; the friendliest bull in 
the world could turn tomorrow. This guy Jerry says the bull we got is a real good bull. He’s a real good 
bull, but he’s big, he’s getting big. I said, “Jerry, you can’t trust him.” Well you can’t, but some of them 
never get that way. We had a couple a few years ago. A black and a white one, but they just got lazy. 
They would have lived here forever. They didn’t work breeding cows, they would just hang out there, 
and they were nice bulls. They get so big, too, that there is a danger of them hurting a cow or somebody 
else. The bull that we got is a good 6, 8 inches taller than any of the cows. We have a local guy out 
towards Plattsburgh and he does genomic for the A.I. They do DNA and then they sequence it, so they 
can tell how good the daughter is going to be before they even develop. So he has a number of these 
bulls they do the genomic testing on, so the ones that don’t quite make A.I. we buy them. He raises 
them and waits for the testing to come back, and if they don’t make A.I., we buy them. So they are good 
genetically, good animals, so we buy them from him. The genomics is another thing that is another area. 
These animals genetically are way better than we used to have. If you look at pictures of cows in the 
50’s and 60’s, these animals are far superior; feet and legs and udders. Since we breed all A.I., you can 
see the improvement in this herd in the last 6 or 8 years from when we bought the original group.  We 
bred all AI since then to young sires and proven sires and they just look a lot better. The others are nice, 
their feet and legs are better. We trim feet every week. 
(1:10:46) 
VC: You have a specialist? 
AG: Yup, he was here today. That helps too. 
(1:11:00) 
VC: You showed cattle when you were young; do you have any show cattle now? 
AG: No. It’s a lot of work, a whole different way of doing it. There are not as many people that show. It is 
sort of like what you do if you had it for a hobby. You have to keep paperwork on the registered ones, 
and we don’t do any of that. 
(1:11:36) 
18 
 
VC:  Tracy Sheesly, I don’t know if you know Tracy. 
AG: I know who they are; they have an excellent Jersey herd, some of the best in the country.  
VC: There daughter is involved in showing, some beautiful animals. 
AG: That’s some of the best Jerseys in the country. They’ve won a lot of show awards all over. They have 
really nice Jerseys. 
VC: That is almost a business, showing. 
AG: I know Sheesly has gone all over with theirs. They do a terrific job, and they have really nice Jerseys. 
They are really fancy.  
(1:12:32) 
VC: Do you think about going into the processing end of milk? 
AG: We used to, that is the other thing my father did, I didn’t mention that. My father and grandfather 
had Parishville Dairy. They called it Gilbert’s Dairy and they processed milk for years, sold to stores and 
schools and homes around here. At this amount of production of course, you couldn’t do this because 
you would have to have almost everyone in the county drinking your milk. That is another business with 
another set of challenges. It is difficult to be competitive because it is the same thing, most of these 
bottle plants run 24 hours a day. Milk has a pretty good value as far as people buying it. In most farms 
that bottle their own, it’s back to the same thing about population. They live in an area where there is 
more people. There is nobody we can sell to in Canada really, so you have a limited population north of 
the Adirondacks to market to. The order’s against you to because the way milk is priced there is an order 
and a lot of rules to that and there is a lot of rules on the food safety. It’s another whole lot of business. 
(1:14:12) 
VC: Do you know where your milk goes; does it ever come back here in one form or another? 
AG: It’s Great Lakes Cheese. 
VC: So it is all made to cheese then? 
AG: If you buy any kind of Great Lakes Cheese our milk is in it. 
VC: Great Lakes Cheese is also in Clayton and they call themselves River Rat or something? 
AG: I don’t know, this is Adams, this is a huge plant. 
VC: I think that River Rat Cheese is made in Adams. 
AG: Oh it is; it probably is. 
VC: They sell cheese in gift size packages. 
19 
 
AG: It’s probably made in Adams, the original cheese, and packed whereever. That plant in Adams takes 
in a couple, three million pounds of milk a day. So there is a lot of cheddar cheese made there in big 
blocks and they sell it to some people who age it or whatever they do. 
VC: So it must be a lot bigger than McCadam over in Chateaugay?  
AG: Oh yeah, it’s a huge plant; they’ve added on to it, it’s a big plant. 
VC: It used to be the premium cheese around here. 
AG: It is, it’s very good, it’s sold by Agri-Mark Coop, and they own Cabot and McCadam and they do a 
good job. I have friends that are dairy farmers and they are in Agri-Mark and they do a great job, Agri-
Mark does with Cabot and  McCadam. That co-op is different, Dairylea doesn’t own too many plants to 
do their own, Agri-Mark does, so that’s a different way of doing business. 
VC: I appreciate this. 
[end of interview]