Finding Roots: Asian American Farmers in Contemporary America 
Madalyn Warren 
March 24, 2021 
Interview conducted by Katelyn Reuther 
Madalyn Warren is the founder and owner of East Branch Farms in Roxbury, New York. 
This was a 
remote interview conducted during the COVID-19 pandemic. Madalyn Warren joined 
the interview from Roxbury, New York, and Katie Reuther joined from Boston, Massachusetts. 
Interview Log 
00:00:00 
Introductions 
00:00:36 
Growing up, Madalyn's family's values around food were different than they are 
now. They always had plenty of food, often Korean food made by her mom. Now, 
they put an emphasis on health and organic and chemical-free food. They see food 
more as medicine than they did before. 
In addition to the Korean cuisine they ate when she was younger, they also had 
chicken nuggets, mozzarella sticks, Combos, and other "junk" food. They wanted 
to get along with everyone else, so they ate what everyone else was eating. 
00:02:18 
Madalyn didn't have a 
preference for Korean or American food when she was 
younger. She was never a 
picky eater. 
00:03:06 
Outside of eating and enjoying food, Madalyn wasn't interested in food or 
agriculture. She says food was what her mom made. It was also what they had on 
the road (Burger King Whoppers with extra sauce, pizza), what they bought at 
the supermarket, and the seafood they'd eat at the ocean. 
00:04:08 
About eighteen years ago, Madalyn visited an organic vegetable farm in the 
Catskills. She went in August at the height of the season, and she saw more 
vegetables growing than she'd ever seen before. She got to eat fresh vegetables 
right off the plant. This was where her interest in food and farming began. 
00:05:25 
Madalyn's interest peaked right away, and then her addiction developed over a 
full season of farming. 
Madalyn Warren Interview Log, March 24, 2021 
1 
00:06:05 
She lived and worked on the farm she first visited. The farm is just up the road 
from where her farm is located, and they still work together. 
00:06:35 
She isn't sure what about farming hooked her at the beginning. If she had to say, 
she would say that it was eating the food she grew and being able to take care of 
her local environment. It was also a 
holistic way of living and working. She grew 
up with her parents living and working at home, so there was no separation 
between home and work. Living and working at a 
farm seemed very easy to her. 
She likes to work, and she enjoys pushing herself. Thus, she's grateful to be able 
to do something that not only makes her happy, but also feeds people. 
00:09:18 
Madalyn's father is from the Connecticut River Valley in Northampton/Amherst, 
Massachusetts, so she spent a 
few summers next to a 
CSA (Community Supported 
Agriculture) farm in Amherst when she was younger. Although she didn't go over 
there much, she made observations. This was her first, arm's-length experience 
with food production in the field. 
She is hands-on, and she likes to eat a 
lot. She had helped out with various 
community gardens before she started farming, but nothing like what she does 
now. Agriculture from arm's-length is very different from doing it. 
00:11:30 
It wasn't a 
surprise that Madalyn fell in love with farming. 
00:11:53 
After her first season at the farm in the Catskills, Madalyn continued to live and 
work there for five or six years. Eventually, she wanted to try and do things her 
own way. She says every farm is styled by the hand that's farming it. She found a 
couple of satellite fields and started growing some things on her own. It 
eventually progressed to what she's doing now. 
It's hard to go too far away from how you first learned something. She's still 
learning. 
00:13:28 
Madalyn says after many years at her own farm, she is still in a 
transition period. 
Her friend who runs the first farm she worked at has the heated greenhouse, and 
she has the cold greenhouse. They work together in various forms, and they 
exchange a 
lot of food between the two farms. She learned from the other farm 
that although a 
farm's product is the food, there are many other products it offers 
a 
community. 
00:15:13 
In her early years of farming, Madalyn did think some about how her Asian 
American identity related to her work. Specifically, she thought about the 
different ways Korean agriculture trickled into American organic agriculture 
Madalyn Warren Interview Log, March 24, 2021 
2 
(tools, seeds, composting methods). When she first started farming, because 
Japanese food has a 
better brand than Korean vegetables, it was all about the 
Japanese varietals. 
Many Korean folks are very uptight about their Korean vegetables. She isn't that 
nationalistic or brand sensitive. Early on, it was nice to see the vegetables and 
meet the people eating these nonstandard varieties of foods whose origins are in 
Asia. 
Nowadays, it's much different, because they have a 
very Korean added-value 
product at the farm: kimchi. Now, they're the kimchi farm. 
00:17:41 
Madalyn met those consuming the Asian vegetables they grew through the 
farmers market, at restaurants, and at the farm. 
00:18:02 
The farm she worked at grew a 
little bit of everything. The farmer there grew up 
in New York City, and had exposure to many different cuisines and friends with a 
variety of backgrounds. He did and still does grow many Japanese varieties. 
00:18:56 
Before Madalyn started farming, she didn't see or know any other Asian 
American farmers. Her family didn't have a 
relationship with a 
farm. Her mom 
was always busy at home taking care of Madalyn and her siblings, so she didn't 
have a 
cultivated community of people. Otherwise, they probably would've had a 
connection with a 
farm at some point. 
00:19:54 
Not seeing other Asian American farmers didn't impact Madalyn's decision to go 
into farming, or how she saw herself within the profession. She doesn't claim to 
represent anyone other than herself. As far as being a 
woman and pursuing a 
role 
in a 
traditionally male industry, that was more significant than her Korean 
background. 
00:20:47 
She started farming when she was twenty-seven years old, so she was still soft in 
her definition of herself. She may have been more sensitive to things than she is 
now. Now, her only challenge is the weather and nature. She's not sure if it was 
agriculture or age that helped her become less sensitive. 
00:22:01 
Madalyn started her own farming business with her mom. Her only experience 
with agriculture was working at that first farm and doing a 
couple of traveling 
WWOOFing (World Wide Opportunities on Organic Farms) stints. She attempted 
to follow the same program she was taught, but she had to go through a 
few years 
of struggling to figure out her style. 
Madalyn Warren Interview Log, March 24, 2021 
3 
To increase the profitability of the farm, her mom pushed the idea of building a 
kitchen and making kimchi. Madalyn and her mom don't cooperate most of the 
time, so there was a 
lot of challenge doing something new like that together. It 
took a 
few years before they decided to build the kitchen, and then a 
few more 
years to get everything in order for the kimchi business. Although it runs itself 
now, the start was very challenging. 
How Madalyn thinks and does things now versus back then feels very different. 
With experience and success behind her, she can now operate more comfortably 
knowing what her plants need, and what they can tolerate. Before, she says it was 
as if everything was on the edge of a 
cliff and could fall off at any moment. Her 
mom 
still operates in that mindset, with fear as a 
motivator. Although she and her 
siblings don't completely understand why, it works well at a 
farm because she's 
paying attention to everything. 
00:28:19 
Madalyn started her farm with what she knew. When she was working at the first 
farm, she never questioned why they did certain things, or proposed different 
ways of doing them. She set out to do her own experiments for her own growth, 
not necessarily because she wanted to break away from the other farm. 
The plants themselves and being there at her farm have taught her a 
lot. She says 
there is something to the permaculture idea of occupying your land for a 
little 
while before you start having your own ideas about it. Every acre has something 
to offer, both good and challenging. Just being there in one spot has taught her a 
lot. 
She believes in continuing education, seeing what other growers are doing, and 
checking out Cornell University's best practices and recommendations. While she 
continues to learn, executing it is something else. Because the season is so short, 
the amount of risk she's willing to take on with something new is very low. She 
believes organic farms should be experimenting more, but because the pressures 
are already so high, they (and agriculture in general) don't change as fast as 
people want. In addition to the economic part, there's also just the human ability 
part. 
00:32:22 
This is Madalyn's seventh season on her farm. In the spring, they start running out 
of their own cabbage, and she begins buying in local organic cabbage for their 
kimchi. This year, they still have plenty of garlic, onions, frozen apples, and 
chives for the kimchi. 
She isn't as worried about everything being all their own as she would've been 
ten years ago. She says it's just too extreme. Madalyn's understanding of her 
neighbors and why people would grow conventionally has changed. Knowing 
Madalyn Warren Interview Log, March 24, 2021 
4 
more about what she's doing there at her farm allows her to appreciate everything 
else a 
little more, too. 
00:34:44 
About three years after starting the farm, they started the kimchi business. 
00:35:04 
Last year, about seventy percent of their crops were grown for kimchi and their 
other food service products (banchan, Korean barbecue). The rest was grown for a 
small CSA (Community Supported Agriculture) and local farmers market. 
Madalyn wonders what she will do with all of the napa she is seeding. While the 
cabbage in the fall is grown to fill up storage bins and move to kimchi and 
sauerkraut makers, spring cabbage is different. Once it's ready, it must get picked 
or it declines quickly. 
00:37:13 
Madalyn's mom goes to the markets in the cities (including New York City) and 
makes the kimchi sauce. Madalyn grows, harvests, washes, and chops the 
vegetables. They both do some chopping and jarring. The business is growing 
enough that they can hire other people to help do those things. 
Madalyn and her mom have never cooperated, but something changed last winter. 
Things are very different, and she can't tell why it's happening. However, it has 
come at a 
good time, because the business is growing. To keep it growing 
smoothly, they have to cooperate. She's not sure how they did it for the past few 
years, though she says she's grateful for all that her siblings have done at the 
farm. She, her mom, and her brother are immersed in food, while her sister is 
interested in entertainment culture and art. 
00:40:30 
The farm is getting to what she envisioned when she first started. She says her 
vision hasn't changed that much, but she didn't see the heavier Korean influences 
coming. It doesn't surprise her, though, because her mom lives and works there, 
and her influence has always been stronger than Madalyn's. 
00:41:37 
Madalyn can't think of anything in particular she wanted to include on the farm 
when she first started out. 
00:42:06 
However, she wishes there were more fruit trees on the farm, and she regrets not 
planting them there earlier. Everything else is happening in its own time. With the 
limited energy she and her family have, they are establishing a 
foundation for 
more things to grow from. In some ways, their family dynamic and madness has 
been a 
good thing. They've had to sit with each other and struggle with it to have 
some level of success to share with other people. 
Madalyn Warren Interview Log, March 24, 2021 
5 
00:43:33 
All along, Madalyn planned to grow some Korean crops on her farm. Other than a 
handful of small farms growing for specific markets, it's difficult to get organic 
Korean vegetables. She always knew she would grow some. 
Plus, she says her mom 
is an arrogant Korean foodie now. She has to have Korean 
peppers and Korean cucumbers. It makes Madalyn think about seed saving, and 
about how Korea kept its seed and those seeds came to be heirlooms. That 
heirloom seed has translated into a 
person's demand for the Korean variety. For 
those people, everything else is not Korean. 
As nationalistic as her mom is about her foods, she also understands that they're a 
business, and people want to eat other things, too. She's open to using everything, 
including Genovese basil in her sauces. Her need to use Korean vegetables is 
second only to her need for organic varieties. After six years of exposure, she is 
becoming more strict than Madalyn in some ways about what she consumes. 
Nowadays, Madalyn is okay with eating the occasional GMO (genetically-
modified organism) corn tortilla chip, where her mom would not. 
00:47:35 
They grow around fifty percent Korean vegetables and fifty percent western 
vegetables. 
00:47:56 
Madalyn's mom picks up seeds when she goes to Asian supermarkets. She buys 
them by the bagful, but they're not great quality. They also buy seeds from Fedco 
Seeds in Maine and Kitazawa Seed Company in California. 
Madalyn had the honor of doing an interview with Maya of Kitazawa, and she 
learned that Maya is not of the Kitazawa family, but bought the company from the 
family when she was a 
customer. 
Madalyn says that's how food is. Everyone is connected. Maya went from being a 
seed buyer for her small garden to running an Asian seed company. Food is that 
way, because it is so foundational for humans. It can send you in many different 
directions. 
00:50:45 
Madalyn hasn't acquired any specific knowledge for growing the Korean varieties 
she has. She says she probably should have, but she's very against the idea that 
there's only one way to do something. When someone tells her that there's only 
one way to do something, she gets very prickly, and it's hard for her to receive the 
information. In her experience, the people who favor special handling of certain 
crops usually say that there is only one way to do it. 
Madalyn Warren Interview Log, March 24, 2021 
6 
Because things are pretty diversified at her farm, if anything fails, nothing is 
going to be ruined. Furthermore, if they did have any crop failures or issues with 
starting crops, they could source from the farms they sell with at farmers markets. 
As you stick with farming, the pressures change. When Madalyn first started, she 
thought everything had to be from her own farm. She put enormous pressure on 
herself to make sure everything was from there, but now she wonders: what for? 
There's already enough pressure. 
Seeing where their values are as they develop and grow has been fun for 
Madalyn. Soil and gut microbes are a 
big part of agriculture, food, and human 
health. She feels fortunate to be making kimchi at this time. Having an awareness 
of the microbes that start in her field and go into the products they sell has been 
really satisfying. 
It was lucky timing that the market was ready for kimchi and them doing it in this 
way. Madalyn recognizes that their ability to keep the business going and have it 
grow was all due to the market being the way it is. They've benefited a 
lot from 
the more recent focus on soil, vegetables, fermented food, and gut health. 
00:55:18 
Madalyn doesn't really know what her customers value the most about her farm 
and products. She does know, however, that people love the kimchi. Customers 
like that she and her family are the farthest thing from a 
corporation, that she and 
her mom both care a 
lot, that the vegetables are organic, and that they use spring 
water. 
00:56:43 
There are many customer interactions, stories, and memories that have been 
significant to Madalyn. At the farmers market the week before, one of their 
customers told them that he had been eating their kimchi for a 
year and a 
half, and 
he thought that it helped his whole life. He pinpointed having kimchi in his 
refrigerator every day for the past year and a 
half as being an integral part of his 
happiness. 
There have been many moments like that over the years, where people express 
their appreciation for what Madalyn and her mom do. Doing this type of work, 
they don't get to go out very much. It's nice to be acknowledged by their 
neighbors and customers through gifts that are left at the farm, or that they receive 
by mail. They're reminded that even though people don't see them, they're 
thinking about them. 
00:59:18 
Madalyn thinks more of their customers are interested in the health benefits of the 
products than the connection to Korean culture. However, Korean food is trendy 
now, so who really knows. She says people don't buy their food for only one 
Madalyn Warren Interview Log, March 24, 2021 
7 
reason. Some of the reasons they buy are because they know it's healthy, super 
tasty, and they want to keep the local economy circulating by buying locally. 
1:01:17 
Madalyn's identity as a 
biracial farmer has allowed her to be more open-minded. 
She doesn't have to do things in one way, and she doesn't have any cultural 
pressures to do things in a 
certain way. It can also be too loose, however. If there 
are too many options, it can be difficult to take action. 
It's all a 
work in progress. The more she works with plants, the less patience she 
has for identity. She understands people's need to have a 
defined identity, but the 
further along she goes, the less interested she is in anyone's identity. It's possible 
that she doesn't want to dissect her own identity, but she's not exactly sure why 
she feels this way. Perhaps it's because she sees with the natural world how little 
impact one's own personally-defined identity has on the greater picture. She also 
understands the price of carving your own personal identity. 
That being said, it gets into territory she wants to respect. She is talking about her 
own experiences, and she promotes people discovering and defining their own 
identities. 
1:04:40 
People don't assume that Madalyn is of Asian descent. She can be Mexican, 
Hawaiian, Inuit, but if anything, she feels more discriminated against by Korean 
people than anyone else. 
1:05:32 
Madalyn doesn't see it as an advantage to pass as non-Asian, especially when 
she's trying to sell kimchi. A 
couple of times a 
month, someone will ask if a 
Korean person made their kimchi. There is policing of products to make sure that 
the hands making them are of the right country of origin. If she looked more 
Korean, she wouldn't be asked that question. 
1:07:13 
Madalyn doesn't know exactly how her identity is playing into anything right 
now. That could be a 
lack of engagement with the world, or how limited her 
engagement is due to the time constraints she has as a 
farmer. In January, she had 
a 
feeling Asian rage was about to explode. She didn't know where it was coming 
from, or why she had that feeling. She thinks it could be related to the violent 
attacks and targeting of the Asian community, combined with their simultaneous 
exclusion from conversations around BIPOC (Black, Indigenous, people of color) 
issues. 
She doesn't know what her role is in it all. A 
lot of her focus is food. People are 
suffering in many ways, and to talk about only food makes her feel like a 
jerk 
sometimes. However, that's what her belief system is. She believes good food 
helps things in many ways. 
Madalyn Warren Interview Log, March 24, 2021 
8 
For now, Madalyn is saving her spiel for people who want to hear it. She feels it's 
okay to not know, and it's important to stay committed to finding out, to 
communicating, and to discovering solutions together. It just feels like she doesn't 
have a 
lot to contribute outside of where she sits. 
1:12:16 
In the future, Madalyn would love to increase on-farm fertility using vermiculture 
and compost teas. She also has two cows, and she wants to figure out how to 
make them more useful on the farm. Their whole bodies are fermentation 
machines. In India, there is reverence for the cow, but it's not a 
reverence for the 
cow, but for the deities that live inside the cow. 
She wants to see cooperative producing and buying. Moving ahead, cooperative 
models of business can support all of our essential needs, as well as our potential 
dreams. Madalyn wants her farm to incorporate more of a 
cooperative business 
model. 
1:16:05 
Madalyn advises other BIPOC who want to farm to get plenty of experience 
apprenticing and working at other farms. She promotes two or three years of full 
immersion to get into it physically and ground your farming ideas and plans in 
reality. 
Finances are hard with agriculture. Money goes straight back into the farm for 
maintenance and growth. For people who tie their value and identity to how much 
money they have, the farming life is going to be hard for them. Agriculture has a 
lot to offer, and there is a 
tremendous value in it, but it takes time to see how one 
would fit in. Figuring that out requires letting go of a 
lot of things. 
Madalyn feels lucky to be there with her family. She likes the small, family 
operations that make up rural America. 
1:21:53 
Madalyn thinks that if her mom was in a 
vulnerable situation and she had to 
choose, she would choose her Korean community over Madalyn. Her mom's 
culture is still a 
stronger influence in her decision making and reactions than their 
bond. Their mother-daughter relationship is challenging, to the point where 
Madalyn is grateful just to be there with her and try out being friends. 
There's so much Madalyn doesn't know about her mom, herself, why they do 
things, and the layers of expression that exist. Madalyn is forced to read between 
the lines all the time, instead of being told directly like she prefers. She says a 
lot 
of energy has been wasted over the years on miscommunication. 
Madalyn puts a 
lot of effort into understanding what her mom says. It frustrates 
her that she is invested in communicating with her mom, but her mom doesn't 
Madalyn Warren Interview Log, March 24, 2021 
9 
even know it. Now that they're friends, she's been telling her mom these things, 
but she doesn't quite know what her mom is thinking. 
We're all a 
work in progress. Madalyn is hopeful. She is working on increasing 
her own peace and happiness, appreciating her mom, and doing her best to hear 
her mom's message without the volume and choice of words. She knows she 
needs to find some harmony with her mom. 
Madalyn wonders what it is that makes her mom really upset. She thinks that 
somewhere, there's pressure: the pressure to act right, say things the right way, be 
the right way. Then, she can explode with her family members. Her mom is still 
a 
stranger here. Koreans are still strangers here. 
1:32:15 
Madalyn emphasizes how caring, thoughtful, strong, courageous, and intelligent 
her mom 
is. She recognizes that her mom has her own story, and she will share it 
only if and when she wants to. However, Madalyn would like to know more about 
why her mom 
is so mistrustful, and work to create more trust and confidence in 
their relationship. 
The mother-daughter dynamic is played out quickly, largely with the 
subconscious mind. Madalyn wants to create a 
more trusting relationship where 
they can share things with mutual respect and confidence. 
1:36:58 
End of interview 
Madalyn Warren Interview Log, March 24, 2021 
10