AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Bruce Elliot– 5/7/22 
1 
 
Bruce Elliot 
Where: Bruce Elliot’s home 
Date: May 7, 2022 
Location: Bremen, OH 
Interviewer: Emily Hilliard 
Transcription: Emily Hilliard 
Length: 41:55 
 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Bruce Elliot– 5/7/22 
2 
 
Bruce Elliot (b. Ashland, Ohio) is a retired rural mail carrier residing in Bremen, Ohio. He began working 
as a substitute rural carrier in Pickerington, Ohio in 1973 and got a full-time route in Bremen in 1981. 
Though Elliot carried using his personal vehicles for most of his career, he was issued a Long Life 
Vehicle (LLV) for the last years of his work. He considered the LLV to be a challenge considering the 
terrain and weather on his rural route. In this interview, Elliot speaks of carrying the mail during the 
Blizzard of 1976 and other weather challenges, his relationships with his customers, especially those in 
the Amish community, and how rural carriers are an important part of community life in their 
communities.  
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Bruce Elliot– 5/7/22 
3 
 
BE: Bruce Elliot 
EH: Emily Hilliard 
 
00:00 
EH: So it's May 7, 2022, and I'm in Bremen, Ohio. Why don't you introduce yourself and tell me your 
name, where you're from and the year you were born? 
 
BE: My name is Bruce Elliott. I originally was born in Ashland, Ohio and moved to Pickerington and 
then moved down to Bremen when I got a full-time rural job down in Bremen. I like the community and 
really enjoyed my job. 
 
EH: So why don't you tell me how you got interested in becoming a rural mail carrier? 
 
BE: Well it was rather a funny situation. I walked into the post office in Pickerington and the postmaster 
there asked me if I needed a job. I think he had heard I just quit my other job and I said "Yes." And he 
said, "Well, you want to be a substitute rural carrier, I can't guarantee how many hours you'll get but we 
can get you a route." I said, "Well, okay." Then he said, "Well, I'll tell you what. I got something even 
better, I got an auxiliary route so you'd be working 6 days a week, but you can't have any days off. You 
have to work 6 days a week and you'll work that route until that route becomes a regular route." And 
that's how it started. 
 
EH: (laughs) And what year was that? 
 
BE: That was 1973.  
 
EH: So when did you get a route full-time? 
 
BE: A full-time route in 1981 down in Bremen. I unfortunately could not get the auxiliary route I was 
carrying up in Pickerington so what they, the postmaster talked to the postmaster down in Bremen and the 
regular carrier in Bremen was actually living in Dakota, South Dakota, yes. And he wanted to move there 
permanently so what happened was that the, I got trained in a pick-up truck and it was an interesting event 
'cause I had never really had the opportunity to travel a bunch of rural roads like what's down in this area. 
And it was an experience and it was fun. My route started out as 78 miles long and it was very interesting. 
 
EH: That's quite a long route! 
 
BE: Yeah, it'd take me a long time to get it through, but it was well worth it. I, they actually you know, 
paid me to drive out on country roads and see things like turkeys out in the middle of a field or deer 
crossing with their fawns and then the people were just great. They'd help me out. I remember the first 
day I was running the route, I had slipped into a ditch and I couldn't quite get out and the one farmer just 
said, "Well just a minute." And he came back with his tractor and pulled me out. And that was just the 
way people are down here. 
 
EH: Mmhm. So did you do that same route for the rest of your career? 
 
BE: Yes, I did. The route changed of course with you know people moving in and moving out but it went, 
they ended up taking some of the route off because it became an overburdened route and I was working 
54 hours a week plus and so when it became available, they split my route and took about 20 miles off of 
it so I ended up with about a 50-58 mile route, which was a lot better.  
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Bruce Elliot– 5/7/22 
4 
 
EH: Yeah! So why don't you talk me through a typical day on the job from when you'd get in to when you 
would get home at night? 
 
BE: I'd get up early and my wife would fix me a lunch and put it in a little box and I'd just take that with 
me and I'd get to work and get to work about 7 o'clock and the mail would be there or soon would be 
there and then I would wait for the clerks and the postmaster to distribute mail to each route and then we'd 
just painstakingly put it in order and then would get ready and load the car up and then I'd start driving 
and I'd end up driving for anywhere from 5-6 and a half hours. And visit people every day! 
 
EH: (laughs) So yeah, let's talk about those people and why don't you tell me about the relationship you 
developed with your customers over the years? 
 
04:54  
 
BE: Well I was really, you know as years went on people would come and go but there were a few that 
really stuck out in my mind. One was A.T. Buckley who was totally blind and he must have had really 
good hearing because he'd hear my car coming and he would start walking out to the road to get his mail! 
And he'd end up, he'd always say something to me and then we'd talk a little bit. Of course, you realize 
that I do have to keep on some kind of a schedule so I'd you know, make it short, probably a minute and a 
half, 2 minute talk and make sure he was alright as well, being blind and living by himself it was kinda 
rough. But, and then you'd see people. These 2 sisters would really give me a hard time--it was hilarious. 
I'd deliver one and then about 15 minutes later I'd deliver the other house and they knew that and they 
would set me up and it was just funny. They'd leave me little notes and they'd say, "Would you go tell my 
sister" and (laughs) I'd just laugh because they were just ornery but it was a lot of fun and that would 
break some monotony on the road every so often. But the biggest challenge on my route was in the winter 
because the roads were bad. Now when I first started down here Rush Creek flooded really bad and it 
would close a lot of the roads on my route and it was really tough trying to get around to make sure I 
could get all the mail delivered. And what I'd do is just kinda plan a [Bruce's wife talks in the 
background] little bit to figure out a good detour 'cause you can get in trouble doing a wrong detour 'cause 
when it flooded, before the dams, they built 5 dams I believe it is in Rush Creek to keep the flooding out 
of Bremen and the surrounding roads and it worked really well. Once they've got all the dams built, I 
rarely had to detour. Occasionally, but not very, not nearly as often as it was earlier. But that was progress 
I guess, so yep. 
 
EH: Yeah (laughs). Did customers leave you gifts in their mailboxes [sound of sink faucet running] 
 
BE: Oh yeah, Christmas I'd get a lot of baked goods. They appreciated me and what I'd do is try to be as 
kind as I could be because that was my job also. I'm also an ambassador to the post office and I wanted to 
make sure that I kinda left a good impression for the Post Office. It just wasn't me working, it's the clerks 
and the postmasters. You represent the company and I took that to heart.  
 
EH: Mmhm. What kind of things would they leave? 
 
BE: Well I'd get sometimes I'd get (laughs) 5 or 10 dollar gasoline certificates because I, knowing I used a 
lot of gas. And then I'd use a lot of, eat a lot of stuff on the route during Christmas [Bruce's wife 
remarking on a bird out the window]. A lot of stuff. 
 
08:17  
 
Sorry. 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Bruce Elliot– 5/7/22 
5 
 
 
EH: That's okay. 
 
[Bruce's wife talks to granddaughter] 
 
BE: Hold on. Let me see. 
 
EH: Okay. 
 
BE: That's a... 
 
Granddaughter: Woodpecker! 
 
EH: (laughs) 
 
BE: That's a little bounty.  
 
Granddaughter: I know. 
 
BE: He likes that. He's been over there a lot. Okay, I'm recording, okay? (laugh) 
 
EH: (laughs) So yeah, gifts. Were you done with that question?  
 
BE: Oh, once in a while one lady gave me a shovel because she was... a little army shovel that folded up 
because she was worried I'd get stuck in the snow which occasionally I would, so that was a great gift she 
gave me and it was, you know, people put a lot of thought in their gifts. 
 
EH: What kind of things like equipment, dress, snacks--well you said you had a lunch, but what kind of 
things would you bring along with you along your route? 
 
09:23  
 
BE: A lot of time I'd have 1 or 2 apples to eat on the route and Tootsie Roll pops. I like those. And I, I 
would have just little like chewy things to eat. In the winter it was very cold and in the summer, it was 
very hot! Especially when I got a postal LLV which is a long-life vehicle. They put one on my route and 
it was like being in a fishbowl. It was very hot in the summer. 
 
EH: So when did you get that?  
 
BE: I got the LLV in about 2014 or 2015 I believe. And it was, it made my job a lot harder. (laughs) 
 
EH: Yeah! So it was like the last 3 or 4 years? And it made it harder because it's not well-equipped for the 
weather? 
 
BE: That is correct. In the summer, it was okay except for it was really hot like being in a fishbowl but in 
the winter, it was a rear-wheel 2 wheel drive vehicle and on these country roads it was, actually it was 
dangerous. I was surprised that the post office assigned those to some of these routes out here, but you 
know, they did and I did what I'm told!  
 
EH: (laughs) And before that, tell me about the vehicles you had over the years? 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Bruce Elliot– 5/7/22 
6 
 
 
BE: Oh my goodness. Had a 1970 Torino which was probably the one that sticks out in my head the most. 
That was kinda neat. That was kind of a jazzy car for a rural route, but yeah, being a rural carrier, when 
you apply for the job, you have to assure them that you have a car that you can carry mail in. And I had 
probably through the life of my postal service, I probably had 10 or 11 cars. Just run them all into the 
ground basically because these roads are rough out here. The '70 Torino was a neat one and then I had a 
(sighs) an Eagle, an AMC Eagle, had a couple of those. I liked those because they were all-wheel drive 
but they were station wagons and those were a lot of dependability on those cars. And then I had a 
International Scout which was kind of neat. I had that during the Blizzard of '78. And it got me through 
when I needed to to, but there were roads closed for a week after that blizzard. Then I had a...most of the 
vehicles I had, most of them were all-wheel drive vehicles or 4-wheel drive vehicles because of the winter 
problems and that's what shocked me so much when the post office assigned me an LLV. But there was a, 
I had a Plymouth Horizon which did not last very long. I actually got that new and it just wasn't built for 
the rural route that I had (laughs) because I mean the roads were tough. Now they have improved a lot. 
When I first started there was probably out of '78 miles, I probably had all but 15 or 20 miles were just 
dirt and gravel roads and it was very rough in the springtime because the roads would get real soft and 
you'd just have to be really careful! But yeah. But yeah, I had a lot of cars! 
 
EH: And were all these left-side drive? 
 
13:27  
 
BE: They were regular drive. Left-drive, yep. The only car, the only vehicle that I had for the route that 
was right-hand drive was the LLV, Long Life Vehicle. You learn how to drive with just your left hand 
and your left food over on the pedals and it's just like riding a bicycle, one you do it, you do it and I felt 
very comfortable on the other side of the steering wheel driving. 
 
EH: Could you describe the scenery and the landscape along your route? You were talking about a creek 
along the way but what does it look like around here for maybe people who have never been to southern 
Ohio? 
 
BE: Oh, the neatest thing about southern Ohio is the rolling hills. You can really see a lot of different 
landscape but the hills are really, hills and wildlife. One, I remember one winter morning I was driving on 
one of the rural routes and came around a sharp curve and I looked to my left and there were at least, I 
was, I slowed down and started counting them. There was at least 50 wild turkeys running into the woods 
and it was just kind of a sight that you don't get to see very often and as a rural carrier, I got to see that. 
And then we had Amish, old order Amish moved in and I got a lot of insight on their living and quickly 
realized how important the rural carrier is to those Amish because they communicate by letters and they 
just couldn't wait for the mailman to come. And that was kinda neat and I'd get to talk with them a little 
bit about their life and how they're doing and one time I remember the postmaster was riding with me 
inspecting my route--they do that annually--and one of the Amish horses, a big draft horse, got loose and 
just ran out in front of me and he just, the postmaster was in the backseat and he just said, "There's a 
horse!" I said, "Yeah." I just acted like it'd happen every day. But, yeah, it's you get to see things that no 
one else ever gets to see and it neat. The people, you see in the obituaries that maybe a lady lost her 
husband and you kinda pay a little closer attention to that when they're out to get their mail or something, 
you might want to say something to them just to see how they're doing! And I always took all that as part 
of my job to be a part of the community as well.  
 
16:19  
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Bruce Elliot– 5/7/22 
7 
 
EH: Mmhm. And what about other animals? So you'd talked about deer, wild turkey, horses--were dogs 
an issue on your route? 
 
BE: Oh yes! Dogs were an issue. I had a Pitbull once and he almost, he got a hold of the tire. My right 
front tire and I thought he was gonna burst it. He was holding onto it just growling and I finally distracted 
him enough to get away and then I drove off, but yeah, there's a lot of people in this farming community 
have dogs and you just learn to look out for it. When I have a package for somebody, the first thing I do 
when I pull in is I look in the yard and see if there's any stuff from the dog in the yard, number one, so I 
don't step in it! And the other is, if it's there then I know that there's a dog nearby. There's things like that 
and I try to make a little bit of noise before I get out because there's nothing worse than having a big 
package and getting halfway to the house and a dog comes around the corner. And you learn real quick to 
put the package between you and the dog and you kinda walk backwards and get back in the car, but that, 
fortunately, that doesn't happen too often. You pretty much know who has the dogs after a few years of 
running the route and just be very careful with it. But yeah, I've seen baby deer laying in the road. Did 
that one day I was on a rural road and there was a fawn laying in the middle of the road and I stopped the 
car and I got out to move it because I was afraid, number one I thought it was hit but it wasn't. It was just 
laying there. And when I got to the deer, I heard something in the side of the road and it was a stomping 
noise and there was mommy deer just stomping so I decided to get back in the car and drove off, but I 
think mom took care of it after that. But turkeys and deer are the 2 biggest. I've seen a bobcat a couple of 
times and a lot of birds. I kinda like that kinda stuff. Like I say, that was one of the gifts of the job was to 
be able to see wildlife and talk to people. [Granddaughter is listening to Michael Jackson and making 
metal jewelry in the next room] 
 
18:47  
 
EH: Mmhm. Did the landscape along your route change over time? 
 
BE: The biggest change on the landscaping was the lack of floods. When it flooded, I mean the landscape 
would actually kinda change with the water going where it's not supposed to be, but other than that, no. 
Really it has to change. There were some places on my route where I could see literally for 10, 15 miles. I 
mean it was just beautiful and again, I'd think, they're paying me to drive this and see these beautiful 
views. In the fall it was breathtaking down here in the southern Ohio region. I mean it's just beautiful how 
the trees change and it takes a while for them to change and you just see it every day because I mean 
you're on the road every day and you just see those changes each day and it's really. Sometimes it's 
breathtaking how beautiful God makes things. (laughs) 
 
EH: Yeah, that sounds really nice. How did your work in general change over the course of your career?  
 
BE: The biggest changes in the work was how they prepared the mail for you and then we obtained 
scanners--we started scanning packages and that was where it's easy to do but for someone that's been 
doing it the other way for so long, I mean it's just a different way to do things. I mean I understand it but 
it's just kinda hard to learn. But once I learned it it was fine, but the big changes were the scanning and 
then the LLV which you know, I mentioned before. It was for this kind of route I just don't think they 
should give them out but the scanning would make us more let me say attentive to the packages where 
you put them, and that was always interesting thing. People got so that they expected, they'd know where 
I put the packages and that's, I'd always try to put them in the same place, but the scanning you'd have to 
wait and scan the package where you put it and the scanners are so accurate the recorded that where you 
did that. So I mean that's good, you know, but it's just hard to adjust after a while. 
 
EH: Yes, yeah. 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Bruce Elliot– 5/7/22 
8 
 
 
21:22  
 
 
21:22  
EH: Do you have any stories about an unusual day on the job or a strange occurrence, or when you talk 
about your work to other people, a story you like to tell? 
 
BE: Oh, there's a few of them but one was I had 3 flat tires in one day. 
 
EH: Oh no! 
 
BE: I was fortunate enough I carried 2 spares, but yeah, it's, they put things on the road in the spring to 
solidify the road a little bit and sometimes they get some sharp flint in it and it just cut into my tires and 
yeah, I'd have a lot of flat tires. And sometimes people would stop and try to help me and other times they 
just look at me and nod because they knew what was going on! But yeah, that was one of the tougher 
days, but winter of '78 I mean with the roads closed, you worried about people and you'd want to get there 
to give them the mail and check on them or whatever and that was a very interesting time on the post 
office with my job. It's just, there was just so much snow that year and the drifting was unbelievable and a 
lot of people suffered but that was probably the biggest memory was the '78 and the 3 flats. Just, it's just 
every day was an experience and that's probably, that's probably why I worked so long is people will ask 
me you know, how do you do that job because you just do the same thing every day? Well, you may do 
somethings every day the same, but when you drive every day's different and then that's what's kinda neat 
about the job. 
 
EH: Did you listen to the radio or books on tape or anything like that? 
 
BE: Well, you're not supposed to be distracted, but I did listen to the radio some because it at times you 
just need to get news or weather statements and I listened to just a lot of talk shows, some music 
sometimes but a lot of talk shows.  
 
EH: What do you wish that the general public knew about the work of being a rural mail carrier? 
 
24:04  
 
BE: Preparing the mail, how tedious a job that is. Now, granted, that know they've went to what they call 
Delivery Point Sequence mail, which is DPS which is a computer puts the letters in order. When I started, 
that did not happen. You had to put everything in order. Now you get trays of letters, they are now in 
order but back when I started, I mean that literally, you would spend a lot of time in the office preparing 
the mail and you would make sure you prepared it correctly because getting out on a route and finding out 
you did not prepare it correctly would make for a real long day, so yeah. I mean people need to realize, I 
mean, you get anywhere from 1,000 to 1800 letters a day, you get 200-400 pieces of magazines or 
newspapers--flats is what we call them. And to get all that ready and then the biggest burden are the 
parcels. Towards the end of my career, the parcels becoming more and more and more, and that is very 
time consuming to get those parcels in order and not miss them when you go to the house that has a parcel 
you have to mark 'em or remember and there were days when I'd have 80, 90, 100, 110 parcels and that 
takes a lot of room in the vehicle, plus just remembering, so mental stress is a pretty, pretty big thing in 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Bruce Elliot– 5/7/22 
9 
 
the post office because you got to do things correctly. If you do not, you got a problem and it makes an 
easy day very hard. 
 
EH: Yeah. Did you develop relationships with your coworkers over the years? 
 
BE: Oh, I tried to be the funny guy in the office and it helps. It's very intense in the morning when the 
mail comes in and you've got to get your mail, get it ready and get it out on the route because if you're late 
getting out on the route, then it, then it kinda snowballs on you and if something happens on the route and 
you get later and later and later, and that's not good. So I always try to keep people upbeat and you know, 
we're all there for a reason and it's to get the mail to the customers, so I took that seriously. That's what I 
did. 
 
26:54  
 
EH: Are there any sort of saying or jokes or superstitions among rural carriers about, or carriers or postal 
workers in general about the mail? 
 
BE: Oh I can't say that. I just tell everybody you can be miserable if you want to be, let's get it done. 
(laughs) 
 
EH: What do you think the importance of rural mail carrying is to the community you serve? 
 
BE: Well it brings the community together. I think probably one of the things that a lot of people in the 
cities don't realize is how rural places are! Especially in southern Ohio. It is very rural and there are, can I 
say, different things that happen in rural that city people never see or never realize. And it would be kinda 
nice if the city people could come out to rural areas a little bit more and just realize what some of the rural 
folk get into. (laughs) But yeah, that's it. 
 
EH: Were there any deliveries you had that were particular for rural life, or unusual mail deliveries? 
 
BE: Well, I delivered a lot of chickens and they'd be little baby peepers, and throw 'em in the car and go 
with 'em! And they'd be cheeping, cheeping, cheeping, cheeping and then all of a sudden when you'd 
deliver them the car would get awful quiet as you'd kinda get used to that noise all the time and they are 
noisy! I'd have 3 and 4 boxes of baby chickens. You'd always get those in the late spring and they'd make 
a lot of noise and people were really very appreciative of that, that you'd take care of them, get them 
delivered to them. Amish people in particular because they, with their beliefs, they were pretty much 
waiting on the mailman all the time. So chickens and quails and ducks are the three wildlife things that I 
delivered. 
 
EH: Was there anything else kind of particular to serving an Amish family or Amish community? 
 
29:36  
 
BE: Number one, you really watched out of the kids because a lot of Amish families, I mean this one lady 
had 12 kids and while they usually stayed off the road, you just had to be very aware and that was 
probably, that's for all deliveries, you always have to watch out for kids. But not quite as bad in rural 
areas as far as the kids go. If you get into a congested area, you just have to, you always have to be 
looking all the time and checking your mirrors and making sure things are safe for you to pull away from 
the box. I've had kids get between me and the mailbox before I even pulled away to get the mail out of the 
box because they get excited and when I see the kids, I'll always tell them stay back behind the box until I 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Bruce Elliot– 5/7/22 
10 
 
get away and then they can come get the mail. And they pretty much heeded to that, but the Amish, they 
just really appreciated me delivering mail, 'cause that was their way of communication with each other 
and you would soon learn that letters would come from Wisconsin or something and it's relatives and they 
just loved it. Couldn't wait. And funny thing is when I first started there was 5 ladies on the route with the 
same name and it was before they used street address. Everything came Route 1. And I asked the guy that 
was training me, I said, how in the word do you know which Mary Smeltzer this is?  
 
EH: Yeah! 
 
BE: And he said you look at the return address because you know which ones they talk to. 
 
EH: Wow!  
 
BE: Oh! Okay. And then if you got it wrong, they all went to the same Catholic church and they'd trade 
there and they laughed about it but yeah, 5 ladies with the same name and everything came Route 1, so... 
 
EH: Wow. 
 
BE: Yeah! That was interesting. 
 
EH: You really had to keep a lot in your brain. 
 
BE: Oh, yeah! Yeah, when you had to learn how to look at the return address! To figure out who is 
supposed to get that letter, it's funny. (laughs) 
 
EH: So when did addresses get implemented? 
 
BE: Street addresses came into being just before I got here in '81 so I had a little tougher problem learning 
the route because some of the mail was still coming Route 1 and other ones were coming with the street 
address, numbering address, so I had to learn both ways. So, that was fun.  
 
EH: Were you a member of the NRLCA (National Rural Letter Carriers Association)? 
 
BE: Yes, I still am, as a matter of fact.  
 
EH: So tell me a little more about the union and what that does for rural mail carriers. 
 
BE: Well the union, they listen to you and they realize they know the problem that rural carriers have, 
that's probably the biggest thing. You get some suits that haven't been in a rural area, they have no idea 
what you're talking about. It's just like the LLV for instance. I was kind of disappointed with the union 
not fighting that more. I mean there are rural areas that are rural route and then there are rural routes that 
aren't really rural and mine was very rural and when they did that, I mean it was, like I said, it was 
dangerous! And I was kind of disappointed in the union not backing me up on that, but you know, they've 
got a lot of irons in the fire, I get it, so, you know. But they're there to understand what you're saying and 
to help you. 
 
33:29  
 
EH: What would you say was the most challenging part of your job? 
 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Bruce Elliot– 5/7/22 
11 
 
BE: At times keeping my car road-worthy. But just the morning is challenging, just getting everything 
ready and going at it, it's just, you're on--rural carriers don't clock in and clock out. They are told to report 
at a certain time, you report at that time, and then you work and then you're supposed to get out on the 
road at a certain time. Well, you get all of this mail and mail fluctuates some, but you still have this 
schedule you're supposed to try to get on, and that can be frustrating at times.  
 
EH: And what did you like the best? 
 
BE: Oh, the people. People at work and people on the route. That's just you know, you can be miserable if 
you want to be and if you go with a positive attitude, good things can happen to you. There's times when 
rotten things happen, but we're good, you know, just everything is life is temporary! (laughs) Including 
your life! And another funny thing is when my wife was expecting, one of our kids, we have 5 and the 
postmaster, she was-- called the postmaster would know by the time about where I was on the route, and 
then he would call one of the customers and they'd put a letter in the box if that came to be, but 
fortunately she had the kid and I was home, so.  
 
EH: (laughs) Nice. I'm gonna take a look at my questions to make sure we've covered everything. 
[hammering sounds by granddaughter working in next room] Are there or were there any unique 
mailboxes on your route? 
 
BE: Oh, I had a John Deere tractor mailbox which was kinda neat. And then had a couple homemade ones 
that were interesting, I mean I understand why they made them, but I couldn't get all the mail in them, so 
we had to have a little talk about that and they changed it, but yeah, the John Deere one was pretty neat. I 
took a picture of it and sent it to my buddy that farms in another town. He kinda liked that.  
 
36:14  
 
EH: Did you wear anything in particular on the job depending on the weather--like a raincoat or that sort 
of thing? 
 
BE: Oh, absolutely. You'd pay attention to the weather the day before and figure out what you're gonna 
wear the next day or that night for the next day. But I had vests were a big thing--down vests because that 
kept my body warm, my upper body, but it kept my arms pretty free and that's, moving the arms. I'd use a 
defroster a lot to warm up my hand that was going outside, when it was below zero, my hand on that--my 
right hand would get really cold reaching out and getting the boxes and that was the other tough thing is 
when you'd have an ice storm, that was the worst weather you could have. Not only are the roads a sheet 
of ice but there's a quarter inch of ice on the mailbox--you can't open the thing! So it--that was a 
challenge, but you know, you get through it, you learn.  
 
EH: You said there was an instance where, or farmers would maybe help pull you out of a ditch. Are there 
any examples you can think of where you helped a customer? 
 
BE: Oh, absolutely. There were times, one time it was Amish and the tractor, the horse-drawn wagon was 
coming down the hill and the horse got spooked or something and started running and then it was a 
runaway and he got down to the regular paved road and the horse turned right and the wagon turned over 
and I got up there and talked to him about it and asked them if they needed some help and they said it was 
okay, but that was kinda scary to see that happen. And then one time I was driving down a road and I 
looked up and there was a horse and buggy coming at me but there was no one driving it and I thought, 
hmm. So I stopped and as soon as I stopped the horse took off running so it was pulling the buggy and 
then I went on down about a half mile and there was an Amish guy walking and he said, "Have you seen a 
AFC 2021/010: Rural Free Delivery: Mail Carriers in Central Appalachia / Emily Hilliard 
Interview with Bruce Elliot– 5/7/22 
12 
 
buggy?" (laughs) I said, yeah! It's heading the other way! He said, "Oh, it's going home. Okay, thank 
you." (laughs) But yeah, there it was going down a state route just lickety split, no driver! And it got 
home! And it just turned right in! 
 
EH: It knew the way at least. 
 
BE: Yep. 
 
38:54  
 
EH: I think those are all my questions. Is there anything I haven't asked about that you would like to 
share?  
 
BE: Not really, you've been pretty thorough with your questions. The biggest thing is that the question 
you asked about what would I want people to know--I think the rural people understand a little better than 
the city people. But I wish the city people would get out here in the country a little bit and just 
understand, don't just come out on a nice sunny day. Come out in the middle of winter sometime and see 
what goes on with the farmers and just life in general out here in rural America. It's different. 
 
EH: Yeah. And do you mean just the general public in cities or city postal workers or all of the above? 
 
BE: All of the above. You can have a postal job in the city and you just don't realize. I mean that was the 
thing. You get back to when I say the union helped you because they had people that's done the walk. 
They did that. And if you were trained in a city post office, you just have no idea. Their problems are 
different than our problems and I understand that. There are different, different problems for different 
offices that has directly to do with the environment, where you are. 
 
EH: What do you think the future holds for the craft of rural letter carrying? 
 
BE: I am concerned. I think that it probably will change substantially with all the new tech stuff and when 
you have FedEx, UPS and Amazon and they're taking a lot of parcels, which in one way it's fine because 
there's no way the post office could handle that whole parcel volume. However, letters are becoming a 
thing of the past and magazine are becoming a thing of the past, so that's gonna shrink up. The big thing is 
the parcel delivery and I think that will keep the post office solvent as much as it can, but the letters and 
the flats are drying up and you know, I understand that. That just calls for a bigger change in the post 
office. 
 
EH: Well thank you so much for your time! 
 
BE: Well thank you very much! I appreciate the project that you're doing and hope I helped. 
 
EH: Yeah, you did!  
 
41:55  
 
END OF TAPE 
END OF INTERVIEW