Eric Jordan, Fisherman, troller, Sitka 
Interviewed By Josh Wisniewski 03/22/2021 
American Folklife Center 
 
 
0:00-05:00 
Boat voltage, cum trolling, tying lures, hooks, chum salmon as plankton feeders. 
Born September 1949, in Wrangell, Aaska into the troll fishery. Was on boat nxt 
trolling season beginning in 1950 Hospital was used to store excess canned 
salmon.  Lived with parents on 32 ft wooden troller named Salty.  Has trolled for 
salmon for 70 years, only missed one season in 1973.  Growing up on boat.  New 
boat when 4 years old Nohusit.   
 
05:00-10:00 
Explosion at fuel dock in Ketchikan. Rescued by mom, burned all over body, Dad 
rebuilt the boat, three younger sisters, family moves to Petersburg.  Loved 
fishing from an early age.  Experimenting with lures, fishing Kenai River, learning 
that different stocks respond to different attractants.   Working in teaching in 
and health care.  Beginning hand trolling in 1974.  Move to Sitka, starting 
fisherman aquaculture association.  Wife gets teaching job, fishing politics, 
interest in conservation. 
 
10:00-15:00 
Appointed to Advisory Panel of the North Pacific Fisheries Management Council 
(NPFMC) onvolved in allocation issue between hand and power trollers.  Visiting 
and learning from good fishermen.   Pre-Statehood ethic to protect rebuild 
stocks, control of fisheries and enhancement.  influences, 1981 sell house by 
wooden boat Sudan.  Learning to catch salmon.  Dad didn’t Lile hydraulics used 
all electric anchor winch and gurdies.  Dad’s best day was 55 king salmon.  Today 
can catch 180 on first day of fishing.   Learning flashers and hootchies. Art of 
trolling for kings with with herring, targeting salmon returning to spawn in on 
inside waters.  Pioneering outside waters and Fairweather Grounds.  Successful 
fishermen using hootchies. 
 
15:00-20:00 
Understanding attracting patterns versus imitating hatch.  Learning that shortfin 
squid is food for king and coho salmon and matching it to hootchies.  Not using 
bait for king salmon fishing from 1982-2002, using limited bait.  Dad dies of 
Leukemia in 1965, Family moved out of Alaska, Coming back to fish in Alaska 
while in college.  Mom gets job with Forest Service in Petersburg, remarries, 
husband has 36 ft troller built.  Named for mom “I Gotta” 
 
20:00-25:00 
Buying the I Gotta taking mom fishing, defacto skipper, fishing with mom, and 
sisters, working with women defines life, learning to treat people with respect, 
key to fishing success, having great crew and treating them well.  Hatchery chum 
production the greatest success of southeast Alaska salmon enhancement. 
 
25:00-30:00 
Learning to fish for chum.  1988 good coho bite off shore, seeing salmon all over 
surface of the water. Decide to try and catch chum catches 50.  
 
Eric Jordan, Fisherman, troller, Sitka 
Interviewed By Josh Wisniewski 03/22/2021 
American Folklife Center 
30:00-35:00 
Making 7,000 lb chum delivery, pioneering chum fishery. Hatchery chum 
production grows. 
 
35:00-40:00 
Trolling for pink salmon, learning how to store fish, getting a good price, 
increasing effort on pink trolling.   Fishing for chum in Deep Inlet (Sound of rain 
and hail in background) Loading troll gear with 263 chum.   
 
40:00-45:00 
Calling in partners, further experimentation with Chum gear, partners use bare 
blue hooks.  Fishing sparse gear for chum salmon, painting swivels, learning 
which flashers work for chum. Partners realize chum have different feeding 
pattern than other salmon, eat plankton all day.   Rebuilding boats for chum 
trolling.  Bleeding and slush icing fish.   
 
45:00-50:00 
Chum fishing in Icy Strait, big numbers in chum and pink fishery, changes in 
fishing.  Seeing different age classes in chum returning to Sitka Sound.  Fishing 
with mom and son in East Channel catching chum salmon while fleet is coho 
fishing, catching 1,100 chum in one day.   
 
50:00-55:00 
Two days in career have caught over 400 coho in a single day.  Learning to catch 
chum making a better fisherman.  Fishing at high level involves working with 
partners, involvement in fisheries politics to get allocations and areas set aside 
for trolling, protecting habitat requires good relationships.  Not just about 
reacting to what is going on in the environment.  Using technology to see what is 
happening.  Re learning how to catch king salmon every trip.  Never having it 
“figured out” Responding to what is happening, speculate as to why.  Fishermen 
are futurists, anticipating what is happening. 
 
55:00-60:00 
Using knowledge, experience and always getting more information.  Looking at 
things in the big picture.  What is happening in run, and how the body of fish are 
moving focus on the minutia and the macro.  Fisherman from Fairweather 
Grounds describes moving to new areas when fishing was good and adding more 
gear.  Learning tricks and anticipating. “Stick and stay and make it pay.  Fishing 
king salmon, leaving good fishing area, finding king salmon.   
 
1:00-1:05:00 “Having a hunch”. Being adventurous, trying new fishing techniques.  Talking to 
fisherman unwilling to adapt to changing gear to fish for chum salmon. Hand 
trolling, learning how important each “bite” is.  Not about how many one 
catches in one day, about where fish will be biting next. 
 
1:05-1:10:00 Trolling salmon about paying attention to minute details and big picture, climate 
change, market conditions.  Hand trolling and importance of relations.  Advice 
from highliner Chuck Barker.  Fort Bragg Steel troller.  Paid for what we deliver, 
not for the hours we work, deliveries based on the decisions we make.  Don’t be 
Eric Jordan, Fisherman, troller, Sitka 
Interviewed By Josh Wisniewski 03/22/2021 
American Folklife Center 
so tired you don’t make the best decisions, gear recommendations, #5 Superior 
spoon #7 Barker Hook. Caught more fish based on that advice.  Example of 
minute detail and the big picture.  Making decisions, finding fish. 
 
1:10-1:20:00 Helping others comes back to you.  Coding groups, trolling culture, use of radio 
communications.  Republican Code, Charleston Code, Drink Code.  Changes in 
radios from sharing stories, open channel culture. Ethic of limiting the sharing of 
information.  Coding group meltdown on radio, multiple coding groups, finding 
other coding groups.   Trolling communication different now.   Growing up 
people shared information with hand signals.  Fishy boats.  Treating bottom of 
boat with copper, zinc and aluminum zincs.  Salmon sensitive to magnetic field. 
 
1:20-125:00 
 Differential between hull and line voltage, tuning magnetic field.  Tuning the 
boat to right voltage to attract salmon.   Different hulls, amplify voltage and 
attract more fish.  Installing a Black Box on the Sudan.   
 
1:25-1:30:00 Varying levels of fish attractiveness, being out of tune, being generally in tune, 
being in magical tune.  Black magic realm of being totally dialed in. Friend, 
master fisherman.  Changes in fisheries, still catching fish with hook and line, 
relationships most important part. 
 
130:1:35:00 
Certain principles constant in fishing.  Salmon fishermen involved in habitat 
protection and conservation to sustain salmon.  Gear, communication and 
markets evolving. Sustaining and enhancing runs.  Salmon are wonderful living 
creatures treated with respect.  Universals in fishing, sustaining runs, respecting 
fish, good partners and crews. Adapting to climate change, fishermen seeing 
changes.  Boat conversion to diesel, electric system.  Fishing fleets need to be a 
fuel efficient as possible, reducing fuel consumption.  Advice to young people 
only reason to go trolling is can’t imagine life without doing it.   
 
1:35-1:40:43 Not about money, making enough to sustain self.  Didn’t go fishing to get rich, 
couldn’t imagine sitting on the beach when fish are biting, and experiencing wild 
places.  Later years, focus on sharing experiences with people who want to learn, 
get away from screens, to be in environment catching wonderful creatures.  Final 
thoughts, small boat fishing legacy is a wonderful life, if we can figure out how to 
make available.  Being on the ocean in a small boat is unique on earth enriching 
experience .  World is magical needs to be taken care of. 
 
1:40:43 
End