Occupational Folklife Project | Food Processing and Legacy Trades: White Oak Pastures. Amber Harris, Speciality Products Manager
Food Processing and Legacy Trades 
Title: White Oak Pastures interview with Amber Harris 
Interview conducted by Makalé Faber Cullen 
Interview/Event ID: afc2015042_04180 
Date of Interview: 2017-05-31 
Location: Bluffton, GA   
Duration of Interview / Event (Total): 01:07:11 
Summary of  Interview: 
Amber Harris oversees all aspects of White Oak Pastures’ “added-value” items, including leather, soap and 
candles — from design and production to marketing and sales. Having formerly worked as a criminal 
investigator in the U.S. Federal probation system in Atlanta, she came to her White Oak Pastures work by 
following her heart and future wife, Jenni Harris, the 5th Generation to run the farm. Originally from a rural 
Georgia town she reflects on her return to rural life and finding her true professional calling on the farm. She 
discusses all aspects of her wide-ranging work, the culture of kindness and ethics she tries to cultivate as a 
manager, and the sense of responsibility and pride she feels as part of the large White Oak Pasture family of 
workers. 
Interview Log: 
0 00 13 Amber Harris describes the room and building where she works — the Hide Barn is the newest 
building in the White Oak Pasture (WOP) family of businesses that is reanimating Bluffton, GA. It houses 
the Leather Workshop, Tallow Goods and Pet Chew departments. She describes the outside building features, 
racks of sun-dried rawhides… 
She also introduces herself. Amber was born in Marietta, Georgia, on August 17, 1985. Her title is Speciality 
Products Manager…  
0 01 15 Amber describes her current job duties. The Specialty Products Manger at WOP oversees all the 
smaller businesses and start-ups within the farm: eggs, honey, tallow, pet chews, leather, and social media. She 
determines how they work and fit into the WOP’s farming practices and zero-waste model. 
Amber started working part-time on weekends (coming from Atlanta) beginning in January of 2013. She 
became a full-time employee in June of 2013. 
0 03 11 Amber discusses her previous jobs at the farm, beginning as a novice working with eggs: learning to 
candle and package them. She describes the egg production line: collecting eggs from the farm’s 4,000 laying 
hens, monitoring the time the eggs spend in a cooler, candling and preparing inspected and cleaned eggs for 
market sale. She describes the tools and machines used while she was working with laying hens and eggs as 
well as learning how to grade and her process of becoming certified by the Department of Agriculture 
Amber also shares how she, as an extremely picky eater, learned to talk passionately about and sell, and 
eventually even eating and loving, WOP’s pastured eggs. 
0 08 33 Amber’s work prior to arriving at WOP — she was a criminal investigator in the U.S. federal 
probation system living and working in downtown Atlanta. She gives details of her work and reasons for 
switching careers. 
0 09 55 Amber first came to White Oak Pastures in 2012, after she met and and began dating Jenni Harris, 
fifth generation member of the Harris farm family that owns WOP.  
0 11 09 Amber discusses her small town roots, home town of Adairsville, GA, being a lesbian in a small town 
and her move to Atlanta to attend Georgia State University. She reflects on leaving the city and returning to a 
small town way of life and the relationships that sustain her — relationships which she’s found are deeper 
  of  
1
4
Occupational Folklife Project | Food Processing and Legacy Trades: White Oak Pastures. Amber Harris, Speciality Products Manager
and more numerous in her rural town than in the city. She regrets having left her family’s small town but 
appreciates having found Jenni and the farm.  
0 12 48 Amber muses about those regrets, speaking of her older sister and nephew. 
0 13 05 Amber returns to discussing the arc of her jobs/career at WOP. When her manager took over all 
poultry production, Amber was promoted to manager of the egg department, overseeing packaging, 
employee training, order fulfillment, and organizing a small space for production efficiencies. This was a 
learning experience in management and the farm. 
0 16 19 Success with egg management was essential to preparing her to assume her present position as 
Specialty Products Manager.  
0 16 26  Amber details one step in her career path at the farm: taking over the fledgling business of making 
rawhide treats—lifting and working on cattle hides by herself, sun drying them, and single handedly building 
the farm’s pet chew venture. 
0 19 18 Amber recounts her steps determining if a pet chew venture would be viable going door-to-door at 
pet stores in Atlanta. Pet store owners helped her understand what customers want, which refined her 
offerings and her understanding of how much processing of these non-meat parts WOP needed to take on—
as retailers and customers wanted more than just sun-dried rawhide. She discusses the extension of good-
sustainable food to pet treats.  
0 21 29 Amber and the start of processing and packaging dehydrated tracheas, esophagi, poultry feet, and bull 
chips for wholesale for the “pet chew” arm of the business.  
0 23 29 Amber shares that what drew her to working with “waste” was observing the composting of hides. 
Believing in the zero-waste philosophy of the farm, she wants to utilize the “waste”—parts of the animal 
“that actually tells the story of animals’ lives in the pasture.” 
0 24 50 Amber relates how her transition from eggs and hens to cattle occurred. I was a White Oak Pasture 
employee rather than just a poultry person… 
0 26 17 Her foray into leather and tallow began similarly. Amber gives the example of first learning to make 
soap and then moving to candles, lip balm, and gardener’s salve, products all inspired by employee needs. 
0 29 14 That so many hides were being sent off-farm for processing bothered Amber. She describes her 
strong feelings that cows born, raised, slaughtered, butchered, packaged, and sold on the farm should have 
their hides processed on the farm as well. What was being done with the pet chews could be done with the 
hide.  
0 29 39 Amber sets about researching local tanneries and supply chain security. She describes packing up and 
transporting 30 to 60 hides to a family-owned tannery in Sebring, Florida. 
0 31 46 She tells how the Sebring tanners walked her through the whole process of tanning, source-verifying, 
and working with a variety of hides. She describes the size of their tanning drums, their cycle of production 
(30 hides at a time), and the game-hunting vs agriculture market for processing hides. Amber discusses the 
south Georgia heat that determines when (what time of year) and how long WOP can keep its hides. The 
farm keeps hides for 10 weeks, usually in the winter when there are fewer bugs. Amber describes the on-farm 
salting and preserving process that stabilizes hides pulled from animals at the red meat abattoir and the drive 
she makes to the Sebring facility to deposit cured hides and, five to six months later, pick up tanned leather. 
She keeps careful notes about animal’s hide colors and discusses the design process of further transforming 
leather into goods. 
  of  
2
4
Occupational Folklife Project | Food Processing and Legacy Trades: White Oak Pastures. Amber Harris, Speciality Products Manager
0 35 14 Amber shares some of her process for selecting goods made from the leather — and the additional 
processing needed to create goods at WOP. For example, bags are hand-stained with color, stitched and 
constructed using a pattern and on-farm industrial sewing machine…If a hide is tanned and turns out to be 
especially attractive, she’ll often try to sell it as a whole rug instead of processing it. 
0 35 58 Amber shares some unpredictables about her work. There are very steady inputs from the abattoirs 
that butt up against a more volatile customer /demand base. One month she may have 10 customers and the 
next, none. Sometimes, they sell out of a color or style, other times they can’t move a particular color or style. 
She discusses the challenges of trends, especially color trends. 
0 38 11 Amber shares how she tries to work with and secure customers in creative ways and she describes the 
impact of the WOP General Store store in Bluffton, and she comments on the role of Facebook and social 
media in business. 
0 39 10 Amber shares how she fell into social media marketing at the farm, taking this responsibility from her 
wife Jenni who actually needed more time to communicate directly with customers, with chefs in Atlanta, and 
with the farm’s distributors. She says that she now wishes she didn’t have the social media responsibility atop 
everything else she has to do. Nonetheless, she says that her work on social media is necessary and describes 
the benefits of sharing the farm’s goings ons. She also describes the challenges and the need to protect the 
farm and its employees and animals from negative responses. 
0 44 32 Amber describes her team of staff reports and colleagues and the culture of working in her 
departments with particular products. She describes the employees who have helped launch the new business 
arms and what has attracted and retained talent.  
0 46 14 Amber discusses a recent hire and teammate, Laura Wall, in the leather department and what she 
contributes as a seasoned craftsperson to the production, retail and design components of the leather 
business. She goes on to discuss the tallow department and the process of hiring in the very small town of 
Bluffton and what qualities she looks for. 
0 49 04 On the challenges of keeping the pet chew department staffed. “The number of employees has 
fluctuated from one to five back to one because the job is hard and dirty, with long cold days of being 
outside….” The work, which Amber has done and still contributes to is hard, but it needs to be done: taking 
residual meat and fat off cow hides for eight hours a day so they can properly cure. Amber says her challenge 
as a manager is to keep employees, especially those working on the hardest tasks, motivated.  
She explains her work of cultivating motivation as changing the work chores daily. “A person who fleshes one 
day, will de-hair the next, hang the next, cut the next, then roll the next.” The weeks look the same, but the 
days do not. This helps the workers. If they can get through Mondays and Tuesdays, which are the harder 
days, they know that the end of the week won’t be so strenuous… But a person still can’t do that for too 
long.” Amber describes the challenges of finding the right people — hard working, under difficult 
circumstances, yet friendly and able to greet and interact with customers who regularly wander into their 
outdoor workspace. A smiling face is important…” 
0 52 18 Adjusting to managing varying numbers of employees with not just constant, but steadily increasing 
amounts of work has been challenging. Amber said that getting everyone trained means putting aside her 
other pressing tasks that can’t be delegated only to return to them later. Its hard to ever catch up but there is a 
cycle of work and life at WOP and in the small town of Bluffton that make that much easier to manage than 
elsewhere. 
0 52 57 Another challenge Amber faces is managing all of her departments by herself. The departments she 
overseas are the only ones within the company where the manager (Amber) is also the person who also does 
sales, marketing, packaging, and shipping. She compares this to the beef plant which has different workers for 
each of those tasks. 
  of  
3
4
Occupational Folklife Project | Food Processing and Legacy Trades: White Oak Pastures. Amber Harris, Speciality Products Manager
Amber shares that she and her employees start work at 7:30 a.m. or 8:00 a.m., but for her there aren’t enough 
hours in the day to get through the hides, get orders shipped, prepare a game plan for the day, work on 
emails, schedule social media posts, check that all is going smoothly in the egg room, see if the dehydrator is 
empty and new products are needed, and share in the workers’ work. And yet, despite the mountain of work, 
it’s most important to keep her team inspired. “If they see me pick up a knife to help them take the hair off a 
hide or if I help Ivy pour candles…they know that I’ll help them through the good and bad parts of the job.”  
Amber says her to-do list is long and growing and that, sometimes, she doesn’t shut off her computer until 
2:00 a.m. On other evenings, she’s in bed at 8:00 p.m. “It depends on what has to be done.” 
0 57 04 On what gets Amber up in the morning and what she loves about being on the farm—“I love being 
busy and knowing that something different happens daily.” But not knowing what is happening daily is also 
the scary part of the job. Amber describes her “desk” work as different from her staff’s work in significant 
ways — their jobs are more physically labor intensive, and hers is more mental and involves running around 
— a lot of agility. But, she maintains that pausing and picking up a knife every so often and doing the 
grueling physical work lets her team know that she can also work hard, that she understands their work is 
difficult and that their work isn’t in vain. The culture of WOP is such that she says that she doesn’t necessarily 
feel like she’s going to work at WOP, but rather that she’s going to work with her friends and neighbors. She 
gets to do fun things, come up with new ideas and be creative.  
0 59 14 So much money is on the line with each new WOP venture that “you can’t just be an ideas person, 
you have to make things work. When I get an idea, I can approach Mr. Will, likely get a yes, and then continue 
to add to what he calls my Amb-pire…You can’t work for a better place than White Oak Pastures…I’ve had 
many different jobs in my nearly 32 years and there’s no better place than this to live, work, and play in the 
same place with the same people. It’s what gets me up every day.” 
1 00 24 On the future, Amber says that she would love to have a tannery on the farm one day. “Mr. Will 
hasn’t said no, but has said maybe.” She shares that the farm has already brain- and vegetable-tanned rabbit-, 
lamb-, and goat-skins. Giving some details, she speaks of brain tanning, a process she is passionate about 
mastering, “…but there isn’t time in the day.” 
1 02 21 “For everything to work [i.e. brain tanning on the farm], the weather must be perfect and everything 
has to be great for the regular eight hours of work….There’s a lot to learn.” 
1 03 03 Aside from the few case studies Amber took on, WOP doesn’t brain tan though they do sell bleached, 
dried cattle skulls, which sell very well. She describes the difficult process of removing the brain — some of 
which she saves in her freezer for tanning experiments…an extension of tannery training she received in 
Texas. 
1 03 53 It was not really a school—just me and the instructor—but I learned a lot. I have pages of notes and 
can still contact the instructor… But, she notes, the lessons recede since she doesn’t have opportunities to  
apply what she has learned to use on the farm. She describes returning and working “on a couple of lamb 
hides that turned out like baby’s blankets that we sold, but we should have kept them and put them on the 
wall…It takes lots of work to brain tan a hide, but it’s worth it for you get a fine product.” Amber shares her 
vision for a WOP tannery. 
1 05 38 Amber closes with humorous thoughts on the ways working at WOP have changed her palate. 
1 07 11 END
  of  
4
4