Date 
November 19, 2020 
Time 
5:30pm 
Interviewer 
Edward Y. Millar 
Interviewee 
Tom Stevens 
Location 
Tom’s House 
Audio log 
Prepared by: 
Edward Y. Millar 
Collection 
Number 
AFC 2020/013    
The Ransomville Speedway: Dirt Track Workers in Western New York 
 
Archie Green Fellowship Ransomville Speedway Interviews,  
American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fieldnotes 
Pre-Interview 
I arrived to Tom’s place in Sanborn for 530 after leaving work around 5 or so: Sanborn is only 10-15 
minutes down 31 from Niagara University, so it was a pretty quick drive. We scheduled for 530 in the 
evening, after Tom got back from his job in North Tonawanda. Unfortunately, I was feeling somewhat 
out of it by the time I got there, as the lack of sleep from the previous night was starting to catch up to 
me and learning my eight month old niece had tested positive for Covid and wasn’t feeling well, so was 
feeling a lot of worry and stress for my brother and his wife. Earlier I had entertained the idea of maybe 
pushing it back later, but as the winter is starting to set in, and cases are starting to rise again here and 
had already had to reschedule the interview once because of museum commitments the previous week, 
wanted to make sure we kept pace and carried on with the interview. And I always found fieldwork to 
be invigorating / reenergizing, especially when there is a lot of other stuff going on.  
When I got there Tom greeted me at the door and I took my shoes off, and we got set up in his living 
room, setting up my Zoom H5 between us. I’ve been leaning on using the Shotgun-style microphone for 
the interviews mostly, and recently trimmed back some of the excess faux fur on the windscreen, as it 
was interfering with some video shoots we were doing a few weeks ago. So it looks a bit more 
‘managed’. 
 As usual protocol I left my mask on, and we spent a few minutes talking through about the project, 
explaining where things will be archived and the like. We then shifted focus to talking about the 
photography that he takes and how it can be incorporated into the project & Library of Congress, and 
towards the exhibit we will be organizing at the museum. After signing some paperwork, we then 
jumped right into it. 
Interview  
During the interview, I ended up sitting on the floor, as I felt that sitting on the opposite side of the 
room on a couch felt a bit distant / not as natural. We spoke briefly about his family connection to the 
Ransomville Speedway, before focusing on his experience in taking photographs at the Ransomville 
Speedway, and recently coming on as the Track Photographer for the 2018 season. For the interview I 
tried to focus on learning more about some of the specific challenges and skills needed with taking track 
photography, and Tom talked in great detail about the different ‘types’ of photographs he takes 
throughout the night, and how it involves a mix of skill and luck – of being in the right time, and the right 
place.  
Post-Interview 
After the conclusion of the interview, I shared with Tom my general timeline for digitizing the interview 
and sending him a copy, packed up my things and headed home, keeping an eye out for deer on the 
drive back down 31.