Dave Wirth Interview Index 
00:00:01 Mark Wagler talking with David Wirth, May 10, 2014 in Madison.  Born 
August 1963, in Neenah, Wisconsin.  A mix of ethnicities, a lot of Irish and German. 
Has a Bachelor of Science in Elementary Education from University of Wisconsin-
Madison. Held a teaching certificate that was renewable every five years, by taking 
up to 6 credits of either undergraduate or graduate courses or continuing education 
units. Hasn't had his teaching license for a while now. First teaching job was in 
Waunakee, Wisconsin.  Also worked as a substitute teacher year he graduated in 
1990. Also did summer school teaching in a computer lab in Deforest, Wisconsin. 
Got first full-time job in fall of 1991, in Waunakee, teaching fifth grade, which wasn't 
a good fit because David wanted to be in an experiential environment.  Next year got 
a job teaching a combination 4th/5th grade class in Lincoln Elementary School in 
Madison, Wisconsin. Taught at Lincoln from 1992-1998. 
00:03:10 David was not a good student in school, and didn't care for school. Decided 
he wanted to become a teacher to see if there were some other educational 
approaches that would be more comfortable for students who were like him. He 
began taking classes at Madison Area Technical College, and one required an 
aptitude test, which indicated he had an aptitude for teaching. He then took classes 
at UW-Madison and applied to be in the school of education; he didn't get in initially. 
He applied at other schools in Wisconsin, was accepted at UW-Oshkosh, was just 
getting ready to rent an apartment in Oshkosh when he got a call from the dean of 
the school of education saying he got in. David's teaching was affected by not being 
good in school himself. He wanted a fair and balanced environment for all students. 
He wanted to make it different for all students--those who were good at sitting in 
rows, who did their work on time and did all their worksheets--he wanted it to be 
different for them as well as those who weren't good at those things. It was a very 
experiential classroom--they sat at tables, not desks. It was a collaborative 
atmosphere, with project-based work. Students did a lot of investigating. David tried 
to make it a rich experience. 
00:07:15 To recall a typical day at school, David has to think back, because it was a 
while ago.  Typically, getting to Lincoln School in the morning, there were always 
students outside--some had to come early, some liked coming early. They weren't 
allowed in the building early, but David might ask one of them to come inside to help 
him get set up. There was a great cohort of teachers at Lincoln, so a lot of social stuff 
happened early in the morning. Then the bell would ring, students would come in to 
sit, and every morning the students would start out with quiet reading and writing, 
typically writing. So would start with journaling, and students got used to the 
routine of coming in, finding their notebooks, sitting down and writing, which they 
would then share. David did different things on different days, so didn't have a 
"normal" schedule, such as math after writing. He would have a schedule set up on 
the board so that students would know what was happening. And because they did a 
lot of project-based work, his classroom had a lot of open work time. He had a lot of 
science equipment; he had a Living Machine in his classroom, so students would 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
1
work on that--it was an aquarium that filtered down into some wetland plant that 
filtered into some other vegetation. The students would spend time writing and 
working back there, and writing about their observations. Had a lot of computer 
time, because that was a special interest of David's. Students did a lot of editing of 
video on computers. They had computers from a grant with graphical interface and 
mapping capabilities, so students were learning to place data onto maps. 
 
00:10:20 They also had storytime. David had a big carpet with couches, so they 
would sit there to read. Also, the typical interruptions of going to music, going to 
gym class. During that time, David prepared for when they were coming back into 
the classroom. The end of the day usually involved bringing the class back together 
to share what they did during the day. Then they would leave, and David would be 
there about an hour taking care of equipment, putting things back in place, making 
sure things worked correctly. Also a lot of time was spent socializing with other 
teachers in the school. Then he'd go home and do a lot of work at home. He taught 
himself a lot of technology so he could help students learn html, create web pages, 
etc. Would stay up pretty late sometimes, working on the computer and learning 
different applications. What he liked most about teaching: those moments when it 
felt like the class was really getting it. It was interesting to see what kids got 
interested in--not always what you would expect. Looking through the microscope, 
studying daphnia, making observations with the Living Machine. One student came 
in one day and said he had seen a Mallard duck. He had probably seen them a 
thousand times, but never noticed it before until the class started going out to a 
wetland to study. So, what David really liked was opening the class up so students 
could choose what they wanted to do, and what they chose to do was work. 
 
00:13:30 What he didn't like was the dictated curriculum that they were asked to 
do, stuff that broke the stride of what he was trying to do with experiential learning. 
The leadership at Lincoln at that time was trying to move more in the direction of 
experiential learning, so they didn't have a lot of prescribed curriculum. And dealing 
with difficult behaviors--at Lincoln, a number of students came to school with issues 
and problems. David liked trying to help, but it was difficult sometimes. His own 
children told him they really respected what he did. They came to his classroom and 
saw it as unique. Two of his children are becoming teachers now. 
 
00:16:00 David found that the type of experiential learning he used worked well for 
students with behavioral issues. He incorporated a lot of science in his classroom--
plants, growing, going out to the wetland once a week for six weeks. The more 
troubled students loved doing that. That was when they started observing things at 
home--a Mallard, or seeing cranes flying. It was also important to have a 
combination classroom of 4th and 5th graders, so he had 4th graders who returned 
as 5th graders. They became leaders in the class, and knew David's routines and 
what they were going to do. That happened over and over again. One girl as a 4th 
grader missed a lot of school because of anxiety; that improved over the course of 
the year and near the end became a leader. The next year, she was the first student 
in as a 5th grader, and she brought David vegetables from the garden they had 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
2
started the year before, and shortly afterward presented in front of the school board 
on one of their projects. She became comfortable with that sort of learning. Another 
student who had a difficult home life, who stuttered a lot, also presented in front of 
the school board in 5th grade; he really grew. It was extremely powerful to see how 
students actually began to enjoy learning. You would see that hum in the classroom, 
when students started to actually do work and be interested, and the teacher would 
become more of a facilitator--that is what David was going for. 
 
00:19:25 What had the most impact on how David taught? David thinks it was his 
supervising teacher when he student-taught, Mark Wagler, and the cohort of 
teachers that they grew out of the Heron Network. That had a tremendous amount 
of impact. The idea of project-based, independent research, starting in the science 
area and growing into all areas of the curriculum had a tremendous impact on how 
David viewed how a classroom should be run and what the possibilities were, to 
help students love learning and become curious and engaged. The Heron Network 
was an interesting group of teachers, because they all had different skills and ideas, 
and all collaborated really well. The other impact was the school David taught at, 
and its leadership, which allowed him to do the things he was learning and doing 
with the Heron Network. A teacher could choose to belong to the Heron Network. 
Currently in his professional career, David collaborates with others, presents at 
conferences, works in groups and in teams to collaborate on projects--that's what 
the Heron Network was doing with students. So students were learning skills by 
collaborating with other classrooms, going to conferences, presenting their material, 
writing and publishing work--that is all stuff that David finds he is doing today. Part 
of what his students gained was the idea of real world experiential learning, more 
holistic and more integrated into how one acts in the world. So, from the inquiry, the 
collaboration, the writing, publishing and communication, trying to connect with 
other people at a distance--those are all skills that hopefully those students realize 
in their professional careers today. 
 
00:22:45 The Network supported David--they supported one another.   A quote he 
heard one time: they all had to ask permission to work harder. This was outside of 
the typical curriculum stuff they were all doing. So when they published journals, 
they published them by themselves. They did all the lay-out, the scanning of 
documents, the editing--but did it together. The support was all about being there 
for each other, having regular meetings, communicating, having people support.  
Could plan fieldtrips with another teacher because they were thinking the same way 
about environmental education; they could do more with fewer resources if thy 
shared. 
 
00:24:10 David had another Heron Network teacher at Lincoln School, Jeff Maas, 
who had very similar ideas about science education and getting out into the world to 
do more experiential learning. They drove around near the school to find areas they 
could take students to in order to do some investigating. They found a DNR piece of 
land, that had a pothole pond and wetland plants. They had students collect water 
samples, survey what kind of plants were there, what animals. They wanted them to 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
3
collect a lot of data. They had a single question: "Is it a healthy place?" The idea was, 
the more diversity there was, the healthier it was. David thought this was especially 
interesting for Lincoln School, because it was an issue for the school as a 
desegregated school; the students loved the diversity in the classroom. David didn't 
say it like that, but that was kind of the idea: a diverse community is a healthy 
ecosystem. So, students went to this place and did a lot of work. David had them do a 
lot of art work, drawing what they saw. Parents would come to help, and one was an 
artist who helped students make better watercolors. They were doing a lot of 
diverse activities around this diverse ecosystem. It gave students a chance to use 
their own strengths--some were more artistic, some more analytic. They did that 
project for six weeks every year. Would get funding and buses, and take students to 
the wetland. A couple of years they presented at Edgewood College at the Yahara 
Watershed Fair. 
 
00:28:00 There was some inequity with the kind of real world experiences David's 
students had, depending on where they were coming from--from parents who had 
the means to provide experiences, to students who didn't have access outside of 
being in their neighborhood. They would do other kinds of fieldtrips. For example, 
he would do a cookbook; would have students talk to chefs about cooking, and 
would have students bring in a recipe that they could cook at home. For three years, 
he did that. Some recipes were ethnic, some not, some elaborate, some not. They 
participated in other cultural projects that involved real world experiences. With the 
Madison Children's Museum, they participated in a project about the history of 
Wisconsin, worked with a video company and developed a video project. They did a 
lot of fieldtrips, and David would have families come in from diverse cultural 
backgrounds to do presentations. An African-American poet came in, and a student's 
father from Kenya who talked about stories from Kenya. Had dancers, and did 
experiential stuff with Brazilian music during the Samba School. Going to the 
Farmers Market [with students] on Saturdays was a regular routine the last few 
years David taught, partly to interview people at the different stands. Also did 
overnight trips to the McKenzie Environmental Center, would do one in the winter 
and one in the fall. In the winter, they did cross country skiing and a lot of these kids 
had never been on skis, and you couldn’t get them off the skis because they enjoyed 
it so much. 
 
00:32:20 Lincoln School had an extremely dedicated and diverse staff--diverse in 
their approach to teaching. But you never felt that someone was trying to push their 
approach on you. That wasn't the case David's first year of teaching, when he 
already had his workbooks printed for him, everything was status quo "here-is-
how-we-do-this-here." That was a very different experience from Lincoln. There 
were people at Lincoln who liked that more traditional approach, but they also 
respected the fact that there was a group doing more experiential work. David had 
awesome relationships with everybody in the school. "It was the one school where I 
didn't mind going into the teacher's lounge." He didn't like the lounge his first year 
of teaching because he didn't like the way teachers talked about students and 
families. It wasn't that way at Lincoln. Muriel Simms was the principal when David 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
4
first started there, and she was working toward a more experiential, open 
classroom. She believed in it and supported it. It is interesting explaining that kind 
of classroom to parents, but David had the support of the principal. So, having 
support from the leadership and also from other teachers, even if they didn't teach 
the way David taught, was very unique. It was a unique setting at Lincoln. 
 
00:35:45 David tries to remember staff meetings and professional development, and 
if it supported his way of teaching. He thinks they did, but that was his own way of 
looking at things. He tried to keep an open mind. They had some interesting 
professional development, about how to interact with community members. Had a 
lot of teachers do some of the professional development. Besides other teachers at 
Lincoln and the Heron Network, there were other adults David worked with that felt 
like colleagues. Edgewood College, did a summer Heron Institute every year with 
Jim Lorman, biology chair at the time. With grant money, teachers in the institute 
would do research every summer, like a real scientist, which helped David think 
about how to teach science to his kids.  Maisie Jenkins was working on a project 
called Cognitively Guided Instruction for Math, out of University of Wisconsin. 
Maisie worked in David's classroom most of the week with this form of instruction, 
which is essentially doing lots of story problems and getting students to figure out 
the mathematics for themselves, and helping to facilitate that learning. The research 
project was to start this at a young age, kindergarten, then follow a group of 
students through 5th grade, so it broke down a little bit, since David hadn't had 
students who had this kind of math from kindergarten on, he had new students 
coming to Lincoln, others who were in and out. But Maisie supported him, helped 
supply materials and was a big influence on how David taught math. One student, 
Bonnie, was a brilliant student, liked the CGI approach and got it. Her solutions 
didn't look the way other people came up with solutions. So, when she went on to 
middle school, she failed her first test. She got every problem right, but failed 
because she didn't do the problems the way they were supposed to be done. So, 
Maisie and David, with a parent, went and talked to the middle school instructor to 
explain that this is the way Bonnie was going to do math. After explaining it, the 
instructor changed her grade to an A.  
 
00:41:50 What built a strong teaching community at Lincoln? The teachers who 
taught at Lincoln had a tremendous respect for other people, and for diversity. And 
they got to know each other really well, and were close knit. In any situation, it is 
difficult to have unresolved conflict if you know each other really well.  Teachers 
would tease, and tell stories about each other. For example, they used to go to Circus 
World every year, and David didn't like clowns, they freak him out. So teachers used 
to tease him about that. Every year someone would place a book or postcard 
featuring clowns on his desk, and he knew who sent it to him. In fact, when David 
started at the university, and had some of the Heron Network teachers come to his 
office to learn some web site app, Dave Jenks, one of the teachers at Lincoln brought 
a clown book from another teacher at Lincoln. So Lincoln was a very playful but 
respectful environment. 
 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
5
00:45:00 In Waunakee, David stopped going to the teacher's lounge because he kept 
hearing negative stories about students and about families in the community that 
weren't respected. At Lincoln, they didn't talk about students much in the lounge--
there might be a funny story now and then about how someone handled a certain 
situation, because they had all handled it--but most of the conversation was 
supportive, or was about other stuff, like adults talk about. What they did over the 
weekend, shows, music. To people outside of school, David always talked about the 
inquiry-based teaching he did because it was unique. He'd talk about how he set up 
the classroom. Every once in a while he would tell about an experience. For example, 
one year when they went out to the wetland, there was tall grass around the pond; 
by then, David and Jeff had been doing this fieldtrip a few years and felt very 
relaxed--but all of a sudden, the students all ran down to the pond and they literally 
couldn't see a single kid--they were all in the tall grass. And Jeff and David looked at 
each other and said, "Oh, that's not good!" So they had to figure out how to get all the 
kids out and do a headcount. Or other little stories about experiences--like the kid 
who thought he was smart and so swam across the pond. Not smart; he spent the 
rest of the day in the office. Or David might tell stories about the presentations his 
students did. 
 
00:48:10 One project they did was the Mars Rover project, through the University of 
Wisconsin Space Science and Engineering Department. They had a kit where you 
could build a model of Mars, and a Lego Rover you could manipulate, and the 
curriculum developed to go with it was very science and math-oriented. David 
decided he wanted to open it up to a more Howard Gardner style, multiple 
intelligences, so he came up with a question for the students to explore. The 
question was, "If we are going to go to Mars, and we are going to live on Mars, what 
do we need to do?" Some of his students did the math; some used the Living 
Machine to think about how they could sustain life once they were there [repeated 
sound of camera beeping as Mark takes pictures of David]. They were asked to 
present their work to the school board because it was so gorgeous. 
 
00:50:40 Why did David quit teaching? At the end of the school year, he always felt 
fried because he worked hard during the year. On the last day of the last year he 
taught, he got a call from the university asking him if he still wanted to interview for 
a job he had applied for. To this day, he can't remember applying for that job, but he 
said yes to the interview. He got the interview, then got the second interview; this is 
all during the last week of school, when he is feeling fried from the year, and feeling 
sick.  He was offered the job. Then he learned through the union that there was 
something he could do called a Career Exploration Leave, where for one year he 
could go work, and at the end of the year he could decide to come back to the 
classroom and start off like he had never left. So he talked to his principal, who 
agreed, but who said, "Dave, you're not coming back." She kind of knew. So, David 
worked as an instructional designer at UW Extension, developing online courses for 
two-year colleges in the UW System. He worked on math classes and a diverse group 
of classes. So, because he had this parachute and could return to the classroom, he 
ended up taking a lot of risks, and those risks paid off. He did some unique things, so 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
6
the leadership offered him more money at the end of the year, and that is why he 
didn't go back to the classroom. He was enjoying the work he was doing and had 
financial reward. 
 
00:53:45 David does sometimes regret leaving Lincoln School, if it would be the 
same as it was back then.  Since he has friends teaching in Madison schools and 
knows the requirements now placed on them, he is not sure that he would still have 
the freedom to teach the way he would want to teach. He has some experience with 
the more traditional ways, teach-to-the-test, and that's not David. But if there were a 
place like Lincoln, with the ability for a more open inquiry-based classroom, David 
would consider teaching there; in fact, he has been thinking about it. He does miss it. 
He missed the cohort of the Heron Network a lot. It was unique because they 
weren't in the same schools, so had to find other times to meet and other ways to 
communicate. It would have been interesting to have a Heron Network school, all in 
the same building. One form of support that the Network could offer was that if 
someone was struggling, someone else could offer counseling, help and support. He 
misses that a lot. It's an extremely important profession. 
 
00:56:20 Compare being a 4th/5th grade teacher to being a university instructional 
designer. "When you are a classroom teacher, you are pretty tethered to that 
classroom when your students are there. This is one big difference I have noticed, is 
having just a little bit more freedom to get up when I need to, leave the building 
when I need to, go do some things when I need to. If I need to take a longer lunch, I 
can do that, so working in the university setting, that's the one thing that is a major 
difference, just having a little bit more freedom, to not be so tethered to those 
students and that classroom at any given time." At the university, he was doing more 
adult learning, which is different, although it's still education. At Lincoln, the 
teachers were very connected to each other; at the university, it's smaller groups 
that you work with, and then lots of people you don't really interact with. Some of 
his other university jobs were more global, where he was doing a lot more traveling 
and a lot more collaborating at a distance. It's very different from being a teacher. 
 
00:58:35 One of the things he is most proud of is the work that they did publishing 
the journals for the Heron Network. It was amazing work. The Heron Network 
published student work, inquiry-based projects that the students did. It started out 
as "I Wonder," a science journal.  He actually started working on that journal while 
he was finishing his first year teaching at Waunakee, where he knew he wouldn't be 
returning. He collaborated on that with Mark Wagler and others. He is very proud to 
be one of the ones who started it and contributed to it. He is also proud of the 
accomplishments of some of his students, who went from being so anxiety-ridden 
that they couldn't come into the classroom, to being able to present their work. Also 
really proud when he found out how his own children viewed him, and how they put 
him on a pedestal. He is proud of the hard work that he did, and the 
accomplishments of the Heron Network. 
 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
7
01:01:00 He is a little concerned for his two children going into teaching, but not 
completely. One is going to be an art teacher, and his concern there is getting a job. If 
she gets a classroom, she will enjoy it. The other is a high school math teacher. Math 
in high school is more rigorous and at a different pace, and she feels good about 
what she is able to do there. David doesn't have the same concern about them as he 
would if they were becoming elementary school teachers as he was. David thinks 
that when the atmosphere in the classroom feels safe, that's good teaching. When all 
the children feel that they can participate, that's a big part of what a teacher does, 
makes them feel safe in the classroom. David likes to see a lot of activity in the 
classroom, when there needs to be activity. If it is loud and rambunctious but still 
focused, that is good. For David, good teaching is good facilitating, meaning you 
aren't always up there in front of the class imparting your knowledge but rather you 
are helping others come up with their own ideas. To be a good facilitator, you have 
to know what you want your students to get out of it, and you have to know how to 
get them there. 
 
01:03:45 "So, one of my students one day, Shamika, looked at me and said, 'Mr. 
Wirth, sometimes it feels like we're the teachers.' And I said, 'You got it! You got it.'" 
The reality she got was that she could be her own teacher, and he just guided her. 
Today, as a trainer, David does the same sort of thing. It isn't him standing in front of 
a PowerPoint and hoping they understand it. Rather, it's helping them discover what 
they need to know, through small group discussions and other diverse activities, 
through a training event. David doesn't think it came naturally to him.  Part of it 
came from how he learns; he teaches himself pretty much most of the stuff he knows 
how to do. He doesn't think he took any computer classes, he taught himself the 
computer language stuff and how to use it. He taught himself how to play guitar, 
how to do sound engineering. He has a natural way to seek out what he needs to 
know, what kinds of resources he needs to learn something...so maybe it did come 
naturally to him. He knew that he wanted to help students learn that way as well, by 
asking questions, and guide them by their questions. That's good teaching. There 
were routines in his classroom, and oftentimes it was his voice that brought them all 
back together. He liked to map things out ahead of time, so that everyone had a 
general idea of what would be expected. He also liked to build community. They had 
community rules that they would draw up. The students had to come up with the 
rules. He still does that today, if he has a 2-3 day training he begins by asking what 
will make this an effective learning experience for them. He also always had 
activities that could calm the classroom down if needed, like quiet reading or 
journaling.  Teaching is extremely hard work, and hard work worth doing. Any 
profession has that if you are dedicated to it. Teaching does require a certain 
amount of dedication to do it right. David also knows what good teaching doesn't 
look like, and that happens. People have a tendency to get into routines. It's 
extremely hard work, you have to be extremely dedicated, and you need support. "If 
you don't have the support to do the things that you believe in, I think that's when it 
becomes almost impossible to really teach." 
 
01:10:42  End Interview. 
Wisconsin Classroom Teachers 
 afc2013/017 
8