Lee Ogden Jerry Glick Interview Log  
Time Code  Content 
  
  
00:00:00 
Introduction. Lee Ogden, Library Bindery Company of Pennsylvania and The HF Group 
and Jerry Glick, Glick Bookbinding Corp in Long Island City, NY. Interviewed June 3, 
2017, at the Roslyn Hotel, Roslyn, New York. Interviewed by Whitney Pape, librarian. 
  
  
00:00:38 
Career: Lee started in the early 1970s at the Library Bindery Company of Pennsylvania 
and ended his career about a year ago as one of the Vice Presidents of the HF Group.  
Jerry started as a little boy going to work on weekends with his father, worked summers 
at the bindery starting at age 13. He continued working there when ICI (Information 
Conservation Incorporated) acquired the bindery in 1989, and when it subsequently 
became part of the HF Group, until 2005-2006. 
  
  
00:02:17 
History: The Library Bindery Company of Pennsylvania was part of the National 
Binderies owned by Gerard Van Deene.  In 1934, Lee's uncle was transferred from the 
National Bindery Company of Georgia to the National Bindery Company of 
Pennsylvania, and was given the opportunity to buy the company.  The Bindery acquired 
several other binderies, eventually becoming ICI and then The HF Group.  Jerry thinks 
his grandfather started the Glick Bookbinding Corp sometime before 1906.  Jerry's father 
Harold was born in 1911 and his father died in 1914, leading Jerry's grandmother kept the 
company going until her two sons were old enough to run the business.  The primary goal 
for them was to provide a quality product. 
 
00:06:25 
Business: For Glick Bookbinding was a family business.  Lee got into the business 
because of his uncle.  He offered Lee a summer job during college, and again the 
following spring when he was graduating.  Lee accepted the job with the understanding 
that at some point, his uncle would sell him the business.  Lee purchased the company 
with his partner Steve Roberts. 
  
  
00:09:22 
Interest in Industry: Jerry's admiration for his father interested him in bookbinding. 
  
  
00:10:37  
Mentors: Lee's uncle taught him about bookbinding, as well as the employees of the 
bindery.  Jack Bendror and other industry suppliers were helpful, as were other 
bookbinders.  Jerry learned a great deal from Chivers Bindery employees who came to 
Glick after Chivers closed. 
  
  
00:14:56 
Roles: Lee started as a driver/salesman, then managed the bindery operations and sought 
opportunities for efficiency.  Jerry started with small parts of the bookbinding process 
and took over more and more management responsibilities from his father as he got 
older. 
  
  
00:17:22 
Changes in Business over Time: Jerry sees a lack of efficiency and being able to offer 
lower prices as the reasons Glick Bookbinding was bought out by ICI.  Lee sees this as a 
general trend of the times, with several large-scale binderies able to increase efficiency, 
offer lower prices, and offer quicker turnarounds.  
  
  
00:19:46 
Technological Advances: Lee points to some equipment improvements with automatic 
adjustments like the hydraulic press, and the rounding and backing machine.  The 
computer age brought improvements in stamping technology for covers and electronic 
records for serial titles.  Office equipment changes included copy machines and 
calculators.  Binding equipment included the oversewing machine, the handsewing 
machine, and the Ellerman double-fan adhesive machine. 
 
 
00:26:22 
Goals: Lee’s goal is to earn a living.  He had imagined he'd be a teacher and coach before 
his uncle offered him the job at the bindery.  Jerry always wanted to be a bookbinder 
from childhood.   
 
 
00:28:42 
Changes to Industry: The Bookbinding Industry is shrinking.  The HF Group has 
acquired many binderies under the arrangement that payment is a percentage of future 
business for a fixed period of time because that business is continually shrinking along 
with library bookbinding budgets.       
 
 
00:31:29 
Regrets: Lee missed some acquisition opportunities with the HF Group.  Jerry points out 
the opportunity to adopt more efficient, lower cost techniques and diversifying, but feels 
that Glick Bookbinding stayed true to its core values of offering a high-quality product. 
 
 
00:34:41 
Greatest Achievement: Jerry took pride in doing things the right way and knowing to 
take the opportunity to sell to ICI.   
 
 
00:38:56 
Building and Plant: Lee managed multiple binderies in multiple locations.  The Library 
Bindery Company of Pennsylvania grew from 12-13 people to 70 people and moved 
from a few thousand square feet of space to 24,000 square feet in the 1980s.  There were 
difficulties finding good people willing to work for the wages they were able to offer in 
Pennsylvania and shipped work to their facilities in Ohio and North Carolina, downsizing 
the Pennsylvania facility and becoming more profitable.  Glick Bookbinding Corp was in 
Long Island City, sharing a building with Brooks Brothers.  The bindery had 10,000 
square feet and had wage competition. 
 
 
00:42:40 
Employees: Jerry felt they had good, dedicated people working for Glick.  As a small 
business, they were very involved in the lives of their employees, from personal loans to 
legal troubles to family counseling.  Lee has fond memories of many coworkers and 
employees, especially when he was working with personnel in other locations.   
 
 
00:47:02 
Changes to Industry: Lee feels that he got into the business at the right time and got out 
of the business at the right time.  Jerry describes the industry as a function of the greater 
economy, and the disappearance of the influence of personal relationships in business. 
 
 
00:50:48 
Interesting Projects: Lee:  Project to try to introduce a way to work with Polyurethane 
resin adhesives for bookbinding.   
 
 
00:54:03 
Advice to Next Generation: Lee gave his son-in-law his blessing to pursue other 
opportunities. 
 
 
 00:55:25 
End of interview.