American F
olklife Center, L
ibrary o
f Congress
 
Bess L
omax Hawes Collection (
AFC 2014/008)
 
f
older 21.13
 
writings
 
a
rticles, unpublished
 
Bess Lomax Hawes
 
Sustainable Folklore Conference Opening Remarks  (
rewritten)
 
July 26,  1995
 
Politics and Culture.  This is really a hectic time to be
 
talking about those two phenomena.  Events are moving with
 
such rapidity down such previously uncharted courses that
 
every day I have said to myself "Well,  maybe tomorrow I
'll
 
understand it a little better."
 And now tomorrow is here.
 
What can I possibly offer that is at least a bit different?
 
Perhaps two things.  One is my experience of 15 years with the
 
Folk and Traditional Arts Program,  simply because in that
 
office a never-ceasing wave of ideas,  problems and pressures
 
swirled past us.  Not that we could solve them,  not that we
 
even understood them,  but we did get an enormous input in a
 
very short time.  It didn't make us particularly wise,  but it
 
did give us a kind of possibly helpful breadth.
 
The other consideration is that I
' m probably older than most
 
of my audience.  And that doesn't make me wiser either but it
 
did make it possible for me to have seen things that younger
 
people haven't.  The very first day I started at the
 
Endowment,  I remembered being just out of college and going
 
down to Washington to see my folks. And when I got to
 
Washington,  the WPA was gone.  The last time I had been to
 
town,  it had been there,  and many people I knew had worked
 
there over the years,  off and on -
-
 Charles Seeger,  Ben
 
Botkin,  my father. And now it was gone -
-
 typewriters,  files,
 
the whole thing.  And when I remembered that,  I thought to
 
myself,  by gum,  I
' m going to have to work fast in this
 
Endowment,  because it might not be here the next time I come
 
in. And that feeling never left me -
-
 the possibility that
 
today could be the last chance to use whatever little
 
perspective I might have or to take care of whatever little
 
problem.  "It may be the last time,  I don't know."
 That's a
 
feeling that,  once it gets inside you,  makes you a little
 
different from others who have the lovely vision,  as most
 
children do,  that everything is going to go on forever.
 
So now that things are changing faster than most of us can
 
possibly keep up with,  I
' m going to try to address the
 
situation by speaking mostly in generalities,  which is
 
certainly a heck of a way to start off a conference.  However,
 
I think we require an effort to gain a larger perspective,
 
because most of us deal almost entirely with the particular.
 
I know that your particular problem at the moment is that
 
jerk they moved into the fiscal office making a million rules
 
that hold you up every time you want to buy a pencil,  and the
 
very first thing you have to do is cope with him for he is so
 
prominent in your life that you can't get back from him and
 
think in larger terms.  But if we are to get anywhere at this
 
meeting,  we must think bigger and use our individual
 
experiences as guides rather than as solutions or answers.
 
So I myself started out looking up some general large-scale
 
quotations that might help set the tone.  That's a very older-
generational thing to do,  by the way;  actually a year ago I
 
bought myself that new dictionary of quotations for my own
 
personal birthday treat.  So when I realized that for this
 
talk I had to talk about politics (when for 15 years I had
 
been told by the Hatch Act not to do any such thing)  my heart
 
failed me a bit.  But my trusty new dictionary helped out;  I
 
looked up "politics",  and I did find some interesting
 
remarks.
 
One was from John Buchan.  He said "Politics is still the
 
greatest and most honorable adventure."
 Now that surely
 
reflects an older generation.  I myself was brought up with
 
the idea that the highest honor a person could earn was to
 
work for the government. And when I got a government job,  I
 
was thrilled,  I thought I really had it made,  and that
 
feeling has given me a very different perspective on the
 
responsibilities of being a public officer.
 
People brought up in later generations than mine mostly
 
believe politics to be a crooked,  venal profession,  and
 
"politician" has become a kind of dirty epithet. A distinction
 
was even made between "politics" and "statesmanship",
 But I
 
thought that all government work was honorable,  that I had an
 
enormous opportunity to serve,  and that I was responsible to
 
every single citizen in the United States.  Quite an
 
assignment.
 
But then I read that Otto von Bismark,  in 1867,  had said
 
"Politics is the art of the possible." That quotation
 
impressed me,  because as soon as I actually began public work
 
I had to realize that though I was responsible to everybody,
 
I couldn't do everything evrybody wanted me to.  How could
 
those requirements be reconciled? One way we tried in the
 
Folk Arts Program -
-
 and it is a way used by many people,
 
possibly without their recognizing it -
-
 was to balance
 
rigidity with flexibility. We couldn't do everything,  so we
 
decided that we would do THIS  for anybody legally qualified
 
to apply.
 
Now the opposite of that strategy is to go the other way
 
around,  to say "We'll do EVERYTHING -
- -
 but only for a
 
particular group."
 That's not a bad strategy either.  I
 
always felt that those two strategies distinguished the Folk
 
and Traditional Arts Program from the Expansion Arts Program.
 
Expansion Arts focused on a particular population and
 
was flexible about what that population could do with their
 
funding.  Folk Arts focused on a particular group of
 
activities,  but invited everybody that wanted to do those
 
things to come in and apply.  Such balancing makes survival
 
possible.  If you don't have some tightness,  you' re going to
 
be spread so far that you are ineffectual and everybody will
 
quickly realize that.  On the other hand,  if you don't have
 
any flexibility,  you become the characteristic bureaucrats
 
that everyone fusses about.  Sucn a perspective is helpful in
 
figuring out future strategies,  and this brings us to my
 
third quote.
 
Henry Adams said,  "Modern politics is at bottom a struggle
 
not of men but of forces." That is a tough one,  because the
 
incredible pressures to take care of the particulars also
 
often make us pass over the underlying forces at work.  But I
 
am convinced that the strategies we adopt emerge out of our
 
conscious or unconscious reactions to the forces that are
 
operating upon us.  One of the things I found out in my long
 
years in this business is that if I began to worry about
 
something,  if I came to have a gut-level uncomfortableness
 
about something,  I
' d better take a long hard look at it.  That
 
gut feeling invariably turned out to be my recognition that I
 
was involved with forces I hadn't understood,  hadn't
 
analyzed,  hadn't recognized.
 
I
'll give you an example. A number of years back,  I
 
began to get an uncomfortable feeling about a whole amorphous
 
section of the population that Folk Arts didn't seem to be
 
doing anything much about;  and that was a kind of rural,
 
small-town,  farm,  Anglo,  mid-western,  southern chunk of
 
folks.  I didn't even know if it was an identifiable group.
 
But my worry hit me first when I was testifying before a
 
Congressional committee on the American Square Dance
 
Society's bill to make the square dance the "National Dance
 
of the United States".  It was an awful idea,  I thought,  and I
 
went up to the Hill loaded for bear.  It was divisive,  it
 
suggested an imposed cultural unanimity,  it was rigid;  it was
 
everything I didn't want.
 
But it was while I was up there testifying and looking
 
at all those square dance people in their little costumes
 
that I thought,  "Gee,  these are really all my folks,  all
 
these nice people from California and Georgia and Texas." And
 
they had all testified saying things like "Oh boy,  we want to
 
have a national dance and we want everybody to come." And I
 
said,  "But there are a lot of people in the country who don't
 
want to square dance'  and they said,  "Gosh,  if they just
 
tried it,  they' d love it."
 
I kept knowing I was right but feeling that I was
 
stabbing my own folks in the back somehow,  and I talked to
 
Joe Wilson who told me he was having some of the same
 
feelings.  So,  since I didn't understand them,  I just went on
 
back to the Endowment and worked on 42 other different
 
problems.  But this one kept on coming back in many other
 
contexts,  and one day I looked at it square on.
 
I was preparing a statistical analysis of the grants
 
the Folk Arts Program had given out during the previous year,
 
and one of the charts broke out the grants according to what
 
groups were featured. We had included a few regional groups
 
like Appalachians and a few occupational groups like cowboys
 
and so on,  but mostly there were ethnicities -
-
 Bulgarian-
Americans,  African-Americans,  American Indians broken down by
 
tribe,  et cetera. As a survey of the U.S.  as a multi-cultural
 
nation,  the chart was very impressive,  and at the end there
 
was a bunch of miscellaneous grants lumped together,
 
consisting mostly of mixed events where no single group was
 
featured.
 
So I was looking at the overall chart and I suddenly
 
realized that we didn't have any grants to Anglos in there;
 
we had Scots,  and Irish,  even Welsh,  but no plain down-home
 
Anglos. Where were they?
 Well,  they turned out to be in the
 
miscellaneous lump at the end.  They didn't even appear in our
 
statistics.  We just hadn't noticed that we were funding a
 
great many projects that were baseline American Anglo
 
traditions including shape note hymn singing.  They didn't
 
show up in this chart,  for those folks apparently did not
 
exist for us as a group;  they weren't enough of a minority I
 
suppose.
 
Well,  I have to say that these are the folks that are
 
raising so much cain right now.  I don't think this is because
 
the Folk and Traditional Arts Program did not feature them.  I
 
do think the Program was responding to underlying forces
 
requiring us to work really hard for the ignored ethnicities,
 
getting everybody who had been left out into the national
 
picture. And in that process we managed to overlook the
 
enormous number of people ordinarily thought of as the
 
majority.  I don't think we were the only ones who did that;
 
in fact I think it was the whole society that did it,  and we
 
just went along.
 
Now when Folk Arts noticed that there was no Anglo
 
category,  we put it into our statistics;  for we had given
 
their activities grants,  we just hadn't recognized their
 
category. Admittedly,  such recognition isn't going to make a
 
big difference to anybody who is enraged and living out in an
 
Iowa or Alabama farm community.  Still,  it was the right thing
 
to do,  and I can't think why it took us so long,  except that
 
we were responding to some pretty deep social forces.
 
On a similar  point,  we need to consider,  I think,  that
 
we live in an age where what I call linear thinking has
 
become so dominant it may soon drive us all crazy. By linear
 
thinking,  I mean that if you punch button A it is going to
 
produce result A';  B yields B',  etc. And that's the way many
 
things work,  certainly most machines and most computers.
 
But when we take that straightforward principle and
 
apply it to everything we do,  we wind up judging the success
 
of an exhibit or a concert on how many people attend,  because
 
that figure appears to be its "result".  The event might
 
actually have resulted in 17 other things as well,  perhaps,
 
but we look at this attendance number as its proximal result.
 
And now with the help of computers we are seeing not
 
just one proximal result but 173 re-analyzed and re-computed
 
proximal results that are also produced in a very direct
 
linear off/on kind of way. And we're getting so many of them
 
that we're going a bit berserk because no one can keep so
 
much data in mind.  The computer groups it for us very nicely,
 
but it's still the same straight-ahead kind of thinking.  It's
 
still "A produces this bunch of A'  results."
 
I believe that with art you have to think in other kinds
 
of ways,  and I
' m not terribly good at it;  I
' m just as linear
 
as anybody else. As example,  for years I have griped  (as all
 
of you know who know me well)  about the tendency of people
 
who produce folk concerts to open programs with the oldest
 
piece of music or dance and proceed in an orderly direction
 
to the newest,  so that at every concert's end you have the
 
biggest amplified band sound that has ever been heard. And
 
the implication of such programing is that electronic music
 
is the glorious future to which we all must march,  leaving
 
the pitiful weak sounds of the past behind.  "By-bye. We're
 
going this-a-way." And I know that's wrong,  but how to fix
 
it?
 
Well,  the American Indian Dance Theater is a very
 
professional group,  a multi-tribal dance theater that I saw
 
performing actually on Broadway. And those programmers didn't
 
give one whoop about any kind of explanatory infomation and
 
they didn't plan their program to go anywhere except to knock
 
their audiences dead.  Their printed programs had about one
 
sentence about each dance,  and they set up its order
 
according to aesthetic criteria such as wouldn't it be nice
 
to have a solo dance here and a group dance next or a song
 
that sort of thing.  So everything was sort of jumbled
 
together.
 
They would put on a piece of a very ancient Zuni
 
ceremony followed by a really hot up-to-the-minute Plains
 
competition dance followed by a walk-around by elderly
 
tribesmen dedicating the performance to Vietnam veterans.
 
It was just all mixed up,  with no particular points being
 
made and I found myself saying "Gosh,  they're really missing
 
a great educational opportunity here." But the more I looked
 
at that program,  the more I realized that they were saying
 
something else -
-
 they were saying that all these dances and
 
all these people are still active,  they're all going on at
 
the same time in our world. Amongst American Indians there
 
are lots of generations living together all mixed up,  and
 
some folks do the old stuff and some do the new stuff and
 
some the middle stuff,  and some borrow from each other.  It's
 
all concurrent.
 
That was a profound insight for me.  I was so time-
oriented in my thinking it had never occurred to me that a
 
simple solution to my programming problem was just to throw
 
everything in together,  It was very much,  I think,  a Native
 
American solution -
-
 I don't know,  I
' d have to ask one of my
 
Indian friends.  But it certainly wasn't an Anglo solution;
 
mine had been just to gripe.
 
Besides,time lines are often useful Ethnomusicologist,
 
Fred Lieberman once suggested that Folk Arts staff might try
 
not thinking so much in terms of blocks of cultures but
 
instead in systems -
-
 for example,  what does it take to move
 
from here to there.  Specifically,  take the sequence of
 
actions that have to occur to produce a concert or an
 
exhibit,  and list them out.  He said,  "It doesn't seem to me
 
that you will find that large infusions of money are needed
 
at every point along the linethat have to be done.You may
 
need to put money in here but not there;  here you might need
 
extra amounts of human effort,  that part you can let go along
 
on its own," In other words,  consider the activity in terms
 
of movement along a time line rather than the larger static
 
units of cultural groups and their power relations that most
 
of us use
 -
-
 and
 some impracticable things may thereby
 
become feasible.
 
As you see,  I haven't any real answers,  just some
 
contradictory ideas.  But this kind of re-examination of our
 
thinking patterns may be fruitful now because of the unusual
 
territory we find ourselves in,  where the national
 
conversation has stopped being about whether something is any
 
good or worth doing but instead asks "Can we possibly get rid
 
of it,  or not do it at all?" And that's a very hard question
 
to field;  we're not used to thinking about things that way.
 
History tells us,  though,  that you can get rid of the
 
program or the agency or the institution,  but the work,  our
 
work,  is a constant.  It will never go away. We will never
 
finish it.  We are dealing with an ongoing problem,  and many
 
solutions are yet to be tried. We may find ourselves doing
 
our work in different places,  under different sponsorship or
 
with different allies,  but it will occur.
 
If our work is not paid for,  it will be done by people
 
who are not paid-- probably not as well as it might be done,
 
but it will be done.  I
' m thinking now about the long period
 
of time when this work was done by people who never got a
 
nickel for doing it;  they did it because it needed to be done
 
and they loved it and believed in it.
 
Now I am not saying that we will not in future have
 
institutional support. Actually,  I think we will,  because one
 
of the things that has happened in the last few years is a
 
real change in the perceptions of the American people.  They
 
appear to be thinking with depth and appreciation about their
 
history,  their traditions,  and what is holding them together.
 
And that suggests to them that the kinds of things we are
 
working on are important and should somehow be kept going.  I
 
think we will be working in many complicated and interesting
 
combinations,  for it's not clear now how much room the
 
government is going to have for us on any level -
-
 state,
 
federal,  or local. But it seems to me that we must take good
 
cheer in the fact that this work that we' ve been doing
 
together has always been done,  and I do believe we' ve been
 
getting smarter and better at it all the time.
 
So -
-
 go with your gut thinking.  Try and mix toughness
 
and flexibility,  a sense of your important purpose with a
 
sense of inclusion.  Try and stir up your thinking patterns
  
and don't be afraid to change them. And try and hang in
 
there.  Those are the things I have to say to you. And finally
 
(
the nice thing about the dictionary of quotations is that
 
you can browse around)  in a recent browsing expedition,  I
 
found a lovely one:  "The first law of tinkering is to save
 
all the parts."
 
We are really worth saving,  and I hope you know it.