Oral History Interview 
 
with 
 
Traci Cavallini 
 
 
 
 
 
Interview Conducted by 
Juliana Nykolaiszyn and Tanya Finchum 
November 19, 2011 
 
 
The “Big Top” Show Goes On:  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oklahoma Oral History Research Program 
Edmon Low Library ● Oklahoma State University 
© 2011 
 
 
2
The “Big Top” Show Goes On  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
Interview History 
 
 
Interviewers: Juliana Nykolaiszyn, Tanya Finchum 
Transcriber: 
Miranda Mackey 
Editors: 
Ashley Sarchet, Tanya Finchum 
 
The recording and transcript of this interview were processed at the Oklahoma State 
University Library in Stillwater, Oklahoma. 
 
Project Detail 
 
The “Big Top” Show Goes On: An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the 
Canvas Circus Tent aims to preserve the voices and experiences of those involved with the 
work culture associated with Hugo, Oklahoma’s tent circus tradition.  
 
Funding for this project was made possible by the Library of Congress American Folklife 
Center as part of a 2011 Archie Green Fellowship awarded to researchers Tanya Finchum 
and Juliana Nykolaiszyn with the Oklahoma Oral History Research Program at the OSU 
Library. 
 
This project was approved by the Oklahoma State University Institutional Review Board on 
May 6, 2011. 
 
Legal Status 
 
Scholarly use of the recordings and transcripts of the interview with Traci Cavallini is 
unrestricted. The interview agreement was signed on November 19, 2011. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
The “Big Top” Show Goes On  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
About Traci Cavallini… 
 
Traci Byrd Cavallini was born in 1972 in Hugo, Oklahoma to Geary and Barbara Byrd. She 
is the fourth generation of the Miller line to be involved with the Carson and Barnes Circus. 
Her grandparents were D.R. and Isla Miller. As with most children of circus parents, Traci’s 
first act in the circus was the swinging ladder, which she performed around the age of seven. 
She later performed with horses and elephants and progressed to the Spanish web.  
 
Traci completed all twelve years in the Hugo school system and after graduating from Hugo 
High School she went on to earn a bachelor’s degree from Trinity University in San 
Antonio, Texas. She met her husband on the show and they began performing acts together 
such as the perch pole and bamboo. After they married, they took over the management of 
concessions department and continue that responsibility today. Additionally, Traci deals 
with all the immigration processing which involves obtaining seasonal Visas for performers 
and working men.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
The “Big Top” Show Goes On  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
Traci Cavallini 
 
Oral History Interview 
 
Interviewed by Juliana Nykolaiszyn  
& Tanya Finchum 
November 19 , 2011 
Hugo, Oklahoma 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
 
 
 
Cavallini 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Cavallini 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Cavallini 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Cavallini 
 
 
 
My name is Juliana Nykolaiszyn. Also with me is Tanya Finchum. We’re 
with the Oklahoma State University Library. Today is Saturday, 
November 19, 2011. We’re in Hugo, Oklahoma, interviewing Traci 
Cavallini as part of the Hugo oral history project centered around 
circus occupations. Thank you so much for joining us today. 
 
Thank you for having me. 
 
We’d like to learn a little bit more about you. Could you tell us the year 
you were born and where you were born? 
 
1972 and right here in Hugo, Oklahoma. 
 
Okay, and tell me a little bit about growing up in Hugo. 
 
Well, when I think about my younger years, probably the circus jumps 
out more than actually growing up in Hugo. But I always felt very 
fortunate. I thought I had the best of both worlds, because I had a home 
base. I went to school here at Hugo my entire life. I graduated from high 
school here, but yet I got to travel on the circus with my family for the 
majority of the time. I wasn’t actually in Hugo full-time until I started 
middle school. That’s when my mother stayed home with us, and we 
went to school for the full school season and only traveled on the circus 
during the summer months. 
 
You come from a circus family, what is your earliest circus memory? 
 
I don’t think I’ve ever thought of that. I don’t know. Sometimes, I think, 
you can get memories confused with pictures and stories that you were 
told. 
 
 
 
5
Finchum 
 
Cavallini 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Cavallini 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Cavallini 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Cavallini 
 
Maybe your first job on the circus? 
 
My first job. Well, my first job on the circus was probably like how 
most of the little kids start. We have a parade, and we—I say we. There 
were quite a few children my age, and my sister, she’s three years 
younger than me. We were always in the parades. My first, I’d say, 
aerial act was called swinging ladder, and it’s literally just like a little 
ladder, and it has a loop that hangs at the top of it. It only hangs about 
four feet off the ground or so, and you hang by your hand and foot, your 
ankle, and you do tricks on that. And I did that, probably, when I was 
about seven, seven or eight. Being in the parade, I’m not exactly sure 
what age, but you always get stuck doing that as a little kid. (Laughs) 
My children, my daughter and son, have both done the parade, and it’s 
fun. I mean, kids enjoy dressing up and being a part of it. 
 
Well, talk a little bit about some of the other acts or performances you 
may have gravitated to as you were growing up. 
 
Well, I had a horse. Xanadu was his name. He was a black quarter horse. 
And I did dressage, and then I performed with the elephants. I rode on 
the elephants, and then all young women learn web, the Spanish web, 
which is just the rope with the loop at the top. You climb up, and you 
hang by your foot and your hand while it’s spinning. So I did that, and as 
I got a little older, after I met my husband, when we were dating we 
actually performed together a couple of acts. I always enjoyed 
performing. I’m kind of a shy person, but I enjoyed the performing part 
of it. We did perch pole, which is just, literally, a pole that someone 
balances on their shoulder or their head, and you climb up and you do 
tricks on the top of it. And we did bamboo, which he hung by his foot, 
and then you do hand-to-hand tricks. So we performed, like just in the 
show, my husband and I, for a year. And then after we got married, we 
took over the concession. My mom was pretty happy when the 
performing part was over, and we were just doing something else on the 
show. (Laughs) 
 
And did you think you wanted to gravitate out of performing and more 
into other aspects of the business? 
 
Yes, yes. I mean, I always knew that I wasn’t made out to be a grand 
performer. (Laughs) It was something I enjoyed, but it’s hard on the 
body. I was happy to move into the next stage. 
 
Well, backing up, you went to school for the most part in Hugo… 
 
Yes. 
 
 
 
6
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Cavallini 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Cavallini 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Cavallini 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Cavallini 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
 
Cavallini 
 
…and what was that like for you? 
 
It was wonderful. I mean, we always had close friends that were here in 
Hugo. When I look back it doesn’t seem like it was anything abnormal. I 
mean, they knew we were with the circus, and it was just a part of our 
daily life. I remember at elementary school, we would take some 
costumes down and show everyone and talk about it. Or sometimes they 
would schedule tours, which they still do, with the schools and come out 
and see the animals. And that was always fun to show off and feel 
important with your friends at school. But, really, it was just a normal 
life. I mean, everyone growing up in Hugo, there’s a circus here so it’s 
part of life. 
 
And you went on to college? 
 
Yes. I graduated from Trinity University in San Antonio. 
 
Okay. Did you have aspirations to return to the family business? 
 
Yes, always. But my mother—I know my sister would say the exact 
same thing—she never pushed us to come back. I actually think she, in 
her own way, was not pushing us away, but wanted us to be sure and 
know that there were other opportunities out there. It’s a wonderful life, 
but it’s a hard life at the same time. Getting a college education and 
knowing that we had the choice to make our own decisions in life, that 
was always there. 
 
Well, could you talk a little bit about your memories of your 
grandparents? 
 
Yes, wonderful memories of my grandparents because, in a way, they 
raised us almost as much as my parents did. After middle school my 
mom came home and would stay with us for a couple of years. But then 
my grandparents got older, and it just seemed like the right time for my 
grandparents to stay home and my mom and dad to stay on the show. So 
we were with my grandparents all through high school. They were the 
ones that we lived with. Well, we’ve always lived together. I mean, we 
always were in this house together so they were just a very special part 
of my life. I feel very fortunate to have been that close to them and had 
that relationship with them. 
 
Do you have any favorite stories about your grandmother? Would she 
let you help in the kitchen or teach you certain things? 
 
Well, I don’t know. My grandmother was just a good person, I mean, a 
good heart. And I don’t think anyone would say anything different. So 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Cavallini 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Cavallini 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Cavallini 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
when you did hear her say like a bad word, it was always funny. What 
always would get her riled up, they had some good friends, Ione 
[Stevens] and Donnie [McIntosh], who were in the business. And I’m 
sure if my mom heard their names she could tell you tons of stories 
about them with my grandparents. But they would come over and visit, 
and my sister and I would be back in our bedrooms. And just to hear 
them laughing and screaming, and saying cuss words and talking about 
the old times, I mean, it was always fun to hear them. And it’s sad 
because they were a different generation. They had different stories than 
we have to tell, but very special. 
 
Did you get to make some of your own costumes? 
 
Seamstress does not seem to be my talent, maybe because I just never 
tried. But, no, I didn’t make my own costumes. But I do have memories. 
There are some memories. They used to, downstairs in our basement, is 
where they would sew. They would have all the costumes—I remember 
my grandmother, my mother, my Aunt Lisa, who I don’t know if you 
guys have met, but she’s here in Hugo. She’s my cousin, actually. And 
her mom, Barbara June [Fulton], who’s passed away, but they would 
make the elephant blankets. I remember rolls and rolls of yarn where 
they would make the tassels to hang on the blankets. All that took place 
right down here in the bottom of this house. (Laughs) 
 
Well, as a youth growing up on the circus, what were some rules, some 
things that you could not do on the lot? 
 
Well, we had our schedules, we had our curfews, we had our times we 
had to be in. When the show was over you had to be back in the house, 
but growing up we played hard. We loved to play in the tent. We loved 
to be behind the seats, swinging on the bars, acting like it was a flying 
trapeze, playing on the webs. I don’t know, the circus is a wonderful 
place, I think, for children to grow up. It’s like a small community, and 
you feel very safe within your community, with the people, because they 
are hard-working people. There’s a lot of families. You travel together, 
and everyone really looks out for each other while you’re together at that 
time. So you didn’t wander off the lot. You didn’t go outside of your 
area. But within that area, as far as just a lot of restrictions, that doesn’t 
come to my mind. 
 
What about in terms of mischief, though. 
 
Mischief. (Laughs) 
 
Surely there was some mischief, as kids growing up. 
 
 
 
8
 Cavallini 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Cavallini 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Cavallini 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Cavallini 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Cavallini 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Oh, yes. Nothing is just jumping into my mind, but of course you don’t 
go around the animals. That would be a rule. You stayed away. 
 
What are some terms that us towners would not understand? 
 
Donnikers, that’s the restroom. The white elephant, that’s the pump 
truck that comes out to pump out the donnikers. (Laughs) A straw house, 
that’s a full house, when people are sitting [everywhere]. Lot lice, that’s 
the public out walking around, seeing the circus. This, I don’t think is an 
official circus term, but my granny always called them juice suckers, and 
they were people who would come and visit and bring their trailer and 
plug into our lights. (Laughs) But that wasn’t official. I think that was 
just my granny’s word, juice suckers. (Laughter) There’s tons of words. 
I’m sure my mom would know a lot more of those than I would, but 
that’s a few. 
 
Have you ever blown the arrows? 
 
Oh, yes. Oh, yes. That’s not a fun experience when you’re driving a 
truck and a forty-four-foot trailer, and you’ve got kids and your dogs and 
everything in there. (Laughs) Nowadays, I mean, with our cell phones 
it’s just like a different world. It’s amazing to have an iPhone and to be 
able to punch in everything, your different locations. I remember the 
first cell phone we had. I don’t know what year it was. I probably was 
sixteen, seventeen, maybe. Maybe younger than that. Probably younger 
than that. But it was this huge box, and you didn’t use it. It was just for 
emergencies, because who knew what it costs a minute to use that 
phone. But that’s probably some memories from other people, too, just 
not having access to the phone. So you’d save up quarters and be out on 
the payphone trying to call home to check in with—when my 
grandparents were at home or whatever. How things have changed now. 
(Laughs) 
 
Do you drive a big semi? 
 
I do. I have my CDL [Commercial Driver’s License]. I drive my house, 
and my husband drives the concessions. Everyone drives. I mean, that’s 
definitely one of the first things you do. You don’t just learn to drive, 
you learn to pull a trailer so that’s part of it. 
 
And park the trailer as well. 
 
Yes. (Laughter) 
 
Who taught you how to drive? 
 
 
 
9
Cavallini 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
 
Cavallini 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Cavallini 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Cavallini 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
Just drive a car? We always had golf carts around that you would drive 
around. So driving kind of seems to be a natural thing that you progress 
into larger vehicles. My grandfather would let me drive a lot at a young 
age. My parents spoiled us. I mean, I had my first car at fifteen and a 
half when I had my permit so I’ve been driving since I was very young. 
(Laughs) 
 
I just can’t imagine parking a semi, especially when there’s twenty-two 
others around. (Laughs) 
 
Yes, well, the good thing about the circus is that when you pull onto 
your lot—right now it’s my husband and my brother-in-law Gustavo—
everything has their location where they go, and so they park you, and 
you’re directed. But when you’re traveling and your kids want to go to 
McDonald’s, and they don’t understand that you can’t get in and around 
and out. That’s probably when I get into tighter situations. It’s in the 
morning driving over when I try to stop some place, and you’re trying to 
maneuver around them, and you have to fill up with fuel. But when you 
pull into the lot it’s pretty easy because, literally, you just have to follow 
directions. (Laughs) 
 
So take me through, when you’re on the road, a typical day for you with 
concessions. 
 
With the concessions? 
 
Yes. 
 
Well, my husband and I, we used to do all the buying. I’ve probably 
been to every Sam’s and Wal-Mart across the United States. Right now 
we have a gentleman that actually does the buying for us. But a typical 
day in the circus is we get up between five-thirty, six, just depending on 
how many miles we have to travel. I’ve got a really good crew of guys 
that have worked with us for quite a while. Sometimes you’ll have 
inspectors that come out during the day. We like to schedule them at 
around three o’clock, and that way we’ve had time to clean up all the 
stands, get everything plugged in, and then we open at around three-
thirty. And then once you open, it’s open until closing, at around nine-
thirty, nine forty-five at night. I order all the stock, the novelty items in 
the concessions, the popcorn boxes, snow cones. Then we’ll buy daily 
ice, hot dog buns, apples, for the caramel apples. And, like I said, I’ve 
got a really good crew of guys. We have a trailer. We have cotton candy, 
snow cones, popcorn, hot dogs, Polish sausages, nachos, caramel apples, 
just the typical circus junk. (Laughs) 
 
Do you give direction to your butchers? 
 
 
10
 
Cavallini 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Cavallini 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Cavallini 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Cavallini 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No, they rotate. They rotate their products, and we have a gentleman that 
counts out, issues the stock. Then they’ll settle up with me that evening, 
after the second show. And then the next day, I will do the calculations 
and then turn the money in to the office the following day for that day. 
That would be the novelty money, the coloring books, and the food 
items. 
 
And then in the offseason, when you’re back home, off the road, what 
are your responsibilities? 
 
Circus related? When it’s a family business, you just help out wherever.  
I do all of the immigration work. Most of our workers are on a H2B. It’s 
a seasonal Visa, actually, for circus laborers. So that’s cool. It would be 
the same category as tree planters or that type of worker. Most of those 
come from Mexico. We have gentlemen that have worked for us, there’s 
one man who pops into my head. He came in ’74 so I was two years old. 
He’s been with us that long. And we have a lot of guys who have been 
with us for a long time, good, loyal, hard working men and women. So I 
do all of that. And it’s not year-round, but I’ll start the paperwork like, in 
August, and then it’s kind of ongoing. Depending on when we have our 
show finalized, what performers, the performers come in on a P-1 Visa, 
and we’ll bring in performers. We have some from all over, the Ukraine, 
Russia, South America. That’s probably the main project I do. 
 
Has it been, over the years, increasingly difficult working with the 
government? 
 
Yes, I mean, it is more difficult, and I understand why. I would 
definitely say since 9-11, there were some huge changes in restrictions 
and just more security as far as confirming that you’re really bringing in 
performers. But it’s all doable. (Laughs) 
 
And is language ever an issue, since you deal with so many different 
people, trying to get them in? 
 
Well, most of the performers are Hispanic. I’m fluent in Spanish so that 
helps out a lot. But over the past, with the Ukrainians, it seems like—or 
Russians—we’ve always kind of had someone with us that helped 
translate that language. One year, my grandfather started the Chinese 
Imperial Circus. I don’t know if you’ve heard of that. It was fabulous. 
We weren’t involved at all. It was kind of like he woke up one day, and 
he was going to do this. (Laughs) So you just supported him. And he 
brought over like thirty performers from the Republic of China, and they 
were incredible performers, really. But when they got here we went 
down to our local Chinese restaurant to help translate because we could 
 
 
11
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Cavallini 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
 
Cavallini 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Cavallini 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Cavallini 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Cavallini 
 
not communicate at all with them. (Laughs) But it seems like there’s 
always someone who can help out. 
 
And how did you become fluent in Spanish? 
 
I’ve been around Spanish my entire life, and I minored in it, in Spanish, 
in college. And then, actually, my husband is from Peru. His family, his 
mother, his sisters, they’ve all here and most of them work with us still, 
which is wonderful because my children get to be with both 
grandparents, both sets. 
 
How do you handle or juggle being a mom on the show during travel 
time? 
 
During travel time? I’ve always said I think the circus is a wonderful 
place to raise a family. You’re working, but you’re there. I mean, you’re 
with your family while you’re doing your work. And the children have 
jobs, they have responsibilities. We have a school teacher so there’s a 
schedule. There’s a schedule while you’re traveling. After we get up and 
drive over, they are usually carried to the truck because they are still 
asleep. We had a wonderful teacher that traveled with us this year. We 
had three different classes so my children went to school for about an 
hour and a half each. They practiced, just because they enjoy it.  I don’t 
think they’ll ever be performers, but I think it’s good for them to 
practice and appreciate it. And then my son worked in the office. He’s 
ten, and he does well with money already. He worked in the office, and 
my daughter did the parade. You’re working, but you’re there together 
so you get to spend a lot of time with them. 
 
Do you actually get to go and watch the show some? 
 
Yes, definitely. I enjoy watching. The concessions is right there, and I 
spend a lot of the time watching the show, probably, more than in the 
concession stand, but just back and forth. 
 
Do you have a favorite part? 
 
I’d say the parade and the aerial ballet. This year it was beautiful. It was 
butterflies with lots of colors. My cousin, Lisa, and my mom, last year 
they made some beautiful blankets with the elephants and these wings 
for the aerial part. It was very pretty. 
 
You’ve probably noticed some changes in the circus. 
 
Yes. 
 
 
 
12
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Cavallini 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Cavallini 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
 
 
Cavallini 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Cavallini 
 
Finchum 
What are some of those that you’ve noticed through the years? 
 
Well, just with our circus, we’ve downsized a lot. Carson and Barnes, 
when I grew up, it was a five-ring circus, over two hundred people 
traveled with us. All of our animals, our elephants traveled with us when 
I was younger so we had seventeen, eighteen elephants traveling on 
Carson and Barnes. So just the downsizing over the years. Probably part 
of it is because when you’re younger it’s all fun and magical and you 
don’t see, but it’s harder. There’s definitely more restrictions. There’s 
been a change just that it’s gotten more difficult. There’s more activities 
for the children, it seems like people are busy so more competition. 
 
 Well, as you look back, what’s your favorite part about the circus? Is 
there a certain smell or a certain feeling when you wake up? 
 
I can say a couple of things jump to my mind. My favorite thing that the 
circus has given me is the opportunity to be with my family, to have the 
relationship I had with my grandparents, to have my children be able to 
have that relationship with my parents. I think that’s, on a personal note, 
my favorite thing about the circus is the life that it’s given me and the 
opportunities it’s given me, as a family, to be so close. There’s nothing 
like being in a circus when there’s a lot of people, a full-house, the 
elephants come in, and you hear those oohs and ahhs of the children and 
the excitement, and after the show when you see how much the people 
have enjoyed it. To see a little kid in a small town in Kansas or 
Oklahoma, anywhere, come onto the lot and be like, “Wow! The 
elephants are here!” I mean, there’s nothing like giving that joy to 
people and really feeling that they appreciate what you’re doing. So 
that’s a special feeling. 
 
When you actually go to the show and watch, are you looking at 
anything in particular, how it’s all working or the peanut pitch or any of 
that? 
 
Yes, I’m sure we look at the circus differently than the public would, but 
you can’t help but—or I can’t—you kind of notice the things that, “They 
shouldn’t be doing that,” or you see kind of the things in your mind that 
are negative that people might not notice. But after you’ve seen it over 
and over, I guess, I tend to focus in on the things that aren’t just right 
when you’re watching it. But I enjoy watching the whole show. 
 
The grand spec, the spec… 
 
Yes. 
 
Has music changed much? 
 
 
13
 
Cavallini 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Cavallini 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Cavallini 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Cavallini 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Cavallini 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Well, when I grew up we had a band. We had a live band so I remember 
that. My school teacher, Mrs. Reynolds, as I grew up, her family actually 
had the band. She played the organ and her husband played the trumpet, 
I think. And so that’s a huge change, to go to recorded music. And I 
know that was a hard decision when they made that decision to not carry 
that band along. I remember we used to have the old cassettes, and it 
was a big deal that we had when we first switched over, and now it’s all 
on computers. (Laughs)  
 
Are there any other changes that you’ve noticed through the years? 
 
There’s a lot of changes, but… 
 
The way you’ve traveled? 
 
That pretty much has stayed the same since I’ve grown up. I mean, 
we’ve always been in our own truck and trailer. We always travel early 
in the morning. It’s always kind of like a caravan. I mean, as long as I 
can remember, at five-thirty in the morning, someone’s driving around 
honking a horn, and that means it’s time to get up. (Laughs) And then 
the mechanics follow it up. My parents have always kind of stayed 
towards the back. My dad likes to make sure that the grounds are left in 
good condition, the trash is all picked up, the manure’s where it’s 
supposed to be. And then the mechanics follow everyone up to make 
sure everyone makes it over. As long as I can remember, that’s been our 
travel procedures. 
 
Any important lessons passed down from your parents or your 
grandparents that resonate with you? 
 
I’m never good at those questions. (Laughter) Nothing ever just pops 
into my mind. I’m sure later I’ll think of something. 
 
You’ve seen many different parts of the country. Do you have a favorite 
place you like to play, a favorite venue? 
 
Well, there’s wonderful opportunities, there’s beautiful parts of the 
country. I think, as a child, I would remember the Michigan area, the 
Great Lakes. In the summertime up there it’s beautiful, and we always 
had a lot of fun, like Oshkosh, Kenosha, Racine, circus fans, cookouts, 
bratwursts, piers, being by the pier and walking out. I mean, it’s 
beautiful. It’s beautiful up in there. This year, we traveled west and we 
went through Utah and the mountains. There’s just so many beautiful 
parts of the United States. A lot of people think California, Arizona, nice 
weather, climate, but I think of dirt. I mean, we’re in dirt fields a lot. 
 
 
14
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Cavallini 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
 
Cavallini 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Cavallini 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Cavallini 
When I was young and I would think of California, they would burn 
off—if there was a blade of grass they would burn it off for fear of fires. 
So we would be out in this—just not nice stuff. So probably what 
normal people would think of isn’t the same reason why I would like an 
area or not like an area. 
 
As you’ve seen all kinds of different places, you continue to call Hugo 
home. What’s special about Hugo for you? 
 
Just that it’s home. It’s always wonderful to come home. It’s wonderful 
to know that you’re in a community that appreciates what you do, that 
welcomes you home. But I think that would be true with everyone, our 
church family, the schools, it’s nice to feel welcome. We’ve been very 
fortunate, as I was growing up and my children, that the school system 
has worked so well with us and let our children go back in and study 
during our off-season. 
 
As we kind of come to the end [of our interview], where do you see the 
future, not necessarily of Carson and Barnes, but the future of the circus 
heading? 
 
I believe there’s always a place for a circus. It’s family entertainment, 
it’s magical, it’s making memories with your family. Circuses have 
definitely changed, just where it is now, and I’m sure there will be more 
changes. But I think there’s always going to be a place for circus. 
 
Is there anything you’d like to add that we haven’t asked you about 
today? 
 
I don’t think so. 
 
Well, thank you so much for your time. We really appreciate it. 
 
You’re welcome. You’re welcome. 
 
------- End of interview -------