Ethnic Grocers in the Urban Midwest: Archie Green Fellows Prcject, 2013-2014 
Bahaa Hariri interview, 2014-05-20: interview conducted by Lucy Long 
Interview ID: afc2013016 00841 
D 
ate : May 20, 2014 
Duration: 00:24:26 
afc2013016 00841 sr-01 
00:00:01 
Introductions (impromptu interview). Settling into the interview. Description of the market and 
its growth. 
00:01:10 
Family history and establishing the store. 
Discussion of who runs the grocery store. It was started by his father in 2005. Father was civil 
engineer in Lebanon and when he came here to Toledo, he decided he wanted to be an 
entrepreneur. The father went to school at University of Toledo in 80's; moved back to Lebanon; 
and the family moved back to the US in 2001. 
00:03:40 Changing the food for customers and discussion of authenticity. 
"Try to make it as original as possible" 
"Lebanon has a 
hundred cultures within one culture" every village has its own taste. "Kind of 
integrate everything" 
These variations are regional differences. 
00:05:40 Customers' ethnicities. 
Demographic of customers is diverse. 
Mostly (the majority) Middle Eastern, but you will see all types of cultures there. 
00:06:15 
Appealing to customers—language and displays. 
Does the ethnic composition of your customers alter how you display things? 
Display things in English because of the area they're in [Toledo, northwest Ohio]. Also, most 
people speak English. Products and packages from the Middle East may have Arabic on them. 
They also use English in the restaurant, partly because they feel anything else may confuse 
people. 
00:07:30 
Customers—diverse needs. 
Treatment of customers. Do you feel like you have to treat your customers differently because of 
their ethnic background? Explain things more? 
Not necessarily. May explain things more. Give explanation of what it is and how to serve it. 
"Teach them a 
little about your culture with you even knowing." 
For example, cooking dandelion leaves. 
00:08:56 
Decorating store. 
No time to put up maps of Lebanon to help people learn because have not had time to really 
interior decorate. Eventually, they will. 
00:09:30 
Lebanese food and negative associations. 
Story about when his family was in the process of acquiring this business (the Middle Eastern 
Market). The market was failing, and they had discussions with the gentleman who the market's 
location was being leased from. This conversation took place a 
few years after 9/11. The 
previous owner asked if they were planning on changing the name because of the negative press 
associated with the Middle East. The father asked the gentleman if he liked Italian food and if he 
liked sushi and the gentleman said yes. Then the father said that we went to world wars with 
them and we still enjoy their food. 
00:11:15 
Food and identity 
Discussion of food representing cultural identity and liking cultures because of liking their food. 
Also, discuss food and culture fights, using the origin of the falafel as an example. 
00:13:38 
Lebanese food. 
Confusion over which foods belong to Lebanese culture. Once an origin is assigned to it, people 
are curious. An example is couscous, which can also be Israeli. 
00:14:30 
Lebanese yogurt. 
"Greek" yogurt is similar to a 
Lebanese one. They purchase a "plain yogurt" from an Armenian 
dairy company in California called Karoun Dairy. 
Since the popularity for Greek yogurt they 
began distributing that yogurt to regular grocery stores with a 
Greek yogurt label. 
00:15:46 Employees and store as community center 
Who works at the market? 
I 
know a 
lot of family works here. Does it feel like a 
whole family? 
It's a 
community gathering. "I 
don't mean to sound egotistical, but it's a 
landmark for the 
community. You have people calling the day before a 
holiday to ask if ` is it tomorrow or the day 
after'... we are not a 
masque... an Islamic calendar that runs and online website. We are a 
supermarket... people use you as a 
landmark because they are familiar with you, they feel 
comfortable with you so they will call and ask you ... they will call and ask you ` oh do you 
know a 
dry cleaning in town?' ... ` What is the closest masque that you go to?' ... That's why 
when I 
say a 
landmark it becomes a 
place to find answers or see people, that is." 
00:17:03 
Local Lebanese community; customers 
The community here is both Lebanese Christian and Muslim. There are only 2 
or 3 
Middle 
Eastern stores in the area so you still see the vast majority of the community at the store. African 
Muslims also shop there. 
They offer Halal meats. Since it is a 
more humane and sanitary way to butcher you get people 
who are neither Muslim or Jewish buy the Halal foods 
00:19:20 
Family members employed there. 
Going over who the family members who work at the market. 
00:20:22 
Languages used. 
Do you speak English amongst yourselves? Arabic in the back. English to the customers. They 
don't speak French to anyone, because it is a 
second maybe third language to many. 
00:21:31 Approach to food 
Do you try to be innovated with the food? 
Try to be with the displays--With the herbs—but not too much because they try to stay authentic 
with the food. 
"Part of why we get so busy in the kitchen is because we make everything from scratch. It 
requires extra work but it gives you an actual authenticity of the food." 
00:22:19 
Foods NOT offered to customers 
They eat some foods at home that they won't serve in the restaurant; 
There are some kinds of food that are appealing to your family but not to others. Example is 
lamb tongue.