Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
1	  
Project: Archie Green Project 
Interviewer: Andy Kolovos 
Interviewee: Bill Suhr, Andrea Scott 
Interviewee Contact: 
 
Location: Champlain Orchards, Shoreham, VT 
Date: 06 March 2015 
Length: 01:04:10 
Recording Format: Digital 
Accession: au2015-1003 
Collection: vfc2014-0005 
Indexer: Shannon Esrich	  
	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
START-00:00:39 
Introductions.	  
Introduction	  
00:00:39-00:06:44 
Bill	  born	  in	  1972	  in	  Baltimore,	  MD.	  Attended	  UVM,	  looking	  for	  professional	  
career	  involving	  outdoor	  work	  but	  also	  professional	  opportunities.	  Vermont	  
Land	  Trust,	  Vermont	  Agency	  of	  Agriculture,	  Vermont	  Housing	  and	  
Conservation	  Board	  very	  helpful	  in	  finding	  farm,	  hold	  easements	  on	  first	  
and	  two	  additional	  farms.	  Bought	  first	  farm	  1998,	  27	  years	  old.	  Andrea	  met	  
Bill	  in	  2002,	  wasn’t	  directly	  connected	  to	  farm	  immediately,	  was	  working	  at	  
other	  educational	  non-­‐profit	  farm	  and	  went	  back	  to	  grad	  school	  to	  become	  
teacher.	  Has	  teaching	  background.	  Grew	  up	  on	  Martha’s	  Vineyard	  farming	  
on	  really	  small	  scale,	  vegetables	  herbs	  and	  flowers	  with	  Mom	  and	  
grandfather.	  Fruit	  growing	  is	  new	  to	  Andrea.	  Currently	  involved	  on	  farm,	  
not	  teaching	  anymore,	  mostly	  stay	  at	  home	  mom.	  Educational	  work	  with	  
tours	  and	  pick-­‐your-­‐own,	  interests	  more	  in	  horticultural	  things.	  Orchard	  
located	  on	  Larraby’s	  Point	  on	  Lake	  Champlain,	  was	  6-­‐generation	  farm	  and	  
wanted	  to	  keep	  name	  for	  geographic	  connection,	  but	  older	  family	  didn’t	  
want	  to	  sell	  name,	  so	  broadened	  name	  to	  Champlain.	  Hoping	  to	  make	  lake	  a	  
Childhood,	  institution,	  
University	  of	  Vermont,	  
Vermont	  Land	  Trust,	  Vermont	  
Agency	  of	  Agriculture,	  
Vermont	  Housing	  and	  
Conservation	  Board,	  
education,	  land	  value,	  apple	  
varieties	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
2	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
more	  recognizable	  destination	  than	  singular	  point.	  Land	  was	  valued	  below	  
open	  land	  costs	  because	  dairy	  farms	  couldn’t	  use	  existing	  trees.	  Had	  no	  
experience	  growing	  fruit,	  so	  first	  year	  continued	  to	  lease	  land	  to	  
neighboring	  orchardists	  to	  learn	  what	  others	  did,	  and	  keep	  day	  jobs	  for	  
income.	  First	  year	  of	  growing	  had	  lots	  of	  mistakes	  but	  there	  was	  production.	  
Usually	  wait	  6	  years	  before	  harvest,	  and	  lots	  of	  investment	  starting	  from	  
scratch,	  so	  lucky	  to	  already	  have	  trees.	  In	  first	  year	  took	  down	  10	  acres,	  was	  
too	  large	  to	  have	  60	  acres	  with	  no	  experience.	  At	  that	  time	  had	  basic	  apple	  
varieties,	  Gala,	  Haralson,	  Macoun,	  Mutsu,	  Crispin,	  Macintosh,	  Cortland,	  
Empire,	  Red	  Delicious.	  Now,	  100	  varieties	  of	  apples	  plus	  peaches,	  
nectarines,	  plums,	  cherries,	  pears.	  
00:06:44-00:10:22 
When	  started	  orchard,	  was	  passionate	  about	  taking	  care	  of	  trees.	  
Understood	  there	  were	  chances	  for	  professionalism	  in	  raising	  crop	  in	  
responsible	  way	  and	  taking	  it	  to	  market,	  had	  good	  timing	  with	  local	  food	  
movement	  and	  food	  co-­‐ops	  who	  wanted	  ecologically	  grown	  fruit	  and	  
relationships	  with	  farmers.	  Wide	  opportunity	  for	  fruit	  farm	  to	  deliver	  in	  fall	  
and	  store	  and	  deliver	  later	  in	  season.	  Could	  also	  convert	  pies	  into	  value	  
added	  products.	  Early	  markets	  included	  Saturdays,	  (day	  job	  was	  M-­‐F)	  could	  
distribute	  fruit	  from	  tops	  of	  trees	  not	  picked	  on	  pick-­‐your-­‐own	  part	  of	  
orchards.	  Left	  in	  morning	  to	  sell	  20	  bushels	  at	  farm	  stands	  for	  people	  who	  
paid	  with	  checks	  two	  weeks	  later.	  Went	  up	  to	  Burlington,	  Waterbury	  down	  
Route	  100.	  Exciting	  to	  go	  out	  with	  20	  bushels	  and	  comeback	  with	  $200	  even	  
though	  work	  time	  in	  orchard	  probably	  cost	  more,	  felt	  good	  to	  be	  self-­‐
sufficient.	  Doesn’t	  like	  always	  being	  under	  someone	  else’s	  direction	  and	  
critique.	  Only	  did	  sales	  in	  advance,	  not	  at	  farmers	  markets	  because	  doesn’t	  
like	  chance/irregularity	  involved	  with	  farmers	  markets	  with	  weather,	  
customers,	  etc.	  Others	  do	  well,	  but	  not	  model	  for	  Champlain.	  	  
Local	  food,	  retail	  outlet,	  co-­‐op,	  
value	  added,	  ecological	  
00:10:22-00:13:40 
Got	  relationships	  with	  farm	  stands	  because	  there	  wasn’t	  a	  choice,	  had	  to	  
make	  money.	  Land	  was	  affordable	  through	  groups	  who	  helped	  cut	  price	  of	  
Relationships,	  expanding	  
business,	  retail	  outlet,	  PNC	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
3	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
land	  in	  half,	  and	  very	  low	  loan	  payments.	  As	  cut	  back	  day	  job	  hours,	  
economics	  were	  dicey.	  Personal	  relationships	  developed	  quickly	  because	  
had	  passion	  but	  clearly	  needed	  help,	  so	  maybe	  guilt	  factor	  in	  people	  who	  
felt	  bad	  and	  wanted	  to	  help	  them	  have	  the	  means	  to	  try	  again.	  As	  time	  
progressed,	  went	  from	  seasonal	  farm	  stands	  to	  storing	  fruit	  longer	  in	  
season,	  then	  processing,	  meeting	  refrigeration	  and	  new	  opportunities.	  
Expanded	  to	  small	  groceries	  and	  food	  co-­‐ops	  that	  stuck	  with	  them,	  then	  
chain	  account	  with	  PNC	  Foods,	  no	  longer	  in	  existence.	  Hannaford’s	  great	  
supporter	  as	  well.	  	  
Foods,	  Hannaford’s,	  processing	  
00:13:40-00:16:46 
Very	  tricky	  to	  grow	  apples	  organically	  on	  east	  coast.	  Eco	  Apple	  is	  a	  program	  
developed	  by	  Red	  Tomato	  to	  acknowledge	  growers	  in	  Northeast	  using	  
ecological	  practices	  and	  moving	  away	  from	  high	  spray	  regimens,	  close	  to	  
organic	  but	  still	  having	  crop	  to	  sell	  on	  community	  scale.	  Eco	  Apple	  between	  
conventional	  and	  organic,	  a	  certification	  program	  like	  organic.	  Depends	  on	  
sprays,	  scouting	  for	  pests	  and	  disease,	  planting	  disease	  resistant	  apples,	  
using	  own	  woodchips	  as	  mulch	  instead	  of	  herbicides.	  IPM	  Institute	  does	  the	  
certification,	  many	  college	  programs	  also	  have	  IPM	  Recommendation	  but	  
can’t	  certify	  Eco	  Apple.	  
Organic,	  Eco	  Apple,	  ecological,	  
distributor,	  Red	  Tomato,	  IPM	  
00:16:46-00:21:28 
When	  met	  Andrea	  who	  knew	  and	  favored	  organic	  farming,	  difficult	  to	  be	  
complete	  opposite	  in	  conventional	  farming	  but	  before	  met	  her	  was	  already	  
moving	  away	  from	  conventional.	  At	  UVM	  studied	  in	  school	  of	  Natural	  
Resources	  and	  Environmental	  Studies,	  not	  insensitive	  to	  environmental	  
concerns.	  Was	  challenged	  by	  having	  to	  spray	  apples	  immediately,	  food	  co-­‐
ops	  interested	  in	  local	  and	  would	  permit	  non	  certified	  organic	  if	  close	  
enough.	  Early	  customers	  more	  inclined	  to	  Vermont	  apples	  than	  imported	  
ones.	  When	  Andrea	  was	  consumer	  in	  early	  years,	  saw	  Shelburne	  apples	  
designated	  as	  Vermont	  apples	  but	  hardly	  any	  others	  sold	  as	  Vermont	  
apples.	  Bill	  originally	  envied	  Larraby’s	  model	  because	  growers	  could	  focus	  
on	  horticulture,	  pooled	  funds	  among	  many	  growers	  to	  store,	  pack,	  and	  
Institution,	  University	  of	  
Vermont,	  ecological,	  organic,	  
local,	  consumer,	  retail	  outlet,	  
co-­‐op,	  Shoreham	  Co-­‐op,	  
processing,	  distributor,	  
marketing,	  market	  demand	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
4	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
market	  out	  of	  one	  facility	  in	  town,	  the	  Shoreham	  Co-­‐op,	  but	  growers	  handed	  
over	  responsibilities	  of	  packaging	  ,	  storage,	  and	  marketing	  to	  outside	  people	  
and	  started	  getting	  prices	  below	  their	  growing	  costs.	  Growers	  lost	  touch	  
with	  the	  market.	  Vermont	  fruit	  was	  heading	  to	  NYC,	  England,	  huge	  
disconnect	  between	  farm	  and	  market.	  Even	  when	  interacting	  with	  other	  
distributors	  in	  state	  would	  only	  order	  Macintosh.	  Honey	  crisp	  started	  
outselling	  Macintosh	  6:1,	  and	  if	  didn’t	  have	  understanding	  of	  market	  would	  
have	  been	  years	  behind	  market	  trend	  an	  unable	  to	  stand	  out	  with	  attractive	  
fruit.	  Huge	  	  asset	  to	  understand	  consumer	  preferences	  without	  one	  buyer	  
purchasing	  only	  one	  variety	  and	  giving	  commodity	  price.	  
00:21:28-00:23:00 
Bill	  just	  got	  back	  from	  Nova	  Scotia	  and	  took	  international	  tree	  fruit	  tour.	  Co-­‐
op	  there	  called	  Scotian	  Gold,	  highly	  functional.	  Nova	  Scotia	  growers	  
fantastic	  example	  of	  successful	  co-­‐op	  where	  they	  pack,	  store,	  do	  value	  
added	  products,	  co-­‐op	  buys	  rights	  to	  special	  club	  variety	  apples	  only	  grown	  
by	  certain	  members	  of	  growing	  club.	  Extremely	  functional.	  Shoreham	  Co-­‐op	  
was	  successful,	  but	  in	  late	  1990s	  apple	  industry	  was	  dead	  and	  very	  few	  
orchards	  survived	  those	  years.	  
Scotian	  Gold,	  retail	  outlet,	  co-­‐
op,	  value	  added,	  club	  variety,	  
Shoreham	  Co-­‐op	  
00:23:00-00:24:18 
Champlain	  Orchards	  now	  has	  its	  own	  packing	  lines,	  cold	  storage.	  Shoreham	  
Co-­‐op	  now	  the	  Vermont	  Refrigerated	  Storage,	  half	  of	  harvest	  goes	  there	  
currently.	  Hard	  investments,	  used	  to	  do	  everything	  with	  cash	  flow	  and	  used	  
the	  co-­‐op	  for	  storage	  only,	  but	  now	  taking	  more	  responsibilities	  and	  
orchard	  has	  50	  full	  time	  employees.	  Not	  a	  horticultural	  dream,	  it’s	  trucking,	  
storage,	  processing,	  marketing,	  heavily	  involved,	  but	  still	  enjoy	  it.	  7-­‐8	  
businesses	  being	  managed	  on	  farm,	  far	  from	  original	  orchard.	  	  
Processing,	  storage,	  Vermont	  
Refrigerated	  Storage,	  
employees,	  distributor,	  
marketing	  
00:24:18-00:28:22 
Bill	  and	  Andrea	  still	  learning	  even	  as	  head	  operators.	  Biggest	  challenge	  to	  
Andrea	  is	  educating	  consumers	  about	  trying	  different	  varieties,	  marketing	  
will	  be	  ongoing	  challenge.	  Huge	  need	  for	  marketing,	  public	  education.	  Also	  
hard	  to	  manage	  people,	  not	  just	  farming,	  try	  to	  use	  other	  people’s	  
management	  skills	  to	  everyone’s	  advantage.	  Curiosity	  and	  economic	  need	  
Educating,	  consumer,	  
marketing,	  management,	  
expanding	  business,	  value	  
added,	  employees,	  hard	  cider	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
5	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
drove	  expansion.	  Each	  apple	  sent	  to	  its	  best	  purpose,	  don’t	  only	  want	  to	  sell	  
expensive	  high	  end	  fruit.	  Sell	  basic	  apples,	  also	  value	  added	  products.	  Want	  
to	  grow	  right	  apple	  for	  the	  right	  product.	  By	  keeping	  all	  product	  production	  
in-­‐house,	  have	  created	  product	  demand	  beyond	  their	  production	  capacity.	  
Many	  of	  responsibilities	  of	  farm	  are	  outside	  Bill	  and	  Andrea’s	  skillset,	  try	  to	  
hire	  people	  who	  are	  good	  at	  those	  things.	  Hard	  cider	  requiring	  a	  lot	  of	  extra	  
focus	  and	  employee	  labor.	  Top	  employees	  are	  paid	  more	  annually	  than	  Bill	  
and	  Andrea.	  
00:28:22-00:34:55 
Pruner’s	  is	  line	  of	  hard	  cider	  connected	  to	  Champlain	  Orchards,	  want	  to	  
differentiate	  products	  but	  need	  3-­‐4	  farms	  to	  supply	  apples	  for	  product.	  Bill	  
wants	  product	  that	  is	  not	  land	  or	  infrastructure	  based	  and	  could	  involve	  
outside	  investors	  or	  sale	  to	  outside	  investors.	  Want	  to	  see	  products	  and	  
business	  continue	  into	  future,	  pass	  on	  profitable	  business	  to	  children	  so	  
they	  can	  experiment	  with	  their	  own	  interests,	  but	  need	  everything	  to	  be	  
running	  smoothly.	  Also	  want	  outside	  business	  to	  liquidate	  in	  case	  of	  
unknown	  need	  for	  income.	  So,	  make	  ice	  cider,	  Pruner’s,	  wines.	  Many	  label	  
and	  name	  changes,	  have	  not	  capitalized	  on	  the	  market,	  need	  to	  be	  better	  
organized	  to	  grow	  more	  rapidly	  in	  hard	  cider	  business.	  Everything	  coming	  
back	  under	  Champlain	  Orchards	  logo.	  Sweet	  cider	  still	  under	  Champlain	  
Orchards	  brand,	  hard	  cidery	  trying	  to	  link	  to	  orchard	  but	  also	  have	  its	  own	  
logo	  and	  be	  its	  own	  entity.	  Wants	  strong	  correlation	  with	  orchard.	  Many	  
apples	  planted	  just	  for	  cider.	  Keep	  planting	  more	  apples	  for	  new	  cider	  
market.	  25%	  of	  100	  varieties	  intended	  for	  cider,	  some	  English	  apples	  as	  
well.	  Want	  to	  offer	  American	  cider	  naturally	  sweetened,	  highlighting	  apple	  
in	  end	  product.	  When	  came	  to	  orchard	  was	  only	  commercial	  fresh	  fruit	  
orchard,	  no	  apples	  for	  cider.	  
Pruner’s	  Pride,	  hard	  cider,	  
expanding	  business,	  alcohol,	  
marketing,	  product	  
differentiation	  
00:34:55-00:38:40 
When	  bought	  farm	  was	  60	  acres	  of	  orchard.	  Began	  working	  closely	  with	  
older	  neighbor,	  leading	  horticulturalist	  Sandy	  Witherol.	  Tried	  new	  and	  
more	  apples	  each	  year,	  worked	  with	  him	  to	  match	  his	  growing	  standards	  to	  
Institution,	  Vermont	  Land	  
Trust,	  expanding	  business,	  
weather,	  crop	  loss	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
6	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
Bill’s.	  Began	  purchasing	  his	  whole	  crop	  because	  out	  marketing	  own	  
production,	  his	  fruit	  was	  great.	  Then	  his	  property	  went	  for	  sale	  by	  Vermont	  
Land	  Trust,	  added	  40	  acres	  of	  production.	  Ran	  out	  of	  land	  5	  years	  ago,	  
purchased	  dairy	  farm	  with	  200+	  acres	  open	  land.	  Takes	  6	  years	  to	  regain	  
production	  with	  orchard,	  but	  didn’t	  have	  land	  base.	  17-­‐acre	  parcel	  next	  to	  
land	  offered	  for	  sale,	  also	  fruit	  growing	  land,	  now	  highly	  planted.	  220	  acres	  
of	  tree	  fruit	  on	  total	  of	  500	  acres.	  Some	  land	  in	  Bridgeport.	  Strategic	  move	  
to	  get	  away	  from	  home,	  hit	  by	  hail	  every	  year	  and	  lose	  crop,	  do	  not	  carry	  
crop	  insurance	  because	  $70,000/year.	  Use	  those	  funds	  to	  invest	  in	  
infrastructure	  to	  mitigate	  natural	  problems	  to	  sell	  product	  other	  than	  fresh	  
apples.	  Different	  locations	  hopefully	  avoid	  certain	  weather	  events	  damaging	  
all	  crops.	  
00:38:40-00:47:25 
First	  fall	  selling	  pick-­‐your-­‐own	  fruit,	  had	  200	  bushels	  of	  fruit	  that	  couldn’t	  
be	  sold	  fresh,	  filled	  pit	  of	  milk	  parlor.	  Had	  too	  much	  waste,	  selling	  on	  cull	  
market	  wouldn’t	  cover	  shipping	  costs.	  Most	  of	  the	  fruit	  affected	  by	  mice	  and	  
other	  things,	  by	  the	  time	  got	  press	  running	  most	  fruit	  could	  not	  be	  used.	  
Didn’t	  want	  to	  take	  easy	  path,	  wanted	  control	  over	  their	  market	  and	  to	  use	  
apples	  fully	  while	  adding	  value	  and	  developing	  brand	  to	  differentiate	  price	  
through	  some	  extent.	  First	  pick-­‐your-­‐own,	  then	  deliveries,	  then	  cider	  which	  
required	  refrigerated	  truck	  and	  tenant	  living	  full	  time	  in	  house.	  Refrigerated	  
truck	  converted	  farm	  to	  loading	  dock,	  good	  for	  over	  3	  million	  pounds	  of	  
apples/year.	  Need	  to	  protect	  product,	  all	  assets	  to	  fruit	  farm.	  Spent	  millions	  
on	  infrastructure.	  First,	  just	  fresh	  fruit,	  then	  sweet	  cider,	  then	  slicing	  line	  for	  
frozen	  apple	  pies.	  Pie	  business	  died	  out	  because	  people	  not	  ready	  to	  pay	  
premium	  prices	  for	  them.	  Spend	  money	  on	  approved	  kitchen,	  equipment.	  
Castonia	  Foundation	  helped	  purchase	  that	  equipment,	  plus	  low	  interest	  
loans.	  After	  sliced	  apples,	  started	  making	  pies,	  applesauce,	  apple	  butter,	  
cider	  syrup,	  then	  hard	  cider.	  Started	  with	  Pruner’s	  Pride	  brand,	  Eleanor	  
Liget	  from	  Eden	  Ice	  Cider	  (flatlander)	  bought	  utility	  apples	  to	  make	  her	  first	  
Crop	  loss,	  marketing,	  brand,	  
expanding	  business,	  
processing,	  value	  added,	  
infrastructure,	  producer,	  Eden	  
Ice	  Cider,	  ice	  cider,	  volume,	  
institution,	  Castonia	  
Foundation	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
7	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
ice	  cider.	  Still	  supply	  her	  today,	  obtained	  similar	  thing	  to	  working	  lands	  
grant	  to	  hire	  her	  to	  teach	  them	  how	  to	  make	  ice	  cider	  under	  their	  own	  
brand.	  Then	  moved	  to	  hard	  cider.	  Ice	  cider	  very	  expensive,	  like	  a	  dessert	  
wine,	  highest	  margin	  product	  on	  farm	  but	  low	  sales	  because	  of	  small	  
volume.	  Sweet	  and	  hard	  cider	  give	  main	  business.	  Because	  orchard	  had	  
early	  production,	  volume	  is	  key	  to	  business.	  	  Business	  grew	  quickly	  from	  
cash	  flow,	  ability	  to	  reinvest	  and	  able	  to	  survive	  farming.	  
00:47:25-00:48:55 
Andrea	  met	  Bill	  in	  2002,	  moved	  here	  2005	  when	  still	  in	  grad	  school	  and	  
teaching.	  Worked	  mostly	  in	  fall	  on	  weekends	  with	  school	  groups.	  Fully	  
employed	  by	  orchard	  since	  2009.	  	  
Employees	  
00:48:55-00:54:37 
Macintosh	  alone	  makes	  really	  nice	  sweet	  cider.	  For	  pies,	  tried	  three	  
different	  pie	  operations	  and	  decided	  on	  ingredients	  they	  wanted	  to	  use.	  
Cabot	  butter,	  organic	  flour,	  organic	  spices,	  eco	  apples.	  Did	  not	  want	  to	  
pursue	  low-­‐end	  pie	  sale,	  focused	  on	  food	  co-­‐op	  customer.	  Baked	  goods	  hard	  
to	  sell	  because	  it	  gets	  old,	  but	  dedicated	  to	  selling	  pies	  for	  customers.	  Pies	  
were	  highest	  value	  added	  product	  in	  beginning	  years.	  There	  was	  no	  baking	  
education,	  floundered	  through	  pies	  and	  hard	  cider	  knowledge	  when	  started	  
each.	  Made	  many	  mistakes,	  but	  made	  more	  good	  decisions	  and	  learned	  from	  
poor	  decisions.	  Have	  had	  a	  lot	  of	  good	  employees	  willing	  to	  be	  diversified	  in	  
their	  work	  and	  learning	  on	  the	  job.	  Pie	  bakers	  learned	  best	  practices	  at	  
work	  through	  trial	  and	  error,	  justifying	  their	  income,	  need	  for	  profit.	  
Seasonal	  business	  brings	  very	  skilled	  employees	  but	  with	  low	  profit	  
margins	  in	  summer,	  so	  wanted	  products	  to	  bring	  in	  income	  to	  pay	  
employees	  in	  summer.	  	  Summer	  hard	  cider	  sales	  could	  be	  that	  product.	  The	  
staff	  wants	  Champlain	  Orchards	  to	  continue	  to	  grow,	  they	  bring	  their	  own	  
expertise	  to	  it.	  Very	  optimistic,	  will	  succeed	  and	  will	  improve,	  strive	  to	  keep	  
employees	  year-­‐round	  and	  limit	  unemployment.	  Want	  people	  to	  feel	  needed	  
year-­‐round.	  
Cider,	  pie,	  value	  added,	  
processing,	  education,	  
employees,	  labor,	  seasonal,	  
profit	  
00:54:37-00:57:35 
Business	  partner	  with	  University	  of	  Vermont	  Medical	  Center,	  mainly	  feed	  
Institution,	  University	  of	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
8	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
staff	  members	  and	  family	  members	  of	  patients.	  Represents	  insignificant	  
amount	  of	  their	  income,	  for	  other	  farms	  more.	  Don’t	  have	  appropriate	  
product	  in	  summer	  months	  so	  only	  supply	  them	  seasonally.	  Already	  stop	  at	  
UVM,	  Sodexo	  is	  significant	  account	  as	  they	  supply	  many	  universities.	  Take	  
pride	  in	  serving	  University	  of	  Vermont	  Medical	  Center.	  Wondering	  about	  
other	  products	  they	  could	  sell	  them,	  maybe	  Asian	  pears.	  Thrive	  on	  
delivering	  direct	  to	  consumer	  and	  consumer	  education.	  They	  also	  buy	  sweet	  
cider,	  apples	  as	  main	  account.	  Hospital	  is	  stable	  income	  though	  small	  
percent	  of	  total	  business,	  but	  still	  important.	  
Vermont	  Medical	  Center,	  
hospital,	  retail	  outlet,	  
University	  of	  Vermont,	  Sodexo	  
00:57:35-00:59:17 
Scale	  is	  very	  important	  in	  business’	  success,	  and	  have	  to	  diversify	  products	  
to	  get	  consumers	  to	  buy	  them.	  Volume	  and	  utilization	  of	  apple	  fully	  in	  
different	  products	  is	  key,	  different	  from	  other	  orchards.	  Deliver	  directly	  
almost	  all	  product,	  just	  introduced	  hard	  cider	  to	  NH.	  Also	  sell	  to	  NY	  and	  NH	  
for	  fresh	  fruit,	  but	  less	  than	  5%	  of	  income.	  95%	  delivered	  in	  state	  by	  staff.	  
Scale,	  diversification,	  self	  
delivery,	  distribution,	  local,	  
regional	  
00:59:17-01:02:20 
Macintosh	  only	  differentiated	  somewhat	  with	  eco	  apple	  certification,	  cannot	  
sell	  at	  very	  high	  price.	  Nice	  to	  deliver	  to	  supermarket	  and	  food	  co-­‐op	  at	  
same	  price.	  Co-­‐ops	  also	  sell	  mid-­‐level	  fruit,	  slightly	  special,	  pay	  a	  little	  more	  
per	  pound.	  Then	  higher	  end	  fruit	  either	  unusual	  or	  higher	  market	  value,	  
would	  be	  most	  expensive	  fruit.	  Growing	  more	  unique	  fruit,	  but	  not	  
forgetting	  about	  commodity	  fruit,	  need	  that	  business	  too.	  Macintosh	  as	  
great	  apple,	  may	  someday	  be	  heirloom.	  Pick-­‐your-­‐own	  also	  lets	  people	  try	  
varieties,	  don’t	  differentiate	  price	  for	  varieties	  in	  pick-­‐your-­‐own.	  Can	  buy	  
bushel	  of	  mixed	  apples,	  paying	  one	  price	  per	  volume.	  Helps	  introduce	  
customers	  to	  new	  apples.	  
Price,	  retail	  outlet,	  co-­‐op,	  
product	  differentiation,	  
volume	  
01:02:20-END. 
Very	  grateful	  for	  support	  from	  multiple	  agencies	  providing	  loans	  with	  low	  
and	  fixed	  rate	  interest	  loans.	  Vermont	  Economic	  Corporation,	  Working	  
Lands,	  Farm	  Viability.	  Also	  huge	  community	  support,	  want	  to	  give	  back	  to	  
them	  and	  get	  them	  excited	  about	  different	  kinds	  of	  fruit	  and	  about	  growing	  
practices.	  Privileged	  to	  grow	  in	  good	  site	  with	  affordable	  land	  and	  have	  
Financial	  support,	  loan,	  grant,	  
institution,	  Vermont	  Economic	  
Corporation,	  Working	  Lands,	  
Farm	  Viability,	  community	  
Vermont Folklife Center 
Audio Log  
	  
	  
9	  
Time 
Content 
Keyword 1 
financial	  backing	  for	  experimentation.