Interview Transcription, Community Health Workers in Downstate New York 
Interviewee, Ligia Soto-Cruz 
Interviewer, Aaron Paige and Elinor Levy 
Conducted on March 28, 2022 
Interview conducted remotely and recorded through Zencastr 
Aaron Paige  (00:00:00): 
Today is Monday, March 28th, 2022. My name is Aaron Paige. The spelling is A A R O N, last name, Paige 
P A I G E. And I'm here today with my fellow interviewer and folklorist, Elinor Levy, spelled E L I N O R. 
Last name Levy, L E V Y. And today, Elinor and I will be interviewing Ligia Soto-Cruz, as part of the Archie 
Green Fellowship Project, titled "Community Health Workers in Downstate New York". Ligia, would you 
please state and spell your full name? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:00:40): 
Ligia Soto-Cruz, L I G I A, S O T O, hyphen C R U Z. 
Aaron Paige  (00:00:50): 
And Ligia, when and where were you born and where did you grow up? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:00:55): 
I was born in Guatemala City in 1983. 
Elinor Levy (00:01:01): 
Did you spend your childhood in Guatemala? When and how did you come to the US, if you're okay with 
talking about that? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:01:09): 
I came to the United States when I was 13. And so I grew up in Guatemala. When I was 13 my father, 
who was a farmworker, who had moved here years before me, applied for his citizenship and 
everything. He got us here and we managed to come and start school at age 13. 
Aaron Paige  (00:01:32): 
And where did you move to? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:01:35): 
Oh, we moved to Cutchogue here in Long Island. 
Elinor Levy (00:01:40): 
That must have been quite a shock for you. 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:01:45): 
It sure was. I would cry at nighttime. I wanted to go back. I was homesick and I didn't understand the 
reason why my father wanted us here. I knew I had my friends. I knew I had my school there, my family. 
But now as an adult, I understand the sacrifice. It was time for a change. It was a good change. 
Aaron Paige  (00:02:10): 
Around what year did you join Hudson River Healthcare, and in what capacity? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:02:16): 
I started in 2004 as a community health worker, outreach worker. 
Elinor Levy (00:02:24): 
So was Sun River Health your first job? What led you to be a community health worker? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:02:35): 
I was volunteering for a Catholic church, here in St. John's, in Riverhead. The nun from that church 
became aware of this job, and she announced it at church, at one of the masses. After the mass, she 
says Ligia you should apply for it. They're looking to hire a community health worker to educate workers 
about primary and preventative healthcare, and you're the daughter of a farmworker. I think you'll do 
great at the job. I gave it a try. So I did apply, and I ended up getting hired and I've been here 18 years. 
Aaron Paige  (00:03:20): 
I mean, if you've been working in this capacity for 18 years, and I know the role has changed over time, 
but what was it about that initial experience, that spoke to you? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:03:34): 
I know the challenge that it is to be getting adjusted to a new culture, to not knowing where to get 
access to medical care, not knowing where community resources are. I saw myself like an asset. Making 
a difference for my own community. To this day, my passion, it's the uninsured and the farmworkers. 
That's my passion. Even though my title has changed throughout the years, I try to focus in...where 
there are projects involved. I always... That's my passion. 
Aaron Paige  (00:04:15): 
Can you tell us a little about that initial work you were doing with, was it Catholic Charities, that you 
were working with? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:04:21): 
Yes, the church was part of Catholic Charities. Basically, a nun, her name was Sister Margaret Smyth. She 
had an outreach office in Riverhead. She would help families with completion of forms, linking them to 
community resources. She needed someone there to answer the phones. She would ask me to assist 
with completing forms. I I would be there volunteering my time. Just basic forms from school or 
programs that the parents needed for the kids. 
Aaron Paige  (00:05:01): 
Was there a field component to that work as well? Were you out in the community? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:05:08): 
Rarely. No, not really. It was mainly in her office. I know she did do fieldwork, but I was not part of it. I 
was a volunteer. But you had asked what led me to apply. So basically it was, I wanted to give back to 
my community, and the position that was given by Sun River Health, it was the beginning of promoting 
Hudson River or Sun River Health services in Long Island. And no one knew about the program or the 
services. I said, oh, let me take on that challenge, and learn myself about them. 
Elinor Levy (00:05:48): 
If you can go back 18 years, tell us what a typical day might have been for you. 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:05:57): 
I had an outreach office. I would report to the locations to do the basics, flyers, information. I would go 
to the field, identify a farm or a greenhouse, and during the lunchtime of the workers, I would bring 
them the information, and tell them, this is who we are. These are the locations where you can get care. 
Are you interested in making an appointment? Do you have a barrier getting to the appointment? I can 
assist you with the transportation. I can assist you with the medical interpretation. So that was a day. 
Then, building relationships. One of the key things for farmworkers to open up is they need to know 
you, or you need to gain their trust. Not everybody easily is going to open up to you and say, "I have 
this, I have that, and please help me with this." So I would do constant, like biweekly, I'm sorry, monthly 
or bimonthly visits, to the location. So it was reinforcing the services that we had. 
Aaron Paige  (00:07:15): 
Were you provided access to a van, or if you were transporting patients at that time, how did you do 
that? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:07:23): 
Yeah, we had a company minivan to provide the transportation services. And the certification of medical 
interpretation was provided by Sun River Health. 
Elinor Levy (00:07:37): 
With the people you were working with, the farm workers, were they largely Guatemalan? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:07:43): 
It was a mix. It was a mix of Guatemalan, Salvadorian and from Mexico. 
Elinor Levy (00:07:49): 
And this is actually not a question we've asked, and again, you're free to not answer it, but I'm curious, 
were there additional barriers when you went in to work with say the Mexican or the Ecuadorian 
community, as opposed to the Guatemalan community, because you're Guatemalan, or was it pretty 
much the same? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:08:11): 
I didn't see any barriers. we all speak Spanish, same language. We didn't see any barriers. I would 
encounter the farmworkers asking me where I was from, and me sharing that information. And I felt like 
when I would share with them that I was from Central America, those from Central America were more 
open to speaking up to me, but I didn't see any barriers. 
Aaron Paige  (00:08:36): 
And you said you would arrange for monthly site visits. Did you have to have a relationship with the 
growers in order to do that? And if so, how did you cultivate that, and what did that look like? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:08:53): 
So the relationship that I mainly had was with the foreman. So the person in charge of the greenhouse 
or the farm. Rarely I would go directly to the grower. So it would vary depending on where the farm was 
or which farm it was. I am from the community and I knew the area. They knew me. Prior to Sun River 
Health, I worked at a supermarket. I would see the growers and I would see the farmworkers coming to 
cash their checks. And I would be asked to help from the office. I was a cashier. To help them translate. 
So I became familiar after five years being a cashier who was coming from which farm or which 
greenhouse. I think that helped, being from the community. And so, I didn't speak much with the 
growers, honestly. 
Elinor Levy (00:09:50): 
Were the foremen people within the various communities, Guatemalan, Mexican, et cetera, who just 
moved up in the ranks or were these foremen generally Caucasian? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:10:07): 
It varied. I would say combination of 50-50, fifty Caucasian and fifty, who started working as a 
farmworker, and little by little they became the foreman or some type of management. The fact that 
they supervise a group of workers and they would report to the manager. 
Aaron Paige  (00:10:34): 
Being from the community and having grown up in that community, were there particular health needs 
or issues that you were able to identify that maybe an outsider wasn't able to identify, that you hoped 
to serve in your role? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:10:56): 
Could you ask me the question differently, or repeat it again? 
Elinor Levy (00:11:00): 
Were there health issues that only you, as a member of the community could have identified because 
you, you knew the signs or the behaviors that someone like me, going in from outside, would not have 
noticed? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:11:21): 
I don't know if I would be able to answer that question correctly. One of the things that I vaguely recall 
from 18, you know, 16 years ago was, the lime disease. The symptoms of night sweats. Feeling weakness 
and, oh, I got this rash. Not because I was from the community, just because at Sun River Health, we 
received trainings and pamphlets and information about different illnesses, and we would come and 
educate them about that as well. So I guess by me coming to them and giving them this information, I 
would, "oh, it looks like you could use a visit. Come and see the doctor." But if it wasn't for the 
education that I had received, and the education material that I was giving to them, they wouldn't have 
access to care. 
Aaron Paige  (00:12:15): 
We actually interviewed Eileen McManus and Ed Frederick as well. Olga and Marilyn, all up north. And 
as you know, they've done amazing work with the migrant farmworker outreach worker program. Up 
north, they were talking about that in the past the migrant farmworker populations were actually 
moving quite a bit geographically, but then, I guess over time or in more recent years, haven't been 
moving really as much and are more settled in the area. Could you give us a sense of the migrant 
farmworker population out on Long Island? And is there a lot of kind of transnational movement, and 
also movement around the United States as well? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:13:11): 
So we have what's called seasonal workers. So if I'm answering correctly, like if I were to go now to 
select three of the greenhouses or farms or nurseries that I went to a few years ago, and I have been 
there. Last year we did some vaccination events. And I still saw some of the workers there that I saw 
years ago. Now they're seniors. So some do remain in the same farm, same location, some who have the 
ability to travel back to their home countries. They do go back for the season and then they come and 
work. I was having this conversation with my father, because my father used to be a farmworker. And 
they "can you say hi to your father?" They remember my father because they know him from the 
community and they're still in the area. 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:14:09): 
And I would say 10 years ago, I started to see a little bit more of farmworkers coming from Puerto Rico. 
But prior to that, it was more from Central America. Very few from South America. Mainly El Salvador, 
Mexico, Guatemala. We do have some Ecuadorians. Some are able to move up in the farm, meaning 
they find a different position or they go into landscaping or construction business, something different. 
So that's the way how they typically, if they moved, if that's the question. Did I answer? 
Aaron Paige  (00:14:50): 
For those that were moving, did you try and maintain a relationship with those individuals? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:14:58): 
No, but we would track them because we had what's called a migrant voucher program for the 
farmworkers. So basically, you get enrolled this year, so you're enrolled for two years. So you don't have 
to provide any type of approval. I don't need to enroll you in the program physically at the farm to find 
you eligible because you already enrolled for two years. They will reach out to me if they need an 
appointment or if something had changed. But then after the two years, once they moved to 
construction, that was the end. In other words, until we, Sun River Health, took over the county clinics, 
which are now the health centers in Long Island, that we would link the patients to medical care, 
regardless if they were farmworkers or not. But back then, they would have to see a private provider or 
private doctor or go to the county clinic, and be seen on a sliding fee scale, which was different. 
Aaron Paige  (00:15:56): 
The voucher program, that was a program that was initiated by Hudson River Healthcare? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:16:03): 
Yes. So Hudson River or Sun River Health. They came in 2003 to evaluate what were some of the needs. 
They actually met with Sister Margaret Symth , the nun I mentioned before. She brought them to 
vineyards, greenhouses, and she explained how access to care was a need. They wrote a grant. Shortly, 
a year after or so, we had a grant for Suffolk County and now we had a grant for upstate too. So I know 
Ed. I was doing the work that Ed does. So the program started here in Long Island. We started doing the 
services, from bringing them to the doctors and everything. The migrant voucher program was getting a 
card that identifies you with your name, date of birth. And also it had our phone number on the back, in 
case they needed the services. And then we would link them to the appointment. Those who didn't have 
access to transportation, we would arrange the time that would work for us. When I say us, I mean 
myself and we had two other part-time outreach workers. I'm the one who lasted the most as a matter 
of fact. The other ones, one lasted like five months and the other one a year. 
Aaron Paige  (00:17:32): 
Ligia, can you speak a little bit about the promotora program and how it was developed out on Long 
Island, why it was developed and what role you played? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:17:44): 
Sure. The health promoters program, we started, I would say probably 2015, but don't quote me on the 
year. Because there are so many things are happening. I remember having one of my outreach workers 
who played a key role with it. Vilma was definitely the one who introduced me to the program, because 
we were trying to copy, similar to what we had in upstate. We never had a volunteer program here. By 
then in 2007, I was already a manager. I had about five outreach workers under me, community health 
workers. Having that resource of a health promoter, it just adds value to what we do. Because we do 
events. We do community health fairs. We want to go and be out where the community is. Even us as 
outreach workers or managers, if we're from the community, we really don't know the community 
unless we live in the community. So these individuals who are health promoters, who are from the 
community, live in the community and know the community are a key component to bringing 
information of who we are, what are things that are changing at the health center. So we started that, 
we did the on-boarding process. Vilma came to Long Island. We did the on-boarding process for the 
health promoters. We started with, I believe, six health promoters. 
Elinor Levy (00:19:16): 
Yeah. So you said you were sort of a migrant health worker for about two years. Talk about your 
transition to the next job? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:19:29): 
My transition, I don't have it in chronological order because years have gone, but I do know that I 
started working in 2004. By 2014, 2015, I became a manager. So the community health work role. So we 
stopped the migrant voucher program, because we took over the county clinics. Now we had health 
centers. So we needed to expand the services. Expand the population we wanted to serve. It was open 
to everybody. It was open access. So my role was to continue expanding the services that we offer. But 
remember, before it was primarily focused on farmworkers. Now it was open to the community, with 
insurance, no insurance. So we expanded by hiring community health workers, and that's how my role 
came, and they changed my role. 
Aaron Paige  (00:20:43): 
Did that change in role take you out of the community and out of the field, or were you able to still do 
that kind of work? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:20:53): 
Back then, I would say between 2015 to 2020, at least five solid years, I was still part of the community. 
We organized health fairs, focused for the farmworkers. I still here and there organized the mobile van, 
health center on wheels, where we identify a grower and the workers who need the services. In 2020, 
the pandemic came. Changes came in my role. Now I'm the regional manager of the business 
development. Now I'm geared towards more of the Medicaid population, and creating accounts, 
building relationships with shelters. Now I'm in a different population. 
Aaron Paige  (00:21:48): 
So now you're no longer serving communities or individuals that are undocumented for example, is 
that... 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:21:56): 
Very limited. There are occasions, like for instance, in August, national health center week, I have to 
organize events. If one of the departments says, "okay, we need to do something for the farmworkers. 
Where should we go? Let's do an event." On Long Island, it's Ligia, because I'm the first employee and I 
started the program. They know that I know where the growers are and everything. 
Aaron Paige  (00:22:24): 
We'd love to hear you speak a little bit about health promotion, and where health promotion efforts 
would take place. I know sometimes you would identify events that are already happening in the 
community, or just particular locations in the community, and do health promotion there. Other times 
you would create your own events. If you could just speak a little about where outreach would take 
place specifically, out on Long Island in your own work. 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:22:59): 
So basically, community health fairs or outreach comes in different ways. When I was the manager, I 
would be in touch with community based organizations and see what they're doing. Sometimes I would 
partner with certain organizations and be like, "what are some of the services, that you need?" If they 
wanted blood pressure screening checks, if they wanted certain services, I would bring it back to 
operations and see if we could bring the mobile van to provide the services. Health promotion happens, 
at least from my experience, from building up the program, it starts anywhere, anytime. You don't have 
to be on the clock to be promoting something. Somehow you end up always talking about it. Especially if 
you love what you do. You're always talking about it, so you're promoting it left and right. At the 
laundromats. If I would go to church. If I am gathering with my friends. So I went to this farm and I'm 
trying to have at least 18 patients on the schedule. "Do you know anybody who wants healthcare?" You 
know, it happens everywhere. 
Elinor Levy (00:24:07): 
We're laughing because we do that too. 
Aaron Paige  (00:24:12): 
All the artists we work with, I mean, I can't speak for you Elinor, but they all have my personal phone 
number and I get calls all times of day, all weekend long, and it's fine, I welcome it. 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:24:26): 
Me too! Same, same as me. Look, I still have the same number for 18 years. It's the organization phone 
number. I still get calls from the farmworkers saying, "oh Ligia, you're still with the organization? Can I 
get the card?" And I'm like, "we don't have the voucher card anymore, but we have the health centers. 
These are the services you can get through us." 
Elinor Levy (00:24:44): 
No one else where I work wants their phone number in the public eye. And I'm just like, oh, that ship 
sailed. This number has not been private for about as long as yours hasn't been private. So I totally get 
it. I'm curious, is there anyone that, over the 18 years, say, someone who was like a child when you 
started with the migrant farmworkers program, that you've been involved with over the years? Not just 
a child necessarily, but a family, and watched them evolve? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:25:23): 
I have a person that I can think of right now. For the past five or four years...She's around my age. She's 
around 37, 38. Same thing, she got here like when she was 14 or 15. I remember meeting her when she 
came to our community. She worked in banks and everything. Has worked in banks. Her father is also a 
farmworker, and now she works for a greenhouse. She's been there for five years working there. She's in 
a management position for the greenhouse. So we crossed paths again, because here I am trying to 
promote the mobile van. I want to bring services to the workers, and here she is. So it's such an easy 
access when you already know someone from the community and they know who you are, or they 
follow you somehow on either Instagram or on Facebook. They know what you do. Less introduction, 
and we just cut to the point. So she knew who we were, and we have done a few health center on 
wheels at the greenhouse and vaccination events. They vaccinated over a hundred employees. 
Elinor Levy (00:26:40): 
So since having the clinic on wheels, did you find that there was an increase in accessing people, 
because instead of them having to either find a way or you finding a way to get them to the doctor, the 
medicine is coming to them? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:27:01): 
I cannot speak fully about the role of the health center on wheels, because I only utilize it when I need it, 
for farmworkers. But I know we utilized our health center on wheels for shelters, other locations. But for 
the times that I have requested it and used it, we had a full schedule, full attendance. And yes, the 
workers don't lose time from work. They're able to see the doctor. They get lab work done. If they need 
their tetanus shot, they get it right on the spot, rather than having to take time off from work, finding a 
ride, getting there. But the follow up appointments, they do need to come and see us. We're basically 
the access to the first initial visit. Sometimes we may go back for a second visit, but primarily it's, "Here 
we are, this is who we are, the services, everything you're getting here at the mobile van, you can also 
get it at this location near you, when it's a good day or time." The fact that Sun River Health has 
extended hours, sometimes we open on Saturdays, and we have evening hours, helps with that access, 
for them to be able to come for the follow up care. 
Elinor Levy (00:28:22): 
This is a more general question about farmworkers given that you're the daughter of a farmworker and, 
when you arrived, you lived on a farm. How has the life of a farmworker changed over the years? Are 
they getting better pay? Are the owners more understanding of the needs of their workers and, and 
dare I say more caring? 
Aaron Paige  (00:28:59): 
Yeah, and maybe to speak specifically to health, and healthcare. 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:29:06): 
So, challenges. Going back to a few years ago, I know that when I would make an appointment for a 
farmworker, they would need five days notice. I need to inform my employer at least five days that I'm 
going to see my primary doctor or I have an appointment with a specialist. I don't recall any disputes or 
anything or the employer saying, "no, you cannot take care to go to your appointment." But I know my 
colleagues who have worked with me in the past have shared that sometimes the employer will not 
want to give them time off to go to their appointments. One of the things that I did see, going back to 
your question, is how the employer treats the worker. 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:30:07): 
Sometimes they're working and they're not getting paid. They're not getting their biweekly or weekly 
paycheck, and they will reach out to me, "oh, Ligia, look, I work at the stable farm. And I worked two 
consecutive weeks. He promised me this pay and they haven't paid me." And I would direct them to 
somebody who can assist them. But those were the type of concerns and things that they would bring 
up to me. Same as, "look, they're charging me this amount of money for living at the farm, but I thought 
it was something different. Is there something you can do about it?" And then I would refer them to the 
Department of Labor. Back then they had a good program that would advocate for the farmworkers, for 
the labor laws and everything. 
Aaron Paige  (00:30:53): 
One of the roles that CHWs play that is so critical is that you're thinking holistically about healthcare. 
You're thinking about all the social determinants of health, and not focused only on health itself, right? 
Because you have to see everything as being integrated. Outside of healthcare, what other resources 
would you need to be familiar with in order to best connect the communities that you were serving? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:31:33): 
The only thing I can think of is basically community resources. You need to know the legal aid or the 
worker's compensation lawyer, family lawyer. Because they're not going to come and tell you, "Oh my 
God, my knee hurts." They might come and tell you, "I have problems at home. My knee hurts, but 
where do I find worker's comp, because I got hurt on the job?" So make sure that you have the right 
resources. What I mean by resources is that you give them a number where you know that that other 
person is actually going to pick up the phone or return their call. You can have a list of resources made, 
all nice and neat, but you refer them and they're not calling them back. They are not following through. 
Making that relationship as well with the resource. Saying, "I'm going to refer you to so and so. This is 
who I am. Is it okay if I give your contact information to the farmworkers?" 
Elinor Levy (00:32:35): 
And making sure they speak Spanish? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:32:38): 
Yes. Or at least they have bilingual staff. Throughout the years, I've seen...When I came here in 1996, my 
brother and I, and one other family of two kids, were the only Spanish speaking students in the entire 
district, in that location. There were no other kids who spoke Spanish. And if we go back now, or a few 
years ago, you see many, many students, high school, middle school. But back then we were the 
newcomers. There wasn't that many young children coming in. It was mainly adults coming and working 
in the fields. 
Elinor Levy (00:33:21): 
That actually brings up a topic that's of great interest to me. And that is children as translators. How 
often do you find that a young son or daughter, I don't know what age, is translating for their parents. I 
guess you don't have to negotiate that because you speak Spanish, but how do you help negotiate that, 
say with a doctor. 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:33:59): 
I mean, I've done it myself. I did it for my mother. My mother faced a chronic illness, cancer, for many, 
many years. I would take her to the local hospital to specialists and they would see me there. They 
would utilize me because I'm there, I'm speaking. They could use the phone line. They could use the 
interpretation line. They could bring somebody else. I guess the easy access that you see that person 
standing there and you're fluently speaking with them, they assume you're going to translate what 
they're telling you. 
Elinor Levy (00:34:36): 
Do you wish they had gotten on the phone? Are there times when you wished... 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:34:42): 
Not in some occasions. From my personal...My mom was struggling with cancer and there were some 
words I didn't want her to hear. 
Elinor Levy (00:34:52): 
Or maybe words you didn't need to hear. I'm just trying to think of some of these children having to 
handle situations that they don't need to be hearing things and dealing with things that they shouldn't 
even have to deal with when they're adults, in some cases. I'm 60 and I don't know all of my parents' 
health issues and I attend all their doctor's appointments by phone. But there are some things I just 
don't need to know about their health. 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:35:29): 
Yeah. But sometimes, I haven't really seen that in the community as much. Here at the health centers, 
we use the interpreter line, and we have bilingual staff. But I can speak from my own shoes, and from 
my brother's shoes that we have done that in the past and we have preferred that they use the phone 
line in some occasions and some occasions we said, "no, we can take it." Because it's more sensitive 
information. 
Aaron Paige  (00:36:02): 
Do you feel that some of those experiences, those formative experiences early on, shaped the position 
that you found yourself in, acting as an intermediary between the community and the healthcare 
system? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:36:25): 
I think the reason why I'm still here with the organization is because my mother was diagnosed with 
cancer of the lung. She didn't have health insurance. She got services through Hudson River, Sun River 
Health migrant voucher program. She was eligible based on my father. He was the farmworker. So when 
she was diagnosed, with simple x-rays, and now connected to specialists and surgeons and everything. I 
saw how vital it is, just a physical, just an x-ray, how vital it is. Sometimes those who have insurance take 
it for granted. They don't get their physical. It's so valuable to go in and seek care. The reason why I'm 
still around, I feel the need to continue promoting services to those that need it. Not everybody knows 
who Sun River Health is. There's always opportunity to educate the community about all the services we 
offer. Unfortunately my mother passed away. But she lived 15 years. She was diagnosed, treated, 15 
years without the disease, and it came back again years later. And this time we had insurance but it was 
too late. 
Elinor Levy (00:38:08): 
In the course of when there was the voucher program and you were taking them to doctors, and during 
the time when farmworkers were more migratory, did the doctors or medical personnel voice 
frustration at the fact the treatments might get interrupted because the worker had to move to the next 
farm or the next state or whatever. How did you all negotiate or deal with that? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:38:43): 
So, we've had contracts with private providers under the migrant voucher program. So the community 
health worker, or outreach worker was...They knew that we brought the patient. They knew how they 
were getting reimbursed or getting paid for that visit. So when they had a patient who needed a home 
visit or needed to come in right away for urgent labs, it would be the outreach worker, myself. They 
would reach out to us. "Look, we have this worker. This is the address. We need to see him for vitals, the 
lab." So it was either us calling. Back then we weren't using text messages. 18 years ago we weren't 
texting. We would visit them. We would go look for them. We knew where the farm was, even though 
maybe they gave a different address. They were not at the farm, but we knew which farm. So we would 
look for them. Pass the message. Give the appointment and offer the transportation so they can follow 
up. 
Elinor Levy (00:39:43): 
So in Long Island, the workers, even if they moved from farm to farm, they would tend to stay in Long 
Island? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:39:51): 
Yeah. They might just switch the town. So let's say for instance from Manetuck to Riverhead. I'm talking 
about a twenty-five, thirty-minute drive, but they would move. To this day, if I go to a greenhouse, I 
might encounter women who were working at a vineyard, but now they have moved into a greenhouse 
or farming. 
Aaron Paige  (00:40:13): 
That's a lot of effort. What we're talking about now is really how to create continuity of care for this 
population, and that's a lot of work for the community health workers. You're basically tracking and 
keeping track of where people are going and making sure that they keep coming in and they stay 
connected. 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:40:38): 
Yeah. And the good thing about the electronic system too. Now that we have the system that we are 
using, we're able to... Before we were doing paper, brief encounters. Everything was through paper. 
Now we're doing non-billable, brief encounters. We easily look up the patient. They look at my booklet 
and see which one did I go to this farm? So I look at my file. Now that there are medical records and we 
unify them, here in Long Island, we have access to everything. It's our own doctors rather than a private 
provider. 
Aaron Paige  (00:41:14): 
Thinking of other changes that may have happened in the field, do you, and how do you use social 
media as part of the outreach? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:41:26): 
Oh, I'll share something personal and I'm okay with saying it here. We have our own communications 
department. We have our own Twitter. We have our own Facebook. But as I said before, even when I'm 
not on the clock, I'm promoting the services. So in my own Facebook, if I am doing a health fair, I'm 
organizing an event, I put the flyer right on Facebook. I tag the people or individuals who work for 
certain organizations who are my friends and be like, "please share." And I make it public. I make it 
public so you can reshare. So that's how I like to do my business. 
Aaron Paige  (00:42:03): 
Yeah. And that could be more impactful. It's you. It's your profile, right? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:42:10): 
Yeah, it's my profile. The community knows me. My friends know me. And then you re-share and share. I 
mainly use Facebook for that. And then promoting a program, now these days, I have texting messages 
or WhatsApp. I have the flyer and I say we're doing free mammagrophies at this location. We're gonna 
have the mobile van. We're gonna have these services. And I start sending the flyer. Are you interested 
in coming or setting up? 
Aaron Paige  (00:42:44): 
Do you encourage the promotoras to do the same, to leverage their own social media accounts and 
their own connections to the community to do health promotion? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:42:56): 
So for the health promoters, when we meet with them, we would typically give them flyers, 
information. These are the updates. This is what's going on, what's new at the health centers. In your 
free time, when you have the opportunity, identify laundromats or churches where you can speak about 
our services and give the information out. I haven't really enforced or inform them to do it on social 
media, but I do tell them to share with their contacts, friends and family. 
Aaron Paige  (00:43:36): 
These are some larger, more general questions, but I think important ones to ask. One of those that I'm 
thinking about is what role do you see yourself filling in the healthcare field? Even at large, beyond just 
Sun River, what role do you see community health workers playing in the healthcare field at large? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:44:10): 
I don't know how to answer your question, but I can tell you if somebody sees me, they see me as, oh, 
it's Ligia, Ligia the one that's always promoting the health centers. The one that is always speaking about 
certain events. Maybe if you ask the question differently. I was just thinking in Spanish. Part of me 
started thinking in Spanish so my English went away. I do that sometimes. 
Elinor Levy (00:44:48): 
How important is the community health worker in healthcare today? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:44:54): 
I can speak about in the past, because I only have one community health worker right now in Suffolk 
county, under my umbrella. There are three others, but in the other regions. The community health 
worker is the person who connects the patient to come into services. But it's also the middle person 
that, if that person goes MIA, missing in action, moves out, like you mentioned before, or doesn't want 
to come in to care, that middle person, the community health worker is the one who's going to be like, 
"look, I see that your provider is trying to reach you. Your provider wants to tell you something 
important. Can you come back and see us?" The community health worker is the one who's going to be 
telling, or kind of like convince them in a way. 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:45:52): 
But we cannot tell them the reason why they need to come in. We're not allowed to give them the 
diagnosis of the results. We have to make sure that...so there has to be trust. There has to be trust 
because patients and community members don't open easily. They have to trust you to open up. So, 
community health workers are a very important role because when somebody needs to do a home visit, 
the client is not coming noncompliant. The nurse will not go. Not because she doesn't want to go. She 
will want to but she's overwhelmed with so many patients and has a full schedule. It's going be sent to 
an outreach worker, to a community health worker who is going to find the patient. If they don't, then 
go to the emergency person, trying to see how we can bring that patient back into care. 
Elinor Levy (00:46:42): 
Do you often know the diagnosis? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:46:49): 
Yeah. As a community health worker, yeah. Yeah, because we're being sent a message through the 
system. The patient needs to come for X, Y, Z. But we're not going to go tell the patient that you need to 
be seen for X, Y, Z. The provider needs to see you for your results. And they're urgent. 
Elinor Levy (00:47:08): 
Is that a difficult position to be in? To have knowledge that really isn't your knowledge? To know 
something about someone and you can't tell them, you can't potentially make them feel better, relieve 
them? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:47:25): 
Convince them by telling them the reason. No. I can only speak from my shoes and maybe for the 
outreach worker that's working with me now, but we know boundaries, the ethics behind it. We don't 
want to tell something to the patient that's going to get them frustrated, scared. It may not be what we 
just read. So we usually say it's urgent. But can you please tell me why? Why does he need to see me? 
I'm sorry, we just know it's urgent. 
Elinor Levy (00:47:56): 
I can't think of a human being in the world that wouldn't say, wait a minute, what are you talking about? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:48:00): 
Yeah, why do I need to come in? Why do I need to make an appointment? Can't you just tell me? 
Elinor Levy (00:48:07): 
It's like with the last COVID test I took. If you're negative you'll get an email. If you're positive you'll get a 
phone call. Well, that's very clear cut. I can handle that. 
Aaron Paige  (00:48:22): 
Ligia, sometimes I know it's hard to talk about one's own merits, but I'm just wondering, what qualities 
do you identify in yourself that you feel make you an effective and impactful outreach worker or 
community health worker? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:48:48): 
What qualities? I guess compassionate from personal experiences, illnesses in the family. I have 
compassion. To be a community health worker, you need to be a good listener. People tell you their 
story. I remember taking people to doctor's appointments. They'll tell you their life story in the car ride 
from how they got here to possibly disclosing information that happened to them while they were 
crossing the border that you didn't need to know, to many things. Being that listener for the person and 
at the same time having the discretion of, because they tell you, oh, I'm going to share something with 
you, but please don't share with the doctor. Okay, you're sharing something with me and you don't 
want me to tell the doctor, so you listen to the story and then at the end it's like repeating the story 
back to them. So you're telling me that this happened while you crossed the border. Maybe you should 
tell the doctor because you can get additional testing. You don't want to be in limbo thinking, "oh my 
God, what if I have this disease?" So it's being that good listener, and then at the same time, educating 
them to take an active role in their health. It's okay that you share everything with me. It's okay that you 
don't want to share everything with the provider. But at the end of the day, you have to tell the doctor 
certain things. 
Elinor Levy (00:50:29): 
Would you say being persistent? The fact that you figure out where someone is. That you don't stop 
until you make sure they get what they need. 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:50:49): 
Possibly. I barely use that word. But I guess there is follow through, because sometimes you have to 
close the loop. Some cases, you know, leave them open, but yeah. Compassion. Listener. Humble. 
Because I had other community health workers who have worked for me who are great persons and 
everything, but they're not meeting the client where they are or the patient where they're at. They're 
not humble. When somebody tells you a story, it's because they're opening up to you. You have two 
ears. All you have to do is listen. Just be a good listener for the person. Because sometimes that's all 
they need. For me, in my career, on a personal level, I think being humble has taken me where I am, and 
God has blessed me in many, many different ways in my own personal life. But just being compassionate 
and humble. 
Aaron Paige  (00:51:57): 
That was really helpful. Expressing those particular qualities. When hiring your community health 
workers, now your outreach workers, and identifying promotoras, are you looking for those qualities in 
them? What are some of the things you're looking for in individuals who are going to do this work? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:52:25): 
It's a very tricky question because when you hire somebody, you really don't know who you're getting, 
until they're actually working in the field. You can present as being humble, nice, smiley. This is who I 
am. I love working with patients, but when they're actually in front of a patient, that's when you truly 
know. But there are occasions when somebody comes to you on a job interview and you tell them about 
the position and they're like, "does this position, require being in direct contact with the patient, like 
picking them up and driving them. Because I don't see myself doing that." Okay, so that's right there. 
You don't see yourself. In the small print it says transportation. You have to do home visits. Bringing 
patients into the health center. It's part of the job. But if you don't see yourself driving patients for X, Y, 
Z reason, then obviously, this is not the position for you. 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:53:20): 
But, yeah, it has happened. You really don't know who you get until you have them working in the field. 
But I've been lucky to have good ones and not so good ones, but with time and training....Because 
somebody who's coming to this position, they haven't really worked with the underserved population. 
They have to adjust. Make some changes, even to your own personality. In some cultures we speak 
louder. Like Puerto Ricans, for instance. Out and loud. "No, get me this." But it's not yelling. It's just the 
way of their culture. And a patient might say, "oh, she just screamed at me," someone from central 
America might say "she just screamed at me and said get me that." But it's not how it sounds. 
Elinor Levy (00:54:14): 
When I was working in New Jersey, I was beginning work with the Latino community. And I went to a 
church one night and I didn't exactly know who I was encountering, but because I don't speak Spanish, I 
took along one of my community scholars, Martha, who is from Guadalajara. And when we got there, 
there may have been some Mexicans, but there was a group from Uruguay. She went over to chat with 
them and I saw her talking to them and ended the conversation. And as she's walking away, she's 
shaking her head and I looked at the table and they're all shaking their head, and I'm like, oh God, what 
happened? I went over and I asked if any of them spoke English and one did. 
Elinor Levy (00:55:02): 
I said, "did something go wrong when you were talking to Martha?" And they were like, "oh no, she just 
doesn't understand our sense of humor." And then on the way home, Martha, she goes, "I just don't 
understand their sense of humor." Although everyone speaks Spanish, everyone comes from different 
areas and their traditions are different. Like you said, Puerto Ricans tend to project their voice, and may 
be more direct where another group, you've got to be more careful, passive. So how did you learn to 
work with those different groups, as cultural groups? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:55:48): 
Brings me back to working with the Mixteco community. They're from Mexico, Oaxaca or Puebla. 
Spanish is not their primary language. For us, as community health workers, we were communicating 
with them in small sentences, like baby talk. You cannot tell them a full sentence because they would 
not understand you. That was a challenge for us. Speaking with individuals who have another native 
language, not Spanish or English. Simple words, simple commands. This goes back to the example, 
having an outreach worker who would tell the patient, "I'm going to pick you up at this time, be ready at 
three o'clock, don't wear any deodorant and make sure that you are wearing comfortable clothing." The 
patient didn't grab the information. She understood three o'clock, but not the rest. So basically sitting 
down and just "Three o'clock. No deodorant." No sentences. Just baby steps. They don't understand 
Spanish if you speak to them so fast. 
Elinor Levy (00:57:07): 
I've had that experience. In Kingston we have a group of K'iche speakers. One community group used to 
have these dinners where non-Spanish speaking people like me could go eat dinner and practice our 
Spanish. And there I am with this other young woman sitting there trying to talk to these two gentlemen 
only to find out they didn't speak Spanish either. Because they spoke K'iche. They just heard there was 
free dinner for the people who spoke Spanish. It was fine but zero help to me. But yeah. You know, just 
understanding those things. 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:57:51): 
Yeah. 
Aaron Paige  (00:57:53): 
I'm sure that the work you've done has impacted a lot of people in really important ways. I'm 
wondering, can you talk about one of your greatest accomplishments as a community health worker 
doing outreach. Something that you saw happen that made you feel really good about the work that you 
do. 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:58:26): 
So as I mentioned before, when Sun River Health came to Long Island, nobody knew anything about the 
organization. Nobody knew the mission statement. No one knew the services that we were providing at 
the health centers upstate. For me having to start from scratch, literally knocking on doors. My 
apologies, my battery is about to die. Literally having to knock on doors. Having to educate them about 
who we were. I don't know the numbers. Something that we can get from someone, but the amount of 
individuals that I enrolled within that year and a half was great. Within two years they were accessing 
care. And they saw the growth. The amount of people I myself. And then we hired another person after 
they learned that I was going to take a months vacation. They had no one to cover me so they had to 
hire somebody else. The amount of people that I had enrolled in the program, they saw the need for the 
services and that's how, little by little, we took over the county clinics and we have more services here. 
Elinor Levy (00:59:43): 
Congratulations. That's amazing. There's nothing like them thinking you're going away and not coming 
back to get them to hire. 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (00:59:52): 
I said "I'm going to go to Africa for a month. So who's going to cover me? Oh my God, we need to hire 
somebody. 
Elinor Levy (01:00:06): 
Anything else Aaron. Now that she is plugged in we can send her home. 
Aaron Paige  (01:00:13): 
Covid is something that we've been speaking to everybody about and how the work of outreach has 
changed or shifted or responded to the pandemic. Just kind of wondering how the work of say the 
community health worker that's under you now has changed during the pandemic or what they've been 
doing during the pandemic, what the need has been in the communities that you're working in. 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (01:00:44): 
So with the pandemic, we all had to adjust. We all had to adjust to changes within the health center and 
within our roles. We couldn't do community health fairs. We couldn't organize. We couldn't do blood 
pressure screenings. Transportation was limited. Especially those who were very ill with the symptoms. 
Some of us worked remotely. They gave us assigned projects to work by calling patients, scheduling 
appointments. We were also sent to work in the field at popup testing locations. At COVID 19 
vaccination events. One of the benefits of being a community health worker is that you know the 
system. You know how to make appointments. You know the community. You have worked outside. 
Great benefits. We were sent to churches. We were sent to CBO organizations to promote these 
services. Like we now have vaccines. We now have popup testing and working the actual event. Working 
the event either by interpreting, providing medical interpretation, by helping the client with 
registrations, those who have language issues and by making the appointment. 
Elinor Levy (01:02:05): 
Are there any statistics on the vaccination rate in your area among migrant farmworkers? 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (01:02:23): 
I don't know, but I do follow the Suffolk county department of health. They do their weekly numbers 
about the amount of community members who are vaccinated. I think we're in the 75% or 80 
something, but don't quote me on that. Little by little, steadily it has grown. But at the beginning people 
were a little hesitant about the vaccine. 
Aaron Paige  (01:02:46): 
The issue there was that the farmworkers were not given essential worker status, right? So they were 
not a prioritized group though they probably should have been. 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (01:03:12): 
Oh, going back to the question. It just came back. So basically, I have done COVID 19 vaccination events 
for the farmworkers and for the growers. So basically the grower is the one who's signing up the worker 
to be vaccinated. What some of the workers have shared with me, they said, "I have to get it done or I 
lose my job. It's a requirement, so I have to do it. If I don't get the vaccine, I cannot come to work on this 
day." And others who said "oh my God, my neighbor got so ill" or "I know so-and-so that got sick and 
died. Yes, I want the vaccine and I want it for my wife too." So it's a mix of messages. 
Aaron Paige  (01:04:04): 
Yeah. We were talking about that with Ed a little bit in our interview. He was saying that the 
vaccinations came to the migrant farmworker communities late because they were not considered 
essential workers. 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (01:04:20): 
Same here. Yeah. We didn't start doing them until late. Yeah. Same year, 
Elinor Levy (01:04:25): 
Unfortunately. All too typical. It's sad to say, but we shouldn't be surprised because they're unseen, you 
know. That's a whole other discussion about people not knowing where their food comes from. 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (01:04:48): 
Yeah. And the value of their work. The role that they play. If they decide not to come to work one day, 
what would you have? 
Elinor Levy (01:04:58): 
It's like kids not knowing that bacon is pig, not equating pig with bacon. Anything else Aaron? Or should 
we let her go? 
Aaron Paige  (01:05:11): 
Ligia, thank you so much for taking time to speak with us. 
Ligia Soto-Cruz (01:05:15): 
You can thank Vilma. 
Elinor Levy (01:05:18): 
<laugh>.