Katy Clune  0:00
January 19, 2021 here with Julia Gartrell, interviewing Jim Petersen in Raleigh, North Carolina.
And Jim, could you introduce us, or get us started by just introducing yourself and what you do?
Jim Petersen 0:17
My name is Jim Petersen. And currently, anything that I do either gainful--- either economically
or metaphysically is done repairing musical instruments.
KC  0:31
How long have you repaired musical instruments?
JP 0:37
I got my first job repairing musical instruments at Fletcher Hinton Music in Denver, Colorado in
August of 1974.
Julia Gartrell 0:46
How did you come into that position?
JP 0:51
Oh, alright, so how far back should I go?
KC  0:53
Oh, we've got at least an hour.
JP 0:55
All right. Well, anyway. Alright. So after I graduated from that august institution on Academy
Street, I--- referring to Kalamazoo College, and with a draft lottery number of 19. And that
conflict in this--- in Southeast Asia which people were being inducted into I, I signed up for a
reserve program.
KC  1:29
What doesthat mean, draft lottery number 19?
JP 1:32
Oh, so you guys don't know about that selective service system. So before, you would go to---
when you turned 18, you fill out a form and you went to the--- and they sent into the draft board,
and they decided how, how worthy you were to be drafted. There were always student
deferments. And you could get a student deferment fairly easily. But after five years as an
undergraduate, you lost that. It was almost impossible to get one for graduate school, although if
you were going to go to med school or something like that.... Or you knew someone, you could
afc2020009_011-- Jim Petersen interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
get things worked out. So I'm on foreign study there at that august institution, in November of
1969. And David Granger is sitting there reading the International Herald. And he says, Hey,
guys, here the draft lottery numbers, and it was based--- they did a lottery based on your
birthdate. So if you were over the age of 18, and in 1969, you are eligible for that lottery. And
they--- my number, my birthday was 19. So I signed up for Reserve Program. And I hung out in
Gary, Indiana for a little while, until I was ordered up for active duty, because you have to learn
to be a soldier. You know, shoot the rifle throw the hand grenade, you know, stand guard, all that
kind of stuff. And then I came back and I thought, well, it's time to go to grad school.
KC  3:04
What did you study in college?
JP 3:06
Music. So, but there was no money. And almost immediately the school district that I had grown
up in, called up and said, Hey, we need somebody right now. Can you help? So I taught
school---- junior high school there, not middle school. Junior high school band and music for a
couple of years. Then I went--- I was going to go to Indiana University. I was accepted there. I
was going to go to University of Illinois. I was accepted there. And I was also accepted to
University of Colorado
KC  3:41
For graduate school.
JP 3:42
Yeah. And when I--- but still the money wasn't right. And so I said, how about next year? And
both Indiana and Illinois said, Hey, no problem, just fill out another application, send us another
100 bucks. And, you know, for the application fee. And Colorado said hey, just let us know when
you're coming. So there was my choice. Plus, they had an interesting program. A master of
music in woodwind pedagogy, which instead of like a Music Ed degree was like, half
performance, half knowing how to teach your particular instruments. So that for example, if I
was teaching you as a beginning, flutist, I might teach her differently because of, as a beginning
flutist just because of her abilities or age or experience in music, the kind of support she was
getting from her parents, that kind of thing. And so I had literature lists this long, you know, like
for both music and materials and that kind of thing.
JG  4:47
What was your instrument specialty?
JP 4:50
afc2020009_011-- Jim Petersen interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
I started playing saxophone in 1960. And then that--- the learned people in the music department
in Kalamazoo College said Oh, no saxaphone is not a legitimate instrument. You know?
KC  5:04
And why is that?
JP 5:07
Well, yeah, Bach never wrote for it. Yeah, they still have the Bach Festival when you there?
Yeah. Okay. Bach never wrote for it. Actually it wasn't invented until after Beethoven had died.
So but we're getting--- without getting too much deeper into music history. I figured if I was
going to be in music that, okay, I'll learn. I'll be a clarinet major. And then when I went to grad
school, I added flute. Anyway. I got tired right away of paying out of state tuition. And people
liked me for some reason. And they said--- I said, well I don't know if I'm going to reenroll. And
they said, well, what about--- and  I said, Well, yeah, but. And then somebody said, talk to
somebody, and I ended up in this store in Denver. Just on the job training. I went in on a Monday
morning, and there were a stack of maybe, two stacks of maybe seven or eight clarinets in each
stack. And they opened up the first one and said, here's what you do here. And if the second one
is different, come and see me kind of thing, right?
KC  6:14
And what year was this?
JP 6:16
This was in 1974.
KC  6:18
So you just wandered into the shop?
JP 6:21
Well, no, I went down--- [inaaudible] the College of Music in Colorado had its own instrument
repairman who was well respected in the region. And he liked me. And I liked him. And he said,
let me make a phone call. So I went down there and interviewed and they said, well, we'll take
ya, and that kind of thing. Then it was like--- so I worked there for about five months, six
months, and then the Arab oil embargos were destroying the local economy, because it was all
energy based in Denver at the time. And this particular store was seriously solicited all the public
school work. And then since the tax, you know, tax revenues were dropping, they had less money
to spend on frivolous things like music. So.
KC  7:14
It's a familiar story.
afc2020009_011-- Jim Petersen interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
JP 7:16
But I got on with a couple of places. I went to work for this guy named John Knobloch [sp?], he
had a five store chain up and down the Front Range called Villa Music. And things were going
okay there until one night, he had a vision from God. And the next one, he closed all the stores. I
mean, literally. So.
JG  7:41
So did you find yourself...?
JP 7:42
Yes. [laughs]
JG  7:44
... drawn to to repairing instruments when you started, or was it just kind of something you were
doing to pay the bills?
JP 7:51
When I was teaching school in Gary, Indiana, there was no repair shop in Gary per se. You could
go up to Chicago, of course. And you know, I would do that. But I was intrigued. I bought a
book. And I looked it over and I said, how hard could it be? But that's as far as I got. And until I
went to work for Fletcher Hinton music in Denver. Now, from a genetic point of view, my
father's father was an engineer. My mother's father was an engineer. My father was an engineer.
My brother was an engineer, or is an--- well he's just retired. My brother's an engineer. And my
mother was studying engineering until she dropped out to support the war effort in 1943. She
was going to Purdue. So there is maybe some of that. How does this work? And why does this
work? And what...? You know, that kind of thing, genetically speaking.
JG  8:57
When you started your life as a musician did you--- were you seen as kind of strange amongst a
family of engineers?
KC  9:08
How did you come to the sax?
JG  9:10
Yeah, like, how did this come to be? Because it seemed that you were.....
JP 9:14
afc2020009_011-- Jim Petersen interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
Alright, your question is second, okay? They came to me in this, right--- so spring of my fifth
grade year, and mom says, You can be in band next fall in sixth grade you interested? And I said,
Yeah. You know, like, your average, clueless 11 year old. And, what do you want to play? And I
think I chose saxophone, because I liked the way that word felt in my mouth. Yeah, there may
have been some sort of cosmic alignment at work. Because over the years, I've done a lot of
really, really good playing and made a---- I was about to say something profane. A whole lot of
money playing, and played with some really wonderful artists of national and international
reputation. As a, an anonymous, you know, fill in the, you know? Okay, so that' saxophone I just
did.... a bit of trivia. So my mother's mother: Grove City, Teacher's College, Pennsylvania class
of 1907. And so she was the local piano teacher. And so if Jimmy's going to in---- Jimmy she
was the only one that called me Jimmy---- Jimmy is going to be in band, he should have lessons.
So Grandpa, her husband, went to the guy who was, who ran a repair shop at the time. And by
the time I was a schoolteacher, then he had retired that kind of thing. But anyway, Harry Dilly
and Mr. Dilly, who, who teaches saxophone? And he, I got hooked up with this guy named Phil
Hughes, who's already in his late 60s, and had been a serious road cat in the 30s and 40s. You
know...
KC  11:13
Jazz?
JP 11:13
Working, well working bands out of Chicago, you know, whatever. You know, you know, the----
you know, you might tour six or eight states, or everything east of the Mississippi or something
like that. In his youth---- this is a good story in his youth, in the nineteen teens, he had taken the
train up to Chicago to take lessons from a guy named Ben Verakin[sp?]. Who was this Dutch
saxophone who played in Sousa's band. So I got four degrees of separation between me and John
Philip Sousa, how about that?
JG  11:52
That's pretty wild.
JP 11:55
Anyway, all right, so.
KC  11:56
So you grew up in Pennsylvania?
JP 11:58
Gary, Indiana,
afc2020009_011-- Jim Petersen interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
KC  11:59
Oh, okay.
JP 12:03
Grandpa moved to Gary, Indiana in 1905 before there was a town or a city to help United States
Steel build the first rolling mills. That's another interesting story, too, but we won't--- it has
nothing to do with who I am right now. But yeah, deep roots in Gary.  Back to the play by play.
What was your question again?
JG  12:23
How---
KC  12:24
I remember it
JG  12:25
How were you seen in a family of engineers as the as the musical one?
JP 12:28
Okay. Yeah. So it's, it's spring of my freshman year, and I'm home because, it might have been
Easter weekend or something like that. And I'm home. And dad works at United States Steel as
an engineer, and there's like four or five guys in his department. He likes to hang with, play golf
with, go fishing with that kind of thing. So we would get together family kind of things, and have
big meals. And so it was Dick Brush. Who says to me, so Jim, what are you going to major in?
And I said, well, Mr. Brush right now it's looking like music. And he: Oh, no, no, no, no. It's like
the whole---- and then he ran the whole litany down of musician as moral and physical,
degenerate, you know.  Alcoholics, drug problems, you know, chasers after women of ill
reputations, you know, that kind of thing. I said, wait a minute I can major in that, huh?  Yeah,
but I was, I was young and foolish at the time. Or younger, and more foolish at the time. But
anyway. Yeah, that's how that happened, kind of
KC  13:37
So you did it as a rebellion, maybe?
JP 13:43
No. It was.... Oh, maybe so.  Maybe--- only in the sense that slothful behavior can be considered
rebellious. There was something that---- something that I enjoyed that I, that came easy, you
know?  I was really fascinated with physics. I thought that, you know, natural laws, well, it's has
got to be--- this is great! I can study how the world works, you know. Quite apart from how
people are doing whatever the people are doing to the world, you know. [inaudible] Man, it's just
afc2020009_011-- Jim Petersen interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
spent more time learning math when you know, the only thing you really need in life is how to
balance your checkbook. Right? So I--- Nah, this is not for me, you know. So this kind of
evolved into, you know, making music, practicing was never work. So [inaudible] maybe not
exactly sloths, but something very nearly like not.
JG  14:45
The path of least resistance tapping into your talents.
JP 14:50
Well, I think both of you are probably finding that keeping to the peaceful path is a whole lot---
pardon me for saying it this way a whole lot less wear and tear on the toilet.
KC  15:10
I don't know if I know what that means. [laughs]
JP 15:13
Think about it.
JG  15:16
We'll work that one out later.
KC  15:17
We'll unpack it.
JP 15:18
This or this---- this expression way back when it was like, this thing frustrates me so much that I
could just, you know evacuate my bowels. Wear and tear on the toilet.
KC  15:31
Yeah
JP 15:32
Okay.
KC  15:33
Gotcha.
JP 15:34
All right.I cleaned that up for the tape, of course.
afc2020009_011-- Jim Petersen interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
KC  15:38
So take us to that first day, with the stacks of clarinets, was there----
JP 15:44
Just clarinets. I only--- for six weeks, five and a half days a week, I did nothing but clarinets.
KC  15:50
And was there like a master lu-luthier....
JP 15:52
Luthier.
KC  15:54
.... that you learned from or how was the shop set up?
JP 15:57
Well, that's interesting too. So when, when I started, I was a horn mechanic. You know, but now,
as the mechanic....
KC  16:05
Horn mechanic
JP 16:06
.... there's been euphemism on top of euphemism on top of euphemism. And now they are
professional band instrument repair technicians. Or wind instrument repair technicians. You
know.
KC  16:19
There's not a categorical term like a luthier, though?
JP 16:23
No
KC  16:25
Because a luthier, string instruments, right?
JP 16:27
Specifically guitars. Now, there's a interesting--- it's a kind of turning into a musical instrument
repair ghetto down here. [Gestures] in 4911, the back of 4911 over here is Triangle Strings. And
they, they sell they repair--- very active repair shop, and they rent and give lessons. You know,
afc2020009_011-- Jim Petersen interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
but there's a, he has about three or four guys doing repairs. And anyways, so he's not, strictly
speaking a luthier. And if you call him one, he will correct you know, I repair violins. Now, I
suppose as the security of the Western world depended on it, he could reglue the bridge on your
guitar, or reset the neck or something like that. But only if the security of the Western world
depended on it.
KC  17:20
So, describe the learning process to us.
JP 17:26
Back then it was basically tab A, slot B. Oh, you don't know that one either. When you--- when
you grow up and have children, and it's Christmas Eve, and they're in bed, and you're putting
something together, and you get out the instructions, because you think that's going to get you,
what you--- accomplish what you need to.  Way back when, instructions might say you lay out
all the parts and say Insert tab A into slot B. Or like an A to Z process, if you will. So insert
that--- so basically, that was that I mean.... The principle where wind instruments, the functional
principle behind the wind instruments is pretty simple. The longer the tube, the lower the pitch.
So that back in your days when you were playing clarinet, but you didn't I thought you did?
Nevermind, forgive me alright. Well, it's kind of the similar sort of thing, the longer the string,
the lower the pitch, right. So when you're playing a wind instrument, you get the air column
inside the tube to vibrate. You transfer your energy for [makes a blowing noise] as you know, in
a brass instrument or the vibrating reed on the saxaphone or the clarinet or the oboe or whatever.
Flute works, works largely the same way. Basically, it's like whistling across the top of a beer
bottle. But the more beer you drink out of the bottle, the deeper the whistle gets, right? So, the
longer the tube, the lower the pitch. And so, to do that efficiently, on woodwinds, you either
cover holes with your fingers or you close keys that seal holes. I mean the whole--- the keys have
a gasket in there. Pad: clarinet pad, saxophone pad, flute pad bassoon pad, whatever. And it is,
traditionally all of them are like a cardboard back, a disk of dense felt of a certain thickness, and
then a material to seal it off and make it neumadic so that no air passes through, when otherwise
passes through when it's sealing the hole. So that saxophone pads, bassoon pads, some bass
clarinets and so on will have a leather skin. Clarinets, flutes oboes--- the tradition on this was
like a, they would take a large fish and the float bladder, the air bladder that was in the fish, they
would cut that out, stretch it and dry it. And then that would cover the felt they would glue it to
the cardboard back. Gold beaters would use it too. You understand the gold beading craft, take a
certain amount of gold and you lay it out on something you [inaudible]. And it's kind of like a
non-electroplating plating that you put on the on the surface. Like the dome in the Capitol in
Washington DC is, is is gold beating has been beaten with gold. Alright, gosh, I'm part of your
education. This feels so wonderful. All right. Anyway, so the object of the game is to get the
pads to seal and by sealing them sequentially, you make the tube longer. Okay. Now, since none
afc2020009_011-- Jim Petersen interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
of us are the 6 million dollar man with bionic fingers--- you don't know 6 million dollar man
either, do you?
JG  21:10
We'll let it slide
JP 21:11
It was a TV star, show in the--- series in the 70s. Lee Majors? Ok, anyway. He was a Air Force
pilot and crashed and they rebuilt his body bionically. And so he had his like, Superman, but he
didn't come from Krypton. And he could, he just could think it and he and he could crush you
know, crush whatever with his--- and so we don't. But when you're playing, you have to be able
to get that [gestures] as though your fingers were filled with helium. Just the lightest of touches.
And that's--- even though you may play with ah, more finger pressure than that. Or I may play
that the same instrument with more finger pressure than you, that has to be the standard. So
longer the tube, the lower the pitch, the different shape of the tube then will afford different
qualities of sound. So that, the tuba sounds like it does, because it's got you know, 11, 12 feet of
tubing. But it's also it's got a--- conically starts out like that and gets to that big at the end. So you
get that the parts of the various--- if we had a piece of PVC, just that big around and could put a
mouth piece on it, you could still produce the same pitch, but this quality of sound would be
whatever it was.
KC  22:53
So the stack of clarinets that you approached, was the main problem the finger pads were
destroyed?
JP 23:05
That was the main problem. Yeah. Probably the next most common problem was--- so the
mouthpiece slides into a barrel which slides over the upper joint, which slides into the lower joint
with the bell slides on to the end. And all those connections are shimmed with strips of cork.
Again, cork gaskets. But they have to be shaped a certain way. And they have to be lubricated
periodically. Or they will dry out and tear. And so replacing those became building blocks to my
retirement. If I ever retire. But pad replacement was probably the biggest thing. The little thumb
hook or thumb rest, they call it, would would break off off and then you'd have to figure out how
to attach a new one. Especially if the material ripped off and part of the material or the tube
ripped off in the process. A key might break and then you would have to brace it back together.
Things like that. Wooden clarinets would crack. And at the time, the preferred method was to
drill across that side of the tube where the crack occurred in a line perpendicular to the crack.
And then maybe two or three holes, and then you would take this bit of threaded rod and it would
act as a screw--- you would run it in there and it would pull the two pieces together. You might
put a little epoxy, or the really old school guys would use beeswax and just to make sure that it
afc2020009_011-- Jim Petersen interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
was perfectly sealed. These days they, they put it on, on a lathe, and they, they cut a narrow
groove, not very deep into the body of the instrument around the circumference. And then they
will take carbon, a strand of carbon fiber that might be six feet, eight feet long.  Dredge it
through epoxy and then wind that into the groove. So, so that then that--- it won't grow, you
know. Again you seal it off with whatever, you're usually going to kind of epoxy---- sometimes
you'll take grenadilla dust, which is a brand---- a type of African black wood that the fancy
clarinets are made out of, it's called grenadilla. And you take some of the sawdust, if you will,
and you pack it into the crack, a really fast curing superglue. And you lightly sand, lightly polish.
And then you flush band or carbon, carbon fiber band and, and then once that epoxy is cured,
then you can sand that, polish that and it's a really good repair.
KC  26:14
How did your career repairing evolve after the stint in the Fletcher Hinton music?
JP 26:26
I went back to graduate school for, for a year.  I have two semesters and a summer semester. And
in that year I was out of school, learning, I was also hanging out and playing a lot and it became
obvious to me and to my peers that I have negotiable skills. And.... nobody's gonna hire you if
you're a gaping anal pore. I cleaned that up for the recording too. But if you're, if you're, if you're
in the right place at the right time in your groove to be on the bandstand, then it only matters this
much if you've got enough skill to keep the gig. So people like me, and I got hired a lot. And I've
got to the point where going to grad school was getting in the way of me earning a living. So I
nev---- I maybe have eight more semester hours or something like that, assuming that they
haven't changed the requirements. I could go and get that master of music degree. But what are
we doing? Hanging it on the wall in the shop? You know---- here's the classic story. I would I
would have a really good friend in in, in grad school, named John who was a trombone player
masters, or master of music and trombone performance. He went off to Los Angeles and got---
had a fairly successful like 25 year career as a studio guy out there. One of the first jobs he
shows up for it's "What's your background?" and John says I got a master's in masters of music
in trombone performance from the University of Colorado. So what did they say? They say okay
mister master's degree sit down, let us listen to you play. You know. So, you know, if he was
going to get in, if he was going to get into academia, so maybe that masters of performance,
along with his curriculum vitae, vis a vis who he played with and who he performed with and
what recordings he was on, and that kind of thing might matter. But.
KC  28:54
So while your playing was taking off were you still fixing?
JP 28:59
afc2020009_011-- Jim Petersen interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
I made friends with these guys Andrew and Patrick. We're getting a space together in downtown
Boulder that ultimately came became known as the music store. And Andrew was electronics
repairman. I think he invented electricity quite frankly, he was really really good at it. Somebody
left him a TV and said--- and you know, 45 minutes later, he's got it working perfectly. And so
every day at four o'clock when the Star Trek reruns would come on he'd flip the TV on. He'd
look at it for 10 seconds, "yeah, I seen that one" and and shut up, shut it off. So anyway, so
Patrick was a luthier he was a really fine guitar repairman. Actually, what he was excellent at
was inlay. You know he could make your, he could tart your instrument up, make it look like you
know, it belonged to heaven, or at least in the Smithsonian, you know? Anyway, and so there
was space and so they I went--- I got on there and I worked there for about four or five years.
And then Larry, who had been the repairman at the university, left the university and opened his
own shop. And even before he got the doors opened, he already had too much work. So he said,
Petersen, I want you to work with me. So, I worked with him for a couple of years. And then I
met the mother of my children, and moved to Louisville, Kentucky for a couple of years. And
worked in a shop there and then moved back to Denver, and then moved here in 1990.
Interesting, the place that I worked in----went back to Denver and worked at that first place that I
worked. But at the time, when I went in 1990, when I went back to work that I said, I want to
work with you guys again. They said we sure we'd love to have you but---- we don't have a
woodwind bench. And those are my skills theoretically. And I said, well, you got a brass bench?
And they said, yeah, and I said, I'll learn. So, now, it depends on who you talk to these days, a lot
of really fine woodwind players who will bring me their instruments.  The clarinet players, I
mean, the guy well, two of them, one of them is retired, one of them is about to retire--- but the
guys that were the North Carolina Symphony, when I started would bring their instruments to
me. And then all of the people at the next level below them, you know,  like that. And saxophone
players of considerable skills. You know, a couple of times people of national reputation have
come through and, you know, I was the hero.
KC  32:02
Is there anyone you'd care to mention?
JP 32:05
No. All right, all right. I mean, it's like I said---- I don't want to be tooting my own horn here.
Okay. I mean, I guess my attitude is I expressed this to her [Julia] at one point, prior to this
interview that if I can learn to do it, anybody can. So what's the big deal? Okay. If you talk to
aficionados of jazz, and he's specifically saxophone, and specifically tenor saxophone, and you
mentioned the name, Ernie Watts, they'll, you know [gestures]. September of 2019. Parent
weekend [at Duke], weekend was coming up. And John Brown had brought in Ernie Watts. Just
so you--- Ernie Watts, just, again, you guys are too young.  The Tonight show, back when Johnny
Carson had the thing and there was always the big band width Doc Severinsen? Ernie Watts was
one of the saxophone players. And, like he had a career that I mean, anyway, like that. He plays
afc2020009_011-- Jim Petersen interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
it like he invented it. He just whatever he has up here can come out. Well he'd bumped the horn
somewhere, and the keys are suspended on posts that are fastened onto the body of the horn. And
one of these posts had come unsoldered. And now that key wouldn't work, so everything below
it---- because the longer the tube, the lower the pitch--- wouldn't work. So was a Tuesday
morning and my--- eight o'clock in the morning, my phones blowing up and John is saying,
Ernie Watts is gonna call you I said "oh, yeah, sure."
KC  34:04
Because he had a performance like in a day or two? Is that...?
JP 34:08
That weekend. So, about 45 minutes later, Ernie Watts did call me. And that, it was kind of like,
alright, I'm skeptical, but.  And I went over that evening. He was having rehearsal with a Duke
band. And he had gotten another horn somewhere to use and I took his and I said,  through my
friend John, I had met some guys out in Los Angeles and I'd gone to visit who people that Ernie
knew. And so okay, self serving, I dropped a name or two just so that he would know that I spoke
the language. And I took his horn and I said I'll call you before noon tomorrow. I'll tell you what
I see and tell you how long it's going to take. And by noon the next day basically, I had it
finished. I fixed that particular problem and I said, Look, there's this and this, this and this. You
want me to take care of that too? Of course, I had already taken care of it. But, and he said, Yeah,
would you please? And so I said, I could be back in Durham by three o'clock. Now, you know---
what's it that---- I'm gagging on the name of the place that hotel over there that's by, between the
Duke Street and and Gregson. You know, right there right there by North Northgate mall. There's
a big....
KC  35:38
Hampton Inn.
JP 35:38
Thank you! You're so good to me. They were staying there. And I called him when I pulled into
the parking lot. He met me in the lobby, I went up to his room. I said, well, I did this, I did this, I
did that. And all he wanted to do was get the horn out and play it. And he did. And the longer he
played it, the more he liked it. So he kept playing it. I got about a 15 minute recital. And it was
like, you know, the best church, you know, for me? And so then he says, Yeah, this is great. This
is great. How much do I owe you? And John had said, Duke's paying for this when I picked the
horn up at that previous date. So I said, well, there's an alternate revenue stream at work here.
But you do owe me something. And he says, What's that? And I said, I need to hear the first
eight bars of The Nearness of You. And so right, he blows a little smoke, he looks up in the
ceiling, he says, I don't think I know that. Which is kind of like saying, what's your mother's
name? I can't remember, you know. Anyway. So then he played it. And then he it's a---- all those
afc2020009_011-- Jim Petersen interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
pop songs from the 30s were in movies. And so there's like a tag ending where they do a little
dramatic thing. And so he played the tag ending too plus a nice, you know, 15 second cadenza.
You know, just freestyling, if you will. And he said, yeah, that's a good one. But I like this one.
And he played this, play this Ornette Coleman ballad. And I'm just like, I'm---- I'm moved to the
point of tears almost. And, okay, so Ernie Watts. And I got a big hug. And his wife was there.
This is, this is the part that really--- so I'm in the car. I'm driving back, you know down
Glenwood, I'm over by Briar Creek. And my phone rings. And I look at the number and its
Ernie's number, right? Oh hell, what happened? He said "Jim, this is Patricia." That's his wife.
"He just went into rehearsal. And I feel I should tell you something." All right. So something's
the matter with the horn. I'm still kind of like, and she says,  "today's Ernie's birthday. And we
were getting in the car to go over to Duke he said to me, this is as good a birthday present as I
could have hoped for."
KC  38:41
That's amazing. And it was only last year.
JP 38:46
Well, on the other hand, there are trombone players who think that---- I mean, guys will come
from 100, 150 miles.
KC  38:58
So tell us--- describe your specialty. Like what are you best at?
JP 39:06
Bullshit.
JG  39:07
[laughs] In the repair world....
KC  39:15
... if I don't understand the distinction---- trombone....
KC  39:25
Like you know what the difference....?
KC  39:26
Right, I know the difference of instrument but I don't understand the distinction and repair
specialty.
JP 39:32
afc2020009_011-- Jim Petersen interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
All right, so all right. What did Michael play---- my son, Michael? What did Michael play?
JG  39:37
Trombone.
JP 39:37
Yeah. Okay, what was John---- what did John play? My good friend from graduate school.  You
weren't paying attention, shame on you. You were not---- master of music and trombone
performance.
JG  39:49
Right, trombone.
JP 39:50
All right. And then there was Mike Miller, who was an undergrad when I was in grad school.
Another trombonist and they were always complaining about their slides. And as a class, they
seem to be---- trombone players tend to be more interesting and more agreeable to be around.
You know, high level flute players they need, they need a IV drip of Valium, you know.
KC  40:21
See, this is the good stuff. [laughs]
JP 40:25
You know, I---- like a symphonic level, oboe player comes around, you need somebody to
translate.
JG  40:34
From what to what?
JP 40:36
From oboe to English.
KC  40:39
But trombone players are chill, down to earth.
JP 40:43
As a class, perhaps more so than others. You know, I mean, there's a, there's a, there's a----- genre
or a subset of, of musician humor, you know.  [inaudible] Like, how do you know the trombone
player kids are on the playground? Because they don't know how to use the slide. You know, that
kind of thing. What's the difference between a trombone and a lawnmower? Well, you can tune
afc2020009_011-- Jim Petersen interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
your lawnmower. You know, that kind of thing. And so we--- everybody's always busting on
each other, you know, in that regard. But trombone players---- there tend to be fewer trombone
jokes like that. Because, I mean, sometimes----- you could use fill in the blank with any: you can
tune a saxophone, you can tune a clarinet, you can, you can, you know, that kind of thing. But
if---- and when you when, when you have a good trombone player musician's joke, you know,
then they appreciate it. You know, like, what did the drummer get on his IQ test? Drool.
JG  42:03
But the shop that you have, like, I mean, fixing a trombone requires....?
JP 42:09
Oh, it's an insidiously simple mechanism. Yes.
JG  42:11
Oh.
JP 42:11
Yeah, you like that, that's your SAT word for the day: insidiously. We're talking about two pair of
cylinders have slightly different diam--- inside and outside diameters that need to be parallel to
each other. But---- the difference between the outside diameter of the bearing surface on the
inner tube, and the inside diameter of the outer tube is kind of like five to seven thousandths of
an inch. So, if the inner tubes are kind of like this [gestures a crooked motion] you're in trouble.
Now, when you're playing the instrument, you know, it just goes back and forth like this, right?
But when if you are playing the instrument, your shoulder and your wrist and your elbow
conspire against that. So you end up doing this kind of thing [gestures]. And you kind of force a
warp into the tubing. Now, maybe they'll become--- they will invent a---- maybe they will invent
a device that's based on lasers or something like that you can use to align tubing. But I have----
and if you come in, you'll see it, the walls are a very appropriate to the air of the building beige.
And then there's a very dark brown border for the doorframe. And I will take the outer tube and
use that, and get a reflection on the tube. It's kind of like sighting a gun. So the tube goes this
way, the line will not be equidistant on either side of the tubing. And so then you'll kind of
massage that back into straight. And you look at it from this way. And you look at it from this
way. And you look at it this way. And you look at it this way. And sometimes it falls into place in
10 minutes, 15 minutes, sometimes it takes...... And, you know, again, it's how it's soldered
together at the bottom, how it's soldered together at the top.  You got the little brace that you pass
on, but also that is of a given length so that the tubes remain parallel the length of the tubing.
Same thing with that crook at the bottom. And so you---- sometimes your only recourse is to pull
that crook off the bottom and change the angle of the curve and then solder it back on. I think
chiropractic work, you know in some ways.
afc2020009_011-- Jim Petersen interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
KC  44:53
Well it really sounds like engineering, too. I mean you say anyone can do this, quote unquote but
it sounds....
JP 44:58
46 years of experience, dear.
KC  45:00
Sure, you can sight it and see it but it sounds very particular.
JP 45:04
Blind squirrel in finding the nut, occasionally? All right, yeah. I, I have been blessed. Larry
Nailer was again----  where the region out there was concerned he was as good a woodwind
repairman as there was. And I learned things watching him. He never particularly taught me
anything specific. I learned a mindset from him it that was basically "it's not right till it's right."
And then, where woodwind repair was concerned. Then working with brass, the second time
with Fletcher Hinton music. There was a guy there named Bill Ford. Who I basic--- I don't say I
apprentice because it wasn't like that. But, you know: here's a trumpet, the valve doesn't go up
and down, here's how you fix it And if the next one's different, come and see me. And so Bill
was very helpful in that regard. He and I liked each other, We got to where weekends, we'd get
on our road bikes and go 40, 50 miles kind of thing, you know.
KC  46:16
Around Denver?
JP 46:17
Yes.
KC  46:18
Wow.
JP 46:19
Well, that, it was.....
KC  46:21
I don't want to get us distracted.
JP 46:23
It was....  alright, without being too distracted. There was a---- it was a young person's town. And
because of the outdoors, the mountains, yada yada, there was an emphasis on recreation. There
afc2020009_011-- Jim Petersen interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
was a, you could go from the northwest, you're at this point, you're out of Denver county and into
Jefferson County. You can go from the northwest to the southeast on a couple of
interconnecting--- I think three interconnecting bike bike paths that covered 90 miles. Cruising
along the Platte River for a while then Cherry Creek, and then you jump up on this. And now
you're at Cherry Creek Reservoir, and it's like you're half the way to Kansas, you know?
KC  47:05
So, you were you saying earlier that you specialize in trombones?
JP 47:11
I specialize in in in making you feel good about spending money.
KC  47:18
On your instrument. Or on anything?
JP 47:19
I mean see how charmed you are already with it?
JG  47:22
It's working.
JP 47:22
You know, you want to go out and buy an instrument to bring it to me, right? I'm serious.  No,
I'm not serious. But I mean, doing this work 80% of the people who play have little if any idea of
how their instrument works. You know, it's like you've got--- you put the reed on the mouthpiece,
you put the little end in your mouth with the left hand on top, and you go to town. And when it
stops working. Alright. So you are reluctant to admit to that ignorance, because you have self
esteem. On the other hand--- maybe not you. But you're probably a little more open than that,
although well we're all self conscious to a degree, right? Anyway, so now we don't---- because
we don't know how it works and we've never had to deal with this problem before. Taking into
somebody who purports to fix these things it's kind of like going to see the dark arts guy, you
know? The alchemist, you know? And so you have to be "Hi, how are you today?" You know,
and in terms of dealing with a customer in order to make them feel---- and then explain to them
is to them to the extent possible. All right. So this is great. Where saxophonists concerned, how
do you know if the pads aren't covering properly? Of course, you don't know. But I'll tell you. I
have a 20 inch long half inch in diameter fluorescent tube that I slide down inside the instrument
and I will--- with the helium filled fingers I will close the key. If I can see light coming out, then
air can come out. Again, genius. Before the invention of electricity, they would check it with a
feeler gauge all the way around, which is really really time consuming. And then, alright, so.
afc2020009_011-- Jim Petersen interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
KC  47:22
Do you do that in front of your customers to help them understand more?
JP 49:28
Yeah, I'll show them so that you know--- I mean, I won't tell them how easy is to get the pad
level, necessarily. Or how hard it's going to be to to adjust it also that when you push second
finger left hand down the two other keys that go down with it have to be perfectly in sync. And
you know, you never say "bend" in front of the customer. But sometimes you have to "regulate,"
"adjust," you know that kind of thing. If you say, if you if you say "bend" you can charge five
bucks an hour if you say "adjust" you can charge 15 bucks an hour, if you say "regulate" you can
charge 30 bucks an hour. You know.
KC  50:05
So it relates to your, your path into music education, because you're, you're teaching the experts
about the physicality of their instruments.
JP 50:17
Well, I--- maybe. I think that again----- I want, I'm teaching them that.... All right, a rant, but
only about this long [gestures], this long, you know. With the advent of the internet, and the
advent event---- the raising of the level of manufacturing of any and all things in Asia. You can
go on eBay, and buy yourself a blue saxophone for 300 bucks, brand new. Then when that blue
saxophone doesn't work and you look---- you go online "saxophone repair, Raleigh" or
"saxophone repair Triangle" and my site comes up. And you, you come and see me and I say,
Yeah, well, this got this, this and this, this, and it's gonna cost you, it's gonna cost you $110 to get
this thing fixed. And they say but I only paid $300 for the instrument. So it's like, disposable,
right? So I have to make them wise about buying something. And let them know that what they
have is good, or what they you know---- don't put any money on this, into this instrument. Even
if it's not coming into my pocket, you know. I would rather---- the integrity issue.  But so that,
you know, if again, if you were, either of you were going to learn to play an instrument, I would
never tell you to go buy something new. You know, it's like a used car. Once it rolls off the lot,
it's it's lost about 10% 15% of its value, and then only depreciates more from there. Well,
properly maintained, that trombone or that clarinet or whatever, would be something that you
could pass on to your great grandchildren. So. And I hope that I, you know, hope that I'm the
proper maintainer, shall we say. But--- so it's kind of like, it's not so much I'm fixing you. But I'm
adjusting your attitude while I'm adjusting your instrument.
KC  52:37
Do you still play?
JP 52:40
afc2020009_011-- Jim Petersen interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
Yeah, I mean, nobody's hiring players anymore. And for the last 15 or 20 years, it's kind of been
less and less of work for the, for the musical mercenary. In the early 80s, for example, especially
when I was in Louisville, Kentucky. People that were--- the folks that your grandparents really,
really liked, who were still on the planet, would tour. But they would, you know, they wouldn't
come with their own orchestra. They might come with a piano player, and another musician or
two. Piano player being the musical, music director, and the collection of music. And you would
hire players. And it'd be a four hour rehearsal, because that's all they would---- that's what the
union contract called for. And then you go to the show. And that's the kind of work that I did. A
lot of. And that I could play saxophone and clarinet and flute, meant they didn't have to hire
those other two. So, there's no more--- that work doesn't exist anymore. Even like..... I subbed in
when I first got back first got to North Carolina, I subbed in on the pit orchestra for you know,
downtown Raleigh, the... [musical] Annie. You know, and it was clarinet, bass clarinet, and
baritone saxophone. And so, not a problem. But that work----  so when Annie comes now, there,
they might hire one or two players. And then there'll be three people playing various synthesized
keyboards, and most of that is pre-programmed. So they put push this button, and now they've
got the string section. Or they push this button and now they've got, you know, the brass section
kind of thing. I haven't played a wedding reception in I don't know how long because let's say I
was going to bring in four piece and pay them a reasonable thing for a four hour engagement. I'd
want to give you a bill of say, six to seven hundred dollars. And you can hire a DJ for a buck and
a half. And he can play more tunes in a weekend, you know, because he's got that laptop full of
things, and you push this button and pushes that button and it all comes out through his speakers
KC  55:23
How does that relate to, so you're talking about the change in playing in the industry....
JP 55:28
So, I still enjoy playing my instrument. But that's discretionary. You know, that that time
becomes discretionary. And sometimes it, it makes more, it's more satisfying to--- yeah, I'm into
vintage hifi too.  And so, take an LP and put it on the turntable and listen to whomever.
KC  55:57
How have you seen the---- what you fix and how change as the music industry and live music,
it's changed so much, because your scope of work developed over the years?
JP 56:23
Yeah, it has, of course. Society has changed over the years I'm serving a society or a subset of
society. Where the industry itself is concerned, there are very few companies manufacturing
musical instruments that are that company. For example, there's one of the best manufacturers of
saxophones is this company in Japan called Yanagisawa. And that's all they do. They just make
saxophones. And they don't--- they make.... you know the the acoustic design of the instrument
afc2020009_011-- Jim Petersen interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
remains the same but then you may get a bronze body or you may get a sterling silver body or
you may get a 14 karat gold neck and bell and or whatever. But saxophones is all they make.
Now. My first--- the fancy saxophone, pro-level saxophone was a Selmer. It was made of----
which was a French company, although they had a major business presence in the United States
and a,  thing in Elkhart, Indiana. And they were Selmer. But then Selmer got bought by another
company, and then that other company decided, well, we're going to be---- and, and so they
aquired other companies. And so like, now they're like, what were like seven or eight different
separate manufacturing companies that are now part of a company known as Conn-Selmer. Conn
being another manufacturer of---- full line manufacturers of, you know, if you wanted a Conn
piccolo you could get one, or if you wanted a Conn tuba, you could get one. You know, just the
whole gamut. Now, now, there's a company Conn-Selmer, which is owned by another company,
which is owned by another company, which is owned by a holding company. And they treat it
like Walmart, or they treat it like Target. And so, if something on your horn breaks and I need to
replace a part, if your horn is older than say, six or seven years old, and it was manufactured by
one of these companies, you can't get the part from the company anymore. Whereas Selmer,
when it was just Selmer, they had stuff from 30-40 years ago. So I have become---  a lot of, yeah,
there was an era in there where, because you could get virtually anything you needed---- remove
and replace. R and R. But now you--- it's more of a "you have to be a repairman", you have to
take that broken thing and be able to fix it. And whereas, if the part was available, it might be a
$30 part. But you might end up charging the customer $75 in terms of your time, to repair that
one particular thing.
KC  59:37
How often do you encounter an instrument now that's irreparable?
JP 59:46
That I can't fix or that I won't work on? That I can't fix.
KC  59:52
Yes [laughs].  But I'm curious about the ones you won't work on.
JP 59:57
Well, write that down, that'll be your next question, okay? There are--- not too often. Anything
that breaks can be fixed. But if I put $1,000 into repairing something that's only going to be
worth $500, when it's done, there may be---- you must be really, really certain that you want to
spend that money on that particular instrument. That it was grandpa's or was it you know, it was,
you know---- a particular significance to you that it's not quantifiable. Okay. Now. I have to
really like you if I want to work on your picc--- if you want me to work on your piccolo. And the
simple fact is that the economy of scale and failing vision, okay. Like these small parts really
close together, kind of thing. I will do it, because I like you. But I'll probably not make as much
afc2020009_011-- Jim Petersen interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
money per hour as I would if I was working on your saxophone, which is where the problems are
theoretically more obvious, and more easily serviced.
JG  1:01:26
Do you have a particularly memorable repair--- I mean the Ernie Watts story was really
wonderful. Are there any other, either repairs to an instrument that was so damaged or damaged
in such an unusual way that it felt like a miracle that you repaired it or that were meaningful in
some other way?
JP 1:01:50
If I said Tom Scott, would you know, who I was talking about?  Of course not. You guys are
young. If I said Joni Mitchell. Right. So all right.
KC  1:02:02
Got it [laughs].
JP 1:02:07
Tom Scott was this wonder kid, like 19 years old, and he was tearing up Los Angeles, you know,
playing with everybody. And being the best guy on the bandstand. And he was kind of headed
into that first year, group of anonymous players that were making low to mid six figures every
year, playing other people's music and getting it right with no rehearsal. But he wanted to have
some fun. So he started doing a few things. And he had this band called---- first he had this band
called The LA Express. And so it was, this music was kind of like a fusion of jazz and rock and
played by people of similar mentalities young guys who, you know, anyway. So he was---- and
he became a horn player that was on everybody's, you know, sweetening up everybody's rock
album. And anyway, so he was touring. It was like '78. And he was touring. And he'd played Salt
Lake City the night before. And the local stage hand, the guy--- Salt Lake City guy, had picked
up Tom's horns and dropped the tenor. Now, the mechanism of the left hand was just a mess.
Like nine o'clock in the morning, I'm at the shop there that with Patrick and Andrew and, and
this guy walks in, he's the manager of the local club there in Boulder where Tom is going to play
that night. He says, Tom's roae manager is going to be here soon. I mean, I was friends with
these guys like--- well, I'll tell you after you turn this off, I'll tell you the story. But anyway, I
don't want to put myself in an indictable position here. Anyway, although the statute of
limitations is probably expired, anyway. So the left hand keys on the saxophone were a mess,
and it fell, had fallen in such--- so the tube is brass. Okay, and it's fairly thin brass. So brass is a
soft metal and now the tube instead of being [gestures] had a little of this [gestures] in it as well.
And it was like he's got soundcheck at five o'clock. So after I wet my pants, you know, because
Patrick wouldn't let me say no. Patrick wouldn't let me take it and take it to Larry. So I worked
on that thing. And I worked on that thing. And I worked on that thing. And I mean, I didn't take a
lunch break. And I played it at about three o'clock in the afternoon I says "Well, maybe I'm
afc2020009_011-- Jim Petersen interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
getting there." And I did a little more this a little more than that. And the road manager came by,
and he picked it up and paid me and left. He said, Oh, when he was leaving, he says, What's your
name? I said, Jim Petersen. And he so he put me on the list. JPplus one I got, so I got to go to the
show for free. So I'm sitting in the club. And the band kicks off the first tune. And he's just
wailing away. I mean, it's just---- you know, from my personal experience, tongue hanging out
kind of thing. And he's whacking--- doing things with keys. And I'm like, Oh, the horn must be
working okay, you know. And then, halfway through the set, road manager comes up behind me
at the table I was sitting and says, when the sets over, meet me in back. So I go out and I'm
hanging out and hanging out in the RV that they're traveling in with Tom Scott. You know, and
what---- I mean, there are a couple of LPs of I have, a couple of CDs that I --- well, CDs of LPs
that I had that the LP is no longer with me, where Tom Scott was a sideman. And I'm just aghast
every time I listen to him play as a 19 year old still, you know. So it was that kind of thing. And
again, it's just I'm, I'm there. I'm doing my job. And it was--- yeah, we had an old refrigerator in
the basement. It was always full of beer. But, you know, it was a very relaxed situ---- and good
place to meet women and that kind of thing. But anyway, I digress.
KC  1:07:02
That was the music store?
JP 1:07:04
That was the music store. Yeah.
JG  1:07:06
That sounds fun.  I have our sort of like, question that we ask everyone. I don't know how we are
on time.
KC  1:07:18
I have---  like the last one? I have one more.
JG  1:07:22
Okay.
KC  1:07:23
Can you tell me a little bit about if and how becoming so intimately acquainted, acquainted and
an expert at like the physicality of your instrument? Like unlike most musicians, when you play,
you know, exactly the mechanics that are happening? How did that---- if it affected at all--- your
playing?
JP 1:07:47
How to quantify a visceral experience? That's what you're asking me?
afc2020009_011-- Jim Petersen interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
KC  1:08:01
I don't think that was what I was asking you. But you can answer that. That's an interesting
question. Maybe that's what like boiled down....
JP 1:08:11
You know, an overly simpl-- simplistic explanation that I will offer a customer. When you get to
a certain level of performance, your ability to do certain things with the instrument. The more
your sensibilities about what you want the instrument to do are refined. That includes not only
the mechanical aspects of putting this finger down or  taking that finger up, or putting the slide
out into seventh position, or first and third valve combination or whatever. It's knowing what you
want the horn to do and what you want the sound like before you even open the case. So then the
pursuit becomes having an instrument that does that for you. And sometimes it's the instrument
is perfect. And it was going to do--- I mean it's the actual interface, you know.  I've got a cabinet
at home with you know plastic drawers, you know, like maybe 30 or 40 drawers in it, filled with
mouthpieces. And I could, you know, if you guys are sitting, if we were sitting there as opposed
to here, I could start pulling mouthpieces out and putting them on whatever saxophone we were
working with. And you'd listen to me playing I sound different--- I'd sound the same on everyone
to you. But the sensation of tone that you perceive that playing because that vibration feels like
this whole part of your body and it's like, night and day. The difference. And then not only that,
but the architecture of that mouthpiece versus, for example, it might be such that now the horn
accepts your air more readily than the previous one did. Or that same mouthpiece with a stiffer
reed, more resistance to the flow of the air or a softer reed, less resistance to the flow of air. It's,
it's a whole different experience. Again, but it--- and you're not at 100%, 100% level of, you
know, aware of that. It's like a less than completely conscious awareness. But it's overriding,
quite frankly. I mean, okay, using Tom Scott, for example, or Ernie Watts, for example. We
could, we could go to a Salvation Army thrift store, and whatever, saxophone is there, take it off
the shelf and give them 75 bucks, and give it to them. And they could play it, and they would
sound just exactly like Ernie Watts. But they would abhor the experience. Because you know,
that again, that visceral, less than [inaudible], you know, relationship with the instrument doesn't
exist. And so, to the extent possible, that's, you know, that's one of the things I try to, try to get
done for the best possible players.  At the same time--- all right, backing up a half step. So you're
married and you have children, or maybe you have children and you're not married, or you stole
somebody else's kid, and you're raising it as your own. [laughs]  Whatever the experience here,
and they want to be--- they want to go into sixth grade band. And your Uncle Harry played that
instrument way back when, and you call him up? And you say, "Well, guess what? He still has it,
and he's gonna send it to you!" But it doesn't work quite right and the band teacher says, get this
fixed. And so you bring it to me. And I said, well it's gonna take seventy five dollars worth of
work. And you say to me, "Well, how good does it have to be he's only a beginner?" Well, and
how much experience up to that point has your child head with that instrument? Right? So. They
afc2020009_011-- Jim Petersen interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
think the machine is smarter than they are. So in order to give them half a chance to succeed, that
machine has got to be pretty much right on. Or else: "I can't, I just can't do this, I'll go to shop
class." You know, you know, or whatever. When they might have been the next Ernie Watts.
What--- if they had an instrument, there's half a chance. So yeah, like I said, earlier, we're talking
about Larry, Larry taught me that there wasn't--- the instrument wasn't right until it was right.
Now, it's, admittedly, it's a whole lot more fun to get to work on nice instruments. And it's a
whole lot more fun to work on nice instruments that belong to superior players. Because like I
said, I got that recital from Ernie Watts. Whenever, like, Jimmy Gilmore he's a retired principal
clarinetist in the North Carolina Symphony, he come around and I'd tinker with his instrument
and we'd talk about stuff, you know. Because he wouldn't, he would leave it. And so I'd tinker
with it and then he'd take it, and he'd play it. And he might play it for five to 10 minutes. And it's
like, what joy, you know? It's better than anything you can find on the radio, anything--- better,
than you can find on a CD. It's there and it's now and while it's not directly for you, it's for, you
know?
KC  1:13:57
Like the connection between repair and quantifying the visceral, as you said, because we think
of, you know, the reason it's so hard to describe art is because it hits you on that emotional level
that you could never quite describe. But to me, you just made a parallel of like, the feeling of the
instrument and you knowing that that feeling for the player is as important as the pure
mechanics.
JP 1:14:27
Yeah. The old thing about an infinite number of monkeys and an infinite number of typewriters,
and you know, all the great books and if x number, x amount of time would be typed, right?
Theoretically. It's a probability issue, right? And so mathematically speaking, it's a probability
that it occur. Now how great is that probability? Not very, but theoretically, it could happen. All
right. So, if I'm manufacturing an instrument at a certain level, so it will do a certain thing. Now
economics and everything, I mean, I can't make every saxophone that I manufacture, let's say, to
be a $10,000 instrument. When you're, you in your sixth grade beginner, you only need like a
$300 instrument, let's say. So I have to factor all of that in. So that becomes more like, materials
than anything else. The acoustic design is what it is, and you tried to make that as perfect as
possible. But at the same time, you don't want it turning into dust after six weeks in the hands of
your average 10 to 12 year old beginner. Alright, so. So to a certain degree, my my efforts is to
make every one of them as right as I can make it. But unless I really, really like you, I'm not
gonna put $500 worth of work into the instrument, when you could only afford $100. But, like I
say, the big joy right now, I mean, this is like parenthetical, okay. The big joy right now is we're
all living longer. Look at me, I'm 70--- I'll be 72 years old in another couple of weeks, you know,
and there's a lot of reemerging musicians. For example, at Duke, continuing education. And then
there's a secondary continuing education OLLI [Osher Lifelong Learning Institute] I forget what
afc2020009_011-- Jim Petersen interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
the O stands for Lifelong Learning Institute. It's for 55 years of age and older. And you could
take a band class. And so you got all these people. I mean, when they first started doing this, they
could have run a bus from Ferrington Village [retirement community].  Literally, there was like,
all these people coming up with time on their hands and money and instruments right? And, you
know, they want to get together with like-minded individuals and to have fun playing music. And
that's why I play anymore. I'm not making any money, if I get the horn out it's just for the joy of
making the instrument work. And so I want I want you--- or the ones that reemerging musician,
or whomever, to have that joy. But your, your typical music experience is done in an in an
educational setting a public school: beginning band, middle school, middle school band, high
school band, or maybe in universe college or university. And it's always like, we have to learn
this ledger so that we can perform it so that the good performance will justify the existence of the
musical educator educator. You know, there has to be a lot of people in the class, you know, the
numbers, enrollment has to justify the existence of the educator. And so that joy factor is never
nurtured. It's like learn this. It's your homework. Learn this.
KC  1:18:15
This is one quick, semi-last question.
JP 1:18:18
Semi-last?
KC  1:18:18
Because then I want to pop into the studio before I have to hit the road.
JP 1:18:23
The next to the last question?
KC  1:18:24
The next to the last--- have you noticed a significant change since COVID? Like have you had
an uptick because people are finding instruments in their closets?
JP 1:18:34
There's been a little bit of that. Maybe the people who are intelligent enough and curious enough,
are also cautious enough about their health that they're not getting out. But there are also those
that are--- I'm working from home or I'm, I'm not working at all or.... And so they've got some
sort of musical endeavor. They're reemerging. Or they say, I'm gonna learn to do this. Now
there's a woman in Chapel Hill. Actually, no, she's probably in the never-neverland down Erwin
road between Durham and Chapel Hill. And her son is a superior saxophone player. He's a
freshman at University of Miami. And that's a really, really good School of music. And he got a
full ride. Technically speaking, for a 19 year old he can play his butt off. But, I mean---- maybe
afc2020009_011-- Jim Petersen interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
that shouldn't be on there either. I don't know, but.... and so she said well maybe I should learn to
play saxophone too, because she was like--- No, I'm not gonna because people will know who
I'm talking about. Her job is going out and seeing people, where this agency that she worked for
was concerned. And she's just not making any calls. I mean, she's doing a few, you know, Zoom
things, or FaceTime or whatever. But... So she's got time on her hands---- plus you're not making
any money. So she gets, she gets a little bit people--- when you're not making any money you get
a little fatalistic, you know. What does it matter? I'll learn to play the saxophone. Right.
KC  1:20:48
Okay. The final question we like to ask all our repair folks. It's not as existential as some of the
previous ones.  In the shop, do you have a favorite tool?
JP 1:21:22
I don't know, maybe. Alright, so maybe if we ask the question, like, if I didn't have this particular
tool, would I consider retiring? Alright. From a purely practical point of view, you know, like
ugly shoes that fit really, really well. The vise. Because it's a third hand or fourth hand--- and I
guess so I could put something in the vise, and, you know, on a assembly mandrel, and then I
could work on the instrument while the instrument's suspended on that mandrel. So that's--- I
love it, but I wouldn't take it home to meet mother, you know, kind of thing, you know? But there
are other, other tools that I would say a lot of bad words and I'd figure out how to replace them if
I didn't have them. And I will show you if you want to come and see.
JG  1:22:44
Absolutely yes.  Before we end the tape. Is there anything else you feel like you want to have on
the record? Or something we didn't cover that? You wished we did?
JP 1:22:59
Well, again, when Julia came to me, or called me, and said, "hi, this is JG." And I said, "does
Michael owe you money?" And she said, then she explained what she wanted to do here. And
I'm thinking, I could give you names of people who are better at this than me. Now, you might
have to travel to Charlotte, you might have to travel up to Asheville. But I can give you names of
people who are better at it than I am. Maybe not as experienced in terms of, you know, years on
the job. Or with the as---- I hate the word unique, you know, because it's used, so
indiscriminately and and now now we have qual--- qualifications and levels of uniqueness, you
know. That's very unique. Yeah. What does that mean that something is sort of unique? It's
partially unique, you know? Or it's the most unique I mean, it either is or it isn't that's--- unique
is absolute. Right.
KC  1:24:24
It used to be.
afc2020009_011-- Jim Petersen interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
JP 1:24:25
Yeah, well, and, and I hope the people who use the word indiscriminately I hope their toilets stop
up at the worst possible moment. You know? One of the things about life is you have to be a big
fan of the language, or otherwise, there's no point in you and me--- you and I trying to talk to
each other. You know, if, if I'm talking about red and you're thinking about blue, or a different---
if I'm talking about red, and I'm thinking about what a glass of Cabernet Sauvignon looks like
and you're thinking about Ros.... Well, we're not there are we? And though--- that that
difference is compounded over the course of a conversation is like, did we just talk?
JG  1:25:17
I hope you're not feeling like that right now.
JP 1:25:20
Of course I am.
KC  1:25:21
[laughs]
JP 1:25:25
There, just now that I've jabbed you a little bit. No, I think... go ahead ask your question one
more time.
JG  1:25:32
Is there anything else you'd like to cover before we...?
JP 1:25:36
Well, yeah, all right. So we were there. I mean, I was getting to, like, my set of circumstances has
been unique, up to this point, somewhat similar to other people's, I mean, I learned on the job.
You--- there are, in fact, trade schools you can go to. And there used to be some commercial
schools that were run by mercenaries who would teach you the skill as well. But I feel like in a
very altruistic sort of way that I learned this. People, people showed me a few things, I learned
this. And, so it's kind of like a, in a way, it's kind of a currency. And, you know, I've got excess
and--- excess cash in my pocket that I need to pass around. And if I'm going to be that generous,
or how can it be that special?
KC  1:26:42
Have you taught anybody?
JP 1:26:45
afc2020009_011-- Jim Petersen interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
I have showed, well, I've showed people a few things. There's a, there's a person up in North
Raleigh, who---- somebody who's supposedly knew what they were doing, trying to teach her
how to fix flutes and clarinets. And when that person was institutionalized that that individual
came to me and said, Well, what about this? And I said, is that what they showed you? And that
individual was very thoughtful and very sincere. And it's somebody that I played music with in
the past. And so I said, let me show you. And I would show that individual and off, they would
go. And the next time, they came back and said, Well, what about this? So it was never like, if
you sit down with me for over the course of six months, eight hours a day. No, I've never done
that. And I would lose interest after about a day and a half. Probably. Not so much. That's
probably wrong. I probably wouldn't lose interest, but I would probably--- the train of thought
would derail so many times that I'd be so confused that, you know--- go away and when I got
this figured out, I'll call you. You know, that kind of thing.
JG  1:28:18
Thank you very much for taking the time to let us talk with you like we did today.
JP 1:28:26
Well, again, I'm a left handed, mouth breathing, knuckle dragging saxophone player from Gary,
Indiana who's going to have a recorded interview in the Library of Congress.
KC  1:28:42
That' right! [cross talk]
JP 1:28:43
I mean, pigs have just flown!
KC  1:28:49
There's a lot of value to it!
JP 1:28:50
Porcine aviation has occurred!
KC  1:28:52
We got some good musician jokes on tape too. Alright I'm gonna stop it. [laughs]
afc2020009_011-- Jim Petersen interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell