Back of House: Kitchen Workers in Central Ohio
Archie Green Fellows Project, 2017 
Occupational Folklife Project || American Folklife Center 
Interviewee: Jim Marchese [Rubino’s Pizza] 
Interviewer: Jess Lamar Reece Holler 
Date of Interview: Friday, June 8th, 2018 
Location: Rubino’s Pizzeria -- Bexley, Ohio 
Interview Index 
00:00:00 -- Introductory Slate // Interview Lede 
00:01:00 -- Early Life: Columbus in the 1950s // Family Food Industry Involvement + 
Culture 
●
Born in 1949, in “Flytown” -- now, the Short North // Italian Village, near what’s now Thurber 
Village 
●
Family moved near Doctor’s Hospital a bit later on; and then, to the East Side in the 1960’s
●
Family was all involved in restaurant businesses: father owned his own restaurant, and then 
came to be a part of Rubino’s around 1956; and mom served as both a housewife and a 
waitress at diﬀerent family restaurants. Most restaurants were Italian -- grandfather had 
worked as a place called The Italian Club in Flytown in the early 20th century; “we’ve been 
in and around the business our whole lives”
●
Family foodways growing up: Jim’s mother was from a farm down in Carroll, Ohio; his father 
was Italian, and grew up around Italian kitchens and heritage -- “This was back in the day 
when things were kinda tough. They were rough back then. So, we kind of grew up with 
whatever was around and available at the time … alot of bologna, and that kind of stuﬀ.”
●
Changes in Flytown: today’s Thurber Village, where Jim grew up, were the slum houses of the 
city; and the million-dollar houses of Victorian Village and Harrison West, were all boarding-
houses
●
School/future interest: “I had little interest in looking forward to anything”; Jim went to 
work early, primarily in fast food (McDonald’s, KFC); and then, to BBF (Burger Boy 
Foodarama) -- a chain of hamburger restaurants in Columbus that was eventually bought out 
by Borden’s
●
At 18, Jim applied to a job at Western Electric and got his GED; and, in 1969, Jim’s draft 
number was coming up, so we joined the Air Force (00:06:40); “before the Army could grab 
me, I went on over to the Air Force”
●
Air Force became Jim’s career -- “Twenty years and seventeen days”; didn’t necessarily enter 
with any aspirations of being career military; decent pay and job security; worked in aircraft 
maintenance; served as an instructor for eight years out in California, and the rest of the 
time was maintenance. Jim was away from Ohio throughout most of his Air Force career. 
Stateside/out of the country, Jim’s family lived in: South Carolina, Wright-Patt, Iceland, 
Belleville, Illinois, California (Norton Air Force Base in San Bernardino; now closed); and 
then to Mississippi, just prior to retirement
00:10:15 -- Beginnings of Rubino’s Pizza // Sync with the Marchese Family 
●
Founded by Ruben Cohen (hence, Rubino’s), in 1954; Jim’s uncle worked here at the 
beginning -- he and Jim’s dad had both worked down the street at a place called Syro’s [sp.?]; 
the Marchese family was involved since the beginning. Rube (a boxer) retired in the 1980s -- 
had been a professional boxer: the 1928 Northern Fleet champion in the Navy; when he got 
out of the Navy, he opened a boxing gym in Rochester, New York; and then retired to 
Columbus, and opened a pizza place.
●
Jim’s dad became a majority owner, as did a partner along the years; and the bookkeeper also 
owned a part of it; now, it’s all within the family.
●
Jim’s childhood/teenage memories of Rubino’s -- lived on the other side of town; didn’t really 
come around that much, other than to hang out after hours, after he got out at Western 
Electric; he’d visit his dad’s partner, Tom, when he was making dough.  “Back in the late-60’s, 
early 70’s, this was an after-hours joint of sorts”; lots of regulars and family members would 
hang out after hours 
00:14:30 -- The Rubino’s Dining Room, Recipes & Menus // Jim’s Return 
●
Basically, nothing on the menu has changed in 40 years
●
Jim had originally planned to retire back to South Carolina, where his wife is from; and to 
start a mom & pop pizza place; but, since his dad had bought into Rubino’s, his mom 
reached out and asked them to come lend a hand in Ohio; “They kept me … now it’s my ball 
to carry.” That was almost 30 years ago.
●
Diﬃculty of ﬁnding part-time workers; back in the day, husbands would carry multiple jobs, 
and Rubino’s had alot of help; these days, they have to rely on youth for their labor force 
(00:17:29); Jim feels lucky having teens who have stuck with the company, but misses the 
“old-fashioned work ethic, adult.” Jim tries to take care of his workers, and invites the teens 
to bring in friends they want to work with; discussion of seasonal summer hires
●
Areas of the kitchen -- back kitchen, where the pasta comes out; and front area -- “Out from 
here, everything is pizza; and the pizza-makers are all cross-trained back-and-forth …”: 
people who make the pizza, who put them into the oven, and who bag them and get them 
ready. Jim himself works the register; 3-10 weekdays // 3-11 weekends
●
Dough is made every night, during the evening shifts (00:19:43) -- Jim’s brother makes the 
dough, and continues all night long. Jim attempts to describe Rubino’s trademarked crust -- 
“It’s the thinnest crust you’ll ﬁnd anywhere. I challenge someone to ﬁnd a crust thinner than 
ours.” He can’t tell us why; but guarantees it’s an entirely diﬀerent recipe than anyone else 
uses; “Our dough is alot denser and drier than anyone else’s”; and this has been the recipe 
since Rube opened the place on Day 1. Origins of the special recipe unknown.
●
Rubino’s, Jim reminds, was one of the ﬁrst pizza places in Columbus; pizza was relatively new 
in the 1950s (00:21:20) -- came back from the GI’s after WWII, and spread out from New 
York. 
●
Lots is developed in house -- all the sauce, all the dough, sausages, meatballs; “If we had the 
time and the place, we’d make the pepperoni.”
00:22:00 -- The Pizza Itself; Making the Pizza; Family Business; & Rubino’s Enduring 
Culture 
●
Discussion of “Columbus-style” pizza -- round, with a square cut
●
From being around the restaurant, Jim knew how to make the pizzas; but had his eye on the 
spot up front from the beginning
●
“Rubino’s is 40% pizza … and maybe 60% BS. Because we do alot of joking … I wanted to be 
up-front, with the people. And if it wasn’t for the people, I would’ve left a long time ago. It’s 
fun. It’s what keeps the place going.”
●
00:24:30 -- keeping the restaurant/dining room all the same, for over 30 years; “we’re on our 
ﬁfth generation of customers, and when they come in, they want to see the way it was.”
●
Family members as staﬀ/employees: challenges of this process; Jim and his brother are 
owners/managers; sister, Karen, is a day manager; and Jim’s daughter is a waitress; other 
siblings are out and about but don’t work with the business.
●
Managing wages in kitchen work, especially at a partly-family business like Rubino’s 
(00:27:18) -- “That’s always a tough one, especially in a family operation”; Jim discusses 
diﬃcult equalization between long-term employees, kids who have just started out, and 
family members; and trying to pay a decent wage, with some bonuses and days oﬀ, etc., “to 
keep it equal”; concern about living wage laws -- “I can’t aﬀord it … that’s not what minimum 
wage is for. You’re not supposed to live on it. And if they try to force us small people into it, 
it’s going to be dangerous; and it’s going to be rough for alot of people.” Jim also discusses 
fairness -- wishes he could pay his daughter more than another waitress; but has to be fair. 
●
00:30:00 -- Jim discusses the process of rolling out the dough
●
00:32:00 -- discussion of the material culture/décor of the dining room; green table, and the 
white refrigerator towards the front that was originally an ice box; customers demand things 
stay the same. Jim tells a story about the famous black rotary phone -- he took it out for a 
while for a green rotary phone, and people threw a ﬁt. Discussion of the “grandfather clause” 
in order to keep material culture in the restaurant “as original as possible”
00:35:00 -- Surrounds & Environs: Rubino’s in the Context of its Neighborhoods 
●
0:35:00 -- Jim discusses the culture of Bexley, Ohio, the suburb of Columbus where Rubino’s 
is located
●
00:36:00 -- Rubino’s involvement in the Bexley and Columbus community, including 
participation in the Pelatonia bike race, which is a Columbus-area fundraiser for the James 
Cancer Hospital
●
00:37:00 -- Other “old time” businesses in Bexley; Jim discusses Johnson’s Ice Cream and the 
Drexel Theatre
00:39:00 -- Futures for Rubino’s 
●
00:39:00 -- Jim discusses the lack of appeal of retirement; “all I know is work”
●
00:40:00 -- “You can’t move. You can’t relocate this building”; Jim reﬂects on how the 
original location and building is integral to Rubino’s; “There would be no phoenix rising from 
the ashes … it just doesn’t usually work out very well.”
●
00:42:53 -- Changes in the food culture in Columbus; “We wear blinders, basically; we just 
look at what we do, and we don’t worry about anybody else.” Jim discusses the unique long-
term nature of Rubino’s customer base and the fact that they don’t need to advertise. He also 
discusses not feeling threatened by other, upscale pizza places coming in nearby; and 
operating with a pizza place night next door; “When they opened originally, I kind of 
worried about it, let’s be honest … but it didn’t harm us any. If anything, it helped us; it 
brought more people up to this end of Bexley.” 
●
00:44:00 -- “The subject being kitchen culture is really a tough one for us; because our 
culture is the same as it’s been all along. We don’t do anything magic, we don’t do anything 
spectacular; we just do it well … and after sixty-plus years, everyone else must feel the same 
way.”
00:45:00 -- Concluding Slate, Thanks & Goodbyes