1 
 
Project: Trash Talk: Workers in Vermont’s Changing Waste Management Industry 
Narrator: Jessica Saturley-Hall, Owner and Operator, Upper Valley Compost Company 
Interviewer:  Virginia Nickerson 
Date: September 18, 2018 
Place: Lebanon, NH 
Transcribed by:  Teresa Bergen  
 
00:00:00 
 
Nickerson:  This is Virginia Nickerson and I am interviewing Jessica— 
 
Saturley-Hall:  Saturley-Hall. 
 
Nickerson:  Saturley-Hall. Thank you very much. At her home in Lebanon, New Hampshire. 
And this is September 18, 2018. So, Jessica, I always just start by asking people if they could tell 
me roughly where and when they were born. 
 
Saturley-Hall:  I was born in Boston, Massachusetts, 
 1985. 
 
Nickerson:  Great. And can you tell me what your current job is in terms of waste management, 
and how long you’ve been doing it. 
 
Saturley-Hall:  Sure. So I own and operate the Upper Valley Compost Company. And I’ve been 
doing that for about a year and a half now. And we provide residential and commercial 
composting services to households and businesses in the upper valley. 
 
01:05 
 
Nickerson:  And what had you done before that? 
 
Saturley-Hall:  So immediately before that, what was I doing right before that? I worked for 
Kuerig Green Mountain as a partner/manager, and for the tea business. And before that, I worked 
for King Arthur Flour as a new product manager. So I had sort of product and project 
management experience, mostly in the food industry.  
 
1:33 
 
[End Track 1. Begin Track 2.] 
 
00:00:00 
 
Nickerson:  So, how did you get into compost? 
 
2 
 
Saturley-Hall:  I’m a gardener. And so I had been composting on my own for years. And then I, 
in terms of starting a business in composting, I knew that I wanted to start a business. And I was 
looking for something that I could get started with  not a lot of funding, not a lot of money. And 
my parents had actually downsized from a big house to a little house. And they had to get rid of 
their compost pile. So they had been complaining about the fact that they couldn’t compost, and 
they were sad about that. And I had heard the same thing from a lot of people at the same time, 
that they wanted to compost but it was too hard. And I started doing a little bit of research on it. 
And it turned out that there were surveys out there saying that 65 percent of Americans were 
willing to compost it if wasn’t too difficult and too expensive. So at that point, I just had sort of 
the kernel of an idea and decided to start a pilot project that would kind of just test the idea up 
here.  
 
So we recruited 50 households in this area to participate for free in a curbside compost 
program. And from there, just were kind of constantly getting feedback from them on what was 
working and what wasn’t. And then eventually launched the paid service and kind of kept going 
from there. So it just kind of has been one thing after another since we got started. It’s kind of at 
each stage we’ve gotten really great feedback, a lot of support. So we’ve just kind of kept going. 
 
01:43 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. So how many customers do you have? 
 
Saturley-Hall:  We have, I want to say probably around 200 and, somewhere between 225 and 
250 customers, I think. 
 
Nickerson:  Oh, wow. And how many different towns? 
 
Saturley-Hall:  Let’s see. So we serve 11 in Hanover, Lyme, Etna, Norwich, White River 
Junction. I think we go into Hartford. But then we also have drop-off customers who come from 
farther out than that. We just don’t go to their houses. And then we’re also down in Concord and 
New London and New Hampshire. So we cover a fair amount of range, particularly when you 
sort of factor in the distances that our drop-off customers come in. 
 
02:33 
 
Nickerson:  So do you have, when you say your drop-off customers, are you making compost? 
 
Saturley-Hall:  We don’t. Yeah, we actually don’t make very much compost. We make almost 
none ourselves. When I first got started, I had hoped that that’s kind of where we were going to 
wind up. And what I’ve discovered as we’ve gone through is that there’s kind of a lot of 
different, there’s a lot of different aspects to this business. There’s a lot of different pieces to it. 
And you can kind of pick and choose the ones that you get involved in. And they have different 
financial requirements, different equipment requirements, different space requirements. So it’s 
3 
 
actually pretty rare to be end to end, where you’re both dealing with your customers, picking up 
the material, carting it from place to place and then also processing it and selling it. And the 
reason it’s rare is it’s very hard to do. And it’s very hard financially to do. It’s in fact, I would 
say, the kind of thing that really only works to do it end to end when it’s built onto the back of 
another kind of business, whether it’s a farm or something else. So when we got started, I said 
okay, let’s start with the hauling sort of piece, because we can make money at that immediately. 
We can sort of support ourselves with that pretty quickly. And then we’ll kind of move into the 
other pieces as we go. 
 
So that’s been the approach that we’ve taken all along. We experiment a little bit with 
sort of vermicomposting with worms, and also some in-vessel composting in tumblers and stuff 
like that. We do a small amount of that ourselves. But the majority of the material we collect, we 
take to other facilities. 
 
04:20 
 
Nickerson:  So when you say you have drop off customers, where are they coming— 
 
Saturley-Hall:  Yeah, so, I think it’s one of the cooler programs that we run. We partnered with 
the Hanover Coop, which has three locations. So Hanover, Lebanon and White River Junction. 
And then also the Concord Coop, which has two locations in Concord, New Hampshire and New 
London, New Hampshire. And at each of those locations we have sheds that either we’ve built or 
the coops have built. And we supply as part of our services, we supply a five-gallon bucket for 
your compost and a liner. And so you put all of your compost into that five-gallon bucket: meat, 
dairy, bones, shellfish shells, anything. It’s anything that sort of is food or was food. And then 
with the drop-off program, they take that full bucket up to once a week to one of these sheds. 
They drop it off in that shed. They collect a clean bucket from the shed. And then they go into 
the store where they get checked off on a list and they’re given a clean lid and a liner. And 
they’re able to do that up to once a week. So that’s how the drop-off piece works. It’s basically, 
it’s kind of a bucket exchange system. 
 
05:39 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. So you take all the mess and yuck— 
 
Saturley-Hall:  Yeah. Exactly. That was one of the things that we found in the pilot was that one 
of the things that was really preventing people from wanting to compost was sort of the smells 
and the mess and just, they didn’t know what to do about that stuff. And it builds up and it got 
gross. So a lot of people would try composting and then just kind of give up on it because it was 
too icky. And so we figured if we could kind of take away the ick factor that people would 
participate, which has been what we found. And it’s been a process of trial and error, kind of 
figuring out how to deal with the ick factor ourselves.  
4 
 
 
When we first started out, we were not using liners in the buckets. So people would just 
put all of their food--you know, meat, everything—into the five-gallon bucket and we would 
empty it out. And a lot of the times, you know, stuff would stick, and it’s greasy. And you have 
to kind of scoop it out. Then at some point, and then we were cleaning the buckets. That’s part of 
the service is that we’re providing clean buckets each week. And we eventually made the switch 
to using compostable liners. Which was a magical, magical change. (laughs) From our end, at 
least. So.  
 
07:11 
 
Nickerson:  So since we’re talking about the ick factor, (laughs) what’s it like? Can you describe 
for someone who doesn’t collect compost? 
 
Saturley-Hall:  Yeah. (laughs)  
 
Nickerson:  What’s that like? What do you see? The smell? 
 
Saturley-Hall:  You know, it’s funny. First of all, you can get used to anything. So I think you do 
get used to certain smells that are super unpleasant when you first smell them. I think it totally 
depends on the households. We have some households that are vegan or vegetarian, and their 
compost is lovely. Because there’s no meat, there’s nothing sort of really rotting in the same 
way. The second that you put meat or dairy—particularly meat, but meat or dairy products—into 
the compost, the smell changes a lot. And I think that even, but even with that, you kind of just 
plug your nose up. It’s fine. I talked to a guy who grew up in the trash hauling industry at one 
point. And he had told me, they just used to always say, “It smells like money.” (Nickerson 
laughs) There’s a reason people don’t want to deal with this stuff, and there’s a reason they pay 
other people to deal with it for them.  
 
 
But you see all kinds of crazy stuff in there. In lobster season, you see lobsters. You can 
sort of always like see the seasonal changes. It’s like the watermelon starts hitting in July, and 
the corn starts hitting in August and September and the sort of seasonal stuff that’s there. But it’s 
also, we have such a standardized diet, for the most part, in America that you also see the same 
things in everybody’s bucket. You see kind of the apples, the bread, the whatever else. It’s a lot 
of the same stuff. So, yeah. 
 
09:10 
 
Nickerson:  Do you encounter a lot of maggots? 
 
Saturley-Hall:  You know, sometimes. Sometimes not. It very much depends on how people are 
using their buckets. Some people keep them closed up all the time. And with those folks, we 
don’t really see many. But then other times, there will sometimes be cases where you’ll open a 
bucket and it will be pretty maggoty. And I think that freaked me out so much the first couple of 
5 
 
times. But then then you just, I don't know, I guess part of it to me is that like this is the part of 
the food system that we’re dealing with. This is like, things rot. And the rotting is what produces 
the next round of things. It’s definitely part of the cycle. And maggots are part of what helps 
break food down. Flies and everything else are part of that cycle. So, yep, it’s not pleasant. But at 
the same time I can kind of put my brain in gear that this is the natural part of the cycle. We 
pretend it’s not happening, but it is. Then it doesn’t bother me as much. 
 
10:24 
 
[End Track 2. Begin Track 3.] 
 
00:00 
 
Saturley-Hall:  Sorry, what were you saying? Maggots. (laughter) Maggots. Yeah, part of the 
food cycle. Yeah. You know, you see them, I sort of pretend that they’re rice. You have these 
little mental glitches to deal with them. But then the rest of the time it’s just like, they’re just 
little white things. They’re not that bad. It’s kind of gross, but it’s also not that bad. So. 
 
00:23 
 
Nickerson:  So I’m going to back up a little bit. 
 
Saturley-Hall:  Sure. 
 
Nickerson:  And just sort of ask you some more basic questions about the business. So it sounds 
like, do you have both commercial and residential customers? 
 
Saturley-Hall:  We do. We focus on the residential, but we do have some commercial customers 
as well. 
 
00:39 
 
Nickerson:  And are you taking, I’m going to call it the product or the material, are you taking 
the material just to one composting facility or to different composting facilities? 
 
Saturley-Hall:  So we have agreements with multiple composting facilities. And we kind of make 
the decision about where the material’s going to go based on a bunch of different factors. So it’s 
kind of like how far away are they located? What are the tipping fees? One of the big things is 
what’s the weather like and can we access the facility? So there’s one facility that we used to 
take material to a lot, but the access to it was pretty problematic in the wintertime. There’s 
another facility that we take material to where access is pretty problematic in the spring. So it 
really depends on those kinds of things. We definitely default to taking material to the Lebanon 
town dump because--they don’t like to be called the town dump—the solid waste facility because 
6 
 
it’s really easy to get in and out. It’s right here. It’s a low-margin business. And so we have to be 
really mindful about kind of how long it takes to get places and how much fuel we’re using. 
 
 
And one of the nice things about that is we’ve worked with the folks who manage that 
facility to actually change some of their composting practices and increase the quality of what 
they’re making, so that it’s actually now being used by the Lebanon Parks & Recreation 
Department, which is really cool. So it’s like, I think one of the things that people don’t realize a 
lot of the time is that there’s a lot of different grades of compost. There’s a lot of different, and 
you kind of need all those different grades. And it’s very different to make high-grade compost 
and it’s much more expensive to make high-grade compost than it is to make low-grade. They 
have different applications. So, you know, I think our customers, some of our customers, I think, 
really like the kind of image that everything that they put into their buckets is being turned into 
beautiful soil that could go right back into their garden, and that that is the only way that it 
should be happening. And I think we try and educate them a little bit about the fact that we have 
so far to go in this country, and even in New England and New Hampshire and Vermont on land 
fill diversion, period, that drawing those kinds of sort of very, very restrictive expectations 
around developing infrastructure is actually, I feel, pretty harmful to the overall system. Because 
it’s not really very feasible that we would build—anyway, we try and educate people about the 
importance of diverting material from the landfill, period. And then we try and educate them 
about the fact that different kind of grades of compost have really important different uses. Yeah. 
 
04:00 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. Does New Hampshire have anything like Vermont’s universal recycling law, 
where people are being told that they need to keep organic material out of the landfill? 
 
Saturley-Hall:  They don’t. New Hampshire does not have anything like that. I think it’s unlikely 
that they will. In some ways, I don’t actually have a problem with that, just because I think 
there’s a lot of talk about Vermont’s ban. And it’s not something that’s being enforced. It’s not 
something that they actually have the infrastructure to handle. On the one hand, I think it’s a 
good thing because it does create those conversations, and it does sort of theoretically help spur 
investment. Whether it actually does or not I think is kind of a separate question.  
 
So I think in New Hampshire, one of the ways that I could see it going a little bit more is 
an economic approach where communities continue to move toward pay as you throw, which 
incentivizes people to compost. And you increase tipping fees for landfills. That increases the 
cost of trash. The cost of trash goes up, people want to compost. So I think that New Hampshire 
has a tendency to take a more economic approach. Which in this case I’m not sure is actually a 
bad thing. But it’s definitely, there’s not as much support around, or understanding, maybe, is the 
right way to put it. There’s not as much understanding in New Hampshire about why it’s 
important. But we’re working on that. (laughs)  
 
 
7 
 
05:34 
 
Nickerson:  So do you have a sales pitch that you use with potential customers? 
 
Saturley-Hall:  (dog barking) Una! [directed at dog] I, to be honest, I’ve sold a lot of things in 
my life. I find that I don’t really have to sell people on this, because there’s so many people who 
want to do it. And I think if they’re looking, to the extent that there are people who are like, 
“Why would you compost?” Which honestly, there aren’t that many people who say that. Most 
people get it. They get that there’s a difference between these different kinds of trash. So in 
terms of paying for a service that helps you do that, I think we’re selling on simplicity, 
convenience, kind of the ability to do something that you know is the right thing to do, but 
you’re struggling in your life to make happen. So I think it’s that notion that a lot of people feel 
guilty about not doing these kinds of things. And if you can help people participate in developing 
a better system, then they’re really excited about that. So I think that’s kind of our approach is 
not much of a hard sell, but much more of a kind of we’re enabling you to participate in 
developing a circular economy. We’re kind of enabling you to do something that you want to do 
anyway.  
 
And then, I think, the ick factor is, again, it kind of sells itself. Like if you can have a 
bucket that doesn’t smell, if you can have it be convenient, either picked up at your house or 
dropped off at the grocery store you’re going to anyway, why wouldn’t you do that? So it tends 
to kind of sell itself on that front.  
 
07:30 
 
Nickerson:  So could you describe, you probably don’t have a typical day, but could you describe 
what a typical day would be like if you could put one together? 
 
Saturley-Hall:  Sure. So these days we only do curbside collection basically one day a week. So 
on curbside collection day, we have a list of all of our customers that’s printed out. And we load 
up the car that we use. We have two vehicles we can use. But the one we use most often is 
actually a Honda Element. (laughs) And we load it up with clean buckets and liners and lids. 
And then we drive around on the route that we’ve laid out using, we’ve got a route planning tool 
on the internet that you plug all the addresses in and it kind of provides you with the most 
efficient route to use. And you drive around. You pick up the full bucket that people have set out 
in front of their house and replace it with an empty bucket with a liner in it. Fill up the car 
basically to bursting with full buckets. And these days we tend to go straight to the facility that 
we’re dropping the material off at. And we dump the buckets out one by one which we didn’t 
used to. Well, you always have to empty them one by one. We actually dump them right at the 
facility these days. And we have a little portable pressure washer that we use to rinse the buckets 
out kind of as we go through. Because even with the liners, you know, water still kind of seeps 
through and everything else. And then we just kind of do the whole route that way. 
8 
 
 
And then another day we would need to wash all those buckets. So we’ve got a couple of 
big sinks that we use. And you know, you just kind of put music on and you know, get into kind 
of a Zen mindset and just kind of wash buckets and let them dry. And that’s kind of it. 
 
 
On drop-off, on days when we’re handling drop-off customers or commercial customers, 
it’s sort of the same thing except we have the drop-off sites are sort of depots for the buckets. So 
we would go to the Hanover Coop, the Lebanon Coop and the White River Junction Coop. 
empty the sheds out of all the buckets, you know, load them with fresh buckets. Go in and give 
new lists of customers to the customer service folks. And then just take the material to wherever 
it’s being taken to in the same way.  
 
With commercial customers, we use 32-gallon totes, rolling totes. Look just like trash 
cans. So we load those into whatever vehicle we’re using on a, we’ve got a ramp that we use. 
And just kind of roll them in there. And we swap those out for clean totes as well. Mostly just 
because it’s easier to handle that way. Because if you wanted to pick up one of the 32-gallon 
totes, you would need mechanical assistance. And we looked into all that, but it’s really 
expensive. So it’s a lot easier to just replace the totes, essentially. And then tip them using 
gravity wherever you’re going. We don’t have a ton of commercial customers, but we do have 
some, so. 
 
And then other days I’m answering emails from customers. Signing new people up. Kind 
of managing the accounting sort of for the business. You know, speaking to new customers. Stuff 
like that. Updating the website. Kind of all those kinds of things. 
 
11:23 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. Yeah. How did, because we’re thinking about this for people who might be 
interested in— 
 
Saturley-Hall:  Sure. 
 
Nickerson:  --getting into jobs in the food system. How did you learn what to do? 
 
Saturley-Hall:  (laughs) How did I learn what to do? I mean, trial and error. I went to a 
conference, I went to the Vermont Organics Recycling Conference. And that was how I met the 
first guy who owned the facility that we used to take material to. A guy named Bob Sandberg. 
And so that was how I met him and sort of had a place to take stuff. Because there isn’t a lot of 
infrastructure for this. And we knew we couldn’t get started until we actually had a place to take 
material that we picked up from people. So that was kind of how it got started. And then it was 
just, it was trial and error, you know. When we first started out, we were using a trailer. And we 
didn’t have the buckets. Can you hear that? (squeaks in background) Or should I— 
 
 
9 
 
Nickerson:  It’s okay. 
 
Saturley-Hall:  Okay. We didn’t do the bucket swap initially. When we were in the pilot we just 
had people provide their own buckets and then we emptied them. Like when we stopped by their 
house we would empty their bucket into big totes that we had strapped to a trailer. So that’s what 
we were doing initially. Then the totes that I was using originally were, I think 64-gallon totes. 
So they were huge. And when you filled them, a single tote would be something like 220 pounds. 
Because food scraps are incredibly heavy. And it was a terrible, terrible plan. And I did it for a 
really long time. I did actually hurt myself. So that was bad. 
 
 
Talking about, I should talk about this in a way that would make people want to do it. I 
think that—it’s hard to get people to want to do this, to be honest, because it’s physically very 
demanding. And it’s not high-paying work. And it’s messy and it’s smelly and you’re out and 
it’s dangerous. You’re out on bad roads. We have one of the highest rates of workers’ 
compensation requirements of any class of workers because you’re around vehicles. You know, 
you’re dealing with heavy stuff. 
 
Nickerson:  That’s people in waste management in general. 
 
Saturley-Hall:  Yeah. Yeah. We’re categorized the same way as somebody who rides around on 
the back of a waste truck. And there’s a reason that it is one of the most dangerous occupations. 
So I think it’s—it’s hard. The good things about it are it’s really easy to get started, which is not 
true of a lot of businesses. So I love running my own business. I always wanted to do that. I love 
being my own boss. I didn’t need a lot of money to get started. I didn’t need a lot of fancy 
equipment to get started.  
 
You’re outside all the time. After a lifetime of working in offices, that was really 
important to me. For me it was participating in the food system in a way that could actually 
support me. I think that I worked on farms for a long time and had a fair amount of experience in 
agriculture. And that’s also a really hard way to make a living. And it’s, I would say, actually 
less secure in terms of being able to make a living at it. You know, people always have to throw 
their stuff away. (laughs) So I think this is a little bit—and we aren’t so dependent on Mother 
Nature for kind of, you know, we aren’t partnered with Mother Nature in exactly the same way 
as a farmer is. So it felt like a way that I could participate in—it did feel like a way that I could 
participate in the food system and make a living. And that was important to me. I think that I—is 
important to me. I think that we’ve broken kind of the nutrient cycle that is meant to exist on this 
planet. And there’s been a lot of attention in the last five, 10, 15 years on farming, particularly in 
this area and in Vermont. And that’s wonderful. That’s great. But we haven’t paid a lot of 
attention to the back end, to the other half of that cycle. And that’s starting to catch up to us a bit. 
And it will increasingly in the future.  
 
So I think to me it sort of felt like I’ve always liked doing jobs that nobody else wanted to 
do, I guess. It’s a little bit the imp of the perverse. You know, somebody tells you that you 
10 
 
shouldn’t want to do it. It’s like well, it’s definitely what I’m going to do now. (laughs) So yeah, 
I think it’s hard to sell it like an easy way to make a living. But in terms of participating in a 
bigger kind of life cycle, it is very fulfilling to be kind of filling in that gap. And I think I can see 
it really easily for farms who have, because there are several farms who operate programs like 
this. And they produce the compost themselves on their own land and use it in their own crops. I 
think that from that perspective, economically it might be a little bit different. But it’s pretty 
fulfilling to actually participate in that whole cycle. So. 
 
17:37 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. Yeah. And if someone were thinking about getting into this, you feel like the 
economics work? 
 
Saturley-Hall:  It’s hard, but yes, you can make it work. Whereas I’ve looked at farming and it’s 
really, really, really hard. And I think like, I don't know a lot of farmers who don’t have off-farm 
income, you know? I don’t see that. You see it sometimes, but man, it’s hard to do. And this is 
more, I don't know why is it? I guess it’s that there’s no real alternative. I mean, there’s an 
alternative to composting in that you can throw stuff in the trash. But you’re not competing with 
anybody bringing stuff in from some cheaper part of the world, or producing material in a 
cheaper way or whatever. It’s inherently a local service. Whereas we, because our food system is 
international now, it’s no longer a local food system. So, yeah, it’s a little bit easier to kind of 
work your way in that way. 
 
19:10 
 
Nickerson:  You’ve said that, you’ve mentioned “we.”  
 
Saturley-Hall:  Mm hmm. 
 
Nickerson:  So do you have an employee or a business partner? 
 
Saturley-Hall:  Yeah. I have an employee. I have, I also, my husband participates in the business. 
He has a separate job but he does a lot of the work with the website. He’s done a lot of the 
building projects that we’ve needed to do on some of our equipment. And I have some investors 
who provide guidance, sort of business guidance. And then we also rent space on two different 
farms where we sort of conduct our operations. It’s mostly bucket washing and stuff like that. 
But I would say that both of those farms are very supportive of everything we’re doing. So 
they’re kind of often trying to help in whatever way they feel like they can. So, yeah, it’s a small 
crew, but it’s not just me anymore. (laughs) So. 
 
20:21 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. And when you’re doing the route, it’s you and this— 
11 
 
 
Saturley-Hall:  Yeah, the woman who works for me. Usually these days it’s just her. We sort of 
switch off. But initially for the first year I was doing it on my own. Then I hired her. And sort of 
have gradually transitioned more and more of the route pickups to her. And so at this point, you 
know, if she’s sick or if she wants to take some days off or something, I’ll step back in and kind 
of do all that stuff. And I would say that we still kind of, you know, if there’s a pickup that needs 
to be done, you know, and I’m on my way to that area or something, we’ll kind of coordinate on 
those things. Because fuel is one of those important, you try to make the routes as efficient as 
you can. But I am not regularly doing pickups in the same way anymore. I’m kind of the backup 
these days. (laughs)  
 
21:27 
 
Nickerson:  And if someone were thinking about getting into this, is there any particular training 
or skills development that you would direct them towards? What advice would you— 
 
Saturley-Hall:  I mean, in terms of hauling, ergonomics. Proper bending and lifting. It’s pretty 
basic. I mean, I think business training is incredibly important for all of these, like anywhere in 
the food system, to be honest. I think a lot of it is the reason people get into this stuff is that you 
can get started without, you can start farming without a ton of experience. You can start a 
composting business without a ton of experience. A lot of the information’s on the internet. 
People have a lot of the skills. You know, you know how to drive a car—you kind of have the 
basics a lot of the time. The part that I think is missing mostly is actually knowing how to run a 
business. And that’s, I would say, incredibly important. I actually did an MBA, which has been 
invaluable in doing this. So yeah. I would say some, I mean, formal training isn’t necessary. I 
think an MBA is an expensive way to get training in business. But an understanding of how to 
successfully run profitable businesses is—it’s harder than it sounds and it’s more complicated 
than it seems. And I think people neglect that piece an awful lot of the time. I think that’s pretty 
important. 
 
23:12 
 
Nickerson:  What’s your favorite part of the job? 
 
Saturley-Hall:  I think it’s that aspect of being part of a system, working to kind of fix a system 
that we’ve broken. There’s this kind of natural cycle that we’re all part of. That we grow and we 
kind of collect nutrients and energy into ourselves. And then we die and we give it back. And 
new things grow and new things kind of come out of that cycle. And that’s the way that it’s 
worked for forever. And we’ve really broken that by taking important material that has important 
nutrients and it’s the carbon cycle. And just putting it into landfills. And sequestering it, 
basically, into places where we can’t get at it anymore. You’re basically draining the savings 
account. You’re not putting anything back in. And that’s the definition of non-sustainable.  
 
12 
 
 
In a very sort of profound mathematical, not arguable way, we literally cannot keep doing 
that. So I think that there’s something really satisfying about helping to correct that, about 
helping to turn the tide back on that, about knowing that we’re on track to divert two hundred 
thousand pounds of food scraps this year. 
 
Nickerson:  Your business. 
 
Saturley-Hall:  Yeah. Yeah. And so it’s like, and that’s with effectively one and a half bodies. 
One and a half human beings can divert two hundred thousand pounds of material from a 
landfill. And that’s with basically nothing in terms of financial support, etcetera. And I think 
that, to me, anybody who actually works in this industry knows that that’s not a big number. It 
sounds like a big number. It’s not a big number relative to what’s going in every day. But it does 
to me still point out that it’s like, man, if you can do that much with so little, so few resources, 
then imagine what you can do when there’s actual technological assists, when there’s actual kind 
of financial input into the system. Like we can solve these problems, for sure. And it feels really 
good, I sleep a lot better at night knowing that that’s what my time gets spent doing, gets spent 
on. So I think that’s the part that I love the most. 
 
 
The other part is, I like the physical work. I think that sometimes, and I think more people 
are becoming comfortable with the notion that a lot of us are very uncomfortable kind of sitting 
around in front of computers all day. And it’s really awesome to have a physical job or a job that 
combines kind of, you know, I spend half my time hauling buckets around and half my time kind 
of dealing with customers. I love that balance. I love that I do get to use my body in my job. So 
those pieces are really awesome. 
 
 
And I love being my own boss. I think everybody wants to be their own boss. It’s 
something incredibly sexy and fun. And in reality, those jobs are mostly taken. So instead if you 
have to be your own boss at something that’s like a little bit gross but also morally and ethically 
aligned with what you want to be doing, then you can kind of put up with the grosser parts. 
(laughs)  
 
27:18 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. What is your least favorite, or the most challenging aspect of your job? 
 
Saturley-Hall:  I think it’s the fact that our sort of, our systems are not well aligned with this 
work. And I guess everybody knows that this is an important thing to do. Everybody knows that 
we shouldn’t be sending these nutrients to landfills. That it’s a waste of space, that it’s a waste of 
money, that it’s a waste of nutrients. But we keep doing it. And we keep doing it because the 
way that our lives are structured and the ways that often the fees are structured for trash haulers 
and everybody else, it incentivizes us to keep doing it. And I think that’s really frustrating 
sometimes. Because we will occasionally get people who will cancel subscription because they 
don’t want to pay anymore. And it’s hard, because people only have so much money. And they 
13 
 
have to make those choices. And you know, people almost always say like, “I really wish I didn’t 
have to do this, but I have to kind of tighten my belt.” And stuff like this is kind of the first thing 
to go. And it’s frustrating that that’s the case.  
 
It’s frustrating that—I would love it if trash was at, if it was $200 a ton in tipping fees to 
get rid of trash because the system would change real fast. Haulers would be incentivized to 
provide better programs. People would be incentivized to actually sort of do a good job with 
their separation. So that’s frustrating when you see sort of low tipping fees for trash. It’s just like 
man, there’s a—because it holds, it basically creates a really hard upper limit to what people will 
pay. Or can afford to pay. It’s not usually that people don’t want to do this. It’s what they can 
afford to pay. They have all these different costs.  
 
It’s the same thing with businesses. We just had a business tell us that they are going to 
need to cut back on their composting. Not because they don’t love doing it, but because they’re 
like, “We can only afford to pay this much every week.” And it’s already something that they’re 
doing, it’s an elective, essentially. They’re choosing to do it. So that’s really hard. It’s just you’re 
fighting kind of the broader economics of people’s situations. And I think that that’s the place 
where Vermont may have it right in the sense of creating a universal ban which just says, “You 
can’t do this. We now , you now need to make the economics work.” I think that’s the thing I 
find most challenging is that we’re kind of fighting an uphill battle on kind of what cities can 
afford to do, what people can afford to do, that kind of stuff. And even though we all know it’s 
the right thing to do. 
 
So, yeah. It’s not the maggots. It’s probably that. (laughter) The maggots I can deal with. 
The sort of, the systemic stuff is hard. 
 
30:52 
 
Nickerson:  Are there innovations or things that are neat and different about your business that 
you want to share? 
 
Saturley-Hall:  I think the drop-off program is actually pretty innovative. Sort of partnerships 
with grocery stores is sort of how I would put that writ large. You know, I think any time you 
can like consolidate this kind of material into one place, it makes it much more economical to 
kind of pick it up and move it around. So I think that’s actually—the more I’ve looked at it, the 
more I’ve been like, oh, that’s actually kind of innovative. It’s a little distracting how low-tech it 
is. It kind of looks like a janky solution, because we’re just like having people exchange buckets 
at this place. And I’m like yeah, that is kind of janky.  
 
But ultimately, if you could—you know, I saw this film a couple of weeks ago and they 
were showing people in South Korea where you have mandated food separation of food scraps. 
And they have these compost bins essentially in public places, like near apartment buildings and 
stuff. And everybody has an account. And you put your food scraps into it and it weighs it. And 
14 
 
then it deducts it from your account. And everybody does it. That’s the way it works. And so 
they have this like slightly more technological solution. Which is essentially, it’s not what we’re 
doing, but it’s closely related. And I was like man, if we could import those machines, those sort 
of digitized trash bins, and set those up at grocery stores. Like we’ve already proven that people 
will pay for a service that is optional that requires them to bring their material in a car to another 
place. We’ve proven that they’ll do it. They’ll pay money for it. And so if you could just find a, 
if you could shift the system around using a little bit more technology to kind of make it more 
efficient for us to pick it up, make it more efficient sort of in other ways, then you’ve got a really 
cool solution. So that I think as a concept is the most innovative thing that we’ve done. 
 
And I think also just kind of just proving that people will pay for this when it’s optional is 
something that we’ve gotten, like there are a lot of guys who work in the trash industry who will 
sort of tell these stories about like “oh, well, we did a pilot on this and it was free. And then the 
second we started charging for it, people wouldn't do it.”  And that’s the story that goes around. 
And it’s like man, when you look at the details of what they were offering, it sucked! (laughs) 
It’s like they sort of present these stories like here’s clear evidence that this has no future. And 
it’s like actually, when you dig down on what you were actually offering them and what it cost, it 
was terrible service. And there’s no wonder nobody wanted to pay for it. Like, sorry. We worked 
really hard to make sure we understood what mattered to people, including things like a fresh 
bucket every week, and stuff like that. And when you do that, they will pay money for it. I mean, 
people pay, right now for curbside service, it’s 25 dollars for four weeks. It’s not a small amount 
of money. Drop-off service is 13 dollars for four weeks. So these are not tiny amounts of money 
that people are willing to pay when you offer the thing that they want.  
 
So, yeah, I think that probably the drop-off program is the thing that’s most innovative. 
Other than that, we’ve incorporated a little bit of some more tech stuff that I think some other 
people are using. We use Stripe, which is a payment processing system on the internet. It’s like 
PayPal or whatever. But we automate. Everything is subscription-based. So I don’t spend any 
time every month billing people. It just happens automatically. That’s a huge part of what makes 
this work is that we don’t have to spend time chasing people for money. We only take credit 
cards. I mean, credit or debit cards. We don’t accept cash or checks.  
 
So some of those things, I think the tendency when you start a business is to like try and 
say yes to everyone. To be like, I need your money so I will do whatever you ask. And I feel like 
we did a good job of sort of saying no, it’s actually, we can’t spend time on that. So even though 
you want to give us money, it’s not going to be worth enough to us if you don’t do it this way. So 
I think we’ve used some of the, some technology in those kinds of ways, which has helped. But 
overall, still pretty low-tech. 
 
 
 
 
 
15 
 
35:50 
 
Nickerson:  So I only have a couple more questions, because I want to be sensitive to your time. 
But I’ve got to ask you how is it being a woman in this business? Do you think that makes any 
difference, or have you gotten— 
 
Saturley-Hall:  You know, I’ve worked in agriculture and business, sort of writ large, for a long 
time. For my whole career. Both of those are heavily male-dominated industries. So I think I’m 
really used to it. That’s sort of where I’ve lived for forever. So I don’t actually find it to be that 
much of a problem. I think in some ways it’s really empowering to be a woman in a man’s 
industry. I think the woman who works for me would actually probably say the same thing. She’s 
so funny. She is like way bigger muscles now. I’ve always had reasonably big muscles, but she 
has really big muscles now, and she didn’t used to. And I think that’s actually like a very 
empowering feeling sometimes for women. We sort of undersell our ability to do physical jobs. 
Yeah. I mean, everything’s hard when you’re a woman. (laughs) Kind of everything’s hard when 
you’re a woman today. I shouldn’t say that. But I do feel like we’re in this moment culturally 
where we’re realizing kind of the difficult things that women have been putting up with for a 
long time.  
 
And I have not found this to be, I’ve actually probably found this industry to be better 
than some others in truth. Partly because I feel like men are just really nice to you when they sort 
of realize you can actually do a job. And they respect you. Most of the time they don’t—nobody 
would be there if, nobody would sort of be in these jobs if they couldn’t do them. You get out 
really fast if you can’t do them. And so there’s kind of this respect built in to just still being 
there. And so I think that’s one of the things about an industry like agriculture, too. It’s kind of, 
what’s the word? It’s merit-based or something. You wouldn't be there if you couldn’t hack it. 
And so there’s not a lot of like people thinking you’re a fraud. It’s too hard. If that makes sense. 
So, yeah, I’ve found it to be fine. Yeah. 
 
38:34 
 
Nickerson:  Do you have plans to expand? 
 
Saturley-Hall:  That’s an interesting question. We’ve already expanded, the expansion [down to] 
to Concord and New London was an expansion. I think beyond that—I don't know. I don't know. 
I think it’s—(sighs) You sometimes need, you need a push and a pull a lot of the time I think to 
make changes. You kind of need something that’s both pushing you to do something and 
something that’s pulling you in the direction that you end up going. We used to always say that 
about like if you wanted to move or change jobs or something, it’s like you needed a push out of 
your current thing and a pull towards something else to really kind of overcome the inertia of just 
continuing to do what you’re doing. And I think that’s how I’m feeling a little bit now about kind 
of an expansion is I would need a little bit more of a push or a pull, a push and a pull in some 
16 
 
direction to kind of shift where we are at the moment. But, yeah. I’m proud of where we are, so 
that’s good. 
 
39:58 
 
Nickerson:  So with that, is there anything that we haven’t covered that you would like to share? 
Either something that you want to tell the general public about composting and waste 
management? Or advice that you would give to a young person who’s maybe thinking about 
exploring this as a career path? 
 
Saturley-Hall:  I think to the general public it would kind of be that notion that there is no 
“away” when we talk about throwing something away. There is no away. Nothing goes away. So 
I think you know, being willing to do a little bit of extra work on sorting your food scraps from 
your trash or your recycling or whatever it is, is a really important thing that individuals can do. 
  
 
In terms of people getting started, I don't know that there’s a lot of people who say, “You 
know what I’m going to do? I’m going to start a waste management company.” Although in 
truth, I mean, there probably should be. Because my sense is that if you can harness some of the 
new technology that’s coming out, that’s kind of where the future is going to be. Not a lot has 
changed in waste management in the last 50 years, 80 years. I think there are kind of new 
technologies and new systems coming out that are working to change a little bit how we deal 
with food scraps, how we deal with hauling, that kind of stuff. So I think paying attention to that 
stuff is actually really important.  
 
 
I think that’s probably it. It’s possible to do it. You don’t need a lot to get started. 
 
Nickerson:  Great, great. Well Jessica, thank you so much. I really appreciate your time. 
 
Saturley-Hall:  Thank you. 
 
42:14 
[End Track 3. End Interview.] 
Total time = 56 minutes