Multi-Generational African American Farmers of the Midwest
Anna-Lisa Cox
Library of Congress AFC Archie Green Fellowship
Date of interview: July 25th, 2019
Names/s of those interviewed: Dennis Hardiman and Logan Thomas
Primary Interviewer: Anna-Lisa Cox (ALC)
Secondary Interviewers: Lishawna Taylor
Interview Location: Lyles Station School Museum, Lyles Station, Gibson County, Indiana.
Transcriber: Mary Kamara-Hagemeyer
Abstract: Dennis Hardiman farmed with his grandfather and his father on their farms in Gibson County.
Mr. Hardiman was the first African American baby born in the “white” maternity ward of the racially
segregated Princeton Hospital in Princeton, Indiana. African American women were relegated to a ward
in the basement, but his mother almost died during labor, so she was brought upstairs where the facility
was better, and Dennis was born there. After earning his BA at Purdue University, Dennis Hardiman went
to Colorado to get his veterinarian’s degree. He returned to help his father with the farm, and ultimately
took over farming there. Dennis Hardiman mentions in this interview that his family had not built a barn
in generations, because hostile white neighbors had repeatedly burned their barns in the past. This resulted
in the loss of their animals, their stored crops and their equipment. However, it is also very challenging to
farm without a barn, during the harsh Indiana winters. Mr. Hardiman is locally renowned for working
with ox and horse teams he trained himself, for his logging and farming operations, and he was a skilled
trainer. He came from a long line of metal-workers and metal forgers, a passion he and his grandson,
Logan, share.
1
Index/Log (5 Minute Time Stamped)
Part 2 of 3
[0:00] Continues to discuss raising sheep and the skill it takes to cook mutton successfully
[5:00] Dennis discusses the racial discrimination he faced when selling hogs, explaining he was
sectioned with the lower selling bracket of animals who had not been vaccinated when he had
vaccinated his hogs.  Suffered a loss in profit until he was able to prove the vaccination.
[10:00] Discusses how he raised his hogs, what they ate, and the details of growing what they
ate. His father gave him responsibility over the hogs when he was a teenager.
[15:00] Talks about his family’s first tractors when he was growing up.  Dealing with tractors
malfunctioning then and now.  Discusses the details on the stick he carries which he carved from
a tree root.
[20:00] Dennis discusses fishing. He explains what gigging [presumed spelling] is to grandson,
and also talks about fishing with a special bow and arrow. He sometimes fished off the top of his
tractor. Discusses where he learned these methods and his favorites fish to eat.
[25:00] Dennis states he only hunts now if he has to and tells a story of killing possums and
raccoons to protect his cats. Logan discusses family lineage and what he knows of his
grandfather’s daily schedule.
[30:00] Logan continues to discuss grandfather’s activities. Dennis talks about his time at Purdue
University and the University of Colorado seeking admission to veterinary school. Talks about
how his parents protected him from getting in trouble, yet as a joke, he was put in prison at one
time.
[35:00] Discusses his career goals while at Purdue and expresses his gratefulness to end up
where he did. Talks about his love for his grandson. Dennis talks about his wife Kathy.
[40:00] Examines family pictures with the grandson and tells the story of meeting Kathy.
Discusses the bit of pushback received because of the difference in ethnicity between the two of
them.
[45:00] Talks about his daily farming routine and discussed feeding the livestock and methods to
continue caring for the animals during winter months. Discusses the stresses of leaving the farm
for Purdue and wanting to stay on the farm.
2
[50:00] Dennis talks about his wife’s activities and daily routine.  Discusses his wife’s vegetable
garden and tells the story of two of their guard dogs.
[55:00] Logan and Dennis respond to ALC's question about their racial identity and talk about
how they would like to be identified. Logan states he views himself as “a bridge between both
races.” The value of the interview itself is discussed, and Dennis’s love for the land and animals
is highlighted.
[54:03] End of part 2 of this interview – interview continues in part 3 audio
3