Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
1 
Project: Nursing America’s Veterans 
Name of person interviewed: Connie Jordan [CJ] 
Facts about this person: 
Sex: Female 
Occupation: Nurse Manager of Acute Psychiatric Unit 
Residence: Arkansas 
Interviewer: Alana Glaser [AG] 
Transcriber: Sara Cohen [SC] 
Interview location: remote 
Date of interview: 7/7/21 
KEY WORDS 
Registered nurse, healthcare administration, LPN, special needs, VA Voices, veterans, nursing assistant, 
registered nurse intern, charge nurse, management, assistant nurse manager, leadership, private sector, 
ICU, SICU, PACU, recovery rooms, aggression, NNEI scholarship, Nurse Professional Standards 
Board, VISN, nurse qualification standards, psychiatric nursing, mental health, peer review, Summary 
Review Board, CBOC, mental illness, suicide, PPE, COVID-19, quarantine, camaraderie, education 
Abstract 
In this interview, Connie discusses how her early life experiences shaped her professional ambitions and 
how she ended up studying nursing in college. She describes the wide variety of jobs she has held over 
the course of her career, and shares what drew her to management. Connie also shares what drew her to 
psychiatric nursing and talks about her current role as nurse manager for the acute psychiatric unit. She 
outlines the impact of COVID-19 on her unit, herself and the Veterans Administration (VA) system 
more generally. Connie concludes by explaining how nursing has changed over the course of her career 
and mentioning the professional mentors that have helped her get to where she is today. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
2 
 
Index 
 
[0:00] Connie shares her experiences as a young orphan, the work Connie’s parents did before they died, 
Connie performing CPR on her mother, Connie’s living arrangements after her mother died. 
 
[6:33] Connie explains that she became pregnant at 15 and talks about how she collaborated with her 
sister to manage their household, Connie’s son Michael. 
 
[10:34] Connie describes how she used to help her mother, Connie’s financial struggles as a young 
person, Michaels’ diagnosis and the services provided to him, the subjects Connie enjoyed in school and 
the support she received from her teachers after her mother’s death. 
 
[15:49] Connie talks about how she ended up studying nursing in college. 
 
[21:33] Connie discusses how her early life experiences shaped her professional ambitions, VA Voices, 
Connie’s experiences in college. 
 
[25:26] Connie talks about her jobs as a pharmacy tech, a nursing assistant, and a registered nurse intern 
while still in school, Connie’s first job after graduating, why Connie enjoys management roles. 
 
[30:15] Connie describes her work in the private sector after relocating to Arkansas, how Connie ended 
up working at the VA and her first impressions of the VA, Connie’s first job at the VA, Connie’s 
daughter. 
 
[37:53] Connie details her promotion to assistant nurse manager and her further promotion trajectory, 
Connie’s experience as a PACU nurse. 
 
[45:23] Connie explains her education trajectory and how the VA assisted her in obtaining dual master’s 
degrees, the VA’s scholarship program. 
 
[49:46] Connie shares what drew her to psychiatric nursing, Connie’s experience as a psych nurse. 
 
[55:25] Connie details all of her board positions and the primary responsibilities in each role. 
 
[1:02:08] Connie describes her current role as nurse manager for the acute psychiatric unit. 
 
[1:07:08] Connie outlines the impact COVID-19 has had on the acute psychiatric unit. 
 
[1:12:26] Connie shares her personal experience with COVID-19, how COVID-19 affected the VA 
system more generally. 
 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
3 
 
[1:17:50] Connie talks about the lessons she is going to take forward from the COVID-19 pandemic, the 
most rewarding aspects of working for the VA and some of the more challenging aspects working for 
the VA. 
 
[1:26:52] Connie explains how nursing has changed over the course of her career, the role of nurses in 
patient advocacy, the services Connie would like to see improved or introduced for veterans through the 
VA. 
 
[1:34:04] Connie mentions the professional mentors she’s had over the course of her career. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
4 
 
[0:00] AG: Hi, Connie. Thank you again for participating in these Library of Congress oral histories. 
Can I ask you to introduce yourself, please? 
  
CJ: Thank you, Alana. I am really honored to get to participate. My name is Connie Jordan, and I am a 
registered nurse. I have been a registered nurse for about 37 or 38 years, bachelor's-prepared initially, 
and then later got my Master's in Healthcare Administration and a Master's of Science in Nursing. I am a 
lover of nursing and a lover of people, and so my job has really been a really good fulfilling life thing 
for me. I also have a family. I have a husband and three daughters and just live in Arkansas. 
  
AG: Oh, that sounds wonderful Connie. I'm so excited to hear more about your nursing career and your 
degrees in particular. But before we do that, could I ask you a little bit about where you grew up? 
  
CJ: Sure. 
  
AG: Did you grow up in Arkansas? 
  
CJ: No, I didn't. 
  
AG: Where are you from? 
  
CJ: I am from Lake Charles, Louisiana, so, southern girl [chuckles] still in the south, just maybe not as 
far south [chuckles]. 
  
AG: And what kind of work did your parents do growing up? 
  
CJ: Well, I will say that I was orphaned at 13. My dad died when I was five years old, and my mom 
passed away when I was 13 years old. My dad, prior to passing away, he was a butcher. He worked for a 
company called Marcelli's Butchering or Meat Company that was in Lake Charles, Louisiana. Just prior 
to his death, he had been disabled because he had an electrocution event that occurred at work that 
disabled him prior to him passing away. I was five years old at that time, and just have few memories, 
little memories of him being there at home and just being a caregiver for me. I remember that. My mom 
passed away when I was 13. She had not remarried and so, at that time, it was me, her and my younger 
sister. She's one year and 11 months younger than I am. Mom was a housekeeper, so she cleaned homes 
for a living. 
  
AG: Connie, may I ask how your mom passed away? 
  
CJ: She had a [unintelligible] that ruptured in her head one Monday morning. She didn't get us up for 
school and when we went to her room, she was lying on the bed and had already been up, made coffee 
and things like that, but she was unresponsive. I called nine-- well, wasn't 9-1-1 at that time. It was 
1975, and so I dialed zero for the operator. It was a rotary dial. I dialed zero for an operator. Operator 
came on and I told her that we have an emergency and that I needed help and she called for an 
ambulance. Back then, the ambulance, at least on North Lake Charles side of town, we didn't have 
EMTs and paramedics. We had the funeral home that would serve also as an ambulance, and so the 
funeral home people, who ended up being the people who hosted her funeral for us, they came with their 
ambulance. It took them a while. As a 13 year old, and I look back to being a 13 year old, it seemed that 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folk-life Fellowship 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
the ambulance took a 
very long time. I 
remember calling again and saying, "They're not here yet," and 
the operators saying, "They're not there?" and I 
said, "No, they're not here," and she called the 
ambulance again, then she called the hospital and patched me through to a 
muse who talked me through 
CPR. 
AG: You were 13 years old and you performed CPR on your mom. 
CJ: I 
did, yeah. My 
little sister was 11, and so she was pretty traumatized because she was in the comer 
crying. 
AG: Wow, I 
can't iinagine how difficult that must have been for both of you at that young age. 
CJ: Yeah. 
AG: Very difficult. If you don't maid my asking, where did you both go to live at that point? Did you 
have family or was there--
CJ: Actually, I 
had an older brother by 14 years and he lived in Lake Charles. I 
also had two older sisters 
in Houston, Texas but they weren't there at that time, but my older brother lived about five miles, six 
miles away. He was married and had a 
daughter, and I 
think they were just starting to purchase their 
home. It was a 
very small, small home. Our home was not very big, but it had three bedrooms and a 
bathroom, living room, a 
kitchen and a 
little den. Maybe it was 1,200 square feet when I 
look back and 
try to remember. Mom had the death benefits on the house and so, when she passed away, although she 
only had just I 
think about three more payments to make, her house note was $ 75 a 
month. She and my 
dad had built this house in 1961. Prior to building that house, I 
remember, my sibluigs told me of living 
in a 
house that had no bathroom, and that they took baths in the big tubs. But anyway, mom had that 
insurance and it paid the house off, and because it had three bedrooms, my brother only had a 
couple of 
bedrooms, he and his wife and daughter moved ui with my sister and I 
into mom's home. They only 
stayed about three years, so, when I 
was 16, my sister was 14, they left and we were on our own. 
AG: Wow. You and your sister, three years later, stayed alone in your mom's house? 
[6:33] CJ: Yeah, and to complicate things, I 
got pregnant at 15. 
AG: You did. 
CJ: And I 
had a 
baby at 16. Michael was born , 
1977. I 
turned 16 on 
2nd, 1977, so I 
was a 
month past 16. In March or April of the following year, my brother and his wife 
left. 
AG: Wow. So, you really became an adult at a 
very young age. You were a 
fiill adult with all of the 
responsibilities of caring not only for your sibling, but for your own child and living entirely financially 
independently at that time? 
CJ: Yes. 
5 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
6 
 
AG: How did you and your sister make that work? 
  
CJ: Well, mom's house was paid for, of course, and being home with mom, there was a gap between the 
ages of my younger sister and I and our older siblings. My two sisters in Houston, they were wrapped up 
in their lives and living their lives, and so, you know how life is busy, so they couldn't come and be with 
us, and my brother felt like he needed to go and live his life and so I worked at a fast food restaurant. At 
16, I became an assistant manager on the evening shift at Burger Chef Restaurant in Lake Charles, 
Louisiana and worked evenings. I bought a car for about $300; I paid it off $20 at a time. It wasn't the 
best car, but it at least got us around. Initially, I walked to work. My younger sister helped take care of 
Michael, my son. Michael was severely mentally and physically handicapped. Goodness, this is bringing 
a little bit of emotion to me. I will try to do this without too much emotion [begins to cry]. 
  
AG: Please feel very comfortable. As you said, this is an emotional time in your life, and you're so 
young. I'm very emotional thinking about it for you. 
  
CJ: Yeah, so I worked and we each got about $220 of social security benefits, so we had about $450 
coming in there. I worked and we went to school and we took care of Michael, and we somehow by the 
grace of God made it. 
  
AG: I'm also shocked to hear that you still stayed in school, working evenings, caring for your son, 
Michael, and caring for and collaborating with your younger sister. 
  
CJ: Yes. We'd been living there all of our lives. We didn't live anywhere else. Mom and Dad had the 
house built in 1961, and I was born at the end of 1961 in November and so, that was the only place I'd 
ever lived. Back then, our neighborhood was pretty consistent. We had the family across the street and 
we knew all the family and they knew us, and so we were safe at least living there alone, so we did. 
  
AG: Right, so you were safe in that neighborhood and the neighbors were people you trusted and knew 
so, despite being so young and on your own at such a young age, you felt physically safe-- 
  
CJ: Yes.  
 
AG: In that time. Wow, wow. Did you and your sister both end up graduating high school?  
 
CJ: Yes, we did. 
  
AG: Wow. 
  
CJ: She went on to become an LPN [unintelligible]. 
  
AG: Yes, wow! I mean, it makes sense because of having all that responsibility at a young age and 
entering this profession that's caring and responsible for all these people. I can understand that you both 
have the disposition for that work, but I'm just so incredibly impressed about the fortitude and 
perseverance that you must have exhibited at such young ages. 
  
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
7 
 
[10:34] CJ: [Unintelligible] I would help my mom with her budget every month. My mom had only 
gone to the third grade. She was 50 years old when she passed away. She had me at 37, my younger 
sister at 39. She had only gone to the third grade. I remember her telling us that my dad had taught her to 
write and a little bit of reading, and I also remember as I was studying for spelling and my different 
things for school, she would sit there with me and go over my spelling words. When I look back, now I 
know I was teaching her! I didn't realize that then. I also would help her write her budget, so I knew how 
to do a budget and how to try to manage money, what little bit we did have. But there were times that we 
went without. There were times when I was searching for pennies everywhere to buy diapers or to get 
gas to travel across the city to go to work or to buy food, or being without utilities in the home, and 
maybe a neighbor noticing and paying for it, just a struggle. Taking the bus with Michael to go to the 
health unit to get health care. I'm thankful for the health units that we had because they sent an 
occupational therapist to the home who helped me learn how to work with him because he was 
handicapped. Through those services, we were able to get him specialized chairs and the wheelchair and 
all the things he needed as he grew older. 
  
AG: Wow, just balancing so many things at that age. Did Michael have a diagnosis? Is the diagnosis-- 
  
CJ: Well, the diagnosis ended up being cerebral palsy and microcephaly. 
  
AG: Wow. So, very significant, as you mentioned. 
  
CJ: Yes. 
  
AG: So, he required a great deal of care beyond what a normal toddler or infant or child would. 
  
CJ: Right, total care, but he was happy. He was vocal, although he wouldn't speak words, but he loved to 
laugh and was happy and just the sweetest, sweetest baby boy. 
  
AG: Wow. Is he still living? 
  
CJ: No, he passed away 12 years ago. He was 30 years old. 
  
AG: I can't imagine that this is easy for you, but when you think back, were there subjects in school that 
you really enjoyed or excelled at, even in the midst of all this tumult that you were experiencing? 
  
CJ: I remember, back in elementary school of course, enjoying spelling, and maybe that's because mom 
and I interacted a lot around spelling and handwriting and things like that. Then as I got older, junior 
high school, I liked sciences and I liked English. I did very well in school; I was a top student. I 
remember in the seventh grade, mom was working so she couldn't come to our awards program, but 
walking home from school with my arms filled with trophies because I, in seventh grade, was the 
number one student, and so I got all the trophies in math and science and English. It was pretty cool 
when I look back at it, but walking home with my trophies because I didn't have a ride home [crying]. 
My mom died in eighth grade. 
  
AG: Wow. Of course. Oh gosh, I am so grateful to you for sharing all of this with us. This is so 
impressive to hear about and so emotional. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
8 
 
  
CJ: Oh, yes. 
  
AG: It really is. 
  
CJ: I had really good teachers. I was doing really good in the eighth grade and my mom passed away, so 
I slipped in my grades. My teachers, Miss Hicks and Mr. Thompson especially, were very encouraging. 
I remember one semester-- We had six-weeks semesters, and then one six weeks after mom died I didn't 
do so well. Mr. Thompson pulled me aside. He says, "Connie, this is not you, and I understand you've 
gone through a lot in losing your mom, but I want to see you pick these grades up. I think you can do 
better and I want to see you honor your mom." [Crying] That impacted me, and then I began to do better 
again with my grades. 
  
AG: Gosh. I can't imagine just how much work that must have taken and how much focus and in the 
midst of grieving and then dealing with all these big life changes on top of it. That's so impressive. I 
can't say that word enough, how much I admire all you've accomplished, hearing about this really very 
painful time in your life early on. What I imagine is a painful time, of course. 
  
CJ: Yeah. 
  
AG: You and your sister both graduated high school. Did you end up pursuing nursing right after high 
school or did you work for a bit? How did that work? 
  
[15:49] CJ: Well, right after high school-- I remember in the 12th grade, I was able to work half days, 
and things just sometimes would fall into place. Michael was able to go to the Hope Center that was 
offering care for special needs. In my 11th grade year is when I had him; I was in the 11th grade. I 
remember, it was right about-- he's born on December 16th, so right there at our Christmas break, and so 
I went back to school in January. A neighbor across the street helped me, and at that time, my sister-in-
law, too, because they were still at home for a few months with us after Michael was born. My neighbor 
across the street would help me take care of him, and then I was able, because he was special needs, to 
get him into the Hope Center, and he went half days, and so, she would get him off the bus for me. Then 
in my 12th grade year, I was able to go to school for half days, and so I could get him-- there was this 
little bus came, picked him up and get him on the bus and then I’d go to school. Then I have my little 
car, and so I could pick him up. One day in the 12th grade, our counselor, Miss Walker, saw me leaving 
for the day and she stopped me in the hallway and she said, "Connie, have you applied for any grants to 
go to college?" and I said, "Miss Walker, I don't know what you're talking about. I don't know what a 
grant is," and she said, "Come to my office." I went to her office and I filled out these applications for 
grants to go to college. I guess she mailed them in for me, ‘cause I didn't do it. She got those turned in. I 
don't remember thinking much about it after that, but during that summer after graduating, I got a letter 
that said I qualified for a grant to go to college. I remember being so excited and reading that and 
jumping up and down. I said, "I am going to go to college," [crying] ‘cause no one else in my family had 
gone to college. "I'm going to go to college. Oh my goodness, I'm gonna go to college." That made a 
difference for me. That was a fork in the road, an intersection that occurred by the grace of God, that she 
stopped me in the hallway that day and I was able to fill that paperwork out. That summer, a friend of 
mine from high school, Melinda, called me and said, “Connie, they’re gonna be registering for school at 
McNeese. Are you gonna go?” and I said, “Yes,” and she said, "They're registering the D's," ‘cause her 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
9 
 
last name began with a D and so did mine. My maiden name was Dangerfield. She called and said, "D’s 
on such-and-such date," and I said, "Great, I will be there." She needed a ride, so I picked her up and we 
rode together and went to McNeese State University in Lake Charles, Louisiana to fill out our 
registration paperwork and register for school. As I grew up, when mom was alive, she would say, 
"What do you want to be when you grow up?" and I would say, "Mom, I want to be a teacher." I think 
that teachers were all really we saw, I saw, as role models in the African American community at that 
time, and so I wanted to be a teacher. Over the years, I don’t know how that changed and evolved, but 
when I went to register for school, again, I think it was just the grace of God that when I looked through 
the catalogs, we had paper catalogs, and I flipped through the catalog thinking, "What do I want to do? 
What do I want to be? Oh my goodness, teacher.” Went through several of the curriculums and looked at 
them and looked at what it would require, what courses to take, and I landed on nursing.I thought, 
“Nursing.” I looked at the curriculum and what courses are required, how many maths I would have to 
take [laughs], because I think math must have been my least favorite subject. I said, "That's it! Only a 
couple of maths! All the rest, the science, the biology, English, that looks really good. I can do this. I'm 
going to be a nurse." I remember we had to go to tables where the instructors were and said, "Okay, I 
need this course," and they will fill out your schedule. They’d plug you in and fill you out. I went to 
English and to the math table and to just the different tables and got my schedule filled out. It all fell in 
place in a way that I was able, again, to drop Michael off and pick him up. By this time, he's in the 
public school since he's three, and he’ll be three and four. He's in the public school and he was going 
until about two o'clock in the afternoon. My courses fell into place, and I still worked and went to school 
and somehow made my grades. 
  
AG: Wow, that's incredible. Like you said, just the kind of grace of that-- 
  
CJ: Yes. 
  
AG: Career presenting itself to you and working in that way. This is your first semester when you 
decided this? 
  
CJ: Yes. 
  
AG: Wow! You hit the ground running-- 
  
CJ: Yeah. 
  
AG: With your career. Do you think that having those early experiences caring for your mom, 
particularly, seeing her in that state, and caring for your sister and for Michael in his condition, do you 
think that might have shaped some of your professional ambitions, having that hands-on experience? 
  
[21:33] CJ: Right. I do say sometimes, I get to share my story sometimes. I have gotten to share little 
bits of it at work when we do VA Voices, which is the little program that we attend that's a couple of 
days long. Our employees get to attend to try to help create bonding and relationships in the workplace. 
Part of that has leaders come in and share their stories so that we can connect with each other. I've gotten 
to share in about 10 minutes my story on different occasions, and so, I have said that I became a nurse at 
13 years old, on the day I did CPR on my mother. 
  
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
10 
 
AG: Right, that makes sense. It seems all connected. 
  
CJ: Yeah. 
  
AG: How did you like college, and how did you like or dislike the nursing education that you got? 
  
CJ: You know, Alana, I think I just took everything one day at a time, and so I enjoyed my nursing, 
going to school. There were times it was very hard, because I had to go to work and I couldn't meet. 
There'd be study groups and the girls would get together and study, but I couldn't always participate 
because I had to go to work, I had to take care of Michael, I had to make sure my sister was okay, that 
we were moving in the right direction. Of course, being two teenagers alone, there was a lot of 
dysfunction, and there were a lot of opportunities to be influenced by the wrong people. We were always 
trying to make it. I was in an abusive relationship with Michael's dad at that time as well and so, I was 
battered by him. Making it through-- Back up, that ended right after graduation. That relationship with 
Michael's dad ended between the summer of graduating from high school and starting college, but 
[unintelligible] other relationship issues that we were dealing with at that time. I enjoyed school but yet, 
I remember the struggle of needing to study. But again, grace, because like I said, I did really good in 
high school. I graduated fourth in my class. 
  
AG: Congratulations. 
  
CJ: Thank you. Third or fourth in my class. I guess I was able to learn and to remember, because there 
were times when my friends would say "Connie, you didn't study with us. You had to go to work or you 
went to church instead of coming to study group. How did you make the better grades? How did you 
pass this test?" Yeah, I was blessed. 
  
AG: Yes, it sounds like you had real aptitude and skill and were able to find a couple times to study and 
made it work. That's very impressive. 
  
CJ: I would stay up late. I remember reading my books to Michael and reviewing. He's lying there and 
I'm just reading and going through things and sleeping with my book under my pillow [laughs], 
everything I could to absorb everything I needed [laughs]. If someone said, "Try this, try that.” “Yep, 
okay.” “Open the book to the page and put it under your pillow" [laughs]. 
  
AG: Right, exactly. Maybe it'll seep in as you're sleeping. 
  
CJ: Yes, yes. It couldn’t hurt, right? 
  
AG: Right, what could it hurt? Wow. How old were you when you completed college? 
  
CJ: I was 21. 
  
AG: Did you go directly into nursing or did you get your first job out of undergrad, or how did that 
work? 
  
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
11 
 
[25:26] CJ: I worked at the restaurant for a couple of years. When I became a junior in nursing, I got a 
job as a pharmacy tech on the weekends. I began to work every weekend, because there were clinicals, 
so I had to be available for clinicals during the week. I worked on the weekends, every weekend, as a 
pharmacy tech. Then the summer between junior and senior year, I was able to take a nursing assistant 
course. My best friend at the time-- I bonded with this young lady, and her first name I'll just say is Lisa, 
and Lisa and I took that nursing assistant course together. Then I got to work at the hospital as a nursing 
assistant. Then one of our hospitals offered an internship later on that year for senior students, and I 
became a registered nurse intern at Memorial Hospital in Lake Charles, Louisiana. 
  
AG: So, that's a hands-on education.  
 
CJ: Yes. 
 
AG: You're learning and doing all in the same sort of experience as an intern, right? 
  
CJ: Right. I graduated in May of 1983 and I started working at Memorial Hospital in May of 1983 on 
the evening shift as the charge nurse. Right out of school, became a charge nurse, but I had worked 
almost a year as an intern there. 
  
AG: When you're a charge nurse, what are the responsibilities that that position entails? 
  
CJ: A charge nurse has eight-hour accountability for the operations of the unit on that tour of duty, the 
shift that they are on. I worked 3:30 to midnight, or 3:30 to 11. I was responsible for the nursing, making 
the assignments and following through with the care to make sure everything was done during that shift 
that should have been done for the patients, making rounds with the physicians if they came late in the 
evening or calling the physicians and getting the verbal orders, the telephone orders, and making sure 
that was carried out, collaborating with the house supervisor for any additional needs. We may have the 
staff or calling codes if we needed to call a code because someone was not doing so well. I took care of 
all of those kinds of things as the evening charge nurse. 
  
AG: Your first full-time role was a supervisory role. You had a lot of responsibility, not only like a 
nurse would have, but also as a kind of manager would have. 
  
CJ: Yes. 
  
AG: I see. How long were you in that position? 
  
CJ: I stayed at Memorial until April of 1987. I got married in 1985. My husband was in the military, and 
so in April of '97, I turned in my notice and we moved to Arkansas, because he was in the military. I 
started off as a charge nurse on five tower, then I became the assistant nurse manager on five tower, and 
when I left, I was the acting nurse manager on that unit. In that four-year period from '83 to '87, I just 
moved up in management. 
  
AG: Do you think there's anything in particular about management that appeals to you, sort of above and 
beyond the aspects of nursing that you enjoy? 
  
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
12 
 
CJ: I love people, and so I love helping people grow. I love leading people, mentoring people, and 
providing opportunities for them to be able to do a good job and to be able to grow professionally as 
well. I have good people skills evidently [laughs], because when I worked at Burger Chef, I started off 
as an employee and became an assistant manager on the evening shift, and then I became the staff nurse 
on five tower and then an intern, charge nurse, assistant nurse manager, and it has been that way 
throughout my career. 
  
AG: Like you said, there must be something sort of, like, a quality that you possess that really is suited 
toward helping people realize their potential and organize-- 
  
CJ: That's leadership and just loving people leads to that. 
  
AG: After you relocated to Arkansas, is that when you moved to the VA or did you work in the private 
sector there as well? 
  
[30:15] I worked in the private sector first. We moved here, and because my husband was active duty for 
the Air Force, I needed a job, 'cause I had my little one by then. I had an 18 month old, so I needed a job 
that I didn't have to work weekends and nights. At least I felt I needed a job like that, because he could 
be deployed at any time and the daycare's not open on the weekend. I applied to different facilities, and I 
did look at hospitals. I didn't look at the VA that first time around. I worked at a dialysis clinic because it 
was open mostly Monday through Friday, sometimes on Saturday, but it was all-day shift work. I started 
working for Biomedical Applications of Arkansas, which provides the hemodialysis to the community. I 
started off as a staff nurse and then became the director of nursing at the dialysis clinic. Started working 
there in '87 and left there in '90 to go to the VA. While working at the dialysis clinic, I began to long for 
the hospital. If I went to visit someone at the hospital, I would walk in and I would go, "Oh, the hospital. 
I love the hospital," and so that led me to eventually, again, looking to see who had jobs open and what 
the positions were. I remember looking through the newspaper, and prior to 1990, if I remember 
correctly, the VA was not allowed to advertise for nurses out in the community like that, but in the early 
'90s, they started being able to post advertisements. I remember looking at an advertisement and it 
catching my attention and thought, “The VA? Hmm.” 'Cause initially when I came to work-- when I 
moved here and was looking for a job, I thought, "The VA? Who wants to work there?" because the VA 
didn't have a real good reputation back in the late '80s, but for some reason, that announcement caught 
my attention. It may have been the benefits, I'm not sure, but I applied for a job at the VA. I remember 
getting to go and visit and just walking through the intensive care unit, and I always wanted to do 
intensive care. I got offered a job, and when that happened, I didn't go initially because the dialysis 
clinic said, "Oh, please don't leave right now. What can we do?" and they gave me a raise, so I stayed 
another nine months or so. But the hospital was calling me [laughs]. I mean, my love for the hospital 
was calling to my soul. I remember calling the nurse manager of the ICU back and said, "Hey,you got 
positions?" and she said, "Yes, we have positions. Please come," and I went and joined the VA in 
January of 1990. 
  
AG: And you joined in the ICU? 
  
CJ: Yes! 
  
AG: Yes, jumping right into the deep end of the VA. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
13 
 
  
CJ: Yes. 
  
AG: When you first started that job, what was your first impression of making the switch to the VA? 
  
CJ: I had done med surg, nursing, and hemodialysis, and now I'm intensive care. I remember taking off a 
week from a dialysis clinic to go and take a EKG reading course, learning how to read EKGs, and so I 
had that before I started, just one week of that. Then a couple months later, started the job in the SICU. I 
remember the first day sitting in morning report and they were calling off things like Dobbhoff tubes 
and ventilator settings and cardiac output and thermodilution catheter, Swan-Ganz, and I was like, 
"What is that?" I had no clue. They were speaking Greek. I knew I had a lot to learn and it would be 
very challenging, but it was also very, very exciting, because those nurses in the SICU were so sharp, 
the best of the best in Arkansas. 
  
AG: And what was the typical schedule at that time like for you? What was the shift that you worked 
and how many patients were usually on the unit at a time? 
  
CJ: We had a 16-bed unit. The surgical intensive care unit is still 16 beds today. I worked, initially, the 
7:30 to four, because I was on orientation. I stayed on orientation at least three months. I had to go to 
basic critical care course. I had to go to hemodynamics course, had to learn how to do open hearts-- go 
to open heart course, take care of open heart surgeries, because we had an open heart surgery program. 
Then there were several modules that we took, three- to five-day modules on cardiac and pulmonary and 
renal and just all the different body systems. Attending those courses really helped to shape my 
knowledge and give me a good foundation. My tour I was hired for was a day-night rotation, so I could 
work six weeks of days and two weeks of nights, and other nurses did the same. No one had a set 
schedule, except for people at management level had Monday through Friday day jobs, but all the nurses 
rotated day and night, or else you worked straight evenings or straight nights. I didn't want to work 
straight evenings or straight nights, so I did the day-night rotation, and you tend to end up mostly on 
nights [laughs]. A lot of times, it was easy when you're doing two weeks to also extend you if it was 
needed, if night coverage was needed, especially when someone was on vacation. 3:30 to midnight, or 
midnight to 8am. Those were the evening and night tours, and 7:30 to four was the day tour. A lot of 
times I worked more nights, and sometimes by choice. On the weekends, I wanted to be in church with 
my family and I taught Sunday school. If I would go back to the nights, every weekend, at least cover 
nights, then I could get off work and still go to take care of those responsibilities and participate in 
church with my family. 
  
AG: At this point in your life, did you have more more children, or was it still just the-- 
  
CJ: No, I had a second daughter. She was just a few months old. She was born in '89, so, I guess a year, 
'cause I started at VA in January of '90. 
  
AG: Right. So, you were also kind of balancing, I'm sure, all of that. How long did you stay at the ICU, 
on that unit? 
  
CJ: Seven years. I started off as charge nurse in 1990. Well, no, staff nurse, and of course, at the VA, all 
nurses that are at least a Nurse 2-- We have our nursing levels: Nurse 1, Nurse 2, and Nurse 3. There are 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
14 
 
Nurse 4s and 5s, but those are leadership positions. We have Nurse 1 through 3. As an intermediate 
nurse back then, which is now called a Nurse 2, you rotate through charge, and so I rotated with my 
peers through the charge nurse position. In 1993, I became the assistant nurse manager in the SICU. 
  
AG: That's not a rotating position? That was like a promotion. 
  
[37:53] CJ: Yes, it was a promotion, and so became the assistant nurse manager. Then I think probably 
in 1996, I guess, or early '97, my nurse manager retired. She came in one day, she laid her keys on my 
desk, and I said, "What are you doing?" and she said, "Well, I'm giving you the keys to the kingdom." I 
said, "I don't want the keys to the kingdom," [laughs] and she said, "Why not, Connie? You've been 
doing it for the last year," and I said, "Yes, it's one thing to do it with you at least here knowing that I 
can always say, 'Nah, this is too hard. The nurse manager has to have it,' and I can pass it off to your 
desk if I don't feel like I can do it," and she's like, "No, I want you to really think about it. I really want 
you to think about it." Well, in the background, the nurse manager of the recovery rooms, the PACU 
nurse manager, would always say to me in our meetings, "When Jan leaves, I want you to come work 
for me." She had told me that many times, and so I had that voice in my ear saying, "You know what? I 
can just step back and go back to a staff nurse position in the post-anesthesia care unit," and so that's 
what I did. Surgical intensive care unit nurses are really aggressive nurses. My personality is not 
aggressive, but I became a good surgical intensive care unit nurse and I became the assistant nurse 
manager, but in that role I had to put on aggression, because I've got to show them I'm just as big and 
bad as you are and you are going to follow the policies and you are going to listen. The VA is a teaching 
hospital, and so our nurses, in a way, sometimes get to help train the doctors. The nurses have to know 
what's going on so they can make sure that residents are following policy and that they are adhering to 
the standard of care. The nurses in the intensive care units within the VA are sometimes mentoring the 
doctors. I had nurses who could drop in an arterial line easier and quicker than a doctor or resident, and 
they could intubate patients and they knew when triple lines were in the right place, the triple lumen 
catheters, they understood all that. I had to make sure that these aggressive nurses didn't step out of line 
and do things that they shouldn't do. I had to put on that face every day. I didn't want to do that as a 
manager, so I went to the recovery rooms in 1997, and then as a staff nurse, 1999, became the assistant 
nurse manager [laughs], and four years later, I was the nurse manager [laughs]. So again, that progress, 
right. 
  
AG: Followed that same promotion trajectory. This is the post-anesthesia recovery unit, you said? 
  
CJ: Yes, post-anesthesia recovery unit. We had three. I call them recovery room areas, because we had 
the phase one PACU, and then we had the ambulatory surgery unit, and then we had the 5B recovery 
room that recovered the cardiac caths and endoscopies. 
  
AG: It sounds like the type of nurse or the vibe of the post-recovery unit was different than the ICU. 
Was it more relaxed or a little less aggressive in your experience? 
  
CJ: I think to be a surgical intensive care nurse, you have to have a level of aggression, because you're 
doing hard things and you're doing big things, and you've gotta make decisions like that [snaps fingers]. 
When you've got an open heart surgery patient rolling through the door and you've got all these things to 
hook up and to get ready and you're watching the monitors, and then you're making sure-- 'Cause 
sometimes they come in and they're still sedated. And sometimes they will come in with a temperature 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
15 
 
of 94, 95 degrees, so you've got all these things that you're thinking about that's going on with your 
patient that you've got to be on top of. They could have multiple drips hanging and you're dialing up and 
dialing down drips to control someone's blood pressure. They're on a ventilator. You have to be 
aggressive because you can't sit back and-- 
  
AG: And wait and see. You're literally keeping these people alive. 
  
CJ: Right. So, being aggressive is a good, good characteristic to have as a surgical intensive care unit 
nurse. Now in the PACU, a little bit less aggressive, but you do have patients coming in and they're on 
ventilators and they just came out of the operating room and you're watching to make sure they stay 
safe. I remember a day a patient came in and my nurse came over and said, "Connie, I think we're 
having some bleeding in this patient." I went over to help her assess and he had had a carotid 
endarterectomy, and he was bleeding and his trachea was starting to shift. We had to call a doctor, get 
him back to the operating room. Or you have a patient that comes in and their neuro checks are doing 
good and all of a sudden a pupil's not dilating and constricting like it should, or maybe their hand grip is 
weaker on one side than it was on the other side. You've got to be, again, on your A-game, because 
you've got to call a doctor and get them back to the operating room and do what's needed again to save a 
life. We will at least start off slower, because in the morning, the patient's are in the operating room, so 
you get a little bit of time to breathe in the morning and then it gets really busy. Then again, it slows 
down, because the recovery room areas are not 24-7 like the intensive care unit, so the stress level was 
different. It was high, but it was different, because all of our care on all three of those recovery room 
units took place between 6am and 6pm [chuckles], and you could have 50 patients roll through all three 
recovery rooms during that time period, so it was really busy. 
  
AG: All told through the promotional sequence, how many years were you in the recovery unit? 
  
CJ: I worked recovery room from 1997 through-- Let's see. PACU, yep. 1997 through 2013, so-- 
  
AG: Quite some time, yeah. 
  
CJ: I managed [unintelligible] 15 years on the recovery room five. 
  
AG: At what point did you end up pursuing your master's degrees? 
  
CJ: I started University of Phoenix, I think, in 2010. It was much later on. 
  
AG: But you were still working. 
  
CJ: Yes. I got a scholarship from the VA. 
  
AG: Oh, I see. So, you have both a master's in nursing science-- 
  
CJ: Yes. 
  
AG: And a master's in health administration. 
  
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
16 
 
[45:23] CJ: Yes, healthcare administration, both from the University of Phoenix. I received an NNEI 
scholarship, which is the National Nurses' Education Initiative. Scholarships at the VA opened up 
probably around 1999. I am the chairperson for the Nurse Professional Standards Board, and I am the 
VISN consultant for our VISN 16 Nurse Professional Standards Board, and I am on the Office of 
Nursing Services' Nurse Professional Standards Board, and some subcommittees and special 
committees. One of the things that occurred in 1999 was that the VA had a change in the policy 
regarding the nurse qualification standards. We changed the standards to say that for a nurse to promote 
from a Nurse 1 level to a Nurse 2 would require a bachelor's degree, and to promote from Nurse 2 to 
Nurse 3 would require a master's degree. Now, not only the degrees, but when we promote nurses in the 
VA, we are looking at the years of experience, the education level, and do they meet the nurse 
qualification standards, which is a set of standards that is based upon the American Nurses Association 
standards of care for professional nurses all over the country. We have four dimensions and nine criteria 
that has to be met at each level. In 1999, we made that change about the degree requirements, and with 
that, the VA allowed monies for nurses to go back to school to get the degrees, because if we're going to 
require the nurses, let's make an opportunity to develop ways to help others get that, because we do want 
people to promote, because we do want to have satisfied employees. We want to be the employer of 
choice, as well as the provider of choice for America's veterans. And so, that NNEI scholarship was part 
of the initiatives that were set out back then in 1999 for nurses to go to school. I think I remember when 
when I applied for my master's degree with University of Phoenix, they looked back at my records and 
they said, "You reached out to us in 1999 to go work on your master's. It took you a while to get back to 
us." 
  
AG: Isn't that funny? You had that inkling in '99 and then it kind of eventually came to fruition a bunch 
later. That's so interesting. Did you get the master's in nursing first and then get a master's in healthcare 
administration? 
  
CJ: It's a dual degree. 
  
AG: Oh, it's a dual degree. 
  
CJ: Yeah. 
  
AG: You got them both at the same time. 
  
CJ: Yes. The counselor said to me, "You could also get another degree if you added on this many more 
courses." I like a bargain, I like a good deal, so it felt like a good deal to me. Two for one [laughs]. Yes, 
I'll take it [laughs]. 
  
AG: Yeah, exactly. It sounds like yeah, why not? Except for, of course, with the extra work, but 
[unintelligible]. So, did it-- did you change your position once you attained the master's? 
  
CJ: No, I didn't. We are two campus facilities, so I may refer to that Little Rock side and North Little 
Rock side. The Little Rock side is our acute care side, so I started school on that side of the river. I 
stepped down from management into an evening shift position in mental health service, which moved 
me to the north side of the river to our north campus, and I finished on that side. When I finished, I 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
17 
 
might have been still in a staff nurse position, but then again, I became assistant nurse manager and now 
nurse manager again in mental health. 
  
AG: Is that an inpatient mental health unit? 
  
CJ: Yeah, [unintelligible] acute psych unit. 
  
AG: The acute psych unit. I see. What do you think drew you to psychiatric nursing at that time? 
  
[49:46] CJ: I never thought I would be a psych nurse and to be honest, at the time I decided to step down 
out of management, I had been given additional responsibilities of the MICU and the CCU as acting 
nurse manager for those two units, because there were some issues and some things that needed to be 
investigated with the previous nurse manager. I was voluntold that I would be the nurse-- I was happy. I 
was, like, yeah, sure. I signed a detail letter for a month, and nine months later, I'm still there [laughs]. It 
was a lot of work to do. The nurses there needed some attention and they needed someone that would be 
open to their needs and their complaints and help them. It was a fun time. I got to participate in helping 
to open a new ICU. During that time, it was already in progress, the construction, but I got to participate 
in a lot of the final decisions and in finally opening that new ICU. We ended up with two different 
places for our MICU plus our CCU. That was a lot of experience, a lot of fun. I enjoyed seeing the 
nurses go from being afraid of saying something to the manager or worried about whether the manager 
cared to knowing that managers can and do care. I remember one day, had the door open and I heard 
them needing some help and I said, "Oh, I'm coming. I can help you. I'll transport that patient," and they 
would look at me and go, "What? You're gonna transport?" "Yes, I will help you. I will transport that 
patient." Or me stepping out, said, "I got that bedpan. Give it here. I'll take it." "You're gonna take this?" 
"Yeah, I can take this bedpan. I will go empty this bedpan so you can stay at the bedside with the 
patient." Those kinds of things, they would say, "You're scaring us. Can you go back to your office?" 
[laughs]. We would laugh about it, but they had some trauma because of some bad experiences with 
nurse managers, and they had had a frequent turnover of nurse managers. But I decided that because the 
recovery rooms were still my responsibility as well-- I had two assistant nurse managers in the recovery 
room and they were doing a good job, but I still would have to step in for the big decisions and with 
interviewing and helping with different things there in the recovery room areas, and I felt like it was a 
bit much, becoming a little overwhelming, because I had a lot of responsibilities outside of work as well. 
So, I applied for a staff nurse position in mental health, and to be honest, because it came open, and that 
it was outside of nursing service. So, I applied for that position. My assistant nurse manager and I would 
always say, "When we are ready to retire, we're gonna go to the north side and we're going to work on 
such-and-such a unit, because that's where it'll be easier on our backs and our feet." I guess mental 
health was always in the background, I just didn't think I was going to do it that soon. But I did, and they 
were so happy to have me come and work with them, 'cause I have a reputation at the VA. Not bragging, 
but it comes to me all the time. People say, "Oh, you're Connie Jordan. Oh my goodness. Yeah, I've 
heard good things and I'm so glad I get to work for you, because when I was in nursing orientation, 
everybody said, 'You're working for the best person.’” I felt like mental health was happy to have me 
come and work for them. 
  
AG: That's really nice. It speaks so much about your professionalism and your leadership that your 
colleagues and even people maybe who have only heard of you know of your strengths. That's very 
impressive and must be very heartening. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
18 
 
  
CJ: It is, and it's humbling. Just a couple of weeks ago, someone came into my office and introduced 
herself to me, and I said, "I'm Connie Jordan," and she said, "[Gasps] You're Connie Jordan? You are 
Connie Jordan?" I was like, "Oh my goodness, yes I am" [laughs]. It's humbling. 
  
AG: It must be a very powerful effect that you have on people to see them have that reaction. Wow! 
  
CJ: I love people, and I do what I can to help everybody. Being on the Board, on the Nurse Professional 
Standards Board, I help people a lot with understanding the [unintelligible] standards and helping them 
develop programs, or at least reviewing their programs, not really helping them develop but reviewing 
what they're doing and giving them advice on how to make projects into programs and how to write 
their proficiencies in a way that they can get promoted. I have helped hundreds of nurses, and so my 
name gets passed around. 
  
AG: Now, are all of those board positions voluntary, or are they aspects of your day job, or is it kind of a 
combination? 
  
[55:25] CJ: Yeah, those are [unintelligible; maybe ‘two lateral’ or ‘collateral’] duties. Back in 1997-ish 
when I went to the recovery room, the director of nursing at that time appointed me to be a member of 
the Nurse Professional Standards Board. Then, a few years later, I became a co-chair of the Nurse 
Professional Standards Board. Then when our then chairperson retired a few years later, I became the 
chairperson for the Nurse Professional Standards Board. Then in 2013-ish, our director of nurses, our 
associate director of patient care services, because their position had been elevated because they took on 
a bunch more responsibility, but our ADPCS recommended me as the VISN consultant for our then 10 
hospitals in our VISN. 
  
AG: Can I ask you again to tell me about all the board positions that you're on and what your role is on 
those? 
  
CJ: Sure. I am the chairperson for our local facility Nurse Professional Standards Board, the VISN 
consultant for the hospitals in VISN 16. VISN stands for V-I-S-N: Veterans Integrated Service Network. 
We have eight hospitals in our VISN: Houston, New Orleans, Little Rock, Fayetteville, Jacksonville, 
Mississippi, Biloxi, Mississippi [laughs]. I can't remember if I said New Orleans and Freeport and 
Alexandria, Louisiana. Eight of those facilities are in our VISN, and then on the National Board with the 
Office of Nursing Services, which is in Washington, DC, I am one of the board members for the 
National Board. There are three levels of boards - there's a local board, a VISN-level board, and then a 
national board. I have a part on all three of those. 
  
AG: Are those bodies responsible for setting the agenda for nursing care, or what are the primary 
responsibilities of those? 
  
CJ: It's a peer review body that looks at some of the human resource functions that has to do with 
appointing a nurse, recommending salary for our registered nurses, looking at them for promotions each 
year, looking at them for advancements, and also for what we call Summary Review Boards. An RN at 
the VA is in probation for two years, and that probationary period is considered part of the hiring 
process. We're still trying to see if they're a good fit for us and let them see if we're a good fit for them. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
19 
 
During that period, that probationary period, if a nurse has issues with conduct and performance that 
we've addressed and can't be fixed for some reason, then the supervisor can request a Summary Review 
Board. It goes up through the chain of command to the ADPCS and the human resource officer, and then 
the ADPCS will usually get with one of us board chairs. I am the chair; I have four co-chairs at the Little 
Rock VA. Then we will do a peer review process and we'll interview that employee and we'll interview 
others who may have information about whatever is happening that caused the Summary Review Board 
to be called in the first place and determine whether to terminate the employee or to retain the employee. 
It's a peer review board, and so we're looking at those actions, things like promotion, appointment 
salary, advancement within the career, probationary period and summary reviews. 
  
AG: How much time would you say you dedicate to these boards in a given year? 
  
CJ: Since I'm on so many right now at so many different levels, I probably spend 30 to 40% of my time 
with that. As a consultant, I am getting calls and messages from all of the VAs, the ones that are in my 
VISN, and I am a resource for our supervisors and staff. I do education for the staff, education for 
supervisors. Before COVID, I got to go at least to three facilities every year and do an on-site review 
where I would spend two days providing education and looking at their processes and making 
recommendations to make sure we're following the VA regulations. Recommending salary, how nurses 
are promoted, how they are retained, the probationary period, summary reviews, all of those things are 
based on VHA regulations, so we do them the same way at all VAs. We have between 145 and 150 VAs 
and who knows how many CBOCs, over 1,000 I think, over 1,200 Community-Based Outreach Centers, 
outpatient centers, and then we have our community living centers as well. 
  
AG: And those boards are responsible for peer review at every facility? 
  
CJ: At every VA, yeah. I'm the VISN consultant for VISN 16, but we have a consultant for all the other-
- I think we have 18 or 19 VISNs now. Us VISN consultants meet together monthly, virtually, to make 
sure that we are also applying the standards the same way across the board, and then we meet annually 
for about three days also to review processes, to look at the regulations. Right now, we're in the process 
of updating and revising the regulations. 
  
AG: It sounds like it's a pretty extensive part of what you're doing, the consulting and overseeing. What 
is your official title now, at this stage in your career? 
  
CJ: I am the nurse manager for the acute psychiatric unit. It is a secure locked unit for acute psychosis, 
things that have to do with mental health. 
  
AG: I see. When you say locked unit, this means sometimes the patients are there perhaps involuntarily, 
that kinda thing, or that means something else? It could be involuntary admission? 
  
CJ: Yes. 
  
AG: I see. What kinds of diagnosis typically brings someone to that sort of setting? 
  
[1:02:08] CJ: Well, usually it's an acute crisis, but we would see someone with schizophrenia, bipolar, 
severe depression, seasonal affective. They're psychotic, maybe because of drugs, some substance use. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
20 
 
Usually, it is a dual diagnosis kind of thing, because a lot of times with mental illness, we see that when 
the medicines are not working or when stress comes and increases their anxiety or their issues, they can't 
handle it anymore, they may use drugs and drink as well, trying to self medicate. Of course, we also get 
the veterans that are suicidal or homicidal. They would come to our unit as well. 
  
AG: What would a typical stay for a patient who's been admitted? Is it very short-term just to stabilize, 
or can they stay for weeks or months? 
  
CJ: It's short-term, but because we are acute psych and we are taking away people's rights, usually - now 
you can't have a cell phone, you can't have a belt, you can't have your shoestrings. There are things that 
we have to really be careful about because of the risk of suicide on the unit. Patients are usually there 
three to five days on average. We do have some times when a patient is there long-term because we 
cannot discharge them without a safe place to go, and there are some times when housing issues are a 
problem, and so we will keep them and stabilize them until we can find safe housing for them. 
  
AG: How many years have you been in this role as the nurse manager? 
  
CJ: Since April of 2017. 
  
AG: What is a typical workday for you like in that role? 
  
CJ: I get to work about 7:30 in the morning and I make rounds to see all the staff, see patients, talk to the 
night nurses about how things had gone, or if it's a Monday morning, talk to them about what the 
weekend was like. My day shift is coming on to relieve the night shift at 7:30, and so we go to morning 
report where we listen to what has occurred since we left the day before and talk about our plans of care 
for patients, especially if we have some that are challenging. We develop or relook at our cares of plan 
and reencourage everyone to make sure we're on the same page and we're following the same plan of 
care, that we're setting boundaries where we need to set boundaries, that we're being safe with those we 
need to be safe, that we're keeping each of the veterans safe. Then any meetings that we're gonna have, 
we talk about that or any training that needs to be done, staff that needs to follow up. Right now, I'm 
also making sure they have their PPE: "Do you need an additional mask? Do you have your face shield 
and your goggles? Remember that we need to try to socially distance whenever we can." It's just a 
morning meeting where we remind each other. It's a huddle. We huddle before every shift. As I get out 
of the report, I am usually looking at what the rest of the day has planned. I may have various meetings 
that I have to attend. Right now, everything is being done virtually. I have an assistant nurse manager. 
We will meet together, look at the schedules, look at who we have coming for the next several days. Do 
we have any staffing challenges that we need to review and get more help for? Or do we have, based on 
our [unintelligible, maybe ‘senses’ or 'census'], can we float some of our staff to some of our sister 
mental health units to help them where they may need more assistance at. We will also call the mental 
health units and talk to our chief nurse in mental health about what our staffing looks like and where we 
can help. And find out also, because right now with COVID, things are pretty fluid and things are 
changing pretty quickly, especially here in Arkansas. The last two weeks, we've had a surge in our cases 
of COVID, and so it seems like each day we're having to maybe do a little bit more restriction. Last 
week, for instance, I think it maybe was on Thursday, Wednesday or Thursday, we decided we would 
not allow visitors again and we would go back to making sure all of the staff are being asked the 
questions: Have you been around anybody with COVID? Have you had a fever? What do you feel like? 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
21 
 
Do you feel like your normal self?, and also making sure that people that come on campus have their 
mask. We've limited the visitors, so we've had to go back to what we were doing earlier last year when 
we had the surge. 
  
AG: Speaking of, what was the extent of the impact of COVID on the acute care psychiatric unit? Were 
patients still coming? Was there any point where you had to close it entirely, or...? 
  
[1:07:08] CJ: No, we haven't had to close it. I don't know that we could close it, especially with the 
anxiousness and anxiety levels that are increasing because of COVID. Initially, when we started locking 
things down in March of 2020, our mental health veterans were disturbed by that, because they could no 
longer come in for their groups, especially those who are outpatient. We have five residential rehab 
treatment programs at our Little Rock VA, and that houses almost 200 veterans. We have a substance 
use disorder domiciliary, we have a PTS domiciliary, we have a general domiciliary and two homeless 
domiciliary, so it's a huge program, plus our two inpatient units. I'm the acute psych and then we have a 
serious mental ill and geri psych unit as well. Our veterans that would come in for programs and our 
veterans that were in the domiciliaries, the RRTP programs, could no longer get the services face-to-face 
they were getting. We had veterans coming to my unit because they were so stressed out, they hadn't 
taken their medicines, they hadn't gotten their visits. Especially those who are homeless and live out in 
the community, they could not find places to stay because they were having to make sure they didn't 
have a fever, they hadn't been exposed. Everyone was locking down resources, and it caused anxiety, it 
caused fear, it increased their mental health symptoms. Initially, back in March and April, when we were 
getting the veterans in-- They come through the ER or they come through mental health clinic to get 
admitted to the acute site, but we were not testing them before admitting them initially, because we were 
still trying to figure out what we need to do, and our facility leadership were working on all the changes. 
Our veterans that would come into acute psych were coming to us from the community without being 
tested, which made my staff very, very anxious and concerned about themselves and bringing things 
home to their families. Initially, maybe for the first one to two weeks, I would have to look back at the 
dates, but we were not given masks. My daughter who is in the military with her husband, they were on 
a post. They went to Fort Leavenworth, and a lady on that campus, my daughter mentioned to her what 
was going on and that lady made masks and sent me 40 masks for my staff and it just touched our hearts. 
I brought those masks to my staff. They were cloth masks but they were double, and they had a place, a 
little pocket to put a filter. They were so happy. I reached out to another nurse who retired who was 
making masks and she made masks for my staff, so everyone had at least two cloth masks and that made 
them feel a little safer. After about two weeks or so, a mandate came down that mental health could be 
supplied masks, one per week, and they gave us a little brown paper bag to put those in. At the end of 
the day, you would take off your mask, you would put your mask in the paper bag, 'cause the brown 
paper bag can breathe and maybe it wouldn't grow anything, and we were expected to use those the next 
day. Then, thank goodness, about a week and a half or so later, they said we could have masks every day 
[laughs], but they were still looking at the burn rate and we could only get so many. I had to go through 
my Chief Nurse to get masks, hand sanitizers, gloves. Any kind of PPE, I had to let her know what my 
burn rate was and keep up with this every single day, and go by once a week to pick those supplies up 
from her. They gave us shields and goggles and all the things we needed. It took about a month for 
mental health to finally get all of those things. Also, within a couple of months, we started testing every 
veteran before they were admitted to us, and that also brought us a sense of relief and helped my staff 
feel better. 
  
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
22 
 
AG: Absolutely. Early on, do you think that any of the nurses were exposed to COVID, or did you hear 
from any of your nurses that they might have caught it? 
  
CJ: Now, we were experiencing it in mental health in the CLC, Community Living Center, and on the 
acute side that our VA staff were getting and having to quarantine and being hospitalized, but it didn't 
hit my unit until the end of September into October. I was one of those first three on my unit [laughs] 
that came down with COVID. 
  
AG: Right. There was another wave in the fall, wasn't there? 
  
CJ: Yes. 
  
AG: Into December. Oh boy. [Unintelligible]. 
  
[1:12:26] CJ: My symptoms weren't severe, but one of my nursing assistants was hospitalized. His 
symptoms were severe. We really worried about him and he made it [chuckles]. He made it, and our 
third person did pretty well too. The symptoms were not bad. I quarantined in my house and I put up 
barriers, and my husband and I worked really hard and he did not get it, so that was good. 
  
AG: Oh, that's good. It sounds like it was somewhat mild in your case. 
  
CJ: Right, like coughing, sneezing, the upper respiratory symptoms, chills, very, very mild, mild fever, 
yeah. Fatigue [unintelligible]. 
  
AG: Fatigue, right. 
  
CJ: Yeah. 
  
AG: Did you lose your sense of smell and taste? I've heard that is very common. 
  
CJ: It is common but I didn't. 
  
AG: That’s good. How long were you feeling sick? 
  
CJ: We had the 14 days initially. I think now it's down to 10. I took a couple of extra days because of the 
fatigue, and so I stayed home about 16 days, so a little over two weeks before I went back to work, and 
then just was gonna try to do half days because of the fatigue but it was just too busy to do half days. We 
have a good EAP, employees assistance program, and they called and checked on me. My nurse exec., 
the ADPCS, Associate Director for Patient Care Services, called to check on me, of course my Chief 
Nurse did, and everybody showed so much love and concern. Our infectious disease department and our 
employee health department have been doing such a beautiful job with all of our employees and 
supporting us and checking on us, making sure we're okay. 
  
AG: That's wonderful. What's your sense of how COVID-19 affected the VA system more generally, if 
you have a perspective on that? 
  
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
23 
 
CJ: Well, we get a report. During that time last year, we got a report almost daily, and we had one of our 
infectious disease doctors who, every Wednesday, held a meeting virtually that every VA employee 
could join. They did their best to be transparent and keep us up-to-date with what was going on, and we 
would get some numbers from around the VISN and numbers from around the country. Initially, within 
the VA, Louisiana got hit really hard and so we sent nurses. Two of my nurses went to New Orleans. 
We got a call on a Friday that said, "New Orleans is in trouble as far as needing nurses, because they've 
got so many sick veterans and now their nurses have been taken down by the COVID and they need 
help," and one of my nurses says, "I'm ready to go." He left on Saturday morning and drove himself and 
pulled his camper trailer to make sure he had somewhere to stay and went to New Orleans. Another 
nurse went with a group that left, I think, that Monday morning. They took a van load of nurses, and we 
went to New Orleans to help New Orleans get through. We've had to have help twice at our facility too, 
from our sister VA's coming together to help us provide care for our veterans. Overall, we have lost 
veterans, we've lost staff as a national system, but we've worked really hard to make sure we provide. In 
Arkansas, our VA had vaccinations to give to our veterans before the state got theirs. Our veterans 
showed up and our nurses worked so hard. Every unit had to send people to help on the COVID units, to 
help on the screening lines, to help give injections, because all of those positions were positions that 
we've not had before and you can't just duplicate nurses, and so we all had to tighten up, tighten up and 
send the help and work together to make it happen. I got to participate, going to the COVID clinic to 
give injections on a couple of days, and I also was able to go out into the field on Saturdays. We were 
giving shots on Saturdays and Sundays. I went to Hot Springs, Arkansas, about an hour away, for a 
whole day. We gave over 400 injections between the hours of 8am and 4pm to veterans that came. We 
went there with about 30 people, and we had people manning the parking lot, parking the veterans, 
bringing them in, letting them wait and watch them after they've had their injections. We did the same 
thing at the Conway CBOC, Community-Based Outreach Center, the [unintelligible], Pine Bluff, just 
everywhere. We gathered together and went to make sure our veterans had their vaccinations. 
  
AG: That's really incredible. The pulling together is really impressive. Are there any lessons, do you 
think, that you're gonna take forward from the pandemic or the lockdown or the combination? 
  
[1:17:50] CJ: This has been really hard and challenging for everyone because it's something we've not 
experienced before. There's been so much confusion, so many rumors. People don't know what to 
believe and how to believe it and when to believe it [chuckles]. Just going forward, I think [sighs] 
learning to trust the science, learning to trust that the CDC, the FDA, our leadership in those medical 
entities are here to help us, and they would never ever, even under emergency use authorizations, allow 
something that would harm our American people. Learning to trust and promoting that trust among the 
staff and the veterans and people I know in my community, I think, is an important thing to remember 
moving forward, I think, because of the mistrust and all of the media hype and the confusion. I've heard 
people say, "Well, Dr. Fauci changed his mind here and there." I said, "No, he didn't. As the science 
evolved and as we learned more he would give us more, and he would say, ‘Well, yeah, we've been 
vaccinated. The vaccinated people can take their mask off,’ but then when things start to amp up again, 
said ‘No, we need to put our masks back on. We don't have enough people vaccinated to have herd 
immunity. People are dying. Let's put our mask back on,’”. Learning to trust. We struggle with trust, and 
we've just had so much going on in our country this last year, year and a half, that bringing people 
together and promoting unity and being transparent from the very beginning. supporting each other, my 
staff, the veterans from the very beginning, it's important. 
  
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
24 
 
AG: That makes a lot of sense. I wonder, in the last 30, 40 minutes, could I ask you some sort of more 
general questions reflecting back over the course of your career, that kind of thing? 
  
CJ: Yes. 
  
AG: I wonder, and forgive me because we split this up, but I don't think we got a chance to touch on this 
last time. I wondered if you could tell me a little bit about what you think might be the most rewarding 
aspects of working for the VA and some of the more challenging aspects working for the VA in your 
many, many years. 
  
CJ: I get to teach a new employee orientation because I'm the Board Chair, and as I told you, I've gotten 
to speak sometimes in our VA Voices training programs, and one of the things I always say is my only 
regret about working at the VA is that I did not come sooner. I have loved my career. The VA has 
poured into me to make me a better nurse, sending me to all the courses and all the training opportunities 
that are available. It's amazing. Also, the benefits are amazing. The most rewarding thing about working 
at my job is-- I don't know that there's one, but seeing the veterans come in and how much they 
appreciate us is really, really heartwarming and touching. It's a special population, and I tell people, new 
people coming to work at the VA, that I don't think there's any greater mission that a nurse can 
participate in besides that of the VA. I do feel that we are rivaled by children's hospitals, because those 
are very special places too, but working at the VA and taking care of these men and women who have 
sacrificed for our country is extremely rewarding. I have veterans in my family. My husband is an Air 
Force veteran. My son-in-law right now is a captain in the Army with a ranger unit and has been to 
Afghanistan twice. So, just that also makes me always want to give back, and working at the VA is a 
good way to do it. Working with my staff and watching staff grow, and providing opportunities for them 
to make sure they have everything they need to provide care for our veterans has been very rewarding as 
well. We have great leadership who pour into our staff. Our director, getting to know them personally, 
especially through VA Voices, has been rewarding, and just the camaraderie. The veterans have that and 
the staff have that. It's pretty cool. When I worked in recovery, the veterans would meet each other in the 
mornings before-- because ambulatory surgery. They would meet and say, "Oh, you're having this and 
you're having that," and they would just chat, 'cause that's what they do. They look out for each other. 
Then in the phase 1 PACU after they would have their surgeries, they would raise their hand up. They 
had curtains there, so you can't see who's there, but they would say, "Hey, where's Mr. So and So? 
How's he doing?" and they would yell back at each other, "I am good. I'm over here," [laughs]. They 
look out for each other, and that's really a community. It really is a community. I told you we have two 
campuses, and so on the north side is where we have our mental health, primary care, our CLC. It's an 
Army fort. It's called Fort Roots by some veterans because Fort Roots used to be there years and years 
ago. We have over 100 buildings on that campus, and many of them are on the historic registry, even 
some of the homes that the captains lived in back in the early 1900s when officers lived in the homes on 
that campus. The campus has so much history. When they first opened it as a VA, the veterans lived 
there and they had animals and they farmed, and the whole facility, the whole campus, the grounds 
could be also self-sufficient. There's a water tower, there's greenhouses, there's just everything there. 
Over the years, of course, we have the greenhouse still and we use that for mental health for our veterans 
but we no longer have the animals and really sustain the veterans on the food that's grown. The veterans 
on the north side, there are those that come every day for their meetings. They come for their recovery 
groups, and they will meet there and in the mornings just to visit with each other. It's really neat to see 
that community. The most challenging thing about working at the VA has been probably the way things 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
25 
 
are slow to occur. If we do need a change in something, it takes a while to get it done, 'cause we're a big 
giant ship, and I've heard it said, it takes a while to turn a huge ship. Usually, with personnel practices 
and things, it can take a little while. I started working in 1990 and here we are in 2021, so 31 years later, 
31 and a half years later, I've seen a huge change in the quality of care that we provide. I think I 
mentioned to you at the beginning that when I first moved to Arkansas, I didn't consider the VA because 
I thought, "Who wants to work at the VA?" because the VA didn't always have a good reputation for 
quality care, but now we have risen and we have turned the ship around and we give extremely high 
quality of care. Research has shown that even in comparing us to the community hospitals, we have 
better outcomes for many, many healthcare factors for our employees. We are highly involved in 
research, and I'm saying "we" being nationally as a VA, highly involved in research and improving lives 
of veterans, things like PTSD, TBIs, traumatic brain injuries, spinal cord injuries, those kinds of things, 
artificial limbs and developing things that will work and help those guys and women who have given for 
our country. We excel. We excel in those things, and I'm very, very proud to be a VA nurse. So happy 
I've gotten to work at the VA. 
  
AG: Yeah, that's an excellent point, that kind of cutting edge research is really something, really 
something. I wonder, in addition to some of the changes that you've seen at the VA, how do you think 
nursing has changed over the course of your career? 
  
[1:26:52] CJ: Nursing has changed because I think we've become more unified as nurses. The 
transparency that we have now, from top to bottom, and the communication now that we have from 
bottom up has improved nursing relationships just among each other. We at the VA recognize nurses 
and their degrees. Nurses used to have three levels. We have diploma nurses, associate nurses, we still 
do have three, and the bachelor's as an entry level, and the VA recognizes that through the salary we 
give to nurses. A nurse with an ADN or diploma, brand new baby nurse starting off, might start off at a 
minimum step of Nurse 1 Level 1, but a bachelor's degree nurse can start off at Nurse 1 Level 2, so we 
recognize that degree, and then a master's-prepared nurse, Nurse 1 level 3. I think that that in itself 
encourages nurses to continue with their education. We want nurses to work at the highest level of their 
degree and their abilities and their competence, and so we work hard to make sure our nurses are 
educated and have what they need to provide the care to the veterans, and also to have self-fulfillment, 
you know. We encourage certification in our nursing staff and again, that education. We have several 
scholarships. I mentioned the NNEI yesterday, which is the scholarship I used to get my master's degree. 
I didn't have to pay one penny for my master's degrees, my dual master's. I remember being in classes 
virtually and the question would come out every once in a while as to, "How much is your facility 
helping you with your cost for your education?" and I would just be quiet because it didn't cost me 
anything [chuckles], and they were having to pay for thousands and thousands of dollars to get their 
degrees and we don't have to do that. There's also a VANEEP scholarship and that's the VA National-- 
Ooh, I can't remember. VANEEP scholarships is where an LPN can go back to school to become a 
bachelor's-prepared RN. I have a nursing assistant who just did that. The VA will pay your salary and 
pay for you to go to school, and the only time you work is when you're off more than three days out of 
school, so spring break, Thanksgiving break, Christmas break and in the summer, if you're not in 
summer school, but if you're in summer school, you don't work. You get paid, yeah. Now, you owe the 
VA three years afterwards, but that's nothing. It's nothing. 
  
AG: That's incredible. 
  
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
26 
 
CJ: We have really good education for nurses, to grow nurses and to promote nursing, because we need 
nurses. We need nurses all over our country, and VA is committed to making sure, not just us but our 
country. We have nursing students come. I think research has shown that over 60% of physicians in our 
country have had training at the VA. 
  
AG: That's incredible, that high percentage. Wow, that's really interesting. What do you think the role of 
nurses, in terms of patient advocacy, is in your experience? Or, have you seen other nurses sort of think 
about that as a component of nursing? 
  
CJ: Nurses serve as the voice for patients on many, many occasions. We advocate for our patients. We 
are there with them 24-7. A physician or another discipline may come in and they're with the patient for 
15, 30 minutes, but it is the nurses who do the work. I always say, I heard this early on in my career, you 
need a nurse to save your life. I believe that you need a nurse to save your life, because nurses are who's 
there and we make the relationships with the patients and we notice the changes and we're the ones that 
call the doctors and carry out the orders and sound the alarm when there is a need. We are advocates, 
and we are the voice for our patients many, many, many times. 
  
AG: Yes, absolutely. What services, if any, would you like to see improved or introduced for veterans 
through the VA? 
  
CJ: You know, I [unintelligible] to help, and we have made huge strides in suicide, but there's still an 
issue with that. Our veterans are one and a half times more likely to commit suicide than the average 
population, and our female veterans, if I remember correctly, the research shows they are two and a half 
more times likely to commit suicide than the community. The things they've gone through and sacrifices 
they make changes them, especially in wartime. We owe more to our veterans, when it comes to housing 
and helping with homelessness and helping our veterans with suicidal issues. I would like to see us do 
more. I think that as far as all the surgeries and all of the different services we provide, VA is a one-stop 
shop. You can come and get from head to toe. You can get your toenails clipped [laughs], you know. If 
you have issues, you can see the podiatrist, and you can see the brain surgeon, the neurosurgeon, and 
you can have your heart fixed in whatever way you need it fixed, and you can get your orthotics for your 
feet and you can have your [unintelligible] and you can get your mental health. It's a one-stop shop. 
We’re the largest health care system in our country, and we provide excellent care. But, we're always 
striving for improvement. We're always striving to do better. We participate in so many performance 
measures, and the nurses have indicators. We’re always reviewing those and looking at how we're doing 
and how can we improve. We are on a continuing improvement process, but we need more money for 
suicidal veterans and homeless veterans, I think. 
  
AG: Yeah, those seem like persistent problems for the [unintelligible]. That's-- That's difficult.  
 
CJ: Yes. 
 
AG: I wonder, when you think back over the course of your career, are there any people who you think 
of as professional mentors or anyone who kind of led the way for you? I should say this is the question 
that I asked Erica when she mentioned you. 
  
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
27 
 
[1:34:04] CJ: There have been so many people who have spoken into my life, into my career. It really 
started at nursing school at McNeese State University. Dr. Sanders, and I can't recall her first name, but 
she encouraged me as a nurse, and Kathy Rohn, she was one of my instructors, encouraged me as a 
nurse in nursing school that I could be a good nurse and that I could do this. I had struggles and I had a 
lot going on at that time in my life, and so that encouraged me. Another mentor, maybe didn't know she 
mentored me, when I was 16 and went in to have my baby, I was alone, and there was a nurse there that 
night who stayed by my bedside and communicated with me, talked to me, calmed me down. I had my 
baby at the Charity Hospital in Lake Charles, Louisiana, and just didn't have the support. She stayed on 
my bedside until her shift was over, and it had to be about 11 o'clock at night. My baby was born at 
12:16 in the morning, so about an hour later. I remember once she was gone, I was lying in the bed and 
having so much pain and I was rolling around and writhing in the bed and all of a sudden, I screamed, 
and when they ran in, they had to hurry and take me to the delivery room because my baby was coming. 
After she left, there was no one there. But I remember meeting her when I was doing my nursing 
rotations, and I had a rotation at the Lake Charles Charity Hospital. I saw her and I went over to her and 
said, "You may not remember me, but I had a baby over here a couple of years ago," two, three years 
ago at that time, it would have been. I told her about my experience and told her how she was my hero 
and I was so thankful for her. I think that was a mentoring in caring and showing me how to care and 
how nurses care. I've had my nurse managers, my surgical intensive care unit nurse manager, Jan 
Wilson, and just my first nursing manager in mental health, Eileen Peterson, had really spoken to my life 
and been there for me, people that I can go back to and ask questions to and look to for guidance. My 
current ADPCS. Is it okay for me to say names? Are we gonna block those out? Is that okay? 
  
AG: Yeah, we can decide if they prefer perhaps or if you prefer not to have their first and last name on 
there, we can just cut it out. That's no problem. 
  
CJ: Yeah. 
  
AG: Yeah, I know, because they-- they are not obviously consenting. They might not want their names 
[unintelligible]. 
  
CJ: [Unintelligible] ADPCS at Little Rock, Central Arkansas Veterans Healthcare System is a jewel. 
She is for nurses and I appreciate her so much. Nationally, the Nurse Professional Standards Board, our 
leaders there have been great mentors for me in helping me grow and learn that process until I become 
an expert in that process, and so then I love passing that knowledge along, helping nurses understand 
that process and how they can get promoted and what the benefits are and what kind of awards they can 
get within the VA. That's been really fun. 
  
AG: Oh, that's excellent. I wonder, before we conclude, is there anything that you'd like to add? I know 
things have been a little disjointed, so I want to make sure that we've touched on everything important to 
you. 
  
CJ: Hmm, anything I want to add. I can't think of anything right now off the top of my head, but I guess 
I'll just say that nursing is a wonderful career and the sky is the limit, and people can do anything they 
want to do as a nurse. It's important that you do care [laughs] and have some compassion, but working 
as a nurse is extremely fulfilling, and the job opportunities are endless, endless as a nurse, and we need 
more and more nurses. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
 
 
 
 
2020012 
Nursing America's Veterans 
28 
 
  
AG: Truly, it's such a dynamic field. It's so exciting. Oh Connie, I want to thank you so much again for 
taking the time to participate in these oral histories. 
  
CJ: Thank you. It's been so nice meeting you and getting to sit and talk with you. 
 
[1:38:50] End of recording.