AFC 2012/006: 00334 
 
1 
 
Gordie Keenan interview conducted by Anthony G. Potoczniak 
2012-08-29 
  
 [0:00] Introducing Gordie Keenan (GK), Vice President of Training at Higman Marine Services. 
[Interviewer incorrectly states date as Wednesday, August 30 -- the actual date of interview 
was Wednesday, August 29.] 
  
 [0:27] GK describes his youth: born in Norfolk, VA, later moved to Rochester, NY, where he 
attended a Jesuit High School, and matriculated at New York Maritime College (NYC, Bronx); 
describes decision to study at the college as one of the luckiest moments of his life.  
  
 [3:00] Outlines his time at the college as an engineering student; during summers, he sailed on 
the school ship for extended periods of time: As a mug (freshman) got all the dirty jobs. Explains 
how mentoring by upperclassman influenced the training process of young cadets.  
  
 [6:55] GKs post-graduation period described: started career as a third ranking engineer on a 
newly commissioned Exxon oil tanker; describes the tankers historical trip from Houston, TX, to 
Valdez, AK, which took 50-days; 10-year sailing career with Exxon, worked up to Sr. Engineer 
status. Transitioned to special projects in the company; in 1986, stationed in Baton Rouge on a 
two-year-turned- permanent assignment to head their repair department for an inland fleet of 
towboats.  
  
 [11:02] Came to Houston permanently in 1991, Exxon asked to come to Houston to work in the 
business development side of the industry specializing in the towboats.  
  
 [12:21] Provides insight into the towboat industry: shares impression (shock) of how different 
it was working on a towboat, noticed that it was like coming into somebody’s house...don’t 
have to worry about being seasick.  
  
 [15:18] Describes the port at Baton Rouge, an ocean going port, much smaller than the Port of 
Houston (POH).  
  
 [16:15] Moves a 2nd time to Houston in 2005: worked before with a private towing company 
Ten Tom; shares experience of running the operations of a small company, which was later 
bought out by large Texas company, became very active in the Houston Yacht Club;  
  
 [17:35] GK describes how he joined Higman Marine Services, Inc. (currently employed); GK was 
asked to run the personnel side of the business; Higman Services is a small company, which 
grew very fast from 27 towboats in 2005, to 60 boats in 2012;  
  
 [20:43] GK talks about the influence of the Houston Yacht Club (HYC), and his association with 
the club and provides overview of its long history with POH business leaders. GK describes the 
club as a wonderful community and the important function it serves for networking at the POH; 
AFC 2012/006: 00334 
 
2 
 
explains the benefits of being a member of the HYC; different activities, such as sailing camp; 
leadership opportunities, such as serving on the board, HYC is one of the gems of Houston.  
  
 [25:43] GK talks about HMS and its services, as well as what types of jobs are available at the 
company: it’s a towboat company, which owns its towboats (currently 60); the geography of its 
services is wide: rivers, bays and sounds. Describes how a towboat works: power unit that 
pushes barges, petroleum barges. GK details how new hires move up in the company: from 
deckhand, tankerman, steersman, pilot, relief captain, to captain.  
  
 [34:25] HMS is proactive in promoting from inside: new hires are selected with the goal of 
getting them into the wheelhouse. Hire deckhands, to potentially to become leaders. GK 
discusses the benefits and challenges of recruiting employees: It’s a hidden industry, and hard 
to find people. Some employees follow family tradition. Typically, people find out by word of 
mouth. Currently HMS has approximately 400 employees.  
  
 [38:55] Addresses the tradition of naming boats at HMS: a lot of boats in their fleet with 
employees names, a tradition that goes back to the era of the steamboat. GK talks about how 
Higman names its boats.  
  
 [42:46] Discusses the process of building teams for each new boat that comes online. HMS has 
grown from 27 to 60 boats; captains are assigned to new boats based on merit, relief captains 
are promoted to captain; often the captain will take his crew to the new boat; discusses how 
HMS trains and develop leadership skills within the organization; team building is at the core of 
HMS training.  
  
 [48:07] Discusses the significance of safety and an incident-free environment on a boat, which 
is important to running a smooth operation; customers often track this information; culture of 
professionalism has changed dramatically in the last 30-35 years.  
  
 [50:23] GK shares a perspective on events that caused changes to occur in the maritime 
industry; discusses the Valdez incident: Besides an ecological disaster, Valdez incident was the 
most important thing that happened to this industry worldwide, not just in the US. Addresses 
how the incident reformed the industry in a positive way.  
  
 [53:34] Addresses question about the importance of emerging technologies in the towboat 
industry; GK states the biggest gain has been in communications; compares earlier period of 
operations with the present; all boats at HMS are connected to the Internet; on-board 
computers run computer-based training software; GK believes is has become easier to 
communicate with the boat thanks to how cellular technologies have evolved.  
  
 [58:04] GK discusses how in spite of the improvements in navigation and electronic charting 
systems, pilots still require solid training and skills to steer a boat and barge: You go back to the 
Mark Twain days, they were then called pilots, and it’s because they have to use their senses 
AFC 2012/006: 00334 
 
3 
 
and skills and knowledge -- their intimate knowledge of the waterway, to be able to maneuver 
the tow.  
  
 [59:38] HMS incorporates peer-to-peer mentoring into its training model. Experienced retirees 
still oversee the certification process at HMS. GK provides the example of Capt. Pete, who 
worked in the organization 48 years, who evaluates pilots and captains.  
  
 [1:02:46] Discussion of the HMS routes and services: POH is only one small part of the towing 
operations, which extend regionally: Our tows go to Brownsville to Houston up to Chicago.  
  
 [1:06:27] GK explains how the crew changes occur in their operations: crews come to Houston 
and commute to their crew change sites either by truck (Brownville, New Orleans) or by plane 
(Chicago).  
  
 [1:09:48] GK describes the different media used to train employees, from CBT, the bi-weekly 
newsletter called The Tow Line, and email. The newsletter contains topical information 
including lessons learned from an incident in the organization or industry.  
  
 [1:12:35] Additional description of the newsletter The Tow Line and its function in the 
organization as an additional organizational training tool; GK explains how ideas for articles and 
stories are developed.  
  
 [1:18:37] Outlines procedures of how the HMS headquarter offices work with the boats and 
captains during natural disasters, provides several examples of how these moments are 
incorporated into the training of employees.  
 
[1:26:05] GK outlines the range of communication styles with HMS employees, and describes 
his philosophy in sharing information as an instructional tool: I take a logical approach with the 
guys...simple but concise.  
  
 [1:30:24] The final question describes an area that GK is very passionate about: working with 
San Jacinto College to develop a Maritime School. He describes the POH as a huge dynamic 
engine in the community, which is often not recognized by everyone; GK hopes the school will 
offset this by raising awareness in the community and increase the educational level of the 
younger workforce, and inspire students to pursue opportunities at the POH.  
  
 [1:34:16] Conclusion of interview