Oral History Interview 
 
with 
 
Luciana “Lucy” Loyal  
 
 
 
 
 
Interview Conducted by 
Juliana Nykolaiszyn and Tanya Finchum 
September 19, 2011 
 
 
The “Big Top” Show Goes On:  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oklahoma Oral History Research Program 
Edmon Low Library ● Oklahoma State University 
© 2011 
 
 
2
The “Big Top” Show Goes On  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
Interview History 
 
 
Interviewers: Juliana Nykolaiszyn, Tanya Finchum 
Transcriber: 
Miranda Mackey 
Editors: 
Ashley Sarchet, Tanya Finchum 
 
The recording and transcript of this interview were processed at the Oklahoma State 
University Library in Stillwater, Oklahoma. 
 
Project Detail 
 
The “Big Top” Show Goes On: An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the 
Canvas Circus Tent aims to preserve the voices and experiences of those involved with the 
work culture associated with Hugo, Oklahoma’s tent circus tradition.  
 
Funding for this project was made possible by the Library of Congress American Folklife 
Center as part of a 2011 Archie Green Fellowship awarded to researchers Tanya Finchum 
and Juliana Nykolaiszyn with the Oklahoma Oral History Research Program at the OSU 
Library. 
 
This project was approved by the Oklahoma State University Institutional Review Board on 
May 6, 2011. 
 
Legal Status 
 
Scholarly use of the recordings and transcripts of the interview with Luciana “Lucy” Loyal 
is unrestricted. The interview agreement was signed on June 30, 2011. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
The “Big Top” Show Goes On  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
About Luciana “Lucy” Loyal … 
 
Lucy Loyal is the sixth generation of the Loyal Repensky family which came to America in 
1932 to join the Ringling show. Repensky was the maiden name of Jules Loyal’s mother, 
and only Loyals performed. Natives of France with a long history of performing in 
numerous circuses around Europe, this horseback riding act included various acrobatic 
formations and feats accomplished on horseback. Their act included a seven person pyramid 
based on five horses. At one time it was considered one of the highest class equestrian 
troupes in the United States.  
 
With time, and as the members of the troupe married, members of the Loyal family 
developed specialties of their own. The Alfonso Loyal Repensky troupe quickly earned a 
reputation as an excellent bareback riding act and Lucy Loyal, the daughter of Alfonso, was 
one of the stars. Lucy was born in 1949 in Sarasota, Florida and in 1955 her family made 
their first trip to Hugo, Oklahoma where they joined the Al G. Kelly and Miller Brothers 
Circus. Lucy was already performing at this time. By 1965 her family had moved to Hugo 
and was performing for the Carson and Barnes Circus. 
 
Lucy began performing in the circus around the age of six and would go on to become a 
bareback rider for much of her circus career. After a knee injury, she developed a comedy 
act which she performed for over fifteen years, officially retiring in 2002. Since that time, 
Lucy has remained involved with the circus and is currently training her grandchildren in 
bareback riding techniques. Throughout her career Lucy has worked various jobs within the 
circus such as running the cookhouse, selling tickets, billposting, and costume design. In 
addition to training horses, she also worked a dog act. 
 
Lucy has four children, Armando, Josie, Mona, and Tina and she continues to call Hugo, 
Oklahoma home where she is surrounded by family, friends, and furry animals.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
The “Big Top” Show Goes On  
An Oral History of Occupations Inside and Outside the Canvas Circus Tent 
 
Luciana “Lucy” Loyal  
 
Oral History Interview 
 
Interviewed by Juliana Nykolaiszyn  
& Tanya Finchum 
September 19, 2011 
Hugo, Oklahoma 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
 
 
Loyal 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Loyal 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Today is Monday, September 19, 2011. My name is Juliana Nykolaiszyn. 
Also with me is Tanya Finchum. We’re with the Oklahoma Oral History 
Research Program at the OSU Library, and we are continuing our 
interview with Lucy Loyal. Thank you for joining us one more time. 
 
Thank you for having me. 
 
Well, Lucy, we learned a lot about your family history in our last 
interview, and now we want to get into your working history. 
 
My working history. 
 
You’re working history. 
 
Okay. 
 
We know you started as a young child, learning, but when can you 
remember, the first time, being in the ring, on your own, doing your 
thing? 
 
Oh, gosh! Whew! Okay, I had practiced quite a bit, and I only did simple 
things in the show like swinging ladder, which is very simple. Anybody 
could do that. I could go through it one time and take you out there, and 
you could do it. And I think, basically, all circus children start with—
like if they’re going to do aerial work—is like swinging ladder and web 
because that’s  just the basics. I had kind of done that off and on, and 
I’m going to say I was probably about six. Then I remember practicing 
the riding act, the horses, always practicing, but never actually getting to 
do—stand up by myself or anything like that.  
 
I always did the pyramid with my dad. I remember doing pyramid and 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
stuff. We had a horse named Ginger, and Ginger decided, I guess, he 
didn’t want to work that day. They had put him in the ring, and my dad 
started doing what we call the tails. They grab their tail and turn flips 
and at one point you let go, and then you grab again. Well, my dad let 
go, and the horse decided that’s it. So he jumped the ring, and he ran out 
the back door and was out in the field. Everybody went chasing him. So 
we’re just standing there, and I holler at my mom, “Put Dolly in.” I had 
a horse named Dolly, by the way. (Laughs) So I said, “Put Dolly in! Put 
Dolly in!” And Mom’s going, “What are you going to do?” I said, “Just 
put Dolly in.” She put Dolly in, and they helped me up, and that’s the 
first time I ever stood up and did knees and get back up and do another 
knee, until I guess they got tired of watching me do knees up and down 
until my dad got back in. I had to have been maybe about ten, ten years 
old, eleven years old when I did that. Big mistake, because from then on 
I had to do it in the show. (Laughs) 
 
And at ten, what show were you with? 
 
I was with the Al G. Kelly and Miller Brothers Circus, which D.R. 
Miller owned along with his father and his brothers, one brother, Kelly. 
Then, in later years, Carson and Barnes, the owner was a man by the 
name of Jack Moore. We went on Carson and Barnes in 1963. Of 
course, I performed the riding act and worked elephants. I rode them. I 
didn’t actually work them. I rode elephants and did mounts and tricks 
and things on the elephants. And I did web, and I did a single trapeze 
act. Then in ’64, we went back to Al G. Kelly Miller and did the whole 
year of ’64 with Al G. Kelly Miller. Then in ’65, we went back to 
Carson and Barnes. Eventually, Mr. Miller bought Carson and Barnes.  
 
So we’ve been with Mr. Miller pretty much all of our lives—my life, I 
should say. Since 1956 I was always in combination, would you say, 
with D.R. Miller and his family in circus. Like in my one interview with 
you, we were talking about the monkey, Debbie. Of course this 
happened on Al G. Kelly Miller, where the chimp and I wore her 
costumes and stuff. I got her hand-me-downs. But no, at a young age I 
began performing. I’m going to have to say back in ’54, we were with a 
circus called Tom Packs for a while. It was an indoor show, and all I did 
was what we call a spec, where you put on a costume and you parade 
and stuff like that. I’d go stand with my dad in the act while he juggled, 
but as far as performing, I didn’t then. I would have to say ’56 is when I 
actually started performing in the show. 
 
And you gravitated towards the horses? 
 
Yes, I would be considered a bareback rider. That was what I was. I 
loved horses, and then from bareback riding—well, basically, when 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
you’re in the circus, you learn to do little—it comes—well, to me, it 
came very natural. And I’m sure to a lot of people it does and to a lot of 
people it doesn’t. It’s like somebody wakes up and they can sing. Well, I 
can’t carry a tune, believe me. I was very natural, but the horses were 
my base, I would say, what I did the best. Then I learned to ride 
elephants, and I could ride the elephants as well as I did the horses 
because the horses were running. The elephants weren’t running so it 
was pretty easy. I did single traps, and I did a fair single traps. I wasn’t 
the greatest trapeze artist that ever—I was nothing compared to my 
cousin, Dolly. Let me tell you, I wouldn’t make a good pimple. But I did 
single traps, and I did cradle, where I held my niece while she did tricks. 
The only thing I didn’t do was juggle, play in the band, or do a flying 
act. 
 
Did your father ever try to teach you how to juggle? 
 
Yes, I just didn’t like it. I still don’t like it. I know it takes a lot of 
practice to be a juggler. You have to practice pretty much twenty-four-
seven to be a good juggler, and you have to like it. I didn’t want to stand 
there all day, juggling balls or hoops or whatever. I just didn’t like them. 
(Laughs) 
 
Well, going back to bareback riding, what were some of your signature 
tricks? 
 
I just did a principle act. I wasn’t ever as good as my aunts or my uncles. 
I wished I could’ve been, and probably would have been, had my 
grandfather lived a lot longer and had I stayed in Florida, rather than 
moving to Oklahoma, where my aunts were. But my father was limited 
in teaching me. My father was a fair rider. He was a good little rider, but 
he wasn’t anything like my uncles and my aunts. Now, what my dad did 
have over my aunts and my uncles was he could break the horses, which 
they could never do. And that’s why they always had good horses was 
because of my grandfather and my father. They always used to tease him 
and call him the guinea pig because they would take—he would always 
go with my grandfather. But then, later, when my grandfather got to 
where he couldn’t function as well and stuff, my dad was the one that 
broke the horses, and that was why they had good horses. And up to the 
day—well, not now—but to the day he was here we always had good 
horses. We don’t have good horses anymore. (Laughs)  
 
I’m not as good as my father. But he was known for his breaking the 
horses, and he was a fantastic juggler. But like I said, I didn’t like the 
juggling. And he did, he had balancing trapeze. My father, he—I don’t 
know how to explain my father. He was a very smart man. He didn’t go 
to school. He was, I think, maybe third grade, if he got to the third grade. 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
But he taught himself. He could read English. He could write in English. 
He was smart at math, and he could tell you anything about history you 
would want to know. And how he knew it, I have no clue. But you could 
ask him dates, even about American history. You could ask him about 
dates and—like the Louisiana Purchase, for example. He could tell you 
that. I have no clue. 
 
Were there some important lessons that he passed on to you that just 
stick out in your mind? 
 
That stick out in my mind? This is one of his lessons—don’t snob your 
friends on your way up because you’re going to meet those same friends 
on your way down. He taught me to be very conscious-worthy of things. 
Use them until you can’t use them anymore and then try to use them 
somewhere else. Like, you have, say, an old washing machine, and it 
breaks down, and it’s no good. Well, find the parts out of that old 
washing machine and use it somewhere else so it doesn’t go to waste.  
 
My father—this is the truth—we were in Canada, 1966—I take it 
back—’68. We had an old, green ’57 Chevrolet truck that he put this box 
on and we carried our horses in it. My mother and I and my brother were 
behind him, and he’s driving this truck, pulling this trailer and the axle 
breaks in this truck. We were in British Columbia and back then, there 
weren’t any highways. It was just all like dirt country roads. It was 
horrible, and we were like on the side of a mountain. You could look 
over and see the river. We didn’t have an axle to put on this truck so 
Papa got out one of his iron stakes that he uses for the trapeze, to put in 
the ground to guy the trapeze to, and how he rigged that sucker to go 
into—because I remember him pulling off these tires, these wheels, and 
he pulled out this thing, this like a big, long thing. It had like—I don’t 
know—like a spindle or something on the end of it, and it had little 
ridges around it and stuff. Well, anyway, I remember him pulling all of 
that out, and I remember him getting one of our iron stakes that we used 
for the trapeze, and he fixed it somehow and put it in there, and we kind 
of just moped into wherever we were going. But we were on the side of 
the road for like six hours or so. We were there a long time. But I 
wouldn’t trade any of it for anything. Give me a million dollars, I 
wouldn’t trade it. 
 
Well, going back to riding, take me through an ideal performance. 
 
An ideal performance. 
 
What would you do? 
 
The tent would be packed. (Laughter) 
 
 
8
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Definitely ideal! 
 
I don’t know, it would just kind of depend on what kind of a mood I was 
in, because I never did anything the same way. To me, it was boring. 
Like everybody has a routine that they keep. We’ll just use, for example, 
the trapeze act. They’ll go in, they’ll climb up on their bar, and they’ll sit 
on their bar. And then, maybe, they’ll do a half-angel, and then they’ll 
come back around, and they’ll go to their knees and then take one leg off 
and touch their forehead with it and come back around. And it would be 
consistent every day, the same routine, twice a day. Well, that’s too 
boring for me. So it just depended on how I felt that day. I might ride in, 
I might walk in, I might run in, I might run in and do summersaults or 
flip-flops or something. Sometimes they would be expecting me to come 
in in my costume and stuff, and I would come in dressed like some bag 
lady with no teeth, and I’d black out my teeth. I would get with the band 
and have the band play “St. Louis Blues” or something, and I’d come in 
doing like (gestures)—but I’d do something different most of the time, 
just to blow their minds.  
 
But a normal routine would be I’d come in on the back of the horse. I 
would go around the ring several times. Then I would get up on the side 
and turn and look at the audience as I was going around. Then I would 
swing back around, and I would take my head and try to touch my toes, 
hanging off the side of the horse. Then I would stand up, and then my 
dad would throw me my hoop, and I would do my hoop routine. I threw 
the hoop back, and I would sit down and style. Then I would get back 
up, and I would stand sideways on the horse as he ran, and do turns. 
Then my dad would throw me my jump rope, and I’d jump normal rope. 
Then I tried to do like the boxers, where they intercross them, and I’d do 
that. Then I would give the rope back, and I would turn, and I would 
stand up backwards, and that’s hard. And I could hardly ever do it 
because I would fall off.  
 
Then I would dance on the back of the horse. We have a thing that we 
call banners, where I would jump the banners. It was a big pole, and 
there would be—you know, like the maypoles? Is that what they call 
them? Where they have those streamers out like that. Well, they would 
be around the ring, anywhere from two to four. It just depended how I 
felt that day. (Laughs) It’s terrible, isn’t it, for me to sit here and say—
take advantage of them. And I would jump the banners. Sometimes I 
would take the horse and strip him “nude,” is what I would call him. 
And that would be take his bridle off, take the harness off, and let him 
just run nude. I would vault back on him, grab his mane and vault back 
on and ride him nude and jump the banners. Then I would grab his 
mane, go to my knees, grab his mane and do a roll-over where I would 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
M. Loyal 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
roll off. Then I would style, and I would leave.  
 
Then, in later years, I got a bug. I was always messing around during the 
show, during my principle act and stuff. Like I was telling you where I 
would come in, and I’d have them play “St. Louis Blues,” and I’d dress 
like a bag lady or something. I always wanted to do comedy, because I 
loved to make people laugh. So I got a wild hair up my behind one day, 
and I went to Mr. Miller and his daughter Barbara, and I said, “I have an 
idea. I want to try it, and you tell me what you think.” I’m going to tell 
you it was 1985. It was in ’85. It’s like when you try something and 
eventually you get it perfect. You work out all the little glitches with 
time. Well, the first time it went over tremendous. It went over 
tremendous. They brought the horses in, and then they would get up and 
do the pyramid. And at that time, I had three horses. Alfredo [Curiel] 
and Moira [Loter Curiel] were on the pyramid, and you were little then. 
But you were little, weren’t you, Mona? And you did it, too. That was 
later, when you held… 
 
Me and Armando. 
 
Oh, that’s right, her and her brother. It was Alfredo and Moira, Armando 
and Mona, and they did the pyramid. And then they would make an 
announcement that they were looking for a young lady, twenty-one years 
of age or older, who was wanting to run away and join the circus. And if 
they were interested to, “Please come and see the ringmaster,” and they 
might get a chance to audition right now, but she has to like horses. 
Well, we had this announcer who was Latin. So he’s making this spiel, 
“We’re looking for a young lady, twenty-one years of age or older, who 
wants to be a whore bareback rider”—he couldn’t say horse. (Laughter) 
So we got to where we said, “Don’t even say that! A whore bareback 
rider, just say ‘who wants to learn to run away with the circus.’” 
(Laughter)  
 
So anyway, we did that, and then, of course, I would come out.  I would 
go to the back and we would adlib, like I was from…but I wore a skirt 
and a sweater, and I had a slip. And that skirt, trying to keep that skirt 
and stuff. So then eventually, with time, like I said, after awhile, you 
work out the glitches, and I started wearing pants. And I would buy 
those pant suits. I don’t know if you remember, they’re hard to find, 
anymore. They were pretty much out of cotton, and the top matched the 
pants. They were kind of loose, so I bought a bunch of those and they 
worked out perfect, because when they pulled my skirt off, of course, I 
still had the slip, but still. So then when they’d pull the pants off, I 
would have bloomers on. And then that gave away I was with the circus, 
because who wears bloomers down here? Nobody. 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
So then I eventually just bought underwear, old lady’s cotton, thick 
underwear. And then when they did pull them off, it looked like you 
were really from the audience, and I would run out. And then eventually, 
I wouldn’t run out, I would stay on the ring. I would, at the end, ask the 
audience, or the announcer would ask the audience, if they wanted to 
really see me ride, and they would say, “Yes!” Then I would undress the 
horse. I’d make him nude with nothing on, and I would vault up and sit. 
Then I would eventually stand up, roll over, and get off and style, and 
we’d all style. But that was my favorite, was the comedy. I loved the 
comedy act.  
 
I want to tell you a story about the comedy act. There was a man by the 
name of Frank Curry, and he was a big circus promoter in Nashville, 
Tennessee, for Ronald McDonald. Every year they put on [a show] like 
the Shriners do, but it was the Ronald McDonald Circus is what it was, 
in Nashville. And I went to work Nashville, that big date, and did my 
routine where they pulled my pants off. Well, a lady and her daughter 
got really upset. They went to the main office to complain, that how 
could they embarrass me that way. They had to come and get me, and I 
had to go up there and explain to them it was part of the act. That it 
wasn’t just some random person that they pulled out of the audience. 
And that happened like a couple of times. Then, another time, in 
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, the Shriner, his wife got all upset and thought 
I was some drunk that went out there. And how could they let this drunk 
lady ride the horse and stuff, and got real, real, real upset over it. But I 
had a lot of fun doing the comedy. I had a lot of fun. 
 
How many years, approximately, did you do the comedy? 
 
Do the comedy? I did it from ’85—well, not the whole year of ’85. I’m 
going to say in about September of ’85 I started the comedy—or August. 
And then I did it ‘til, let’s see…I think, 2002 was the last time I did the 
comedy, 2002. Yes. 
 
Well, throughout this time, are you teaching others how to work with 
horses, how to ride…? 
 
I have my grandchildren that I’m teaching. My granddaughter, Zefta, is 
a natural. She is so good. She’s so good on a horse, but she has that 
cocky attitude. It kind of reminds me of me, I guess, when I was young. 
(Laughs) If she keeps it up, she’ll be a good rider. Not as good as my 
aunt Zefta Loyal, but she’ll get close. And then I have another 
granddaughter. Her name is Lily. Her father’s in the service. In fact, he 
left yesterday for the desert. Since they came from California and she 
has been staying here, we enrolled her in gymnastics, with Alfredo. 
Within two weeks she did round off flip-flop, round off summersault. 
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Loyal 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Now, she does round off, flip-flop, flip-flop, flip-flop, flip-flop. And 
now, she’s getting them tight, and she’s learning the horses. So we’re 
going to get her where she can do like Zefta did on the horse. Lily, she’s 
going to be a good gymnast, hopefully, on the back of a horse. (Laughs) 
 
Is it important to pass on your knowledge? 
 
To me it is. I think every walk in life, I think the grandparents and their 
parents should pass their knowledge of their family’s history and should 
be proud of their history, whether they were farmers or welders or 
bookmakers or whatever, should be very proud of their heritage. In fact, 
I was working on some of the cheerleaders’ outfits. They got them in 
and they were too big, and so I had to take them apart and fit them. They 
were all talking to me because I had some costumes hanging, and “Oh, 
you make those?” I said, “Yes.” “Oh, I wish I was in the circus!” I told 
them, I said, “You can be in the circus, but you should take pride in your 
heritage, what your ancestors did, what your family did, and how they 
came here, and what all they went through,” because a lot of them had to 
cross this country in covered wagons. I’m sure if they would just do 
research and ask their grandparents, those grandparents could tell them 
what their grandparents did. I think that’s what our children’s generation 
is lacking. They have nothing to give them any kind of self-pride, and 
they should have that. 
 
You mentioned that you are a jack-of-all-trades when it comes to the 
circus… 
 
Master of none. (Laughter) 
 
So outside of the horses and the riding and the elephants, what else were 
you involved with? 
 
I can cook in the cookhouse. I know how to cook for, like, two hundred 
people plus. I’ve billposted. That’s where I go out and put out tickets 
and put posters up for the circus, in every town that you go to. I’ve put 
arrows up. And the worst town to put arrows up in is Chicago, Illinois, 
on a Sunday when there’s traffic. Let me tell you. I don’t know how 
many times I almost got ran over! The show was somewhere in Indiana, 
and we had to go through Chicago. “Lucy, we need arrows. You need to 
go put up the arrows.” I don’t know if you know what the arrows are. 
Okay. And so, I said, “Okay.” They said, “Here’s the synopsis sheet. It’s 
a sheet of paper that has all the directions and the contacts, and 
whatever. I said, “Okay.” And I’m going, “Oh, my God! It’s okay, but 
we’re downtown Chicago, and we’re on the interstate.” The traffic was 
horrible!  
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Loyal 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Like, when you’re putting these arrows up, you have to give them 
enough time so they can switch lanes, to turn, and stuff. So you start two 
miles back and you put “slow down, left turn,” or whatever, where you 
have your arrow. And you have one going down and one turning. And 
then a little bit further, maybe half a block or so, then you put two 
arrows down, two arrows turning, so they catch that one. You just keep 
doing that until you get to the turn, and you’ve got to make sure there 
are plenty of arrows up, so they all know that that’s the turn. So you 
have them on this side of the interstate, and you have them on that side 
of the interstate. And holy! And there you’re standing like this and the 
cars are zooming past you on the exit thing, and you’re right there on 
the—it was awful, awful! But I did that several times. 
 
I’ve booked, did a little booking. I’m not a very good booker, not as 
good as B.K. [Silverlake]. B.K.’s what you would call a booking agent. 
I’ve booked a few little towns. We’re talking little towns. (Laughs) I’ve 
waited tables at Denny’s. I don’t know. I did all kinds of little things, I 
guess. 
 
What’s your favorite, outside of—we know the horses, obviously. 
Something outside of the horses, what would be your next favorite? 
 
I would say the elephants. 
 
The elephants. 
 
And then the trapeze, aerial work. I love making costumes. In fact, I was 
commenting with my daughter last night as we were driving back from 
getting Kylie her homecoming dress. Is that what it is? Yes, 
homecoming. I get prom and that thing mixed up all the time—how I 
like to make costumes and sew. I said, “I’d like to have my own little 
room where I can just spread everything out. And when I get through, I 
can leave and close the door and know the kids haven’t gotten into it.” I 
like breaking the animals to work. I like breaking the horses. I like 
breaking dogs. And it sounds terrible when you say “breaking” because 
you really don’t break them. 
 
Is there a trick to it? 
 
Yes, it’s called treats. (Laughter) Yes, that’s the easiest, the fastest, the 
kindest. And you don’t whip them. If you whip them or hit them, or 
whatever, you’re not going to get anything out of them. You just 
frighten them and they don’t want to do it. They’re afraid. So when I’m 
teaching my dogs, I’ll go buy a package of hotdogs. I go buy a package 
of hotdogs. So I want them to get on the pedestal and stay. I’ll say, 
“Here, and I’ve got a hotdog,” but they’re cut in little pieces. And I’ll 
 
 
13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Loyal 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
say, “Sit, sit, stay,” and you give them a hotdog. “Stay, stay, stay. All 
right,” and then whatever, and then you give them a hotdog, a treat. So 
then, eventually they go, “Oh, well, if I sit there long enough, I’m going 
to get a hotdog,” or, “If I jump through that hoop she’s going to give me 
a hotdog,” and that’s how I teach them.  
 
When they’re working, normally I don’t take hotdogs in the ring to give 
it to them, but they know I have it. I’ll show them that they’re in the 
little pouch, and they’ll see the little pouch. They’ll go in and do 
whatever their little routine is, and when we come out, then I give them 
all their hotdog. “Oh, so if I go in there, and I do it all, when I come out I 
get my treats.” And that’s pretty much the same way with the horses, 
with their treats. But even when they’re working, I always manage to 
sneak one over there to them. (Laughs) 
 
Was there ever an animal that you took on that you just thought, “Oh, 
no. I can’t train this animal?” 
 
Yes. A friend had a pony drill he wanted me to break. He brought six 
ponies. Well, he brought eight ponies, eight or nine, something like that. 
And he said, “Pick out six of them,” which I did. And two of those 
ponies are hard-headed—I don’t care what you did. They just—they’re 
horrible. And I couldn’t ever get them to do anything. So I just left them 
out. I said, “Forget it.” And that happens. Sometimes you’ll pick an 
animal, and they’re just not for that. Maybe they’ll be better in a 
different aspect or something. They were just not any good for that pony 
drill—hard-headed, hard-headed. 
 
What are some of the smarter animals you’ve worked with? Are horses 
smart? 
 
Horses are smart. 
 
Elephants? 
 
It depends on which horses. Appaloosas are the stupidest horses! 
(Laughter) Elephants are very smart, very, very, very smart. And you 
know what? You can’t get an animal to do anything that they don’t 
already do. Like elephants, “Oh, well, they are not to sit up, and they’re 
not to do this and not to do that,” but they do it. You don’t have to teach 
them. If you just stay back and watch them, they do it. They do it on 
their own. They lay down, they sit up. I mean, it’s just a matter of 
getting them to do it when you want them to do it, is what it is. And 
that’s like the horses, the same thing. “Oh, well, horses, they don’t get 
on pedestals, and they don’t do this, and they don’t do that.” Oh, yes 
they do. They want that piece of grass that’s over there, they’ll step up 
 
 
14
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Loyal 
 
Finchum 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Loyal 
 
Finchum 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
on top of a rock to get to it. They do pretty much what they want to do. 
You can’t teach an animal to do something that they don’t already do 
naturally, except maybe teach a—well, I don’t know. I guess cats swim, 
too. 
 
Any particular dog that’s a better breed to train? 
 
To me? 
 
Yes. 
 
A Heinz 57’s the smartest dog you can get. Some ole mutt is a lot 
smarter than a pedigree dog. That’s my opinion. I’m not a dog person or 
an expert on training dogs. I do a little training, just simple little things. I 
don’t do hard, hard stuff. Laura Herriott, she would know because that’s 
what her father and grandfather were experts at, at breaking dogs, 
ponies, horses. They were experts at that. I’m sure she could tell you the 
smartest. To me, it would be a Heinz 57. 
 
What’s your favorite breed of horse to train? 
 
A Belgian. I love Belgians, big draft horses. Belgians are—I don’t know. 
They’re just so gentle and just so calm and just so, “Oh, whatever.” Like 
that, “Okay. Let’s go. Let’s do it.” I had one horse, his name was Chulo, 
and he was big. I’d have to get up, stand on a chair or something to wash 
his back. Sometimes there’d be a place at the fairgrounds where I didn’t 
bring a chair or something. So I’d say, “Down. Down,” and he’d put his 
head down, and I would straddle it, and he would lift me up, and then I 
would be on his neck, washing his back. Then he’d let me down like 
that. That’s a good horse. I only had two that ever did that, him, and a 
horse called McKeag that we had that did that, because McKeag was 
real tall. 
 
How long would their career span be, working with the circus? 
 
The horses? 
 
The horses, yes. 
 
It depends on when you got the horse. We had horses that—oh, my God. 
Well, let me think, Cincinnati. I think I mentioned him in my interview 
before. That was a horse that came from the family, my father’s family, 
and I learned on that horse. That horse had to have been thirty-three, 
thirty-two years old before he died. 
 
Wow. 
 
 
15
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
And then we had a little miniature we called McKeag Kid, and we 
bought McKeag Kid. He was already ten years old. And McKeag Kid 
was, I bet you, thirty-five, thirty-six when he died. He just died last 
summer. We had him for a long, long [time]. They’re like people. They 
get old, you take care of them, and they get skinny. People look at him, 
“Oh, my God! He’s starving.” It’s not that he’s starving to death, he’s 
just old. The more food you give him, the more vitamins you give him, I 
don’t care what you give him. He’s not going to get fat. He’s just old. 
He was just so old, so I had people calling and complaining.  
 
The—oh, what do you call him? The animal control guy came down and 
I said, “It’s McKeag Kid.” He said, “Oh, they’re calling about McKeag 
Kid?” I had called him before and told him, “If you get any complaints 
it’s because he’s just old.” I showed him his paperwork. I had him on 
senior. I had him on red cell. I had him on weight-gainer. The vet here in 
Hugo would check on him for me and stuff. And I said, “Here’s all the 
paperwork. He’s just old. He’s old.” These animals, for instance, Chulo 
or McKeag Kid, they put bread and butter on our tables for a long, long, 
long time. And I don’t get rid of nobody. I take care of them. They took 
care of me, now it’s my turn to take care of them. That’s how we look at 
it. 
 
How would you do food along the way for the animals? Would you have 
to arrange for feed? 
 
Oh, okay. Usually every town in the country has a feed store, and you 
can go in and buy your sweet feed and whatever you want. Then they 
would call the feed store and find out who has hay, locally, and you buy 
local hay, if you need the hay. Or find somebody that delivers and 
they’ll deliver it to the circus grounds.  
 
Usually, back in the day, when they had like thirty elephants on Carson 
and Barnes that one year, the hay that they would have to bring in by the 
bales. It was like every other day there were hundreds of bales brought 
in for these baby elephants that they had brought to the country and 
stuff. In fact, B.K. had just gotten a whole bunch of pictures in with all 
those baby elephants. I remember the day. She was saying, “Do you 
remember what year that was? Do you remember when that was?” And I 
was sitting there, and I was trying to remember if it was ’76 or ’77 that 
they brought those baby elephants in. I think there were twenty-two of 
them. That was the last herd of baby elephants that came into the 
country before they put the ban on bringing elephants into the country. 
Boy, that was a long time ago. (Laughs)  
 
And the best feed for me, when I’m traveling, I like the Amish country 
 
 
16
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
M. Loyal 
 
Loyal 
 
M. Loyal 
 
 
Loyal 
 
 
M. Loyal 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
because they have good, good feed. Their feed stores are really good. 
You buy them and they still come in that—instead of paper and stuff, 
they still come in burlap sacks, big burlap sacks. 
 
Well, when did you start with the comedy act? 
 
I started that in ’85, the comedy act, yes. And that was one of my 
favorite periods, was the comedy, because it always worked really, 
really good. It always went real good. One of my favorite places that I 
ever worked the comedy act was Chicago, Illinois, at Medinah Temple. 
We were hired there for seventeen days, and we were on a stage in that 
Medinah Temple. That audience was all sitting right there in those 
folding chairs, like at a movie theater and stuff. I mean, they’re right 
there on top of you. And to just watch, they were so close, to just watch 
the faces on these people. And laugh, just to watch them laugh was so 
much fun, because I started laughing watching them laugh. People laugh 
different ways, and it’s funny to watch them laugh. But that was my 
favorite—one of my favorite places. Remember that, Mona? [Lucy’s 
daughter Mona enters the room] In Chicago, at Medinah Temple, with 
all those people doing the comedy act there? 
 
We were on the stage. 
 
On the stage, yes. 
 
And you could just hear the people. I mean, because they were so close. 
It went over really, really well, really well. 
 
And that mechanic would fly out, when I’d fly—I’d fly out, and it was 
hilarious. 
 
That was there. 
 
Yes, that was at Medinah Temple. Then, Christian’s mother, Renata, 
other than myself, Renata did the comedy, and my daughter Josie did the 
comedy. Renata did the comedy, and she was hilarious, because she was 
kind of chunky anyway, right? We got a date to go to Puerto Rico. I 
didn’t want to go to Puerto Rico, because I had some friends the year 
before that had gone to Puerto Rico, to work Puerto Rico, and they got 
stranded over there. It was a big mess—or a couple of years before that. 
I said, “No. We’re not going to Puerto Rico.” I said, “We are not going 
to Puerto Rico!” I said, “When we get to Puerto Rico, how the hell are 
we going to get our horses back if whatever happens? We don’t have the 
money for that.” They wanted Puerto Rico, wanted Puerto Rico. I said, 
“Well, you guys go. I’m not going. I’m going to stay here so if 
something happens, I can get your happy asses back.”  
 
 
17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Loyal 
 
Finchum 
 
Loyal 
 
Finchum 
 
Loyal 
 
Finchum 
 
So anyway, Renata ended up doing the comedy in Puerto Rico. I flew to 
Puerto Rico. Of course, when we do it here, we do it in English. Over 
there in Puerto Rico, they did it in Spanish, because it’s all Spanish. And 
laughed, that was the funniest riding act I ever did [see]. She was 
hilarious! Renata was hilarious because she was kind of chunky anyway. 
And, of course, she changed some of her adlibs from the way I did it 
here. Since she was real chunky and stuff, Armando would put her on 
the horse, and she’d just go right on over the horse, come back around, 
and she would say, “Well, I’m kind of—I can’t do that.” And the guy 
said, “Well, who told you to eat so many potatoes?” and stuff. I mean, 
but in Spanish it was hilarious. She was, she was funny! It went over 
really, really good.  
 
And Zefta worked, and Zefta was what, three? Three years old. She 
would run in. We would have a horse standing at the back of the ring, 
the big horse, and she would run in underneath his belly, and go in and 
she would do a Brittany Spears dance. That horse they’d take out, and 
then they’d put the other horse in. She would come get on her father’s 
shoulders, standing up on one leg, and did really good. It was really, 
really pretty. They had a real good act, real good act. Plus, with Renata it 
was hilarious, very good. That was one of the best riding acts I had seen 
in a long time. 
 
Had she learned from you? 
 
She had learned from me, yes. But Renata came from a circus family as 
well. I’m going to say Renata’s probably five generations of circus 
family. Her family comes from Peru. Her grandfather on her mother’s 
side, at one time, they all owned a circus in Peru, his father, plus his 
father, plus his father. And her brothers, right now, are working at 
Cirque du Soleil in Orlando. 
 
So what other foreign countries have you played in? 
 
Who, me? 
 
Yes. You mentioned Canada. 
 
I went to Canada. 
 
Cuba? 
 
I didn’t work in Cuba. I went to Cuba. 
 
Oh, but you were there? 
 
 
18
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
 
Loyal 
 
Finchum 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
M. Loyal 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
Yes, I loved Cuba, but I didn’t work in Cuba. I haven’t worked 
anywhere other than Canada and the United States. Oh, and Mexico. 
That’s about it. I worked in Mexico. That’s almost like the United 
States, though. When we went to Puerto Rico I was real little, with the 
family. When they went to South America I was real little. I didn’t work. 
 
Switching gears a little bit, can you talk a little bit about raising a family 
while you were… 
 
On the circus? 
 
Yes. 
 
Oh, I loved it. My kids, when they were small, they were always on the 
show with me. Then when they got school age, my mom stayed home 
and sent my children to school. Then when summer vacation would 
come, Mom and the kids would all come to the circus. Then when 
school would start, they would all go back to Hugo. But if they were still 
small enough, they would stay with me ‘til school age, and then they 
would go home. But Mona could probably tell you what it was like 
being a child on a circus, going back and forth.  
 
When I was growing up it was really hard, because my mom and dad 
were both from Europe, and they had nobody to leave me with to go to 
school. And I hated school anyway, and I think I told you that before. 
All I wanted was circus, circus, circus. But as you get older, and you 
look back and you see the memories and things that the other children 
have, their friendships that they have, like their class reunions and they 
see so and so and, “Oh, there’s so and so,” and stuff. Then you’ve got 
the prom, and you’ve got the homecoming. These are all memories that 
they could cherish that I didn’t have, and wasn’t smart enough to think 
about it when you’re at that age. But I wanted them to have that. I 
wanted them to have the best of both lives, the circus life and the city 
life. Which I think I accomplished that because they’ll go in the store, 
and they’ll run into somebody, “Hey! Oh, yeah!” I’m going, “See?” And 
now, my grandkids are doing that. But this is the first one that’s ever 
became a candidate for homecoming or anything. I think, Mona, you 
were—you played tennis, didn’t you? 
 
Yes, and cheered, wanted to play football… 
 
Yes, that type of thing. And then they have their circus friends and stuff. 
But on the circus we’d get to the circus grounds. It all just depends—we 
get up in the morning at five o’clock, carry those kids to the pickup or 
whatever, in their blankets, and they’d be sleeping—unless I pulled into 
 
 
19
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
M. Loyal 
 
 
 
Loyal 
 
M. Loyal 
 
 
 
Loyal 
 
a gas station, and then they’d all want chocolate milk and a donut or 
something or, “Can we go to McDonald’s?” “Let me see how much 
money I have. We’ll go through the drive-through,” and you’re sitting 
there counting the pennies out. Then we’d get to the circus grounds, and 
I’d start hooking up the lights, unloading the trailer. The kids would 
probably have cereal or I’d fix breakfast. It just depended. Then they’d 
all go out and play.  
 
Later, when they got older and stuff, I took them to Disney. We’d have 
like, maybe picnics or we’d go on Sundays to the movies. Then when 
they got old enough, we had what we called a Wa-Wa, a bus. This bus, 
on Sundays, would make several trips back and forth to the circus and to 
town. They would have a list of everything that was in town, 
McDonald’s, Arby’s, China King, whatever. And then they would have 
a list of the movies, the bowling alley, and then he would take them and 
for a dollar, you would ride the Wa-Wa, and he would drop you off at 
whatever location you wanted. Then at such and such time he would be 
back by to pick you up at that location. Well, when the kids got old 
enough, you would see this big group. There would be Mona and Josie, 
Armando, Traci, Kristin, Libby, you’d see all these kids, plus the other 
performers’ kids. They would go in groups. You never worried about 
them because they were always in groups. Oh, one time they went to 
Janet Jackson’s… 
 
Concert? 
 
Concert. I think the circus kids are a lot smarter, almost like street-wise 
type thing because we always are talking to them about strangers, 
watching out, be careful, you never know, and this and that. But we’re 
always, always—I said being on the circus is an easy picking ground for 
somebody to just walk up. They can pretend they’re looking at the 
animals and something could happen. At an early age, they knew what 
drugs were, to stay away from drugs, people that do drugs, I don’t know. 
 
Everybody always kind of watched out for all the kids. Do you know 
what I mean? Like, all the working guys or the performers or whoever 
was working on the show always watched out for all the kids. 
 
Always watched out for all the kids, yes. 
 
So it was like a big nursery. (Laughs) You could be anywhere. Your 
parents might not know where you were, but someone else knew where 
you were. 
 
All I had to do was go out and say, “Hey, did you see Mona?” “Oh, yes. 
Her and Kristin and Traci and Maria and Vanderhyde, they are all over 
 
 
20
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
M. Loyal 
 
Loyal 
 
M. Loyal 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
M. Loyal 
 
 
Loyal 
 
M. Loyal 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
M. Loyal 
 
Loyal 
near the pie car,” or, “They’re over in the backend of the canvas truck,” 
or something. 
 
So it would be pretty easy to know when they got in trouble. 
 
Oh, yes. Yes. 
 
That, too. (Laughs) 
 
Yes, you knew when they got in trouble. 
 
Everybody knew. (Laughs) 
 
Yes, and it wasn’t just the parent that would discipline them. It was 
always known through all the circus people. If you catch my kid doing 
something they’re not supposed to do, you do to them what you would 
do to your own kid. And that’s how it was. If I caught one of the show 
kids doing something, oh, yes ma’am! Snatch him up real quick. But 
that’s how we all were. But things have changed now, from the way they 
were to the way they are now. 
 
So it’s different now? 
 
Yes. It’s a lot different. I think it’s because the performers that they have 
here now aren’t from here. They bring them from Peru or they bring 
them from Argentina, and they have not grown with a—because back 
then, everybody that lived here, all our kids, all the different families, 
like Moira, we all went on the same circus. So not only did we live 
together on the circus, we lived together here, and we always watched 
out for each other’s family, each other’s kids. 
 
And we were on the circus with the same kids, and we came home and 
went to school with that group. 
 
With the same kids, so… 
 
A group of us, not a lot, maybe five or ten kids. 
 
And now, it’s not like that. They just, “Oh, whatever.” And there’s not 
that family-ness.  We used to have like, on the show we would get 
together. On Sunday, everybody would chip in five dollars, and we’d 
have big… 
 
Well, we still do that, though. We still do that on our show. 
 
Yes, well, they don’t over there anymore. 
 
 
21
 
M. Loyal 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
M. Loyal 
 
Loyal 
 
M. Loyal 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
T. Loyal 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Well, we still do. 
 
But you kids would do it on your own. You guys would all chip in to 
Armando, and just all you kids would have your own little party or 
group party and stuff, but not off anywhere, somewhere where we can 
see them. And then we would have like, Halloween parties on the show. 
The kids would do skits, like the time you guys did the Ninja Turtle 
thing, the Ninja Turtles. They all… 
 
For Halloween. 
 
For Halloween… 
 
We always did skits. 
 
…and then on the Fourth of July the kids would do things, and they 
would have baseball games, and we’d all sit and cheer and stuff. We had 
a lot of fun. We had a lot of fun back then—soccer games. So it was just 
like one big giant family unit that did everything together. Almost like 
the Kennedys when they played football. (Laughter) You know my 
daughter, Tina, right? [Tina enters the room] 
 
Hello ladies, how are you doing? 
 
And I was talking with B.K. the other day. We were going through these 
pictures that she had gotten, and I go, “Oh, I hadn’t seen a picture of 
Aunt Torchy!” She isn’t my blood aunt, but, to me, she’s my Aunt 
Torchy. That’s like all of us in show business. We had like, my Aunt 
Gerry, my Aunt Flo, my Aunt Isla. They’re not blood aunts, but they’re 
ours aunt. The way Mona and I just explained now, how the kids were 
growing up, that’s how I grew up. That’s my Aunt Gerry. She kept an 
eye on me. That was my Aunt Flo. She kept an eye on me. They always 
knew where we were. So I go, “Oh, look, there’s Aunt Torchy!” and 
B.K. goes, “Yes.”  
 
This lady, something else, tiny, teeny little thing, and I was going to go 
to Oklahoma City one year with her to work the Shrine Circus, at the 
auditorium that was downtown. And at one time, there was a hotel called 
Hotel Black. I don’t know if it’s still there or not. So we were leaving 
Hugo. We left during the night sometime, and I don’t know half where 
we got. I’m going to say we probably got up maybe around Ada, maybe, 
Purcell, somewhere over there, and the transmission went out of her car. 
So some truck driver picked us up with some semi, somewhere. I 
remember loading all of this crap, handing it up to her so we could go. 
And she said, “Well, hand me my purse,” and I tried to pick up this 
 
 
22
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Loyal 
 
purse. I couldn’t pick up this purse, and I said, “Aunt Torchy, what have 
you got in this purse?” I was probably about twelve years old. And so I 
opened that purse—you name it, she had it in there. She had tools. She 
had sewing stuff. She had makeup. She had silverware. You name it, she 
had it in there. That purse weighed a ton! And I was telling B.K., I said, 
“My, God!” She said, “Yes, and that’s how she travels. I bet you didn’t 
know there was a gun in the bottom of that purse.” (Laughter) And I 
said, “No! How in the hell could you find it with all that crap on top of 
it?”  
 
But, anyway, so we get to this Hotel Black, and she told me, she said, 
“That’s where all the circus people stayed.” Well, they must’ve stayed 
back in that hotel back in vaudeville time, because there wasn’t any 
when I got there. (Laughs) We did that Shrine Circus there in Oklahoma 
City. We were there a week, and then finally, a friend came, picked us 
up, and brought us home, because the car was in the shop. I remember 
doing web and doing all the production numbers there. The Zoppe 
family was there. They did their riding act. God, I was just a kid. I 
remember her putting my makeup on, because I didn’t know how to put 
makeup on. But that was my first Shrine date I ever did. It was in 
Oklahoma City for Tom Packs, Jack Leontini was the producer. I’ll 
never forget those names.  
 
Then I’m trying to think of what other shows I did. I went and I did what 
we used to call the Texas dates. I think I was about thirteen, fourteen 
when I did the Texas dates. It was Houston, did Houston, did Dallas, 
Fort Worth, Corpus Christi, San Antonio, and I think it was Galveston. I 
think those were the five, the five cities—or it might’ve been Austin. 
The five cities, I know it was five cities we did. My favorite one, though, 
was Houston. I really liked Houston and that Astrodome, back in the 
day. You could look out. You could see the prison from our dressing 
room. (Laughs) Isn’t that terrible? The city jail, rather, I should say. 
That’s terrible! Now, I was about thirteen. And then what other dates did 
I do when I was a young girl? I think I worked Minneapolis, St. Paul, 
I’m not real sure. I know I did San Antonio another time for the police 
department, for the police. 
 
You have a great memory about the places you’ve been. 
 
Oh. (Laughs) 
 
I would think that you’re on the road so much that each place, it’d be 
easy to forget. 
 
I spend a lot of time on the side of the road, broke down. (Laughter) I’m 
serious. I am so serious! And my daughter can verify that. 
 
 
23
 
M. Loyal 
 
Loyal 
 
 
M. Loyal 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
M. Loyal 
 
 
Loyal 
 
M. Loyal 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Loyal 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We all make fun of her because… 
 
I could get in your car with you, and we could go, and we’ll break down. 
Believe me! 
 
Brand new car. No, she’ll break down. 
 
We’ll break down somewhere! In fact, Moira got this brand new white 
truck, and she said, “We’re going in my truck.” I said, “Okay.” And we 
get going. I don’t know how far we get, and we break down. She looks 
at me and she said, “I can’t believe this! I’m broke down—and you’re 
with me!” It’s the truth. So everywhere I go, I can tell you where I broke 
down. I remember the spots. You come through McAlester, right? 
 
Yes. 
 
Okay. You know that toll coming to Hugo, when you come through 
McAlester? I broke down right there. I had to sit over on the side of the 
road for two days. Okay, up there by Miami, Oklahoma, there are two 
different spots that I broke down at two different times there. I can tell 
you. I’ve broken down all over the place. 
 
We broke down in California, in Arizona. California, we were stuck at 
that truck stop for like a week in the 120 degree heat… 
 
Hope, it was Hope, Arizona. I can tell you exactly where it was. 
 
…with three horses. 
 
What do you do—I mean, this is in the days prior to cell phones. What 
do you do when you break down? 
 
You hitchhike to town or have somebody go into town and have a 
mechanic, tell them you need a mechanic or something like that. 
 
Would the circus realize…? 
 
Well, now, for instance like Carson and Barnes or Kelly Miller, either 
one, they have a mechanic shop. It’s a big semi, and it’s like a garage, a 
traveling garage on wheels. We have our own wrecker, we have our own 
tire truck—well, we, they—and this big semi is like a garage. You walk 
into the semi, there’s everything imaginable that a garage would have 
that they have in there. They carry extra motors, they carry extra axels, 
they carry extra whatever. They’re the last ones to leave the circus 
grounds. Everybody leaves before the mechanics leave, and then the 
 
 
24
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
M. Loyal 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mechanics will sit there, maybe, an hour, hour and a half. They’ll have 
their breakfast, do whatever they want, and then they leave because they 
want to make sure that they get going. So the first person they come to 
that’s broke down, they pull over. If they can fix it right there, they fix it. 
If they can’t, they have the wrecker, they hook it up, and they tow it in. 
And believe me, they’ve towed me many, many times—many a time, 
many a time! (Laughs) Yes, in fact, I helped pay for Bill Parker’s house 
as many times as I’ve broken down. 
 
But Carson and Barnes, Kelly Miller, Culpepper, they always take care 
of their people, the mechanics. Now, the private vehicles, ours is a 
private vehicle, they would charge us just like going to a garage and 
doing it. But everything that belongs to the show, that’s their expense, 
that’s show equipment, they work for the show. That’s why they’re 
there, to take care of the show equipment. But should an individual 
break down with his own private vehicle, they’ll fix it, but it’s like going 
to the garage. Unless it’s something major, like a motor or a 
transmission, well, then they tow you to a garage and they'll charge you 
for the towing. 
 
And then we have, like I said, the cookhouse. They served coffee and 
donuts in the morning before they leave at five o’clock, or sweet rolls, it 
just depends. And then when you get to the circus grounds, we have a 
thing called a pie car. It’s like a snack shop. You can go in there and 
order an egg sandwich or big breakfast or whatever, and they make it. 
Then at eleven—at eleven or eleven-thirty, cookhouse? 
 
I don’t remember. 
 
I don’t remember. They’ll have cookhouse and they’ll have—it depends. 
Maybe they’ll have scrambled eggs and sausage or hotcakes or 
whatever, or maybe grilled cheese sandwiches and soup. It just depends. 
 
You’ll have to tell me about B.K.’s cookhouse because she made a 
point… 
 
That’s the best cookhouse that ever, ever has been! And let me tell you, 
right now, Kelly Miller is the only other cookhouse that you can kind of 
go, “Okay, you can compare it to B.K.’s cookhouse.” Kelly Miller, right 
now, has a great cookhouse, but they’re fixing to lose that cook they’ve 
got. I don’t know what they’re going to do. But, oh! B.K.’s 
cookhouse…you get up in the morning, “Beep! Beep!” whatever, six 
o’clock, seven o’clock, and you have coffee and donuts. Okay. We go to 
the next town and within thirty minutes you’re there and it’s breakfast. 
She has milk on the table, cereal on the table, mustard, ketchup, 
mayonnaise, salt, pepper, jelly, butter—not one kind of jelly. They have 
 
 
25
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
strawberry or blackberry jam or whatever. Sometimes they have that 
apple butter, too, on there. Okay. Then over here they have a thing with 
the coffee and a thing of orange juice sitting there. The milk’s on the 
table. Then you go up to the window. Normally, all the cookhouses will 
make just scrambled eggs and bacon or whatever. You go to B.K.’s 
cookhouse and the cook says, “How do you want your eggs, fried or 
scrambled?” and I about fell over. “I like mine over medium, please.” 
(Laughter) Like that, and then the next day they would say for breakfast, 
“Pancakes or waffles? Bacon or sausage?” Maybe the next day it’s 
biscuits and gravy or something else. Plus, you have cereal on the table. 
Yes, that was breakfast at B.K.’s cookhouse.  
 
Then, at noon—and you just got through eating, and here it’s noon! And 
then they have sandwiches. You have ham and cheese or, you want 
bologna and cheese or do you want salami and cheese? Do you want 
tomato soup or chicken soup? Well, it was usually chicken noodle soup 
or beef barley soup. And then some days they would have, like, grilled 
cheese and tomato soup or grilled cheese and some onion soup or 
something. And then suppertime, fried chicken, mashed potatoes, green 
beans or corn—I mean—and then your dessert, whatever the dessert 
was. Then the next day it might be roast beef. And then she’d go over, 
“Billy! You’re not cooking supper tonight.” “What do you mean I’m not 
cooking?” “No, we’re taking everybody out to the restaurant for supper. 
I made arrangements over here at this little restaurant to cater us our 
supper, so you could have a day off.” 
 
That’s nice. 
 
Yes, it was. There’s not too many circuses—I don’t know of any 
circuses that do that. She was, she was very good. I’d work for B.K. in a 
New York second, anytime. I always used to tease her, “When are you 
guys taking out another circus? When are you taking out another 
circus?” She was a good boss to work for. The first time I ever saw 
B.K…we got fired from her mother-in-law’s circus, right? And they 
didn’t know that B.K. had hired us. Well, I wasn’t in charge of the 
business, my dad was, my dad and my mother. And here, I’m already, 
what? I had just had Mona. Mona was just a little baby, a few weeks old, 
maybe three weeks old, something like that, a month at the most. So her 
mother-in-law fired us, and I just assumed we were going to come home, 
but B.K. had hired us on their circus, on Fisher Brothers.  
 
I think it took us like two days to get there, and we came pulling on the 
circus grounds, and Papa stops, and we pull up beside them in the car. 
Papa goes, “Well, I need to go see where they want me to park. I need to 
find the…” Well, here comes this lady, running out. She had on a pair of 
capris and this shirt. Her hair was all up in curlers. We’re standing there, 
 
 
26
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Loyal 
 
M. Loyal 
 
Loyal 
 
M. Loyal 
 
Loyal 
 
M. Loyal 
 
 
and she comes running up, starts hugging us and kissing us. I’m just 
kind of standing there, and Billy Griffin comes up, “Hey!” I said, “Who 
the hell is that?” He goes, “That’s the owner of the show.” I said, “Oh. 
Well, hell, she doesn’t even know us, and she’s hugging and kissing us!” 
(Laughs)  
 
But I tell you what, I’d give back anything to go back to those days on 
that circus. It was a nice, small family circus. The happiest I ever was on 
a circus. Nobody bothered anybody. And then on Sundays, he would set 
up the sideshow, and he would put this big movie screen up, her 
husband, Melvin. We would have movies on Sundays. Most of the time 
they were westerns with Audie Murphy and John Wayne. But let me tell 
you, we’d have movies, and they’d get the popcorn popper going in the 
concessions. They’d bring boxes of popcorn in there. We’d have 
popcorn and sodas and watch movies. And that Dagwood and Blondie 
are related, I think. I’m not real sure how it works. We would get 
Blondie and Dagwood movies all the time. He would send them or 
something, and we would watch movies. That was every Sunday. We 
didn’t work on Sundays, and every Sunday we’d be in the sideshow, 
watching movies. He’d turn on the generator just so we could watch 
movies. But a good circus. 
 
Well, fast forwarding just a little bit… 
 
Sure. 
 
In the ’80s you were doing the comedy act… 
 
Right. 
 
At what point did you know, “My career is starting to come to an end,” 
in terms of riding in the show? 
 
When I had the surgery. What year was that, Mona? 
 
We were on the circus. I was thirteen. 
 
No, with this surgery. When I… 
 
Oh, that one. I thought you were talking about your knee. 
 
No, no, no, no. When my career was over, doing… 
 
When we started having kids, and we made her stay home. (Laughter) 
Because she still thinks in her mind she’s going to go back. 
 
 
 
27
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
M. Loyal 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
M. Loyal 
 
Loyal 
 
Finchum 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Loyal 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
 
M. Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loyal 
Are you ready to go out on the road tomorrow? 
 
Yes. 
 
Yes. 
 
Well, I already kind of have it planned a little bit. 
 
Yeah, uh huh.  
 
See, Josie’s supposedly not going to go back on the circus next year. 
She’s supposedly going to get a city-town job. She bought that house. 
She’s going to stay home. Tina’s going to be home, and Josie will be 
home, then I don’t need to be home. So I can go on the road. Look at 
Mona, look at Mona. (Laughs) 
 
Well, I’ve got to be graduated so that will be on the rest… 
 
And then by the time Nicky’s ready, I’ll be way too old for that. 
 
What would you do on the road? 
 
Oh, I could work in the cookhouse. I could hold the whip. I could sell 
tickets. I could work in the show. Look at my daughter. I’m only 
kidding. (Laughs) No… 
 
You could do a comedy act without the horse. 
 
Yes, I could do a comedy act. 
 
What’s the draw, still, for you now? 
 
It’s just in my blood, I guess, because I’ve done it all my life. I don’t 
know. I just—I miss it. 
 
It’s just, I think, a lifestyle that you get so used to. It’s something that 
you can’t even explain it. Like, I’ll be home for three months and I’ll be 
like, “Okay. It’s time to go, it’s time to go, it’s time to go.” You have a 
regular life, but you always want to do that no matter what. Me and my 
brother both went to college, we both ended up back on a circus. My 
best friend and her sister, too, both have degrees in business and minors 
in Spanish, but back on the circus. 
 
[Granddaughter Lexi enters the room] 
 
Hi, Lexi! Did you go to school? She’s going to be a circus performer, 
 
 
28
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
M. Loyal 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
right Honey? She’s going to tell me no. (Laughter) Are you going to do 
your gymnastics? In a few minutes will you show them your gymnastics 
Granny teaches you in the house sometimes, your backbend? Anyway, 
no, but I know they’re not going to let me. And this is the youngest one, 
right now, that’s here besides Mona’s little boy, but he’ll be leaving. But 
she stayed. She’s going to be in the circus, right? 
 
She has the smile down pat. 
 
Smile. (Laughter) 
 
Okay, that’s enough, now. That, kind of, though, what keeps me going, 
too, is because they all—this one and Lily and Zefta and Christian right 
now, too—oh, Christian’s driving me nuts! He wants me to go buy a 
horse. I said, “Well, we already got so many over at the house right now. 
Use one of those.” “I want my own horse,” and he’s getting online, and 
he’s looking at horses that are up in Nova Scotia and California and 
Connecticut. I said, “There’s no way!” “Well, they’re only five hundred 
dollars.” “Yes,” I said, “And two thousand for gas, there and back! I 
don’t think so!” (Laughs) 
 
The circus could pick it up as they go through town. 
 
That’s what I told Christian. He found some in Illinois. I said, “Hey, 
your dad’s in Illinois now. Tell your dad to pick him up for you.” So I 
don’t know. “Well, I want my own horse. I want to do my own thing, 
my own riding act.” Yes, he’s into carrying on the family tradition. 
 
What do you miss most about being on the road? 
 
Not getting up at five o’clock, that’s for sure. (Laughs) What do I miss 
most about being on the road? I guess moving, because as I’m driving in 
the mornings, I’m always looking at historical markers and stuff like 
that. I know this sounds really stupid, but when you’re traveling and you 
get to the town and area, the lot smells different than the one you just 
came from. Everything’s different, smells different. There’s never ever 
any day the same. Every day is different, and I guess that’s what I like. 
There’s nothing ever the same. You might think the routine is the same. 
Oh, we get there, we unplug our lights or plug in our lights and stretch 
this or stretch that, but you’re parked in a different place. It’s not in the 
same place. The scenery’s different, and so you stretched your cable like 
you did yesterday, but something’s going to be different that day. It 
always is. 
 
Is the audience much different from spot to spot? 
 
 
 
29
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yes, they are. A lot of towns where they liked, maybe, this act more than 
they liked that act. They didn’t the comedy, it was always a hit. Barbara 
Byrd always told me, she said, “You know, I can always tell when the 
riding act is in the tent. I can hear the laughter and the roars over in our 
trailer.” And it’s the truth. I didn’t do anything. I didn’t do anything. I 
didn’t do any summersaults. I didn’t do flip-flops or hoops. I didn’t do 
anything. All I did was make them laugh. There’s that old saying, “It’s 
not what you do, it’s how you do it,” and it’s the truth in show business.  
 
If you have somebody that does trapeze and throws a triple and just 
throws a triple, and then you have this guy over here that comes in and 
throws a single summersault. But if he knows how to throw that 
summersault and knows how to present that summersault, that’s more 
impressive than that triple that he just did. If he doesn’t have any style or 
any grace to it…and I try to make my grandkids understand that. It’s not 
what you do, it’s how you do it.  
 
That’s like right now, with Lexi, okay. You have a lot of gymnasts, even 
in the circus, that do fantastic tricks, but if they don’t have a form to it, 
to make it look nice, it looks sloppy. So I always tell them to make sure 
their legs are pointed and straight. That’s why I always say punte! 
Punte! Because you always want to have that punte, and it’s like 
walking into the ring. If you don’t know how to walk into the ring, it 
doesn’t matter. But if you do know how, just walking into the ring you 
can take the house down, just walking into the ring. I know that doesn’t 
sound… 
 
It’s that part of the show. 
 
Yes, and you can feel it. You can feel. That’s like with Zefta, when I 
talked with Zefta about practicing the horses. Now, my son puts a pad on 
his horses. My father would kill him. If my father was here, there would 
be no pad on no horse. My grandfather would string him. So anyway, 
every now and then my grandfather used a pad, but it was called a panó. 
It wasn’t actually a pad. It was almost like—do you remember in the 
movies when they put those backpack things on mules and stuff, that sit 
like that? Okay. And they sit on the horse or the mule, but then it had 
like a platform on it. My aunt Zefta would get on, and she’d have toe 
shoes on. She would actually, like a ballerina, be on her toe shoes while 
the horse was running. She would do things, but we would call that a 
panó. I learned on the panó, and it’s real hard because when the horse 
runs, it goes from side to side, almost. It’s really hard to stand on. My 
son, Armando, he made pads, just pads on the horses. It’s like cheating, 
and you’re not cheating anybody but yourself by using those, rather than 
on the back of a horse. That pad keeps you from falling. I don’t know 
how, and they make it. It has ridges on it. 
 
 
30
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Loyal 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It’s more for the balance of the performer rather than the comfort of the 
horse? 
 
More or less. 
 
Okay. 
 
To me, that would be the way I would put it. I never used one. Don’t 
ever intend to use one. Don’t want my grandkids to use one. And my son 
and I go round and round over this all the time. Well, all my grandkids 
are against it, because I’m teaching them without that pad. You can see 
the difference in the riding from a pad and without a pad. Zefta, in fact, I 
said, “All it is, Zefta, is practice.” So they had Dusty here. He wears a 
pad, so she’s sitting on that. I said, “Sit on the side. Sit on the side. Sit 
on…now, go up.” She can’t. “Well, I can’t.” I said, “Why?” “Well, I 
can’t. This pad’s not letting me get up.” It’s not going to. What they 
have to do is they have to use their hands, and they have to push 
themselves up. You lose all the gracefulness, and you lose the trick. 
Rather than just sitting there, and you’re on the horse, and you feel it, 
and you just get up, get up on the horse. So I have Zefta on this other 
horse without the pad and stuff, and she can get right up. It’s like you 
have that pad, and you can’t feel the horse. You can’t feel what the horse 
is going to do.  
 
I wore shoes, but I didn’t like to wear shoes. I liked to ride bareback. 
And it’s like you and the horse become one. You can feel before—like, 
when he’s—I don’t know how to explain it, like, oh, I’m thinking about 
changing my gallop, and then you know, “Chulo, up. Up, Chulo!” “Oh, 
she knows what I’m going to do.” So it’s like you can feel what they’re 
going to do before they do it. It’s the rhythm and stuff. And I explained 
to Zefta that, and so Zefta practices without the shoes. She said, “You’re 
right, Granny. You can feel it. You can tell. You know.” I said, “Well, 
can you imagine you’ve got shoes on, then you’ve got that pad on top of 
them? What the heck are you going to feel? They’re going to come to a 
dead stop, and you’re going to keep flying. So, “We want to tell our dad 
we don’t want them pads on.” I said, “Well, good luck!” And so that’s 
why Christian says, “I want to buy my own horse.”  
 
Armando listens to everybody else rather than the way he was taught by 
my father. Well, that’s his choice. They’re his horses. He can do 
whatever he wants. But the grandkids don’t like it. We had Lily, the 
other day, practicing standing up, and I still can’t figure out what she 
was doing wrong. I think she was going up with the wrong leg. She was 
going up with the outside leg, rather than the inside leg first. Then when 
she’d get up, she’d go exactly straight, which you are not supposed to. 
 
 
31
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
M. Loyal 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
You’re supposed to keep your chest on the inside so that keeps you from 
flying out and stuff. 
 
If you fall off the horse during a performance, what do you do? 
 
You want to fall inside. You don’t want to fall out of the ring. You want 
to fall in the ring. That’s why when you’re standing on the horse, you 
always have your right shoulder kind of even with the ear, a certain way. 
So you’re jumping rope, whatever, if you fall, you always fall inside, 
rather than fall to the outside of the ring. You fall to the outside of the 
ring, you’ve got the ring curb, you have miscellaneous things like stakes, 
props that other people use in their acts, a teeter board, maybe, maybe a 
pony pedestal or something that you can fall and hurt yourself on. But 
you can always save yourself if you fall on the inside. Of course, you 
have the other people in the ring that can run over to catch you.  
 
This horse that I had called Chulo, this great big Belgian that I had, he 
was the best horse that I ever had and the smartest horse I ever had. In 
Philadelphia we worked at the old train depot. They had torn it down, 
and it still had cobblestones all where we sat up and everything. They 
brought in a load of—loads of dirt to put in the ring. Well, we have what 
we call a waterman that has a water truck, and he would wet the…well, 
he made a mud hole out of it. And with his metal shoes and this mud 
hole, he happened to—it went through the dirt and got into the 
cobblestone and, of course, it made him fall. I was standing up and 
rather him falling on me, he fell outside of the ring. He dropped to the 
outside of the ring, so I would fall inside the ring. He was a smart horse. 
I tore the wall of my stomach loose. That’s the only time I ever got hurt, 
that I can say I got hurt. 
 
You hurt your knee. 
 
Yes, but that was practicing. That wasn’t in the show. That was Chiva’s 
fault, my knee, she got that rope caught around my knee, and Chulo—
no, not Chulo—Pasquinel, was running. Chiva got that rope caught 
around my knee. Instead of letting go of the rope, she pulled it and he 
went—he was running that way, and she pulled it this way. It tore the 
cartilages loose in my knee. But I lucked out because I had one of the—
his name was John Little, and he was a surgeon for the Rams, the Los 
Angeles Rams, in California. He’s the one that did the surgery on my 
leg, microscopic surgery. I was in the process of breaking [new horses]. 
My dad had already broken them, pretty much, and it was just finishing 
them off, because my dad had went on Carson and Barnes. He had left 
and gone on Carson and Barnes. I had gone to Circus Vargas, out in 
California with the horses, with the horse act. They weren’t quite broke 
yet. I was going to work on their horse until my horses were ready, 
 
 
32
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Loyal 
 
Finchum 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Loyal 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
which was the following year. And I came back to Carson and Barnes, 
and that’s when Moira and I, we put the riding act together and stuff.  
 
Constantly thinking. 
 
Yes, always, always. Always thinking. 
 
So the last circus you went to was Kelleys Island? 
 
I went to see my son to visit at Kelleys Island and kind of wound up 
working there, doing elephant rides and stuff. I didn’t perform in the 
show or anything, but they were so busy they needed help out on the 
elephant ride. So I got a bull hook or a stick, or whatever you want to 
call it, and just walked the elephant back and forth, giving them rides. 
That was hot, too. It was hot. They were busy. They had a very nice 
show, very nice show. You guys will have to catch Kelly Miller. 
 
We’re trying to. 
 
Good, good, good. 
 
Well, as a fan of the circus, now that you’re sitting in the stands, what 
do you look forward to the most when you watch a show? 
 
I’m real bad. You don’t want me to go watch a show, because I sit there 
and criticize. (Laughs) That’s, I guess, that’s what you get to do when 
you get to be my age. You get to go in there and criticize all these young 
performers. I would, “No. That looks bad! No, no, no.” You know what? 
I really don’t watch the show. There’s nothing in here that really 
intrigues me, unless I know it’s going to be a real good performer. And I 
would have to say this for Adrian Poema, his children with their foot 
juggling is awesome, awesome performers, their foot juggling. And I 
did—I saw them last year, work and everything. They’re very good. And 
other than that, I had already seen everything to see. And then rather 
than go in there and sit there and criticize, I go criticize my son while 
he’s working the elephants, “Oh, you need to comb your hair different. 
You look awful,” or, “Wear a different kind of shirt or something. You 
look terrible. Do you want me to teach you how to work elephants?” He 
say, “Don’t you have anything nice to say, Mom?” (Laughs)  
 
But I guess I earn that privilege, to criticize. But then there are a lot of 
acts that are just really, really amazing, very good, good, good acts. One 
of the nicest acts that was so impressive to me was—I think—I don’t 
know if they were Russian or Bulgarians, was they did a cradle act. 
What the heck was their name? It was Marinoff. They did a cradle act 
that was just—I mean, left you with your mouth wide open. The 
 
 
33
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
elegance and the tricks that they did, it was just—it was just 
unbelievable. They were so good.  
 
Cirque du Soleil has a lot of interesting and wonderful acts and stuff. 
And I like watching their acts, but I don’t like watching them when they 
dress them like…with noses and make them…I want to see their 
abilities. I know they want a theme behind what they are doing, and I 
understand that, but I don’t know. Like, for instance, I’ve been 
watching—I don’t know if you girls watch that Dance Moms or 
something like that, on TV? And I watch these little girls doing dance, 
and their athletic abilities in it. It’s just wonderful, but then they want to 
put themes that to me, it doesn’t make any sense. Rather than showing 
your abilities, how beautiful they can dance and stuff. Oh, well. I guess 
each to their own. 
 
Well, where do you see the future of the circus? Do you think we’ll still 
have it five, ten, fifteen, twenty years from now? 
 
I think there will always be a little circus around, maybe not big in any 
aspect, but I feel that there will always be a little circus. I don’t know if 
there will always be tigers and lions or elephants on the circuses, due to 
the animal activists, due to whatever. And I can see their point. I 
understand their point. I understand where they’re coming from. They 
don’t want animals to be abused. I understand that, and I agree with 
them on that. But just because there’s one bad apple doesn’t make 
everybody like that. For instance, like I told you about our horses and 
stuff. I have dogs that I had in my dog act outside in the backyard. 
They’re old. They’re ready to die, but I’m not going to go put them 
down until they’ve got to be put down. I mean, they served me well for 
several years, put food on the table, helped me pay my bills, and so why 
am I going to mistreat them because they don’t perform anymore? To 
me, they’re like part of my family.  
 
My daughter Mona, “Well, how many dogs have you still got?” 
(Laughs) I said, “Four, I think.” Let’s see, Lucky, that one…yes, I’ve 
got four. I said, “And they’re staying there ‘til they die. When they’re 
ready, then okay, but until then don’t worry about it. You don’t have to 
buy their dog food.” (Laughs) So anyway, “Well, how many horses you 
got? You’ve got a blind one over there!” I said, “Yes, and she’s not 
hurting anybody. She eats. She gets around just like—I put her in her 
pen. She knows her pen. She has her food. She has her hay. She has her 
water. Is she hurting you?” “No.” “Well, then, what do you care?” I said, 
“When she’s ready to be put down, I’ll put her down.” That’s just the 
way I feel about it. The animal aspect of it, like the lions, the tigers, the 
elephants and stuff, it’s a shame because some of these kids in the 
smaller, smaller towns that don’t get to go to zoos, that don’t get to see 
 
 
34
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Loyal 
 
Finchum 
 
Loyal 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
 
M. Loyal 
 
Loyal 
 
M. Loyal 
 
 
Loyal 
 
 
M. Loyal 
this, will be deprived of that, of not being able to see them.  
 
I’m going to tell you something I remember as a kid on the circus. We’d 
pull into a town, we’d work the fairgrounds. And in this fairgrounds, 
they would have the grandstands. Around the track they would have a 
big, wooden fence, all around this track. On this track, they would have 
car races, or they would have horse races, or they would have those 
junky cars that run into each other races, or whatever the hell they do. I 
can still smell the smell, even though it’s been a month since that 
happened or whatever, and the tickets that you could find on the ground 
for the races. They would sell—I don’t know—those souvenir stands 
where you’d put your finger in that little thing, like that, and try to pull 
it, and it was made out of some kind of grass or something. I remember 
all of that stuff and appreciate all that stuff. None of these kids know 
what that stuff is. They have no clue—nothing, nothing to let them 
remember, to think. Their memories are going to be about, “Oh, I went 
and smoked dope at Johnny’s house last week.” Or, “I got knocked up at 
Mary’s place.” They don’t have anything, and those are things that I 
think, like, with the circus and the animals and stuff that are memories 
that make character, that build people and stuff. 
 
Well, looking back at your long career in the circus, how do you want to 
be remembered? When people say Lucy… 
 
She made me laugh.  
 
Or your horses are loose. 
 
What? 
 
Or your horses are loose. (Laughs) 
 
Or your horses are loose! Mona could tell you that. “Nino! Your horses 
are loose!” 
 
Yesterday or the day before, “Your horses are loose down there.” 
 
They did! They sure did! 
 
I’m surprised they have not been getting fined yet from the police 
department. 
 
Yes, “We tied your horse up to the fence.” They did. They tied the 
brown one… 
 
We used to be at school, “Oh, Armando, your horse is out in the football 
 
 
35
 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Loyal 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Loyal 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
 
field.” I’m like, “Oh, my gosh! This is so embarrassing.” 
 
And they still do it. Christian—well, Christian was in Florida for his 
summer vacation. They called him, “Christian, your grandmother’s 
horses are loose.” Christian called me, “Granny, one of the horses are 
loose. He’s over behind the football stadium.” I had to go get him, seek 
him. 
 
See, you made us laugh. 
 
Oh! (Laughs) 
 
Well, is there anything else you’d like to add that we haven’t talked 
about? 
 
May all your days be circus days. (Laughs) No, I don’t know anything. 
Do you want to know more? 
 
Well, we’ve covered quite a bit, especially with your family and your 
family history and your career. 
 
And I don’t know if I ever mentioned I had a brother who was in the 
circus. His name is Luciano [Joseph] Loyal. He did bareback riding. I 
only have that one picture. I think I showed you the one picture. Did I 
not? 
 
I think so. 
 
I think so. 
 
The one picture of my brother, and he also was a boss canvasman, and 
he was a butcher. He and I did the riding act one year together, just one 
year. He and I did a riding act together, and it was 1969. I can even tell 
you the year it happened. I would’ve liked to have more pictures of that 
year with him and I doing the riding act. He used to be in the riding act 
when we were kids. I used to push him around and beat him up, and he’d 
say, “Some of these days, Lucy, I’m going to get you back when I grow 
up.” And he was killed on B.K.’s [Fisher Brothers Circus] circus. No, 
that’s pretty much the circus life of everyday, the same thing over and 
over, whether it’s rain, shine, hot, cold. It’s fun. It was a lot of fun. 
 
Wouldn’t trade it in. 
 
No. I wouldn’t trade none of it in. That’s just like what I was telling you 
about the tickets and the fairgrounds and stuff like that, being a kid on 
the circus. One year—I remember this. We were out in California. I had 
 
 
36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
 
M. Loyal 
 
 
Loyal 
 
M. Loyal 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to have been about eight years old. I’m going to say it was either ’58 or 
’59, something like that, and they had the irrigation ditches they would 
have. We were at this—I want to say fairgrounds, but I really can’t—and 
I remember it being fenced in, and I remember this little irrigation ditch 
coming around. It went behind the trailers and down like this, but then 
there were some trees real close to it, and the water was just rushing 
through this little irrigation ditch. It was so hot and all the circus people, 
all of us were in this little irrigation ditch, playing in that water that 
was—I mean, we had a ball in that irrigation ditch. That might’ve been 
the sewer for all I know, really, if you stop and think about it. But it was 
an irrigation ditch.  
 
When we were kids on the circus, I remember we used to go exploring. 
We’d go exploring, and then one time, there was a garbage dump. We 
were in the garbage dump. I was playing in the garbage dump, getting 
garbage, out of the garbage dump, people threw away and was playing, 
making a house and stuff with stuff out of the garbage dump, all of us 
circus kids. Boy, I bet you we smelled good when we came home! I still 
remember that. 
 
Good memories. 
 
Yes. See, you don’t want to trade that for nothing. Now, they’re worried 
about germs everywhere, and I played in a garbage dump! (Laughs) 
 
Well, would you do anything differently? 
 
No, I wouldn’t trade anything. Maybe I’d pick a different husband if I 
could have the same kids. 
 
That’s why I was looking like, “Hmm, wouldn’t change anything. Are 
you sure?” (Laughter) 
 
No, just think, though, Mona, you wouldn’t be here. 
 
I didn’t say me—the other ones. (Laughter) 
 
I don’t think I would trade. I might do some little things different. I think 
I might’ve studied harder, in that aspect of things. But as far as the other, 
no. I think no. I have a lot of good family, kid memories, traveling on 
the circus. Another time, we were in Canada, 1963. We were in Canada, 
and my dad had this truck, this bubble-nose truck. He was pulling a 
trailer that we had. It was a Midway. I remember him going—well, I 
don’t remember him going around the curb, but you weren’t supposed to 
ride in the trailers. Even now, you’re not supposed to ride in the trailer. 
You’re supposed to ride in the truck or the car or whatever—and my 
 
 
37
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Loyal 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
 
brother and I stayed in the trailer, because we didn’t want to get up. My 
dad had jackknifed this trailer, and it was on a dirt road somewhere in 
Canada. It was like a curve, and that trailer had jackknifed. The trailer 
had jackknifed out, like this. This back half was hanging off this—kind 
of like a cliff, an embankment thing. And there was a creek, but it wasn’t 
really a creek. It was a river. I couldn’t get the front door open to get out. 
Brains goes to the back door, I open the back door to go out, and I fell. I 
mean, this far away from falling into that river. I was really lucky, really, 
really lucky. But I remember that, and them fishing me out, throwing 
some rope to get me out. And I’m yelling at my brother not to [come 
that way], that we’d get him. So we broke the front window and got him 
out of the front window. But just things like that, that I remember. But 
now, I wouldn’t trade it because I learned something. Look before you 
jump. (Laughter) 
 
It’s those little life lessons. 
 
Yes, yes. (Laughter) And I sit back, and I had met a lot of local children, 
kids. I would go to their houses, and I would play. I have pictures with 
them. I don’t even know them. I don’t even know their names, don’t 
remember their names, but I remember that day, and I remember the 
house. I remember it was a two-story house. I remember a girl—this was 
in ’64—and her name was Mary. I remember the name of the town. It 
was Seymour, New York. I wrote her for a long time, but I don’t know 
what happened to her. And I had a picture of her. She was so pretty. 
Who knows what happened to her. It’s terrible. I wonder about people 
that I had met as a kid, and even after, as I was older, I wonder what 
happened to this lady. It’s so funny how so many lives intertwine with 
other peoples’ lives, and you’re touched by someone—like ours, you 
know? How we met just with this, how wonderful. It’s wonderful. 
 
And you had your horses. 
 
And you have horses? 
 
Oh, no. Oh, no, no. 
 
You don’t like horses? 
 
Oh, I have nothing against horses. 
 
Okay, you better like horses. 
 
Oh, I love horses! I’m about to get kicked out of this house…oh, horses 
are great! I have nothing against horses. 
 
 
 
38
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
Finchum 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
M. Loyal 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
M. Loyal 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
M. Loyal 
 
 
Loyal 
 
 
 
 
 
Yes, the circus is really—it’s a learning trip, actually, through life, the 
circus is. Being on the circus, not having water, I can take a bath in a 
gallon of water, and wash my hair and everything, in a gallon of water. 
Not having lights, and if something should ever happen, I know how to 
survive without. I wonder how many people in Hugo would know how. 
 
I know where they’d need to go. 
 
Mona would survive. Tina would—I know my kids would survive 
because they know how, but I wonder how many others. I think Moira 
would know how to survive. I think B.K. would know how. We just 
have gotten lazy, accustomed to air conditioning and light switches and 
stuff like that, but I know I could survive. 
 
We know where we’d come. 
 
I know where I’m going, yes. 
 
Well, come to my [house]. They were talking about there’s going to be a 
food shortage and all this stuff’s going to happen. I’m already thinking 
of what I’m going to put back.  
 
We’ve taken baths in buckets. We’ve done all kinds of crazy stuff. 
 
This one year, Mona was with me, it was when we were on Vargas. 
We’re coming home, right? It was hot. It was miserable, and I had hurt 
my knee. That’s when I had that surgery on my knee, and I had that 
brace on my leg. They wanted to stop and go to a swimming pool, and 
we couldn’t because I had my… 
 
It was so hot, and that’s when we broke down. 
 
It was called Hope City, a truck stop, Hope City, Arizona, between 
Blithe and Phoenix. So they wanted to go swimming, “It’s so hot! It’s so 
hot!” So I stopped at a K-Mart, and I bought a big, plastic trash barrel. 
Do you remember? 
 
Filled it up with water, and me and my cousins rode in the back, in the 
camper, in water with the trash barrel. It was so hot.  
 
And to keep from the water getting all over, I bought black trash bags, 
and I put up black trash bags so they wouldn’t get the couches wet. And 
that black trash bag would run, almost like a shower curtain type to go 
out the door, underneath the door, so if the water—it would run out on 
the ground. And that’s how they played all the [way back]. It took me 
like five days to get back to [Hugo]. Well, no, we broke down. It took us 
 
 
39
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
 
M. Loyal 
 
 
Loyal 
 
M. Loyal 
 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
 
Loyal 
 
Nykolaiszyn 
almost, like, ten days to get home. 
 
Wow. 
 
Yes. But that’s how I put those trash barrels in there, and they played in 
those trash barrels so they’d have water. 
 
But even on the circus if it was hot, we’d go jump in the elephant 
troughs or the horse troughs, all the kids playing out in the troughs. 
 
In the elephant trough and the horse troughs and stuff, yes. 
 
That was the swimming pool. That would be the swimming pool for us. 
That was a lot of fun. 
 
Well, I think this is a good place for us to end. 
 
Okay. 
 
Thank you so much for… 
 
Thank you. 
 
…sharing your life with us and giving us a glimpse into the circus. 
 
Thank you. Thank you for coming. 
 
We appreciate it. 
 
------- End of interview -------