John	  Bacone	  
	  
Interviewee:	  John	  Bacone,	  Director	  of	  Division	  of	  Nature	  Preserves	  
Interviewer:	  Jonathan	  “Jon”	  Kay	  
Time	  Stamp	  Index	  
Indiana	  Government	  Center,	  Indianapolis,	  IN	  
March	  20,	  2014	  
	  
	  
Video	  Clip:	  afc2013014_00920_mv01	  
0:00:00.0-­‐	  Leader-­‐	  March	  20,	  2014	  
0:00:37.9-­‐	  I'm	  John	  Bacone,	  I'm	  currently	  the	  director	  of	  the	  division	  of	  nature	  preserves	  within	  
the	  Indiana	  Department	  of	  Natural	  Resources	  and	  I've	  been	  working	  with	  the	  DNR	  since	  1974.	  	  
0:00:58.5-­‐	  (Jon)	  How’d	  you	  first	  became	  interested	  in	  state	  parks?	  
0:01:03.4-­‐	  Well	  okay,	  I	  grew	  up	  in	  Chicago	  and	  our	  family	  would	  take	  vacations	  and	  I	  was	  
probably	  going	  to	  be	  a	  history	  teacher	  I	  thought	  once	  as	  a	  career.	  	  
0:01:12.4-­‐	  We	  went	  to	  Brown	  County	  State	  Park	  on	  a	  vacation,	  I	  went	  up	  into	  the	  fire	  tower	  and	  
I	  looked	  out	  over	  the	  huge	  expansive	  forests	  and	  decided	  I	  was	  going	  to	  become	  a	  forest	  ranger.	  
0:01:22.1-­‐	  So	  then	  I	  went	  to	  college,	  went	  to	  Eastern	  Illinois,	  got	  a	  degree	  in	  botany.	  I	  thought	  
was	  going	  to	  transfer	  to	  Colorado	  and	  get	  a	  degree	  in	  forestry,	  but	  I	  stayed	  there	  and	  I	  went	  to	  
Illinois	  and	  got	  a	  masters	  in	  forest	  ecology.	  
0:01:36.0-­‐	  My	  very	  first	  job,	  I	  interviewed	  for	  becoming	  one	  of	  the	  team	  of	  the	  first	  permanent	  
naturalists	  in	  the	  Indiana	  State	  Parks.	  They	  hired	  6	  of	  us,	  I	  was	  hired	  for	  Turkey	  Run	  State	  Park,	  in	  
part	  I	  was	  hired	  for	  Turkey	  Run	  because	  it	  is	  popular	  for	  Chicago	  folks,	  they	  thought	  I	  might	  help	  
with	  kind	  of	  connecting	  with	  visitors	  there.	  When	  I	  was	  a	  kid	  we	  had	  been	  to	  Turkey	  Run	  many	  
times,	  so	  I	  was	  delighted	  to	  start	  my	  career	  at	  Turkey	  Run	  State	  Park.	  	  
0:02:05.0-­‐	  (Jon)	  one	  of	  the	  best	  properties...	  talk	  a	  little	  bit	  about	  the	  era	  when	  you	  went	  to	  
college	  and	  thinking	  about	  parks...	  special	  time	  in	  our	  country's	  history	  as	  far	  as	  environmental	  
awareness,	  heritage...	  
0:02:31.4-­‐	  It	  seems	  kind	  of	  odd...	  I	  think	  the	  first	  Earth	  Day,	  and	  the	  Endangered	  Species	  Act,	  and	  
the	  Environmental	  Protection	  Agency,	  all	  passed	  during	  that	  era,	  the	  ecology	  movement	  was	  
born	  then,	  at	  that	  time	  you	  couldn't	  get	  in	  ecology	  degree	  on	  college	  campuses,	  ecology	  was	  
cobbled	  together	  with	  a	  bunch	  of	  different	  sciences,	  was	  kind	  of	  pulled	  together	  to	  try	  
understand	  the	  natural	  areas,	  natural	  environment	  where	  we	  live	  in.	  
0:03:00.7-­‐	  We	  all	  were	  swept	  up	  in	  the	  enthusiasm	  in	  trying	  to	  protect	  the	  earth.	  Everybody	  was	  
recognizing	  there	  was	  a	  lot	  of	  pollution,	  natural	  lands	  were	  shrinking	  and	  development	  was	  
really	  coming	  out	  strong,	  there	  was	  a	  movement	  to	  save	  at	  least	  some	  of	  what's	  left	  so	  it	  can	  be	  
appreciated	  on	  into	  the	  future.	  	  
	  
Video	  Clip:	  afc2013014_00920_mv02	  
0:00:00.0-­‐	  (Jon)	  go	  back	  to	  talking	  about	  that	  first	  wave	  interpretive	  naturalist...	  different	  people	  
in	  that	  group...	  how	  did	  you	  find	  out	  about	  that	  job	  	  
0:00:29.0-­‐	  When	  I	  was	  getting	  done	  with	  college	  and	  I	  started	  looking	  for	  jobs,	  I	  got	  a	  
conservation	  directory	  that	  the	  National	  Wildlife	  Federation	  would	  put	  out	  and	  I	  started	  writing	  
letters.	  In	  thinking	  about	  what	  I	  studied	  in	  college,	  botany	  and	  zoology,	  it	  seemed	  the	  closest	  to	  
what	  I	  wanted	  to	  do	  because	  it	  was	  interpreting	  and	  explaining	  and	  showing	  other	  people	  the	  
wide	  array	  of	  the	  biological	  diversity	  that	  is	  in	  the	  parks.	  	  
0:00:55.5-­‐	  It	  was	  kind	  of	  a	  lucky	  fluke	  I	  think.	  I	  wrote	  to	  the	  state	  parks	  for	  a	  job	  right	  at	  exactly	  
the	  time	  they	  had	  just	  created	  opportunities	  to	  hire	  six	  new	  naturalists.	  So	  was	  very	  lucky,	  
because	  I	  could	  have	  theoretically	  ended	  up	  in	  forestry	  or	  some	  other	  career	  path.	  This	  seemed	  
like	  the	  closest	  thing	  that	  I	  wanted	  to	  pursue	  and	  I	  couldn't	  believe	  there	  was	  a	  chance	  to	  do	  
that.	  
0:01:20.5-­‐	  I	  know	  that	  state	  parks	  had	  always	  had	  naturalists,	  usually	  during	  the	  summers.	  They	  
decided	  to	  make	  it	  a	  year	  round	  connection	  with	  schools	  and	  communities	  that	  the	  parks	  were	  
in,	  right	  at	  that	  particular	  time,	  created	  six	  new	  positions	  and	  lucky	  enough,	  I	  was	  one	  of	  the	  six	  
that	  got	  hired.	  
0:01:41.6-­‐	  (Jon)	  finding	  work	  year	  round...	  how	  did	  learn	  to	  do	  what	  it	  is	  you	  do	  
0:02:01.5-­‐	  A	  lot	  of	  us	  were	  in	  biological	  sciences	  of	  some	  sort	  and	  actually	  probably	  would	  have	  
been	  happy	  to	  just	  be	  alone	  in	  the	  woods	  measuring	  trees	  and	  identifying	  plants	  and	  things.	  This	  
was	  a	  recreational	  oriented	  thing	  to	  try	  to	  connect	  the	  natural	  world	  and	  recreation.	  I	  wasn't	  
quite	  as	  comfortable	  as	  some	  people	  were	  with	  some	  of	  that,	  but	  it	  was	  pretty	  easy	  when	  the	  
majority	  of	  the	  time	  we	  were	  just	  scheduling	  hikes	  and	  trying	  to	  recruit	  people	  to	  come	  on	  our	  
hikes.	  
0:02:31.5-­‐	  Or	  conducting	  evening	  programs	  that	  mostly	  was	  trying	  to	  explain	  what	  the	  park	  was	  
to	  the	  visitors	  and	  encourage	  them	  to	  do	  some	  of	  the	  other	  activities	  that	  we	  were	  scheduling	  
over	  the	  weekends	  that	  they	  were	  there.	  In	  the	  wintertime,	  we	  did	  try	  to	  go	  out	  into	  the	  schools	  
and	  give	  talks	  and	  write	  articles	  sometimes	  for	  the	  newspapers	  about	  the	  park	  and	  some	  of	  the	  
features	  of	  the	  park,	  but	  also	  gave	  us	  time	  to	  try	  to	  get	  to	  know	  the	  park	  better	  and	  document	  
what	  was	  in	  the	  park.	  
	  
Video	  Clip:	  afc2013014_00920_mv03	  
0:00:00.0-­‐	  (Jon)	  Parke	  County	  is	  a	  beautiful	  place...	  also	  very	  rural...	  how	  is	  that	  coming	  from	  
Chicago	  and	  college	  life	  to	  Parke	  County?	  
0:00:26.0-­‐Well	  it	  was	  huge	  culture	  shock,	  my	  wife	  and	  I	  lived	  in	  Champagne	  Urbana	  and	  then	  we	  
came	  over	  to	  Parke	  County,	  you're	  kind	  of	  having	  to	  make	  a	  quick	  transition	  from	  a	  college	  
student	  kid	  to	  a	  professional	  and	  an	  adult	  in	  a	  new	  part	  of	  the	  world.	  But	  we	  found	  the	  people	  
there	  were	  so	  wonderful	  to	  get	  to	  know	  and	  easy	  to	  get	  to	  know,	  of	  course	  everybody	  knows	  
everybody.	  
0:00:54.8-­‐	  So	  people	  would	  find	  out	  and	  figure	  I	  was	  into	  certain	  things	  because	  I	  was	  a	  
naturalist,	  people	  were	  bringing	  pictures	  of	  big	  trees	  and	  all	  kinds	  of	  things	  like	  that	  that	  they	  
had	  grown	  up	  with.	  Their	  world	  was	  like	  living	  in	  a	  park	  sort	  of	  as	  opposed	  to	  me	  growing	  up	  in	  
Chicago	  or	  Champagne,	  they	  were	  out	  in	  the	  woods	  anytime	  they	  wanted	  to	  be	  and	  so	  on.	  A	  lot	  
of	  the	  locals	  were	  not	  quite	  as	  enamored	  with	  Turkey	  Run	  as	  the	  people	  visited	  from	  the	  city.	  
They	  appreciated	  it	  so	  much	  but	  they	  didn't	  need	  to	  go	  to	  Turkey	  Run	  to	  get	  away	  from	  
everyday	  life	  because	  they	  lived	  right	  by	  Sugar	  Creek	  and	  could	  go	  hiking	  in	  the	  woods	  any	  time	  
they	  wanted.	  It	  was	  clear	  they	  really	  loved	  and	  enjoyed	  the	  area	  and	  a	  lot	  things	  they	  gave	  me	  
helped	  me	  learn	  and	  helped	  me	  explain	  to	  visitors	  about	  the	  place.	  I	  got	  to	  really	  like	  ...	  Park	  
County	  is	  a	  beautiful	  place	  like	  you	  said.	  	  	  
0:01:48.0-­‐	  (Jon)	  any	  special	  people	  that	  took	  you	  under	  their	  wing?	  
0:01:52.9-­‐	  Yeah,	  there	  were.	  There	  was	  a	  couple	  interesting	  jobs	  people	  had	  a	  Turkey	  Run.	  
There	  was	  an	  old	  couple	  that	  cleaned	  toilets	  and	  they	  called	  them	  the	  Pit	  Crew,	  we	  would	  end	  
up	  going	  to	  their	  house	  and	  talking	  about	  stuff	  and	  have	  them	  over	  to	  our	  house	  for	  dinner	  and	  
so	  on.	  Some	  of	  the	  neighbors	  actually	  owned	  natural	  areas	  nearby,	  little	  sandstone	  alcoves	  and	  
cliffs	  and	  canyons	  that	  they	  always	  wanted	  to	  show	  off.	  Isn't	  this	  just	  like	  Turkey	  Run,	  yes,	  it's	  
like	  Turkey	  Run.	  In	  fact,	  it's	  better	  than	  Turkey	  Run	  because	  it's	  not	  so	  overused	  by	  all	  the	  
visitors.	  So	  there's	  a	  lot	  of	  that	  going	  on.	  	  
0:02:33.6-­‐	  In	  Parke	  County	  there	  is	  the	  maple	  sugar	  festival	  in	  February	  and	  there's	  covered	  
bridge	  festival.	  A	  lot	  of	  that	  attracts	  the	  same	  kind	  of	  people	  that	  come	  to	  the	  park.	  	  
0:02:48.2-­‐	  (Jon)	  how	  was	  to	  try	  to	  engage	  or	  did	  you	  try	  to	  engage	  with	  that	  local	  event	  (covered	  
bridge	  festival)?	  
0:03:01.8-­‐	  I	  didn't	  really	  need	  to	  try,	  the	  people	  that	  came	  down	  that	  week	  seem	  to	  mostly	  want	  
to	  go	  to	  be	  in	  the	  festival.	  They	  might	  stay	  at	  the	  Turkey	  Run	  Inn	  but	  they	  weren't	  as	  interested	  
in	  hiking	  in	  the	  park	  they	  wanted	  to	  go.	  Our	  biggest	  thing	  was	  try	  to	  avoid	  Rockville	  at	  that	  time	  
because	  of	  the	  traffic,	  so	  I	  did	  learn	  some	  of	  the	  back	  roads	  to	  get	  around.	  There	  were	  so	  many	  
booths	  set	  up	  and	  people	  selling	  interesting	  things,	  it	  was	  pretty	  fun.	  And	  occasionally	  I	  was	  
recruited	  to	  do	  a	  tour	  of	  some	  of	  the	  covered	  bridges,	  which	  is	  also	  pretty	  fun.	  
0:03:36.8-­‐	  (Jon)	  Talk	  a	  little	  about	  the	  camaraderie	  of	  that	  first	  cohort	  of	  interpretive	  naturalists	  
0:03:47.0-­‐	  We	  went	  to	  training	  together,	  all	  of	  us	  I	  think	  had	  just	  graduated	  from	  college,	  or	  
most	  of	  us	  one	  of	  them	  was	  a	  little	  bit	  older,	  but	  the	  rest	  of	  us	  were	  kind	  of	  right	  out	  of	  college.	  
Went	  to	  training	  together,	  tried	  to	  learn	  from	  each	  other	  what's	  working	  at	  your	  park,	  because	  
we	  were...	  pressure	  is	  the	  wrong	  word	  but	  we	  were	  expected	  to	  produce	  and	  have	  a	  lot	  of	  
activities	  and	  have	  a	  lot	  of	  attendants	  at	  our	  activities	  and	  have	  something	  almost	  every	  day	  
going	  on	  for	  the	  visitors.	  So	  we	  would	  commiserate	  together	  once	  in	  a	  while	  and	  learn	  from	  
each	  other’s	  mistakes	  and	  experiences.	  And	  they	  did	  have	  a	  get	  together	  for	  us	  midseason	  
where	  we	  got	  to	  kind	  of	  regroup	  and	  see	  with	  our	  boss,	  the	  chief	  naturalist,	  try	  to	  help	  us	  figure	  
out	  what's	  working	  and	  what's	  not	  working	  and	  so	  on.	  
0:04:32.8-­‐	  And	  we've	  stayed	  in	  touch,	  a	  lot	  of	  us	  have	  stayed	  in	  touch,	  it's	  been	  a	  long	  time	  since	  
then.	  We	  still...	  about	  four	  of	  us	  get	  together	  once	  in	  a	  while.	  
0:04:41.5-­‐	  (Jon)	  tell	  me	  about	  those	  first	  interpretive	  programs...	  what	  talks	  did	  you	  give	  
0:04:47.5-­‐	  It	  was	  pretty	  interesting	  because	  we	  were	  actually...	  we	  didn't	  have	  any	  equipment	  
for	  the	  most	  part,	  we	  didn't	  have	  anything.	  We	  didn't	  have	  a	  vehicle,	  I	  would	  take	  my	  own	  
vehicle,	  I	  would	  go	  to	  Terre	  Haute	  and	  rent	  some	  movies	  and	  one	  of	  things	  I	  would	  do	  was	  show	  
movies	  on	  a	  Friday	  night,	  silent	  movies	  or	  whatever,	  and	  that	  was	  kind	  of	  fun.	  I	  had	  to	  buy	  my	  
own	  camera	  and	  my	  own	  binoculars.	  There	  was	  a	  slide	  projector	  but	  there	  wasn't	  much	  so	  we	  
kind	  of	  had	  to	  improvise	  and	  kind	  of	  enhance	  the	  things	  that	  we	  used	  out	  of	  our	  own	  pockets	  to	  
try	  to	  build	  the	  suite	  of	  tools	  and	  things	  we	  had	  around.	  	  
0:05:27.5-­‐	  My	  programs	  were	  mostly	  pretty	  bare	  bones	  as	  slide	  shows	  and	  hikes	  for	  the	  most	  
part.	  Turkey	  Run	  has	  great	  long	  semi-­‐	  rugged	  trails,	  try	  to	  do	  a	  blend	  of	  some	  short	  easy	  trails	  
but	  you	  also	  try	  to	  do	  some	  longer	  ones,	  the	  longer	  ones	  would	  have	  fewer	  people	  and	  then	  you	  
would	  have	  a	  more	  intimate	  visit	  to	  the	  park	  and	  in	  a	  lot	  of	  ways	  more	  fun.	  	  
0:05:54.7-­‐	  (Jon)	  the	  programs	  were	  part	  natural,	  cultural-­‐history	  and	  almost	  part	  Saturday	  Night	  
Live...	  can	  you	  talk	  a	  little	  about...	  
0:06:15.2-­‐	  I	  wasn't	  quite	  as	  adept	  at	  some	  of	  that	  kind	  of	  stuff,	  I	  didn't	  do	  square	  dances	  and	  
didn't	  do	  skits	  myself.	  But	  when	  another	  naturalist	  would	  join	  us	  and	  there	  would	  be	  two	  of	  us	  
we	  could	  do	  some	  pretty	  fun	  things.	  I	  happen	  to	  know	  that	  the	  naturalist	  at	  Brown	  County	  and	  
his	  summer	  colleague	  they	  had	  a	  lot	  of	  Saturday	  Night	  Live	  kind	  of	  skits	  going	  on	  and	  I	  wish	  I	  
could	  have	  been	  on...	  because	  they	  were	  really	  fun	  and	  funny.	  I	  was	  a	  little	  more	  on	  the	  serious	  
side	  with	  my	  programs	  than	  I	  know	  some	  of	  the	  others	  were.	  
Video	  Clip:	  afc2013014_00920_mv04	  
0:00:00.0-­‐	  Each	  one	  of	  us	  worked	  with	  our	  preferences	  and	  our	  skills.	  A	  little	  later	  in	  the	  season	  
we	  established	  the	  junior	  naturalists	  program,	  which	  was	  really	  fun.	  Parents	  would	  bring	  down	  
their	  kids	  and	  come	  back	  week	  after	  week	  after	  week	  to	  do	  the	  activities	  and	  you	  could	  tell	  they	  
like	  the	  activities,	  we	  got	  a	  lot	  of	  positive	  feedback,	  and	  you	  really	  got	  to	  know	  these	  kids	  as	  they	  
were	  growing	  up	  over	  the	  course	  of	  the	  summer	  and	  the	  subsequent	  years	  some	  of	  them	  kept	  
coming	  back.	  
	  
Video	  Clip:	  afc2013014_00920_mv05	  
0:00:00.0-­‐	  (Jon)	  tell	  me	  how	  long	  you	  worked	  as	  an	  interpretive	  naturalist	  
0:00:06.2-­‐	  I	  didn't	  work	  at	  that	  for	  very	  long.	  I	  was	  there	  a	  little	  over	  a	  year	  and	  then	  state	  of	  
Illinois	  got	  a	  legislative	  appropriation	  to	  do	  a	  total	  inventory	  of	  the	  state	  to	  find	  out	  where	  the	  
remaining	  natural	  areas	  were.	  I	  was	  very	  interested	  in	  that	  as	  well	  and	  I	  got	  hired	  to	  be	  one	  of	  
those	  folks,	  I	  left	  IN	  after	  about	  a	  year	  and	  a	  half	  and	  went	  to	  Illinois	  for	  about	  three	  years,	  and	  
worked	  on	  a	  natural	  area's	  inventory.	  The	  state	  was	  trying	  to	  figure	  out	  what	  they	  had	  and	  kind	  
of	  write	  them	  up	  and	  figure	  out,	  if	  they	  had	  some	  money,	  which	  places	  should	  they	  buy.	  
0:00:44.1-­‐	  After	  that	  was	  over,	  the	  job	  in	  Division	  of	  Nature	  Preserves	  here	  in	  the	  DNR	  opened	  
up	  for	  the	  assistant	  director	  and	  I	  was	  lucky	  enough	  to	  be	  available	  at	  the	  time	  that	  opened	  up	  
and	  I	  got	  that.	  The	  work	  I	  had	  just	  done	  in	  Illinois	  was	  perfect	  for	  coming	  back	  to	  doing	  that	  
because	  that	  was	  what	  Indiana	  needed	  to	  do	  as	  well,	  find	  out	  where	  our	  remaining	  natural	  areas	  
are,	  so	  that's	  been	  the	  rest	  of	  my	  career.	  
0:01:05.7-­‐	  (Jon)	  a	  nature	  reserve...	  what	  is	  that,	  where	  are	  they,	  how	  do	  they	  come	  into	  being	  
0:01:25.8-­‐	  That's	  a	  good	  question.	  In	  the	  late	  60s	  was	  a	  professor	  at	  Purdue,	  Alton	  Lindsey,	  and	  
he	  and	  a	  couple	  colleagues	  conducted	  an	  inventory	  of	  the	  state	  to	  find	  out	  and	  catalogue	  the	  
remaining	  natural	  areas	  that	  they	  were	  aware	  of.	  And	  they	  wrote	  a	  book	  called	  Natural	  Areas	  in	  
Indiana	  and	  Their	  Preservation,	  and	  that	  lead	  an	  impetus	  for	  the	  Nature	  Preserves	  Act	  to	  be	  
passed.	  Legislature	  passed	  the	  act	  basically	  recognizing	  that	  Indiana	  was	  losing	  almost	  all	  of	  the	  
original	  Indiana	  due	  to	  settlement,	  cleared	  many	  of	  the	  woods	  and	  drained	  many	  of	  the	  
wetlands,	  big	  cities	  and	  so	  on,	  and	  they	  said	  it's	  important	  that	  we	  save	  some	  of	  what	  was	  here	  
when	  the	  settlers	  first	  came	  for	  the	  benefit	  of	  future	  generations.	  
0:02:07.3-­‐	  They	  passed	  the	  Act,	  charging	  the	  DNR	  with	  trying	  to	  find	  these	  places	  and	  protect	  
them,	  and	  when	  we	  protect	  them	  they	  are	  dedicated	  as	  nature	  preserves	  which	  is	  an	  in	  
perpetuity	  protection.	  They	  are	  not	  ever	  to	  be	  allowed	  to	  be	  taken	  for	  another	  use.	  So	  we've	  
done	  our	  best	  to	  try	  to	  find	  these	  places,	  work	  with	  all	  kinds	  of	  partners,	  find	  money	  and	  so	  on	  
and	  buy	  a	  lot	  of	  these.	  
0:02:30.0-­‐	  What	  they	  are	  is	  original	  pieces	  of	  Indiana,	  old	  growth	  forests,	  prairies,	  savannahs,	  
bogs,	  bends,	  springs,	  caves,	  little	  pieces	  of	  it	  that	  are	  as	  undisturbed	  as	  possible.	  The	  hand	  of	  
man	  has	  pretty	  much	  affected	  everything	  somewhat	  but	  there's	  some	  incredibly	  pristine	  places	  
still	  around.	  You	  can	  go	  into	  some	  nature	  preserves	  and	  say	  'this	  is	  a	  miniature	  Turkey	  Run	  State	  
Park'.	  They're	  not	  all	  like	  that	  but	  some	  of	  them	  are:	  Portland	  Arch	  Nature	  Preserves	  has	  a	  
natural	  bridge,	  sandstone	  canyons,	  white	  pine	  trees,	  beautiful	  place.	  We	  put	  a	  minimal	  amount	  
of	  development	  in	  them:	  parking	  lot	  and	  a	  trail	  and	  pretty	  much	  no	  consumptive	  uses,	  no	  
camping,	  passive	  recreation	  only	  so	  that	  they	  cast	  a	  fairly	  undisturbed	  and	  therefore	  continue	  to	  
be	  a	  good	  home	  for	  the	  plants	  and	  animals	  that	  are	  there	  as	  well.	  
0:03:18.2-­‐	  There's	  260	  nature	  preserves	  right	  now	  scattered	  around	  the	  state,	  a	  lot	  of	  different	  
ownerships,	  many	  of	  the	  best	  ones	  are	  on	  the	  state	  parks,	  others	  are	  on	  the	  state	  forest	  and	  
wildlife	  areas,	  a	  number	  of	  them	  Division	  of	  Nature	  Preserves	  manages	  ourselves.	  And	  then	  land	  
trusts	  like	  the	  Nature	  Conservancy	  and	  other	  land	  trusts	  around	  the	  state	  own	  a	  number	  of	  
these	  and	  we	  dedicate	  them	  and	  help	  protect	  them	  from	  the	  next	  new	  highway	  or	  power	  line,	  
they	  have	  to	  go	  around	  those,	  they	  can't	  go	  through	  them.	  
0:03:46.6-­‐(Jon)	  we	  think	  about	  protecting	  the	  land	  kind	  of	  like	  museums...	  	  	  natural	  systems	  
don't	  quite	  work	  that	  way...	  what	  did	  you	  have	  to	  learn	  beyond	  identifying	  and	  setting	  these	  
aside	  
0:04:23.1-­‐	  That's	  what	  I	  used	  to	  think.	  I	  would	  hope	  is	  that	  you	  would	  set	  them	  aside.	  Of	  course,	  
that's	  the	  most	  important	  this	  is	  to	  set	  them	  aside.	  But	  you're	  right,	  this	  is	  the	  21st	  century,	  a	  lot	  
of	  the	  nature	  preserves	  were	  out	  in	  the	  country	  and	  now	  cities	  are	  encroaching	  on	  them,	  and	  
invasive	  species,	  something	  none	  of	  us	  ever	  really	  anticipated	  are	  here.	  Species	  get	  introduced	  
from	  somewhere,	  Gypsy	  Moth,	  Purple	  Loosestrife,	  just	  like	  a	  museum	  curates	  an	  old	  pioneer	  
quilt	  or	  a	  historic	  building,	  that's	  what	  we	  have	  to	  do.	  We	  do	  our	  best	  either	  to	  try	  to	  remove	  
those	  infestations	  and	  keep	  them	  in	  a	  natural	  condition	  and	  to	  emulate	  the	  natural	  processes.	  
0:05:06.2-­‐	  Wildfires	  used	  to	  sweep	  across	  the	  state	  and	  of	  course	  there's	  always	  been	  tornados	  
and	  floods.	  Now	  we	  don't	  have	  fires	  anymore,	  a	  lot	  of	  the	  areas	  like	  oak	  woodlands	  or	  prairies	  or	  
savannahs	  have	  to	  have	  fire,	  so	  we	  put	  prescribed	  fires	  on	  the	  ground,	  we	  do	  our	  best	  to	  keep	  
those	  prairies	  in	  an	  ecologically	  healthy	  and	  viable	  condition.	  It's	  a	  lot	  more	  work	  than	  I	  would	  
have	  thought	  and	  it's	  a	  worthwhile	  investment.	  If	  we	  can	  keep	  the	  invasive	  species	  out	  when	  we	  
spot	  them,	  it's	  a	  lot	  easier	  than	  later	  after	  it's	  become	  a	  huge	  infestation,	  we	  have	  to	  remove	  
them	  and	  restore	  the	  area.	  So	  it's	  kind	  of	  constant	  curating	  of	  natural	  areas	  just	  like	  they	  have	  to	  
do	  in	  the	  state	  museum	  with	  their	  pioneer	  quilts	  and	  things.	  
0:05:50.2-­‐(Jon)	  tell	  me	  a	  little	  bit	  about	  prescribed	  burning...	  people	  perception,	  learning...	  	  
0:06:21.8-­‐	  This	  far	  east	  in	  the	  prairie	  peninsula	  we	  get	  so	  much	  more	  rain	  than	  out	  west	  so	  they	  
don't	  necessarily	  need	  so	  much	  prescribed	  fire.	  In	  the	  west	  when	  there	  is	  lighting	  and	  no	  rain,	  a	  
fire	  starts	  and	  prairie	  get	  burned,	  but	  here	  when	  there's	  lightning,	  there's	  rain.	  We	  finally	  
realized	  we	  are	  so	  far	  east	  with	  the	  prairies	  that	  if	  we	  don't	  burn	  them	  they	  become	  shrub	  
thickets	  in	  a	  hurry.	  
	  
	  
Video	  Clip:	  afc2013014_00920_mv06	  
0:00:00.0-­‐	  Had	  to	  start	  burning,	  everybody	  goes	  'So	  how	  do	  we	  do	  that?'	  	  When	  I	  started	  
working	  in	  Nature	  Preserves	  there	  were	  just	  two	  of	  us	  anyway	  and	  we	  got	  our	  friends	  in	  the	  
Division	  of	  Forestry	  who	  actually	  have	  fire	  headquarters,	  they're	  more	  involved	  with	  putting	  out	  
fires.	  But	  we	  all	  had	  to	  start	  taking	  courses	  on	  fire	  behavior	  and	  weather	  and	  things	  like	  that	  and	  
learned	  how	  to	  conduct	  burns.	  
0:00:24.2-­‐	  So	  we	  started	  burning	  the	  prairies	  and	  then	  when	  we	  talked	  to	  the	  folks	  in	  the	  state	  
parks	  they	  still	  had	  the	  hope	  too	  that	  'Hey,	  we've	  set	  this	  park	  aside	  and	  we	  don't	  need	  to	  do	  
any	  management	  on	  it.'	  And	  then	  they	  evolved	  to	  go	  okay	  some	  nature	  preserves	  if	  they	  need	  
fire	  you	  can	  do	  them	  and	  they've	  now	  evolved	  just	  like	  we	  have,	  realizing	  that	  there	  are	  invasive	  
species	  and	  other	  things	  that	  natural	  resource	  management	  is	  a	  constant	  thing	  that	  has	  to	  be	  
done.	  	  
0:00:49.8-­‐	  But	  we	  do	  prescribe	  fire,	  we	  do	  have	  a	  burn	  plan	  we	  do	  in	  advance.	  It	  prescribes	  the	  
weather	  conditions,	  we	  can't	  have	  a	  wind	  over	  a	  certain	  speed	  and	  we	  can't	  have	  humidity	  too	  
low.	  We	  don't	  want	  it	  to	  become	  a	  wildfire,	  we	  don't	  want	  to	  lose	  the	  fire	  and	  have	  it	  jump	  to	  a	  
neighbor's	  land.	  So	  we	  have	  a	  burn	  plan	  we	  put	  in	  fire	  lanes,	  we	  have	  a	  burn	  crew	  with	  proper	  
equipment,	  we	  get	  the	  permits	  from	  the	  Board	  of	  Health	  and	  IDEM	  (Indiana	  Department	  of	  
Environmental	  Management)	  about	  the	  air	  pollution	  concerns.	  We	  have	  local	  fire	  department	  
and	  county	  police	  on	  alert,	  they're	  aware	  we	  are	  doing	  it.	  We	  try	  to	  alert	  our	  neighbors	  before	  
we	  do	  it	  so	  we	  don't	  try	  to	  blow	  smoke	  on	  ours	  neighbors'	  properties.	  
0:01:26.7-­‐	  So	  that's	  all	  pretty	  complicated	  to	  try	  to	  pull	  off	  with	  the	  right	  weather	  conditions.	  
Some	  places	  you	  can	  only	  have	  a	  burn	  with	  a	  wind	  out	  of	  the	  west,	  some	  only	  out	  of	  the	  north.	  
Some	  of	  them	  have	  high	  speed	  highways	  running	  through	  them,	  we	  have	  neighbors	  that	  are	  
railroads	  and	  tank	  farms.	  We	  don't	  want	  a	  fire	  to	  get	  away	  from	  us	  and	  we	  do	  our	  best	  though	  
to	  bur.	  And	  we	  have	  probably	  50	  places	  that	  ideally	  would	  get	  burned	  every	  year	  and	  they	  don't	  
all	  get	  burned	  so	  it's	  quite	  involved,	  it's	  quite	  exciting.	  	  
0:01:56.7-­‐	  The	  people	  that	  are	  the	  burn	  boss	  have	  to	  take	  more	  courses	  than	  the	  people	  that	  
are	  on	  the	  burn	  crew.	  People	  have	  to	  pass	  a	  test	  to	  prove	  they	  have	  the	  stamina	  and	  capability	  
in	  smoke	  to	  be	  able	  to	  have	  a	  pack	  on	  their	  back	  and	  so	  as	  you	  get	  older	  it	  gets	  harder	  to	  be	  able	  
to	  pass	  that	  test	  so	  we	  are	  always	  looking	  to	  recruit	  younger	  people,	  wear	  fireproof	  clothing,	  
goggles,	  helmets,	  gloves,	  it's	  pretty	  interesting	  and	  pretty	  exciting.	  
0:02:27.3-­‐	  It	  takes	  hours	  and	  hours	  to	  get	  ready	  to	  start	  the	  burn	  and	  sometimes	  the	  burn	  could	  
be	  done	  once	  it's	  started	  in	  a	  very	  short	  time.	  
	  
	  
	  
Video	  Clip:	  afc2013014_00920_mv07	  
0:00:00.0-­‐	  (Jon)	  were	  you	  a	  participant	  in	  some	  of	  those	  early	  prescribed	  burns	  
0:00:11.9-­‐	  Yes,	  I	  went	  through	  the	  training	  and	  I	  was	  at	  quite	  a	  few	  burns	  for	  a	  while,	  now	  not	  so	  
often.	  I	  am	  frustrated	  biologist,	  more	  in	  the	  office	  than	  I	  wish	  but	  when	  we're	  going	  to	  start	  
some	  burning	  later	  this	  week	  again	  and	  one	  of	  the	  big	  challenges	  is	  getting	  enough	  people.	  And	  
so	  we	  pass	  around	  in	  our	  office	  a	  burn	  availability	  list	  to	  see	  who's	  available	  on	  certain	  day.	  The	  
burn	  plan	  I've	  mentioned	  earlier	  you	  have	  to	  have	  a	  minimum	  of	  a	  certain	  number	  of	  people	  
that	  you	  just	  have	  to	  have	  and	  they	  all	  have	  duties,	  different	  duties	  and	  so	  on,	  once	  in	  a	  while	  I	  
still	  get	  called	  and	  participate,	  it's	  pretty	  exciting	  and	  pretty	  fun.	  
0:00:53.9-­‐	  (Jon)	  tell	  me	  a	  story	  of	  one	  of	  the	  successes	  of	  starting	  to	  do	  prescribing	  burning	  and	  
maybe	  a	  story	  where	  things	  didn't	  go	  quite	  as	  you	  had	  hoped	  
0:01:21.4-­‐	  Our	  state	  bought	  Hoosier	  Prairie	  Nature	  Preserve	  in	  Lake	  County	  and	  when	  they	  
bought	  it,	  it	  was	  out	  in	  the	  country	  but	  it's	  pretty	  much	  now	  it	  is	  ringed	  by	  subdivisions	  right	  
now.	  But	  when	  we	  bought	  it	  and	  it	  cost	  a	  lot	  of	  money	  at	  the	  time	  $1	  million	  then	  everybody	  
knew	  it	  had	  to	  be	  burned	  and	  how	  were	  we	  gonna	  do	  that.	  They	  started	  talking	  to	  the	  folks	  in	  
the	  Division	  of	  Forestry	  and	  met	  on	  site	  and	  actually	  everybody	  was	  a	  little	  bit	  afraid	  of	  
something	  going	  wrong.	  So	  it	  was	  wise,	  we	  did	  overkill,	  the	  Division	  of	  Forestry	  brought	  in	  
people	  from	  out	  of	  state	  that	  had	  been	  involved	  with	  burns.	  They	  brought...	  they	  got	  huge	  
trucks	  that	  held	  water	  and	  so	  on.	  There	  was	  a	  huge	  crew	  of	  people	  at	  Hoosier	  Prairie	  within	  the	  
boundaries	  of	  the	  National	  Lakeshore	  as	  well,	  they	  came	  over	  and	  helped.	  I	  can	  remember	  when	  
we...	  and	  we	  have	  to	  close	  the	  high-­‐speed	  main	  street	  that	  goes	  through	  there,	  people	  beeping,	  
honking	  their	  horns	  and	  kind	  of	  not	  so	  happy.	  
0:02:29.5-­‐	  Whatever	  we	  did	  actually	  call	  all	  of	  the...	  and	  it's	  in	  three	  towns	  I	  didn't	  mention	  that,	  
it's	  within	  the	  town	  of	  Griffith,	  Highland	  and	  Merriville,	  so	  there's	  three	  sets	  of	  police,	  three	  sets	  
of	  fire	  department,	  public	  works	  people	  and	  so	  on.	  But	  we	  did	  a	  pretty	  good	  job	  of	  coordinating	  
all	  that...	  so	  you	  asked	  about	  a	  big	  success,	  when	  we	  got	  done	  with	  that	  first	  burn,	  there	  was	  just	  
a	  collective	  huge	  sigh	  of	  relief	  and	  a	  little	  celebration	  because	  it	  went	  really	  well	  and	  we	  felt	  
really	  good	  about	  it.	  
0:02:57.3-­‐	  (Jon)	  the	  byproduct	  from	  the	  seeable	  benefits	  that	  came	  
0:03:04.7-­‐	  It	  was	  not	  shocking	  actually,	  we	  kind	  of	  knew	  we	  had	  to	  do	  it.	  And	  in	  fact	  before	  we	  
did	  the	  burn	  we	  put	  some	  permanent	  vegetation	  plots	  in	  place	  and	  we've	  actually	  been	  
monitoring	  them	  for	  over	  30	  years	  going	  back	  and	  seeing	  what's	  happened	  over	  time	  as	  we've	  
burned	  or	  not	  burned.	  And	  at	  Hoosier	  Prairie	  there's	  a	  lot	  of	  very	  rare	  plants	  and	  when	  we	  did	  
that	  first	  burn	  a	  lot	  of	  the	  shrubs	  had	  gotten	  fairly	  large	  and	  occupied	  a	  lot	  of	  space	  and	  by	  the	  
burn	  top	  killing	  them	  it	  doesn't	  kill	  the	  plants	  it	  just	  top	  kills.	  A	  lot	  more	  sunlight,	  a	  lot	  more	  
space,	  a	  lot	  more	  nutrients	  released	  from	  the	  ash	  of	  the	  vegetation	  material	  that	  was	  burned	  
and	  so	  on,	  there	  was	  a	  flush	  of	  a	  lot	  more	  different	  species	  showed	  up	  in	  those	  plots	  that	  
weren't	  there	  the	  prior	  year.	  And	  they	  were	  the	  kind	  of	  species	  that	  belonged	  there	  so	  that	  was	  
also	  kind	  of	  documenting	  that	  this	  was	  a	  good	  thing	  and	  a	  necessary	  thing	  and	  we	  better	  keep	  
doing	  it.	  
0:04:00.4-­‐	  (Jon)	  how	  about	  a	  failure	  or	  struggle	  story	  
0:04:06.2-­‐	  Probably	  talk	  about	  the	  same	  place,	  because	  we've	  had	  neighbors	  calling	  and	  
complaining,	  a	  person	  with	  asthma,	  very	  angry.	  If	  we	  didn't	  alert	  somebody	  in	  advance	  they	  
were	  kind	  of	  ...	  occasionally	  there	  has	  been	  on	  the	  same	  day	  we're	  burning	  about	  a	  half	  mile	  to	  
the	  north	  there's	  a	  little	  fire	  that	  starts	  up.	  It	  turned	  out	  there	  were	  some	  kids	  probably	  set	  it	  at	  
exactly	  the	  same	  time,	  we're	  always	  on	  the	  alert	  for	  the	  we	  call	  them	  spot	  fires,	  you	  start	  a	  fire	  
sparks	  go	  up	  in	  the	  air,	  might	  come	  down	  somewhere	  else.	  So	  at	  times,	  we've	  just	  had	  to	  be	  
calling	  the	  volunteer	  fire	  department	  to	  help	  us	  come	  put	  something	  out.	  But	  when	  we	  started	  
doing	  this	  we	  started	  asking	  these	  towns	  about	  it	  they	  were	  saying	  we're	  so	  happy	  you're	  here,	  
because	  you're	  gonna	  be	  burning	  it	  when	  you	  want	  to	  burn	  it	  with	  the	  right	  environmental	  
conditions.	  And	  when	  you	  don't	  burn	  it	  the	  kids	  set	  fires	  on	  the	  most	  fantastic	  day	  for	  wildfires,	  
very	  dry	  high	  winds	  and	  then	  we've	  got	  to	  run	  around	  and	  try	  to	  save	  houses	  and	  put	  the	  fires	  
out.	  You	  guys	  come	  here	  and	  burn	  it	  with	  calm	  reasonable	  environmental	  conditions	  and	  then	  
the	  area's	  burned	  and	  the	  kids	  can't	  set	  it	  on	  fire.	  Those	  towns	  kind	  of	  grew	  up	  with	  the	  fires	  and	  
we're	  actually	  fairly	  happy	  that	  we	  were	  there	  to	  do	  them	  at	  the	  right	  time	  under	  the	  right	  
conditions.	  
0:05:30.2-­‐(Jon)	  the	  biggest	  change	  that	  you've	  seen	  working	  with	  the	  parks	  	  
0:05:38.1-­‐	  One	  super	  wonderful	  change	  has	  been	  especially	  how	  the	  state	  parks	  have	  really	  
gotten	  into	  resource	  management.	  Because	  there's	  a	  lot	  more,	  and	  they	  have	  geared	  up,	  they	  
have	  a	  lot	  of	  fire	  crews	  that	  can	  also	  be	  burning	  at	  the	  same	  time	  and	  we	  all	  collaborate	  
together	  sometimes	  parks	  people	  sometimes	  we'll	  help	  them	  and	  so	  on.	  That's	  been	  a	  big	  
positive	  change.	  The	  price	  of	  land	  has	  really	  gone	  through	  the	  roof,	  so	  that's	  a	  big	  change	  that	  
makes	  it	  harder	  to	  buy.	  We're	  lucky	  we	  bought	  what	  we	  did	  when	  we	  bought	  it	  because	  we	  
couldn't	  afford	  it	  today.	  And	  then	  the	  biggest	  change	  that	  sort	  of	  you	  can't	  turn	  back	  the	  clock	  is	  
the	  urban	  and	  sprawling	  encroachment	  that	  so	  many	  of	  these	  places	  were	  rural	  and	  now	  they're	  
urban.	  It	  makes	  them	  harder	  to	  manage	  and	  it	  makes	  for	  a	  lot	  more	  chance	  for	  kind	  of	  bad	  
things	  to	  happen	  in	  the	  preserves	  or	  kids	  running	  around	  or	  building	  forts	  or	  starting	  a	  fire,	  this	  
or	  that,	  because	  they're	  now...	  Instead	  of	  a	  neighbor	  of	  two	  farmers	  we	  might	  have	  hundreds	  of	  
neighbors	  at	  the	  same	  place	  that	  30	  years	  ago	  our	  neighbors	  we	  two	  people,	  so	  that's	  a	  big	  
change.	  
	  
	  
	  
Video	  Clip:	  afc2013014_00920_mv08	  
0:00:00.0-­‐	  (Jon)	  cell	  phone	  issue...	  	  
0:00:24.9-­‐	  (Jon)	  state	  worker	  as	  being	  bureaucratic	  positions...	  jobs	  like	  yours	  is	  very	  
specialized...	  talk	  a	  little	  about	  the	  legacy	  of	  your	  work	  
0:01:10.6-­‐	  The	  few	  that	  asks,	  somebody	  said	  what	  is	  our	  field	  exactly,	  our	  field	  people	  are	  called	  
ecologists,	  but	  	  it's	  really	  turned	  into	  natural	  area	  science	  or	  natural	  area	  restoration	  is	  the	  field	  
which,	  like	  ecology,	  was	  kind	  of	  cobbled	  together	  in	  part	  we	  learned	  as	  we	  go.	  We're	  looking	  
ideally	  for...	  and	  we're	  having	  people	  retire	  and	  we	  have	  some	  vacancies	  that	  we	  have	  to	  fill	  and	  
we	  have	  to	  pass	  on	  this	  information.	  So	  they	  know	  what	  we're	  doing	  and	  why	  we're	  doing	  it.	  You	  
still	  ideally	  need	  a	  person	  that	  has	  good	  botanical	  skills	  and	  good	  animal	  skills,	  knowledge.	  But	  
also	  they	  need	  to	  be	  someone	  knows	  how	  to	  almost	  in	  part	  be	  a	  farmer,	  knows	  how	  to	  use	  tools,	  
use	  the	  equipment,	  trained	  certified	  to	  apply	  herbicide,	  trained	  to	  be	  able	  to	  do	  prescribed	  fire,	  
trained	  at	  some	  level	  in	  interpretation	  because	  we	  want	  to	  pass	  on	  also	  to	  the	  public	  what	  we're	  
doing	  and	  why	  we're	  doing	  it	  and	  have	  them	  understand	  and	  appreciate	  these	  places.	  
0:02:19.5-­‐	  Ideally	  occasionally	  you	  give	  talks,	  you	  lead	  hikes,	  you	  write	  articles,	  so	  you	  really	  
have	  a	  well-­‐rounded	  person	  that	  you	  need	  to	  have.	  And	  the	  colleges	  have...	  a	  lot	  of	  colleges	  
have	  moved	  away	  from	  taxonomic	  to	  more	  molecular	  and	  it's	  gotten	  harder	  to	  find	  people	  that	  
are	  getting	  trained	  to	  do	  this	  kind	  of	  thing.	  That's	  been	  a	  challenge	  but	  we	  do	  have	  some	  great	  
colleges	  and	  universities	  in	  Indiana	  and	  we're	  actually	  finding	  plenty	  of	  people	  that	  look	  like,	  
give	  us	  hope	  and	  optimism	  for	  the	  future.	  We	  have	  a	  vacancy	  right	  now	  and	  there's	  already	  39	  
applications	  and	  over	  half	  of	  them	  look	  like	  they've	  got	  the	  skills	  that	  could	  do	  the	  job	  so	  that's	  
helpful	  to	  know.	  
0:03:04.8-­‐	  (Jon)	  political	  savvy...	  is	  there	  thought	  about	  that	  side	  of	  things	  
0:03:44.8-­‐	  Yeah,	  it's	  kind	  of	  you	  have	  to.	  Nature	  preserves	  are	  intended	  to	  be	  protected	  in	  
perpetuity	  but	  for	  instance,	  one	  of	  the	  things	  we	  don't	  want	  to	  have	  is	  a	  weak	  link	  in	  the	  system.	  
These	  need	  to	  be	  places	  that	  deserve	  to	  be	  nature	  preserves	  so	  they	  have	  to	  have,	  why	  did	  you	  
save	  this	  place...	  well	  there's	  these	  rare	  plants	  here	  and	  this	  is	  the	  only	  one	  of	  three	  bogs	  left	  in	  
the	  state.	  You	  don't	  want	  to	  have	  to	  defend	  a	  place	  that's	  hard	  to	  defend	  so	  there's	  that	  that	  
needs	  to	  go	  into	  it	  at	  the	  front	  end.	  And	  then	  we	  are	  involved	  with	  the	  environmental	  review	  
process	  as	  well	  and	  one	  thing	  we've	  tried	  to	  do	  is	  all	  the	  powers	  that	  be	  that	  issue	  permits	  or	  the	  
developers	  and	  so	  on,	  make	  them	  aware	  and	  ask	  in	  advance	  so	  they	  can	  learn	  where	  the	  special	  
places	  are	  and	  plan	  the	  developments	  to	  avoid	  them.	  What	  we	  don't	  want	  is	  what	  they	  call	  
these	  train	  wrecks	  where	  nobody	  checked	  with	  anybody	  and	  all	  of	  a	  sudden	  here's	  the	  road	  
ready	  to	  go	  and	  they	  find	  out	  there's	  a	  nature	  preserve	  there	  and	  they	  can't	  go	  there	  so	  we're	  
trying	  to	  make	  the...	  
0:04:47.4-­‐	  And	  we	  want	  to	  have	  the	  people	  that	  the	  nature	  preserve	  is	  in	  their	  county	  or	  
whatever,	  hopefully	  they	  like	  it,	  understand	  it	  and	  support	  it	  and	  will	  defend	  it.	  Because	  we	  can't	  
do	  all	  of	  that	  ourselves.	  It's	  kind	  of	  a	  tricky	  combination	  of	  political	  finesse	  and	  little	  bit	  of	  
looking	  at	  the	  crystal	  ball	  and	  that	  kind	  of	  thing	  going	  on.	  It	  does	  continue	  to	  evolve.	  That'll	  be	  
kind	  of	  hard	  to	  have...	  if	  I	  was	  just	  starting	  today	  and	  here's	  your	  job,	  it's	  hard	  to	  kind	  of	  make	  
somebody	  aware	  of	  all	  those	  potential	  pitfalls	  and	  challenges	  that	  they're	  going	  to	  face	  going	  
forward.	  Like	  you	  said,	  we	  grew	  up	  with	  this	  and	  it	  evolved	  with	  us.	  When	  I	  started	  there	  were	  
about	  40	  nature	  preserves	  and	  that's	  a	  lot	  smaller	  than	  260	  nature	  preserves	  is	  an	  example.	  
When	  I	  started	  there	  were	  2	  of	  us	  and	  now	  we	  have	  8	  regional	  ecologists	  scattered	  around	  the	  
state	  to	  help	  care	  for	  these	  places	  so	  we've	  kind	  of	  grown	  proportionally.	  
0:05:49.7-­‐	  (Jon)	  got	  one	  more	  pair	  of	  questions...	  [clip	  cuts]	  
	  
Video	  Clip:	  afc2013014_00920_mv09	  
0:00:00.0-­‐	  (Jon)	  can	  you	  tell	  me	  a	  story	  about	  what	  you're	  most	  proud	  of	  in	  your	  
accomplishments	  and	  maybe	  one	  of	  the	  one	  that	  got	  away	  
0:00:27.9-­‐	  When	  I	  first	  started,	  we	  were	  lucky	  enough	  to	  have	  a	  grant	  to	  study	  Indiana's	  coastal	  
region,	  which	  is	  Indiana's	  most	  highly	  developed	  region	  in	  the	  northwest	  part	  of	  the	  state.	  There	  
would	  be	  the	  urge	  to	  find	  what	  is	  there	  before	  it's	  all	  gone	  and	  because	  we	  had	  a	  grant	  we	  were	  
able	  to	  hire	  a	  crew	  to	  help	  with	  this	  inventory	  and	  we	  found	  some	  incredible	  places.	  One	  of	  
them	  is	  called	  Clark	  and	  Pine	  Nature	  Preserve,	  it's	  40	  acres	  and	  there's	  more	  rare,	  threatened	  
and	  endangered	  plants	  and	  animals	  in	  that	  40	  acres	  than	  in	  any	  other	  similarly	  sized	  tract	  
around	  the	  state.	  It	  was	  owned	  by	  some	  big	  industrial	  company	  and	  we	  found	  a	  couple	  other	  
places	  just	  like	  that	  one.	  
0:01:07.7-­‐	  One	  was	  owned	  by	  the	  Shell	  oil	  company	  and	  I	  can	  remember	  after	  we	  found	  these	  
and	  studied	  them,	  full	  of	  orchids	  full	  of	  rare	  birds,	  going	  how	  in	  the	  heck	  are	  we	  ever	  gonna	  save	  
these	  places	  because	  they	  had	  to	  be	  bought	  or	  whatever.	  Working	  with	  our	  partners	  and	  which	  
included	  the	  Nature	  Conservancy	  and	  Lake	  County	  Parks	  and	  heading	  the	  cooperation	  from	  our	  
DNR	  director,	  we	  actually	  were	  able	  to	  save	  almost	  all	  those	  places.	  I	  wouldn't	  say	  I	  was	  
responsible	  for	  it	  at	  all	  but	  I	  was	  certainly	  lucky	  that	  it	  happened,	  I	  wouldn't	  have	  known	  how	  it	  
could	  be	  done	  and	  it	  was	  done.	  Looking	  back	  I	  can't	  see	  how	  we	  could	  ever	  do	  that	  today.	  You're	  
talking	  about	  pieces	  of	  ground	  that	  are	  $50,000	  an	  acre	  today	  or	  some	  amazing	  amount	  of	  
money.	  You	  couldn't	  find	  the	  will	  or	  the	  money	  to	  do	  that	  today.	  
0:02:08.6-­‐	  (Jon)	  how	  about	  the	  one	  that	  got	  away...	  if	  you	  feel	  comfortable	  talking	  about	  that	  
type	  of	  thing	  
0:02:24.8-­‐	  Trying	  to	  think...	  most	  of	  the	  old	  growth	  forests	  that	  we	  were	  aware	  of	  when	  we	  
started	  had	  either	  protected	  or	  have	  been	  protected	  since.	  I	  guess	  the	  ones	  that	  sort	  of	  got	  
away,	  there's	  2	  bogs	  that	  we've	  only	  been	  able	  to	  buy	  half	  of	  and	  we	  may	  never	  ever	  be	  able	  to	  
buy	  the	  other	  half	  which	  makes	  it	  pretty	  hard	  to...	  I	  guess	  the	  other	  one	  that	  I	  feel	  like	  has	  got	  
away	  is...	  Indiana	  is	  a	  prairie	  state,	  we	  had	  a	  lot	  of	  prairie	  once,	  very	  little	  of	  the	  prairie	  is	  left.	  
The	  best	  most	  productive	  part	  of	  the	  prairies	  we	  call	  the	  Black	  Sew	  (?)	  Prairies	  have	  all	  been	  
plowed	  up	  and	  the	  only	  remnants	  left	  are	  along	  old	  railroad	  rights	  of	  way	  or	  old	  pioneer	  prairie	  
cemeteries.	  We	  have	  had...	  we	  spent	  a	  lot	  of	  time	  inventorying	  the	  fuel	  (?)	  release	  things,	  we	  
walked	  along	  the	  ground	  we	  documented,	  we	  wrote	  letters	  to	  the	  railroads,	  got	  our	  department	  
director	  to	  write	  letters	  to	  the	  railroads	  and	  we	  have	  not	  been	  able	  to	  save	  one	  of	  them.	  That	  
has	  gotten	  away,	  they're	  still	  here,	  they're	  kind	  of	  starting	  to	  fade	  but	  they're	  still	  here.	  The	  
opportunity	  is	  not	  totally	  gone,	  they	  got	  away	  from	  me.	  We	  tried	  really	  hard	  and	  had	  no	  luck	  so	  
that's	  the	  one	  that	  got	  away.	  
0:03:46.7-­‐	  (Jon)	  you've	  got	  retirement	  coming	  up	  pretty	  soon	  
0:03:52.9-­‐	  Yeah,	  within	  a	  couple	  years.	  
0:03:59.4-­‐	  (Jon)	  it's	  always	  interesting	  that	  was	  times	  of	  transition...	  anything	  big	  you're	  trying	  to	  
accomplish	  in	  the	  time	  you've	  got	  left	  
0:04:11.6-­‐	  We're	  working	  with	  a	  couple	  of	  partners,	  one	  of	  them	  is	  our	  sister	  division	  of	  fish	  and	  
wildlife.	  We're	  working	  with	  them	  on	  dedicating	  some	  very	  exciting	  pieces	  of	  ground	  but	  they	  
have	  been	  acquired.	  I	  feel	  optimistic	  about	  that.	  I	  don't	  have	  a	  big	  list	  of	  places	  or	  
accomplishments,	  I	  guess	  mostly	  I'm	  concerned	  that	  I	  do	  whatever	  it	  is	  I'm	  supposed	  to	  do	  
before	  I	  leave.	  I	  was	  talking	  to	  a	  colleague	  this	  morning	  and	  he	  has	  retired	  and	  he's	  got	  a	  lot	  of	  
files	  and	  a	  lot	  stuff	  in	  his	  head,	  how	  do	  we	  get	  that...	  also	  whoever	  follows	  is	  going	  to	  inherit	  way	  
too	  much	  stuff,	  way	  too	  much	  paper,	  how	  do	  we	  get	  organized	  and	  get	  it	  into	  the	  condition	  to	  
pass	  it	  on	  so	  that	  they	  can	  really	  use	  it	  and	  benefit	  from	  it	  and	  not	  kind	  of	  curse	  us	  after	  we	  left	  
for	  leaving	  a	  big	  mess.	  
0:05:02.6-­‐	  (Jon)	  would	  imagine	  archival	  stuff	  that	  needs	  to	  be	  preserved...	  
0:05:10.6-­‐	  What	  we	  really	  need	  probably	  is	  a	  librarian	  and	  we	  don't	  have	  that.	  Until	  fairly	  
recently	  everything	  was	  paper	  and	  we	  could	  keep	  the	  paper	  files	  up,	  they	  got	  full	  and	  so	  we'd	  
keep	  them	  	  up	  and	  now	  when	  we	  have	  a	  problem	  or	  an	  issue	  it's	  an	  email.	  Maybe	  it's	  stored	  in	  
any	  folder	  and	  doesn't	  even	  get	  in	  to	  the...	  how	  is	  that	  information...	  how	  does	  somebody	  else	  
become	  aware	  of	  some	  of	  that	  information,	  where	  it	  is	  and	  how	  to	  get	  it.	  At	  least	  before	  you	  
could	  go	  to	  a	  big	  file	  and	  dig	  around	  and	  maybe	  find	  it,	  that's	  an	  issue	  too.	  Archiving	  it	  is	  one	  
thing	  but	  then	  somehow	  archiving	  it	  in	  a	  manner	  that	  everybody	  kind	  of	  knows	  what's	  in	  those	  
archives	  and	  how	  to	  go	  and	  dig	  it	  out,	  we're	  working	  on	  that,	  we	  need	  a	  librarian	  
0:06:03.6-­‐	  (Jon)	  anything	  else...	  
0:06:10.9-­‐	  No,	  I	  guess	  all	  I	  would	  say	  I	  just	  feel	  like	  I've	  been	  pretty	  lucky.	  I	  guess	  would	  sum	  up	  
my...	  I	  used	  to	  think	  I	  wanted	  to	  be	  a	  naturalist	  until	  I	  became	  a	  naturalist	  and	  realized	  that	  
wasn't	  exactly	  for	  me.	  I	  used	  to	  think	  I	  wanted	  to	  be	  a	  forest	  ranger	  until	  I	  found	  out	  the	  things	  
they	  did	  wasn't	  really	  what	  I	  wanted	  to	  do.	  And	  so	  I	  lucked	  out	  and	  found	  this	  area	  of	  natural	  
areas	  where	  kind	  of	  	  try	  to	  find	  them	  and	  protect	  and	  manage	  them	  and	  it	  turned	  out	  to	  be	  the	  
thing	  I	  did	  want	  to	  do	  and	  I	  got	  lucky	  enough	  to	  be	  able	  to	  do	  it.	  It's	  been	  pretty	  nice.	  
	  
	  
	  
Video	  Clip:	  afc2013014_00920_mv10	  
0:00:00.0-­‐	  (Jon)	  interested	  in	  your	  college	  and	  training	  
0:00:17.1-­‐	  I	  went	  to	  Eastern	  Illinois	  and	  got	  a	  double	  major	  in	  botany	  and	  zoology	  and	  that	  was	  
back	  in	  the	  day	  when	  these	  colleges	  had	  this	  incredible	  suite	  of	  professors.	  I	  could	  take	  courses	  
from	  the	  ornithologists	  and	  the	  ichthyologists,	  everything.	  I	  took	  all	  those	  courses	  that	  I	  could	  
get.	  Then	  I	  went	  to	  University	  of	  Illinois	  and	  got	  a	  master's	  in	  forest	  ecology.	  That	  was	  kind	  of	  
another	  step	  closer	  to	  this	  because	  forestry	  wasn't	  exactly	  what	  I	  wanted	  but	  forest	  ecology...	  
my	  professor	  was	  an	  ecologist.	  I	  was	  able	  to	  kind	  of,	  even	  though	  I	  didn't	  know	  exactly	  what	  I	  
was	  looking	  for,	  I	  was	  able	  to	  kind	  of	  be	  moving	  in	  that	  direction	  by	  being	  able	  to	  take	  those	  
courses	  at	  Illinois.	  It	  was	  a	  pretty	  lucky	  thing	  that	  I	  got	  out	  of	  Chicago	  and	  got	  down	  state.	  
0:01:09.3-­‐(Jon)	  thank	  you	  very	  much...	  
0:01:25.4-­‐	  Is	  there	  a	  chance	  [video	  cuts]	  
	  
Video	  Clip:	  afc2013014_00920_mv11	  
0:00:00.0-­‐	  (Jon)	  talked	  about	  Looney	  Tunes	  version	  of	  things	  that	  happened	  to	  acquire	  some	  
properties	  
0:00:10.0-­‐	  The	  Nature	  Conservancy	  one	  time	  was	  a	  part	  of	  the	  package.	  They	  found	  out	  this	  guy	  
wanted	  an	  Oldsmobile,	  as	  a	  part	  of	  the	  deal	  they	  bought	  him	  a	  car.	  
0:00:20.2-­‐	  Another	  one,	  there	  was	  a	  brother	  and	  sister	  were	  dirt	  poor	  and	  had	  an	  old	  growth	  
woods	  and	  they	  loved	  the	  woods	  and	  they	  wanted	  to	  give	  it	  away	  but	  they	  also	  feared	  they	  
might	  need	  somehow	  some	  money	  for	  their	  health	  care	  before	  they	  died.	  And	  the	  creative	  
solution	  to	  that	  was	  they	  got	  a	  couple	  of	  promissory	  notes	  for	  $20,000	  each	  they	  could	  choose	  
to	  cash	  in	  if	  they	  need	  it.	  I	  think	  they	  ended	  up	  cashing	  one	  and	  not	  the	  other.	  
0:00:46.2-­‐	  The	  other	  side	  of	  that...	  those	  were	  dirt	  poor	  people...	  we	  bought	  a	  prairie	  in	  Lake	  
County	  that's	  the	  most	  expensive	  per	  acre	  track	  we	  ever	  bought.	  Even	  though	  in	  Indiana	  it's	  
pretty	  cheap	  compared	  to	  how	  much	  land	  sells	  for	  in	  Illinois.	  This	  guy	  had	  plenty	  of	  money	  and	  
we	  had	  to	  give	  him	  a	  ton	  of	  money,	  I	  think	  $9,000	  an	  acre	  for	  this	  30-­‐acre	  prairie	  and	  he	  
probably	  didn't	  need	  the	  money.	  But	  these	  people	  that	  needed	  the	  money	  didn't	  take	  the	  
money	  and	  some	  of	  these	  old	  growth	  woods,	  the	  only	  reason	  they're	  still	  here,	  is	  because	  the	  
people	  that	  owned	  them	  knew	  they	  were	  special	  places	  and	  they	  did	  their	  damnedest	  to	  not	  
hurt	  them.	  
0:01:30.6-­‐	  We	  have	  a	  nature	  preserve	  in	  Fayette	  County,	  Shrader-­‐Weaver	  Woods,	  that	  was	  
owned	  by	  another	  brother	  and	  sister,	  dirt	  poor,	  and	  they	  must	  have	  grown	  up...	  their	  father	  told	  
them	  'Don't	  ever	  cut	  the	  trees	  in	  this	  woods'	  and	  they	  wouldn't.	  They	  didn't	  cut	  the	  trees	  in	  this	  
wood,	  they	  had	  other	  woods	  they	  cut	  the	  trees	  out	  but	  they	  wouldn't.	  And	  then	  when	  Bill	  
Barnes	  from	  the	  Division	  of	  Nature	  Preserves	  met	  them	  and	  talked	  to	  them,	  it	  was	  sort	  of	  like	  
they	  were	  waiting	  for	  this	  to	  happen	  and	  they	  gave	  their	  woods.	  
0:01:57.1-­‐	  It's	  just	  kind	  of	  interesting,	  all	  the	  various	  places	  and	  a	  lot	  of	  land	  has	  been	  acquired	  
in	  the	  last	  30	  years	  too.	  Most	  of	  the	  land	  we	  are	  after	  is	  in	  a	  way	  considered	  wasteland	  anyway	  
that's	  why	  it's	  still	  there,	  the	  bogs,	  too	  wet	  to	  plow	  or	  too	  dry	  to	  plow,	  that	  kind	  of	  thing.	  But	  not	  
all	  of	  them,	  Kramer	  Woods	  in	  Spencer	  County	  was	  owned	  by	  these	  2	  sisters	  and	  they	  were	  
offered	  millions	  of	  dollars	  for	  that	  woods	  and	  they	  willed	  it	  to	  the	  Nature	  Conservancy	  with	  the	  
specification	  that	  it	  be	  dedicated	  as	  a	  state	  nature	  preserve.	  They	  knew	  what	  they	  wanted	  and	  
fortunately	  this	  state	  has	  a	  nature	  preserves	  law	  and	  it	  is	  what	  some	  people	  do	  desire,	  they	  
understand	  and	  appreciate	  the	  beauty	  and	  the	  value	  of	  their	  land	  and	  why	  it's	  special.	  So	  it's	  
pretty	  interesting,	  somebody	  should	  write	  all	  of	  these	  stories	  down	  someday	  I	  guess.	  
	  
End	  of	  Interview