1 
HERBERT SULAIMAN–CHARLIE’S PLACE 
 
MYRTLE BEACH, SOUTH CAROLINA 
 
DECEMBER 8th, 2018 11am 
 
 
 
  
My name is Herbert Sulaiman, S-U-L-A-I-M-A-N and I’m also known as Herbert Riley. 
 
Well thank you so much for doing this. This history is so important to us and it’s amazing that you have this to share 
with us. It’s an honor to be here. So tell me when first heard about the Green Book or what his your history or your 
relationship to the Green Book. 
 
I’ve known about the Green Book since I was a child. My father, my mother, they used to travel a lot. 
I remember the old Buick and when we moved around, he would take the Green Book with him. 
You know it was dangerous traveling in those days. I learned early that everybody didn’t treat 
everybody nice. And you had to know where you were going and you had to be prepared. Traveling 
in those days, meant the women would fix food at night. They’d fill the thermos jugs, you had eggs, 
fix ham sandwiches and turkey sandwiches and fried chicken…it was like a picnic. It was fun for a 
child.  
 
About what year was this? 
 
Ok, I can remember travel from the time I was four years old, so that was ’55 on up. I think we’d go 
down to Myrtle Beach, we’d go down to Asheville, we’d sometimes, they’d go long distances, I’m 
not sure where  I’m just in there counting cars as they’d go by. I remember that. I know there was 
always a relationship with the Esso people. I still have some Esso artifacts, days ago when it was 
Esso before Exxon. Esso was the only place that the women felt comfortable using the restroom. 
When we were riding…we’d pull over to the side of the road. A lot of times there would be picnic 
tables were you could stop, there were places where you could stop on the side of the road and the 
young boys, we would go out into the field, go out into the high grass and play for a little bit. I 
didn’t know why at that time, but what it was, women were afraid there were snakes. And country 
boys, we were taught...[how] to deal with snakes. We weren’t afraid of snakes. So we’d go out there 
and the women would go out and relieve themselves. It’s a shame that we’d take a lady through that 
type of…I don’t even know how to describe it properly, but to make a woman to have to hold, and 
hold, and hold before she could relieve herself. And you couldn’t go anyplace but Esso Stations. At 
Esso, [it was] no problem. 
 
I remember keeping extra gas in the car on long trips, if you were going where you didn’t know. 
Now mom and dad, they were pretty smart now and they knew people all over, so they would map 
things out so they didn’t have to do that all that often. But I remember doing that, because I 
remember the smell of gas coming from the trunk you know. You don’t forget smells.  
 
 
2 
I remember running into adversity on the road. I remember going through Klan rallies, particularly 
in places like Salisburg, North Carolina. And even in Myrtle Beach, when I was a kid. It was 
probably on Highway 501, not exactly sure ‘cause I was small. My mother was very, very fair-
skinned. She looked like a white woman. And we were coming to Myrtle Beach, in Conway or 
Florence, or someplace close. We got close to the beach and they had a large Klan gathering out the 
in a street. I guess it was a Klan parade. Anyhow, they stopped us. They saw Momma in there. I was 
too little to fear or think anything bad was going to happen. But my Mom was scared. I could tell 
that. Daddy got out the car and talked to one of them for about five minutes and we were able to 
drive on through and I remember how Momma was after that. She was shaking. They’d seen things 
that I hadn’t seen, you know.  
 
But the Green Book, even in Myrtle Beach, it’s good that Charlie’s Place was listed in the Green Book, 
because on Myrtle Beach on Ocean Boulevard, even in the 1960s and the early 1970s, if a black 
person was walking down there and they didn’t have a card saying they worked at such and such and 
so and so, they could be arrested. They would be harassed. You ran into a lot of problems. There’s 
one character on there, I’ll never forget, his name was Carlyle Newton [assumed spelling], he was 
involved in the Charlie’s Place Klan raid (see below) too. I was working at the Ocean Forest hotel 
when I was maybe fifteen years old as a bell hop and he came by once day, somebody said 
something because somebody was coming to get his money, because he actually came by every 
Wednesday. I can remember that vividly. He’d come by every Wednesday and he’d leave with a 
manila envelope. And somebody said, “He’s going to get his money.” And he didn’t…we didn’t 
even think he’d heard us and he came back, we were standing beside a brick wall, this fella took 
me…I guess he was going to make an example out of somebody, slammed me against the wall, 
pulled out his weapon, his firearm, sidearm, big gun, it looked like a Dirty Harry pistol or something. 
Jammed it in my stomach and said, “Nigger, if you ever tell anybody you saw me do anything I’m 
going to blow your goddamned brains out.” That sticks in your mind for the rest of your life. 
 
How old were you? 
 
I was probably fourteen, fifteen. It was one of my early jobs. But if you didn’t have the Green Book, 
say if a black person is traveling and going up to Atlantic Beach and they got a little bit confused and 
got to Myrtle [Beach] and went to the wrong place, they could have gotten hurt. They would have 
gotten harassed most places. Not all, there were a few, like the Kozy Korner that would treat you 
right, but in general you were going to be treated less than human. And that’s the way it was. That 
Green Book…it wasn’t just a…people call it like a AAA guidebook but it was more like a shield. It 
saved lives. Believe me. It saved lives, particularly in the South. 
 
That’s a nice metaphor [the shield], because it was so much more that a AAA guide. And then there were so many 
different kinds of businesses that were in it. So it really served so many aspects of the black community, both people 
who needed to go there and the businesses that  needed the support. In terms of growing up…do you remember…when 
did you first learn about Charlie’s Place?  
 
[7:36] 
 
I knew more about the Green Book before I knew about Charlie’s Place. We had…there was an 
Exxon station in Myrtle Beach that black folk were running. In fact, the family that ran it lived right 
around the corner. But they were running it so, we knew about that and that was the only kind of 
gas…until I got old enough to start driving, when I got  my first car, the only kind of gas would ever 
 
3 
buy was Esso. Because that’s the way I was trained. And I wasn’t thinking about no Green Book then, 
I was thinking about getting some gas. But I’d always get Esso. It served the Esso people very, very 
well. They made a lot of money. They had a captive market, literally. 
 
I did a little research on Rockefeller at that time. And Laura Spelman was his wife and you know we wonder why 
Esso did more than just promote the Green Book. They hired black marketing executives, they had black people 
working in every part of that business. There were black chemists there. They went above and beyond, and people say 
that it was [about] money, but it was more than that. We think maybe it was Laura Spelman, because she was 
Rockefeller’s wife and she grew up in a house, she was a white woman, [she] grew up in a house that was on the 
Underground Railroad in Ohio and her parents were big abolitionists, very intense political family, and Spelman 
College was named after their family. 
 
I was getting ready to ask.  
 
So I think, we don’t if there was any direct…but I can’t imagine that she didn’t have a lot influence over Rockefeller. 
 
She did. 
 
So that’s what we assume. And he gave millions of dollars in her name, in honor of Spelman College, and others…So 
I think there was a reason why Esso was there for black people, when they needed it. And a lot of other white-owned  
businesses of all stripes wouldn’t have anything to do with black them. They didn’t care that their money was green.  
 
They treated you different. I know that personally. When my father died in 1975, he was the 
maitre’d at a hotel down here called “Patricia’s” 
 
Called what? 
 
The Patricia Inn and Court. Now Patricia’s still there, but it’s not the same thing. The Patricia Inn 
and Court. They said every millionaire in the South ate there and they couldn’t get a good seat if 
daddy didn’t give it to them. He didn’t have a good ending there, that’s a different thing, but when 
he died, I assumed Esso, which was Exxon by then were the company…after he died about six 
months later we got a letter from one of the Vice Presidents, and there were several Vice Presidents 
of course, but one of the Vice Presidents saying that we didn’t know he had died, this and that, 
here’s a card, credits were still…they weren’t new, but they weren’t all that out there, you know, 
here’s a card with around $1,000 on it. I was amazed, I couldn’t figure out why. We weren’t used to 
that type of [treatment] from white folks. To put it bluntly. We weren’t used it, particularly the ones 
with a lot of money, because they were some of the cruelest ones, they thought they could do what 
they wanted to do. Can I tell you a quick story? 
 
Yes.  
 
When daddy worked at Patricia’s [Inn]. Patricia Diamond [assumed spelling] was famous. Richard 
Nixon ate there, Strom Thurman used to be there all the time, all the segregationists used to eat 
there and of course he played his role, I didn’t see him do it, but of course he carried himself 
strongly, I guess he played his role, anyhow, there was a beautiful lady there named Clea Robertson 
[assumed spelling]. And she was what they called the “coffee girl,” she served coffee. And one of the 
Caucasians, made a very lude remark, which I’m not going to say, to her and she was insulted and 
she walked away from it, and he said, “Can’t you hear me? I told you I want to”… such and such 
 
4 
and so and so… “How much will it cost?” She told my father. And they guy came to my dad, when 
he saw Clea  talking to him and asked him something to the point of, “What’s wrong? I’m trying to 
give that little Nigger girl some money.” The next thing he knew, my daddy’s hand was upside his 
head, and daddy knocked him down. Dad was fired after 39 years. The owner came over here and 
brought a bunch of money and tried to give dad, but dad didn’t want it. Dad had pretty good 
money. At Patricia’s you made a lot of money. His honor meant more to him than a few dollars. The 
owner was basically a good guy, but that was just the time we lived in. 
 
What did your dad do again? 
 
He was the maître’d. He controlled the dining room. And to this day, he’s been dead since ’75 and 
he still has influence in this town. I was over in Hilton Head one time, I’m a musician, I was playing 
an event over there and I was kind of ill and I was taking a long break, and this lady walked up to me 
and said, “Young man, you are one of the musicians, aren’t you?” I said, “Yes ma’am I am.” [she 
said] “You know we’re paying you to play music for us, not to just sit around.” I said, “I’m kind of 
ill. We’ll play, I’ve got to take care of my health, I’m kind of sick.” She said, “Where are you from?” 
real harsh, I said, “from Myrtle Beach, South Carolina” “Oh, Myrtle Beach” she melted like a piece 
of ice, like a cone of ice cream. “Myrtle Beach, we had some of the best times of our lives in Myrtle 
Beach.” I thought for a second, “Did you ever go to the Patricia Inn?” She stopped, she looked at 
me and said, “Patricia Inn? What do you know about the Patricia Inn?” I said, “My father used to 
work there.” She said, “Well what did he do?” I said, “He was the maitre’d.” [She asked] “What was 
his name?” “His name was Riley.” She said, “Oh my goodness. She said come over to the table. She 
was sitting at the head of the table. She made the guy sitting to the left get up. She said, “Sit down 
here. I want you to meet the family. We’re taking a vacation. We’re the Reynold’s family. You know 
RJ Reynolds, Reynold’s Wrap.” I was saying “Whoa.” And we talked. I took a break for as long as I 
wanted to. This was back in the ‘80s. She gave me her card and said if you ever need anything, all 
you’ve got to do is call. But I never took her up on that. She’s been dead a long time by now. But 
that’s a true story. 
 
I realized the influence he [my father] had. He was a good friend to Mary McLeod Bethune. He’d go 
visit her. I didn’t know this until they put her in the Hall of Fame here. Mamma made me go up 
there because her son was there and talk to him about some things that only he would know, I 
found out that it was true, so we’d go down there and spend maybe a week every summer in Florida 
because she’s from South Carolina. Anyhow that’s off the Green Book but. 
 
 
No, it’s a fascinating story and I think it tells…it give us the landscape, of what it means to live here, what it means 
to have family here, and what those roots mean. I think that’s really helpful. 
 
It’s what made Charlie…you’ve got to realize Myrtle Beach was…the original tourist trade in Myrtle 
Beach, the hook was this Antebellum-type lifestyle. If you look at pictures of the old large hotels like 
the Ocean Forest and Patricia’s, or go by the Pine Lakes, way down here, you see the columns like 
you see in Gone With the Wind and all the service industry people…I never saw a white waiter or 
anything like that until the mid-seventies. I remember the first white waiter I saw and he was a Black 
Belt in karate and Bruce Lee was out at that time, so that was exciting. But black people, were all the 
chefs. Black people were all the waiters. Black people taught the rich down here etiquette, because 
you had to be that way, you had to know how to carry yourself in a place to be working at some of 
these…you work in white dinner jackets, sometimes white gloves, the stuff that we see and we kind 
 
5 
of get offended from where we sit but then you realize the elegance, the dignity that these men and 
women had to carry themselves. There are people, I’m told there are people that worked here that 
ended up working at the White House at the Augusta…one of the guys I know being the maître d 
down at where they play the Masters in Augusta National…so there’s money to be made and the 
young doctors, teachers, would all work as waiters in the summertime. Doctors working their way 
through school. I knew several of them, they worked as waiters in the summertime. South Carolina’s 
first Chief Justice a friend, he’s gone now, Earnest Finney Chief Justice of the South Carolina’s 
Supreme Court, he was a bell hop over at Ocean Forest. This guy’s still got a picture of him...That 
show’s what they had to do to get to where they were against the obstacles. They didn’t allow 
obstacles to get in their way. They didn’t cop out. They had to deal with the situation that, be 
thankful, that we don’t have on our shoulders—particularly the women. The women caught hell. 
They were always perceived by not just white folks, but too many black men too, as something for 
pleasure. And that’s it. You know. 
 
Well you know my first book was on diner waitresses, and the stories about what they had to deal with and yeah it is 
extensive. But let’s talk about Charlie. You set this up beautifully. There’s so many limitations on really what was 
expected or what black people were allowed to do in jobs, and so how does this man, Charlie Fitzgerald, who runs this 
Green Book site, Charlie’s Place… The first listing is in 1950, 
 
 
[19:38] 
 
 
I didn’t know that. 
 
So when we think about 1950. Who is this man that comes on the scene, do you know how long he’d had Charlie’s 
Place? This was a nightclub that was very popular. 
 
It was very, very popular. He built it in 1937. The tourist cabins were built in 1948, I believe. The 
club, because you had so many black people coming here from Georgetown and Conway and other 
places to work you needed some recreation for them. He saw a need and so he gave them a good 
club. A nice club, not some rinky-dink hole in the wall–where you’d be safe. Where you could take 
anybody even in those days. Too many people told me that for it not to be true. You could take 
anybody. As long as you carried yourself in a civilized, upright fashion and minded your own 
business and didn’t harass woman and things, which was normal at that time, you were treated with 
dignity, and you could have a good time. He had some enforcers. One or two of them are still alive 
that if you tried, if you crossed the line, they’d escort you out, and the other people didn’t even 
realize what was even going on, you know. But he saw that. And he took advantage of the fact that 
there was a market down here because there was no place else to go. Atlantic Beach was kicking. 
Atlantic Beach was established in the ’20s I believe, but everybody didn’t have cars in those days. 
Atlantic Beach is only…we don’t think anything about it, we jump in the car, fifteen minutes later, 
we’re up there, but in the 1950s and the 1940s, in fact in the 1930s because they built the place in 
1937 it wasn’t like that, so he was able to have this market and the type of entertainment he had 
would grab anybody. I mentioned the Ocean Forest Hotel a while ago, that was the first million 
dollar hotel in the South, it was built in the ‘20s and because of that you have the elite of the elite 
staying at the Ocean Forest. They owned the Pine Lakes Country Club originally. Henry Luce the 
founder at the time, the founder of Sports Illustrated and so many other things. Sports Illustrated 
was founded right up the street from here at the Pine Lakes Country Club. But you had these elites 
 
6 
down here and they wanted the best entertainment. Now they had some white entertainment but 
they wanted the best entertainment. So they’d have [Count] Baise, or they’d have [Duke] Ellington, 
or they’d have the Mills Brothers who were like the Temptations when I was growing up. Groups 
like that, you know, but they couldn’t stay there and they couldn’t socialize there so some of them 
would go up to Atlantic Beach. Maybe Duke [Ellington] would go up to Atlantic Beach, and he get 
an ocean front room, but many of them wanted to stay down here so Charlie built the hotel. So he’d 
get them, there was automatic money coming in all the time. After they finished playing the Ocean 
Forest, they’d do what we call nowadays…a midnight special. They’d do a midnight special at 
Charlie’s Place. The word got out to the wealthy elite that were coming down from the North and 
the South, staying at Charlie’s. [They’d say] Oh, man guess who’s playing over at I guess that nigger’s place, 
Charlie’s Place? So and so’s over there, Duke Ellington’s over there, Mills Brothers, Ray Charles…Although Ray 
was playing back up for this other guy in those days. So they’d want to come, and they’d come over. 
And any old person in this community, any old person, they will remember this. I can barely 
remember it because I was a child at the heyday of this stuff, but from one end of Carver Street to 
the other end and Carver Street was a dirt road then, you’d have Cadillac’s and Packard’s on 
Saturday night, Friday night, white men in tuxedos, white women with jewels and gowns would 
come out there and you know black folk, I don’t care how down and out we’ve been, we got our 
hands on a couple of dollars, we are not about to let somebody out dress us, so the black women 
would come out dressed like that and you could look at pictures in those days and you could see my 
father and all his friends there, many times, in tuxes. White tuxes…they were sharp, they carried 
themselves good…Old Spice would be out there, wearing their Old Spice and they had a good time.  
 
[24:34] 
 
The whites are the ones who really integrated the place now because Charlie had a segregated 
section for them but they wanted to get down where the action was. And they knew what went 
down in Myrtle Beach, stayed in Myrtle Beach. Myrtle Beach was not known. So they could party. 
They’d come down there and they’d dance and they’d party, their wives would dance and party with 
black folk, like it wasn’t nothing. They’d have a good time. They’d go back to …and say Yeah, man. I 
can do the Charleston now see. I learned how to do it down close to Charleston. That type of thing. Authenticity. 
 
So when you say it was segregated, because I’ve heard stories about there being like an orange rope? 
 
Not at Charlie’s. I sent you some pictures one time, some news clippings of Charlie’s Place, the 
night of the raid. Originally, it was large. It had a pavilion and it was large. You got to see the lot this 
and getting the whole idea of how big this place was. And he had a dining room beside it. He had a 
section up in the balcony area, you know where they used to put black folk in balconies in theaters 
when I was kid? You didn’t have to go through that, but we did and he’d have a section for them. 
That was for them, but they wanted to get down on the floor because that’s where the party was.  
 
So the white people where in the balcony? 
 
Yeah, he flipped it on them. And they decided they were going to integrate. And these were rich 
white folks and a lot of lasting friendships were made.  
 
The elite area down here is Grand Dunes and originally the Dunes Club area. I was at a political 
event two years ago and a ninety-year old lady came up to me and you were the only one pushing 
Charlie’s Place, right? I said, “Yes Ma’am.” She said, “Did you know Miss Sarah?” I said, “Yeah, I 
 
7 
knew Miss Sarah.” She said, “I knew her too. By the time I was a teenager living in New York when 
we’d come down to Myrtle Beach to visit our family down here, we’d always go to Charlie’s Place 
and nobody ever messed with us. And she was really short and she was saying, “Nobody ever messed 
with us.” I said, “Yeah, I heard it was nice.” She said, “Yeah, it was nice. I’m glad you’re doing that 
son, thank you.” And moved on. But he was able to do something in a town with state sponsored 
segregation that really wasn’t common for another decade, or more. And he didn’t have any 
problems until the Senatorial race between Strom Thurmond and Olin Johnson, I believe his name 
was Olin Johnson and as Thurmond  said, and you can see it on film today, it was about who could 
out nigger the other one. Who could say more bad things about black folks because they were mad 
because blacks were just coming back from World War II, and black men felt strong, entitled, they’d 
given their lives and Harry Truman who had problems himself recognized that and was integrating 
the military. Roosevelt had done some things before that to open the door to integrate the military. 
You know you always had black troops but black troops were Buffalo Soldiers, they were all blacks 
together. You didn’t have blacks and whites fighting together except when combat came. And see a 
lot of these Southern boys had to be in the same fox hole and black people were saving their lives 
many times. So although they wouldn’t just embrace it, they knew the truth in their heart. But 
anyhow. 
 
[28:35] 
 
After Thurman, [in his voice] “Segregation today! Segregation tomorrow! Segregation Forever! I 
want every white man who’s a white man to stand up and stand with me!” And Olin Johnson was 
worse than him. I knew Strom, I didn’t know Johnson, but Johnson was worse than him and this 
caused Klan fever to rise. Klan rises after the every war. You had the greatest Klan parade in 1920, 
that after the troops came back from World War I. The Klan rose and Charlie was targeted for 
several reasons. Some politicians, they contacted the Klan and said “You need to come down here 
and do something because these niggers are trying to act like they’re white men. They’re coming in 
here wanting me to register them to vote. That’s just documented, you know. People don’t know 
that, but that’s what started it. So this Thomas Hamilton, the Grand Dragon of the Ku Klux Klan, 
he wanted to be a super big shot. He started pushing this thing because blacks  and whites were 
partying together and the young black kids were learning how to dance and taking it back to their 
community, calling it the “Shag.” Because the girl who taught them that, Cynthia Harold’s [assumed 
spelling] nickname was shag. Cynthia “Shag” Harold [inaudible]. Anyhow the rumor was spread that 
Charlie was running a prostitution ring over there, white girls and black men. It’s always…they 
always use the sex thing as a cat call to bring out the lowest elements in their own people. You 
know. They did that and he was able to get a crowd, they did a Klan parade at Myrtle Beach, first 
they went by [Charlie’s Place] and left and went to Atlantic Beach and they came back. They 
said…people always believed that they came back because Charlie dared them to. That’s not the 
truth. I’ve seen the files. What did happen was this. He called the Chief of Police and told him the 
Klan has been over here and they were coming back and the people were not going to sit back and 
be slaughtered like dogs. They will fight if they come back and they’ll be some bloodshed. In other 
words he was saying, Do something about this before it happens. But what he didn’t know was the Chief of 
Police was in the front seat, this was Carlisle Newton the guy I was talking about earlier, by then he 
was Chief and he was in the front seat with Thomas Hamilton in the lead guy for the Klan parade 
and in those days they used two-way radios like the military did and when it was radioed to him, 
Charlie said what Charlie said. For Hamilton, that was the excuse he needed to go back. He went 
back. This is something else people don’t know. This was when Charlie played hero. He went back 
and some people say it was 30 cars, I think Charlie said he thought it was around 17 cars, but the 
 
8 
same four or five in the cars and there was a confidential informant that the FBI actually had in 
place, because they were watching the Klan anyway. His code name was T-1 and he reported back 
he felt that there were 30 cars and there were four to five people, in other words you’re talking about 
100 people. They formed this skirmish line, and this is right after World War II, so you can figure a 
large number of them were probably in the military veterans because they knew how to use 
weapons. They started to move forward and of course they sent an advance team and when they did, 
the guy’s nickname was “230” I can’t remember his name right off, Curtis Perry [assumed spelling], I 
believe but his nickname was “230” because he always carried a 32 pistol. They grabbed him and 
there was fear and he didn’t fight back and they started beating him and asking him where Charlie 
was. He wouldn’t tell at first. I think he eventually did. And Charlie walked out. Charlie had a good 
crowd of people in his club that night, wasn’t any white folk in there strangely enough, but he had a 
pretty good crowd of people in there. So he walked out there and he had his weapons on him, he 
had two weapons on him, and the three of them approached him, one got him from the back and 
hit him upside the head with a gun or something and knocked him down and hit him again and 
rendered him unconscious temporarily. Now he knew he could have been killed. But he also knew 
this was straight out gun fight because…there were black guys who were armed and ready to fight if 
necessary. He knew that if there had been a straight out gunfight with 100 men with shotguns and 
pistols it would have been a slaughter. So they threw him in the trunk and they came forward 
anyway and started shooting. Shot one of their own in the back, who later on turned out to be a 
policeman when they took his robe off. He had his police uniform on. They took him out to this 
area called “Pine Island” they beat him up, according to his testimony, he thought they beat him up 
with a bull whip, they said they used belts and things but I guess if you’re getting beat and  you’re 
blindfolded, it felt like it was a bullwhip. They beat him bad. They mutilated him and cut his ears so 
they could always know. And it looked like they were going to kill him. But he fought back. It’s like 
Harriett Tubman said, “If you’re trying to get away and they’re trying to beat on you, keep running, 
keep fighting.” He kept running, kept fighting and he was able to get away from them. They fired 
some rounds in the woods and figured that they either hit him or he had learned his lesson or he had 
tired him out, one of the three. And they told him “you can’t stay here, you gotta go, but wherever 
you go, you gotta go to church every Sunday, we don’t want you to even see your wife and said 
more things. It’s in the FBI files, this is according what he said in the FBI files. They went on about 
their business, he was walking toward the road. A guy named Ed Washington, who’s nephew lives 
close to here…his newphew taught me a lot, and Ed said if you get your hands on the files… and Ed was 
one of Charlie’s cab drivers, because Charlie had a lot of businesses, a lot more than the Whispering 
Pines and Charlie’s Place and a motel and he had businesses in Conway and Atlantic Beach. Ed saw 
him. Ed went out looking for him probably, but he saw him, he picked him up. He took him over to 
the Sherriff, Carlisle Newton, because Carlisle was supposed to be Charlie’s buddy. Charlie was 
paying Carlisle Newton so Charlie could sell his liquor. And it was the wrong place to take him but 
Carlisle,  didn’t try to hold him or anything. He took him to a doctor, I think, they took him to Dr. 
Chapman [assumed spelling] I’m pretty sure it was Dr. Chapman. My father told me this—some of 
the doctors are very sympathetic to blacks and some were not. There were some doctors in this raid 
with the Klan and my father told me who they were. But he took him to Dr. Chapman and Dr. 
Chapman fixed him up. He contacted Sherriff Sasser over in Conway who really was a good guy. He 
risked his own life to try to handle this thing. Sasser had him come over there, Sasser put him there 
to rest, but Sasser took him to his own house. He took him to his own house, from what I was told. 
I don’t think the files said that but I’ve talked to Sasser’s family. 
 
[37:00] 
 
 
9 
And then he moved him to a cell, I think in Florence, or Colombia, or someplace, by then, it had 
made nationwide news the black newspapers…in a couple of days, you can check the dates on that, 
it was a couple of days after the raid and N.A.A.C.P., which was, they were real warriors back in 
those days, they were real warriors back in those days. Maceo Hubbard he was one of the first law 
grads from Harvard. He was working with the F.B.I. You had Thurgood Marshall, working with the 
N.A.A.C.P., you had Walter White with the N.A.A.C.P. You had people of that caliber, you know, I 
mean giants in our movement. And they took it to Hoover, Hoover got involved…Hoover never 
didn’t care nothing about black folks from what I’ve been told, but he got involved, he told his 
people “Ok, these N.A.A.C.P. is in my case now. Give them the reports. Look into it.” And they 
did. They made it sound like, I forget how they framed it. It was like…Charlie was the aggressor, 
when they wrote it up originally. But anyhow, they left a paper trail. The Klan received 14 
indictments from Sasser within a matter of a week. The grand jury found all of them not credible, 
you know. Sasser was threatened. He had a daughter named Helen who black folk, I knew Helen 
when she was real old, and black folk treated her like she was a princess and I couldn’t figure out 
why to save my life, I couldn’t figure out why, until I met her son. He’s a board patrol right now, but 
he was talking about how the Klan had threatened to take, meaning kidnap, his mother, and this was 
one of the tactics they often used. When he told me that it reminded me of something Miss Sarah 
told me years later. Because I asked Miss Sarah years later, I said, “Did your husband know…” 
 
Just for the tape, Miss Sarah was Charlie’s wife. 
 
That was his wife. Yeah. His wife and his partner. But I asked, “Did Mr. Charlie know who those 
Klansmen were?” She said, “We knew every last one of them. Robin.” She used to call me Robin, 
like Robinhood, because we used to play Robinhood. [Smiling] But anyhow, “We knew every last 
one of them.” So I was like “Why didn’t you tell?” [She said] “Because he was afraid that they would 
take me…” I think she said, “Take me again.” But I can’t swear to that. And that was…they did 
what they wanted to with our women. You know you’re down here doing this tape right now, it 
would put your life in jeopardy, you know. They did what they wanted to with the men. If I…the 
kind of books I had in here as a teenager, my father would always say, “Don’t you show anybody 
those books. You don’t know how they are. You don’t know.” And he was right. So anyhow she 
was taken, just for a warning and let go. I believe, I’m making an assumption now, I don’t know 
that. But she said, “they will take me” or “take me again”, I don’t know which. I had no idea what 
taken meant until I saw that movie called Taken.  When I saw that it was like a lightning bolt, I 
thought “Oh, that’s what Sarah was talking about.” So they knew who it was and she told me 
something that stuck with me, and she told other people because I’ve talked to a couple of people 
and they’ve said the same thing. She says, “You know what? I’m not going to die, until I know every 
last one of them has died, is dead.” I’m paraphrasing right now. And she wasn’t playing, because I 
got a picture of her with me and she was 74 years old and she was still some eye candy, you know. 
Yeah, I mean she was 94, 94, and still eye candy. And she died about three years later from that and 
she was working the day that she died. And she didn’t have to work. She had money, but she liked 
to work. When mamma got sick, mamma and her were tight, very, very, very tight. She came over 
here mamma had Alzheimer’s, she said “Aw, you go back to your room. I’m not going to steal 
anything from you. I’ve got more than you’ve got anyway!” Mom, went back in the room, slammed 
the door, and she worked all day long. She was a special lady. My wife will tell you that too.  
 
Mamma, when she had Alzheimer’s, she had a cat and mamma had decided in her mind that I was 
eating the cat’s pink salmon because I didn’t see the point in getting pink salmon for a cat, you have 
no idea what kind of scent pink salmon has when it’s hidden someplace for two or three weeks, 
 
10 
mamma would hide it places because she was afraid I would get it, you know. Sarah came and 
handled all of that. She was a wonderful lady. Some people around here thought she was kind of 
mean and hateful, but she had some…after the Klan raid, from 1950 until that place closed, she had 
to manage that place. He wasn’t there but in and out. He was there often, but he wasn’t the same. 
Everybody said, Charlie wasn’t the same. But she had to be tough in a man’s world. So she didn’t 
take no foolishness. 
 
[42:50] 
 
So talk about Sarah’s role…that you think she was a significant part of the success of Charlie’s Place. 
 
Yes. Absolutely.  
 
So talk about Sarah. 
 
Sarah Fitzgerald. She was a civil rights activist without even knowing it. Back in 1948, blacks hadn’t 
registered to vote in South Carolina since reconstruction. Charlie and her did, though. Not another 
black over here would register. Charlie offered to put up money for them if they needed it, 
whatever. Not a one. Sarah was tough and hard to most people, but she was never that way to me. I 
couldn’t see what people were talking about, but I got an understanding later on. She was tough and 
hard on the outside when she ran the business. And when they talk about…okay…it was in the 
Green Book, then Charlie got it in the Green Book. But that ’56 [edition], that’s her. Because Charlie 
was dead, he died on the fourth of July in 1955 or 1954, one of the two, he was dead. And she ran it, 
she ran it with an iron fist and a velvet glove, so to speak. Entertainers loved her. Ruth Brown and 
those, they loved her. Bill Pinkney, the last of the original Drifters, he died a few years ago, he loved 
her. Otis Redding, when cats like that would come and go [they’d ask] “How’s Miss Sarah doing?” 
She had Charlie’s old contacts. Some guy down in Texas, the called him “The Peacock.” I think he 
was a gangster, a black gangster, but he controlled all the top black artists and he was a friend to her. 
I think she got them through him, but she had all the black artists there. She told me the only person 
that she didn’t get there to play, and he’d come there was James Brown. And everybody said James 
Brown was there, but most of the people say that the people were really too young to get in and 
they’d see his bus outside. He parked the bus there and I think some of his players would stay there. 
James, most likely would go up to Atlantic Beach, because you could be ocean front up there. But 
she said James would come and he was just as nice as he could be. [She said] “He’d sit down and 
we’d talk and talk. But he just wanted too much money and I couldn’t afford him.” But everybody 
else…the first crossover artist was a guy named Johnny Ace. You may never have heard of him but 
sometime listen to “Pledge My Love” with Aretha Franklin singing or Curtis Mayfield singing, a lot 
of songs that you’ve heard are Johnny Ace songs that people did later. He played there. My dad told 
me about that. He was big, he was big. And there’s still some people around here who have artifacts, 
have records, and autographs and pictures that got Ace in some of those. They won’t give them up 
right now, maybe later on. Johnny Ace. She got all those great people there. 
 
She could cook. She would make me sweet potato pies. Some people said she was color-struck. I 
know what that was about, too. I wasn’t that she was color-struck, her best friend was a beautiful 
woman that Kentucky-coal black named Gail [assumed spelling]. Momma, Gail, and her hung 
together, you know, when they were young. Momma told me, you know. I knew Gail well. When we 
were living in Wilkesboro, North Carolina, momma and I lived in Wilkesboro for a while because 
something happened with one of our relatives down here and white supremacists, they did 
 
11 
something to them and she got disgusted and she moved. That’s a story in itself. Linda Brown Vs. 
Board of Education, there was a case here, Briggs Vs. Elliot, watch “Separate But Equal” the movie. 
Rent it and watch it, starring Sidney Poitier, the first person they show on there, this guy named Joe 
DeLaine, that’s our cousin and mom and him, evidently, they were close, or whatever, good 
friends…cousin on daddy’s side. And they ran him out of the state for protecting his own property. 
They burned down his church, he was a preacher. They came, started to burn down his house he 
started shooting at them and they got him for attempted murder of a white man. They ran him out 
of the state. He never came back to the state. After he died, Congress gave him a Congressional 
Gold Medal, the highest medal you can get as a civilian, you know. Momma wouldn’t come back. 
She used to tell me when I was a kid, “Why are you living up here and daddy’s living in Myrtle 
Beach?” I knew they wasn’t divorced… “what in the world was going on?” And she’d say, “I’m 
never going back there. You don’t know what they did to your cousin.” I said, “What did they do?” 
She said, “They took him to the border. Sound like you’re going to Cabo, going to Mexico. But they 
took him to the [South Carolina] border and took a shotgun “Boom, boom, boom, boom! Run 
nigger run! Don’t you ever come back.” I’ll remember that until the day that I die.  
 
You know, this is what we lived with. And my family really lived through a lot of stuff because they 
were involved in a lot of things. Daddy was successful. A maître d’ made more money than doctors 
at that time. A good maître d’. Daddy would have a bed full of money on Sundays and he split it 
with all the waiters. He’d take it apart, but he’d split it with all the waiters. If there’s wasn’t enough, 
he’d give that to them and because of that he won great respect. I’ve got a son that got caught up in 
that Clinton thing [crime bill] from ’85 [’95?] and he had to go to jail for a period of time. When he 
went to jail, one of the guys that had been there a long time said he’d seen them in the yard, scared 
him half to death. He told me this after he got out. He said, “He called me out there and said, ‘Are 
you Herbert Riley’s son?’” He said, “Yeah.” He said, “I knew Mr. Riley. Mr. Riley gave me my first 
job. He really helped us as much as he could. I messed my own self up with this and that. So that’s 
the kind of man my father was. Maître d’s, Pullman Porters…people like that, they didn’t have the 
academic status as teachers but they made a hell of a lot more money and they carried a lot more 
weight because they knew everybody. You know, that’s what power is about. If you’re not rich, it’s 
who you know, not what you know. And if Strom Thurmond wanted to sit beside the window at 
Patricia’s, he had to go to my father. And he wouldn’t come in there unless he had his coat and tie 
on and he wasn’t going to act no fool when he got in there. Nobody would…that’s the way it was. 
And Miss Sarah was that way too. She had a couple of guys. Ruben Wineglass [assumed spelling], he 
died about two months ago, was very, very close with Miss Sarah after Charlie died. Him and guys 
like “Kidnapper Goens[???]”, that was Shag’s uncle, he’s still alive. Porkchop Hemmingway, all these 
guys had nicknames. Porkchop Hemmingway…these people were nobody to mess with. Porkchop 
would put you in the ground, you know and Ruben was a strong as an ox. “Kidnapper” was a lover, 
but he knew how to get things done, you know, great man. I loved Mr. Kidnapper. So she…nobody 
messed up, up there, and I’m quite sure she probably knew how to use a weapon pretty well herself. 
She was small. She was about your size. She demanded respect and she knew she had to because she 
can’t run a business like that without demanding respect. She never would let me get away with 
anything. When we got to be teenagers and older guys would get a room to take his girlfriend, or this 
and that. She never would let me do that, because her and my mom were friends and I guess there 
was that code. And I never could figure…somebody told me that the year before last. I said, “Why 
did she treat me like that?” They said, “Because she was your mother’s friend.” Regardless of what 
they did, they knew what was right and what was wrong and she didn’t want you to get into no 
trouble.” Whatever, you know. But she was as sweet as could be. And she got the best 
entertainment. The Marvin Gaye’s, the Percy Sledge’s, the reason they’d come there…the Red Fox’s, 
 
12 
he spent a lot of time there, the reason they’d come there, some played, some stayed, some partied. 
That’s the way I always said it because you get kind of confused about who played there, who stayed 
there, but they all partied there. That was more because of Miss Sarah. They heyday…the best 
groups, knowing that they’re playing there and the dance, the Shag being taught in the white 
communities. The swing dance which became “The Shag?” That’s in Charlie’s time. And I miss her 
until this day. I think of Miss Sarah a lot. I often told her, “One day I’m going to do something with 
that property.” She said, “I’d sell it to you, if you’ve got enough money.” I didn’t have enough 
money to deal with that, but that’s why I worked and strived and when everybody said I couldn’t do 
it. I never believe in the impossible. I’m not like that. I’ve hung with some people when I was young 
that taught me there’s no such thing as impossible. I even hung with Ali a couple of years, a couple 
of days, not a couple of years, when he was in exile and everybody hated him. I left my school to go 
hang out with him, he was in Appalachia, he came up and spoke. I started talking to him and made 
good friends. I took off for a couple of days and hung around him, and met a lot of his friends. 
They influenced my life. He was different than what people think he is. He wasn’t what people 
think…good guy all the way around.  
 
But I say that to say, Miss Sarah, I made her a promise [to save Charlie’s Place] and I was 
determined to keep it. I pushed and pushed and pushed and the biggest problem was getting people 
around here, the younger people, the ones that’s 40, 50 years old. Getting them on board because 
they didn’t know anything about it. That Klan raid scared black people. That’s what terrorism does. 
This is how terrorism wins. It’s not by killing somebody it’s about putting fear into somebody. And 
it frightened the people in this community so badly that they didn’t tell their children because they 
felt like their children, some of them, may want to retaliate, because they knew who they were. 
Don’t think they didn’t know who they were. I didn’t ask them, but they knew who they were. So 
when I started talking about Charlie’s Place, nobody knew what I was talking about, none of the 
young ones the 40 and 50 year-olds. I call them young, but until it got out there and people started 
hearing a little bit more and more, the tore half the place down before you even got down here the 
first time, I think. You just saw the half that was saved. One of the ones that wasn’t for it in the 
beginning, a brave young man, skilled young man. He doesn’t get the credit he deserved because he 
has to do things in a way that works, not always a showy way. A city councilman named Michael 
Chestnut, they were having a demolition party of Charlie’s Place. They billed it as a “demolition 
party” that’s valuable land up there and they wanted me to speak and I spoke and Michael spoke and 
I saw Michael go behind me. Michael had not been to this thing, Michael looking at me and shaking 
his head. Michael came up to me and said, “Herbert, they’re tearing down our history.” I looked and 
said, “Uh oh, something’s up.” He said, I’m going to call everybody on the city council, because he 
was a city councilman and see if we can do something about this.” I said, “Michael, if you do that, I 
guarantee you that they’ll all support you because you supported them many times. They owe you. 
He did and they did. Thanks to Michael Chestnut.  
 
[56:08] 
 
And younger people started to hear more and more about it and then I started putting pictures on 
Facebook and people would see their father, and their grandfather, and their uncle. One young lady 
wrote, “Who is that guy standing beside Mr. Charlie?” I said, “I’m not sure.” She said, “He looks 
just like my brother, he must be my father.” Or “He could be my father.” I don’t think she’d ever 
seen her father. I said, “Ask your mama.” And she did and her mother said, “That’s your dad.” 
When people started seeing themselves in it, all the sudden the wheels started moving. I went to a 
City Council meeting in Pinopolis where they’re allocating millions and millions of dollars for this 
 
13 
and that. I was not on the agenda, but if you’ve got the courage to go, sometimes it pays off for you. 
Me and my wife went over there and they gave me some time on the floor. I looked out there I saw 
one guy whose father I know used to, when his dad, he was in the Marines, he told me that when he 
was in the Marines he’d go to Charlie’s Place. I saw another City Councilman whose prom date in 
high school, who told me, she’s an old lady now, that he used to go to Charlie’s place. It’s not just 
our history, it’s your history, too. I said, in fact it’s all South Carolina’s history and it shows the best 
of angels in us. It shows the angels of  diversity, it shows how people when they’re around each 
other, and get to know each other in social settings can find out they have more in common than 
they have in contrast. And that’s a message that needs to be out. [57:50]  
 
South Carolina’s got a bad reputation when it comes to race but this was before the Civil Rights 
Movement became known like it is. Before Martin Luther King, we had something happening, an 
experiment that was happening that was good. Yeah the Klan came along and messed it up, but it 
was good, and they heard it. And one guy said, “Just give that project the kind of attention that they 
give other projects.” This is a City Councilman telling them this. And I didn’t have to because he 
said it loud and they heard that. Michael was pushing it. The assistant city manager, who is the city 
manager now he was pushing it. And they came up, they gave up, what around…first the bought the 
land for $150,000 which was a steal because it’s worth a lot more but the people wanted to get rid of 
it. And they gave more than the people asked for it, by the way. But then they allocated of hundreds 
of thousands of dollars and now it’s at about $750,000 right now to renovate this thing. It’s taking 
time, but something’s are better when you do it slow. Sometimes when you do it slow, you get it 
right. You see the mistakes coming and you fix them. So it looks like this is going to happen and I’m 
going to see it. The little kids, the elementary school kids, they’re doing plays about Charlie’s now. I 
didn’t have anything to do with that, as far as doing plays, that was other people, they saw it, the 
kids, especially after the ETV [South Carolina ETV], ETV came and did a documentary on it. I 
talked them into coming over to Michael’s. We talked, one time, Bessie Newman [assumed spelling] 
from ETV, she got um…what’s Debbie Allen’s sister’s name?  
 
Phylicia Rashad? 
 
Yes, Phylicia Rashad do the voiceover narrative, and they did it and when the children saw that, they 
realized that they had a history, too. See, one of the biggest things that I didn’t know and Mr. 
Brown, Ed Washington’s nephew, he started this thing with me, I can’t leave him out. He started 
this thing with me, he knew more about it than I did. He just got ill down the road and I had to take 
it over. But he wanted to put some culture in these kids, and these kids were like plant’s without any 
roots, they couldn’t see what they’re people had done. It had all been covered up.  
 
[1:00:36] 
 
I’ll mention something else about Charlie, real quick. It wasn’t known, a lot of the white businesses 
downtown, Charlie had money in them. Some of them he owned and had white people fronting 
them like white people usually do with black folks. Then these kids parents may have gone in that 
same direction because they were started to accumulate…black folks during the last days of 
segregation were accumulating money. Don’t think people give up things, just to be nice. Just like 
the Negro Leagues, the Negro Leagues were pulling people into stands than the white baseball 
leagues, so they integrated the league. But black people…these kids saw that we did something here. 
Our people did something here. It makes you carry yourself different. [1:01:31]  
 
 
14 
You remember the song, “The Greatest Love”? Whitney Houston sang it, George Benson did it for 
a Hollywood movie before that. There’s a line…see if I can remember it, “Teach the children, let 
them lead the way, give them a sense of pride to stand on…” I’m paraphrasing, that’s not exactly it. 
 
There is a line, but I don’t know it exactly either. 
 
It’s the truth. You’ve got to give them a sense of pride to make it easier. You’ve got to give them, 
not just children. You’ve got to give people hope. And these kids, with these young, impressionable 
minds saw this, they really took the ball and ran with it. And so I’m not worried too much. I figure 
no matter what happens. [1:02:18] 
 
 
 
I’ll mention something else about Charlie, real quick. It wasn’t known, a lot of the white businesses 
downtown, Charlie had money in them. Some of them he owned and had white people fronting 
them, like white people usually do with black folks. Then these kids parents may have gone in that 
same direction because they were started to accumulate…black folks in the last days of segregation 
were accumulating money. Don’t think people give up things, just to be nice. Just like the Negro 
Leagues, the Negro Leagues were pulling people into stands like white baseball leagues, so they 
integrated the league. But black people…these kids saw that we did something here. Our people did 
something here. It makes you carry yourself different.  
 
You remember the song, “The Greatest Love”? Whitney Houston sang it, George Benson did it for 
a Hollywood movie before that. There’s a line…see if I can remember it, “Teach the children, let 
them lead the way, give them a sense of pride to stand on…” I’m paraphrasing, that’s not exactly it. 
 
There is a line, but I don’t know it exactly either. 
 
It’s the truth. You’ve got to give them a sense of pride to make it easier. You’ve got to give them, 
not just children. You’ve got to give people hope. And these kids, with these young, impressionable 
minds saw this, they really took the ball and ran with it. And so I’m not worried too much. I figure 
no matter what happens.  
 
[1:02:18] 
 
Talk a little more about Charlie and who he was in terms of his stature and you mentioned briefly about his financial 
power. 
 
He had a lot of money. 
 
Yeah, talk about that. 
 
Well, the money part was impressive down here. According to, I think it was the Baltimore African 
American, they did a story on the raid, right after the raid and they were saying that the white 
business men went over there estimated at $100,000 worth of damage. Now what kind of place was 
this? What kind of club was this? $100,000 worth of damage in 1950? You’re talking over a million 
dollars nowadays in real money, you know. He was generous, from what I hear, he helped people, he 
loaned [to] people…he wanted to be paid back, but the people who couldn’t pay him back, couldn’t 
 
15 
pay him back, you know. He put a Sealtest ice cream freezer outside, you can see it one of the 
pictures, he gave ice cream to the kids after school, if he knew they went to the school. He wasn’t to 
be trifled with and he had to keep…he had to have a strong demeanor, but at the same time he 
helped a lot of people in the background and he spent a lot of…in Atlantic Beach, if you ever get a 
chance to talk to the Mayor, or the Mayor’s daughter who became the Mayor, or the Mayor’s son 
who became the Mayor, they’ll tell you that Charlie’s money helped build Atlantic Beach. The first 
big patio club out there, and it was big and he used to go there, it was called “Punks Patio.” And 
Atlantic Beach was jumping before integration. They say his money did that. He had places in 
Conway, South Carolina. When they had the demolition party, I was talking to one of the city 
council members, several years younger than me, and he said I didn’t know anything about 
entertainment, all my life all I heard was about all this money that he had. In other words in the 
white community, because he lived with the elites in the white community, they knew this guy had 
money. At the Klan raid, after it was over, someone was [inaudible] and never repaid what the 
people owed him in that community and Miss Sarah used to always tell me…she’d talk about where 
a certain hotel was and said “we owned that land….that was our money, we had that from the 
original owner, had passed hands a couple of times.” She said, “We never got one penny back.” But 
that was all part of the effects of that Klan raid. It was a cleansing. It also forced black folk to move 
off Oak Street, I’ve been told. See this is King Street, next you’ve got Dunbar Street, then you’ve got 
Crawford Street, next street is Oak Street. Oak Street is where the convention center is and there 
used to be a horseracing track right across the street from that and a lot of black folks lived up there. 
At one point and time black folk lived on the boulevard on The Strand. When they realized, or they 
envisioned what they could possibly do with Myrtle Beach, they pushed black folks back. This was a 
way to do that. A professor at Coastal Carolina [University] said it was an ethnic cleansing, that’s 
what it was. People don’t realize it, but that was the plan, ethnic cleansing, it was done at a higher 
level. All we could see was the Klan raid, but there was a bigger picture than that. And you know, 
Charlie was the one…you kill the Chief, in those old cowboy movies, those old racist cowboy 
movies, the kill the Chief, the Indians run. Well the Indians ran. 
 
Wow. Yeah I think so many of the things I’ve learned about Charlie, he almost seems like a mythic character 
almost… 
 
Yeah, that’s right. 
 
I hate to compare him to Omar from The Wire, but he’s got that kind swagger… 
 
Omar was bad wasn’t he? 
 
Yes [laughing]. And he was on the fringes of…he was a bootlegger, right? 
 
Yeah, he was a bootlegger. And his record didn’t have nothing about prostitution, but plenty about 
bootlegging. I’ll show it to you in a minute. Years and years of bootlegging and to me, it looked like, 
towards the end of his life, there was a song called Mr. Bojangles and Sammy Davis used to sing it a 
lot and it talks about this guy who was something very special in his day and time, he was a dancer, a 
tap dancer, evidently and at the end the only thing he was doing was going to jail and staying drunk 
and he danced and drank for tips. That’s kind of like a symbol of what they did to him. They had to 
take his manhood away from him and they were able to do it to a degree. But it didn’t crush him like 
people around here sometimes think it did because he stayed on the move but he’d be over at the 
Kozy Korner a lot, he’d be some other places, he had his friends.  
 
16 
 
So he did leave though after the [raid]. 
 
He left. He traveled around here and there, particularly in DC and New York, and Pittsburgh. He 
had friends there. I think he came from New York by the way of the Islands, I think he came from 
Jamaica or someplace as a child, he grew up in New York. But he moved around because…it wasn’t 
so much that the men were afraid of the white man, it was that they were afraid for their family. And 
I understand what they mean because I remember I was doing the first, I was in the first wave of 
immigration [desegregation?] of high school in the ‘60s in North Carolina and I remember when I 
was Senior I had a very beautiful girlfriend, I’d take her to a dance at the Y and when we were 
getting ready to leave…I’d been kicked out of school a lot of times for fighting, but this time, this 
guy, I remember him well, I’m not going to mention his name, but I remember him very well. I was 
going by and he said, “I see you nigger! I see you niggers!” And I stopped, and I turned. I wouldn’t 
have won that fight because he was a big guy and he was a better fighter, and he was known for 
prize fighting, fighting for money, bare knuckles and stuff. He would have beat me, but I would 
have fought him. Hell, I’d lost fights before, I’d been swolled up before, that’s no problem. And I’m 
not the greatest fighter in the world, but I ain’t no punk, ain’t nobody just going to walk over me, 
but I had my friend with me and I loved that girl at that time. I had her with me and I knew good 
and well if I got into this, she was going to get hurt, because she wasn’t going to take no foolishness 
anyway and she had been there…and I couldn’t have protected her. So I walked in, she never could 
figure out why I did that. I guess, Charlie and people like that were in that situation too, you know. 
Sometimes it’s harder to walk away than to stay there and kick somebody’s butt or take a beating. 
But he…they beat him [Charlie] down. And he didn’t try to retaliate. He went to DC, he named 
names in the meeting with the Attorney General, it’s in their files, the F.B.I says that, I didn’t say it, 
the F.B.I. says this. It in the files. He’s naming names, Thurgood was there, Walter White was there 
Maceo Hubbard was there but when he came back he wouldn’t name names because they’d already 
taken Sarah and let her go. And he could have maybe got away, but…here’s a perfect example, you 
mentioned The Wire awhile ago.  
 
[1:11:11] 
 
Ten years ago, no about 12 years ago, right before Barack got elected, this community is like The 
Wire. There was a club up at the corner and it turned into a meeting place for drug pushers all over, 
South Carolina, New York used to come down, the DC group would come down, the Philly group 
would come down and they’d sell drugs because there’s a lot of tourists out here, a lot of money. 
What they would do is get somebody who used drugs and use them as a patsy to sell while they laid 
back in the hotel and chill out. It got real bad and it was that way for years and years and years and 
you wouldn’t even come over here to do this thing if it was like that, believe me. This is where, in 
my opinion the greatest line-backer in all of time, Lawrence Taylor got busted. He got busted right 
up the street in this place trying to buy some crack cocaine. That’s what they said…he got busted, I 
don’t want to get sued. Anyhow, my wife used to walk six miles every day and you know how 
women are when they walk and they’re really walking they look good you know and it’s kind of 
normal to look at them, you know, it might not be the most polite thing, it’s kind of normal, you 
know, we’re men, you know, we’ve got our…yeah, but anyhow one of the tourists, or one of the 
drug pushers or somebody trying to buy some drugs, he didn’t live here, she’s walking one morning 
and she came back and she had this…she was furious. I said, “What’s wrong, honey?” And she said, 
“This guy asked me to…” do a certain sex act. And she was graphic and I didn’t say anything I just, 
calm as I was at that time when I was with my girlfriend when I was young, but what I did do, I 
 
17 
went to the safe and I took out a weapon and I put it in my belt and I wanted to find this guy. She 
told me what kind of van he was in. She was kind of surprised it didn’t look like I had a response. [I 
said], “I’ve got to go out for a minute.” I drove around and I thought I saw the van. He stopped in a 
nice place to eat. I was going to walk up to him and slap him upside the head and fire the gun in the 
air. He got out. Everything fit the description. This back door slid open and two little kids came out. 
And I said, Something’s about this is messed up…it probably looks like…it’s probably different. If it is him you 
can’t do that in front of some kids, you know. That’s how bad it was.  
 
See that little hole right there [pointing to the wall] and there’s another one over there and there’s 
one over here, too. When I decided I was going to try to close that place down, I took them to 
court. It was me and a friend of mine on one side and forty good people from around here on the 
other side, because a lot of money went to the…people paid their rent, people bought their 
medicine, I suspect, so the money probably went to the churches…[inaudible]…but it’s the truth. 
One day, me and Mary were in here, we were standing about right there I heard “WHACK!” I know 
what incoming sounds like. I slammed my wife on the floor and I jumped on top of her. She 
thought, it was just like [snaps fingers] so quick that she didn’t hear the WHACK. She thought I had 
lost my mind. She was getting ready to call the police on me for domestic violence and I got up and 
Mary somebody shot. She said, “You’re crazy. Nobody shot in here.” And it was summertime, the 
blinds were a certain way and you can’t see the holes. The only reason they’re still there is I like to 
remind myself of it sometimes. About a week later, she was cleaning up and the bullet had lodged 
over here in the ‘sil [windowsill]. I came in, just the corner of the window, it didn’t shatter the 
window. It came through and she saw what it was and we saved the bullets, you know. She saw then, 
but that’s what we had to deal with. That’s that Wire mentality. If you don’t give the people hope in 
your community, you leave it open for somebody to give them a false hope. “Here, sell this, you’ll 
have some money. You can buy you a new car. You can be fly with the girls. You can travel, you can 
do this, that…” And you can for a second, but you’ve always got to look over your shoulder. We 
shut that place down. That’s that Wire mentality. Charlie was bootlegger, but the community was 
safe. Sometimes it takes somebody people fear as well as respect and the community was safe. My 
father, when my dad, his generation was alive, I told the police when that case came up, I said, “You 
know what?” I said, “If my dad and his buddies were alive, you wouldn’t have to worry about 
somebody calling you about the drug pushers. You wouldn’t have to worry about drug pushers 
because you about a bunch of crazy old men got them in the position where they might kill them, 
you know. You don’t have that now.” Hopefully we can put the spirit back into the people and 
teach them to do something for themselves.  
 
[1:17:10]  
 
You mention how before integration, we were starting to accumulate some money. We got a land of 
land at the turn of the century, a lot of land. Now we don’t hardly have any land, as a people, you 
know. Our businesses were good enough where, they weren’t always as the white people’s 
businesses sometimes they were, but they were good. As soon as integration came, there was an old 
saying, “The white man’s ice is always colder.” And that’s the attitude that we, as a people, took. We 
abandoned our schools, we abandoned our communities, we could find reason to get out and 
instead of trying to figure out how in the world can we stay, because you see we all lived together, 
you didn’t have to worry about a bunch of thugs running around doing this or that because if the 
doctors daughter is walking those streets and the plumbers daughter is walking those streets and the 
preacher’s daughter is walking those streets, they’re not going to let those kids get to that point 
where somebody’s going to do something. They’re going to stand up to them, they’re going to stop 
 
18 
them. And they’re going to teach those boys how to be men. And that’s what has to be done now. 
Hopefully, we’ve got a generation that will do that. Because see I’m getting old. I’ve been fighting 
for a long time. [sigh] Everything’s got a term on it, and that’s just a part of life, you’ve got to accept 
it. So I got a little fight left, but I can’t do what I used to do. And I’m seeing some of these young 
people wanting to step up to the plate and I will support them when they do, but they’ve got to be 
prepared because they don’t know…that’s why I mentioned before that I’m glad that the climate 
changed politically like it did, so they could see what they don’t want to go through so when we get 
it right again we can fix it where it’s sustainable. Charlie would have.  
 
They say Charlie went to hear Robeson, Paul Robeson was speaking against Strom Thurmond  over 
at Charleston and Paul Robeson went to Georgetown. I know my father went, I heard that Charlie 
went and couple more…and it gave Charlie a different sense of courage. One thing about Charlie, 
he didn’t grow up down here. He never saw “strange fruit hanging from the poplar trees.” The black 
men that grew up down here, in the country, in the ‘20s it was nothing unusual at least once in their 
lifetime to see somebody hanging from a tree. That puts fear in you. That was the purpose of it. This 
is terrorism. They talk Islamic terrorism, they talk about the Hispanics coming over here and the 
terrorism. There’s no terrorism, like white supremacist terrorism. Let me tell you. They will take you, 
they will kill your mamma in front of you, they will do all kinds of things. This is the history. I’m not 
saying they’re doing that now. But we know, one thing about it, they keep records, real good and 
they write down what they did, and so we don’t want to ever have to face that again. We don’t want 
to get to the point where we’re taking a hate attitude, because you judge people, like I said, people 
around each other they learn that they’ve got more in common than they do in contrast, but at the 
same time, we have to…especially when we’re fortunate enough to get our hands on some money 
and power, we’ve got to try to help our own people. The same way the Jewish people tried to help 
their people. You know, same way the Irish people helped their own people. You know, we don’t do 
that. We still…it’s something that was put in us a long time ago, where we do the opposite. Charlie 
wasn’t like that. They said…Charlie and Sarah were both really light-skinned, “high yellow” as they 
used to be called and they say they were color-struck, well I tell you what, if they were color-struck 
they did enough for the community from what I hear. I don’t think it was that, but what I do 
think…. 
 
For the tape can you talk about what “color-struck” means? Because a lot of people might not know. 
 
One of the problems that black folk inherited was we see people in a kindergarten lens. You know 
how in kindergarten you go to school and you say, “Ok, little Johnny, little Aaron, this is red, this is 
brown, and this is black…” And black has always been something synonymous with evil, something 
that’s gloomy that you really don’t want no part of. Well white is always been synonymous with 
something that’s pure. So we, subconsciously, we’re taught to look at people like that. We see a 
bright-skinned black person, he’s pretty, she’s pretty, you know. You see a dark-skinned…well they 
look good.” Check out most of the leaders, it’s changed, but check out most of the leaders whether 
it’s Walter White who looked whiter than most white folks, he had blue eyes, Thurgood [Marshall], 
Charlie, most of them. They were what we call, “high yellow.” The color yellow and they could rise 
high, you know. It’s a bad thing exists, that still exists, it’s a color consciousness that we’ve got to get 
over. We’re not in kindergarten anymore. We’re at least teenagers and we’re working on being 
adults. As a people we won’t be adults until we’ve got everything that any other civilized society has, 
the best in civilized societies. We’re not adults as a people, but we’re working on it and we’re moving 
up. We would have been there. Integration was good. But you have to integrate when you 
have…have some power. You’ve got to bring something to the table, otherwise you just assimilate. 
 
19 
We assimilated. And we assimilated a lot of…we did a lot of good too, don’t get me wrong. I’m not 
anti-Caucasian, I’m not that way. I hate to use a cliché, but some of my best friends…you know. 
 
[1:23:55] 
 
But we have to help ourselves, we’ve got to put our hand out and we’ve have to protect our women. 
I mean I know how chauvinistic things can sound, I’m not trying to sound chauvinistic, but we have 
to have a…if a people don’t have the heart or men that are willing to protect their women if 
necessary with their life nobody’s going to respect them, nobody’s going to respect them….but if 
somebody trying to mess with you then they’re messing with me, I’m sorry if it’s Chauvinistic or not. 
I’m going to kick their backside if I can and I’m going to give you time to get away if I can’t. That’s 
the way I was raised. That’s what my father did in that restaurant, that’s the way I was raised. Like I 
said, I ain’t no great fighter, but I know what duty is and I’m old school, I can’t help that. I was 
taught that a man has a certain duty and if he doesn’t do his duty, if he doesn’t do whatever he has 
to do to protect his family, to protect the women, protect the girls particularly and to teach the boys 
to act like men and not act like a lot of them do now, you know, not act like clowns. Don’t have 
your pants falling down, you know. Sometimes it’s cool, it’s cool, I understand. I used to have a big 
afro. I’ve got pictures of me with a big afro when I was in college and I did all that kind of stuff. I 
had shoes, about four, five years, there was a time when we all wanted to be tall in the ‘70s and they 
had these elevated shoes for me. I had elevated shoes and daddy would look at me and say, “What 
kind of fool are you?” You know, so I understand that you’ve got to let the kids grow but at the 
same time you’ve got to teach culture and culture has lines to keep you going in a certain direction. 
Sometimes they’re not always as good as they can be so you modify them as time goes by but you 
don’t just settle or erase the lines…. 
 
My stepfather is from the South… 
 
Yeah, he’s going to open the door for you… 
 
Yes, very similar 
 
…he’s going to hold your coat when you put it on. 
 
Yeah, a lot of heart, yeah I think it’s something…we can use more pride. 
 
That’s what it is. That’s what it is. We had pride. We had pride when we didn’t have no money. We 
had pride when we didn’t have no education. We had pride when we had nothing but ourselves, our 
family, and God. 
 
[1:27:58] 
 
Not necessarily in that order, but we had that pride. And one of the biggest tricks that was played on 
us, we got hoodwinked, we did get bamboozled, as Malcolm said, was to take that away from us, 
they substituted it with things. I’ve got a Jaguar outside, it’s an old Jag and I’m restoring it. I like 
having a Jaguar, so I get a material thing. But that can’t, that can’t, that’s not equal to my legs. I lose 
that Jaguar, I can get me a piece of car that can get me here or there, but I lose my legs that’s 
something else. That’s the way it is with this pride thing. A lot of the things that we had before…we 
got things, more modern day tools for this and that but that good old fashioned sense of self and 
 
20 
value and community, it’s not like it was when I was a kid. It’s true that everybody was your mother 
and everybody was your father when I was a kid and you respected everybody. I don’t care if it was 
the drunk on the corner, he was named Mr. Thomas, it wasn’t “Old drunk Tom.” You didn’t say 
that. And if people trusted each other enough, and you’re really cutting up and you’re about to do 
something that could hurt yourself and you’re down by Mr. Abraham’s place and he saw you he 
might take you and give you a quick little pap you know. He hit me, he hit me. Before mommy and 
daddy…and you might get another beating after that if you deserve it. Nowadays, even in the 
schools, I’m not saying I’m for beating kids, I’m not saying that, don’t get me wrong, because it gets 
twisted. But even in the schools, the teachers, if they have to discipline their child in the school, now 
if they’re cussing or fighting or something and they get in the way to stop it, they better not put their 
hands on them and sometimes that’s right because some…you’ve got some crazy teachers now. But 
when I was growing up, if Ms. Gritten [assumed spelling], Ms. Gritten did spank me. She called 
home, told my mamma, daddy was in Myrtle Beach, thank God he wasn’t home. Mamma tore my 
but up when I got home.  
 
I used to wait tables in grad school I’d see how people would let their children run wild. And we would never 
[laughing] there would be consequences. 
 
No, No. That’s why you’ve got the character you’ve got today. It put something in us. 
 
Yeah, and it wasn’t that I was afraid of my mother, but it’s that I didn’t want to upset her enough to bring her to that 
point because it affected me that I brought her to that point. 
 
It’s called respect. 
 
And yeah, she wasn’t playing. And she didn’t have to raise her voice in public to us, she’d just give us a look 
like…that’s it [laughing]. It’s not nostalgia, I don’t think. I think that something’s shifting in the culture. When I 
think about Charlie…they never had kids, right? 
 
Well, that’s questionable. 
 
Oh, ok. 
 
He may have had once son, who may not realize is his son. That’s a deep story. I don’t know the 
whole truth of it. I think I understand it, young fella, he’s not young, he’s just as old as I am. And 
then there was another one, his oldest son, he did take this “light, bright and almost white” 
[colorism] thing to a degree. People hated him in school. And when he died, Miss Sarah told me, she 
said, “You know, he had good things in life, the way you did.” She said, “But, I’m glad that…” Mom 
and dad were dead by then… “you outlived your parents. And you’re trying to do good things, but 
I’m glad I buried him because he couldn’t have survived without me.” That’s the way it was. He 
would stay in his room, he didn’t want to get dark. It was strange. 
 
Colorism is a very real thing. Even in the Green Book…I had to write in one of my chapters about that, about 
colorism because even all of the images of people, and clip art and things that were used in the Green Book primarily 
could pass for white, or very, very fair skinned. And it wasn’t until the 1960 edition that would could see the first 
decidedly looking black figure on the cover. 
 
Black is beautiful. 
 
21 
 
Hmm mmmm. It was also with the times, but as we were saying earlier, it doesn’t matter, regardless of your race. 
White supremacy, those lessons are in the DNA of this country and it doesn’t matter what race you are, we are all 
affected by it. 
 
Hmm mmm. I’ll tell you, now this does relate to the entertainers that would come through town at 
Charlie’s Place. What used to fascinate me, the white folks they’d come down here and get as dark as 
they possibly could. Sometimes they’d get burnt like…they’d turn red, you know. If anybody’s 
colored, white folks are colored they turn all kinds of colors, but they turn red or green, the sun did 
strange things to them. Then in the ’60s they tried to make their hair look wooly. At the same time, 
black folks would come and get some “Bleach and Glow,” lighten their skin. They’d get a conk. I 
used to love to watch guys get a conk. I’d see people right in front of the barbershop, across from 
Charlie’s Place, literally get up and run out of the chair, because you’re putting lye in somebody’s 
hair. In other words, the blacks were trying to be white and the whites were trying to be black. They 
wanted to dance like the black person, they wanted to get the mannerisms…that was hip, even 
before the ‘60s. Elvis and those went into that. These kids that wanted to learn the Shag and some 
of them in their nineties talk to me today and they’d copied everything they can. Check out Dino 
[Thompson], Dino dresses…he’s got mannerisms like a black man, more than a lot of black folk do 
and he’s one of the best gentlemen you could be around. He dresses…he’s got that fly look and he’s 
older than I am. When I talk it’s one thing. This guy’s a storyteller, he will have you enthralled with 
what he’s talking about. Whatever it is, it’s a good story, believe me.  
 
So it was like a role reversal, you know, it was strange. I’d watch these performers. I remember when 
Percy Sledge was getting his hair conked one time. Remember Percy Sledge, “When A Man Loves A 
Woman.” I remember when used to get his hair conked. And that stuff had to burn him. He didn’t 
jump up or anything, he dealt with it. But you’d see him. Jerome Thomas [assumed spelling] he’s 
dead, his wife Darla [assumed spelling] she’s still at the barbershop, Jerome conked his hair. Jackie 
Wilson used to get his hair…Jackie Wilson used to be up there…  
 
[1:35:18] 
 
 
Sam and Dave, the real Blues Brothers. Come up to the House of Blues Gospel Brunch in the 
morning and have breakfast. I already told them, so come on up and have breakfast. You’ll enjoy it. 
We’re playing. Gospel Brunch 9:00 in the morning. 
 
Ok, thank you. 
 
Sam and Dave…I remember a good Sam and Dave story from those days. When I was at the Ocean 
Forest, Sam and Dave were playing at the Beach Club. The Beach Club was like a white-owned copy 
of Charlie’s Place. That’s probably where they got the idea from. Mr. Corbett [assumed spelling], he 
did it, and it was segregated most of the time but things changed before the end. The rules were kind 
of relaxed anyway, I mean when Junior Walker played there, I remember going there then and 
nobody bothered me, I went where I wanted to go at that time, but not all the time. But I wanted to 
get close to Junior Walker because I was a saxophone major in school so I wanted to watch him play 
and nobody said anything but anyhow at Corbett’s you’d see the best black groups. Sam and Dave 
were playing there and they were staying at the Ocean Forest, but I never saw them there at the 
Ocean Forest I was told that they can’t…when they leave there was a certain elevator close to their 
 
22 
room that they had to take to go out of the building, they can’t walk through the lobby, you know. 
Blacks really weren’t supposed to be allowed but Sam and Dave were superstars right then, so it was 
a strange time to grow up in, but I tell you what, I’m glad I did. I got to see 1,000 years of history in 
a matter of years. I got to see everything from “colored” to “negro” to our women being abused by 
them to “black” to our boys abusing their women, which is not good, you know. But I got see the 
whole thing and I don’t know what it’s taught me but if it’s some great lesson in this life, maybe I’ll 
figure it out when I’m here, I’d like to. But there’s something. We saw Jackie Robinson, I remember 
seeing Jackie Robinson play on TV. Fortunately we had a TV which was rare. I remember when a 
color TV cost as much as a car. I remember Nat Cole being on TV, he had his own show, which 
was super rare, he only had it for a few episodes. I think he had a soap sponsor…you know black 
folks couldn’t use soap, that was the stereotype, especially somebody as dark as Nat King Cole. It’s 
crazy.  
 
I remember we got to see Dr. King, we got to see Malcolm [X], we got to see one end of the 
spectrum and the other end of the spectrum. We got to see the leaders that came after that and I got 
to see Barack Obama become president which was very, very special. I helped him win South 
Carolina and it was very special. So I’ve had a good life. I got to meet you. I’m fascinated, really, 
you…what you’re doing is going to live longer than you. You’re going to live a long life but what 
you’re doing is going to help people. This Green Book thing, all this travel that you’re putting in 
you’re going to get dividends from it, you’re talented, you’re gracious, your beautiful, that’s the way 
it’s supposed to be. And yet I can tell that you don’t take no stuff, you know. And that’s the way it’s 
supposed to be. 
 
Thank you. That’s very kind of you to say. I’m grateful that I get the opportunity to do the work, but yeah… 
 
It’s a big thing. It’s something bigger than you. 
 
I know that. I do believe that. 
 
Yeah, it is and it’s going to be paying dividends for a long time because the Green Book is a great, 
great story. I still haven’t seen the movie. 
 
I haven’t either. 
 
Everybody talks about it…it’s Driving Miss Daisy in reverse. But they don’t understand. If they 
want to see the horrific side of it, there’s a horrific side of it. But you don’t introduce people to that 
that’s never heard of something before. You go to college, you take a nuclear…when you start 
taking upward [courses] like you do in grad school, not grad, but like you do in college, you’re gonna 
do Physics 101, not Physics 501, you know. See you’ve got to start off, you’ve got to…as Malcolm 
[X] would say, “You’ve got to put some Novocain on it before you stick the needle in there.” So this 
will introduce them, and if the roles were reversed and this brother who’s playing the musician had a 
thuggish attitude. 
 
Dr. Shirley 
 
I saw that in politics, you remember when Barack was running and the first debate, if you don’t 
remember, you can find it, he was debating Dole? Not Dole, the guy, the Mormon… 
 
 
23 
Oh, Romney 
 
Yeah he was debating Romney. Romney ate him up in the first one.  
 
Hmm mmm. I remember that. 
 
Yeah and then you had Biden with a guy who’s getting ready to retire right now, young fella. Oh, the 
head of the Republican Party in Congress, the Senator. And Biden came in there sounding like a 
drunk Irishman. He was out of bounds, no etiquette and Biden’s got plenty of etiquette, you know. 
No, no…he just beat him up and I was watching it and everybody said, “What’s wrong with Biden, 
why is he acting like that?” I said, “You’re gonna get it, if you are.” And if he came out tough in the 
first place they’d say, “See, that’s the angry black man. We can’t let him be President, he’s the angry 
black man.” But see Biden’s changed the rules now, he’s raised the ceiling, you know, I don’t care 
how tough…you can’t touch what Biden did. I figured that was theater. I figured they planned it 
out. I figured Biden did that on purpose, Biden figured he’d survive. That’s the way it is with the 
movie [Green Book], if people hear some of the things that I’ve forgotten from some of those times 
of why they did have to have a Green Book it will turn them off. Because nobody likes real evil and 
there was a lot of evil going on, or they would never have had to have the Green Book. {1:42:54} So 
put the Novocain on it and in turn all they’ve really got to do is listen to you speak about Route 66, 
they’ll get an idea. You just got to cut me off of Facebook because I was saying some good things 
about the movie that I hadn’t seen. So I sent… you speaking, a couple of hours on something. And 
he wrote back and said, “Right on!” [laughing] 
 
Thank you. Tell me before we end, because I know we’re wrapping up. Was there a story that that Charlie would 
go…I remember reading about this, that he go into these prescribed places that were mostly for white people but because 
he had this financial power and because he had this respect from the community he could just sit where he wanted… 
 
Yeah, yeah. 
 
Is there a story when he went to the Kozy Korner and the kids would come and look at him through the window. 
 
Hmm mmm. This was after he got his ears clipped. Yeah they were looking at the mutation, because 
they [the Klan] clipped his ears. Yeah he would do that. He would go where he wanted to go in 
general. He was a different kind of…he knew his money was as green as anybody’s so when he’d go 
to the movie, he’d take Miss Sarah to the movie and they’d sit downstairs, you know black folks 
would sit upstairs and the color consciousness played a role to because he was light-skinned and she 
was light-skinned. So it wasn’t as offensive to the white…that played a role. But people knew 
Charlie was black, because Charlie knew he was black. He did what he wanted to do and this…that 
white supremacy mentality could not allow that to foster and grow because all of the sudden you’d 
have other people. Black folk were making some money over here for that time. What if five or six 
of them got together and said, let’s go buy this in the center of town. So they had to stop it. This was how 
hateful it was. This was after that, after daddy got fired from Patricia’s, and Patricia was a good 
woman, I still respect the Patricia people in general. I look at things in context of time. I actually do. 
But after that, on Highway 17 the main drag, about three blocks from the ocean you’ll see an Arby’s. 
Daddy wanted to put a restaurant up there, he cash money to do it. He had money. He had cash 
money to do it. And they said, “Riley,” This is what he told me. And I’ve never know him to lie or 
exaggerate, he was a different kind of fella. He said, “Riley, we’d love to sell this to you because we 
know you’re a good guy but we can’t because of covenants and restrict ions say you can’t sell to 
 
24 
colored people.” And that was true because when I was on the planning commission that stuff has 
changed but I saw all that old stuff. I looked it up. But they were afraid of us getting the land down 
there. I’m going to tell you now, it was not because they thought we’d do something wrong with it, 
they thought we’d do something right. [1:46:18] Because Strom Thurmond, I’ve mentioned him a 
couple of times. Strom called here and told my father. I hear you’re getting ready to get a piece of 
land close to the ocean, I want you to know now, you get it, and you open your restaurant, I want to 
be the first person in there. Now, I want you to seat me first, that ok? But Thurgood Marshall was 
involved in that, too. By then, Thurgood was on the Supreme Court, he couldn’t come out and open 
it and be involved but he made it clear that if daddy pushed that case, if he wanted to sue them that 
no matter how much money it took to take it up the channels, they would be available. And when it 
got to the Supreme Court it would be handled, you know. My uncle Billy Fleming [assumed spelling] 
was close to Thurgood Marshall and he’s related to my father, but daddy did not do it and the 
reason he did not do it was because mamma had just moved back down here after all those years I 
was in college and she moved back down and he knew if anything that reminded her about what 
happened to Joe DeLaine she’d go back up to Wilkesboro in a heartbeat, she was an independent-
type woman. So he didn’t do it. But white folks were afraid that he’d steal their business and he 
would have. That was going to be his get back. Had a lot of black folk over here afraid to work for 
him, there was about four or five young excellent waiters, one of them ended up being the maître d 
at the Dunes Club, they were willing to take a chance. If he’d got it you’d have all these wealthy 
people that had been coming there for 30 years just to see Ron [?] who’s kids had grown up, still got 
pictures of Ron [?]. There’s a book called, “Dancing in the Low Country” by a guy, one of the 
editors or Southern Living. My cousin called me and said, “What you doing?” I said, “Sitting here.” 
Get up, go out to the bookstore and buy “Dancing in the Low Country.” I said, “I’ll…” “No, get up 
now. Go buy ‘Dancing in the Low Country.’” I want you to read it. I said, “Ok. I’ll go.” I did. They 
knew more about my mother and father in that novel…so I wrote the editor. I said, “That sounds 
like the Patricia Inn.” He had a website. He said, I used to go the Patricia…when I was a kid my 
grandfather would always take us there, a lot of it is like the Patricia…” I sent a picture of my father. 
I said, “Well that’s my dad.” He didn’t write back anymore. 
 
So daddy was respected and he wasn’t the only one. Mr. Kidnapper, Rueben Wineglass [assumed 
spelling] a lot of these guys…Hook, Hook Anderson [assumed spelling], they could have opened 
businesses that could have rattled…Sonny Kid [assumed spelling] went down to Augusta and 
Nashville and became the maître d down there. If he’d opened a business up here and he would 
have drawn the millionaires because they already knew them, you know. So all of this is a part of this 
white supremacy thing. They look out…they make…they realized that they have a spot and they’ve 
not going to give it up. Power does not give up except to other power. You know the phrase, I 
might miss the phrase but you know what I’m talking about. Power secedes to power and that’s it. 
And Charlie was an example of power. They had to crush him and they had to do it in a big fashion 
so black folks would know we didn’t need no more Mr. Charlie’s here. And they did it so well, and 
you talk about terrorism. That was in 1950, even up until three years ago, three or four years ago, 
that was a secret among here among people 50 years old. That was a secret. People didn’t talk about 
it. That’s scaring somebody. That’s putting fear in them. Now it wasn’t that our ancestors were 
afraid to fight, in fact there’s another section of the community used to be called Harlem, it’s called 
Canal now. They were in the trees in the next day and they were putting the word out, “Please tell 
the Klan to come back by. There’s going to be a slaughter.” They would have lost in the end because 
the police probably would have helped the Klan but. But our Klan…. 
 
Well that’s the true definition of terrorism.  
 
25 
 
Yeah it’s terrorism.  
 
And then when you have a system that’s not going to be there to support you… 
 
And speaking of the system, you can’t go out without saying this, we when we went to the Justice 
Department, the whole trail was based on the premise of the whole investigation was built on a 
premise that the police had violated the people’s rights, Charlie’s rights and the people in the club’s 
rights because they were in Klan unif… they were in the Klan, yet at the end of the day, you’ll read 
in the beginning of those files, “well we couldn’t find any evidence that the Klan was working under 
the color of the law and the police were there to protect them.” How can it be that the one person 
who was killed had a police uniform on? That the Chief of Police was in the front seat with the 
Grand Dragon of the Ku Klux Klan? How can it be that they’re not under the protection of the 
police? If blacks had really had risen up, police would have been there on the Klan side. At least 
that’s the way it looks. But that was then and the day is now, you know. And all we can do is make it 
better. You don’t get bitter, you get better. But when you think about it, all you can do is shake your 
head and say, “What in the world?” And when you get the opportunity to read what they say, with 
their own hand, you’ll see how they knew.  
 
[1:53:11] 
[END]