Ironworkers Documentation Project 
 
AUDIO LOG FORM 
 
Interviewer's recording no(s).:  BH IW 1 [McGleam] 
 
Contact:   
 
William “Bill” McGleam 
 
 
Interviewer:     
Clark "Bucky" Halker 
 
Interview: 
 
     Date:   
 
July 26, 2011 
 
     Place:  
 
Union Headquarters, Local #63,2525 W. Lexington, , Broadview, IL 60155 
 
     Other people present: 
None 
 
     Background noise: The Local IWU 63 headquarters can be a bit noisy and this can be heard in the 
background.  It's an industrial building for the most part, so the cooling and heating system is a regular 
problem.   Occasionally, the building even generates a line noise that is impossible to keep off the 
recording.  Sometimes you can also hear people in the office section talking and laughing or somebody 
will walk into the room. 
 
 
 
 
 
     Equipment used:  Marantz PMD 661 digital recorder and Shure SM57 microphone. 
 
     Recording medium used: Transcend 8 gigabyte SD memory card, uncompressed WAV format. 
  
 
     Recording engineer: Bucky Halker 
 
 
Summary description of audio interview contents: 
                                          
 
Bill McGleam talks about his background, his start as an ironworker, his career in the trade, labor unions, 
important building sites, and changes in the trade.    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Audio Interview Contents 
 
Counter   
No./Time                   Topic 
 00:01  Bucky introduction 
 
[Please tell me your name if you would please.]  Bill McGleam.  [And Bill, tell me what year you were 
born.]  1944, December.  [And what town were you born in?]  Right here in Chicago.  [And what 
neighborhood did you grow up in?]  Ahh…basically in Canaryville, which is down by the stockyards.  
Then when I was about 10 years old, my mother and father moved to Garfield Ridge, which was a new 
development around the South Side.  A little further south and a little further west.  And that’s where I’ve 
been for the rest of my life.  [And how did you get from that neighborhood to ironwork?  I mean, did you 
go to Washburn or did you get an apprenticeship?  Or how did you get started in the trade?]  Well, I got 
drafted in 1965.  Got out in ’67 and my uncle’s wife was married to George.  My uncle’s wife’s sister was 
married to George Martinkis who was one of five ironworkers in this local.  So my Dad had a party in the 
basement and all the Martinkises were over and they asked me what I was doing.  I had a job as a 
mechanic at an auto dealer and they said, “Well, they’re taking the test for apprentices at the Ironworkers 
Local.  Go head and take the test and maybe you can be an ironworker.”  Its been all uphill since then.   
 
1:45  [Sure. And then do you remember your very first job?]  Very first job, yeah.  It was at 7200 South 
Lakeshore Drive.  It was a 20 story high rise, all concrete.  And you walked up.  There was no man cages 
or…  They brought material up, but you walked up the stairs every day.  I started my first job, it was from 
the ground up.  It was in September of ’68 and I thought boy, this is beautiful.  You’re outside.  You’re on 
the lake.  You’re getting a view of the city not many people see.  Until winter came.  {Laughing]   Then 
that was it.  I got my dose of working outside for that winter.  And it was cold, right on the lake.  [When 
you first started, what kind of work were you…  Was that Local 63?]  Yeah, 63.  [And what kind of work 
were you doing on that first job?]  That first job was a sash job, putting in windows in concrete openings.  
So we had to put a sill down and put jams in and drill holes in, wall plugs and screws.  And put the sash in 
after we had the frame in.  And put the snaps on and caulk it.  [So was that the curtain, curtain wall?]  No.  
[So this was just one window at a time.]  Yeah, yeah.  [You just pop it in.]  Individual units.  Individual 
windows.  It wasn’t a curtain wall.  [Yeah, now...  I know there were some disputes between the 
ironworkers and the glazers union.  Now would that have been a job that glazers might have wanted to 
have?]  Well, it could have been but it wasn’t because the company that I worked for, K.D. Walls, that’s 
what they did.  They did a lot of store-front fabrication and they had a manufacture up in Wisconsin that 
they bought these pre-fab units and then we put the frame in.  And then snap in the pre-fab…the pre-unit 
or, you know, whatever you want to call it…right into the opening and that was it.  Pretty basic.  [And 
then after you did that job, what kind of work did you do in the years that followed?]  Well, from Arcadia, 
one of the guys I was working with…  His father-in-law was a big superintendent for…  I can’t remember 
the name of the company, but I went to a high rise down town.  The First National Bank II.  So it was just 
west of the First National Bank.  It was a 32 story steel curtain-wall panels, column to column, floor to 
floor, big steel panels, so that was a big switch.  I got to see them tear the old First National Bank down.  
Did some work on the original First National Bank.  And then this was the First National Bank II, which 
was probably one of the last buildings in Chicago that ever had a guide derrick to raise up the steel for 
structural ironworkers.  So I got to know the structural ironworkers and I mingled with all the ironworkers 
on the job then, not only #63, but Local #1.   
 
4:50  [And what was a guide derrick…what was different about that?]  Well, your…  Today they use the 
tower cranes.  This was a guide derrick which was a pole that stuck up that was guide off with guide wires 
and then it had a boom that came off of the guide, the main post.  Then it would swing 360 degrees and 
they had a couple of 'em and the operator for that was all the way down on the ground.  So then a cable 
run it all the way up the building and he would…  It was all communications over the phone.  So the 
operator never could see anything.  [So everything had to be done with basically some kind of walkie 
talkies?]  Yeah.  [Wow.]  With telephone wires.  Yeah, and so it was…  [And the crane, did that bring up 
the whole curtain wall or did it bring in those…  I’ve seen some pictures where they had kind of framing 
and then the windows popped inside the framing.  How did that…?]  This was…that was more used for 
the structural guys…  [Ok.The guide]  …because it had…not a big swing but it was used for hauling up 
the steel.  They’d set that on the roof and then they would set their columns in place.  For us, for these 
steel curtain wall panels, we had a monorail system that we would set up maybe 10 floors or 5 floors 
above where we were going to set these panels.  Trucks would come in with the panels, pre-made, flat, 
and we’d hoist them up onto the monorail and then we would drive them around the monorail to the 
positions where they were going to go.  And then we’d set ‘em.  So we used the guide derrick to pick 
them up and hook ‘em on to the system we had, I think, the monorail.  Then we’d go around from there.  
We actually didn’t use the crane itself for setting, just to lift them on to the monorail.  [And then were you 
one of the guys that was like, taking those and putting them into place?]  Yeah.  I was an apprentice on 
that job, so I did a little bit of everything.  You had a chain fall that you had to…  Once you hooked them 
onto the monorail, you had a chain fall.  You’d bring it around to position and then you had to manually 
let the chain do the work. So…  They had all the apprentices do all the pulling of the chains.  So you had 
big arms by the end of the day.   
 
7:18   [I’ll bet.  Did the older guys pull jokes on you guys when you first started on the job?]  Oh, well…  
This particular job, there was…  It wasn’t much nonsense on this job because they were…it was…a lot of 
German family and it was all business.  They were all kind of relatives.  They liked you or they didn’t like 
you.  If they liked you, you got… you got treated good.  If they didn’t like you, they’d give you the dirty 
jobs.  So you worked hard to impress them, so you’d stay on the job because it was a good job.  I was 
there for almost a year.  [On the one building.]  Yeah.  [Wow.]  So that was a good job.   
 
7:56  [And did you work…like…some of the guys that I talked to worked for the same company 
basically, like 15 years… Did you?]  No, my first ten years, I worked for different contractors.  [All in 
Chicago.]  All in Chicago.  Yeah.  But the last part of my ten years, that was in the mid ‘70s.  Work 
wasn’t very good around Chicago so I worked in Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, up in the Taconite Range 
up there.  [Oh yeah, yeah.  I remember you were telling me you were up in the Hibbing-Virginia area.]  
Yeah.  That was another cold winter job.  [What kind of work were you doing up there?]  Structural.  [Is 
that with the open pit mines or?]  No, you weren’t in the pits.  You were building the taconite plant where 
they brought the taconite ore to the mine, from the mine to the plant.  Then they crushed it, pulverized it.  
They put it in a ball machine that went around, and they would put water with the dust and it would form 
a ball.  Then from the ball, they would put it in a kiln, which would get it hot to where it would not melt 
but it would become a solid ball of taconite.  Then they would quench it.  From there, it’d go onto an oar 
boat. From the oar boat, it would go to a steel mill.  So it was a pretty elaborate system.  And if you look 
on a GPS today up in Hibbing, the same taconite mine, the same plant, is still there.  [Yeah.  And how 
long did you work on that job?]  Well, I was up there from September ' till maybe May, June, something 
like that. It was fall to spring.  [And what kind of…because you probably weren’t doing curtain wall stuff 
up there.]  No, it was all building this taconite was all set in structural steel.  A lot of welding and 
everything had to be pretty precise.  Machinery moving, just about everything.  It was interesting.   
 
10:05  [Then after that, you came back to Chicago again?]  Then I came back and worked in the 
Braidwood Power Plant.  [Oh…]  The nuclear power plant.  [Oh yeah, I’ve been out there a couple of 
times.]  So I figured an hour and a half drive is better than a day drive to go to work.  GIGGLE  I worked 
there for the summer of ’77 I think.  And then I started with the Chicago Park District as an ironworker.  I 
worked there for 26 and a half years.  [Now, they used to have a pretty big crew on the park district, 
right?]  When I started in ’77, July of ’77 in the Park District, they had 30 some ironworkers.  They had 
the north side, the west side, the south side, and the Lakefront.  It was a mix of Local #1 and #63.  [And 
which area did you work out of, which region?]  In my full time, I worked there at all different regions, 
north, south, east and west.  [And what kind of work did you do for the park district?  Just got you 
everything?]  An ironworker did everything.  He was like a “do all.”  Anything that was broke, he fixed 
because some of the park district buildings were, I mean, from the ‘20s and early ‘10s…just popcorn 
concrete and everything is kind of falling apart so you had to fabricate, repair, try to fix something that 
would work, to make everything work.  We helped electricians.  We helped the plumbers.  We had trucks 
with cranes on ‘em.  We did hoisting.  We did, we did everything.  It was one big…ah…  All the trades 
were one family.  Everybody helped everybody out.  [And did you do, like, the fences in the park and the 
playgrounds, all that?]  Right.  When I first started there, there was all cyclone fences.  And the 
summertime was notorious around the pools. The individuals would cut the fence and get into the pools at 
night.  Then you’d have to go and replace a section of fence to secure the pool the next morning so…  But 
then after they started a capital improvement program, all the cyclone fence was replaced by wrought 
iron.  So that was all wrought iron fence.  So now when…  They couldn’t really cut the rot iron fence but 
they…  The individuals would back a car up to it, put a chain on it, and pull the sections out, or just run 
into it.  There was never ending work.  [And did you work on the Lakefront too?]  Lakefront: We 
maintained all the boat slips.  They had a crew that just stayed in the harbors all summer long.  They had 
Burnum Harbor, Belmont Harbor, Museum Shores Harbor, Jackson Harbor.  And then the ice would just 
rip everything up through the winter and then we’d have to go in and fix it all up, band-aid it, replace it, 
new fabrication.  Everything was just non-stop.  Non-stop. 
 
13:27   [Now Hank, did he work with you?  Hank Lichte?]  Henry Lichte?  Yeah.  Him and I…  I started 
before him, maybe about two years.  And then he came aboard and we worked together for a couple of 
years.  Hank was fun to work with.  He was a little more… He was older than me because he had two 
more years in the trade, so he had a few more tricks than I did.  
 
13:52  [And a lot of guys that I’ve talked to talked about safety changing over the years.  Maybe because 
you worked for the park district that it wasn’t a big deal.  But when you were working on the high rise, 
was there any safety equipment at all when you started?]  Well, when I started, you were…  Like the first 
job that I was on, there was an opening at the edge of the building.  Well, there was no safety belts.  There 
was no parameter cables.  There was nothing.  You just ah…  For me, it wasn’t too scary because I started 
from the ground up. So it was like a baby walking.  Start slow and build yourself up.  There was a couple 
of incidences where on an windy day, you would really have to be careful.  And then after a while, there 
was a couple of jobs where our boss would come out to the field superintendent and he’d say, “Listen, 
take a rope.  Tie it on to the ladder.  Tie it on to you.  Make sure nothing falls out of the building.”  Just 
keep working, because you didn’t want to go home.  But today, it's all about safety, which is good...which 
is good.  Nobody wants to see anybody take a dive off the building or have an accident.  [Were you ever 
injured on any of the jobs or see other people get hurt badly or anything?]  I can’t say I was ever injured 
on the job, other than stepping on a few nails here and there.  Or getting a sliver in your arm or something 
like that.  No, I really never seen anybody get hurt bad, other than a broken arm or foot or, you know, 
nothing got smashed.  I did see a guy take his fingers off one day, but that was about it.   
 
15:40  [And over the years, did you have to get involved in any strikes or anything…or is it…?]  Well, 
what really…  In my mind, what really drove me to being a union brother was, that the job I was on 
downtown, the First National Bank.  And I don’t remember what it was about, but it was a solidarity 
movement of unions downtown.  And it was a day’s march.  We marched up and down a street downtown 
to show a force of strength for solidarity.  We ended up at the Picasso.  There was speakers there.  I’m 
sure it was probably in the summer time, in June, when contracts were up so, I’m sure it had something to 
do with that.  But I thought to myself, my God, all these people.  They’re all united as one.  And I’m part 
of it.  That made me feel good.  So that really drove the union brotherhood into me at that time and it has 
grown ever since.   
 
16:55   [And you mentioned that you worked up on the Iron Range.  Did you ever go any farther in the 
field?  Did you ever go to…  I know when I talked to Rich, when he started, he used to boom out a lot and 
go all over.  Did you ever do a lot of that or did you try to…?]  No.  [Was Chicago usually busy enough to 
keep you around?]  Yeah.  I knew… By that time, I knew a couple of contractors that…  It was just that 
there was just no work at the time.  And it was… You have to make your mortgage payment and feed 
your kids, so you gotta do what you have to do.  That was the only reason.  Otherwise, I never would 
have went there.  Some people just boomed out because they like to travel.  I couldn’t do that.  I would 
have liked to, but I couldn’t.  Rich?  I don’t think he was really married and had no kids at the time. 
[Yeah, that’s what he said.]  And the guy that…I went up there first.  Came back and then I brought 
another guy back with me and he bought Rich’s trailer that Rich had up in Minnesota.  So we kind of 
knew each other then.  But Rich is…yeah, he’s been boomed out a little bit.  It wouldn’t be good for me. 
 
18:07   [Did you have any sort of rituals, like personal or as a crew, when you were working on jobs?  I 
know they do the topping off, but are there any things that you remember?]  Well, just a couple topping 
off parties, that’s it…at McClure Court and First National Bank II and couple other buildings.  It was no 
big deal.  It was just, you know, fun for the day.  Sandwiches and drinks. 
 
18:38   [What did you think, in your time, because you started in the ‘60s…from then to your retirement.  
Any major changes in the way the industry was run or in the work that you do that seemed…  Did it 
change a lot?  I mean, did your kind of work change a lot because of technological change or…?]  Yeah, 
there was…  You could see…from wall plugs and screws holding everything together.  A lot of 
technology changed from individual windows to curtain walls and systems of windows and…just, you 
know, the systems that they use today to where…  There’s a edge of the building, there’s a little pocket 
that holds a clip that the clip is put into position all the way around the whole building and then the 
windows attach to that clip.  Then one window snaps in and stacks…snap and stack and you just keep 
going from floor to floor to floor.  Nothing that…  It’s such a routine.  In the old concrete days, concrete’s 
not perfect.  You had to shim everything and make sure everything was plum and level and…  Today, it’s 
just…everything is…  [Precise.] …precise with all their instruments.  Snap some lines and measure out 
and put a clip in and it's gotta be perfect.   
 
20:11 [It sounds like when you worked in the park district especially, because you had to be a jack of all 
trades.  You had to do a lot of your own…  You had to think up a lot of stuff yourself, didn’t you?]  Well, 
yeah.  We used to…  We used to have kind of an access to a steel supply place.  We would have to go, go 
to the job site, whether it was a fence job or a, an opening or windows or…  And then we would measure 
and figure out what we would need in material and if we didn’t have it, we’d have to go get it.  You 
know, we always got a supply of angle and flat plate.  A to Z.  [Yeah, you kind of had to kind of do it all 
on the fly.]  Yeah.  You can’t imagine the abuse that the buildings in the park district takes…take…after 
100 years.  Some of these buildings are probably 100 years old.  You have to use your imagination and 
keep going.  [Yeah.  Was that kind of fun in a way, creative, or just drive you crazy?]  All the above.  
[LAUGHTER]  All of the above.   It was…  It was a challenge.  Some of the stuff was a challenge but it 
was…  It wasn’t a one person job.  You had 3-4 guys would go and one guy’s idea would be good and 
another guy’s idea would be better.  You put them all together and it would make the job simple.  
Everybody’d help one another and the job would get done. 
 
21:44   [Hank…Henry Lichte told me about…  Did you work on…or have something on the Buckingham 
Fountain?  Weren’t you the guy…?] Yeah, yeah…  [What was that story?  Was it tied in with your Dad?]  
Yeah, my Dad worked for the park district.  He was a stationary engineer, Local #399.  And when I was a 
kid, part of his job was to maintain Buckingham Fountain. Well, Buckingham Fountain had…it was…  
The pumps were run by these big electric motors that are still down there.  And it would force the water 
through openings and make the fountain…is…look like what it is.  And it would be all switches and 
toggle switches, everything would be controlled by one person in a little pit on the side of the fountain.  
So when I was a kid, my Dad used to tell me, “All right, turn this switch.  And move this here.”  Then the 
next I know, the water would go up, the lights would change.  I used to think to myself, “Wow, look at 
that.  All the lights.”  I had no idea what I was doing because I was little but…today, everything that…  
As far as I know today, when I left there, everything…  The fountain ran from Atlanta, Georgia.  [Yeah, 
that’s what I thought.  I remember that there was a computer…]  Yeah, through a phone system.  [So now 
it’s on it…I mean it goes off like Old Faithful.  It’s more accurate than that.  It’s timed.]  Yeah.  [In the 
old days, they could kind of crank it on and off whenever they felt like it?]  Yeah, they’d throw the power 
to the motors and that would be it.  It would start pumping water.  [So you got to actually go in there as a 
kid.  Were you in there at night ever?  I mean, could you see…?]  Yeah, yeah.  [Oh very cool.  That must 
have been quite a…]  Yeah, to change the colors, that was only at night.  The fountain would just run 
during the day and maybe once or twice, they’d do…change the water pressures and make it go up and 
down.  Do the dance, whatever it did.  But the colors were at night.  [Now did you work on the inside, in 
one of those sea horses or whatever they are?]  Yeah, well, there’s…  The horses are on Congress, just 
east of Michigan Avenue.  [Oh, those.  Okay.]  There’s two big horses.  I don’t remember what they call 
them.  But one time…a…  I don’t even know…for lack of words…it’s the statue people that come from 
the government that inspect the statues.  Well, they wanted to get inside the horse to see if any 
deterioration was happening.  So we investigated the horse and found that up on top of the rump of the 
horse was a hatch.  So we went there with the people.  We took the hatch off and by the end of the day, 
there was four of us inside the horse.  It was filled with some kind of concrete but the head was hollow 
and the body itself was kind of hollow.  But it was quite interesting.  [Yeah, I can imagine.]  Not too 
many people go inside of a horse.  It’s like a Trojan horse. 
 
24:58  [Well, I think I’ve got enough information here.  Anything else you want to talk about?]  No, I 
just…have to thank Local #63 for giving me a very nice life.  You work hard and you work hard, and you 
get results and a good life afterwards.  I’m lucky enough to survive many winters, hot summers, but I met 
tons of brothers and sisters.  So I thank Local #63…and you.  [Well, thanks for doing the interview. I 
really appreciate it.  It was a real pleasure.]  Thanks. 
 
End 25:35