1
Women Who Are Architects 
Bosch, Pat  
~    Oral History Interview 
Date of Interview: 
 Tuesday, November 12, 2019 
Interviewer: 
Sarah K. Filkins 
Pat.Bosch, LEED AP BD+C   Interview by Sarah K. Filkins. Women Who Are Architects.  
Office of Perkins and Will in Coral Gables, FL  November, 12, 2019 
This oral history was produced in 2019-2020 as part of the Women Who Are Architects Oral 
History Project with funding from an Archie Green Fellowship provided by the Library of 
Congress Occupation Folklife Project 
Pat Bosch Interview, November 12, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
2
Interview 
[00:00] 
Sarah Filkins: This is Sarah Filkins, Interviewer, speaking with Pat Bosch in Coral Gables, 
Florida at the offices of Perkins & Will on Tuesday, November 12, 2019.  Good afternoon.  
Pat Bosch: 
Good afternoon. 
 SF: 
And thank you for agreeing to share your story with us as part of the Library of Congress 
Occupation Folklife Project. 
PB: 
Delighted. 
SF: 
Thank you. So let’s start off, if you could just say your name and date of birth. 
PB: 
So my name, in short, is Pat Bosch. And I was born 
 1964. 
SF: 
Thank you. So if you could describe for us what your current job and responsibilities are 
here at Perkins & Will. 
PB: 
Absolutely, I am first and foremost the Design Director of the Miami Studio for Perkins 
and Will but I also hold other firm wide positions such as being in the Design Board which is an 
advisory board to our overall firm wide board of directors. 
SF: 
Is that the board that establishes your design philosophy and policy? 
PB: 
In ways that allows all of our studios to have a cohesive philosophy and ethos around the 
world but each studio is asked to have its own autonomy, in a way, and its voice, however 
pertinent it is to its region. So we all are asked as design directors of particular studios to sort of 
command and lead that particular voice or I would say strategy. So in a way the Design Board 
creates an overall platform for where we all can stand in annals so compliment in many ways. 
SF: 
So let’s talk about growing up and when you—with two architect parents,—when you 
first became aware of the built environment and architecture. 
PB: 
Yes, I think these are great questions because as the daughter of two architects I think I 
took it for granted. I took for granted what this profession was. And let me explain why. I think 
architecture, it’s a way of life and architecture is sort of a philosophical approach to life in a way
—the way we see things, the way we analyze, the way we process. And I think that living with 
two individuals that were certainly consumed by the love of their profession created a world for 
Pat Bosch Interview, November 12, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
3
me that I thought was the same world that everybody had. But in fact, I became aware of what 
they were doing and who they were as individuals, again as committed as they were to their 
industry, I would say early about when I was ten years old. And I think it’s because around that 
time period I was old enough to start going to my mother’s office. I would go on Saturdays with 
my father to all his construction sites. So I started seeing them differently. I started understanding 
what they were doing differently. I actually started seeing the humanistic side of it more than the 
pragmatic side. I mean, I think for me it was about how my father cared so deeply about his 
clients or how important it was for him to give them wonder and to change their lives and how 
he really thought of his profession as something that was essential to the community or to 
society. And I saw my mother being such a determined leader, and always taking charge of her 
circumstances and never letting anybody define who she was. And I think—I think I saw those 
aspects more than I saw really what they were doing. And it wasn’t till high school, I would say, 
as I was, I think, nearing my junior year in high school, that I was confronted with this great idea 
that my mother presented to me.  And she said, “You know, maybe you should go during the 
summer to the summer program at Cornell [University] for architecture.” 
[05:00] 
And I said, “Noooo, I really don’t want to study architecture.” And she said, “No, no, I think it 
would be great. I mean it’s a great way for you to get to know the profession and I have to say 
Pat, this is who you are. I mean you really should consider it because I don’t think….” You 
know, and Sarah, I have to say, I don’t think she said it in any way that was not positive but what 
I recall was that she basically said, “You won’t be good at anything else that you do in 
life,” (laughs) and I think it was her way of saying, “I passionately believe that you will be 
successful if you follow this path. You’re wired for it. You don’t know it yet but you’re so wired 
for it.” So like any teenager, you kind of rebel, and I went into it begrudgingly and I think a 
world opened once I was there, because of the individuals I met and the diversity of the 
profession. I could be anything. I could do anything, I really was being trained and taught to be a 
critical thinker. I was being taught and trained to see life through a different lens and to actually 
being a problem solver, generally speaking. And that intrigued me—you know, that I could do it 
with a physical world, that I could do it philosophically and creatively, and that really intrigued 
me.  And I think at that point I really sort of thought, Well, this is the kind of platform that gives 
me a spectrum of possibilities. And that freedom, that plurality of things that I could turn to, 
actually attracted me. I didn’t want to be niched. I never wanted to be singularly minded. I was 
very inquisitive and I always thought you know, What if, what if we do this, this way? So I 
thought I could certainly find a place in this profession, whatever that meant. 
SF: 
What did you see as your different options at that point—when you looked at the 
profession? 
PB: 
So, from a very early age I started studying piano. And I was certainly, in my heart, I was 
a musician. I still see life and see design through a musical lens. And the way I relate to colors, 
the way I relate to gravity, the way I relate to structure and form and rigor and discipline—it’s 
Pat Bosch Interview, November 12, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
4
very much a part of my musical training. And as a pianist I saw creativity in a way of, you know, 
how you approach a composition or how do you approach probably understanding another 
composer’s reason or narrative or story behind a composition. And I felt that design and 
architecture as a platform gave me the ability to create these stories, these narratives, that could 
be universal, that could speak to anyone, anywhere in the world. I was such a child of diversity 
and globalization in a way. I mean I didn’t belong anywhere really. I didn’t—I spoke various 
languages. I was like such a cornucopia of stuff, that I really wanted to have this way of speaking 
universally and I think design and architecture and this profession was giving me that ability.  
You know, I had another voice now, not only through music, but now through the built 
environment. And what a privilege, right? I mean I really could sort of shape peoples lives and 
be of relevance. And you know, I think it’s also about I wanted to have a strong voice, an opinion
—I’ve always had one—about how to make things better. And this was my opportunity, this was 
the platform that was going to give me the opportunity for that. 
SF: 
That’s always been a foundation of your work. 
PB: 
Yeah, I think so and you know your question is so wonderful because I think that as I 
have matured as a person and as a professional,  
[10:00] 
I have found that initial feed of why I went into this—always present and actually certainly 
growing. And that is something that again came from my parents. I think they approached their 
profession as a civic duty almost and I found a very strong voice that way. I thought what an 
incredible power, what a privilege to be able to impact people’s lives. And so I’ve made it sort of 
my purpose and I always talk about purpose driven design. I always talk about this humanistic 
aspect about—how I approach a problem. I think when I’ve been able to work now globally—the 
first thing that I—that impacts me is the people, the place, the food, the music, the smells. I mean 
I have to tell you, I mean it’s just like this ever evolving process. But it’s a complete immersion 
to what that culture is and that truly gives me the opportunity to really enhance and speak of a 
purpose driven solution. 
SF: 
I guess that I had read something about you. It said  that, “Your humanistic designs," and 
this may come from your website,  “humanistic designs often serve as agents of social change 
creating opportunities for the underrepresented”. 
PB: 
Yeah, absolutely, and I think that the underrepresented, it’s something that, again, I’ve— 
I’ve had the ability to touch and help, through my work, and it’s inspirational to know that you  
can effect, through design, and I passionately believe in that. I think that the way we see schools 
today, the way we design schools—it’s paramount that we understand how—how we are 
impacting children, how we are potential enablers to the betterment of society through exposing 
them to places and spaces and experiences. Even in a simple school building that remind them, 
or speak to them that they are powerful, that they are more than they think they are, that they are 
Pat Bosch Interview, November 12, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
5
of consequence, and actually surround them with environments that empower them to be leaders, 
to be creative thinkers and to make them feel that their voice will be heard. And the way we, I 
would say, I have learned that it’s important, is this relationship with nature, our relationship of 
creating spaces that are sharable or—or that present choices. Meaning that the students feel that 
they can change that space or that environment by simply changing the furniture around, or 
giving them exposure to daylight, or the ability to see others. You know, this simple idea that 
corridors should not be blind, that they should be this great sort of journey to seeing what 
different worlds occur inside the classrooms. And you know we’re talking about security today 
and issues that we were never confronted with before, so again, the fact that design is something 
that is not only a mirror of our society but that it’s a vehicle to resolve issues that we’re 
confronted with, is again something that—yes we speak about most of the time, but I certainly 
find it to be an imperative in my process and my thinking. 
SF: 
So when you finished the program at Cornell that summer, then what were your thoughts 
after that? Where did you—did you know where you wanted to go to school? 
PB: 
Well, no I didn’t. I think that I was intrigued—and interestingly enough, my parents were 
very much interested in—in social causes such as social housing, you know, civic improvements, 
etcetera and that took  
[15:00] 
us to the Caribbean. I was born in Cuba. My father was an immigrant in Cuba of Spanish 
descent. And my mother was Cuban. And out of the circumstances of the Revolution and—and 
circumstances that certainly—it changed their world and changed their priorities. We became 
political refugees and in 1968 left to Spain, to Madrid. And everybody would remember the early 
70s in Spain were also very difficult in terms of economic constraints. And you know, as two 
young architects with a young daughter,  I mean we had my grandparents there—we were—I 
think they were struggling to understand what their next step was and eventually my father and 
mother were both contacted by previous—professors I believe, in Cuba to be part of a program 
that was providing social housing around the Caribbean and Latin America, etcetera. So you 
know, my father sort of felt this was something really important to him. And they were stationed 
in Jamaica actually and so out of that we moved to Puerto Rico and they were going back and 
forth from Jamaica to Puerto Rico and I went to school there. And so when I wanted to choose a 
university, you know, I wanted to go back to Cornell—I was accepted at Cornell—I had other 
options. But my rebelliousness was sort of still in full bloom and I thought, Oh maybe I’d do a 
journalism program or maybe I’d do—because maybe I can just write and do what I want and be 
a voice that way, or maybe I just study law or history or art history. And in that spectrum of 
everything and nothing relating to architecture, my parents said, “Look, why don’t you take a 
deep breath and, and go into the University of Puerto Rico and study there for a year and then 
you can transfer anywhere.” And I thought, No, I actually want to leave, like go far away. 
(laughs) But they insisted that maybe I just needed to take some time to understand where is it 
that I was going. In fact I was just rebelling, to be honest. And I’ve always talked about this, you 
Pat Bosch Interview, November 12, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
6
know, that the more I ran away from architecture, the more architecture sort of pulled its strings.  
So I went into the University of Puerto Rico which interesting enough was founded and actually 
framed (unintelligible) by Cornell University but interestingly, like in a lot of Latin American 
countries and in Europe, you don’t go to a college of general studies, whatever, you have to 
actually belong to a specific school. So in this case I ended up in the school of architecture and to 
get in there you have to go through, I don’t know how many exams, I mean it’s very, very old 
European. And so, you know, I went through a battery of exams. I finally get in, I’m accepted 
and I start the program and the program was very diverse and very interesting but it is like 
studying in Spain or studying in many of the Latin American older schools where you are 
exposed as an architect to actually more than just architecture. And I was exposed to engineering, 
I was exposed to history, and to art specifically, a lot of art, and I thought that was fascinating.  
And you know, after the first year I was going to transfer out and I decided to stay and so I did 
my undergraduate there. Which I have to say, the more, the more I travel the world and the more 
that I am exposed to new challenges, it’s an interesting thing that that school prepared me so well 
to where I ended up. I think that it truly gave me the wide spectrum of what architecture was. By 
the time I decided to do graduate work and apply to a diversity 
[20:00] 
of schools at that point, I was very focused. I knew exactly what I wanted. I knew how I wanted 
it. I knew where I was going. The school had armed me with so much knowledge and so many 
levels of the profession. And I ended up at Columbia University and the reason Columbia 
University intrigued me was because it was very theoretical at that point. It was very much—this 
was the mid 80s—very much delving into this new world of, you know, breaking the rules and 
redefining what a profession was back then. This is the transition between James Polshek and 
what then, by the time I graduated, Bernard Shummi shows up. Ken Frampton was a very big 
force there but the kind of faculty he attracted fascinated me. And I went after that faculty. I went 
after faculty that was—actually  as a matter of fact Zaha [Hadid] was there as a very young 
architect. You know, we had Tadao Ando, we had Hani Rashid, we had Enric Miralles. We had 
some of the most fascinating young up-and-coming, or not. We had Stephen Holl, we had—and  
I think that what happened was that I just jumped full-force into this pool of plurality and 
diversity and high theory and actually building. Ken Frampton was very much about “critical 
regionalism” at that point. He was writing a lot about it and he was also very intrigued about the 
tectonics of it all, right? And I had come from a school that was actually very much about the 
doing and the building and this relationship of architect and builder, very old, you know 
relationship of architect as builder and so I loved that. I loved the fact that the school was not just 
sort of doing the pretty pictures. They were also thinking how are you delivering? What does that 
mean?  How are you transforming building technology? And so I thought it was—it was a 
playground for me.  I mean, I thought I had, I had you know, reached a great sort of—place 
where I was allowed to be me and allowed to be me in a way that was very powerful. That I 
think my professors and all of the faculty that influenced my generation taught us to be 
independent thinkers and taught us to be intellectuals, in the way of consequence. Not just of 
leaving it as a “what if?” And I was very much influenced by Ken Frampton and certainly Steven 
Pat Bosch Interview, November 12, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
7
Holl, who I then worked with. And I ended up actually doing a, through the—through the 
encouragement of Ken Frampton, a time, a period for like some post graduate degree—post 
graduate studies at the ETH in Zurich. And, and it was there that my circle closed. I think that’s 
where I closed my loop. I went from technology and art and the fusion of that—art and science—
to theory, to art and science once again. And I—I had —I always say, I don’t think I was 
complete until then. By the time I got back to New York and I had been in those three kind of 
worlds, learned and was trained in an industry in three very different philosophical approaches, I 
was completely convinced that, you know, no, no—there was no question that design and 
architecture was in that sense—again as I had started with my parents—a way of life, a 
philosophical approach, a lens you apply to everything and it reinforced my capacity to be a 
critical thinker and to be a problem solver. I mean, I really did sort of connect all of those dots. 
And I think the ETH  brought me, and to this day it still fuels—brought me to a place where I  
[25:00] 
recognize that that seed of architect as influencer, architect as thought leader, architect as doer 
and maker of our circumstances of our society, was in fact alive and well.  And that that was 
where I needed to go, that was the drum I needed to beat. And I think that somehow, in all that 
journey that I took everywhere, had I just stayed in one place, had I gone directly into something 
that would have niched me and enclosed me in a more finite world, I would not have been 
equipped with what I have today to be in the position I’m at. 
SF: 
It’s interesting that you somehow inherently knew to go in those different directions. 
PB: 
Yeah and sometimes it wasn’t that inherently. I think sometimes, you know, I feared what 
that next chapter was somehow but I also had this way of thinking that—you never should shy 
away from an opportunity for growth. And as difficult as it was for me sometimes, you know, it’s 
like, I mean—I arrived in Zurich with no knowledge of German and I had some, you know, I had 
the French, and man, I had the Spanish and the English but I—and I survived that way, in a way, 
but the fact that there was an importance of me to also absorb a little bit of the Swiss-German 
and really sort of immerse myself in that, I would say, culture. It was fairly difficult at first. I also 
think that I carefully listened to those that I trusted and respected—which I remember battling 
and debating with Ken Frampton about the opportunities at the ETH. I was like, “Seriously do 
you think that I really need to go there?” And he said, “Yes, you will regret it if you don’t.” And 
the more I spoke to a lot my faculty and my professors and Steven Holl, they all looked at me 
like what are you waiting. This is such an opportunity you will regret if you don’t. So I think that 
I—I fortunately listened and trusted and respected the advice I was given and I innately I guess, 
yes, realized—and I think that’s also from my parents, innately knew that to be an architect you 
needed to really experience a plethora of things to sort of really hone that ability that architects 
somehow have, to see through, to seek clarity in challenges. I mean you need to be armed with 
so much knowledge, right? I mean it’s like the old saying which is not that diverse of a saying—
what did they say, “uomo universale,” the universal man. It’s true. You have to be very universal. 
You have to kind of know so much of so many things. And so yes, I gravitated to that.       
Pat Bosch Interview, November 12, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
8
SF: 
So now it was time to practice and become registered as an architect and… 
PB: 
Yeah, I think that for me the journey has been an unconventional one, I would say. I think 
now as a practicing professional I—I realize that our industry is more complex. I was certainly 
the generation that saw a profession going from a craft in a way that was very still, I would say, 
tethered to old methodologies—I mean even the way we drew by hand and the way we processed 
projects and design. I was thrown quickly into the world of technology—you know into, quickly 
into, my professional years. I  
[30:00] 
started working at Richard Meier & Partners around the time when they decided to go to digital, 
you know, that they started experimenting with, what if we start—they were doing larger projects 
of the time which were a lot of the European larger projects in the early 90s. And I was, you 
know, thrown into that world of really understanding how we were going to practice differently, 
how we were going to process design differently. So, I think that now as a practicing architect, I 
have become a little bit more understanding, of the quick evolutions of our industry. I do find it 
interesting and at sometimes challenging to stay within the realm of creativity while struggling 
with the world of ever changing delivery processes. You know, how we think is very different, 
how we approach problems, so much faster, so much more robust, because information is there. 
So, I struggle sometimes, you know, sort of bringing back the poetry and bringing back that 
humanistic lens. We kind of detach ourselves. We can—we have the challenge that the process 
today almost detaches you from that aspect. 
SF: 
Because of computers and… 
PB:  
Computers and you see it in the younger—when I go back and I teach—and I try to keep 
myself involved in the teaching process, it keeps you fresh, it keeps you current, and you learn 
always so much more. In the academia you see how the design process has sort of shifted and 
changed so much and I think that this intimacy that we had when we were drawing, at a slower 
pace, where we were one with that drawing, that creative process of the thinking and the doing, 
has changed, a bit. 
SF: 
So do you still design pen or pencil on paper? 
 
 
PB: 
I do, I do. I still sketch a lot. I still make a lot—I mean, I love doing models. I’m 
definitely a three dimensional thinker, which someone told me it’s because I am a musician. You 
can kind of think in three dimensions more easily and I find myself doing that. I always think in 
three dimensions and so I find myself doing little models or when I sketch, I sketch in three 
dimensions mostly but I am definitely more hands-on than I am with the computer. I use the 
computer as a tool, as an enhancer. I think now-a-days, certainly, we do a lot of research, right?  
That’s how we research. You don’t have to go to a huge library or buy volumes of books now-a-
Pat Bosch Interview, November 12, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
9
days. I mean, I think information is readily available. But I will say to you, and I hope that this 
conversation does help inspire someone someday—that the creative process, it’s something that 
we shouldn’t short-circuit. I mean we shouldn’t—we shouldn’t think it’s not—it should be 
preserved in so many ways. And I want to say that I think that this design process of discovery, 
of finding solutions because you really are immersing yourself in the problem, should never die.  
Because I think that sometimes people are more in-tune with images and the superficial aspect of 
design by going to a lot of books or a lot of magazines and designing by—by collage or 
designing through image. And a purpose driven design can never go there, right? But beyond 
that, design, and timeless universal design, is the one that speaks volumes in silence,  
[35:00] 
right? You walk into a space and it should tell you that story, or it speaks to you. And I think that 
we’ve become too superficial, and too image driven and too shallow in how we’re designing 
sometimes. And so I don’t, I make an effort not to look at images. I make an effort not to 
research architecture necessarily when I’m designing. I actually divorce myself as much as I can 
from that. And that’s something that I would like to inspire more people to do. To really—and I 
was inspired that way. I mean, I remember Steven Holl talking about that. You know, it’s like - 
Who are you? And what’s inside of you? And what is the aspect you want to bring to this?  And 
how is this design emerging from the page rather than—you know, and it takes rigor and 
discipline. It’s a lot more of a discovery process so it’s not that immediate, but I want to make 
sure that our profession—and I think that this is part of also, as a woman, I think we tend to find 
meaning, we want to find meaning and purpose. And I think the design process needs to be that 
to be authentic and to be real and people recognize that. It cannot be derivative.  
SF: 
That reminds me of a quote I read about you, the response to the Princess Nora…
[Princess Nora bint Faisal Al-Saud] 
PB: 
Nora. Ah, the Princess Nora University. 
SF: 
Yes, about how you approached getting to know…  
PB: 
Yes… 
SF: 
The people in that culture. 
PB: 
Yes, I have to say that when the opportunity was presented to me, I agreed to it and I 
jumped at it with the perspective of, Oh, this is a great opportunity. It’s thirty-million square feet 
of a university. [Princess Nora bint Abdul Rahman University] It’s in Saudi Arabia. It’s you 
know, for women. But you know the whole woman aspect, I think I, I found interesting but it 
was not the thing that moved me initially. I think for me it was the challenge of, I can do this. I 
can manage ten million square feet. I can, I can do this. This was probably the largest challenge 
that any architect can be presented with but certainly I was presented with in my career. And a lot 
Pat Bosch Interview, November 12, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
10
of people in my firm were kind of shying away from it and kind of thinking should we or 
shouldn’t we. I mean, it was certainly a recipe for non success, shall I say. But I was just like, 
Hey, I can do this. I was—I guess ignorance is bliss. But, I was fearless and I thought, What a 
great opportunity to kind of stretch myself and help. I wanted to grow as a professional. And it’s 
not until I got there and I met the women and I realized, actually, the purpose of why we were 
doing this as a firm and most importantly, me as a designer. But all of the sudden it hit me like a 
ton of bricks and I thought, Wait a second. It’s the first university built at once for women in the 
world. It’s the largest university for women built at once in the world. And, these women need to 
grow in education here in Saudi Arabia. I was—I was beyond intrigued and I was just—I don’t 
think that I have ever felt so—I don’t know, energized by an opportunity. So the design emerged 
very quickly as a metaphor for who these women were. And I’ve spoken in the past about it but 
the design I eventually sort of settled with and was able to, in a very pragmatic way, also deliver. 
So there are layers to that story but the most important layer is and the one that I kept very 
personally, I didn’t speak about it during 
[40:00] 
the process to my colleagues. I never really shared what I was doing or why. But the metaphor 
was that I saw women holding hands, being a community, being a force that together were going 
to transform the country—the imperative of that unity, of that synergy, was something that made 
them so driven and so passionate about their cause. The imperative that education was going  to 
thrust them forward in their society and in their culture. The imperative that they needed to 
resolve issues for other women in that country and this was going to be their platform. The fact 
that they were veiled and almost invisible because of that, to the outside world, but when they 
were alone and without that veil they were the most powerful, well-educated, outspoken, vibrant 
human beings that I had ever encountered—was something I needed to tell the world. And so the 
buildings for me had to connect, they had to be one so they are kind of holding hands. They’re 
like a string of pearls. They create a boundary to the—to the academic campus by 
interconnecting them. They’re veiled and almost monolithic in their exterior face but as you 
travel then to the inside of that campus, of that area, the building becomes more and more 
transparent. That the inside is like this energetic day-lit space but the outside is like very quiet 
and subtle. Everything that I was doing was all about the story of who they were. So it just was 
jumping out of that page! I just couldn’t draw quick enough. I couldn’t deliver quick enough. I—
every corner was a new chapter, a new sentence to the story that I was trying to tell and to this 
day and I think I still look and it and I still can tell you more stories. So it’s just—it’s one of 
those moments in life and in anybody’s profession where the project itself and the challenge 
itself is bigger than yourself.  And I have to say, everything I designed, everything I thought of, 
was all because of those women and about those women. 
SF: 
So have you been back since… 
PB: 
Yes, oh yes. 
Pat Bosch Interview, November 12, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
11
SF: 
 it was completed to see how the spaces were used? 
PB: 
Yes, and as a matter of fact I was called, maybe a year later, and remember, I mentioned I 
had never told the story of how I was, you know, designing this and the narrative behind it and 
the metaphors. And so I was called about a year later and I was called for a very simple reason, I 
was asked to go back because a university that we had initially designed for maybe 25,000 
women had quickly needed to include close to 62,000 women. “And Pat, get here now. And see 
how is it that—what do we need to do to the buildings you’ve designed that can accommodate 
such change and growth?” And, and we had designed it in a way where certainly we could 
accommodate up to 65,000 women within the footprints, and the growth, like in any university in 
the western world and elsewhere, I mean you kind of build in flexibility and adaptability. And 
there were all of these other philosophies that we had brought into the planning and the 
programming of these buildings. These are ten academic buildings, actually nine academic 
buildings and one student union, that were part of the academic campus. So when I go back and I 
am trying to resolve just the simple issue of changing twenty you know, accommodating twenty-
five thousand—I mean accommodating 62,000 women instead of 25,000 women—I am invited 
by the President of the University, who was the niece of King Saud who was the king that 
created all of this. And just, was the king who has just passed and now his brother and nephew 
are the 
[45:00] 
ones that are the ruling king and prince. That king’s niece, as the president, wanted to bring all of 
her faculty and all of her leadership to bear witness, to you know, the explanation of the 
university and she wanted all of her leadership to know as much as they could from the designer 
of the buildings, etcetera. So I found myself in the hotel the night before, putting a powerpoint 
together. I was going to speak to—I think it was north of 200 women, leaders of the university, in 
a huge auditorium that we had designed ourselves. And I thought of it and I said, You know, if 
there is an audience that is going to understand this, it’s going to be them and so I am going to 
give them that story. I am somehow going to try to explain why this is a reflection of them and 
how without them this could not be. And I thought, Well, it’s also a story I want to give them 
because I believe that that story should be given to the next generation of women and so on and 
so forth, that the buildings that they are using, that the university that they’re belonging to is a 
physical manifestation of their souls, of their challenges, and of their history. And so I went there 
prepared to—I don’t know—to be challenged because I maybe had interpreted them wrong but I 
took the risk and I presented the story to them beyond the story of the physical building. And, 
this is where I think as a professional, I also shifted in a way, because the women all of the 
sudden started to cry. And then I started to cry (laughs) because I realized that what I had done 
was incredibly moving to them and I had done something beyond me, really. And the most 
powerful thing that to this day still resonates for me was that they looked at me and they 
said,“Pat you saw us. You saw us. And now we see your building so differently.” And I think if 
we as architects and designers can do this for others, how wonderful this world could be. That in 
Pat Bosch Interview, November 12, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
12
fact I was able, in my humble way, to leave things better than I found them and that there will be 
this timeless, sort of, forever story that can be told. 
SF: 
And that also reminds me of the project that you—for hospital in Ghana [The Greater 
Accra Regional Hospital at Ridge]—so that must have been a similar… 
PB: 
It was.  
SF: 
Kind of… 
PB: 
And this is after Princess Nora. So at that point, as I’m saying, I shifted as a professional 
and I’m really understanding sort of—the aspect that, story is more powerful than my 
understanding of a place or a site or a program. So I think that with Ghana there was a continuum 
of this journey, definitely, and so what I learned there was how to immerse myself very quickly, 
into that culture, into who that community was, who was that society was, and where were they 
going? And that this was not just a hospital, this was a game changer for them and certainly 
something that was reflective of their—of this country thrusting themselves into the modern era, 
which was very important for them. They now have the monetary ability to do it.  They are 
anxious to, sort of, bring the best to their country—the government is. And again, we 
encountered incredibly well-educated and 
[50:00] 
driven human beings that just wanted to make their country better through healthcare. And this 
hospital was for women and children so creating a better relationship and care for infants and for 
women, was certainly something that drove our solution from day one. Their culture is so rich. 
Their commitment to—to community and to village, right, so they operate in unity as well. But 
different from Princess Nora which is like one aspect of society, this is all of them. They’re 
actually very much about the diversity of their community, and women and children are at the 
center of that. So that is sort of a shift. And so the hospital was just such a simple sort of 
commentary of their resiliency, their love of family, and how they have told the stories of their, 
of their circumstances and their,—and their country through this woven cloth, the Kente cloth.  
Which I didn’t know—I didn’t know that the Kente cloth had this ability to, or had this other 
layer of telling stories. And so all of these patterns tell stories or have meanings—and so I went 
to their market and sort of started looking at their crafts and how they tell stories through their 
craft and this is a way of them, sort of almost—it’s not just telling the story to—but it’s a way of 
recording story and recording history. So I actually went crazy in the market sort of buying stuff 
but I surrounded myself with all of these artifacts that either went from metal to, to fabric, to 
carvings of wood. I mean it was everything and everything was telling a story. And it was like a
—it was a written—it was their literature in a way. And so I wanted to make this hospital a place 
of healing, and a place of understanding and of education but also a celebration, a celebration of 
again putting women and children in the center, weaving stories, and so the building became all 
about that. It is a series of pavilions that are all woven together. They are sort of Kente cloth into 
Pat Bosch Interview, November 12, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
13
a new—a new beginning. It’s all day-lit and its all sort of experiencing their outside/inside 
aspects which is very much part of their traditional architecture. And, and also and most 
importantly giving them the dignity that they carry themselves with. One of the most beautiful 
things about Ghana was going to the old 1920s hospital and I took a picture, I remember, I just 
walked into the corridor which was an outside corridor and I thought oh, it’s an outside corridor 
taking me to where the patient rooms are. Well, no, it was an outside corridor where the patient 
rooms were and everything was almost you know exposed to the elements, etcetera. But out of 
this sort of environment, there they were, these nurses with the most beautiful uniforms. The 
doctors, the nurses, everybody conducted themselves with such dignity; the patients, they were 
waiting in silence for hours. I mean everything had such an amazing dignity and, and—it’s hard 
to capture that but I had to somehow do that. And so I brought in monumentality and 
proportions. And scale was my way of sort of screaming, sort of the regalness of—of who these 
people were. And that, that dignity that they carried, and then everything is crisp and very white 
and very intentionally speaking of what I experienced these people 
[55:00] 
exuded.  And then I think that everything that motivated me with that project was—was that. If I 
could, could give—if I could tell the story to the world of who these people were first and 
foremost, and how important they were to the healing process, that it’s all about family centered, 
that healing is not just a doctor giving a pill to a patient. It was about the holistic approach of 
healing and that’s something that the western world needs to learn as well. 
SF: 
Do you think most architects approach design and the needs of their clients like you?  I 
mean you… 
PB: 
 I don’t think I’m unique. I think that I have, I have been influenced and been informed 
and been a fan of architects that do think that way. I mean you certainly, you certainly see it in 
some of Alto’s work, Alvar Alto’s work. I mean a lot of this critical regionalism that I was taking 
about earlier with Frampton, kind of spoke to that. You know the fact that critical regionalism is 
about regionalism, it’s about these regions and you kind of have to immerse yourself into culture, 
place, people, materials, climate, to make commentary, to sort of belong, to have an architecture 
or an idea or a design belong. And so it’s not about your ego sort of image, which I find 
interesting because when I was working with Richard Meier & Partners, I mean it was the 
Richard Meier stamp or brand no matter where we were. What I did appreciate even in that firm 
was the aspect of context and contextualism. And I think even at that place where everything was 
a white metal panel, it still—like if you look at the museum in Barcelona. When I first went to 
experience it even though I had worked on it, and I saw it firsthand in its place, it made absolute 
sense. So it did connect with the context. It opened and closed when it had to. It connects two 
plazas. I mean it was, it was like it would always belong there even though it is all white and it’s 
in a fabric that is not but—so there’s that dichotomy there. But I think that other, there are other 
architects that do think that way, even contemporary ones. I do think that more and more we’re 
becoming, and this is where I like Perkins & Wills’s platform, and I passionately believe of what 
Pat Bosch Interview, November 12, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
14
we’re trying to tell the world and the industry and the profession. I think more and more you’ll 
find the younger architects and the younger designers being a little bit more purpose driven. I 
think that there’s—there’s a collective feeling that we can be a game-changer and that we can be 
agents of change in this climate crises issue. I mean we shouldn’t sit idle and just that will 
transform the way we think and we deliver. But I see contemporaries of mine thinking this way 
as well. I just think that we may approach it differently, we may end in maybe the same place 
differently. And I think that some of us are more intentional than others but I still think that there 
are a lot of architects today that are certainly thinking of design very differently. However, we 
still have a lot of other architects that are sort of in the world of a brand or their brand and their 
commentary singularly. And so we measure their success differently or we measure their 
relevance differently. Do I want to be remembered for having a particular look  
[1:00:00] 
on my designs? Not really, however, I think that the biggest complements I receive sometimes is 
some of my colleagues look at a project and they go, “Oh, that is so Pat.” But it’s not looking 
like anything it’s just—and actually every single one of my projects you can say is pretty 
different. I like that. I like, I like the aspect of, of—intrigue. I like the aspect of surprise, “Oh, 
what is she coming up with?” (laughs) I mean I love Zaha’a work and when I met her I thought 
she was powerful but she managed to have a very singular language to her which obviously 
catapulted her, you know, in this, in this sort of world of design and you have to find value in 
that, right? But I also found some of the work where she was more nuanced and more apropos of 
either program or place—more intriguing. And these are, you know I think we’re going to look 
back and we’re going to see some of those more nuanced projects be probably those that like we 
look at Corbu [Corbusier] or we look at some other architects where you know, you kind of saw 
a pattern and they broke a pattern or they broke something and you’re going, “Oo, why did they 
do that?”  I think those are going to be historically speaking the one’s that people are going to 
gravitate towards and sort of think, Well, that is an interesting aspect or commentary from Zaha. 
And you know, I have to say—I rather—I respected her position and I actually respect more the 
fact that she was passionately and fearlessly unapologetic. So I share that aspect. I am 
unapologetic. I don’t need to please anyone or—I mean this is not about—I don’t think she went 
at it thinking I want to be famous. I think she was just who she was—unapologetically, and she 
was full force, just went for it. And I think that that is where I want to go, you know, same, same 
drive, different approach. 
SF: 
It seems to me that you’ve done that… 
PB: 
I have a lot more to do, I… 
SF: 
in so many of your projects. Are there still projects or goals that you have, building types 
or whatever, that you still would like to work on? 
Pat Bosch Interview, November 12, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
15
PB: 
Yes, that is actually a very interesting question. So, there are two answers, one is I don’t 
have a particular quest right now for a particular project or typology, let’s say—other than the 
one that needs to present itself as the biggest challenge—ah—that is more relevant to a specific 
region, or community or moment. The second aspect of the answer is that I do believe that 
building technologies typologies as we know it today are changing. 
SF: 
How? 
PB: 
They are becoming more hybrid; they’re becoming more multi-purposed in a way. I mean 
you see housing with education, I mean, they’re becoming units sometimes of synergistic 
programs, mainly in some instances because our cities are so built that these nodes of synergistic 
programs are needed because they need to resolve many things in one, in one location. 
Sometimes because needs are interlaced or interdependent. For example, research with 
workplace, or healthcare with hospitality, or education with housing. I mean we’re seeing these 
hybrids all along and it’s been happening for a while. So, I think that, that’s going to happen.  
You are going to see that more and more. I’m intrigued into what are the new typologies 
[01:05:00] 
that we will see and we’re already seeing new typologies like when we started seeing garages 
becoming something other than just a garage and we had some of those, I mean we were 
involved with some of those here in Miami Beach. But I think, I am intrigued with particular 
projects that are regenerative, you know, and also solving issues of housing or issues of—of 
resiliency. But you know projects that become—you know, when you’re building—when you’re 
creating something physical and large, it’s an imposition on nature, or an imposition on a place  
and sometimes we create more problems than we solve. And so it’s such a dichotomy, right? I 
mean, it’s like such a—so here we are wanting to solve a world and then at the same time we are 
creating more problems with heat islands and things like that. But if you can find ways, if we can 
find ways—and I’m thinking of L’Oréal—was an example of that—L’Oréal Innovation Center 
for L’Oréal Industries based in Paris. There—it was an international competition. We entered the 
competition. We won the competition. They had a very important aspect to their program which 
we gravitated towards which was—they wanted to—I think the way they put it was—they 
wanted to make this intervention, a way of solving the wrongs of the site and what that meant 
was this site had been heavily polluted. It had been in disrepair—I would’t say disrepair as much 
as neglect, by the government, by many. It was a beautiful island off the coast of Rio de Janeiro 
between the airport and the city and it overlooks, you know, Ipanema, Copacabana. It’s actually a 
pretty amazing site but it’s a port area, sort of an industrial area in the past and was heavily 
polluted. And L’Oréal basically said, “Look, when we do our building there, we are going to 
somehow fix this area.” You know, some other industry would say, “We’re going to clean the 
water," or something like that. No, they, they challenged the designers, the global—you know 
sort of offices that submitted, to find ways of making this project part of the solution not just 
they were going to give some money and clean the water. So the fact that the project itself is 
restorative that, in effect, because of the building and the project, the site is better, was something 
Pat Bosch Interview, November 12, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
16
that we were all very hungry and excited to do. So when we won the competition we obviously 
sort of engaged in that effort with L’Oréal, who are a great thought leader in that sense. As an 
innovation center they wanted to, sort of, showcase that their research and that their creativity 
and innovation is one that will solve problems in the world other than just, you know, doing 
makeup. They also have this aspect about empowering women, and I think if you look to some 
of the programs that they have, they give awards and they give grants to women leadership and 
so they are quite, quite an entity where you can learn a lot about how the future of these powerful 
multinational or global corporations should go to. So in that aspect L’Oréal became a great 
challenge for us, of how to, how to sort of change the narrative and say, “Well actually our 
building is the solution, not the problem and it’s going to be the solution short-term and long-
term.” So it was not just the creating filtering gardens and helping filter water that naturally helps 
clean the water that was there but it was also about the building itself and how smart it could be 
to not deplete the grid from energy, or  
[01:10:00] 
self-sufficient, or be a good steward of energy and consumption, how we were dealing with 
waste, how we were dealing with the humanistic aspect of wellness for their employees. And 
how it can be a teaching tool so that people can go there, in the country, and see how is it that it 
should be done. And so I have to say, I mean, for us and for me as a designer but for us as a firm, 
that is the kind of partners that we love to work with because they allow us to bring the best of 
us. And it’s certainly, it’s a project that helped me also explore this commentary of women as 
mother nature and so the building is sort of very sinuous and very curvy and very much hugging 
the landscape and being one with the landscape. And I tend to be fairly rectilinear in how I 
approach designs and I am always exploring ways of being a minimalist, you know, how can I 
say a lot with less. It’s a journey. And this building was certainly sort of a one stroke kind of 
commentary. So it became probably one of the simplest sort of buildings I have designed but had 
as much meaning and as much consequence, so it was also a journey in simplicity and strength in 
its simplicity. So to me L’Oréal was actually a—a note to self, about how powerful you can be as 
a woman. 
SF: 
That’s my next question—we have to talk about gender equity for women in architecture 
and perhaps what your experiences have been or where you see differences that you’ve made 
based on your experiences in how this firm in Miami, this particular office is structured. 
PB: 
Well, so—I think Perkins and Will has—an untold strength and that is we celebrate 
diversity and we celebrate pluralism, in so many ways, right? So, I mean when you asked me 
about the Design Board and do we kind of set the tone—we do but we celebrate diversity of 
voices and so each design director should be strong and, and decisive but clear about that voice.  
And that’s what we’re looking for. We don’t want a one, a one note sort of playing. It’s more of a 
jazz ensemble in that sense. So Perkins & Will at large is a firm that sort of promotes that kind of 
diversity.  At the same time, I think that it’s interesting how when we started the Miami studio in 
1996, I was one of three, sort of initial—I would say staff, that started the office and leaders and 
Pat Bosch Interview, November 12, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
17
in those twenty-three years, it’s been twenty-three years now in August, we have led through the 
lens of diversity and—and I because the first design director that happened to be a woman in the 
firm and I’m still the only design director of an office that happens to be a woman. I don’t think 
it’s been by design and it’s not been in any way actually intentional. As a matter of fact, we’re 
proactively wanting to change that but it’s interesting how the industry is limited in terms of 
women designers. They usually will have their own firm and create their own journey and their 
own narrative. And I think women in big global firms like this one are usually less conducive to 
sort of see that there could be a journey here for them, so we work very hard in that. We have 
amazingly 
[01:15:00] 
strong women in our firm, mostly on the managing side of the equation. We have a lot of very 
strong designers in our interior’s discipline. I think that in general women designers and women 
leader/designers, I have to say, nationally, we could do better. And certainly in firms like ours. So 
let’s talk about diversity of workplace. So in big global firms like ours and SOM [Skidmore, 
Owings & Merrill] or you know, anyone similar to us, you will find very few if any women 
design directors. You will see Gensler having a CEO that happens to be a woman, you know, and 
you’ll see a lot of women in leadership from a business development perspective from a 
managerial perspective even expertise or interiors, but when you go into the overall sort of 
design leadership or architecture, it shifts really rapidly. So I think because we were birthed as an 
office, with my presence here from the beginning, we kind of don’t think much about it. You 
know it is what it—we do have an office that actually has grown with a large number of women 
in leadership, here. I think we’re incredibly diverse both racially and culturally and—and gender 
wise. So this office in particular sort of has that strength. I think there are other offices in Perkins 
& Wills that can say the same thing. 
SF: 
Just your presence as a role model. 
PB: 
Yes, and I think that I am more and more speaking to other offices, looking for the next 
generation of women design leaders. I think its—it’s, it’s difficult to find them because I think 
that design and design leadership is a marathon, it’s not a sprint. You really have to build yourself 
over and over again through the decades, through the years. You need to build a voice and a 
portfolio. You need to be relentless and resilient and you need to be driven by something else.  
And I think that there are so many challenges and roadblocks on the way that you can be 
discouraged easily. And I think that’s what I find most often, uh—not, not the lack of 
willingness, it’s just—we’re already a small number to begin with and then add up all of the 
challenges and the circumstances of the profession in general, and you’ll see those numbers 
shrink, considerably. I have been told, you know, well in a firm like yours it’s sometimes also, 
you know, the balance of life and work and you know, it’s hard in a firm like this to have a 
balance. And when you have your own firm you have more freedom and more ability to balance 
that. Well, I am the proud mother of a very strong woman who happens to be a journalist and—
I’m the daughter of an architect. And I have to say, I think that full circle now, that influence of 
Pat Bosch Interview, November 12, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
18
seeing my mother balance both—of being incredibly passionate and, oh my God, relentless about 
the fact that she was a professional and nobody was going to make her stay at home. I can 
remember that specifically. “No, I have my job and I want to get up every morning and I want go 
to my job.” You know, I think wired me completely. But I also saw her as a multitasker who 
made sure she would get home at a certain time, made sure that dinner was going to be ready at a 
certain time, made sure we all had dinner together, made sure she was there to correct my 
homework. (laughs) I mean, I did not have an absent mother so—she was very engaged.  
Actually I think I was one of her projects, right? So she was like project managing me in a way, 
and designing me. I think that I approached my mothering probably a little bit similarly,  
[01:20:00] 
I mean  in the sense that I did approach it with structure and rigor and—purpose. But I also found 
myself wanting to include my daughter and my family in, in my growth in the profession. So I 
would bring my daughter here all the time. I would bring her to a lot of moments that I had as a 
professional. I—maybe she was really (laughs) not looking forward to all these things but I, I 
really wanted to share who I was as a person with her and my husband. And my husband is also 
an architect. So, go figure. I think he understood that this was again, like I said at the beginning, 
it was a way of life and the way we approached life and the way we think. And it’s part of who 
we are. It’s an aspect of who we are and so this was not something I wanted to compartmentalize 
and I think that that allowed me to find balance. I intersected both all the time. 
SF: 
Did you ever consider establishing a practice with your husband or did you know that 
you—were you drawn more to the corporate? 
PB:L I was drawn to this framework—because I love collaboration, I love diversity, and I love 
a room full of people.  And I think the energy that I found in the numbers of fantastic individuals 
in the firm of this size made me more hyper, I mean I think it influenced me and inspired me 
further. I—I love energy and so I think that and—and I love being inspired and learning from 
others so I think that if I would have just stayed with my husband, we would have grown to a 
certain extent but it would have been fairly finite, and I felt that way. I am not normal in that 
sense, in the sense that I think that I probably gave up a lot of autonomy and a lot of—I made a 
lot of sacrifices being in a more structured corporation as I grew in my profession, both 
personally and professionally. But I think the—value of what it meant was bigger than the 
challenge and I think I have been exposed to so much more, so much quicker, so much—the 
scale of it all.  And even when there’s small projects, it’s just the amount of people that, that I get 
to work with and learn from that I was sort of, I was more drawn to that than—than a more sort 
of compartmentalized environment. I however value that tremendously. It takes so much 
commitment and strength because I mean I think there’s something to be said about being in a 
global firm, which is that there is an infrastructure there for you, right? So you’re kind of, I 
always say, protected in a way, right? I think the strength and the risk and the, oh my God, the 
commitment that it takes to actually run your own firm is—well, I saw it in my father—is 
tremendous. So that is the other end of the spectrum, right?  So I think it’s a personal choice.  
Pat Bosch Interview, November 12, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
19
And I always say that when I interview people. I mean, this is not for everybody. So if this is 
what you want, you will flourish. But if it’s not, if your ultimate goal is a more—it’s a smaller, 
more personalized approach to your profession then yes, then this is not for you. Even though we 
have a hybrid, I mean the studio is almost seventy but we work in studios, we work in teams and 
so you kind of have the feeling of a small firm living inside a big firm. That’s why we call our 
offices studios because we do kind of operate in a hybrid. We don’t like to be called a large firm, 
as a matter of fact we used to say, we want to be “the largest small firm you’ve ever worked 
with”. (laughs) 
SF: 
Well, you seem to light  
[01:25:00] 
up when you talk about people  
PB: 
Yeah. 
SF: 
And when you talk about taking risk  
PB: 
Yeah. 
SF: 
And this certainly has provided you, at a firm like Perkins & Will, it provides you that  
platform. I mean, I can’t imagine those people in Saudi Arabia, those women, not having had you 
to understand them and then create something that was so integral to who they really are. 
PB: 
Well that’s—that’s nice. I do believe, I do believe that as a designer you are driven by that 
interaction. Even Corbusier was dabbling with, “What’s the human proportion?” You know, it’s 
like what’s the human aspect of what I’m doing here? You know, his little machine. I think you 
need to open yourself to that—to truly embrace that creative energy. I don’t think, and I do light 
up when I talk about those moments, because I think that as a person, when we get to know 
someone else, aren’t you richer by knowing someone else? I think we are, I think we are 
definitely better. And I think, when you see the world today to contextualize this conversation, 
we see divisiveness and we see ignorance that creates divisiveness. We see the them and the us, 
sort of being a danger to who we are as humans. I think we are mightier when we find our 
collective similarities. And because I have had to live in so many places and I find myself kind of 
difficult to categorize as a person and I have been influenced by so many cultures, I don’t think 
being monosyllabic, monocultural is necessarily a strength. I think knowing your culture and 
enhancing your culture is important but you also need to think of what diversity is in that 
conversation and how powerful we can be if it is done correctly. I’m—I’m particularly 
passionate about that. You know,I don’t like to categorize people. I was in Princess Nora, hmm— 
very, very specific about speaking of these women without the biases that people were putting on 
them “Oh they’re all veiled and they’re all this and men don’t like to let them drive or let them 
walk or whatever”. I found a lot of untruths in that. I think there are a lot of biases, every society 
Pat Bosch Interview, November 12, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
20
has extremes and every society has you know, sort of, wrongs. But when you met them as 
individuals and you realized what their bottom line needs and wants were they were fairly 
universal. When I worked in Ghana the same thing, when I worked in Brazil the same thing. It 
doesn’t matter where I have worked, I have found similarities more than differences and I even 
gave a lecture once and I didn’t know what to call it and it was about you know, all this 
international work.  And I called it“The world is flat—and didn’t you know it.” And I thought it 
was a way of just making a commentary, I mean if we think that building a school in Chile, 
which we are, is any different from building a school in Dallas, Texas or Miami, Florida. I mean 
no, they are asking for the same thing. Everybody is. They are all very well informed about what 
are the trends or best practices? Or where is education  
[01:20:00] 
going? The basic needs are there and the same for any kind of project. And you did ask me about 
what project I want to do but I think that I do have selfish wants and needs—but I do—and one 
of them being that, it might sound strange, but I want to build something that is sort of 
understood as the anti-building or something like that. I mean, I think I want to continue to 
explore how can we intersect nature with building and how can we sort of be very restorative and 
give back to those communities and to those societies in that sense as well. So it’s about an 
attitude that I want to continue rather than a type of building. 
SF: 
You have been very generous with your time  Are there any projects or stories that you’d 
like to add to the narrative? 
PB: 
Well, I’m very humbled by this conversation and the opportunity that you have given me 
to have a voice. I think that, I kind of said it at one point, but if I can do something as a 
professional, if I can give back as a professional, I want to make sure that we understand what 
we do, as women and as designers, as something that can make things better than we found them. 
And I think that we as women tend to gravitate to that anyway. Again, we’re great problem 
solvers and we’re great instinctive—thinkers and leaders, I think we listen to our intuition.  
We’re very good at that and we should harness that, we should definitely be emboldened by that 
sort of sixth sense, right? I think we see things differently and that should embolden us as well 
and it should make us far more powerful and relevant. I think we are pathetic in a way that 
makes us transformative. I mean we’re very willing and able to understand where the issues are 
and really want to fix them, right, and resolve them in a way. We’re not divisive. We’re about 
partnerships. We love and we seek opportunities to—and I think that we should more than we do 
by the way—elevate each other. I think we recognize greatness and we want to celebrate them. 
So I think that this opportunity of being able to not only tell a story but to be able to speak to you 
and others who may one day listen to this. I think that in this moment in history where women 
are sort of in the crosshairs of change, we should harness our strengths, recognize them, and lead 
by example and not necessarily sort of make them an anthem necessarily or something. I think 
that we are today in a place in history where we have done enough (laughs) and we have 
achieved enough to actually just continue, enforce, reinforce it, highlight it, speak about it, right? 
Pat Bosch Interview, November 12, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
21
It’s about speaking about it and bringing it to light and I think this is actually fantastic in that 
sense. And in terms of what I am doing next and the other projects that we are doing—I mean 
again, I am into the element of surprise and intrigue but I will say that currently there are projects 
that are actually making me think about—about the fact that—what the solutions that we may 
have in front of us, whether 
[01:35:00] 
it be for you know, helping this climate crisis or making a society that is more in tuned and 
informed and empathetic. I think that, as a designer, I think that we’re having opportunities right 
now with projects that are going to allow me to explore that, a little bit more,  and to really live 
in this intersection of science and art. I mean, I am embracing technology more, than I used to.  
SF: 
With your sustainable materials? 
PB: 
Yeah, and about extreme events. You know, how are these extreme events really sort of 
changing the way we design now and the way we think. And the way I approach design now is 
actually in a very different place. I am very concerned about these extreme events, and the—
obviously, I’m sitting in Miami, living hurricanes—but we are also seeing these monumental and 
sort of unthinkable extreme events with fires and earthquakes and flooding and hurricanes. I 
mean you name it. And I think that we as designers need to start thinking a little bit more 
robustly about what that means and how are we reacting to that. I mean, are we really being part 
of a solution in that sense? And you know, how can we protect our communities a little bit better 
and I think that we have to shift—it is a tectonic shift,  and it is to shift about less of thinking of 
ourselves and whatever message we want to give, and our agendas and a little bit more about 
relevance and consequence, you know, action and reaction. And I think that we are of a moment 
right now in history where design should be the solution and architecture should be leading those 
conversations. And so that’s where I’m at right now. And I do want to leave a poetic solution to 
those enormous problems. 
SF: 
So maybe we can talk again in five years? 
  
PB: 
(laughs) And we can see what happens.  
SF: 
And we can see what happens. And also you seem so willing to take risks and grow and 
so it would be fun and so enlightening, I think, to come back and see again where you are in the 
future. 
PB: 
I want to see where I am in the future. I’m always intrigued—what next.  I would love to 
hear from you as well. 
SF: 
All right. Great. Thank you. 
Pat Bosch Interview, November 12, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031
22
End of Interview 
[01:38:07]
Pat Bosch Interview, November 12, 2019
Women Architects, afc2019/031