1 
Interviewer: Kim D. Stryker 
Interviewee: Francoise Moiseiwitch 
Date of Interview: January 13, 2018 
Location: Francoise's home and vineyard in Reva, Virginia 
Transcription by: Emily Zinger 
Subjects Covered: 
1:01-2:55 #TonyWolf #VirginiaTech #VVA 
3:18-4:40 #BreezePointVineyards 
4:40-5:45 #HighSchoolerWorkers 
9:43-11:05 #BioStatistics 
11:05-11:35 #WineTraining 
11:43-15:12 #FamilyLifeBalance 
15:30-20:56 #ChapelHill #LocustGrove #ThomasFogarty 
20:56-23:23 #GreenCounty 
23:30-26:52 #SoilTesting #Organic #RootStock 
26:54-33:32 #BlackRot #Cicadas #Squirrels 
33:32-37:07 #FranzVentre #GraceEstates #KingFamilyVineyards #MatthieuFinot 
37:19-38:40 #Vidal 
40:32-42:40 #OpenWineryDC 
42:41-45:47 #Verjus 
46:02-54:35 #VirginiaWinePrejudice #Distribution #VWDC #Culpepper 
56:05-1:03:14 #FortifiedWine #Bull’sBlood #Volnay 
1:03:54-1:08:36 #ChapelHill #Madeira 
1:09:58-1:12:05 #Noire 
1:12:12-1:18:30 #LeedCertified #WineTraining #HighSchoolWorkers 
1:18:30-1:23:55 #Apples #Cider #PeachWine 
1:23:55-1:26:24 #FoodPairing #FarmToTable 
1:26:26-1:27:03 #LiteracyCouncil 
1:28:26-1:33:21 #Labor #WineTraining #HighSchoolWorkers 
1:33:54-1:37:50 #Verjus #ColumbiaRoom 
1:38:44-1:50:33 #Statistics #Sampling #ChrisHill #Folklore 
1:50:33-1:52:40 #JimLaw 
1:52:00-1:55:18 #VintageVirginia 
1:56:38-1:57:58 #Malbec #Tempranillo 
1:59:44-2:02:06 #SmallWinery 
2:02:06-2:04:48 #Sexism 
2:05:52-2:11:57 #UrbanRuralDivide #LiteracyCouncil #Religion #Prejudice 
2:11:57-2:22:20 #Hunting #UrbanRuralDivide #GunLaws 
2:22:20-2:26:05 #Racism 
(Recording starts while the two are already talking) 
[0:00:01] (FM) Don’t apply here. You know? 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
2 
[0:00:13] (KS) Well it’s funny. I think one of the things that a lot of people have been saying 
when I talk to them is how it’s a bit like the wild west doing wine making in Virginia. Because 
it’s all, European rules don’t apply, Californian laws don’t apply, so some of it works in some 
places, you have to really know your place, know your soil, everything. 
[0:00:36] (FM) Yeah, but there are some practices that are good and that we shouldn’t be 
reinventing the wheel, but knowing which ones. 
[0:00:48] (KS) Which work for here. It’s been really fascinating talking to everybody. I hope to 
do some sort of project with it afterwards. 
[0:01:01] (FM) One person who holds a lot of history, because he’s been around for a long time 
is Tony Wolf. Do you know him? He’s actually a Virginia Tech Professor. He’s very, very good. 
He would give you a whole perspective about the whole place. He’s immensely helpful. He’s the 
director of the viticultural research center. It’s an extension of Virginia Tech, in Winchester. You 
know, the other place that you might find interesting is that we are going to have our annual 
meeting of the Virginia Vineyards Association at the end of February. Two days or three days. 
It’s the last Thursday, Friday, Saturday in February. You can go on the website of the Vineyards 
of Association. It’s at the Omni Hotel in Charlottesville. It’s always there. And that’s where all 
the growers go. Some people have a winery as well as vineyard. That’s a good place to go if you 
need to meet some more people. 
[0:02:55] (KS) I almost wish, if I had all the time and money in the world to do this, like you say 
about so many things, I wish I could just keep doing this forever, because I’ll never make a dent 
in the amount of people to talk to, with the amount of stories. I doubt I’ll even be able to get 
down to the coast. 
[0:03:18] (FM) Those people would be there. I have a good friend. His name is Chris and Rock. 
They are Breeze Point Vineyards. He’s one of the forefathers. He’s been president of the 
association a long time ago. I’ve been in this world ten years or so. But he’s one of the first ones. 
He’s very nice. Certain things need to be done and sometimes having these high school kids, it’s 
not so straight forward. 
[0:04:40] (KS) They need more supervision. 
[0:04:42] (FM) And this is the first weekend that they’re coming back. Some of them need a 
little bit of a kick in the butt, which I don’t like to do. That was the morning to do it. Fortunately 
Julien did it. I didn’t do it. 
[0:05:06] (KS) Good cop, bad cop. 
[0:05:08] (FM) It’s also very tentative, tenuous balance between being fun and not fun with the 
kids, but also the perception of the parents of what you do. I have a business, so I don’t want 
them to badmouth me. 
[0:05:29] (KS) And there’s not a ton of people to choose from. 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
3 
 
 
[0:05:35] (FM) It’s a balance. On the other hand, I can’t afford to pay someone who’s not 
working properly. 
 
[0:05:45] (KS) Let me give you the basic stuff here, so you know what’s going on. This is the 
release form. This is just to agree that you know you’re being recorded and it will be in the 
permanent collection of the Library of Congress. As a result, it will be probably in the future, 
digitized and available for online researchers who have an account with the Library of Congress. 
Not necessarily out there and promoted to the world, but available to the public. 
 
[0:06:17] (FM) It’s not going to go on Facebook? 
 
[0:06:20] (KS) No, but future people may go to the Library of Congress, pull up transcripts of 
something like this. Maybe they’re writing a novel and they want to more accurately portray the 
life of what a vineyard owner is like. So something like that. 
 
[0:07:00] (KS) This is Kim Stryker. It’s January 13th. It’s a Saturday. It’s noon now. I’m sitting 
here with. 
 
[0:07:17] (FM) Francoise Sellier-Moiseiwitch. 
 
[0:07:27] (KS) And we’re sitting in the kitchen of your house in, what is the name of the town 
we’re in? 
 
[0:07:32] (FM) Reva, Madison County. There is a Reva, Culpeper County. 
 
[0:07:43] (KS) I think when I first put it into the GPS it was trying to take me to Reva, Culpeper. 
Do you go by any other names? 
 
[0:07:52] (FM) No. 
 
[0:08:00] (KS) What would be the address to put on record for you? 
[0:08:03] (FM) ____Dessert Road. Reva, Virginia. 22735 
[0:08:14] (KS) And phone number? 
[0:08:20] (FM) The phone number here is 
. Cell phones do not work here. 
[0:08:30] (KS) Right, that’s a big issue that we have to work on. Date of birth? 
[0:08:34] (FM) ____1959 
[0:08:38] (KS) That makes your age? 
 
[0:08:40] (FM) 58. I need to pay this kid. Sorry. [referring to a teenage worker at the door] 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
4 
 
 
[0:08:50] (KS) I’ll just pause. No problem. 
[0:08:54] (FM) Oh, Julien is going to do it. 
[0:08:57] (KS) Oh you have a lady bug friend. 
[0:09:00] (FM) We have loads of these. 
[0:09:06] (KS) You can have blooms of ladybugs in the country can’t you. 
[0:09:11] (FM) Yeah this time of year. I think they’re just cute cockroaches. 
[0:09:18] (KS) What would you call your job title here? 
[0:09:23] (FM) Vineyard Manager. I’m the owner, with my husband. I’m the vineyard manager. 
[0:09:40] (KS) What previous jobs have you had? 
[0:09:43] (FM) I was a professor. I have a PhD in biostatistics. I was a researcher and I was a full 
professor with tenure at some places and not tenured at other places. I was the director of a bio 
statistics resource center, The Cancer Center at Georgetown. And I was the director of a data 
analysis center for the Clinical Research Program of the Armed Forces. And I was chair of the 
department of bio statistics at Georgetown. And I retired five years ago from my academic job. I 
was teaching during research, writing grants, whatever an academic does. Hiring people, firing 
people, all skills that I use. 
 
[0:11:05] (KS) And now you’re also teaching at the high school. 
 
[0:11:07] (FM) Yes, but not, just a few sessions. It’s a regular basis, but it’s not every day for a 
whole semester. It’s a few sessions in the spring. Hopefully it will get extended. That’s where we 
are. 
 
[0:11:35] (KS) Is this where you live most of the time? We were talking about this in the field. 
[0:11:40] (FM) Yes. 
[0:11:43] (KS) And like you were saying, you spend about five days here and in Virginia and 
then go two days into Dc. 
 
[0:11:50] (FM) Yes, my husband practices in DC. And so he does the opposite. He lives in DC 
four or five days and then he comes here two or three days. 
 
[0:12:04] (KS) And how is that working out? Is it kind of like, oh, look at you, I haven’t seen 
you in a while 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
5 
 
[0:12:10] (FM) No, because I take my weekends in the middle of other people’s weeks, so we 
are not separated that much. It works out. It’s always hard to balance work with family life, 
because, especially in this kind of work. Mother nature doesn’t work for my weekend or when I 
decide not to take a weekend, but it’s working out. The fact that we do not have a child at home 
is what makes it possible. But until our daughter left for college we just couldn’t do this. 
Otherwise we’d lose out too much. 
 
[0:13:03] (KS) And you said your daughter is 23 and she just graduated. 
 
[0:13:08] (FM) Yes, she’s in New York. She was in New York for school and stayed on for her 
gap year. She’s working full time and then hopefully going to medical school next year. So, the 
fact that we do not have children at home 
 
[0:13:32] (KS) Gives you a little bit more flexibility. 
 
[0:13:34] (FM) This lifestyle, the way we have organized our lives, wouldn’t work otherwise. So 
it’s working out. I think. I wouldn’t want to take my husband away from his job. He loves his 
job. He’s very good at it. And he’s the only one actually earning money right now, so that we can 
have this. So, he’s not going to retire any time soon .In the summer I’m here five days a week, 
sometimes even six days if necessary. But in the wintertime I’m here less. Overall, it’s probably 
half-half, or two thirds, one third. The commute is an hour and forty five minutes. I listen to 
books on tape. So that works out. I have a huge collection of books on tape. I no longer listen to 
NPR, because what’s happening in the world is too depressing. That makes my commute easier. 
 
[0:14:52] (KS) And it’s not a bad drive, especially if you’re going on off days. 
 
[0:14:57] (FM) And also I go in opposite directions. I leave early in the morning from DC when 
people are coming into DC, not the other way around, so I rarely get into traffic. 
 
[0:15:12] (KS) This is a very, I’ll describe for the people listening. I have been to lots of different 
vineyards in the state of Virginia, this is off the beaten path. You have to go down a couple miles 
of gravel road to get to your property. How did you find this place? 
 
[0:15:30] (FM) It took us a long time. When we moved to DC, I’m going to give you the whole 
story. We moved from Chapel Hill, NC, where both my husband and I were on faculty, to the 
DC area, because Julien decided to go into private practice. Not be an academic any more. He’d 
had enough. Because he’s a foreign trade dentist he could not open his own practice in North 
Carolina, so he got his boards in DC. So we knew that if he decided to leave academia we would 
have to leave North Carolina. We tried to petition the board in North Carolina, so that he could 
get the state board. But it didn’t work. It was quite ironic, because he was in the dental school in 
Chapel Hill training all the dentists in the state, but he could not open his own practice. But that’s 
an aside. So we moved to DC and a year or so after we moved we took a long weekend in a little 
bed and breakfast place called [unintelligible] Plantation, in Locust Grove. It’s an old plantation. 
It’s a beautiful place. It was my birthday. My husband had organized for us to go on a balloon 
trip. We fell in love with the area and by the end of that weekend, or long weekend, we were in a 
real estate agent trying to figure out whether there would be any properties. We had lived in 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
6 
 
California before. This was pre-child. So we used to go to vineyards a lot and we like drinking 
wine. And we were inspired by this person, his name is Thomas Fogarty, and he is a 
cardiovascular surgeon at Stanford. I think he is still alive. He invented and patented the Fogarty 
Catheter, which is used on just about every open heart surgery, any blockage or anything. I’m 
not a physician, so I don’t know exactly. But he got a lot of royalties and with that money he 
bought properties that he turned in vineyards in the Stanford area, on the hills around. And when 
I was at Stanford as a post-doc I found out about him and we used to go there. We were club 
members. We were inspired, because he’s an example of someone who is in science, who is in 
medicine, who knew nothing about grapes, presumably, and started a really successful enterprise. 
When we first learned about him his winery used to make, I thought, was the best ?? in 
California. So we got inspired in the way of thinking, here’s someone who was similar to us, 
who was not coming from a family of winemaking or viticulture, and yet produces this amazing 
wine. 
 
[0:19:46] (KS) And has a full time career in another field. 
 
[0:19:49] (FM) Yes. So we got inspired by that and we though, well, here’s our chance. Virginia 
is known for up and coming area for wine and vineyards, so we should look for a property that 
has a potential to have a vineyard. But really we didn’t know what we wanted in terms of dealing 
with a real estate agent. It took about four and a half years to find a property. 
 
[0:20:27] (KS) But that was the seed that was planted. 
 
[0:20:30] (FM) Yeah. The seed was planted. We didn’t know whether we wanted a view or a 
nice house, all these decisions. So we would come a weekend very two months and we would 
see ten to fifteen properties. Some would have awful houses and others had great views. All sorts 
of things. 
 
[0:20:56] (KS) Different pros and cons. 
 
[0:20:59] (FM) Yes. And eventually we decided that we really didn’t care about the house very 
much. We wanted a place with a view and a potential for a vineyard. So... we made an offer on a 
place in Green County, which is the next county next to Madison, you know close to Stanetsville 
[sp?]. It was a beautiful property, close to a hill. The view was fantastic. It was only about eight 
acres. The house was new, but it wasn’t very nice. It wasn’t my ideal house. But the view was 
spectacular. It wasn’t a big property. We made a full price offer and it turns out that the person 
who was selling actually wanted to sell to his friend. He had told us that, but we still made the 
offer. The friend could not sell his property in Charlottesville and wasn’t sure it would work. So 
this whole thing, this whole episode lasted about six months. Finally he rejected our offer. 
During that time we didn’t really look for anything else. But as soon as the offer was rejected we 
started looking again. And the realtor brought us here. We were the first people to see it. It came 
on the market on a Friday and we came on Saturday. And we liked it. We walked all around the 
property, which was this area, this hill there, obviously not the vineyard that we walked through. 
 
[0:22:50] (KS) That was later. 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
7 
 
[0:22:51] (FM) And we walked it all and we thought we could have a vineyard on this part, 
around the house. So we made an offer on the Monday and it got accepted. So, that was June, 
May, June 2006.  End of May, beginning of June 2006. 
 
[0:23:18] (KS) How much was the original. How much space did you have in the original 
parcel? 
 
[0:23:23] (FM) 21 acres. 
 
[0:23:25] (KS) And had you done any soil testing or anything? 
 
[0:23:30] (FM) Yes and no. Yes, we did some soil testing, but it wasn’t very extensive. It was 
not the right kind. That was part of the mistakes we made. I mean the soil is fine. We are 
obviously growing decent grapes, but we made a lot of mistakes. That was one of them. That we 
didn’t do any pits or anything. But it was okay. And we had scrambled to order some vines, 
again, last minute. So you only got the remnants. I didn’t know about this. I didn’t know about 
root stock. I didn’t know about clones. I didn’t know about what would grow on this property 
and what wouldn’t grow. I knew nothing about site selection really. It was ignorance and 
arrogance. 
 
[0:24:30] (KS) That should be your motto or something. Have it painted. 
 
[0:24:33] (FM) Yes. But we learned. So we started here and we planted some vines and they 
grew. They didn’t do very well. Some of them died the following, during that winter we replaced 
them. We also thought that we wanted to go all organic. We thought that doing organic meant 
doing no spraying, which is not true. But in my opinion organic doesn’t really work in Virginia 
unless you do hybrids. 
 
[0:24:10] (KS) No, that’s what I hear too. 
 
[0:24:13] (FM) So, things started to die. We sprayed. And then the following year we planted 
this block, which was about 2/3 or what you see. 
 
[0:25:30] (KS) Sort of out behind the house. 
 
[0:25:34] (FM) Yeah. You see the middle there, there is a patch that is different, there’s more 
mud. That’s where there were a bunch of trees. We had a little block and then we had another 
block. 
 
[0:25:50] (KS) Almost like a paddock size. 
 
[0:25:52] (FM) Because this was a horse farm. I forgot to tell you. And some, in fact that fence 
in the back there, is part of the original fence. But obviously has been replaced. So we planted 
that every year and then we planted on the other side of the trees. We did an experiment, which 
was a few rows, or a few plants of all sorts of things. Not really caring about the root stock, but 
about the variety, because we didn’t really understand anything about root stock. We had Syrah. 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
8 
 
We had everything. Even if the experiment had been successful we couldn’t have done anything 
with that. 
 
[0:26:52] (KS) Right, you just had a hodge-podge of 
 
[0:26:54] (FM) It wasn’t well thought out. And then the following year we put some noire, that’s 
a hybrid and the sauvignon blanc. We put the sauvignon blanc and then the year after we put the 
noire. I’m sorry. And, you know, once we started spraying things grew. But then we had a few 
unfortunate events. We had one year we had a bear coming to eat just about everything. Didn’t 
do any damage to the plants, but just ate. It’s because we were only here at weekends. And then 
we had turkeys. They feasted. Then one year, what was the final straw for me, and could have 
been, if I had my way, nothing of what you see would have happened, we started taking classes 
at PVCC and started meeting people and we had a consultant who came on an irregular basis. 
And he didn’t cover our grapes for black rot. And that’s where I just, it was despair. I worked so 
hard. I’m an academic. My job was not five days a week and then I come here. I’m still working. 
I enjoy it. I want to produce something and then because somebody is not diligent, here’s our 
whole crop. It was not a lot, but it was the first time that we were having grapes and they looked 
good. I didn’t know what was going on. A friend of mine, who I met at PVCC when he was 
teaching us. He came here and looked at our spray program and said, you are not covered for rot, 
for black rot. That’s what was happening. 
 
[0:29:55] (KS) That must have been a punch in the stomach. 
 
[0:29:57] (FM) Yeah, and you know we didn’t know enough. We should have known. We didn’t 
know enough. We relied on our people, but when you’re a busy parent, a busy academic. But 
there’s a lesson there. If you want to do something on the side you have to actually have the time 
and energy to do it. Anyways, I thought that’s what the consultant was for, but perhaps not. At 
that point my husband said, well you know we’re not living form this. We just need to get 
someone else. At that time Gabrielle had told us about another person who was looking for a job 
who had just left his job and was looking for some consulting. That was a godsend, because he 
turned us around. He was also right at the beginning when we purchased the other hill. We 
planned it all out with him. The following year we had a nice crop. Unfortunately, it was the year 
of the cicadas and so the squirrels didn’t have any fruit to eat. This was 2013. We put nets. We 
only had, the other place was just, the vineyard where we walked, was being graded and 
everything. I think we just planted one bed, but there was nothing there. All the crops were here. 
We had put nets and everything. Then we took our daughter to college and when we came back 
everything had gone. The squirrels, the go into holes. Literally everything was gone. And we had 
a couple of tons. There was a few things here and there, but I couldn’t sell it or anything. 
 
[0:32:17] (KS) That’s enough to make you hate squirrels. 
[0:32:19] (FM) I do. 
[0:32:22] (KS) Who’s worse though, the turkeys or the squirrels? That’s tough. 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
9 
 
[0:32:28] (FM) I won’t make a choice. I felt heartbroken and our consultant was heartbroken, 
because he saw how hard we worked. At that point I had retired and was spending more time 
when we started planting. So, I realized that it could not be a weekend job. One of us really 
needed to give up their job and take this seriously. So that’s when I gave up academia entirely 
and really spend time here. And then when Nina went to college I wasn’t just a weekender here. 
That’s when I started to spend time, five days a week in the summer, to make sure that things 
were going alright. 
 
[0:33:32] (KS) Who was the consultant that you worked with? 
 
[0:33:34] (FM) His name was Franz Ventre. He is from... He was the wine maker at [Early 
Mountain] before it became, it’s owned by the Cases. I go there all the time. I know the wine 
maker. He left shortly after the Cases bought the property and he was a vineyard consultant for a 
couple of years. And then he wanted to make wine again, so now he’s the wine maker at Grace 
Estates. Early Mountain. He comes every other week, not in the wintertime obviously. He guides 
us. He writes our spray program. He comes and makes sure all the pruning is done properly. I 
learned part of my pruning from him. If there are issues with disease he’s there. He also follows 
our wine in the winery. We have our winemaking contract with King Family Vineyards. 
Matthieu Finot is our winemaker. He’s the Winemaker at King Family Vineyards. So Franz and 
Matthieu consult together with me, mostly. We decided what we want to do. Franz helps us 
decide when to harvest. Last year I decided I needed to harvest one day, so I called him up and 
he said, yes, that’s a good decision. So he’s my sounding board. He directs. 
 
[0:36:30] (KS) But it’s nice to have somebody to say, I feel like I want to do this, is this 
 
[0:36:36] (FM) I don’t feel like I know enough, but I made the right decision and he said, yes, 
you did fine. It’s a good thing to do. So he’s there anytime we need him. And physically he 
comes every other week. He’s helping us plan the other vineyard. 
 
[0:37:00] (KS) Where’s the other vineyard? 
 
[0:37:07] (FM) It’s about as the crow flies, 2 ½ miles, 3 miles. When you go back I’ll take you 
there. It’s the most beautiful view. 
 
[0:37:18] (KS) And how much land is over there? 
 
[0:37:19] (FM) 41 acres. So after we purchased the 21 acres here we purchased another eight, so 
the hill is 8 acres. That’s our real vineyard. That’s where the quality fruit is. So when we did this 
experiment here, Franz encouraged us to rip out the vineyard and also here, get rid of the trees, 
make a single block, and plant a hybrid. That’s why we have vidal. Because other varieties were 
not growing that well. They were growing, we were getting reasonable fruit, but it was hard 
work. It got the wrong exposure. You can see it’s full sunshine over here and on the other side 
it’s shady. You need another variety that doesn’t need as much sun. So you need whites. This 
hybrid does very well here. We produced our first vidal last year and it’s going like hotcakes. 
People like it. So we replanted vidal a couple of year ago. It was painful to 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
10 
 
[0:38:40] (KS) Tear out the old, yeah. But it’s also, why fight the uphill battle of 
 
[0:38:47] (FM) Yeah, and we want to produce a quality product. That’s the idea, that we’re a 
boutique winery. We’re not going to be a Gallow or a Trump. So we want to produce the best we 
can with what we have. Shooting eventually for about 3,000 cases, 4,000 cases a year when we 
have another vineyard for production. We’re going to plant another 12 acres there. So together 
we’ll have about 20, which is sizeable. 
 
[0:39:29] (KS) It’s a decent size for sure. 
 
[0:39:31] (FM) On average in Virginia I’m told it’s about 10. 10 is hard. 
[0:39:38] (KS) I think a lot of people end up having to buy fruit because of that. 
[0:39:43] (FM) And our philosophy is not to sell or not to buy. That’s why we bought that other 
property, but also, we couldn’t have a tasting room here. As you can see we’re in the back of 
beyond. And the other aspect is that this is my house. 
 
[0:40:07] (KS) You’d like some separation. 
 
[0:40:09] (FM) I don’t want the general public, first of all the general public might not like two 
miles of gravel road, but also it’s impossible to find. So that’s why when we realized that we 
needed to have a distribution point, we needed to find some other thing. 
 
[0:40:30] (KS) So the tasting room is over there, at the other property? 
 
[0:40:32] (FM) Yeah. It took us a while to decide what we wanted in terms of that. Because I 
thought, well maybe I’ll have an open winery in DC. What a novel idea. 
 
[0:40:45] (KS) Now they’re doing it aren’t’ they? They have open wineries. They have several 
distilleries and a cidery. 
 
[0:40:50] (FM) I thought about that and I really looked into it and I thought, this is not agro- 
tourism. People, they want to drink wine, they want to enjoy the vineyard. 
 
[0:41:05] (KS) The whole experience. 
 
[0:41:08] (FM) So as a business model I didn’t think it would be a good one. And I went to the 
open winery in New York and yes they do contract wine making, but mostly it’s bachelorette 
parties and bar mitzvahs and whatever. That’s just not us. I’m not interested. I’m interested in 
producing good wine and teaching the next generation and providing an opportunity for people 
to enjoy really good wine in a beautiful setting, so they don’t have to look at their stupid phones 
all the time. You understand? It’s a different business model. I don’t want to do weddings. I 
don’t want to do big parties. You’ll see when you see the site. The view is awesome. I don’t like 
that term, because I think it’s overused, but it is awesome. I want people to enjoy it. 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
11 
 
[0:42:18] (KS) Today was particularly beautiful driving up. 
 
[0:42:20] (FM) I think when you go back I’ll take you there. It’s on your way back, to take 29. 
It’s really gorgeous. Anyways, that’s our philosophy. 
 
[0:42:40] (KS) You don’t need to be making wine for the masses or 
 
[0:42:41] (FM) But the other aspect that I want to talk to you about is, I’m the only one, we’re 
the only ones in Virginia to make verjus. You’re probably familiar with it, but many, many 
people are not. Once they become very familiar with it they love it. Do you want me to explain? 
I’m trying to see whether I’ve got some in my fridge. Would you like a taste? It’s non-alcoholic. 
 
[0:43:16] (KS) Sure 
 
[0:43:19] (FM) It’s a non-alcoholic juice made from unripened grapes. We pick it between 14 
and 18 bricks, which is before you would even pick for sparkling. So it’s tart and it’s not really 
meant to be drunk on its own. My husband uses it for cocktails instead of putting vermouth, you 
put some of this. And for salad dressing. Chefs love it for sauces. The kids who work here, as a 
reward, after the season, I give them a bottle and they drink it. 
 
[0:44:27] (KS) We’re trying the verjus. 
 
[0:44:30] (FM) You might not like it. You like it? 
[0:44:40] (KS) Yeah, it’s really nice. 
[0:44:45] (FM) My dentist just puts soda in it. 
 
[0:44:50] (KS) Yeah, I can see making a kind of spritzer. 
[0:44:55] (FM) But we are the only ones in Virginia making this. 
[0:44:58] (KS) I know some chefs who might like to play with that. I have a friend, I’m investing 
in a restaurant that’s investing in Georgetown and the chef is very into using unusual, he’s a very 
avant-garde kind of chef. He used to work at mini bar for Jose Andres and he’s worked at Noma, 
at all of these crazy restaurants that work with all this crazy stuff. 
 
[0:45:31] (FM) I would love to have a relationship with a chef. It’s bottled, but I can have 
carboys of this stuff delivered. I would love to do that. I think it’s an interesting product. 
 
[0:45:47] (KS) Whatever he likes, he likes crazy things. He’s always trying to develop 
relationships with regional area people. I can at least make an introduction. 
 
[0:46:02] (FM) I hope they serve Virginia wine. 
 
[0:46:04] (KS) They will be serving some Virginia wines. For sure. 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
12 
 
 
[0:46:07] (FM) Because that’s one thing. There’s a prejudice. 
[0:46:14] (KS) There is a bit. 
[0:46:16] (FM) It was interesting, when we had our first vintage. People were a very dubious 
about the quality of our wines. Once they tasted, they were like, I didn’t know Virginia wine 
could be this good. 
 
[0:46:33] (KS) There is a lot of disparaging of Virginia wine, especially by DC. I think in 
Virginia there’s a lot of people who know, but in DC it’s sort of like, they don’t even come into 
Virginia if they can avoid it, so anything from there must be backwards. 
 
[0:46:53] (FM) It’s a whole other story, but we’re still battling that with some of our friends and 
colleagues and acquaintances. But once they taste, and we hold some wine tastings at our house 
in DC. It’s different people and they get converted. I also think that we don’t do enough as an 
industry to try to get a foothold in there, in DC. Because of all the stupid ABC laws and stuff. 
 
[0:47:41] (KS) And because of distribution issues and stuff. It seems like that’s an issue for a lot 
of vineyards and tasting room and wineries, they’ve found that as an economic model it just 
makes more sense to sell directly to people who come to the tasting rooms and not bother with 
trying to get distribution or go to the store shelves. 
 
[0:48:02] (FM) When you have to cut your price to basically 40% to what you can get with direct 
sales, it is not viable for a small place like us. It really isn’t, but there would be ways of doing it 
if people were a bit more cooperative and being creative, but it’s like this for everybody. We run 
around. We work a lot and there’s very little time to think ahead. 
 
[0:48:41] (KS) And for marketing and promoting the product. 
 
[0:48:47] (FM) And to think together. The process of getting what is called a solicitor’s license, I 
hate that name, but in DC, where I can bring my own wine and sell them directly, but it’s $365 
da year. It’s not a lot. 
 
[0:49:14] (KS) To sell to businesses, or to sell to the public, or? 
[0:49:16] (FM) Yeah. I could distribute my own wine in DC. 
[0:49:24] (KS) 365 a year does seem 
[0:49:27] (FM) It’s reasonable, but the process to get there, you have to have a background 
check, you have to register your business in DC, all sorts of things. It’s not straightforward. 
Anyways, in Virginia, through what’s called the VWDC, the Virginia Wines Distribution Center, 
which is part of the ABC in fact, small farm wineries like us can distribute their own wine to 
places. But again, even in Virginia all the restaurants don’t serve Virginia wine. It’s getting 
better. 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
13 
 
 
[0:50:12] (KS) Have you’ve noticed with the locavore movement there’s more interest in that 
and more developing in that? 
 
[0:50:19] (FM) We’re in the process of approaching a few places. 
[0:50:23] (KS) How’s Culpeper? Are the restaurants there okay with it? 
[0:50:27] (FM) I haven’t really looked into Culpeper. To tell you the truth, the first time I tried 
there was with the Cheese Company and I brought them samples of our wines and they said, well 
our wine is very good, but we have some people. Let’s wait a few years. We have the same wine 
maker as, he won the Governor's Cup. My grapes are completely clean. Anyways, I’m not sure 
I’m being articulate here, but wait a few years before you offer your wine here. Sorry, screw you. 
If you’re not willing to really taste what you have in front of you. And we really lucked out that 
first year. The blend we had was a field blend, because we just put everything that we had 
together in the whites and it was delicious. It was a mixture of Viognier, Vidal blanc, 
Chardonnay. I think that was it. 
 
[0:51:58] (KS) Never to be seen again on the face of the earth, probably. 
 
[0:52:00] (FM) Well, it will be once we get our Chardonnay going over there. And our wine 
maker liked it so much that he bought sauvignon blanc for his winery and now they sell it at 
King Family, that very similar blend. But he had never done it. We really lucked out. I can give 
you the percentages. I have that on my computer, but I loved it. Our wine maker and consultant, 
Franz and Matthieu were very taken with it. It was an interesting product. And for people not to 
really taste it and realize how good it was pretty stupid. The longer I stay in the business and the 
more I learn, the less I trust what people say about wine, because a lot of people don’t know 
anything. I trust Franz and Matthieu and a lot of the wine makers around here. But in terms of 
the general public, it’s very interesting. Having the tasting room here now and having wine 
tastings in DC, it’s also an interesting perspective. Because in DC it’s mostly professional people 
and people we’ve known through out of school, I was on the board of Sidwell for a while, for 8 
years, and my former colleagues. Julien was the president of the dental society a couple of years 
ago, so we meet a lot of dentists. All people who have higher socioeconomic status than the 
people here, and yet they know less about wine than the locals. It’s interesting. Because the 
locals go to lots of wineries around and they start talking to the wine makers, to the people who 
are pouring, and over the years the form an opinion of what they like, they dislike, of cultural 
practices, of winemaking practices. They actually are more knowledgeable. 
 
[0:54:35] (KS) It’s interesting. I was in, Yountville, one of those places in Sonoma, Napa 
regions, Healdsburg I think we were in, and they had opened a bar for locals that didn’t serve any 
California wine, because all the locals that worked in all the wineries, that’s the number one 
employer in the region, everybody knew the local wine. And so they all kind of get sick of 
tasting the same stuff all the time. And nothing was from California and that was the draw of the 
place. They could also expand their palate and try new things and they really loved trying 
varieties that didn’t grow there. It was almost like a library for them to be able to socialize and 
talk about wine. I thought that was such a genius idea, because yeah, they can go to any of the 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
14 
 
tasting rooms. They have friends who work at all the different tasting room, so they can go taste. 
But to have that experience of international wines was a new thing, a novelty. I thought that was 
very interesting. So, you’re French. 
 
[0:55:52] (FM) No, I’m Belgian. 
 
[0:55:54] (KS) Oh you’re from Belgium. Sorry about that. French-speaking. So you were born in 
Belgium? And did you have any experience with wine growing up? 
 
[0:56:05] (FM) Oh yes. I don’t come from a wine making family, but wine has always been on 
the table. I had a pretty much, I don’t know how to put this, but I come from a very dysfunctional 
family. My parents go divorced when I was very young. But until I was about five, I think I had 
a regular childhood, with grandparents and whatnot. And the way kids are brought up in Belgium 
and France, that’s what I know best, is to really like food and drink. To appreciate it. Not to 
overdo it. We would have family reunions and champagne or wine would be served at dinner and 
as a three or four year old I would get my “wine.” I would have three drops of red wine with a lot 
of water, but I would have my rose. That’s how it was done. There was no taboo. So my parents 
divorced, but I was then brought up by my maiden aunt who was my father’s sister and she was 
an excellent cook and she liked wine. On the regular basis she would have these, like carboys, 
old carboys, these beautiful, like old tureens in French, the bottom is wicker and it’s glass. It has 
this beautiful shape. 
 
[0:58:16] (KS) Now they sell them in designer home stores for décor. 
 
[0:58:20] (FM) So she would bring that of pinot de gerant. A sweet, I’m not very good today, 
with my words. 
 
[0:58:36] (KS) Your mind is in the vines still. 
[0:58:39] (FM) It’s a strong wine. 
[0:58:46] (KS) Like a fortified wine? 
 
[0:58:47] (FM) A fortified wine. That’s what I was looking for. It’s used as an aperitif, on the 
rocks or on its own. So I would help bottle with her, these things. It was part of the family, to 
have this pinot. And all the kids from the age of ten, twelve, would have a little bit before dinner 
when we would have family reunions. But then, as I became an adolescent and young woman, 
she would introduce me to wines. My father didn’t drink. He was a teetotaler. Not because he 
was a reformed alcoholic, but because he was a runner and he just did not like wine. She looked 
at me as the only person who could share a bottle of wine. So I started drinking wine with her 
when I was a late adolescent, early young adult. Then I went to university. Kids drink at 
university. The legal age is 18. So when we would get together we would drink cheap wine. I 
remember the only cheap wine I could afford was a Bulgarian wine. I was at University in 
London. It was called Bull’s Blood. It’s different there. I don’t know what it was. It was the 
darkest wine. It was like three pounds. It was the cheapest thing at Safeway. But then I would 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
15 
 
come home on a regular basis and drink the wine and just before my 21st birthday she produced 
this bottle of Volnay 1959. Just before I was 21. 
 
[1:01:24] (KS) So she’d hung onto it. 
 
[1:01:26] (FM) Yes and no. I don’t know the truth about this, but she used to have a cellar, a 
proper cellar. But then she had central heating put it and the only place to put the heating unit 
was in the cellar, so she got rid of all her wines. But somehow that bottle got missing and she 
found it a week before my birthday. I don’t know whether it was true or whether she was really 
keeping it and didn’t want to tell me. But she didn’t want to open it on my birthday, because she 
said I don’t think it was cellared properly. It could be vinegar. So we opened it the day before my 
birthday and it was the most amazing wine I had ever drunk. I was like 
 
[1:02:20] (KS) Transported. 
 
[1:02:26] (FM) Yes. It was so totally different from Bull’s Blood. The tannins were rounded. It 
was not hurting my throat when it was going down. I thought, is THIS what wine can be? 
[1:02:44] (KS) Eye opening. Look, your eyes are sparkling just talking about it. 
[1:02:46] (FM) Yes, it was like, that was an amazing experience. And I thought, this is a 
completely different concept, entity, whatever, from what I’m used to. So that’s what really 
[1:03:12] (KS) It was an epiphany moment for you. 
[1:03:14] (FM) Yes. I was like okay, that’s what wine can be. And so that was really an amazing 
thing. But you can’t buy a 1959 Volnay every week. So she would buy whatever and I would 
have once in a while a really good bottle. The wine is fairly cheap in Belgium, so you can get 
really good quality even at a fairly low price. 
 
[1:03:45] (KS) I know even at the Aldi’s you can get, for $8 what you would get here for $30, 
$40. 
 
[1:03:54] (FM) It was slowly, at that age I liked the sweet stuff, and then slowly moved out. And 
then in California we tasted a lot. And when we moved to Chapel Hill we went to wine tasting 
and we were very well, there was this lady who was the wine merchant at, her name was Allison 
Chambers. She was part of my wine education. She’s deceased now. She was bigger than life 
and she was the wine buyer for this shop, which was an organic shop called Wellspring in 
Chapel Hill. And it got bought by Whole Foods. I was actually there yesterday. And she would 
hold wine tastings with a theme and we went to endless ones, an endless number of wine tastings 
and we really started to understand more about wine and wines from all over the place. Getting 
our palate in some sort of order. She would give us recommendations. We would shop for food 
every week there and we would see her. She would say, try this. The second bottle that was just 
an amazing bottle for me, my husband gave me as a birthday present. And 1830 Madeira. 1830 is 
very meaningful for me, it’s meaningful in a contained way, it’s the year Belgium was created. 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
16 
 
So I had a wine, a fortified wine that was as old as my country. It was like liquid gold. It was 
liquid caramel. It was not that expensive. 
 
[1:06:33] (KS) Do you know what birthday that was for? 
 
[1:06:37] (FM) We were in Chapel Hill. It might have been my 40th . It was before my daughter 
was born. It was between 30 and 35. I got married at 30, so maybe 32, 33. It was not a significant 
birthday. 
 
[1:07:07] (KS) But it was a significant bottle. 
 
[1:07:18] (FM) It was. Very much so. And we had had a tasting at one of Alison’s tastings. She 
managed to get that for Julien. We were poor, I was a poor assistant professor and Julien was a 
poor PhD student, so $200 was a large amount of money. But in the grand scheme of things $200 
or $250, I don’t remember how much it was, Julien wouldn’t tell me how much it cost, but I 
know it didn’t break the bank. Anyway, that bottle, I’ll show you the bottle. I think we’ll put it 
on display at the tasting room. So that was another amazing, just amazing. 
 
[1:08:16] (KS) Just the fact that you have two specific bottles that you can refer to as big 
moments in your life, that shows something right there. 
 
[1:08:36] (FM) And there have been other really good bottles, but those two were very special. 
From there, when we moved to DC we didn’t really do anything, but more and more we got to 
VWA, Virginia Wine Association tastings. The VVA, Virginia Vineyards Association has 
tastings. I went to Bordeaux to university there for a couple of courses. On one of the courses 
Julien came. It was a century analysis class. We did an amazing Chardonnay tasting, from 
France. These are unique experiences. 
 
[1:09:29] (KS) Even if you didn’t make anything it’d still be wonderful experiences to have. 
 
[1:09:33] (FM) It’s sort of directing us as to what kind of product we want to get to. Anyways, it 
was a long convoluted way of answering. 
 
[1:09:52] (KS) So what do you see for the future? You’ve got this tasting room. 
 
[1:09:58] (FM) This property is just going to grow. It’s just going to mature. It’s not going to 
grow in size. We’re not going to make any changes to the varieties or anything. I think this 
vineyard is what it is. It may be that we move the noire. What you tasted is from the noire. We 
use the noire in our rose for two years and our wine maker complained. He didn’t like it. He 
thought it was difficult to deal with. It sort of created reduction. I’m not sure. So few people have 
been able to grow it and use it here properly. Anyways, our vineyard consultant tells me that I 
would not remove the noire. One year that I said would remove it and then we made the verjus 
and I love the verjus and I said, I’m not removing it. So that’s what happened. Now, this is sort 
of complete and now the tasting room is opening. We have our grand opening hopefully on the 
24th of March. I haven’t announce it to the grand public yet. We are starting to plant this spring. 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
17 
 
We’ll be putting over 2,000 vines out there to start our 12 acres. We’ll probably plant over the 
next three seasons. 
 
[1:12:05] (KS) How many vines are you doing? How many vines do you tend to have on an 
acre? 
 
[1:12:12] (FM) Well it depends on your spacing. For us, it’s about 1,600. But that means that 
you start with a row and you end with a row. You don’t have any of the surrounding. You don’t 
count the bottom and the end spaces for the turn around. We counted about 1,600 spaces, but I 
disagree with my consultant about that. That’s one thing. The second thing is, we are eventually 
going to build a winery. The building of the tasting room was so painful, because of the 
contractor  being a crook. He stole money. He didn’t pay people. It was a very painful 
experience. So I want to let the dust settle there and form a better idea of what we want to have. 
Because I want it completely sustainable. I would like to have a Leed certified building. I don’t 
think there is one in Virginia. There are some tasting rooms, but not a winery. It’s part of my 
values, our philosophy to have that. There’s not a lot of architects that know how to build a 
winery, even though it’s basically a box. The sustainable aspect is even more complicated. I 
don’t want the blind leading the blind, so I have to do a lot of research before I can go ahead and 
say, okay, we are ready. But the other aspect is creating a training program, a true apprenticeship 
program, for kids to be able to become vineyard managers or vinyardists or whatever you want 
to call them. 
 
That means working with the high school here and expanding it to other counties, so that it 
becomes a Virginia-wide. That’s the long term, that it would become a Virginia-wide program. 
We started last year, this year, we’re expanding it in the high school. I put in a pre-proposal in at 
the wine board, so now I have to put in a full proposal. That would help defray the cost of hiring 
these kids. It would be just $25,000. $5,000 for each kid. Each vineyard would put in another 
$5,000 and really train the kids with a course at the high school as well as technical meetings 
among the vineyards here. That’s the plan. 
 
[1:15:42] (KS) From what I’ve talked about with other people, it seems that the only way to 
really continue to grow the industry is to produce more grapes in other parts of Virginia, maybe 
that are not as convenient, but are good for growing, so that these smaller vineyards who are up 
here in northern Virginia, who can’t afford to buy more land to grow, they have maybe a 
secondary vineyard in southwest Virginia or somewhere in the mountains or something. It just 
seems like it would be such a great economic development for, there are so many people who 
came from agricultural families, or maybe they were tobacco families and are losing that way of 
life, but could be trained to do something different. 
 
[1:16:47] (FM) As a former university professor, I’m a bit of an education snob and I think that 
everybody needs to go to college, but when I started living here I realized that it’s not a reality. 
First, education is not always a priority and second, some kids just don’t want to do it. They want 
to be in Madison County with a good job and I think working in a vineyard is a perfectly good 
job. I think it could be, it’s employment for these kids. They won’t make $150,000, but they’ll 
make a good middle class wage. 
 
[1:17:34] (KS) And for here that’s good. 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
18 
 
[1:17:36] (FM) Yes. 
 
[1:17:37] (KS) Because the cost of living is much cheaper in these counties than it is closer in, 
but then they also have a skill that they could take to other parts of the state if they wanted to. 
 
[1:17:49] (FM) And if they want to go to New Zealand, or South Africa, or France or wherever. 
They would have something. 
 
[1:17:57] (KS) Can you imagine, some of these kids. It would be great. Open the horizons. 
 
[1:18:03] (FM) They will have some marketable skills. I really do believe that we need to spend 
time in educating the next generation. Not just businessmen, but people who will be vineyard 
workers. That’s what I want to do. 
 
[1:18:30] (KS) I saw also on the sign when I was pulling in it said and orchard. 
 
[1:18:34] (FM) That’s another thing. So also I started having some French apples. They didn’t 
grow very well. Some of them are growing and we did get some apples this year. I would like to 
make some cider. Not as a cidery, but as a basis for ?? That’s what that patch, what the first 
vineyard was, will be. Putting in new apples. I really need to get my act together. As you can see 
I have a few apple trees down there and they are starting to grow. But it took a long time. I need 
to get to the state pomologist to figure out what to do. These are trees that I bought from a 
nursery in New York state, in Ithaca. But they are French apples. Some of them are 
recommended to make cider. I have this big French bible for what the varieties that I used. And 
you probably know that to make cider you need eight or ten or twelve types of apples together. 
So that was the idea. That’s why I put so many. That’s part of next year’s project. And then 
you’ll see at the other property, where the tasting room is there’s a big slope. I was taking to our 
extension agent, Mr. Jarvis, who’s a wonderful person. He asked me if I was going to put grapes 
there and I said, no it’s not really good for grapes. He said, you should put peach trees. 
 
[1:20:42] (KS) Why would they like that more? 
 
[1:20:44] (FM) It’s the wrong exposure for grapes and he says that it seems that it will be good 
for peaches. So I will put a few trees and make peach wine. 
 
[1:21:01] (KS) Also, it tends to be, I don’t know if you find this too, but Jim was saying, Jim 
Law was saying that in the more rural areas the locals tend to like the sweeter, fruitier wines and 
the city people like the drier, more European wines. 
 
[1:21:18] (FM) Yes, one of the reasons that Jarvis told me I should put peach trees is that there’s 
a peach orchard somewhere near here and he gave me the name of the gentleman who owns it, 
but I forgot it. He said, when that gentleman decides to make peach wine and sells it at the Syria 
Mercantile it is the hottest item on the shelf. 
 
[1:21:53] (KS) The peach wine? 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
19 
 
[1:21:55] (FM) It just goes and goes in no time. He said, see, you should do that. And I do 
believe in making sure that my local customers are happy. 
 
[1:22:14] (KS) From the orchards that I worked with in Fauquier, the old timers will all tell 
stories about peach brandy and peach wine and homemade, and how the good old boys would 
come down, the mountain guys would come down off the mountain and they’d let them pick the 
drops, the fruit that fell on the ground, and they’d make this bathtub peach brandy at home. 
They’d take all the drops. 
[1:22:40] (FM) Peach moonshine. 
[1:22:45] (KS) Yes basically. Peach moonshine. There was this one old local character. They 
told a story about how he’d go to the racetracks in Charleston, West Virginia and he would wear 
bib overalls and he’d have big mason jars inside his overalls and he’d have a straw coming out 
and he’d charge 25 cents a sip. He’d just go around and you’d give him a quarter and he’d give 
you a sip and then he’d pinch the straw if he thought you were drinking too much. He’d cut you 
off. And I just love that story. I can see that there’s a nostalgia too, for that old way of doing 
things that I think the local folks especially appreciate, getting that taste of home. 
 
[1:23:34] (FM) And I’ve tasted peach wine before. Not from Syria Mercantile, but there’s 
something called ?? in Provence, the south of France, and it’s really delicious. If it’s well made 
it’s really delicious. 
 
[1:23:52] (KS) I don’t know how high the standards were for these guys. 
 
[1:23:55] (FM) So I want to try that. I want to do that. And then the other thing I want to do is, at 
the tasting room, is to really look into pairing food with wine. Wine most of the time is meant to 
be drunk with food and I need to get my act together and have little pairings of local foods. 
Sometimes little mini hamburgers or whatever. Something that we can make with not too much 
difficulty, that will keep, that we can bring out, that will work with our wines. 
 
[1:24:53] (KS) Maybe if somebody has a little cottage business of catering or something they 
could work with you on that. 
 
[1:25:58] (FM) I don’t know. I need to explore. It’s a little daunting and I haven’t figure out the 
way I really want to go with that. Because one possibility is to ask some young Belgian chefs in 
DC to help me. It would bring out the two aspects of my life. Or to ask local people here, local 
chefs to help. And I don’t want to pinch some of the local chefs are already committed ot other 
vineyards. I don’t really want to infringe on that. I want something unique that would be with us 
rather than repeated at other places. Then the other aspect is to have farm to winery to table. I’d 
like to do that for charity and just to 
 
[1:26:24] (KS) Just community events. Things like that. 
[1:26:26] (FM) I work at the literacy council. I tutor there, here. 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
20 
 
[1:26:33] (KS) I’m sorry. I don’t understand how you have any time to do anything else. So you 
volunteer at the literacy council? 
 
[1:26:44] (FM) Yeah, in Madison county. I could do events to bring money for the literacy 
council. That needs to be thought about carefully. We’ll do something. 
 
[1:27:03] (KS) Is Julien planning to retire at any point? 
 
[1:27:05] (FM) No, he loves his job. We need the money. I know it sounds crass, but its reality. 
He really loves his job. He’s the best. We were just in North Carolina the last two days because 
he gave a talk at the dentist school. He’s one of the best endodontists in DC, if not in the US. 
People come from all over the place to come and see him. They fly from California to have a 
root canal from him. That’s a bit crazy, but especially his old patients who have moved away. He 
enjoys his job. He’s very good at it. If you ever need a root canal he’s the place to go. He has 
senators, judges, ambassadors, CIA people, whatever, lawyers. Very busy people who cannot 
have downtime and they come to him. 
 
[1:28:26] (KS) For extra help for you, for the vineyard and the process it’s going to have to come 
from training up people. 
 
[1:28:33] (FM) I mean, right now he’s on the tractor, healing up. I think it’s good for his psyche, 
because it’s so different. But there is a little stress, because things need to get done. I need to 
train someone to take over some of his duties. We had someone last year and then that person 
retired, I retired that person. It was getting very painful. To go back to my training program, it’s 
through a very painful process that I realized that I needed to do that. I had an ad through the 
Virginia workforce association for nine months. Well paid, way above minimum wage, with 
good prospects. I’m not getting any younger. I need a vineyard manager in the not too distant 
future. It brought two people. One we offered the job to and he decided he really wanted to work 
in the winery, not the vineyard and for the other person it was too much work. We have high 
school kids who stay for the experience. One stayed two days, the other stayed a week. Because 
in the summer it’s hot. I realized that we really needed to do a better job marketing this kind of 
lifestyle, this career. And getting people to work in the vineyards. 
 
[1:30:40] (KS) Getting them comfortable with that level of work as well. 
 
[1:30:31] (FM) Once I got one kid here last summer I ended up with five, because oh, she pays 
well. Oh it’s fun, come and harvest, fun. I’m not an ogre, so they have a reasonable time. We 
joke around and they get to work. I mean it’s not always that way. We need to do a better job of 
planting the seed. But the other aspect is, we were talking about the PVCC program, well they 
are highly unlikely to suddenly think about going to PVCC once they’ve graduated from high 
school, because, oh it’s a good idea, when they haven’t been exposed to it in high school. They 
need to be exposed to these possibilities and realizing that it’s interesting and a possible job that 
could be well paid and rewarding, before they leave high school. There’s just no way. So we 
need to start a pipeline, so that was when I realized. I mean, after nine months, no takers. So 
that’s why Julien is on the tractor at the moment, because I was not able to hire someone to do 
that work. 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
21 
 
 
[1:32:10] (KS) And you have the best dentist in America and he’s operating the tractor, 
something is off. 
 
[1:32:17] (FM) We are training John, a young man. But it takes a while. It takes some skills to 
not kill the vines. 
 
[1:32:34] (KS) Which is one of the goals on the way to the ultimate goal. Don’t kill them and 
then make good wine. 
 
[1:32:42] (FM) You need to be very careful and an 18 year old kid, boy, though John is very 
diligent. I don’t want to give any idea that he wouldn’t be. 
 
[1:32:54] (KS) But he’s naturally not going to have as much skin in the game as you are. Oh, I 
made a mistake, what’s the big deal. As opposed to ahhhhhhh, what you’re feeling. 
 
[1:33:05] (FM) And Julien has killed a few vines. I have to say, but it’s just the way it is. That’s 
what brought me to take the bull by the horns and approach the principal of the high school and 
say 
 
[1:33:21] (KS) The Bull’s Blood by the horns. Gotta save the children from drinking Bull’s 
Blood. 
 
[1:33:27] (FM) Exactly. I’m not sure it even exists. 
 
[1:33:33] (KS) They have the stuff that you can buy in the Spanish markets. It’s called Sangre 
del Toro. It’s a Spanish red and it has literally a bull figurine on it, a little tag. 
 
[1:33:46] (FM) This was Bulgarian when I was growing up. 
[1:33:53] (KS) I feel like it’s of the same quality level. 
[1:33:54] (FM) You should try. Anyway, those are the plans. I think it’s a very interesting life. I 
do want this verjus, I’m trying to develop all sorts of recipes. 
 
[1:34:12] (KS) When it’s a new product you do have to be able to say, oh, it’s great for this. 
There’s a lot more education that goes into it. 
 
[1:34:21] (FM) I’d like to sell it in DC in bars. I think it would be good. It all takes time and a 
right foot in the door. It only takes one person to say, oh yes, but before they do it takes a while. 
 
[1:34:36] (KS) Well let me know. Like I said, I’d be happy to make the introduction. I’m pretty 
good friends with the folks at the Columbia Room, which is a very posh, fancy cocktail bar. 
They’re very into researching the past of drinks and finding unusual drinks. 
[1:34:54] (FM) Where is that? 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
22 
 
 
[1:34:56] (KS) They’re near the Convention Center, Blagden Alley. There’s the Dabney, which 
got the Michelin star, right next door to them and then the chef that I’m friends with, Johnny 
Spero, he’s cooking there until his place opens. So he cooks all the pairings with the cocktails. 
They have a special meal you can get where 
[1:35:22] (FM) That’s at the Dabney you said? 
[1:35:24] (KS) No, at the Columbia Room. The Dabney is next door. They’re basically in the 
same block, the same building, and the Columbia Room is upstairs. They have this beautiful 
hidden room. It feels very much like this old gentleman’s club room, overstuffed chairs and dark 
wood paneling and they have this hidden room where they do a special tasting menu with 
Johnny’s cooking paired with cocktails and wine and things. 
 
[1:35:59] (FM) Is it every day? Every week? Or at this point special events? 
 
[1:36:04] (KS) They do special menus, but also, I don’t know if they do it every day, but you can 
always get food from him. He’s working there all, I think maybe his Mondays and Tuesdays may 
be off. 
 
[1:36:19] (FM) Julien and I love going to restaurants. 
 
[1:36:23] (KS) It’s very creative. They do crazy, the cocktail bartender, the head bartender he 
won the number one cocktail bartender in America. The Columbia Room won best cocktail bar 
in America and they just get tons of prizes. Derek, who’s a co-owner of the Columbia room, he 
is the consultant for the National Archives on spirits. So he consults with them on projects 
involving spirits. So they’re not just about the business. They’re really invested in the whole 
thing and they really love the whole food and spirits combination and hospitality. And they’re so 
young. They’re all like these little baby children, but they have amazing talent. They’re very 
gifted. 
 
[1:37:27] (FM) I should get Nina. I would want her to go there as well. 
 
[1:37:30] (KS) Definitely, it would be a fun night. They make all these cocktails with, a leaf 
coming here and you read the description and you’re like, I don’t know what this is, but that’s 
what’s there. 
 
[1:37:42] (FM) Well we should go there. 
 
[1:37:44] (KS) That’s where I had Calvados the first time, was there. Tasty. 
 
[1:37:50] (FM) It’s very good with ice cream as well. Ice cream with raisins. Vanilla ice cream 
with caramel and then you put raisins. 
 
[1:37:56] (KS) Kind of like a rum raisin. 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
23 
 
[1:38:01] (FM) So, lots of projects. 
 
[1:38:05] (KS) Now I feel like I’m eating up your day. Are you alright? 
 
[1:38:09] (FM) I’m fine. Julien is here to man the place. We don’t have a high school kid 
anymore. Only John and the other person. We’ll be fine. I’ll be happy to answer any other 
questions. 
 
[1:38:22] (KS) Well I was thinking, do you want to head over to the other? 
[1:38:25] (FM) Yeah, we could do that. 
[1:38:27] (KS) Is there anything else that you specifically wanted to add about what is it unique 
about Virginia, growing grapes in Virginia? Why Virginians instead of why didn’t you to 
California? 
 
[1:38:44] (FM) Well, because we were based in DC. Virginia was close. And I love DC. I think 
it’s a very collaborative industry at the moment. Especially among the growers. I think there’s a 
lot to be done still, even research wise. I’ll give you an example. I’m going to start looking into 
this. But I’m a biostatistician by training. Sampling is like surveys and sampling, is something 
that statisticians are involved in. It’s not my favorite area by any stretch of the imagination, but 
we sample the grapes to figure out whether we want to harvest. And there are these rules that our 
people will tell you. You do the sampling, you don’t really look where you’re putting your... And 
I’m like, what does that mean? That’s not very scientific. And you want at least 100 berries. 
Why? 
 
[1:40:03] (KS) Sort of blind reaching? 
 
[1:40:05] (FM) Yes. And human beings don’t really deal very well with randomness. So I saw 
these guidelines. You need to have at least 100 berries or ten clusters or whatever the number is 
and I thought how on earth did they come up? Finally got, it’s a guy at, Jim Fiola at Maryland 
who send me the information about the original papers. Now I, unfortunately not having any 
academic ties anymore it’s hard for me to get research papers, so I’m going to try to get those 
and look into and see, you know was this done by a statistician/mathematician? How did they 
come up with this? We’re talking really old papers, 70s. It’s not 1870s, but it’s still pretty old. Is 
this really what we want to do? And if it’s correct, where do they get they’re sigmas? They’re 
standard deviations to do all these calculations? So I think there are little research projects that 
can be done in vineyards like mine by high school kids who are interested in agriculture or 
biology and math, that could work really well. So that’s another one. Maybe it’s not 100 berries. 
Maybe you don’t want to do it blind. Maybe you do want to pick a few sites so you can figure 
out how the breaks evolve, rather than what random sample is at that particular time. Because 
sometimes I take samples here, a week apart, and I know there’s been sunshine, so the bricks 
should go up. And yet, in my sample, the bricks go down. 
 
[1:42:39] (KS) So there’s more to it. 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
24 
 
[1:42:41] (FM) Exactly. And if you base your decision to harvest on the bricks, on the pH or 
whatever, you better have a representative sample or know what the trend is over time so you 
pick at the right time. And harvest is by definition the critical decision, one of the critical 
decisions, to have a quality product. 
 
[1:43:19] (KS) And it can change from very short amount of time. 
 
[1:43:23] (FM) We have constraints, like the weather. And then all your bricks and pHs go up in 
the air, because there’s a hurricane coming. But in other seasons, especially when you have some 
leeway, like in sparkling, maybe it doesn’t matter as much there as it does in other things. That’s 
something that really needs to be looked at and I don’t think a biologist can do it. You need 
someone with some statistical, mathematical skills. 
 
[1:43:59] (KS) I find it’s interesting. Even with, no matter how much training you may have had, 
maybe you came from France and you grew up at the knee of your uncle who was a wine maker 
and you went to all of the schools and all the programs, but there is a bit of what I would say 
folklore in what’s the right way to make wine. What’s the right time to pick. Like you’re saying, 
what’s the arbitrariness of why is there 100. Maybe somebody heard it from somebody else and 
they said, that sounds right. 
 
[1:44:36] (FM) Well there are some papers. There are three papers. I haven’t read them, because 
I can’t get hold of them right now. I’m working on that. But how they came up with it, I don’t 
know. It’s like, when I started my career as a biostatistician, I didn’t realize that medicine was 
not evidence based. Why do we have to say evidence based medicine. I know you can’t say it at 
CDC anymore, but that’s the way it should be. It should be evidence based agriculture. 
 
[1:45:19] (KS) But so much isn’t. That’s humans. 
 
[1:45:23] (FM) And that’s one thing that I’ve been thinking to tell you about. As a person who 
starts in this, who wants to grow grapes and hasn’t got a background in it, but has a scientific 
mind, is not completely stupid, taking classes, I would hear one person, have a glass with Gabriel 
and he would say one thing and it sounded reasonable. And I would say, okay I’m going to 
adjust it. I’m going to follow what he says. Then two weeks later I would have a class with Chris 
Hill, who’s another father figure in Virginia. And he would say exactly the opposite. Or not quite 
the opposite, but something quite different. And then I would hear a third person and it would be 
yet something different. It was like, I thought, who is right here? I’m completely befuddled. That 
first argument sounded good. That second argument sounded equally good, or close. How do you 
reconcile everything? It felt like religion. Either you believe in it or you don’t believe in it. There 
can be so many varieties. What we forget as human beings, I mean, it’s a bit arrogant for me to 
say that, but it’s a system and you can’t focus on one aspect. Everything interacts, the weather, 
the soil, the chemicals, how I prune. Everything interacts. 
 
[1:47:29] (KS) There’s not going to be a silver bullet for one. 
 
[1:47:30] (FM) No, and you have to, it’s like genes, they all, or not all of them, but a large 
number of them interact to make all the proteins in the body. It’s the same thing in agriculture. If 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
25 
 
you disrupt a little bit here it’s going to have consequences in ways that you don’t always 
foresee. First of all, because you didn’t think about all the possible interactions, but also nature 
has a way to compensate. If you have a lack of something it tries to... 
 
[1:48:15] (KS) Like you were saying, the cicadas and how then the squirrels. It concentrated the 
squirrels efforts more, because all of the cicadas 
 
[1:48:26] (FM) Exactly. I mean all the tips of those trees were round. They couldn’t get any 
food, so they went after the grapes. That’s the macro system. But then you have the micro 
system of the vines. If you do something, if the weather changes in some ways, we don’t always 
understand that it is a system. To understand the system is a formidable job. 
 
[1:49:03] (KS) I think that’s probably why, from my background as a folklorist, that’s probably 
why it’s like religion and people lock into their belief system, like if you do this it will always, 
because they have to feel like they have some control over some of the chaos of it or they’ll go 
crazy. 
 
[1:49:24] (FM) I think that’s true. But it’s not because you’ve done something again and again 
and again and it always seems to come up similar ways that it’s really evidence based, because 
you don’t have any control. So if you were to do it somewhere else, would it still be the same? 
So I think there’s a lot more. And I do appreciate the VVA having technical meetings and 
brining more of the science into the art of growing. Because, you know it’s science, but it’s also 
an art, because nothing is black and white. There’s a lot of grey. I would like to try to understand 
the system a bit better. 
 
[1:50:33] (KS) I think you can only inch towards better, maybe never perfect, but inching 
towards better. But I think everyone feels that way. Jim Law has been doing this forever and I 
think he feels the same way. Yes I know some things, but I still... 
 
[1:50:40] (FM) He’s a very sane guy. And he’s one of the forefathers of Virginia wine and he’s 
very generous. Not everybody is like him. He’s very willing to help others. I give you one 
example. I didn’t know him, but I was looking for an architect for the winery and I got in touch 
with someone who happened to have done some of Jim’s buildings and we met with the 
gentleman and he said, "I’m going to ask if Jim Law will visit." So we met with him and Jim 
Law happened to be there. I had seen him before and I knew who he was. So the architect 
introduced us and he told Jim what we were doing and he said, "oh actually you should make an 
appointment to see me and I will give you some of my lessons." And that’s what I did. I made an 
appointment and he generously spent two hours with me telling me what he would do and what 
worked in his winery, what didn’t work, what he would do again, what he wouldn’t do again. 
That’s incredibly generous. He didn’t know me. I had done nothing for him. It was totally 
because he wanted to help. It’s so unusual nowadays to have someone willing to do that. I 
wanted to mention, do you know about this film called Vintage Virginia? 
 
[1:52:40] (KS) No 
 
[1:52:41] (FM) Oh you have to watch it. 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
26 
 
 
[1:52:46] (KS) It’s out already? 
 
[1:52:48] (FM) It’s an old film and I don’t know if I have it here. It’s a CD. If I can find it that 
quickly, here in my little library I will lend it to you. It’s a film that follows what happens 
throughout the seasons. It’s at least five years old. You will see there some of the forefathers of 
the Virginia wine industry and they talk a little about how it came about. Basically it follows 
different vineyard managers and winemakers throughout the whole season. Visually it’s very 
attractive. Vintage Virginia. It may be that you can, I ordered it. I don’t remember where. 
 
[1:54:07] (KS) I’m sure if I just do a Google search something will come up. Oh awesome! 
[1:54:26] (FM) I think you will enjoy this. 
[1:54:28] (KS) I would love to see this. I haven’t seen this at all. You would think that at one of 
the winery shops they would have it on display. 
 
[1:54:38] (FM) It was talked about a lot when it came out and then it just fizzled out. I don’t 
know why. Does it give a year? 
 
[1:54:40] (KS) It’s copyrighted 2010. 
[1:54:53] (FM) So you see, it’s old. 
[1:54:55] (KS) Yeah, now. Think how much has changed even in that amount of time. 
 
[1:54:58] (FM) All the players are still there. Actually it starts with our consultant Franz. He’s 
right at the beginning. 
 
[1:55:15] (KS) I might even try to track these folks down, the filmmakers and talk to them as 
well. To see what their take on things is. Especially from the time, since the film was made to 
now, what are they seeing. 
 
[1:55:34] (FM) We made a lot of mistakes. I, Julien and our model was arrogance and ignorance 
and it’s true. But we are building on so many people who were willing to be pioneers. It takes 
some guts. Like a Jim Law, like the Hortons, like David and Helen King, the King Family 
Vineyard, like Roc and Chris at Breezepoint. And none of these people were particularly young 
when they started. 
 
[1:56:18] (KS) That’s another unusual aspect of this industry is that for a lot of people it’s a 
second career, or third career, or later in life where they’ve already accomplished things in life 
and then they take on this very different challenge. 
 
[1:56:38] (FM) And some of them reinvented the wheel, because they didn’t think what would 
work in France would work here, like the trellis system. That was a little bit much to forgo, but 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
27 
 
they didn’t know what would grow in Virginia. We know it’s not a place for Malbec now, but 
people do produce Malbec. I would leave Malbec to Chile and Argentina. 
 
[1:57:18] (KS) I was talking to someone and he said, Tempranillo was the whole reason why he 
was interested in wine making and wanted to make a vineyard and grow it. Obviously, this is a 
man who had built some wealth in other industries and he buys a vineyard and everything in 
Virginia and then finds out that you can’t really grow Tempranillo here. It’s not going to work. 
So he still makes Tempranillo, because he buys, he has a sister property in California, so he can 
get his Tempranillo grapes, ships them here, makes Tempranillo, so that he can be happy, but 
then makes wine that can grow here. 
 
[1:57:58] (FM) I do believe in making a Virginia product. 
 
[1:58:02] (KS) I do too and I think that’s that majority. I think a lot of people feel 
[1:58:07] (FM) Well, yes and no. 
[1:58:10] (KS) Some of the high volume people, maybe not so much. 
 
[1:58:18] (FM) Yes. Because some people are not as careful as others. Sometimes gets a bad 
name to Virginia wine, but I don’t think we have found our niche yet. When we talk about 
Vione, vione certainly grows here, but it’s very hard to grow. 
 
[1:58:47] (KS) Cab franc seems to have been pretty happy. 
 
[1:58:49] (FM) It doesn’t mean that we can’t grow the rest, but maybe in ten years' time I 
wouldn’t want to have planted some of the stuff that I have planted, but I’m not about to pull 
them out. 
 
[1:59:10] (KS) I think there’s been all this interesting work about how your creativity when you 
hit a block, that’s actually the best thing you can do for creativity and innovation, when you hit 
that obstacle and then you say, okay, well do I give up or do I figure out how to make something 
with this. I think that’s why there’s so much interesting stuff going on and it’s so challenging for 
people, because there’s all these blocks in the way, but it’s making it more interesting and 
dynamic. 
 
[1:59:44] (FM) I think we have the potential in Virginia to make very good stuff. The other thing 
I wanted to mention is that having a small vineyard is very, very, very hard. It’s probably the 
hardest thing you can do. Having a medium sized vineyard is much easier. Because you have one 
acre or two acres you can’t justify buying a tractor. You have to do everything by hand. Spraying 
everything. That is so hard. But once you get a tractor, you can’t justify paying $50,000 or 
$40,000, actually $50,000 for a sprayer and a tractor, then life become a lot easier. Having a 
tractor for two acres, it doesn’t really work. A lot of people here have very small vineyards. I 
don’t know when we had just this it took me a lot longer to do a lot of things than doing all this. 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
28 
 
[2:01:09] (KS) Right. One of the funny stories that somebody told, about, everybody has stories 
about these hits and misses in the early days. One said that, he’s quite tall, and the one thing he 
said was that when he would tour other people’s vineyards he was doing all of this and he was 
like, I’m going to be doing all the work, so I’m going to be having my vines taller, because this 
is crazy. Why should I have to be bending over all the time to pick these grapes. That’s a pain in 
the butt. But when it got big enough, the problem was, that he brought Mexican workers to pick 
and they couldn’t reach the grapes. They were out of their reach, so he’s had to go around and do 
all of the picking on those trellises, because they were strung so high and they plants were so 
high that nobody else could pick the grapes. So that’s a big mistake. 
 
[2:02:04] (FM) Live and learn. 
 
[2:02:06] (KS) But he thought he was, oh why hasn’t anyone ever thought of this before. It’s so 
smart. You don’t have to bend over, but there was a reason. I think everybody has these stories 
that gets into this. Is there anything for you, being a woman that’s different do you think? 
Getting into this? I’ve noticed that there’s a lot of women in Virginia wine as well. 
 
[2:02:29] (FM) Well, it’s interesting that when we meet people they automatically don’t know 
us. They automatically assume it’s my husband who knows everything. Still, people will defer to 
him. Of course, he knows a lot about this vineyard, but I know a heck of a lot more than he does 
and I do a lot more work for it than he does. Obviously it’s a common, joint enterprise. But also, 
the other aspect is that they also assume that it’s all his money, when a lot of it is my money. So 
it’s really interesting. It takes a while for most people, they’ve figured out to come to me, but I 
don’t have a problem with my consultant at all. 
 
[2:03:41] (KS) So when you go to the meetings and things. 
 
[2:03:43] (FM) Yeah. My husband is not with me. He’s in DC. It’s not really, but also who has 
authority here. The young kids will defer to him and not to me, but they’re different. It’s also a 
second career for me where there was a lot of gender discrimination, gender harassment in my 
previous career that I dealt with. So I’m a little bit more mature, so I know how to deal with 
certain things that I didn’t when I was 25. It is surprising, compared to academia, especially in 
the mathematical field, there are a lot more women in this career than my previous. 
 
[2:04:48] (KS) You came from something that was a more male dominated world. 
 
[2:04:50] (FM) I’m used to dealing with men and I was brought up mostly by a man. So I know 
how to deal with that. But among the local ones I think that once they realize who has initiative, 
they start realizing who is doing the work and who is the main partner. It’s not all a bed of roses, 
but it’s not that bad. Sometimes it’s hard to discern what is gender and what is not gender. I also 
have an accent. 
 
[2:05:48] (KS) You have an accent. You’re also 
[2:05:50] (FM) Older 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
29 
 
[2:05:52] (KS) Well higher educated. I was going to say, maybe, from a academic background, 
an urban kind of background. So people look at you as a real outsider. Do you find that that’s an 
issue? 
 
[2:06:10] (FM) Certainly in the community here it is. But, the fact that I am here longer. I live 
here. 
 
[2:06:23] (KS) Not just a weekend. 
 
[2:06:25] (FM) I do quite a lot of community voluntary work. I teach at the high school. I 
employ local people. That has helped. 
 
[2:06:47] (KS) To kind of say okay, she’s okay. She’s not just here. Because I think in any kind 
of area, especially in rural communities you have the from away people and the locals tend to 
feel like they’re just here to take something, not to give. 
 
[2:07:05] (FM) Yeah, that’s true. 
 
[2:07:09] (KS) It seems like you’re making a really concerted effort to engage. 
 
[2:07:16] (FM) I can honestly say that I am more implicated in the local community here than I 
am in DC. I know my neighbors better. I know people better here than in DC, even though I 
lived in DC for many years. I’m much more involved in the community here. I was in DC, but it 
was more remote in a way. 
 
[2:07:51] (KS) In cities you can have people right next door to you, but you don’t necessarily 
know them or see them. 
 
[2:07:55] (FM) I did volunteer work, but it didn’t feel as direct, if I can say that. Because you 
know when I’m tutoring at the literacy council I have a person there. It’s a local person who 
needs help. And meeting the kids at the high school. I think that helps. I’m hiring kids, local 
kids, has helped. It’s also different politics and different religion. I don’t go to church here, so 
I’m not as involved in the community that way. 
 
[2:08:40] (KS) Definitely in rural communities church attendance is a big part of your whole 
network. You know the people at your church. You might not know your neighbors, but you 
know the people at your church. 
 
[2:08:54] (FM) I’m Quaker and I haven’t found, there’s not Quaker meeting here, so I can’t, I 
could create one. So I haven’t found the Quaker community here. Not that I’ve really looked too 
hard, because I’m so busy. For a long time I just went back to DC to have that aspect. But in 
terms of, I don’t go to the local Lutheran church or whatever. But my neighbors here, they’re 
much more religious than I am and have definitely different political opinions. They are all really 
lovely people. I was told once by a researcher that I was collaboration with, most people are 
really nice if you stay away from religion and politics. And it’s true. It’s resonated, it’s a little bit 
of a flippant thing for him to say, but for me it has become true. I don’t talk about politics and I 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
30 
 
don’t talk about religion. But I’ve just had a burst pipe and this kid who just dealt with it. I was 
in DC. That’s amazing. We don’t have huge damage. My husband, hopefully he will repair the 
pipe, but it would not have happened in DC even though I have a similar philosophy, political, 
whatever. I think that’s amazing. I can call on any of my neighbors. 
 
[2:10:53] (KS) If there was a problem or anything, a crisis. I think that is a very different thing 
that you have in more rural, agricultural communities. 
 
[2:11:08] (FM) But on paper we’re diametrically opposite. That’s what I learned at the literacy 
council. I was tutoring this woman who left school at 16, got pregnant, 3 kids, sometimes I don’t 
understand when she’s speaking. I thought, she’s just completely going to reject me, because I 
am so different form her. But in fact, no. We became friends. I don’t talk about politics and 
religion with her. But she talks about her kids. She’s a good mom and is trying to do the best for 
herself and her kids. I have umpteen degrees. She has none. 
 
[2:11:54] (KS) But you can still find common ground. 
 
[2:11:57] (FM) Yeah and we’re all human. It’s an interesting question. I don’t have a really good 
answer. I’ve had to revise a lot of my prejudices by living here. It’s not all one way or the other. I 
was completely against hunting when I first came here. Hunting is just not right. I hate guns. 
This is a cultural tradition and a lot of people around here would not have meat as often as they 
do if it were not for their hunting. 
 
[2:12:53] (KS) And it’s tied into so much more than just getting food. It’s bonding time with 
family members. It’s passing on knowledge and tradition. 
 
[2:13:04] (FM) It’s also taking care of the environment. They’re not cruel. It’s not a cruel sport. 
It’s killing an animal in a humane fashion, so to speak, and using everything that that animal has 
to food, pelt, whatever, giving to the poor. I just, also, they started eating my crops. There’s not 
much else you can do than killing these things. It’s not totally business, a business viewpoint that 
I’m taking about hunting. But talking to these kids, it’s a skill, it’s being able to eat that kind of 
food. 
 
[2:14:07] (KS) And I think a preference for a lot of people, for the taste of wild caught meat than 
factory farmed, Costco meat. They can taste the difference and it’s very off-putting a lot of 
times, for people who are used to local or wild hunted meat to eat whatever from some feed lot 
somewhere. 
 
[2:14:35] (FM) It’s the same idea as having a garden. 
 
[2:14:39] (KS) It is. Yeah. There’s a preference and a taste quality that you can’t replicate in 
farmed venison. It doesn’t taste the same. 
 
[2:14:51] (FM) I had to change my prejudice about that. I still don’t agree with sport hunting and 
all these fox hunting stuff in England is ridiculous. But when John goes hunting I think it’s 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
31 
 
something that has been done in his family for a long time. He puts food on the table and that’s 
important for him as a young man to do that. 
 
[2:15:20] (KS) I definitely went through a big sea change as well, from working with the farmers 
that I worked with. All of them also hunt and a lot of them also run cattle on their properties for 
beef that they sell to make money. So I was like, oh look at the cute little cows. Do you name 
them? When I first started there and they were like, ah, no because we sell them and they will be 
killed and we don’t want to name them. That is #47 and #47 is going to be processed next week. 
And that’s a hard thing to wrap your head around, coming from a different world view. But over 
time it makes a lot of sense to me. 
 
[2:16:06] (FM) And this whole lack of dialogue that we have in this country around guns. It’s 
also the misrepresentation of one side or another. Because all of the guys that I know here are 
amazingly safe and they don’t need a Kalashnikov. It was interesting. I was driving down in the 
beginning of hunting season and I got this frantic phone call from my neighbor. He said, we’ve 
heard some rapid fire coming from your property. Someone must have a semi-automatic on your 
property. It’s really dangerous and it’s not the way to hunt. I had given permission to John and 
his father to hunt on this property. I said, well I’m going to find out. So he’s my neighbor, he’s a 
hunter. He does bow and arrow mostly, but he also does with a rifle. He was really worried, 
because it’s not safe. He’s got kids and we can’t have somebody going around trying to kill 
whatever with a semi-automatic gun. I arrived. The sheriff was up the road. There was a whole 
hoopla and they thought it was all on my property. In fact it was on the next property over and 
John was in the field when it was happening and he said it’s definitely not me, because I have a 
single shot gun. But I heard it. It’s not safe. It’s not something you would really use for hunting. 
 
[2:18:13] (KS) They have their own sense about it. 
 
[2:18:19] (FM) It’s an interesting thing and I don’t think the conversation at the national level is 
certainly not where it should be and it’s certainly misrepresented by certain interests, I guess. But 
when you’re on the ground and talking to people and saying, this is not what we do and we go to 
gun safety school or classes and we teach our kids to be careful and blah blah blah. We lock up 
our guns. 
 
[2:18:55] (KS) Most of these incidents that we have are not rural kids usually doing these things. 
They’re suburban or city kids who get a hold of a gun somehow or they’ve stockpiled them and 
it’s not like they’re hunter kids who are going out and perpetuating these situations. 
 
[2:19:15] (FM) But we’re so polarized about that. When I talk to my friends or acquaintances in 
DC it’s like coming from two different worlds. Nothing is from one or the other and it’s hard at 
times to make people understand that there are nuances. 
 
[2:19:43] (KS) They need more ways for people from here and there to find connections I 
suppose. Maybe through wine. 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
32 
 
[2:19:55] (FM) It would be wonderful and something that I would love to see. Some of these 
expensive schools in DC actually had exchanges with some of these schools here. That would be 
amazing. There are so many misunderstandings. 
 
[2:20:06] (KS) Sidwell Friends would be a great school to do something like that. 
 
[2:20:14] (FM) I’m trying. We’ll see. You have to have two players willing to. I’m working. 
This part has prejudice against the other part and the other way around. It’s just abominable. 
 
[2:20:45] (KS) But rural folks too, like they like to excuse the expression, take the piss out of 
somebody. If they think a city person is too high and mighty they love to joke around with them 
or make them the butt of a joke or something, because there is that assumption that they think 
rural people are ignorant or dumb. I’ve definitely witnessed farmers and country boys who will 
goad the city person around like, oh yeah we don’t have that here, or tell them all these crazy 
stories. Talking about like, oh I’ve never seen one of them, really ham it up, just to see how far 
they can take it with someone. And then it turns out that person actually has a degree in 
engineering and they’re very accomplish they just happen to also be a farmer. People are 
surprising. 
 
[2:21:44] (FM) And I think it’s one of the nice things about growing older. You have to revise 
your prejudices. I find it interesting. But there’s definitely a lack of dialogue. 
 
[2:22:03] (KS) There’s learning on lots of levels for you here. It’s the actual physical work of the 
wine making and the growing grapes and all those sorts of things, but also the social and cultural 
aspects of being someone who’s part of a rural community now. Very interesting. 
 
[2:22:20] (FM) Yeah. And the fact that I have an accent. 
 
[2:22:22] (KS) What do they say to you about that? Where’re you from? 
 
[2:22:27] (FM) I mean, when I close my mouth they’re not necessarily know, but once I open it 
there’s no hiding. 
 
[2:22:39] (KS) Do you get, are there comments or things that people say to you generally about 
it? 
 
[2:22:46] (FM) They don’t think that I’m really American. 
 
[2:22:50] (KS) Nobody with an accent, unless you have one of these accents, can be American. 
 
[2:22:55] (FM) I had the interesting experience, I don’t know, mean to be uppity about it. I don’t 
mean to have any prejudice about it, but a week or so ago I was at the tasting room, no, it was 
just  before Christmas. I was serving this young woman, not so young, probably in her 40s, but 
still young. She said, what’s your ethnicity? Nationality? I’m not sure because I don’t remember 
exactly what she said. I may have twisted it in my mind. It was one of those words. I said, what 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017
33 
 
do you mean? Do you mean what passport I hold? Or where I was born? She looked at me as if I 
was really difficult and obnoxious. I was born in Brussels, but I have an American passport. So. 
 
[2:24:18] (KS) I think we have a hard time in this country, even though everyone came from 
somewhere. No one except the Native Americans were here before. All of us came from 
somewhere all of us came from people who had accents at some point, but it’s a hard thing. 
 
[2:24:38] (FM) If people ask me where I’m from I say I was born in Belgium. That’s a 
straightforward question. But if they ask me what’s your nationality? I hold an American 
passport, but I wasn’t born with an American passport. It’s interesting. She was not a local 
actually. She’s from Charlottesville. The way she looked at me, it was like. 
 
[2:25:07] (KS) Like, "Who do you think you are missy?" 
 
[2:25:10] (FM) Basically. And I can say, well I’m Belgian. Well, I am Belgian, but I’m also 
American. I’ve lived here. I’ve been voting here for many years and that’s part of who I am. I 
have a foot in two places. It was an interesting experience. I thought that, I had projected onto 
her a more open view and it was like, completely closed. Not completely closed, but it was 
interesting. 
 
[2:26:05] (KS) I think we can wrap up the recorded time if you like. 
Winery Workers in Virginia 
afc2017/017