Date 
April 23, 2021 
Time 
9:30am 
Interviewer 
Edward Y. Millar 
Interviewee 
Dave Rinker 
Location 
Dave’s House 
Audio log 
Prepared by: 
Edward Y. Millar 
Collection 
Number 
AFC 2020/013    
The Ransomville Speedway: Dirt Track Workers in Western New York 
 
Archie Green Fellowship Ransomville Speedway Interviews,  
American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fieldnotes 
Pre-Interview 
Before heading out for morning fieldwork, I usually check into the office first, which helps to a) make 
sure I can do another once over and test of my gear before heading out to make sure I don’t leave 
anything behind and b) to see if there’s any urgent issues that need attending before I head out. After 
checking my gear bag, I load into my car and head to Dave Rinker’s place, which is only about 5 minutes 
away in the Falls…or technically town of Niagara. But also still city of Niagara Falls.  
The overlapping of municipal entities, borders, mailing addresses, etc. still confuses me here in Niagara 
County even after 5+ years of living up here, and I still remember other Upstate New York folklorists 
joking that it’s one of the weird Déjà vu feelings in Upstate New York, is sometimes you’ll be driving 
down the same road, and being welcomed into the same town multiple times because of the patchwork 
townlines. Or you can live in the same ‘Village’ but be living in two different towns depending on what 
side of the road you live on (looking at you Sanborn and your one hamlet-three-towns arrangement!).  
I got to Dave’s house a little ahead of schedule, around 9:15 or so in the morning, and following his 
instructions texted to let him know I arrived and went round back. We setup in his kitchen area to get 
started with the interview. We had actually first scheduled the interview and talked about it back in 
February, but unfortunately we were not able to connect until now for an interview due to extraneous 
circumstances, but settled on today’s date after getting back in touch in early April. After we sat down I 
went over the forms again with Dave and had him signed, and went over some of the other folks we 
interviewed as well. 
After getting a pretty solid / quick start into the fieldwork project in the Fall and winter, this spring I’ve 
not been able to get out as much due to museum obligations, so this was the first interview had done in 
a month, with three of fifteen left to do over the next two months.  
Interview 
During the interview, Dave traced his history and association with the Ransomville Speedway, talking 
about how he got into racing like so many others: through family. Dave traced how he started working 
at the Ransomville Speedway, and the different track official jobs he’s held over the years, up to his 
most recent one of working as the Pit Steward, which seemed to really basically function as the point 
person for relations between drivers and the track during the races.  
One of the interesting things that came up, was how track staff/officials work in tandem when regional 
touring groups like DIRT come through, who have their own staff/officials, etc. that work with their 
respective drivers. 
When asked on what was the most important / challenging aspect of his job, Dave really emphasized the 
personable aspect of it – being able to communicate with drivers and track, and ‘conflict resolution’. As 
with all sports whether at the professional level on down, sometimes things get heated and I’ve seen 
this first hand playing soccer over the years, with fights breaking out in my amateur league games. Dave 
talked about how it’s really important to be able to keep things cool, bring the temperature down, and 
have that opportunity for people to also speak and have their voices heard, and be a ‘sounding block’ or 
something for people to vent at, rather than escalating the situation. 
One of the most rewarding things Dave feels with it, that has been really great as a racing fan is being 
able to meet and interact with not only some major drivers from major circuits, but also in dealing with 
the kids of his friends who’ve now begun racing themselves: having seen them grow up at the track, 
joking that now he gets to yell at / manage his friends’ kids rather than just the friends. 
Post Interview 
After the interview, Dave and I chatted for a little bit more, talked about a timeline for getting him the 
digital copy of the interview (about a day or two due to other responsibilities), and I made my way back 
to the museum as I had a few more meetings scheduled that day. Tire pressure light was still on from 
the day before, but had checked everything and was just leaking due to the big temperature swing 
(went down about 30-40 degrees in a day), so will refill it next time get gas.