1 
DAVID SWETT 
SWETT’S FINE FOOD  
NASHVILLE, TN 
December 5, 2018 10:45am 
 
 
 
Thank you so much for doing this. I’m at Swett’s Fine Food in Nashville, Tennessee and it’s December 4th, no it’s 
December 5th and it’s about 10:45am. And we are here doing an interview with David Swett. Can you please state 
your full name and spell it for me, just for the tape? 
 
Full name is David Swett, D-A-V-I-D S-W-E-T-T 
 
That’s [Swett’s] an unusual name. Do you know the origin of it? 
 
Well no. I don’t know the origin of it. What I do know about the name Swett is that it came from 
Cheatham County, Ashland City, Dixon County…in that area. Where my father’s from. My 
grandmother was a Bell which was a Lucy Bell and she married someone named Swett and it’s been 
that way since the 1800s. I think that our name was supposed to be something different, like 
Simkins, but they didn’t change the name after she had a child, it was something mixed up back 
then.  
 
But Lucy Bell was also the illegitimate daughter of Montgomery Bell, who was a famous person. 
There is a Montgomery Bell Park here and there’s a Montgomery Bell School here in Nashville and 
that’s on the Tennessee records. If you look up her name you will see that her father was 
Montgomery Bell and she was my grandmother’s mother. 
 
But I didn’t get into where the name originated…I actually think that my ancestors spelt it a little 
wrong. It should have been S-W-E-A-T but somehow it ended up S-W-E-T-T. But we’re not the 
only ones in the USA that share that name and pronounce it that way. There’s folks up in New 
England, there’s some more Swett’s in Murfreesboro that I saw on Facebook the other day. There’s 
two different ways to spell. 
 
Interesting.  Walter and Susie Swett are your parents? 
 
Umm hmm. 
 
So Ms. Bell that was your mother’s… 
 
My grandmother’s mother 
 
So tell me about your parents. Because they had many businesses, right? 
 
 
2 
Right. My father came to Nashville, and what did he tell me…1920 and he was 16 years old. He was 
born in 1904. He also said he came to Nashville and he had one dollar in his pocket and it was the 
first time he ever had the opportunity to eat a hot dog and they were five cents each and he stood 
there and he ate 20 of them until he went broke. And after that he met my mother here in Nashville 
and he worked, my father worked on the railroad as a Pullman person on the railroad and we would 
go back and forth from Nashville to Chicago. Then he met my mother and they fell in love and he 
stayed in here in Nashville. My father started off in business. He always wanted to be in business. 
His first thing in business was a jitney. A lot of folks don’t even know what a jitney is. It’s like an 
illegitimate cab. It was Uber many, many years ago. He ran an illegitimate cab and he also picked up 
numbers and did anything to get a start. And then he ended up going into a gasoline business, selling 
gasoline at 28th and Jefferson down here before he ended up moving up the street to that little store 
you see on the wall right there to 28th and Albion. And opened up a little store there. That’s where I 
was…I was born in 1945 and that’s where we lived. And from there he ended up coming up the 
street a little more here and purchased this property to build a little restaurant which was in the 
brochure I showed you.  
 
They actually opened up this restaurant here as a beer tavern in 1954. And they opened up on an 
interesting date, September 11th, 1954. And like I said, they opened up a beer tavern and my mother 
decided one day to cook some food…something other than sandwiches. ‘Cause they had 
hamburgers, they had hot dogs, they had French fries, so she said, “Look, let’s cook some real 
food.” So she started cooking fried chicken and meatloaf and greens, green beans, green vegetables 
and macaroni and cheese and candied yams. That was the original menu. And from that, she started 
that menu in 1955 which was about a year or so after they opened up the beer tavern and by 1956, 
’57 we kind of conferred it over to more, what Nashville likes to call, “a meat and three” type of 
restaurant. We went from there, we moved on into the ‘60s in the restaurant business and went from 
a beer tavern to a full-fledged restaurant. So today we don’t even sell beer anymore, we more of a 
family-type restaurant. We only sell food. 
 
When your dad was a Pullman porter and he started his jitney business…it may have been illegitimate, but do you 
think there was a real need for it because there probably wasn’t cab service for black people. 
 
Right. That’s part of that yeah. And he also wanted to be independent. He was always independent. 
He didn’t want to work for anyone, he wanted to work for himself. And that was it. The goal was to 
end up being in something that he could do where he didn’t have to report to anyone, he was a very 
independent person. And I guess that’s where I got my independence from. I would rather stand on 
a corner with a sign than to ever work a day for anyone. That’s just the way I feel. Okay. I know that 
I like to be…it’s not that I can’t take an order, I just don’t like the system, the way it works for some 
people and you know what I mean by some people. So I just work for myself and it works out well. 
I work hard, but hey, I’d rather work hard than to have to…I’ve had jobs before, it didn’t work out 
well. 
 
I understand that. I work for myself, too. But I think particularly, at the time when he started his business that took 
a lot of courage and faith. 
 
Absolutely. 
 
What did your mother do? 
 
 
3 
She helped him. She actually worked in the business with him. I will never forget one of the things 
my dad used to say because he opened up a store that was a block away from another store that was 
ran by a Caucasian person and he used to say that the difference between his store, and the guy’s 
name was Blue [assumed spelling], Mr. Blue’s store was that Mr. Blue’s sugar was sweeter and his ice 
was colder. Which means, you know ice freezes at 32 degrees, you he was saying this because he was 
African American. This is what people told him. 
 
Yeah, it’s…what’s so significant about Swett’s still being here is that it’s probably outlived all those other places that 
said their ice was colder… 
 
I came along and started helping my father, well I worked here during my high school years. It was a 
family business. We always had to work, you know. The difference between me working here as a 
young adult and me working here when I was junior high and high school is I didn’t get paid [laugh]. 
When I was young adult, I finally got to a point where I got a pay check. 
 
What was your first job here? 
 
Washing pots. I washed pots. I still say today, I’m the best part washer and the reason I’m so good 
at it is because I didn’t get paid to do it, so I learned how to do it really quick and very efficiently, 
ok? So that’s why I’m good at that particular job. So I came from the pot washer to the owner 
[laughing]. Funny thing, I was actually working at the blast plant, at Ford blast plant, but I came here 
as a young adult permanently. But I remember those days at Swett’s in the ’50 and the ‘60s, of 
course I came here in the ‘60s to work everyday. 
 
What was the clientele like? 
 
Clientele has been interesting at Swett’s, always been interesting. We were probably one of the few 
African American businesses in Nashville that has a mixed clientele. Always had it. For some reason, 
the city of Nashville has been great to the Swett family and I’m talking about everybody in the city, I 
don’t care what ethnic background you are. We’ve had people from all walks of life. We have as 
many Caucasian customers as we do black customers.  
 
And you can say that was true when your dad started? 
 
Right. 
 
That’s amazing. But in the ‘50s what was the neighborhood like here? 
 
In the ‘50s the neighborhood, first of all, it wasn’t as developed as it is now. And this neighborhood 
is in the process of new development. If you look around here, you’ll see ‘em. But it was an African 
American neighborhood. The streets were smaller they were not as paved. There were more people 
actually walking up and down the street at that time than there is now. It was just a little black 
neighborhood. Yet and still, what really opened us up to a lot of other people was after the interstate 
highway came through. See what happened in Nashville, the Army Corps of Engineers came along 
and built the interstate highway through Nashville and in the process, just before that they had the 
riots when Martin Luther King got killed so when they designed the highway they designed it to cut 
off North Nashville, in case there was another riot, they could shut it down. Okay? So what they did 
was, all the thru streets in North Nashville, from South Nashville to North Nashville on this west 
 
4 
end corridor of Nashville, there are only three thru streets, 28th, 18th and 8th Avenue. And so we 
happened to be on 28th so that kind of opened up for us for people who were trying to cross the 
city. So we had more traffic because there were all kinds of ways to cross the city before that time so 
it opened it up and we became more visible for a lot of people. 
 
Wow. Urban Renewal was a very real thing all over the country. When he opened this and it was in a black 
neighborhood, how did it become integrated. Did white people just know that the food was good? 
 
Back then, you know, one of the things that white people would say was “this was the food I ate 
when I was child.” Because a lot of…and this is true, they didn’t just make this up. A lot of white 
families had a black nanny and the black nanny cooked for the family. Ok, it’s not as prevalent today 
as it was at that time, so in looking for something, food, that was comparable to what the nanny 
fixed, they found Swett’s.  
 
It was comfortable. It was like home. 
 
Comfort food. Right. Comfort food. 
Wow. That makes sense. Can you tell me…[your father] had a gas station and a grocery store? 
 
[13:30] 
 
He had a gas station at 28th and Jefferson and he ran it for some years and he moved up, he leased 
that property and then he moved up to and opened up that grocery store. This store that there on 
28th Avenue. If you came off the highway here at 28th Avenue to come here, right across the park 
 
I drove down from downtown… 
 
Well right down the street there’s a store on the corner and that’s where his first store was and then 
they had another store at 32nd and a bigger at 38th and then we had another store here on this corner 
and then we have the store across the street. 
 
So how many businesses do you have? 
 
I have three. And then I’m involved in one at the airport. 
 
But those are not just restaurants. 
 
No, no. The plaza is rental property and then this store over here is a convenience market and then 
we partnered with another company at the airport, is Swett’s.  
 
So you’re always expanding, wow. 
 
Moving all the time. Never stop, never stop. 
 
Did you learn that from your father? 
 
I don’t know, yeah. But my dad was a hard worker. My dad was like a focus guy. 
 
 
5 
But you know there are people who work hard, all their lives, and yet never have anything to show for all that hard 
work. Because it doesn’t mean…there’s no guarantee. You have to have the foresight. 
 
You know it takes good luck, it takes a little luck and being in the right place at the right time and 
you have to also have good people around you, good lawyers, smart friends help a lot and I’ve been 
lucky to have that. I went to school with a bunch a guys that were all geniuses and a couple of them 
are gone now. They were just smart guys and I could lean on them for information and depend on 
them and had good lawyers. Been lucky, been lucky. I call it luck. Some of it’s luck and some of it’s 
hard work. But you also have to have luck to, especially if you’re African American. Now it takes a 
lot to do, if you’re African American, even today.  
 
Talk a little more about that? 
 
Let’s go back to 19…I started here in 1969 and then we turned it around, my father retired here in 
1979 and the restaurant is in that brochure I showed you. So my brother and I were here at that 
time, my brother, he unfortunately passed away and we decided to build this restaurant here. So in 
1984 I put together a set of plans for this restaurant. And I actually walked those plans to every bank 
in the city for 2 ½ years before I got a loan. And the only reason I got a loan was because a nice 
person decided to help me. A Caucasian, a white person, went to his bank and said, “I want you to 
help this guy.” And I ended up getting a loan to build this building. His name was Ben Richter 
[assumed spelling] and anyway, but it took me 2 ½ years to get a loan. We couldn’t get anybody to 
give us the money to do this, but the rest is history. We’re successful, we don’t have any mortgages 
anywhere, we move on. 
 
But see that took, whatever you have inside or that your father gave you, to keep trying for 2 ½ years.  
 
Yes that drive, that drive, that’s the thing. You don’t let anything stop you. 
 
If you would have quit one month earlier… 
 
Let’s move forward. Let’s move forward to the year 2000. When I built the plaza. I still couldn’t get 
a loan. I paid this building off. Look here. And the only reason I was able to get a loan on the plaza 
was that I went to a Belle Meade,  Bell Meade is an influential district where all the billionaires live. 
Union Planters bank in Bell Meade, somebody told me, they said, “Go to Union Planter’s Bank in 
Bell Mead one of their officials told me this and wasn’t supposed to give me this information, but 
they did, they said they need a minority loan, and I had been all over the place trying to build this 
plaza, let me tell you what they told me, they said, North National has enough retail space, it doesn’t 
need more. There is not near enough and I’m always full over here, well anyway. And I got the loan 
in two weeks. But it’s tough, it’s tough, but you can’t stop it. And I spent a lot of time trying 
to…now today, the fortunate thing, if I wanted to build a plaza today, I would never…I could take 
care of that. But the thing is… 
 
But how many years have you been doing this? 
 
Since 1969. 
 
Right. 
 
 
6 
It’s hard. It’s just tough for black folks. Even the ones that are working hard, trying to get it done. 
It’s still tough for them. And you can see the mix here in my clientele. And this is every day. 
 
It’s amazing.  
 
[19:15] 
 
And I’m not mad at anyone, now but I’m just telling you like it is. 
 
Oh, I know. You just need to tell the truth. Right? We need to tell the truth. About how many customers, do you 
know, do you serve roughly a week, a day, a month? Do you have an estimate? 
 
A day? About 300-400. 
 
And how many employees do you have? 
 
I have about 20. When I can get them to come [laughing], not every day. 
 
How is it finding good help? 
 
It’s tough. It’s tough. We rotate shifts all the times because we’re seven days. I’ve got a whole other 
crew that’s not here today, some of them will be here tomorrow and some of them will be here over 
the weekend, so, you know, it’s…running a seven-day operation is tough. And I’ve got some kids 
who have told me, they say, “Look, I can’t do this, dad.” So I’m stuck out here. Well I’m not still 
here because of that. I’m here because I want to be. Because I like to work. I really enjoy this. 
 
About how many hours do you think you put in a week? 
 
Oh, I don’t know. I work about eight or nine a day, now I used to work 12 or 14, but eight, nine, I 
cut back to eight or nine hours a day and I do that about six days a week and then on Saturday if we 
don’t have something special going on, I work two or three [hours]. 
 
Yeah, I’m doing about 12-14 a day [laughing]. 
 
This is what it takes. It’s a real mess but this is what it takes. Now I do some twelve hour days. On 
Sunday, I did a twelve because the evening cooks didn’t show up. So I did twelve Sunday. It depends 
on…it’s not every day that I’m lucky enough to get out.  
 
And it’s still good that you have your health and you’re able to work. 
 
And I think working helps me with that. I really do, you know. I’m not a spring chicken. I see the 
folks, some people I went to school with, they’re just barely making it now, and I’m up every day 
still doing it. And I have to beat myself up somedays but it’s okay. 
 
Do you mind telling me your age? 
 
I’m 73 and I’ll be 74 in March. 
 
 
7 
Wow. That’s amazing. 
 
And I’ll be here next year if the good Lord lets me stay. 
 
You know I did that book “Counter Culture” and the women that were waitressing were into their 80s. And they 
tried to retire but they went back to work because they missed it so much. 
 
I like coming in and talking with my customers. I have a lot of fun with that. And a lot of them are, I 
have customers who are a joy to see and I have customers that are oh my God. So I have both of 
them. 
 
How many generations [do you serve]? 
 
I have customers here that at here in the ‘50s. I have a few of those left. In fact, one of them was 
here yesterday. One of my white customers who was here yesterday told me he worked at the 
Tennessian in 1956 when he first came in here. 
 
He worked at the what? 
 
The Tennesseean  Newspaper in 1956. But what he said, he tells me the story that he was the 
“Route Manager” and he was having trouble with the guys, and he’s a white fella. He was having 
trouble with the guys going somewhere and not finishing, so somebody told him and said, “you can 
go out there at Swett’s” He said, they go out there every day, and that was at the time when we sold 
beer. He said, they were drinking beer. He came out here, just walked in, didn’t say anything to 
them, [they] saw him and knew who he was. Okay. But he ate here. He says, “I ate some food and 
he said he’s been eating here ever since. I came out here to jump on them, and I ended up eating 
food and I’ve been eating here ever since.” 
 
What about your most long-standing employees? 
 
The long-standing employees would now be Diane, she’s out sick today and Otis. Otis has been here 
since 2005, I think, 2005 or 2007. He’s been here 10-11 years. But the longest employees were, like I 
showed you the picture. They left here in the ‘90s. And they were here with my father and came up 
with me and trained me, actually. Those little ladies beat me up every day [laughing] especially one of 
them, one of them jumped me and you don’t know how much I loved them. I mean she 
straightened me out in a minute, but she taught me a lot about how to do things. So that was what 
was so wonderful about her. And they believed in doing things the right way. A lot of times you get 
these new folks and show them how to do something and they want to change it. When people ask 
me “Why didn’t you open more restaurants?” And I tell them that I’m too particular about how 
things are done. And I know that if I’m not there, it’s not going to get done that way. So I just 
decided to run this one restaurant. And I’ve got a couple of other little satellite businesses, that I can 
watch and I can be there in a moment. 
 
So what are you particular about? What are your pet peeves? 
 
Everything. Everything. I like everything done the right way. 
 
You’re on a computer system right? You’re not using…some of the older diners wouldn’t use computers. 
 
8 
 
We do cafeteria-style and the reason we do that is because it’s fast. And most of our customers, the 
biggest portion of our business is lunchtime. So we can get you through, get your meal in front of 
you and you can get back to work and plus we do a lot of buses too. We have a bus of 50 people, by 
the time the waitresses take the 50 orders, we’re finished with it. 
 
Has it always been cafeteria-style, when your dad…? 
 
No, it wasn’t when I came in ’69. I talked my father into converting it because we had so many 
lunch customers. Now in the other dining room, we have a group over here that we do also, 
different corporations and different groups. That’s more sit-down [service] over there. We’re doing 
that too right now, as we speak. 
 
But that was your idea, to move it to a cafeteria-style? 
 
Yes, I wanted to be able to move fast. And also, the other advantage of this, is each customers 
comes down…in this neighborhood, you’ve got to get your money. And everybody pays before they 
get to the table. The problem we had with the waitresses, sometimes around the check. You give the 
check and they’re gone. This way that doesn’t happen. Now every now and then they lose 
something, not often. We get it, people sit down and then you come back and figure out something 
to complain about or whatever you want to do, but anyway we get that first, which keeps our 
bottom line working. 
 
That’s really smart. So being a business owner…what’s your biggest struggle? Is it health insurance? Is it managing 
employees?  
 
[26:20] 
 
Help, help.  
 
Just getting good help. 
 
I don’t have a struggle other than help. I know all about what we’re doing. I know where to get any 
product we need, I buy product. We’re fortunate to have resources. If a product we use a lot of if it 
is on sale, we’ll buy a lot of it. We make money on buying…one of the things we do is that we try to 
purchase stuff at the best price. Even though we’re one operation, we don’t have a franchise, we’re 
still searching out for the best price, because those are the things that…a lot of times we have no 
control over payroll but you do have control over who you buy it from and the price so you’ve got a 
little control there. 
 
That’s why Walmart is… 
 
Yeah, yeah, exactly. Payroll is going to be payroll. Matching the fight with money for the 
government, you’ve got no choice. You can’t control…well you try to do the best you can to control 
the utilities, but the utilities always go up.  
 
But see you never had a business degree and you’ve figured this out on your own? 
 
 
9 
Well I’ve had great teachers. My mother and father, they taught themselves and they passed it own. 
It’s mostly just common sense. And there’s no course…now there’s universities that teaches you 
how to watch everything, you’ve got to watch everything. It’s not that you watch some things. You 
watch everything. Everything’s watched. 
 
So do you have children? 
 
I have four children.  
 
Wow. Ok. And do you think they’ll pick up… 
 
I have a daughter that’s interested in coming here maybe. The problem is that she lives in Alabama 
and she’s thinking about coming back to Nashville. She really likes the business but she has her 
profession and she’d like to try to come back here and do both.  
 
What do your children do? 
 
Well, I have two sons, they’re in the food business also. They have a company called “Fresh Chefs” 
[assumed spelling] and what they do is that they do institutional food, they help a juvenile center and 
do three meals a day for it. And they have another vocational school, these are troubled children 
they do the food for. And then I have another son who lives in Houston who teaches school and 
then my daughter is a dentist in Alabama. They youngest one, the professor, is the one that couldn’t 
do this. He said, “Y’all work too many hours and too hard here!” So anyway. 
 
It’s not for everybody. And people assume that anybody can do it and we know that’s not true. 
 
It’s not for everybody, and I know that. And if it’s not something that you want to do, you’ve 
definitely got no business here. If you want to get beat up the first day, hear? Because it’s hard. 
 
Had you heard of the Green Book? 
 
I saw the advertisement on TV for the movie and I was wondering about the Green Book and then 
when you guys, the lady called me from CBS [Sunday Morning], then I started looking into it. And I 
did look up some things about the Green Book and I saw Swett’s in there. The ’61 edition, I think it 
was. You know, I haven’t been able to get a copy of the ’61 issue. That’s hard to get. There are other 
editions that you can get copies of, but that one is hard. 
 
Yeah, you know, I’m trying to see what years, I thought I had a note here. I think it was 1960 and 1961. But you 
have no idea why your father listed it or how this business got listed in the Green Book? 
 
No, I don’t know how that happened. However, I was quite surprised, but I’m not really totally 
surprised because we’d been around a while and in ’60, ’61 we were only like seven years old, the 
company, but I do know that there weren’t a lot of places that black folks could go to without a 
problem. Everything wasn’t open, because when I was younger, it was like in high school, we 
couldn’t go to certain places, so I remember that time. I’m not surprised, but I am surprised. And I 
say this, I’m surprised but not surprised that somebody had a book. And I probably saw it once or 
twice in my life, but [there’s been] a lot of time between now and then and [probably] forgot about 
it. But it’s really interesting. I intend to go see the movie. 
 
10 
 
Hmm mmm. Well from what I hear the movie really doesn’t have anything to do with the Green Book. They 
interviewed me, Universal Studios to talk about the Green Book, because most people left the theater thinking, “I still 
don’t know…what is the Green Book.” So they kind of used that name because of the popularity of the Green Book 
but it’s really about a buddy road trip. 
 
But I wanted to ask you [customer comes to the table] I was wondering if your father had a name for his jitney 
business? 
 
No I don’t. 
 
Because there were cab stands and taxi services listed in the Green Book too, so I just wondered if maybe he was… 
 
I doubt it because it was illegal. 
 
Well, I’m sure most of them were. You know because I don’t think they gave licenses to any [black people]. And there 
were taxi stands and cab services. What was the name of his grocery store? 
 
Swett’s. Swett’s Cash Market. 
 
Ok, I’ll look and see if that was in there. 
 
Yeah, in fact this sign over here has the phone number for Swett’s Cash Market. 
 
Ok, I’ll take a look at that. You know this book was in publication for almost thirty years and it’s really hard to 
find any paper work or direct link from the Green Book to these businesses. So I’m always looking for that. Do you 
know, when your father passed, did you save any of his records? 
 
What type of records? 
 
Any kind of business records that may have linked this restaurant to the Green Book? 
 
I don’t think so. I really don’t. You know, it’s kind of like, when integration came, folks were so 
happy a lot of that stuff, kind of like a puff of smoke that went away and they forgot all about here 
and they went over to the other side and a lot of black businesses, too many black businesses that 
suffered from integration and never survived it. That’s one of the things you learned about black 
businesses.  
 
[33:32] 
 
It was a double-edged sword, right? And I think maybe the reason why you were able to beat the odds was because you 
were already integrated. 
 
Yeah, yeah. We were already integrated. The reason for that was because like I told you, was the 
folks wanted to get back to the nanny in the house. Because I heard that so many times. “This 
reminds me of the food Ms. so and so cooked for us when we were kids.” And the tradition 
continued. But you see that Nashville has been real good to the Swett family. 
 
 
11 
It’s bittersweet, I guess. 
 
We are a little different operation that survived in the South. In fact, they call these restaurants a 
“meat and three” and you’ll see why because if you look at the food, the meat’s here and a bunch of 
vegetables and you choose what you want.  
 
So what’s your specialty here? 
 
One of our specials is fried chicken. We do a beef tip, we do a rotisserie chicken. We do country 
fried steaks, pork chops and gravy, meatloaf, turnip greens, mac and cheese, candied yams, green 
beans…all the comfort food. Fried corn, boiled corn, we have some days, okra, squash, pinto beans, 
we do different beans from day to day and apples, stewed... 
 
Was your mother a good cook? 
 
Great cook. 
 
So was it her recipes that…? 
 
A lot of them are. A lot of them are new. Some of the things are new, some of them are the same 
thing that they did. People have asked me over the years, “Well, when are you going to change the 
menu?” And my answer is “When it stops selling.” The same menu has been selling for 60-some 
years. No need to change it. I’m not going to change it. I’m going to roll all the way to the end with 
it. 
 
Please don’t. Please don’t. [laughing] 
 
We just do the same thing. And what makes it easy is that we do the same thing over and over every 
day. It’s called Groundhogs Day [laughing]. If you’re familiar with that, yeah. 
 
It’s amazing. I’m sure you know how special it is because you know how much work it takes to keep this going, but 
it’s even so much more special that you’re a black-owned business, family-owned business for this long. Most 
restaurants won’t last a year.  
 
Yeah, it’s the hardest business in the world. No doubt about it. It’s a very difficult business. It think 
I read an article back here that 65% of new restaurants fail the first year, 80-something [%] the 
second year and then five years, it’s right at 90[%]. Only 10% survive. Something to that numbers. 
That’s close to what I remember.  
 
That sounds right. I’ve heard those numbers too. Since 1954, that’s incredible. 
 
Oh, we’ve been here a while, yeah we’ve been around a while. It’s amazing. I look back at my time 
here and I can’t believe all these years have passed. I’m like “Wow!” And I’m still going. I’ve got to 
keep going. I’m not going to stop. Now we do something interesting here at Swett’s, we also close 
up in December. 
 
For how long? 
 
 
12 
We close December 24th to January 2nd. We do that every year and my customer base…we put up 
signs and they understand. We work from January 2nd nonstop until December 24th.  
 
So you give your employees Christmas off… 
 
Yeah, everybody. We give them a little Christmas bonus and give them their checks and everybody 
goes home. Especially the base employees, we take care of them. And we take a week off and come 
back to work. It’s very important, because it can be long. I get happy this time of year because we’re 
in December. We’ve got a lot of work to finish up. We’ve got a lot big jobs coming up this next 
week. Jobs for 200 people, 300 people, stuff like that. 
 
like catering…? 
 
Right. We have several of those coming up next week. But anyway, I get happy the 18th and 19th 
because I have everything out the way. And then we go on vacation, enjoy the kids, and the 
grandkids. 
 
Wow, this is amazing.  
 
38:35 
You want to know how I got to Swett’s? I’ll tell you that. In 1969, how I ended up here at Swett’s. 
You see I was working at Ford Blast Plant and what happened was, my parents had spent all of their 
life, my parents had nine children and had spent their entire life working – never took a vacation, 
and their church was going to Jerusalem and they wanted to go. So, at Ford, what they did was, they 
gave us these jobs, at Ford Blast Plant in the ‘60s and the only reason they hired us [black people] is 
because the government forced them to hire some African Americans clause, they had 1800 
employees and less than one percent [was] black. So they gave much of a job. They would work us 
90 days and then they would lay us off. If they kept you on the roll past 89 days you became a 
permanent employee, so they’d keep you 90 days and then they’d lay you off, every year. And a lot 
of people went through that for years until they ended up permanent employees. Well, I knew that 
was going to happen, okay? So I told my parents, I said, “Look, y’all need to go on this vacation, 
you’ve been working hard all your life.” Of course the family came together and we all agreed, I said, 
“I’ll come there and I’ll help. I can do this. It’s no big deal. Okay?” Not knowing that I was never 
going to leave. I didn’t know that part, ok? So I came over here and helped them stayed with them a 
week or so. Then they went to Jerusalem and they were gone two weeks, or three weeks or 
something. When they came back, my father said, “Well, you did a pretty good job. Why don’t you 
just stay here and I’ll let your mother go home, because she was happy with that. So I stayed here 
with him and then I never left. So that’s how I ended up here and we started in the process of 
changing the restaurant around to make it more efficient. Of course that was like bumping your 
head up against a wall, working for my father… 
 
How old were you? 
 
I was 23. 
 
Ok, but you had gone to Ford and realized that you’re not…you don’t want to take orders from anybody else. 
 
 
13 
It was just a horrible, horrible place to work at because the people, they didn’t have any respect for 
African Americans, okay. Not the kind of respect that they needed to have. They would do awful 
things to you. They would go upstairs to the catwalk, throw water on you, buckets of water, and 
they’d do all kinds of stupid stuff….they called it. It wasn’t the place that I wanted to be. I didn’t 
have the demeanor for it, either. Because I was young, strong, and very radical. I may have hurt 
someone because I remember when I was a kid, we had sit-ins. I went to college a couple of years 
and I would never volunteer for that because I knew that I wasn’t the kind of person and didn’t 
have the kind of personality for someone to spit on me. If somebody spit on me, we’re gonna fight, 
okay? That’s just the way I…so I would not volunteer. They were looking for volunteers at the 
school, but that wasn’t me. And I know who I am, here, so I said, “Nope, ain’t doing that, here. Y’all 
go right ahead. I’m proud of you. Keep working.”  
 
Wow. And I guess you had another option, right? 
 
Yep and that came along and I realized that this is where I’m supposed to be. I didn’t get out of 
here. I’m stuck here [laughing]. I didn’t have enough sense to get out of here. I always say about my 
last two children, I told them, “Maybe I should have kept one of the like me.” I got them formal 
educations, them last two and they don’t want to be bothered with this [laughing]. 
 
Did you ever want to do anything else? 
 
No, not after I got here. No. This is me. It’s what I like to do. I do it. I like to be around people and 
I like to talk to people. I like to meet people, you know. I like being my own boss. Simple as that. 
Not that I can’t take an order. I take orders all the time from the customers. But I like being my own 
boss, but it’s hard work. 
 
But it takes a certain kind of person to, you know, keep this ship going, so that’s what’s your specialty really is. If you 
didn’t have those skills there would be nothing to… 
 
Yeah. It’s a lot. We actually start every morning at 6:30 and we open up at 11[am]. We do a lot. We 
get everything together. Yeah, see it looked like we were floating along but we’ve got 50 people in 
the other room, we’re really busy. We’re really moving. A lot of times, it doesn’t look like we’re 
doing things. 
 
Now I worked in a restaurant for years. I know. I didn’t manage one but there’s the back of the house and the front 
of the house and there’s two different productions going on. 
 
Right. Exactly. So… 
 
Well I think you’ve answered all my questions. [ I ask about objects to travel with the Smithsonian exhibition] 
 
I have a whole album that I intended to bring, of pictures that were taken of my family in 1947 by a 
photographer for a Russian magazine, what they were looking for was a family in the South in 
business. Now we never saw the magazine, but we got copies of the pictures. But what happened, 
my mother had a fire in her home in 1964 and those pictures all got destroyed and a cousin of mine 
came by here one day from Cleveland, Ohio, [and] had one of the pictures that she had given him. 
The artist with the photographer’s name on the back, and I was able to contact him, this was 15-20 
years ago, he was an elderly person, still living and had copies and I never will forget the 
 
14 
conversation I had with him. I said, “I would love to get copies of those..” and he said, “I think I 
do.” He said, “You call me back in three or four days.” And then he said to me, “I found them.” He 
said, “But I’ll have to charge you for them.” I said, “I don’t care about you charging me for them. 
There are some things that are priceless. Pictures of my family in 1947. It’s unbelievable.” Yeah, so 
I’ve got a whole album of those. I may have some of them. I may have a few on my phone. I 
intended to put all of them on my phone, but what happened was my phone stopped working. And 
I got a new phone, just the other day. I don’t know if they transferred. Let me see. I have some of 
them here. It’s hard to find. I’ve been working on putting these in albums. Here’s one of them. This 
is the photographer and that’s my brother in 1947 in the store that I was telling you about.  
 
 
I make fun of this picture. This was my dad’s family. Back in the community. That was a long time 
ago. But I have a lot of those pictures. That’s a lot of history in there as to where this family came 
from. I used to tell the story about being in that old store down there and the pictures are being in 
there, as a family we always knew what we were going to have for dinner that night, and how we 
were going to…the running joke in the family was… with the kids, how we knew what we were 
having for dinner…whatever dad had in the meat case that was turning green [laughing], what was 
spoiling was what we were eating. I said, look here, “I didn’t know what fresh meat [was]” I was a 
grown man before I had a fresh piece of beef. Everything that we had was already spoiling hear? 
And that’s what he fed his nine kids with. We made that joke, but it wasn’t that bad though. But 
anyway. 
 
[47:07] 
 
[END]