Duane Adams 
The Brown Farm in Windsor, CT 
71 years old 
Born in 1943  
Interview Time: 40 minutes 
July 2 2014 
I grew up in Wilson, Connecticut southernmost part of Windsor. It created kind of a problem because 
Most of the farms when I was 14 the question was which farm will you work on. The vast majority of 
students at Windsor high school worked on tobacco in the summer, both boys and girls. So the problem 
I had is that no one had a bus that went down as far as Wilson. The first year I walked from my house 
from the east side of 159 up to 191 and  I’d sit on the guard rail and Cathy’s father would pick me up and 
bring me as far as the center of Windsor where he had a bus that he was renting. …problem was in the 
afternoon the bus would take me into the center of Windsor and I wouldn’t look terribly good. I was 
dirty. There were times that the bus driver from the CT company wouldn’t stop. I learned to stand in 
back of the row of people so that the bus would stop. Most kids started at 14. I was unfortunate 
because I had a November birthday so I missed a whole summer. That was the norm. Based on child 
labor laws. If it is a family business you can work on it but not so much if you are a friend of the family 
2:50 The first thing I was introduced to was suckering. The plants were in the field and were about a foot 
to fifteen inches high and someone had to go through and take off the bottom leaves and push dirt 
around the stalk of the plant and where the leaf comes out of the plant a little sucker grows and you pull 
those suckers out. It was, mind numbing.  (Hot under the tents and on your butt.) Generally speaking, 
Stanton was the overall boss, Hubble was still around, Stanton had the field crew and he would make 
sure that the older high school kids, broken up into groups of ten.  Ten was a good number because 
there were ten rows between each set of poles back them in a group, don’t take up to high or too low 
on the plant. Try to be uniform. Probably the worst crime was to break a leaf. It is easy to do. You were 
reaching in and you’d get tired of sitting. You had to break the group up by size. You are too big for this 
row.  
5:10 Back then you didn’t have a resume. You’d call and ask for a job. The state hired teachers to come 
around and inspect the farms. Their job was to make sure that there was a first aid kit, make sure there 
were water barrels available that outhouses were available and to make sure that the kids were at least 
14 years old. You had to have a copy of the birth certificate. As I went on and was a teacher myself, I’d 
see these people every summer and I’d ask them, “You fill out these reports every summer. What 
happens to them?” They’d say, “Well, we are not sure, but most years when we come back the reports 
are still on the desk where we left them.”  Perhaps no one is really looking at them. Don’t tell anybody! 
6:30 All shade back them. We are sitting in what was a field. Called it Smith lot. Kids liked it because it 
was 8 bents across which meant to the middle it was only four bents which was a nice short row. On this 
side you had field 4 which had 12 bents to the middle and the kids would say this is going to take 
forever. The poles that hold up the netting are 33 feet apart.  That is called a bent. It is all in squares. 
These are bents in the field. They are in the sheds as well and they are only 16 feet. That is about as long 
as you want to make a four by four pole and have people standing on it and not have it collapse in the 
middle. If you had to go 12 bents sitting down suckering. In fact one of the things that Cathy’s father had 
me do was go out and get poles to split the fields, 3 and 4, split them down the middle so then instead 
of a 12 bent row you had fives and sixes which was mentally easier.  
8:40 I met my wife here. She’d graduated from college and was going to be teaching in Glastonbury, CT. 
I had graduated from college and decided I was going to work on a Master’s degree and went out to 
Utah and hated every minute of it. I worked here in the summers. I worked when I was 14 and 15 and at 
16 big time stuff I worked for First National Produce department, they had air conditioning which was a 
plus but a lot of time you didn’t work many hours but so it was a trade off. I went off to college and 
worked for Coca Cola Bottling Company for a couple of summers but that was really mind numbing. 
Sorting soda bottle s to go into the washing machines. Wasn’t as bad as the women who watched the 
emptied bottles go by or watch the full bottles go by to make sure that there wasn’t anything in them. 
They’d have sample bottles that would run through. 
10:10  I graduated from college and was looking for a summer job and one of my high school classmates 
said I just got a job with Mr. Brown why don’t you come back and 44 summers later I called it quits. I 
taught social studies. Every job, not a lot of time in the shed, but there was a time on top of the hill 
before the tornado went through we’d mix the fertilizer. We’d pour it into a shoot and it’d go up like a 
big screw and get mixed up. Dusty job that wasn’t very pleasant. All those years I blamed cows for the 
smell it wasn’t cows at all when it was fish meal. The worst thing was to open up a freight car filled with 
bags of fish meal. You’d almost gag. Right by the door wasn’t too bad. Picked it up and bring it here, 
stack by variety, start mixing it and stack the bags of mixed fertilizers.  
12:15 In terms of a summer job, once I was a “big wig” things got better but  four years ago my last year 
summer I picked. Where ever you needed to be done you had to do. I enjoyed Sundays. I’d come over 
and repair sheds. The biggest change is that when I first started they grew all of their seedlings in cold 
frames. They were six feet wide and probably forty feet long and they’d use a tablespoon of seed and 
mix it with landplaster and broadcast seed by hand. Landplaster was white. Where ever you saw white 
you had seeds. When they came up they’d be solid green. Then we’d take the glass frames like storm 
windows. Then the women would come in with a board and a cushion on it and pull the plants out and 
put them in baskets and then they’d go to the field. They were solid green. The trays have I think 120 
cells. When the plants come up you don’t’ see the tray at all.  All you see is green.  We went from cold 
frames to green houses. The older greenhouses they didn’t use trays they used gigantic cold frames. 
They’d throw the seed and they had benches then and you’d pull the plants. Then they went to the 
plastic trays. They started out and they would take the seeds. It looks like coffee grounds. They are very 
very small seeds. 
16:00 Dr. LaMondia will tell you that that a level teaspoon is ten thousand seeds. He is the tobacco 
person at CT State Agricultural Station in Windsor off of 91. He deals with tobacco and tobacco issues. 
He is now the authority on tobacco and when we had things like blue mold. He does a lot of seed work. 
He has his own little field. Some of it will be pots in the ground where he is trying to increase the 
population of nematodes. Because he is trying to develop plants that are nematode resistant. Years ago 
they had fumigants to take care of them but then the Government said don’t use them. He is very good. 
Anyway – they’d take these tiny seeds and send a little bag out to California. They’d come back in five 
gallon pails. They’d shot the seeds filled with a clay mist and it would be almost like the sprinkles you 
put on ice cream. We had a machine with a little vacuum cleaner and we’d scoop the seeds and they’d 
be little holes on this plate the seeds would get caught in the hole flip it over, reverse the vacuum 
cleaner shoot it down into the trays. And many years they’d put two seeds in each and then go and pull 
one out with tweezers. Now they don’t pelletize them. The machine takes the raw seed and has a drum 
that goes around counts them and shoots them in.   
19:10 Big changes and for the most part improvements. The changes that I have seen is that kids are not 
the labor source. They just do not. It reached a point that if I called, I’d get out of school in Southington. 
I’d go home change and then be over to the farm in the afternoon. My first job was phoning the kids 
who wanted jobs. Many, many times I’d get a kid who’d say no and if I got a mother she’d say he’ll be 
there tomorrow morning. I probably called more parents in the summer time than during the school 
year about behavior, attitude, productivity or lack there of. At least in the summer at the farm I could 
call a parent and say maybe he should stay home a few days and think if he really wants the job. I 
couldn’t do that at school. Don’t send your kid in for the next week or two! That doesn’t work.  
21:30 That first year that I was out of college there were two of us that were of college graduation age 
and a few that were in high school and then I got lucky that summer and Mr. Brown said, “I want you to 
do irrigation.” The first week I worked 96 hours. We had enough main line pipe, 4 inch galvanized, it 
came with two handles but you were better off with two people one on each end. You had to run it 
every other row, every other pole row, every 66 feet and you wanted enough water pressure for it to go 
33 feet in each direction. When we were down in the meadow there were 8 bent rows and we could set 
up six rows and we’d run two, turn those two off and go in and move the first two down. About every 2 
hours, we wanted to give about an inch of water. Over the years the amount of pipe increased 
dramatically. Some if it now is overhead in the fields with a three inch pipe. We used an under the plant 
irrigation in the last 8-9 years that I worked. Buried Right when you are planting the plants you bury the 
pipe. Only used for one year. The main line delivers it and the little lines connect up those you can use 
over again. You have to do something with the field and with those hoses or they were called tapes 
buried you’d have to pull them up, sometimes in long sections and sometimes in short sections. Labor 
intensive. It was not worth it. I said that the first week I worked 96 hours. The second week was 106 
hours. If you give me the afternoon off I will go home and wash my car and it will rain and then we 
won’t have to irrigate. 
25:25 Irrigating under the plants you are better off doing the irrigation. The sprinklers overhead you 
can’t work in the field and it will blow around. The leaves are not getting wet and one of the challenges 
is blue mold which likes wet conditions. Better to keep it dry. It is more grey than blue. You really have 
to see it on the underside leaf. It is kind of fuzzy and furry. I have never seen it. There was a Dow 
chemical called Ridomil l that they’d use when planting in the spring and that took care of blue mold. 
Apparently we didn’t like the people in Cuba and we wouldn’t let Dow sell Ridomil in Cuba and one year 
we had a hurricane and their blue mold came up and it was a different variety and I can recall Stanton 
saying Dr. LaMondia said that they traced it right up the South. Blue mold found in Amish country it is 
coming in this direction. Stanton said keep your eye out for blue mold. I went down to Brown Meadow 
along the river and I was in a field on the very outside row. There was this one row of plants and then 
ten rows and I looked up and way up at the top I said I wonder if that is what it is. It was a seven acre 
field and we plowed it under. The first year that it came they found sprays that you could use. But 
before that. Sometimes it is a strange business. A lot of people are growing tobacco, but a lot of people 
are closed mouth. We had a case in Suffield where I saw it in one of Stanton’s fields and suggested that 
there was another farmer that had a field across the street and we should notify him and the call was 
made and the response was, “oh we’ve had blue mold in that field for about three weeks.” Thank you. 
30:15 (Fondest tobacco memory?) I would say that early on the kids that I worked with and later on the 
Jamaican men. I still, a week ago I got a phone call from one of the Jamaican men who worked here for 
years. He is out in Washington State picking apples or cherries. He said that the first year they brought in 
100 Jamaicans, the second year they brought in 200 Jamaicans and this year 500 Jamaicans. I think that 
tells you something about the Jamaican work ethic. When I was 14, Mr. Brown used to have a big camp 
on River Street that serviced many farmers. The different farmers would go in with a Bus or a truck with 
a canvas over it and their workers would come out. They lived there, they got their breakfast there, a 
bag lunch there and had their supper there. And the farmers probably paid room and board.  When I 
was 14 or 15 they probably had 10-12 Jamaican workers because you need bodies before the harvest 
starts. I would be in a row picking and I’d hear click…..click……click and then you’d hear fast clicking and 
it was not a Windsor high school student. They’d fan pick which we were not allowed to do. They’d pick 
with two hands. Their hands were bigger than ours. Way more efficient. Great workers.  
32:50 You had to watch the sheds at night once you start curing. For fire and you don’t want it to get too 
hot. When you start curing, the shed starts at 90 degrees. The shed in the meadow I was kneeling in 
sweet hooking up the stoves. Susan’s grandfather came in and said I want you to light it up and set it at 
90 degrees. I said, “Mr. Brown it just said on the radio that the temp is 113!” But the shed actually gets 
cold because of the evaporation so inside the shed it was probably 80. But you want it to start it at 90 
and stay there for a day or two and then go up to 92.  You do not want it to get up to 100 degrees.  
34:40 Back in the 50’s a hurricane came through and took some sheds down. I was at Boy Scout camp 
then. My brother was out sandbagging the damn because Winsted and New Hartford was getting 
hammered. They didn’t need west Hill Lake coming down in another direction. I was here when the 
tornados took a shed. I have always like the one next to the one with the big B on it the one next to it 
Smith Shed. It has a little addition that was put on. Most people didn’t care for that shed because it was 
built on a hillside. So this end you stand up straight, that end if you stand up straight you will bump your 
head but the main supports are trees, logs, and some of the poles that the men would walk on were 
round long trees.  
36:40 The poles that they use now are generally pressure treated and the tractor just has to whisper 
loudly and the poles break. Most of the ones when I was first starting out were made of Red cedar and 
you could hit them with the truck. When Stanton split the field in half here, he sent me down to by 
Southbury to pick up a load of probably the 18 foot poles and the rest were four footers for the 
deadmen that they use at the end of each line and I came back and he said don’t even bother unloading 
and just start throwing them out of the truck. It made sense to make the rows shorter. Mr. Thrall had 
one that was 22 bents to the middle. Back before they had the bicycles and you’d fill up a basket. It was 
easy to say when you get to 21 bents that this basket can hold a lot more! Not a good thing. The leaves 
bruise very easily. It has a dark side and a light side. (He takes a lettuce leaf from the bunny cage next to 
us and pinches it) See the marks? They stay there. The people who make cigars say I will have to cut 
around that so it won’t be enough.  It is amazing. A slight pinch like that and you have got a bruise.