AFC 2020/004: 33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
     Luci Tapahonso 
 
Living Nations, Living Words: A Map of First Peoples Poetry 
Poem commentary by Luci Tapahonso, 2020 
 
Speaker: Luci Tapahonso 
Date of recording: July 14, 2020 
Location: Santa Fe, New Mexico, poet’s home 
Length: 10 minutes, 33 seconds 
 
START OF RECORDING 
 
Luci Tapahonso:  This is Luci Tapahonso. I’ll introduce myself in Diné, or Navajo, before reading 
the poem.  
 
[Introduction in Diné (Navajo)] 
 
[Luci Tapahonso reads "Illígo Naalyéhé: Goods of Value"] 
 
LT:  I recorded this in my home office in Santa Fe, New Mexico, and I’m originally from Shiprock, 
New Mexico—that’s where I grew up and lived until I went to college, and I consider Shiprock 
to be my home. I’m currently renovating my childhood home as a place that I want to live in the 
near future.  
 
The poem "Illígo Naalyéhé: Goods of Value" explores how the concepts of “soft and hard 
goods” in Diné culture contain both ancient and contemporary wisdom. Soft goods refer to 
ancestral knowledge; oral knowledge that is carried down over generations and was not 
generally recorded—this may include how one’s sense of identity is formed within the larger 
group, how various creation stories and their accompanying songs and prayers have shaped 
Diné philosophy and culture as well as how one is taught to behave or live in a world in which 
all life forms are related. In general, soft goods refers to “Saad”—that body of knowledge which 
affects people emotionally, spiritually and philosophically.  
 
Hard goods are material or physical items that represent or reinforce the import of soft goods. 
For instance, how specific mountains were formed, or why certain birds or animals were 
created or how a particular group ended up living in this canyon or in the mountains. In these 
stories, we may learn the meaning of a concha belt, that a tsáá, the ceremonial basket, contains 
our origin stories and why sheep are important to our survival. Hard goods can include tools 
that one uses to build structures, to prepare and cook, or the bridles and ropes used to train 
horses. Firewood, axes, water containers and hay or feed for livestock are also considered hard 
goods, as are vehicles, tractors and plows. Vegetables, corn and all other farm produce are also 
considered hard goods.  
 
It’s important to note that both types of possessions were valued as profits or gains from the 
beginning of Diné time to the present day. Hard goods took on distinct Diné interpretations 
upon introduction to outside cultures. Naalyéhé means to carry about an object or objects of 
monetary or significant symbolic value.  
 
END OF RECORDING