Shahzad Hafeez - Field Notes 
Bollywood Salon - 7609 Broadway  Elmhurst, NY 11373 
August 9, 2012  
 
The interview was scheduled at 1pm but we (me and my assistant) arrived about 
forty-five minutes early. Bollywood Salon is located on a busy street in Queens, 
NY. We parked in front of the salon at a parking meter and unloaded the 
equipment. In the fifteen minutes I spent photographing the exterior of the salon, 
throngs of people walked by and almost everyone appeared to be from another 
country.  
 
In the salon, there were two other stylists (one was the owner) and three people 
sitting on a bench along the window waiting for services. Shahzad escorted us 
downstairs to a small room with a chair and a mirror. Beyond that room was 
another room, which was a waxing area. Shahzad took a walk-in client and cut her 
hair. She appeared to be East Indian. I did not photograph her because we did not 
have prior permission, but we listened to Shahzad tell stories about doing Indian 
hair. He also showed us his book of hairstyles and bridal make-up.  
 
Shahzad said that he had two models coming in later to be photographed. After his 
client left we went upstairs to do the interview since there was more space. It was 
more comfortable upstairs, but there were numerous interruptions so 
unfortunately it was very distracting.  
 
Customers walked in asking for “eyebrow threading” which is a popular hair 
removal technique. Unwanted hair is removed from the face with a single thread 
that is twisted and pulled in a fast motion. During our interview Shahzad received 
a call notifying him that his models were not coming. We kept watch for potential 
customers so I could photograph him doing hair. About forty minutes into the 
interview a woman came to get her face “threaded” and she agreed to let me 
photograph her. This was something that I had never seen before, so we stopped 
the interview. After that, a young woman from Bangladesh came in and allowed 
me to photograph her while Shahzad did her hair. After his client left, I 
photographed Shahzad outside of the salon. We packed up the equipment and left 
around 4pm.