afc2021009_013
Background
Name of person interviewed: Tracie Lavette Augusta [TA]
Facts about this person:
Age: 51 (1971)
Sex: Female
Occupation: Nurse Practitioner
Credentials: PhD(c), MSNed, APRN
Residence: Memphis, Tennessee
Ethnic background: African American
Interviewer: Carmen Vaughn-Hewitt [CH]
Transcriber: Sara Cohen [SC]
Interview location:
Date of interview:
KEY WORDS
BSN, clinical nurse specialist, nursing education, bedside, nurse practitioner, Doctor of
Nursing Practice (DNP), transplant nephrology, holistic health and healing, African
American, PhD, research, disparities, hypothermia post cardiac arrest, discrimination, racism,
clinical ladder, full practice authority, primary care, stress, herbalism, trauma, mental health,
hospitalist, advocacy, adjunct faculty, clinical instructor, Chi Eta Phi Sorority Incorporated,
chartering member
Abstract
In this interview, Tracie details her nurse education and her favorite role - that of a clinical
nurse specialist. She discusses her experience as a nurse practitioner running her own practice
and other nursing roles she has held throughout her career. Tracie talks about the health of
Black America and the racism she has witnessed as a nurse. In connection to that, she shares
her passion for holistic health and wellness. Tracie also recounts her experience as a nurse
educator and how nursing school has changed since she was a student. She concludes by
outlining her membership in Chi Eta Phi Sorority Incorporated and providing advice for
people who are considering nursing as a profession.
afc2021009_013
Index
[0:01] Tracie’s family background
[4:59] Why Tracie decided to become a nurse, her nurse education
[17:52] The clinical nurse specialist role, the discrimination and racism Tracie faced as a
clinical nurse specialist
[26:30] Other nursing roles Tracie has held
[29:51] The role of a nurse practitioner, Tracie’s experience running her own practice, her
interest in prevention, wellness and nutrition
[36:31] The health of the Black community in America, the integration of Black people into
the healthcare system, the  racism Tracie sees as a hospitalist
[44:54] Tracie’s experience as a nurse educator, how nursing school has changed since she
was a student
[52:05] Tracie’s membership in Chi Eta Phi Sorority Incorporated, service for humanity
[59:36] The future of nursing, Tracie’s thoughts on Chi Eta Phi, the advice she would give to
a person who is considering nursing as a profession
afc2021009_013
CH 00:01
Good afternoon and thank you so much for taking part of this wonderful historical research
project, the Archie Green Folklife Occupations Research Project with the Library of
Congress. How are you?
TA
I'm good, thank you.
CH
Wonderful, wonderful. Would you give me your complete name and the year only of your
birth?
TA
Tracy Lavette Augusta. 1971.
CH
What city and state do you live in?
TA
Memphis, Tennessee.
CH
Where were you born and raised?
TA
Memphis, Tennessee.
CH
Okay, so you’re a native here! That’s wonderful. Tell me something about your family
background.
TA
Well, so, on my mother's side, it's not a lot to tell. My mom's side of the family had early
death so because of that, most people did not live past age 50. Her mother died at 43. Her
father died at 50. Her oldest brother died at 50. Because of that, around the time my mom
was, like, 46, everybody was treating her like she was, like, the matriarch of the family, like
she was gonna die. So, myself and my children were very heavily in church at the time and at
the time, my pastor was teaching on curses, generational curses, and how to, you know, break
a curse and all that stuff. I remember coming home one night and I gathered my children. We
weren't living with my mom but we went over to her house and we stood in her living room. I
think my baby girl at that time was three. We tried to pray down heaven, because I was
asking God, "Please don't let my mama die at 50 because if she dies at 50, that means I'm
gonna die at 50 and my children gonna die at 50. Like, something's got to happen here." So, I
know we prayed. We ended up on our knees. We was crying and begging. Let me tell you,
my mom is 71. My kids, we always say, “We did that. We did that.”
CH
Y'all did that.
afc2021009_013
TA
Yep, and so we just recently had a death and my uncle passed away. What’s ironic, what’s
interesting about that side of the family, nobody knows how to be old and so it's interesting,
‘cause they never saw old people. Sometimes I feel like my mom act like she's, like, 100
years, because I think she's acting the role. Like, she's not sure how to be old. Anyway, my
dad had longevity on his side of the family. My dad didn't lose his dad until he was, like, 70,
and his mom only died a few years ago. I felt so bad for him because he had his parents for so
long. So, I had both extremes. Like, he's a old man and not being able to call his mama every
day was, like, interesting to him, so I was sad for him. I was never close to his side of the
family and so when his mom died, it’s like, “Oh, Dad. I'm so sorry your mom passed away,”
and that hit him like a ton of bricks ‘cause my sister and I, we always say, “your mama,” you
know. We were close to him but we were never close to his side of the family. We was like,
“Oh, Dad, your mom died,” and he just hates that because as he got older, he saw where he
dropped the ball and didn't really bring us in like he should have. So, because of that, the
people that he really, really loved, we were not close to them. So, anyway, I still have both of
my parents and so that's a blessing. My dad and his family were from some deep part of
Mississippi. My mom was from Shelby County, and there's a story of her mother walking
here from Mason, Tennessee. So, this is where we've been.
CH
Do you have siblings?
TA
I have a older brother and his name is Leroy and I have a younger sister. My brother is still
here. My brother is married. He's been married 35 years now. He's got three adult kids and his
wife wants the kids to live with her forever. She does not want her children to move, she don't
want their children to move, so they have a multi-family home. Like, everybody lives at my
brother’s. My brother's house is the spot. Everybody lives there, as far as their children and
grandchildren. My sister, she relocated to Dallas maybe about 10 years ago and now she's a
VP for a large bank and she's doing great. She's got three adult children also. Myself, I have
three adult children.
CH
Wonderful, wonderful. Who or what inspired you to become a nurse?
TA 04:59
I didn't know any nurses. My inspiration to become a nurse was because I had my son when I
was 17 years old and I had no idea how I was gonna take care of him. I wanted to find
something that was gonna give me longevity as far as a career is concerned so I didn't have to
worry about it. His father was in and out and so it was just me. So, I was like, “Nursing could
be good.” Although with nursing, you know, it was a struggle for me. It's not like I was, you
know, a top student in high school. When I graduated, I went to University of Memphis here
and the advisor put me in Biology, English One and Chemistry my first year and I was not
ready and I did an [inaudible 5:53]. So, I did one year. I did not do well at all, you know. D’s,
F’s. I was not prepared. It was just poor advice and I was not ready, you know. In hindsight,
looking at my grades, she should have known I wasn't ready to take those, you know, biology
right out of high school. So, I ended up at the community college and I went to that
community college four years ‘cause, you know, you gotta do two years’ worth of
prerequisites and then the program itself is two years. So, that's how I became a nurse. But, I
didn't know any nurses. I wasn't inspired to become a nurse. It wasn't, you know-- I was like,
afc2021009_013
“Oh, that's nice.” It was just nursing as a stable career, and so that's what made me choose
nursing.
CH
You went to the community college and that means you got an Associate Degree in Nursing?
TA
I did.
CH
Did you continue your nurse education?
TA
Absolutely. I never stopped. I graduated with my associate’s degree in 1995 and I worked for,
like, a year. During that time, I was just itching for that BSN, you know. I just could not see--
Something wouldn't let me. What was stopping me was, you know, I didn't do well in all
those sciences, you know. I, you know, made my way through ‘em but at that time, chemistry
was required. Everything in Memphis needed chemistry and I just did not want to take
chemistry. So, I looked up the road to Nashville at Tennessee State University and they were
starting an RN to BSN one-year program and it did not require chemistry. So, I moved to
Nashville [laughs] to avoid chemistry. I did their program in two semesters and graduated.
While I was in Nashville, I was working at Vanderbilt in their neuro-ICU. After I graduated,
my mom and my brother rented a U-Haul truck when they came to my graduation because
my kids were back here in Memphis, so I was living in Nashville without them. My oldest
son at that time was seven and my baby girl was-- No, he was eight and she was three.
They're five years apart. So, they were here while I went there to go to school. So, my mom's
like, “Come on back here. Get your children.” They packed up my apartment and moved me
back to Memphis. I was not happy. I could have stayed in Nashville. I loved Nashville. But
yeah, I got my BSN then. Do you want me to continue telling you about my education or you
get another question?
CH
Keep going with the education.
TA
Okay, so, got my BSN in ‘90, I mean, yeah, ’97 and then in ’98, I had my third child. So, I
had my first child in ’88, second child in ’93, my third child in ’98, so my children are five
years apart. So, I'm itching again because I wanted to be a clinical nurse specialist. I met a
clinical nurse specialist at one of the hospitals here that’s since been torn down and she was
phenomenal. She was a Black woman. She was in the neuro step-down unit and she was so
good. She was a educator and she was a clinical nurse specialist. She was older and, I mean,
she knew her stuff. I looked around at the clinical nurse specialist programs. Couldn't find
one here so I ended up going to Union University. It's a school that's here that's based out of
Jackson, Tennessee, but they had a campus here at one of the churches that they had turned
into a little satellite campus. So, I went there and my major was education, nursing education.
So, I was like, “Okay.” So, they only had two tracks at that time: administration and
education. I was like, “Well, I’ll do the education.” I did the nursing education track and the
semester that we were set to graduate, a person came in and said, “Hey, we got a problem. We
got feedback from some of our graduates in Arkansas. Their education was audited and they
had to go back and take some classes because we were not offering any clinicals.” We weren't
afc2021009_013
offering any, you know. I think the education had changed where you had to have some
essentials: pharm, health assessment, and pathophysiology.
CH
Pharm is…?
TA
Pharmacology. Pharmacology, pathophysiology, and health assessment had to be part of a
master's program. Our program didn't offer that. It was straight nursing education. So, they
said, “If y'all stay and take these courses, we will let you take them for $100 per credit hour
and that will lead to a clinical nurse specialist” [laughs]. I was the only person in my class
that took the deal. They said, “You will still graduate in December but you will come right
back and take these three courses.” I was like, “I’ll do it!” because that's what I wanted
anyway. So, to this day, I'm still certified as an adult health clinical nurse specialist. I
absolutely love that role. In hindsight, I could have stopped my education there with the
clinical nurse specialist but I didn't because I'm always reaching for more. So, I went back.
So, the Master's in Nursing Education, I got that in December 2004 and then I graduated in
May of 2006 with the clinical nurse specialist, so it was a post-Master's certificate. So, I got
that. So, I was doing that job. It was probably the best, even in hindsight. I did that job from
2006 up until 2010. It was probably the best job I've ever had. I love still being a clinical
nurse specialist, being at the bedside as a real-time educator, as a real-time specialist, doing
policies, procedures, just creating processes and just evaluating those processes is such a
good job. But, with the clinical nurse specialist role, the hospitals didn't see a way to make
money off of it. They couldn't really see where is the money, even though what they were
getting from me was intangible, because that's still what we're missing in the hospitals today
is that real-time educator. I love clinical education but the hospitals no longer really have ‘em
‘cause they don't see the money in it. But what they're missing is the nurses at the bedside are
not the same nurses that was at the bedside 10 years ago. They got rid of that type of
education, those specialists. That stuff is not here anymore. But anyway, back to my
education. Because I saw that coming to an end, you know, it was a lot of pressure on us to,
you know, see patients and show results and it really got away from what we were doing. So,
a lot of us said, “Let's go back and do a nurse practitioner.” The local college here, University
of Tennessee, they had the Doctor of Nursing Practice and they also had acute care, family, so
you could do two in one. So, you could get the nurse practitioner and get the doctorate. So,
we all enrolled because at that time, our hospital had, you know, clinical nurse specialist for
CVICU, medical ICU, surgical ICU and neuro ICU, which is what I did, cardiology clinical
nurse specialist, pulmonary clinical nurse specialist, med surg clinical nurse specialist,
everybody dispersed. Went back to school and so I got a Doctor of Nursing Practice as an
acute care nurse practitioner. So, I did that. I got my first job back at the same hospital but I
was in transplant. So, I did transplant nephrology. Not as exciting as my previous position as
the clinical nurse specialist. I did that for a few years ‘til I got sick of it. Started my own
practice. I did that for about three years, and then I decided while I was in my practice that I
really liked holistic health and healing. I started to understand the journey of Black people,
African Americans, whatever you want to call us, a little bit better from a health perspective.
My patients, you know, when you give patients a diagnosis, most Black people always want
to know, “Well, what else can I do? What else can I take? I don't want to take the medicine.
What else can I do?” making me kind of dig a little bit more and find other complementary
alternatives, you know, on top of that. Complementary, not taking away the medicine but
something else that they could add on to kind of help themselves. So, I became more
interested in holistic health. So, I decided to go back and do the PhD to get background in
afc2021009_013
research, because the Doctor of Nursing Practice is clinical. It’s a clinical doctorate. It is not
research-focused, and so I wanted the foundation for research and I wanted to begin to get
into what I'm interested in. So, I got accepted to the University of Memphis and their PhD
program in the first cohort. So, I'm in that program now and my research is spirituality,
self-efficacy and medication adherence in African American women with high blood
pressure. The whole premise of my research is that for the healthcare system to be able to
even deal with the disparities of Black women and hypertension or any disease process, they
have to understand our spiritual base and our point of view. I feel like when we were
integrated into the healthcare system, that there was not a plan to integrate us. My research
has showed me that there were over 500 Black hospitals prior to the Civil Rights Movement.
This is where doctors were educated, nurses were educated, and Black people received their
healthcare. We were integrated into the hospitals that we, you know, go to now because they
were gonna lose their federal dollars. They had no choice. So, it's not like they opened their
arms and said, “Yeah, come on. Let me provide this healthcare for you.” It was more like,
“Well, come on.” So, was there training on what is the basis of our healthcare? From what
I’ve found in my research, you know, we were, you know, we were people that believed in
medicinal herbalism, you know. Your grandmother and great grandmothers knew how to go
to the backyard and make some medicine and bring it back to you. We understood the land.
We had community health. It was just a different thing. So, anyway, to get back to my
education, that’s the leg that I'm on right now. So, I have several degrees. I have an
Associate's. I have my Bachelor's. I have a Master's in Nursing Education. I have a Doctorate
of Nursing Practice. I am an acute care nurse practitioner. I did do a postdoc certificate as a
family nurse practitioner and now I'm working on a PhD. So, I'm triple certified. There are
also certifications I have that I let lapse. I used to be CCRN, which was a critical care
certification. I also used to be cardiac medicine certification, which was also through AAC
and I let that lapse. I'm also a certified medical examiner, so I can do DOT physicals. I didn't
enjoy them. It has not lapsed yet but I may not renew that.
CH
DOT is…?
TA
DOT is the Department of Transportation physical, so that's for truck drivers. So, they can
come in and do their DOT physicals, and I did that in my practice. So, that was part of what I
did in the practice. I did DOT physicals also. So, some of the certifications I let lapse. I've
had so many. But I feel like as I grow, I change. But in the midst of it all, if I had to choose a
job again, it would probably be the clinical nurse specialist.
CH
Talk about more of the clinical nurse specialist role.
TA 17:52
So, in the clinical nurse specialist role, when I was in it, I had the medical ICU, surgical ICU
and the neuro-ICU and I had educators in those areas, but I oversaw the education for those
areas. So, I made sure that, you know, we had our yearly education fairs. I wrote policies. I
wrote procedures. Here in the city of Memphis at that time, they had no idea what
hypothermia post cardiac arrest was. I was doing research on it. I wrote the policy. I got the
equipment and we cooled our first patient April 2009. Now they call it “Doctor Ice” and they
do it all over the city. Most people don't even recognize that it came from me.
afc2021009_013
CH
What year was that again?
TA
2009. Most people who are doing that protocol don't even realize who wrote the protocol,
where it came from. I walked through the hospital with that equipment on my body training
the doctors and residents and staff on how to do that. The clinical nurse specialist role gave
time for research. It gave time for education. I taught classes with the physicians at the VA
and other different facilities. It was free. I felt free to be at the bedside. If a doctor said, “Hey,
I want to drop a line,” the nurse didn't know what she was doing, she needed another set of
hands, they could call me. I'll be there. So, anytime something was going on, they needed
anything, I was just that free set of hands to be able to do real-time education. If the nurse is
like, “Hey, the doctor just ordered this drip. I don't know anything about it, how to run it,
what I'm supposed to do,” they could call me. I could come down and help do that. New
equipment, administration will call me and say, “Hey, we're thinking about buying such and
such. Can you, you know, find out some information about this?” I’d talk to the rep, get the,
you know, kind of get with everybody and get that piece of equipment in. We’d do whatever
we needed to do and I just loved just being free. I reported directly to the CNO and so, you
know. What ended up happening was they hired-- At the same time I came on, it was an
administrative director come on, and this is where we can get into discrimination and racism
on the job. So, this was a older white guy. I had so much freedom to do-- I remember the
CNO saying one time, “This girl’s gonna make me rich. She's gonna make me famous.”
CH
The CNO is who?
TA
The chief nursing officer of the hospital.
CH
Chief nursing office, okay.
TA
“This girl's gonna make me rich.” I had so many projects and so much stuff going on and,
you know, we was just getting things done. I was getting the nurses certified. I was holding
these certification courses. I would fill up auditoriums. People come in throughout the
system, because the hospital I worked at was a systems hospital. So, we had a north, a south,
a this-side-of-town, that-side-of-town location. I would fill up the auditorium with people
coming to take my courses because I was helping people get certified. This guy, his office
was-- We were in a cubbyhole, so his office was at the corner, my office was maybe two
doors down from him. He would just kind of snarl at me sometimes because it would always
be, “Tracie Augusta this. Tracie Augusta that. Tracie Augusta this.” So, there was some
changes in leadership and he became my boss. When he became my boss, first I got a email
saying, you know, “Now you're, you know, gonna be, you know, this person is over, you
know, direct reporting to this person.” Then, the next email came from him saying, “Stop
everything that you're doing and come to my office.” My response was, “I can't. I'm at the VA
teaching a class,” because at this time, we were doing fundamental critical care support. So,
the hospitals would get Leapfrog certified. That’s a safety initiative that the hospitals wanted.
If you’re Leapfrog certified, that means that you have met certain safety metrics and then you
got this stamp of approval. So, we had gotten it. I helped our hospital get it and we were
afc2021009_013
helping some of the other hospitals. So, to do this, we had to teach the residents how to run
the ICUs in a particular way. So, I was one of the nurses, and there was only two of us that
taught in this class. So, this was a particular day that we were at the VA and he's like, “What
are you doing at the VA? We don't pay you to be at the VA,” yada, yada, yada. I'm like,
“What are you talking about?” ‘cause he was so out of the know. So, when the course was
over, get over there to his office. He said, “I need you to make me a list of everything that
you have your hands on, everything that you're doing.” At this time, I was over the Medical
Response Team. I was over resuscitation for our hospital. I ran several committees. My hands
were full of stuff plus I did research. I was handling all the reps that was coming into the
critical care units. He could not wrap his mind around that. Then, he started harassing me.
Like, it was so obvious. Just one example. I had a meeting. At this particular meeting, this
was our resuscitation meeting, I had every educator there, I had a couple of people from
corporate, and I had the chief medical officer there. He got to the meeting late and when he
came in the meeting, “Everybody in this room reports to me,” and everybody was like,
“Okay.” So, we still trying to have this meeting. “Stop! Go back to the beginning. I need to
understand.” Yeah, I mean, he just-- as people said, you know, in a way of speaking, he just
kind of, you know, bogarted the meeting and started acting a plumb fool. So, the CMO said,
“Let's stop.” This the chief medical officer of the hospital. “Let's stop. Let’s stop this
meeting.” So, it was the three of us in the office and she said, “Let's have a conversation.
What is going on here?” “Well, she's having this meeting. I don't know anything about it.”
She said, “How do you not know anything about it and you're here? Plus, you're on the
email,” ‘cause, you know, I sent out the email. So, he responded.
CH
[inaudible 24:01].
TA
Exactly. “Well, I don't understand why all the people that were--". She said, “We have to have
resuscitation committee. Tracie’s over it. Other people have been over it in the past.” “Well, I
didn't approve that.” “Because she was over it before you were her boss.” I just had to stop
talking because it was, “What are we doing here?” I went to HR about him. We had meetings
with HR. We had meetings with the chief nursing officer. I mean, it got to the point that he
wouldn't let me. He wanted to see me. “I need to see that you have seen at least five patients a
day,” and I said, “But my role is not to see patients. I'm a clinical nurse specialist. I may see a
patient if the nurse calls me to the bedside. That's not my role to see patients.” “Well, I don't
understand what you're doing. I'm not seeing the [inaudible 24:51]. What are you doing? I
can't put my finger on what you're doing.” I said, “Because I'm doing everything,” you know.
So, I'm writing out all of this stuff and I could look in the email to see if he’d opened it. He
would have me send him reports every day. He wasn't even opening the emails. It had gotten
to the point that I was t-totally stressed out and I ended up walking away from the position. I
was recruited to a hospital in Elyria, Ohio, right outside of Cleveland, and I took the job and I
walked away. I regret it to this day. I regretted it because I knew once I left that role that-- and
I was in school at that time for the acute care nurse practitioner DNP program at UT. I knew
they weren't gonna backfill the role because, you know. Anyway, I found out when I was in
Ohio, the chief medical officer called me and they had a resuscitation meeting, committee
meeting, a systems meeting, and there was representatives there from all the other hospitals
but there was nobody there. I was at the flagship hospital, University, the one that’s
downtown. They were like, “Where's the representative for University?” “Oh, that was Tracie
Augusta.” She said the look on his face. Everybody looked at him. She said that you could
have bought him for a dime ‘cause he didn't know.
afc2021009_013
CH
He didn't know.
TA
He didn't know. He was so busy.
CH
He couldn’t understand what your role really was.
TA
Exactly, and instead of him trying to understand even what I'm telling him, he was already set
in his mind, “You're not doing nothing but flouncing around his hospital.”
CH
He sabotaged himself.
TA
He did.
CH
So, let’s go back to Ohio.
TA 26:30
So, in Ohio, I was clinical nurse specialist there, but then during this time is when the big-- I
wouldn’t call it a recession, but there was a lot going on financially for the hospitals at that
time and there was a huge layoff. So, I was there about eight months. I helped them start a
clinical ladder, some other processes. I came right in the door, projects that they wanted me
for and I came right in, and soon as I knocked those things out, I want to say about nine to 10
months later, I got called into the chief nursing officer’s office and said, “We have to
eliminate your position.” So, they gave me a nice little severance package and I came on back
to Memphis. At this time, this was, like, in March of 2010. I was graduating in May of 2010
with my nurse practitioner DNP so I didn't get a job immediately. I went back to the
University of Memphis and where I still am now as adjunct faculty, but I went there as
full-time faculty and started back teaching. I think I was teaching med surg to critical care.
So, that's when I started back teaching again. So, that was in August of 2010, and then I got
my first job as a nurse practitioner December of 2010 in transplant nephrology.
CH
What does a clinical ladder entail? What are the elements of that?
TA
So, the clinical ladder, and I have to think back because this was back in 20-- Oh, this was
2009, but I worked on that 2008, 2009 there. No, 2009, 2010. So, what that was was if a
nurse-- You know, you had nurse one, nurse two, nurse three, nurse four. If a nurse just
wanted to nurse, you know, her [inaudible 28:16], she didn't want to do anything extra. She
didn't want to sit on councils, didn't want to do anything but work her shift, that's just a nurse
one. So, that's a different pay grade because you just workin’ your job.
CH
So, clinical nurse ladder is like a job description?
afc2021009_013
TA
So, the clinical nurse ladder is if a person wanted to get on the ladder in order to elevate
where they were. “I don't want to go back to school to be a nurse practitioner. I don't want to
go back to school to do anything, but I want to advance right here at the bedside,” which I
think hospitals still need that today, they could do that. So, if you want to be a nurse two,
clinician two, here are the things you need to do. Nurse three, nurse four, you know. Of
course, nurse four, you got more years of experience. You’ve sat on committees. You've
helped with research. You've done certain things and there's a different pay grade associated
with it. You can move up and down the ladder. So, you’re nurse four, you get tired of that,
you can stop doing your research [inaudible 29:12] and you can back down. So, you're not
gonna lose your pay, but you're not gonna be able to keep being considered for raises at that
level. So, you know, it's just a way for nurses to stay at the bedside and, you know, not have
to graduate away, ‘cause a lot of people like the bedside. They just want more money.
CH
Absolutely.
TA
They don’t want all the responsibilities but, you know, most people go back to school to be
nurse-- and I know people now, they go to nurse practitioner school and they don't want to be
a nurse practitioner. They really liked being at the bedside. So, that's what that was. So, I
helped with a lot of the programs before I came back to Memphis.
CH
What does a nurse practitioner do?
TA 29:51
So, a nurse practitioner. I love the role as a nurse practitioner, not as much as I love clinical
nurse specialist, but I like the role as a nurse practitioner because you get to do some of the
functions of a physician, except for surgery and all that stuff, unless you're a surgical nurse,
but you diagnose, treat, but it has a nursing paradigm to it, meaning that we do spend more
time listening to the patient and trying to help them with the problem. It's not that medical
mind of, “Here's the diagnosis. Here's your treatment.” It’s more of trying to look at it more
from a holistic standpoint. So, I do enjoy that portion of it ‘cause, as you know, there's just a
difference between medical care and nursing care. Some patients, if they've ever experienced
a good nurse practitioner, they definitely will prefer a nurse practitioner ‘cause we actually
listen.
CH
Nurse practitioners, then, are considered providers?
TA
Yes, a nurse practitioner is a provider, just like a physician. Like I said, as far as a nurse
practitioner is educated to be able to diagnose problems, to be able to treat, they can prescribe
medications. There are actually 22 states right now in whereas a nurse practitioner can
practice without the oversight of a physician, and most states are fighting for full practice
authority. It's not that the nurse is trying to be a physician, but it is just a different way of
caring for the patient. It's a different paradigm. We consult other providers. So, just for
instance, if I'm seeing a patient and their problem is a little bit too complex for what I am
comfortable with, I can consult a specialist and send the patient there, the same thing that a
afc2021009_013
physician would do. A physician is not equipped to take care of everything. They have a
specialty and when a patient is outside of what they do, they will consult another provider.
Nurse practitioners do the same thing. So, when I had my practice as a nurse practitioner, I
was independent. I had to pay a physician in order to sign charts. They never saw my
patients. They never met the patients. They were not involved in any treatment decisions. It
was just that I had to pay a certain amount of money for them to say that they saw the patient,
to say that, “Oh, I've looked at these charts.” It's just a money grab for them. So, they are
fighting tooth and nail to continue to have oversight. Even in a hospital setting where you're
working with the physician, they're still not taking responsibility for your work. Your work is
still your work, but they fight to be able to sign their name on your paper and say that that
makes it safer, but they're not involved in it at all.
CH
Tell us about running your own practice.
TA
Running my practice was fun [laughs], being able to have my own hours, have my patients.
So, again, when you run your own practice, you have to decide what type of model you want.
So, I was doing primary care. So, with primary care, I was credentialed with all of the
insurance agencies, so I could bill under my own name. I went out and got patients. Also
during that time, I began to publicly speak a lot more. People were grabbing me to come and
do health fairs. So, I had time to be in the community and be a part of the fabric in the
community. Of course, being a primary care provider gave me another insight into how
people saw illness. It was a lot of teaching over and over and over again because, believe it or
not, some people like their illnesses. They like their diabetes. They like their high blood
pressure. They like it. Some people like it. They, you know, they have taken it on. They have
personified it and they are okay with it.
CH
That's who they are.
TA
That's who they are. “My mama had it. My daddy had it. I was destined to have it, so just
give me my medicine.” I hate that because, you know, and then, of course, society says,
“Hey, once you got this disease, you're gonna have it for the rest of your life,” and that's
absolutely not true, because if you think about, you know, unless you were born with
diabetes, in which that's type one and you can be, but a lot of these things are brought on by
food and food is the number one killer of Black people in the forms of high blood pressure,
diabetes, high cholesterol, heart attack, stroke. All of these things are driven by the foods that
we eat. So, as I began in my own practice to educate people on this and how they could begin
to take responsibility for their health, they begin to exercise and be more considerate about
the food that they put in their mouth, that's what got me more interested in holistic health.
That got me very interested because I didn't know that you could, you know, it doesn't--
Then, the bigger issue, the bigger driver of all of this, you can have these disease processes
and you can take your medicines as prescribed but if you are full of stress and you don't
mitigate your stress, then medicine means nothing because your cortisol levels are gonna be
too high and your medicine doesn't matter. So, just learning all of these things is really what
drove me back to school and wanting to pursue more holistic health. I love herbalism. I'm
learning all about herbs and I make all types of teas, more into meditation, more into the
spiritual side of healthcare because, really, that's where we as a people began. Looking at it
afc2021009_013
from a historical perspective, health and spirituality were not separate. They were all one.
The same person that provided your healthcare was your spiritual advisor. That's why most
Black people, when you give ‘em some type of bad news, they want to go talk to their pastor
first. It’s that thing inside of them because that's what it used to be. Me being in my own
practice gave me time to think about that and to see that. I will have a practice again. I just
have to decide, again, what model, and I don't think I want to be in a sick model again. I'm
more interested in wellness and helping people to be empowered.
CH
So, more prevention.
TA
Yeah.
CH
Prevention and, from what you were just saying, being able to understand the importance of
nutrition and stress.
TA 36:31
And stress, stress. Do you know the research says that the health of the Black community is
parallel to the state of Black America? The health of Black America is parallel to the state of
Black America. I thought that was interesting. Well, if you look at the traumas that are
happening that are televised, that we see, the traumas that Black America experiences as a
whole, we have a lot of traumas that we experience as a people and we have to go back to
work the next day and smile as if it didn't hurt to see somebody's child be killed, somebody's
husband be killed, somebody's wife be shot down. We have to act like we don't see these
tragedies happening and that it doesn't affect us when we go back into work. I cannot think of
the study. One the first papers that I wrote in my PhD program was on that and when I read
that statement, and this was from several research studies, they run parallel. The state of
Black America runs parallel to the health of Black Americans. So, I think that they were
comparing the rate of high blood pressure and heart attacks and cardiovascular disease and
then some other statistics that had to do with the stress that Black Americans were facing,
microaggressions and all of that stuff, and I think some type of way they were lining that up,
but I don't have that with me so I can't really speak that much on that. It was just a interesting
fact that we are all affected by the traumas that we see and most of us are suffering from a
post-traumatic stress syndrome because of that, but it's not something that we’re seeking help
for. What you're seeing is the need for mental health growing exponentially.
CH
Again, this goes back to the holistic model of the necessity to treat the whole person and not
just the symptoms.
TA
Exactly. A person comes in. Every time they come in, they blood pressure's high. You keep
going up on their blood pressure medicine. You keep going up on their blood pressure
medicine but you're not stopping to find out that maybe this lady’s son just got killed or her
husband just died or her daughter's in the hospital or her grandbaby’s got sickle cell and she's
been up for three nights. Like, you're not digging in to find out why because again, if they're
not mitigating this stress, none of this medicine is gonna work. So, it doesn't matter that you
afc2021009_013
keep going back, or that this person may live in a food desert and all she eatin’ is smoked
sausage and baloney, you know.
CH
Or those pickled sausages [laughs] with all that sodium in it.
TA
With all that sodium. If you don't dig into what else is going on-- and they don't know. I went
to the doctor's with my mom. You know, you’d think she'd know more because she's my
mom, but no. So, I decided to go with her. So, [inaudible 39:36], you know, ‘cause she's so
little and she's sitting there and he says, “So, how you eatin’?” “I eat good.” I looked at her
and I looked at him. I said, “You're not asking the right question, ‘cause, she does eat good.”
What does she eat? My mama is gonna drink some sodas. She keeps those long packs of
sodas. She drinks ‘em all. She loves sodas. She eats and drinks all day. If you ask her, she
said, “I haven't eaten anything,” but if you watch her, she eats little but she scrounges all day.
She just walks around just eating. What she cooked for dinner the night before, she fixes little
plates of that throughout the day. She's eating all day long and she's drinking drinks. So, he
asked her, “Well, how you eatin’?” “I’m eating good.” I didn't say anything, but he's not
asking the right question. I can’t tell her ‘cause, you know, she doesn't listen to me. She has to
listen to somebody else. It's like a child, you know. We'll listen to everybody but our parents.
My mom's the same, where she’ll listen to everybody but me. But yeah, so it's just really
them understanding. The healthcare system has got to understand Black people a little bit
more, and I don't think that-- Again, going back to our integration into the healthcare system,
it was not complete and the disparities are not going anywhere. You talkin’ about people who
were pretty much birthed by midwives and now the infant mortality and mothers dying in
childbirth is just crazy. Why is that, when that was probably not the case when Big Mama
down the street was birthing all those babies? She had 15 of ‘em and did just fine. Now why
can't this one have two and she dead? These are things that people are not considering, our
foundation being removed, the roots of what we really, really believed in and why we
believed in that. Nobody is saying, “How did we do well previously and now in this system,
we're not doing well?” I can tell you, being an emergency room provider and being a
hospitalist, which is what I do now, I still see racism. I still see where a Black woman can
come in and have these pains and be totally ignored. I see it every day. If they get to me, and
they won't get to me unless the ER physician has decided that he want to admit them, I watch
and see people go home with all these symptoms and somebody with less symptoms get the
kitchen sink thrown at-- everything but the kitchen sink. They get every test. They get every
imaging, diagnostic study, everything, but this person that have more symptoms and more
risk factors, you sent them home, but this person that you admitted, [inaudible 42:30], “I can't
send them home. We just gonna keep ‘em overnight and maybe do a stress test in the morning
and maybe get cardiology and maybe neurology and maybe we'll get the gastroenterologist to
see him.” You throwin’ everybody at them, but this person that really needed you, I'm
looking at now, this person has been here three times. Now, you just scared to send ‘em home
‘cause this they third time, but I'm looking in they chart. They should have been admitted the
first time they came here.
CH
What type of insurance did they have? We know it all boils down to money.
afc2021009_013
TA
So, from the emergency room position, I don't really even think that they pay attention to that
as much. I think that it comes down to what physician is there and if he-- how he feels
personally. Me, I'm afraid to go to the emergency room because just like I see a lot of nurses
not trained the way they should be, the physicians suck too. Emergency care is not the same
as it was. It ain’t definitely what you see on TV. They see a patient need to be admitted, they
call and, you know, they trying to get the patient somewhere else. They're just directing
traffic. They're not really providing any emergency care.
CH
There's a role for advocacy there.
TA
Oh, there definitely is, definitely is.
CH
Because what is the remedy for this?
TA
First, it has to be recognized and people need to be truthful about what they're seeing. But,
you know, people afraid of being fired or, you know, being blackballed, blacklisted, you
know, being a whistleblower when you still need money and you still gotta survive. It’s a big
deal. So, I don't know what the answer is. I really don't, but I see it every day. For me, if I can
get my hands on ‘em, I'm gonna make sure they get everything they need. I'll come in and a
lot of times, you know, being a hospitalist, the physician only does this much. When we go
in, we take it on to the next level. We say, “Okay.”
CH
“We” is the nurse practitioner.
TA
As a nurse practitioner, I have to come in and then I'm doing a little bit more.
CH
So, then you have a big advocacy role, which is so very important. Let's talk about your
experience as a nurse educator.
TA 44:54
Okay, so, of course, there are two sides of my nursing education. I've done clinical education
in a hospital setting and, of course, adjunct faculty for the past 12 years now. So, one of the
things that I've found-- I love being a nurse educator and, of course, that's why I continue to
do it. I'm adjunct faculty. I'm not, you know, because I'm full-time in a hospital so I just pick
up--
CH
Adjunct means part-time?
TA
Mmhmm. I just pick up whatever course they give me that semester. They'll say, “Hey, can
you teach policy next semester?” Sometimes I'll take one course, sometimes I'll take two. It
afc2021009_013
just depends on what's available. I'm very flexible with that. Here's my experience as the
years have gone by. Students have a hard time getting anything less than a A. They feel like if
they turn in a paper, that’s a A. If they turned it in, if you mark anything, if you have any
input, it’s gonna be an argument and that's something I cannot understand. I still can't get that.
I have gotten so many long, drawn out emails, even from, you know, they get a 95, 96, I'm
getting an email. Like, they are not afraid to, “Why did you take off for this?” “Did you read
the rubric?” They don't read directions. They're used to participation awards. So, if they turn
in a assignment, they want that A. So, that has gotten worse over the years, so I have to really
be diligent when I am grading and give feedback. Like, if I take a point off, I have to say,
“One point off for this. I'm takin’ three points off for that. I’m taking one point off.” Like, I
have to put an explanation behind every point removed because if not, they are crying foul
and they will email lead instructors, deans. Their email will make it through and so to cover
yourself, you have to give that feedback so that somebody subjectively reading it, they can
give the student that second, third, fourth, fifth feedback and say, “She took off for this and
that. That's right,” you know. So, because of that, also the rubrics to grade the assignments,
the lead instructor have to make them very detailed, meaning you have to-- the student
decides what grade they want. They look at the rubric and if they want all the points, they
need to do everything and they put everything. You have to have a title page. It has to be APA
formatted. You have to have subheadings. You need to have this subheading, that subheading,
this subheading. You need to have three references. You need to have blah, blah, blah. Like,
they detail it, and so if you take off, then you can pull off and say, “You didn't have that so
I'm taking a point from that.” It’s just an interesting paradigm. It’s the participation award
kids that we're dealing with now. Nursing school is interesting in that it’s not the same
nursing school that I went to in the ‘90s, and probably not that you went to in the early years,
because it was firm, it was stern, and you were very prideful about it, you know. You got to
wear the uniform and you got to feel and be and, you know, people looked at you like, “Oh,
it's the nurse.” Now, it's more about the money. They don't really care about taking care of the
patients as much is what I see. I see people going to school to be a CRNA, that’s a nurse
anesthetist, or to be a nurse practitioner or to start a business. I don't see a lot of people going
into nursing to be a bedside nurse, which there is absolutely nothing wrong with being a
bedside nurse. I loved being a bedside nurse. You need that in order to feed the next level that
you're trying to go to. If you go to school and you go straight to CRNA school, you are
missing out on the experiences that will help you not kill a patient. Being a nurse educator, I
like the role. I like being able to give the feedback. I like being able to-- because I come from
a non-traditional background. Like, I'm not one of the people that, you know, got in college,
did my four years, came right on out. I went the scenic route. I did the associate's degree, then
I did the bachelor’s, then I waited some more years and went back for the master’s. So, I
walked through it slower because I wasn't the best student. I needed time to go through. Now,
I can say the first leg of my education was harder, because you don't know what you don't
know until you learn it. In nursing, you're learning something from nothing. Like, you have
no idea what any of this stuff is. You have to learn it from nothing. But, once I was in it, I was
an excellent student because I'm a psychomotor learner. I have to touch and feel. Now, once I
can see it, now I can register it in my mind and that's what makes me a good teacher, because
now I can give it to you because I processed it. So, I was always good at teaching people
things from the beginning because I had to learn it hard. I mean, I wasn’t just a person who
just memorized stuff. No, no, no. I can see it. I can see how the blood goes through the heart.
I can see how, you know, the synapses are. I can see these things because now I've
experienced it at the bedside so now I can teach it. So, that's what I love about teaching. I can
give it back because I had a hard time learning it. So, I have a way of teaching. That's also
what I liked in the clinical nurse specialist role. I did have a opportunity to do a lot of
afc2021009_013
classroom teaching. I taught a lot of classes, even though I didn't work in clinical education
services. I did a lot of courses in that building, because I was the clinical educator and I
wasn’t the systems educator, so I held a lot of classes to help my nurses at the bedside get
these certifications and to help move us to another level. So, that's why I do like about the
role. That's what I like about being an educator. So, I've been able to do it both places, being a
clinical instructor, teaching online. Being a clinical instructor, you know, having the students
at University of Memphis and taking them over and overseeing them in a clinical setting, that
was fun. So, education is fun to me. I like nursing education. It's good coming from a person
that didn't have it all. If you a person that got everything so easily and you just floated
through it, I don't think you're as effective as somebody that really had to get in there and
really learn it because now you have a love, because you recognize yourself in other people
that may not be getting it and you can say, “Let me show you how to get that. I know where
you're hanging up. Let me help you with that.” That helps people reach their goal.
CH
It helps with your empathy.
TA
Absolutely. That’s the word.
CH
And compassion.
TA
Absolutely.
CH
Chi Eta Phi Sorority Incorporated. How long have you been a member?
TA 52:05
2016. Six years now.
CH
Okay, and what region and chapter are you from?
TA
Southeast region, Chi Chi Chi, and I'm a chartering member of Chi Chi Chi.
CH
Oh, and what does “a chartering member” mean?
TA
“Chartering member” means we did not have a chapter in our city and I was the one that
contacted National and got our chapter started. So, I had to get 11 other people, 12 of us, to
start a charter, a chapter here in the city. So, the 12 of us chartered that chapter.
CH
Congratulations! I’m sitting here with such a superstar here, a celebrity. What offices have
you held?
afc2021009_013
TA
So, I was the president for four of the six years for our chapter. I've been Dean of
Membership. So, those are the only two that I've held. I would have liked to do more, but I
couldn't get out of the president's spot. So, I finally got out of the president’s spot so now I'm
chilling.
CH
Ok. Are you still the Dean of Membership?
TA
No.
CH
Okay.
TA
No, right now I'm just immediate past president.
CH
Okay. Have you held any offices on the regional or national levels?
TA
No.
CH
Been in any of the committees?
TA
I have been in the committees. For our regional conference last year, I sat on that committee.
I've helped with so many things. I was involved with the St. Jude thing. When you talk about
all duties as assigned, with our last president, which was President Priscilla Murphy, I went
up to her at a leadership conference right after we were chartered and I was so lost. I said to
her, “I need a mentor. I need some help,” and she's like, “I'll be your mentor.” I thought she
was gonna assign me to somebody. She's like, “I'll be your mentor, whatever you need,” and
from that time on, she has been phenomenal. She's had me doing so many different things
that I can't even name it all. But, I was involved a lot when she was president, just when she
called me and asked me to just do stuff.
CH
That’s great. That's great. When you think about service for humanity, which is our motto,
what has Chi Chi Chi done?
TA
I think Chi Chi Chi has done a lot because we came from nothing, so the bigger thing was to
make ourselves known. Known not only, you know, in the organization but known in the city.
We got out there immediately and just hit the ground running. We began to form relationships
with other community partners, some of the hospitals, some of the other organizations such as
the Alpha Phi Alpha, which is a male fraternity, the Omega Psi Phi, and we did some
teaching in the school systems on STDs and other things that they need to know about in the
high school setting. We've done something. I had a series when I was president called
afc2021009_013
Appetizers in Education where we met and we did some education on sex trafficking. We've
had city-wide education and we called it more, like, the State of the Union address for our
county. We did education on childhood trauma, sex trafficking and the opioid epidemic. We
have tried to hit on things that are within the organizations’-- I don't know. What is it? What
do we call it?
CH
Their projects.
TA
Yeah, we tryin’ to hit on their projects, exactly. Our current president, her big thing is sickle
cell. She speaks internationally for sickle cell and she's also an instructor at the University of
Tennessee and involved in some research around sickle cell. We have really tried to get out in
the community and make a difference and just hit on the projects, because with all of the
specialists, I mean, you look at the nursing, everybody's doing something totally different and
with that, we're able to hit on so many different areas and enjoy doing it at the same time. So,
Chi Eta Phi has been, I think, really good for us. With Chi Eta Phi, I had not even heard of
Chi Eta Phi until the whole Black Nurses Rock thing and people got on there and they was
like, “Oh, Chi Eta Phi,” and I was like, “What's that?” I looked it up and next thing you
know, we're chartering a chapter and haven't looked back. I'm not sitting in the president's
seat anymore, but I'm looking back and I'm so, so proud of the foundation that’s been laid and
the work that the ladies are still doing and their legacy going forward. I'm just proud of the
organization and what our chapter is doing.
CH
Do you feel that Chi Eta Phi makes a difference in the community?
TA
I do. I do, because it's bringing together people for a purpose. Like, you know, if we didn't
have this organization, you know, we wouldn't have this group of experts together to do the
work of nursing as a, you know, as a-- I know it's not a Black organization, but the foundation
is, but it allowed a group of nurses to come together for a common goal and begin to kind of
put stuff out there. We needed a format of some type of platform to be able to discuss these
issues that affect our community. There's nothing that I see that exists like that. You know,
you got these individual hospitals, but where's the organization that speaks at the community
level? There was none.
CH
There was none.
TA
No, and so Chi Eta Phi allows us to have a platform at the community level and to begin to
discuss this, just like when we had our State of the Union address and we were able to talk
about the opioid epidemic and all these other things. Who else is gonna do that? Like, nobody
else is gonna do that. We were able to engage, you know, people from different entities and,
you know, it was on Zoom. We had these wonderful specialists. It was just, you know, it
provides a platform if used appropriately. I think that if people see it like that, because, you
know, if not us, who gonna do it? Before us, nobody was. I mean, you got the health
department but that's a different perspective. We have a very unique perspective.
afc2021009_013
CH
A more grassroots perspective. Were you well received by the community?
TA
Yeah. I mean, of course people, you know, initially, when people see the Greek letters, I think
they think we're trying to be something, you know. If you're not Delta, AKA and all these
other things then you just trying to be, so once they see we’re not, you know, we got Deltas
and AKA’s and this is totally different. I mean, it has Greek letters but our focus is the
professionalism. Our focus is totally different. So, once people got over that then they could
open up their mind to what we had going on. Don't look at the name. Look at what it is that
we're here to do. So, once we got past that, we're fine.
CH
That's great. Where do you see nursing going in the future?
TA 59:36
I think that we're in an exciting time for nursing because I think that people are starting to
recognize the importance of the nurse. I think people are finally gonna get the money that
they're looking for in nursing. I don't think we're gonna go back to nurses making, you know,
15, 20, $25 an hour. I don't think we're going back there. You can't pull that train back. I don’t
think anybody will do it for that much money. I think more nurses are doing the traveling
route. I don't think a lot of people are gonna come back to the bedside ‘cause they don't want
to deal with the bureaucracy. So, I think that nursing is growing but the hospitals are gonna
have to begin to utilize nurses differently and see them differently. It's not gonna be the way it
was. I can't see it. The hospitals that are gonna survive and be able to get the staff are gonna
have to make that switch. They're gonna have to make the switch. It's not about getting
people in at the least amount of money and putting ‘em through this rigmarole. You gotta see
nursing as the professionals that they are and begin to treat them and pay them well or you're
not gonna keep ‘em. They gonna go somewhere else. Somebody gonna treat ‘em right and
they're gonna go to those places. I think nurses are gonna be more flexible. I don't see people
working on the same job for 20 and 30 years anymore. I think that these nurses, this new
generation, are going where the money is right and the working conditions are right and
they're getting what they need. So, it's not gonna be the hospital’s just like, “Well, this is what
I got. Take it or  leave it,” ‘cause they just gonna leave it. So, I think that we're in a different
era, you know. Definitely.
CH
Definitely that is the mark of the newer generation, that they are not looking for job security
as such.
TA
They will quit on you in 15 seconds. They will walk in and walk right back out and have
another job the next day.
CH
What are your thoughts on our beloved Chi Eta Phi Sorority, and any words of wisdom that
you have towards service for humanity?
TA
What's the first question again, my thoughts on Chi Eta Phi?
afc2021009_013
CH
Mmhmm.
TA
I think that there are opportunities for it to be more than it is. I love Chi Eta Phi and I think
that they're on the right track, but I think that there are some opportunities that they're not
taking advantage of. One of the ones is the research arm. I think that with these nurses and
the demographics that they have, there is some awesome research that can come out of Chi
Eta Phi. I think there should be a focus on even being able to-- We're talking about
disparities. You have the demographics to get a lot of good research done. I think some
emphasis needs to be placed on the research arm of Chi Eta Phi in order to make a difference.
We do a lot of reaching out but I think we also should do some reaching in, just because the
demographics that we have. We have people from all over the nations, from every region, so
you're talking about-- That's one thing, one of the reasons why I wanted to use Chi Eta Phi for
my research, because spirituality is different in the South as it would be in the Midwest or,
you know, somewhere else, in Hawai’i or somewhere, so there's a opportunity to be able to
really get some good data. I feel like that's one area that they could grow in. I think that the
opportunities are great and they just haven't been totally realized. But I think as a whole, Chi
Eta Phi is a great organization. The idea of Chi Eta Phi is great and I think it's gonna continue
to do great things and gonna continue to grow. I don't see it declining at all. I like the fact that
under Dr. Bradley, Elcedo, you know, a lot of chapters were being chartered. Of course, that
had its problems also because we were being brought on but not really supported, and so that
was a problem. So, you brought on chapters and you were losing some chapters too because
they came on and it was like, “Now what do we do?” and there was no real support for that. I
think they tried to fix that after they saw that that was a problem. I like the fact that new
blood is coming in and I like when you go to conferences and you see the older people, you
see the younger people, and you see the span. So, I do like that. I think that Chi Eta Phi is a
great organization.
CH
So, it seems like you have some work to do in bringing to the forefront the need for our
research arm to get stronger, so I'm looking forward to seeing that from you.
TA
Oh boy! [both laugh]
CH
What advice would you give to a person who is considering nursing as a profession?
TA
I would say, number one, make sure that you like people, you know. If somebody is new,
thinking about coming into nursing, I would see them as a younger person, the newer
generation, and a lot of them are introverted in that they are your homebodies, video game,
Netflixers. They're not really, like, you know, when we were growing up, you know, we were
outside and we played and we knew how to make friends and we were more sociable. So,
make sure that you like people and make sure you have a love for people because, you know,
integrity is what you do when people are not looking. As a nurse, there are a lot of times that
you will be alone with people who are unable to defend or protect themselves, and so you
have to have a love for people. You cannot go into this profession and just thinking about the
money because that will fly out the door if snot hits you or if you have to, you know, or you
afc2021009_013
have to clean up vomit or someone has a bowel movement and the room stinks, you know. It
doesn't matter how much money you’re making, you gotta [inaudible 1:05:46]. So, nursing is
a real profession and you have to make sure that you like people. Even if you become a nurse
practitioner or nurse anesthetist, you are still dealing with people. You still have to have
compassion. You still have to have love in your heart. So, that's the first thing I would tell
people. If they can pass that test then I say, go for it, because nursing is still a good idea. It is
still fun. If you're not lazy and you're on the ward with your co-workers, you can, you know,
make lifelong friends and y'all can hold a unit down and learn together, have a good time
together. Just, you know, it's fun. I've had some of the best times in my life at work with some
good people. We had a good time whether we were doing chest compressions, savin’
somebody's life, or we were sitting at the desk eating pizza. Nursing has been good to me. It
has been good to my family. It has provided ups. I’ve had some downs, you know. The
money has been there. I've been able, as a single mom, to provide a good life for my family.
So, nursing is a good idea, but you just have to make sure that you like people. Don't do it if
you don't like people.
CH
Good, sound advice. Well, I thank you, Dr. Tracie Augusta Moore.
TA
Forget the Moore. I’m divorced. I’m just Tracie Augusta.
CH
Okay. I thank you so much for participating in this most important historical project, and you
have a good evening.
TA
Thank you so much for having me.
1:07:33
End of recording.