1 
NEW BEDFORD FISHING HERIWIGE CENTER 
Date of Interview: December 10, 2016 
Mikina, Edith (Edie) ~ Oral History Interview 
Madeleine Hall-Arber 
Mikina, Edith (Edie). Interview by Madeleine Hall-Arber. Workers on the New Bedford 
Waterfront. New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center. Date of interview: December 10, 2016. 
This oral history was produced in 2016 as part of the Workers on the Waterfront Oral History 
Project conducted by New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center with funding from an Archie Green 
Fellowship provided by the Library of Congress. 
New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center 
38 Bethel Street 
P.O. Box 2052 
New Bedford, MA 02741-2052 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
2 
Background 
Name of person interviewed: Edith (Edie) Mikina [EM] 
Facts about this person: 
Age (approximately) 65 years 
Sex Female 
Occupation Owner, Edie and Marie Boat Settlements, New Bedford 
Residence (Town where lives) 
Ethnic background (if known) Portuguese; born Angola, Africa 
Interviewer: Madeleine Hall-Arber [MHA] 
Transcriber: Millie [MR] 
Interview location: Edie and Marie Boat Settlements, New Bedford, Massachusetts 
Date of interview: December 10, 2016 
Key Words 
Boat settlement house, Angola/Africa, Portuguese, Kevin Dawson, lumpers, scallopers, draggers. 
Ocean Marine Electronics, shackers, regulations, permits, VMS, shares, groundfish, buy-back 
program. Coast Guard, quota, capital construction fund, American Seafood, Highlander, Jeff 
Davis, Blue Harvest, S Corporation, ship supply, closed areas, Carlos Rafael, open area trip, 
closed area trip, turtles, China, Vietnam, checks, broker, sectors, Donna Leena, Richard Flood, 
Kempton, Westport, union, salt cod, Newfoundlanders, Boat Owners United, Norwegian 
Abstract 
Edie Mikina was bom in Angola, in West Africa, of Portuguese heritage and came to the US in 
1970. She is the owner of Edie and Marie Boat Settlements in New Bedford, which handles 
accounting work for fishing vessels out of New Bedford and Fairhaven, which she describes as 
“one business handling 50 businesses.” She talks about her work and services to fishermen, 
especially to Portuguese clients, and contrasts past and present in the boat settlement business 
and in the industry. This is a lively and informative interview and conveys a great deal of 
historical and topical information about the New Bedford fishery. 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
3 
Index 
[00:00] Intro; Edie Mikina was born in Angola, in West Africa, of Portuguese heritage and came 
to the US in 1970. Her paternal grandmother was a missionary who left Portugal for Africa, 
where she remained the rest of her life. 
[05:24] Maternal grandfather left Portugal for Angola and made bricks to use in construction; he 
also worked in clay as an artist. Edie has never returned to Angola, which she left in her late 
teens. Talks about studying accounting before emigrating and for several years in US and getting 
first job at Kevin Dawson’s boat settlement house at age 22 in October 1974, knowing nothing 
about boats, fishing fleet, or the port of New Bedford or industry terminology. Had to learn terms 
in Portuguese and then translate them back into English. 
[10:02] Worked for Kevin Dawson for 12 years and learned the business and how to work with 
fishermen. Started her own boat-settlement business c. 1985 with Marie, who also left Dawson’s. 
[14:56] Contrasts the industry when she started in the business and today, especially the 
escalation of paperwork, regulations, and keeping track of fishing trips, hauls, etc. Prides herself 
on helping people who know only how to fish; says she “takes care of them.” Most of her clients 
are scallopers, but she has a few groundfishermen. Talks about earlier days when fishermen 
followed in the family fishing tradition and how the industry was changed both by investors who 
weren’t fishermen and those coming from other ports and parts of the US. Lots of changes in 
1999 with permits and more fishermen going into scalloping, including those from outside New 
Bedford and the region. 
[20:07] Discusses the impact of all these changes on the community, both fishermen themselves 
and shore businesses. Regrets young people not going into the industry in part due to the 
economics and also because with smaller crews and greater economic pressures, there’s no time 
for experienced fishermen to teach new people the trade. 
[25:03] Apprentices are called “shackers”, but it’s often the older fishermen who adapted from 
much more mentally challenging draggers to scallopers, despite heavy toll on their bodies as they 
age. Also laments the passing of skills, especially the inability of younger fishermen to mend 
their own nets and repair things. 
[30:05] Talks about changes in the weather and various kinds of pollution and international 
competition how it affects the industry. Describes a typical day in the settlement house. Very 
busy and she multitasks. Has many tasks including accounting, issuing checks, withholding taxes 
and child support and other levies; not like the old days when settlements were easier and often 
fishermen’s wives did the books. 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
[35:05] Talks about her love of numbers and all the other things she provides as value-added 
services, including explaining regulations and other things to clients, many of whom speak 
Portuguese and have little proficiency in English. Talks about the role of trust in the business. 
4 
[39:58] Discusses at length being a woman working for and with men and many instances of 
sexism and how she has learned to deal with it from her early days in the business to now. 
[45:02] Says her confidence has helped her succeed “in a man’s world” and talks about various 
sexist incidents over the years. Talks about her personal life, several marriages, children, and 
challenges of being married to a fisherman. 
[50:57] Continues discussion of challenges of personal and professional life and the economics 
of the industry and how that affects fishermen’s behaviors. 
[55:17] Talks about what she considers “the best years for the industry” and economics of 
fishing today. 
[59:59] Discusses pros and cons of regulations, past and present, especially on Portuguese fleets. 
Also talks about some of the social issues facing crews such as drugs and how they are/are not 
dealt with. 
[1:05:01] Says social issues are increasing by the year and not limited to fishermen. Also talks 
about unionization in the industry past and present. 
[1:10:05] Reminisces about the sense of community in the industry in the past that is missing 
today—socializing, Christmas parties, etc. Also talks about her staff—all women—and how they 
handle the sexism. Edie is eldest worker on staff 
[1:14:55] More discussion of the community that grows up around the business and with the 
clients. Thoughts on whether her children or grandchildren are going into the industry. 
[1:20:00] Further examples of sexism and physical threats to her as a businesswoman. Also lots 
of discussion of how the industry runs on checks, not cash or online banking, etc., and why she 
considers the fishing industry “an animal by itself” 
[1:25:08] Talks about being a businesswoman and perceived threat to wives when she started 
out at age 22 and advice from her mother on how to deal with men. 
[1:30:01] Reiterates the need for settlement houses and how the work is overwhelming for 
fishermen to do the paperwork and go fishing. Further discussion of how she goes beyond the 
usual services of a settlement house to help fishermen out of friendship and wanting to “take care 
of them,” particularly given all the regulations and other requirements specific to each fishing 
trip and all the record-keeping. 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
5 
[1:35:05] Examples of challenges to older fishermen and contrast their early days fishing with 
today, especially for Portuguese fishermen who don’t speak much English, particularly when 
stressed and dealing with regulators. Recalls how Dawson’s business started with 
Newfoundlanders, Norwegians. Edie says she hasn’t been to the Fishing Heritage Center yet and 
thinks about how she’d like the settlement houses to be portrayed in an exhibit. 
[1:40:00] More examples of how she helps her clients. ‘Like I say, they’re fishermen. Like 
sometimes I tell the feds, they’re fishermen, what do you expect from them? I say that’s why 
they got me. They’re fishermen. They go fishing.” Recaps her work of the settlement house: “It’s 
real important that they have a boat settlement house to keep them out of trouble as far as the 
rules and regulations... .That’s what we’re here for.” 
[1:45:33] End of audio 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
6 
[00:00] 
Madeleine Hall-Arber: I’m going to just ask you to say your name so I can check that it’s 
picking up. 
Edie Mikina: Now my, are you recording already? No, okay. 
MHA: Just, yeah. 
EM: All right, my name is Edie Mikina. 
MHA: Okay. I think that, let me just put that a little bit closer. And I think, I think it’s recording. 
I hope it’s recording. 
EM: We’ll find out. 
MHA: I’m going to give you an official introduction. This is an interview for the New Bedford 
Fishing Heritage Center, funded by the Archie Green Fellowship from the Library of Congress. 
As part of this project we’re interviewing shore-side workers in the New Bedford/Fairhaven 
fishing industry to record their stories, document their skills and knowledge, and better 
understand their role in the fishing industry. The recording and transcript will become part of the 
permanent collection at the Library of Congress. I’m Madeleine Hall-Arber and today I’m 
speaking with Edie Mikina in New Bedford. The time is almost two. It’s five to two. Please 
introduce yourself again. You can say your name and then what your job is. 
EM: Should I say the name of the business? 
MHA: Yes, please, [checks recorder] Go ahead. 
EM: Hi. My name is Edie Mikina and I’m with Edie and Marie Boat Settlements in New 
Bedford. We handle the accounting work for fishing vessels out of New Bedford and Fairhaven. 
MHA: [Double-checks recorder is working; phone rings] One of the things that I think is 
important is to interview people in their place of business, so there’s always some ambient 
noises. 
EM: Yeah, I know, laughs 
MHA: But that’s it. [laughs] Where were you born? 
EM: I was bom in Angola, West Africa. Yes, and I came to the United States in 1970. 
MHA: What brought you here? 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
7 
EM: Family. My son’s father was from Texas and that’s what brought me to America. Yes, long 
time ago. 
MHA: How did you meet? 
EM: He was in the oil business in Africa. Yes, so that’s how we met. 
MHA: I don’t know if we ever talked about this, but I spent a year in West Africa, in Senegal. 
EM: That’s right, I remember now. Now that you say that, yes, when we first met. Because any 
time I mention Africa to somebody that’s been there, yes, that’s right. Yes. 
MHA: Always a conversation. So you grew up there as well? 
EM: Yes, I did. 
MHA: You started to tell me before the recorder was on a little bit about your father and what he 
did so maybe you could expand on that a little bit? 
EM: My real father, because I also have a step-father, my father was engaged in, he worked for 
the government for a long time. He was like chief of police. Yes. In a small town in West Africa. 
He did well for back then, you know, those days he was trying to keep law and order with the 
natives, so it worked out. His mother was a missionary. Yes, that’s why they end up in Africa. 
Yes. She was a missionary for many, many years. She actually lived all her life since she went 
from Portugal to Angola. She lived all her life there as a missionary. Yes, that’s interesting. She 
had quite the life. She can tell you some stories. Yes. And my step-father had a business of 
import and export. He used to import Caterpillar parts, engines, tractors, and export sisal and 
tobacco and stuff like that. 
MHA: Did you ever learn about that aspect? 
EM: I knew, you know, I could not run a business then. I was young, but I knew exactly what 
they did. Those big crates used to come on ships. We used to go to the port and just see how 
things would come back to Angola. Everything had to come by boat. It was interesting, yes. It 
was nice growing up there. 
MHA: My father was in the shipping business, too. That always has fascinated me. 
EM: Yes, it amazing how you can bring something to a port and then it stays in warehouses and 
then goes off to another country and vice versa. It’s interesting. Especially back then when it 
used to take forever. Those boats didn’t run as fast as they run today. You know, those trips used 
to take like 24 days, which now they probably do that in a week. They got better conditions, 
better boats, better ever34:hing. But when you go back to the ‘50s, things were a little awkward. 
MHA: Yes. Was it your step-father who was also the potter? 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
EM: Yes. No, no, that was my grandfather. My grandfather. Yes, my grandfather. 
[5:24] MHA: In Portugal? 
8 
EM: No, no, no. In Africa. Well, they started, my grandfather on my mother’s side, they 
originated from Queenborough [Coimbra], which is up north. And over there her father didn’t 
like to work too much, so and my grandfather was always, while he was in school, always 
playing with clay, so Africa was like becoming it, the place, like America was. So he put in his 
mind, we’re going to go to Africa and I’m going to open up a business and he’s going to run the 
business, because he was always into clay. So of course going to Africa, they needed it. They 
were building houses, my grandfather used to make the, what do you call that? 
MHA: The bricks? 
EM: The bricks. Over here we use cement blocks. Over there we used clay blocks, because that’s 
what was so available was clay. He actually bought this big piece of land that had like a pond 
that was loaded with clay and that’s how he made a living. And then also he used to do art stuff 
You know what I mean? He was quite the artist and the father knew about it, so he kind of 
figured, because from my grandmother’s stories, he just did not want to work. He just liked to 
direct. You know? Do this, do that? You know? [laughs] And it worked. 
MHA: Don’t we all? 
EM: Yes, I know. 
MHA: What kind of kiln did he have? 
EM: I remember this, like I have seen pictures most, but the little memory that I have was the 
pond and he had a lot of the natives that worked in a factory there, which every time they had 
one child they would name their child after one of my grandfather’s children. Then he used to 
use their last name, so there was a lot of Isabelle Varelas, a lot of Laura Varelas, a lot of A1 
Varelas, so if they had a boy they would name after my uncle. You know what I mean? So it was 
funny to grow up and have all this. And my grandmother used to tease me and say they’re all 
your cousins, [laughs] They all have your last name, [laughs] 
MHA: Have you ever been back to visit? 
EM: No, I left there when I was, I think the last year I was there I must have been like 16, 17. 
Yes, because I was going back and forth to England and then the war kind of started I have no 
intentions of going back. Yes, it broke in 1975,1 think, and it’s not the way I know. You know 
what I mean? This war caused a lot of problems and the Cubans were there, the Russians were 
there. The streets were taken, the tar was taken out of the streets, so I have no intention of, I have 
in memory the way it was and the pictures of what it was, so I kind of want to maintain that. I 
just feel bad because not a place I could ever take my children and show them the way it was. 
And not a place I can take my grandchildren and say this is my old house. So I just show them 
the pictures that my mother had. So it’s all by memory right now. 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
9 
MHA: How did you get involved here? 
EM: ril tell you what. I had taken accounting in school and when I came over here, I took two 
more years of accounting to, accounting is accounting, but there’s different terms in different 
countries, so I took accounting here for two years and then I applied for a job, which I had a very 
hard time understanding when I applied for it and he told me about fishing boats and I said 
fishing boats? And he says yeah, we’re down the pier. I says pier? I had been here like a year or 
two years and I had no idea we had a fishing fleet or a fishing port, so he had to give me 
directions. I knew where [unintelligible] was and he goes well, you go below [unintelligible]. I 
says, oh. I’ve never gone below [unintelligible]. I didn’t even know it was below, you know? So 
he was laughing and I went for the interview and I got the job. That was in October of 1974. Yes, 
and I start working the next day. Of course, everything was Chinese to me, you know? It was 
lumpers. What’s a lumper? You know what’s this? It was interesting because I was 22 years old 
to getting into a business, besides I love numbers. I love the opportunity to make numbers work. 
But the fishing industry was like something I never even imagined. 
[10:02] EM (continued): I knew if I looked at a boat I would not know it was a fishing boat. It 
was just a boat. After a while I became familiar with all the words about boats. I could talk to the 
man, translate from English to Portuguese for them to understand if we were talking about nets 
or there was something wrong with the engine or whatever being able, so it’s just I was learning 
all those things in English, but also even though I could speak Portuguese, those are words that I 
never talked about a winch in Portuguese, a net, or do you know what I mean? Port, or, Loran, so 
I had to then even learn those words in Portuguese in order to be able to talk with the Portuguese 
community. It was fascinating for a young girl. Also to be in a man’s world. It’s given me a lot 
of strength and made me learn to act like a man at times, you know, because if s still a man’s 
world. There’s a lot of women in the business, but still a man’s world. All my clients are men. 
There are some wives that are also owners, so I deal with half a dozen of ladies and everybody 
else is a man. And dealing with fishermen and dealing with lumpers. Sometimes if s gotten a 
little crazy. They come with an attitude or they’ve had a bad trip, they have a bad thing and they 
walk in the office and they may think they got into a barroom and they start barroom talking, you 
know? So then you just give them a little back of barroom talking and they shut up. [laughs] 
Because they don’t expect that, but that’s the only way I learned to make it, a go out of it is 
without going out of my way I put all in their place. But I just give it right back to whatever it is 
they try to give me. That’s worked. 
MHA: You worked for someone? 
EM: Yes, I worked for Kevin Dawson for, probably 12 years. Yes. And one day I took a 
Portuguee fit and I walk out. [laughs] Yes, I got mad. There was a few things that are going on 
and I was not liking it, so one day I just took a little Portuguee fit and I said that’s it. I’m all 
done, and I walked out. Yes. Talked to a few people and I started the business and Marie that 
was working with me, under me, she always said that if I did not stay there that she couldn’t take 
the pressure without me. You know what? She was always my little hand, you know? Under my 
wing, so she walked right behind me. She goes I can’t go back in there, I can’t go back in there, I 
can’t stay there without you. So I says all right. I says I’m going to start a business. You come 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
10 
with me. And that’s how Edie and Marie started. Back I don’t even know. It was the ‘80s. My 
daughter was a small little girl. I say maybe 1985. It’s been a long time. And then we were 
looking for a place and I wanted to stay in the waterfront, so we went to different business to see 
if they had room. Came upon this building and there was electronic place downstairs called 
Ocean Marine Electronics. So the owner happened to be here and I told him what I was looking 
for, what I was doing, and he looked at me and he goes, you know something? We want to work 
out. I need somebody and you need a place. So I’ll give you the place and you just, when the 
guys go out working on a boat, you just keep an eye on the shop and you do the billing and you 
do the things and the place is yours. I says, shook his hand, and said we got a deal and we’ve 
been friends ever since. Now I moved to the second floor because downstairs wasn’t big enough, 
[laughs] 
MHA: That’s fantastic. 
EM: Yes. So I kind of helped him and he helped me find a place. 
MHA: How about the business part itself? Getting the boats to come here? 
EM: Well, there was people that, again, they got accustomed to me, so when I left and I started, 
they came to me and told me that if I would take them I said of course, starting the business I’d 
take anybody, you know what I mean? And that’s how it started. And then also people were 
buying boats and they were coming to me. Back then a lot of, it’s not like today, you know what 
I mean? It was before the permit situation got put into place so you could buy boats with permits, 
buy permits, you know what I mean? Just get a permit for free actually back then. So then I 
acquired a lot of boats of people that were buying boats. Fishermen that were fishing and then 
they got to a position where they wanted to buy a boat. And the business just grew. Now I got 
too many boats, [laughs] And not enough hours in a day. [laughs] 
MHA: That’s a good problem. 
[14:56] EM: Yes, no, it’s good. What makes it a little harder today than it was back then is the 
new, there’s a lot of rules and regulations, which I call it babysitting. Maybe other officers don’t 
do because they don’t have the time, but I feel the need to help the people that all they know if 
fish. And suddenly they have to do paperwork. They have to make a phone call before they go 
out fishing. Declare they’re going out on the fishing. So we supply a lot of different little 
babysitting positions to help the fishermen because I have a lot of men that are, out of all my 
boats, a lot of them will take care of those phone calls to go out and everything, but a lot of them, 
they just call us and say just put me in for whatever day I’m going in the [unintelligible], closed 
area. I mean, what’s another five minutes is not going to kill anybody. So we do that just for 
helping the men, I guess, because it’s hard for them. It’s hard for them to be [overlapping 
voices], you know what I mean? It’s very hard for them especial the Portuguese people. They 
understand English and everything and suddenly it’s like I got to make this phone call, for maybe 
20 years of fishing they got behind that wheel and they just went. You know what I mean? And 
suddenly all the different changes in the laws, this is what you do first and then you got a VMS 
machine and you got to plug in [unintelligible] and every time they do a change, the man’s just 
no longer that way. They pick up the phone. I don’t even know what a VMS machine looks like. 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
11 
you know what I mean? But we end up getting the information that you go from this step to that 
step to that step, so Cheryl will be on the phone telling the steps to go and I’m like I don’t even 
know what the machine looks like. If it was put in front of me I would not, you know what I 
mean? But those are the things that we, and it takes time to do the permits. We have to be very 
careful because if you don’t do it the right way, it could jeopardize the availability in the future, 
so we have to check and make sure that everything is right. Not like years ago I remember Bill, 
when I worked at Kevin, used to just do everything was the same. It was just sit there like with a 
cigarette in his hand and just write like nothing. Today we got to check. We got to check 
everything. It’s just the way the industry has gone. 
MHA: Do you have both scallop boats and the groundfish? 
EM: I have most. I have most scallopers. I have most scallopers. I only have a couple of 
draggers. During the buy-back program I had a lot, a lot of draggers that went with the buy-back 
program, yeah. So I only end up with two that operate, I got a couple of boats. Not boats 
anymore. They sold the boat but they held on to the permit and they lease the quota, sell the 
quota, so I got a couple of those boats like that. But operating I only have two draggers, which is 
good, which is good because the draggers are struggling a little bit. Not like, and the scallopers 
seem to do much better, you know what I mean? You don’t have to worry about the business as 
much. Then I have like big boat owners. I got boat owners that own 17 boats, so I deal with one 
person. Then I get some people have four boats, some have three boats. 
MHA: And this is a change from the past? 
EM: From the past, yes. Because back then when I first start, you a fisherman, you bought a 
boat and you went fishing because that’s what your father did, that what your grandfather did, 
and so on and so on. But as fishing started to make changes and the government had programs 
like through the Capital Construction Fund, that brought outside people. I remember one time at 
Dawson’s I had this four people that bought a scalloper. The captain. There was a doctor. I can’t 
remember, but it was all like doctors and attorneys coming in buying. They had nothing, no 
knowledge at all of the industry, but this captain that was friends with one of them, one of the 
lawyers, was telling him all about this so that brought them. Unfortunately, they didn’t make it 
because they just, you know what I mean? It wasn’t a solid relationship and the captain wasn’t as 
good as others who would have made money for the investors, so that went belly up. But then 
more people would buy a boat without going out fishing because the word, it’s good, or a good 
captain would get a partner because he had no money and he would get a partner with money to 
come in and then it would get a second boat. So it’s been changing. And then I think it was 199-, 
I don’t know if it was 1999 when all the changes got in place, you know? No more permits being 
issued and the scallops got increased in value. 
[20:07] EM:[continued] But they were still buying boats for like $500,000. So when all the 
people that had been in the clam business came in and bought one scalloper to try it and then got 
another one and got another one till they had 17, you know, and they do well. Then we got Voy 
that also has a lot of boats, him and his partner O’Hara. Yes, those are the main big people. Now 
we got Jeff Davis that came I think from the West Coast. He’s been buying a lot of scallopers. 
Yes, he’s got a handful of scallopers. He’s bought the old American Seafood where Ziggy docks 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
12 
his boats and Harriett, which used to be Highlander, no, used to be American Seafood sold out to 
Highlander and now Jeff Davis with this company called Blue Harvest bought the whole 
operation, dock and all. Prior to that he bought a dock in Fairhaven so that’s another big-timer 
that has come here and has bought a lot of boats. Yes. 
MHA: What has that done to the community do you think? 
EM: Well, to the community it’s good because you got me, for example. I supply a service for 
fishing boats. You have an ice company that supplies ice to the boats. A fuel company. Like I 
run the business for Ziggy. We sell fuel to the boats. The suppliers. You know, ship supply. So it 
does, the fishing industry is really a very, very important industry for New Bedford and around 
New Bedford. I have fishermen that come from Maine working over here. I have fishermen that 
live in Florida and fish out of here. We have a lot of guys fishing in my boats that come from 
Virginia, North Carolina, so it does help the community. Like when I get nervous if the rules and 
the regulations of the government keeps on taking more and more days away or close areas or 
something, it does not just affect the fishing people, it affects us all around because we all derive 
from the fishing industry. So it’s like a big worry right now, like Carlos, but I don't know if I 
should say this, but Fm quite sure it’s public information, Carlos Rafael somehow got himself in 
some jam. I don’t read the paper; I only hear what people are telling me. And if, Fm not saying 
the government shouldn’t do what they need to do, but if these permits are taken, for example, 
away from him, there’s going to be much less boats operating out of this industry. There’s less 
ice for the guy that makes the ice. We have two ice companies here. There’s maybe three or four 
fuel companies. One, two, three, four; four fuel companies. You know what I mean? It involves 
the people that lump the boat. It involves a lot of the suppliers, so the fishing industry, like I say, 
it is a very big industry out of here. Actually, I’ll say out of New Bedford we are number one 
industry, yes, of the whole country, so I think it’s a major industry. 
MHA: Do you find young people still going into the industry? 
EM: In the scalloping business we have quite a few young people. You need to, as time goes, 
you need to, unfortunately because the way the industry is right now, mandated by all these 
rules, when you have a boat that only has so many open area trips, you can’t take a shacker and 
try to teach him because you’re out there, you know what I mean? There’s seven men. You got 
to catch, you know what I mean? So you got to have the speed to do it because you only have so 
many days. You cannot waste time. Whereas before all this craziness, a boat would, let’s face it, 
a crew that’s been on a boat for 10 years ages that coming up, the body starts aching so you kind 
of want to bring some young blood to help you, you know what I mean? So it makes it hard 
where they’re only that on closed area trips because we got so many thousands pounds to catch. 
So if I catch it in 10 days, it’s fine. If I catch it in eight days, it’s OK. It’s not taking anything 
away from me. That’s when they turn around — [recorder turned off/turned back on] 
[25:11] MHA: We’ll continue. 
EM: What I was saying is years ago we could bring in more young people and teach them. 
That’s what we call shackers and they would learn to do the work and then they would be going 
for full share. They’ll start at a quarter of a share, half a share, three-quarters of a share, you 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
13 
know, to a full share. I don’t see that as much and the reason is it’s because on the open days, 
you really can’t help anybody. You can’t bring anybody and try to teach them because you got to 
catch. You got a limit of time to do it with. So I only see it on closed area trips where they’ll take 
somebody. Could it be more people? Yes, if things were differently. I’m quite sure more people 
would be able to come because everybody would be willing to take a shacker. That’s the only 
thing. We’ve had, I tell you as draggers got in trouble financially and all to do with the 
regulations, of course, I have a lot of scallopers now that used to be draggers. 
MHA: Oh, really? 
EM: And they’re not young and they turned around. I have in one of the boats that I do, I call 
everything my boat, it’s my boat, my bills, my mortgage, you know? Thank God that I don’t owe 
any of that money, but anyway, I refer everything to mine. That he actually used to be a boat 
owner of mine on a dragger and got rid of his boat because he couldn’t make ends meet and he 
became a scalloper. He also was already in his. I’ll say 30s, high 30s, low 40s when he made that 
move, which is not like a 19-year-old boy. [phone rings] You know what I mean? And he’s still 
scalloping and like him, I know a lot of draggers turned into scallopers because the industry of 
dragging wasn’t there. 
MHA: It’s lucky they were able to move over. 
EM: That’s right. Yes. Fortunately, because it takes a big skill actually to be a dragger I’ve been 
told, like to know how to mend the nets. It’s amazing now they go voom, voom, voom and 
they’re able to do that. Scalloping is totally a different thing. Like sometimes like they’ll say any 
dumb can be a scalloper, but it takes a brain to become a dragger, so it’s all hearsay, I don't 
know, but they say it’s a skill to be able to mend a net and fix things when you are out there 
fishing, than a scalloper. 
MHA: And to find the fish. 
EM: Yeah, and find the fish. Yeah, I know. But right now it’s a little scarce. I have boats that are 
going in the closed area and it’s tough to catch it. They were doing the trips in one time in six 
days then they were doing the trips in seven days and they were doing the trips in nine days and 
now it’s like maybe almost two weeks and they’re not bringing in much because the meat’s right 
now small. Like I was talking to this fisherman and he told me the shells are big. When you open 
it you got a small little something inside. The meat’s just not there. So, can you imagine how 
much more effort the men have to do in order to make a bag? You know what I mean? So it’s 
taking, it’s taking them that much longer time and they’re coming in and it’s like maybe they get 
12,000 pounds, 13,000; it’s been a little tough. Again, things that probably, the only thing I find 
in this industry in a perfect world eveiything would be this way, you know what I mean? But it 
doesn’t work that way because even the government, there might be a person in the government 
that has the idea, has the intelligence to see outside of the box, but he can’t do anything because 
it’s a big team behind him, you know what I mean? Whatever, but when the areas that are given 
to the fishermen, there’s got to be somebody that monitors, oh, this boat is out there for so many 
days, that’s all he’s got. This boat is a good boat. So maybe we should look into it. The product 
is not coming, so it’s like maybe we should close that area and let it grow again and let’s do 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
14 
something. That I don’t see it happen, which I think if that could happen, it probably make things 
much easier for everybody and we would not be taking small little things from the ocean. 
MHA: It’s surprising that the shell is large but the meat is small. 
EM: Yeah, because at this time of the year also things happen and then I don’t know. I’m not a 
scientist, I really don’t know. Like we’re having a problem with scallops from the closed area 
that are coming from the south part. They have like, you heard that, right? 
MHA: They don’t know whether it’s warmer water or — 
[30:05] EM: I don’t think it’s warm water. I think and I don’t know what it is, but I think it’s 
some kind of something, somebody has mentioned being the turtles. We have a lot of turtles 
because we have this thing to save the turtles. 
MHA: Right. 
EM: OK, like save the seals and all that. Whatever. So I don't know. What are we going to do 
with all those turtles? I don't know. What are we going to do with all those seals? Feed the sharks 
in Chatham, you know? But it’s fine and dandy and what I think if it is, that it is from the turtle 
poop. The turtles are coming north more. Many, many years ago when I used to go to the 
Caribbean I used to see tons of, because they like the warm weather. You know what I mean? 
Oh, my God, you’d be out on the boat and they’re so beautiful to look at. And I think as our 
waters are getting warming they of course they’re also moving. Not long ago on the Cape we had 
one of those what do you call them? Manatees or whatever? They come from Florida. The poor 
guy shows up in P-town. Give me a break. You know what I mean? It’s like so there is 
something about warm weather that’s bringing things. There was a bird from Africa that showed 
up on the Cape. They’re only known in Africa, so somehow the poor thing travelled, I don't 
know how long it took that poor bird, but anyway so things like that are happening and I think 
it’s because of the warmth of the weather or whatever it is. But if it’s not that I know for a fact 
like you get all those big ships that are coming here? In order they’ll fill in like maybe in China 
and in Vietnam, they’ll filling some tanks with water. When they get here and that’s the 
stabilizer. When they don’t need, they just open it up and all that. Lord only knows what 
pollution was in those rivers when they loaded the water into their tanks and they drop it over 
here and it’s legal to do it. So that could be a number of things that’s causing our product, 
because everything goes to the bottom. You know what I mean? So when you load all that 
whatever bacteria or whatever worms might be in that water, whatever, it ends in there, and the 
poor scallops are on the bottom, so exactly what it is I don't know, but there is something that’s 
causing that and I think the government should look into it a little better. I don’t know the 
solution for it, but I think that’s affected, has affected the prices because the stuff comes. I mean, 
I won’t eat it because I don’t really know what the source is. Like they said oh, don’t worry 
about it because you cook it and it kills them. I’m like [gasps] not me. 
MHA: [laughs] 
EM: Oh no. 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
15 
MHA: Especially that you don’t want to overcook scallops. 
EM: No, and I don't know really what it is that’s going to get up and disappear just because you 
cook it. I don’t want to find out 20 years ago that that’s why I died. 
MHA: [laughs] 
EM: So, I just won’t eat it. It’s sad. You know? It’s sad. Especially now when we see the guys 
working for 12 days, 14 days, and then they get in here the price drops to seven dollars. 
MHA: That hurts, yes. 
EM: Yeah. And they were just beat because your effort of trying to make 10, 12,000 pounds is 
like three times more than because instead of getting something this big, you’re getting 
something this big, so it’s, and that’s the only thing I worry about the industry sometimes. It’s 
this things and the future of it. You know? 
MHA: What does your typical day look like? 
EM: My typical day’s a crazy day. It’s coming here and trying to do, if you look at my desk, I 
work out of that desk. I work out of this desk, and I work out of the [unintelligible] desk and 
sometimes I got so much papers and everything and it’s all work that I got to produce and then 
there’s phone calls that come. And there’s always somebody who has a bellyache. You’re doing, 
trying to get something done and somebody goes oh, gee, Edie, I need this or I need that, so it’s, 
or I get a lot of boats that come in one day because the weather brought them to all go out at the 
same time so they all come back at the same time. So, a typical day is really, really the right way 
of saying it’s a crazy day. It’s really a crazy day that you got to have rollerblades on your feet, 
you know what I mean? Do a multi-task. Be on the phone with one, one phone, another phone, 
and then I forget what I should tell that phone. So sorry, wrong person, and going oh [yelling], 
but that’s a typical day, yes. Besides that, then you have a slower day that I don’t have many 
boats in and luckily not everybody has that bellyache, then I’m able to catch up with my 
paperwork and that’s how I do it. It’s gotten so crazy that I have to come to work on a Sunday, 
believe it or not, to catch up because everything’s done, it’s much more than when I first started 
in the ‘70s. 
[35:05] EM: [continued] I did a settlement, it was nothing to do. Now you do a settlement, you 
get levies for the guys because they owe child support or they owe federal taxes, so now there’s 
levies, take the money. I’ll make out checks to the government and then we set up this settlement 
agreement between the fishermen and Internal Revenue where we take 30% of their pay for 
federal and sick so that way at the end of the year they’re not in a jam. All that I call babysitting. 
So at settlement that I could do it in 5, 10 minutes now takes me an hour because I’ll have like 
seven men which I’m taking taxes out of that, you know what I mean? I’m taking the gee out of 
their pay. I’m taking child support out of their pay. I’m keeping track of all those things, whereas 
years ago, none of that existed, you know what I mean? So eveiything takes more time, so it gets 
crazy. 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
16 
MHA: You said initially when we first talked that you really liked numbers. 
EM: I do and Em good at it, not to pat myself or anything and my clients can tell you, I like to 
be able to, like Harriett, when I took over Harriett’s stuff, I told her just put everything in a box, I 
says. I’ll digest everything. And she goes, but I have to go over. I says, no, Harriett, you just give 
me all the papers. I’ll just spread them all over my desk and I says. I’ll figure it out. I don’t need 
to be told, because it’s there in front of you and numbers don’t lie. 
MHA: Were you always like that, even as a kid? 
EM: I’ve always, as a little kid, I was. My mother, God rest her soul, she just passed last June, 
she’s sorry that she made me stop. I could add or multiply with my fingers and literally take my 
shoe off and finish and I always had the right answer. All I remember, like this was a five. My 
thumb was a five and my other fingers were a one but I don’t know how I would go ting, ting, 
ting and I knew it was 15, you know what I mean? Because I was going by fives and then I 
would go like this and then I’d pick up my toes and I always had the right answer and I could 
multiply and divide, subtract and add, and today I can’t do anything, so I always had that thing 
about numbers, to do things with numbers. Add this way, that way, and of course being in 
Africa, the teaching was different. You know what I mean? You were just told to, this is how 
you do it with a click or a finger, you know? And that’s how eveiything was. So I absorbed a lot, 
because I had no other chance. It was like this always and then I come to this country and I’m 
seeing my son adding and he’s got these things of borrowing and I’m like what are you doing? 
Just David, look, this is going like this. You just do it, you know? He used to tell everybody oh, 
my mother comes from Africa, she does everything different. I used to tell him no, David, I said 
that’s the wrong way of doing things. It was just the way, it made me like fascinating to how you 
can, like I tell the kids, even now my grandchildren, that a big part of life is numbers because 
everything has a number. And I showed them. I says when you’re eating toast, one toast, two 
toasts, is numbers. You don’t just say toast. You say one toast. I have another toast. And how 
many do you have? And he goes two. I go see? Everything is numbers. Nothing you can do that 
doesn’t bring a number to it and they understand that everything is numbers, calculations and 
how many times you behave, how many times you misbehave, it’s all numbers. Like I say, I 
really like it. I like to do, like Ziggy calls me the magician over pen. Yeah, he just tell me do this. 
I mean, I like to do applications. I like to prepare financial statements. The only part of it that I 
tell people, it’s like if I sold you an awful hamburger and ask you for $20, you could see 
something. I says, I might spend 100 hours and I give you a piece of paper and says you really 
don’t value what I’ve accomplished in working hours and hours to end up with one page that 
tells you how much money you made, you know what I mean? In the last five years, and where 
you spend your money, and how much money you put into your pocket, I says, because it’s one 
piece of paper. But that lousy hamburger, you would understand because you could see 
something solid. That’s a difference of paperwork that you need to, some people understand that, 
but sometimes it’s like how long could it take you to do that, Edie? I’m like, you kidding me. I’m 
taking work home so I could prepare this for you. But it’s amazing. I like it. I wouldn’t trade it. 
[39:58] MHA: Is that the hardest part of your job dealing with people who don’t really 
understand how hard you work? 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
17 
EM: Well, they know that I work hard. They know that, but it makes it hard to make, again, and 
Em not putting anybody down, but a person that became a fisherman, for example, he never 
really went to school to learn financial parts of anything. He only knows that I works so hard and 
I make this kind of money and Em able to buy a house and my mortgage is X amount of dollars. 
Now he has a business and it becomes no, you can’t do that. But why not? It’s my business. But 
that’s not how we operate. You know what I mean? We have to answer to the IRS, so we can’t, 
and we have to prove why this expense, those kind of things becomes a little harder. Again, Em 
a woman telling the man what to do with his money. You know what I mean? So I think it starts 
from there. Like an S corporation, for example, they have a loss because we use depreciation, but 
I got so much money in a checkbook. You know what I mean? It’s like how can you say we lost 
money? [phone rings] No, Em not saying we lost money. We did not lose money, but because 
we are allowed to deduct the depreciation, the books show that we have a loss and we carry it. 
Those things become a little harder, but I explain to them that and sometimes I get along with the 
man fine because Em like you don’t understand? It’s fine. Just let me take care of you. You go 
do the fishing, I do the this, OK? You know what I mean? We have a good relationship, yes. 
MHA: So, when you started out, you working with Kevin Dawson and then you moved over to 
your own business, so was it different? Because he was a man, he could be the front person with 
the people coming in? 
EM: He was not the front person. No, he was not the front person. Actually, I was the front 
person, really. He sat in his office and the people never really saw him. There were a few people 
that would seek advice, but the Portuguese people, and we had a lot of Portuguese people, they 
most comfortable speaking their own tongue, you know? So I pretty much handled just about 
everybody there. That’s what made it easy for me to start my own business because I had people 
that were accustomed to me, you know what I mean? To the way I do things, the way I handle 
things. Like Em a very fast person, so I make anybody comfortable. If they have a situation, I 
can take over and I speak for them and I speak fast and Em not intimidated by anybody, and my 
clients like that. You know what I mean? Because sometimes like an agent would come, throw 
the badge at them, and they would start getting all nervous. I can tell them what they can do with 
the badge in one second, [laughs] You know what I mean? It’s like talk to me and Ell talk to you, 
but don’t come and try to, you know? Because Em not going to shrink. Em this tall. Eve been 
this tall forever. Em never going to shrink for anybody, you know? And they like that confidence 
that I have, that I can take care of them and I do anything for any of my clients. I mean, being to 
talk to a fed, being to talk to somebody from the state, to do anything, that’s my job. My 
obligation is to handle whatever, you know what I mean? If they don’t understand something of 
the law, I try to show them how it goes. If I run into a problem, I will call an agent and I say 
listen, Em having a little hard time. Am I right when I say that this is what needs to be done? 
And this is the only way you can do it and they’ll say yes and then Ell say no, Em telling you 
because again the fishermen, if I tell you, you can only catch only 2500 pounds of yellowtail and 
you go to the bar and Joe Blow turns around and goes no, you can catch 5,000. Well, Edie was 
wrong, in your mind because what Edie told you, it’s not as what this guy’s telling you. It’s 
much, much more. So it’s an oh, I think Edie’s wrong. So then he’ll come back and goes, Edie, 
you told me 25. Joe Blow says 5,000, and I says Em telling you it’s 2500 pounds and Ell go into 
the computer to look at the thing, make a phone call, but in their mind still, Joe Blow is still 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
18 
saying five. Joe Blow’s going to go out and catch five and if I listen to Edie I’m only going to 
catch 2500. So that’s a little something that you have to make them understand they’re going to 
get in trouble [phone rings] if they bring more than 2500 pounds. You know what I mean? 
Because again, the answer of Joe Blow, it’s always better than Edie. I don’t know if it’s because 
I’m the female or the mind says 5,000 is far better than 2500. Those are the things that I really 
don’t know, but I always tell them that it’s because they don’t know that they’re easily persuaded 
by somebody on the outside. Like I tell them, from the barroom you get no good information. 
[45:02]EM: [continued] I says you want good information, you come in here, because when I’m 
not sure, I call. Because the last thing I want to do is tell somebody something that’s going to 
cause him in trouble. I don’t want to do that, so I’m always checking and rechecking. It’s been 
working, so it’s a good thing. 
MHA: Do you think your confidence and that being so careful to talk to the powers that be, shall 
I say, do you think that’s what’s helped you as a woman in a man’s world? [laughs] 
EM: Yes, yes. It’s that I’m confident. I’m very confident and they know that I’m not because 
they can’t even intimidate me. They might intimidate somebody else in my staff, but not me, and 
they know it. They know that I just won’t tolerate. It’s my nature. You know what I mean? It’s 
my nature. When I first come here, I mean, I was young, beautiful, had a nice body and all the 
guys were coming in, you know what I mean? And they would intimidate me. They would ask 
me out and I’m like, no, you know what I mean? It’s like. I’m going to get married and they 
would get all like, and they would say a swear and I turned red and I’d be all like [hurumph] and 
I’d be calling my mother crying. I says I don’t know if I can do it. They say they say bad words 
all the time and they fight in front of me. The other day one guy got mad, my boss was behind 
me, and he picked up the ashtrays, threw the ashtray, all I could do was go like this so my 
beautiful face wouldn’t get hit. I said they’re crazy, they’re crazy. So my mother started saying 
so you really like it? I says yes, I do. My mother turned around and says the very first time you 
hear a swear, swear back to them with a mean face. You going to shock them, because they don’t 
expect that from you. They’ve already seen you very timid and getting red. They’re enjoying it. 
So, the very next time somebody walked in and said the bad word, I said no. I repeat it. I says 
your mother [makes gesture]. I turn around to the other guy, he goes, she just swore at me. I says 
yeah, I also know those words, you know? You know and slowly, slowly, nobody has ever swear 
in front of me again because they know that I go crazy and I give it back and that’s the only way 
I could make it, because if not, I would have had to gone away because I couldn’t take it. I mean, 
I didn’t even say shit when I first come to the waterfront and now I’m getting all this F-words 
coming at me [laughs] left and right. I go oooh, you know? So it’s, it taught me. You know what 
I mean? Like three months later, I was fine. I mean, I was fine. The guy would say to me, then I 
got married, would you like to, because I used to go to Canada because my mother lived in 
Canada, would you like to go to Canada for the weekend? I go, oh, Paul, that sounds so good. 
Hold on. Pick up the phone, call my husband, I says oh, honey, you won’t believe this. I said we 
just got invited to go to Canada. When I asked you. Oh, my God, Paul, I would never think you 
would ask me that. You know I’m a married woman. You know? Sorry, honey, I guess we’re not 
going. Then all that stopped. So, I’ve had fun. I’ve had fun showing them that, you know what I 
mean? I’m here to stay. Basically I’m here to stay. You’re not going to do anything or intimidate 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
19 
me or make me, I wouldn’t do anything wrong like as far as that, you know what I mean? It’s 
funny. It’s funny. 
MHA: How did you meet your husband? 
EM: How many? I been.... [laughter] Which one? 
MHA: The first one. 
EM: The first one I met him in Africa. That was short-lived. Then I married my daughter’s 
father here and I was married to him when I come to work in the industry. And I divorced him. I 
divorced him, let me see, my daughter’s, about 30 years ago. I remarried a fisherman that owned 
a couple of boats and I divorced him about 16 years ago. [laughs] Next? [laughs] It’s like a bus. 
You know, it doesn’t work, you miss it, whatever, catch the next one. So right now I’m not 
married. I’m not married. I’ve been single for a long time, since my daughter was 16. I’ve been 
single for about 18 years. I like it. I like it. I’m involved. I’m in a relationship for going on four 
years with a scalloper. But it’s fine. He goes fishing and I’m here when he comes home. It’s 
lovely. Got that balance in life, you know? That everything is going. So I got my sanity to go 
along with my crazy life. I’m raising three grandchildren on top of all this. Yes. So it’s all a good 
balance. Yes. I don’t know how I do it but I know I do it. [laughs] 
MHA: I used to hear people talk about the challenges of being a fisherman’s wife and raising 
kids and when the fisherman would come home eveiything would change and he’d go back out 
and it would change again. So you had kids when you were married to a fisherman. 
EM: She was already bigger but he didn’t fish. Actually, that’s one thing I don’t like, but this 
one, he loves too much fishing so I couldn’t get him, I couldn’t convince him to quit. Actually, 
I’m convincing him to buy real estate, so eventually he doesn’t go fishing, but he loves fishing 
too much. His body starts aching and I said oh, your body’s talking to you. If I was you I’d be 
stopping. It’s not a life for me, you know what I mean? I’m one of those persons, if I have 
somebody then we should be having dinner every day. But the balance in life is good. He loves 
to go fishing. My previous husband really did not like to go fishing. 
[50:57] EM: [continued] He stopped fishing because he came in a time where the money, so he 
was working for somebody then he bought one boat, then he built a boat, do you know what I 
mean? So that was a different thing, but I knew he did not like fishing. When he built the boat he 
had already stopped fishing, because actually it was right on his desk, because he had promised 
me that he was just going to go fishing for a period of time and he told me a year, and then when 
a year come up, I had made plans to go someplace and he goes, did you forget I’m going out 
Thursday? I says no, you’re not going, because you have not been counting. I says a year came 
over. I says a promise is a promise. Then he goes, boo. A year went by? I says yeah and that was 
it. He never went fishing again. But he was fine with it. Mike. Mike started fishing when he was 
11 years old. His father fished. His grandfather had boats, so his mind, his heart, his soul is 
fishing. He loves to be in water. He just loves the sound of the water. That’s his thing. 
Unfortunately, his back has been bothering him and I tell him your body is talking, because it’s 
something my grandmother always her, you know what I mean? Your body will tell you, so you 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
20 
have to follow your body, besides your mind, but he’s not going to quit unless he sees a lot of 
money coming elsewhere. So I’m directing him into real estate so that way maybe, but he loves 
fishing. But he runs three boats and I think it’s too much because he’s 53 years old and I think 
that it’s, the way it is today, it’s too much. It’s too much for him to run three boats, but the 
reason he started running three boats is because you don’t have many fishing days. So what is he 
going to do? A person like him that’s got to go fishing? He gets bored. The days that you see 
him, he gets bored unless we go away. But if he’s just day-to-day, he gets bored because he, you 
know what I mean? You need to go fishing. That’s the way it is unless he, like I said, but we 
can’t be going away every week. 
MHA: Especially with your life here. 
EM: I know, [laughter] We were just in St. John a few weeks ago and we were gone for nine 
days. It was the longest vacation I’ve ever had, but I was in great need for a vacation because my 
mom got sick in March and between running the business, running to the nursing home, and 
running this, running the kids, doing everything, I mean, I was like going crazy so I needed a 
vacation and it did me good. Now I’m ready to take the challenge for, another vacation, till 
another vacation comes, and deal with the craziness of the business and of the people. Overall, 
the people are good. Once in a while, it’s the nature of the business that makes people sometimes 
coming in here, you know what I mean? Which a lot of times I understand and I want to make a 
point. It’s like you go out, you work, struggle through the bad weather, and the prices drop, the 
fuel keeps on going up. If you thought you were going to make X amount of pay, your pay now 
is going to be half, so you’re not going to be the most pleasant person after just dealing with all 
bad weather, the men getting stressed and bickering with each other and then come in here and 
this office that hands this pay, you know what I mean? Sometimes it gets a little ugly especially 
if they’ve been drinking or whatever they, you know what I mean? [mimics men talking: This 
all, for real? I almost got killed in the storm. . ..]. You know what I mean? It’s like, well, honey. 
I’m only as good as what you bring me. If you don’t bring me a big check I cannot give you a 
big check. I always come back with that, which then gives them time to think. It is true. If you 
bring me a big me a big stock check. I’ll gladly make you a big check, but if you bring me a 
small stock check, there’s nothing I can do, you know? Numbers are numbers. That’s the only 
thing, and I do understand half of the time, unless I’m really stressed going crazy. Then it’s like 
hey, what the hell is wrong with you coming in here swearing? I’m ready to smack them, you 
know? But most of the times I understand too, why they get frustrated. You know what I mean? 
Because I would too if I had been out there fishing thinking I was going to get a good pay and 
the prices change and the fuel went up 40 cents. 
MHA: It looks like fuel is going to start going up again. 
[55:17] EM: Yes. And it has been going, which, for the people who are playing the stock market 
is a good thing, but for the fishermen that have to pay, it’s not a good thing. 
MHA: What were the best years for the industry? 
EM: Well, it is interesting that the best years dollar-wise we are living it. Okay? Back in the 
‘80s, I mean, I remember while I was working at Kevin Dawson’s office, the old office on Union 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
21 
Street, and I had a boat by the name of Donna Lena, a wooden boat. Richard Flood owned that 
boat and there was 14-man crew back then. And that little old boat brought in $90,000 stock. The 
price was like three-something a pound, okay? Fm going back to like in the ‘70s, late ‘70s. That 
was a lot of money, even though it was 14 men. So they had the brilliant ideas, Fm passing out 
checks, let’s go celebrate. I don’t know if you’re familiar with the Old Skipper? Used to be a 
hotel restaurant over there? So there are 14 men plus the owner, plus their wives, so they had to 
take me because Fm the one who made out the checks. I left my office. I had never made a 
settlement, big numbers, I mean, 90-something thousand dollars. Fm going back, you know what 
I mean? That was a lot of scallops because it was three-something a pound. Today’s a broker. A 
$90,000 stock, it’s a broker. But anyway, so I left. I told my boss, I says, Mr. Dawson, I says, the 
crew, they’re taking the owners and they want me to go because Fm the one who, Fm the 
settlement girl. That’s what they used to call me. So I went, it was such a good lunch, and then 
went back to work, [laughs] I never went, it was a celebration and a half Oh my God, I noticed it 
was five o’clock. I went oh, my God, because there was champagne, there was, you know what I 
mean? I mean, oh, my God. I almost died. Got back to the office, it was about 5:30 and I said, 
Mr. Dawson Fm so sorry. He goes, I kind of figured it was a heck of a celebration. I hope they 
don’t bring another $90,000 stock. 
EM: [continued] So that was, you know. That was just saying how the numbers today, a $90,000 
stock, the men would be really devastated. It’s a broker. But they’ve made a lot of money and the 
industry is still, even though right now, and I tell the men, I says listen, less days in the open 
area, less this so many complications of this and that, I says, and if a boat can still stock a million 
dollars, it’s a good thing. Count your blessings, you know what I mean? As long as this goes on, 
it’s nothing wrong. You’ll be able to make your payments. For somebody to come in for you to 
want to buy a boat today and spend six-point-something million dollars, I tell you, please don’t 
do it. But for somebody that’s been in this business, the boat is paid for, even if there’s 
something and you only make $800,000, you still make a living, you know? For anybody that 
still has mortgages, but their boats cost two million dollars or three million dollars, they still can 
handle it. The people that can only buy boats for that kind of price is the Roys of the world, the 
Warrens of the world, because they have such a big fleet. Boats are paid that they can, you know 
what I mean? If one boat is struggling a little bit, they got 15 other boats that can help out that 
boat. But you and I could never go out and buy a boat. A boat owner that has one boat and he 
says well, you know, Fm still good at it and my body’s still functioning, I could use another 
boat. Not for that kind of money, because it’s impossible. But the numbers are there. Not for the 
draggers. Unfortunately, not for the draggers. If you have a mortgage and you have a dragger, 
you don’t make a living. But I have one dragger that has no mortgage at all and very, very good 
mending and fixing, hardly spends any money. He makes a little money. But if you’re going to 
buy nets, if you’re going to not be so careful with your equipment, you will not make it. You will 
not make it. It’s just not there. As a business it’s not there. 
[59:59] MHA: That’s because of the regulations? 
EM: It started and you got the sectors. You can only, you have so many thousands of pounds to 
catch of this kind or the other kind, or the other kind, know what I mean? This how Carlos got 
himself in trouble by cheating, you know what I mean? Because I don’t know if there’s a lot of 
fish out there. I don't know if the industry is being well managed. I don’t really know. I just 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
22 
know that it’s not right, you know what I mean? And put a lot of, when your family, that’s all 
they knew what to do? And then you lost the boat? Some of the draggers went into scalloping, 
but others just couldn’t do anything because they were already in their 50s and they just did not 
have the manpower to try to do something that takes more. You know? They just had to go work 
in factories or go work whatever they could find a job. Where they all always did was fishing, 
their father had fished, their grandfather had fished, you know? The ones, the Portuguese that 
come from Portugal over there, they fished, their father fished, you know what I mean? They 
used to go gone on cod. Most of my fishermen are Portuguese. Their father or them when they 
were young used to come to America on Portuguese fleets catch cod. And where they used to 
prepare the cod, salt the cod, you know what I mean? And then go back home. They’d be gone 
for six months, which was a very hard life. Said to me by a lot of old-timers. Very hard, doing 
cod. Yeah. They used to fish with the liners, you know what I mean? So they really worked very 
hard. So did the Newfoundlanders, too, for that reason, going after the cod. And then to see that 
the dragging part of it, it’s pretty much over, it’s sad. And I remember when the draggers were 
making a killing and the scallopers were struggling. I’m from that era. You know? Now it’s the 
other way around. 
MHA: Yes. Are the scallopers that you deal with, especially the young guys, are they saving 
money? Are they investing? 
EM: A lot of them, or some of them, they have nice houses. They’re investing. But 
unfortunately, there are a lot of scallopers that have problems. They have issues, so they live day 
to day. They have IRS issues because they were too busy doing something else, which they could 
not help it. It’s a sickness. So I do have a lot of that in the industry. I do have families, they have 
a wife or they have a live-in girlfriend and they got kids that they have problems. You know 
what I mean? Are they saving? I don’t think so. Because if you were saving, you would not be 
owing money to the IRS or you would not be, you know what I mean? That kind of thing. So 
there are the ones that are family men and they do save and they live comfortable. They have 
nice houses. There’s a lot of them. But unfortunately, there’s still, you know what I mean? 
They’re making money so whenever you’re making money the drug dealers come. You know 
what I mean? So unfortunately, those people are not saving any money. They just, they got 
problems. They need to buy the drugs, which is a sad situation. 
MHA: Do the captains and owners get involved with crew that are having problems like that? 
EM: Well, some, I believe, this is just my opinion, they look the other way, because who are you 
going to get, you know what I mean? We only have so many people here that go scalloping. So 
what are you going to do? I believe that they look the other way. There are other boats that no 
tolerance and they fire you if you get caught having something. 
MHA: Because I remember years ago they had similar issues. 
EM: We had in the ‘80s, oh, God, really, really bad. In the ‘80s it was so bad. We had so many 
people that overdosed. There was a spell. There was like this guy was getting killed. This guy 
went to Florida, got killed of overdose. This guy, this guy, I mean, it was coming from, it was 
sad. It was sad. Then it got better, you know what I mean? It was like those people that had drug 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
23 
problem had died. Others got smart and said this is not for me. Others got away from here 
because here, and again I think, a boat comes in, the bad guy says hey, he’s got a problem. What 
do I care? I’m here to make money. And you know what I mean? He kind of then goes, you 
know what I mean? And the guy says oh, maybe just a little bit, I guess, I don't know. That’s the 
only problem. 
[1:05:01] EM: [continued] It was getting better but now I find it that I have more people with 
issues today than I had maybe three years ago. Yeah. Some admit, some don’t. Some are like 
what do you call it? Denial or something? Yeah. It’s something that exists, unfortunately, [phone 
rings] something that exists. I don’t know if it’s ever going to stop again, but the drugs seems to 
attack, not just the fishing industry, it seems to attack high schools, grammar schools nowadays, 
so it’s a problem that’s nationwide, really. So it’s not just targeted in the fishing industry, but we 
do have some cases. Yes, it’s sad. 
MHA: On a slightly different tack, years ago probably when you were starting out, the port was 
rather unionized. There were several unions. 
EM: Oh yes, especially mostly it was on the draggers just about. Union was a big, most of the 
boats was union. I had, when I worked at Dawson’s, I had a lot of union boats. Some got out of 
it. It was easier. Today, it’s hard because they are so financially in trouble because I guess their 
investment are less boats, boats went with the buy-back program, and there’s like maybe 10 or 
15 boats that still, union boats where, and some had sold their boats, but they still have the quota 
that they lease or sell the fish, that they’re making payments because they have like a clause, 
they have that if you stop, you still owe X amount of dollars. Like I got one of my boats that 
owes several hundreds of thousands of dollars, which I’ve been telling him, I says you guys 
should unite, gotten a good attorney. One time I went through out of my way to find an attorney 
but again union doesn’t exist among the fishing people, you know what I mean? They want 
something done overnight. It doesn’t happen. The union has nobody to represent them. There’s 
no fishermen that are paying dues. But though there is this debt from the industry. Nothing 
makes sense. In my world and I keep on telling them something is wrong. You need an attorney, 
a real attorney from Boston, not from New Bedford, because there’s no representation. They 
don’t have, there’s nothing. And there’s only half a dozen people collecting a little thing, so 
where’s the money? Paying people to work here? Paying people that are running the union, I 
guess? But there’s really, I don’t understand. And like this guy owes several hundreds of 
thousands of dollars. And another one is paying a couple of thousand dollars a quarter. What’s 
going to come out of it, I don't know. 
MHA: I wonder if that has to do with a pension plan. Do they even have — 
EM: They do have a pension plan and that’s all. They stopped the welfare part, which was for 
insurance. That went down. They don’t have the funds. Supposedly they invested the money in 
the wrong way and they lost a lot of money. There’s no problem of a fisherman. If you 
mismanage the funds by investing in moneys that went belly-up, [phone rings] why should the 
industry still support this? That’s my understanding, but because the laws say this and that and 
that. I don't know what’s going to happen. If they’re ever going to get free? Like the guy on the 
Blue Seas, which is a friend of mine, too, it’s like he still owes a couple hundred thousand 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
24 
dollars and I’m like I’m hoping that one day, they’ll just come to terms to realize that we’re 
bankrupt, close the books, let everybody free. In a perfect world, that’s what would happen, but I 
don’t know. Because like he fears, because he owns a house. 
MHA: Yikes, yes. 
EM: You know what I mean? His permit that he leases a little bit is worth nothing. Because 
before they could sell fish for a dollar-something; now if you get 25 cents, what’s that? Nothing. 
Nothing. So, interesting. That’s another heartache that exists for the draggers that they no longer 
have the boats and — 
MHA: They still have this — 
EM: Yes. 
MHA: Are there any associations for settlement houses and things like that? 
EM: No. Years ago there used to be, actually associations for the industry. We had, oh, God, let 
me see. They’ve gone. We had Boat Owners United. We had Seafood Producers. We had, and 
that was good back then because it brought the community from the fishing industry together. 
[1:10:05] EM: [continued] We used to have like around Christmas, a party that would bring us 
all together, you know what I mean? Outside of the working thing and just socialize and talking 
about? That was nice. That was very nice. But with all the changes and everything, it went down 
belly-up. All those organizations, one time was fishermen’s wives something. Even the blessing 
the fleet used to be such a big thing in New Bedford and then slowly this started, you know what 
I mean? I think with the new rules and regulations and all this way the business is going, it’s just 
made people spread their wings in different ways [phone rings] and not staying with that 
togetherness. It used to be so big, like I said. I’ve always looked for it; to just be with everybody, 
you know what I mean? Once a year, because this party would have a party. That party would 
have a party, so at the end of like maybe a couple of weeks of partying and you had like four 
times, you were all together. You know what I mean? Boat owners and their daughters, their 
sons, and we all knew everybody, so it made it nice, you know what I mean? Because it’s like a 
family of families that you put together and all be a big family. The bankers would come. 
Everybody. The fuel company people would come. It was lovely. Everybody get dressed. I miss 
those; I actually miss those times because it was like we were more, like family-orientated type 
of a thing where today is mostly business. I see for myself I used to have Christmas dinner, 
[phone rings] which I used to follow with my, a colleague of mine is an attorney so her and her 
staff and a family, us here and the families, we’d all go out to dinner just before Christmas at a 
thing. And then it started that this one couldn’t do it this day, that one couldn’t do it that way, 
and it’s like even in a family at home the oldest is going to go over there, the other one is going, 
so in the business also the same thing is happened because everybody is doing something 
different. You can’t commit to let’s stick together and do this today, you know what I mean? So 
unfortunately, that’s how we live in a fast lane, you know what I mean? We all got to go here, 
we got to go there, and first thing you know the most valuable things, which was getting 
together, it’s just all gone. That’s part of the world I think. Part of life that we all live a fast lane. 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
25 
Now it’s like I got to go, you know? I’m over here and I’m already thinking when I get home I 
got this to do, I’ve got that to do, and tomorrow I got to take the kids, they’re going to be 
screened to go to the academy, so it’s like, and that’s the pace that I find versus years ago life 
was so simple, you know what I mean? The biggest thrill was oh, I got to get up, take a shower, 
and go to work, you know what I mean? 
MHA: [laughs] And the work was a lot simpler. 
EM: Yes, everything was much simpler and then look forward after work to go for a drink. And 
today like we talk, we don’t even have time to do that. 
MHA: How many employees do you have? 
EM: There’s four of us here. Yeah, there’s four of us. 
MHA: So, still you and Marie? 
EM: Yes, and then Cheryl’s been here for a hundred years, and Wendy. Wendy’s been here. I’ll 
say, 12 years or 13 years. Yeah. I’ve had other girls that didn’t work out for different reasons. 
Got married or couldn’t handle the men. It’s tough. You need to not to let the men get to you, 
you know? Like I run business for Ziggy. Ziggy has, the drivers are male, you know? Like Ziggy 
said well, maybe he doesn’t like to take orders from a woman. I says well, then he has to go 
work elsewhere. That’s very easy. So one time I approached him and says you got a problem? 
Because if it is. I’m never going to have a sex change operation. 
MHA: [laughs] 
EM: So if you can’t take it, I says, you have to go work for a man, that’s going to tell you where 
to go. I says it’s as easy as apple pie because I ain’t changing, you know? We got along fine. But, 
you know, sometimes it’s like if I tell you that you got to go there. I’m not telling you because 
you’re a man. I’m telling you because it’s my job. That’s it. It’s my job. I says the truck’s got to 
go here or this person wants you or you got to go load the truck, because the price is going up. 
It’s business. I’m not telling because you’re a man. I’m telling you because that’s the way it is, 
you know? So sometimes it’s like that, you know, some men are like that, you know what I 
mean? They’re the man or something. That only lasts a couple of minutes with me, because I 
ain’t doing anything different. 
[1:14:55] MHA: You’re very straightforward, [phone rings] 
EM: Yeah it is. That I’ve always been. What I have to say I say it to you, I say it right to their 
face and they take it or they don’t take it. I’m not, it’s business. I take everything I can play. I 
can socialize with the worker. I don’t really socialize that much with the workers, but I can, you 
know what I mean? I’ll say can you please buy me a coffee, frappe, or whatever, you know what 
I mean? Because he’s doing nothing and I don’t have time to go. I can ask, but when it comes to 
business it’s business. Just because he bought me a cup of coffee [laughs], guess what? It’s still 
business, you know what I mean? Sometimes I’m working here and he’ll see my car and he’ll 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
26 
call me and he’ll say you want me to go get you one of your coffee things that you want? And 
sometimes I say yes, and sometimes I say no, and sometimes I feel obligated to say yes because 
I’ve said no so many times and he’s going out of his way, so I says yes, Mike, that sounds good 
and I’ll take it. I’ll open the door because I lock the door when I’m here alone and when he 
leaves, I just throw the coffee in one of those coffee things. I didn’t feel like it but I didn’t want 
to say no. I try to, like ever3dhing in life I do, I try to balance, you know what I mean? Because 
people sometimes get offended. Every time I ask her if she wants me to get a cup of coffee she 
says no, is there something wrong with me? You know that type of a thing, so I, [mimics] oh, 
yeah. I’d love to have a cup. You know? But that’s me and there. And then I have clients that are 
like more friends, you know what I mean? Like more in a friendship level, which makes it nice, 
too. Yes, it makes it nice where you do the business and strictly stay in the business and then 
we’re no longer doing business, we can have dinner, go out to dinner, or I go to Florida and they 
look forward to see me and going out with me and I look forward to go see them, because they 
live in Florida, you know what I mean? It’s nice. And sometimes like I really love him, him and 
his wife are wonderful people. And like just before I leave, he goes I don’t want to be bringing 
business into this, but I just want to ask you a question. And I’m like oh, you can ask me 
anytime, you know what I mean? It’s only a five-minute thing. That kind of thing. It makes it 
nice. It compensates for other people that may have the attitude of you don’t need to eat lunch. I 
need to have this done now, you know what I mean? It’s again the balance of life that you get 
somebody that says oh, please, I don’t want to, you eat your lunch and don’t get to it today, 
tomorrow’s another day. And then five minutes later you get somebody that oh, no, no, no, no, 
don’t be drinking your tea because you got to be doing this for me. I need this because I got to 
catch a plane. Okay. You know what I mean? And that happens. Yes. But, overall it’s good. It’s 
a good thing. 
MHA: Are any of your kids or, well, your grandkids are probably way too young to think about 
it, but — 
EM: Yeah, way too young. 
MHA: Are any of them interested in coming into the business eventually? 
EM: I don’t think so. I don’t think so. My son has been here and sometimes, yes, witnessed 
something that he says how do you do it? I couldn’t do it. I would already push them down the 
stairs. I says well, it’s sometimes you may threaten that you’re going to push somebody down the 
stairs just because they’re not listening to you, but you can’t. Like my son would roll the eyes 
and I says, you know, a lot of times I say if they would only hear what I’m saying between my 
teeth, you know? But sometimes you just cannot say what you really feel like it. You try to 
accommodate the situation and that’s a challenge, you know what I mean? Excuse me [talks on 
phone]. They call you to go shopping, because 30%. OK, I will. I have no time to scratch my 
head, never mind go shopping. So what was I saying? So that takes a talent, so no, my son 
wouldn’t take it. My daughter, she doesn’t have the mentality to put up with what I put up. It’s 
different generations and different mentalities of people. I don’t feel that way. I can face 
anything. I can handle any situation, so I have that mentality that it doesn’t matter how bad it is 
or like I have been in a situation where I was fearing for my life, but I’m like, I ain’t giving 
you’re the satisfaction because then I’m dead, you know? So I put up a big front in front of them. 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
27 
[1:20:00] EM: [continued] Like you’re not. . . Don’t watch your step, I’m going to smack the 
heck out of you. I’m going to give you a push and I’m going to break your neck. And inside of 
me, I’m like ready to have a heart attack, but it’s like I’m not giving you the satisfaction because 
you’re going to do something wrong to me. And I will do that and then after they leave, I run to 
the bathroom because I’m sick, but I’ve never given anybody the satisfaction that I was scared. I 
always make, you know, one time I was sitting here, some guy came in and he got me nervous. 
He got me really nervous and I just turned around and I goes I’m going to pull my gun out, I 
says, and may God have mercy on you. You know? He looked at me and he went running 
outside. But I was scared because, and then I found out one time he came here and he asked for 
money that his car broke down and he didn’t have money on him to get, I forgot what it was. 
Poor Marie, she’s very, very naive. She went to her pocketbook and she got money out. And they 
told me and I said don’t ever do that, because when I saw him, and they told me that’s the guy, I 
got nervous. I said, if you don’t give him money, what is he going to do? Here’s my daughter 
again. Excuse me. [talks on phone] You know what I mean? So there’s been situations like that 
where, let’s face it, there’s drugs around here and drugs cause problems. Like I tell everybody 
that I have no money, you know what I mean? There’s no money. We deal with checks, checks, 
checks. You know what I mean? Checks. That’s all I have is checks. Checks are no good, you 
know what I mean? We’ve been broken in once. They broke downstairs and then they busted a 
door that came upstairs. Obvious looking for money. They didn’t find money, so they got the 
picture ‘cause there’s no money here. 
MHA: You still deal with checks? 
EM: Yes. 
MHA: Do you do any online transfers and things now? 
EM: No. The only thing I might do is like a wire transfer if needed or somebody will wire 
money to one of our accounts or a fish house from down South or something, but everything is 
done with checks. The old-fashioned way. Yes. No direct deposits. Sometimes the fishermen ask 
and I look at them and goes I wouldn’t even know what to do with that, okay? I says you come 
and you get your check and you go make your own deposit because I don’t do any of that stuff I 
know. It’s still, maybe some day, you know what I mean? [phone rings] But not today. Not 
today. I tried to do the deposits through a machine and then if you make multiple deposits like 
we do, the bank doesn’t get them all and then we have to go through all the things. I said you 
know something, go to the bank, get a receipt just like the old way. I says that’s not for me. 
When you guys can’t keep up with it, with the volume, I says can’t do it. But because this is like 
not one business with one, this is one business that handles 50 other business. You know what I 
mean? A fish house, a boat might get one check from this fish house and another check from a 
fish house and decides not to settle. Go out again for a few more days, come in, now I got four 
checks. Four checks you put through the machine, the machine decides to pick up the first check, 
because accustomed to only one deposit. It’s not for the fishing industry. I refer to the fishing 
industry as an animal by itself And it is. It’s an animal by itself Eveiything we do, the 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
28 
accounting method of doing work for fishermen is slightly different than to a restaurant. And the 
terms, everything that we do is slightly different, so it is an animal by itself 
MHA: Actually, it’s probably a good idea when you look at all the stuff that’s being hacked. It’s 
probably good to just keep it. 
EM: Yes. No, it is. 
MHA: We still use checks in my house, [laughs] 
EM: Oh, I do too. I see people go online and doing this banking online and then once in a while 
I hear that somebody done hacking, now they got to get different checks because the thing got 
compromised on it. I go, well. Make a check out, put it in the mail. 
MHA: Since you’re still a woman that is unusual in a way, really — 
EM: Right. 
MHA: On the waterfront, although there are a few others. 
EM: There’s quite a few also. 
MHA: When you first started, was there any kind of pushback from other women? 
EM: [laughs] Think it out. A 22-year-old women, girl, I was not even a woman, I was a girl, that 
comes and I used to dress up very fancy and I used make-up, my hair was done perfect, and 
anything, none of those women liked me. 
[1:25:08] EM: [continued] I was a threat. And I’m like you may be fine with that. I wouldn’t 
want it. Because that’s the only way I can tell people. Don’t worry about me, I says, I ain’t 
changing my look. But that, I wouldn’t want it. [phone rings] They’d go like that, because that’s 
the only way I could let them, you know what I mean? To say something. I’m not that kind of a 
girl. They’re not going to believe me. They’ll just look at me. They just look at me pretty and 
they’re about this wide and crooked teeth or something, you know what I mean? So I was like a 
bad [unintelligible]. Right away, I would say oh, God, not for me. No, that’s not my style. And 
then it was like I was a snob or I was this and I just like, you know, there’s no need to fear me. I 
call everybody Honey. Okay? Going to put a gun to my head that I’m after somebody’s husband 
because I call them Honey, so I’ll say you know something? I go home and I call the dog Honey. 
Want to you want from me? It’s just a bad habit that I have, you know? Or an agent comes in 
here, throws a badge, I go oh. Honey. You know what you can do with the badge? I mean, but I 
call them Honey right away. I do that. If you come to my office. I’ll be calling you Honey too. 
Because I call Honey to anybody, you know? So it’s taken the women some time also to realize 
that I’m my person and I do my thing and you keep all your crap that you have. I don’t want it, 
no thank you. I have my own. You know what I mean? I’ve always had a man. I don’t need 
anybody’s man. So I had that little struggle when I first come and it all was to do because I was 
young. I remember one time somebody says, women talking to another woman, [phone rings] 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
29 
[mimics], oh, I don’t mind anybody in that office, but you know that tall skinny one? Oh, I don’t 
like her. What was I going to do? Change my looks? There’s nothing I could do about it, so I 
accept that. I was always nice to everybody’s wife. I always treated them just like I treated 
anybody, but I knew they didn’t like me. I remember Domingo’s wife one time said to me, oh, 
Edie, men just love you. You just walked into a room with your husband and everybody’s 
looking at you, the stroll, the way you’re walking. I’m laughing. She goes, men love you, but 
man, all those women, they could kill you with their eyes. I laughed. I says oh, yes, what am I 
going to do? There’s nothing I can do about it. I mean. I’m young, you know what I mean? 
Someday I’m going to be old. My skin’s going to hang down. I said my eyes are going to droop. 
My ears are going to droop. I says, but not today. So, I had that kind of, it was a little jealousy. 
I’m always handled it good. I remember one time, actually it was an ex-secretary I had here, we 
were at one of those parties, I don’t know if it was Boat Owners United or Seafood Producers, 
and let’s face it. I’m always the oldest of the group because I am the oldest. And she turned 
around out of the blue and she said to me, oh, my God, Edie, I just realized, because she was 
always going out of her way to be give me an act, you know? You’re the oldest of everyone in 
this table, [laughs] I said you know something Rose? You are right. So I had my glass of wine. I 
got up and says, I have a toast to make. So I stood and I said, I have a wish that all the young 
ladies at my table, when they get to be my age, they could look half as good as I do today. And I 
sit down. The men, they all clapped. It was no need for her to turn around and say that to me, 
because I am the oldest and I’m the first one to say I’m the oldest in my office. So if I go out 
with all of you [laughs]. I’m still going to be the oldest. So keep it to yourself, because we 
already know I’m the oldest. She was always going out of her way to give me a little and she 
probably thought that I was going to get intimidated, so I toast it. Things like that I’ve learned 
that you take a situation and you make the best of it, but you give always a little touch to what 
you just said to me, so next time you think twice, because I will come back because I’m fast. I’ve 
always been fast and that’s how I’ve been able to handle my business because I’m fast if I’m put 
in a situation and I’m out of it, you know what I mean? Very fast. And I put people in their place 
without letting them know that I’m putting them in their place. I don’t discipline anybody, I just 
make a comment according to whatever they just said to me. And they have to digest it. [laughs] 
MHA: You’re not insulting. 
EM: I just put them, it’s like, I mean, I said a good compliment and I wish [phone rings] oh, 
that’s a boat owner. 
[1:30:01] EM: [continued] [talks on phone; explains that she asked a boat owner who has time on 
his hands to look into Disney Cruise prices so she can take the grandchildren. He did the 
homework and was getting back to her.] See? That’s the kind of relationship I have with people. 
MHA: I won’t take up too much of your time. I know you’ve been very generous with it but I 
want to ask two things. One, is there anything that I haven’t asked you that you think people 
should know about your business or about even the waterfront or whatever? 
EM: No, I think we covered just about everything. Somebody has to do this kind of work. Let’s 
face it, even one boat owner, he can’t be going out fishing, come home, and do this paperwork, 
so it is grateful there is somebody many years ago decided that to start a settlement house, you 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
30 
know? It is, and especially today, with all this changes of the laws and what is required for the 
fishermen to do and learn that this area now is closed, this area now opens, you know what I 
mean? You can’t fish over here and this time of year you got to change the dredges, a reminder. 
So I think it’s a good idea that we do have the settlement houses that can help, can do the work 
that is necessary to do the work, because no business can be handled without paperwork. They 
don’t probably value all of the paperwork but they could not run their business without the 
paperwork. But it is the most that I find it that we can do, is help the fishermen, the captains 
especially, with their trip reports, that years ago I never even seen one, you know what I mean? 
They have to do, we have to make sure that they use the right code, that they didn’t forget one 
entry. All that. I’m glad that they have somebody that can help them. Some captains, they know 
it all, they’re able to figure it out. They don’t need much guidance, you know what I mean? But 
there are some with very little, they get nervous. A little change in the VMS they have to start 
calling the office because they can’t do it, and somebody has to calm them down and says it’s 
nothing, it’s only like this. Or we get a phone call from a guy out fishing that he just realizes he 
was set up his autopilot that he now realizes he just went through the corner of a closed area that 
he shouldn’t have gone, and now he’s petrified what’s going to happen and then he calls. Some 
of my clients call me Mom, you know? I don’t know why, but it’s like okay. I’m only three years 
older than you, but if you think I’m your mom, that’s fine. I don’t know if it’s because I go out of 
my way for them and they just take it upon to call me mom, then I start making phone calls to the 
federal agent and say, listen, poor Tony is besides himself He just realized that he went through 
and now it’s whatever. You know? I get them communicating with the boat. That, to me, is a gift 
that I can do that for them when they’re out there to assure them they can call me on my cell or 
outside of the working areas. I’ve had plenty of calls on Sundays from boats out fishing because 
they’re nervous, they’ve got a message that they cannot understand. Computers, again, like they 
just started a trip and then maybe the next day they get a message your trip has ended and they 
pick up the phone because now they’re like what am I going to do? I can’t go home, I just start 
fishing. They’re calling me up and I says, aw, I bet you there’s a problem with the things. So I 
make a phone call to, I have their cell phone numbers. So it’s all teamwork. Some people may 
not have very good use for the government but we all have a job to do and the government has a 
job to do, too, but there’s some nice agents that you can call them at any time with a question and 
they’ll gladly give you an answer and that way then I can turn around and given an answer to the 
fisherman that’s out there fishing, who’s just arrived and he is nervous and excited. And one 
thing like I find about the Portuguese, they can’t speak very good English, but once they get 
nervous, it’s like they can’t say a word in English, [laughs] Eveiything is Portuguese coming out. 
[laughs] It is good that we have this office for a number of things. 
[1:35:05] EM: [continued] Makes a living for us, but it’s also the ability to be able to help people 
that have struggles understanding the changes because like Abel, a nice Portuguese skipper, he’s 
been skippering for 30-some odd years, where he just drove the boat. Now he’s doing 
paperwork. It makes it hard. Now he’s got to go into a machine and tell the machine I’m going to 
go here and then every day he’s got to go into the machine and says I’ve caught so much today. 
Years ago you never did that, so it can be a little annoying to them, too. 
MHA: New Bedford was a little ahead of its time in a way establishing settlement houses. In 
other ports a lot of wives did it, the work, [overlapping voices] 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
EM: Yes, that’s right. 
MHA: I don’t know what they do now. 
31 
EM: Ell tell you one thing that I know for sure. Kevin’s father had a boat, actually, then he had 
partnership with other boats, so I think that’s how Kevin started. 
MHA: I see. 
EM: Okay? Newfoundlanders. That’s what they were. That’s how it started. Now, Margery 
obtained the business from Solveig. Her husband had boats, so she started a settlement boat and 
then with a Norwegian. So I think that’s how it got started here because there was the need for 
somebody to do, then the fishermen go out fishing and then get the money paid, get paid for the 
money in a brown bag and then start diving up the money. I think that’s how it started. That’s 
what I’ve always was made to believe. That Kevin had this father that had the business and 
Kevin actually started at that building over there, the Bourne house, I think it was, and upstairs 
the roof was half open. The pigeons used to come in. Yeah. He used to tell me stories like that. 
That’s where he started. And then he also went to accounting, took accounting, and became a 
CPA, then never, him and the state had a problem. I don’t think he’s ever gone for his CPA. 
Yeah, [phone rings] Certificate. He could have a little attitude. Very nice guy, but he could have 
a little, and sometimes you can’t, you got to be careful how when you talk to people that work 
for the state because they think they’re almighty. You know, and they like to rule you. So they 
ruled him alright, [laughs] 
MHA: Have you had a chance to go to the Heritage Center yet? 
EM: Not yet. We’re supposed to go. Phil, Phillip — . [phone rings] Because I helped generate 
some money and we were going to go there one day and something happened, I couldn’t go, 
something to do with the kids. I’m quite sure. Then we were going to do it another time and then 
something happened and the other day we were talking one of these days we’re going to go. It’s 
just that happens, it makes it hard at the end of the day. It’s like oh, I got to go home, I got a 
million things to do. But I would like to go. Yes. 
MHA: One of the things I was going to ask is if you could think about how you’d like the 
settlement houses to be portrayed? Because one of the things we’re doing with this is trying to 
think about how to design the next exhibit. 
EM: I’m going by my settlement house because I’m told that we do a lot of things here that, like 
Fairhaven doesn’t it do it. I’m quite sure you know Marge? Okay? She wouldn’t do what I do, 
but that’s nothing to do with me. Over there. I’m also told that she doesn’t do as much as I do 
and Kevin’s office is whatever. I just, it’s a house that does the settlements for the fishing. Not 
just the settlements which is the method of paying them for their trip. It’s also we try to keep the 
men out of trouble, the captains out of trouble due to the rules and regulations. We try to stay on 
top of it all the time, so that we can help the men. They’re fishermen. You know what I mean? 
That’s all they know how to do is fish, not, oh let me see, you know what I mean? Sometimes 
like I say to the fishermen, this is off record. If I was a skipper, before I got on the boat I’d make 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
32 
sure the lift raft was perfect and make sure all the lifejackets are perfect. I’d make sure my 
paperwork is right. My license is over there. My documentation is over there, because I would 
not want my trip messed up. That’s me. They don’t want to do it. You know what I mean? I can 
give a fishermen, I can give a boat owner the license. Now if he puts it in his truck and doesn’t 
put it on the boat, the Coast Guard gets on his boat, duh, there’s nothing I can do. I gave it to 
you. 
[1:40:00] EM: [continued] You left it on your truck? That’s the only thing I can do. Max. You 
say, you know something? I will bring it to your boat, you know? That’s the only thing I haven’t 
done yet, but that has happened a lot of times. Or a guy that has two boats and gets mixed up 
between the Kempton and Westport and decides to take the Westport documentation and put in 
the Kempton as he did and now the Coast Guard is over there and he’s like [high pitched 
mimicking]. And then they call me, always call me, Edie, [high-pitched mimicking, Edie], 
because you got to look good that Edie didn’t do it. You know what I mean? So I go right along 
with it. I goes I’m quite sure I did, but let me go check. Oh, I got a copy over here, so I know you 
have it. It’s got to be on the boat. You must be misfit, because I know they can hear. You are 
misfit. You go find your bloody paperwork, but if I got a copy you got the original. And then the 
Coast Guard could hear me screaming my guts off that I have the copy, you foolish, you don’t 
know where to put the paperwork stuff like that. So you got to do what you got to do. And that 
happens a lot. But like I say, they’re fishermen. Like sometimes I tell the feds, they’re fishermen, 
what do you expect from them? I say that’s why they got me. They’re fishermen. They go 
fishing. They doing their thing, you know? But it is important, going back. It’s the root, it’s the 
strength for the fishermen to know [phone rings] that they can pick up the phone and call and 
say. I’m not sure how many pounds of fish. Like I keep track on the closed area trips because the 
government, you don’t need to catch it all but then you have 51,000 pounds to fish. So if it’s 
going to take you 10 trips, so be it, but you can only catch 51. But you can never bring more than 
17 even if you’re left over, so you have to, so you know what I mean? They’re not going to keep 
track of it. So they’ll call today. They want it before they go out, how many? And you tell them. 
I says 5,050 pounds. They catch 3,000. They will not deduct what they had and what they 
brought, you know? They’ll call and says can you tell me how many pounds I have left over? 
I’m not going to say, boy, you had it now subtract it. No, it’s not their job. And their job is to 
fish. That’s the service that we can give it to them, calculate it, figured out, because you got to 
match because sometimes the government system has a problem with computers, so we keep 
track, their days that are left that they don’t go over. All that has to be done from a settlement 
house. Because they can’t fish and do the paperwork. They can’t fish and keep reminding how 
many pounds they have left over or how many days they have left over. They have to rely on a 
fish house, on a settlement house, yeah. Not just to get the pay, no. There’s much more besides 
the pay. Maybe somebody else is not aware of it, but a settlement house is not just, years ago, 
when Kevin started, that’s all he did. Figured out. They come in, divvied up the money. That was 
done. And paid the bills. That was it. There was no keep track of the days. It was free for all. Go 
out fishing. The draggers used to make 36 trips a year. Okay? To now make nothing, you know 
what I mean? They could fish all year around. Scallopers could fish all year around. The 
draggers, my ex-husband’s boat, I mean, you’d go out fishing for five days, stay in for three 
days, go out fishing for five days, stay in for three days, five days, they could make a trip in five 
days. Today? No. So there’s been a big change and a lot of more change of paperwork that did 
not exist back, even when I started in the ‘70s. We did the settlement, the quarterlies. 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016 
33 
bookkeeping. Strictly bookkeeping. Nothing. There was no, oh yeah, we renew the application. 
Nothing. Checks. Everything was the same. Till they start saying. If you didn’t catch so much 
this, now you can’t, you lost it. That kind of stuff that exists today. So back then it was, a wife, 
yeah, she could do the settlement, no nothing. No need to hire anybody back then. But it is 
important to have it in today’s, the way the business is. It’s really important that they have a 
good settlement house to keep them out of trouble as far as the rules and regulations, yes. That’s 
what we’re here for. 
MHA: You do an excellent job. 
EM: I try. I try. It’s got a lot of good stuff At the end of the day it’s good. Yes, it is good. It’s a 
business. It’s a job that I have, but it’s good. I might go crazy, but I like busy, you know? I like 
the challenge of day to day. I drive an hour home and I drive an hour to work and that’s the time 
that I think what I’m going to do at work, when I got this, and phone calls that I have to do. At 
the end of the day whatever I couldn’t get to return phone calls, I pick up the phone and I do all 
the return of the calls that I was busy and couldn’t do it. So it gives me that time to plan again for 
the next day at work, so that also to me, it helps. That extra hour that I have to think about and do 
the planning when I get to work I’m going to do this, that, that, you know? So it works. Got a 
good balance here. 
MHA: Yes. Edie, again, thank you so much. 
EM: You’re welcome. 
MHA: I really appreciate it. It’s been great. 
[1:45:33] End of audio 
Interview with Edie Mikina, December 10, 2016