Ironworkers Documentation Project: AMERICA WORKS
AUDIO LOG FORM
Interviewer's recording no(s).: AWP00168_SR01 AND AWP00171_SR01
Contact: Harold “Pork” Clausen
Interviewer: Jim Leary
Interview:
     Date: Thursday, July 21, 2011
     Place: Kitchen in Clausen home
     Other people present: Clausen’s wife, Sharon
     Background noise: fan/air conditioning, minimal
     Equipment used:  (audio recorder brand and model; microphone(s), brand(s), model(s))
Marantz professional PMD 661 digital recorder; Audio Technica C87 condenser microphone
     Recording medium used:  Kingsport 2 gigabyte SD[Secure Digital]memory card 362.4
megabytes, uncompressed WAV format)
     Recording engineer: Leary
Summary description of audio interview contents:
Now retired, Clausen talks about his experiences as an ironworker, with considerable emphasis on
bridge and power plant construction.  Late in the session, Sharon Clausen, was present
throughout the interview, talks about her experiences as the wife of an ironworker, raising
children while her husband was often on the road.  Note that the lengthy main interview is
supplemented by a brief second interview devoted to a fight story on a river barge.
Audio Interview Contents
Harold “Pork” Clausen, Interview Part I
Time
Topic
0:09    Announcement, initial question–when and where born, how you got into ironworkers
trade?
0:45    I was born in Prairie du Chien, Wisconsin, 15 miles south of here. And I’ve lived here all
my life.  I was born in 1941, April 26th.  And I was a laborer for a couple, three years, and I got a
chance to get in with the ironworkers. And I got in there, and I got my book in September 9th,
1963. 
1:18   [Why change from ironworker to laborer?] Well, there was better money in it and it seemed
like the guys were rough and tough and liked to get right at ‘er and go for it.  So I done my
apprenticeship in Madison, Wisconsin. I worked with some of the boys and they put me right to
the test right away.  Nine stories high and we were at the Jefferson [WI], the Ladish Malt House
which, at the time, was the largest malt house in the world.  We were demolition.  They would
throw me over the side with a cutting torch and down through all the duct work, starting from the
top and go down.  Just start stripping her out.  And the guys kind of got…favored me a little bit
so I think I got in quicker than normal because I was running with the boys.  Keeping up with
them.  [You have to lift your leg a little higher when you’re running around with the big dogs. 
LAUGHS]  Yeah, and I go my book and they started a nuclear reactor in Genoa, Wisconsin.  I
got to be closer to home to work.  26 miles.  But from then on, after that job was complete, I’ve
been everywhere.  Half of the United States and all over.  Lived out of a suitcase.  Saw my wife
now and then and my family.  The jobs are so interesting that every job is different.  You just
don’t know what you’re going to get into.  I just love it.  It’s all outdoors.  You deal with Mother
Nature all the time.
3:12  [Who were some of these older guys you started out with in Madison.  Can you tell me a
little bit about those characters?]  Well, at that time, Orla Coleman was our business agent. He
was a rough and toughie, big time.  He had a brother who lived in Gays Mills, Wisconsin, Vic
Coleman, he’s deceased now.  Neil Kane, he lives in La Crosse.  He was born and raised a few
miles from me.  He was the one that got me started in the whole show.  Took me under his arm.  I
lost my Dad when I was eleven and Neil, he kind of took me under his arms.  He has a
brother-in-law at Harper’s Ferry, which is an ironworker, Harland Luster.  He’s passed on.  And
we traveled quite a bit around together.  Every time we went to another job, they’d make me
foreman.  Keep me to the test.  I’ve been a foreman pretty much all my life.  You meet a lot of
different people and you’ve got to do the hard against them.  There are two sayings about this
job.  You can’t make it, you can’t stay.  And… It’s up the stack or down the track.  That’s the
way it went.  And if you walked on the job and you were going to sign up to go to work, and if
you pull a pipe out of your pocket, they’d just tell you, “Just put that pipe back in your pocket
because you ain’t got time to smoke it.”  That’s how it… You just run and gun with the boys all
the time.  There really was no OSHA, no safety equipment nor nothing.  You just rolled with the
punches. 
5:12 [Tell me a little more about Neil, as a guy and as an ironworker.]  Neil was a rough and
tough.  He still is to this day.  He’s 83, 84.  SHARON CLAUSEN:  He still stops in to see us. 
PORK:  Yeah, and he was rough and tough.  I got to run with him a lot.  There was no BSing
about nothing.  When you come out there, you were straight to the punch and got with the
program.  [When you started in Madison in your apprenticeship, did you stay somewhere like a
boarding house or…?]  Yeah, you just stayed in any motel or shack or anything you could find. 
We worked in the…  I ran on the road for 8-10 years with L.G. Arnold, a bridge outfit.  When we
left, we were up by Black River Falls or somewhere.  We were paid on Tuesdays but Tuesday… 
Monday night, they sent me to Portage, Wisconsin, on a bridge job.  I got down there and I had
no clothes or nothing, just what I wore to get down there.  It was closer to come that direction
than to come home.  So I went down there and figured I would get my check tomorrow.  Well,
the check never came.  I had $10 on me and nowhere to stay.  The motel room was 20 bucks.  I
called around town and there was an old hotel downtown in Portage, about 10-12 stories high. 
They had a room left for $7.  I boogied right down there.  It was upstairs in the attic.  You
walked in up there, they took me up.  You couldn’t hardly get through the door.  It was just a
little bunk bed and 25 watt light bulb with a string hanging down.  And I was whipped so I just
laid down, pulled the cord and shut the light off.  It wasn’t too seconds and a big rat jumped right
on my chest.  LAUGHTER  Yeah, I left the light on anyway and got my sleep.  Well, the checks
came the next day so I got me a nice room in the motel the next night.  And that night, the whole
motel burnt down to the ground.  So I figured I got lucky on that one.  I could talk forever with
so many different stories.
7:48 [You mentioned when you started out in Madison on that apprenticeship, you got kind of a
baptism of fire…  What was it you were doing, welding…?]  We had a cutting torch.  We would
demo, cut all the duct work off along the side of the building.  That same job, the grain dust down
there, they burned the sulfur and all that.  You had to run through those rooms to get to your next
project with a hanky over your face because you couldn’t see or nothing.  There were walls you
just run through.  But we were demolition down in the bottom of that building.  That grain dust is
like explosive, like gun powder.  We got to the end of that building and all that stuff was working
ahead of us.  Eventually it went off in one big flash fire, singed your eyebrows and stuff.  It’s all
over in half a second.  We got over to the Lansing Powerhouse.  I started over there…  I was the
longest man on the job, even the laborers.  I was there four years and ten months.  They built the
powerhouse.  That’s when they were building the hole and I connected on it and we put in the
rebar there first and connect.  When that was done, I had detail work in the building.  We put all
the catwalks in and the grating in the elevators and all that.  That place blew up twice.  Lucky to
get out of that one.  The feeder pipe--they were trying to run the whole plant and it wasn’t ready
yet.  They didn’t have the communications, the computers hooked up.  They were running it
manually.  The operations would run in their control rooms and they started turning the dials. 
Pretty soon them big boiler pipes would get cherry red all the way to the top.  Then they’d release
and blow.  That happened twice.  And as it was running, the coal dust, everything was leaking. 
Once one of them would blew, the people were outside and they would see fire going out of them
windows about 20 feet all the way around.  Whop.  It’s over.  Just a flash fire.  Before they would
blow, that building would start shaking so bad.  All that coal dust would come down black like
smog.  That’s what ignited and blew.  See.  That happened twice.  We never lost anyone on that
job.  [Where was that?]  In Lansing, Iowa, just across the river.  I even went to work by boat, but
every time I took my boat to work, I get off work and there would be a big storm.  I could run up
there in a boat quicker than I could drive around, so I just quit taking the boat. 
10:57 [Are there many guys along this river who are ironworkers or in the trade?]  Well, the
closest now would be La Crosse, which is forty miles from here.  SHARON CLAUSEN: 
Stoddard.  PORK:  Yeah, Stoddard.  I’ve got some buddies up there.  There ain’t too many left. 
Not too many left.  My neighbor’s kid, I gave him my tools and he took the apprenticeship
program.  He’s an ironworker now.  Tommy Lawrence.  I don’t see him much either. 
11:35 [So how did you get your tools?]  You just bought ‘em.  Most old timers had the
hand-me-downs.  They’d just give you their tools.  When you wanted something decent, you went
and bought new. ‘Cause hey do wear out.  [Did you get any hand-me-downs from people?]  Oh
yes, I got spud wrenches that fit 2 ½ inch bolts.  They’re longer than your leg, they drag on the
ground.  They’re collectables now.  [Did any guys mark their tools or modify them?]  Oh yeah,
we’d put a little weld initial on them or something.  And then there was times…we never had a
coffee break.  When you went to work, you went to work.  When the bell rang at noon, you slid
down off the iron.  You ate your lunch.  But normally when you’re up connecting, you packed
your lunch with you.  You didn’t’ have time to go down to eat and get back up.  So you just
carried your lunch in a five gallon bucket, to relieve yourself.  [Would you use knots to pull them
up?  Do you carry all that stuff on your belt?  Or would you just haul up some stuff?]  We’d haul
up our dinner buckets with ropes and stuff.  But you’d carry your belt right on you.  Your
average belt would weigh, then, while you had your spud, your sleever bar and your 8 pound
maul on you…and  couple of bolt bags full of bolts.  You average 32-35 pounds that you had
around your waist all day long.  You was sore every night when you got off work.  You didn’t
have any trouble sleeping.  You’d go to the pub right away and get a few quick ones in you.  Eat
a pail full, lay down and die.  That’s what you did.  And head out the next morning. 
13:43 [Did you climb columns?]  Yeah.  You didn’t get in the lift.  We just jumped on the
headache ball and zoomed up.  But what I liked--this time here, when there’s a fog in the
morning--we had radios.  They had…  Because the fog and stuff was so thick, and you’d never
see the ground until like 11 in the morning.  You’d look up and here comes a chunk of iron up. 
Then you’d talk to the operator about where to swing over and make it.  About 11 o’clock, the
fog would lift.  Then you’d see all your buddies down there working. [Is that along the river?] 
Yeah, up in Genoa, that job.
14:21 [Tell me about that job, at Genoa.  What you did there and what you worked on.  Any
incidents that happened…] Well, Genoa, that was the first reactor in the state of Wisconsin.  They
never really fired up over 15%.  When the reactor come in, it weighed 96 ton and it come in by
rail.  We never had no equipment to pick it with or nothing. They had the dome…  The
boilermakers built the vessel and its 140 foot high.  There was a 150 ton overhead crane up there
but that wasn’t completed.  Because later we had to line it with rebar and concrete all the way up
to the top.  There was a circular rail where the crane went around.  He helped with the rigging. 
Let me get back to that reactor when it come in on rail.  And all we had for rigging was two 25
ton chain falls.   Two 20 ton chain falls, and two 16 ton chain falls.  We worked composite with
the boilermakers because it was…we worked together.  The rail went right straight in to the side
of the building.  The reactor…and there was two buildings on each side.  There was a light pole
and it brought in a low boy to set that on.  We had to transfer it all the way around the building
and put it in a temporary hole in the side of the vessel.  I myself was stumped…  How are we
going to get the low boy in there?  It’s a 90 degree turn.  We had it hanging off the rail.  They
pulled the rail car out, hanging there.  Here come the low boy and they had a bulldozer there, a
big cat.  He got on the side of that.  He was up in the track and he started pushing the back end of
that low boy, sideways.  He’d back again, push it on, push it…  He got it right over there and it
was right over on the tracks.  Just everything beautiful.  Now we unloaded it, set it on the low
boy.  Now I’m thinking, how are we going to get that out of that.  We got that 96 ton sitting on
that.  There were 98 tires on that low boy, side by side.  The whole flat bed was nothing but tires. 
So he started pulling it out.  Well then the dozer got out on the other side.  He had to start
shoving it side ways the other way.  And then tires were flattened…right flat…rim to the black
top.  And I thought 500 times, they’re going to start blowing.  They kept nudging and nudging.  I
kept quite a ways away because I thought those tires were going to blow and all the rest of them
are going to start blowing.  We got that out and brought it down.  We had it in place to take it in
to the temporary opening.  The reactor was 13 foot 1 inch wide, it was 41 foot long.  Of course,
when we loaded on the truck, we took all of our rigging inside and took it clear to the top and
hung our 6 chain falls on there.  And then they had the big hook come down.  And they had
trunnions on it.  So when you take it in, they had to tip it to take it up.  We started early.  We
started at 5 o’clock that morning.  At 11 o’clock that night we had her set.  We took it all the way
in, and up and back on to its pedestal.  You run them chain falls, and every once in a while, all the
load would go into those 16 tonners and you couldn’t pull them.  4-5 guys would have to jump on
one another almost…on their backs…to catch up.  You know?  And we done the whole thing
from 5 in the morning to 11 at night and gothert set.  [That isn’t something you learn out of a
book, is it?]  No, you got to switch your rigging.  A lot of that stuff…  The Lansing powerhouse,
the buck stays, when they fired up the boiler, they didn’t have enough buck stays on this.  It
started to expand and wanted to bust apart.  They had to double up everything.  They run all the
rest of the guys out of there.  The ironworkers ended up finishing the whole job.  We had 60 foot
beams, like 18 inches deep and we brought them in the door downstairs and you had to take them
up through the side of the building, tip ‘em, run around, change the rigging all over.  We put them
all in.  And if the crane could reach high enough, you slid some of them through the windows. 
Take them on around the corner and all the way through the building or around the back. 
Wherever there’s room to slip all them girders up and through and around.  Kept changing the
rigging all the time. 
19:50  [So did you learn rigging from some old veterans?]  Oh yeah.  But it’s a knack.  You can
look around.  I used to trim trees around there for the guys over their trailer houses and houses
and stuff.  I’d just climb the trees and throw a rope over that one. I’d have her or someone else
hanging on the rope.  I’d say, “When this goes down and over their trailer, as soon as that swings,
let go of the rope.”  Dump it over there.  We done a lot of that.  [That’s pretty good.  I’ve done
work with working loggers and they always have to figure out…]  Yeah…  [What sequence
you’re going to fell it and how you’re going to do it.  What to cut...]  Yeah…yeah…  [What to
do…what the terrain is doing and the tree…]  Yup.   We do all that.  [It’s similar…]  Yeah, and it
takes…experience or whatever you call it.  You look it over and you’ve got a problem.  Then you
sit back and you really look her over and figure out your right move.
20:51 [Any accidents on that job?]  Yes.  The sheeters were sheeting a building…and this outfit
was out of Georgia or somewhere…  And they’re finishing a job down there and they were
complaining that our trade wasn’t getting it done quick enough.  So they brought three guys out
of Georgia…  And they were on their swing scaffold.  They were up on the roof on the parapet
wall.  The scaffolding was quite long, probably 30 foot or whatever.  Three tiers high.  You had
to pull them up and down rope falls for your positioning.  They started at one end of the building
and they were zinging right along.  They were doing twice the work we were.  But here they had
wheels…  Their out-riggers go on the roof…and up…and your scaffold hangs down.  They put
wheels…  Every time you wanted to move, you went up and moved them manually by hand.  Put
them in place.  But they had wheels on there.  They’d get swinging that scaffold and they’d move
themselves while they were on the scaffold.  But at noon they set in their truck.  They were in the
beer…  And they were going to finish that one day.  Well, they moved it…and got to the corner
of the building.  They got shaken and they took it right off and down she went.  The other half of
it stayed up.  They went 85 feet.  Two of the guys went down.  Swhooosh.  The ground was
frozen.  One guy was laying on a set of oxygen, acetylene bottle.  Broke his back…but they both
survived.  The other one… When the scaffolding went down, just like a scissors.  And he slid out
through there and his legs were poked out through there.  He just locked in.  They got the crane
over there and got him off.  As I heard later, they all come out of it.
23:05 [When you were a foreman, did foremen get called a pusher…and you got the instructions
from supervisors…]  Yup…  [or whatever…pushing you.  And then you’ve got to push the men.] 
Yeah.  [Do you have incidents like that?  What are you…] You’ve got to get on them.  And then,
hey… “It’s my way or no way, ‘cause you’re going to hurt yourself or someone else.”  You just
get on them.  And if you don’t get on them, “Just come out to the office.  I’ve got something for
you.  LAUGHS  Your check.”  You know?  Because it’s--I always want to work as safe as
possible.  [So you got a push back at the guys from the top who were pushing you to go too
fast…but you got to push your men…]  Yeah, and you got production.  You’ve got to have your
production. 
23:52  The worse one of them all was--President Johnson had his poverty program.  Everybody
got a job then.  I mean, if you were walking down the street, you’re going to work.  We was on
the Taconite Mine up in Black River Falls.  I worked up there three months.  I slept in a closet for
three months.  There was no place to stay because there were tons of people working up there.  I
was a certified welder at the time.  We’s out over the tracks.  I was at a coal bunker where they’d
load in the train cars.  There were two or three concrete floors and then we was welding the
tanks, the hoppers, together up above.  We stayed on our scaffold, took our lunch there.  And
there was a big power line…  The poles were huge, huge.  They looked like they were probably
150-160 foot tall.  They took power over to the plant.  They had a big crane, truck crane out
there, Bucyrus Erie.  I think it was dinner time or break time.  I think we were eating dinner up
there.  Of course the oilers take care of the crane when…dinner time, they’d go grease it and fuel
it up and everything.  This Bucyrus Erie, truck crane, had about 140 foot of stick in it or
whatever.  But we’re sitting there having dinner and we heard the crane start up.  The oiler
jumped in and picked up the out-riggers.  He was going to move the crane around.  Well, here is
that big power line up there.  He drove it ahead and hit that thing and KAPOW– an explosion you
couldn’t imagine.  And here come this ball of fire about as big as your car, coming right at us.  We
seen it…  It was like a quarter of a mile.  And here come this ball of fire.  And I said, “Shit, we’re
going to be had here.” Because we’re the last obstacle setting here up on this tank.  LAUGHTER 
It went right on over our head and hit that pole over there.  It had a ground cable.  The ground
cable was like an inch or better, big around, all the way down.  It went ZAP right down through
the ground.  And after work I walked over there--that was another couple of feet back in the
woods--you could stick your hand all the way into the side of that pole where it got so hot and
burnt that down. 
26:42 But anyway, a day or two later, they had that rig over in our area.  The electricians had
them big power panels.  All that was in them floors—it was all open, it wasn’t sheeted or
nothing--but the concrete slab and the toe plate was sticking up, like six inches all the way
around.  Well the electricians, they swung them panels in there and they were laying flat down on
the ground on the floors where they needed them at each level.  And there was a young kid, I
think he was from La Crosse.  He was an apprentice.  And it was on the second floor, I was on
the ground or something.  The electricians went in and they welded pipe across, put the chain fall,
their come-along on, so they could tip them and stand them up right.  Well, here they had a piece
of conduit and one of them broke.  And that kid was on the wrong side of the load.  And it
knocked him, he went right on out.  And when it come down, it cut both legs.  And he's pinned up
here on the stove plate, hanging upside down, blood running out of him.  And you couldn’t get to
him.  There was no crane or nothing around.  And old Clarence Laub [Law?] my old buddy from
Minnesota, and another old timer from Madison, and they just quick looking around. And they
got a step ladder, like a 12-footer or something.  The other guy came around with a plank and I
ran over.  And they stuck the ladder up from the floor below.  Stuck the plank out…  I got up
there and got on that and I held him upright while they got the crane over there…which was way
over there.  That poor kid.  He was begging for God and everything else.  I held him for, like, 45
minutes.  He died in the hospital later.  But talk about a story [chokes up].
28:44 [Leary talks about a foundry accident and asks about accident stories.]  Yup.  [Is it
common to tell a newcomer a story about what would happen if you didn’t do what you’re
supposed to?]  Yeah, we’d straighten them out right away.  If they get funny on the job, and this
and that, that don’t go.  It’s too easy to get hurt.  Where the heck else were we?  Up at Genoa,
we had some apprentices come down and they was structural.  They drive in drip pins and bull
pins and stuff.  So when we get down, why we set down and I said, “You’ve got to be good.  If
you’re going to be good, you’ve got to drive these pins into the beam plates on the ground.”  You
straddle them and give them some drip pins.  They’d beat them right on through.  “Now if you’re
going to be good, you’ve got to do it blind folded.”  So when we’d blindfold them , we’d put the
handkerchief around their eyes, but we take their hardhat off.  We had the pins there and they had
their maul or beaters.  So when we took their hardhat off, we’d blindfold him and put their hard
hat on the drip pin. LAUGHTER They’d whale away at their hard hat.  LAUGHS  
30:33  But--and you’d send them to the tool room.  “Go get me a lead stretcher” or something
like that.  They’d go around and ????  all the old timers in the thing.  “Well, I just rented that out. 
You better go to the other guy over there and see if he’s still got it.”  You’d be send them kids all
over the job.  LAUGHS  They’d,  “They ain’t got no lead stretcher yet.  They ain’t back yet. 
LAUGHS  They didn’t bring it back to the warehouse.”  LAUGHS  [Did that ever happen to
you?  Did you get set for something?]  Oh, I don’t remember yet but they pulled some good ones
every once in a while. 
31:15 Up in Genoa, it got so goddang cold up there.  This job…  We almost begged to get laid
off.  There was nothing to do but the contractor got paid so much and the government or
whatever.  “Nope, you’ve got to stay.  You’ve got to stay.”  We just finally made it up, if it got
10 below, we weren’t going out.  So we went out to the thermometer outside the shack and we
got that so you could slip it up and down.  LAUGHS   And we’d get a day off every once in a
while until they caught up on that.  [What would you do on your day off?]  SHARON:  Fishing… 
PORK:  But anyway…  [You’re not going to answer this question?]  LAUGHS  Go to the pub. 
SHARON:  Yeah.  
32:10 We worked on an additional fly ash project and stuff.  They put a fly ash slip form up.  We
done two or three slip forms.  Zip, zip zip--150 foot stacks.  You got them up in 5-6 days.  I was
working 8 hours a day on the job and they couldn’t get any more ironworkers.  And they was
doing a slip form right there.  I’m working double shift now.  I’m working nights on the slip form,
and they had an old, old crane I think came over on the Mayflower. LAUGHS  We was up
probably 120-30 feet.  They had--in the center of the stack--they got the big hopper where they
dump the concrete.  Then they dump it in the wheel barrels and the laborers run around and put
the concrete in the forms.  And it’s dark at night, and they bring the crane up.  They were using
radios.  And the guy’s on the platform, dumping.  And he watched to clear, ‘cause our rods and
our dowels are sticking up about 10 or 15 feet.  He went to swing.  As soon as he cleared, he’d
tell the operator, “Go ahead and swing.”  Well, he went up and the operator stopped.  The bucket
was unloaded, and the operator went to set the brake.  And down come that
bucket--shooop--right into the hopper.  It’s just a plywood platform and, every 5/16ths of an inch,
every two minutes, they’d jack that form.  And just luckily, it landed right straight in the hopper. 
There’s like 14 of us up there.  If that would have happened, when he brought it up fully loaded,
the whole works would’ve went right down through—everybody would’ve got it.  And then we
shut the job down right there.  Find out what the hell happened.  And here one little cotter pin on
the brake pedal let loose down there that released that sucker. 
34:34 And old Red Philips—the dome, the vessel up there at Genoa, the boilermakers put it up. 
And they welded scaffolding all the way around the top.  They’re just prongs, and the arm come
out, scaffold bracket…  And they was timber blanks…  They were like 10 foot long, 3 inch timber
by a foot wide.  I mean, heavy suckers.  The boilermakers got done and they never took the
scaffold down.  So the old superintendent, Old Red Philips, he was from Florida I think.  And he
was one heck of a man.  He was 70 something years old.  “Come on Pork.  We got to get that
scaffolding down.”  I just worked in the gang then.  They had that old crane that they’d lost on
that other one.  And they had just enough boom to get to the edge of the dome up there with the
crane.  So now--it’s the big dome--old Red says, “You stay down there and tie on.”  We took two
ropes.  He was up on top of the dome.  He ain’t got no safety line on or nothing.  He just walked
up there, it’s 360 foot in the air.  [70 year old guy?]  Yeah.  And I’m down, and of course the
scaffolding is about 5-6 feet down and you couldn’t see him up there.  Pretty soon, we got to
work everything back.  There was enough hook left--I’d stack a few of them up, and then the
crane would swing them out.  But for him to get up there, he had to jump on the tip of the crane
and go up with the two ropes.  One rope would come over, then the other one.  There was two
planks in each one and he’d give me two jerks and I’m tying on a plank.  But he knew what he
had a hold of–he had the plank.  And when I left, I’d tie one end on the plank and I’d pull it over
to me.  He’d let it come and I’d go tie the rope on and I’d have the other rope I’d tie on the
bracket.  So I pulled that one over.  Then he knew the bracket was there, he’d pull that up.  Then
he’d have to walk around and swing it so I could get a hold of it.  Neither one of us could see one
another at all times, see.  LAUGHS  So we stripped that all down—and climb back up on the God
damn boom and climb down the boom.  [Climb down the boom?!?]  Oh yeah.  LAUGHS 
Anyway, whatever happened to that rig, it laid there for six weeks.  The mechanism didn’t work. 
Couldn’t boom it, never even got it off of there.  Just left it there until they got it fixed. 
37:30 But talk about fun.  Had a crane operator, Bob Johnson from Eau Claire, he’s probably one
of the best I’ve ever seen in my life.  I’ve got a buddy who lives down the road here, he was gifted
too.  340-50 foot of stick on the big Manitowocs, they’re the Cadillac of cranes.  If you wanted a
1/16th of an inch, you got it.  You didn’t get this, and that, and that when you were connecting. 
But Bob Johnson, we were buddies.  We followed that same job.  We had a bridge across the
river in Portage.  And the river goes up and down all the time, so you had to leave your barge out
in the middle of the river and spot it because the water is up and down.  So we had a boat. 
Everybody came to work in the morning, hop in the boat.  Bob would be out there and go first a
lot of times.  He’d just swing the headache ball over and I’d ride out all the time on the headache
ball.  [The crane was on land?]  No, it was on the barge.  And then we had winches and spuds. 
You pick ‘em and move ‘em, and then you drop them.  A lot of times, him and I were out there,
moving the barge.  He got to show me how to run the crane a little bit.  But every time…I got my
gear on there, that son-of-a-bitch took me out in the middle of the river and set me right down to
my chin in the water.  All my tools, everything.  LAUGHS  So one night, we partied up and he
was late for work.  Guess who was setting in the crane seat.  He came down over the bank on the
headache ball right there and jumped on that thing.  Well, guess what happened to him?
LAUGHTER  What goes around comes around.  LAUGHS  He never even looked to see who
was in the crane.  He thought it was the other superintendent, see, but it was me.  And I dumped
him.  So then—everybody got coming to town, we’d go to work in the morning.  I’d get on the
headache ball and he’d take me up and start swinging around and round.  And I’d be straight out,
about three circles out there, around and around we would go.  He would bring it right now and
set you down, just like you’d come over and set in your chair.  That guy was good.  But now you
don’t dare getting on getting on the headache ball or nothing.  LAUGHS
39:48 [How important was it to have a really good crane operator if you were connecting…]  We
refused.  If he didn’t give you what you ordered, you’d give him the high ball.  Won’t work with
him.  “You ain’t taking me down buddy.”  We’d quit. We’d throw spud wrenches right down at
him.  Get someone else.  “We ain’t working.” 
40:08  But what gets you the most up there, that you don’t see, is the wind.  You’ve got to get up
and go.  Usually there’d be a rat race to see who is the quickest.  You’d bring up the girder. 
You’re always setting, making your point.  The other guy is over here making his point.  Well, my
partner somehow was sick or whatever and I didn’t have my partner.  We had a guy from…I
don’t even remember where he’s from.  But…as soon as you got your spud in the hole, you run
over and you knock that choker loose.  But I never…and it was my own fault.  Of course it was
with a strange guy, first time up and…  He was supposed to be a big hot dog and…  I was
keeping up to him and then I was gaining on him a little bit.  But I run over and the next thing I
knew, the operator let the load down and the girder flipped.  I just got to it and got my hand on
it…  The guy’s left handed and I didn’t know that.  I’m right handed…so I’m sticking this and
he’s left handed…  “You’ve only got a pin at each end…”  That first one…  “What’s going on
over there buddy?”  I realized… 
41:34 But my biggest one of all--and I thought I had met my Waterloo--we done the detail on the
Lansing Powerhouse.  And the crane operator--it was a Manitowoc--I think there is 340 foot of
stick in it.  Well I had a coal bunker.  We was lining, putting a coal bunker together.  I’m six,
eight stories high or whatever.  But we had our shack on the roof.  I had 42 guys, and I was
detailing and all that.  They had a man box.  Everybody got in, they’d jump in it, he’d zip ‘em up. 
They’d step out and down into the bunkers and work.  I come around the corner.  It was just
break time.  The operator was just getting out of the crane, and I knew he was pissed.  And he
just threw his hat down.  He got into the rig. He had to take my orders, I was foreman.  He got in
that son of a gun.  This box was big as this table and it had a two inch, four foot choker.  Stiff as
your arm.  They had big eyes in them.  Well he was--they were connecting with the rig. They had
the hook mouth back--the safety hook—they had that wired back so it was just an open hook
there.  I jumped in that thing and he boogied me all the way, just as hard as he could go.  He took
me all the way to the top.  And I’m twice farther up than the building was down there–where he
was supposed to let me off.  And I’m “Goddamn it, is he having a heart attack or what?  He’s
going to run me right through the goddamn jib.”  I dropped the blue prints.  I’m just going to
grab, jump, because I know, I thought he was, whatever happened.  He took me right to the top
and he stopped. WHAP.  I looked up--and that choker come right out of that hook.  If it would
have went another inch, it would have hit the headache ball and bounced out.  But it went up and
dropped right back in that hook.  I’m over 300 foot in the air.  And I just says, “Take me down.” 
I went right on down to the ground and I stepped up there and I unmouthed the hook and put it
back in.  But I still see that today--that sucker coming out of that hook.  Whoa-ho.  [You were
going up so fast…?]  Yeah, the momentum…  [And you jumped in…  Wow…]  Yeah.  When he
stopped, the whole load come.  We were boogying…  LAUGHS   [Did you beat him up after
that?]  No, no…  He’s a friend of mine and he is to this day…  But they didn’t realize that he was
working with connectors.  He swung the box over and let them down and they never unmouthed
it.  Because when they started, they were going to go again.  [And he had no idea….]  No, he
didn’t know it was mouthed back, but he was just pissed because he was late for break. 
LAUGHTER   I still see that sucker up there…  [Wow…]
44:46 [I want to ask a couple questions…  When you talked about Red Philips on top of the
dome.  Here is the guy that’s running the job…]  He was superintendent [How common was it for
a superintendent or a foreman or whatever to…instead of ordering people around…to actually be
out there…]  Everybody refused that project.  He said, “You’ll go with me, won’t you?”  I said,
“You bet I will.”  And he had a son…they were from Florida.  What do you call it…  He kept him
with him, he had to take care of him all the time.  He was a laborer.  But…he would walk out and
everybody knew…and they had their orders to stay away from him.  Leave him alone.  He’d
always walk across the job and he’s always talking to himself and everything.  He might pick up a
rock and then there was a bulldozer sitting there.  He’d start throwing rocks at it, cussing and
everything.  We’d be up, they’d be vacuuming or something. Pretty soon he would sweep it back
and clean it all over.  [He wasn’t right…]  He wasn’t right.  No.  But everyone knew that…  We
kind of got along with him.  But old Red, he had to take care of his son.   He drove to work one
morning, it was frost.  He came in…he’d wrecked his car coming to work.  All he had was a little
peek hole, he rubbed the frost.  LAUGHS 
46:26  hat one guy, Old Freddie Glenn, he was always late for work and he’d drive just like crazy. 
He was from Waukon, Iowa.  Tires as bald as that all the time.  He always boogied in right to the
superintendent’s shack.  There was a big power pole there.  He’d back up to that and he’d jog
over to work over there.  And he’d go up town every day at noon and he’d come back with a pint
of whiskey in his back pocket.  Every time he came by me or one of my other buddies, we’d pull a
spud wrench out and GONG.  Bust that.  LAUGHS  And he’d, “God damn, you guys are picking
on me.” He says, “I sure hope that’s blood.”  LAUGHTER  But anyway, he was chasing women
or whatever, and he run in the goddang shack and he get some after shave, jump in his car, and
he’s always the first one on the gate.  So a lot of our materials would come in these big crate
boxes, sitting unfolded all the way around on real thin boards and stuff.  One of them unfolded, it
was like 16 foot long or 20.  We folded that up and put some #9 wire on it and slid it underneath
his car and wired it up to his car.  He couldn’t see it.  So everybody’s waiting for him.  Out the
gate he went and down the road, and he’s already doing about 70.  And here that thing went
swinging around me like—cars were pulling off the road and honking the horn.  LAUGHS  He
took it right on down and there wasn’t nothing left but the wire but he never knew it was behind
him.  LAUGHS
48:20 [When you were on that job with Red, you talked about using ropes to tie knots.  Could
you talk a little bit about learning the knots and where they came into the trade…] That was in
our apprenticeship.  We had books tying knots.  You can tie bowlines, running bowlines, dragging
bowlines.  Do you know what a dragging bowline is?  Its all on the ground and dragging behind
you.  LAUGHTER  I know all kinds of knots.  [Was it pretty common to use different knots?] 
All the time, all the time.  You couldn’t tie a knot and not even have a knot.  You just wrap the
other one and it would stay tight.  And if you want to release, release it and never have a hitch in
it or nothing.  [Like a clove hitch kind of thing?]  Yeah.  I’ll show you what I’ve learned here…if
I can find on.  I’ll teach you that…  I teach a lot of kids that. [I have some rope in the back of my
car…]
49:40 [So you talked a little bit about that guy connecting.  How important was it for team work
and a good partner connecting?]  Well, a lot of these guys that run and gun, they’re getting like 2
bucks over scale, hot dogging it.  Usually you’d get your own partner.  You never have to look at
him.  You know what he’s doing all the time.  Everything.  But that wind up there--I got stuck up
at the power house one day, the girders--the girds were like 44 foot long and ten inches wide--sag
rods.  You poke them, and you threw them up and level them up so there’s sheeting.  And a storm
came up and I’m in the middle of that sucker. And there are just loose bolts.  There’s only two
bolts in there.  That thick.  And that sucker was setting there like this.  I hung on for like 20
minutes and I’m half--you couldn’t do nothing, but they got the rig over and got the ball up. 
50:55 The big job that was really different was the old toll bridge in Prairie du Chien.  And that
was--about 60 foot above the water--was the suspension bridge.  We repaired it.  Wherever the
cable come down it was 15 foot spans.  We had a swing scaffold, two bays full, we could do. 
There was ten inch high beams and all they had on there was 3 by 5 timbers and they had 1/8th
inch by 1/16th inch asphalt slabs, just like tile on your floor.  That was on top of that   During the
period of years, they salted things.  They salted it.  And that run down on the flanges, the lower
flanges of the beams.  They got so rotten that the collapsed and curled up like an open beer can. 
You could drive your fist through a lot of them, see.  Underneath is 4 inch X-bracing, and there’s
a 18 inch girder spanning the bridge.  It’s a cable belt [bell?], and another one over here.  There
were seven of these ten I-beams.  We had formed angle iron and stuff.  You’d slap in there and try
to weld it to reinforce it.  But we had to get the state patrol over there.  If anybody hit the bridge
over 10 miles and hour and you’re sitting there welding.  You about break your goddamn neck if
they were speeding.  So we got the state patrol right there to slow them down.  But any time the
wind blew over 20 miles an hour out of the north or south, you’d sway 12 feet this way, you sway
12 feet that way, LAUGHS  all day long.  LAUGHS
53:53 [Did the heights ever bother you ?]  No, no.  I froze on the iron once, down at the bridge to
nowhere in Milwaukee.  But we were on strike here for some reason.  Milwaukee needed help. 
So we were putting in these false girders, just false work.  They had the false work up and we was
setting these girders.  They were 85 foot long and 10 foot deep.  You couldn’t reach your hand to
the top of them. And old Red Lingdahl--he was from Rio, Wisconsin--he was my connecting
partner.  We--my buddy’s from Harpers Ferry [Iowa], it was his birthday the night before--had
been drinking the night before.  We got smoked.  Come out the next morning and Old Red, up his
false work, he had a ladder all the way.  I said, “Red, you take the ladder, I’ll scan the iron.”  And
I went up there, 14 inch column or whatever.  And you had to go like 40 feet per crack before
you get another brace so you could stop and rest.  You had to take her all the way.  LAUGHS 
And I got up to the top and I got my leg over.  And, man, I had it, I froze right there.  I could not
move.  But I crawled up the right side of the false work and, now when the girder comes,
there’s--all we did was c-clamp the bottom flange down because it was just temporary.  And I’m
just setting there, sitting there like this.  Pretty soon, the next thing I knew, here it is, right in my
face, right in my lap: the girder and everything.  I looked over and there’s Red over there.  And I
just clamped her down, and I could not let loose of that clamp or nothing.  And I’m setting there. 
I’m going to go up and unhook, but I couldn’t move.  Old Red, he pulled his spud out.  Plop,
plop plop, up he went.  He unhooked that.  Whap! [Pork claps his hands.]  And I’m out of it just
like that.  That was the only time I ever got scared.  It was just exhaustion from partying the night
before.  Wore out. LAUGHTER  [Do ironworkers party a lot?]  24/7.
55:12 [You mentioned connectors getting more than scale.  Is there a hierarchy in the job with
different parts, rod busters?  Or how would you say who was the highest, lowest in terms of
status and rivalries?]  SHARON LAUGHS   Yeah, they…  But I’ve done it all.  I just drug this
out of my truck today. [Refers to some photographs.]  It’s the first time in 26 years I was able to
walk to work.  I had a…  They re-did Highway 35 down here, from here to Prairie du Chien.  I
had five bridges and seven box culverts.  I could walk to work.  This might be me here, tying the
pier cap, rebar.  I worked up in Wausau with L.G. Arnold.  We was out on the Yellow River.  We
had twin bridges across the beltline in Wausau.  They were 800 foot long and the water was 46
foot deep.  And I learned a lot on that job.  The carpenters use sheet pilings, you know, they
interlock.  And then they pump them out and all that [i.e. pump the river water out of the area
enclosed by the sheet pilings].  Anyway, they put their template out there, their big timbers.  And
that’s where you wind the sheets around them, which you drop them in.  You get 3-4 in.  But you
got to ride--the carpenters, nobody would ride--the stirrups and bring them out.  The sheet
column was 75 foot long.  And they’d swing them out there, and you’d have to get a hold of that
sucker and thread it in and start it.  The first one, the operator just drops it and tries to make it
stick because the current’s so fast and everything.  So then you get up on that one and bring the
next one and start it.  And then he turns her loose—zzzzziiiip--right on down.  Turns her loose. 
And you’re setting on this one, and you never lean back because that other one might come right
down and rip your back out too.  So you’re just setting on that 16-incher there, and then maybe
the whole works behind you.  The whole works would go down, one will stay up, one wdown. 
One down, one up.  Well then, you climb to the next one and the next one: and on and on and on
and on.  And then once it’s all around, they pack them full of grease so when they start pumping 
them, the water seals--because they have to get that dried down on the bottom of the river. 
We’re 46 foot down there.  And they clam bucket all the mud and everything.  They got to go all
the way to rock bed.  Well, they drive the piling until they can’t drive them any more.  And they
get down to the rock bed with the clam bucket and they got what they call a treamy, I think they
call it.  It’s like a big vacuum cleaner only it blows it opposite.  They got like a 600 air
compressor.  It blows down and out comes the water.  And there’s boulders and stuff come out of
that thing. And they actually just sweep the whole bottom of that thing.  Then they start pouring
concrete.  They’ve got the big pipe with a hopper on it.  And that—zzzziiiip!  Nobody’d ride that. 
So I got to ride that and dump the bucket.  They had two buckets, two yard buckets.  A rope on
one, dump it.  You can’t loose your seal, your prime.  You could throw a basket ball in there,
ahead of the concrete.  Set her down and the concrete comes and it don’t get mixed with water or
nothing.  Every so often you’ve got to keep bringing that up.  That gets up and you just stay on it. 
It gets so high up in the air, well, now you’ve got to cut it off, shorten her off because you’re
bringing that level up.  So then you lose your prime again.  So they pull it out and they cut 20-30
feet off of that pipe, stick her back in, start over again.  Throw the ball in and—whsstt--away you
go again.  But the ball pops back up.  And it took us 21 hours that night, in the middle of winter. 
Cold and oh God, storm, blizzard.  But--the crane’s out here in the middle of the river, frozen in
the ice--you’ve got a bucket over here.  There was two barges.  They’d swing it to that barge,
he’d pick it up and then they’d send it out to you out there and dump it.  LAUGHS   [So you’re a
pilebutt too, eh?]
1:01:12  Anyway, I learned on that job.  How are they going to pump this out while the water is
running in?  ‘Cause they pump it out, then you could all put your rebar in and all the forms, and
the rebar, bring the pier out of the water.  I said, “Virgil.  You ain’t going to catch up with this
goddang water and these pumps down there.”  “Oh,” he says, “I got a truck coming, don’t worry
about it.”  You go down to the paper mill, and he gets a truckload of cinders.  They brought them
over to the barge.  Get a five gallon bucket and you walk around the sink, look over the side
where its leaking.  He dumped the cinders right down along the side.  The water pressure’s
sucking it in, it sticks to that grease.  It’s like you took caulking right down your window.  It was
unbelievable.  But you had to watch.  Any time there was a load coming in, rebar or whatever, if
you bump that thing at all, all the cinders would fall off and you’re flooded instantly.  You swim
out of that sucker every once in a while.  LAUGHS  The operator would hit it with something,
you know. LAUGHS 
1:01:23 But we had--they brought 1200 foot of dike across the river.  It was 12 foot or 14 foot
on one end, these two bridges, and we hit 22 foot high on the other end [i.e. the elevation of the
bridge in relation to the ground].  That bridge was in a bend.  Here they brought the road straight
out, but right out in the middle of the river here are two bridges.  But now, we started setting the
iron, all the way out to the last connection, it was a double connection, see.  Had everything full. 
We had the bridges.  We started.  We had all the girders all the way back to open this hole up. 
We had big jacks, an abutment, against the girders.  So when this last piece comes in, you just
jack them together and you got her made.  Now we’re like 2000 feet down the river, the D-9 cat. 
It was a cable because our girders are straight.  Our last connection, we had to do this [indicates
with his hands], bend that in.  We made this point, now you have to bend that over.  You’re
setting on the radio: “Get up on her, get up on her.”  You’re riding it. And he’s pulling that girder
over there.  It’s sticking out about 8-10 feet because it’s straight.  And he’s down there, 2000
feet, half a mile down the river, pulling on that sucker, the cable.  Of course, the rig is holding it
level and you just keep pulling it.   LAUGHS  Got her together.  He’s going to just slide her, then
you slide flush plates in there and start pinning her, you know.  Got her over there.  That
son-of-bitch was 5 ½ inches too long.  There’s like--how many goddang girders is on that thing? 
I think there was like 16 stringers, like 16 girders to do the complete thing.  So now we had to
shut the job down.  What’s wrong?  Luckily, all the iron was fabricated right there in Wausau.  So
we started girder for girder, all the way across the bridge.  You get your detail sheets out.  This is
supposed to be 62 feet 3 and 5/8ths inches or whatever.  Every one of them girders was anywhere
from 5/8ths to 3/4 inch too long.  That’s what got us when we were out there.  So we had to ship
all that shit back and make new.  LAUGHS  They plug-welded all the holes and re-drilled
everything.  [Oh, man.]  I was up there 21 months. 
1:04:16 [How did you get your nickname?]  I was 2 ½ years old and I lived in Winona,
Minnesota.  The bedrooms were upstairs.  I had a little kitten.  And I got up early one morning,
went downstairs in the kitchen.  The kitten was meowing.  Well, I opened the fridge and I was
going to get some milk.  I couldn’t reach the milk.  Didn’t have enough sense to slide a chair
over, but it was so much easier to pick up the kitten and put the kitten in the fridge.  LAUGHS  
There happened to be a platter full of pork chops in there.  When the folks come down there later,
the cat was that big around and got fed.  So the neighbor started calling me Pork Chop.  And
finally the chop fell off.  LAUGHS  SHARON:  It’s been Pork ever since. 
1:05:23 When I went to school, I never had a class with a girl until I went to high school.  There
were nine boys in town.  Six of them were named Jim.  So the teacher--lot of them call me Jim yet
to this day—‘cause every time she’d say, “Jim.”  They’d all…  Then she started pointing to me
and all the rest…  Everybody ended up being called “Jim” in class.  LAUGHS   I had an old dog
who sat right beside me.  For eight years…right beside my desk.  SHARON:  INAUDIBLE  
1:06:10 [So were there many guys with nicknames on the jobs?] Yeah, Darold Coleman.  You’ve
heard of Orla, the BA [Business Agent].  Well then Vic, he was one tough guy now too.  He
knew his stuff.  He was the superintendent on the Lansing job.  And you come out and if you put
a cigarette in your mouth--and he’s standing there--and you took your second match, he’d grab
that cigarette out of your mouth and say, “We ain’t got time for this shit”--if it didn’t light the first
time. SHARON:  What was his nickname?   PORK:  And another thing, if you had a pipe, you
weren’t going to get hired.  But his brother, Darold, his nickname is Snaker.  And how he got his
name, he’s up on the scaffolding and I think they were sheeting or whatever.  I wasn’t on that job. 
But they were picking them sheets up, suddenly a big bull snake was laying under there.  One guy
grabbed that snake and said, “Darold, do you want this?”  “I don’t like snakes.”  The guy went
like this [twirls his arm] and he gave her a whip up there.  It made about two wraps right around
his neck.  And ever since, that’s how he got his name.  Snaker. 
1:07:41  You couldn’t get him excited about nothing.  Him and Bob Dougherty, the ironworker,
he lives in Avoca.  Good connector, welder, everything.  Good buddy of mine.  They rode
together from--I think 70-80 miles--they drove together every day.  They got off work and they
were going back on the Lansing bridge.  And Bob’s driving.  And they didn’t hardly get off the
bottom of that bridge and bump bump bump.  The transmission went out of the car.  Snaker gets
out and Bob’s under there and looking.  He was just cussing—mad!  And Snaker said, “Well,
Bob, you know this could have been a helluva lot worse.”  And Bob said, “What the hell are you
talking about?  What do you mean it could have been a helluva lot worse?”  “Well,” Snaker said,
“It could have been my car!”  LAUGHTER 
1:08:4 [Jim and Sharon talk a little bit.  Jim:  I bet.]  Down at the Rack job down in Prairie du
Chien, there was 78 foot high, there was an 1/8th of an inch tolerance.  Everything was
computerized.  One fork truck come in and SHLUP SHLUP SHLUP.  There was no floor drains
in the building.  So the rain and the snow and shit--we had like 10-15,000 anchor bolts--every
Goddamn morning, we had to dry that whole floor out.  We were working composite with the
millwrights.  Snaker, he’s down there, and I’m back and forth.  I come back an hour or so later.  I
said, “Snaker, you haven’t moved a God damn, done a thing, or nothing.  Just been standing
there.”  He said, “I’m practicing.”  “What do you mean you’re practicing?”  “Well, you know deer
season is coming up.”   LAUGHTER   You couldn’t get him excited for nothing. 
1:09:41 [So how did you dry the stuff?]  They took air hoses and start pulling a puddle of water
out, and they walked behind with air guns.  Just keep blowing.  Then they had big rosebuds [i.e. a
welding torch brand name, Rosebud Acetylene Heating Heads] and heat the concrete with that
and dry it off.  [Every damn day?]  Every day.  It would take 3-4 hours before you could get
started to work. 
1:10:08 [You mentioned L.G. Arnold.  Are those initials of the bridge company?]  Yeah.  L.G.
Arnold.  That was years and years ago.  Shit.  I run all over with them.
1:10:28 [I had an old friend, he’s dead now, he was Ho Chunk.  Ken Funmaker.]  Kenny
Funmaker?  Hell, yeah, I know Kenny.  [Did you work with Kenny?]  Oh shit, yeah, nothing
excited him.  And the other one…  [Max?]  Max.  Crippled arm? [I never met Max, I only knew
Kenny.]  Well, there was one more.  [Robert?  There was a Robert who…] No, I’m thinking of
Willie Lonetree.  He was a good old Indian worker.  And he was with us over there bolting-up
and stuff.  He’d go right up the iron.  One arm, that’s about as far as he could move [raises arm
level with shoulder], but he worked with you all day long.  [Did he connect with one arm?]  No,
he just—finishing up, bolting up, filling the holes and stuff.  His wife--they lived in Lansing up
there--and every pay day, she’d pick them up.  He never got a penny.  We was giving him money,
and this and that.  He liked his whiskey.  LAUGHS “God damn it, Pork.”  For some reason, they
brought the checks out early or something.  And he said, “Give me a ride to town!”  I got him up
town before she come down to get his check.  And he would get smoked. 
1:11:53 [Kenny told me…  His dad had been an ironworker and he started when he was a
teenager.  He hurt his back on the Portage Power Plant.  I met him after that.  Any memories
about Ken at all?]  I never worked with him that much, but he was jolly and easy to get along
with.  Fun guy to be around.  He was pretty witty.  [I had a few drinking bouts with Kenny. 
LAUGHS]   Well, we worked over at the Portage Powerhouse later on.  That was another one of
them jobs.  We set there for two weeks.  They wouldn’t let us out of the shack.  Getting paid 10
hours a day.  And we were going nuts setting there.  We played cards and stuff.  It was me and,
well, Dick Pankow.  They called him “the Chinaman.”  Then there was Paul Pulpus [sp?/doesn’t
show up on Local 383 rolls] or something.  There were three of us.  And the guy with the casket
and the motorcycle. LAUGHS  He made a motorcycle out of a casket.  That’s all you’d see,
going down the road, was the casket.  Did we have fun with that sucker! SHARON:  Yeah. 
PORK:  He pulled in here one morning at 6:30 with his gal friend, and she looked like Dracula’s
sister.  LAUGHS  She’d get in that thing!  SHARON:  I can’t think of his name.  PORK:  But we
sat there, and they brought a whole bunch of iron, just out in a little different area, a little
machinery building two stories high.  No blueprints or nothing.  And we was setting there.  We’d
go in and out of buildings, just killing the day.  And we kept looking at that iron, and looking at
the iron.   Paul says, “God damn we better get a rig over here before the superintendent--Big Ray
Krause, of course he’s dead now, I think, from Mazo [Mazomanie].  He wouldn’t bring nothing. 
He’d leave and he wouldn’t come back until quitting time.  LAUGHS  And there we set and
couldn’t do nothing.  So anyway, after the second week, Paul says, “Goddamnit, I’ll go get us a
cherry picker and we’ll set that son-of-a-bitch.”  We set that whole building and we only had three
pieces of iron wrong.  Just by looking at it, we knew where everything went. 
1:14:21 [Well, what happened?  What was going on?  Were you just sitting around and couldn’t
work?]  That’s when we worked for Research Cottrell [Hamon Research-Cottrell, a New
Jersey-based company specializing in pollution control for power plants, paper mills, etc.].  And
that was another one of them--you’ve got so long to get her done, and they didn’t want her done
too early.  LAUGHS  SHARON:  Wasting money.  [So in other words, they bid more than it cost
to build?]  PORK: I suppose.  Or they were getting some percentage of the manpower on the job
or whatever.  Well up there at Genoa, that the same thing.  We did get laid off.  I made more
Goddamn fence post drivers, and gates, and tool boxes.  That’s how I learned how to weld. 
Nothing to do but…  [Making stuff out of scrap materials…?]  Yeah, we had our breakers and
our benders, and toolboxes.  Make everything.  [Do you have any of that stuff around I could
photograph in a bit?]  SHARON:  Well, that swing out there, you kind of wingdangled.  PORK: 
Yeah, I just throwed that swing set together.  I think I got a toolbox…  SHARON:  You’ve
constantly made how many things for other people.  PORK:  Yeah.  SHARON:  But as far as
here…  [You’ve got a toolbox?]  PORK: I’ve got one out in the garage.  SHARON:  You’ve got
that big thing in the garage that you hang up deer on…  [A deer pole?]  …and that thing to bring
all that rope together.  Pull up the lawn mower and stuff.  PORK:  Rope falls?  Yeah, I got rope
falls and shit.  SHARON:  There aren’t too many people who could just do that.  [Yeah,
right…right.]  Around here.  PORK:  I have some spud wrenches down there that 99% of these
guys probably never seen.  LAUGHS  [Do you use long ones?]  Yeah.
1:16:26 [I heard there was a guy over in Boscobel who’s an ironworker who makes belts and
scabbards and stuff.  Do you ever do any of that kind of stuff?]  No.  I never heard of anyone over
there…  I got a friend over there who is an ironworker.  Greg Bell.  [Ryan Roth]  Ronnie Roth.  I
see him about every…once a week.  He comes over here fishing all the time.  [He’s funny.]  Yeah,
yeah…  He lost his kid down in Madison.  He was on the wrong side of the load.  [That’s hard.]
1:17:13 [Just a couple more questions.  This is great, I love your stories.]  I’ve got millions of
them.  [Tell me about booming out.  You said you worked for Local 1…and some of those
experiences, working with different locals.]  Local 1, number 1 out of Chicago, and we finished a
bridge.  There’s some pictures of it right there.  We finished this and we went right out to Sioux
City, Iowa, across the Missouri River.  I was the first foreman they sent out there.  They had
foremens from all over: Chicago and Florida and New York and everything.  But I was the first
one they sent out there.  And the day I got that call to go out there, it was a Sunday afternoon and
I had my suitcase, and I opened the door, and the phone rang.  I heard my business agent, my old
buddy Jay Anderson, rolled his tractor over on his farm and got killed.  They wanted me to be the
pall bearer.  At that time, there was no work.  And the business agent said, “Well, Pork, if you got
a job, go.  We’ll get somebody else.”  But I never got to bury my buddy.  We had a half a week’s
unemployment check left.   He said, “You better go to work.”  There was no work. 
1:18:46 [What’s that like when a guy dies on the job?]  You shut her off right there.  Everyone
comes down and you go to the bar.  Start over the next day.  [And funerals, do they bury…or are
there things that ironworkers…do special?]  No, not really.  [What about topping out?] 
SHARON:  Like when your Mom died, the ironworkers sent you a bible, a really nice bible and a
really nice card.  PORK:  They come personally.  SHARON:  Condolence card.  Yeah. 
1:19:34 [Any topping out ceremonies that you remember?]  Oh yeah, when that last chunk of iron
goes up, everybody goes and chonks her then. LAUGHTER  Well, job’s complete, you know. 
[Any memorable ones that you can think of, topping out, what was involved with it?]  No, same
routine.  But we had the one up at Genoa, it was Christmas time and we got to set a train up on
top of the stack up there, just a monorail system to get the material all the way up the top.  We
wanted to talk to the sups [superintendants].  Well, “It’s Christmas time and we’re going to put a
tree on there, and some lights, string her up.”  He wasn’t going to let us do it.  Well anyway, it
got inside the building and got decorated and everything.  That was the last piece of iron for us
too.  Everybody got together and once she come up [the last beam], she got lit up there too.  And
he come out of the office and never said a word.  But he was, no way, going to let us take that up
there.
1:20:57 [Sharon, could I ask you what its like to be an ironworker’s wife?  It’s always good to
get this perspective.]  SHARON:  Well, when the kids were little, it was pretty rough, because he
was never home and I learned how to take our--we lived in a trailer--and I learned how to take a
furnace apart and put it together.  I can take my stove apart and put it back together because I
had to.  I was lucky that I had his Mom and Dad downtown.  But--and the kids--he actually
missed out on so much when the kids were little because he was never around to see them take
that first step and all that, because he was gone away.  But then when he got at Genoa, and that
kind of thing, it was fine ‘cause he was home every night.  I remember one time when he went to
Sioux City and he was going to, they were going to fly him back every month.  Well, it ended up
to be, what, three months.  PORK:  I worked seven months, seven days a week for seven months. 
Daylight till dark.  SHARON:  Finally I thought, okay.  I was working at the school and I think
Jeff was a sophomore.  He was the oldest.  The two girls were younger.  And one day I just said
to my Dad, “I am going to buy myself a car and I’m going to Sioux City this weekend.”  So I did. 
Didn’t know where I was going, nothing.  Put all the kids in the car and away we went.  First
thing we did was hit a skunk so, you know, the car smelled like skunk.  Then when I get finally to
Sioux City--it’s just so straight and boring, in Iowa, you know--we got to Sioux City and I wasn’t
used to driving in a big city and I could see him over there.  I could see the job.  I kept going
around him and going around him.  It took me, what, about a half hour before I finally found the
turn-off to get over there.  And then we lived in this trailer with him, and we got a snow storm. 
So here we are in this little dinky trailer with three kids…  PORK:  You can’t open the door. 
SHARON:  We couldn’t open the door because the snow was so high. LAUGHS   Oh my God, it
was a trip.  Then, what about a week we were in there--PORK:  Yeah--SHARON:  before we
could the front door open so we could come back.  PORK:  They shut the whole town down,
everything.  There ain’t no stores, gas stations, nothing.  They don’t go out and plow it until it
gets a crust on it.  You’ve got that wind blowing all the time.  I kept track.  I got my books. I
logged everything.  Everyday.  I got stacks of these books.  I logged everything.  SHARON: 
Anyway, actually it’s not that bad.  It’s, you know, you just got to do what you got to do.
1:24:26 [Could you make any generalizations of ironworkers as a group, what their life is…?] 
SHARON: They are fantastic people.  They are!  Like him, he’s just a specialist.  It’s got to be
perfect.  We would have Christmas parties, the ironworkers would have Christmas parties in La
Crosse and stuff.  Very respected and I don’t know, they’re, I think they’re good people.  I
haven’t seen any that aren’t. 
1:25:02 [Has he ever burned up his clothes or…anything like that…  You know, guys who
weld…]  PORK:  I’ve been in the hospital three different times for 2-3 days at a time and never
take the bandages off your eyes.  SHARON:  Well, you spent the whole weekend doing laundry. 
His had to be done separate.  That’s what you did the whole weekend.  Then you’d start on
Sunday afternoon, packing him all up again to go.  Food and all that stuff.  [Some wives have
made special gear for their husbands or socks or one thing or another.  Did you get into that?] 
SHARON:  I never had to do that because…  PORK:  We was in our Carhartts [a clothing brand
favoring the building trades] so…  SHARON:  Yeah, they all wore their bunny boots or whatever
they call them, and their Carhartt coats.  They their own favorite gloves and--I’d do it again.  I’d
marry him again. LAUGHS
1:26:13 [That’s pretty good.  Do you have any last words, Pork?]  PORK: I don’t know, we
could go on for 2-3 more days if you want.  LAUGHS  [Some guys are joke tellers and I’ve heard
a few jokes.  Ironworker, carpenter, laborer…  Any jokes like that?]  I don’t know…  I don’t
want to bring it out ‘cause the language ain’t right.  LAUGHS  [Okay, okay.]  Well, you got,
when you’re connecting, I was fortunate enough when I first got in--you don’t hear about rivets
any more--I got one job of riveting on one bridge up in Minnesota.  That’s the old boys, they
showed me how.  [Heating and…?]  Heating and tossing them up and catching them.  Guys
would have them go down their shirts, burn a hole in their back and all that--and laid them over. 
And old Red Lingdahl, from Nelson, he was the heater.  And I watched his hands, blistered so
much they was as big as footballs, and he’d stay right there and keep heating and pitching them. 
But he also had his quart of whiskey setting there by the clock too. LAUGHS 
1:27:41 But speaking about rivets, they had an ironworker, an Italian ironworker, he’s up on the
iron.  This is just a joke now.  He’s way up in the story, and he said he got to piddle.  But he said,
“I go over to the corner of the building and I’m going to piddle, and I looka down and I see all
the people down there.  You can’t piddle on the people.”  So he says, “I go over to the other
corner of the building, I looka down and I see the people down there. You can’t piddle on the
people.  I got to the other corner,” he says, “same thing. I look around, people, you can’t piddle
on the people.”  And he says, “So I come to the next one and there’s a hole there in the iron.”  He
RRRR  RRRR [Imitates the sound of a rivet gun in action, as if a bolt was ready to tighten.]  
LAUGHS  [I thought you were going to say that he saw a bunch of carpenters and then that was
ok.]  LAUGHS
1:28:22 [Have you ever gotten into it with carpenters?]  All the time.  We was up at Genoa and
they had a carpenter foreman.  And he run around, he kept stealing our work and everything. 
This one tower up there is concrete, deck.  And the pipefitters--he’s up doing their work and
everything.  As soon as you leave, he’s got his nose in everybody else’s business.  Well, they had
their pee bucket up there and all that.  And one day, he was coming up the stairway, up around,
and they just opened the door and dumped her on him, about two stories down.  I threatened to
do it myself a lot of times.  But, he was so damn ignorant, you couldn’t tell him nothing.  You’d
slap him in the face, you wouldn’t even get across a point to him, you know? 
1:29:20 If you’re not in no hurry, I’d like to give you a little tour of my place.  I’ve got 25 acres
here.  I got trails. You caught us behind now.  We’ve been on vacation.  We mow every day.  We
mowed all day yesterday and the day before.  We got one more day to finish mowing yet, with
two riders.  We got trails out there, mazes.  There’s four creeks out through here.  Some of them
are dead end.  You got to turn around and come back.  But you go in and hit 3-4 trails, but when
you go in there to a dead end, you turn around and come back.  When you come back, you’re
looking at 3-4 more.  Now which one did I just come in on?  LAUGHS   When I first started out
all this.  I’d holler at her, “Bring me over a beer, Ma.”  She’d be riding right along through these
trails.  “How do I get there?  I can’t find you.”  She’s only 20 feet around.  SHARON:  I can see
him but… LAUGHS  I still kinda get myself lost in here.  [Kind of like going to Sioux City.] 
Yeah.  [So you’ve been here a while?]  SHARON:  Oh yeah.  We’ve been married…47… 
PORK:  48 ½.  WIFE:  48 ½ years.  [Wow, I’m coming up on 33 next week.]  This used to be a
junk yard.  Her dad--I had a chance to buy this, I bought it--“You don’t want it.  It’s nothing but
a fricking junk yard.”  And I said, “I’ll clean it up.”  We lived in a trailer, right over here by the
clothesline.  Then we there were 90…no, there were 42 cars taken out of here.  There were 91 all
the way down through here.  And there was another 325 over there.  And…everywhere a car
set…   The guy…  All that was left at the sale was the body and the frame.  He jerked the
radiators out, took the engines out, the money stuff.  And the rest set.  Whatever’s left after the
sale, is yours.  I said, “That’s fine.  I’ll clean it up.”  It took me a little over 7 years but me and
Johnny Armstrong and the cutting torch did her  But the radiators, the anti-freeze, oil and shit,
everything.  The grass is dead and rotten.  I get that car out of there, and I’d dig all the mud and
oil and junk out.  I hauled fresh dirt in and seeded it.  Then I’d go to the next one, down the line. 
1:32:09 Then another guy…  Well, he said he’d buy the boom truck which had a smasher.  And I
had a 10 ton truck and a little Ford truck with a cutting torch on.  Well, I’ll buy that.  We’ll junk it
out and I’ll split the money with you.  This went… This was a great big guy with a birth mark on
his face and everything.  And I’m gone all the time and getting that cleaned out.  All of a sudden
I’m thinking, something’s wrong here.  He’s buying cars and bringing them in.  I said, “Freddie,
when we clean her up, this place is done, clean and we’re out of here...”  Well, then…he was a
boozer.  It was either too hot, too cold, too many bugs…too many this…  And he saved all the
little shiny knobs out of the cars and packed them in the cars.  I told him, “Freddie, you’ve got 30
days to get your shit and get out of here.”  “Well, we got to keep this.”  So I got pissed off.  I
came home one night and there’s a farmer up the road.  They had seven cars in a string coming
down.  That’s what triggered it all.  LAUGHS  I said, “Now get your shit out of here.  And now.” 
So I got my big propane tank.  I walked over there.  There are 325 cars over there.  And I opened
each door, took her under that seat, go to the next.  Stick it under, go to the next.  I had 125 cars
burning at one time.  Now I said, “You ain’t got nothing to save any more.  You can get them or
get what you want or whatever.”  “Well, I don’t know…”  So I called a car crusher out
of…what’s their name?  His brother is a state trooper?  SHARON:  Childs…  PORK:  Childs. 
Bob Childs from Boscobel.  He put the whole car on.  They brought the semi down. “What do
you want for them.”  I said, “I want nothing.  You take them son-of-a-bitches and you can have
them”  “Oh, I’ll give you 50 cents a piece for them.”  I said, “I don’t want nothing.  All I want is
you to clean them up and get them out of there.”  And Freddy’s sitting there, he’s got piles of
cash here and everything.  And I said, “The first thing you do is take your big machine over there,
your big fork truck, and pick up that pick-up with the torch in it, set it up on that 10 ton truck. 
He went right over there and set it her up there.  I said, “Freddie, is there anything else you want
around here?  You’re out of here.”  LAUGHS  He got in the truck and left.  But I torched
everything over there.  He kept bringing them in and buying them, I couldn’t catch up. 
1:34:51 [Well, cool.  I’m going to shut down here.  Great interview…]
Harold “Pork” Clausen, Interview Part II
Time                   Topic
0:01    Announcement re: one last story.
0:18    You want the one about the Sioux City [IA] bridge where they got in a fight? [Right.]
Well I worked Sioux City for American Bridge. And I’m up on top and I supply the two river
barge gangs with their tools, or rigging, and all that–‘cause there’s a barge on each side of the
bridge each time to lift the girders and all that. And one guy was from Kansas City and the other
foreman was from Chicago.  And they never got along too well.  And the guy from Kansas City,
he was always a step ahead of the other guy.  He always had the rigging and his iron hooked up,
rigged up, ready to go the next morning.  And the other guy, he was always lax, behind, but when
the tugboats would go out, he’d hitch his tugboat up to the other guy’s and take the riggings off
of his girders.  And when the other guy got out there, he wasn’t ready, and he’d get in trouble. So
that kept brewing, and fighting.  And we [Clausen and Leary] got talking about hard hats.  The
“piss pot” is the umbrella one.  Well the guy from Chicago, he had his filed down, like a razor
blade, all the way around.  Well they got into it that one morning.  There was ice on the river and
everything.  And they took their life jackets off and they met right up at the head of the barge. 
And the guy with the piss pot hard hat, he reached and took it off his head, and he swiped him
right across the forehead and laid her wide open.  Well by that time, he got decked by the other
guy, and it was on the upstream side of the barge. And he knocked him right on off, and down
under the barge he went.  And I’m up on top watching it all.  And the guy never was coming up. 
And I run to the other side of the bridge. Everybody was looking for him.  And he popped up,
down stream. They got him out of there. Well then the guy that knocked him in was, I said, was
the good guy.  He was a pretty good buddy.  And he just grabbed his lunch bucket, headed for the
shack. Figured he was getting fired. And as it ended up, why the other guy, from Chicago, he
went down the road.  They kept the other guy [from Kansas City].  I thought that guy was a
goner.  Well, he was gone. They run him down the road, but he’s still alive today I guess. [How
many years ago?] That would’ve been 1982.  On the Missouri River, Sioux City, Iowa.