1 
 
Project: Trash Talk: Workers in Vermont’s Changing Waste Management Industry 
Narrators: Marie Frey and Richard Hudak, Owners and Operators, Hudak Farm  
Interviewer:  Virginia Nickerson 
Date: April 5, 2019 
Place:  Geranium greenhouse at Hudak Farm and composting facility, Swanton, VT  
Transcribed by:  Teresa Bergen   
 
Nickerson:  So, this is Ginger Nickerson. And I am interviewing Marie Frey and Richard— 
 
Hudak:  Hudak. 
 
Nickerson:  --at Hudak Farm in--are we in Swanton or Saint Alban’s? 
 
Hudak:  Swanton. 
 
Frey:  Right now we’re in Swanton. 
 
Nickerson:  In Swanton, Vermont, in greenhouse number— 
 
Frey:  It’s the geranium greenhouse. 
 
Nickerson:  In the geranium greenhouse on April fifth in Swanton, Vermont. So could you each tell me 
what year and what town you were born in? 
 
Frey:  Marie Frey. I was born in 1956 in Cleveland, Ohio. 
 
Nickerson:  Okay. And how about you, Richard? 
 
Hudak:  I was born, this is Richard Hudak. I was born in Roxbury, Connecticut, about three miles down 
the road from where Arthur Miller was writing Death of a Salesman. At the time I was being born, I 
presume. Roxbury, Connecticut, 1950. October 23rd. Ancient history. 
 
Nickerson:  Great, great. Thank you.  
 
Hudak:  Sure. 
 
Nickerson:  So I’m going to ask, because this is a project on occupational histories, I want to just ask each 
of you if you could tell me briefly, how you would describe your current job and how long you’ve been in 
this line of work. So Marie, let’s start with you. 
 
Frey:  So I am the co-owner of Hudak Farm. And at this point my focus is raising bedding plants and 
vegetables and herbs and a lot of ornamental flowers to sell to the public and also doing almost all of 
2 
 
the seeding that’s done here, both for our field operation and to sell to the public. And I do all of the 
bookkeeping except for the payroll, which thank heavens we have someone else do. I’m the chef and 
I’m the housekeeper, most of the time. And I’m mostly in charge of employee relations regarding, you 
know, who gets hired and when they start to work and just the PR of having a lot of people around 
working with us. I like to, I’m the order keeper. And that’s sort of a, that’s a tricky situation. 
 
Hudak:  She’s applying a history of German engineers to horticulture. 
 
Frey:  Yes, that’s what it is.  Anyway. So you know, I just feel like I’m all over the place. And sometimes 
it’s effective and sometimes it’s a little bit scattered. But I guess that’s what it involves to be a farmer 
and also to have a retail business. Because our whole method of selling our products is through direct 
customer farm stand and greenhouse. So you know, there’s all of that sort of upkeep in terms of the 
way things appear and just the presentation and the effect that our buildings have on drawing in 
customers. I mean, we definitely have a collaboration about that, too. But I’m the fussy one as far as the 
way things kind of look, in a sense.  So is that, I forget, is there more than that? Or that’s-- 
  
Nickerson:  And this farm has a compost operation. Are you involved in the compost operation at all? 
 
Frey:  I only am with the finance of it, and also as often as I’m available, I help to wash the food waste 
totes, which are up to about 150 a week at this point. So when I’m able to do that, it’s the two of us, but 
that’s-- 
 
Hudak:  We do it in the winter. 
 
Frey:  Yeah, that’s when I can help out. 
 
Hudak:  We don’t have employees in the winter. 
 
Frey:  But I don't know the recipe. I’m not involved so much in meeting with the solid waste district, 
even though I might be peripherally there. But it’s not, it’s just kind of more than I can handle. So I’ve 
stayed out of it. 
 
05:47 
 
Nickerson:  So Richard, how would you describe what your job is? What your job title would be. And 
how long have you been in this line of work? I’ll ask you more detailed questions to dig into that later. 
But just now, what would you say your job titles are? 
 
Hudak:  I guess I would say that you know, you certainly could think of this in terms of an official 
perspective. You could also examine the unofficial realities. And I guess I would have to say that 
unofficially, I think my responsibility is generating chaos, you know. (laughs) But trying to keep it fruitful, 
creative. I mean, life, it seems like, as far as my understanding goes, arose out of chaos. And every 
3 
 
vegetable grower meeting that you go to, there’s a constant endorsement of the idea of having these 
astute business plans and operating according—you know, trying to mimic the corporate structure, 
really, essentially. And keeping things very efficient and always with an eye toward efficiency. Somehow 
that goes completely against my grain. (laughs) And you know, try as I might, it’s just really impossible 
for me to think in that way. But I do think there’s kind of a meaningful balance between—I would be 
homeless if not for Marie’s competence in terms of maintaining order. And I’m not speaking 
metaphorically. (laughs) Because I’m sort of, in a sense, blind. She is the eyes. I’m the body. 
 
And as far as work goes, I don’t really even actually, it’s difficult for me to think of what we do as 
work in the conventional sense, you know? Because, you know, it’s not just a piece of our time that we 
trade off for a livelihood. It’s really actually more like play, I would say, in the sense that we wake up 
every morning like children. You know, we sort of can’t wait to get out the door and pursue the projects 
of the moment. Like children address their play, really. So I don't think I could even lay claim to having a 
work relationship with this activity. (laughs) Anyway, I hope that’s not too far afield. So, anyway, that’s 
my job. 
 
09:07 
 
Nickerson:  That’s great. So I’m struggling a little bit here because you have— 
 
Hudak:  Okay, so let me elaborate a little. As far as my, what I contribute to this composting project, I’m 
responsible for keeping the totes washed. The district comes here. They haul the material, all in 32-
gallon totes. And they tip the totes at the composing site. They dump them on the slab. So from there 
on out, it’s my responsibility to deal with the material and the totes. So we, I turn the current delivery of 
food waste, into the piles, which involve mixing them with manure and wood chips and garden waste, 
leaves. And then we wash the totes. So this is a weekly process. And then beyond that, I have to 
maintain the piles. You know, turn the piles at the appropriate time. And then when the compost is 
mature, after it’s a year old, we have to screen it. So we run it through a trommel, a rotary screen. 
Because they’re, mostly to sift out contaminants, unfortunately. I mean, there will be maybe like chunks 
of wood from brush deposits, or some stones because the site where we turn it is rather stony. But 
mostly we’re just sifting out mustard containers and whatever. (laughs) All the flotsam of— 
 
Frey:  Forks from elementary schools. 
 
Hudak:  --the food waste system. Yeah. So, anyway, that’s my function.  
 
 
11:22 
 
Nickerson:  So when I was starting to say that I was struggling, it’s because you have two operations. You 
have the farm—and maybe you even have more than two operations. But you have the farm and you 
have the compost operation. And there’s a part of me that wants to ask a lot about both. But I think we 
don’t have the time for that. 
 
4 
 
Hudak:  Right. Sure. 
 
Nickerson:  Because I would love to ask tons of questions about the farming aspect. But I will ask you, 
how did you each get into farming? How did you come to farming? Then I’ll ask you about how did you 
come to the compost operation. 
 
Frey:  So I grew up in Ohio. Went to college in Michigan. And for a long time I thought I was going to be a 
doctor or a surgeon. And I made it through about three and a half years in a premed program. And I 
really enjoyed quite a bit of that. But eventually I realized, after doing an internship in a hospital, and it 
was the summer, I couldn’t stand to be inside. And this was something foreign to me, because I certainly 
grew up in a pretty conventional suburban setting with parents who expected all of their children to 
become professionals. And things just took a turn once I got out of school. 
 
Hudak:  Well you know, she was a hippie, too. Let’s not overlook that. Sorry! (laughs)  
 
Frey:  Once I finished school, I had always wanted to live in Vermont. And I traveled around and did all 
kinds of things that young people do when they’re done with college. And I made my way here in 1980. 
And just through happenstance, I ended up here in Franklin County working at a greenhouse operation 
about two miles north of here. And I knew nothing. I couldn't even keep a houseplant going at that 
point. And you know, it was pretty satisfying. There was something about working with soil and plants 
that, I still didn't know what I was doing, but I enjoyed it. 
 
 
And Richard and I met. And slowly but surely, I became engrossed with this farm. And that was 
probably 1981 I started to just work here. And we just pieced it together. And the operation got bigger 
as we went along. We built these greenhouses one after another. And somehow through dumb luck, I 
figured out sort of how to do this. There’s so much I feel like I still don’t know. But because I think it’s a 
short season, I managed to pull it off before aphids explode and disease takes hold of it. Then we’re in 
the field. So you know, it’s been that many years that I’ve just kind of learned by lessons from Richard 
and doing things myself and making plenty of mistakes. But you know, sometimes I wish that I had a 
horticulture background. But that’s not the way it worked. It’s sort of been a lifelong apprenticeship, 
actually. 
 
15:39 
 
Nickerson:  And how about you, Richard? How did you get into this life? 
 
Hudak: This way of life was not some epiphany for me that occurred in my mind at any point. I come 
from a line of serfs, essentially. My father was from Slovakia. He grew up in a small Slovakian village 
where they were peasants. And they had a small house with a dirt floor. And they essentially produced 
everything that they needed. They had almost no money. They had a little farm and they even grew flax 
and stripped it and spun it into fiber and wove their own clothing, essentially. The only thing they didn’t 
really make was shoes. And in summer they went barefoot because they didn't want to wear out shoes 
5 
 
necessarily. But anyway, so I think that’s pretty well, this reality is pretty well my psyche is imbued with 
this necessity. Even in America, where it’s not a necessity. I mean, there’s great opportunity, especially 
when I was young. You could go off, get a job at IBM or whatever, and have a secure future and a secure 
life. But I don't know, there were five siblings in my family. And among them somehow I was touched by 
this need to constantly have my hands in the earth. So that’s, I guess that’s what motivated me to 
pursue this way of life. (truck noise) Truck! 
 
Nickerson:  It’s great. It’s background noise. 
 
Hudak:   It is. Yeah, it’s reality. 
 
Frey:  Undeniable. 
 
19:00 
 
Nickerson:  It’s called ambient noise (laughs). So how did Hudak Farms start? 
 
Hudak:  Well, my folks, they met in New York City. And my mother was a dietician. My mother actually, 
you know, my siblings and I are sort of hybrids, in a sense. Because my mother’s people were, they 
arrived on the Mayflower. Literally. Her surname is Salisbury. And the forebear of the Salisburys in 
America was actually on the Mayflower. So her people are from American stock, way, way back. But 
anyhow, so she became a dietician. She grew up in Washington, DC.  You know, in the days when it was 
how people got off the farm. There were many good jobs in Washington at that time. And it was, a big 
source of employment and change. So anyhow, her father moved there from Connecticut. He was a 
lawyer for the immigration service. And she became a dietician. She moved to New York City and 
worked in New York Hospital. My father was an orderly there. And so they met.  
You know, eventually they had sort of had enough of city life. And they had a friend who was a 
doctor. And he had a country place in Connecticut. And he invited them to go there and kind of be the 
caretakers of this place. So they did that for a couple of years. And then my father really wanted to be 
on his own. So my grandfather, my mother’s father, was stationed up here [in Vermont] in the 
immigration service at the time. And he looked around and found this place here. This is in 1952. And 
you know, he was very secure financially. So he bought the farm. And they moved up here in 1952 and 
started dairy farming. It was an existing dairy farm. I mean, it didn’t have cattle, but the infrastructure 
was all here. So they ran it as a dairy farm until 1970.  
Then my father was, became a severe alcoholic. Again, in keeping with tradition in a way, he 
was, he really became tired of farming. So in 1970, we had a tremendous snowstorm in the winter, and 
the roof of the main barn collapsed. Which was, in a sense, an answer to his prayers. So he took the 
opportunity to bail out of farming. And he sold the cattle. And for quite a while, he just rented the land 
out to bigger farmers here who just grew corn. You know, they just grew continual crops of field corn.  
And you know, so I wasn’t really involved for a number of years. But I always had a tremendous 
attachment to this place. All of my childhood stories were here. The woods, woodchuck hunting, 
pitching hay. You know, the mythology of the small farm. 
6 
 
So anyway, I kind of traveled around for a bit. And I was always drawn to come back here. And I 
always kind of liked growing vegetables. I mean, when we were dairy farming we would, you know, my 
grandfather was into gardening. My mother’s father. And he would plant a garden. And a lot of times it 
wasn’t really that well-tended, because people were so busy. And again, bringing in the crops on the 
dairy farm in the summer didn’t leave a lot of surplus time. But anyhow, I always just kind of was 
captivated by growing vegetables. So when, after I had kind of traveled around for a number of years, 
probably three or four years, I came back and I started small gardens here. Mostly just on a self-
sufficient sort of basis in the beginning. And you know, there’s always surplus. And we would just put a 
couple of sawhorses out by the road and my mother would be there and sell stuff to passersby. And it 
just evolved from there. And we eventually built a small farm stand by the highway. And then in 1990, 
we kind of took this great leap of faith and built the stand that we have now, which was quite an 
undertaking. So that’s how it unfolded.  
 
25:04 
 
Nickerson:  Well, even though I have lots of questions for you about the farming operation, I’m going to 
fast forward and ask how you started to get involved in composting. Particularly the relationship with 
the Northwest Solid Waste Management District. 
 
Hudak:  Well, so we’re not a certified organic farm. But primarily just because we don’t really have an 
interest in the bureaucratic aspects of organic farming. It’s the process that inspires us. Beyond that, you 
know, we retail virtually everything we sell here at the farm stand. So the demographic in this area is not 
particularly, or at least historically was not that inspired by labels. They were more interested in 
content. And furthermore, they would not probably be inclined to spend more money for produce than 
they would have to with the local supermarket. So we never really bothered with certification. But you 
know, organic farming has always been, or I should say, “organic” is a  sort of meaningless term, I think, 
at this point in a lot of ways. But farming in a way that honors healthy soil, I guess is maybe a better way 
to put it, is something that I’ve always been, you know, it’s been like sort of the core inspiration for me. 
There’s nothing like seeing the character of healthy plants that are growing in healthy soil. If you have 
that, there’s a sort of mysticism to it. If you’re infected with this pleasure, it’s going to call all the shots, 
in a sense. 
 
Anyway, so I’ve always made an effort to gather waste materials. Earlier on, it was mostly 
leaves. You know, like there’s huge volumes of leaves from the local towns that had been either thrown 
over a bank or sent to the dump. And earlier on, I used to pick up leaves and bring them here and 
compost them. I would haul in manure from horse farms or whatever. And you know, over time, and 
then eventually all I had to do was make a site open to the public and I had a continual stream of leaves 
being delivered here free of charge. So we did that for quite a long time. And then about oh, I don't 
know, I guess it was probably about eight years ago now, I was approached by this nonprofit entity, 
Hardwick Highfields Center for Composting. And Tom Gilbert, was running it at that time. So he was 
initiating regional compost sites. Looking toward the requirements for recycling all food waste in 
Vermont. You know, what is it, Act 148, I guess? And he asked me if I would be interested, I don't know 
how, I think he just probably heard about me maybe through the state, because I was kind of listed as a 
7 
 
drop off site for leaves. I was sort of noted as a composter. And he asked me if I would be interested in 
composting food waste, you know, getting set up. So I said yeah. 
 
And so Highfields really did the legwork toward getting a site on this farm certified to compost 
food waste, which is no small accomplishment. It probably took us almost two years to get the permits 
in place. And there’s a fair amount of skepticism on the part of the neighbors, and etcetera. But 
eventually, also Josh Kelly was working [on it]. You probably know Josh. He was working for Highfields 
also at the time. And both he and Tom were very effective at accomplishing this. 
 
So anyway, after the whatever, the year and a half or two years that it took us to get permitted, 
we started taking in compost. And we struck up an agreement with the local solid waste district that 
they would— I mean, various composters have different strategies. There are a fair number, I guess, 
who actually act as the entire agent from start to finish, you know. And they have a route. They go 
around. They collect the material. And haul it, dump it, compost it. Which is, you know, I think it’s hard 
to imagine doing that in conjunction with running a farm. It’s more like an approach that would be 
appropriate for people who are doing it as a fulltime endeavor. 
 
Anyway, so we struck up this deal with the district where they would essentially be running the 
business of composting, composting the food waste. They go around, they collect the materials from the 
generators, they bring it here, they tip it. They handle the books. And they bill the accounts for the 
service. And they pay us a fee for washing the totes, and a second fee for composting material. So we’re 
sort of like subcontractors, essentially.  
And I’m very happy with the arrangement. I think the relationship with the district has been very 
good. I have a lot of respect for them and they do a good job. So it’s kind of an ideal symbiosis, I think, at 
this point in time. And again, we’ve been doing it for, we’ve been taking in, we’ve been doing the food 
waste aspect of it for about eight years. And the volume, you know, when it started out, it would be like 
30 or 40 totes a week. And now, of course, as echelons of the law are implemented which would require 
more and more generators to compost the material, our volume has increased. Now it’s up around 140 
to 150 totes a week. And in the spring, there’s a spike where, we’ve taken on this resort in Highgate 
Springs, Vermont. It’s a very well known, old, they’ve been in existence for probably at least 100 years. 
And it’s a family resort on Lake Champlain in Highgate. And so two years ago we got them onboard. And 
so there’s a period of time when the schools, which are a big source of material, have not closed down, 
in the summer. And it overlaps with the material that the Tyler place, they open up early in probably 
first of June or something. So there’s this overlap period during which we’re getting both the school 
food and the Tyler place food. So the volume, we have a big spike. It probably goes up to almost 180 or 
200 totes a week. So anyway, that’s kind of an overview of the situation.  
And I should say that, about 80 percent of the compost that we generate here is used in the 
production of fruits and vegetables. And the other 20 percent, we retail during the spring when the 
greenhouses are open. So we kind of have sort of a full kind of low key garden center thing where we 
sell landscaping mulch and topsoil and compost. And raised bed mix, which we make out of the 
compost.  
 
35:28 
 
8 
 
Nickerson:  So let me see if I have this straight. Are you saying that of the compost that’s being made 
with materials that are being made with materials that are coming in through the solid waste district, 
about 80 percent of it gets used here on the farm? 
 
Hudak:  Right. 
 
Nickerson:  And then 20 percent you retail. 
 
Hudak:  Right. Yeah. I mean, at this point, we’re composting around 500 tons a year of food waste alone. 
And that, you know, then on top of it there’s probably, oh, more than that, maybe 700 tons of wood 
chips and leaves and other various waste products. We get chips from a couple of big tree service 
businesses around here. There’s one that’s, I think it’s a national outfit. It’s called the Asplundh. And 
they have contracts to maintain power lines and whatever. Right of ways, state road right of ways. And 
they haul, you know, when they’re working this region, they haul their chips here. So we get large 
volume of chips. Then we take in brush as well. This is through the district. Again, the district has really 
facilitated access to feedstocks for the composting without a lot of expense. And so there’s a need for 
householders in these neighboring towns to get rid of brush. I mean, there’s always a tree that’s come 
down, especially in these windstorms that we have. So the public hauls the brush here. And then the 
district every few months they hire a chipper to come in and chip the brush. So that’s another source of 
materials that we have access to. 
 
37:40 
 
Nickerson:  Sounds like you’re getting a lot of carbon. 
 
Hudak:  Yes. Exactly. Yeah. 
 
Nickerson:  So Marie, from where you sit and all the hats that you wear in this operation, can you tell me 
how that sort of relationship between having the two operations, having the farm and the compost 
operation, how that— 
 
Hudak:  It’s really almost three operations. 
 
Nickerson:  Three. 
 
Hudak:  The greenhouse, the compost and the vegetables. And then you could certainly say that the 
fourth is retailing the vegetables. You know, it’s almost another. Anyway, sorry. 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. So four different operations, yeah. So there’s a lot of balls to keep in the air. So what 
year did you start the official composting relationship with Northwest [Solid Waste District]— 
 
Frey:  Maybe 2011. Somewhere around there. 
9 
 
 
Hudak:  Yeah, I think so. [unclear]  
 
Frey:  Yeah. Who knows? 
 
38:43 
 
Nickerson:  So how has that changed things for you in terms of thinking about the farm overall? And 
how does it impact your jobs? 
 
Frey:  Well at first I really sort of resisted it. Mostly because I felt like it was just going to be oh, God, this 
is huge. And how’s he got time for this? We’re running silly as it is. And you know, it was hard to imagine 
the impact that it would have on our time. And even just having all the infrastructure, the sites available 
for people to come and dump their brush and their leaves. And then taking in the food scraps. You 
know, and then also the sifting. I mean, that’s a whole other area. And it just, it’s like wow, it was a huge 
impact on the landscape, for starters. And then, you know, of course we have a separate account just 
for the composting operation. So in my sort of feeble way, I pieced that together and tried to keep 
things separate, and keep track of them individually. The compost separate from the rest of our farming 
operation. And you know, it was sort of a hurdle at first. And I just thought “oh, man, this is just like, oh. 
What are we doing?” But you know, I’ve settled into it and I really believe in it absolutely, even though 
sometimes I get a little grouchy about kind of the way things get— 
 
Hudak:  The chaos. 
 
Frey:  It’s chaotic. And it’s sloppy. And whatever. I mean, obviously. But it’s absolutely vital. And I 
certainly wouldn’t have it any other way at this point. And the other thing about it, quite frankly, is it 
provides some income during the months when our farm stand is closed and we’re sort of limping along 
waiting for May to come. So I have to say that I’ve really appreciated that aspect of it as well. 
 
And you know, the accounting of it has become pretty seamless at this point. So you know, I’m 
all for it.  
And then it was the whole tote washing thing. Oh, man. We’re going to go out there. It’s zero or 
colder and just deal with this cold water just spraying, cleaning these totes. And I’ve adjusted to that 
very nicely. And we figure out how to dress for it. You know, we’re outside with this whole process going 
on for a couple of hours or more. But I don't know, I mean, I don’t mind that, either. And those guys 
have figured out how to just kind of line the totes with sawdust so that the totes are a lot easier to clean 
now. For a while, it would just be this battle with grease and cold water, chocolate from ice cream 
residue. It was kind of (makes disgusted noise) It was a trial. But it’s gone a lot easier now. So you know, 
I’m totally great with it.  
 
 
42:33 
 
10 
 
Nickerson:  Did you have to hire any new people once you started ramping up the compost? 
 
Frey:  No. I mean, in the summer, even now that I am really busy with the greenhouse aspect, and in the 
summer I‘m just going nuts in the farm stand, some of our employees are perfectly willing to be the 
person who’s moving the food scrap totes around while Richard washes them. So they take over. And 
I’m really grateful for that. So, in a sense, yes. You know, like two or three hours a week. But it’s to our 
benefit to have such beautiful compost. So I guess I wouldn’t really consider it, hiring anybody else. 
 
Hudak:  The thing is, you know, that old saw about there being more than one way to skin a cat. Well, 
you know, the subtext of that aphorism is that sometimes it’s necessary to find another way to skin the 
cat. Because you know, I’ve talked to the Chittenden solid waste composters down at the Chittenden 
Solid Waste District. And you know, they have to approach their situation there in a very formal, 
according to formal business plans because they have fulltime employees. The employees have 
healthcare and benefits. And they have to have top-shelf machinery, because of the volume that they’re 
moving. And they have to capitalize the requirement for land. It’s very involved. And their sort of 
financial overseers, I mean, I asked them what,  in their view, what it actually costs to produce compost 
or to compost food waste if you’re doing it, as a straight off business proposition with all of the 
overhead of a business. And they said, their estimates run between, I don't remember clearly. But I 
believe that it was between 120 and 200 dollars per cubic yard at the breakeven point just to pay the 
bills. You know, the compost has to generate that much income. And there’s no place on earth, 
especially in northern Vermont, where you can charge anywhere near that amount for the compost. 
And as a fertilizer offset, again, the value of the produce is enhanced immensely by compost. But, it’s 
impossible to pass that expense on to the public. There’s a very sort of narrow margin of flexibility in the 
way that you can price produce, especially in a working class area like this. If you go beyond that, you’re 
going to price yourself out of the market.  
 
So you know, in order to make it viable in a situation like this, our approach is kind of the basic 
Yankee relationship with viability of a farm. And that is just to try and not hire labor as much as possible. 
Fix our own machinery. Obviously I’m not receiving, or Marie and I are not receiving any of the benefits 
of employment. You know, healthcare and IRA, whatever. It’s just a moment to moment proposition 
(laughs). I mean, again, according to these formal business models, we’re subsidizing it. Because there’s 
no mortgage on the land, and the machinery is in place from other aspects of the farm. For instance, like 
we would have a manure spreader, we would have a tractor, we would have a bucket loader to load this 
mulch that we sell in the garden center. And so these things, we just kind of, press them into service as 
part of the composting operation. So anyway, basically we just hire people to wash the totes for about 
two hours a week, and to help with the sifting. Because there has to be somebody at the sifter to keep 
the material moving down the hopper. You know, it tends to ridge up. And outside of that, there’s no 
labor expense outside of that, really. 
 
 
 
48:31 
 
11 
 
Nickerson:  So because you already have a lot of the infrastructure here, it was easy to add on. 
 
Hudak:  Right. 
 
Nickerson:  As a farm, because you had the machinery and infrastructure, it was easy to add on the 
compost. I want to go back to something that Marie said. You said that you felt that you really believed 
in, and I’m paraphrasing you, I don't remember exactly, that the composting is vital. What did you mean 
by that? Can you tell me a little bit more? 
 
Frey:  I just, when I look at the volume of food scraps that come here, whether it’s the solid waste 
district bringing them from all of these entities around this area, or individuals bringing them from their 
houses and dumping them here themselves, it’s an immense amount of really important, viable material 
that would have been going to a landfill. 
 
Hudak:  I think it’s about 40 percent, according to— 
 
Nickerson:  It’s 40 percent of— 
 
Hudak:  Forty percent of all food that is produced in America, you know, approximately, goes in the 
landfill, essentially. 
 
Frey:  And so you know, that just is atrocious. I mean, it’s such important, valuable material. And you 
know, then also the leaves and brush and whatever else comes our way. I believe in that as much as I 
believe in eating whole, responsible food. It just has to happen. We can’t keep the landfills, it’s shocking 
how huge they are. And just imagine— 
 
Hudak:  They’ve been exhausted, I mean, the sites. It’s very expensive to generate landfill sites. 
 
Frey:  Yeah. Yes. And I mean, imagine all of the— 
 
Hudak:  I mean the extent that they’re being exhausted by food waste or organic material is a complete, 
you know, it’s not a necessity. We could save that volume for other materials. 
 
Frey:  Right. And you know, it’s the same thing about recycling. Obviously that’s a critical component of 
reducing landfill volume.  I think even more than that, it would be great to not have so much that needs 
to be recycled. Like the clamshell idea with washed greens. You know, it’s kind of appalling. I’ve started 
to really think about that, because my sister told me that in Cleveland, they can’t recycle those 
containers anymore. And it’s just, it’s astonishing. I mean, we struggle with plastic bags and all kinds of 
containers now. And hopefully we’ll come to some solutions. But that’s all part of why I think that 
composting food scraps is just totally important. I wouldn’t change my mind no matter how messy 
things get at times, or just slightly chaotic they get. I’m glad that we are able to offer that service to the 
community. And I definitely would like to see a lot more of it. Still, the households are not onboard as 
12 
 
much as I wish they would be. And I hope that that’s going to change soon, and that people will be just 
more inclined and more responsible about it. You know, I understand that it’s hard. It’s hard to have a 
week’s worth of peels and scraps and all kinds of stuff hanging around your house. But it’s the only 
responsible thing to do. 
 
Hudak:  So just to add to this a little bit, I’m not particularly inclined toward statistics. But when 
Highfields was helping us out here, in the course of making presentations to the zoning board, which 
obviously involved the public, they had quite a trove of facts and figures. Part of it involved the 
difference in terms of greenhouse gases being generated between landfilling organic waste and 
composting. When organic waste is landfilled, the gases generated are far, far, far more detrimental 
than the gases which are mostly CO2 generated from composting. I mean, there’s sulfur dioxide and I 
don't know, I don't remember exactly. So that was interesting. You know, aside from the waste of 
material, there was this extraordinary amount of detrimental gases being created in the anaerobic 
environment of a landfill. 
 
54:47 
 
Nickerson:  I think I just hit pause. (laughs) [Turning to Frey] What I’d like to do, because I know you’re 
probably anxious to get on to other stuff, is it okay if I ask you like three or four more questions? 
 
Frey:  Yes. Yeah, absolutely. 
 
Nickerson:  And then [turning to Hudak] I’ll just ask you a few more questions about the compost 
operation? 
 
Hudak:  Mm hmm. 
 
Nickerson:  So, it’s hard with this light to see if my button’s on. So Marie, what, from your perspective, is 
the best part of having a compost operation? 
 
Frey:  I guess it’s the, it’s feeling good about it, for sure. That it’s a responsible, important thing to do. 
And it’s also, there’s more interaction with the community because of it. People who might not come 
here to buy things, still come here to bring their Christmas tree or their leaves, or whatever. So there’s 
just kind of a flow about it that is, I think, important. And it’s probably good for our business. But by and 
large, it’s really the moral aspect of it.  
 
56:17 
 
Nickerson:  And what’s the most challenging part? Or your least favorite part. You can answer that 
however you want. 
 
Hudak:  The trash. 
13 
 
 
Frey:  Well, I guess, yeah, oh, that’s it. You hit it. There is so much, you know, there will just be piles of 
sort of tailings of irritatingly irresponsible dumping. Like plastic bags and forks, you know, plastic forks 
and straws. It’s that kind of thing that I notice because it’s here now. We now own this mess. And where 
does that go? And what do we do with it?  
 
Hudak:  Well I mean, the district does make an enormous effort to, you know, minimize the amount of 
contaminants in the food waste. And we do as well. I mean, we pick stuff out of the food waste. But still, 
it’s inevitable. I mean, again, I think the American culture is in the early infancy of, it’s like learning how 
to walk, I think, as a fledgling human being. It takes a lot of time before you have prowess. And at this 
point, the idea of waste as being something that you just remove from your sphere of life. And the more 
or less complete lack of concern as to what happens to it, where it goes, how it’s handled, this is intrinsic 
in our culture. And it’s difficult to change these—hi. (somebody has come in looking for somebody in 
machine shop) So you know, the process of taking in all this material from a wide range of sources, 
many of them involving children and lunch lines, it’s an enormous undertaking to keep it free of 
contamination. But I think, you know, optimistically I think it will get better as time goes on. But at this 
stage of the game, it’s just something that we have to learn to live with a certain level of, because it’s a 
long arc to—really, again, it’s like all changes in our relationship with the environment, I would say, the 
most critical aspect is psychological. You know, it’s a shift in our psychology is what will bring these 
things about. And there’s no better example than contaminants in the food waste in the compost 
stream. Because again, they all arise from this old mentality that if it’s of no use to you, it’s of no use, 
period. It’s a difficult thing to change. But, we’re hopeful. 
 
1:00:50 
 
Frey:  So I won’t be so aggrieved by it. And you’re right. It isn’t that much compared to the volume of 
clean material that’s— 
 
Hudak:  But if you consider the most, on a sort of particle basis, the smallest contaminants are these, 
what are known as PLU stickers. These little stickers that are on every piece of fruit,   
and they’re not biodegradable. They’re plastic. Every piece of fruit in creation has one of these things on 
it. And all compost that’s generated in Vermont, even if it’s sifted, is going to have these little stickers 
floating around in it. It’s just part of life at this point. Which hopefully they’ll come up with a 
biodegradable one. I’ve heard talk about some kind of a tattoo. Like a laser tattoo or something. (laughs) 
I don't know. But I hope the PLU stickers go away someday soon. 
 
1:02:06 
 
Nickerson:  So Marie, just thinking about the— 
 
[End Track 1. Begin Track 2.] 
 
14 
 
00:00  
 
Nickerson:  Okay, thinking about making [this interview] for young people who are thinking about going 
into farming, do you have any advice for someone who might be thinking about combining, either advice 
for a young person who might be going into this type of operation, or advice for somebody who might 
be thinking about combining a compost operation with a farm operation? From your perspective. 
 
Frey:  From my perspective, I always like to approach things incrementally. And I guess that would be my 
advice, either about farming or farming and composting. At some point, you have to dive in. And it 
seems like, it’s certainly not for everybody. And it’s a lot of work. And I think the best thing to do would 
be, if you’re thinking about going into farming, certainly spend a couple of years, if possible, working for 
someone else. And making sure that it’s really in your blood. Because it better be, you know. Otherwise, 
it’s going to be a long road. 
 
And I mean, in terms of combining the operations, I don't know, you know. It was just probably 
two or three years of sort of figuring it out. And it doesn’t seem to be that much extra effort at this 
point. It’s been set up so nicely and the district has taken such a huge amount of the burden off of us. So 
if you’re lucky enough to have that sort of relationship, I think that would be the critical component of 
combining farming and composting is to have some other entity managing the composting operation.  
 
02:23 
 
Nickerson:  Thank you. Is there anything else that you would like to say? 
 
Frey:  I don't think so. 
 
Nickerson:  Or share with young people? Or have on the record for the Library of Congress? 
 
Frey:  Well the nicest thing, I think, is like Richard was alluding to before, to absolutely, almost without 
question, enjoy so much of what I do. I mean, who is that lucky? It’s amazing. But it’s true. Sure, some 
days I think “oh my gosh, I am just beat.” And especially as time goes on. But I would never want to do 
anything else with my life ever again. And the biggest happy surprise is that I knew nothing about this. I 
mean, I always think this. If I went to a high school reunion, no one would believe that I’m doing what 
I’m doing. And it’s just such a great joy to feel really happy about work. 
 
 
03:41 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah, I wish I had done this in the beginning. Would you describe the sights and sounds and 
smells of this place that we’re in right now, where you get to work? 
 
Frey:  So this is the geranium greenhouse where we are. And it’s also where I do all the seeding. I like to 
say it’s my outdoor office. Because I also put a piece of cardboard down on a bench and pay my bills 
15 
 
sitting on a five-gallon pail. And it’s beautiful. I mean, there isn’t a lot in bloom yet. It’s still a little bit 
early. But most of the geraniums are spaced out in wooden racks. And they’re all kind of lined up, 
growing their little hearts out, waiting for May to come when they’ll be in full bloom. So there are fans 
going, and there are pots of oats growing in little bug dorms [dormitories], where I am fostering some 
cherry oat aphids so that the predators that I purchase will come and set up an ecosystem in here to 
hopefully eradicate all of the nasty peach aphids and whatever other aphids I end up with. And there are 
hanging baskets that are slowly creeping over the edges of their pots. Some of them have a few blooms 
on them even though they probably shouldn’t. But it’s hard for me to—I take the blooms off the 
geraniums, but it’s hard for me to take all the blooms off the hanging baskets in here. And it’s warm in 
here. And sunny. And the fans are running. It doesn’t get much better than this. And it’s cold outside in 
early April. So it’s a great place to start. 
 
Hudak:  There’s still ice [under the roof?] 
 
Frey:  Yeah, exactly. There’s ice. My gosh. What a year.  
 
06:05 
 
Nickerson:  Well, thank you so much. 
 
Frey:  Yes, thank you, Ginger. 
 
Nickerson:  I really appreciate it. 
 
Frey:  I’ll be right here. [She leaves to go work in another greenhouse] 
 
Hudak:  So you know, I’ll get the thing [referring to the tractor] going. And if you want to hang around. 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. Well, do you have time for a couple other questions? Or do you want to move on? 
 
Hudak:  Could you shut the water off in the tank for me, please. 
 
Nickerson:  We can stop. 
 
Hudak:  No, no, it’s okay.  
 
Nickerson:  I just had a couple of others for you. 
 
Hudak:  Sure. 
 
06:41 
 
16 
 
Nickerson:  So I want to ask you the same question. What about the compost operation? Can you, since 
this is audio, can you describe what the sights and sounds and smells and feels are like when you’re 
working with the compost? 
 
Hudak:  Yeah. You know, I think most people who grew up with parents who drank alcohol to some 
extent or other have some childhood memory of the first taste of beer, or the first taste of whiskey. And 
it’s usually not a very fond memory, in a way. (laughs) You know what I mean? And I suppose you 
could—but it‘s something that most people have acquired a taste for to some degree or other. And I 
suppose you could draw a parallel between this and working with food waste. I mean, especially 
washing the totes. Which is kind of a wild endeavor. I mean, you wind up more or less plastered with the 
remains of other people’s dinner. (laughs) And yet, the idea of it becoming a useful and really beautiful 
product in the end, there’s something you can acquire a strange sort of love of the process, in spite of it 
being something that most people find repulsive, you know. So, but then, of course, beyond that, 
there’s the sound of birds, seagulls, of course. Great numbers of seagulls. And we’ve seen this 
interesting growth in the population of raptors up toward the site. I assume because there are mice and 
whatever, maybe other birds that it’s kind of a windfall for the raptors. Hawks. And then there’s the 
sound of diesel engines running. It calls (laughs), it calls to me in some ways. There’s something about 
the rhythm of the diesel engine. It leaves you with that feeling that, oddly enough, because internal 
combustion is the bane of earthly survival, really, isn’t it? But nonetheless, when you rely upon a 
sophisticated machine, like a bucket loader or a tractor, the sound of it becomes kind of poetic. Because 
it represents empowerment, really. So there’s that, too. The smell of diesel exhaust, it’s like cologne for 
farmers. (laughs)  
I used to know this old Greek guy who came to Saint Alban’s in his young manhood. And he 
started a restaurant here. And he was very successful. His wife was sort of my adopted grandmother. 
She would bring me lunch all the time and stuff. And one time he was telling, you know, he liked to talk 
about the Old Country. He grew up on this island in Greece. And he told me about the first guy in his 
village who had a car, the first car in the village was a guy who bought this car. And he kind of had a taxi 
service, you know? And he would just bring gasoline in containers from the mainland for his car. And the 
men were so fascinated with the car that gasoline was kind of like the soul of the car to them. And they 
would actually go to his tank and get a little bit of gasoline and splash it behind their ears. (laughs) They 
considered a sort of, you know, aphrodisiac. (laughs) So I think there’s a little bit of that, I think, in 
people who rely upon machinery to get work done. Yeah.  
 
 
 
12:15 
 
Nickerson:  Do you ever find unusual, what’s the strangest thing that you’ve ever found in the compost? 
 
Hudak:  Huh. That’s an interesting question. Yeah. I’m trying to think of the strangest thing I’ve ever 
found. It’s too bad, I mean, you do find a lot of strange things. And oftentimes there’s something like, 
you know, there’s a weird sort of serendipity to certain things that you find, like a plastic pork chop from 
17 
 
a child’s play kitchen set or whatever. But I can’t think off hand. I know I’ve found some very strange 
things. There’s a sort of, there’s an anthropology element to dealing with food waste which, again, you 
can acquire a taste for. It sort of represents the strata of a certain era in human culture. You know, it 
could be understood in ways that—well, you know, one of the things that I find interesting is like you 
know, if I sold compost that was not screened, it would have bits and pieces of the debris of our way of 
life. And say, for instance, it would have the wrapper of a chocolate bar, maybe. Somebody would buy 
this compost and they would be spreading it on their garden and see this wrapper from a chocolate bar. 
And they would pick it up. And you know, it’s kind of disgusting, this idea of trash in your compost. But 
the very same wrapper, when it’s encasing a chocolate bar on the shelf of a Quick Stop, is an 
enhancement. It’s an aesthetic enhancement. It’s a marketing enhancement. It expands the fascination 
with the product. As detritus, as part of something somebody would receive with a yard of compost, it’s 
disgusting! The very same object, you know, in one context is seductive. And in its later incarnation as 
trash, is very repellent. Again, the psychology.  
Like I often wonder, I mean, there’s a great outcry. I think to the average person, on a daily 
basis, the largest kind of common sense of environmental degradation is just trash along the highways, 
you know? The most sort of un-politically inspired folks can find distaste in the fact that there’s trash on 
the highways.  I’m just speaking in the interest of trying to understand this thing in terms of the context. 
And you know, I often sort of think all these products that the debris comes from, it really represents a 
very prosperous way of life for us as a people. Why wouldn’t we look at that material and say “ah, it’s 
great to live in a society where we have this replete way of life. We have all these products available to 
us, we have money to buy them with. We have credit cards. “ You know, why wouldn’t we see it as—I 
think probably some immigrants from poor countries might even see it that way, you know? It’s kind of 
interesting, the psychology. 
And the other thing, I’m sort of wandering far afield. But the other thing about trash on the 
highways is there’s really no difference in terms of its effect on the environment if it’s on the roadside or 
in a landfill. And in a certain way, it’s an advantage to be on the roadside, because it keeps us aware of 
the amount of—you know, when it’s conveniently tucked away in the landfill, everything seems in order 
with the cosmos. You know, we don’t have to look at it. The suburban ideal. But when it’s offending us 
on the roadside, we at least have to sort of look ourselves in the mirror. Or we don’t have to, but we’d 
perhaps be more likely to do that, you know. Look ourselves in the mirror and say, this is kind of an 
appalling situation. 
So I mean, I think all this sort of in a way is magnified in the composting process.  
 
 
 
18:45 
 
Nickerson:  I’m going to back up a little bit. Were there special skills or things that you needed to learn 
how to do when you took on composting at the large scale for the solid waste district that were 
different from when you were composting just for the farm operation? 
 
18 
 
Hudak:  Yeah. Well you know, it’s funny. Earlier on when you were asking me about the sights and 
sounds and smells of the site, you know, one of the things that any composter would recognize first, I 
think, would be the smell of mature compost. And the smell of piles when they’re fermenting. It’s a very 
beautiful, earthy smell. Kind of, it certainly could be expressed in terms of the nuances of wine, as we’re 
quite accustomed to if you watch the food shows or whatever. I mean, there’s this very complex array of 
smells that compost has when the process is occurring appropriately. When the admixture is right and 
it’s been aerated. It’s kind of a mushroomy smell. You know, it’s very beautiful. And then when it’s 
mature, the dark, the beautiful, dark, crumbly, granular quality of it is, it’s very poetic. It speaks of 
fertility. So, yeah. I mean—I forgot what you asked—(laughter)  
 
20:49 
 
Nickerson:  The questions was if there were— 
 
Hudak:  Oh, skills. Oh, right. Okay. Sorry. Yeah, you know, I mean, Highfields, when they got us going, 
they had two people who had pursued a formal study of composting. The science of composting. Tom 
Gilbert, in particular. I mean, he’s a master. And another fellow who was working for them at the time. 
So, you know, and in the interest of making sure that the process was done properly, I kind of had to go 
through this formal training. And it resulted in a more controlled approach to the actual composting. I 
mean, I’d never really used thermometers to monitor the temperature. And it was always kind of a more 
or less hit or miss admixture of feed stocks. You know, carbon materials, based on what I had available 
to me. Whereas once we got going with food waste, part of the arrangement was that the district, they 
have these roll off boxes, you know, that they use in gathering materials. So they bring me loads of 
horse manure, which is ideal for composting.  And then it was right about that time we started receiving 
these chips from Asplundh. So with the availability of horse manure and chips, which are a great 
aerating agent, you know, they keep voids in the pile, we definitely started making a higher-quality 
compost.  
 
And the training that I received was valuable from Highfields. I’ve been much more attentive to 
turning the piles at the right time, and maintaining the temperature up around 150, 160 degrees for the 
first month or so of the process. So, yeah. That’s about it. 
 
The other thing is, one of the challenges is maintaining the right moisture in the piles. You know, 
if you have, in the heights of the summer, if you have dry periods, it’s really necessary to water the piles, 
to irrigate the piles, sometimes. And so there’s a whole kind of craft to shaping the piles, depending on 
the time of year and the weather. Like in the winter and in the spring and in the fall, generally speaking 
you’re faced with an overabundance of moisture. So the ideal moisture content is about the moisture 
content of a sponge that has been wrung out. You shouldn't be able to take a handful of material and 
squeeze water out of it. You know, it should be just moist, but not soggy.  
And when maintaining these piles is done outdoors, that’s very challenging to maintain the right 
moisture level. And sometimes you don’t, sometimes it’s beyond you, really. But anyway, you do the 
best you can. So there’s a whole kind of craft to the shape of the piles, depending on whether you’re 
trying to repel moisture or take moisture on. So the dry time in the summer, you would kind of truncate 
the top of the pile so that there would be a flat surface. And ideally slightly concave, which doing this 
19 
 
with a bucket loader, it’s kind of a skill, you know. It requires some time to master. And then during the 
times of excess moisture, you keep the piles very, like sharp triangles, you know? So that as much as 
possible, water will flow off. I mean, some composters use, they have a breathable fabric that you can 
put over the piles, which helps to maintain the temperature. And it also will shed moisture, you know, if 
you’re in a wet time. But it’s just a huge amount of labor. And the volume that we’re producing—in 
order to cover the piles, and then every time you want to turn them, you have to uncover them. It’s just, 
it’s sort of beyond our reach. We just have to try and define the shape of the piles, you know, in such a 
way as to manage moisture. 
 
26:45 
 
Nickerson:  So I just have a couple more questions, and then start wrapping up. But 30 years from now, 
imagine if you and Marie have stopped running this operation. 
 
Hudak:  We’re not dead. (laughter)  
 
Nickerson:  Do you think other people in this community would be having this kind of an operation 
where you’re doing both farming and composting? 
 
Hudak:  Well, actually, I think, I know the individual (laughs) who would be the heir apparent. My son, 
Lexy, he’s 31 and he’s very connected to this farm. He’s a carpenter. He’s a timber frame builder. But, 
he’s an integral part of our life here. He has a workshop that he works out of. There’s about 50 acres of 
sugar woods on the farm. And he sugars. Every year he has a sugar house and retails the syrup here and 
at the farmers’ market that we go to in Burlington. And he would certainly take it over. He will take it 
over. So, yeah. Hopefully it will continue on into the horizon of time that lies beyond. (laughs) Beyond 
us. 
 
28:25 
 
Nickerson:  And I guess I’m going to ask the same question that I asked Marie. What advice would you 
give to someone who would be thinking about having an operation that would combine farming and 
large-scale composting? 
 
Hudak:  Yeah, I think, for one thing, I would say that one of the possible, pitfalls that are to be 
encountered is underestimating the cost of maintaining machinery. Especially for some types of people. 
I mean, I’m not particularly mechanically adept. I think if you are mechanically adept, you’re much more 
inclined to have an underlying sense of how expensive it is to keep a machine running, to maintain it. 
Beyond just putting fuel in it and changing the oil. Especially a machine like a bucket loader. You know, 
this is an industrial machine. When you start maintaining it, it’s very expensive. Like I just bought some 
parts for our bucket loader. Say, for instance, there’s the hydraulic cylinder that powers, there are three 
cylinders on the machine. Two of them operate the arms of the boom, of the machine. And the third 
one operates the bucket, the tilting and rolling back of the bucket. So the hydraulic piston is shackled to 
20 
 
the linkage that controls the bucket with a large pin. Just a round pin. Probably two and a half or three 
inches in diameter. And this pin is getting sloppy, you know. So I just ordered another one. I think it was 
like seven hundred dollars for this piece of round stock six inches long and two and a half inches in 
diameter. It’s just an example of how expensive it is to maintain that kind of equipment. I mean, it can 
do a lot of work. It can do the work efficiently. But every time you use it, you know, you’re wearing it out 
to some invisible degree. And these increments of wear accumulate. And they can represent some 
pretty shocking news. (laughs) So I think that’s one thing I would say that you need to be aware of, if you 
don’t have huge financial overhead in terms of land. So you’re not looking to pay a mortgage through 
the composting operation, you know? Then, and if you don’t hire a lot of labor, then your primary 
expense would be maintenance and machinery. That’s something to take a hard look at, really.  
Again, it’s just like so many things in our society. The value of a lot of products, agricultural 
products in particular, is far below what the actual cost of production is. Especially if you factor in, I 
guess they call this externalized costs in the economic profession. Essentially costs that are swept under 
the rug of sustainability in some way. You know, with food it’s the cost of soil erosion, water pollution, 
human degradation. These things are not factored into the value of this product. But eventually, it’s 
almost like a balloon payment. Eventually if we don’t acknowledge these costs, we’ll have to pay them 
one way or another in our society. I mean, we already are, in a sense. Well, I mean global warming is a 
great example of that, isn’t it? Climate change. Where the bill to the piper is coming due. So it is with 
many things. And certainly that’s true of composting. You couldn’t begin to market your compost at a 
price that actually honestly fairly reflected the inputs. You know, in terms of it being a source of a viable 
middle-class livelihood, a lot of these costs are externalized. And you have to accept that and live within 
the limitations of that, I would say. That’s about it, I guess. Yep. 
 
35:23 
 
Nickerson:  Is there anything that we have not covered that you would like people to know about these 
jobs and the work that you do? 
 
Hudak:  Well, I’d have to think about that. Probably something will come to mind. But at this point, I 
don’t. You know, the district wanted us, the district has a small route where they go around to 
households and pick up material. And because we have such a flow of public here in the summer, they 
wanted to set up a drop off site here. They have several other drop off sites. So we have some totes out 
here, and we have a sign. And the more conscientious householders have gotten onto bringing their 
material here. And it’s really inspiring to cross paths with just the general flow of people who are 
dropping stuff off. And a lot of them are really, appreciative of it. And they’re excited about doing it, and 
feel good about it. Which, it’s inspiring to me. And I hope that that mentality continues to unfold.  
 
Nickerson:  Well, Richard, thank you so much. 
 
Hudak:  It’s okay. It was a pleasure. 
 
37:39 
21 
 
[End Track 2. End Interview.] 
Total time = 100 minutes