1 
NEW BEDFORD FISHING HERITAGE CENTER 
Date of Interview: July 7, 2017 
Smith, Lukas ~ Oral History Interview 
Laura Orleans 
Smith, Smith. Interview by Laura Orleans. Workers on the New Bedford Waterfront. New 
Bedford Fishing Heritage Center. Date of interview: July 7, 2017. 
This oral history was produced in 2017 as part of the Workers on the Waterfront Oral History 
Project conducted by New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center with funding from an Archie Green 
Fellowship provided by the Library of Congress. 
New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center 
38 Bethel Street 
P.O. Box 2052 
New Bedford, MA 02741-2052 
Lukas Smith interview, July 7, 2017 
2 
Background 
Name of person interviewed: Lukas Smith [LS] 
Facts about this person: 
Age 24 years Sex Male 
Occupation Wire Splicer 
Residence 
Ethnic background (if known) 
Interviewer: Laura Orleans [LO] 
Transcriber: Tracy Gillen [TG] 
Interview location: Northeast Trawl, New Bedford, MA 
Date of interview: July 7, 2017 
Key Words 
splicing, vise, dragger, swivel, soft eye, hard eye, thimble eye, tuck, swivel, twister, heart, spike, 
marlin spike, stays, tumbuckle, outriggers, scallopers, trawler, eye splice, cut splice, press, 
coiling machine, reel, junk wire, winch truck, knuckle boom, net drone, end frame wire, fathoms. 
Abstract 
Lukas Smith, a 24-year-old male, has grown up around the fishing industry. He grew up in New 
Bedford, went to New Bedford Vocational School and recently graduated from Massachusetts 
Maritime Academy. He has worked as a wire splicer for his family’s business. Northeast Trawl, 
since he was about fifteen years old. He explains the technique of splicing, the various tools, 
equipment, and the winch truck used for splicing. Lastly, he discusses his view of the waterfront 
community and his pride in his role in the seafood industry. 
Lukas Smith interview, July 7, 2017 
3 
Index 
[00:00] Intro: Lukas Smith is a 24 year old male who works in his family business Northeast 
Trawl splicing wire with his father. He discusses his father’s background in the industry at 
Bruce’s Splicing and Rigging, growing up around the business, and learning to splice from his 
father. 
[5:35] Discusses the process of splicing. 
[10:13] Continues to discuss the process of splicing, discusses the tools used to splice and his 
father’s technical skill. Describes different tools used to splice wires. Explains the different wire 
sizes and different types of splices and how the wire is used on a fishing vessel. 
[14:57] Continues explaining how wire is used on a fishing vessel. Talks about his studies at the 
Greater New Bedford Vocational Technical High School and the former commercial fishing 
major that used to be offered there. Discusses the lack of knowledge of the fishing industry that 
his peers have. Describes a dangerous situation he and his father were in while splicing. 
[20:16] Describes the equipment in the shop and his role in setting up the equipment when they 
moved into the shop headquarters. 
[25:18] Describes the winch truck and the knuckle boom that is on it. Also discusses his role in 
the family business. 
[30:00] Talks about his studies at Mass Maritime. Discusses his desire for his father to hire a 
younger person to help in the business when he and his brother move on. Considers the 
importance of his role in the fishing industry. 
[34:37] Explains his view of the waterfront as a community and the role of the Fishing Heritage 
Center and the Working Waterfront Festival in educating people about the fishing industry and 
supporting the industry. Discusses his pride in his work and his family's business. 
[38:15] End of audio. 
Lukas Smith interview, July 7, 2017 
4 
[00:00] 
Laura Orleans: Okay. Today is July 7th in the year 2017. This is an interview for the New 
Bedford Fishing Heritage Center, funded by an Archie Green Fellowship from the Library of 
Congress. As part of this project we are interviewing shore side workers in the New 
Bedford/Fairhaven Fishing industry to record their stories, document their skills and knowledge 
and better understand their important role in the fishing industry. The recording and transcript 
will become part of the permanent collection at the Library of Congress. I am Laura Orleans and 
today I am speaking with Luke Smith. 
Lukas Smith: Lukas. 
LO: Lukas. Okay. At the Northeast Trawl and it’s a little bit after 2:00 in the afternoon. 2:20- 
ish. So Lukas, do you give us permission to record your story for this project? 
LS: Ido. 
LO: Now I realize we just established your name but if you would just introduce yourself 
LS: Fm Lukas Michael Smith. I was bom in 1993 in Norway, Maine. And I’ve worked here 
since we started the business. 
LO: Okay. So, born in Norway, Maine? 
LS: Yes. 
LO: Tell me about how your family made its way to New Bedford. How did long did you stay in 
Maine? 
LS: We were already here. My parents were at a christening and they got stuck up there because 
it was a snowstorm and then I guess I decided to come a little early. So. 
LO: Well, that makes for a good story. 
LS: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
LO: And when you were bom, the date? 
LS: Febmary21st. 
LO: So let’s see, you grew up in and around the fishing industry? Or tell me a little bit about 
how, your memories as a child. 
LS: Okay, well, my father had always worked at Bmce’s Splicing and Rigging for maybe 
twenty-eight years, I think it was. And that was my entire childhood. It always seemed pretty 
cool. My brother and I, we’d get to go there every once in a while, like I don’t know, if my 
Lukas Smith interview, July 7, 2017 
5 
mother wanted to talk to my father or something and we’d go down and you know, we’d get to, 
not really play on the big trucks but we’d go and see him and he’d be like don’t touch it, you’re 
going to get all greasy. But we, we’d always go to see Betty Ann, who was the secretary there 
and she was always very nice to us whenever we’d go. I didn’t really, we didn’t work or 
anything but we’d just kind of witnessed what they did. Or we’d bring, we’d go to B.J.s and get 
food for the place and bring it there. One, I remember one time that we did get to go down to the 
pier and you had taken a net off one of the boats and I think it was, maybe it happens all the time 
but you guys were a little worried that it was too much weight for the truck so. But that was my 
first encounter I guess of seeing what he did. 
LO: Sure. And I would think, I mean as a young kid, trucks are pretty cool. 
LS: Oh yeah. Oh yeah. It was pretty cool. 
LO: So, even even just that aspect of it. 
LS: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
LO: So, at what point did you sort of transition into doing some work in this business? 
LS: I think I was probably about, maybe fifteen. 
LO: Or maybe not even paid work, I don’t know. 
LS: Yeah. No, that was when we had first started to learn. Actually I remember us, he didn’t 
work for Bruce’s anymore. And you were working, he was working for the company in Rhode 
Island, and he had just some wire laying around and we had a vise, and everything and he 
actually had the whole set up so that way you could put it on the truck and that was the first time 
I had ever got exposed to splicing. So. 
LO: So this was at home? 
LS: Yeah, in the driveway at home. Yeah. 
LO: And you were about fifteen you think? 
LS: I think so, it was probably about there. It was definitely either just before high school or 
freshman year of high school, somewhere around there. 
LO: So did your dad kind of show you what to do? Or just kind of give you the materials and 
say see what you can do? 
LS: Oh yeah, you definitely can’t just hop into splicing so I watched him a lot because he would 
do, the one boat that I remember, it was The Seal. It’s not The Seal anymore, it’s The Hustler. 
But we used to, I would always tag along when he’d go and he’d put the eye splices in for The 
Seal. So I had a little bit of an idea as to what it was. I mean I would just stand there and watch 
Lukas Smith interview, July 7, 2017 
6 
but you know, it was cool. And then when he started to teach us, I, some of it came back but it 
did take maybe two years to actually grasp the whole concept and be able to do a splice and 
pretty much do it on my own. I mean even today I still need some help when it comes to the 
splice. I mean just the other day I crossed two of the strands, I mean the splice came out but it 
didn’t, it wasn’t as easy as it should have been. So. 
LO: So tell me, is it more that it’s physically challenging or is it sort of, I don’t know, more the 
engineering but the design of it? 
LS: Both. It depends. You know if you don’t have a good breakfast and you go out and you got 
to do two splices or something it’s going to be a little harder physically, but mentally just, I may 
have, I mixed up two of them. So, I mean, it’s just. But you learn. 
[5:35] 
LO: Maybe take me through the process since you’re newer to it. I mean in talking to your father 
it’s so second nature to him. It’s like since I’m a lay person and know nothing, describe to me 
sort of from beginning to the end. How do you? 
LS: The process of a splice? 
LO: The process of a splice. 
LS: Okay. Well, you take a particular length of wire and you run it through, there’s a, there’s a 
vise at one end that holds the wire, and you run it through the vise and you make a loop in the 
wire. Whether it be, it’s for dragger, you’ll put a swivel on it before you do the splice and you 
could, it could either be a soft eye or a hard eye. And a soft eye is just an open bend with no 
thimble in it but a, I don’t know if it’s actually called a hard eye but it’s thimble eye and a soft 
eye, I believe is what they’re actually called. So, a thimble eye has a thimble and a soft eye is 
just an opening. You put that on the wire, you have your loop, you tighten up your second vise, 
the one that you actually put the whole assembly in first and then you put a little bit of a bend in 
the wire so that way it’s easier when you go to lay your tucks. And then you tighten up the vise 
on the end. Then give it a good bend so that way it’s already got a good bit of stretch in it and 
you want to take, you want to take the end and push against it so that way it will open up so you 
can get each strand. But I forgot to say, was that the vise at the end you actually have to take a 
turn out of it. It’s called a twister. So you take a turn out of it so that way it’s even easier to put 
the tucks into the wire. So once you’ve opened up the wire you want to separate all the strands 
and the heart and you want to take the one wire that is closest to the part that is stationary that 
you are going to be putting your tucks into. You want to put that off to the side because that’s 
going to be your first tuck. And then you take the other five and you put them on one side and 
then the heart goes with them. When you go to do your first, your first tuck is actually backwards 
as opposed to how the rest of them go so what I always do is I take that one piece of wire and I 
lay it so that way you can see like where it wants to go and then you go two back from that and 
that’s where you put your spike. And your spike goes opposite, your spike goes opposite and 
you put the, the first tuck comes in and up through the wire as opposed to over and under. So, 
you do one tuck on each, one tuck on each wire and after you put the first tuck in for the first 
Lukas Smith interview, July 7, 2017 
7 
wire, then you put the heart into that one. So there’s the heart in the first wire and then you do 
each and then each is the first one after your first tuck is you skip three and then you pick up 
three. So you pick up three strands with your second tuck. Okay. Okay. Then you drop, you drop 
one and you pick up two for the next one and then you drop one and you just pick up one, one, 
one, ‘till you get to the end. And then when you get to the end of your doing one tuck for each, 
when you’re on your sixth strand, that’s when you start doing the, your six tucks for each. So 
you do, and then you just go backwards, until you get to, when you have two wires left and the 
heart you pick up the last two strands that are on your wire that you are going into and you run 
the heart backward through that. So you’re just putting the heart in the center to build up your 
wire. Sometimes if you mess up you don’t have to have the heart but that only happens to me. 
LO: Many things, many questions come to mind. So, first of all, I do a little bit of knitting and it 
sounds, in some ways sort of like the ways that stitches are created when you’re knitting an 
elaborate sweater; there are all kinds of ways that you’re increasing, you’re decreasing to create 
patterns. But obviously what you’re trying to do is to create strength I assume. 
[10:13] 
LS: Yes, yes. 
LO: So, six strand wire, is that always the case? Or typical? 
LS: Yeah, yeah. 
LO: And is that what that’s called? 
LS: Yep. 
LO: So you have six strands. 
LS: Six strands. 
LO: And the heart is like the core? 
LS: Yes, the heart is just rope that the wire is wound around. 
LO: And it’s actual rope? 
LS: It’s rope, yep. 
LO: Like? 
LS: Yeah, like regular, just regular rope. 
LO: Like nylon or? 
Lukas Smith interview, July 7, 2017 
8 
LS: It think it’s nylon. Yeah. Sometimes there is a steel core, which makes it even, well I guess 
you could say even harder to splice but it’s more, it’s stronger. 
LO: Sure. 
LS: It’s like another. 
LO: And when you’re talking about the sort of bending the wire, is that something that you’re 
doing entirely by hand? 
LS: Yes. 
LO: Or are there tools that used? Oh. 
LS: Yes. Everything is by hand. I wish there was probably a tool to do it but. 
LO: Sounds like it’s a lot of strength. 
LS: Oh yeah. Yeah. I know my father’s had carpal tunnel and he’s had the surgery for it for both 
of his wrists because there was a period of time where he wasn’t sleeping well if at all because of 
it so I’m sure it’s probably very common with people that splice wire. 
LO: So the tools, you mention the spike, which is I assume a marlin spike? 
LS: Yes. Like this. 
LO: Okay. Yep. 
LS: You have a spike and then you have a hammer. And I use the hammer moreso than my 
father does but in the case where you can’t get the end of the spike underneath the wire, there are 
instances where it’s very difficult. Like when you come to, you have to pick up your last two 
strands in order to get the heart in, it’s very. I struggle to push it in with my hands so I’ll use my 
hammer. He will not all the time but... 
LO: He’s got a little, few more years under his belt. 
LS: Yeah. And you know, he knows how to finagle the spike and even if I watch him still there 
will be ways where, he’ll come to something where I know I’d have difficulty, whether it be 
pulling the wire through or just, you know, maneuvering the spike in a certain way or 
maneuvering the wire in a certain way. There’s a lot of coordination that goes on. 
LO: Sure. 
LS: So, for the benefit of the listening audience that can’t see, I see there are differing lengths of 
marlin spike and different, maybe different circumferences? 
Lukas Smith interview, July 7, 2017 
9 
LS: Uh, yeah. 
LO: Or are the same? Or different gauges? 
LS: Well they all, they’re for different sizes of wire. Say, if we’re going to do an inch and an 
eighth splice we’ll use the twenty inch but if it’s maybe three quarter, maybe a little less or more 
we use the sixteen inch and then the ten inch would be more half inch wire, five eighths, 
something smaller. 
LO: What’s the most common wire size that you use, sort of typically. 
LS: For a scalloper it would be the inch and an eighth and for draggers usually use seven 
eighths, one inch. So. But in my experience F ve only just about spliced inch and an eighth, 
maybe one inch. Maybe once in a while you get a break and you can do five eighths or 
something but even that has it’s difficulties because you don’t leave yourself enough of an end so 
they don’t, you can’t fit them into the vise because the vise is usually made for an inch and an 
eighth wire, so. 
LO: Yeah. 
LS: But, they all have their quirks I guess. 
LO: And tell me a little bit about the different uses of wire on a fishing vessel. 
LS: Well, the normal inch and an eighth is used for the actual fishing itself but then you have, 
and that’s inch and an eighth, a light, light lube, so there’s a light oil on it. Some people use a 
heavy a dark lube, which I don’t really know the difference between it, but some... 
LO: And when you say used for the fishing itself, used for? 
LS: To actually hold, whether it be the dredge or the net. 
LO: Yep. 
LS: For say, stays, which are, they hold the arms or the outriggers and they hold some other. 
What else... I can’t think of what else they hold but they are mostly stationary, they don’t move. 
Those are just regular galvanized wire and they have to be exactly perfect to the length that 
they’re looking for so you can’t have any leeway. But they’re usually used to hold things 
stationary. 
LO: Is that, are those measurements pretty standard or do they vary a lot from one boat to 
another? 
[14:57] 
Lukas Smith interview, July 7, 2017 
10 
LS: I think they change from one boat to another but when they need to replace them it has to be 
exactly the same and there’s even lengths of chain that will go into them and they’ll put a 
tumbuckle on it so that way it always stays taut. 
LO: What about, do you guys work on lobster boats at all or is it basically scallopers? Just 
wondering. 
LS: I think it’s, if they need cable maybe but I’d say most of the time it would be scallopers and 
the occasional trawler but it’s mostly, I mean anything I’ve even done, really, has been for 
scallopers, so. 
LO: Is there a type of splice that you, I mean do you do pretty much the same one over and 
over? Is there one that you prefer for some reason? 
LS: Well, I’d rather do an eye splice than a cut splice because with a cut splice you have to do 
two instead of one. It’s, it’s not necessarily harder but it’s just two splices. So it’s an inch and an 
eighth which I don’t think I’ve ever had to do one inch and eighth but it’s I think it’s usually 
seven eighths, three quarter, those are the kind of vessels they won’t, they’ll keep adding a little 
more, adding a little more. So you’ll do a cut splice and then you’ll put the new stuff on the 
bottom so that way they can use, they’ll just keep using what they’ve got. 
LO: Now if remember correctly you attended Voc? 
LS: I did. I did. 
LO: Yeah, and did you do anything that related to this while you were there? 
LS: No, oh no, no, no. I know that in years past they actually had a commercial fishing program 
there but not in the time when I’ve been there. Actually when I go to the Advisory Council 
Meetings they still have a group of guys that come that are from the commercial fishing major. 
LO: Do they? Interesting. 
LS: I don’t know what they can talk about since there’s nothing that relates to that now. 
LO: So they’re faculty or they’re alums? Or? 
LS: They could have been people who were in the major when they were there. They could have 
been faculty. They could just be people from the outside industry that want to have some say but 
I don’t know what they’re having a say in since there’s no major left for them. 
LO: Yeah. And do you have any idea why that was discontinued? 
LS: I think it just wasn’t popular anymore or they couldn’t see where it was going. 
LO: Sure. 
Lukas Smith interview, July 7, 2017 
11 
LS: I mean because they used to teach them, from what I’ve heard, it was the net mending. I 
don’t know if they taught them splicing but they taught them about rope and net mending and 
anything pertaining to netting I’d say. I don’t know if they learned how to make chain bags or 
anything like that. But I think it was more nets. 
LO: Yeah. I just, it seems to me when I’ve talked to shoreside business owners and workers that 
there’s a real lack of young people coming up who, you know? 
LS: Yeah, yeah. No, there’s definitely people of my generation that either don’t have the work 
ethic or just don’t know anything about the fishing industry. I mean if you’re from New Bedford 
I would expect you to know about the fishing industry but I don’t think there’s an interest among 
young people. 
LO: And it may be that there may be that there are some things that are super specific to the 
fishing industry and some things that are more transferrable? Like I interviewed somebody who 
is in a welding shop and he said he gets a lot of kids from Voc because they have had some 
welding experience. I mean obviously he teaches them the application that’s... 
LS: They have a skill that they could use in other places whereas in our, in what we’re doing 
here with splicing there’s no other real application aside from here unfortunately. So you don’t 
see anyone that knows how to do it, aside from those people that have either learned through 
family ties or through having someone else that they know in the business. 
LO: So I think when I was here last week, or whenever that was, there was a story that might 
have been told after we turned after the tape recorder off or at least you showed me on the truck 
kind of something that happened at one point when you and your dad were both splicing. 
LS: Oh, okay. 
LO: Double reel truck? You want to just share that story? 
LS: Okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah. There was one time where were were both splicing and we have 
two vises on our truck. And it had been a long day. The two of us had I think, maybe done four, 
maybe not four apiece but four splices all together and this was our last splice of the day, well, 
hopefully. And I know he had come down to maybe one of his last tucks on his side and I was 
doing my tucks on my side. He’s actually behind me and I’m not facing him so his glasses, his 
sunglasses actually came down in front of me and I turned around confused as to why his glasses 
came in front of me and actually one of the tails of the wire he had just, due to the physical strain 
of doing that many splices in one day had actually, he had happened to either let go or the wire 
slipped out of his hand and just barely nicked him in order to get his glasses off of his head and 
they landed all the way in front of me. There is a little, I guess, element of danger to what we do. 
LO: I’m glad that he was wearing glasses. 
LS: Yeah, yeah. No, he didn’t even have a nick on his nose, so. 
Lukas Smith interview, July 7, 2017 
12 
[20:16] 
LO: And then after we finished the interview, you know that previous interview, you guys took 
us, took me on a little tour of the shop and showed me some of the machines. Maybe you can just 
kind of give me a tour while we’re sitting here if you can remember the various... 
LS: Okay. So, we’ve got, there’s the two main machines that we have in the shop. We have a 
five hundred ton press and then we have a coiling machine. And we use the five hundred ton 
press to do machine splices, which is instead of a hand splice. Machine splice is easier to do but 
it’s not going to be, for fishing applications anyway, it’s not going to be as reliable due to the 
fact that when they pull the eye of the splice through the block it doesn’t bend very well and 
through repeated use it will actually break. So, that’s why a hand splice is much better than a 
machine splice, but for applications such as say the stays on a fishing vessel, those aren’t going 
to be moving, excuse me, so those are going to be machine splices. 
LO: And is that press something that was designed specifically for the application that you use it 
for or is it something that was adapted. Do you know what I mean, like? 
LS: I believe it could have been adapted since it has different dies and you can use different for 
different size wire but the dies come out and actually I think the whole plate that the die goes in 
could come off So you could probably use it in some other sort of squeezing application or 
metal work or something but for our application it does just fine for a machine splice. 
LO: Sure. 
LS: Then we have the coiling machine which, pretty self-explanatory, it coils the wire. We can 
actually put a whole reel on there, an empty reel, and then it closes up on it and we can take a 
whole reel of wire off of the truck and then with the use of the forklift you can flip it back on its 
side but so it, it pretty much does anything you ask of it to coil wire. 
LO: So you coil the wire in order to transport it mainly, or? 
LS: Ah, yeah. Most of the time if we’re going to put it on a reel it’s either new wire that, 
because some of our customers will take the wire and put it on their own boat themselves 
whereas, for larger applications, say inch and an eighth wire, we do the work but there was a 
gentlemen that was just here, I think he had five eighths wire or half inch and he takes the two 
spools himself We give him a jack, we put the spool on the jack. He takes it to his boat and he 
puts it on himself, so. Some of the smaller guys still like to do it like that and it saves them some 
money as opposed to us having to bring the truck all the way out there, so. But in other instances 
we use it to take junk wire off the truck and then just put it off to the side until we can get some 
time to either get rid of it or cut it up because some places, in order to scrap it they won’t take it 
on a full reel so it has to be in sections, so. And we can’t get rid of it any other way, so. 
LO: So the shop is relatively new that we’re sitting in here. 
Lukas Smith interview, July 7, 2017 
13 
LS: Yes, how long would you say we’ve been here? [Two years]. All right, so we’ve been here 
two years and I’d say we’d been over in the other place for five years and that’s been our total, 
so seven years altogether is how long we’ve been open. 
LO: And were you involved in setting any of this up? 
LS: Oh yeah, oh yeah. When we opened up the first place I was rather young and I didn’t know 
how to use the forklift or anything. I was there just to help more like pick up things or you know, 
little, smaller things but when we moved to this place I actually, we had rented a forklift for this 
shop and I unloaded the truck when it would come and then would drive back. Which, thankfully 
it’s only two, three minutes away down the road so we were able to do it all ourselves. We didn’t 
have to really, you know, pay a moving company or anything. They brought all the stuff here I 
unloaded it and myself and a friend of mine, we set up the rackings so that way once more things 
came through we could put the stuff, at least somewhat away just for the time being until my 
father could figure out what he wanted to do and how he wanted to space everything out. So it 
was quite a move. And we had to have another company come in and actually move the press 
because it’s too heavy. 
LO: How much does that weigh? 
LS: I think it’s about five thousand pounds. Oh, it’s eleven thousand pounds, [eight thousand]. 
Eight thousand pounds? Eight thousand pounds. Final offer. 
LO: Wow. 
LS: Yeah. And our forklift can only lift about I think five thousand so we actually had to have a 
crane company come in and pick it up. 
[25:18] 
LO: Tell me a little bit about the truck too. Because that’s not kind of your typical truck to have 
two presses. 
LS: The truck, the winch truck, it’s got custom made winches and actually both of the vises, that 
had to be all custom and it’s got a knuckle boom on it. 
LO: What’s a knuckle boom? 
LS: A knuckle boom is a crane that essentially is all folded up. Say if we’re going to go to 
Boston we need to take two reels of wire with us and we use the knuckle boom to pick up the 
two reels of wire and put them on the truck and then we tie eveiything down and when we get 
there we can use the knuckle boom to take them off because when we go there we also always 
have to take their old wire back so we don’t have the room to take their old wire off and put 
these two reels of wire on the winches so in order to make all that happen we use the knuckle 
boom and then we’ve got both of the vises. Which allow us to do two splices at once if there’s 
two people there working. And the winch, the winches allow you to take any wire off just about. 
Lukas Smith interview, July 7, 2017 
14 
We were going to use it today to take off ground cables. I’m sure it has other applications as 
well. And then there’s a flat bed truck which has two winches that can go on it and one of them 
is a larger winch which can be used as a net drone so if you ever wanted to you could probably 
use it to take a net off I don’t think we want to but primarily we use to, we use the winches that 
are off that truck to end frame wire, which is in, on scallopers they’ll use a large amount of wire 
and they’ll only use half of it to go fishing with. The winches will hold eight hundred fathoms of 
seven eighths wire. This is coming in from my sources. 
LO: Yes, and a fathom being six feet. 
LS: A fathom being six feet, yes. Anyway, where was I going with that? 
LO: You were just kind of giving me the specs on how the winches, the roll up winches. 
LS: I don’t know, I lost my train of thought. 
LO: It’s all right. So, let me take you in a different direction I don’t know if your dad wants to 
hear this part of the conversation but I’m curious, so this is a family business obviously. 
LS: Yes. 
LO: And it’s a relatively new family business... 
LS: Yeah, yeah. 
LO: And I’m guessing as new businesses go that’s always stressful and challenging and 
uncertain and the fishing industry being what it is, that’s always in a state of somewhat unstable, 
so one question I guess would be, certainly I would guess your dad who’s at the helm gets 
stressed out. 
LS: Oh yeah, and it comes home too but we’ve all taken part in this for so long that I think we 
all have vested interest and we’re all, we all share the stress I guess you could say. Especially 
when you work here. It’s been a wild ride I guess starting out and not knowing if the people that 
he knew back in his days at Bruce’s were going to come back to us, if they were going to stay 
with who they were with. So, and I can say I’ve been here for most of that, I have never been a 
full, full-time worker but I have the opportunity to come in during the summer or be it the winter 
so I’ve seen. I’ve seen the times when we’ve had nothing and been worried about when the next 
boat might come from and now I can say most of that has turned around. 
LO: That’s great. 
LS: And it’s always, you never know who’s going to call next, so. 
LO: And since it is your father, your mother and sometimes your brother too, do you get a time 
away from it. You know if you have Fourth of July picnic are you talking about this or are you 
talking about the watermelon? The fireworks? 
Lukas Smith interview, July 7, 2017 
15 
LS: Definitely, well a lot of the family, not just the immediate family has taken an interest in 
what we do so there’s always something to talk about and everyone’s always interested to hear 
what’s going on. So, I think it takes precedence most of the time as to what we have to say so. 
Which it doesn’t bother me one bit I don’t mind. I mean when I come home, say if I was at 
school, away at college for a while and I’d come back and I’d be like, who’ve you done, you 
know, how’s it been, who’ve you been working on this time. So it’s always been an interest to 
see it succeed anyway. 
[30:00] 
LO: Now you went on from Voc to Mass Maritime, correct? 
LS: Yes. 
LO: And just recently finished your program? 
LS: Yes, yep. 
LO: And what did you study there? 
LS: I started out as a facility engineer and then I changed to marine safety and environmental 
protection. 
LO: And does that mean that you will be pursuing a career that’s not, not here? 
LS: Yes, unfortunately. I’m, if I end up in this area I will most certainly still lend my time to 
help but my career goals lie elsewhere. 
LO: And is there tension on that front? 
LS: No, no. They absolutely want to see my brother and I do well and I, both of us don’t have a 
career interest in splicing but it’s been, it’s been wonderful to learn something that not everyone 
knows and especially something that had come through family. Having our father teach us in the 
driveway how to splice wire has been pretty interesting so, and it’s not a skill that, that anybody 
else that I know of or my age anyway, knows how to, how to use. 
LO: So do you think that in time, your Dad will bring on another young person to... 
LS: I hope so, I really do because he needs the help and I know he’s reluctant to take it but he 
needs it. He’s getting older, getting up on the truck isn’t as easy anymore. So. He needs 
somebody but it’s kind of hard to bring somebody in because there’s not always consistent work. 
I know during the winter it’s definitely a lot slower than it is right now during the summer so 
you’ve just got to find somebody who’s going to be okay with there being some down time in the 
winter and maybe even having to be laid off but, I guess it’s just the way the cookie crumbles. 
Lukas Smith interview, July 7, 2017 
16 
LO: Let’s see. What do you like best about the work that you do here, or the work that you, the 
environment, the work that you’ve done? 
LS: I’d say, it’s probably knowing that, we’re the reason, well one of them anyway, why people 
have seafood on their table. If it wasn’t for our splice, there wouldn’t be a dredge to drag in the 
water, there wouldn’t be, there would be none of that. So, the whole, everything behind what we 
do is to ensure that the fleet can do their job and catch fish or scallops or anything for that matter. 
So our hand splice and all those years of learning how to splice and all those years of working at 
Bruce’s and doing all the work is to put seafood on the plates of people everywhere, so. 
LO: That’s a lot to be proud about. 
LS: Yeah. Oh yeah, absolutely. 
LO: Good, well, is there anything else you want to add that I didn’t ask about? 
LS: I don’t know. I can’t really think of anything. I know, it’s been a wild ride, really. Coming 
from the smaller shop to this one, just seeing how the people have reacted. By people I mean the 
people that use us have either flocked to us or it’s taken some time for them to come here but it’s 
amazing to see the connections that he made thirty something years ago when he started, have 
come back full circle. And a lot of them are either or his age or maybe younger but to see them 
all come back and use us. 
LO: And to what do you attribute that? 
LS: Well, his hard work and work ethic have and have really shown and I think that’s what 
people appreciate. I know the second somebody calls it’s like, all right we’re going to get that 
done. We don’t have a whole lot of time to not get it done so it’s not something that you just 
want to leave. So people know that the second they call it’s either going to be within a day or 
two we are going to be either going to be starting or getting to the boat to do the job so there’s 
never, there’s never a lull of work. 
LO: So responsiveness. 
LS: Absolutely, absolutely. And then just them seeing his work ethic when he worked for 
Bruce’s and I think that is what has brought them back. 
[34:37] 
LO: And what do you think about the waterfront just as a community? Do you have a sense of 
that? I mean you’re young so you haven’t seen a lot. 
LS: I mean to me, to me it’s a, everybody seems to know everybody, just about. I know a lot of 
the older guys anyway seem to know just about everybody. You could go down there and name 
a boat and they’ll be like oh yeah, so and so’s the captain or you know, you start telling a story 
about when they had this massive windfall catch and everybody knows it. My father would come 
Lukas Smith interview, July 7, 2017 
17 
home and tell us stories like that of you know, maybe a one man show going out there and he 
caught all these fish and now everybody knows the story because he came in and he had this 
huge catch of fish and he didn’t think he was going to get in the boat then he got in the boat. Or 
other instances where people, you know, had a whale caught up in the net or just all kinds of 
stories like that that get around and it’s a good community to be a part of I would say because 
everybody seems to look out for each other. 
LO: And do you have friends your age who have family that are in the industry as well? 
LS: I don’t think so. I don’t think so. Not that I know of. 
LO: Friends who fish, whose fathers or uncles? 
LS: No. No. 
LO: No. 
LS: No, I can’t think of anybody really. 
LO: Yeah. 
LS: Which is surprising because I feel like I would. 
LO: So, do you feel like growing up did your friends sort of get it or have any clue? 
LS: I don’t think they knew. They didn’t know what he did or what the business was like. It’s 
definitely if you’re a part of it, you know everything. 
LO: Right. 
LS: But if you’re not you probably don’t have the faintest of ideas as to what goes into it. 
LO: Enter The Fishing Heritage Center, yes? 
LS: Yeah. Oh yeah. Absolutely. 
LO: No, I mean I do think that educating... It’s amazing to me how little so many people right 
here in New Bedford, how little they know about, they don’t even, many of them don’t even 
know that we still go fishing, let alone the details that we’re talking about. 
LS: Well, I’m sure if more people came to the Working Waterfront Festival they’d know. 
Because that’s almost like a party for the fishermen. We go down there and we could be 
standing there for hours and he just turns around and he knows somebody and he’s got to talk to 
them and then he turns around and talking to somebody else. Drumming up business while we’re 
there. We all make sure that we wear the shirts and you know, so we’re noticeable when we’re 
Lukas Smith interview, July 7, 2017 
there. But I know I haven’t been able to make it I think for the past couple but I know in years 
past we would always go and check out everything. 
LO: Sometimes we get rain like today which is not fun. 
18 
LS: Yeah. But yeah, it’s an amazing community and it’s been a big part of our lives, for sure, for 
sure. 
LO: Well, thank you very much. I mean is there... Any last words? 
LS: No, I can’t think of anything else. I know it’s having, having the family here and everything 
it’s been crazy but it’s definitely, the work ethic and what I’ve learned from being here has made 
me into a stronger individual and that work ethic is something that I can take anywhere I go and I 
am beyond grateful for what my family has taught me and for the trade that I know. Even if it’s 
not going to be something that I’m going to continue in my own lifetime but I’m very proud to 
know how to splice and how my family has come to know about that throughout the years. 
LO: Thanks. 
LS: Welcome. 
[38:15] End of audio. 
Lukas Smith interview, July 7, 2017