NEW BEDFORD FISHING HERITAGE CENTER 
Date of Interview January 21, 2017 
Calil, Tomas ~ Oral History Interview 
Corinn Williams 
Calil, Tomas. Interview by Corinn Williams. Workers on the New Bedford Waterfront. New 
Bedford Fishing Heritage Center. January 21, 2017. 
This oral history was produced in 2017 as part of the Workers on the Waterfront Oral History 
Project conducted by New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center with funding from an Archie Green 
Fellowship provided by the Library of Congress. 
New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center 
38 Bethel Street 
P.O. Box 2052 
New Bedford, MA 02741-2052 
Interview with Tomas Calil, January 21, 2017 
1 
Background 
Name of person interviewed: Tomas Calil 
Facts about this person: 
Age 33 
Sex Male 
Occupation Supervisor, Bergie’s Seafood 
Residence (Town where lives) New Bedford 
Ethnic background (if known) Guatemalan, Maya K’iche 
Interviewer: Corinn Williams [CW] 
Transcriber: Corinn Williams [CW] 
Interview location: Community Economic Development Center, New Bedford 
Date of interview: January 21, 2017 
Key Words 
Fish processing, cutting, packing, fish cutting machine, pallet, orders 
Abstract 
Tomas Calil is from Guatemala and is a supervisor at Bergie’s Seafood. He has been working at 
Bergie’s for 15 years and knows all aspects of production at the plant. 
Interview with Tomas Calil, January 21, 2017 
2 
Index 
[00:00] Intro; from Guatemala and came to US in 2000 to join his brother who was working in 
seafood processing already. Brother found him his first job and helped to teach him. Brother still 
works in seafood processing but works elsewhere. 
[05:21] In Guatemala worked in agriculture, corn and beans. His current job is to prepare orders 
for customers in New York and Boston which involves packing fish and putting them on pallets 
then wrapping the pallets. Begins work at 6 or 7 AM depending on how much work there is and 
how much time they will need to prepare the order on time. Process is unloading the fish from 
the boats then the fish is cut the next day. Fish cutters put the fish the machine then it is packed. 
Orders are divided buy the kinds of fish of different types in an order. 
[10:15] Company truck delivers orders to customers. Workers are in groups, some cutting, some 
packing, putting ice in the boxes or cleaning up. There is a group of 25 workers who work well 
together. Many have been working together for 15 years, it is like a family. Uniforms are white 
coats, hairnets for hair and beards. They use gloves and knives to cut the fish, then the fish is put 
through a skinning machine. 
[15:00] Compares work to agriculture in Guatemala, likes this work better. He works 40-45 
hours a week but 30-38 during slower months. Work increases in February, March and April 
when there is more demand for fish during Holy Week. Best fish cutters have the most 
experience and practice to make sure there is no waste to lose product. 
[20:01] He works with about 10 people who have a lot of experience cutting fish, 2 work on the 
machine and another group on the packing line. All in his team are from Guatemala but from 
different locations in Quiche. They speak Spanish, some speak K’iche with each other. 
Difference in men and women’s jobs. 
[25:06] He has worked at the same company for 15 years; was recently arrived from Guatemala 
when he started and was a little afraid but gradually learned how to do all the jobs required at the 
company. It took about 4 years to learn it all. He likes working at his company and doesn’t look 
elsewhere for work because he knows how to do the work. The advice he would give to 
someone starting is to have patience and practice you will learn the job. 
He has 3 children 10, 8 and 6 years of age; not sure if they will work in the fishing industry or 
another field. He plans to continue working in seafood processing in the future. 
[31:37] End of Audio 
Interview with Tomas Calil, January 21, 2017 
3