Washington State Works: Archie Green Fellows Project, 2012-2013 
Sharon Kay Rasmussen interview, 2013-11-07 : interview conducted by 
Deborah Fant 
Interview ID: afc2012032_00516 
Date: November 7, 2013 
Duration: 1:06:20 
 
Sharon Rasmussen Interview Log 0:00:17.8  
 
Debbie Fant introduces herself and Sharon Rasmussen, interviewed at her 
home in Olympia, WA. They are sitting in the kitchen, eating pumpkin 
bread and drinking coffee during the interview. Sharon's house is the 
house she grew up in, purchased in 1955. Sharon's mother asked Sharon and 
her husband to move back to her childhood home to take care of Sharon's 
ailing grandmother, who lived in a doublewide in the back. That was over 
20 years ago. She has four children, three grandchildren, all come back 
to the old house. Activity has waxed and waned over the years.  
 
0:03:48.5 Sharon always wanted to be a teacher, from the first grade. She 
has worked in a lot of educational related situations prior to becoming a 
teacher: camp counselor, camp director, extension service, babysitting. 
Feels she’s always been a teacher. Hasn't been difficult work in terms of 
figuring out what to do, comes naturally.  
 
0:05:08.4 B.A. in Education, Washington State University in Pullman. Was 
a French major, has never taught French.  
 
0:05:36.3 At the time she graduated from college, 1971, surplus of 
teachers in WA state. A friend in Olympia suggested she work for a 
Catholic school. Taught at St. Michael's School for four years, moved 
grade levels every year. Some of the best preparation she could have had 
in terms of helping her understand developmental changes of children and 
their learning. But it didn't pay, so after 4 years she got a job in a 
public school, increased her salary by half.  
 
0:06:41.6 Then she taught for 29 years in the north part of Thurston 
County, Griffin School District. She stayed there for the rest of her 
teaching time. A wonderful school district, K-8 all in one building. Kids 
she had in 3rd grade, when they were in 7th or 8th grade would come back 
and be her student helpers. A wonderful way of continuity for children 
and staff members. She would have all four kids in a family, whole family 
would come for conferences. Would have three sets of cousins in one room-
-families tended to come back so their kids would have the same mall-
school experience.  
 
0:07:47.3 In her 39 Septembers, 35 full-time years, she taught each grade 
of K-8 at one time or another. Some years half-day third grade, half-day 
fifth grade, it was a small school. She could do those things because of 
her past experience. She was the person they'd call on to do those weird 
schedules. Taught third grade for a long time with 2-3 other women in a 
team-teaching situation. About 15 years. But she moved around, it made 
her happier to have something new to do.  
 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
1
0:08:45.2 School never ends for a teacher. It is always burning in the 
back of her mind. "Next year I’m going to start school by doing "X." 
Often she’d know which children she’d have, tried to know about special 
personalities. "Well, when I have Gary, I’ll make sure I do X, X, X for 
him, because that will make our lives easier." It’s always percolating in 
the back of your mind.  
 
0:09:41.6 The heavy-duty getting-going began around August 20th, going in 
to get room ready. That meant putting up bulletin boards, preparing the 
units of study. She’s usually make up her own curriculum instead of using 
one purchased from a company. She’d organize desks. Getting the physical 
plant ready so she could be ready emotionally for the families coming in.  
 
0:11:08.7 Always meetings on the new state regulations, sexual harassment 
training, HIV training. Always a union meeting that started off the 
beginning of the year--goals for that year. Re-plugging in those things 
that had been in place, re-situating them and allowing them to carry on 
for the next group of kids.  
 
0:11:53.0 When she first started teaching at St. Michael’s, the first 
three years she was "pretty useless" as a teacher. It took her that long 
to really know what she was supposed to be doing and be able to do it on 
a consistent basis. First year was a disaster. She had 35 fifth-graders, 
very few materials. She was the only teacher in that grade level. No 
support from other teachers--a "fish out of water" except that she 
enjoyed the children. She doesn't know why she returned after that year! 
The next year was better, and by year four she knew what she was doing. 
 
0:12:58.1 When she first started, she was missing that long-range vision 
of what she wanted to help each child develop by the end of that term. 
You don't ever get "done," you take the kids from where they are as far 
as you can get them to go in 9 months. She didn't understand how far she 
needed to take them, how to get them to go there. That took her a few 
years to figure out. She feels now that one of her strengths was to be 
able to evaluate the strengths of the student and direct that growth. 
Very individualized. She’s not sure how to describe how she could do that 
for 24 kids all at once, but she did. That's one thing that made her 
successful.  
 
She somehow could make herself believe and make the student believe that 
together they could do it. It was an empowerment. She empowered the kid 
to grow. One of the reasons she stayed in third grade so long--she found 
she had the freedom do make up fun curricula. So it kept her 
intellectually challenged. The third grade, the year when kids turn from 
8 to 9, is a magical time when they discover for themselves that they're 
physically all put together, they can control their own emotions, they 
don't have to have their parents with them to have friendships and settle 
disputes. Intellectually it’s a year when they firm things up. All of the 
primary time comes together and they can read, they can really write. 
They discover how powerful they are. So that was a gift to her to see 
that happen 24 different times during a year. It was a gratifying 
experience.  
 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
2
0:16:12.5 In the district where Sharon taught, class size was most often 
in mid-20s, from 22 to 25. That was a manageable size.  
 
0:16:41.7 Griffin School District was different from other districts. 
There were many different administrations over the years. Her two best 
principals were the last two she had. She had some principals who were 
obstructionist, some who were power-hungry, some who played favorites. 
But maybe those same principals were good for providing extra experiences 
for kids. It’s a tiny district, there are about 650 kids for the whole 
district; when she started there were about 350. Sometimes the principal 
was also her superintendent. About five years into teaching in public 
school, she helped found the union at that school. There had never been a 
union prior to that. She became trained in negotiating contracts. Those 
were skills that overlapped into her personal life, into teaching life. 
She learned ways of defining her own bottom line, then worked positive 
steps to make sure she achieved that. That was another learning situation 
that education put her in that she might not have gotten otherwise.  
 
0:19:01.5 The union was Griffin Education Association. It was affiliated 
with the National Education Association, NEA. She was active in the 
organization for ten years, then she let someone else take over. When 
it’s a small shop, if you've already been the president, vice president, 
secretary, chief negotiator, you've done it all and it’s time for someone 
else to step in and have those experiences.  
 
0:19:54.9 Sharon's opinion of the role of a good principal is someone who 
can help the community realize the positive that's happening inside the 
building. A cheerleader, a rally-er of the community around the body of 
education. The best principals are good PR people. Just as she felt her 
strength was empowerment of her students to do their best job, the 
principal needs to convey to the staff that same empowerment. You can do 
your best when you're believed in. If you have someone with sound 
educational practices who can also convey that faith in the educators, 
you'll have a great school.  
 
0:21:23.3 How have educational theories changed over the years? There 
were waves of different theories. Some things remained constant. One was 
individualization, where you create a scope or body of work for a 
particular child or group of children. Tailor the work to the needs of 
the situation. That was a standard for most of her teaching career. She 
hasn't been teaching full-time for a year and a half, and her 
understanding from her colleagues is that has shifted. Now in order to 
make sure the children learn and are ready for standardized tests, every 
third grader has to be on the same page on the same date. More 
regimentation now, more direction for teachers right now. They have to 
follow a set of curriculum from a published company. Another thing, when 
she first started with training in the late 1960s, she thinks the 
standard for teaching reading was phonics. That faded for a while, they 
had "whole language"-- if you surrounded a child with literature, they 
would read. If they kept reading the same book over and over, they'd 
learn to read. That didn't last long, and the shift was back to phonics. 
She thinks that's still in vogue at this point.  
 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
3
0:23:58.7 Every 20 years, you start at Point A and go all the way round 
to Z, then after 20 years you're back at Point A again. New stuff is now 
coming because of extensive and exciting brain research. Finally 
understanding why it is that some children don't write. Understanding 
that there are parts of the brain that aren't connected so it’s difficult 
to formulate sentences on paper. Can formulate in mouth but not paper, 
why? Now understand that the sensory integration isn’t working. She finds 
it sad that she’s not there doing that on a day-to-day basis. It’s cool 
to know that we can find ways to help all children be successful in an 
intellectual way.  
 
That wasn't the case when she began teaching. All they knew, "She has 
reading difficulties," and they’d send the child away to a special room 
and they didn't know what was done. Special ed was a whole different 
discipline. A good teacher now integrates those special education 
techniques into her teaching in the classroom.  
 
0:25:41.2 Last five years Sharon taught, she wasn't in the classroom. She 
taught online, she was a Distance Learning Educator. She had an office in 
her home, a computer with an electronic blackboard. She had access to the 
whole family when she was teaching the child, so she’d teach a group 
lesson and parents would sit in to watch her teaching practices. She’d 
model for them how to help their children learn. The parents and Sharon 
would conference on the child's difficulties, and she’d be able to do 
research into the new brain development body of work. She could pull that 
information and present it to a family and make suggestions for a 
particular child, dyslexia, dysgraphia, problems with language reception. 
She became a researcher and a presenter to facilitate the learning of the 
individual kids. That was satisfying five-year period.  
 
0:27:23.6 The programs she worked with was a different model from a 
regular public education. She worked for Steilacoom School District, same 
salary and benefits as a regular teacher, but she was the 16th teacher in 
the state of Washington hired to do that particular job, the second year 
it was running. The program started with 1600 kids that year and ended up 
with about 2600 kids. They were all students of the state of Washington. 
They were all enrolled in Steilacoom School District via the Distance 
Learning package. They lived all over the state. The ones she had lived 
near her so that she could physically see them once a month. They could 
meet at the library for extra tutoring.  
 
0:28:53.0 The students were self-selected. The parent would say, "I want 
to have my child at home educated primarily by me with the support of a 
teacher." "Home-based learning" is the term used instead of home-
schooled.  
 
0:29:22.0 When Sharon was teaching in the classroom and had a kid who had 
been home schooled, invariably they wouldn't know math because Mom didn't 
like to teach math, or they couldn't read because the kid wouldn't sit 
still long enough to read. They'd come in with huge pockets of 
deficiencies that Sharon would have to deal with to get them up to speed. 
When she because a "home-school teacher," she found it gratifying because 
she could use her body of knowledge to really meet the needs of the kids. 
They maybe had been in a special-ed pull-out program for reading, and 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
4
when they were pulled out their homeroom teacher would be teaching math, 
so they wouldn't get math all year. So kids come with holes you have to 
learn to fill. Also behavior problems, ADD, Asperger's, illness--she had 
one kid with MERSA and couldn’t be in a regular classroom. Had another 
child whose mother was dying of cancer and wanted the child to be home 
with her. Lots of different situations. It was a privilege to help the 
families do what they wanted to do with their kids.  
 
0:31:11.5 Even though she’d been a teacher for over 30 years, she had 10 
days of formal training on a new way of reporting, new way of tracking, 
new way of communicating. All of the technology support that she didn’t 
need to use in a brick-and-mortar classroom. Did she have ample 
preparation? She doesn’t think there’s such a thing. But after about a 
year, she could mostly do everything she was supposed to do.  
 
0:32:01.0 Sharon didn’t miss being with the children because every day 
there was contact. She would speak with them over electronic classroom, 
she could see them because she had a webcam. It was replaced by her 
having a sense of accomplishment, being able to speak so often with the 
parent. When the parent and Sharon formed an allegiance, they could move 
the child forward. She knew she was giving in another way that was 
equally as valuable.  
 
0:33:18.0 The first year of distance learning she had 60 kids, 
kindergarten through eighth grade. That was a lot to keep track of. But 
she wasn’t doing the instruction for every subject for every one of those 
students. In the first year, the focus of the school, Washington Virtual 
Academies, was on the parent and instructional help for the parent. Next 
four years that shifted to presenting many more lessons online. Sometimes 
she presented to individual students, sometimes to large groups of 
students online. Maybe there would be 120 first-graders for a dinosaur 
lesson, say, in science. They were coming to her online so they were all 
seeing the same presentations. They could comment to her, she could give 
them the microphone, or they could chat with their moms help with typing. 
It was nice to have a shift from parental governance to actually dealing 
with students on an educational basis. Better model for the parents. They 
can understand how to put lessons together, how to set the tone.  
 
0:35:18.8 There were two goals, how best to educate the parent and 
educate the child.  
 
0:35:34.7 She had about 8 families of kids that she had all five years. 
She’d take a child from kindergarten to reading Harry Potter. That was 
fun. It was very intimate--she came into their home once a week on the 
telephone, another time each week in the classroom. She knew their lives. 
Education should be intimate. That was a satisfying model for her and for 
the families.  
 
0:36:31.8 If Sharon were doing an individual lesson, it would be 20 
minutes, sometimes 30. With a big group, that would usually be 30 minutes 
because it took longer to get things set up, to take roll, would take 
longer to interact with the kids.  
 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
5
0:37:35.9 Sharon clarifies how a group would be taught. All of the kids 
would be sent a url (web address) that they’d log into at a specific 
time. Every week the teachers would print out a summation of the lessons 
for that week’s schedule, the kids could decide which class they’d want 
to attend. Such as "science with Ms. Rasmussen on dinosaurs." That would 
be scheduled for 8 weeks, every Tuesday at 1pm for the "dinosaur lesson." 
The electronic blackboard she used had a comments section where the 
students could each type in their comments. She could ask a general 
question, "Give me 5 dinosaurs that had horns," for example. They’d be 
able to type in their responses. Or she could make up a quiz and they’d 
enter a, b, c, or d. She could she who got it right, who got it wrong. 
The monitoring of responses would take a bit more time.  
 
0:39:18.9 She could say aloud, "Oh yeah, Reginald, you might want to 
think about that a little more." Or she could privately type something to 
Reginald so that she wouldn’t expose other children to a comment. A 
chance for private and chance for public interactions. It took a while to 
learn how to do all of that at once and keep track of that much stuff 
going on.  
 
0:40:03.4 The hardest part were the technical things: What if the power 
went out, the server wasn’t working right, the computer got a bug. Those 
were the things that would be difficult. She’d have to find a way to work 
around the problem. The school district gave her IT support, but 
sometimes it wasn’t immediate. So she’d have to cobble together something 
else. If the power went out, she’d go to the nearest Starbucks. Whatever 
it took to make it work. The technical aspects proved most difficult.  
 
0:41:00.5 In the last 4 years she had that job, she was a half-time 
teacher, and a half-time mentor to other teachers. She had 10 teachers 
that she supported, and because there was a wide range of ages and 
grades, and the teachers hadn’t all taught different grades, some 
teachers wouldn’t know how to reach children of another age or stage of 
learning. Because Sharon had a broad experience with teaching all grades, 
she could give the support. She could offer teachers other ways of 
approaching and solving problems. Sometimes she’d go to the parent and 
help to work out a new routine.  
 
0:42:30.8 She had a reduced number of students, only 30 kids, and then 10 
teachers and their students that she’d add. That was satisfying for her--
to be able to help a teacher who had already taught for 20 years.  
 
0:43:07.8 For her, teaching is always a collaboration, that’s the best 
teaching. She spent the majority of her teaching years in a collaborative 
situation. She team-taught for most of her teaching years.  
 
0:43:35.1 In her situation, a number of teachers would be together and 
plan lessons together and share students. Sharon might always teach a 
particular set of kids for math, and someone else would teach that set 
for reading. Matching the needs of the students. Kids were free to relate 
to whichever teacher worked the best for them. They had a homeroom, but 
if they wanted to sit next to another teacher during story time, they 
could do that. Because they were all together, they could see each other 
teaching. She’d get ideas from other teachers by watching them. She could 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
6
ask the other teachers for help. If a child was having a bad day, one 
teacher could take a double class while another teacher worked one-on-one 
with the child who needed more attention at the time. More of a family 
approach to teaching.  
 
0:45:32.7 There would be a large space, the equivalent of four classrooms 
with maybe a partial classroom wall. The kids could move from place to 
place, the teacher would move also. Sometimes all 60 kids would be 
together getting instruction on how to make a paper mask, sometimes they 
were in individual, smaller groups. They used the space they had.  
 
0:46:22.5 There was sound bleed at times, some kids would want to listen 
to one thing instead of another, but they just tried hard. Maybe one 
group would be small and close to Sharon, by the wall and down on the 
floor. They’d sit and have a quiet reading circle. They had to guard 
against overpowering another teachers lesson. That’s why they planned the 
lessons jointly. You made it work, and it was fun. Most of the kids liked 
school, the families liked it, they learned. She’s glad she got to do it 
the way she wanted to and not be so regimented now.  
 
0:47:37.8 The biggest difference in the way she was schooled and the way 
she teaches is she had teachers who were, for the most part, empathetic. 
Thinking mostly of elementary teachers, she doesn’t think she sensed 
passion from all of them. Maybe only one. For the others, it was a job. 
But they weren’t passionate. For Sharon, she’s very passionate and 
emotional, committed, like a mission in a religious sense. She thinks she 
may have sacrificed her own children for what she did in the classroom, 
because she spent a lot of hours that should have been theirs. She feels 
some guilt about that. She doesn’t know if her children would say that. 
None of the children became a teacher. Might be the perception of 
passion.  
 
0:49:39.7 Sharon has taught with some wonderful people, but not all were 
passionate. The best ones were, though. That was true when she was 
working in a brick-and-mortar situation as well as online. She felt a 
strong camaraderie with all of the teachers she was working with online. 
They had to reach out. The ones who stay in that branch of education, the 
online branch, are passionate about helping kids learn. How can you found 
a nation if you don’t have an educated populace? It’s for the country at 
large and for individuals as well. A two-pronged pitchfork that’s not so 
good for shoveling shit but gets the education in!  
 
0:51:51.5 Sharon thinks a "hybrid model," where you have a combination of 
onsite learning where teachers and kids are together, and distance 
learning--you need that. Can’t learn collaboration if you aren’t 
physically with someone else. Humans are herd animals and need to be with 
other people. For students whose families put them in situations with 
other kids, at-home learning can be a very powerful tool. She worries 
about kids who are isolated. They need more than just a computer screen. 
She thinks well see more of online learning, and some is good and some 
not-so-good. More online as a result of parents, families being fearful 
for their children because of shootings in schools. People worrying about 
their daughters being sexually exploited. Some of it out of fear, and she 
doesn’t like that part. But when she thinks about some of the students 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
7
she’s had in the classroom and online, some kids are just better at math. 
They can just learn and learn. Why shouldn’t they keep going as far as 
they can? That kind of individual attention is easier with an online 
program because the kid doesn’t have to wait for anyone else. More 
efficient--one learner and one teacher. That’s positive. She likes the 
idea of a hybrid model where there with other kids sometimes, learning on 
their own at other times. Education across the nation is seeing 
development of that kind of program.  
 
0:54:45.2 Sharon’s biggest criticism of education in America--Washington 
State has its own problem, like not putting enough money into education 
vs. what other states put in. But our populace is highly educated. It’s 
probably not necessary to have everybody doing the same thing at the same 
time in order for us to teach our children. She thinks that making sure 
they captivate the spirit of learners is more critical than making sure 
they know the theory of relativity. She wants them to be able to be 
confident that they can learn all of their lives. Electronic devices are 
in their hands 24 hours a day, and we need to be teaching them to be 
curious and critical and sincere. Educating the human part of us rather 
than isolating the intellect. We can lose sight of the person, and we 
won’t keep the mind. Whether having the data right at hand makes kids 
more curious, being able to use the internet, some will be excited and 
others weren’t.  
 
0:58:06.7 At present, Sharon is tutoring a high school kid who has a 
government document that says she can have someone help her learn. Sharon 
is her personal tutor, and they meet 2-3 days a week, couple of hours 
each day. She’s trying to get the student to use her iPhone to find 
information--how to do a Google search for something besides Facebook. 
How to make the tool in its cute little pink case a usable tool that will 
make learning easier.  
 
0:59:15.3 Does technology have an exciting place in education? Yes! 
Especially for kids with learning disabilities. But she doesn’t think 
they should have iPhones in their hands during class, though she also 
knows that they do. It would be difficult for her to be in the classroom 
now under those circumstances.  
 
0:59:50.2 Disciplinary problems: change over the years. She doesn’t know 
that kids have changed that much, but parenting has changed a lot. There 
is more anger in children than there used to be. That’s something, in the 
last few years, that was a big deal--the anger issue. But it was probably 
all parenting. As one of her colleagues said, "Well, they send you their 
best every day. Those parents. That’s the best they can do." Some days 
are more trouble than others. That was the hardest thing about being in 
the classroom the last few years, having to worry about the safety of 23 
children because she had one that was potentially violent--like stabbing 
people with pencils, throwing books and desks. That was hard.  
 
1:01:35.0 Sharon was given someone to be in the classroom besides 
herself, but unless they were being a point guard around that kid every 
living second, it doesn’t do any good. The kid can still throw a book, 
desk, pencil, still push and shove. It was the tension of knowing what 
"might" happen, and the tension it created for the other students no 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
8
matter how supportive Sharon was. They knew the kid would do weird things 
and didn’t want to sit next to that kid. She was advised to put the kid 
in the corner, but she couldn’t effect any change if she did that. The 
parents were both lawyers, and that put her in an extra-special bind. She 
was never asked to speak to the parents, the principal or administrator 
did that. She had protection legally. If it was a difficult day, the 
principal would sit in the back of the classroom in addition to the aide. 
That took a lot of time and money for only one kid. The next year, the 
kid went back to a special behavior classroom and was transported 1-1/2 
hours each day because no teacher would take him into the classroom. She 
didn’t have kids like that her first few years teaching--some hard kids 
but nothing like that. She taught at a school with a lot of support and 
financial wherewithal, not in a difficult situation. That was a tough 
year.  
 
1:04:39.7 Because Sharon was in the same school for so long, she has 
students who are now friends. Her mother recently had to have back 
surgery, and her neurosurgeon was Ryan. Sharon had him in fourth grade. 
She had to have logging done on her property, and she called Joel, from 
4th grade. They are the people now who supply her with the support she 
needs. Because she’s in the same community, she knows what they’re doing. 
I went to the dentist today, and there are little pictures of the staff. 
And who’s in the picture? Charlie who loved the ninja turtles, and there 
he is holding his baby and Charlies wife is my dental hygienist. Sharon 
said, "You’ve got to tell Charlie that I remember his report on the ninja 
turtles--Donatello and Leonardo!" All of that stuff comes flooding back 
at her. Every week. It’s like living in a mental museum of countless 
memories. That’s her success. She remembers those kids, and she remembers 
who they were and what they were. And she gets to see who they are today. 
That’s "teaching!" 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
9