Ironworkers Documentation Project 
 
AUDIO LOG FORM 
Interviewer's recording no(s).:  BH IW [Martens 1] 
 
Contact:   
Bud Martens 
 
 
Real name:  Henry Arnold Martens, III 
 
Interviewer: 
Clark "Bucky" Halker  
 
Interview:     
 
     Date:   
July 26, 2011 
 
     Place:  
Local #63 Headquarters, 1819 Beech Street, Broadview, IL 60155 
 
      Other people present:  None 
 
     Background noise:  The Local IWU 63 headquarters can be a bit noisy and this can be heard in the background.  
It's a bit industrial building, so the cooling and heating system is a regular problem.   Occasionally, the building 
generates a line noise that is impossible to keep off the recording.   
 
 
 
 
 
     Equipment used:  Marantz PMD 661 digital recorder and Shure SM57 microphone. 
 
     Recording medium used: Transcend 8 gigabyte SD memory card, uncompressed WAV format. 
  
 
Recording engineer: 
Bucky Halker 
 
 
Summary description of audio interview contents:                                           
 
Note:  This interview is in two parts.   Each has its own transcript.  Both were recorded on July 26, 2011.  The first 
part (38:39) is a longer and more general interview about Marten that concerns his upbringing, his early ironworking 
career, welding, the trade, and safety.  The second (07:44) is very brief and devoted to reviewing the companies he 
worked for over many years.   Marten had given me a piece of paper with the chronology of his employers and some 
photos, so I asked him questions related to those companies and worksite photos .  
 
 
Audio Interview Contents 
 
 
Counter   
No./Time                   Topic 
 
00:00-00:11 
Bucky: introductions and preliminaries 
 
 
00:11 [Tell me your name.]  Bud Martens.  My real name is Henry Arnold Martens III.  [The third?]  Yeah, I have 
the IV and the V.  My grandson is the V.  [Oh that’s great.  And what year were you born?]  I was born 7-25-1940.  
[Were you born in Chicago?]  No.  I was one of the few that was born in a log cabin in Kentucky.  [Where in 
Kentucky?]  In Mackey Bend, Kentucky.  It’s about 10 miles out of Barbourville, Kentucky.  [So that only begs the 
question, how did you get from that log cabin up here?]  Yeah.  My Mother was from a farm down there.  She had 
come up here to work at the World’s Fair in Chicago.  And my father was from here.  He was from Maywood.  They 
had Martens Brothers Coal and Ice.  It was a large, at that time it was a big industry, coal and ice.  You have the ice 
all summer and the coal all winter.  And…he met…they met.  And from what I understand, he was a good tipper at 
the time.  [Laughter]  The two of them fell in love and they got married, and my older sister was born up here.  Then 
they moved down there.  I was born and then they realized to make a living they had to be up here.  So they moved 
back up here.  [Did you live in Chicago or back to Maywood or…?]  We lived in Maywood for a short period of 
time.  Then we moved to Bellwood and the house in Bellwood is still in the family.  But after I married my wife, I 
moved a little further west, to Villa Park.  [And then how did you get into the ironworking trade?]  Into the 
ironworking trade: I knew at that time you had to be very intelligent to even think about going to college.  You had 
to be very book smart, if you weren’t from a wealthy wealthy family.  The family wasn’t that wealthy.  But I knew 
when I got out of school, I wanted to make the most amount of money for my family that I could.   And so when I 
went to…  I went to Proviso East.  And I went to trade school.  In Proviso so I took all the shop courses.  I was 
going to be a tool and dye maker.  And, what I did was, when I got out of school, my grandfather had the coal yard 
still.  He was renting shop space to a tool and dye company and to a iron shop.  And he said when I graduated, I 
could work for either one that I wanted.  He said that either one would hire you Bud, just to go over there.  I went 
and I  looked at the tool and dye shop and I said, “Well, I know what I’ll be doing there.”  Doing, working on lathes 
and working on mill machines and everything.  And I said, “What would I be doing in the iron shop?”  And he said, 
“Well, you’d be laying out jobs.  You’d be putting jobs together, welding the jobs and putting them on a truck.  
Taking them out and delivering them.”  And,  I said, “Truck?”  I was a young guy.  I was 18 at the time.  And I said, 
“On a truck?”  I told my grandfather that I was going to work for the ironworkers.  And I started out and I enjoyed it.   
I started out with Popovich [exact spelling cannot be determined] Iron Works and I was a shop man.  And I enjoyed 
the work so much and he actually went broke, went bankrupt.  [This was Popovich?]  Popovich Iron Works went 
bankrupt.  And I had, because I was a young guy and I was making good money, I had saved all my money and I 
lent him money.  He said he would give me the equipment to take and finish up the jobs in payment for what I was 
owed.  And as long as my grandfather had the shop, I said, “Ok.”  So I went into business actually when I was 19.  
And I made up all the materials and then I called the local.  I talked to Moon Martin .  [Oh yeah, I saw something in 
here from Moon , yeah]  I had my Dad talk to him and said, “My son is just starting out and we’re going to install 
this and he needs a permit to do it.”  And I got a permit from him to take and install. And then with the 
understanding that as I developed and got bigger, I would take and hire hands.  I was young, and foolish.  And what 
I did was I finished the jobs.  I had a big pile of money and I bought a boat and went on vacation.  [Laughter]  That’s 
what young people do when they’re not thinking straight.  [A power boat or a sail boat or what?]  I bought a power 
boat.  And I went to the Mississippi River.  And we still have a place on the Mississippi now.  The thing…  I have to 
think for a second.  But when I came back from my little…ah…experience on the Mississippi, let’s say, I needed 
money.  I went through all my money.  I needed money.  I got a hold of Popovich and he was working for Builders 
Ornamental.  He was the shop foreman for them.  I went and saw him and he says, “Well, you can start in right 
here.”  So I started in with Builders Ornamental and worked there for 5 years.  After my kids, my children started 
being born, I said I need more money.  And local #63, I could get about a dollar an hour more by working for them.  
So I said, “Ok, I’ll go on the outside.”  I signed up.  I went through…  I signed up as an apprentice with them, even 
though I had so many years of experience.  The more knowledge you get, the better off you are.  So at first I balked 
at the apprentice because I knew how to do so many phases of it.  But going through four years of apprentice 
training was still the best thing I ever did because you learn things that you thought you knew, but you’re a much 
safer, a much smarter person.     
 
8:19  And then that way…I went through Washburn Trade School for four years.  [Did Washburn have the 
relationship with the ironworkers in Chicago because a lot of you guys are talking about Washburn?]  Yes, 
Washburn Trade School was our designated apprentice school until we developed this.  [This.  Ok.]  Yeah.  Moved 
into our own building.  Phil Hottinger, who runs the apprentice program, he – you’ll see in the pictures – he was a 
foreman for me at the State of Illinois.  [Ok.]   And at the State of Illinois, well, that’s jumping ahead quite a few 
years but…  When I became a journeyman, there was only a handful of guys that were certified welders in the local 
at that time.  You had a card and everything.  In 1964, I got a certified card and a lot of jobs you had to have a 
certified welder.  And I hopped around when I left Builders Ornamental.  I hopped around, thirteen, fourteen jobs a 
year. But they were all…you know, they all made me more money than if I stayed in one place because I would get 
overtime.  I would get on there. I had papers.  I would do the welding.  And then other guys would move in and get 
their papers,  but they knew if I went on a job, they wouldn’t have any question about having a certified welder.  
[Was that…those twelve or thirteen a year, were those different contractors?]  Yes, they were all different 
companies.  [And were they all in the Chicago area?]  Yes.  They were all in the Chicago area.  I made a joke about I 
could work any place in the country, but I had to be home by 5 o’clock.  [Laughter]   
 
10:25  [So you were able to spend your whole career working in Chicago?]  Right.  [Some guys had to boom out.]  I 
had to boom out of our local a few times and get permits in other locals.  But the majority of my time I was able to 
make a good living right here in Chicago area.  And sometimes I would be working on one job and I would get a call 
at night from the business agent and he would tell me, “We need a certified welder there in the morning at this job.”  
And I would say, “Ok, what about the job I’m leaving?”  He’d say, “I have a person that’d fill in over there.”  So 
sometimes I’d get a phone call from the other company, “How could you quit on me like that?”  And I says, “The 
local asked me to.”  So I went where I was given my bread and butter from.  [So you were in high demand because 
you had the certified welder background.]  Yeah.  Back then, it was.  Then as you became more knowledgeable 
about all the different phases and that, you became…  People really wanted you, you’d build up a name for yourself.   
 
11:51  [What kind of work were you doing inside, like when you were worked those twelve or thirteen jobs when 
you were welding?  What kind of welding was it?  Were they all high rises or ornamental stuff?]  Yeah, no, that 
would be all high rises where you were welding beams together, welding columns together.  You had to be able to 
weld over head and it was usually on large, large stuff where you had multiple passes.  [So a lot of guys in the local 
were doing curtain wall and window stuff, but you were in the welding.]  Right.  [So did you have to go on the job 
sites when the structural, like when Local #1 guys were there?]  Right.  [That makes sense.]  Like, you were talking 
about the curtain.  Like Bill was talking about the curtain wall.  What they would do is they would move it around to 
get the location, adjusted where it needed to be, and then it would get continuous weld all the way across the curtain 
wall.  So you would sit outside on a plank and you would just keep burning rod.  Because at that time, it was not 
wire fed or anything.  It was…  You would have to put a stick in the welding machine, an electrode each time.  
You’d burn it down to where it was an inch long.  [You’d have to grab another one?]  Grab another…  [Oh, so now 
it’s on a reel thing?]  Yeah, now its spooled and its wire fed and you can just…  [Keep right on rolling.]  The only 
thing you would get in trouble with is if you welded continuously, you’d get too much heat in one spot.  You could 
start warping frameworks and different things.  That’s a lot of knowledge that you learn in shop, how to straighten  
beams when they’re under stress and they’ve been welded on.   
 
13:56  [Yeah.  If you were doing…what your were doing like the welding, what was different about the welding you 
were doing to let’s say what the Local #1 guys were doing?  Were they doing more of the rods in the concrete and 
you were doing some other stuff?]  No.  Local #1 has the same, needs the same qualified guys to weld beams, 
columns and everything.  The only thing is, when it comes to jurisdictions, Local #1 is structural and we are 
ornamental.  So if Local #1 were to be putting curtain wall up, the curtain wall could be massive curtain wall but it 
would be under our jurisdiction.  And then we would have to be there welding.  And, its up to the people in 
Washington or the District Council…  [To decide…]  …to say who they are going to award it to.  Even if Local #1 
was doing it and they awarded it to us, we would come in and take over the job.  [Yeah.]  And there, there was hard 
feelings… GIGGLE  …between [The locals sometimes…] …the locals. [Yeah.]  And you could understand it 
because these ironworkers had to find another job.  And you were going to take their job.   And you’re all 
ironworkers but you’re in a different local and that.  And those kinds of situations are horrible.  You never want to 
get into those situations.  [I’ll take your word for it.  Yeah, I know jurisdictional disputes can become very 
unpleasant.]  Yes.  [Especially if they build up over time which I’m sure they sometimes did, right?]  Yes.  Those 
were jobs that they got done but they were . . [Yeah] 
 
16:22  [Well tell me…  I know you worked on a lot of different buildings.  Did you stay with welding in all of the 
work that you did over the years?]  No.  [You obviously moved into some other area.]  Right.  When I went from 
welding all the time, and moving around a lot and me not smoking cigarettes or anything, trying to be health 
conscious, knowing I was welding every day.  When I got away from welding and I got into curtain wall, aluminum 
sash, stainless steel, I thought I was in heaven.  I enjoyed it so much, so I stuck with that as long as I could.  [When 
did you change from welding to doing curtain wall?]  That was after the Hancock.  I have…  [So you welded on the 
Hancock Building?]  I did weld on the Hancock building.  The amount of weld I did on the Hancock Building was a 
limited amount.  In some of the pictures that I’ll show you, my particular crew and job on Hancock was to take the 
cladding covers, all the horizontal ones.  We had one crew doing vertical.  I’m sorry.  Mine was the vertical.  We 
had one crew doing horizontal.  My crew did the vertical and then we had others that worked on the diagonals.  And 
each one was a specialist thing.  Once you get all the kinks worked out of it, it went like clock work.  [Fast, yeah.]  
And what we do, we would hoist them out, put them in place, and each one of them had a nose cone bracket that was 
welded to the structural beam.  And then you would have to put vertical passes up the side of the clips that were on 
there.  [So was that done after the main structural steel was done?]  Yes.  [Then you’d put this on?]  Yes.  We 
followed the . . . They were still putting structural steel on and we were following up with the clad on the outside.  
[And was there curtain wall construction on all the glass sections then?  And that was later?]  That would follow 
right up.  It was like clock work.  [Right behind each other.]  Yeah.  One crew worked above another crew, right on 
down to the last crew that were doing all the inside trim.  And after the horizontal covers went on, then they could 
set glass in there.  The panels with, with you know.  [Yeah.]  So, and after the Hancock job, then I started going on 
smaller projects naturally.  And I went from one little office building to another.  Then got into all the different 
phases of that.  I don’t know how we would get over to the other ones but . . . 
 
19:58  [How did you end up on the State of Illinois one?]  That would be . . .  The State of Illinois was . . . It was a 
tricky situation because an apprentice that worked for me at the Hancock had started his own company.  He called 
me and he said, “I’d really like you to come and help me get off the ground.”  I went out there and I told him, I was 
almost retired at the time. And I said, “Awe…I really don’t want to do it John but I’ll help you get off the ground.”  
So you’ll see pictures of some of the jobs he had.  And I ran the jobs for him and then he, by running those different 
jobs, the company that had the manufacturing for the State of Illinois, hired us to erect their material.  And I went 
there and I really wasn’t going to run the job but I saw what was going to go on and it was going to be…  There was 
going to be a lot of, a lot of problems.  [Because it was technically so complicated?]  It was complicated.  They . . .  
It was a unique job for the city because it was like working on a bridge.  You were 200 feet above pavement.  There 
was no water below you.  There was nothing below you.  We had to put in our own safety nets.  There was a lot of 
guys in our local that had never put in safety nets.  And you had to string safety nets.  And they weren’t level.  It was 
on a diagonal, a 27-28 degree slope was what it was.  And so anything that you would hang would want to fall to the 
bottom.  So it was hang steel cables, get in the net, grab a handful of net, hook it up.  You’re hooked on to the cable 
and then you’re hooking the net into the cable.  Once you got one side all hooked, you could take the other side, 
hook ropes on it and pull it up.  [Did you have to kind of invent this system yourself?]  Yeah, it was a fly by the seat 
of your pants for the first couple and they were looking at me like, “How is this going to get done?”  [Yeah, so you 
were almost like the general…foreman…]  Yeah.  […for the whole job kind of?]  Yeah.  Well, I was a field 
superintendent but I was also over everybody there.  They were like, “How is this going to work?”  Once an 
ironworker sees that its safe and knows what he’s working with, he can do the job.  And so I just said, “Give me a 
belt.”  I put the belt on.  I hopped in the nets and I hooked the cables up.  They saw what I was doing.  And I says, 
“Do that and we’ll pull the other side up.”  Once you got the nets underneath you, your mind says you’re safe.  
 
23:47  [You raise an interesting point.  I’ve noticed this from talking to all of you guys and you can comment on this 
I’m sure.  It seems like the ironworkers and you guys from #63 are called upon all the time to have to problem 
solve.]  Yes.  [And you guys have really good skills at that .  I mean, if you’re not book learner types, it seems like 
you guys are all pretty intelligent.  Is that…]  Yes.  [Do you feel that way?]  I think so.  We can work out puzzles 
very well.  And I think I had such a background of blue print reading and all other facets that you don’t see 
immediately and an understanding how things go together.  That’s the main problem.  [And I’m guessing that the 
architects, like Mies van de Rohe, never knew for a minute some of the small problems, or the problems you guys 
had to figure out…]  Right.  […and ditto for the State of Illinois Building, right?  Because you guys have to take the 
big plan and make it happen.  There’s got to be lots of details that they don’t even know what they’re doing, right?]  
Right.  It’s like, ok.  How do you get the glass up there?  How do you get it all in place?  How do you get the 
frameworks up there?  You know, now I can’t take credit for a lot of it because there are engineers who figure out 
everything.  But the part that I had to figure out and put in, went very smooth.  Very smooth.  In these pictures you 
will see…there is just a sea of clips because each panel had to have so many clips.  You can’t fudge with glass one 
inch.  And all of those clips have to line up.  All of those panels had to hold on to those clips. So it was…. and it 
went like clock work.  It went very good.  I didn’t have one person get hurt on the job.  I did have one person get a 
sliver when I was on vacation because he wore a pair of shorts!  [Laughter]  And when I got back from vacation, I 
couldn’t believe that he did that.  But he was a terrific guy.  I liked the guy.  Any time I could hire the guy, I would 
hire him.  A very nice guy. 
 
26:34  [A lot of guys have commented about this and I’m sure you could too about the changes of safety over the 
years.  Maybe you could say a little bit about that too.]  When we worked on Hancock, half of the time you would 
jump out on a float which was just a wooden platform and you wouldn’t even think about tying off because you 
were just going to be out there for a minute or two.  And then you’d jump back in and do whatever you’re going to 
do.  You’d poke your head out over the side to take a look for something, you wouldn’t be tied off at all.  Then when 
we did the State of Illinois, it was everybody better have a safety belt on.  Wherever you can tie off, tie off.  
Ironworkers, when they’re going from point A to point B, they’re not tied off.  But once they get there, then tie off.  
Be safe.  Now, when I worked on Soldier Field, you had to have a full body harness.  If you were within six foot of 
the edge, or the perimeter, you had to be tied off to something.  They would… You would have to put up your own 
safety cable, tie into it.  The safety has gone, you know, completely in a good direction…  [Yeah.]  …to save lives 
and cut down on insurance, everything.  Even at this State of Illinois, once a week I would have people that were 
insuring us, come through, and inspect everything to make sure because the liability is just enormous.  And that’s 
sometimes . . . the regular crew doesn’t understand.  That we have to take and do things a certain way and if you 
don’t, the company is in trouble.  If the company gets in trouble, you’re out of work.  [Yeah, so it’s in your interest.  
And again, I’ve heard a lot of guys say this, to work with a company that makes sure you are safe.]  Yeah. 
 
29:00  [Did you have to go out on strike ever?  Were you ever involved in any strikes?]  I was involved in a few 
strikes and I would always look to my business agents for their wisdom and knowledge…  And whatever they told 
me to do, that’s what I did.  [Were those short strikes?  There were a lot that were very short.]  Yeah.  [Or were they 
specific to one site?]  Yes.  There would be like a wildcat strike where it wasn’t authorized by the union.  And those 
got to be very sticky situations.  [Because you’re not living up to the terms of the contract.]  Right.  But I would 
always go with whatever the business agents told me that’s what I was going to do.   
 
29:54  [When you first started on the job, was there a lot of practical jokes that guys did when you were starting?  
You had already been through all that.]  Yeah, I had…  I might have been one of the guys who played practical 
jokes [Laughter] because I was older and, you know, I had a lot of apprentices working for me.  And…they’re going 
to be your future.  They are the ones that will run the local and the ones that will run the job sites.  I always treated 
them with the utmost respect, which I wish everybody would do.  Because they’re in the learning phase and guys 
would send them for different things and there was no such thing.  Kind of, you know, most of it was good ribbing.  
[Yeah.]  And if it got harsh or anything, you had to put a stop to it right away because…  You don’t know what you 
may do to them.  You may depend on that guy to get you out of a jam so treat everybody like you would like to be 
treated. 
 
31:15  [Yeah.  Did you guys have any rituals associated with finishing buildings?  There must have been something 
at the Hancock.]  The thing is, everybody just, to my knowledge…  Find that white beam and sign your name on it 
so you’re up there someplace.  And I’ve signed plenty of white beams.  Even the last job I was on, I signed it with 
my name, my son’s name and my grandson’s name, and that would be at Soldier Field.  It’s just a good feeling.  The 
only thing is ironworkers are one of the few guys that really work hard and put themselves out of a job.  Because the 
minute the job is done, we’re looking for another place to build or another place to work.  So…  We work hard to 
accomplish it, but then we’re looking for another job. 
 
32:25  [I know one question I wanted to ask.  You mentioned this a couple of times the other day when I was out 
here.  You used the term “headache”.  Say a little bit about that just so people know what a headache is.]  Well, if 
you holler out “headache”, everybody knows something’s coming down and it’s going to hit you in the head.  So if 
you have a protective area, get to the protective area.  If you don’t, you know, try to get out of the way, if you know 
what’s coming and where it’s coming from.  If not, don’t look up to see it because you have a hard hat on your head 
to protect you.  If you’re . . .  There’s been one occasion when I never heard the word “headache,” but I was 
knocked out and that was on Hancock.  I fell onto a beam.  And then the guy working on the crane and a couple 
other ironworkers grabbed me and pulled me back onto the floor.  And I didn’t know it until I was in the man cage, 
going off to the hospital.  To this day, I’m not positive what hit me in the head, but I think it was a piece of plywood 
form and it crushed my hard hat and knocked me out.  I had a little bit of problems, but that was all okay. 
 
33:58  [You mentioned, too, that you got shot at.  You didn’t say a whole lot about that, but it sounds like it wasn’t a 
rare thing if you’re working on high rises for people to take pot shots.]  Right, and its like . . Thank heaven it was a 
small caliber, you know, and, so, you know…it was just like…  I was worried that I was going to get hit with 
something above because I was protruding outside of the building, welding on the outside of the building, facing the 
building 18 stories up in the air.  When things hit you from behind, you’re curious as to what’s going on, and then 
when it hits you, underneath the plank your sitting on, you know it came from behind you, not from above you.  So 
when I crawled in, sure enough, there was a guy over there with a pellet gun shooting at us.  [Was that the State of 
Illinois?]  No, that was on the First National [Refers to First National Bank building in the Loop].   When you go in 
certain areas, you have to be concerned if you have a family and you’re a provider.  Those things they come and go, 
you know. 
 
35:28   [Another thing you mentioned and Bill mentioned this too was that you used to make a lot of things yourself 
out of just parts that had been thrown out on job sites.  What kind of stuff did you make?]  Sometimes we would 
have large pieces of steel that were scrap and I would take them home and make wall plaques out of them.  I sold all 
the wall plaques I made.  I would go to different art fairs when I was younger.  It was like a way of getting extra 
spending money.  I would make motor cycles.  I would make chess sets.  I would make little figurine ironworkers.  
Now, some of the guys that make the stuff now, they go into much more detail and everything.  Mine was like, well, 
I have a couple of hours here.  I can whip up something quick and I have to go back to work tomorrow.  So mine 
was more like for a hobby.  But if anybody would come to my house and say, “I really like that.”  I would pick it up 
and give it to him.  I’d say, “Well here.  As long as you appreciate it.”  [Were there a lot of guys in your local that 
did little things like that?  Because I see things all over here that look like they’ve been made by apprentices or 
journeymen or whatever.]   Yeah, I think once you learn to weld or once you learn to gas weld or aluminum weld, 
you want to get creative.  You want to see how far…  What can you do?  What’s the smallest thing you can weld?  I 
haven’t made jewelry, but I’ve made stuff that’s very tiny and all the way up to big stuff.  [Do you still do this at 
all?]  No, I don’t but I made my kids little figurines that I knew they couldn’t break.  [Laughter]  To this day I still 
have them so I figure they’re hand-me-downs.  Boy, I don’t know what else I could tell you.   I was going to 
reiterate what Bill said though.   Local #63 has been a great life for me. Really, you meet some of the nicest guys. 
Unfortunately, I have a hard time remembering names because I meet some days, you might work with some guy for 
two days and then you’re on a different job.  Then later on in life, you find out you made a big impression on him 
about something you did and he can remember your name like that.  And you’re trying to rack your brain to think. I   
I can’t even remember that job.  So its . . . 
 
[This was great.  I really did appreciate it.  I want you to know that.  It’s been a pleasure talking to you about this 
stuff.  Thanks so much.]  It’s been super. 
 
END: 38:39