Gimmicks, Gold, and Gushers 
The Occupational Folklife of Independent Professional Wrestlers 
 
 
 
 
Howard, Wes​ ​— Oral History Interview 
 
July 31, 2020 
 
Delainey Bowers 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This oral history interview was created in 2020 as part of the ​Gimmicks, Gold, and Gushers: The 
Occupational Folklife of Independent Professional Wrestlers ​project with funding from the 
Archie Green Fellowship provided by the American Folklife Center at the Library of Congress.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interview with Wes Howard, July 31, 2020
 1 
Background Information 
 
Name of interviewee:​ Wes Howard 
Wrestling name: Henry Shaw 
Date of birth:​ 
, 1983 
Current residence:​ Berea, Kentucky 
 
Interviewer:​ Delainey Bowers 
Indexer:​ Delainey Bowers 
 
Interview format:​ Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, this interview was conducted remotely via 
SquadCast, a web-based VoIP podcasting platform. Howard was at his home in Berea, 
Kentucky, while Bowers recorded the interview at her place of residence in Somerset, Kentucky.  
 
Date of interview: ​July 31, 2020 
 
Keywords: ​Professional wrestling, independent professional wrestling, wrestlers, sports, 
athletes, entertainment, wrestling promoters, wrestling promotions, wrestling matches, Kentucky, 
Tennessee, Appalachia 
 
Abstract: ​Wes Howard, whose wrestling name is Henry Shaw, has worked as an independent 
professional wrestler throughout central Appalchia since 2004. In this oral history, Howard talks 
about the trajectory of his wrestling career, the time-honored traditions of the wrestling industry, 
and how he created a memorable​—​and oftentimes deeply hated​—​in-ring persona. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interview with Wes Howard, July 31, 2020
 2 
Index 
 
[00:00:00] Brief introduction; Wes Howard (“Henry Shaw”) describes basic personal 
background information including his date of birth, his hometown of Lexington, Kentucky, and 
his current place of residence in Berea, Kentucky.  
 
[00:01:09] Howard describes his own personal connection to the world of professional wrestling. 
Howard has memories of watching televised wrestling programs with his father. In 2004 an old 
high school friend, who refereed for a local promotion, invited Howard to a live show. After the 
show, Howard expressed interest in becoming a wrestler, and his friend suggested Howard speak 
with the promotion’s owner. His first match was at an NWA Bluegrass fair show in Martin 
County, Kentucky. Howard worked on setting up the ring, and one he was finished, his friend 
insisted Howard “clothesline” him. Howard was hooked immediately.  
 
[00:03:41] Howard discusses the main differences between how independent promotions are 
operated and those of larger televised programs. Televised events are “more to the camera than 
anything.” Independent shows rely heavily on audience participation and reaction. Howard 
noticed the “bad guys were always targeting certain individuals” (e.g. the young and the elderly). 
Closer proximity in terms of both physical distance to the ring and forming bonds with wrestlers.  
 
[00:04:58] Howard returns to detailing the trajectory of his career. In the early years of Howard’s 
career, there were limited options to attend training schools. Lessons were learning “on the job.” 
Setting up the ring before the show and tearing down after the event. The promoter would use 
that time to teach quick lessons on basic foundational skills. Howard mentions professional 
wrestler Chance Prophet as a mentor. He refers to this type of training as the “nontraditional 
way.”  
 
[00:07:00] Howard explores the evolution of his in-ring persona, Henry Shaw. “Henry Shaw and 
Wes Howard are totally two different people.” Shaw’s catchphrase is “I’m Your Mom’s 
Favorite.” “Cocky, arrogant, thinks that he’s above everybody.” Howard talks about his 
experiences in being overweight and how he has used that to his advantage. Henry Shaw enjoys 
making fun of children. Howard gives an example of a mean comeback. “I’ve ruined this kid’s 
childhood. Job well done.” He enjoys eliciting reactions out of the audience. Howard gives 
another example of an insult.  
 
[00:11:17] Howard describes his personal aesthetic in regards to wrestling gear. “The sexiest 
man from Kentucky in spandex.” He talks about the various gimmicks he has had over the years. 
Howard remembers a piece of advice from another well-respected wrestler who informed him 
that his clothing choices didn’t align properly with his character. Howard changed his style to 
better reflect his persona’s attitude.  
 
Relatedly, Howard talks about the lengths he goes to in order to maintain a level of secrecy 
within the business. Balancing Wes Howard with Henry Shaw. He tells a story of a young boy 
who recognized him at a gas station.  
 
Interview with Wes Howard, July 31, 2020
 3 
[00:15:39] Howard offers a definition for “kayfabe.” “Keeping reality from wrestling.” Howard 
tells the story of a show in Matewan, West Virginia where audience members grew violent after 
a “Hatfields versus McCoys” reference. “I never saw that wrestler again.” Howard notes the 
number of wrestlers who adhere strictly to kayfabe.  
 
[00:19:25] Howard shares his thoughts on what he believes makes Appalachian wrestling 
audiences unique. Northern crowds are attracted to fast-paced matches with more acrobatic 
maneuvers. Howard prefers “Memphis style” wrestling that focuses on character-driven 
storytelling and slower grappling moves. Different promotions have their own preferences. “Bad 
guy versus good guy” rather than “competition” or “comedy.” Northern audiences are more 
likely to call attention to missed spots or mistakes. Southern crowds are more forgiving. 
Midwestern fans are drawn to “blood and guts.” 
 
[00:22:52] Howard defines the term “psychology” as it relates to the world of professional 
wrestling. “You have to tell a story to build up. Why are you fighting? Why is the bad guy got 
the upper hand? Why is the good guy trying his best?” Howard tells the story of a young wrestler 
who put on such a solid performance that the audience members sent around a collection plate 
for donations after they believed he had lost out on the grand prize money.  
 
[00:25:50] Howard explains how he forms connections with audience members both in and out 
of the ring. “Find a target. Stay on ‘em.” The best targets are young children, older women, and 
“redneck women” (i.e. “women with very little teeth and very poor hygiene”). Howard shares 
another story of an Appalachian Mountain Wrestling show that got heated after Howard lobbed 
insults at a “redneck woman.” “She looked like I just stepped on a puppy.” Howard does not like 
when wrestlers use bad language around children. First-match wrestlers inform other wrestlers 
backstage who the “hot spots” are in order to get a bigger emotional reaction from the audience.  
 
[00:31:02] Howard views the ring as a “sacred space.” Safety is one of Howard’s biggest 
concerns. He also finds value in the number of renowned professional wrestlers who have 
wrestled in the same ring before him. “The ring itself will hurt you, if you don’t respect it.” 
Howard stresses the importance of proper training and taking the business seriously. Before any 
show, Howard always tests the give of the ropes. “You got to respect the ring.” 
 
[00:34:24] Howard lists traditions, vocabularies, and rituals related to professional wrestling. He 
underscores the importance of listening to “old timers” tell their own stories. Offering a 
handshake to everyone in the locker room. Howard’s ritual involves getting a cup of coffee from 
a gas station before every show. Wearing the same socks for every show. One wrestler texts his 
mother before and after each match. Wrestling vernacular includes words such as “stiff,” “heat,” 
“pop,” and “shoot job.”  
 
[00:39:13] Howard reminisces on one of his stronger matches and one he used as a learning 
opportunity. His most memorable match was with a tag-team partner, Crash Jaxon, at the Ring of 
Honor against “The Fraternity Brothers.” Famous professional wrestlers critiqued their 
presentation and loved how Howard “synced” with his partner. Backstage other wrestlers 
clapped for their in-ring performance. One of Howard’s weaker matches was against Eugene, a 
Interview with Wes Howard, July 31, 2020
 4 
WWE wrestler. At the time, Howard was experiencing difficulties with his marriage and allowed 
his negative headspace to affect his match. “I felt that I let Eugene down because...it wasn’t in 
my best interest to be there.” Howard suggests his career may have taken a different turn if he 
had performed better.  
 
[00:44:47] Howard gives advice to those who are interested in becoming professional wrestlers. 
“You never stop learning.” Again, Howard highlights the importance of getting trained properly. 
Using other promotions as learning environments. “Listen to your veterans.” “Your attitude goes 
a long way.” Car rides as educational spaces. Invest in attractive, professional gear.  
 
[00:50:54] Howard looks ahead to the future and shares where he sees himself in the next five 
years. Howard has his sights set on wrestling for “one of the big three” (i.e. Ring of Honor, 
IMPACT!, or WWE). “You can never walk fully away from the business. You’ll be with it ‘til 
the day you die.” Howard would like to open his own training school.  
 
[00:53:18] Closing remarks. “Give it your all.”  
 
[00:54:23] End of interview 
Interview with Wes Howard, July 31, 2020
 5